Memories of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá
By
Mírzá Habíbu’lláh Afnán
Translated and Annotated by
Ahang Rabbani
An Electronic-Publication of
Kalimat Press
January 2005
All Rights Reserved

O God, my God! Graciously look upon Thy Afnán with the
glances of the eye of Thy mercy and favor. Ordain for them that
which will enable them to attain unto Thy praise and to the praise
of Thy people. O Lord! Thou seest them striving to attain unto
Thee and clinging to the cord of Thy grace and benevolence. I
beseech Thee, by the ocean of Thy signs and the effulgence of Thy
knowledge, to protect them from the tyranny of the oppressor, and
from those who cause separation from Thy horizon and commit
that which prompts the denizens of the Supreme Concourse and the
dwellers of the Exalted Paradise to shed tears of anguish. Send
down upon them Thy blessings, O Lord, for they have not refused
to attain unto Thy Book and have remained oriented towards the
radiance of Thy Countenance. Verily, Thou art omnipotent over all
things. There is no God save Thee, the Sovereign of the earth and
heavens.  Praise be unto Thee, the Desire of the world and the
Beloved of the near-ones.



Bahá’u’lláh1

1 Khándan-i-Afnán, p. 11.

Contents
Preface ………………………………………………………..       4
Acknowledgments ……………………………………………     11
Dedication ……………………………………………………     12
Memoirs
Prologue by the Author ……………………………….…….      14
1. Childhood and Early Life in Shiraz ………………………     15
2. First Pilgrimage: In the Presence of Bahá’u’lláh …………     26
3. Education and Commerce in Egypt …………………….…     50
4. Second Pilgrimage: In the Presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá …….    67
5. Back in Egypt ……………………………………………..     94
6. Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán ………………………………………  102
7. Third Pilgrimage: 1898 ……………………………………  123
8. Fourth Pilgrimage: 1898 …………………………………..  135
9. Final Years in Egypt ………………………………………  144
10. Fifth Pilgrimage: 1901 ……………………………………  154
11. Restoration of the House of the Báb …………………..…   161
Appendices
1.  Bahá’í Historical Places in Shiraz ………………………..    186
2. Afnán Family Genealogy ………………………………….   197
3.  Pages From Houshmand Fatheazam’s Diary ……………..   203
Bibliography …………………………………………………    223

Preface
“What we do in life echoes in eternity.”
Gaius Traianus Marcius Flavianus
Background to the Memoirs
In the latter part of 1924, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the
Bahá’í Faith, began the process of recording the recollection of the
believers who had witnessed the early years of the Bábí and Bahá’í
Dispensations. Knowing that these memoirs would have a
profound effect on the understanding of future believers about the
genesis of the Faith, Shoghi Effendi called for a systematic
campaign to assemble such narratives. In the Holy Land,
companions of Bahá’u’lláh such as Áqá Husayn-i-Áshchí were
interviewed for what they remembered of the days of Bahá’u’lláh
and `Abdu’l-Bahá. Sometimes, as in the case of Áshchí, this
happened literally on the person’s deathbed. In addition, during the
next two decades, the Guardian wrote to the Bahá’ís of Iran urging
them to prepare detailed histories of each local community. He
further called upon believers who had witnessed the unfolding of
the Heroic Age to commit their experiences to writing. Obeying his
Guardian’s wishes, Mírzá Habíb Afnán was one such believer who
wrote what he had witnessed – and what a remarkable story he had
to tell!
Mírzá Habíb Afnán (1875-1951) was born in the House of
the Báb and raised by none other than Khadíjih Bagum, the widow
of the Primal Point. He heard from her the bittersweet stories of the
love-intoxicated heroes who circled around the Báb in Shiraz and,

at His bidding, proclaimed to every town and hamlet the glad-
tidings of the nearness of God. Khadíjih Bagum had a particular
affinity for the young boy’s father, Áqá Mírzá Áqáy-i-Núri’d-Dín.
At a time when tribulations had most fiercely beset Khadíjih
Bagum, the Báb had promised her that it would be Núri’d-Dín the
family member who would protect and support her. Khadíjih
Bagum’s particular affection also extended to Núri’d-Dín’s
children, and Mírzá Habíb basked in the brilliancy of her attention
and love.
As if that blessing was not enough, God showered Mírzá
Habíb with an even greater measure of His munificence. As a
young man, he was called to the Holy Land, where he spent nine
months living in close proximity to Bahá’u’lláh and drank his fill
from the Fountainhead of the Faith. For the next decade, from
Egypt he remained in constant communication with `Abdu’l-Bahá
and periodically visited Him in `Akká. While there, he was privy to
some of the most heart-wrenching scenes of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
ministry and had a glimpse into the private inner workings of the
Cause. He witnessed the defection of the Aghsán, their corrupt
ways, the anguish of the Master, His efforts to conceal their
perversion and violation, and the transmission of this news to the
Bahá’í community.
At the turn of the century, Mírzá Habíb, together with his
family, was called to the hallmark service of his life. For the next
half century, he served with the greatest distinction as the
hereditary custodian of the House of the Báb in Shiraz.
Consequently, he was uniquely qualified to tell the story of the
Bábí and Bahá’í movements in Shiraz and to describe the days of
Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá in the Holy Land.
Mírzá Habíb’s Two Narratives

Mírzá Habíb penned two histories. The first, entitled
Khátirát-i-Hayát, is the account of Mírzá Habíb’s pilgrimages to
the Holy Land and his decade-long stay in Egypt. The exact date of
its composition is not known, but the author’s sons, Abú’l-Qásim
and Hasan Afnán, indicate that Mírzá Habíb wrote his first notes
shortly after he returned to Iran. The notes themselves and family
records show that this first draft was recopied and reorganized in
the middle of the 1940s.2 The most important part of the narrative
is Chapter 2. The author recounts being near Bahá’u’lláh from the
middle of July 1891 until shortly after Naw-Rúz 1892; that is, a
little over two months before Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension. The
remaining sections are singularly important because they clarify
many aspects of the first decade of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry, when
the storm of Covenant-breaking was raging mercilessly in the Holy
Land.
The following table shows the dates of Mírzá Habíb’s
pilgrimages, which are discussed in this narrative:
Pilgrimage
Date
Duration
16 July 1891-late March 1892
9 months
Spring 1897
a few months
Summer 1898
2 weeks
September 1898
1 month
40 days
While translating the narrative, the two oldest sons of Mírzá
Habíb, who had preserved the original document, noted that their

2 For example, Mírzá Habíb notes that 53 years had elapsed since the Spring of
1892, when he had met Tarazu’llah Samandari in the Holy Land. Assuming these
years have been calculated using the lunar calendar, this places the date of re-
composition around 1944-5.

father had intended to supplement it with additional materials.
They kindly supplied the text of these materials to me.
The second history is entitled Táríkh-i-Amri Fárs va Shíráz
(History of the Cause in Fárs and Shiraz). The exact date of its
composition is not known, but is estimated to be in the early-to-
mid 1930s. The original version was handwritten by Mírzá Habíb,
and this was used by Mírzá Abu’l-Hasan-i-Ansif-i-Nayrizi to
produce a final draft. This draft was then edited by Mírzá Habíb,
whose remarks are found along various margins and lines
throughout the manuscript. This edited version has been used for
my translation that will appear shortly as In the Land of Refuge by
Kalimat Press.
Mírzá Habíb was a well-educated man. He attended the same
school that the Báb had attended and was tutored by one of the
ablest educators of the city. During his youth, Bahá’u’lláh arranged
for him to study with the Aghsán in the Mansion of Bahjí.
Subsequently, he spent many years receiving daily instructions
from the celebrated Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl, one of the most erudite
believers of his generation. Therefore, the style of his composition
is very learned and represents an important literary achievement in
its own right. It is hoped that the original Persian of these two
narratives will be published, so that students of the Faith will
become better acquainted with his exquisite style.
Notes on the Present Translation
This volume contains a translation of the first narrative,
Khátirát-i-Hayát, into English. For this rendering, every effort has
been made to stay as close as possible to the original text, to the
extent that a literal rendering has often been preferred to a more
stylistic one. Annotations in form of footnotes have been included

to add information, clarify points, and provide a more detailed
perspective.
Typically, Mírzá Habíb referred to the Central Figures using
honorific titles such as “His blessed Person” or “that Sacred
Being”. Wherever possible, these have been replaced with actual
names. Also, it is customary in Eastern Bahá’í historiography for
the name of a Central Figure or prominent believer to be followed
by laudatory expressions such as “may the souls of all be offered
as a ransom for Him.” Because such formulations are awkward in
English, they have been omitted for the most part.
Occasionally, I have added comments to improve the clarity
or continuity of the material. These have been placed between
square brackets; that is, [ ]. All comments in parentheses are by the
author. The numbers in pointed brackets, < >, correspond to the
Afnán family genealogy in Appendix 2. The system of
transliteration will be apparent to those who have an interest in
such matters.
By the time Mírzá Habíb had penned these narratives, many
of the principal people featured had passed away.  Therefore, the
original text often refers to them as “the late” or “the deceased.”
These descriptions have been kept to help future researchers to
identify various dates.
It should be emphasized that the spoken words of the Central
Figures quoted in these pages do not have the scriptural authority
of Their Writings. No one took notes at the time the words were
uttered. However, it cannot be ruled out that some words quoted
may be the very ones that were spoken.

All renderings of the Sacred Writings from Persian and
Arabic are by the present translator unless stated otherwise. At the
present, they fall in the class of provisional translations.
Three major compilations have been immensely helpful in
locating the original Tablets quoted by Mírzá Habíb in his
narrative:
1. “Núri’d-Dín’s Compilation”, which has some 161 densely
handwritten pages of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets to Mírzá Habíb’s
father.3 This unpublished compilation was prepared at `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s request and I am grateful to Abú’l-Qásim Afnán for making
his copy available.
2. Iranian National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection (INBMC)
volumes 51 and 52 contain many Tablets addressed to believers in
Fárs. These have been assembled and compared with the original
texts. Volume 51 (633 pages), titled Majmú`ih Áthár Qalim A`lá,
(Tehran; Mu’asssih-‘i Milli-yi Matbú’at-i Amrí, [c 1977]), contains
the Writings of the Supreme Pen, while volume 52 (683 pages)
contains Tablets of the Master. These are valuable mines of
information for future researchers. Wherever possible, Tablets
quoted by Mírzá Habíb have been located in these volumes and a
reference provided in form of “INBMC x:y”, where x is the
volume and y is the page number. I am indebted to the staff of the
Persian-American Affairs Office of the National Spiritual
Assembly of Bahá’ís of the United States for granting my request
for a copy of these two volumes.
3. A number of the Tablets quoted by Mírzá Habíb have been
published in Khándán-i-Afnán. These quotes have also been
identified and footnoted. However, for the purpose of this

3 Bahá’u’lláh testifies in the Tablet of the World to “countless Tablets” that were
revealed for Núri’d-Dín (see Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 84).

translation, I have relied principally on the INBMC volumes to
determine their accuracy.
Typically, any single Islamic year (noted as A.H.) overlaps
with two Christian years. Where only the year of the event is
known, the first equivalent Georgian date only is given.
Comment on Appendices
The three appendices provide further historical perspective
on certain details given by Mírzá Habíb. These appendices are:
1. An outline of the Bábí and Bahá’í holy places in Shiraz and
the histories associated with them.
2. Genealogy table of the Afnán family members, many of
whom were referred to by Mírzá Habíb.
3. Pages of Hushmand Fatheazam’s diary recorded during his
many daily visits with Mírzá Habíb.
Ahang Rabbani
Houston, Texas
March 1999

Acknowledgments
This effort would not have been possible without the loving
kindness of the following people. The translator owes an immense
debt of gratitude for their help with this enterprise.
Abú’l-Qásim Afnán kindly encouraged me to translate these
remarkable narratives of his father. He also provided other
valuable information, which appears throughout the book in
footnotes and under his name.
Houshmand Fatheazam who, over the years, has encouraged
the Afnán family to organize and publish Mírzá Habíb’s narratives.
He magnanimously shared some pages of his personal diary for
this purpose.
The Bahá’í World Centre kindly reviewed this project and
offered beneficial guidance.
The Review Committee of the National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of the United Kingdom graciously reviewed and
approved this manuscript (along with the forthcoming In the Land
of Refuge) on 20 February 1999.
Dr. Iraj Rabbani, Jan Jasion, Anthony Lee, Maryam Rabbani,
Dr. Moojan Momen, and Brent Poirier offered several valuable
suggestions.
With great care and efficiency, Alison Marshall read through
the entire manuscript and offered many critical improvements.
Without her help, this project would have never been completed
and she has my eternal gratitude.

Dedication
I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art My Governor and the Possessor
of all names, to protect the Afnán, whom Thou hast caused to be
related to Thyself, and to whom Thou hast, in this Revelation,
shown Thy special favor, and whom Thou hast summoned to draw
nigh unto Thee and to turn towards the horizon of Thy Revelation.
Withhold not from them, O my Lord, the outpourings of Thy mercy
or the effulgence of the Day-Star of Thy grace. Enable them to
distinguish themselves amongst Thy people, that they may exalt
Thy Word and promote Thy Cause. Aid them, O my God, to do Thy
will and pleasure.
Bahá’u’lláh
As a token of gratitude for their resolute labor of love,
this translation is loving dedicated to
the custodians of the House of God in Shiraz:
Khadíjih Bagum
Zahrá Bagum
Áqá Mírzá Áqáy-i-Núri’d-Dín
Mírzá Habíbu’lláh Afnán
Abú’l-Qásim Afnán

In the Name of the One ordained by God as His Proof
amongst those who dwell on earth and in heaven.
O son of My Afnán! Thou art the one who soared in My
atmosphere, came before My Countenance, drank the choice wine
of My utterance, and attained his true station under My canopy.
Verily, I testify that thou hast attained unto the Perspicuous Book.
There hath been ordained for thee that with which neither the
riches of the world nor the sovereignty of the kings and rulers can
compare.
Say: Sanctified art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy
Name, the Most Glorious - a Name which profoundly frightens
those who dispute with Thee - to enable me to attain unto that
which hath been revealed by Thy Exalted Pen. I also ask Thee to
sustain me in all the worlds of Thy Kingdom and to protect me
from the darts of Thy enemies. Thou art the Almighty, the
Incomparable, and the All-Bountiful.
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet
to Mírzá Habíb4

4 INBMC 51:354.

Khátirát-i-Hayát
(Memories of My Life)
By
Mírzá Habíbu’lláh Afnán
Prologue by the Author
In the name of God, the Most Glorious, the Most Luminous.
Recently, I received a letter from the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran – may God always sustain its
pillars. It urged me to write an autobiography detailing what I have
witnessed in life and to present it to that sanctified Assembly.
What I have written below is a brief sketch of the 74 years of
the Bahá’í life of this ephemeral servant, Habíbu’lláh Afnán-i-
A`lá’í. My purpose is to offer, from memory or notes I have kept, a
summary of my recollections and what I have heard or seen. This
particularly relates to the period during which I was reared through
the loving-kindness of the illustrious wife of the Báb and her sister
[Zahrá Bagum], and the hallowed time that I spent in the presence
of the Blessed Perfection and the Center of His Covenant.
God willing, I will endeavor to offer a short history of the
Blessed House of the Báb – the site of pilgrimage for all the
denizens of the Supreme Ark.
[Mírzá Habíbu’lláh Afnán]

Chapter 1
Childhood and Early Life in Shiraz
My name is Habíbu’lláh5<71> and I am the fourth child of
Áqá Mírzá Áqá<24>, who was honored by Bahá’u’lláh with the
title Núri’d-Dín [the Light of Revelation]. I was born on 1
Muharram 1292 A.H. [7 February 1875], in the city of Shíráz, and
raised by the loving and compassionate hands of the wife of the
Báb6.
I was no more than four years old when Shiraz was plunged
into turmoil as a result of the martyrdom of the illustrious [Áqá
Mírzá
Muhammad-Husayn],
the
Mahbúbu’sh-Shuhadá
[the
Beloved of Martyrs], and [Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Hasan], the
Sultánu’sh-Shuhadá [the King of Martyrs], in Isfahán.7
At that time, the Qajar prince Farhád Mírzá, the Mu`tami’d-
Dawlih, was the governor-general8 of Fárs, and he was especially

5 His given name was Muhammad-`Alí. Bahá’u’lláh addressed him in Shiraz by
this name in one of His Tablets; INBMC 51:353-4, no. 362. While on pilgrimage,
as a sign of respect, Núri’d-Dín asked Bahá’u’lláh to give his young son a different
name, so that he would not be a namesake of Bahá’u’lláh’s son, Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí (1853-1937). Granting his wish, Bahá’u’lláh named the young
pilgrim, Habíbu’llah [Beloved of God]. From then on, he was known by this name
and it was used in all subsequent Tablets by Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá.
6 See Balyuzi, Khadíjih Bagum, for a biography.
7 The martyrdom of these two brothers took place on 17 March 1879. For details
see:  Ishráq Khávarí,  Núrayn-i-Nayyirayn; Nur, Khatirat-i Muhajiri az Isfahan dar
Zaman-i shahadat-i Sultan ash-Shuhadá va Mahbúb ash-Shuhadá; Mázandarání,
Tarikh-i Zuhur al-Haqq, vol. 5, pp. 242-8; and in English, Balyuzi, Eminent
Bahá’is at the Time of Bahá’u’lláh: With Some Historical Background, pp. 33-51.
8 The term governor-general will be used throughout to refer to civil ruler at the
provincial level.

antagonist towards the Cause. There was great commotion in
Shiraz.  The merchants in the bazaar and custom offices, as well as
the shopkeepers and traders, spoke constantly of the events in
Isfahán. The elders of the Bahá’í community were particularly
concerned since, only a short time earlier, three believers in Shiraz
had been martyred by the enemies. A number of friends gathered
and consulted about the difficult situation. They concluded that,
among the believers, my father, Áqá Mírzá Áqá, was the most
renowned as a Bahá’í. Therefore, if the foes plot to commit
injustices against the community, they would certainly be directed
against him. They said, “From the very beginning, because of his
devotion to the Faith, Áqá Mírzá Áqá has allowed everyone to
learn of his attachment to this Cause.  Should trouble now be
directed against him, others would suffer as well.” Each one of
them spoke in a similar manner, until they unanimously resolved
that it was best for my father not to remain in Shiraz, but to leave
immediately for Búshihr and head to Bombay [India].
Afterwards, the entire consultative body9 came to our house
and informed my father of its decision. They noted that, in light of
the turmoil in Shiraz and all the talk among the people, it would be
wise for him to depart immediately for Búshihr.
Within 24 hours, my father left for Bombay. He entrusted our
mother and sister, and us five brothers, to the joint care of Hájí
Mírzá Abdu’l-Qasim-i-Afnán<11>, the older brother of Khadíjih
Bagum<9>, and our paternal grandmother [Zahrá Bagum<8>], a
sister of the aforementioned Hájí.

9 On the election of the first Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz in 1908, see In the
Land of Refuge, (forthcoming), chapter 16. Before this Assembly was formed, as
bidden by Bahá’u’lláh, the community benefited from an unstructured consultative
body, where the elders and prominent believers discussed local affairs and advised
the friends. For example, see Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet to Núri’d-Dín dated 4 Rabí`u’l-
Avval 1301 A.H. [2 January 1884] in Núri’d-Dín Collection of Tablets, p. 70, in
which each locality was asked to form a consultative body to assist the believers.

Khadíjih Bagum
The wife of the Báb was a maternal aunt to my father and a
paternal aunt to my mother [Maryam-Sultan Bagum<36>]. As
such, she was intimately concerned with our upbringing. She tried
her utmost to ensure that, from the earliest age, we would flourish
under the canopy of God’s Cause. This was the greatest blessing of
our lives. Whatever spiritual perspicacity that I may possess, the
faith that I consider to be the source of my salvation, the blessing
of beholding the Countenance of God [Bahá’u’lláh], and all the
other blessings of this life that have unfailingly been the lot of this
lowly servant are all due entirely to the favors and care of the
esteemed wife of the Báb. That link to the Most Great Infallibility
[the Báb] remained faithful to the Covenant of God until her final
breath. I beseech her to intercede on behalf of this servant for the
confirmations of the Concourse on High.
At the age of seven [circa 1882], I was sent to the traditional
elementary school in Masjid-i-Naw10, Shiraz, along with my older
brother, the late Hájí Mírzá Buzurg-i-Afnán<76>. There, we were
taught by the respected Hájí Mírzá Muhammad-Sádiq, who was a
great admirer of the Báb and ranked among the most esteemed of
the city’s recognized citizens.
During this time, the wife of the Báb became severely
depressed due to her disappointment over not being able to visit
Bahá’u’lláh. Shortly after, as a result of contracting dysentery, she
passed on to the Abha Kingdom, thus depriving us of her infinite
loving-kindness and unsurpassed spiritual qualities. After the ritual
washing [of her body] at the Hammam-i-Khayri (otherwise known

10 A prominent mosque constructed during the rule of Ibn-i-Zangi of the
Atabakan dynasty. This classroom is located on the eastern corner of the mosque.

as Guldastih), her earthly remains were interred in a sacred
shrine.11
Addressing my late father, Áqá Mírzá Áqá, Bahá’u’lláh
revealed a special Tablet of Visitation in the ever-brilliant memory
of Khadíjih Bagum, which extols her exalted station and bestows
the grace of God upon her. ...12 From these exalted Words [of
Bahá’u’lláh], her brilliant station is most evident.
The Báb at the Masjid-i-Vakíl
Several years after Khadíjih Bagum’s passing, when I was 13
years old and still studying under the tutelage of the late Hájí
Mírzá Muhammad-Sadiq-i-Mu`allim, the honored `Andalíb13
arrived in Shiraz from Yazd. I remember well how that `Andalíb
would set out for his afternoon walk around [my school at] Masjid-
i-Naw. Because he was a poet, calligrapher and accomplished

11 For a long time, the caretaker and custodian of this shrine had been a Bábí,
who later, as a result of Nabil Zarandi’s visit, converted to the Bahá’í Faith (see In
the Land of Refuge). Because of his profound devotion to the Báb, he arranged for
Khadíjih Bagum (1820-1878) interment in this location. Years later, he asked
Bahá’u’lláh for the honor of the hereditary custodianship of the resting-place of
Khadíjih Bagum. The Blessed Perfection responded that all matters relating to her
rested with Núri’d-Dín, thereby granting this custodianship to the Afnán family
members descending from Núri’d-Dín. Information on the exact location of
Khadíjih Bagum’s internment has been omitted in the present translation for
reasons of security.
12 At this point, Mírzá Habíb quotes portions of this Tablet of Visitation.
However, the Bahá’í World Centre has indicated that they will publish a
translation of this Tablet in due course.
13 `Andalib [Nightingale] (d. 1920) was the sobriquet of Mírzá `Alí-Ashraf of
Lahijan in the Caspian province of Gilan. `Andalib was a poet of superb
accomplishment and an eloquent teacher. A collection of his poems, filling over 760
pages, was published in 1969. For a biography, see Sulaymani, Masabih-i-Hidayat,
vol 7.

gilder, and had become renowned throughout Shiraz, our teacher
invited him to our class one day. As was customary at the time,
upon arrival, he sat next to the Hájí on the floor. Because of our
close kinship to the Báb, our teacher treated my brother and I with
the utmost consideration throughout our school years, and he used
to seat us near him in the front row of the class. As a result, we
could hear clearly everything that was said.  On that day, I was
particularly attentive to what passed between the honored `Andalíb
and my late teacher.
Our teacher lit the waterpipe and offered it to `Andalíb, and
the conversation between the two of them began. For a while, they
spoke of various topics. At first, their discussion revolved around
the art of poetry and the late Mu`allim, [as a sign of respect],
insisted that `Andalíb should teach the science of prosody and
rhyme to his son Mírzá Muhammad, who was talented in
calligraphy and occasionally composed verses as well. `Andalíb
showed
humility,
however,
and
eventually
directed
the
conversation to teaching the Faith. On that day, I realized that our
teacher had a particular fondness for the Báb and referred to Him
reverently as the Jináb-i-Mírzá [the honored Mírzá].
Our teacher then related the story of the day when the Báb
arrived at the Masjid-i-Vakíl. He stated:14
I was about 25 years of age or perhaps a bit older,
already engaged in my occupation as a teacher in this
same school, and had heard something about the call of
the Jináb-i-Mírzá. I was uncertain as to the truth of the
matter though. The learned `ulamá, especially Shaykh
Abú’l-Qásim, the brother of the Imam-Jum`ih15, and

14 See Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 153-4, for a brief reference to this
incident.
15 Shaykh Abu-Turab, a son of Shaykh Mufid, was a great admirer of the Báb

Shaykh Husayn-i-Zalim [the tyrant], were terrorizing
and tormenting [the seekers]. In the streets, bazaar and
mosques, they would sully people’s minds about Him at
every opportunity by saying, “As this claim is
fundamentally a source of the destruction of Islam, it
must be eradicated.” They even conspired to slay the
Jináb-i-Mírzá in Shiraz. However, as Shaykh Abu-
Turab, the Imam-Jum`ih, did not agree with their plans,
they schemed to invite the Jináb-i-Mírzá to the Masjid-
i-Vakíl16 so that, upon seeing a large multitude and the
circle of the `ulamá, He might become frightened and
renounce His claim. Eventually, they conspired with
Husayn Khán, the Nizamu’d-Dawlih, the governor-
general of Fárs, to realize their plan. It was a Thursday
when the public crier announced [throughout the city] a
call for all the citizens to gather the following day, three
hours before sunset, at the Masjid-i-Vakíl to witness the
Siyyid-i-Báb renounce His false claims.
From the morning of that day, the entire
courtyard, the cloisters, the roofs and even the minarets
of the mosque were thronged with onlookers. There was
no one who had not come to see and hear the Jináb-i-
Mírzá. I, too, went to the mosque at about an hour past
noon and, with great difficulty, reached a spot near the
pulpit, designated for the government officials and the
`ulamá. I was keen to meet Him and hear His words.
There was a great deal of noise because people were
busy talking about the Person and claim of the Siyyid-i-
Báb. The `ulamá entered the mosque and the officials

and belonged to the same learned, extended family as Siyyid Yahya Vahid-i-
Darabi; see Rabbani, “The Family of Vahid Darabi.”
16 The name derives from the fact that Karim Khán-i-Zand (d. 1779), whose
capital was in Shiraz, had built this structure.

and dignitaries were present also [sitting in the
cloisters, near the stone pulpit17].
Three hours before sunset, a great commotion
occurred near the entrance of the mosque and we heard,
“He is coming!” At once, all tumult in the mosque
subsided and there was absolute silence. Not a whisper
could be heard from anyone. I witnessed `Abdu’l-
Hamíd Khán, the Darúghih [the sheriff], enter the
mosque, followed by five farrashes [attendants], then
the Jináb-i-Mírzá, followed by yet another group of five
farrashes.
The Jináb-i-Mírzá wore a black turban, a green
sash [signifying His holy lineage], and an `abá on His
shoulders. His hands extended beyond the sleeve of the
`abá. When He approached the spot where the officials
and `ulamá were seated, without paying the slightest
attention to anyone, He inquired of the governor-
general [Husayn Khán], “What is your purpose in
summoning Me to this place?” Shaykh Husayn, the
Nazimu’sh-Shari`ih, known as Zalim [the tyrant],
responded with much vehemence, “The intention is that
you should ascend this pulpit and repudiate your false
claim!”
I looked very closely at the countenance and
appearance of the Jináb-i-Mírzá and noted that the
presence of the vast multitude, the authority of the
officials and the might of the `ulamá did not have the
least influence on His dignified bearing. Oblivious to
all, He proceeded to the pulpit, ascended the third step

17 This pulpit is carved out of a single piece of marble and has 14 steps.

and stood there. Shaykh Husayn said to the governor,
“Instruct Him to go to the top of the pulpit so everyone
will hear Him.” Husayn Khán said, “Siyyid, go up so all
will see you.” His Holiness ascended to the top of the
pulpit and began to recite a homily on the divine unity
with such eloquent Arabic as I had not heard until that
day. It was truly magnificent and wondrous. The
concourse of people, high and low, learned and illiterate
alike, were in total rapture as they listened attentively
and fascinated.
When Shaykh Husayn noticed that His power of
utterance had absorbed all there, he said to Husayn
Khán, “The Siyyid is casting a spell on the assemblage
with His enchanting speech. Instruct Him to say what
He intended to say.” With great vehemence, Husayn
Khán shouted, “Siyyid! Say what you are supposed to
say. What is this idle chatter?” The Jináb-i-Mírzá
remained silent for some two minutes and then said, “O
People! Know this well and be informed. I say unto you
what My Forefather, the Messenger of God, spoke
twelve hundred and sixty years ago and I do not speak
what He did not.” He then quoted the following hadíth,
“What Muhammad made lawful remains lawful unto
the Day of Resurrection and what He forbade remains
forbidden unto the Day of Resurrection. Thus said the
Immaculate One: ‘When the Qá’im appears is, verily,
the Day of Resurrection18.’”
Having recited this Tradition, He then descended
the pulpit. Shaykh Husayn, who appreciated the
significance and meaning of this proclamation, raised

18 In numerous places, the Báb identifies the Day of Resurrection with His own
Advent; see, for example, The Persian Bayan 2:3.

his walking-stick, out of sheer hostility, to strike Him
on the head. Mírzá Abú’l-Hasan Khán, the Mushiru’l-
Mulk19, quickly brought forward his shoulder to ward
off the attack, and his shoulder sustained the blow.20
After relating this story, our late teacher commented, “I still
have not understood the implications of His saying, nor
comprehended the reality of His meaning, ‘I say the same that My
Forefather, the Prophet, has said.’” “That is rather surprising,”
`Andalíb responded, “as you yourself testify that the Primal Point
stated, ‘Whatever the Messenger of God spoke, I speak also.’
Consider that the same sufferings that Muhammad endured were
indeed sustained by the Báb, and that the same Call that the
Messenger of God raised was also proclaimed by the Báb.”
Leaving Shiraz
In 1307 A.H. [1890], my maternal grandmother, Zahrá
Bagum<8>, the sister of the Báb’s wife, passed away. Only a few
months later, Bahá’u’lláh instructed our family to proceed to the
Holy Land. My father wrote to us [saying] that our oldest brother,
Mírzá Jalál, was to remain in Shiraz to protect, and serve at, the
august House of the Báb. The rest of the family was to join him in
Port Said, where he was engaged in commerce [and from there, to
proceed to `Akká]. As a result, Mírzá Jalál married and established
himself in a residence next to the sacred House of the Báb.

19 He and his father, Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí, the first Mushiru’l-Mulk, were the
viziers of Fars, in succession, over a period of 40 years; see In the Land of Refuge.
One of the daughters of the renowned Bábí martyr, Hujjat (Mulla Muhammad-`Alí
Zanjani, 1812-1850), had married Mírzá Abu’l-Hasan Khán; see In the Land of
Refuge.
20 With some minor differences, the author reports this event in two manuscripts
Khátirát-i-Hayát and Táríkh Amrí Fárs va Shíráz; see In the Land of Refuge.

At the beginning of the month of Safar 1308 A.H.21, we left
Shiraz with a caravan, traveling on horses and mules. Our group
consisted of the following: my mother, Maryam-Sultan Bagum; the
mother of Áqá Mírzá Hadiy-i-Afnán<96> [Zivar Sultan Khánum];
my brothers, Áqá Mírzá Buzurg and Áqá Mírzá Diya’u’llah; my
sister, Tuba Khánum; myself; and an attendant named Áqá
Muhammad `Alí, who was a Bahá’í from Káshán. At that time, I
was 16 years old.
Experiencing great hardship, we traveled the near-impassible
and difficult roads and arrived in Búshihr. The weather was
oppressively hot and we all fell ill. My sister was seriously ill and
her condition was worse than the rest. We languished like this for
over 30 days, until a ship arrived from London destined for Port
Said. During our time in Búshihr, we stayed at the house of one of
our relatives, the late Hájí Mírzá `Abdu’llah-Khán, the uncle of the
Múvaqqaru’d-Dawlih<99>. He was the Governor of Búshihr and
the southern ports, and the representative of the British government
for commerce and political affairs. He had been instrumental in
freeing Muhammad Khán-i-Balúch from trouble in Shiraz.22
After we left Búshihr and were on the high seas, difficulties
intensified and we were assailed from every direction by
tremendous hardship, distress and suffering. At one time, near the
port of Masqat, we faced severe storms that lasted about ten hours
and our ship had to weather the huge waves of an angry sea. That
incident was not quite over and we had not had any rest, when a
hole developed in the side of our ship, which nearly caused her to
sink. And then, for the third time, the ship’s engine caught fire. But
eventually, through the infinite grace and bounty of the Ancient
Beauty, we reached Port Said unscathed and our ship anchored.

21 Circa 16 September 1890
22 See In the Land of Refuge.

When we disembarked, we did not know where to go or what
to do, so we stood perplexed in a corner and occupied ourselves in
conversation. Then my older brother, the late Áqá Siyyid Áqáy-i-
Afnán, who was fluent in English and Arabic, arrived and greeted
us warmly. After several years of separation, we were seeing each
other again. He took us to his home and, on the way, we saw our
father, who was on his way to welcome us. Tenderly, he embraced
each one of us and showered us with his love and affection. At
long last, the grace of God had surrounded us and the hardship of
the journey was over.

Chapter 2
First Pilgrimage: In the Presence of
Bahá’u’lláh
We stayed in Port Said for seven months, until my late father
wrote to Bahá’u’lláh seeking permission for us to attain His
presence. Permission was granted.
Arrival at Haifa
We left Port Said on 7 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1308 A.H. [14 July
1891], spent the next day aboard the ship and, that evening, arrived
at the port of Haifa. At dawn on 9 Dhi’l-Hajjih, the ship anchored
at the port of Haifa, and, with intense eagerness and anticipation,
we got ready to disembark. [The prospect of fulfilling] our life-
long desire to place our brow at His Most Holy Threshold and gaze
on the Countenance of the Beloved of the world overjoyed us. The
thought of being able to kiss the ground He walked on - an act that
was the highest aspiration of the bygone Prophets and saints -
caused our beings to tremble with extreme delight. With great
humility, we called to mind that we were about to set foot on a land
that the spirit of the Holy Ones, Prophets of old, and
Manifestations of past ages circumambulated in adoration. Tears of
joy flowed uncontrollably from our eyes. My brother [Áqá Siyyid
Áqá<74>], who, along with our father, had attained the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh23 before, was constantly counseling us about how we

23 In the eleventh leaf of Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
Revealed after the Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 73), Bahá’u’lláh announces the arrival of the
Núri’d-Dín and his son, “Recently the Afnáns and Amín – upon them be My glory

should behave in the presence of the Blessed Perfection. He
emphasized that, at His Threshold, we must be the essence of
submissiveness and reverence.24
Eventually, the first believer to welcome us came on the boat.
It was the late honored Manshádí25. In accordance with the Blessed
Beauty’s instructions, he arranged for our landing, guided us
through customs and, from there, led us to the tent of Bahá’u’lláh,
which was pitched at the foot of Mount Carmel. For this unique
visit and as a sign of respect, a special Arabic custom was prepared
for us. But there was no time to change and we went along in our
European-style clothing. I well remember that the sun had not quite
come up over the crest of the mountains, and the air was
particularly fresh and vivifying. [As we waited by His tent], the
honored Manshádí was asking about Shiraz and the friends.
Suddenly, Mírzá Mustafa, [later] known as Abu Hurayrih26, an
attendant of Bahá’u’lláh who in later years broke the Covenant27,
appeared and guided us to His house28 and to the blessed Presence.
Our one ardent wish was realized! He held aside the curtain and we
saw the Blessed Beauty standing in the middle of the room. When
we saw His sacred Figure and luminous Visage, we became utterly
oblivious of all else, as tears poured from our eyes. Overwhelmed,
we circumambulated His blessed Person.

and loving kindness – attained Our presence and beheld Our countenance.”
24 Portions of Mírzá Habíb’s recollections of Bahá’u’lláh have previously
appeared in Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory, chapter 41.
25 During the time of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá, Siyyid Taqiy-i-Manshadi
lived in Haifa where he served in many capacities.
26 Named after a fickle follower of Prophet Muhammad. He was the son of Mírzá
Mustafay-i-Naraqi (d. 1867), who became a martyr in Tabriz; see Balyuzi,
Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory, pp. 204-5 and 237-8.
27 After the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, he became a follower of Mírzá Muhammad-
`Alí. He lived towards the end of his life near Tiberias, on a property belonging to
Mírzá Majdi'd-Din (d. 1955), a nephew of Bahá’u’lláh.
28 During Bahá’u’lláh's sojourns in Haifa, houses in the German Templer colony
would be rented for Him.

Bahá’u’lláh invited us to sit. He sat on the mandar. With the
utmost respect, we four brothers sat on the floor on our heels. On
our right, Mírzá Áqá Jan was in attendance and the samovar was
brewing tea in front of him. Bahá’u’lláh said, “Pour tea for the
young Afnáns. They have just come ashore.” Then the Tongue of
Grandeur spoke these sweet words, “O flowers of the rose-garden
of the honored Afnán! You are welcome; you are welcome. Your
departure from Shiraz was very difficult and tiring. The divine will
and the resoluteness of the honored Afnán brought you to this
threshold of holiness. During your sea journey, dangers beset you
and God protected you. Consider, this very day several thousand
people are treading the ground between Safa and Marwih [on one
foot].29 The Beloved of the world of being is present in this land,
but they are oblivious. All are heedless; all are unaware; all are
uninformed. You are the true pilgrims.” Three times He repeated,
“You are the true pilgrims!” At that moment, as I sat enraptured
and listening attentively to the utterances of the Desire of the
world, these lines of Rúmí30 came to my mind:
O pilgrims on pilgrimage, where are ye, where are ye?
the Beloved is here, come hither ye, come hither ye.
The Beloved is your neighbor, wall by wall;
why in the wilderness lost are ye all?
At that very moment, the blessed Countenance turned to this
servant and said, “The mystics have also had something to say on

29 The Festival of Sacrifice (`Id-i-Qurban) occurs on the tenth day of Dhi’l-Hajjih.
Part of the rites of pilgrimage includes traversing seven times the distance between
two mounds where, according to traditions, Hagar ran back and forth seven times,
seeking a spring to quench her son’s thirst.
30 Maulana Jalali’d-Din Rumi (1207-1273) was the most renowned of all mystic
poets of Iran.

this matter.” Once again, He ordered more tea for us. After that, we
left His presence.
With Bahá’u’lláh in Haifa
The house next to His blessed residence was rented for us.
We lived in close proximity to the house of the Abhá Beauty.
Attaining His blessed threshold, meeting the believers living in the
Holy Land and consorting with the veterans of the Faith had
blotted everything else from our minds. The sweetness of living
and the spiritual ecstasies that we experienced in those days lie
beyond description. The pen is unable, and the words inadequate,
to convey those feelings.
Haifa was hot during these days. We were not familiar with,
or accustomed to, its climate and had a very difficult time, often
falling ill. But the bounties of our beloved Lord were measureless
and the sea of His grace and munificence was ever billowing. I
remember well one day when we were called to His presence at
three o’clock in the afternoon. I had a very bad fever. My brothers
dressed and prepared to attain His presence. I also got up [from my
bed] to accompany them, when my oldest brother tried to stop me
from going. He said, “Perhaps you are not allowed to attain
Bahá’u’lláh’s presence in such a feverish condition.” I replied, “He
is aware of my condition.” I went into His presence. The Blessed
Perfection turned to me and said, “You have a fever,” at which I
bowed my head. He continued, “Fever is a product of this land.
Whoever comes here must suffer from it.” Then He ordered tea to
be given to us. Immediately I began to perspire so much that my
clothes were soaked. Then the Blessed Perfection said, “Go and
change your clothes. Fever will not trouble you again.”
Throughout the remaining nine months we spent in the Holy Land,
I did not suffer from fever again.

After 15 days, my brother [Áqá Siyyid Áqá] returned to Port
Said and my father came [to Haifa]. My father was the recipient of
infinite bounties and kindness from the Blessed Perfection.
During these days in 1308 A.H. [1891], the episode of the
seven martyrs of Yazd took place. When the news was brought to
Bahá’u’lláh, it caused Him tremendous sorrow and anguish.31 For
nine whole days, verses were not revealed from the heaven of
divine knowledge and no one was allowed into His presence.
On the ninth day, the friends were all summoned, and we had
that honor too. The deep grief that surrounded His Blessed Person
was indescribable. He spoke extensively about the Qájárs and their
misdeeds. Afterwards, He mentioned the events of Yazd. Sternly,
the Tongue of Grandeur spoke of the Jalálu’d-Dawlih32 and
Zillu’s-Sultan: “Zillu’s-Sultan33 wrote Us a letter in his own
handwriting and gave it to Hájí Sayyah34 to bring. He asked Us to

31 For a discussion of this tragic event, which was brought about by Mas`ud ibn
Nasiri’d-Din Zillu’s-Sultan (1949-1918) and his son, Husain Mírzá, Jalalu’d-Dawlih
(1870-1913), in the spring/summer of 1891, see: Abú’l-Qásim Bayda, Tarikh-i-
Bayda; Mazandarani, Tarikh Zuhuru’l-Haqq vol 5, pp 404-26; Hájí Muhammad-
Tahir Malamiri, Tarikh-i-Shuhada-i-Yazd; and Moojan Momen, The Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions, 1844-1944, pp. 301-5.
32 Sultan-Husayn Mírzá, the eldest son of Zillu’s-Sultan, was made the deputy
governor of Fars at the age of 13. In 1888, he was appointed the governor-general
of Yazd and, to amass a personal fortune, killed a large number of people,
including seven believers. He was dismissed from the office in 1892, but re-
appointed to it in 1903 when, once again, he launched a Bahá’í pogrom in which
nearly 100 believers perished. During the Constitutional Revolt of 1905-11, he
sided with the revolution and the despotic Muhammad-`Alí Sháh (1872-1925)
imprisoned him for a while, ordered him stripped of his estate, and eventually
exiled him to Europe. For a biography, see Sharh-i Hal-i Rijal-i Iran 2:77-80.
33 For a biography, see In the Land of Refuge.
34 Hájí Muhammad-`Alíy-i-Sayyah-i-Mahallati (1836-1924) was an attendant of
Zillu’s-Sultan and his autobiography is published under the title, Khatirat Haji
Sayyah, edited by Hamid Sayyad.

help him, with [the support of] the Bábís, to destroy his Sháh-
Bábá35. ‘If You do this’, he wrote, ‘I will give You liberty; I will
give You official recognition; I will help and support You; I will
make amends for the past. Whatever Sháh-Bába did, I will do just
the opposite.’ The entire letter was full of such statements. The
answer We gave him was this: ‘Praying for the Sháh is obligatory
for both you and Us. Never again write to Us in this vein. Never
again put such requests to this Wronged One. We have arisen to
improve the morals of a number of people wronged in this world.
If We were after leadership, what authority would have been better
than holding the position of a minister in Iran?’ When he received
this answer from Us, he despaired of Us, and is now behaving in
this manner. Were We to send his letter to Nasiri’d-Din Sháh, he
would skin him alive. But God is the Concealer. He draws veils
over the deeds of His servants.” Then He said, “Do not be sad; do
not be downcast; do not let your hearts bleed. The sacred tree of
the Cause of God is watered by the blood of the martyrs. Unless
watered, a tree does not grow and bear fruit. Before long, you will
see the name of the Qájárs obliterated, and the land of Iran
cleansed of the filth of their existence and the odor of their names.”
Regarding the Jalálu’d-Dawlih, the Blessed Perfection said,
“This ungrateful one has done what has caused the eyes of the
denizens of the Supreme Concourse to shed tears of blood.” Just 32
years from that day, the rule of the Qájárs came to an end and they
were overthrown. After nine days, the first Tablet revealed from
the heaven of divine will was the Lawh-i-Dunyá [Tablet of the
World], with which our father was honored. That reference to the
oppression of the Jalálu’d-Dawlih can be read in this Tablet: “The
tyrant of the land of Yá (Yazd) committed that which has caused
the Concourse on High to shed tears of blood.”36 That night,

35 His father, Nasiri’d-Din Sháh (r. 1848-1896), had not selected Zillu’s-Sultan as
the heir to the throne.
36 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 85.

Bahá’u’lláh gave a copy of the Tablet of the World, in the
handwriting of Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin, to my late brother, Hájí Mírzá
Buzurg. He commented, “At the beginning of this Tablet, mention
has been made of your father, the Afnán. We therefore bestow it
upon you.”
With Bahá’u’lláh in `Akká
Fifteen days after my father arrived and the days of our
attainment were drawing to a close, an epidemic of cholera broke
out in Syria and Lebanon. The government set up quarantine
around the borders. My father asked for permission to leave, but
Bahá’u’lláh did not grant it, remarking: “While the epidemic rages,
you are not to leave.” For us, this was the supreme felicity. Autumn
came and the air of Haifa and `Akká improved. The Blessed
Perfection moved from Haifa to the Mansion of Bahjí. We were
provided with a small house next to the blessed Mansion37. Our
house was situated so that we had a good view of His blessed
chambers. When we got up at dawn to say our prayers, most of the
time we saw that His chamber was lit and Tablets were being
revealed. The Blessed Perfection was pacing the room and the
amanuensis was busy writing. I do not remember anyone other than
Mírzá Áqá Jan taking down the revealed Words in those days.
During that time, the late Mírzá Yúsuf Khán-i-Vujdání38 and
the late Áqá Siyyid Asadu’llah-i-Qumí39 were tutoring the Aghsán

37 The date of Bahá’u’lláh’s first arrival at the Mansion of Bahji is given as
September 1879 in Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory, p. 362. However, in a Tablet
dated 11 Rabí`u’l-Avval 1298 A.H. [11 February 1881], Bahá’u’lláh tells Núri’d-
Dín that it had been only a month since He arrived at the Mansion; see Núri’d-
Dín’s Collection, p. 43.
38 Previously, a mystic of the `Alí-Allahy order (also known as Ahl-i-Haqq). He
was a renowned teacher of the Faith from Kirmanshah.
39 A trusted believer who served in the Holy Land with distinction during the

in the Mansion. The Blessed Perfection instructed my brothers,
Hájí Mírzá Buzurg, Hájí Mírzá Diyá’ and myself to attend their
lessons too. The late Mishkin-Qalam taught us calligraphy. Every
day, we went to the room on the ground floor of the Mansion set
aside as a classroom. There we received our tuition, and we passed
our precious days oblivious of all our blessings. Our father
constantly admonished us, so that we would never act improperly
in the presence of the Blessed Beauty or in the Mansion.
On the first day of Muharram 1309 A.H. [7 August 1891], the
Blessed Perfection celebrated the festival [of the anniversary of the
birth of the Báb by the lunar calendar]. He called together all the
friends, and we attained His presence as well. My father was
corpulent and suffered from rheumatism. He could not sit on the
floor. The Blessed Perfection said, “Bring a chair for the Afnán,”
and one of the attendants provided a chair for him. Bahá’u’lláh
then said, “Bring chairs for his sons as well,” and so we were all
seated on chairs. The entire company of resident believers and
pilgrims were in His presence.
On that day, His blessed utterances mainly concerned
division and disunity in religion. He stated, “Islam was a good
religion, but they destroyed it. Differences arose from the
beginning of the Dispensation and, after the ascension of the
Prophet, the foundation of Islam was shattered. Division first
appeared in the house of the Prophet. When the Messenger of God
[Muhammad] was ill and His companions40 gathered about His
deathbed, He asked for a pen and paper to write His Will. `Umar
said, ‘He is delirious.’ His Holiness `Alí responded, ‘Sickness and
fever have no effect on the condition of the Prophets; they are

ministry of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá.
40 The Islamic traditions maintain that four believers were present: Abu Bakr,
`Umar ibn Khattab, `Uthman ibn Affan and `Alí ibn Talib; see Taherzadeh, The
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 156.

always inspired. Present Him with writing materials and see what
guidance He gives.’ `Umar responded, ‘The Book of God is
sufficient unto us.’ Those same words became the cause of
division, and the world and Islam have suffered since. The same
words ‘the Book of God is sufficient unto us’ broke the back of the
Prophet’s daughter. The same words ‘the Book of God is sufficient
unto us’ resulted in the slaying of `Uthmán. The same words ‘the
Book of God is sufficient unto us’ brought about the Battle of
Camels41. The same words ‘the Book of God is sufficient unto us’
split `Alí’s forehead. The same words ‘the Book of God is
sufficient unto us’ precipitated the episode of the land of Taf and
the martyrdom of Husayn ibn `Alí. The same words ‘the Book of
God is sufficient unto us’ sent the House of Immaculacy42 into
slavery and scattered it in all directions. The same words ‘the Book
of God is sufficient unto us’ ultimately assailed the holy breast of
the Exalted One [the Báb]. He then raised His hand and stated,
‘Our enemies are also in Our sleeve.’”
Afterwards, the Blessed Perfection, Himself, distributed
baqlavá [baklava]43 to the friends present. He said, “This is the day
on which Hadrat-i-Mubashshir44 set foot in this nether world and
illumined it with His dazzling brilliance. There is every reason to
rejoice.” He then dismissed us all. After that, the friends gathered
in smaller groups in the surrounding grounds of the Mansion
beneath the Spruce and fir trees and, with tremendous excitement,
repeated Bahá’u’lláh’s words to ensure that they remembered them
accurately.

41 A watershed battle led by `Ayyishih, a wife of Muhammad and a daughter of
Abu-Bakr, against Imam `Alí and His companions, marking a division within
Islam.
42 The descendants of Muhammad and `Alí; implies the Imams and Their families.
43 A traditional sweetmeat
44 lit. His Holiness, the Herald (the Báb)

The next day, the second day of Muharram, was the
anniversary of the birth of the Lord of Days and the World of
Being45. In the morning, all the pilgrims, visitors and resident
believers were summoned to the presence of the All-Knowing One.
Bahá’u’lláh spoke about the sublimity of His advent, the power of
the Most Exalted Pen, the circumstances of His exile, and the
arrival at the Most Great Prison. Then He spoke extensively about
the aggression and transgressions of the tyrants and divines. He
said, “Nasiri’d-Din Shah and `Abdu’l-`Aziz both transgressed
against Us and harmed the body of the Cause of God, but the
tyranny of `Abdu’l-`Aziz was by far the more severe, because he
banished, without any reason, the Wronged One of the worlds to
the Most Great Prison. Nasiri’d-Din Sháh, however, because of the
ignorant action of the believers in the early days of the Cause,
whenever he strokes his limbs and feels the pellets under his skin46,
is roused in anger to commit these harsh deeds and adopt
tyrannical measures against the friends, spilling the blood of
innocent people. Notwithstanding all these injuries inflicted upon
them by the Sháh and the government, the friends do not stop
practicing their Faith openly and do not observe wisdom. You
cannot blame them, because two great festivals have been joined
into one47, foreshadowing a brilliant future for the Cause of God in
all corners of the world.” Then the Blessed Perfection spoke these
two verses48:
These times more bitter than venom shall pass,

And once again, times as sweet as sugar shall come our
way.

45 Bahá’u’lláh's birth took place on 2 Muharram 1233 A.H./12 November 1817.
46 See The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 599-600.
47 Regarding the celebration of the Báb’s Birth and His own, in Questions and
Answers, question 2, Bahá’u’lláh has revealed, “These two days are accounted as
one in the sight of God.” Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, p.
105.
48 These lines are by Hafiz.

When He finished His blessed words, He graced us with
sweetmeats and we left His presence.
The glad tidings uttered on that day by the Author of the
Cause were realized not long after, when the hand of His believers
raised the banner of God’s religion in various corners of the world:
the Western countries, the provinces of India, `Ishqábád, and many
other territories of the globe. In the early years of the ministry of
the Center of the Covenant, the first group of American pilgrims,
with utmost humility and indescribable gratitude, arrived in the
Holy Land and attained the presence of the Appointed Beauty.
I have already mentioned that our house was adjacent to the
blessed Mansion. Our practice was to wake at dawn to carry out
our devotions, recite Tablets of Visitation and perform our daily
obligatory prayers. One morning, before sunrise, an attendant came
with the news that the Blessed Perfection was coming to our house.
In this way, He placed the crown of everlasting honor upon the
heads of these humble servants. The tiding made us weep
uncontrollably with joy and we hurried out [to welcome Him]. We
saw His blessed Person coming towards our house with great
majesty and glory. We all prostrated, kissed His feet and made the
earth trodden by His blessed feet the kohl of our eyes. Each one of
us in turn was favored with His tender blessings and was given a
share of His infinite generosity. He went inside our house and, in
doing so, conferred upon us an everlasting honor. I offered Him a
cup of tea. The Tongue of Grandeur stated, “Well done!” He drank
half of it and gave the rest to me. He also gave me a black rosary
made of dark olive-wood that He was carrying. I kissed His hands.
That rosary, which has been as dear to me as life itself, is now
placed in the Archives of the House of the Báb in Shiraz.

Again, I have mentioned that His blessed chamber was
visible from our house. We saw Him several times at dawn and
early morning while He spoke the revealed Word. Mírzá Áqá Jan
wrote it down as He uttered it. Mírzá Áqá Jan used to have several
reed pens well cut and pointed, with ink and paper ready. The flow
of divine verses from the heaven of Revelation was swift. It was
like a surging ocean. Mírzá Áqá Jan wrote as quickly as he could -
so quickly that, at times, the pen slipped out of his hand. He would
promptly take up another pen. There were times when he could not
keep up and would say: “I can’t write.” Then the Blessed
Perfection would repeat what He had spoken.
The Blessed Perfection instructed my brother, Hájí Mírzá
Buzurg, to make a copy of Qasídiy-i-`Izz-i-Varqá’íyyih49. When he
had finished the task and presented it, he received much
commendation and praise from Bahá’u’lláh, and was favored with
a pen-case made in Isfahán, which held a silver inkstand. That pen-
case is now held in the Archives of the Blessed House [of the Báb].
On another occasion, Bahá’u’lláh called me by myself and,
after showering His indescribable blessings on me, stated, “We
have asked Mírzá Yúsuf Khán and Siyyid Assadu’llah to pay
particular attention to your lessons and instructions.” I bowed
down. With His blessed hands, He gave me a bottle of rose-water
saying, “This rose-water comes from Qamsar of Káshán. It has
taken 40 days to reach this land. God has created this rose-water
for such a day as this, which is the Prince of days.” He then
dismissed me. I had the bottle of rose-water until not long ago, and
some of the friends would use it to perfume their faces and hairs.
Now I deeply regret not having saved what was given to me by the
Hands of the divine sovereignty of the Blessed Perfection.

49 A poem of 127 verses composed by Bahá’u’lláh in Sulaymaniyyih; see
Bahá’u’lláh, Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A`lá, vol. 3, pp. 160-215.

One evening, Abu-Hurayrih announced that the Beloved of
the world had decided to visit the Garden of Junaynih50 on the
following morning and had asked all pilgrims and resident
believers to accompany Him. I speak the truth when I say, the joy
of knowing that we would be in the presence the Blessed Beauty
for several hours the next day kept me awake that night until
morning. At times, I was rapt in supplication and prayer, and at
other moments filled with euphoria and excitement. The night
passed in this way and, at early dawn, I faced His blessed chamber
offering prayers of thanksgiving and praise. Before sunrise, we all
gathered by the gate of the Mansion. An hour later, Bahá’u’lláh
came downstairs. A white donkey was brought for Him to ride on
it. This donkey was a gift of the late Áqá Ghulam-`Alíy-i-Kashi
and Áqá Muhammad-Hashim-i-Káshí. The rest of the friends
followed Him on foot towards Junaynih. Hájí Khavar51, a resident
of the Holy Land for many years and a fairly tall man, held an
umbrella over the head of Bahá’u’lláh to protect Him from the sun.
The air was extremely fresh and invigorating. We sensed that, from
the pleasant air of `Akká, the spirit of the poet of Shiraz had soared
with the verse:
The morning breeze is fragrant as ambergris today,
As my beloved moves towards the meadow.
Eventually, we reached the Garden, which had been prepared
by attendants and believers. They had assembled all the items
necessary for receiving the Blessed Perfection and the other
friends. The Garden paths were very charming and attractive. The
trees, grass, flowers and orchard danced with joy in the breeze,
while the sweet-singing birds were crying out in ecstasy and
merriment, all praising the grace and blessing of the presence of
their Beloved. On that day, the Countenance of the Blessed

50 Known also as Bagh-i-Jamal, it is situated close to the Mansion of Mazra`ih.
51 An attendant of Bahá’u’lláh’s household.

Perfection radiated with the greatest joy and He paid tribute to and
commended each of the friends. In such an atmosphere, lunch was
served.
After lunch, all the believers were present at yet another
spiritual gathering in Bahá’u’lláh’s presence. It was then that
`Abdu’l-Bahá arrived from the city [of `Akká] and the Ancient
Beauty commanded us: “The Master52 is coming. Hasten to
welcome Him.” I should note that a similar event occurred on
several other occasions. I will describe the details at a later stage. It
was evident that, from that time, the Blessed Perfection was
planting in the spirit and hearts of the friends seeds of humility,
submissiveness, mindfulness of the Covenant and faithfulness
towards Him Whom God hath purposed [`Abdu’l-Bahá]. He would
always teach the believers about the exalted station and hidden
reality of the beloved Master.
And so we went out to welcome `Abdu’l-Bahá and, in His
company, once again attained the presence of Bahá’u’lláh. With
extreme humility and attention, `Abdu’l-Bahá sat in His presence
and gave permission for the pilgrims to sit as well. Then, the
Tongue of Purity spoke words with this meaning: “The garden was
not pleasant enough this morning. But now, with the arrival of the
Master, it has become most pleasant.” Then, turning towards
`Abdu’l-Bahá, He observed, “It would have been exceedingly good
if you had come this morning.” `Abdu’l-Bahá replied, “The
Mutasarrif Pasha and some other of the city’s inhabitants sent word
that they were coming. On Your behalf, I had to receive them and
offer them hospitality.” The Blessed Perfection smiled and said,
“The Master is Our shield and the shield of everyone else. All live
at ease, all know utmost comfort and tranquility. Associating with
men such as these is very, very difficult. It is the Master who

52 The word ‘Áqá’ has been used throughout the original as the term Bahá’u’lláh
used to refer to `Abdu’l-Bahá. This has been rendered as ‘the Master.’

stands up to everything and supplies the means for the well-being
and peace of all the friends. May God preserve Him from the evil
of the envious and inimical.” “One day in Baghdad,” Bahá’u’lláh
continued, “a beggar asked for alms. We gave him one majídí53 and
he told Us: ‘Go in peace, young man; may Hadrat-i-`Abbás54 give
you support.’ He prayed for Us – it was a good prayer.”
In short, on that day, the blessings of Bahá’u’lláh towards all
[of us] were extremely generous. About an hour before sunset, the
Sovereign of the world decided to return to the Mansion and, as in
the morning, we all walked back. At the gate, we were dismissed
from His presence.
The distance between the city of `Akká and the Mansion is
about four to five kilometers. The Bagh-i-Jamál is one of the
gardens on the outskirts of the city, near the Mansion. When you
pass by this garden, one comes within full view of the Mansion.
The door to the chamber of the Blessed Perfection opened this
way. Whenever `Abdu’l-Bahá approached by this route on a steed,
He would dismount as soon as the Mansion came into view and
walk the rest of the way to the Mansion with the utmost humility
and reverence.
One day, all the friends and the Aghsán were in Bahá’u’lláh’s
presence. I well remember that among them were the following:
Nabíl-i-A`zam, Afnán-i-Kabír, Áqá Ridá [Qannád] Shírází, Ustád
Muhammad-`Alíy-i-Salmání55, Mishkin-Qalam, my late father, and

53 A currency of the Ottoman Empire, installed by Sultan `Abdu’l-Majid (1823-
61).
54 `Abbas (d. 680), a brother of Imam Husayn, was the standard-bearer on the plain
of Karbala and the last of His men to stand with his Brother. Subsequent to his
martyrdom, he has been greatly revered and extolled by the Shi`i community.
`Abdu’l-Bahá was named `Abbas after His grandfather, Mírzá `Abbas-i-Nuri (d.
1839).
55 A poet and native of Isfahan and Bahá’u’lláh’s barber. He is the author of an

attendants such as Áqá Muhammad-Hasan of the Pilgrim House.
Suddenly, the Blessed Perfection turned round to look at the plain
and, seeing `Abdu’l-Bahá approaching the Mansion, said, “The
Master is coming; go and welcome Him.” We all hurried out and
attained the presence of “Him round Whom all names revolve”56
and, in His company, went back to the presence of the Blessed
Perfection.
On that day, Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí57, the other Aghsán,
Mírzá Áqá Jan, Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán<28>, and [Mírzá] Madji’d-
Din58 were present. At a later time, however, these same people
were among the Covenant-breakers and, with the greatest
vehemence and infidelity, rose against the Cause of God. After the
ascension of the Blessed Perfection, this servant himself witnessed
their treachery, betrayal, hypocrisy and imposture. During that
period, which outwardly constituted Bahá’u’lláh’s final days in
this nether world, His words mostly focused on the issues of the
protection of the Covenant and firmness in the divine Testament.
On that occasion, He fervently admonished the people of the world
to remain loyal to the Covenant and not to raise the standard of
discord in the Cause of God. Then He raised His blessed hand and,
pointing to the Aghsáns and Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí, said, “Should
one of Our Aghsán ever for a moment passed out from the shadow
of the Cause, he will cease to be of any consequence.” These
words, emanating from the Source of compassion and the Heaven

important narrative, translated under the title, My Memories of Bahá’u’lláh.
56 One of the titles of `Abdu’l-Bahá given in the Tablet of the Land of Bá
(Beirut); see Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 136.
57 During Bahá’u’lláh's ministry, Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí was known by the title
Ghusn-i-Akbar (the Greater Branch). After he broke the Covenant, believers referred
to him as the Naqid-i-Akbar (the Arch-Covenant-breaker), a title Mírzá Habíb uses
for him throughout the text. However, for clarity, his given name is used in this
translation.
58 A notorious Covenant-breaker of later years. He was a son of Mírzá Musa
Kalim (d. 1887), Bahá’u’lláh’s faithful brother.

of divine will, were spoken so forcibly and with such a strong
resonance that all in His presence were thunderstruck and shaken
to their very core.
Another day, when we were in the presence of the Blessed
Perfection, Mírzá Diyá’u’lláh59 came in to ask, “Áqá seeks
permission for us all to go with the friends to the Garden of
Junaynih.” “Who has said this?” Bahá’u’lláh inquired, to which
Mírzá Diyá’u’lláh replied, “Áqáy-i-Ghusn-i-Akbar.” Sternly,
Bahá’u’lláh said, “There is only one Áqá; all the others have
names. That one Áqá is ‘Him round Whom all names revolve’, the
Ghusn-i-A`zam.”60 Throughout those days, the blessed Person of
the Ancient Beauty used various statements and means to educate
the friends on the sacred station of `Abdu’l-Bahá and warn them
against breaking the divine Covenant. He constantly affirmed the
unique and exalted station of the beloved Master so that the satanic
whispers and intrigues of the enemies of God’s Cause would not
lead those clinging to the Sure Handle61 away from the straight
path, or cause the inhabitants of the Crimson Ark to drown in the
sea of neglect and ignorance.
One late afternoon, we were in the presence of Bahá’u’lláh in
the Garden of Ridván. The air was very fresh and redolent, and it
was raining lightly. He spoke about the days in Baghdad and the
harm inflicted upon the Cause of God by the Azalis62. He said,
“Consider how unfair and truly void of faith they are. Because of
the Mu`tamu’d-Dawlih’s supplications in Isfahán, the Primal Point
took the sister of Rajab-`Alí [Qahyir] as a wife so that she could

59 Bahá’u’lláh’s son from a second marriage.
60 See Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís at the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 163.
61 An allusion to the religion of God; see, for instance, Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-
Aqdas, pp. 61-62.
62 The text refers to the followers of Mírzá Yahya Azal (1831-1912) as
“Yamutiha” (literally: the dead).

look after His household needs. After the great Martyrdom and the
most mighty Tragedy63, notwithstanding the explicit Text
forbidding marriage with the Báb’s wives64, with utmost
impudence, Azal at first took her as a wife and then, having
absolutely no sense of shame or compunction, gave her to Siyyid
Muhammad-i-Isfahání.65 This act resulted in the mother of the Báb
refusing to give her allegiance to the Faith for some time.” As He
spoke these words, the sorrow on His Countenance was evident
and the friends, especially my father, were greatly affected and
wept bitterly. Then the Blessed Perfection said, “Do not grieve.
Praise be to God, the mother of that Blessed Being came to believe
at the end. Their station is well above the conception of peoples
and the understanding of Our servants.”
Then, He continued to recall the days of Baghdad:  “One day,
several of the clergy came to visit Us. One of them asked, ‘Where
are you from?’ ‘We are from `Amá66,’ We responded. He asked
further, ‘Where is `Amá? What sort of place is that?’ We replied,
‘`Amá has a pleasant, heavenly air; the trees are fruitful; the plain

63 The martyrdom of the Báb took place on 9 July 1850.
64 The Text of the Báb’s injunction has not been located so far. However, there is
a Qur’anic verse (Surah al-Ahzab) that provides for this restriction: “Nearer of kin
to the faithful is the Prophet, than they are to their own selves. His wives are their
mothers.”
65 During the Báb’s six-month sojourn in Isfahan, He married Fatimih (1822?-
1916), the sister of Mulla Rajab-`Alíy-i Qahir, a prominent Bábí of that city. Some
time after the Báb’s martyrdom, she traveled to Baghdad, where she came under
the influence of Siyyid Muhammad Isfahani and Mírzá Yahya Azal. Despite the
Báb’s injunction forbidding marriage with either of His wives after Him, Azal
married her. A month later, however, after protests from his other wives, Azal
divorced Fatimih and gave her in marriage to Siyyid Muhammad. She died in
December 1916 in Tihran, aged 84. For further details, see Balyuzi, Edward
Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith, pp. 34-5 n. 3.
66 Rendered typically as ‘eternal,’ ‘immortal,’ or ‘divine,’ this term has many
connotations, which all mean ‘that which pertains to God’. An Islamic hadith
maintains that Muhammad was asked, “Where is God?” and He responded, “In
`amá.”

is lusciously green; the rivers are flowing; its inhabitants are
spiritual people.’ He asked, ‘Is it possible for us to go there?’ We
responded, ‘No, it is impossible. Your place is not there.’”
He then related, “The day We left Baghdad, We moved to the
Garden of Najíb Pasha and stayed there for 12 days. Each day,
scores of the city’s inhabitants came to visit Us and bid Us
farewell. One day, among those who came was a group of the
learned theologians. After attaining Our presence, one of them
said, ‘We were anticipating the appearance of the promised Mihdí,
and the Siyyid-i-Shirází came forward with a claim. A number
became His followers, gathered around Him, and did certain
things. After that, we expected the manifestation of Husayn, and
now You claim that Station. What are we to do now?’ On that
day,” Bahá’u’lláh continued, “We told them what they were to do
and said to them, ‘You are to continue reading Sharh-i-Lam`ah and
Saybawayh67 until you return to where you belong.’”
On another day, the Blessed Perfection mentioned the days of
Baghdad and the tyranny and oppression of Shaykh `Abdu’l-
Husayn [Tihrani]68, saying, “With the aid of Nasiri’d-Din Sháh and
[Sultan] `Abdu’l-`Aziz, Shaykh `Abdu’l-Husayn tried hard to
extinguish the light of God’s Cause. But the effulgence of the Faith

67 Both texts are used in the Shi`i seminarian training. The complete title of Sharh-
i-Lum`ah is ar-Rawdat al-bahiyyah fi sharh al-lum`ah al-Dimashqiyah and was
authored by Shaykh Zaynu’l-`Abidin Shahid ath-Thani (1506-1559). It is an
exposition of al-Lum`ah ad-Dimashqiyya by Shaykh Muhammad ibn Makk Shahid
al-Awwal (1333-1380). The text is used today in the madrassihs for teaching
jurisprudence (fiqh) at the secondary (sutuh) level. The second reference,
Saybawayh, is named after a Shirazi jurist whose resting-place is located in Sang-i-
Siyah, near the Masjid-i-Mushir (see Fasa’i, Tarikh Farsnamih-i-Nasiri, vol. 2, pp.
1021-3).
68 Known as Shaykhu’l-`Iraqayn (d. 1869), he was a close ally of Mírzá Taqi
Khán, the Amir-Kabir (d. 1852). He was sent by Nasiri’d-Din Sháh to the `Atabat
to regild the dome of the Shrine of Imam Husayn and to cause trouble for
Bahá’u’lláh.

of God has illuminated the East and the West, and the vengeance
and victory of the religion of God has made the necks of
sovereigns bow down in humility. Before long, you will see all
systems rolled up, and the peoples and nations of the world gather
under the shade of the canopy of the Cause of God.”
He then said, “Another day in Baghdad, a learned divine
came to see Us. He had a tall, heavy frame and thick beard, was
quite corpulent and was wearing a large turban. He greeted Us with
a guttural tone and, when he sat down, began to recite convoluted
and incomprehensible Arabic verses. We said to him, ‘Kindly
introduce yourself so that We might learn something about you.’
He said, ‘I am the seal of the ecclesiastics.’ We responded,
‘Insha’lláh, insha’lláh.’” On that day, the Blessed Perfection was
extremely joyous and smiled frequently. He said, “Pray that God
does not create another sect like the Shi`i.”
On another day, Bahá’u’lláh spoke of Mullá `Alíy-i-
Sabzivari69, saying, “When Mullá `Alí was led to the place of his
martyrdom, he instructed the executioner to open one of his veins.
When a bit of his throat was cut, with his own sacred blood, he
dyed his white beard red, calling out to the crowd, ‘O people! On
the day of His martyrdom on the field of Karbalá, Husayn ibn `Alí
spoke these words: “Is there anyone truly capable of dispensing
victory who will come to aid me?” But I say unto you, “O people,
is there anyone truly capable of seeing who will come to behold
me?”’” Bahá’u’lláh repeated several times: “What weighty words
did that man speak, and how he bore witness to the truth of this
Faith with his precious blood! People witnessed it but were not
moved, and barbarously put to death that innocent soul.” He then

69 One of the seven Bahá’ís martyred in May 1891 in Yazd. Earlier, he had asked
Bahá’u’lláh for this high station and, in a Tablet, was told to seek his heart's desire in
Yazd. Forty days later, he attained his wish. For details, see Malmiri, Tarikh-i-
Shuhaday-i-Yazd, pp. 32-56.

added, “All these strange events support the greatness of this
blessed Cause. They will all be recorded in the pages of history and
future generations will feel proud of them.”
The late Hájí `Abú’l-Hasan [Bazzaz] Shirází70 was present
and asked Bahá’u’lláh, “After the martyrdom of Husayn ibn `Alí,
the sovereignty of Yazid lasted no more than three years. Why is it
that, 50 years after the martyrdom of the Exalted One, Nasiri’d-Din
Sháh still rules with full powers, inflicting day and night much
injury on the Faith; and God has [seemingly] spared him?”
Bahá’u’lláh replied, “God has given him this clemency because of
the error of some believers in the early days and their assassination
attempt on him. But he too will have his day. You will see.”
Departure from the Holy Land
Our stay in the Holy Land had been nine months long. Each
day, we had been showered with new favors without deserving
them. The infinite grace of God had surrounded us. The happiness
of our good fortune was the wish of all the Prophets and saints of
the past. The spread of cholera and illness had subsided and the
day for us to leave was quickly approaching.
One afternoon, we were summoned to the presence of the
Blessed Perfection in the Mansion of Bahjí. His blessed Person
was standing in the middle of His chamber when we entered.
Immersed in deep grief and sorrow, we circumambulated His

70 In 1844, he had traveled on the same vessel with the Báb and Quddus, when
They were going on pilgrimage to Mecca. He later recounted many details of that
historic journey to Mírzá Habíb; see  Rabbani, “The Báb in Shiraz”, Bahá’í Studies
Review, 2004. He attained full certitude during the Báb’s appearance at the Masjid-i-
Vakil. He was the father of Mírzá Muhammad-Baqir Khán-i-Dihqan, a very
influential Bahá’í in the administrative apparatus of Fars (see In the Land of Refuge).

Person and prostrated ourselves at His feet, as tears like spring-
showers streamed uncontrollably from our eyes. With our emotions
and words, we expressed our heart-felt gratitude for the glorious
days we had in His presence. Then the Tongue of Purity spoke
these sacred words: “Do not be sad; do not lament. If you attained
Our presence once, your attainment was complete. Be assured that,
under all conditions, We are with you. Why are you downcast?
Port Said is very near. Whenever We call, you will hear Us. Do not
be sorrowful; do not grieve. Be confident. The divine favors have
surrounded you and will continue to envelop you.” Again, He
repeated, “If you attained Our presence once, your attainment was
complete.” Then He added, “For no other pilgrims were the
blessings and circumstances as complete as they were for the
Afnáns. Be happy; be thrilled; be radiant. The grace of God has
surrounded you and will continue to embrace you everlastingly.”
He sat down and invited us to sit also. With His blessed
Hand, He passed to us the sacred Tablets that He had revealed for
each one of us.71 We reverently kissed His fingers and read the
Tablets. They venerated and glorified each one of us. After nine
months of being in His presence, we were now bidden farewell
with these words: “God be with you.”
From there, we went to `Akká and attained the presence of
`Abdu’l-Bahá. With tearful eyes and hearts set on fire, we
anticipated our coming separation. We prostrated at His feet and,
clinging to the hem of His robe, begged for His help with divine
favors and confirmations. His blessed Being lifted us from the
ground and, kissing the brow of each of us, bid us farewell.

71 The Tablet bestowed upon Mírzá Habíb on that occasion is in Bahá’u’lláh,
INBMC, Majmu`ih Athar-i-Qalam A`lá, vol. 51, p. 354, no. 363; the original is
kept in the Bahá’í Archives of the House of the Báb. A translation appears as the
frontispiece of the publication.

While these ephemeral servants were in `Akká, the Blessed
Beauty called our mother and sister into His presence and
showered them with much admiration and untold praise. As they
were leaving, my mother kissed His blessed hand. The thought
came to her that, if His ring were given to her as a means of
attracting divine blessings and as a source of healing, all her
wishes in this world would be realized. Shortly after, when they
were in the presence of the Greatest Holy Leaf, one of the
maidservants came into present the ring as a gift, saying,
“Bahá’u’lláh told me to present you with this ring.” For this divine
favor, my mother cried out in joy and gratitude. She then bid
farewell to the Khánum, the other Varaqát72, and the wife of
Bahá’u’lláh73. The ring of the Blessed Perfection is now held in the
Archives of the House of the Báb. It has been a source of pride and
joy for this family and our descendants.
Afterwards, my mother and sister attained the presence of
`Abdu’l-Bahá one last time. Then, filled with deep sorrow, we all
left the sacred city of `Akká for Haifa.
Outside the city gate, our much-loved companions, who had
been friends to my father and our spiritual comrades for nine
months, had gathered. With deep affection we all embraced and
kissed each other farewell. They helped us board our carriage and
we left for Haifa. In Haifa, the late Manshádí, along with our
father, secured our boarding pass from the Namsavi Shipping
Company. About an hour before dusk, accompanied by the
honored Áqá Siyyid Taqí, we were on our way by boat to the
destined ship. Our ship left [the Bay of Haifa] at about sunset. It is
impossible for me to describe the feelings we experienced at that
time and how the fond memories of those days overwhelmed us.

72 Literally ‘leaves;’ signifies the women of the Holy Household.
73 Navvab (Asiyyih Khánum) had passed away in 1886. Therefore, this reference is
to either Mahd-i-`Uliya or Gawhar Khánum and, most likely, to the former.

This was a brief summary of the memories of the days we
beheld the countenance of God, which have remained with me
after 50 years. God willing, I will now give my recollections of
visiting `Abdu’l-Bahá and what I observed next.
One thing we came to realize after the ascension of the
Blessed Beauty was that, at the moment we left, He had twice said
to us, “If you attained our presence once, your attainment was
complete.” The meaning of this blessed utterance was now clear:
we would never be worthy to see His blessed countenance in this
world again; outwardly He would be hidden behind veils, and His
passing was near.74

74 Though the date of the Afnáns’ departure is not noted, it is estimated to be in late
March 1892. The ascension of Bahá’u’lláh occurred on 29 May 1892.

Chapter 3
Education and Commerce in Egypt
The headquarters of my late father’s commercial enterprise
was in Cairo and he also had a branch office in Port Said. The late
Áqá Ahmad [Yazdí]75 and my older brother, the late Áqá Siyyid
Áqá, were responsible for its affairs and supervised the branch
office.76 A few days after arriving in Port Said, we traveled to
Cairo, where my late father had a room in Saray-i-Jawahiri. In that
city, once again, he was immersed in business activities. While we
assisted him in his daily work, we also continued our education, to
develop a strong command of the Arabic language.77
In those days, several of the eminent friends in Cairo were
engaged in commerce. This included men such as the late Hájí
Mírzá Hasan-i-Khúrásání, Hájí Mírzá Muhammad-i-Afshár78,
Mírzá `Alí-Muhammad-i-Shirází, Hájí `Abdu’l-Karim-i-Kaziruni,
Hájí Lutf-`Alíy-i-Namaziy-i-Shirází, Hájí Muhammad-i-Yazdí79,

75 The fourth and youngest son of Hájí `Abdu’r-Rahim-i-Qannad-i-Yazdi, he had
married Munavvar Khánum, the youngest daughter of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Years later,
both husband and wife broke the Covenant.
76 When he arrived in Eygpt, Núri’d-Dín established an import-export company
called Shirkat-i-Ruhaniyyih.
77 In a Tablet (INBMC 52:348, no. 390), `Abdu’l-Bahá instructed Mírzá Habíb:
At nighttime, you must put effort into your studies and learning
languages. Likewise, make an effort to learn as much about sciences
and literature as you can. Since the divine confirmations render the
Afnán victorious and triumphant, soon you will advance in all areas.
78 A native of Yazd, he is best known for an important proof treatise known as
Risalih-i-Afshar or Bahru’l-`Irfan.
79 The father of `Aziz Yazdi (1909-2004), a Counsellor member of the
International Teaching Centre during 1973-86.

the late Hájí Niyyaz80, and several others that were either related to
these individuals or worked in their place of business. The Iranian
Consul-General81 at that time was the late Mírzá Ridá Khán, the
Bananu’l-Mulk82, the father of Áqá Mírzá Fadlu’lláh Khán-i-
Banan83.
Before the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, Mírzá Hasan-i-
Khúrásání and Hájí Niyyaz were given permission to go on
pilgrimage and had left for the Holy Land.
News of Bahá’u’lláh’s Ascension
The great calamity and the supreme tragedy of the ascension
of the Blessed Beauty – may my life be a sacrifice to the dust of
His Sacred Threshold – happened two months and a few days after
we left the Holy Land. With broken hearts and spirits and
consumed by the fire of His separation, tears of sorrow, anguish
and lamentation poured from the eyes of every denizen of the
Crimson Ark and dweller beneath the tabernacle of His Cause. He
Himself is my witness, I can never describe the unbearable pain
brought on by knowing that I could not once again behold His
blessed Countenance on this plane of existence! God alone knows

80 A native of Kirman and a travelling jewelry salesman.
81 The Iranian Embassy was in Istanbul, with various branch consulates
throughout the Ottoman Empire.
82 His name was Rida Mustawfi. He was often referred to as Hakim-Banan. In
1884, he was given the title Bananu’l-Mulk and, four years later, was appointed as
the chief of staff for the Zillu’s-Sultan, the Governor-General of Isfahan.
However, in 1890, out of fear for his life, he left Iran and took residence in Egypt.
In the middle of 1892, he was appointed to the consulate in Cairo. After a while,
he was dismissed from office and returned to Isfahan, where he passed away; see
Bamdad, Sharh-i Hal-i Rijal-i Iran, vol 2, pp. 1-2.
83 The secretary of the Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz during much of the 1930s
and 1940s; see In the Land of Refuge.

that this pen is utterly incapable of recounting what happened
during those dark days!84
The late [Mírzá Hasan] Khúrásání and Hájí Niyyaz were in
`Akká at the setting of the Sun of Truth in the Holy Land. Also
present was the honored Áqá Mírzá Taraz-i-Samandari, son of the
illustrious Samandar, who had been among a group of pilgrims
from Iran. He had arrived in the Holy Land a few months before
the ascension and remained there for a while after that event. As a
token of Bahá’u’lláh’s grace, the bonds of our friendship and
fraternity, first established during our days together in the presence
of the Blessed Perfection, has grown ever stronger with the
passage of these 55 years.85
In the days after the ascension of the Blessed Perfection,
hearts were melted, spirits were downcast, and eyes cried bitter
tears of anguish. It was a particularly unbearable and sorrowful
time for those who had been in His presence and had beheld that
mighty Sovereign of the world of being. Many of the friends, men
and women alike, gathered at night or during the day, in various
homes, raising the cry of “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá!” and supplicating
for the honor of martyrdom and self-sacrifice in the path of His
glorious Cause.
The month of Dhi’l-Qa`dih passed and, on 10 Dhi’l-Hajjih [6
July 1892], the `Id-i-Qurbán (the festival of Sacrifice) was
observed. As was customary in those days, all the Iranian
merchants would go to the Iranian Consulate, visiting the Consul-
General and wishing him well. Typically, on such occasions, they
would be served lunch and would stay until late in the afternoon.

84 A detailed and poignant description of Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension is given in
Mazandarani, Tarikh Zuhuru’l-Haqq, vol 5, pp. 433-72.
85 See Samandari, Moments with Bahá’u’lláh, Memoirs of the Hand of the Cause
of God Tarazu’llah Samandari.

Because the Bahá’í merchants and Muslim merchants associated
very little, each would occupy a different side of the reception hall
in the course of their visits.
Because of his age and prominence in the community, my
late father was the senior member and leader of the Bahá’í
merchants. Consequently, we went to the Consulate led by him.
[Because we were mourning Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension], our
intention was to leave after visiting for a few minutes, and not
participate in the celebration.
When we arrived at the Consulate, as was customary, we sat
on one side. At that moment, however, the Bananu’l-Mulk
[Consul-General], without realizing that a number of Bahá’ís had
arrived, said, “According to a report in a recent issue of the Hikmat
Newspaper, the Prophet of the Bábís has passed away.” He made
this comment with such a mocking tone that it greatly offended the
friends [the believers]. With a quick signal from my father, the
Bahá’í group left the gathering without the least acknowledgement
to the host or bidding anyone farewell.
Noting our departure, the Bananu’l-Mulk was greatly
surprised by the turn of events. Later, we heard from other Iranian
merchants present [in the gathering] that they had all reproached
him, saying, “This place is not Iran and you cannot say things that
are not civil or good mannered. Those people who left the
gathering are not ordinary and commonplace people. They rank
among the most respected merchants and should be seen as a
source of pride by the Iranian government. If an amiable
reconciliation is not brought about immediately, this incident will
become a cause of great inconvenience, directly affecting you.”
This warning from the Muslim merchants, coupled with the
powerful effect of our departure, left the Consul-General terrified
of its possible consequences.

From the consulate building, we all went to my father’s
commercial office. We gathered in a room adjacent to his office
where all the Bahá’í meetings took place. This room was decorated
with a very large and unique calligraphy by Mishkin-Qalam,
depicting two ornamented birds that made up the words of the
Greatest Name. There was also a large circular table in the middle
of the room. Most of us gathered around this table to discuss the
event that had just taken place in the Consulate.
Some of the friends thought that our departure had insulted
the Iranian Consul and that he had unwittingly acted in an
impertinent way. I remember vividly that my late father was very
upset and cried out in a raised voice, “He has erred greatly on
something that he should have known better! I know him very well
from our days in Shiraz and we have been friends ever since.
However, we acted in the name of the Blessed Beauty and out of
respect for the Greatest Name. I am prepared to have my blood
spilled in this path! Mark my words: the Bananu’l-Mulk is now
greatly repentant and ashamed [because of our departure].”
While this discussion was taking place, Hájí Sayyah86, who
lived in Egypt at the time and was a confidant to both the Bahá’ís
and the Muslims, entered the room. He related that the Bananu’l-
Mulk had asked him to convey, with great reverence, his apologies
for what he had said and further begged the Bahá’ís to return to the
festivities so that the Consulate’s traditional celebration could

86 In a second copy of this manuscript, the following parenthetical comments are
recorded: “This was the same Hájí Sayyah who had attained the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh and had been the bearer of letters from the Zillu’s-Sultan and the
Mushiru’l-Mulk-i-Shirazi.” And, in the margin, it is written “Hájí Muhammad-`Alíy-
i-Sayyah-i-Mahallati.” Although I have been unable to confirm the identity of this
carrier, it is clear from Khátirát Hájj Sayyáh that Hájí Sayyah Mahallati was
imprisoned in Iran throughout the period under discussion and the intended person is
someone else.

continue amiably. Hájí Sayyah added, “The Consul must send a
report of the event to the Iranian Embassy in Istanbul. If you do not
participate, it is possible that certain ill-wishers will connive and
cause trouble for the Consul.” My father replied, “Inform the
Bananu’l-Mulk on our behalf that, as he has noted, we are
currently mourning the departure of our Beloved and cannot
participate in the festivities. Our visit this morning was only for the
purpose of meeting him. However, we expect that, from now on, he
will show proper respect to everyone with his remarks. This
country is not Iran, where one can say and do as one pleases.”
This warning and the gathering of the friends had greatly
frightened the Bananu’l-Mulk. Hájí Sayyah had also added his own
flavor to the message by reporting [to the Consul], “They have all
gathered in Áqá Mírzá Áqá’s office and are deliberating on plans
to unseat and impeach the Consul.” Consequently, before we had
ended our discussions, Hájí Sayyah returned and, once again, on
behalf of the Bananu’l-Mulk, fervently implored everyone to return
to the Consulate and participate in the festivities. My father
reiterated, “The Bahá’ís will not take part in your celebration,” and
repeated what he had said earlier.
Ultimately, the result of this incident was that the Bananu’l-
Mulk became a loyal friend of the Bahá’ís and would not make the
slightest decision without consulting my late father or Hájí Mírzá
Hasan-i-Khúrásání. The friends enjoyed full freedom to do as they
saw fit and became the envy of all the Muslim merchants.
Núri’d-Dín Departs for Iran in 1894
Two years passed. As before, we were carrying out our
commercial activities from Cairo, Port Said and Alexandria, when
my late father was called by `Abdu’l-Bahá to return to Iran. As a

prelude to this, a Tablet was revealed in his honor and he was
instructed to go to the Holy Land. Before leaving for Iran, he set up
a company with Áqá Ahmad [Yazdí], Hájí Muhammad-i-Yazdí
and Hájí Siyyid `Alíy-i-Yazdí.87 Consequently, I was working in
his office in Cairo under the supervision of Áqá Siyyid `Alí and
my late brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg, and in Alexandria under the
supervision of Hájí Muhammad. Even though some of the friends
were not optimistic about the prospects of this business merger, my
late father did not heed their warnings and left for his pilgrimage.
On this journey, my late brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg, and I did not
have the honor of attaining the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá. My
father went with my mother, older brother Áqá Siyyid Áqá,
younger brother Áqá Siyyid Diyá’, and sister Tuba Khánum.88
After attaining the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá, and gaining
further spiritual sustenance and insight from Him, they left for
Búshihr by sea. En route, my father visited the renowned cleric [in
Baghdad], Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Hasan-i-Shírází, the Hujjatu’l-
Islam (known as the Mírzáy-i-Shírází), at the cleric’s request. He
was a close relative of the Báb. I have recorded the details of this
visit elsewhere.89

87 The Yazdi brothers had previously formed a company known as Société
Ruháníyyih. However, because of some misfortunes, they now needed fresh capital
and new partners; for details, see Yazdi, Blessing Beyond Measure, pp. 12-14. At
this time, Núri’d-Dín was very affluent and was able to bankroll his fortune into this
new joint venture.
88 In a Tablet (INBMC 52:329-30, no. 368) addressed to Núri’d-Dín’s son, Mírzá
Jalal, who had stayed in Shiraz to serve at, and protect, the House of the Báb,
`Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of the imminent arrival of Núri’d-Dín. The Master recounts
the bounties showered upon Núri’d-Dín during the days of Bahá’u’lláh, and how
he had stayed in Egypt at His behest. He further states that Núri’d-Dín was now
travelling to Iran in order to propagate the divine teachings and raise the banner of
God’s Cause.
89 See In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 11.

Regarding his visit with the above-mentioned person, my
father received a Tablet from `Abdu’l-Bahá during his stay in
Baghdad. In that blessed Tablet, He wrote:
To the attention of the illustrious Afnán, Áqá Mírzá
Áqá, upon him rest the Glory of God, the Most
Glorious.
He is the All-Glorious.
O thou twig, who hath excelled in propagating the
Word of God! From what hath been heard, thou didst
travel from Baghdad to Sámarrá for the purpose of
conversing in utmost wisdom with the desired person90.
Even though that person is physically weak and no
doubt hath little strength and joy for discourse and
communion, however, the divine fragrance bringeth
immeasurable vigor, and the spiritual ecstasy hath
eternal influence. It will convert a barren land into a
flourishing city, and a dead and sterile realm into
luscious earth. Bounties of the Holy Spirit will quicken
moldering bones and the outpouring of the rain will
bring forth pure pearls. Thus thou shalt see the earth
giving praise and thanks, as we observe upon it
everything delightful and verdant.
I hope that, in that region, thou wilt succeed in
disseminating the words of truth and spreading the
divine fragrance, in such wise that its sweet scent will
perfume all nostrils and confer life upon the dead.

90 A reference to Mírzáy-i-Shirazi.

His Glory rest upon thee and all who stand firm in
the Covenant.
`Abdu’l-Bahá `Abbás.91
My late father related, “The Hujjatu’l-Islam had declared his
belief in the validity of the Báb’s claim, the truth of the Blessed
Beauty’s Manifestation and the greatness of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
station. I asked him, ‘When did you learn about the Faith?’ He
responded, ‘During the days when I was busy with my studies as a
student in Isfahán. Your maternal uncle, Mírzá Siyyid Hasan (the
Afnán-i-Kabír), was a student there as well. His Holiness [the Báb]
had come to Isfahán and, one day, at the home of [the Sultanu’l-
`Ulama,] the Imam-Jum`ih, one of the divines asked Him a
scientific question. He gave a sufficient answer, but the akhund
[cleric] spoke most unfairly and inappropriately. The injustice of
the divine and the impeccability of the Exalted One awakened me
to the truth of His blessed Cause.” The details of this meeting have
been written in a separate volume92.
Arrival of Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl
In 1311 A.H. [1894], in accordance with `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
instructions, Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl93 came to Cairo. The Master
instructed the prominent Bahá’ís not to associate openly with him
so that he would not attract undue attention and notice.94 After he

91 INBMC 52:315 no. 353, Khándan-i-Afnán 16-7 and Ma’idih-i-Asimani 5:261-
2. Although Mírzá Habíb quotes only a portion of this Tablet, the full text is given
here for ease of reference.
92 A reference to Tarikh Amri Fars va Shiraz (forthcoming In the Land of
Refuge).
93 The text, and most other Persian sources, refer to him as Abu’l-Fadá'il, but this
translation uses the more commonly recognized transliteration.
94 Mírzá Habíb means that Abdu’l-Bahá did not want the public to know that

arrived, he moved to an apartment with two furnished rooms,
situated above my father’s business in Saray-i-Jawahiri. He began
teaching philosophy and logic at Al-Azhar University and meeting
and associating with the learned and accomplished men of his time.
He organized and taught classes in various branches of knowledge
and philosophy. Among his students were Shaykh Faraju’llah
Ziky-i-Kurdi95, [and his brothers,] Shaykh Muhay’d-Din and
Shaykh Badru’d-Din.
When he’d been in Cairo for a while and had become
acquainted with certain of its inhabitants, Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl would
occasionally allow a few of the friends to attend his classes. I
remember vividly one day, when I was present in his class, the
important philosophical question of life and the nature of the soul
was being discussed and explained. He quoted extensively, and
cited many references, from well-known scholars and learned men
and, employing solid reasoning and indisputable evidence, totally
rejected the position of the naturalists and the theologians. On that
day, all his students testified that Jináb-i-Mírzá’s [Abú’l-Fadl’s]
deductions were perfectly correct.
Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl then continued, “During my stay at
Bukhara and Samarqand, I saw a commentary by Bahá’u’lláh that
adequately clarified this problem and resolved all questions.” His
students asked, “Who is Bahá’u’lláh?” “The Leader of our honored
guests,” he replied [pointing to us]. With real excitement, all
students said, “Well, we will secure a copy from them.” But Mírzá
Abú’l-Fadl responded, “Our guests are among the ordinary people
and laity. Such texts and commentaries are in the possession of

Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl was a Bahá’í, so that he could freely pursue his contacts among
the intellectual circles of Cairo.
95 He published the first series of Bahá’í books in Egypt, including the first
compilation of `Abdu’l-Bahá's Tablets, which the Master entitled Makatib-i-`Abdu’l-
Bahá.

their learned and scholars. I must contact them for copies to be sent
here.” And so, he concluded this subject and began discussing
another topic. With every subject, Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl would do the
same as described above, helping his students to grow receptive to
hear [the Divine Call] and sowing the seeds of the Word of God in
their hearts.
A month later, he told them that the commentary he had
mentioned had arrived. His students eagerly competed with one
another to see and read the Text, which they took home and spent
countless hours discussing with one another. After all the
discussion, he would often remind them, “Without a trace of
religious prejudice, study the scientific and rational arguments of
these Texts, and correlate them with your own deductive and
intellectual understanding. Consider the ease and facility with
which they resolve all complex issues. As for me, the more I study
and ponder them in light of logic and reason, the more convinced I
am that the contents of these Commentaries are alone sufficient for
all seekers of truth and only These Writings contain undeniable
proof.”
In this manner, he taught the Word of God. As a result, a
number [of his students] enrolled under the banner of the Cause.
Those who did not convert, such as Shaykh Muhammad-i-`Abduh,
who was among the professors of Al-Azhar University, became
sympathizers. Such was the way that Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl taught and
served the Faith in Egypt.
The Greatest Holy Leaf in Egypt
I have mentioned earlier that, during the time of the most
great calamity of Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, the late Hájí Mírzá
Hasan-i-Khúrásání and Hájí Niyyaz-i-Kirmaní were in the Holy

Land and later returned [to Egypt]. Afterwards, the believers were
not given permission to go on pilgrimage or were very rarely given
the privilege. This was because of the faithless behavior of the
Covenant-breakers and the manifold tests besetting the friends in
the Holy Land, or for reasons that remain concealed in the divine
knowledge. Consequently, we remained deprived of meeting the
denizens of the Crimson Ark and those circumambulating “Him
round Whom the names of God revolve”.96
During this year [circa 1894], our late father returned to
Shiraz and this servant and my late brother were busy with our
commercial activities in Port Said and Alexandria. We would
mostly spend the rest of our time in the honored presence of Mírzá
Abú’l-Fadl. To a certain extent, and according to our abilities, we
were able to benefit from his fellowship.
It was this very year, as well, that the Remnant of God, the
Greatest Holy Leaf, honored Egypt with her footsteps. She stayed
at the residence of the late Khúrásání. As a result of Her visit, a
rejuvenating breath of life was breathed into the spirit of the
friends, and a marvelous bliss and enthusiasm developed among
the community.97 Each one of us sent to her glorious presence

96 That is, the believers in `Akká and companions of `Abdu’l-Bahá.
97 The following was revealed by `Abdu’l-Bahá on the occasion of Bahiyyih
Khánum’s departure for Egypt (Bahiyyih Khánum, pp. 14-15):
For a considerable period - that is, from the day of
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension - my sister had grown so thin and feeble,
and was in such a weakened condition from the anguish of her
mourning, that she was close to breakdown.
Even though it was her dearest wish to drain her cup and
wing her way to the realms where the Divine Essence shineth in
glory, still this servant could not bear to see her in that state. Then it
occurred to me that, God be thanked, I have such an unfailing
comforter as Jinab-i-Hájí [Hasan-i-Khúrásání], and it would be well
to make him my partner in distress. I therefore determined to send
her to Egypt, to provide her with a change of air.

letters expressing our humility and absolute nothingness, and
asking for her intercession and confirmations. For the most part,
they were answered verbally.
The Effect in Egypt of the Sháh’s Assassination
Not long after the Greatest Holy Leaf returned to the Holy
Land, Nasiri’d-Din Sháh was assassinated.98
One morning, Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl came to our office greatly
perturbed and agitated. Until that day, he had concealed his belief
[in Bahá’u’lláh]. He said, “Last night, I had a frightening
nightmare. Since then, I have not had a moment’s rest and fear that
great trouble lies in store for the friends in Iran or the Holy Land.”
He proceeded to describe his dream: “I dreamt that I stood in a vast
field and a ferocious lion was chasing me to the point where I was
thoroughly exhausted and could no longer escape his vicious
grasp. I sensed that, at any moment, I was about to be devoured by
this wild beast. I despaired and could find no way to save myself.
Amidst this, a small door appeared before me, and I entered it
trembling with fear. Then I woke up filled with terror and did not
sleep a wink for the rest of the night.”
He had not quite finished his description when we heard the
cry of the newspaper boy from the streets, “The Iranian King is
slain; the Iranian King is slain!” Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl immediately
said, “Now I understand the meaning of my dream!” We bought a
copy of the Hikmat Newspaper, which had devoted its lead column
to this subject. It said in part, “Yesterday, while the Royal Court

Although this will certainly cause thee trouble and
inconvenience, still, I trust that, out of God’s bounty, it will also
bring thee joy and good cheer.
98 See Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory, pp. 430-55.

was preparing for the festivities of the anniversary of the 50th year
of the Sháh’s ascent to the throne and the monarch was on a visit to
the Shrine of Hadrat-i-`Abdu’l-`Azim, an Iranian Bábí by the name
of Mírzá Ridá Kirmaní shot and killed him.” Since this news was
being
disseminated
by
Siyyid
Jamalu’d-Din
[Afghani]’s
sympathizers, with gross exaggeration and embellishments, it was
obvious that they were trying to attribute the Sháh’s murder to the
friends in Iran and the Bahá’í community there. These accounts
were aimed solely at provoking public reaction against the Faith
and its adherents.
Soon the news spread throughout the city and all the friends
gathered in our office, fervently supplicating divine protection for
the Bahá’í community of Iran, so it would stay safe from the claws
of the barbarous wolves. They further prayed for celestial
intervention, so that this event would not become a situation where
the innocent friends’ blood would be spilled and a number of them
martyred. In truth, all the believers were profoundly disturbed and
anticipated imminent tragedies.
At any rate, resigned to the will of God and submitting to His
good-pleasure, we waited for news from Iran. The other
newspapers and magazines were reporting the assassination of the
Sháh in the same way, and discussed its implications in a
provocative fashion. They inflamed the fire of enmity and hatred
among the Iranians living in Egypt, preparing the ground for
massive disturbances and convulsions [for the Bahá’ís] in Cairo.
During that period, the Consul-General of Iran was Mírzá
Ishaq Khán99, [the Mafkhamu’d-Dawlih,] who was from Kurdistan

99 From 1894, he was the Consul-General in Egypt for five years. Afterwards, he
was the Iranian Ambassador to Washington for six years; see Bamdad, Sharh-i
Hal-i Rijal-i Iran, vol 1, pp. 108-11.

and a Sunni. Incited by Mírzá Mihdí, the Za`im’d-Dawlih100, who
was the secretary of the Consulate and one of the followers of
Siyyid Jamalu’d-Din [Afghani], the Iranian merchants appealed to
the Consulate. They reportedly said, “Now that the Bábís have
killed the Sháh, all the Bábís in Iran are [or will be] massacred in
reprisal. Therefore, we must also kill all those that live in this
region and completely uproot their community.” They further
noted, “We have arranged for each of us to kill the Bábís from his
native town. For instance, the Shírází Muslims are to kill the
Bahá’ís from Shiraz, and Khúrásánís will do likewise with Bahá’ís
from that region, and so forth.”
From the outset, the late Mírzá Isháq Khán admonished them
by saying, “This is not Iran where one can commit such heinous
acts with impunity and spill the blood of people for no reason.
Whoever has murdered the Sháh is now in prison and will be
killed. In accordance with Islamic jurisprudence, one cannot kill
another in place of a murderer.”
The more he reasoned in this way, the less effect it had on
them, and they rejected his arguments by advancing further threats.
Eventually, Mírzá Isháq Khán replied, “The people that live in
Cairo and are known by this name [Bahá’í] are not ordinary and
commonplace folk. They are all among the best known and most
respected merchants and are engaged in business activities in all
corners of the world. How are you going to deal with companies
and merchants that they trade with and how will you compensate
their customers?” They said, “We stand ready to provide a
guarantee that we will settle all their accounts and are willing to

100 A native of Tabriz, he was the publisher of the Hikmat (wisdom) Newspaper
in Cairo and the author of an Arabic polemic against the Faith, titled Miftáhu
Bábí’l-Abwab (the Key of the Gate of Gates). Initially, he had written this attack to
extract money from `Abdu’l-Bahá, but failed in his purpose. See Browne, The
Press and Poetry of Modern Persia, p. 18.

sign a surety to this effect.” Mírzá Isháq Khán finally managed to
still their fury by saying, “I will telegraph [the Amínu’s-Sultan,]
the Atabak101 [and find out the identity of the Sháh’s assassin].
Should he be a Bábí, you are free to do as you please and neither
you nor I will be held responsible before the government.
However, if he is not a Bábí, there is no reason to inflict injuries
upon innocent people. Give me three days. If I haven’t received a
reply by then, do as you please.”
On the third day, a memorial service was organized in the
Consulate for the fallen monarch, and no response [to the telegram]
had been received from Tihran. I remember well when the Bahá’í
group, led by the honored Khurasani, arrived at the gathering. The
Za`imu’d-Dawlih snapped, “The rascals have killed the Sháh and
now occupy the seat of honor too!” This comment greatly offended
the illustrious Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl and he rose to defend the friends.
The Za`imu’d-Dawlih asked, “Jináb-i-Mírzá, it seems that you are
a Bábí as well?” To which Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl responded, “I am a
Bahá’í and what harm is there in that?” That gathering was the
occasion when, without the least hesitation, Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl
openly and publicly declared himself to be a Bahá’í and, with his
characteristic courage, heroically defended the Bahá’ís.
However, the Consul-General, fearing that the [Iranian]
Muslims would commit an unseemly act, was extremely perturbed
and worried. He was thoroughly unmindful of the representatives
of various governments and officials of different embassies [who
were there to pay homage]. With an agitated face that betrayed his
inner turmoil, he sat in his designated position. Most people,
however, thought that the loss and death of the monarch had
brought about deep grief. The worry did not last very long
however. At the final hour of the gathering, a telegraph arrived

101 During the reign of Nasiri’d-Din Sháh, the Prime Minister carried the title of
the Atabak.

from the Royal Court in Tihran to the effect that the murder of the
Sháh was committed by a certain Mírzá Rida of Kirman, who was
a follower of Siyyid Jamalu’d-Din-i-Afghani and who was wholly
unconnected with the Bábís or Bahá’ís. [The telegram further
emphasized that] Iranian subjects, wherever they lived, must
remain unmolested and protected.
After reading this telegram, the Consul-General was elated.
He instructed the Za`imu’d-Dawlih to read its entire text out loud
to the gathering. He read it once. The Consul ordered him to read it
so emphatically that even pedestrians outside would hear him. So,
he read it a second time. And likewise, a third time!
The Consul-General then got up from his seat and greeted the
distinguished guests. He said to the Iranians, “Now you understand
that Bahá’ís are not killers. Rather, they are supportive of the
government and the Sháh. It is important that you now recognize
the identity of the true enemy of the monarchy and our nation.” In
such a way, this potential disturbance was diffused.

Chapter 4
Second Pilgrimage: In the Presence of
`Abdu’l-Bahá
Departure from Egypt
In the year 1314 A.H.102, I sought permission to attain the
sacred presence of the Center of the Covenant and visit the Holy
Threshold of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. This request was graced
with acceptance and I was invited to the Holy Land. Together with
my brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg, we left Port Said.
In Cairo, there had been occasional talk of the faithlessness
of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and his collusion with the Holy Family
and the widow103 of Bahá’u’lláh against [the provisions of] the
Kitab-i-`Ahdi and `Abdu’l-Bahá. However, since `Abdu’l-Bahá
had not yet disclosed this secret, none of the believers was sure it
was true or knew any of the details. Those that had gone on
pilgrimage were told by the Master, “When you return, leave
whatever you have heard or seen by the sea.” As such, the friends
heard some things about what was going on, but did not dare repeat
them. In particular, this subject was discussed by the elders of the
[Bahá’í] community in Cairo. They would say things like, “If
`Abdu’l-Bahá is in debt and has not been able to pay the expenses
incurred during the days of the Blessed Perfection or associated
with the funeral of the Ancient Beauty, why are the Aghsan living
so luxuriously and lavishly?” Others would say, “Why do the
Aghsan have excessive expenses, such as maintaining carriages,

102 June 1896 to June 1897
103 Presumably, a reference to Mahd-i-`Uliya, Bahá’u’lláh’s second wife.

horses, and multiple servants, and incur the exorbitant cost of
entertaining government officials, nobles, and influential citizens,
especially at this time of widespread terrible financial recession
when the Bahá’ís have very little means? Beyond the expenses [in
the Holy Land], the critical obligations of the Cause in Iran must
also be met! The actions of the Aghsan directly conflict with the
interests of the Faith!” In short, there was talk like this about the
news and events in the Holy Land.
Shortly before we left Cairo, I attained the presence of the
honored Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl. After graciously welcoming me, he
said, “Surely, you are familiar with some of the concerns expressed
by the pilgrims returning from the Holy Land. When you have
attained the presence of the beloved Master, reverently relate [this]
on my behalf: ‘The fragrances of love and fellowship do not show
in the comments of some pilgrims returning through Cairo. Some
say that `Abdu’l-Bahá’s sanctified heart is not happy with the
actions and activities of certain individuals. The illustrious Aghsan
do not attain the august presence of the Master and, in turn, His
blessed Person does not visit the Mansion. Others say that the
sacred Figure of `Abdu’l-Bahá has not been able to repay loans
incurred during the period of Bahá’u’lláh’s illness, nor have the
expenses associated with His ascension been paid. However, we
are told that the honored Aghsan spend excessively and live in
great luxury. And yet, `Abdu’l-Bahá is obliged to pay for all of
this. Inevitably, when the pilgrims say such things here, they will
repeat them elsewhere as well. Consequently, the Master’s
sufferings will surely multiply. If the blessed Person of `Abdu’l-
Bahá considers it wise to announce these issues openly, perhaps
the apprehension the friends experience when they hear such
hearsay would be alleviated.” Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl particularly
emphasized, “Open your ears well and find out all that you can
[about what is going on in the Holy Land]. Pass on these things

when no one besides yourself is in the presence of the beloved
Master.”
In `Akká
Once again, after the passage of five years, I was returning to
the Holy Land.104 Memories of our last pilgrimage during the Days
of God, and beholding the Countenance of the Blessed Beauty, and
our nine-month stay under His blessed shadow were coming back
and setting my heart and soul on fire. The beloved Master had
recently returned to `Akká from the cave of Elijah.105
When we arrived, we attained His blessed presence. He
showered us with His measureless favors and infinite bounties and
asked after the friends in Cairo. He then warned, “This region is
beset with turmoil. The gale of tests from the Blessed Beauty
blows in every direction. Calamity’s tempest has agitated the sea of
the world of being. You must exert yourself and be vigilant lest,
God forbid, the dust of rancor, enmity and infidelity to the divine
Covenant should sully your pure hearts.”
The beloved Master’s comment left me very sad and pensive,
as I thought about the subject that had been discussed in Cairo. I
was certain that something ominous was stirring. Some of the
resident believers, whom I had known during the time of the
Blessed Beauty and who had served with great humility and
sincerity, were no longer radiating the same spirituality and
reverence. It occurred to me to discuss my perplexities and
questions with two of my close friends in that land. Perhaps they

104 Though the exact date of Mírzá Habíb’s second pilgrimage is not known,
from the text’s internal evidence, it is estimated to be in the spring of 1897.
105 Finding the situation in `Akka intolerable, `Abdu’l-Bahá had moved to
Haifa’s Retreat of Elijah on Mount Carmel for two months.

could help alleviate the storm that had unexpectedly engulfed my
heart and had caused the sacred city of `Akká to become like a
cage to me.
What the Master said to us had profoundly saddened my
heart, withered my spirit and paralyzed my whole being. I asked
myself: what has happened that the One designated by both the
Kitab-i-Aqdas and the Kitab-i-`Ahdi, and Who is the focus of
adoration for the people of Bahá, must now warn the pilgrims in
this way? I remembered vividly that every day during our
pilgrimage at the time of the Ancient Beauty, we attained the
presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá [and, as such, I knew His personality
well]. Now I wondered: what had robbed Him of His strength and
vitality? What had diminished His radiance and those heavenly
smiles? His hair and beard had turned white; His luminous cheeks
were now full of lines; and His blessed eyes, which at the time of
the Ancient Beauty were full of life and brilliance, now looked
bitterly tired. He seemed very sad and grief-stricken. At times, I
thought perhaps it was the Blessed Perfection’s ascension that had
so profoundly affected the Master and aged Him so much. But then
I would reason: the supreme Spirit of the Ancient Beauty prevails
over all things and envelops the world of being.  Therefore, it
could not cause such sorrow in `Abdu’l-Bahá. He knows best that
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension was His own will – a fact not only alluded
to, but clearly enunciated in His sacred Writings – and this truth is
one of the divine attributes.
Overwhelmed by anxiety and unable to resolve any of these
perplexities, I would pace the streets like a crazed man and talk to
myself. Eventually, I went to see one of my old friends, the late
Áqá Rida Shirazi106, whom I truly loved like a father. I began to

106 He embraced the Faith in Baghdad, where he owned a confectionery shop
with Mírzá Mahmud-i-Kashani. He accompanied Bahá’u’lláh in all stages of His
exile and served the Master until his death in 1912. In the early 1880s, he penned a

discuss these things with him, but being a wise and experienced
man, he responded in such a way that I did not understand his
meaning and was not enlightened any further.107
Several times in the streets, I saw Mírzá Áqá Jan108, whom I
knew Bahá’u’lláh had expelled109. He expected me to show him
respect, bow down in deference to his station and greet him
warmly, the same way that I esteemed him during the time of
Bahá’u’lláh. But I did not take any notice of him, even though I
knew he resented my discourtesy. One day, he asked me about my
father. I pretended I had not heard him. He said, “Jináb-i-Afnán,
what sin have I committed that you hold me in such contempt?
Such acrimonious behavior is not in keeping with the quality of the
Afnáns’ holy lineage.” I responded, “I dislike you and do not want
to talk with you. From now on, please do not converse with me and
agitate my fatigued soul.”
All strength and confidence seemed to have been drained
from me. I was very frightened and consumed with the thought that
the talk circulating in Cairo would become a divine test for this
unworthy soul as well.

stirring account of Bahá’u’lláh, which remains unpublished. See Memorials of the
Faithful, pp. 39-41.
107 In accordance with the Master’s instructions to all resident believers and in
order to protect the young Afnán, the wise and veteran believer had refused to
share any details about the events of `Akka and the rebellion of the Aghsan against
`Abdu’l-Bahá.
108 For a short biography, see Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 181-
92.
109 The original word is ‘tard,’ which, in this context, means excommunication.
During Bahá’u’lláh’s last years, He banished Mírzá Áqá Jan from His presence
because of certain acts and attitudes. However, through the intercession of `Abdu’l-
Bahá, he was forgiven and resumed his services. He was finally expelled two months
before Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension.

Eventually, I went to see another of my old friends, Mírzá
Jalál110, the son of the Sultánu’sh-Shuhadá [the King of Martyrs].
We were very close during the period that had he lived in Cairo.
One time, he came down with dysentery and was near death. The
Master had instructed that he be sent to the Holy Land. However,
none of the believers dared to take him to Port Said so that,
through Siyyid Yahya [Nahri], the brother of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s wife,
he could be sent to the Holy Land. Even though I was discouraged
from doing so by the honored Khurasani, I volunteered to take him,
arguing that he might pass away in Cairo and `Abdu’l-Bahá’s wish
would remain unfulfilled.111 Because of this incident, he developed

110 He had married Rúhá Khánum, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s third daughter. This marriage
produced two sons, Muníb and Hasan, and three daughters, Maryam, Duha and
Zahrá. The family name was Shahíd [martyr]. Mírzá Jalál and his family eventually
lost their faith.
111 Mírzá Jalal arrived in `Akka severely ill and at death’s door. Abú’l-Qásim
Afnán relates that he heard the following story from his father, Mírzá Habíb, on
numerous occasions. His father deeply believed in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ability to work
miracles.
Sometime after Mírzá Jalal had been sent to `Akka
desperately ill, I saw him well and in perfect health. He told me, “I
have no memory of how I came from Cairo to Port Said and from
there to `Akka. I remember, however, that when I arrived in `Akka, I
was laid up unconscious in bed and `Abdu’l-Bahá would come to
visit me each day. One day, all of a sudden, I noticed that I had
become very light, soaring in the air and completely conscious. In
that condition, I saw my body lying in bed while my mother and
sister were pulling a white sheet over me and sobbing profusely.
After they left the room still weeping, they met the Master, who
asked them, ‘What happened?’ They answered, ‘Mírzá Jalal has
died.’
`Abdu’l-Bahá came into the room, removed the sheet from my
face, and began to chant certain verses. Instantly, I returned to my
body, opened my eyes and saw His luminous Countenance. The
Master asked, ‘Mírzá Jalal, what do you desire?’ With a hushed
voice, I replied, ‘Yogurt.’ `Abdu’l-Bahá went outside and told my
family, ‘Mírzá Jalal is well. He wants some yogurt. Give him some.’
After I was fed a few spoonfuls, I began a full recovery and, in no

a particular fondness and affinity for me. As such, I went to visit
him and asked him the truth of the matter.
At first, he was reluctant to answer and said to me directly,
“Such speculations will harm you and it is best to disregard them.
Focus your thoughts instead on the Threshold of the Ancient
Beauty. Such affairs are not worthy of mention or your
consideration.” I insisted on my request. There was no one in the
room except the ever-present God and the two of us. He made me
take an oath on the hair of the Master that I would not divulge to
another soul what he was about to share, not even to my brother.
Then he proceeded to recount all that had happened since the night
of the ascension, when `Abdu’l-Bahá had noticed that the Aghsan
were busy searching the papers and Tablets [of Bahá’u’lláh]. From
beginning to end, he described to me everything he had seen or
heard. At the end, he emphasized, “It is `Abdu’l-Bahá’s wish that
the believers not know these things and you should pretend to be
ignorant of them as well.”
The world turned dark before my eyes. Uncontrollably, I
went by the seashore and, facing the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, began
to weep and supplicate: “Ya Baha’u’l-Abha! Is it possible that
Your religion, planted so firmly through the Covenant that You
have established with each of Your servants, is now divided and
fragmented? Is it possible that different sects will now appear in it?
And if so, what was the good in the Sacred Blood of the Báb
[being spilt] or the sufferings endured by the resplendent Person of
‘Him Whom God shall make manifest’112? How is it that the blood
of the martyrs of the Cause has come to naught so quickly?” I
would say such things and shed bitter tears. After several days of
anguish, my sobbing and tears calmed my heart and stilled the

time, was thoroughly well and strong.”
112 That is, Bahá’u’lláh.

storm that raged in my soul. I was afraid to speak with anyone or
associate with any of the old friends.
As the grace of God always surrounds us, several pilgrims
arrived from Iran at that time who were without equal in their
humor and always made everyone happy. These were: Mírzá
`Abdu’llah Khán113, the father-in-law of the martyred Varqa; the
late Mírzá `Azizu’llah Khán, a son of the martyred Varqa; the
honored Dr. [Yunis Khán] Afrukhtih114; and Áqá Mírzá Fadlu’llah
Kandí115, known as the Mufsidu’l-Mamalik. Mufsid [corrupt] was
a title that Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí used for the thabityn116. When
Áqá Mírzá Fadlu’llah arrived in the Holy Land, it was said,
“Another mufsid is added to the mufsidyn!” `Abdu’l-Bahá
humorously would refer to him as the Mufsidu’l-Mamalik117 and,
thereafter, he was known by this name among the friends. Often in
the Pilgrim House, Mishkin-Qalim, Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin and Áqá
Rida [Qannad] Shirazi would entertain the friends with witty
stories and, as such, lessened the pain of our hearts.
The day after Mírzá Jalal told me the details and, to some
degree, clarified the situation for me, I was thinking that the friends
were not aware of these events. They did not know that the Aghsan
had broken the Covenant of the Cause of God and were raising a
rebellion against the Wronged One of the world [`Abdu’l-Bahá].
Further, despite the emphatic injunction [of the Master], the
pilgrims leaving the Holy Land would, sooner or later, tell others
what they had found out, and this would sprout seeds of doubt in

113 A senior official in the Treasury Ministry of Tabriz.
114 For a biography, see the Bahá’í World, vol. 12, pp. 679-681; and
(forthcoming) Nine Years Memoirs of `Akka.
115 The father of Mírzá Ashraf Khán and Fu’ad Ashraf.
116 The thabityn [the steadfast] were those who had remained faithful to `Abdu’l-
Bahá. They, in turn, referred to the followers to Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí as naqidyn
(the Covenant-breakers).
117 Literally, Corrupt in all realms.

all hearts. And I further reflected that perhaps an inner agitation,
similar to what had engulfed me during these few days, might
overwhelm others as well. I thought that perhaps it would be better
if His blessed Person allowed the friends to be generally
acquainted with the details. At the least, the kind of rumor that was
current among the believers in Cairo would subside. They would
know how the Master was suffering daily at the hands of His
jealous brothers and other enemies inside and outside the Cause,
and how He bore the enormous expenses of the Mansion, which
had become the center of sedition and the headquarters of His
ancestral enemies. Each day, a long list of food and other
necessities – from hay and barley, to meat and poultry - was sent
from the Mansion to be bought. Áqá Rida [Qannad-i-Shirazi] was
in charge of the expenditures and knew better than anyone else
about the unwarranted expenses demanded by the Aghsan. Each
day he had to borrow a sum to administer the affairs and `Abdu’l-
Bahá concealed all these activities.
I did not sleep the whole of that night. Early in the morning,
without telling any of my companions where I was going, I set out
directly for His blessed House118. En route, on a street corner, I
saw His sacred Figure coming towards me. I bowed down and
kissed His feet. He raised me from the ground and showered me
with His infinite kindness, saying, “Were you coming to visit Me?
I too was coming to see you. Today, I want to visit the poor and
needy. Come, so we may be together.”
I began to follow behind His blessed Temple. I knew that He
was fully aware of one’s inner thoughts and, therefore, knew my
condition as well. The resident believers were called on not to
disclose what had happened [regarding the Covenant-breaking],
and the pilgrims were instructed to leave behind by the seashore

118 At the time, the Master and His family lived in the House of `Abdu’llah Pasha
in `Akka.

whatever they had heard or seen, and return home. Surely, [I
thought,] He was well aware that Mírzá Jalál had described all the
details for me. Also, I had heard some other things from Áqá Rida
and Mishkin-Qalam. He must certainly know the kind of whispers
that circulated among the believers in Cairo and the thoughts they
commonly had.
He asked after the honored [Mírzá] Abu’l-Fadl, “How is
Jináb-i-Mírzá and how is his health?” He continued with the same
theme and asked about the friends in Cairo and their ways and
thoughts. Characteristically, He showered me with so much
kindness that I found the courage to say, “My Master, it has been
rather difficult for some of the friends in Cairo to accept that Your
blessed Person should be under the burden of so much debt, and
yet
the
Aghsan
live
luxuriously,
spending
their
time
merrymaking.” Before I could continue, His countenance was
filled with rage and He exclaimed, “How is that?!” and proceeded
to walk on. I no longer had the strength to follow Him and started
to tremble uncontrollably. It was as if soul had left my body. All I
could do was lean against a wall. He had taken about 20 steps
before He realized that I was not following behind. Seeing my
condition, He returned, touching this servant on the shoulders. He
said, “Tell Me, what has happened?” He poured out so much
kindness and offered such favors and cheers that I gradually came
to myself and began to follow Him.
At His bidding, I explained all that I knew and had heard. I
also gave my own assessment about the sort of talk that was
circulating among the friends and what the Jináb-i-Mírzá [Abu’l-
Fadl] had said, namely, “If the believers were to know the details,
such concerns would surely be alleviated.” The beloved Master
exclaimed several times, “Well said!” He then added, “Until now, I
had not wanted this talk to go beyond `Akká. But now it is clear
that it is already too late and that the foul odor of the Covenant-

breaking has reached the nostrils of the entire world.119 What you
see or hear, you are to share with the friends, but descriptively, not
complainingly.” He then explained many things about the
Covenant-breaking of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and the sufferings
that He had been forced to endure, adding, “Recently, a
Commission of Inquiry has arrived from Istanbul. Each day, I go to
the government office and they interrogate Me. My brother has
filed an official complaint. If I were to tell you the details, you
would be grieved. Surely, you have heard and seen certain things
here, or will hear of them. You must never complain. Tell the
friends about them, but descriptively, not complainingly.” (I will
tell the rest of this story when I recount the subsequent events in
Egypt.)120
That day, His blessed Being visited the homes of several of
the town’s poor and destitute. At each place, with His own hand,
He provided them with a sum of money. He caressed all the small

119 The following, by Dr. Yunis Afrukhtih (Khatirat-i-Nuh Salih, pp. 51-2),
further explains the effort that `Abdu’l-Bahá’s brothers went to spread the news of
their split with Him:
`Abdu’l-Bahá often used to say, “One day, Mírzá Diya’u’llah
came to see me. I noticed he was looking at his fingers, which were
stained with ink, expecting Me to comment on them. I did not say
anything, so he volunteered the information, saying, ‘Last night until
the early hours of the morning, we were engaged in writing letters
and gelatin printing. Consequently, my fingers are stained. My
brother [Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí] had written a letter, and we printed
several copies and sent them away this morning.’ I asked him, ‘Did
you really write and dispatch them?’ And when he answered that he
had, I said, 'I swear by the Righteousness of God! A day will come
when Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí will wish that his fingers had been cut
off so that he could not have taken the pen to proclaim his break with
the Covenant. For four years, I have concealed this matter so that the
beloved of God may not learn of your unfaithfulness to the
Covenant. It is now beyond My power to hide it any longer. You
have announced it yourselves to the believers.’”
120 See “The Pearl Rosary” in Appendix 3.

children, hugged them tenderly in His bosom and kissed them
affectionately. Several of those visited were ill and He ordered
their medicine. It was about midday when we returned. Near the
Khán [Avamid] I was given leave from His presence.
The agitation of the past few days had now completely
evaporated. My heart was assured. I had no worries. I would
converse, laugh and not avoid my companions, knowing that if I
divulged anything [about Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and his
followers], I had the permission of the beloved Master and that I
need not feel repentant about it. Also, [I felt elated] since, on that
day, I had spent several magnificent hours in His presence,
benefiting enormously from His utterances. It was a meeting that
transforms even bitter venom into sweet honey.
When I joined my companions again, they asked me where I
had been that morning. I told them that I had been in the Master’s
presence. Each of them expressed his joy for my good fortune in
his own way and jested with me, especially Jinab-i-Mufsidu’l-
Mamalik and Dr. Yunis Khán [Afrukhtih], may my spirit be a
sacrifice to their dust.
The Dream of Salih Áqá
Salih Áqá had been a devoted, black slave and one of the
eunuchs of Cairo’s royal court. After the Khedive121 of Egypt,
Isma’il Pasha, fell from office, all the slaves and eunuchs of his
household that had been taught correct manners and etiquette were
freed. At the time when the Greatest Holy Leaf came to Cairo, this
black slave was introduced to her. As he possessed a pure and
luminous heart, and had mastered all manners and etiquette [related

121 A title belonging to a series of governors who ruled Egypt as viceroy to the
Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1867 to 1914.

to serving a royal audience], he had the good fortune of being
employed to serve the Greatest Holy Leaf and to return with her
from Cairo to the Holy Land. In his new capacity, he served the
andaruni122 of the house of the Master as well as His guests and
pilgrims.
One day, all the friends, both pilgrims and residents, were in
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence in the biruni when Salih Áqá came in and
said, “My Master, last evening I had a dream that I would like to
recount for You.” With utmost compassion and infinite loving-
kindness, `Abdu’l-Bahá responded, “Do so.” Salih Áqá spoke an
eloquent and engaging Arabic and always stood in a punctilious
manner before the Master. As he related his dream, his words and
expressions revealed the emotion that had prompted him to share
his thoughts. Salih Áqá recounted:
Last night, I dreamt that a very large legion of
soldiers had camped on the plain between `Akká and
Haifa. [They were garrisoned so densely that] passing
through them was almost impossible. I stood at the top
of a small rise and, wherever I looked, I saw nothing
but soldiers and munitions. Armaments of all kinds
were ready at the camp. I stood in wonder at their order
and discipline and how thoroughly they prepared. At
the very heart of the camp, a magnificent and enormous
tabernacle was raised as the headquarters for the army’s
Commander.
Your blessed Person [`Abdu’l-Bahá] summoned
me to Your presence and instructed me to saddle a
horse. I brought a wonderfully large, white horse and
the Effendi [`Abdu’l-Bahá] rode towards the camp,

122 The inner quarters of the house, typically accessible to the family and a few
close friends. The reception hall is known as the biruni.

while instructing me, “Come, let us go and meet the
Chief of this compound. This army has come to help
us.” On foot, [I followed You], passing by the tents,
where all the soldiers would immediately salute You
and stand to attention in accordance with military
custom. We came before that glorious tabernacle,
erected in the midmost heart of the camp, with majestic,
golden lanterns displayed above it. You dismounted and
gave the horse to me and, with extreme reverence,
entered the tabernacle. I was lost in bewilderment.
Who, I thought, could the Commander of this army be
that He could invoke such profound veneration in You?
I followed You inside and saw inside the tabernacle a
Person whose countenance I could not look upon. His
beard was black and His eyes brilliant.
Salih Áqá then proceeded to describe all the features of the
Ancient Beauty. He then continued:
When Your blessed Person went in, You
prostrated and kissed the dust, and then offered
declarations of praise and glorification to that
Commander. He [came forward,] embraced You
affectionately, showered You with His tender kindness,
and began to converse with You. Battle plans and maps
hung on the walls of the tabernacle and all were placed
at Your disposal. You were viewing them, conferring
with One another on the battle strategy. It was then that
I woke up.
As Salih Áqá was describing his dream, tears streamed from
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s eyes. The friends too were deeply moved. The
tongue of grandeur then spoke these sweet words: “Blessed is your
pure heart and luminous is your spirit. You serve the sacred

Threshold of the Ancient Beauty so faithfully and are, indeed,
among the near ones and His noble servants! The army in your
dream is the Army of God and represents the confirmations of the
Blessed Beauty. The Commander of the army that you saw in the
world of dreams is none other than the Greatest Name, the Person
of Bahá’u’lláh, and the Author of this Cause. Those maps and
charts that hung on the walls were plans for the edification and
reconstruction of the world.”123 `Abdu’l-Bahá then gave a detailed
explanation of the importance of the divine Covenant, the
magnificent future of the Cause, and its distinguished and superior
feature over the Dispensations of the past. Afterwards, we left His
presence [for the day].
Actions of the Covenant-beakers
At that time, a Commission of Inquiry had arrived from
Istanbul and was causing enormous anxiety for the Master, the
pilgrims and the resident believers. It was investigating the
constant barrage of false and calumnious reports that Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí had sent to the Sublime Court124 and the string of
lies and deceptions that he had woven.
[Yahya] Tabur Aghasi was [`Akka’s] Chief of Police and a
constant companion and close friend of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí. He
frequently visited the Mansion [of Bahjí], and, together with Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí, Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán, [Mírzá] Majdu’d-Din,
Mírzá Áqá Jan and some other Covenant-breakers, was a principal
figure in designing schemes against `Abdu’l-Bahá. These people
occupied the Mansion like a beehive – a place that once witnessed
the revelation of Tablets and was the seat of God’s Supreme
Manifestation.

123 See Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, The Black Pearls, pp. 49-52.
124 A reference to Istanbul, the capital of the Ottoman Empire.

In the early hours of every morning, `Abdu’l-Bahá would
leave His house and return about one hour after noon or perhaps a
bit later. As the Master was leaving, Salih-Áqá would stand with
the greatest dignity and reverence by the entrance door and leave it
open until `Abdu’l-Bahá returned home. His attention to his duties
and sense of responsibility towards his Master were indescribable.
I well remember on one occasion, the entrance had been left open
as several of the friends were awaiting `Abdu’l-Bahá’s return.
Strong winds began to blow dust inside the house and one of the
servants decided to close the door. With an agitated face, Salih-
Áqá roared in protest, admonishing him, “How dare you close the
entrance to the house of a Person Who desires to have it open to
the entire world!”
When `Abdu’l-Bahá returned home that day, His blessed
visage betrayed His deep inner turmoil and it was clear that He was
very tired. Consequently, the friends were excused from His
presence. That afternoon when we were summoned, He informed
us:
These honored persons125 have sent a report to the
Commission of Inquiry, which has resulted in the
Commission’s head moving with a vengeance to
eradicate the Cause of God. He is now raising a tumult
by saying, “The claims of Your Father and Yourself
vary with Your deeds and the objections of Your
brother. We have a Hadith that states: ‘The Messengers
and Prophets do not inherit and have no heir.’ Your
Father claimed the station of Prophethood and gave
You His successorship. Your brother states that You

125 That is, the Covenant-breakers.

have confiscated the estate of the Shaykh-i-Kabir126 and
deprived them of their inheritance.”
I realized that, with such slanders, they sought to
shatter the foundation of the Cause. However, at that
moment, the confirmations of the Supreme Concourse
poured down and the sun of the favors of the Blessed
Beauty shone upon me. I said to him, “The Shaykh-i-
Kabir has left a Will and Testament in His own hand
and seal, and defined in it the inheritance of His heir:
‘Although the Realm of Glory hath none of the vanities
of the world, yet within the treasury of trust and
resignation We have bequeathed to Our heirs an
excellent and priceless heritage. Earthly treasures We
have not bequeathed, nor have We added such cares as
they entail. By God! In earthly riches fear is hidden and
peril is concealed. Consider ye and call to mind that
which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur’an:
‘Woe betide every slanderer and defamer, him that
layeth up riches and counteth them.’”
`Abdu’l-Bahá then added, “I said this to him and the words
choked his breath!”
In those days, certain mischievous and disingenuous
individuals127 often frequented the gatherings of the friends, and
were also present in that meeting. `Abdu’l-Bahá therefore said,
“Inform my brother that I am not `Alí, nor is he `Umar. I am much
greater than `Alí and he is much lesser than `Umar.”128 Then He

126 That is, Bahá’u’lláh.
127 Allusion to the agents of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí.
128 Dr. Afrukhtih reports a slight variation of this story: “On numerous occasions,
He [`Abdu’l-Bahá] sent word to the Naqid-i-Akbar [Arch-Covenant-breaker],
‘Neither are you `Umar to shoulder such a mighty Cause, nor am I `Alí to cry over

smiled and talked about many subjects, none of which I have
remembered. Afterwards, we left His presence. After we returned
to the Khán [Avamid], each of us was filled with grief and sadness
over the actions of the Covenant-breakers and their lack of faith.
Mírzá Áqá Jan
At that time, the Covenant-breakers could generally be
divided into two groups. One group consisted of those who had
completely severed their relationship with the thabityn and, having
crawled into a corner, spent their days and nights in close
companionship and fraternity of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí. The other
group consisted of those who associated with the friends and the
thabityn. This latter group would [openly] attend the presence of
the beloved Master. But they were really agents of Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí and Mírzá Madju’d-Din, and were told to try and
undermine the confidence of the friends, agitate their hearts and
cloud their thoughts. This group was extremely insidious and
dangerous. For instance, when a new pilgrim arrived [in the Holy
Land], they would befriend and engage him, presenting themselves
as deeply devoted to `Abdu’l-Bahá, so that the unsuspecting visitor
would think that they were sincere and loyal to the Covenant and
Testament. However, their motive was, through whatever means
possible, to plant seeds of discord in the heart of their victims,
poison their soul and undermine their faith. [These agents] would
attend the gatherings of the friends in the Pilgrim House [of `Akka]
and participate in their conversations, which they would gradually
begin to dominate. They would talk of the days of the Ancient
Beauty and express their disappointment over the events
subsequent to His ascension. They would describe the state of
affairs in the Mansion, the condition of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí, the

your doings in the palm-grove.’” (Khatirat-i-Nuh Salih, p. 235)

anguish of [Bahá’u’lláh’s] widow and others, thereby causing
sincere believers to be uncontrollably moved with sorrow.
For example, after 40 years of being in the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh, serving as amanuensis for the Divine Revelation, and
in the end losing both this world and the next, the faithless and
wicked Mírzá Áqá Ján would attain the presence of the Master,
[falsely displaying] humility and reverence. He would stand at the
threshold of the room, by the spot where shoes were removed.
After receiving `Abdu’l-Bahá’s permission, he would sit at the
very back of the room pretending to be in rapture and consumed
with adoration for the beloved Master. And, outside of the
gathering, he would engage the friends with the utmost
consideration and charm. However, this abominable man was in
constant contact with the Mansion and the Covenant-breakers.
And so it was until the events of the commemoration of
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension [in May 1897]. On this day, his malicious
nature and sinister character surfaced and became evident. The
following is an account of that day.
A few days before the anniversary of Bahá’u’lláh’s
ascension, evidence of grief and deep sorrow were apparent on the
Master’s countenance and the friends visiting the Holy Land were
pensive and heartbroken as well. The Master’s appearance was
such that the resident believers like the late Áqá Rida [Qannad] and
Mashkin-Qalam, who had been with `Abdu’l-Bahá [for many
years], expressed bewilderment over His condition. They said that
they had never seen so much despondency on His face. Everyone
thought that `Abdu’l-Bahá’s heart was heavy with anguish and
sadness because of the approaching eve of [the anniversary of] the
Blessed Beauty’s ascension.

These few days passed with great difficulty and gloom, until
the 70th day after Naw-Ruz129. The friends were gathered at the
Pilgrim House and `Abdu’l-Bahá was present in that meeting as
well. We remained there until about two hours before the time
marking the ascension. At that time, His blessed Person summoned
all the believers and gave each a candle and a bottle of rosewater.
With unreserved grief and sorrow, we proceeded towards the
Mansion of Bahjí and Bahá’u’lláh’s Shrine, following His blessed
Figure.
[Along the way,] `Abdu’l-Bahá called on several of the
friends to chant prayers. Áqá Fadlu’llah began to chant
Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavi and, in such a meditative atmosphere, we
arrived at the Shrine. `Abdu’l-Bahá instructed us to pour the
rosewater on the inner garden of the Shrine and to plant the candles
in the same soil. With His heavenly and soul-stirring tone, `Abdu’l-
Bahá chanted the Tablet of Visitation. Tears were streaming from
His eyes and the mourning of the friends soared heavenwards. The
sound of sobbing and yearning filled the court of the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh. Until morning, each person was occupied offering
prayers and supplications to the Threshold of the Beloved,
oblivious of his surroundings.
At `Abdu’l-Bahá’s bidding, we returned to the Pilgrim House
of the Mansion, had tea and rested. His blessed Being went to an
adjacent room next to the Shrine. After tea, we visited the Shrine
once again. Later, we all gathered in the building of the Pilgrim
House under the shadow of the Mansion of Bahjí.
On that day, Mírzá Áqá Jan, who, over the span of 40 years,
had partaken immeasurably of Bahá’u’lláh’s ocean of favors and
munificence, had asked the friends to be his guests for lunch, so

129 Bahá’u’lláh's ascension occurred 70 days after Naw-Ruz, on the eve of 29 May
1892, at 3 a.m. It is customary to recite the Tablet of Visitation at that time.

that the feast on that occasion would be marked in his name. This
invitation was accepted by `Abdu’l-Bahá. Mírzá Áqá Jan had
prepared bread and broth for lunch. A few hours before sunset,
while some of the friends were sleeping in the Pilgrim House and
some were awake, he came to the Pilgrim House and started
saying, “O ye believers in the Blessed Beauty! Today is not a day
to rest. Because of this calamity [the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh],
today the world and its inhabitants are in lamentation. Today, the
denizens of the Supreme Concourse are fervently sobbing and are
bitterly grief-stricken. Arise! Arise!” So, everyone got up and
gathered about.
Mírzá Áqá Jan ascended a stool - that same Khadimu’llah,
that same `Abd-i-Hadir130, that same person who, because of
countless favors bestowed on him by Bahá’u’lláh, had attained a
great station and possessed unequalled prestige in the Faith, to the
point where the most prominent believers were humbled before
him. He spoke like this: “In a dream, the Ancient Beauty
bequeathed the station of divine revelation upon me,” and then
proceeded to belittle, and speak disparagingly of the sacred station
of `Abdu’l-Bahá. After voicing only a few sentences, the thabityn
and the believers were so greatly enraged that they decided to slay
him. Two of them, Habíb Áqá131 and Taraz132, the son of Áqá
Mírzá Muhmud-i-Kashi, who were stronger than the rest, rose to
their feet, grasped his throat and pulled Mírzá Áqá Jan from the
stool. They started to punch and kick him, with the intention of
taking his life. [Through Mírzá Áqá Ján’s death,] the plan of Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí and the other Covenant-breakers was about to be

130 Khadimu'llah (the servant of God) and Abd-i Hazir (the ever-present servant)
were titles given to Mírzá Áqá Jan by Bahá’u’lláh.
131 Better known as Mírzá Habíbu’llah. He was a son of Áqá Ridá Qannád-i-
Shirazí and the father of `Abbas Huvayda, a long-time Prime Minister of Iran
during the rule of Muhammad-Reza Sháh Pahlavi.
132 In the latter years of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry, he broke the Covenant.

fulfilled and their malicious desires realized. However, before it
was too late, Mírzá `Alí-Akbar, son of the honored Mishkin-
Qalam, rushed to the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá and told Him the
situation. `Abdu’l-Bahá came quickly. He pulled Mírzá Áqá Jan
from beneath the hands and feet of the friends and took him to the
Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.
The author of this scheme, Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí, had
invited [Yahya] Tabur Aghasi, the Chief of Police, and a number
of other notable enemies of the Cause to the Mansion. He hoped
that, when Mírzá Áqá Jan made his accusations, it would provoke
the believers into a violent response and result in a brawl between
the two sides. He expected that the Police would be forced to
intervene and the situation would end in their favor. However, with
`Abdu’l-Bahá arriving on the scene [and rescuing Mírzá Áqá Jan],
their plans came to naught and the officers had no reason to
intervene.
In `Abdu’l-Bahá’s company, Mírzá Áqá Jan was taken to the
Shrine. The Master locked the Shrine’s entrance from inside.
There, this abominable man, who had been freed from the grasp of
the friends [by `Abdu’l-Bahá], made an attempt on the Master’s
life. Furious and deeply upset, the friends stood outside the Shrine
and the Holy Family waited in the adjacent rooms, while `Abdu’l-
Bahá remained inside. We were truly distressed and agitated, until
the Master opened the Shrine’s entrance. He instructed Mírzá
Habíb and Taraz to take Mírzá Áqá Jan to a stable near the
Mansion. He confiscated all the papers he had hidden inside his
pockets and returned only his seal to him. Mírzá Áqá Jan had
wrapped large handkerchiefs containing seditious papers around
his waist and under his `aba, and had many similar materials

stuffed in his side pockets as well. `Abdu’l-Bahá then dismissed us
from His presence and we returned to `Akká.133
Through this scheme, the Covenant-breakers intended to
create an unfavorable situation, so that police officers would
interfere in the affairs of the Cause and seize control of the Shrine.
Even though the divine plan has always been, and will always be,
more powerful than their sinister schemes, they didn’t stop. They
used cash, gifts, [Chinese] ceramic vessels134, and Persian carpets
from the days of Bahá’u’lláh that were used by His sacred Person,
to bribe government authorities, political officials and anyone else
associated with the State, hoping to win their sympathy. They
either presented them with these gifts or sold the items at a nominal
price until, eventually, their activities resulted in the Commission
of Inquiry coming [to the Holy Land] and the amazing events that
then happened.
O dear readers, who may one day peruse these notes! I swear
by the oneness of the Author of the Cause, that no pen, save the
august pen of the Center of the Covenant Himself, is able to
convey a thousandth part of the calamities and tribulations that
beset the blessed Person of `Abdu’l-Bahá in those days. They were
filled entirely with pain and sufferings. Innumerable Tablets
revealed in honor of friends throughout every corner of the world
bear witness to this humble statement.
The papers discovered in the pockets of Mírzá Áqá Jan, or
hidden elsewhere on his person, were found to be all written in the

133 With some minor variations, another eyewitness account of this event is
recorded in Khatirat-i-Nuh Salih, pp. 80-84.
134 The Afnán family had extensive trade with China and the Far East, and several
of them had offices in these countries as far as Shanghai. Throughout Bahá’u’lláh's
ministry, they presented the Holy Family with many pieces of fine china and other
service utensils. Some of the remnant pieces are currently displayed at various
Bahá’í Holy Places in Haifa and `Akka, such as the House of `Abbud.

style of Revelation Writing and addressed to different friends,
particularly prominent believers throughout the Bahá’í world. Each
was given a mission and a [new] title. According to their scheme,
Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and [Mírzá] Madju’d-Din hoped that the
letters would confuse the friends and undermine their confidence
[in `Abdu’l-Bahá]. Such was the lifelong harvest of a man who had
been singularly favored by the Almighty, but now had lost both
this world and the next. I beseech God, through His subduing
Might, omnipotent Authority, encompassing Favors and ever-
present Grace, to protect all believers from the whisperings of evil-
doers and worldly passions, and to guard the friends throughout all
ages within the stronghold of His Covenant and the shelter of His
Cause.
The following day, when we attained the presence of the
beloved Master in His house, we noticed that He had spread all of
Mírzá Áqá Jan’s papers on a table and was looking through them.
On seeing us, He laughed and handed us a blue sheet of paper,
saying, “Look, one of these tablets was addressed to your
illustrious father!”
In short, the atrocities committed by the Covenant-breakers
against the body of the Cause was so heart-wrenching and
harrowing that they truly defy description. The heat and flames of
this fire engulfed and encircled the pilgrims and visitors alike. At
last, due to the uncertainty in the Holy Land, the constant agitation
of the Covenant-breakers and the arrival of the Commission of
Inquiry, the entire company of pilgrims was dismissed. `Abdu’l-
Bahá specifically instructed me to keep all correspondence,
received from the believers in Iran or other corners, in Port Said. It
was not to be forwarded to the Holy Land, as danger was always
present. After that, the Iranian pilgrims returned to Iran and the
pilgrims from Egypt traveled to Port Said.

Departure from the Holy Land
One day, the custodian of the Pilgrim House, Áqá
Muhammad-Hasan, came and informed us that the beloved Master
had instructed us to leave the Holy Land within a week. The next
morning, `Abdu’l-Bahá called this servant and my late brother into
His presence and said, “Because of the uncertainties in this land,
return [to Egypt] aboard next week’s ship. The Covenant-breakers
have reported to the Commission of Inquiry that, in addition to the
luxury of our lives in this House, the Pilgrim House has become
very crowded because, day and night, we are entertaining a large
number of pilgrims and resident believers. They claim that, with a
large salary, we have hired for our own service a eunuch from the
court of the [Egyptian] Pashas. Although I do not want to part with
Salih-Aqa, there are compelling reasons for him not to remain here.
It is best for him to return to Cairo as your guardian.” We both
bowed down in respect [and obedience].
The following day, we were once again called into His
presence, and Salih Áqá was there as well. After showering His
infinite kindness upon this fortunate black slave, who was the envy
of all whites, the beloved Master said, “Salih Áqá, I did not want to
send you away and had desired for you to remain in the Holy Land
and continue serving the friends here. However, I am in a
quandary. These two youth are very dear to me and are the trust of
one of my closest friends. I wish now to commit this trust to your
care and pray that you will do your best to look after them.”
Though not a believer, Salih Áqá profoundly adored the Master
and, in tears, implored Him, “Effendi, I desire to remain close to
this Threshold and serve it until my last breath. Would it be
possible for the request of this servant to find acceptance in Your
sight? Had it been Effendi’s wish, in a single moment, a hundred
guardians would have been found for these two.” The Master

responded, “Would you allow these two youth, whose father has
entrusted them to me, to travel to a strange land? No one is more
trustworthy than you.” At last, with tears pouring from his eyes,
this noble black man said, “Whatever is Your blessed will, I shall
obey and resign myself to Your good-pleasure.” `Abdu’l-Bahá
consoled him, “I will summon you back here as soon as these
honored youth have established themselves in Cairo, started a
business and familiarized themselves with the Arabic language.”
Because the time to leave the presence of the Center of the
Covenant was near, we were particularly depressed and downcast
during the last few days of our pilgrimage. In this period, all His
blessed utterances centered on the activities of the Covenant-
breakers, the hardship of the Baghdad period and the sufferings
that the Blessed Perfection had endured at the hands of the
followers of Azal.
During this pilgrimage journey, immeasurable divine favors
and bounties were showered upon this undeserving servant. I
considered myself thoroughly unworthy of these, as I found
nothing but shortcomings and neglect in my deeds. With His own
hands, the Master graciously bestowed upon me His Arab `aba,
which I thankfully received, kissed and placed to my brow. That
`aba is now kept among the sacred relics of the Archives of the
House of the Báb in Shiraz.
In those days, each morning, the blessed Person of `Abdu’l-
Bahá had to go to the government house and would not return until
late afternoon. Many of the days, the pilgrims and resident
believers could not behold His heavenly countenance or attain His
presence. The exception was when they saw Him on the streets and
en route. Then He would briefly greet the friends and quickly go
on His way.

With `Abdu’l-Bahá’s permission, the day before our
departure, we visited the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and offered our last
homage. The next morning, the Master called us into His presence
and, with a world of sadness, we bid Him farewell. We traveled to
Haifa and, from there, to Port Said.

Chapter 5
Back in Egypt
As mentioned earlier, the veil concealing the deeds of the
violators of the divine Covenant was not yet lifted. They continued
to associate with some of the friends. Through various means, they
sought to spread their polemics and tried to undermine the
believers’ confidence and confuse their thinking. `Abdu’l-Bahá
had instructed me to share [with the friends] all I had heard [while
on pilgrimage] in a descriptive way.
In Cairo, the same rumour and speculation as before was still
circulating. When this servant arrived, the friends gathered at our
house and Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl came as well. [During our discussion,]
the subject of the Holy Land and the afflictions surrounding the
beloved Master came up. I explained all that I had seen or heard
and the sufferings that beset `Abdu’l-Bahá. I called the
Ghusnu’llah Akbar [the Great Branch of the divine Tree] by his
given name Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí. Similarly, I referred to Mírzá
Badi`u’llah and Mírzá Diya’u’llah by their names only and did not
refer to them as the Aghsan of the Tree of Holiness. Suddenly,
quite angrily and with fury, Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl addressed me, “How
dare a youngster like you be so presumptuousness towards the
Branches of the Tree of Sanctity and insult the text of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas! The spirit of the Prophets and Messengers circle in
adoration around these sacred figures and no one in the world is
permitted to belittle them. The explicit text of the Kitáb-i-`Ahdi,
the Will and Testament of the Blessed Beauty, states that the entire
world must respect Bahá’u’lláh’s widows, the [members of the]

Holy Household and the Aghsan.”135 He voiced his views with
such passion and indignation that I felt paralyzed. The more I
repeated, “I saw and heard `Abdu’l-Bahá relate these things and do
not share them on my own accord,” the more he roared back that,
“I do not accept hadith.” Finally, I was forced to say, “Write to His
sacred Threshold. What He favors with a reply is verily the essence
of truth.” He replied, “Of course I shall write!”
Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl immediately sent a supplication to the Holy
Land. In response to his letter, a Tablet similar to the Lawh-i-Hizar
Bayti136 was revealed in 16 pages in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s own hand. It
started with these sweet words: “He is the Most Glorious. O thou
who hath devoted thy life to the propagation of the Word of God!”
This Tablet detailed the deeds of the Covenant-breakers and the
jealousy and enmity of the people of rancor.
In short, this is how the efforts of the Covenant-breakers [to
subvert the Cause] became known to the friends throughout Egypt.
[The believers] immediately severed all connection with them.
After receiving this Tablet, Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl showered this
servant with the greatest kindness. He apologized so frequently
that, to this day - some 50 years later – I am embarrassed [by his
extreme generosity]. Later, he gave that Tablet to Áqá `Abdu’l-
Husayn Samandari137, who was in Egypt at the time, to make a

135 The two injunctions of the Kitab-i-`Ahdi are: “It is incumbent upon everyone to
show courtesy to, and have regard for the Aghsan...”, and “Ye are bidden moreover
to respect [My wife,] members of the Holy Household, the Afnán and the kindred.”
(Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 222-3).
136 Revealed in the same year, 1897, for Mírzá Jalil-i-Khu’i. Because of its length,
it is known as the Tablet of One Thousand Verses. The original is found in INBMC
52:551-605.
137 The older brother of Tarazu’llah Samandari.

copy for him, and gifted me the original Text as a momento. That
Tablet is currently in a safe place.138
As instructed by `Abdu’l-Bahá, I related the events of the
Holy Land and the activities of the Covenant-breakers to my father
[in Shiraz]. He informed the friends throughout Shiraz, Abadih,
Sarvistan and Nayriz. As a divine favor, during the Days of God,
the seeds of firmness and faithfulness had been planted in the
hearts of the friends in [the province of] Fárs. Throughout the
ministry of the Center of Covenant, all the believers [in Fars] were
immune to the temptations and satanic whisperings of the
Covenant-breakers. The sole exception was a certain Mullá
Husayn-`Alí Jahrumi139, who fell under the influence of the
violators of the Covenant in India and became wayward. When he
returned to Jahrum, he was shunned by all, near and far, and died
in the utmost poverty.
A Pilgrim from Mecca140
During the time that my brother and I were engaged in
commerce at Port Said, the Consul-General of Iran gave us the seal
of the Consulate in Egypt so that we could stamp the passport of
the Iranian pilgrims returning from Mecca. This was to prevent
them from proceeding to Cairo and further burdening the

138 The original text of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet remains among the Sacred
Writings and other Holy relics in the Archives of the House of the Báb. Mírzá
Habíb left instructions with his sons to publish the text of this Tablet with his
memoirs. The Bahá’í World Centre has advised the present translator that they will
publish a translation of this important Tablet in due course.
139 In his memoirs, Hájí `Alíy-i-Yazdi states that Jahrumi was influential in the
Covenant-breakers’ scheme to use Mírzá Áqá Jan against the Master. For a
summary translation, see, Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 184-5.
140 This section consists of the recollections of Mírzá Habíb kept by his son,
Hasan Afnán. Mírzá Habíb intended for them to be inserted here.

Consulate Office in that city. One of the pilgrims who came to us
to process his passport was a tall and corpulent Siyyid who
appeared to be a dignified man. He said to us, “I do not wish to
return to Iran with my fellow travelers so soon [after our
pilgrimage]. I want to journey in this region.” However, his
traveling companions were adamant that he should return, saying,
“We have paid all his travel expenses so that, throughout the h.ajj
journey and our return home, he would be our prayer-guide and
example, informing us of our religious duties. Now that we are
returning from the House of God [in Mecca], it is unfair of this
Siyyid to leave us stranded and unguided in mid-journey.
Furthermore, we have taken an oath in the name of his illustrious
Ancestor to pay for his return [to Iran] and we do not want to
betray our promise.”
In private, they had earlier asked me to convince the Siyyid
to comply with his solemn agreement. Therefore, I said to him,
“This is a foreign country and you have no friends or
acquaintances here. In addition, you do not speak the vernacular
Arabic or its Egyptian dialect and may find yourself
inconvenienced. Reason dictates that you not hurt the feelings of
your traveling companions and comply with their request. Further,
this country is not like Iran, where it is customary to organize
passion plays and Siyyids are paid for their sermons. If you stay in
this region, I am certain that you will be disappointed.” With a face
flushed with anger, he responded sarcastically, “I am responsible
for myself. Should I come to your house, you may refuse me
hospitality!” I had nothing more to say. Since their ship was ready
to pull anchor, the other pilgrims left and the Siyyid stayed.
The following day, the Siyyid came to my office in the same
state and said, “The reason I didn’t want to return to Iran with my
fellow pilgrims is because I want to visit `Abbás Effendi in
`Akká.” The enmity of the Covenant-breakers in those days had

reached its peak. The Holy Land was in turmoil and many perils
surrounded the blessed Person of `Abdu’l-Bahá. I didn’t consider it
prudent for such a Siyyid to visit `Akká at that time and offered
many excuses. I said, “Attaining His presence is not an easy task.
First, one must receive His permission and it may well take over a
month for the post to deliver your letter and bring back a reply. It is
best if you go back to Iran and leave this visit for another
opportune time.” “How do you make a visit?” he inquired. I
responded, “We first pray fervently and focus our thoughts on His
sacred Being. Then, with the utmost sincerity and humility, we
send a request. After that, we wait for His response. If we are given
a favorable reply, with utter elation and yearning, we attain His
presence and stay for however many days He allows. Upon
leaving, we [once again] pay homage at the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh
and return home.” He responded, “I will not go in this manner. I
will join whoever is traveling to `Akká.” I finally surrendered,
“The route to `Akká is known. Travel as you think best.”
Immediately, I sent a telegraph to Áqá Siyyid [Muhammad-]
Taqi Manshadi in Haifa, warning him that such a person was
arriving and giving him the vessel’s details. Áqá Siyyid Taqi went
by the ship and took the Siyyid first to Haifa and, from there, sent
him to `Akká on a hired coach. He also telegraphed `Abdu’l-Bahá
about the matter. Mishkin-Qalam related the details of his visit for
me:
When the Siyyid arrived at the Khán-i-`Avamid,
he called out in a loud voice, “Are any of the honored
gentlemen [Bahá’ís] present?” I replied, “Please come
upstairs.” After he arrived, tea was brought for him.
After tea, he asked, “Are there any waterpipes ready?” I
responded, “There are no waterpipes here, but there are
some at the coffee shop.” Surprised, he said, “Tell them
to bring me one.” I sent a message and they brought

him one. I was greatly disturbed by his rudeness and
impolite manners.  Several times he repeated, “I want to
go see `Abbás Effendi.” At that point, I became angry
and said to him, “Siyyid, calm down. When you
arrived, your name was presented to Him. You will
attain His presence whenever you are summoned. If you
are not given permission, you may not go. This place is
the sacred Threshold of the Lord and not a caravansary
where any intruder without prior notice may enter.’ At
that point, the Siyyid became silent and refrained from
comment.
Late in the afternoon, we were all summoned to
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s House and the Siyyid joined us as well.
When we came to the room where the Master was, he
entered and greeted Him with a guttural voice in the
custom of the clergy. With great pride, he occupied a
seat of honor facing the Master. `Abdu’l-Bahá ignored
him completely. He spoke at length about the life of the
Messenger of God [Muhammad], the deceit and trickery
of the Quriyish, the enmity of Abu-Jahl and other
oppressors in Mecca. I noticed that, as soon as the
Master began to speak, the Siyyid collected himself
and, with hands out of his pockets, politely began to
listen most attentively to Him. At the end of His
comments, `Abdu’l-Bahá said, “There is a tradition
passed down from the Prophet Muhammad that states,
‘The wrath of God be upon those who claim to be My
relation, but are a stranger to Me.’” The Master then
dismissed us, but the condition of the Siyyid had
changed dramatically. That night, they brought supper
from the House of `Abdu’l-Bahá for all of us.

The next day, I noticed that the poor Siyyid had
changed his black turban for a white one. Therefore, I
asked, “Until last night you were a Siyyid and a
descendent of the Prophet [and signified it by wearing a
black turban]. How is it that this morning your situation
has changed?” He replied, “You are unaware that
everything the Master, `Abbás Effendi, said yesterday,
from beginning to end, was meant for me and that He
was not speaking to the rest of you. Even the hadith
quoted at the end was for my benefit, as I am a
commoner. A few years ago, I went to Tihran and
presented myself as a Siyyid and people have believed
me ever since. However, `Abbás Effendi was aware of
my deceit and the tradition He quoted was meant for
me.”
The Siyyid was in the Holy Land for 15 days. `Abdu’l-Bahá
paid his travel expenses to Beirut and wrote to Áqá Muhammad-
Mustafa Baghdadi to ensure his comfort and arrange his travel to
Iran.
[Some years later], I asked Áqá Muhammad-Mustafa about
this Siyyid and what had become of him. He replied, “When he
arrived by boat, I went to welcome him and brought him home.
After we began to converse, I asked him, ‘Now that you have spent
15 days in the presence of `Abbas Effendi, what have you learned
and what impression did this meeting leave with you?’ He replied,
‘In truth, and between us and God, `Abbas Effendi is the most
accomplished of men. He is knowledgeable in all branches of
learning and knows of divine truth hidden from us. However, when
it comes to the science of Islamic jurisprudence, He appears
wanting.’” Áqá Mustafa continued, “I said to him, ‘He has left the

science of “unclean and clean”141 and such unworthy things for
people such as you to ponder and devote your time to.’ After a few
days, the Siyyid was sent to Iran through Damascus.”

141 `Ilm-i nájasat is a sub-branch of Shi`i jurisprudence.

Chapter 6
Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán142
Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán<28> was the second child of H.ájí
Mírzá Siyyid Hasan<10>, known as the Afnán-i-Kabír. As a result
of supplications [to Bahá’u’lláh] from the wife of the Báb,
Khadíjih Bagum, and `Abdu’l-Bahá, he was honored with
becoming a son-in-law to the Blessed Beauty.143 At first, he
promised the illustrious wife of the Báb that, should she intercede
on his behalf by sending a letter to the sacred Threshold of
Bahá’ulláh, he would come to Shiraz and travel with her to the
Holy Land. His father also wrote to her in this vein. The wife of

142 The writings of the Guardian record that a son-in-law of Bahá’u’lláh, Siyyid
`Alíy-i-Afnán, was an entrenched enemy of `Abdu’l-Bahá and that he had
previously caused the untimely death of Khadíjih Bagum by abandoning his
promise to escort her to the presence of Bahá’u’lláh. The following telegraph from
Shoghi Effendi refers to this: “Inform National Assemblies that God’s avenging
wrath having afflicted in rapid succession during recent years two sons, brother
and sister-in-law of Arch-breaker of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, has now struck down
second son of Siyyid `Alí, Nayer Afnán, pivot of machinations, connecting link
between old and new Covenant-breakers. Time alone will reveal extent of havoc
wreaked by this virus of violation injected, fostered over two decades in `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s family. History will brand him one whose grandmother, wife of
Bahá’u’lláh, joined breakers of His Covenant on morrow of His passing, whose
parents lent her undivided support, whose father openly accused `Abdu’l-Bahá as
one deserving capital punishment, who broke his promise to the Báb’s wife to
escort her to Holy Land, precipitating thereby her death, who was repeatedly
denounced by Center of the Covenant as His chief enemy...” (Messages to the
Bahá’í World 1950-57, pp. 24-25) In this chapter, Mírzá Habíb records some of
the details associated with Siyyid `Alí’s broken promise and its devastating effect
on Khadíjih Bagum.
143 Siyyid `Alí married Furughiyyih, a daughter of Bahá’u’lláh from His third wife,
Gawhar Khánum.

the Báb longed to attain the blessed presence [of Bahá’u’lláh] and
behold the countenance of the Sovereign of the world.
Therefore, in order to enlighten the reader further, it is best
that I now share a letter written by the wife of `Abdu’l-Bahá
[Munirih Khánum] to the honored wife of the Báb. It illustrates the
extent of latter’s intense desire to attain the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh and her eagerness to share in the blessings of such a
pilgrimage:
... In short, you had written, “On every occasion
[that you are] in the presence of the Divine Effulgence
[Bahá’u’lláh], may my spirit be a sacrifice unto Him,
kindly mention this desolate one. Perhaps, through the
blessings of the pure souls, this remoteness will pass
and I will attain the banquet of His presence.” This
supplication was brought especially to His divine
presence and, in response, the Ancient Tongue spoke
these words: “Through His unceasing favors and
mercies, God has ordained that that Holy Leaf live at
the shore of the sea of Our presence forever and the
Lord has given her to taste the wine of Our union. At all
times, the Tongue of the Merciful makes mention of
her. In light of this, there is no reason [for her] to feel
separation or remoteness. From the heaven of
benevolence, an exalted Tablet was revealed in her
honor and sent through the letter Sin144. God willing, on
future occasions, other Tablets will be dispatched as
well.”
Be assured those expressions of salutation,
devotion and enthusiasm that your good self wrote for

144 Presumably, Shaykh Salman, the courier of Bahá’u’lláh.

the Divine Effulgence were shared in their entirety in
His sanctified presence.145
Even at this moment, all are present and avidly
remember that blessed Leaf. The Blessed Perfection
conveyed these sentiments: “By God, in truth, not a
moment passes that We do not occupy Ourselves with
the joy of your mention. We beseech Him Who does
what He wills to gather all the Leaves of His divine
Lote-Tree in one spot, so that all will raise their voice in
His praise and glorification and quaff the sweet wine of
union from the chalice of immortality passed from one
to another.” ...146
The supplication of the wife of the Báb was accepted into the
presence of the Lord of the world of being. In a letter written by
Munirih Khánum to the blessed wife [of the Báb], the following
was noted:
You wrote about the matter that we had agreed.147
Know, then, that your request was presented in the
Sacred Presence and considered with favor. Praised be
God and glorified be His name! The grace of God has

145 Munirih Khánum visited Shiraz on her way to `Akka to marry `Abdu’l-Bahá
and recorded the following (Khándan-i-Afnán, pp. 165-6): “...The wife of the Báb
said: ‘Please supplicate the Blessed Perfection to grant two wishes of mine. The
first, one of the exalted leaves of the Blessed Family may be permitted to join in
wedlock with a member of the Family of the Báb, so that even outwardly the two
Holy Trees may be knit together. The other, to grant me permission to attend His
presence.’ I conveyed this message when I attained the presence of Bahá’u’lláh.
He readily assented to both her requests.” An additional request of Khadíjih
Bagum was for the House of the Báb to be renovated and this was also accepted.
146 This letter is also quoted in Khándan-i-Afnán, pp. 175-6.
147 Reference to the confidential agreement about the marriage of Siyyid `Alí with
Furughiyyih Khánum.

surrounded your esteemed self in such wise that even
such a tremendous petition has found acceptance before
His throne!148
After Bahá’u’lláh consented to this union, Siyyid `Alí went to
Simnán for his commercial activities. His father remained in Yazd
and his older brother, Siyyid Mírzá<25>, went to Bombay. The
illustrious wife of the Báb passed on the news of the blessed
permission [of Bahá’u’lláh] to [her brother,] the Afnán-i-Kabír.
She also expressed her extreme excitement and eagerness to take
part in this journey. She further wrote, “Day and night, I
expectantly look for your arrival [in Shiraz].”
After waiting a considerable time, she received a letter from
the Afnán-i-Kabír149 and Siyyid `Alí, saying:
Since the means for our journey to Shiraz are not
available at this time, we have arranged to leave by way
of Khurasan and through Istanbul. Therefore, you may
wish to go to Port Said with Hájí Mírzá `Abdu’l-
Hamid150 and Áqá Siyyid Áqá151<74> so that, after we
have completed our h.ajj [obligatory pilgrimage], we
may join you in Port Said and, from there, leave for the
Holy Land in your company.

148 Quoted also in Khándan-i-Afnán, pp. 175.
149 The term ‘Afnán-i-Kabir’ was originally bestowed upon the uncle of the Báb,
Hájí Mírzá Siyyid Muhammad (see Núri’d-Dín’s Collection, p. 60). However, in
later years it became a designation for Hájí Mírzá Siyyid Hasan.
150 He embraced the Faith during the Báb’s sermon at Masjid-i-Vakil and,
subsequently, was taught the Faith through the loving-kindness of Khadíjih
Bagum. He became a resident in the House of the Báb after the Báb’s martyrdom
and Khadíjih Bagum’s departure for the home of the martyred uncle. He passed
away around 1897.
151 Parenthetically, Mírzá Habíb has added, “my older brother”.

Numerous letters are extant from them on this subject.
However, we must content ourselves with quoting just one as
evidence, so that the reader can plainly see how unfaithful the
Covenant-breakers were to the blessed wife of the Báb. She had
suffered so long and so bitterly in the path of the Faith, and the one
solace for her broken heart would have been attaining the presence
of the Blessed Beauty. Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán, in a letter dated 19
Ramadan 1299 A.H. [14 August 1882], writes from Simnán:
Humbly submitted to the presence of that honored
noblewoman, may she be blessed with a long life:
Your blessed letter spoke of your perseverance
and health, and this caused us to raise our voice in
praise and gratitude to the threshold of the Almighty.
May God perpetually keep you shielded under the
shadow of His protection and custody.
However, your blessed letter was bereft of kind
sentiments towards this servant and therefore rendered
this
ephemeral
one
perplexed
and
thoroughly
disappointed in [his] self as to what has occasioned
such a response. Because I have exerted efforts in
[your] service and in my duties to the best of my ability.
Nevertheless, I remain hopeful that, God willing, the
Almighty will fulfil our arrangements in a splendid
way.
At the time of my departure from Simnán, I was
not fully apprised of my father’s travel arrangements,
and did not know whether he intended to go only to
Mashhad or wanted to travel further. When he left
Yazd, he told me, “I am setting out for Mashhad and
you must depart in that direction as well.” However,

when he arrived in Mashhad, it became clear that he
intended to leave directly for the Holy Land. I was
thinking about this when your letter arrived, which
caused deep sadness and disappointment. God willing,
the Lord will conclude these affairs in a most agreeable
fashion.
At the moment, it is impossible for me to return
from here, otherwise I would attain the presence of that
eminent personage [Khadíjih Bagum]. Such has been
decreed. My own health is not the best. Be assured and
rest confident knowing that this insignificant one
remains devoted to his oath and promise.
Even now, should you agree and consider it
appropriate, I have asked my honorable maternal uncle,
Áqá Mírzá Buzurg<15>, to arrange your travel. My
honored cousin, Áqá Siyyid Aqa152<74>, and Hájí
Mírzá `Abdu’l-Hamid have gone to Mecca, which will
not benefit you. You should journey from Bushihr to
Alexandria and remain there for a few days. This
servant will also travel to Alexandria and join you there
and help Áqá Siyyid Aqa<74> to leave for Bombay.
And should this [suggested] arrangement fail to
please you, then, God willing, I will come from there
[the Holy Land] and we will travel together. ...”
In a letter to the wife of the Báb, the Afnán-i-Kabír<10>,
expresses the following sentiments:
Again I submit that, concerning the travel of that

152 Parenthetically, Mírzá Habíb has added, “my older brother.”

exalted lady [Khadíjih Bagum], Áqá Siyyid `Alí<28>
has written to the honored Hájí Mírzá Buzurg<15>.
God willing, arrangements for your departure will be
made with ease and facility. In order to avoid any
alarm, Áqá Siyyid Aqa<74>, son of Áqá Mírzá
Aqa<24>, will accompany you to provide privacy and
the honored Hájí Mírzá `Abdu’l-Hamid will serve as
your attendant and entourage. From Shiraz, you should
travel directly to Alexandria, where Áqá Siyyid
`Alí<28> will join you and accompany you to the
desired destination [the Holy Land].
One after another, the blessed wife of the Báb received
communications from Áqá Mírzá Muhsin<29> and others that
thoroughly dashed her hopes of ever attaining the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh.153
During that time, my late father was doing business in
Bombay, and my paternal grandmother, [Zahra Bagum<8>], told
him in writing what had happened. Each week, my late father<24>
would write to the wife of the Báb. He was filled with gratitude to
her for affection governed their relationship. On this occasion, too,
my father wrote a letter describing some of the misdeeds and the
infidelity of these kinsmen. I quote a portion of this letter here:
To the presence of that honorable and exalted
lady, may my life be a sacrifice unto you:
My sole supplication at the Threshold of the All-
Glorious Lord is your well-being and health. Through
the grace of the Exalted God, may happiness ever
surround you!

153 See In the Land of Refuge for the text of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet on the occasion
of the passing of Khadíjih Bagum.

Previously, the details were recorded for your
kind consideration and submitted in a humble letter.
God willing, it has been perused by your good self. On
this occasion, I humbly note that your cherished and
most gracious letters of 9 Sha’ban [26 June 1882] and 2
Ramadan [10 July 1882] were received. Through your
most kind and benevolent letters, I learned of their [the
Afnán-i-Kabir and Siyyid `Alí’s] departure for Mecca
and their unfulfilled promises. Their misdeeds are not
surprising; what bewilders me is that your esteemed self
would have any confidence in their empty and
worthless words. I have yet to see a truthful word
spoken by them. God knows the secrets of all hearts.
There should be no need for my explanation.
That honorable lady must not be sad, nor should
you dwell on what has happened. There is a station for
everything, and the exalted honor of this task [to
accompany you] was not to be theirs. God did not
decree for this blessing to be bestowed on them.
Otherwise, events would not have turned out as they
have.
Consider what He [Bahá’u’lláh] has revealed in
honor of your journey and note well the way He has
spoken of its importance. Furthermore, call to mind the
bygone days of the illustrious Báb, may my life be a
sacrifice unto Him. To be sure, the Exalted One would
not have wanted them to be in your service. However,
what this desolate one writes is of no consequence,
given that your own honored self is well aware of their
character. Nothing at all is concealed from God and
everything is known to Him.

I will forward your letter to the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh, and will write separately to Áqá Siyyid
Mihdi154.
In short, my father wrote extensively to console the wife of
the Báb. Even at the end of this letter, he noted:
I have now sent the letter of that esteemed lady [to
Baha’ullah] and I have also informed Áqá Siyyid
Mihdi. Do not give way to despair. God will decree
what is best for all. Of a certainty, His Holiness the Báb
was not pleased with this arrangement [that you should
journey with them]. You know best that they have
always treated you in this way. If you reflect on the
details, you will come to the same conclusion.
Concerning the question of faith, if someone is truly
faithful, he will consider it an obligation to obey your
every command and never fail in your service. In any
case, what has happened to the consideration [one
should have for] one’s sister155?!
In short, these thoughts have set me on fire. God
will set all things right; whatever else I say is unworthy.
8th Ramadán 1299 A.H. [24 July 1882]
[Signed] Mírzá Áqá
The profound disappointment of not having the privilege of
going on pilgrimage and attaining the presence of the Blessed

154 Most likely, a reference to Siyyid Mihdi Afnán<20>; private communications
from Dr. Moojan Momen, April 2004.
155 The Afnán-i-Kabir was an older brother of Khadíjih Bagum.

Beauty shattered the blessed wife of the Báb and burned in her
soul.156 Her illustrious self soon became seriously ill through acute
depression and she contracted dysentery. Within two months of
hearing the news from her brother and faithless nephew, she left
this transient life for her eternal abode within the everlasting divine
paradise and for perpetual consort with the sacred spirits of the
Prophets and His chosen ones. Her unique and exalted station is
evident from the Tablet of Visitation revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in
her honor, which adorned these pages earlier.
I wish, also, to quote a letter of the late Hájí Mírzá Abú’l-
Qásim-i-Afnán<11>, the older brother of Khadíjih Bagum. He
selflessly and devotedly served his noble sister until her last breath.
This letter is addressed to my late father in Bombay. In it, he
describes the events during and after the passing of Khadíjih
Bagum.
Dated 28 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1299 A.H. [10 November
1882]
Beloved light of my eyes, may God preserve you.
Monday last week, I wrote you a letter that I
mailed immediately. God willing, it has been seen by
your illustrious self. I pray that, through the decree of
God, you remain protected and preserved from harm
and injury. As the mail for Bushihr is about to leave

156 Bahá’u’lláh notes in a Tablet addressed to Núri’d-Dín that the wife of the Báb
always longed for the privilege of pilgrimage: “O My Afnán! My Glory of God be
upon thee, as well as My Bounty, My Peace, My Favor and My Mercy! Day and
night, that esteemed and late lady wished to attain Our presence and desired to
behold Our Countenance. This was the object that her heart longed for, her tongue
spoke of, her eyes searched for expectantly and her whole being yearned for; and
yet, the divine decree prevented.” INBMC 51:332-3, no. 338

soon, it is necessary to write a few words about what
has happened and give the details.
In my previous correspondence, I described the
condition of my most cherished sister and her infirmity,
and said I had no hope that she would be cured and
recover. I also expressed my fear that the illness was at
an advanced stage and had become very acute. The
honored Áqá Mírzá Ahmad-i-Tabib was her physician,
and the honored Hájí Mírzá Hasan (the Hakim-Bashi-i-
Buzurg) frequently attended as well. On occasion, we
troubled the honored Aqay-i-Hakim-Bashi to help Áqá
Mírzá Ahmad and he would confirm that the right
medication had been prescribed. However, “All
bounties are in the hand of God”157, and the decree of
God and his predestined will cannot be delayed.
Finally, on the eve of Monday the 2nd [Dhi’l-
Hajjih 1299 A.H.158], about three hours after sunset, she
left this world and winged her flight for the unseen
realm. Yet, how great the anguish of those that are left
behind. [I have] no strength or spirit left to describe the
details. My only prayer is that the merciful God will
grant us all patience and perseverance.

157 Qur’an 3:73
158 This letter does not give the exact date of Khadíjih Bagum’s passing.
However, Mírzá Habíb has noted that it was in the month of Dhi’l-Hajjih; see In
the Land of Refuge, Chapter 9. This is consistent with Mírzá Abú’l-Qásim’s
statement that her death occurred on the second of the month, which is a Monday.
Therefore, it seems clear that she passed away on 2 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1299 A.H. (16
October 1882). Based on this evidence, the dates given in Khadíjih Bagum, p. 35
(15 September 1882) and Khándan-i-Afnán, p. 179, (29 Dhi’l-H.ajjih) must be
incorrect. The latter date must also be incorrect because it falls after Mírzá Abú’l-
Qásim wrote this letter.

Kindly inform Hájí Mírzá Buzurg<76> and Áqá
Mírzá Aqa159<53> [of this news]. The lights of my eyes
[your sons] are in no condition to write and are
otherwise occupied elsewhere.
This lowly one knows perfectly well how painful
and disturbing this bitter news will be for you. But what
is to be done? Whatever is destined will happen, and
what God decrees shall come to pass.
During her illness, she said nothing that can serve
as her will, nor did she leave any directions about what
to do with the household goods. On the night of her
passing, we stayed behind and, with great care,
arranged for her blessed remains to be washed [and
prepared for interment] in the Hammam-i-Khaiyri160.
From there, it was moved to ... and buried in a grave
next to ...161 The undertakers came in the middle of
night. When they finished their work, she was interred
before the hour for the dawn obligatory prayer, and we
returned.
Prayer vigils were held in her memory on Monday
and Tuesday at the burial-place. On Tuesday afternoon,
a group of the city’s noblemen, which included the
honored [Abu’l-Hasan, the] Mushiru’l-Mulk and his
Excellency the honored Imam-Jum`ih162, attended and
helped to conclude the prayer vigil. From the burial-

159 He also lived in Bombay at the time.
160 Named after its owner, Khayr, this public bathhouse is otherwise known as
the Hammam-i-Guldastih. It is situated near the House of the Báb and next to the
Masjid-i-Naw.
161 For security reasons, the exact location is not given in this translation.
162 Shaykh Abu-Turab

place, we returned home and continued the prayer
sessions there. The friends that did not have the
opportunity to come by her graveside troubled
themselves to come and visit. We are now occupied
with the memorial services. In short, the customary
duties have all been carried out.
However, since she did not leave a will, I am at a
loss about what to do. I am thinking of making an
inventory of the residence’s furnishings and her other
possessions. You must write [to Bahá’u’lláh] and ask
for guidance. Whatever He commands will be done. I
am unclear about the status of the title of the House [of
the Báb] or what I must do.163 The property that she
owned and was leased to the gentlemen in Yazd164
earned three tumans a month. She also had some
property with Mírzá Siyyid Hasan<10> and Siyyid
Mírzá<25>, for which they paid 12 to 13 tumans a year.
This year, even though Siyyid Mírzá sent a draft for the
due amount to Siyyid [Muhammad-]Husayn<37>, when
it was presented to her, she refused it because of the
bitterness they had caused – a matter that she had
repeatedly complained about to me.
I also do not know the situation with the House
[of the Báb] or what I must do about it. I have heard
that Hájí Mírzá Buzurg<15> has said that, after the
return of Hájí Mírzá [Siyyid] `Alí and his mother<16>,
who is the sister of Hájí Mírzá Buzurg<15>, they may
take up residence there. Your mother<8> said, “I cannot

163 Hájí Mírzá Abú’l-Qásim was unaware that, some time earlier, the title of the
House of the Báb was lost in a robbery at the home of Mírzá Zaynu’l-`Abidin
(Núri’d-Dín’s father).
164 A reference to the sons of the Afnán-i-Kabir, who lived in Yazd.

accept anyone in this house in place of my sister<9>. I
will stay here for the rest of my days. ...”165
I do not know the situation with the dedicated
properties that my late cousin166 gave to Khadíjih
Sultan Bagum, or to what extent they have been
renovated. Surely, you know.167
You must write as soon as possible and ask for
guidance [from Bahá’u’lláh] about what to do with the
Blessed House [of the Báb], the property leased to the
Yazdi gentlemen, the property with Áqá Mírzá Siyyid
Hasan<10> and Áqá Siyyid Mírzá<25>, and all the
furnishings, carpets and clothing in this House, and
other things. Once we have His directions, we will
attend to whatever is decided.
Please carry out this vital task in the quickest way
possible, so that we can have an early answer and know
how to divide the estate and distribute the inheritances.
You must also mention in your letter [to Bahá’u’lláh]
that she has been survived by a [natural] sister (my
maternal grandmother) and two brothers (Hájí Mírzá
Abú’l-Qásim and Hájí Mírzá Siyyid Hasan, known as

165 During the early days of the Afnán family, there was considerable
competition within certain quarters of the family over the House of the Báb. On
several occasions, the issue was brought to Bahá’u’lláh. He consistently reaffirmed
the hereditary custodianship of Zahra Bagum and her descendants. By the time of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Ministry, only a few family members questioned the custodianship
rights. However, to ensure complete unity, the Master reaffirmed the hereditary
right of Núri’d-Dín and, thereafter, Mírzá Habíb. Before his passing, Mírzá Habíb
passed the custodianship to his oldest son, Abú’l-Qásim Afnán.
166 A reference to Fatimih Bagum, the mother of the Báb.
167 ‘Vafq’ properties are donated to the Faith for the promotion of its best
interest, either during the person’s lifetime or as part of their bequest.

the Afnán-i-Kabir), and a stepbrother and a stepsister
(Hájí Muhammad-Mihdiy-i-Hijjab, the wife of the
martyred uncle of the Báb), and no other. It is critical
that whatever action is taken is done through His
[Bahá’u’lláh’s] guidance and direction.
If there is anything that you have become aware
of recently that I do not know, kindly inform me as
soon as possible so that I know what to do and how I
should dispose of various articles. The sooner my duties
are made clear, the better her interest will be served.
In her latter days, she was deeply saddened and
disheartened
by
the
false
promises
of
Siyyid
Mírzá<25>, Siyyid `Alí<28> and Siyyid Muhsin<29>
to be available for the journey to Mecca168 and their
eventual betrayal. She used to repeat, “For 20 years or
more, Áqá Mírzá Siyyid Hasan169<10> never once
wrote to me. Why did I write to him on this occasion
and about this journey, so that he would make a
promise and then betray it?” She used to add, “As soon
as I read his letter [about not taking her to the Holy
Land], I felt an acute emptiness and depression inside
me.” And it was then that she began to experience the

168 A coded reference to `Akka, where Bahá’u’lláh resided.
169 The following Tablet of the Báb addressed to Khadíjih Bagum is quoted in
Eminent Bahá’ís During the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 216-17: “Do not expect any
assistance from thy brothers. They will not help; it is enough that they refrain from
insults. Overlook their faults. Even Our enemies have not caused the like of what
resulted from the acts of Siyyid 118 in Isfahan. God grant that when the light of
thine eyes Mírzá Áqá reacheth maturity, he will be thy help and support. O God!
Preserve him from all the evil of the envious and the contumacious.” It should be
noted that “118” is the numerical equivalent of Hasan. All evidence indicates that
Siyyid Hasan, the Afnán-i-Kabir<10>, was never supportive of his sister, Khadíjih
Bagum, or other family members.

symptoms of dysentery. From the same illness, she left
this nether world and ascended to the immortal realm.
What am I to write?! It seems as if they [the
Afnán-i-Kabir and his progeny] have become proud and
think too much of their accomplishments. I am
bewildered at their motives. This should not be the
conduct of people. In this new Dispensation, such
characteristics have been forbidden - nay, we are
commanded to be righteous. Then what manner of
behavior is this?! ...”
This was a portion of a letter of the late Hájí Mírzá Abú’l-
Qásim<11>, who wrote it shortly after the passing of the wife of
the Báb in Shiraz. [I have] included it in these pages to acquaint us
with the details.
In accordance with Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions, in 1308 A.H.
[1891], Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí170 went to Bombay to publish some
of the Holy Tablets. As the Blessed Beauty instructed, he
purchased a gravestone for the resting place of the wife of the Báb.
The following verse, revealed from the heaven of divine will, was
engraved on it: “He is the Everlasting. Verily this exalted leaf
hearkened to the Call of the Tree beyond which there is no passing
and winged her flight towards it. 1299.”171 This stone was left as a
trust in the home of the late Hájí Mírzá Muhammad-`Alíy-i-
Afnán<14> (a son of the illustrious maternal uncle of the Báb, Hájí
Mírzá Siyyid Muhammad<5>). Áqá Mírzá Abdu’l-Vahhab<107>

170 Bahá’u’lláh’s son
171 In a Tablet (Núri’d-Dín’s Collection, p. 91), Bahá’u’lláh revealed for Núri’d-
Dín: “The other matter is that, at thy previous request, three verses were revealed
and sent specially for the gravestone of the illustrious exalted leaf, upon her rest
the Most Glorious of the Glorious and the Most Exalted of the Exalted. Any of
these that thou consider to be in accord with wisdom and deem prudent may be
engraved.”

(a son of the late Áqá Mírzá Aqa<53>, son of the late Hájí Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí<14>) brought it to Shiraz when he returned from
the Holy Land through Bombay in 1327 A.H. [1909]. At present, it
is in my safe-keeping in the House of the Báb. When God’s will
decrees the time is right, it will be placed on her grave.172
In summary, Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán<28> grieved the wife of
the Báb and prevented her from attaining the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh. With his parents and brother, he traveled to the Holy
Land through Mashhad, Russia [Ishqabad] and Istanbul. When he
arrived, he arranged the wedding ceremony, which took place in
the presence of Bahá’u’lláh.
On our [first] journey to the Holy Land [in 1891-2], the
Afnán-i-Kabir was still alive. Shortly after that, perhaps within
only a few months of the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, he too passed
away. Subsequently, Siyyid `Alí<14> and his brothers, Siyyid
Mírzá<25>173 and Siyyid Muhammad<27>, who were in Bombay,
began to collaborate with Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí, [Mírzá]
Majdu’d-Din and other brothers of `Abdu’l-Bahá. They rose up
fiercely to oppose Him. Using various schemes and deceitful
methods, they tried to cause division among the friends. His
brothers in India were particularly involved in undermining the
confidence of the believers by disseminating polemic papers.
This same Siyyid Mírzá<25> had a son named `Abdu’l-
Husayn<77>, who was my first cousin on my mother’s side. He
lived in Yazd and was firm and steadfast in the Divine Cause. He
wrote to his father with great conviction, “If you return to Yazd in
this state, I will not accept you in my house and will shun you!”
During the days of the Ancient Beauty, Siyyid Mírzá<25> had

172 Abú’l-Qásim Afnán informs the translator that this gravestone is safe in an
undisclosed location in Iran. (Private communication, Aug 1997.)
173 Siyyid Mírzá was an older brother of Siyyid `Alí.

observed, and knew about, the singular spiritual bond that
connected Bahá’u’lláh to His Center of the Covenant. He had
witnessed the pilgrims pleading with Bahá’u’lláh, “We have been
deprived of beholding Your blessed Countenance for several
days,” and Him telling them, “When you attain the presence of the
Master, it is as though you have beheld My Countenance.” On
many occasions, Siyyid Mírzá had heard the Tongue of Grandeur
say, “The only Master is the Greatest Branch and all others dwell
beneath His shadow.” Siyyid Mírzá had been the recipient of
infinite favors. And yet, this same Siyyid Mírzá rose up to dispute
with, and oppose, `Abdu’l-Bahá in the most vehement manner and
caused tumultuous storms in the Faith. With satanic schemes he
would make his way into the gatherings of the friends,
acquaintances, Holy Family and other kinsmen and deceive them
for his own ends.
After hearing the news of the Covenant-breaking, the very
first letter that my father wrote to my brother and I contained
certain glimpses of the evil deeds they perpetrated during the days
of the wife of the Báb. It gave us a better idea of their activities. A
section of this letter follows:
Concerning Siyyid Mírzá<25> and his schemes
and aims, I am very familiar with the situation. In
Bombay, I spent over 10 years, day and night, with him
and never perceived him to be firm in the Faith of God.
All his thoughts were focused on worldly matters.
In one instance, he had received a sum of money
from Hájí Siyyid `Alí-Akbar [Dahaji], and the two of
us174 were discussing this situation with Hájí
Muhammad-Ibrahim, the Muballigh175. The latter was

174 Meaning, Núri’d-Dín and Siyyid Mírzá.
175 Lit. the Teacher. He was a son of the merchant Hájí `Abdu’r-Rasul and the

speaking to him and offering friendly advice, “You
must never use this money without the owner’s
permission, as this sum has been placed with you in
trust. The best course is to deposit it in a bank and earn
interest on it. This way, whenever Hájí Siyyid `Alí-
Akbar asks for the principal to be returned, it is readily
available. Otherwise, you ought to forget about this
capital.” But Siyyid Mírzá roared back, “What are you
saying?! We are the heirs to the Throne and
Sovereignty of the Báb!” This ephemeral servant
replied, “But the Báb detested you and disavowed any
relation with you!”176 In no time, we were arguing
heatedly and Hájí Muhammad-Ibrahim had to intervene.
If you remember well, when His blessed Temple
[Bahá’u’lláh] lived in the Abode of Peace [Baghdad],
the wife of the Báb had a Tablet revealed in her honor
by her illustrious Husband during His confinement in
[the citadel of] Mah-ku. She gave me that Tablet with
the instructions: “Write to the Blessed Beauty on my
behalf. Also write another letter of your own and fold
this Tablet of the Báb in your letter. Then place both
letters in an envelope and give me the envelope.”
I did as asked. She arranged for that envelope to
be submitted through Shaykh Salman to the presence of
the Ancient Beauty. Subsequently, I was informed that
our letters and the Báb’s Tablet were received. [This
confirmation came] in a Tablet revealed in honor of this
evanescent servant in the hand of the beloved Master,
which is in my possession. The point is that, in the

recipient of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Letters (Lawh-i-Hurufat). Years earlier, he
wrote a proof treatise on the appearance of the Báb.
176 See the Tablet of the Báb quoted above.

Tablet [forwarded to Bahá’u’lláh], in truth the Báb had
recorded His Will and Testament.177
Similarly, in a letter dated 1 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1314 A.H. [3 May
1897], he wrote from Shiraz to my late brother Hájí Mírzá Buzurg
and myself in Port Said:
About the matter that the light of my eyes, Mírzá
Habíb, had written, “Siyyid Mírzá<25> and his brethren
have committed such deeds that have greatly
dishonored the name of ‘Afnán’ and, because of this,
we must disassociate ourselves from this family...” This
is not so, my son. Do not allow this situation to
dishearten you. The more mischief they178 commit, the
more manifest your nobility.
The Blessed Perfection, may my soul and the
spirit of all creation be a sacrifice to the dust trodden by
Him, had already disassociated Himself from them. But,
unfortunately, at that time we did not see the wisdom in,
and the reason for, His words. Now His foresight stands
manifest, that He prepared for such a day beforehand.179
Many times, He spoke of this to the friends present
before Him. He also instructed Mullá Muhammad-`Alí
Dahaji, “Whatever town you arrive in, inform the
believers that Our union180 was only due to the request
of the wife of the Báb and the supplication of [Aqa]
Mírzá Aqa, the Afnán. We consented only for the sake

177 The Will and Testament of the Báb is published in INBMC 64:95-102.
178 Reference to Siyyid `Alí and his brothers.
179 This suggests that early steps for the expulsion of Siyyid `Alí had been
initiated by Bahá’u’lláh and later confirmed during the ministry of `Abdu’l-Bahá.
180 Reference to the marriage of Furughiyyih and Siyyid `Alí Afnán.

of her wish and his request. Otherwise, We knew Mírzá
Hasan<10>181 not, nor Siyyid `Alí<28>.”
Bahá’u’lláh often spoke such words to many of
the friends, including Hájí Niyyaz and Áqá Siyyid `Alí.
They were present on two occasions and heard Him
speak in this way. Now [because of the misdeeds of
these brothers] it is clear why the Blessed Perfection
made such pronouncements. ...
In a letter dated 5 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1314 A.H. [7 May 1897]
addressed to [my brother,] the late Hájí Mírzá Buzurg<76> and this
ephemeral servant, my father wrote:
You wrote about the undertakings of Áqá Mírzá
Muhsin<29> and his brethren. All their deeds and
actions are plain to see. Hájí Siyyid Muhammad<27> is
also in collaboration with them. This humble servant
wrote a detailed account to Hájí Mírzá Muhammad-
Taqi<13> and Hájí Mírzá Aqa<19> in Yazd. In
response, they wrote a most informed reply, expressing
their own frustrations and complaining about the
situation [of these brothers]. However, you must not let
yourselves to be discouraged by their activities. The
Blessed Beauty, may my soul and every other spirit be a
sacrifice to the dust of His Shrine, has closed the door
on them from all directions. No matter how openly they
manifest their evil nature, the noble character of the
other [Afnán] family members will be more evident.
Under all conditions, you must remain tranquil.

181 The Afnán-i-Kabir.

Chapter 7
Third Pilgrimage: 1898
My late brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzúrg<76>, and I [lived] in
Cairo while our late father remained in Shiraz. Months and days
went by, each filled with priceless, yet momentous and pregnant,
events. A year and a half passed in this way, from the time and
goings of the believers to the Holy Land had increased somewhat
and the intensity of the calamities and upheavals had subsided to
some extent.
When petitions intended for the Holy Land were received, I
immediately submitted them to the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá.
They were not delayed in Port Said with Áqá Ahmad [Yazdi], as
was done previously. The sun of the Covenant and its life-giving
rays shone very brightly, and these ephemeral servants sent
supplications to the blessed presence of the Master freqently and
also corresponded with each other. We also corresponded with the
honored [Siyyid Muhammad-Taqi] Manshadi and Áqá Rida
[Qannad-i-Shirazi]. Whenever supplications were received from
our late father, these were forwarded at once to the threshold of
`Abdu’l-Bahá as well.
Toward the beginning of 1316 A.H.182, we sought permission
to attain His Holy presence for a second time. Our request was
readily accepted and we were invited to the Holy Land. On this
journey, we were accompanied by the honored Shaykh Salman,
who had been the courier of the Merciful, the late `Alí Aqay-i-
Khayyat [the tailor] Shirazi and several believers from Sarvistan

182 Circa summer 1898

and Shiraz. There was also Áqá Mírzá `Inayatu’llah Isfahani183,
who I remember fondly, but I haven’t known his whereabouts for
many years.
With incredible joy and felicity, we left Port Said. The extent
of our bliss none can fathom except God. He alone knows the
profound heavenly ecstasy that overwhelms the heart of pilgrims.
In truth, you lose all consciousness and find yourself in a flower-
filled paradise of happiness, intoxicated with the breezes of
spirituality and fragrances of bliss – the very thought of which is
well nigh impossible.
We arrived in `Akká and beheld the Holy Land. When I
attained the presence of the Master, my unworthy eyes were
illumined once more by the beauty and divine radiance of the
Center of the Covenant. My whole being was spellbound by His
sweet and soul-stirring melodies. By now, the tumult of the
Covenant-breakers had subsided somewhat and was not as evident
as it was before. The majestic station of `Abdu’l-Bahá and His
august sovereignty had humbled the necks of the skeptics and
reduced the evil of the mischief-makers. Now, everyone, such as
the Mufti184, the Qadi [the judge] and other influential members of
society, clearly saw how Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí was enveloped in
the wrath of God. No matter what he planned, only he was caught
in his web of intrigues. It was an amazing scene and in no way

183 He was a merchant. He lived in Haifa into the ministry of Shoghi Effendi and
returned to Iran, where he passed away.
184 In Islamic law, the mufti is the trained jurist who writes opinions (fatwa) on
legal subjects for private clients, or assists judges in deciding cases. Only fatwas
given in the areas of marriage, divorce and inheritance make binding precedents.
Fatwas on other subjects may be set aside. In the Ottoman Empire, the muftis were
state officials, responsible also for civil administration at a given level. The mufti
of Istanbul was the highest of these. The British retained the institution in some
Muslim areas under their control. They gave the office of Hussayni, the grand
mufti of Jerusalem, great political importance.

comparable to our previous pilgrimage after the ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh. Then the violators of the Covenant associated closely
with the believers. Now there was a complete break and the
foundation of discord and division uprooted. Those here and there
who had tried to betray the Cause were now well known and it was
clear to pilgrims who they could associate with. `Abdu’l-Bahá was
devoting most of His time to revealing Divine Verses and meeting
with the friends.
One day in an afternoon, a large number of resident believers,
pilgrims, friends and non-Bahá’ís were gathered in the biruni [the
outer apartment] of the Master’s house. He was engaged in
revealing the Lawh-i-Nuh-Sha’n [The Tablet of Nine Modes]. The
Mufti of `Akká was sitting next to the Master. He was a man of
remarkable qualities. He had a pleasant nature and was deeply
devoted to `Abdu’l-Bahá; he was sitting next to the Master. Next to
him was the Qadi of the city of `Akka, and seated after him was the
Mutasarrif185 of the city. The Master was busy revealing verses.
His pen moved extremely rapidly across the page. Meanwhile, He
was conversing with the Iranian believers in Persian, with the
Mufti and the Qadi in Arabic and with the Mutasarrif and several
of the Pashas in Turkish. All the while His pen never stopped
moving. The divine spirit had enveloped the atmosphere and
anyone who ventured a question was favored with an answer until
that blessed Tablet was completed and `Abdu’l-Bahá sat the pen
down.
Thereupon the Mufti implored the Master to read what He
had written. However, [`Abdu’l-Bahá] responded, “Mufti Effendi,
this letter is an answer to a letter from one of My close friends. As
such, it is not possible for Me to comply with your request.” The
Mufti asked for a second time and the response was, “You are

185 The highest ranking provincial military commander.

asking for a difficult thing.” Again, the Mufti insisted, “All the
dwellers on earth are close friends of the Effendi and Your blessed
Person considers them all in the same light.” The Master [still not
wishing to read the Tablet] answered, “But portions of what has
been written are in Persian, while other segments are in Turkish;
not everyone will understand.” The Mufti replied, “The Qadi
Effendi knows Turkish and others speak Persian.” Eventually, he
beseeched the Master in the name of the Blessed Beauty and
insisted so much that `Abdu’l-Bahá consented and read the first
three Modes, which were revealed in Arabic. With extreme
humility, the Mufti asked the Master to continue and He recited the
whole of Tablet.
God knows that every time I think of that magnificent day,
my entire being trembles with wonder and joy. After `Abdu’l-Bahá
had finished reciting the Tablet, the Mufti patted the Qadi on the
hand, saying in Arabic, “Did you understand? Did you understand?
Do you now see that the Effendi’s knowledge is innate and ours is
acquired? I have studied the science of religious jurisprudence and
the doctrines of faith and its laws at the Al-Azhar University,
which has allowed me to gain an ijtihad and I am now the Mufti of
`Akka. Likewise, you have studied in the various schools of
Istanbul and Egypt and acquired the advanced degrees bestowed
upon you by others learned in the field of law. And, after much
exertion, you have become the Qadi. The Mutasarrif Pasha also
started as a soldier in the service of the government, participating
in many battles and campaigns. Today, he has risen to the office of
chief command and been confirmed as the Mutasarrif of `Akka. As
such, our attainments are acquired, whereas the Effendi has never
studied in a school, nor has He received tuition from anyone. The
knowledge He possesses is God-given and most extraordinary. The
source of His innate erudition is God and its origin the fount of the
invisible world.”

That day, we realized that the Qadi had been antagonistic
towards the Faith and that the Mufti was an honorable man and
deeply devoted to `Abdu’l-Bahá. His purpose in being so bold in
the presence of the Master had been to impress upon the Qadi the
innate character of the Master’s knowledge.
In short, those were wonderful days. Previously, this same
Mufti had taken ill and was sent to Beirut for treatment. `Abdu’l-
Bahá wrote to Áqá Muhammad-Mustafa Baghdadi186 urging him
[to look after this man]. Baghdadi received the Mufti with the
utmost compassion and consideration. He housed him in his own
home, arranged for all his medical treatment and saw him through
to a full recovery.
One morning, during the first days of our arrival in the Holy
Land, the Master called one of the resident believers and me,
informing us, “This morning I want to visit the Mufti, who has
recently returned [to `Akka].” We followed in attendance. `Abdu’l-
Bahá reached the entrance to the Mufti’s home and called out,
“Mufti, where are you?” [The Mufti] immediately ran out to throw
himself in prostration at `Abdu’l-Bahá’s feet. `Abdu’l-Bahá
prevented the Mufti and, instead, raised him and kissed his face as
He entered the room. We followed inside as well. That day [as a
sign of respect,] the Mufti would not sit in the Master’s presence
and stood by the threshold of the room.
After `Abdu’l-Bahá insisted several times that he should sit,
he finally sat on a chair at the lowest part of the room [by the
entrance]. Addressing those present, he said, “Gentlemen of Haifa
and `Akká! You have come to visit me and inquire about my
health. I have been granted a new life through a favor bestowed on

186 A son of Hájí Muhammad-Shibl. He and his father accompanied Tahirih on
her return to Iran from the `Atabat. He resided in Beirut and served the Faith as the
focal point of communications with the Holy Land.

me by [`Abbás] Effendi. He wrote a few lines to one of His
subjects in Beirut asking him to accept me and care for me. As a
result, despite my being a total stranger and unknown to them, I
was received by that family with such warm hospitality. I have
never experienced [any like it before], even at the hand of my own
children and kinsmen!” In short, it is impossible to describe his
expressions of appreciation and gratitude and the way that all those
present showed humility and submissiveness before the Master.
On another occasion, we were in the presence of `Abdu’l-
Bahá when one of the Turkish Pashas arrived to visit Him as well.
He spoke Persian in a sweet manner and was very knowledgeable
about Persian literature. He was also profoundly devoted to the
Master and loved Him dearly. As a token of his affection, the
Pasha said, “No words can adequately express our thanks to the
Iranian monarch, or the government, and the people of that land for
exiling with their own hands this priceless Treasure, the blessed
Person [of `Abdu’l-Bahá], and sending Him to our land. What
extraordinary bliss and exhilaration has surrounded us and how
truly we pride ourselves in this stupendous blessing! As the
Shaykh-i-Shirazi187 has written:
The candle must be removed from home and extinguished,
so neighbors remain unaware that thou art among us.”
`Abdu’l-Bahá smiled and replied in verse:
In fear of rivals, quenching the candle is of what use?
when the radiance of thy beauty tells that thou art hither.
Surely, in whatever world the spirit of Sa`di is dwelling, he
must have been filled with pride and ecstasy!

187 A reference to Sa`di, one of the foremost literary figures in Iranian history.

Among the events that I remember vividly from this journey
is the following. One day, `Abdu’l-Bahá spoke of His Holiness the
Primal Point, referring to the ways He conducted His business
transactions as a merchant and associated with people. He related:
During the time that His Holiness the Exalted One
lived in Bushihr and was in the trading business, a few
merchants bought some Prussian blue dye from His
blessed Person. When their negotiations were over, the
goods were delivered to their office and the time came
to settle the account. But they abandoned their
agreement and began bargaining anew. This was the
practice of the merchants in Bushihr in former days.
When the transaction was concluded, the buyer would
dismiss the contract and begin renegotiating, in order to
get a better price or a discount. Consequently, the
merchants reneged on the price. However, His Holiness
did not agree to it. They persisted, but He responded,
“Our negotiations were completed. If you do not want
to buy [the goods], cancel the contract altogether.” No
matter how hard they tried, their plea was not accepted.
The Báb told them, “I will arrange for the blue dye to
be brought back from your office.” They replied, “But
then our credit will be ruined among the merchant
community!” “We have concluded the transaction and
made a contract,” the Báb responded. “Whether the
terms are favorable or disagreeable, you must now pay
the full sum.” “But it is the custom of the realm,” they
said. To which He replied, “Soon many of these ignoble
customs will be changed.”
The Báb did not give in and eventually the
Prussian blue dyes were brought back to His office.

After a while though, one of the uncles of the Báb
arrived in Bushihr and the merchants complained to
him, “Your Nephew has thoroughly ruined our credit
and you must advise Him to be more considerate in
dealing with us.” The uncle of the Báb reported the
matter to the Latter, Who replied, “Even now, if they
wanted to conclude an agreement and then abandon it, I
would not agree to it.”
On that occasion, the blessed Person of `Abdu’l-Bahá noted,
“The ways of His Holiness the Báb in Bushihr caused many of the
old and sterile traditions to be changed.”
`Abdu’l-Bahá also related:
One day in Baghdad, very early in the morning,
Mullá Baqir, one of the Letters of the Living, attained
the presence of Bahá’u’lláh. He asked him, “What were
you doing last evening?” “I was reading the Ahsanu’l-
Qisas188,” he replied. Bahá’u’lláh queried further, “How
much did you read?” and he replied, “I read several
chapters of the Ahsanu’l-Qisas.” Then He asked, “What
did you understand [of it]?” In a state of extreme joy
and ecstasy, Mulla Baqir whirled as mystics are wont to
do, snapped his fingers in rapture and replied, “Every
word announces, ‘I long for My Beloved!’”189

188 The Báb’s Qayyumu’l-Asma is a commentary on the Surih of Joseph of the
Quran, where the story of Joseph is referred to as the “Best of the Stories,” (Qur’an
12:3). The commentary of the Báb is typically referred to by the same title.
189 The Báb had told Mulla Baqir that he would attain the presence of the
Promised One of the Bayan. For details of his historic mission on behalf of the
Báb, see The Dawn-breakers, pp. 504-6. Tarikh Zuhuru’l-Haqq 5:5 notes the
following extract from a treatise of Mulla Baqir addressed to Yahya Azal: “His
Holiness the Báb placed all the Mirrors, Witnesses and believers under the
command of the Letters of the Living. Therefore, you and those like you, who

That day the Master was extremely cheerful and happy and
bestowed upon us His infinite generosity and benevolence.
{One day my brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg, and I accompanied
`Abdu’l-Bahá in His carriage from Haifa to `Akka. `Abdu’l-Bahá
sat in the front next to the driver and we sat in the back of the
carriage. It was raining gently and the sea was turbulent.
Occasionally, the drops of rain sprayed the carriage and `Abdu’l-
Bahá was whispering this verse:
Gentle sprinkles are joy for the drunked,
Divine absolution is bliss for the sinner.
A few strands of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s hair had fallen on His
blessed shoulders, so I gathered them very gently from behind.
Now they are kept in the Archives of the House of the Báb in
Shiraz.}190
On this trip, we were honored to stay for only a short time -
perhaps two weeks. When it was time for us to leave, `Abdu’l-
Bahá said, “I have summoned your father and he will arrive soon.
At that time, you will attain Our presence once again, in his
company. For now, return to Port Said and keep working at your
business.”

claim the station of Mirrorship, must obey my behest. Now I testify and confess
that the promised ‘Him Whom God shall make manifest’ in the Bayan and the One
lauded in the Tablet revealed in my honor has indeed been made manifest. Since I
[received] that assurance from the Báb, I have attained unto His august presence.
And you too, as you are under my shadow, must recognize Him and believe in
Him.”
190 The bracketed section is based on notes kept by Hasan Afnán. Mírzá Habíb
intended for them to be inserted at this point. (private communications, August
1991)

As instructed by the Master, we returned and continued our
commercial activities in Port Said and Cairo as before. Eventually,
because
of
accounting
improprieties
in
the
Ruhaniyyih
Company191, `Abdu’l-Bahá sent a message [instructing us to] write
to our father and tell him, “Your accounts and business
transactions have become entangled like a hairball. It is imperative
that you return in order to fix the problem.” In accordance with the
Master’s direction, we wrote to Shiraz and told our father the exact
message of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Along with it, we forwarded a Tablet
revealed in our father’s name.192
{Sh[iraz]. The illustrious Afnán of the sacred
Lote-Tree, the honored Áqá Mírzá Aqa, upon him rest
the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
He is God.
O thou distinguished offshoot of the sacred Lote-
Tree! A while ago, the illustrious Afnáns193, upon both
be the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, were
summoned and they arrived in the Holy Land. It so
happened that, during those days, this servant was
surrounded with a multitude of troubles, to the point
that night and day were indistinguishable, and [I was]
unable to see fully to their comfort and felicity.

191 Shirkat-i-Ruhaniyyih was formed in 1305 A.H./1887 in Cairo through the
association of Núri’d-Dín; Hájí Mírzá Hasan-i-Khurasani; Hájí Muhammad-i-
Yazdi; Áqá Siyyid Aqay-i-Afnán; and Hájí `Abdu’l-Karim-i-Tihrani. The company
was dissolved in 1311 A.H./1893.
192 In a Tablet (INBMC 52:302-4, no. 345) to Núri’d-Dín, `Abdu’l-Bahá says
that He reviewed the accounts of the company and concluded that the partners had
committed improprieties and owed money to Núri’d-Dín. Further, the Master
encouraged Núri’d-Dín to separate himself from this partnership and move his
sons, Mírzá Buzurg and Mírzá Habíb, to Beirut.
193 Presumably, a reference to Mírzá Habíb and Mírzá Buzurg.

The Holy Land is tumultuous beyond description.
Only the constancy and tenacity of this servant and the
resoluteness of the steadfast friends have preserved us.
Given that the agents of troubles and difficulties are at
the ready in all directions, I worried that further
hardships and adversities would lead to other trials.
Accordingly, it was considered wise not to entangle
them in these matters and to send them to Egypt to wait
until word was received from you.
In short, the affairs of that honored person and
your sons cannot be resolved without your presence. I
have written previously about this.
I wrote about the steadfastness and firmness of
the friends of God, and their devotion and attachment
to the Covenant and Testament. It is evident that,
should the whole earth arise to disturb even slightly the
faith of those who believe in God and have certitude in
His divine Verses, they would utterly fail. This is
because these souls have quaffed from the chalice of
favors, seek naught but the celestial fragrances and are
attracted to nothing but the divine effulgence. Upon
thee rest the Glory of God.
Convey my warmest greetings to the sacred leaf,
your honored wife, and assure all the friends of my
deep love. The Glory of God rest upon all.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, `Abbas.}194

194 INBMC 52:282-3 no. 334. This Tablet has been added to the memoirs at the
request of Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, who believes his father wanted it included.

My father left Shiraz on Rabi`u’l-Avval 1316 A.H. [July
1898] and arrived in Port Said on Rabi`u’th-Thani [August 1898].
Since he had told us when he was due to arrive, we traveled from
Cairo to Port Said and made the arrangements for his landing and
stay. He arrived with by my mother, my youngest and late brother,
Mírzá Diya’, and our sister, Tuba Khánum. Without contacting his
business partners, he instructed my brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg,
and I to establish a separate office in Port Said. Given that we were
thoroughly fluent in Arabic and Italian, we did not need any
assistance in seeing to the needs of the business.

Chapter 8
Fourth Pilgrimage: 1898
After receiving permission from the presence of `Abdu’l-
Bahá, we left with our father for the abode of the Beloved in the
month of Jamádíyu’l-Avval [September 1898]. When we arrived,
we attained `Abdu’l-Bahá’s sacred presence, and received His
many favors and were showered with His love and generosity. A
house next to the Master’s residence was prepared for our stay and,
each day, we were able to benefit from His blessed utterances.
The Remains of the Báb
One day, several elders among the resident believers were in
the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá when He informed us, “Certain
[good] news has been received from Iran. If divulged, the old
would dance in joy. But the time for its announcement has not yet
arrived.” The illustrious Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin and the honored
[Hájí] Mírzá Haydar-`Alí, who were present, asked, “Is the time for
proclaiming this good news near?” `Abdu’l-Bahá answered, “God
willing.”
During the following week, `Abdu’l-Bahá informed us, “The
good news that I had promised is this: the sacred remains of the
Exalted Báb have safely left the soil of Iran and just arrived in the
Ottoman land. They are now completely out of danger.195 After 50
years, what the Blessed Beauty promised has come to pass. In

195 Shoghi Effendi notes that the remains of the Báb arrived in the Holy Land a
short while later, on 31 January 1899; see God Passes By, p. 274.

gratitude for this most great divine blessing, lives must be
sacrificed! Soon will the effulgence of the Shrine of the Báb attract
the attention of the denizens of the world and the blessed
prophecies of Bahá’u’lláh will be clearly fulfilled.196”
On that occasion, `Abdul-Baha’s blessed countenance
beamed with joy and excitement. Truly, all the friends were deeply
affected by this radiance and were in a state of utmost ecstasy and
rapture. `Abdu’l-Bahá spontaneously and repeatedly kept reciting
this verse:
Nayriz burneth with fever,
and my sorrow-filled heart sheddeth blood,
How consumed my soul is,
of what Adharbayjan hath wrought.197
Meeting with Siyyid `Alí
During this period, the violators of the Covenant were not
quiet. From one corner or another, each tried to spread intrigue
through various means. However, unlike the past, far fewer of the
friends were gullible and taken in by their vague promises and
innuendoes.

196 For Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions regarding the building of the Shrine of the Báb
and the development of the Bahá’í administrative nucleus on Mount Carmel, see
Lawh-i-Karmil in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 3-5. For a history of the remains of
the Báb, see Rabbani, “Efforts to Preserve the Remains of the Báb”.
197 A decade later, in Naw-Ruz 1909, simultaneous with interment of the remains
of the Báb on Mount Carmel, 19 believers were martyred in Nayriz and, as such,
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s prophecy that such a sacred act required sacrifice came to pass.
See In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 16.

Siyyid `Alíy-i-Afnán<28> was informed of my father’s
arrival and sent a message saying he wanted to visit him. After my
father consulted with the Master and received His permission,
Siyyid `Alí came to visit. At the start of the conversation, even
before the customary exchange of pleasantries, he launched into a
complaint and began listing grievances against me. He said, “Mírzá
Habíb has acted presumptuously towards my brother, Siyyid
Mírzá<25>. He has said to him, ‘Because of your actions, I have to
cut off my relations with you!’ During his previous visits to the
Holy Land, he has acted most disrespectfully [towards me], as if I
was his most determined enemy or had committed a shameful act!
Such base behaviors are the antithesis of the Bahá’í qualities we
must possess. You must admonish him to stop this contemptible
conduct and these repulsive deeds. Bahá’u’lláh has stated,
‘Henceforth everyone ... should refrain from ... whatever causeth
sadness in men.’198 I also have a complaint against your own self. I
have written several letters and messages to you, and have
forwarded a number of tablets penned by the Ghusn-i-Akbar199,
which have all gone unanswered.”
My father knew him and his family well. This was not only
because they were first cousins and had corresponded during the
lifetime of Khadíjih Bagum, but because for some ten years my
father had been a business partner of Siyyid Mírzá<25> in
Bombay. In addition, he was thoroughly familiar with their recent
deeds and Covenant-breaking activities. At the same time, my
father was extremely intense, law-abiding, and hot-tempered when
it came to the affairs of the Faith and its protection.
I noticed that my father’s face was flushed with anger over
this man’s hypocritical ways and I feared that, at any moment, they
would end up in a heated quarrel. Therefore, I intervened by

198 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 219-220
199 The Great Branch, a title of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí.

gesturing for my father to remain calm. After [taking] a few
minutes to compose himself, my father began to answer him. First,
he recited from memory the whole of the Will and Testament of
Bahá’u’lláh. Then he opened the Kitab-i-Aqdas and recited a
number of verses from it. He followed this with recollections of
what he had seen or heard during the days of Bahá’u’lláh. Siyyid
`Alí confirmed all that he heard, but would surreptitiously add,
“There is no need for a mujtahid in the Faith. God has rendered
everyone capable of discernment.200“

200 A strategy of the Covenant-breakers was to undermine `Abdu’l-Bahá’s station
by suggesting that Bahá’u’lláh’s Texts were clear and everyone could adequately
understand them without the need for an authoritative interpreter. For a similar
situation in Islam that led to divisions, see Chapter 2 above. It is also referred to by
`Abdu’l-Bahá in the following Tablet (INBMC 52:304-5 no. 345):
In this day, should a person pay attention to the insinuations
of the doubters by a needle’s eye, of a certainty he would fall, in such
wise that there would be no remedy. Among the sayings of such
insidious people is their claim that, ‘One must return to the Divine
Verses and deduce for oneself.’ By this they mean to suggest, ‘All are
able to discern what they need and no Interpreter is required.’
Consider how their claim can truly weaken the Cause of God and
how it will bring about divisions and differences. Even though the
Book of the divine Covenant is evident and the appointed Interpreter
stands manifest, yet such things are spoken.
This manner of reasoning was first proposed by `Umar at the
time when the Messenger of God, may the spirit of all be a sacrifice
unto Him, was on His death bed. He said, ‘Bring me a pen and
paper.’ `Umar responded, ‘Do not give Him writing papers as He is
delirious,’ and then he added, ‘Sufficient unto us is the Book of
God.’ Now that same saying of `Umar has been changed into, ‘God
has created all competent of discernment. Read the Writings.’ By this
they mean to imply, ‘Do not ask the Interpreter and do not pay
attention to His words. Seeking His good-pleasure and following His
instructions and example are not necessary. Be your own judge.’
Their purpose is naught but to turn all against the Covenant and the
Testament.

When my father finished, Siyyid `Alí endeavored to expand
on his own false views. However, my father cut him short and
interjected, “What you have related concerning Habíb’u’llah’s
impoliteness towards Siyyid Mírzá is unknown to me. As such, I
have no opinion on the matter.” At this point, I ventured to explain
to my father: “One day in Egypt, Siyyid Mírzá<25> came to our
office and asked after you. I did not reply and occupied myself
with some work. Several times he asked, ‘Where is my cousin?’
‘Whose cousin?’ I finally replied contemptuously. ‘My cousin,’ he
said. I answered, ‘My father is not your cousin, since your
connection was spiritual and that bond is now broken.’ He started
shouting, ‘My son `Abdu’l-Husayn<77> writes that should I, as a
violator of the Covenant, go to Yazd, he would not admit me to his
house.’ I laughed and answered, ‘If truth be known, `Abdu’l-
Husayn is not your son; his father is the Holy Spirit.’ After that, I
did not pay him any further attention. This was the sum total of my
rudeness towards him.201 And, as for not visiting Siyyid `Alí
during my pilgrimages to the Holy Land, in all my previous
journeys, he lived in the Mansion [of Bahji] and was always a
close confidant and an intimate companion of Mírzá Muhammad-
`Alí. I, therefore, broke off all connection with him. Moreover, I
cannot fathom how it is that Áqá Siyyid `Alí is so intimately
familiar with the verse [of the Kitab-i-`Ahdi], ‘Henceforth
everyone ... should refrain from slander, abuse and whatever
causeth sadness in men,’ but has conveniently forgotten the verse,
‘...turn your faces toward Him Whom God hath purposed, Who
hath branched from this Ancient Root. The object of this sacred
Verse is none other except the Most Mighty Branch.’202“

201 In a Tablet to Núri’d-Dín (INBMC 52:307 no. 347), `Abdu’l-Bahá speaks
very critically about Siyyid Mírzá and states that everything he has written should
be considered lies and calumnies. He also says that Siyyid Mírzá is beyond all
guidance, admonishment or reasoning and such efforts are fruitless. He traces
Siyyid Mírzá’s rebellion to the time of Bahá’u’lláh, when the Latter emphatically
forbade him from using opium and yet he refused to obey.
202 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-`Ahdi, p. 221

Addressing Siyyid `Alí, I further added, “Not only have we,
who are outwardly blood-relations, severed all ties with you, but
rest assured that all faithful believers and those remaining firm in
the Covenant of God will do likewise and disassociate from you. If
you want to receive the same consideration as before, then you
must go before `Abdul-Baha’s blessed threshold and, with great
sincerity and absolute truthfulness, repent [your misdeeds]. You
must seize the hem of His garment and implore His forgiveness. If
the Head of the Faith accepts you, then count us among your
lowliest servants. Otherwise, it is best for you to take your leave.”
My father never thought that I could speak with such force,
vigor and resolution. I said all that he had wanted to say, and he
was elated and praised [me] aloud, “Well said!” “He got his answer
from me,” I replied. My father went on to tell him, “Two years ago,
the news of the Covenant-breaking of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and
others reached us in Shiraz through Mírzá Habíbu’llah and Mírzá
Buzurg. Ever since, I have sent all your communications, and those
received from your comrades, unopened to the presence of the
Center of the Covenant. As soon as I saw that a particular
communication was from you or your associates, without even
opening the envelope, I would send it to the presence of the
Master.”
Siyyid `Alí grew very agitated and apprehensive by this
discussion. Now he could plainly see that all his plans had come to
nothing and had had no effect on us. My father added further,
“Mullá Husayn-`Alíy-i-Jahrumi203 had also written and I have also
destroyed his letter.”
This was our first and last meeting.

203 He lived in Bombay and was a contact for Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and other
Covenant-breakers.

My late father related what happened to the presence of
`Abdul-Baha. After showering us with His infinite favors and
kindness, He stated, “From this one incident, you can well imagine
the hardship and injuries heaped upon me and calculate the extent
to which I must be occupied watching over the friends and how,
day and night, I must see to their spiritual health and other needs.”
The Company’s Finances
After a few days, `Abdu’l-Bahá appointed several of the
friends to assess the accounts of our commercial enterprise [the
Ruhaniyyih Company]. This investigation committee included the
honored Áqá Mírzá Hadi<96>, Áqá Mírzá Muhsin<29>, Áqá
Mírzá Mahmud-i-Kashi, Áqá Mírzá Husayn-i-Hájí and Hájí Sayyid
Javad. After this committee had studied and examined the
company’s accounts and books for a few days, it concluded that
our partners had embezzled our father’s fortune and bankrupted his
principal capital.
Through the late Muvaqqaru’d-Dawlih<99>, my father had
already obtained an official writ from the office of the Iranian
Prime Minister, instructing the Iranian ambassador in Istanbul to
order its consulate in Egypt to arrest the Yazdi brothers204 in Cairo.
This arrest warrant, which was written in an extremely strong and
unusual tone, went on to say that, if the Consulate could not
evaluate all the business books in Egypt, it should immediately
send these partners to Iran by way of Bombay for [criminal]
prosecution.

204 For a Yazdi family tree, see Blessings Beyond Measure: Recollections of
`Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, p. xv.

The esteemed believers in charge of the investigation sent the
report with their findings to the sacred presence of the Master. One
day, very early in the morning, `Abdu’l-Bahá came to our house.
After bestowing His immense favors and infinite consideration
upon us, He addressed my father, “The gentlemen charged with
investigating your accounts have completed their task and
forwarded their audit report. They have rendered their decision
thoroughly in your favor.205 What do you intend to do now?” My
father immediately replied, “I have no will of my own and am
wholly resigned to Your instructions. Whatever You order, I shall
obey instantly.” He then submitted the decree of the Iranian Prime
Minister to the presence of the Master.
`Abdu’l-Bahá studied the royal writ. Putting His blessed hand
on His forehead, He stood there in deep thought for a full ten
minutes. We were all transfixed during His contemplation. He then
His blessed head and addressed us aloud, “According to this writ,
you can strip them of all their possessions, but hearken to your
qualities as an Afnán.”206 [In immediate obedience,] my late father
moved to burn all the papers right there in the presence of `Abdu’l-
Bahá, when the Master sternly forbade him, saying, “If you destroy
these papers, then they can launch a counter suit. You must
preserve these papers.” In the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá, my father
immediately placed all the papers in a box and nailed it secure and
instructed that none of us were to ever open that box. At the
present time all the books and papers are preserved in the same
way that were assembled in the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá and my
father never complained about the misconduct of our business
partners – not even to us, his own sons. He further wrote separately

205 In a Tablet (INBMC 52:303 no. 346), `Abdu’l-Bahá confirms in writing that
Núri’d-Dín had been wronged by his partners and that he was owed the principal
plus interest.
206 `Abdu’l-Bahá was urging Núri’d-Dín to forego his claims and the criminal
investigation against the partners.

to each of the former partners and assured them that from that point
he had relinquished all claims against them.
Return to Egypt
The abundance of the generosity of the Blessed Beauty and
the infinite benevolence of `Abdu’l-Bahá has forever sustained
these meek and helpless souls. In the course of this journey, we
were honored to remain in the Holy Land for nearly a month and
each day were graced with beholding the countenance of the
Beloved of all hearts, may my spirit be a sacrifice for His favors,
and were rendered joyous as we partook of His generosity and
loving-kindness.
After one month we were dismissed and commanded to proceed to
Port Said where we would start our business activities afresh.

Chapter 9
Final Years in Egypt
In those days, we were thrilled every month to meet a group
of pilgrims who had returned from circumambulating the Most
Sacred Court207. During that period, `Abdu’l-Bahá issued
instructions that, under no circumstances, was the Cause of God to
be proclaimed or propagated in Egypt. The pilgrims who came
through Port Said were told when they arrived not to teach the
Cause and, if they were asked about the Faith, not to offer a
response.
Ibrahim Effendi
We had become intimate friends with one of the natives of
Port Said – an extremely kind and spiritual man by the name of
Ibrahim Effendi208. We associated with each other freely and
without any of the customary ceremonies. On one occasion, a
group of Yazdi and Hamadani pilgrims arrived in Port Said on
their way to the Holy Land and this group included the honored
Nush209. We had neglected to tell him [about the Master’s
instructions] and that he was to conceal his destination.
One day, it so happened that Ibrahim Effendi was visiting us.
With a few Persian words he had recently learned, he ventured to
ask about the purpose of Jinab-i-Nush’s visit. “Each month,”
Ibrahim Effendi asked, “a large group of Iranians arrive at Port

207 The Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh
208 He served in the Egyptian Custom Office as an inspector.
209 A renowned Bahá’í teacher from a Zoroastrian background.

Said and leave here for an unknown destination. A month later,
that same group returns and another one leaves in its stead. Where
do they come from and what is their destination, and why do they
wait in Port Said?” Without the least hesitation or effort to disguise
his purpose, the honored Nush began to teach him about the Faith.
At this point, I happened to enter the room and, realizing what was
happening, motioned the honored Nush to end the discussion. He
immediately complied.
At this moment, Ibrahim Effendi turned around and saw me
standing [there]. As such, he was deeply agitated. With tears
streaming down his face, he protested, “Indeed, you do not have
any consideration for our deep bonds of friendship. You possess
such wonderful news and do not divulge any of it. And when
another one begins to share this truth, you prevent him from
continuing.” I realized at that point that it was already too late and
hesitantly engaged him in a teaching discussion. After a few
meetings, he declared his belief in the blessed Faith and,
consequently, became the first native believer of Port Said. In a
Tablet addressed to my late father, `Abdu’l-Bahá, may my life be a
sacrifice for His gracious generosity, urged us to show him every
consideration.210

210 `Abdu’l-Bahá (INBMC 52:272-3, no. 322) mentions this in the following
Tablet:
The illustrious Afnán of the sacred Lote-Tree, the distinguished
offshoot Áqá Mírzá Aqa, upon him be the Glory of God, the Most
Glorious.
He is God.
The illustrious Afnán of the divine Lote-Tree! In accordance
with the unconditioned will: since the honored Ibrahim Effendi is
among those who have newly entered the religion of God and have
arrived at the shore of the sea of oneness, his heart is illumined by
the effulgence of Divine Guidance and his soul verdant with the
sweet fragrance of the paradise of the Lord’s benevolence.
Therefore, you are to use every means possible to increase his faith
and spirituality and to multiply the fire of the love of God in his

In short, this believer was greatly favored by `Abdu’l-Bahá
and, truth be told, it was the honored Nush who taught him the
Faith in the first instance.
After his recognition [of Bahá’u’lláh], Ibrahim Effendi
became a celestial source of light and inflamed with the fire of the
love of God. When it came to propagating the Word of God or
proclaiming the Cause, he could never stay still and, putting aside
all caution, would teach at every opportunity that presented itself.
Although many a time he was advised to be more prudent in his
ways, he could never conceal what burned within his soul.
Praise be God, he eventually had a family and his children
are firm in their faith and have become staunch believers. His
oldest son is the honored Dr. Bashir, who I have heard is the
chairman of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Alexandria. I met his
second son, Fadlu’llah, sometime ago in Iran, where he lived for a
while.
The First Western Pilgrims
One of the important events that took place in those days was
the arrival of the first contingent of American and European
friends. They arrived in Port Said to go on pilgrimage to the Shrine
of Bahá’u’lláh and attain the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá. This

bosom. To be sure, you are to ensure that he is contented and
grateful.
May glory and vivacity? not sure what’s meant here; joy?,
praise and salutations be upon him and his kinsmen. Verily, he is
remembered in the hearts of the Holy Household and other friends.
`Abdu’l-Bahá. In peace.

happened in 1317 A.H. [1899]211. Nearly a month before they
arrived, my father received a Tablet revealed in his honor by
`Abdu’l-Bahá, in which we were told the good news of the arrival
of the pilgrims from America. The Master instructed us to look
after the needs of these friends while [they were] in Port Said. In
His blessed Tablet, `Abdul-Baha enjoined upon my father, “The
Western friends will arrive; provide Eastern hospitality.”212 In a

211 According to The Bahá’í Faith in America 1:136-57, the first group of
pilgrims arrived in the opening months of 1899. The year 1317 A.H. corresponds
with May 1899 to April 1900.
212 The following is recorded in Ru’yáháy-i-Sádiqih, p. 32 (compiled by
Mihrangiz Khursrawi):
In 1898 when the late Mírzá Aqay-i-Afnán, surnamed Núri’d-
Dín, was engaged in business in Port Said, he received a cable from
`Abdu’l-Bahá, stating essentially, “Port Said. Nur. Western friends
will arrive. Provide Eastern hospitality.” This telegram confirmed
for the honored Núri’d-Dín a prediction of the Master made two
years earlier during His conversation with Hájí Muhammad-Isma`il-
i-Yazdi. That is, two years earlier, `Abdu’l-Bahá one day
humorously said to the Hájí, “I had a dream and you must interpret it
for me.” The Hájí responded, “But how am to interpret my Master’s
dream?” For the second time, in humor, `Abdu’l-Bahá insisted that
the Hájí was to give the meaning of His dream, but the Hájí yet again
kept his tongue. Thereupon, the Master related His dream: “Last
night the Ancient Beauty appeared in my dream and said, ‘I have
guests that have never been here before. I want you to receive them
most befittingly.’ I related Bahá’u’lláh’s command to the Greatest
Holy Leaf. Together, we went to the storage [area] and retrieved the
set of fine china that the Khal’s son (that is, the honored Hájí Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alíy-i-Afnán) had sent from China and got it ready.”
After jesting with the Hájí some more, `Abdu’l-Bahá explained the
meaning of the vision: “The standard of the Faith has been raised in
America. A number in that country have embraced the Faith and will
come here soon for pilgrimage to the Sacred Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.
These friends have never outwardly been here and will now come
and share in this blessing.”
It was only two years later that the Master’s prophecy was
fulfilled and the first group of American pilgrims, joined by British
and French Bahá’ís, came by way of Europe to Palestine for Bahá’í

later Tablet, the Master wrote, “When the American believers
arrive in that realm, show them every consideration and greet
them lovingly on my behalf. `A `A.”213
In those days, Port Said was not developed much and there
were no hotels. Although there were a number of streets designed
in square and perpendicular fashion, very few houses had been
built. Our residence was an apartment on the second floor of a
three-story building belonging to a Greek man named Dimitri, who
showed great respect towards my father. Our business offices were
on the first floor and we lived on the floor above them. Dimitri and
his wife lived on the third floor and, on the rooftop, there were a
few more rooms used mostly for storage and drying clothes. My
father asked me to meet with Dimitri and ask him to rent the
rooftop rooms for our use, so that we could let the western pilgrims
occupy our own apartment. I conveyed my father’s inquiry to him.
As soon as he understood his request, he responded, “God forbid!
My wife and I will move to those rooms and your friends can stay
in our apartment. And I will accept no additional payment.” No
matter how much I insisted, it did no good. I went to my father
with the story and he said, “This is all due to the sovereign will of
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Who removes all obstacles.” He then went to
Dimitri’s apartment and thanked him for his immense kindness.
We waited until the ship carrying the pilgrims arrived at the
port. My father instructed my two brothers and I, along with Áqá
Nuru’llah Isfahani, who worked in our office at the time, to go and
welcome the visitors.
When [they arrived and] we saw each other, the sound of
“Allah-u-Abha” was raised all throughout the Custom Office. And
as we tenderly embraced and kissed one another, tears of joy

pilgrimage.
213 Postscript to the Tablet in INBMC 52:319 no. 356.

streamed from our eyes because this was the first time that we had
met Bahá’ís from the western countries. They numbered fifteen
and came to our home.
Without delay, my father telegraphed the Master informing
Him of the arrival of the [western] friends. `Abdu’l-Bahá
instructed that they be divided in three groups of five. Each group
was to leave for the Holy Land only after the previous one had
arrived back in Port Said.
I distinctly recall that, one day at lunchtime, Mrs. Lua
Getsinger214 (who was accompanied on this journey by her
husband, Dr. [Edward] Getsinger) suddenly began to weep very
loudly. We were amazed, and perplexed as to what had caused her
sadness and brought about this condition. After a few minutes,
with intense emotion, she said, “If, at every moment, we were to
offer a thousand thanks at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty, it
would not suffice. See how the promises of the Bible and the
prophecies of the New Testament and all other Holy Books of the
Divine Messengers have come to pass. Consider how it has
enabled the cobra to play with the babe, sparrow to dwell in the
same nest as the hawk, and the bloodthirsty wolf to graze the same
pasture as the lamb.215 Where is the discerning eye and the hearing
ear? Consider how each of us is from a different race, religious
background or nationality. And yet, with utmost peace and
affection, we have come together under the shadow of God’s
Sacred Tree, dwell within the tabernacle of unity raised by the
Blessed Beauty and sit at the same table spread in the name of
oneness. I am from America and of Christian background, while
you are Iranian and of Jewish, Zoroastrian or Shi`ah

214 See Sears and Quigley, The Flame; and Piff-Metelmann, Lua Getsinger -
Herald of the Covenant.
215 For the Biblical prophecies, see the Book of Isaiah, chapter 11.

backgrounds216, and still this Ibrahim Effendi is Egyptian and of
Sunni descent. And consider how, because of our divers
backgrounds, we are supposed to be ready to shed each other’s
blood and to try to destroy one another; and yet, the Word of God
has healed our hearts. This is none other than the miracle of the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and the result of His regenerative and life-
giving revelation.”
We spent many wonderful hours and days in the presence of
these western pilgrims until, eventually, the preparation for their
journey was complete. After their visit to the Holy Land, with
spirits brimming with affection and enamoured with love for the
Master, they returned to Egypt. Truly, they were made a new
creation, each the essence of joy and felicity, yearning to teach the
Faith of God day and night. In such condition, they returned to
their homeland. Dr. Getsinger gave my father his own photograph,
which is now kept safe with my father’s papers. Later they sent
photographs taken in the presence of the illustrious [Mírzá] Abu’l-
Fadl and Hájí `Abdu’l-Karim-i-Tihrani217.
One of the other ladies who came on pilgrimage was Miss
Sarah Farmer, with whom my brother, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg,
remained in communication over the years.218 I should note that, in

216 Parenthetically, Mírzá Habíb adds: “At that time, other Iranian and Indian
pilgrims from Jewish and Zoroastrian backgrounds were also present and were
waiting for a sea vessel to take them to the Holy Land.”
217 At `Abdu’l-Bahá’s instruction, he had gone to Chicago to encourage and
deepen the believers.
218 The following is the text of the first letter that Mírzá Buzurg received from
Miss Farmer (private communications from Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, May 1992):
Hotel Chateau-Durieux et des Anglais
Aix-lex-Bains, France
July 24th, 1900
To: Mírzá Bozorg Afnán
Dear Brother in the Truth:

addition to Miss Farmer, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg was in constant
contact with a number of other western friends until the end of his
life.

Your kind letter was most gladly received. Miss Wilson and I
both had desired to write and thank you for all the very generous way
in which you had received and cared for us, but we waited to learn
first from you the address to which to sent it – you remember you
promised it to us.
When it did come, it found me recovering from a serious
attack of Roman fever. I am much better but am not permitted to
write much yet. Consequently I have much time to think of you all
and pray for you, which I do constantly.
God was so good to open the doors of His Holy Temple to us,
to permit us to come into the presence of our blessed Lord (Rouhi
fedah) and to visit the Sacred Tomb that life itself will not be long
enough to pour forth our praise and thanksgiving. Miss Wilson and I
spend our time reviewing the scenes through which we have passed
and the teaching which we have received, meanwhile studying the
Old and New Testaments and the Koran. It is a continual feast and
we permit nothing to draw us away. We have the opportunity also to
unfold the Truth to hungry souls whom we meet, one, a
Swedenborgian, confirmed it from the mouth of the Swedish seer,
who proclaimed that the next and the fullest revelation of God would
be found in Persia and would harmonize all that is true in all other
scriptures.
I could write for hours but must not. Keep on with your
English. If you desire it, I will help you by correspondence and point
out any little mistakes which happen to come in. Miss Wilson and I
desire to be remembered to all the believers in Port Said, but
especially to the dear mother and the other members of your family.
We shall never forget your loving-kindness to those who were
strangers after the flesh but who in the blessed Spirit are and always
will be one with you! We rejoice in the inestimable privilege you are
all enjoying in the presence of our blessed Lord to whom be glory
forever!
With all good wishes,
Your sister in the Faith,
Sarah J. Farmer

Several Tablets were revealed by `Abdu’l-Bahá in honor of
my father, Áqá Mírzá Aqa, about meeting with the western
believers. It was revealed, “Concerning the other matter, the
consideration you have shown to the American visitors has
brought immense joy and felicity to my heart. Naught short of this
is to be expected of your exalted station.”219 At the conclusion of
the same Tablet, the Master writes, “However, about your return to
your beloved land, I had wanted you to remain in these parts [that
is, near to the Holy Land] and for the affairs [of the Cause] to
pivot round the desired goals. In this way, you could shoulder
some of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s hardships, even if you are in that region -
much like your efforts during the visit of the American ladies.”
Departure from Egypt
For two years, affairs passed in this way. During this time,
certain communications arrived from Shiraz that worried the
Master and brought concern to His pure heart. In a Tablet
addressed to my father in Port Said, `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:
... You had written regarding the blessed
Threshold of the Sacred House [of the Báb] – may my
soul be a sacrifice unto its dust. From the letters
arriving here, we continually hear the supplication of
that sacred city. Were I to expand on the details, it
would surely bring sadness and sorrow to that honored
person and be a source of anguish. However, the intent
is this: that Threshold is more important than `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s soul. From this, you can see how cherished and
venerated that House should be regarded. Therefore,
your honored person must take on this important task in

219 The full text is in INBMC 52:308 no. 347.

such a way that it will enthrall the spirit of `Abdu’l-
Bahá and bring it gladness. I swear by the blessed
Spirit of that Sanctified Being, that Sun of Reality and
Lord of the House – may my spirit, my essence and my
whole being be a sacrifice unto His dust! It is the
ultimate desire of my heart and soul that I may attain
that hallowed dust and sweep that Threshold with my
eyelashes. Therefore, the honored Diya’ Effendi should
be sent to sanctify that Threshold of nonbelievers and
serve that Spot on my behalf.220
Several more Tablets on the same theme were revealed in
honor of my late father.221 Reading these over, my father realized
that, to achieve `Abdu’l-Bahá’s purpose, he would have to go to
his native town in a hurry. Therefore, he wrote about this proposal
in a supplication to the Master. In it, he asked whether [his plan]
met with `Abdu’l-Bahá’s good pleasure. If so, he was ready to
wind up all his business interests in Port Said and return to Shiraz
with his family.
This petition was looked on with favor. After the passing of
two years, we were once again permitted to visit the Holy Land
and pay our respects. Immediately, we closed our commercial
office and ended all financial transactions in Port Said. Our entire
family traveled to the Holy Land.

220 The full text is in INBMC 52:320 no. 357 and Khándan-i-Afnán, p. 209.
221 See In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 8, for the text of one of these Tablets.

Chapter 10
Fifth Pilgrimage: 1901

After arriving in the Holy Land, we went [first] to pay our
humble respects at the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. The next day, the
blessed Person of the Center of the Covenant called our entire
family into His presence. Having showered us with His infinite
blessings, He said, “It had been my earnest wish for you to stay in
this region and to see to affairs related to the Holy Land. In
particular, now that I am busy with the construction of the Shrine
of the Báb, I had intended for you to help me in every aspect of the
raising of this Sacred Edifice. However, as I think about it some
more, I note [that there are] certain difficult undertakings; that is,
an important task and a befitting service in Shiraz. Therefore, I
have decided to send you there. When you arrive in Shiraz, I will
give you the complete instructions222. This task entrusted to you is
the most important of all services and worthy of the greatest
reward before the Divine Court. Truly, future kings and monarchs
will long to have been present on this day and been numbered
among the servants and attendants of that Sanctified Threshold.”
He then proceeded to give instructions on the way to receive
visitors and pilgrims at the House of the Báb and how to conduct
the management of its affairs. “Now is only the emergence of the
dawn of the Sun of Truth,” His blessed Person told us. “Soon it
will envelop the whole earth.”
Our pilgrimage lasted a total of 40 days. For us, the passage
of those days was agonizing and filled with anguish, because we

222 `Abdu’l-Bahá is alluding to the rebuilding of the House of the Báb in Shiraz
and the significance of this undertaking.

knew that we were about to leave for a far off land, which gave us
no further opportunity to attain the presence of the Master.
Among the gifts that we had the privilege of carrying to the
presence of the Master on this journey was a piece of marble that
the honored Áqá Siyyid Mustafa [Rumi] had sent from Rangoon in
the care of my father, intended for the Holy Land. This was a
sample of the marble that the sarcophagus for the blessed remains
of the Primal Point was to be made from. One day, while
contemplating this marble specimen against the sunlight, `Abdu’l-
Bahá said, “Observe how you can see the sun’s rays through this
stone. It is the finest piece of stone excavated from the mine and
purposed for this sacred sarcophagus. In quality, it truly is peerless
in the entire world.” The late Mishkin-Qalam was present and
entreated, “If it meets with the Master’s good pleasure and should
He grant persmission, I will draw the designs of the Greatest Name
that would adorn this sarcophagus and present them to Your august
Self. And should You wish, I am prepared to journey to India to
arrange for them to be carved on the side of the sarcophagus.” In
accepting this request, `Abdu’l-Bahá said humorously, “You want
your name to be preserved for as long as the earth and the heavens
endure!” “It is entirely possible,” Mishkin-Qalam responded, “if I
am favored by the Master’s boundless grace.”
As proposed, this illustrious person prepared the calligraphic
pieces and signed each, “The servant of `Abdu’l-Bahá, Mishkin-
Qalam.” I was present when he offered them to the Master. When
He saw them, His blessed countenance showed signs of deep
indignation and, with great disapproval, He addressed Mishkin-
Qalam, “Who told you to sign them in such a way?! I do not wish
for anything to be written at all!” With tears pouring forth,
Mishkin-Qalam began to implore the Master. He took hold of the
hem of His garment and, with great fervor and intense wailing,
begged forgiveness for his misdeed. He sobbed and pleaded with

much intensity until the ocean of absolution of his compassionate
Master was aroused and `Abdu’l-Bahá said, “If you sign your
name in the same manner that you did during the time of the
Blessed Beauty, then I will accept.” Mishkin-Qalam complied and
changed his signature to “The servant of the Threshold of Bahá,
Mishkin-Qalam.”223
In short, in those days, wonderful news about the immense
victories of the Faith throughout the world, the vast proclamations
of the Cause in the East and the West, as well as very pleasing
reports from other corners of the globe, were arriving constantly.
Because of this, the heart of the beloved Master was brimming
with joy and signs of immense elation were evident on His blessed
face. At times, He would go to Mount Carmel and allow some of
the friends to accompany Him on such visits. The land for the
construction of the Shrine of the Báb, which was designated in the
days of the Blessed Beauty, was now purchased and the
neighboring grounds had also been acquired. The sacred remains
[of the Báb] were also now in the Holy Land. Even though the
Covenant-breakers persisted in their evil-plotting and mischief-
making, and corresponded day and night with the Ottoman Court
in an attempt to pollute people’s minds, by the divine favors, the
Cause of God was prevailing over all its adversaries.
Jamalu’d-Din-i-Afghani
In those days, Siyyid Jamalu’d-Din-i-Afghani lived in
Istanbul. From there, he tried his best to extinguish the Cause of
God because he believed that the only obstacle in the way of
achieving his evil-minded purpose was the impenetrable fortress of

223 Throughout His ministry, `Abdu’l-Bahá greatly disapproved of believers
composing verses about, or glorifying, His Person in any way. He would admonish
them to focus their praise on Bahá’u’lláh.

the Faith of God. Therefore, in order to increase his popularity and
influence among the Shi`ahs and the Sunnis, and also to attain his
ultimate objectives, he rose up to create a situation designed to
uproot the Faith of God in Iran and the Ottoman realms.
One night, the beloved Master called Husayn-i-Aqay-i-
Khadim [the attendant] and instructed him, “Light the lantern a
little later tonight as I want to talk with the friends.” In those days,
it was customary for a lantern to be lit at night in the biruni [the
outer apartment] of the house and His blessed Person would meet
with those of the town’s inhabitants who wanted to attain His
presence and listen to His utterances. That night, He instructed that
the lantern be lit later so that non-Bahá’ís would not be present [as
He wished to talk confidentially with the believers].
He told us, “Recently Siyyid Jamalu’d-Din has announced
that the Bahá’í Faith intends to destroy the foundation of the world
and aims at obliterating all religions. For instance, he has alleged
that, ‘The religious beliefs of Bahá’ís and the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh are: the destruction of all Islamic mosques, Jewish
synagogues and Christian churches; the annihilation of the Baytu’l-
Haram224 and the Baytu’l-Muqaddas225; the burning of the Qur’an
and the Bible; the eradication of all evidence of religious
attainments; and to dislodge the Qajar and the Ottoman dynasties.
These are the ordinances of their Books and the religious beliefs of
Bahá’ís.’ He has further suggested, ‘If you want to stop these
things from happening and to ensure that none of these teachings is
ever realised, then you must demolish `Akká, slay `Abdu’l-Bahá,
Who is the Center of their Faith and the fount of their inner
confidence, and massacre all the Bahá’ís, whether they live in Iran

224 A reference to Mecca, the holiest site of Islam.
225 A reference to Jerusalem, where the Mosque of the Dome of Rock is situated.
It is considered particularly sacred by Muslims.

or the Ottoman Empire.’ Such are the intentions of this evil
man.”226
`Abdu’l-Bahá then added, “However, this man does not know
that even if `Akká is destroyed or `Abdu’l-Bahá slain or Bahá’ís
martyred, he can never extinguish the Faith of God. ‘Leave them to
their inventions.’227 Soon you will witness how God deals with the
tongue that has spoken in this way and so dishonestly uttered such
lies and slander.” Then `Abdu’l-Bahá asked for the lantern to be lit
and for various people to attain His presence. Subsequently, they
were dismissed after having received their fill of His bounties.
Not long after that, the veracity of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s prediction
about Siyyid Jamalu’d-Din was demonstrated. Of course, it is now
common knowledge that, in order to carry out his plans, Siyyid
Jamalu’d-Din went from Iran to Istanbul and gathered around him
a number of disciples. Sultan `Abdu’l-Hamid was disturbed and
horrified by him and his partisans. He instructed that a palace be
assigned to him and arranged a haram, where [Afghani] engaged in
a life of luxury and indulgence. At the same time, the Siyyid busied
himself with making plans for sedition and revolt. However, a
short time after `Abdu’l-Bahá spoke about him, a small growth
appeared on the Siyyid’s tongue. The Sultan’s special physician
was sent to attend him. [In a number of operations,] his tongue was
cut several times until none was left and, soon after, he died. This
was the end of a person whose tongue had spoken presumptuously
towards the Cause of God and had committed such slander and
calumny against the Faith!228

226 See In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 11, where the celebrated Mírzáy-i-Shirazi
recounts some of Afghani’s efforts to assault the Faith.
227 Qur’an 6:137
228 On Afghani’s life, see Keddie, Sayyid Jamal al-Din “al-Afghani”: A Political
Biography; Balyuzi, Edward G. Browne and the Bahá’í Faith, pp. 23-8 and
Bamdad, Sharh-i Hal-i Rijal-i Iran, vol. 1, pp. 257-80.

Letters from Iran
On another occasion, while we were in the presence of the
beloved Master, the package of correspondence from Iran arrived.
In it was a letter from Yazd sent by the late Hájí Mírzá Mahmud-i-
Afnán<45>, the honored son of Hájí Mírzá Muhammad-Taqi, the
Vakilu’l-Haqq<13>. He had written two pages in small script, all
devoted to the excellence of the Jalalu’d-Dawlih and his very many
services to the friends. [It mentioned] such things as his intention
to participate in the Feast in Mihdi-Abad229 and his profound
humility and submissiveness towards the Cause of God. `Abdu’l-
Bahá read the letter closely, pondered for a moment, and then said,
“Because of his pure heart, the honored Afnán harbors no malice,
is void of bitterness and radiates nothing but truth and spirituality.
He imagines that the Jalalu’d-Dawlih also tells the truth. The
Afnán conflates this man with his own self and is unaware that the
Qajars have no faith. The Jalalu’d-Dawlih is a liar and merely
wants to use the Afnán and the believers for his own purposes.”
`Abdu’l-Bahá then opened another envelope that contained
only a blank piece of paper. The beloved Master smiled and said,
“The servants want to test us. Woe betide them of the day when
God decides to test His servants!” Immediately, He picked up the
pen and revealed a Tablet on that very same paper and sent it back
by the post. This piece of paper was sent by Áqá Siyyid
Muhammad-Sadiq, the husband of Fa’izih Khánum. As a result of
many teaching discussions, he had decided to formulate a number
of questions in his own heart and to send a blank piece of paper
before `Abdu’l-Bahá. He had resolved that, if the Master answered
his heart’s questions on that very same paper, then he would

229 A village in the vicinity of Yazd, where the believers of that region would
gather for meetings.

recognize the truth of the Faith and accept it. Finally, when this
Tablet arrived, his questions were answered and he attained the
shore of certitude.
Return to Port Said
I am at a loss to know what else to write about our time [in
the Holy Land] until the beloved Master sent us to Iran. To this
day, whenever I think of that time, I am stirred with profound
emotions and reduced to bittersweet tears.
Eventually, for yet a second time, `Abdu’l-Bahá bestowed
His immeasurable favors upon us and admonished us in this way,
“Prepare yourselves for the services and mighty tasks that lie ahead
of you. God willing, they will be accomplished through your
perseverance.” This promise of the Master was the consolation of
our heart. That is, if we were to be outwardly deprived of the
unfathomable grace of beholding His blessed countenance and
could no longer visit the sacred places of the Holy Land, praise be
unto God, we were propelled forward, instead, with His life-
regenerating promise!
After bidding farewell to our friends in Haifa, we went
directly to Port Said. We completed the remainder of our
commercial activities and left for Shiraz soon after.

Chapter 11
Restoration of the House of the Báb
It was now over ten years since we had last seen Iran. Clad in
Arab clothes, we may even have been more fluent in the Arabic
language than in Persian. We arrived in Bushihr first, then traveled
to Shiraz with a caravan led by one of my late father’s assistants.
When we arrived, we went directly to the House of the Báb. After
visiting that Holy Threshold, my late father designated his
ancestral home - situated next to the Masjid-i-Jami` and blessed by
the footsteps of the Exalted One - as the place for meeting the
friends. A steady stream of believers gathered to hear the good
news of the Holy Land. My late father spoke of the progress and
victories of the Cause of God in America, which brought great joy
and delight to the friends.
During the first two years we were in Shiraz, two important
incidents happened that affected my late father. The first was that a
rock was deliberately hurled at his head from a rooftop, which
injured him badly and forced him to stay in bed for a long period
of time. The second incident was that he was badly stabbed in the
foot one night as he was passing through Shamshirgarha Street230.
The injury never healed during the remainder of his life. However,
the confirmations of Abdu’l-Baha poured out like spring showers
and he remained thoroughly fearless - nay, thankful - before all
adversaries and under all conditions and was completely resigned
to His good pleasure.

230 The House of the Báb was located on this street.

My brother and I resumed our trading business in Iranian
carpets. In the month of Rabí`u’th-Thání, 1321 A.H. [July 1903],
my late father was honored with a Tablet from `Abdu’l-Bahá. In it,
he was asked to begin rebuilding the House of the Báb in its
original style. Therefore, it may be helpful to document here a
short history of the Blessed House of the Báb. This will explain the
reasons for the changes made to it previously, and the efforts made
during the Ministry of `Abdu’l-Bahá to convert it back to its
original state, so that there will be no room for unwarranted
speculation in the future.
History of the Blessed House
The House of the Báb was an ancestral inheritance of Áqá
Mírzá Muhammad-Rida,231 the father of the illustrious Exalted
One. The title for this property was stolen, along with other goods
and articles, from the house of the late Áqá Mírzá Zaynu’l-`Abidin,
a brother-in-law of the Báb and my paternal grandfather. The Báb
grew up in this House until the passing of His father, then He
moved to the house of the martyred-uncle [Hájí Mírzá Siyyid
`Alí<7>]. After His sojourn in Bushihr and pilgrimage to the
`Atabat, the Báb returned to Shiraz. He took up residence in this
House and married His mother’s paternal cousin, Khadíjih Bagum.
From this union, a child was born by the name of Ahmad, who
died in infancy.
The declaration of the Báb took place on 5 Jamadiu’l-Avval
1260 A.H. [22 May 1844] in the upper chamber of this Blessed
House. There the Báb announced His mission for the first time, to

231 Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, 4:429 and Khándan-i-Afnán, p.
204, state that the Báb’s father bought the House. However, the family records
show that it was an inheritance (Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, private communications,
September 1995).

Mulla Husayn-i-Bushrú’í.232 After His declaration, the Báb left for
Mecca. He performed the hajj ceremony and proclaimed the divine
Cause to the entire Islamic world, the Sheriff of Mecca and others,
and returned to Shiraz. The account of the journey to His native
town and His stay there is extensive. As instructed by the beloved
Guardian, this has been recorded in detail and is available
elsewhere.233
After arriving in Shiraz, the Báb at first took up residence in
the house of the illustrious uncle [Hájí Mírzá Siyyid `Alí].
Previously, the Letters of the Living would gather there. Later,
however, He moved to the Blessed House, where He lived until the
time of His departure for Isfahan.
The Governor-General of Shiraz had been told that a group
of believers regularly gathered in the House of the Báb. Therefore,
one night, he sent to the House `Abdu’l-Hamid Khán, the
Darughih, and Mir Mu`min-i-Iyzad-khasti, with a few guardsmen
and night prowlers. Mir Mu`min-i-Iyzad-khasti was influential in
government affairs and particularly antagonistic and spiteful
[towards the Cause].
Unannounced, this group entered the House from the rooftop
at a time when the Báb and His wife were resting inside and the
mother of the Báb was sleep in the courtyard.234 When these men
entered, the Báb sent His wife to His mother and both women went

232 At this point in the narrative, Mírzá Habíb notes: “Even though this might not
be relevant, I would like to relate a dream that the wife of the Báb had after she
was married for only a short time.” He then relates a dream that indicated Khadíjih
Bagum would be with the Báb for only two-and-a-half years. Since this dream
appears in In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 2, and Rabbani, “The Báb in Shiraz”, it
is not included here.
233 See In the Land of Refuge, chapters 1-4, and Rabbani, “The Báb in Shiraz”.
234 To enjoy the night breeze of the summer months, many Iranian families sleep
outdoors under mosquito nets.

into the adjacent room where His declaration had taken place. He
asked `Abdu’l-Hamid Khán, “Why have you intruded into My
House without prior notice?” The Darughih responded, “The
Governor has received reports that a group of men have assembled
in Your residence. Therefore, we were sent to investigate the
matter.” The Báb said, “Now that you are satisfied that no men are
here, you may leave and inform your superior.” The Darughih
insisted on receiving a bribe, but the Báb refused to give him one.
The officer took the Báb’s cashmere shawl, cut it in half and took a
half. Without allowing the Báb to dress properly, he arrested Him
and took Him to the residence of the Governor-General. At dawn,
however, the Báb was released from custody. That night, His
blessed Person spoke vehemently against the Governor, the
Darughih and the `ulamas, and with great power addressed the
Governor and his men as ignorant and apostates.
Here I will include a small section of a letter from Hájí Mírzá
Abú’l-Qásim-i-Afnán<11>, a brother-in-law of the Báb, to the
Khal-i-Akbar235, which gives an outline of that eventful night [11
September 1846]. The letter is dated 20 Ramadan 1262 A.H. [11
September 1846]:
... These days, they have incited enmity against
Hájí Mírzá `Alí-Muhammad [the Báb] and Hájí Mírzá
Siyyid `Alí<7>. In every gathering, they say what they
will and accuse them of the worst offences. Out of
consideration for that Sahib [the Báb], one is unable to
confront the accusers and must bear all the allegations,
show patience and tolerance, and disregard their
calumnies. We used to hear these [accusations] from the
city folk. More recently, [we hear them] from our closer

235 Hájí Mírzá Siyyid Muhammad<5>, the oldest maternal uncle of the Báb, who
was in Bushihr at the time. For a biography, see Rabbani, “Conversion of the
Great-Uncle of the Báb.”

associates [too]. In the past, while they never supported
us, at least they refrained from insulting us. But now,
they readily scorn us as well.
Mir Mu`min-i-Iyzad-khasti is now securely
established over all affairs and is the lord and master of
all the inhabitants. He too has generated animosity
towards Hájí Mírzá `Alí-Muhammad [the Báb].
Moreover, in this effort he is an accomplice of the
Sahib-Ikhtiyar [the Governor]. ... It is evident that the
people of the world have dealt [most unjustly] with the
Holy Figures, upon Them be peace ...
It was the night of 20 Ramadan [11 September
1846] when Áqá Mir visited the Sahib-Ikhtiyar ... to
confer and seek his good pleasure... It was six hours
into that night236 when Áqá Mir went to their [the
Báb’s] House while they [the Household] were sleep.237
They woke up and noticed the men intruding from the
rooftop. As you recall, there is not much distance
between the courtyard and the roof. I find myself
thoroughly incapable of describing their shocked state,
particularly the condition of the ladies of the household.
Certainly, it evoked the opening scenes of Karbila.
Indeed `Abdu’l-Hamid Khán himself had said, “How
have my deeds differed from Shimr’s238!?” The scene

236 This letter makes it clear that the Báb was arrested on the night before this
letter was written; namely, on the evening of 10 September 1846. On the authority
of Tarikh-i-Jadid, The Dawn-breakers, p. 195 n.1, incorrectly placed this event on
23 September 1845.
237 The Dawn-breakers, p. 195, states the house of the Báb’s uncle was targeted
for this attack. However, this document shows that the Báb was at His own
residence when He was arrested.
238 It is believed that the Imam Husayn was slain by Shimr ibn Dhu’l-Jawshan on
the plain of Karbala.

was such that, even had an infidel witnessed the last
evening’s events, he would have grieved over them.
The entire neighborhood was awakened and the town
was filled with the sigh of anguish and sadness. They
hardly gave the Hájí [the Báb] time to dress and
conducted Him away forthwith. They treated the Hájí
most discourteously. He therefore set aside all caution
and spoke to them as sternly and angrily as He willed.
They confiscated from His House whatever written
materials were in the Hájí’s possession.
At last, two hours before sunrise, `Abdu’l-Hamid
Khán brought Him back and procured a bond from me
that He would no longer invite others to His House or
converse with the mullas who are His followers. God
only knows what will happen now.
The mother of your illustrious self was at our
house and I have concealed the events from her. Your
sister [the Báb’s mother] and my sister [Khadíjih
Bagum] are profoundly distraught and in a wretched
state. God will protect all.
The whole town is well aware of what happened
and most everyone has learned that the ladies of the
Household have been overwhelmed with grief, which
has rendered them paralyzed. However, not one soul,
neither family nor friend, has come to inquire about our
condition and what we have had to endure. In short, life
in this town has proved exceedingly difficult. To be
sure, you will arrive shortly and perhaps, out of respect
for you, some may prove embarrassed about their
deeds. Events may take a different turn though, and we
may need to take our family and quit this town for

another region. Not even the land of the infidels
manifests such tyranny.
I have no inclination to write anything further.
[Dated] 20 Ramadán 1262 A.H.

Because of the great transgressions committed by `Abdu’l-
Hamid Khán, the Báb cursed him and eventually he was killed,
[dying] from a cut in the stomach. It was the same `Abdu’l-Hamid
Khán who, on instruction from the Governor, Husayn Khán-i-
Ajudan-Bashi, imprisoned the Báb in his house. When the cholera
epidemic was spreading in the city and his two sons fell ill,
`Abdu’l-Hamid Khán’s wife was convinced that her sons’ illness
was caused by her husband’s cruel and unjust treatment of the Báb.
She forced him to release his illustrious Prisoner. Upon freeing
Him, the Darughih pleaded for the life of his sons. The Báb prayed
for them and gave [him] a sweet pomegranate that he had with
Him, with this instruction, “Give this to them and I will pray for
their recovery.” At last, the Báb returned home from the house of
`Abdu’l-Hamid Khán and subsequently left for Isfahan.
After the Báb left Shiraz, His wife, mother, and maternal
grandmother, a black servant named Mubarak, and a black
maidservant named Fiddih were living in the Sacred House.239
When the news of the martyrdom of the Báb reached Shiraz,
Fatimah Bagum, the mother of the Báb, having previously
consulted with her Son about the journey to the `Atabat, decided to
leave Shiraz. She wanted to put behind her the constant barrage of
insults aimed at her family by the city’s divines. Before she left, it
was decided that Khadíjih Bagum would live with her half-sister in
the house of the martyred-uncle of the Báb and the Blessed House

239 On the life of the black servants in the Household of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh,
see Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, The Black Pearls.

be entrusted to Mírzá Muhammad-Husayn-i-Bazzaz, son of Mírzá
Asadu’llah. He was not a believer in the Báb but a native of Shiraz
and a close acquaintance of the family. This [decision] ushered in a
period where the House was in the hands of non-believers.240
Gradually, two brothers, Samad and Ibrahim, took over all the
affairs of the House and claimed sole ownership.
At the time when my late father reached the age of maturity,
he was deeply saddened over this matter and appealed to Khal-i-

240 Abú’l-Qásim Afnán notes the following in “Baytu’llahu’l-Akram”, p. 19:
A year after Fatimih Bagum left, a severe earthquake destroyed many
homes and buildings in Shiraz, killing a third of the population and forcing a vast
multitude to live in the fields and wilderness and dwell in tents or makeshift
camps. [Farsnamih-i-Nasiri, vol. 1, reports that this massive destruction took place
on the night of 25 Rajab 1269 A.H./4 May 1853. It destroyed many homes and
killed several thousand citizens. It also demolished the majority of the schools and
mosques, including the one next to the House of the Báb. Translator.] During this
incident, the House of the Báb was severely damaged and the mosque next to it
was completely demolished. Khal-i-Akbar came to Shiraz from Bushihr to look
after the family’s interests and business. One action he took was to secure a written
lease from Mírzá Muhammad-Husayn, who was occupying the House with no
written documentation. This lease is dated Rabí`u’l-Thání 1270 A.H./January 1854
and reads:
In the presence of the esteemed Mírzá Muhammad-Husayn,
son of the late Mírzá Asadu’llah-i-Shirazi, it is known and rightly
recorded that the house located in the Kuchih-i-Shamshirgarha
belongs in its totality to Siyyidih Fatimih Bagum, daughter of the late
Hájí Mírzá Muhammad-Husayn. This residence was entrusted to the
aforementioned Mírzá to dwell there upon her [Fatimih Bagum’s]
departure from Shiraz. Since an earthquake has caused considerable
damage and the tenant wishes to make certain repairs, he is permitted
to do so at his own expense. This will not be reimbursed by the
owner, who may claim possession of the residence at any time with
due notice.
This legal document was signed and witnessed by the appropriate jurists
and Shaykh Abu-Turab, the Imam-Jum`ih of Shiraz. After this document was
signed, Mírzá Muhammad-Husayn realized the cost of the repairs was prohibitive.
Consequently, he leased the House to two brothers, Samad and Ibrahim, who were
bakers. They took up residence with no formal documentation.

Akbar, “You are the closest relative of His Holiness the Báb and,
therefore, have responsibilities towards this House. You must try to
extricate the House from the grasp of non-believers, who currently
occupy it.”241 “I can’t do it now,” the illustrious Khal-i-Akbar
replied, “since all my sons are engaged in commerce elsewhere.
However, you have my permission to take all the necessary steps to
resolve this situation as you see fit.”
My father took advantage of his influence and prestige242
and, during his conversations with the tenants, said, “As you know,
this House has belonged to the infidels and non-believers and, as
such, your prayer offerings will not be accepted from such a place.
In addition, because of the recent earthquakes, some parts of the
House have been structurally damaged, making it unsuitable to live
in. Indeed, it is life threatening. Should you agree, we are willing
to purchase or lease another house in your name and you can stay
there while we renovate this one. When we have completed the
repairs, if you still prefer to live here, we will abide by your
decision.” The tenants saw the opportunity to become homeowners
and agreed immediately to the arrangement. Quickly, a house was
leased for 100 tumans and the two brothers moved there.243
In this way, the House of the Báb was recovered from the
hands of non-believers. After some minor repairs, a believer named
`Abdu’r-Razzaq lived there for three years. After him, it was
occupied by the late Hájí Abu’l-Hasan [Bazzaz], who had

241 Abú’l-Qásim Afnán suggests that Núri’d-Dín’s interest in the security and
renovation of the Blessed House stemmed from his reading in the Persian Bayan
about the supreme station of this Dwelling; see “Baytu’llahu’l-Akram”, p. 20.
242 At that time, Núri’d-Dín’s father, Mírzá Zaynu’l-`Abidin, was alive. He  was
closely related to two prominent clerics, Mírzáy-i-Shirazi and Áqá Siyyid Javad-i-
Shirazi, the Imam-Jum`ih of Kirman, and enjoyed great influence with the divines
of the city.
243 According to A.Q. Afnán, this house was located on Zanburak-Khánih Street;
see “Baytu’llahu’l-Akram”, p. 20.

accompanied the Báb on His hajj journey to Mecca and was one of
the first believers of Shiraz.244 Afterwards, the House was leased to
Mulla Áqá Buzurg-i-Zarqani, who was a Bábí but not known as
one.245
During this period, Shiraz sustained a number of severe
earthquakes, which destroyed many homes and public buildings
that had not been damaged previously. Many people were forced to
take refuge in the city’s outskirts and live in tents.
The First Renovation of the House of the Báb – 1289
A.H. [1871]
During Dhi’l-Qa`dih 1288 A.H. [January 1872], Munirih
Khánum, who was travelling to the Holy Land to marry `Abdu’l-
Bahá, arrived in Shiraz from Isfahan. During her 15-day sojourn,
she stayed in the house of the martyred-uncle, where the wife of
the Báb was living [with her maternal sister, Hájíyyih Bibi Jan-
jan]. During her stay, Munirih Khánum was a constant companion

244 Although Hájí Abu’l-Hasan had accompanied the Báb on His pilgrimage
journey and observed all the events of that voyage, it was the proclamation of the
Báb at Masjid-i-Vakil that finally convinced him of the truth of the new
Dispensation. Hájí Abu’l-Hasan lived in the House of the Báb with his wife and
two sons, Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí and Mírzá Muhammad-Baqir, who later adopted
the surname Dihqan. His wife was a relative of the Imam-Jum`ih Abu-Turab and,
consequently, the family enjoyed some measure of protection. After five years of
living in the Blessed House, his wife passed away and the protection of the `ulama
was withdrawn. Because he was known as a Bábí, Hájí Abu’l-Hasan was forced to
leave the city in the middle of the night, taking his two young sons with him. See
“Baytu’llahu’l-Akram”, p. 20.
245 With Zarqani’s departure, in January 1872 a mother and daughter of Nayriz,
who were brought as captives to Shiraz after the battles of 1853, occupied the
House in order to preserve it. They remained there until 1289 A.H./1872. See
“Baytu’llahu’l-Akram”, p. 20.

of Khadíjih Bagum and the two were always in each other’s
company.
One day, during their conversation, the wife of the Báb asked
her guest to supplicate on her behalf at the Threshold of
Bahá’u’lláh for permission to renovate the Blessed House so that
she could transfer her residence to that sacred location. This
request found ready approval in the presence of the Blessed
Perfection. He asked my father to restore the House in whatever
manner that Khadíjih Bagum saw fit.
After Bahá’u’lláh gave permission to renovate the House of
the Báb in accordance with Khadíjih Bagum’s wishes, she
instructed her nephew (my father), “If the House is renovated in its
original style, the memories of the days of His Holiness and my
profound sadness over His loss will prevent me from ever living
there. Certain changes must be made to the House.” Therefore,
substantial changes were made to the structure of the House. These
included making two of the rooms part of the expanded courtyard
and moving the small pool. {The initial cost of this reconstruction
was met by Bahá’u’lláh.
To protect the House further, a small house next to it on the
eastern wall was bought. It belonged to a certain Hájí Muhammad-
Ja`far-i-H.adíd. The elders of the Afnán family asked Hájí Mírzá
`Abdu’l-Hamid to live there. He was one of the early believers in
the Báb and married to the daughter of Hujjat-i-Zanjani. From the
first day Hujjat’s daughter arrived in Shiraz, she was a close
companion of Khadíjih Bagum, who had a particular affinity for
the families of the Bábí martyrs. An underground passageway was
constructed connecting the two homes. It was used as the main

entrance for the House of the Báb so that the neighborhood would
not take notice of the occupants.}246
After these changes [were made], the esteemed Khadíjih
Bagum took up residence in the Blessed House. She lived there for
the next nine years, until her noble soul took her flight to the
immortal abode in the month of Dhi’l-Hajjih, 1299 A.H. [October
1882].
After her ascension, as instructed by Bahá’u’lláh, her sister,
Zahra Bagum, moved her residence to the Sanctified House. She
lived there until her passing in 1308 A.H [1891].
The Custodianship of the House of the Báb
In the year 1302 A.H. [1884], the following instructions were
issued for the custodianship of the House of the Báb from the
heaven of Divine Will, exalted be His utterance, in honor of the
wife of the Báb, her sister and her descendants. In this way, solely
by divine grace, this honor was placed upon them:
This honor and benevolence hath been bestowed
upon the ukht247 and her descendants, from her Lord,
the
Merciful.
He
is
the
Munificent
and
the
Compassionate, and He is the Generous and the
Bounteous.248

246 The bracketed section was a supplement from Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, based on
his “Baytu’llahu’l-Akram” article.
247 Lit. sister. It refers to Zahra Bagum, the sister of Khadíjih Bagum.
248 A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh revealed in 1292 A.H./1875, which bears His seal
reads: “The custodianship of the Blessed House has been granted to the exalted
leaf, the wife of the Primal Point, and her sister, upon both be My Glory of God,
My Bounty and My Favor. Before God, we have conferred this custodianship on
the House and thus have We adorned it with Our Benevolence, and arrayed Our

Years passed and the House of the Báb was left as described
above. When Zahra Bagum passed away, my mother [Maryam
Sultan Bagum], two brothers, sister and I left for pilgrimage to the
Holy Land and reunion with my father in Port Said. We had not
seen him since 1296 A.H. [1879]. The details of this visit have
been recorded earlier.
During my father’s stay in Port Said, he was honored to
receive several Tablets from the beloved Master that spoke about
the importance of the friends visiting the Blessed House of the Báb
under all conditions and the harm [that would result] if this was
neglected. One such Tablet addressed to him said in part:
Port Said. The illustrious Afnán of the Sacred Lote-
Tree, Áqá Mírzá Áqá, upon him rest the Glory of God,
the Most Glorious.
... You wrote about the Eminent House and the
Point of Adoration of the world, may my life be a
sacrifice unto its dust. This issue is most important;
nay, it stands as the most momentous of all matters.
According to your letter, it is currently impossible for
people to visit the House. This is surely a source of
great sorrow for the faithful friends and those who long
to circumambulate the Blessed House.
Certainly, in whatever way possible, a way must
be found for some of the friends to occasionally gain
access [to the House] and at least be able to visit that

command with the evidence of His Might and Compassion. Solely on the ukht
[Zahrá Bagum] and her issue has this honor and favor been bestowed from the
heaven of the Lord, the Giver, the Compassionate, the Bestower, the Forgiver, the
Merciful.”

Spot. Otherwise, neglecting to visit will become a norm
and the sacredness of this act will be diminished. The
friends who live in Shiraz must consider it absolutely
obligatory and binding to visit the House at least once
a month. If this servant lived in the province of Fars,
assuredly he would circumambulate that Sanctified
House once a week, even if the enemies rained blows of
stones upon him.249
You are the protector and custodian of this House
and must make every effort in this important matter.
Upon thee be the Glory of God.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, `Abbas.250
Eventually, in 1319 A.H. [1901], as asked by `Abdu’l-Bahá,
my parents, brothers and sister and I left for Shiraz. At the time we
left the Holy Land, His blessed Person said to us, “You have been
sent to Shiraz for the most important of all duties. I pray that you
will be effective in carrying out this responsibility.” However, the
Master did not divulge the nature of the entrusted task and our sole
wish was that, whatever the duty, we would be able to carry out
His wish and win His good pleasure. Things passed in this way
until 1321 A.H. [1903].
The Second Renovation of the House of the Báb – 1321
A.H. [1903]

249 In a Tablet (INBMC 52:300 no. 344), the Master instructs Núri’d-Dín to
make a complete and befitting visit to the House of the Báb once a year on
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s behalf.
250 The full text is in INBMC 52:318-9 no. 356 and Khándan-i-Afnán, p. 208.

Iran was in disarray and immersed in turmoil. In the face of
sustained persecution and unrelenting oppression, the Bahá’ís of
Isfahan had taken refuge in the Russian Consulate. In Yazd and its
environs, the believers were martyred and those who survived were
forced to flee to far away lands.251 Shiraz was also in disorder and
the friends were despondent and distressed over the fate of their
brethren and the gloomy news reaching them from other sectors.
At this time, a Tablet was revealed by `Abdul-Baha in honor
of my late father. In it, he gave instructions to rebuild the House of
the Báb according to its original structure and design, without a
moment’s delay. The following week, a second Tablet on this
matter was received from the pen of the Center of the Covenant
and, the following week, yet another Tablet was received that
further admonished: “Not a moment of lassitude must be allowed,
since a delay will cause a colossal catastrophe.” In this Tablet,
`Abdu’l-Bahá sternly ordered:
The Blessed House of the Exalted One must be
restored without a hair’s breadth change from its
original form, and this must be carried out with
absolute
cleanliness,
elegance,
delicacy
and
firmness.252
In one of these Tablets, the Master gave explicit instructions
concerning the speedy renovation of the Blessed House of the Báb:
Although at present the horizon of the world of
humanity is darkened with turmoil, its foundation
shaken to its core, the portals of hardship and trials are
flung wide open, and the tempests of trials and

251 For a glimpse of this massive persecution, see Hájí Mírzá Haydar `Alí, Bahá’í
Martyrdom in Persia; and Rabbani and Astani, The Martyrs of Manshad.
252 The full text is in Khándan-i-Afnán, p. 211.

difficulties are everywhere, it is in such a state of tumult
that the reconstruction of the renowned House must be
carried out, as it will bring joy and comfort to every
desolate heart.253
Having received these sacred Tablets, my father asked me to
gather some prominent friends on his behalf. I invited a number to
the House of the Báb, including such people as Prince
Mu’ayyadu’s-Saltanih, the late Muvaqqaru’d-Dawlih<99>, Mírzá
Muhammad-Baqir Khán-i-Dihqan, the Bashiru’s-Sultan, Áqá
Siyyid Husayn-i-Afnán<22>, `Andalib, Mírzá Aqay-i-Mi`mar-
Bashi and Mírzá Aqay-i-Afnán<53>. However, when they heard
the Tablets of `Abdu’l-Bahá, each of the assembled notables
voiced his concern that the reconstruction of the House was an
untimely endeavor, particularly during such a turbulent period.
After considering their views, my father responded, “The Head of
the Faith has issued a command to rebuild the House of the Báb
without a moment’s delay. Surely, there is wisdom hidden in this
instruction that is not currently clear to us and we don’t understand
its insight. I have not invited you to consult on the matter, as the
Master’s wish is clear and no one can speak contrary to His will or
even question its advisability. We are subjects and He is our lord. I
have invited you to hear the sacred Tablets that have recently been
received and to tell you that I plan to start construction
immediately. I only wanted you to know about the situation.”
When everyone heard him speak in this way, they readily agreed
with his views.
With `Abdu’l-Bahá’s confirmations, on Saturday254, 5
Jamadu’l-Avval 1321 A.H. [20 July 1903]255, the late Mi`mar-

253 The full text is in INBMC 52:323 no. 361 and Khándan-i-Afnán, p. 213.
254 According to the calendars available to the translator, 5 Jamadi 1321 A.H. fell
on a Thursday.
255 This day corresponded with the anniversary of the Declaration of the Báb.

Bashi began the renovation project. He was one of the most
devoted believers and the love of the Faith burned brightly in his
bosom. My late father supervised every step.
At first, they demolished the whole structure. My father was
present during the first reconstruction and had supervised the work.
Therefore, he knew the original architecture of the House. He
instructed that the ground under the building be excavated until the
original foundation of the House was uncovered. The workers
began to raise the walls and rebuild the House on the same
foundation and following the original design. Each day, in this
small area, over 30 construction crew labored devotedly. Within
two months, as `Abdu’l-Bahá had commanded, the structural walls
were completed in exactly the same design as that of the time of
the Báb. Soon the rooms were finished and the doors and windows
added, much as it was in the old days.
At the beginning of Sha`ban[23 October 1903], my father fell
ill and, day by day, his condition grew worse. However, until a
week before his passing, he would come each day to the site of the
construction and, although suffering from illness, spend the day
supervising all the work. He passed away on 24 Sha`ban 1321
A.H. [15 November 1903] after completing the task entrusted to
him by `Abdu’l-Bahá. It was then that the wisdom of the Master’s
statement “delay will cause a colossal catastrophe” became clear,
as my father was the only one of all the kindred who knew the
original design of the House. After his passing, the rest of the
work, consisting of painting and decoration, was completed.
Renovation of the Adjacent Mosque
A mosque is located next to the House of the Báb. Originally,
it was a Jewish synagogue. Later, it was converted to a mosque

named Khizr, and now it is known as Masjid-i-Shamshirgarha.
After the Muslims took possession of the property and converted it
into a mosque, the Báb would, before His Declaration, frequently
visit this Masjid and perform His obligatory prayers. However,
because of severe earthquakes, the building sustained serious
damage. By this time, it had become a site where the neighborhood
deposited its waste and thieves, after having robbed people’s
homes, would hide and rest most evenings. During my late father’s
time, he blocked the entrance to the mosque and the neighborhood
protested, “It is not appropriate to block the entrance to a mosque.”
To that my father replied, “My home and possessions are otherwise
at the mercy of thieves roaming this ruined building.”
During that time, a Tablet256 was revealed in honor of my late
father. It contained important directions about this mosque. A
section of this exalted Tablet reads:
...You wrote that the renovation of the House [of
the Báb] might produce a great tumult. Indeed, the
illustrious Áqá Mírzá Aqay-i-Afnán<53>, upon him be
the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, pointed out that
the provinces of Fars and Yazd have sustained multiple
calamities. Concerning this, he has beseeched prayers
at the Holy Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.
The purpose of this servant was to alleviate these
trials in order to further promote the Cause of God and
proclaim the Word of the Almighty. Therefore, I
accepted the [financial] obligations of this important
task so that, once the House [of the Báb] is renovated

256 While Mírzá Habíb was in Egypt, `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote to his father in Shiraz
about the importance of rebuilding the adjacent mosque and how this would
alleviate the trails and tribulations besetting the inhabitants of Fars; see INBMC
52:288 no. 339.

and the Point of Adoration of the jewels of creation is
rebuilt, these calamities would completely disappear.
Until now, no other in any past Age has so readily and
manifestly pledged such a commitment. The intention
was to fulfill the divine proof and reveal the honor and
excellence of that sacred and mighty House. Now that
the people of rancor have incited rebellion, wisdom
must be observed.
As such, a plan must be found to reduce and
decrease the persecution so that, God forbid, these
difficulties do not continue. Indeed, that design is this:
it must be said that a holy person who is knowledgeable
in the science of Jifr-i-Jámi`257 has calculated that,
when the ruined mosque is renovated, these persistent
calamities will be reduced and these dark clouds lifted.
Oil must be poured over troubled waters. This mosque
is honored to be next to the House and, because of this
nearness, is endowed with an influence. It is not part of
the sacred House, but stands as the landing and portal
to this Threshold.
It does not seem likely that further unrest would
result from this proposal. However, should you note
that it is indeed leading to criticism and hostility and
would raise a commotion among the people and the cry
of the inhabitants, then one must be resigned. Certainly,
wisdom is one of the divine teachings. Great care is
vital and protection essential.
Today, the most important of all things is firmness
and constancy of all in the Covenant of God. However,

257 The science of numerology and letters.

not such steadfastness that consists of words and
nothing else, much like some Muslim’s testimony of
faith. ...258
My late father never had the opportunity to renovate this
mosque. It was not until after the hallowed House of the Báb was
completely restored and its true majesty and exquisite beauty laid
bare that the Muslim neighbors thought to themselves, “Though
there is only a few of them, the Bahá’ís have built their Temple259;
and yet, we are so wanting in commitment to our Faith that we
have allowed our mosque to become ruins!” Consequently, they
assembled and sought the advice and involvement of Mírzá
Ibrahim-i-Mahallati, a very influential cleric and a prominent
mujtahid. They said to him, “This mosque is surrounded on three
sides by the homes of these people [the Afnáns] and, on another
side, it shares a wall with the Jewish homes. After sometime, the
Bahá’ís have built their Temple and a steady stream [of believers]
comes for pilgrimage to this Site. However, in its present
condition, this mosque is a disgrace to the Muslim community.”
“You must go and discuss this matter with these people,” the
Ayatu’llah responded. “If they agree, I expect that rebuilding this
mosque will be an easy job; otherwise, it would be very difficult.”
One night, a neighbor of ours, Hájí Ahmad-i-Mahut-chi [the
crinoline merchant], sent word that he wanted to meet with us and I
named a time for this meeting. We met at the house next to the
House of the Báb. After the customary exchange of pleasantries
and sharing of refreshments, he ventured to say, “You have raised
a beautiful and most delightful House. Nevertheless, it seems
wanting in one respect. Once that is also taken care of, it will be
the essence of perfection.” Imagining that he was about to be
presumptuous towards the House of the Báb, I sternly said, “What

258 The full text is in INBMC 52:294-5 no. 341.
259 In a Zoroastrian or Jewish context, ‘Ma`bad’ is a place of worship.

is the defect that has come to your notice?” “There is a ruin next to
your House,” he replied, and I said, “It is a mosque and must be
rebuilt.” Taken by surprise, he reiterated, “So, you agree with
rebuilding the mosque?” I answered, “I agree only to rebuilding the
mosque and not to any other use for the building.” With great
satisfaction, he exclaimed, “The mosque will be built!”
Later, he went to Mahallati and reported that the Bahá’ís had
agreed, and would help with the reconstruction. The Shaykh
rejoiced, “In that case, there is no problem.” To this day, I am
puzzled as to why Mírzá Ibrahim-i-Mujtahid was apprehensive of
us at that time and wanted our consent. In short, he prepared a
written petition for all who stood identified with the sacred religion
of Islam, requesting financial contributions toward the cost of
renovating the mosque. He instructed his agents to take this
petition to all the Muslim homes in the neighborhood, and each
was to mark his pledge on it. Then, he added, “You are to take the
petition to these gentlemen [the Afnáns], but should they decline to
make a contribution, do not constrain them.”
The Muslim neighbors were each content to make a small
contribution. After all the donations were collected, they came to
us. After reviewing the sheet, this servant said to Hájí Ahamd,
“Perhaps the esteemed supporters don’t know the true cost of such
a construction, as this small amount is certainly not enough.”
“Everyone has pledged according to his own ability,” Hájí Ahmad
replied. “Whatever you give is in the path of service to your
illustrious Ancestor and will show your lofty purpose.” Since it
was my desire to help realize `Abdu’l-Bahá’s wish to have the
mosque rebuilt, I pledged a sum of 300 tumans on behalf of my
brothers and myself, to be paid in three installments. When they
brought this promise to the attention of Shaykh Mírzá Ibrahim, he
raised his voice and cried, “O ye the faithful! You claim that these
people have no religion, don’t believe in the Prophets and Imams,

and don’t obey divine laws and ordinances, [but] they have, for no
reason other than the love of God, given 300 tumans! But consider,
the Sadru’l-Islam, with all his wealth and affluence, has
contributed a trifling three tumans! Theirs is the true demonstration
of faith! If these people are indeed Bábís, I only wish that you were
all Bábís!” One of the confidants of Mírzá Ibrahim, who was a
Bahá’í, reported all their discussions to us.
Soon the construction work began and a certain Nur-
Muhammad was appointed to supervise the task. He was one of the
residents of Shimshirgarha Street and had recently converted to
Islam. From the beginning, he defrauded and embezzled the funds
and was soon discovered by one of his co-workers – a righteous
and religious man and a faithful friend of ours. He reported the
matter to Mírzá Ibrahim. After it was determined that Nur-
Muhammad had indeed committed theft, Mírzá Ibrahim reproached
him, “O infidel garbed in Muslim’s clothing! How ironic that the
Bábís should pay for the construction of the mosque and you, who
claim allegiance to Islam, would steal from the endowment fund!
Should the Bábís find this out, I will never be able to look them in
the eyes because of this shame!”
In short, Hájí Muhammad-Rahim, another new convert to
Islam, was appointed to the task this time and he invited me to the
mosque and consulted about the repairs. Frequently, I would go
and help with the planning and discussions. When the work had
progressed to the point where a well and an underground cistern
were to be built, Hájí Muhammad-Rahim said to me, “You have
earned every right to this mosque. The existing well and tank are
situated behind the wall of your House and the repairs would cause
damage to your Dwelling. Therefore, we think it is best for the
well, cistern and sewage lines to be moved to the south-eastern
quarters. In its place, we will raise the pulpit and prayer-court.” I
thanked him very cordially. The promise of `Abdu’l-Bahá that

“This mosque will be the landing and portal of the blessed House”
was now fulfilled. As the construction continued, they needed
straw and wood to complete the work and I contributed the
required sum. Later, when they tried to reimburse me, I refused,
saying, “What I gave was in the path of God and my reckoning is
with Him.”
When the mosque was completed, we also donated a pulpit
that was ornamented with silver domes and calico figures, which
we had inherited from the time of Hájí Mírzá Abú’l-Qásim<11>.
This donation was reported to Mírzá Ibrahim and he expressed
great eagerness to meet us.
On the day the mosque was inaugurated, I attended with my
two brothers, Hájí Mírzá Buzurg and Hájí Mírzá Diya’. Mírzá
Ibrahim had extended a special invitation to us. He presided over
the ceremony. Beforehand, he had particularly admonished the
people and the clergy present to ensure that no one acted in a
presumptuous or insulting manner towards us. When we entered,
the crowd welcomed us with cheers and praise. They had arranged
for our seat to be next to Mírzá Ibrahim himself – the seat of honor
– and we were led to the designated spot by Hájí `Abdu’l-Rahim.
When Mírzá Ibrahim saw us, he stood full figure as a sign of
utmost respect and greeted us very affectionately. Refreshments
and water-pipes were served and then the Mírzá ascended the
pulpit. For well over an hour, he sang our praises and
complimented us. He even pointed to us and noted, “Had it not
been for the efforts of these gentlemen, this mosque would have
never been raised. They contributed in every way, from offering
money to wood to consultation, until this house of God was erected
in such a wonderful manner. Indeed, this very pulpit on which I
stand today, and from which the remembrance of God and the

sufferings of the Five Immaculate Ones260 will be recounted from
now on, is just one of their generous donations. They, surely, are
the true Muslims. One can only wish that a few more Muslims like
them were found in this town!”
In short, his expressions of acclamation knew no bounds. At
the end, he offered a prayer for us, supplicating that, in the future,
we would attain even greater success in the service of God. When
he descended the pulpit, another eulogist ascended the altar and
spoke at length and in the same vein about us.
A period passed and, because of the above-mentioned events,
we were not disturbed. Eventually, conflict among different
political factions started and the democrats, constitutionalists and
royalists began to dispute.261 In no time, this mosque became a
beehive for all the worthless elements. It ushered in an era of injury
and torment for us and witnessed a great surge in our persecution,
which continues unabated to this day. This is particularly bad
during the commemorations of `Ashura, the month of Ramadan, or
any other significant occasion, such as the marking of a martyrdom
or a festivity. [We are even persecuted] simply to raise a political
clamor, as the sole target remains the House of the Báb. However,
God is the All-Powerful, the Almighty and the Self-Sufficient. In
Him we trust.
[As an example of God’s all-preserving protection,] about a
year- and-a-half ago, one of the caretakers of the mosque
negligently allowed the heater to explode. It sat behind the wall of
the House of the Báb. Soon the roof of the mosque’s sleeping
quarters was in flames and it seemed imminent that the fire would

260 A reference to the principal Shi`ah figures, Muhammad, `Alí, Fatimih, Hasan
and Husayn.
261 For the political turmoil during the constitutional revolution of Iran and its
effect on the Bahá’ís of Shiraz, see In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 15.

spread to the Blessed House as well. However, the friends who
lived in Shamshirgarha Street and pilgrims visiting at the time
helped and extinguished the fire.
Later that day, however, the Muslims claimed that the
Bahá’ís had intentionally set fire to the mosque. {Since we were
friends, I immediately called the chief of police, the Brigadier
General Qavami, the Furughu’l-Mulk. He instructed Captain Iyzadi
to come at once and to bring several officers, as well as the district
attorney and Muhammad Nimruzi, the inspector general of the
city.}262 After a thorough investigation and examination of all the
evidence, they prepared a written report concluding that the fire
had started due to the negligence of someone in the mosque.
Fortunately, their report prevented the incident from erupting into
an attack on the Faith.
On that day, Siyyid Muhammad-i-Razavi, one of the
influential clerics of the city, came to the mosque to inspect the
situation for himself. The city’s officials were, however, able to
convince him that the fire was accidental and that the Bahá’ís had
no hand in it. It so happened that Mírzá Muhammad-Baqir-i-
Khalili arrived as well. He was a friend to the Siyyid and me, and
he spoke with the Muslims to ensure that no disturbance resulted
from the accident. Khalili was a deeply devoted Bahá’í, though he
never registered as one. On that day, without being asked, he
volunteered to pay for all the repairs, which drew the admiration of
the Siyyid and other Muslims. God works in wonderfully
mysterious ways.

262 The bracketed section was inserted by Abú’l-Qásim Afnán (private
communication May 1992).

Appendix 1
Bahá’í Historical Places in Shiraz
By
Abú’l-Qásim Afnán263
Translated by
Ahang Rabbani
1. The House of the Báb
In the Writings of the Báb, His Blessed House has been given
unique and everlasting favors. Such blessings are found in: the
Qayyumu’l-Asma’, Chapter Rukn (pillar), 35-8; Persian Bayan
4:16-8; Arabic Bayan 4:16-9; Tablet to Khal-i-Akbar at the time of
the Báb’s departure from Shiraz for Isfahan (generally understood
to be His Will and Testament); and the Kitab-i-Panj-Sha’n,
Chapter 1.
In time, it is expected that the House of the Báb will have
certain dependencies. These are called for in the following Tablet
of `Abdu’l-Bahá to the Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz:

263 This Appendix was provided by Abú’l-Qásim Afnán, based on his
“Baytu’llah-i-Akram” article. An outline of the same history is given in Khándan-
i-Afnán, pp. 204-14.

Members of the Spiritual Assembly, upon all rest the
Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
He is God.
O Servants of the Abha Beauty! Your letter
arrived and its contents were made manifest. Similarly,
your letter to the illustrious Afnán of the Lote-Tree,
upon him rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious, was
received, as well as his response to your Assembly.
These were read through very carefully and I regret the
delay in responding.
Through the confirmations of the Ancient Beauty,
may My spirit be a sacrifice unto His friends, the
Sacred House has been rescued from ruins and,
through available means, constructed in the form it had
in the past. By the affirmations of the Greatest Name,
various dependencies of that Mighty House, such as a
hospital, an orphanage, a home for the elderly and
others, will be constructed and completed in time ...264
During the early part of this century, the residence next to the
House of the Báb was also bought and made part of the Blessed
House. Three of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets that give detailed
instructions about this are important and should be mentioned here.
He is the Most Glorious.
O ye illustrious Afnán! A few months ago, a
prayer was revealed beseeching protection and divine
favors for all the Afnán of the sanctified Tree and

264 The full text is in INBMC 52:379-80 no. 427.

praising the qualities of the offshoots of the sacred
Tree, but news of its arrival has not been received. Nor
has there been any news of receipt of 1000 tumans sent
for the purchase of the adjacent home. Let me know
what you have done about that house and how much
has been received through [Hájí] Amin. But do so
urgently. If you do not have time to write, then ask
someone else to report for you. It has been a while
since any news or a letter from the Afnán of Shiraz has
been received.
I am surrounded by assaults from much mischief,
difficulties and calumnies and, because I must write to
the whole world, not a moment is left to me. However, I
write with my own hand so that you realize how deeply
I care for this important project. The point is, God
willing, the house next to that Sanctified Court will be
bought, so no one can be verbally or physically
disrespectful towards it. This house will be like a
fortified foundation and a secure and permanent
perimeter.
Through the protection and favors of the Blessed
Beauty, we remain steadfast and determined, and
beseech mighty confirmations and great blessings for
the illustrious Afnán of the sacred Lote-Tree. Upon
them all rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
`Abdu’l-Bahá `Abbas.265
The second Tablet of `Abdu’l-Bahá about the purchase of the
adjacent house follows:

265 The original text is in INBMC 52:368-9 no. 412.

He is the Most Glorious.
O firm offshoots of the sacred Lote-Tree! Your
latest letter indicated that the promised house was
purchased on 22 Ramadán [9 June 1920] for 2,600
tumans cash and 175 tumans mortgage; that is, for a
total of 2,775 tumans. Through whatever means
possible, God willing, the final 775 tumans will be
raised and forwarded to you. Prepare exact financial
accounts of this transaction so that records may be
kept.
Regarding the property title: we bought the House
of Baghdad twice, but lost it in both cases. Once it was
purchased in the name of Áqá Siyyid Ahmad and,
another time, in the name of Hájí Husayn. After each
one passed away, the House was lost to us. Therefore,
you must act in such a way that the same difficulty is
not encountered in the future.
Upon you rest the Glory of God, the Most
Glorious.
26 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1339 A.H. [10 September 1920],
Haifa, `Abdu’l-Bahá `Abbas.266
The third Tablet of `Abdu’l-Bahá states:
Shiraz. The illustrious Afnán of the sacred Lote-
Tree, the honored Áqá Mírzá Buzurg, upon him rest the
Glory of God.

266 The orginal text is in INBMC 52:364 no. 408.

He is the Most Glorious.
O ye offshoot of the divine Lote-Tree! Your letter
dated 20 Muharram 1339 A.H. [4 October 1920] was
received and its contents caused great joy and felicity
because it conveyed the news of the specified house.
Praised be God that efforts have been made and that
house has became part of the estate of the Blessed
House. These days, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s joy is about things
that relate to the Exalted One, the Primal Point, may
my spirit be sacrificed unto Him, or to the Blessed
Threshold of Bahá’u’lláh, may my spirit be a sacrifice
for His servants.
Glorify your God and thank Him for having
favored you with such bounty and allowed you to
render such service! Two thousand tumans were sent
through the honored Amin and, praised God, it has
arrived. Through divine benevolence, I cherish the hope
that you will be made successful in all your
undertakings. The account that you sent was clear and
accurate.
`Abdu’l-Bahá `Abbas, 20 Rabí`u’th-Thání 1339
A.H. [1 January 1921], Haifa.267
2. Birthplace of the Báb
This house was situated between the houses of Hájí Mírzá
Siyyid Muhammad, known as the Khal-i-Akbar, and Hájí Mírzá

267 The orginal text is in INBMC 52:369-70 no. 413.

Siyyid `Alí, surnamed the Khal-i-A`zam. The illustrious Báb was
born in the upper room in the northwestern corner of the
building.268
In the original design, the western flank of the house
consisted of: the main entrance, which opened onto the street
behind the house; three rooms and two corridors on the lower
floor; and two rooms on the second floor. The central room on the
lower floor was called ‘ursi’ and had five doors and a ceiling as
high as the entire building. This room was situated in the center of
the building and two rather large corridors connected to either side
of it. In addition, another room opened onto each of the corridors
and had an entrance on the opposite side as well. At the end of
each corridor, two spiral staircases connected the lower floor to the
upper one and opened onto what was known as ‘two Gushvarih’.
The rooms on the upper floor were situated directly above the ones
below.
Originally, this house was a property of Áqá Mírzá `Alí<3>,
the son of Áqá Mírzá `Abid. When he died, it was passed onto his
four children, each having an equal share. When the business
activities of the older son of Áqá Mírzá `Alí (namely, Hájí Mírzá
Abú’l-Qásim<11>) flourished, he bought a few contiguous, smaller
buildings, situated in the Maydan-i-Sháh quarter of Shiraz. He
decided to demolish these and build a new, much larger and
luxurious home in their place and to move his family there from
the Bazar-i-Murgh quarter. His brother, Hájí Mírzá Siyyid
Hasan<10>, was a young man and moved to Yazd about that time.
He had no interest in his inherited share of his ancestral home.
Zahra Bagum, the older daughter of Áqá Mírzá `Alí, lived with her
husband, Áqá Mírzá Zaynu’l-`Abidin. Moreover, the youngest
child, Khadíjih Bagum, the wife of the Báb, lived in the Blessed

268 Three years after the Báb, Khadíjih Bagum was also born in this house.

House. This left the house where the Báb was born vacant and, as
such, it was leased to Hájí Muhammad Mihdy-i-Hijjab, the
maternal half-brother of these four siblings.
Hájí Hijjab died in 1304 A.H. [1887]. As a favor to his
nephews, Hájí Mírzá Abú’l-Qásim left this house to the children of
the deceased. A year later, the Hájí himself passed away and was
soon followed by two of his sons. His second oldest son, Áqá
Mírzá Abu’l-Hasan<38> left Shiraz for `Ishqabad and Samarqand,
where he spent most of his life, and eventually went to Haifa where
he passed away in 1921. As such, the only legal and rightful heir of
this house was Áqá Siyyid Muhammad-Husayn-i-Afnán<37>, but
he was unable to counter the claims of Hijjab’s family and lost his
right to the property.
Eventually, these occupants sold the house to a carpet-seller
who was among the most determined enemies of the Faith.269 His
occupancy of the house, so close to the houses of the two uncles,
caused many problems. Eventually the municipality demolished
the eastern section of the house because it was in the path of Sháh-
Chiraq Street. At that time, the Spiritual Assembly tried hard to
buy the house, but even then, out of spite for the Faith, the owner
did not agree to sell. He donated it to the Mihdiyyih and placed a
sign [of the Mihdiyyih] on the house. Finally, during the expansion
of the Sháh-Chiraq Circle, the whole building was demolished.
3. House of the Khal-i-A`zam
`Abdu’l-Bahá named this house a Mashriqu’l-Adhkar. It
ranks among the most sacred Bahá’í places in Shiraz, claiming
singular spiritual significance. After the passing of His father, the

269 See In the Land of Refuge, Chapter 16. It outlines Hasan Balyuzi’s visit to
Shiraz and gives an example of this enemy’s sedition.

Báb took up residence in this house, where He lived until the age
of 15. After His return from Mecca, He was harmed and tormented
by the Sahib-Ikhtiyar, the Governor of Fars, and suffered
imprisonment. He was freed only after the Imam-Jum`ih intervened
and the Khal-i-A`zam offered a surety. Further, it was agreed that
the Báb would stay in the house of the Khal and not associate with
those who sought His audience. These sanctions proved effective
and, over time, there was a measure of calm. Eventually, favorable
conditions allowed for regular meetings between the Báb and His
followers in this very house. It was here that such disciples as
Mullá Husayn, Siyyid Husayn-i-Yazdi, Mulla `Abdu’l-Karim-i-
Qazvini, Mullá Shaykh `Alíy-i-`Azim and other learned Bábís such
as Siyyid Javád-i-Karbala’i were admitted to the sanctified
presence of the Báb. It was also here where the celebrated Vahid-i-
Darabi attained the Báb’s luminous audience and the Commentary
on the Surih of Kawthar was revealed for him, enabling him to
drink his fill from the chalice of certitude.
After the Báb’s mother left for Karbala, Khadíjih Bagum left
the House of the Báb and took up residence here. She stayed for
many years and was able to welcome and entertain such honored
guests as Munirih Khánum. After the martyrdom of the Khal-i-
A`zam, this house was left in the custody of his wife [Hájíyyih
Bibi Jan-Jan] and his son, Mírzá Javad<23>. After them, two-
thirds of the property was claimed by non-Bahá’í heirs, who
decided to sell their portion in 1327 A.H. [1909]. Áqá Siyyid
Muhammad-Husayn-i-Afnán<37> communicated this news to the
Holy
Land.
Consequently,
`Abdu’l-Bahá
instructed
the
Muvaqqaru’d-Dawlih<99> to buy these shares in the name of the
Bahá’í community. He carried out the Master’s instructions
through Hájí `Abdu’r-Rahman-i-Kumpani and the house came into
the Faith’s possession. In a Tablet addressed to Áqá Siyyid
Muhammad-Husayn-i-Afnán<37>, the beloved `Abdu’l-Bahá
states:

You wrote regarding the house that was the
dwelling of the illustrious branch of the sacred Tree,
the martyred uncle, Áqá Siyyid `Alí – may My spirit be
a sacrifice unto him. That house was the residence of
the Holy Dove and situated next to the House of the
luminary of the Supreme Concourse, the Primal Point –
may My spirit, My essence and My whole being be a
sacrifice unto Him. Therefore, that house is considered
among the Holy Places, deserving utmost attention and
consideration.
Convey My warmest greetings to the honored
celestial twig, Mírzá `Alí-Muhammad Khán [the
Muvaqqaru’d-Dawlih] and inform him on my behalf,
“O wondrous branch! With great attention and
determination, try to secure that sacred house from the
hands of the non-believers and make it into a
Mashriqu’l-Adhkar. However, if this would incite an
uproar among the rabble, then it is sufficient to have
the sacred house in our possession and to quietly
organize meetings where the friends, in the morning
and at dusk, can offer prayers and meditations.
Through the blessing of this magnificent deed, the
hearts will turn to the Merciful Lord, exaltation will be
raised, rapture will surround all, the fire of God’s love
will glow brilliantly and unsurpassed excitement will
envelop the friends. In other lands, the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkar has brought about the outpourings of divine
favors, caused the hearts to overflow with immense joy
and felicity, and bestowed divine radiance on all souls.
In Shiraz, however, utmost wisdom and prudence must
be observed so that non-believers do not find out. Even
among the friends it should be called a spiritual

gathering. Otherwise, the lowbrows will conspire to
destroy it and provoke fear in hearts...”
After a while, the house became the gathering point of the
teachers and promoters of the Faith, and general meetings, Holy
Day celebrations, deepening classes and institutes were held there.
Moreover, it sheltered the friends who visited from other cities and
stayed there. As such, this house became known as the center of
Bahá’í activities of Shiraz and attracted the attention of foes.
In 1324 Sh [1945], the Shiraz municipality ordered that Lutf-
`Alí Khán Zand Street be extended to the vicinity of Sháh-Chiraq.
In the process, they had to demolish all the buildings in their path.
This house was one of those properties and four-fifths of it was
demolished during the roading. However, at that time, the
remaining one-fifth of the house was left untouched. This consisted
of the western section, which included the room where the Letters
of the Living would gather, the sleeping quarters of the Khal, and
the storage room next to it. Also, the lower floor and the tunnel that
led from the house of the uncle to the house of Áqá Mírzá `Alí -
that is, the house where the Báb was born and raised - remained
standing. With the instructions of the Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz,
a wall was constructed in front of this remaining section and a
custodian appointed to look after it.
In 1348 Sh [1969], the rest of the house – mentioned in the
Báb’s Will and Testament – and the house of the Khal-i-Akbar
were demolished at the instigation of Sharifi, the custodian of
Sháh-Chiraq, with the approval of the Sháh. The land was added to
the Sháh-Chiraq Circle.

4. The office of the uncle of the Báb in the Saray-i-Gumruki
remains to the present day and stands in the same form and shape it
had during his time.
5. The house of Mírzá Zaynu’l-`Abidin is currently in the hands of
non-Bahá’ís, though it has been preserved unchanged.
6. Bazar-i-Vakil, Masjid-i-Vakil and the stone pulpit ascended by
the Báb have all endured to the present day.
7. `Imarat-i-Khurshid, where Husayn Khán interrogated the Báb,
was destroyed in the process of making Zand Avenue.
8. Kazirun Gate has changed. The section that stood at the time of
the Báb has now become part of the street and is surrounded by
other buildings.
9. The school attended by the Báb was in Qahviyih Awlíyá. It has
changed considerably and is not used very often.
10. Hammam-i-Bazar-i-Murgh, used by the family of the Báb and
His Holiness, no longer exists.

Appendix 2
Afnán Family Genealogy
The following tables provide a genealogy for the Afnán
family.  The present translator is grateful to Abú’l-Qasim Afnán,
Hasan Afnán, Firdaws Afnán and Maryam Rabbani for their
generous help in preparation of this genealogy.






Appendix 3
Pages From A Diary
[As a young man commencing his teaching career, Hushmand
Fatheazam spent over a year in Shiraz during 1949-50 – a period
that he spent in close association of Mírzá Habíb and other
members of the Afnán family. He has kindly shared several pages
of his personal diary and a translation appears herewith. The
Translator.]
10.10.1328 Sh [Saturday, 31 December 1949]:
Qásim Khán-i-Baydá’yí
The honored Abú’l-Qásim Afnán would relate an anecdote
told by his father:
The mayor of Bihbahán and its surrounding region, Qásim
Khán-i-Baydá’yí, was a Bahá’í of long standing and had attracted
consideration of then governor-general of the province of Fárs,
Sultan-Uvays Mírzá, the Ihtishamu’d-Dawlih270, who after the
passing of his father, Farhád Mírzá, had received the title of the
Mu`tami’d-Dawlih. Qásim Khán owned a precious and delicate
golden waterpipe that was decorated with gold coins draped on its
sides. One day, the Ihtishamu’d-Dawlih visited him in his home
and praised his host’s water-pipe. When the Governor had
returned, Qásim Khán sent that waterpipe and some other pieces of
jewelry to him as gifts. This act of generosity greatly impressed the

270 For biography see Farsnamih-i-Nasiri, vol. 2, pp. 849-56.

Governor and from then he was always looking for an opportunity
to repay Qásim Khán’s kindness.
Some time later, one of the maid-servants of Qásim Khán had
stolen two boxes from the inner quarters of his house, one of which
contained some jewelry and the other held copies of various
Tablets and other Bahá’í Writings. The servant who had taken
these boxes concealed the one with jewelry under the kitchen’s
stove and as the contents of the second box was of no use to her,
cast it outside the house through a window. A woman who was
passing by in the early morning hours on her way to the mosque
found the box and having opened it discovered therein the Tablets
and even a supplication written by Qasim Khán to the presence of
the Master. After considering the contents, she had taken the box
and its insides to an ostentatiously pedantic mujtahid known as
Siyyid `Alí-Akbar Fál-Asírí271 who had been looking for an excuse
to plunder the possessions of Qasim Khán.
Deeply thrilled with the prospects, the Siyyid set out
immediately to visit the Ihtishamu’d-Dawlih and appraised him of
the details. He also added that in accordance with the documents in
the box, Qasim Khán had become a Bábí and, therefore, it was
imperative to put him to death. Pretending to be in agreement, the

271 Fál and Asír are two neighboring villages near Bushihr, (Tarikh Zuhuru’l-
Haqq 5:373 has incorrectly referred to him as Fál-H.asírí). He had married the
daughter of the celebrated Mírzáy-i-Shirazi and as such wielded much influence.
During the Tobacco Revolt of 1891-2, he incited the people of Shiraz to sedition
and on hearing this news, Tihran exiled him to Iraq. However, his departure caused
much uproar in Shiraz which was eventually calmed through the efforts of Mírzá
Muhammad-Rida, the Qavamu’l-Mulk. About two years later the Siyyid was
allowed to return to Shiraz where he resumed his iniquitous activities. This ill-
tempered, arrogant divine was most prejudiced against the Faith and as noted In
the Land of Refuge, he caused the martyrdom of a number of believers: three in
1869, two in 1889, and one in 1892. For biography see, Bamdad, Sharh-i Hal-i
Rijal-i Iran, vol. 2, pp. 430-33.

Governor afforded much courtesy towards the Siyyid and stated,
“Kindly leave the box and its content with me and I will study
them more intently this evening. Should I find that there is truth to
this allegation, I will order his arrest and his possessions can then
be confiscated.” The Siyyid was elated with this decision and took
his leave.
In the meantime, Qasim Khán had become extremely
perturbed over the incident – particularly anxious over the box of
the Tablets having gone astray – when the Governor summoned
him and informed him that the Siyyid had come to locate such a
box, which was forthwith returned undisturbed to its rightful
owner. Qásim Khán’s worries were somewhat lessened, but he was
still concerned over other schemes that the Siyyid may have in
mind. It was then that Muhammad-Yusif Khán, a nephew of Qasim
Khán, who was a brave and courageous Bahá’í, informed his uncle,
“Do not be dismayed. I will take care of this problem.”
That very day Siyyid-i-Fál-Asírí sent a message to Qasim
Khán, “You must wear your boots around your neck and
barefooted come to my house and tearfully repent [your allegiance
to the Bahá’í Faith]; otherwise, your blood will be spilled.”
Muhammad-Yusif Khán advised his uncle, “Reply to the Siyyid,
‘Stop your inquisition. Neither are you Ibn-i-Ziyad, nor are we
Imam H.usayn. You had better not step out of your bounds, or
else!’”
This retort had mortified the Siyyid who immediately sought
an audience with the Ihtishamu’d-Dawlih, but upon arrival at his
residence was told by the latter’s servants that His Excellency was
ill and not receiving visitors. Moreover, when he had returned the
next day, he was again informed that the Governor had gone
hunting and was indisposed. And yet on the third day, he was told,
“The Governor is suffering from a severe cold and unable to see

anyone.” This time, however, upon hearing this further excuse, the
Siyyid raised his voice and overstepped the bounds of propriety,
when the Governor, informed of his indecent behavior, summoned
him within, but unlike the previous occasion, let him sit by the
entrance and paid him no heed. Eventually, the Siyyid began to
speak and asked for Qasim Khán’s box when the Prince became
angry and rebutted, “I too keep copies of the Old and New
Testaments at home. Does this, therefore, mean that I am a Jew or a
Christian? Why are you disturbing the lives of honest government
ministers?” In such wise, he had expelled the Siyyid from his
presence and in order to ensure that no further disruptions ensued,
had then issued orders that it be announced throughout the city that
none were permitted to cause trouble for other citizens.
In short, as a result of the kindness and generosity of Qasim
Khán and the wisdom and prudence of the Ihtishamu’d-Dawlih,
this matter which had the potential of becoming a great disturbance
was concluded.
10.14.1328Sh [Wednesday, 4 January 1950]
Remembering one of my friends, I went to the House of the
Báb tonight and at that sacred Threshold prayed that whatever is
best for this friend would come to pass. Afterwards, I visited the
honored [Mírzá Habíb] Afnán and as usual enjoyed listening to his
memories. Now I commit to paper stories that he related that night
or on other occasions.
Hájí Muhammad-Baqir-i-Qazvini:

Hájí Muhammad-Baqir-i-Qazvini, a brother of [Muhammad-]
Javad-i-Qazvini (the brother-in-law of Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí272),
through his brother, who in those days resided in the Holy Land
and was addressed by the Ancient Tongue as the Ismu’lláhi’l-
Júd273 [The Name of God, Bounty], had asked Bahá’u’lláh to be
given wealth. In response, Bahá’u’lláh had said to Javad, “Write
your brother that such a thing is not in his interest.” Hájí
Muhammad-Baqir had asked a second time, and once again,
Bahá’u’lláh had answered through Javad, “Write him that it is not
in his interest.” This time Hájí Muhammad Baqir had written his
brother, Javad, “Go and on my behalf and take hold of the hem of
His blessed garment and tearfully supplicate wealth for me.” This
time Bahá’u’lláh had responded, “Jinab-i-Jud, even though it is not
in his interest, We have bestowed it upon him. Write him to come
to Istanbul and commence trading.”
[Hájí Muhammad-Baqir did as bidden, and] since it was war
time and the demand and price for the cotton goods had soared
enormously, he became so engaged in this commerce and was
profiting with such enormity that he had no time to even look after
his daily accounts. It was about this time that the celebrated
Shaykh Salman arrived and he had with him a contribution from
one of the believers in Iran in form of a check that needed to be
cashed by Hájí Muhammad-Baqir and the sum delivered to
Bahá’u’lláh. Therefore, the Shaykh went to Hájí’s place of
business and presented this check. The Hájí responded, “I have no
time now, return on the morrow.” On the following day,
inattentively, he repeated the same reply. This manner of treatment

272 Bahá’u’lláh’s unfaithful son.
273 For details about Muhammad-Javad-i-Qazvini and his subsequent Covenant-
breaking activities consult, God Passes By, p. 247 and p. 319 and Taherzadeh, The
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 165 where the latter author maintains his title was
“Ismu’lláhu’l-Javád”. Júd and Javád are from the same root and both essentially
mean “the generous.” Javad-i-Qazvini transcribed many Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh.

went on for a week until finally Shaykh Salman protested, “Hájí,
this is not mine, but God’s money!” In response to which the Hájí
had brought his fist down on his cash box and answered with pride
and conceit, “My god is in this box!”
Having become enraged, the Shaykh, without cashing the
check, left at once and proceeded to the Holy Land. On the first
day of attaining the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, still being deeply
angered by what had transpired, and with his customary dialect, he
stated, “For forty years You have ruled as God, and yet, do not
know upon whom You should bestow riches!” Bahá’u’lláh had
smiled and said, “Jinab-i-Shaykh, what has happened?" After
hearing the details from Salman, Bahá’u’lláh had replied, “Be
assured that the same God Who bestowed riches on him, can claim
it back."
Before long, the above-mentioned Hájí became destitute to
the point that he was bereft of the evening meal.274 [Abú’l-Qásim
Afnán adds that he heard from his father, Mírzá Habíb, “Hájí
Muhammad-Baqir was in Cairo and to earn an income would sell
wooden spoons for a small coin, but no one would buy any from
him!”]
Shaykh Salman’s troubles in Istanbul
It was reported to the Iranian Ambassador in Istanbul that
there was an Arab who conveyed people’s missives to `Akka and
from thither returned with Tablets for the recipients. As such the

274 For a variation of this same episode see, Muhaddirat, p. 417-8. Ishraq-
Khavari maintains that this story is recorded in the unpublished narrative of Hájí
Abu’l-Hasan Ardikani and it was he who visited the Hájí in Istanbul and reported
his neglectful manners to Bahá’u’lláh Who in turn had commanded the wrath of
God upon the Hájí.

Ambassador instructed that whenever this courier arrived in
Istanbul, he should be taken into his presence. The honored [Mírzá
Habíb] Afnán had heard from Salman the rest of the event that
occurred thusly:
When I arrived at the city’s gate, one of the
officials stopped me and I inquired as to why I was
being seized. “The [Iranian] Ambassador has asked for
you,” he responded. When we arrived at the embassy,
the Ambassador said, “Since the eventide has advanced,
for now put him and his haversack in an empty room
until tomorrow morning.”
After I entered the room, I said to them, “I am an
old man and frequently will get thirsty. Kindly bring me
a parch of water.” They brought the water. I was
bewildered what to do with the missives I carried [for
Bahá’u’lláh]. If I burned them, what would I do with
the ashes? If I tore them, where would I hide the
shreds? Suddenly it occurred to me that the best course
of action was to shred them into small pieces and to
swallow them with the aid of water. I proceeded to do
so. I remember that I was very upset over swallowing
one of the letters that had been penned on a very thick
paper. When morrow came, my bag was inspected and
no traces of letters were found and, therefore, they had
to release me.
When I had attained the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, I
said to Him, “O Blessed Beauty! I ate all the missives.
Now its up to You to answer the friends!”
From that date, Shaykh Salman never traveled by the way of
Istanbul.

11.12.1328Sh [Wednesday, 1 February 1950]:
Mírzá Husayn-i-Ashchi
Today the honored Afnán spoke about Mírzá Husayn-i-
Ashchi, and related:
During the time when Bahá’u’lláh had excommunicated
Khadim’u’llah275, Mírzá Husayn-i-Ashchi had said, “It was not
right for someone who had served for forty years to be discarded
and excommunicated as such.” When this matter reached
Bahá’u’lláh’s ears, He was greatly perturbed and excommunicated
Ashchi as well. After sometime, Mírzá Husayn had grown
repentant and had implored Bahá’u’lláh’s forgiveness, but it was
not granted.
Finally, one day, [in desperation], he had thrown his two
young sons on Bahá’u’lláh’s feet and had stood ready to sacrifice
them when the Blessed Beauty had prevented him by saying, “The
children have committed no sin.” Bahá’u’lláh then revealed a
prayer for Mírzá Husayn and instructed him to take it at nighttime
into the wilderness and to chant it there. He was further enjoined
by Bahá’u’lláh to divide his possessions into two parts: one part to
be given to his children, while the other distributed among the
needy. The honored Afnán related that Mírzá Husayn had a large
store and he would use an accurate scale to divide all his goods,
such as grains and the like, into two, so that he would have acted in
full accord with His blessed instructions.

275 Lit, the Servant of God, a title of Mírzá Áqá Jan, Bahá’u’lláh’s amanuensis.

Eventually, the Blessed Beauty discounted his misdeed and
forgave him.276
11.12.1328Sh [Wednesday, 1 February 1950]:
The Pearl Rosary
The honored Afnán related this evening:
When we were living in Egypt, there was a rumor among the
believers that Mírzá Badi`u’llah had rented a house in Haifa and
was living a life of utmost luxury and lust with a Protestant
woman277. It was also said that `Abdu’l-Bahá owed one thousand

276 At the instructions of Shoghi Effendi, during the last months of his life,
Ashchi dictated his fascinating memories of Bahá’u’lláh, and this important
unpublished narrative is available at the following internet site: Áqá Husayn
Ashchi, Tarikh-i Vaqa’i`-i Baghdad va Islanbul va Edirne va `Akka (Lansing, MI:
H-Bahai, 1997) at http://h-net2.msu.edu/~bahai/bharab.htm#Aqa Husayn.
277 Presumably this is a reference to Rosemand Templeton. She was a Protestant,
but not from a conventional background as she grew up on an Owenite commune
in Indiana, and had a very unconventional childhood associated with social causes
and experimental lifestyles that left her rather unstable. Her biographer notes that
she seemed to have had developed a “surrogate son” relationships with a number
of young men, including the Italian consular agent in Haifa, and while Mírzá
Badi`u’llah is not mentioned, he fits the pattern. Templeton had loaned money to
the latter and to Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí, which she tried to collect from `Abdu’l-
Bahá. She claims that she attempted to mediate the dispute between `Adu’l-Baha
and Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí around 1897-8, and that they both agreed to her
mediation – however, because of her intense personal relationship with Mírzá
Badi`u’llah, she was hardly an unbiased mediator. According to her, the Master did
not cooperate with her investigation and that she decided in favor of Muhammad-
`Alí’s claims. It seems that the main issue at stake was the distribution of funds
among family members. The present translator is grateful to Richard Hollinger for
providing much of the above information. In his private correspondence,
December 1997, Hollinger further noted, “The Kheiralla papers has some related,
unpublished, documents; and that, much of the information about Templeton’s role
with `Abdu’l-Bahá and the rest of His family comes from corresponds that Al King
had acquired from the Archives at the Bahá’í World Centre.” Richard Hollinger

liras to Salim Sam`an who was the most obstinate enemy of the
Blessed Beauty and the friends would add, “If indeed the matter of
the debt is true, why then Mírzá Badi`u’llah, who apparently is
under the guardianship of the Master, is permitted to live in such
excess?” These kinds of rumors were heard until we went on
pilgrimage [in 1897].
Upon arrival I asked Mírzá Jalal, a son of the Sultanu’sh-
Shuhada, whom I knew as a close friend and confidant from Egypt,
“The friends state such things. What is the veracity of the matter?”
“Do not ask me,” he responded, but I pleaded with him on the
account of our friendship and longstanding relation. He finally
said, “You have to take an oath on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s hair that what I
am about to tell, you will not divulge to others.” I promised. He
explained, “After the ascension [of Bahá’u’lláh] there was a pearl
rosary in the Blessed Beauty’s box which Mírzá Badi`u’llah stole
and sold to Salim Sam`an and with its proceeds lives the luxurious
life that you hear about.” This conversation took place between the
two of us at a time prior to the public announcement of the
excommunication of these people.278
I was thoroughly bewildered. Eventually, during the latter
days of my pilgrimage, one day I saw the Master emerging [from
His house] destined for the pilgrim-house. Along the way, I
attained His presence. In those days the Master was most
disheartened by the deeds of the Covenant-breakers. He greeted me
most kindly and among other things, said, “By the will of God, you

also commented, “Some of the first Western pilgrims alleged that they had seen
Mírzá Badi`u’llah drunk, but she responded that she knew him to be the essence of
sobriety and moderation in his personal habits.” For some of Templeton’s
correspondences on this subject, see, Facts for Behaists. trans. and ed I.G.
Kheiralla, Chicago: Kheiralla, 1901; and for her autobiography see, Rosamond
Dale Owen, My Perilous life in Palestine, London: George Allen and Unwin.
1928.
278 See Chapter 4.

are about to depart, but you must leave what you have observed by
the shore and return forthwith.” His meaning was to be understood
that the events of the Holy Land were not to be discussed with the
friends elsewhere. At that time, I asked, “My Master, there are
some mistaken thoughts among the friends that I think..." and
before I could complete my thought, the Master turned towards me,
His countenance flushed with anger, He retorted, “Such as?!”
Immediately though, He continued to walk away. From His
reaction, I became thoroughly overwhelmed, felt completely
paralyzed and was on the verge of collapse. After He had become
aware of my disconsolate state, He returned, and to encourage me,
He put both His blessed hands on my shoulders and in a lowered,
lovely tone, said, “Well done, well done! Tell me what is being
said and what has occurred?” “In Egypt it is rumored,” I
responded, “that despite Your great expenses, Mírzá Badi`u’llah
who is under Your sponsorship, lives a life of cupidity and merry-
making, whereas the Master carries a debt of one thousand liras.
The friends would say that such excessive expenditures contradict
the burden of such a deficit. While here, I have heard that Mírzá
Badi`u’llah has sold that precious item (i.e. the pearl prayer-beads)
which was destined to be visited by the kings and monarchs who
would bow before it, and from its proceeds, he lives in his present
libidinous and lascivious lifestyle. Above and beyond this, if the
news of the sale of such a precious article reaches the ear of [the
Sultan] `Abdu’l-Hamid, surely he would grow in avidity and
would cause further troubles.” The Master replied, “Well done,
well done! You are in the right. However, Jinab-i-Afnán, you must
help the friends to understand these things and to share them
descriptively, and not complainingly.” Then, He took me along and
related:
This pearl rosary and a ruby ring originally
belonged to Mírzá Musa Jawahiri, the son of Mírzá
Hadi, and were both in that box. One day in Baghdad,

Mírzá Musa attained the presence of the Blessed Beauty
and asked that I [i.e. `Abdu’l-Bahá] be sent forth to
divide the estate and heirloom of the late Mírzá Hadi
between him and his sister.
In accordance with His blessed instructions I went
forth with Mírzá Musa and within three days had
completed His divine command. On the first day, I
divided the properties, and on the second, distributed
the commercial inventories and on the third day, I
apportioned the jewelry that was left to them. Whatever
was Mírzá Musa’s share, he brought before the Blessed
Beauty and presented the same to Him, which He
categorically refused. Mírzá Musa insisted, until
Bahá’u’lláh eventually said unto him, “Alright, I will
accept, but will bestow it back upon you.” “Then permit
me to gift it to the Master,” he asked. Bahá’u’lláh
refused.
Finally,
after
persistent
supplications,
Bahá’u’lláh allowed him to present the rosary and the
ring in my name.
The ring was sold by Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí in
the course of his journey in India and spent as travel-
money. And Mírzá Badi`u’llah wasted the rosary.
You are to relate these details to the friends so that
misunderstandings are alleviated, but must do so
descriptively, not complainingly.
11.12.1328Sh [Wednesday, 1 February 1950]:
The Commissions of Inquiry in `Akka

Another incident that was related that night by the honored
Afnán was about the eventful days of the Master:
About the same time that the Afnán had arrived in the Holy
Land for their pilgrimage, because of the unfounded complains of
Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí to the Mutisarrif Pasha, each day for
several hours `Abdu’l-Bahá was called in for questioning. The
honored Afnán related:
One day His blessed Person came home later than usual, and
when He arrived, it was evident that He was most perturbed.
`Abdu’l-Bahá informed us, “Today, this man (Mírzá Muhammad-
`Alí) has done such a deed and written in such wise that Mutisarrif
Pasha wanted to use his statement as evidence to uproot Us
completely. He has written, ‘Whatever our illustrious Father had
left as inheritance, has been confiscated by the Effendi [i.e.
`Abdu’l-Bahá] and He is depriving us of our rightful share.’
Today, the Mutisarrif said to me, ‘This doing of Yours is at
variance with an Islamic hadith that we have, ‘Verily, the Prophets
and Messengers do not inherit, nor do they have an inheritance.’ If
Your claim is indeed of truth, then it is at considerable incongruity
with what Your brother has reported.’”
`Abdu’l-Bahá continued relating, “This statement of his
pierced my heart like a sharp knife. However, the confirmations of
the Blessed Beauty were ever-present and I responded to him, ‘Our
illustrious Father has left a Will and Testament, penned and sealed
in His own hand, and therein written, ‘Although the Realm of Glory
hath none of the vanities of the world, yet within the treasury of
trust and resignation we have bequeathed to Our heirs an excellent
and priceless heritage. Earthly treasures We have not bequeathed,
nor have We added such cares as they entail. By God! In earthly
riches fear is hidden and peril is concealed. Consider ye and call
to mind that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur’an:

‘Woe betide every slanderer and defamer, him that layeth up
riches and counteth them.’’279” `Abdu’l-Bahá added, “The
Mutisarrif was then thoroughly silenced and said no more.”
11.12.1328Sh [Wednesday, 1 February 1950]:
Tablets and Sacred Relics
Among other blessings that were bestowed upon me during
my sojourn in Shiraz was beholding of the [original] Tablets and
sacred relics. It so happened that one day the esteemed Abú’l-
Qásim Afnán showed me some of the Tablets revealed in honor of
his family – some of which belonged to his esteemed father – and
other important artifacts. In truth the Afnán have in their
possession Tablets and artifacts that bewilders and astonishes the
mind!
In addition to the unique and wondrous Tablets which this
servant has transcribed, and, God willing, will be copied in totality,
they own pieces of the Hidden Words in the hand of Mírzá
Muhammad-`Alí280 which in truth are a marvel and most
astonishing. Apparently these number about twelve pieces. Each
was written on excellent quality letter-size paper, displaying a
variety of styles and arts of calligraphy, and each exceedingly more
beautiful and precious than the others. God willing, these will
adorn the archival-museum that in the future will be built in close
proximity of the House of the Báb so that all can benefit and enjoy
visiting them. There was also another piece of calligraphy in the
hand of the aforementioned person, which is truly a pleasure to

279 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 219.
280 While the whole of Bahá’u’lláh’s family possessed a most remarkable
calligraphic abilities, Mírzá Muhammad-`Alí was something of a prodigy and
many exquisite examples of his work are displayed at the Mansion of Bahji and
International Bahá’í Archives.

behold. And yet there was a blessed Tablet [in the same hand], that
I took a copy of and have kept in a separate notebook....
In addition, there were several artifacts of Mishkin-Qalam
that he had produced with the tip of his nail. His honor
[Habíbu’llah] Afnán would relate that the nail on the middle finger
of his right hand was long, and Miskhkin-Qalam would hold a
paper between his thumb and the middle finger, and then using his
left hand, would move the paper [thereby imprinting impressions].
In this manner he would exhibit the sacred Verses in an embossed
fashion on the paper. Verily, it is a most miraculous achievement
and is accomplished in such distinguished and beautiful way that
one finds it hard to believe that this particular vestige has been
produced in such a manner. Particularly the word “al-Hikmat”
[wisdom] that was protuberant on two pieces of paper – the letters
are so precisely identical that they give the false notion that the
word is copied over itself or a printing devise used to produce such
impressions.
His honor [Habíbu’llah] Afnán related the following incident
spoken by Mashkin-Qalam:
When the Isle of Cyprus was occupied by the
British forces, and I [i.e. Mishkin-Qalam] was released
from exile, I boarded a ship destined for `Akka. The sea
was very turbulent and I noticed the captain paced the
deck in a most agitated condition as he wondered what
may befall us. In order to alleviate his distress and to
calm him a little, I called him forth and showed him the
portrait I had just drawn using my fingernail. He found
it unbelievable that under such unfavorable conditions
and using only my nail, I was able to produce such
exquisite and matchless work of art. Therefore, I said to
him, “If you do not believe it, stand still and observe.”

He consented. Within a few minutes, I produced a
drawing of his face through making impressions on
paper by my nail only, which caused him extreme
excitement. He invited me to his quarters and asked if I
was willing to draw the impressions of his wife and
children during the few days of the journey. I complied
with his request.
During the final days that I was on board, he
proposed, “Come with me to England where I will
contract you for three thousands liras a year.” “I would
not be prevailed upon even for a hundred thousands
liras,” I responded, “as I have a Beloved Whose
nearness I would not barter for all the riches of the
earth.”
Allusion to Áqá Mírzá Aqay-i-Núri’d-Dín Attaining the
Presence of the next Manifestation
One night his honor Afnán spoke the following about the
way that the Faith of God was proclaimed:
When the Blessed Beauty resided in Daru’s-
Salam281, in a Tablet addressed to Áqá Mírzá Aqay-i-
Núri’d-Dín voiced the joyous tiding that he would
attain the presence [of the Manifestation of God] in
course of the next Dispensation. Áqá Mírzá Áqá was
bewildered as to how such a thing would transpire as
everyone thought that His Manifestation would occur in
the year of Mustagháth282.

281 Lit. The Abode of Peace, a title of Baghdad.
282 See, The Persian Bayan 2:16 and 7:10. For a summary translation consult

However, at that time there was also a certain Hájí
Muhammad from the province of Yazd who used to tell
believers of the likelihood for Him [i.e. Bahá’u’lláh} to
declare Himself in the year of nine. A number of friends
found this hard to believe though.
After the declaration of the Blessed Beauty, when
Nabil-i-Zarandi was instructed to bring the news of the
new Cause to the friends in Shiraz, everyone readily
accepted, except that same Hájí Muhammad, who even
arose to injure the believers. The friends in those days
had no fear of harassment or death through the hands of
the enemies and, therefore, decided to kill this man.
However, soon the Hájí grew cognizant of their design,
and in the middle of the night took his flight from
Shiraz.
Reconstruction of the House of the Báb
... Also concerning the reconstruction of the House of the
Báb to its original form, the esteemed Afnán had the following to
share:
During the time of the upheavals in Yazd and Isfahan and at a
time when the whole of Iran was stirred in turmoil, Áqá Mírzá Áqá
received a Tablet revealed in his honor by `Abdu’l-Bahá in which
he was instructed to, without a moment’s delay, reconfigure the
House of the Báb to its original design. In this Tablet, `Abdu’l-

Selections from the Writings of E.G. Browne, p. 336 and pp. 389-90. Mustaghath
has a numerical value of 2001 and certain Bábís interpreted this to mean that the
Promised One of Bayan was to appear in two millennia.

Bahá had emphatically stated, “Procrastination will cause great
difficulties.”
In those days one of the influential divines of Shiraz, a
certain Siyyid Mihdiy-i-Kaziruni, lived contiguous to the House of
the Báb and this man was a fierce adversary of the Faith and had
become a source of much worries for the illustrious Afnán. From
the latter’s perspective, it seemed impossible to commence the
restoration of the Blessed House with the presence of this
prejudiced and obstreperous divine. To illustrate Siyyid Mihdi’s
bigotry and umbrage, the honored Afnán related, “The Siyyid
noticed one day that his servant had tied his Bandari mule to the
doorknob of the Blessed House, and as a result of this he became
exceedingly angry. With utmost inclemency he ordered the servant
to severe the donkey’s bridle since [having touched the House] it
was now rendered adulterated.283” He had also issued an standing
order for his servants to throw all their garbage and refuse in front
of the entrance to the House of the Báb. However, the illustrious
Afnán who by the instructions of `Abdu’l-Bahá had just returned to
Shiraz, exerted to treat him with forbearance, and had advised their
own attendants not to reciprocate this man’s doings and instead
each day to sweep and clean the front of his entrance as well.
The kindness of the Afnán had caused Siyyid Mihdi to grow
a bit embarrassed of his own doings, especially as he had noticed
that his new neighbors who were publicly known as Bahá’ís were
frequently visited by respected citizens of Shiraz such as the
Nayibu’t-Tulliyyih [the deputy custodian] of Sháh-Chiraq and
many
more.284
Therefore,
increasingly,
he
would
show
consideration and tried to conceal his hostilities and antagonism.

283 In Shi’a jurisprudence, certain things such as hogs, dogs and infidels are
considered impure.
284 During this period, many important officials of Fars, including some of the
highest-ranking political appointees, were Bahá’ís.

Thusly, some time passed, until the Naw-Ruz [of 1902]
arrived. The Afnán and his brothers sent word to the Siyyid that
they intended to pay him a visit on this joyous occasion. Before
their arrival, however, the Siyyid informed his visitors who ranked
among the divines and the `ulamas that his forthcoming guests
were
much-respected
citizens
and
none
should
speak
presumptuously towards them. In fact, after the Afnán had arrived,
one of the Siyyid’s students had spoken with innuendo, but the
Siyyid had immediately reproached him and told him to remain
silent. The illustrious Afnán noted that on that day, to mark the
blessings of the Naw-Ruz, the Siyyid gave each of his guests a
silver coin and he too was the recipient of one.
Three days later, the Siyyid sent a message that he was
desirous to repay their visit. The honored Afnán arranged for a
very warm and extensive reception for him, and as they knew that
the Siyyid enjoyed tea and waterpipe, prepared the finest tea and
the choicest tobacco for his visit. The Siyyid was then entertained
warmly in the House of the Báb and left feeling most appreciative
of his host’s hospitality. The honored Afnán even ordered some of
the tobacco that the Siyyid had particularly enjoyed to be sent to
his house. The conduct of the Afnán resulted in their relationship
to take a friendly turn, to the extent that whenever the Siyyid’s
household was in need of an item, they would not hesitate to come
to the Afnán.285
It was around this time that the honored Mírzá Núri’d-Dín,
the father of the Afnán, commenced restoration of the House of the
Báb. In accordance with the emphatic instructions of the Master,
this task was carried out with exceptional rapidity, utilizing many
workers and crew at the site. This attracted the attention of many,

285 The significance of this comment is that the Siyyid no longer considered the
Afnán impure, and by extension, infidels.

especially the students and the divines who frequented the Siyyid’s
home and they had complained to their host. However, the Siyyid
had defended the Afnán family and even in response to the
objections of a certain Hájí Hidayat, who was a contemporary of
the Báb and was well acquainted with details, had severely
retorted, “Do people have no right to clean and renovate their
home after being away for years?” In short, through these wise
dealings, the divine confirmations of the Blessed Beauty and
persistent attention and guidance of `Abdu’l-Bahá, the structural
work on the House was completed within two months.
After the passing of the illustrious Núri’d-Dín, the wisdom of
`Abdul-Baha’s emphatic directions became evident as Áqá Mírzá
Aqay-i-Núri’d-Dín was the only one who knew the original
structure and plans of the House of the Báb.

Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “Lawh-i-Hizar Bayti.” In Majmu’ih Makatib-i-
Hadrat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 52,  Iran National Bahá’í Manuscript
Collection. Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, [c
1977], pp. 551-605.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Majmu’ih Makatib-i-Hadrat-i-`Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol.
52,  Iran National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection. Tehran:
Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, [c 1977].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makatib-i-`Abdu’l-Bahá. 3 vols. Cairo: Matba’a
Kurdistan al-‘Ilmiyya, A.H.1330 [1910-1921].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Memorials of the Faithful, translated by Marzieh
Gail. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
Abadi’i, Mírzá Qábil; Tarikh-i-Abadih va Tavabi`; MS, n.d.
Manuscript in private hands.
Afnán, Abú’l-Qásim; “Baytu’llah-i-Akram”, `Andalib magazine,
pp 16-27.
Afnán, Abú’l-Qásim. Black Pearls in the Household of the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh. 2nd ed. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1999.
Afnán, Mírzá Habíbu’llah. “The Báb in Shiraz.” Translated by
Ahang Rabbani. Translations of Shaykhi, Bábí and Bahá’í Texts
(East Lansing, Mich.) no.11 (January 1998).  http://www.h-
net.org/~bahai/trans/vol1/Bábshir1.htm
Afnán, Mírzá Habíbu’llah. Tarikh-i Amri-yi Shiraz: History of the
Cause
in
Shiraz.
East
Lancing,
Mich.
H-Bahai,
2000.

http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/arabic/vol4/shiraz/shiraz.htm.
Translated by Ahang Rabbani, In the Land of Refuge,
(forthcoming) Kalimat Press.
Afrúkhtah, Yúnus. Khátirát-i nuh sálah. Rev. ed. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1983.  Translated by Riaz Masrour, Memories of
Nine Years in `Akká. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003.
`Andalíb, `Alí Ashraf Láhíjání, Mírzá. Díván-i-`Andalíb. [Tehran]:
Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, [1969].
The Báb. “Excerpts from the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’” In Selections
from the Writings of the Báb. Compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice and translated by
Habíb Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976.
The Báb. Inna al- bayán. [Tehran?, s.n., 1947].  [Kitáb-i Bayán-i
Fársí].
The Báb. Kitáb-i Bayán-i Fársí. Tehran: [s. n., n. d.]
The Báb. “Lawh-i Vasaya.” (Will and Testament) In Majumu’ih-i
Athar-i Hadrat-i A’la. Vol. 64, Iran National Bahá’í Manuscript
Collection. Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, [c
1977], pp. 95-102.
Bahá’u’lláh. Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A'lá. 7 vols. Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i
Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, 1963-1968.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i Mubárak: Introduction
and Provisional Verse Translation.” Translated by Franklin Lewis.
Bahá’í Studies Review (London) vol. 9 (1999/2000), pp. 101-57.

Bahá’u’lláh; Collection of Tablets revealed in honor of Áqá Mírzá
Áqáy-i-Núri’d-Dín; MS, n.d.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Tablet of Visitation for the Wife of the Báb,
Khadíjih Begum.” Translations of Shaykhi, Bábí and Bahá’í Texts,
Ahang Rabbani, (East Lansing, Mich.) no.9 (Oct. 1997.)
http://www.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/trans/vol1/khadija/khadija9.htm
Bahá’u’lláh. “Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih (Words of Paradise).” In
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice and translated by Habíb Taherzadeh, with the assistance of
a committee at the Bahá'í World Centre. 1st pocket-sized ed.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, pp. 55-80
Bahá’u’lláh. “Kitáb-i-‘Ahd (Book of the Covenant).” In Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Pp. 217-223
Bahá’u’lláh. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1992.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Lawh-i-Ard-i-Bá (Tablet of the land of Bá ).” In
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Pp. 225-
228.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Lawh-i-Dunyá (Tablet of the World).” In Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Pp. 81-97.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Lawh-i-Kármil (Tablet of Carmel).” In Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Pp. 1-5.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Lawh-i-Ziyarat-i Khadijí Bagum.” (Tablet of
visitation for Khadijíh Bagum) In Khándán-i-Afnán sadra-yi

Rahmán, by Muhammad-‘Alí Fayzí. Tehran: Mu’assasih-’i Milli-yi
Matbu‘at-i Amri, 127 B.E. [1971], pp. 184-6.
Bahá’u’lláh. Majmu’ih Athar-i Qalim-A’la. Vol. 51. Iran National
Bahá’í Manuscript Collection. Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi
Matbu’at-i Amri, [c 1977]
Bahá’u’lláh. Ode of the Dove (Qasídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih). Translated
by Juan R. I. Cole. [s.l.]: Bahá’í Library Online, [n.d.]. Internet
document at http://bahai-library.com/provisionals/ode.dove.html
Bahá’u’lláh. “Qasídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih.” (Ode of the dove) In Áthár-
i-Qalam-i-A'lá. Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri,
1963-1968, vol. 3, pp. 196-215.
Bahá’u’lláh. “Tablet of Visitation.” In Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection
of Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and `Abdu’l-Bahá.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991, pp. 230-233.
Bahíyyih Khánum: The Greatest Holy Leaf: A Compilation. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1982.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1980.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í
Faith. London: George Ronald, 1970.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh:
With Some Historical Background. Oxford: George Ronald, 1985.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. Khadíjih Bagum, Wife of the Báb. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1981.

Bámdád, Mahdí. Sharh-i Hál-i Rijál-i Irán dar Qarn-i 12, 13, 14
Hijri. 4 vols. Tehran: Kitabfurushi-i Zuvvar, 1347-1353 Sh. [1968-
1974].
Bayda, Abú’l-Qásim. Tarikh-i-Bayda. Manuscript in private hands.
Browne, Edward G. The Press and Poetry of Modern Persia:
Partly Based on the Manuscript Work of Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali
Khán “Tarbiyat” of Tabríz. Reprint. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
1983.
Fasa’i, Hasan ibn Hasan. Tarikh-i-Farsnamih-i-Nasiri. Tehran:
Intisharat-i Kitabkhanah-i Nisa’i, 1312-1314 [1895-1897]). Two
volumes.
Fayzí, Muhammad-‘Alí. Khándán-i-Afnán sadra-yi Rahmán.
Tehran: Mu’assasih-’i Milli-yi Matbu‘at-i Amri, 127 B.E. [1971].
Hamadání, Mírzá Husain. The Táríkh-i-Jadíd, or New History of
Mírzá `Alí Muhammad the Báb. Translated by Edward Granville
Browne. Cambridge: The University Press, 1893.
Haydar-`Alí, Hájí Mírzá. Bahai Martyrdoms in Persia in the Year
1903 A. D.  Chicago: Bahai Publishing Society, 1904.
Iran National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection [INBMC].  103 vols.
Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, [1970s]. Note:
This is a limited set of Xeroxed manuscripts produced from copies
in the Archives of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of Iran.
Ishráq Khávarí, `Abd al-Hamíd, ed. Má`idih-’i Ásmání. 9 vols.
Tehran: Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, 128-129 B.E.
[1971-1973].

Ishráq Khávarí, `Abd al-Hamíd. Núrayn-i-Nayyirayn. Tehran:
Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, 123 B.E. [1966].
Jalál al-Dín Rúmí. The Mathnawī of Jalālu'ddīn Rūmī. Edited and
translated with commentary by Reynold A. Nicholson. 8 vols.
London: Luzac, 1925-1940.
Keddie, Nikki R. Sayyid Jamal ad-Din ‘al-Afghani’: A Political
Biography. Berkeley:  University of California Press, 1972.
Málmírí, Hájí Muhammad Táhir. Táríkh-i shuhadá-i-Yazd. 2nd ed.
Karachi: Mu’assasah-í Matbú`át-i Pákistán,[1979].
Mázandarání, Fadil Mírza Asadullah.. Tarikh-i Zuhur al-Haqq
(History of the Manifestation of Truth). Vols.1-9.  Digital
facsimile.
East
Lansing,
Mich.:
H-Bahai,
1998-1999.
http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/index/diglib/mazand1.htm
Metelmann, Velda Piff. Lua Gestinger: Herald of the Covenant.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.
Momen, Moojan. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844-1944:
Some Contemporary Western Accounts. Oxford: George Ronald,
1981.
Nabíl-i-A`zam
(Mullá
Muhammad-i-Zarandí).
The
Dawn-
Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í
Revelation. Translated and edited by Shoghi Effendi Rabbani. 2nd
ed. Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970, 1974.
Nicolas, A.L.M.; Seyyed Ali Mohammad dit le Báb. Paris, 1905.

Nur, `Izzatu‘llah. Khatirat-i Muhajiri az Isfahan dar Zaman-i
shahadat-i Sultan ash-Shuhada’va Mahbub ash Shuhada’. Tehran:
Mu’assasih-‘i Milli-yi Matbu’at-i Amri, 128 B.E. [1972].
Rabbani, Ahang. “Conversion of the Great-Uncle of the Báb.”
World Order (Wilmette, Ill.) vol. 30, no. 3, (Spring 1999), pp 19-
38.
Rabbani, Ahang. “Efforts to Preserve the Remains of the Báb: Four
Historical Accounts.” Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 11, (2003), pp.
83-95.
Rabbani, Ahang. “The Family of Vahid Darabi.” Research Notes
in Shaykhi, Babi and Bahá’í Studies, vol. 7, no. 1 (April 2004).
http://www.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/notes/vol7/darabi.htm
Rabbani, Ahang and Naghmeh Astani.  “The Martyrs of
Manshad.” World Order (Wilmette, Ill.) vol. 28, no. 1 (Fall 1996),
pp 21-36.
Salmaní,
Muhammad-`Alí.
My
Memories
of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Translated by Marzieh Gail. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1982.
The original text is published electronically as Sharh-i Hal, East
Lansing,
Michigan:
H-Bahai,
1997,
at:
http://www.h-
net.org/~bahai/arabic/vol1/salmani.htm
Samandarí, Taráz  Alláh. Moments with Bahá’u’lláh, Memoirs of
the Hand of the Cause of God Tarázu’lláh Samandarí, translated
by Mehdi Samandari and Marzieh Gail. Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1996.
Sayyáh, Muhammad-`Alí. Khátirát Hájj Sayyáh. Edited by Hamíd
Sayyáh. 3rd ed. Tehran: Amír Kabír, 1359 [1980].

Sears, William and Robert Quigley. The Flame. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1972.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. New ed. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1974; [1999].
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
Shoghi Effendi. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1955.
Stockman, Robert H. The Bahá’í Faith in America. Vol. 1, Origins,
1892-1900. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985.
Sulaymání, `Azizu’lláh. Masábih-i-Hidáyat. 9 vols. Tehran:
Mu’assisih Matbú‘át Milli, 124-32 B.E. [1967-1975].
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1992.
Taherzadeh, Adib. Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 4, Mazra`ih &
Bahjí 1877-92. Oxford: George Ronald, 1987.
Táhirzádeh, Habíb. “Dr. Youness Afrukhtih.” Bahá’í World
(Wilmette) vol. 12, 1950-1954 (1956), pp. 679-681.
Yazdi, Ali M. Blessings Beyond Measure: Recollections of
`Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1988.