Dr. Ali-Kuli Khan Nabil
(b. Ca. 1875 – d. 1965)




Ali-Kuli Khan with his wife Madame Florence Breed Khan/bahaiforms.com

Dr. Ali-Kuli Khan signed the enclosed document on October 24, 1965 when in route to the
regularly held Sunday morning Baha’i meeting.  This copy he presented to Terry Randolph, a
fellow member of the Washington DC Baha’i community, in appreciation for transportation
services provided to and from various Baha’i activities.

During this time Dr. Khan shared a residence with his niece, Touran Araghi.  They resided at 1945
Calvert Street in the North West section of Washington, DC, very near to Connecticut Avenue.
She, of the Moslem Faith, cared for her uncle into his advanced years and until his passing on April
7, 1966.  Dr. Khan was then approximate eighty-seven years of age, though some sources place him
at ninety or beyond.  Closed casket funeral services were conducted at the Phyllis Wheatley Young
Women’s Christian Association (YWCA), 901 Rhode Island Avenue, NW.  The body was interred
at Rock Creek Cemetery, Webster Street and Rock Creek Church Road, NW, Washington DC.

Ali-Kuli Khan with his niece Touran Araghi/gaytoday.com

The Washington DC Baha’i administrative body designated Terry Randolph as its emissary to meet
with Dr. Khan’s niece and seek possession of Baha’i materials thought to be in her possession since
the death of her uncle.  However when he visited her to inquire about this possibility the response
received was “No, there is nothing here”.  It would be highly unlikely that a man of Dr. Khan’s
statue as former amanuensis of Abdu’l-Baha, former official representative of the Persian
government, and one who served the Baha’i Faith all his life, would not have had in his possession
just prior to his death historical documents and perhaps other materials relevant to the Baha’i
community, a probable fact that would immediately belie her response.  But without substainial
proof, and in procession of no verified will or other official documents, the Baha’i administrative
body decided it was without recourse and decided not to pursue the matter.



Ali-Kuli Khan with his wife Madame Florence Breed Khan in front of the White House in 1913/bahaisworldwide.blogspot.com




Ali Kuli Khan, Charge d’affaires of the Persian Legation/pinterest.com

Ali Kuli Khan and his wife Madame Florence Breed Khan with Abdu’l-Baha/pinterest.com

In 1965 just a few short months prior his death the Washington DC Baha’i community organized
and hosted an event to both celebrate Dr. Kahn’s birthday and honor him for his lifetime
achievements.

The enclosed document should be considered as an addition to other recovered materials
representing Dr. Ali-Kuli Khan’s prolific writings.  It could well be the only surviving document
from his latter years spent in Washington DC.  Notice that the cover page contains Dr. Khan’s
signature.  It reflects a slight but noticeable hand tremor, and is most likely the result of advanced
age.


Terry Nelson Randolph
Las Pinas, Philippines
April 7, 2013


Enclosure

Spontaneous Talks by Dr. Ali-Kuli Khan, At his Sunday Morning Classes, Answering Some of his
95 Questions, 1956; Zoroaster: The Prophet of Ancient Iran and His Book, Zend’Avesta

Reference

Background information with photograph of Ali-Kuli Khan as a young man
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/nabil-al-dawla

Early Washington DC Photograph/First Baha’i Center with Baha’i youth (the young lady with hair
plats is Ouida Coley when in her teens). http://gaytoday.com/people/011303pe.asp

Baha’i Stories
http://bahaistories.blogspot.com/2010/11/ali-kuli-khan-becomes-one-of-abdul.html

1906 Pilgrim Notes of Ali-Kuli Khan
http://www.paintdrawer.co.uk/david/folders/Research/Bahai/Abdul-
Baha/Khan%20Pilgrim%20Notes%201906.htm

Ali-Kuli-Khan with his-wife
http://bahaiforums.com/history/9362-photo-mirza-ali-kuli-khan-his-wife.html


*Note:  Materials associated with Dr. Khan are accessible through various websites and other
sources.  Photographs used herein were obtained from several such sources and appropriately
credited.