THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1966-06-05

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

36.1 The historic and dazzling accomplishment last year of a feat in pioneering unparalleled in the annals of our Faith should not blind us either to the need of filling the remaining gaps which are still open, or to the ever-present necessity of reinforcing the settled territories with a well- conceived program of consolidation.

36.2 The tasks that lie ahead of us in this particular field of Bahá’í activity are as follows: 1.As pointed out in the Ri ḍván Message, the settlement of the minimum number of pioneers called for under last year's goals should be completed.  A recent letter has been sent to all National Assemblies responsible for supplying manpower, calling on them to find and dispatch as soon as possible the pioneers to the few remaining territories for which no offers have as yet been received and to expedite the completion of those projects which are in process.

2.The pioneers who have already settled or are settling in their posts, particularly in virgin and unoccupied territories must be reminded that their movement to their goals is far from being a short stay designed to class a particular territory or island as opened, or label it as having received one or more pioneers, even if, in some cases, new believers native to the land have been enrolled.  It is basically and clearly intended to establish the Faith of God securely and firmly in the hearts of people of the area and to ensure that its divinely ordained institutions are understood, adopted and operated by them.  The perseverance of the pioneers in their posts, however great the sacrifices involved, is an 68act of devoted service, which, as attested by our teachings, will have an assured reward in both worlds.  The admonitions of the Guardian on this subject are too numerous to cite and amply demonstrate the vital nature of this clear policy.

3.The pioneers and settlers, as well as the National Assemblies responsible for the administration of the Faith in areas assigned to them, should ever bear in mind that in the initial stages of the establishment of the Faith in any territory, the obscurity surrounding the work of the pioneer or the local Bahá’ís is in itself a protection to the Faith.  Patience, tact and wisdom should be exercised.  Public attention should not be  attracted to the Faith until such time as the believers see the Faith touch more and more of the hearts of receptive souls responding to its Divine Call.

4.As the numbers fixed last year for settlers in goal areas were minimum figures, each National Assembly should carefully assess the needs of the territories assigned to its jurisdiction.  If more pioneers are needed for any of these territories, a full report should at once be sent to the House of Justice, including recommendations as to numbers required and preferred nationalities of the prospective pioneers.

5.The practical aspects of these pioneering projects are of vital importance.  The financial responsibilities assigned under last year's goals do not end because the pioneer has arrived at his post.  These responsibilities continue until the objectives are permanently and securely attained.  In any case where the National Assembly assigned the responsibility is unable to meet its obligation, application to fill the ascertained need should at once be made to the House of Justice for assistance from the Deputization Fund.

36.3 We assure you of our prayers at the Holy Shrines that the friends in every land may rise above their local and personal problems, realize the needs of the Cause of God at this juncture of its inexorable onward development, and offer on the altar of sacrifice their measure of service and assistance with complete self-abnegation and wholehearted devotion to His infinitely precious Cause.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

37 Message to Youth—Three Fields of Service

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]