THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

16 June 2019

The International Board 
    of Trustees of Ḥuqúqu’lláh

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

We are delighted to welcome you to the Holy Land as newly-appointed members of the International Board of Trustees of Ḥuqúqu’lláh for the first meeting of the current term. It is a measure of the advance made by the institution of Ḥuqúqu’lláh and the promise for future progress that we have decided to increase the duration of your term to five years to allow you to operate according to long-term strategies and associated lines of action to further the implementation of the law of Ḥuqúqu’lláh. Beginning with the next round of appointments, the term of the Regional and National Boards will also increase to five years.

As described in our recent Riḍván message, the development of the Bahá’í community is accelerating rapidly, its capacity is rising, and its ability to draw on the energies of more of its members is increasing. A new reality is emerging as large numbers engage in community-building activities within neighbourhoods and villages and many among them subsequently embrace the Faith. This bodes well for a greater level of participation by the Bahá’í community in the marvellous law of Ḥuqúqu’lláh.

To assist you with your consultation on the responsibilities that lie before you as Trustees of the Right of God, we are attaching an extract from our letter to you dated 21 June 2016, which elaborates on concepts of fundamental importance to the further development and functioning of this institution. We hope that careful study of this extract and reflection on the experience of your institution will not only clarify the various aspects of your work but will also assist you as you seek to further enhance your sense of common purpose and collective effort at the start of your new term. No doubt, early in this new term you would wish to review the efficacy of your current organizational arrangements in light of the growing complexity of your functions. In view of the evident progress you have made, you are encouraged to continue giving thought to further enhancing your interaction with the Regional and National Boards of Trustees. It is our hope that your deliberations over the next days will be imbued with the creative forces present in these sacred precincts.

Rest assured of our prayers in the Holy Shrines that your dedicated efforts may attract divine confirmations.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]