THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1992-11-19

At this auspicious time, when bahá’ís throughout the world are celebrat-

ing the day of the covenant of bahá’u’lláh, we hail the participants in the

first National congress of the bahá’ís of bangladesh, who have gathered to

pay tribute to the life-giving Teachings of our faith and to enhance their role

in the service of their country and the promotion of the unity of mankind.

The wonderful achievements of your community in recent years have

demonstrated that the people of bangladesh are endowed with great spiri-

tual capacity enabling them to recognize divine truth when it is presented

to them. once enlisted under the banner of the faith of bahá’u’lláh, they

become highly motivated and arise in the promotion of the word of god

and the cause of peace in this world. This augurs well for the progress and future prosperity of that nation.

The bahá’í community of bangladesh has already established itself in the

annals of the formative Age of our faith as a staunch pillar of devotion and

selfless endeavor in the service of the cause, and this has been an inspiration

to many. The freedom they enjoy in pursuing their beneficial activities is a credit to the farsightedness of the leaders of that country who are seeking to

guide that nation into a brighter future.

one of the great challenges before the people of bangladesh, and the

bahá’í community in particular, is to foster better understanding and amity

between the various sectors of the population and to promote its social and economic development. The bahá’ís must show by their actions that the

Teachings of bahá’u’lláh not only create harmony and convey deep spiritual

insights, but they also offer practical solutions to many problems of this age and are able to effect the much needed spiritual transformation, beginning

at the grassroots level and embracing all strata of society.

you may be assured that prayers will be offered at the Sacred Threshold

for the success of this historic gathering, and that we will beseech bahá’u’lláh

to grant success to the people of your country in their struggle for spiritual and material progress.

143.2

143.3

143.4

143.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

0144

Message to the Second Bahá’í World Congress

23 November 1992144-1

To the followers of bahá’u’lláh attending the second bahá’í world congress

dearly loved f riends,

with eager hopes and thankful hearts, we acclaim the convocation in

New york of the second bahá’í world congress on the occasion of the

worldwide celebration of the centenary of the inauguration of the covenant

of bahá’u’lláh. That so wide a diversity of the human race as you represent

has assembled at this commemorative event is in itself history-making and

is, indeed, an impressive demonstration of the potency and potential of the covenant as the instrument designed by the lord of the Age for the

unification and pacification of the nations and peoples of the earth. we

rejoice with exceeding gladness, for your coming together in such variegated array is an affirmation of the efficacy of this sacred legacy—a fresh assur-ance that, despite recurrent trials and turmoil, its world-redeeming, world-

revolutionizing purpose will ultimately be entirely realized.

our emotions are deeply stirred as we reflect on the remarkable circum-

stances which heralded the birth of bahá’u’lláh’s covenant. melancholy

and hopeful images alternatingly flash upon our mental screen: the tragic may night a century ago of the passing of bahá’u’lláh, the Supreme mani-

festation of god; the soul-crushing scenes of the grief-stricken many who

converged on bahjí to pay their respects to his memory; the atmosphere

of abject desolation caused by the loss of one who had been father and

incomparable friend to all. but the setting of the Sun of bahá gave rise

to the appearance of the orb of the covenant. Thus the majestic figure

of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá came to impress itself indelibly upon the consciousness of

the faithful, consoling their spirits and brightening their outlook, because

in bahá’u’lláh’s book of the covenant, the kitáb-i-‘Ahd, this beloved Son

was appointed his Successor and the center of the covenant. Thus was set

in motion on the morrow of bahá’u’lláh’s ascension the divine process that

will, during the course of the bahá’í dispensation, guarantee the fulfill-

144-1. This message was delivered via satellite during final day of the second bahá’í

world congress, held in New y ork city, 23–26 November 1992.144.1

144.2

1992–1993  •  T h e  h o l Y Ye a r

05ment of his principal purpose for humankind, namely, the realization of its

oneness.

The initial momentum of this process was to gather particular force in

the west as the acts of the beloved master dramatically revealed. it was dur-

ing his epic journey to North America that ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, recently released

from imprisonment, impressed upon the early occidental believers the piv-

otal importance of the new covenant; and it was in New york city that he

chose to disclose to his disciples the special characteristics of that covenant

and his true station as its appointed center. The occasion won for this

leading city of the western hemisphere the surname, city of the covenant.

where else, then, but this signally blessed metropolis could serve as the

fitting venue for the commemoration which has so marvelously brought you together?

This congress is the major occasion during the holy year for the evoca-

tion of a memory which enables us all to appreciate how, through the dy-namic person and peerless office of the center of the covenant, the will of

both the Abhá beauty and his herald has been translated into viable means

for actualizing the unity of mankind and building a world civilization. con-

sider, for instance, how on the very night in may 1844 when he declared

his prophetic mission, the báb addressed a summons to the peoples of

the west that they issue forth from their cities to teach the cause of god.

has that summons not thoroughly been fused with the world-embracing

purpose of bahá’u’lláh, becoming a shining reality within the framework of

the Administrative order, the child of the covenant—an order which the

báb anticipated and extolled in his writings? you have come to New york

to reflect on such triumphant realities with due solemnity and spiritual joy.

how heartwarming and noteworthy that the proceedings of this momen-

tous gathering will be enhanced by the presence of the three hands of the

cause of god, tried and true upholders of the covenant chosen by Shoghi

effendi under his authority as the guardian of the faith appointed in the

will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá! we can never forget that by their self-

less adherence to duty during the period of their custodianship following

the sudden passing of Shoghi effendi, the hands of the cause preserved the

wholeness of the community of bahá, while at the same time guiding the

members of that expanding community to the victorious conclusion of the guardian’s Ten y ear g lobal p lan. Nor can we cease to appreciate their con-

tinuing, tireless services in the propagation and protection of our glorious

faith. we are particularly pleased that our representative to the congress is 144.3

144.4

144.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

06one of these high-ranking officers, the consort and helpmate of our beloved

guardian who herself attained the presence of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

it was Shoghi effendi who called for the first world congress which jubi-

lantly marked the one hundredth anniversary of bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of

his divine mission. with admirable resourcefulness the hands of the cause

planned and executed it. That unforgettable occasion in london some three

decades ago, coming at the end of the Ten year crusade, affirmed for the

bahá’ís themselves that the faith of bahá’u’lláh had truly emerged as a

world religion with a world community. Now at this moment, throughout the bahá’í world, we are engaged in another centennial observance for the

purpose not only of celebrating the unique history of the covenant, but

also of proclaiming abroad its aims and unifying power. The second world

congress now convened is the mainspring in the launching of worldwide

commemorative activities which will promulgate the covenant as the axis

of unity for all humankind and broadcast its qualities for reforming human

society. moreover, through these activities and other extended measures, the

community at all levels—local, national, continental and international—

will exert immense effort to spread across the planet the Name of the world

reformer, b ahá’u’lláh, that hearts may be attracted and minds illumined.

but we speak of a proclamation which has more to do with deeds than

words; and in this regard, we must, everywhere in our world community, attain a new awareness of the urgency of the times and of our sacred duties

toward the promised one of All Ages. A special expectation is therefore in-

vested in you who are attending this focal event in the city of the covenant.

for these four special days of commemoration, may you all strive as never

before to appreciate more adequately the life-transforming character and unific spirit of the covenant, and to immediately demonstrate this height-

ened appreciation in the spiritual attitude you show among yourselves. may

you do this with the resolve that what you practice towards each other dur-ing these few days will henceforth be sustained in your relations with all oth-ers elsewhere. Such active resolution will endow the second world congress

with the radiant power to impress upon the public the incontrovertible fact

that the bahá’í faith is a world religion worthy of its claims and, hence, of

public recognition.

in a Tablet to the bahá’ís in New york, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá expressed a hope

which it is propitious to recall on this opportune occasion: “i eagerly antici-

pate the day,” he wrote, “when New york will become a blessed spot from

which the call to steadfastness in the covenant and Testament of god will 144.6

144.7

144.8

1992–1993  •  T h e  h o l Y Ye a r

07go forth to every part of the world. . . .” Surely, through the auspicious cir-

cumstances afforded by this congress, you will attempt thus to gratify his

Spirit in the Abhá realm, so that from his retreats on high you may receive

the benediction of h is abiding good pleasure and strengthening grace.

in our supplications at his blessed Shrine we shall entreat him gracious-

ly to secure and in abundance vouchsafe to the entire community of his

dedicated lovers the favors and confirmations of the lord of the covenant.

145

Message on the Centennial of the Day of the Covenant

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]