THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

22 April 2003

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

As you know from the letter dated 31 January 2003 from the International Convention Office, the Universal House of Justice commissioned the production of a video related to the Five Year Plan, which was to have been presented at the Ninth International Bahá’í Convention. Additionally, one complimentary copy was to have been given to each National Spiritual Assembly in either English, Spanish or French. In this connection, you were asked to provide the International Convention Office with your preferences in terms of language and VHS cassette format.

We are pleased to inform you that plans are under way to send to each National Assembly, by airmail, one copy of the video in the appropriate language and format. It is hoped that the copies will reach you in time for viewing at your forthcoming National Conventions. A transcript of the video in English is enclosed for those National Assemblies that wish to translate the text into languages other than Spanish and French.

The video, entitled “Building Momentum”, focuses on seven clusters in various parts of the globe, all of which are working in the forefront of Bahá’í activity. The segment on each cluster highlights some distinct aspect of the growth process, so that, in their entirety, the seven stories give a vivid picture of the coherence achieved by the lines of action called for in the Five Year Plan. The House of Justice encourages you to show the video early in the Convention proceedings, with the hope that it will inform the deliberations of the delegates and bring joy to their hearts.

In addition to the video, a few other items were to have been provided to the delegates at the International Convention. These included a small foldout booklet, based on a display created for the occasion, and a brochure entitled “For the Betterment of the World” prepared by the Office of Social and Economic Development at the Bahá’í World Centre. Arrangements are being made to send copies of the booklet and brochure to each National Assembly, and we will be writing to you about this matter in due course. The Office of Public Information will soon be contacting you regarding the distribution of the volume “The Bahá’í World 2001–2002”, copies of which were also to have been made available at the Convention.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]