MINIMALISM
A Bridge between
Classical Philosophy
and the
Bahá’í Revelation
William S. Hatcher
JUXTA PUBLISHING LTD. (HONG KONG)

Dedicated to John Compton and Philip Hallie,
who first opened up for me the world of philosophy,
and to W. V. Quine, whose clarity of mind has
showed all of us the way through the labyrinth.

M I N I M A L I S M
BY THE SAME AUTHOR
The Foundations of Mathematics (1968)
Absolute Algebra (1978)
The Science of Religion (1980)
The Logical Foundations of Mathematics (1982)
The Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion (1984; 2002)
Logic and Logos: Essays on Science, Religion, and Philosophy (1990)
The Law of Love Enshrined (1996)
The Ethics of Authenticity (1997)
Love, Power and Justice (1998; 2002)

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
William S. Hatcher is a mathematician, philosopher, and educator. He
holds a doctorate in mathematics from the University of Neuchâtel, Swit-
zerland, and bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Vanderbilt University in
Nashville, Tennessee. A specialist in the philosophical interpenetration of
science and religion, he has, for over forty years, held university positions in
North America, Europe, and Russia,
Professor Hatcher is the author of over fifty monographs, books, and articles
in the mathematical sciences, logic, and philosophy. He is one of eight
Platonist philosophers listed for the second half of the twentieth century in
the highly regarded Encylopédie Philosophique Universelle (Presses
Universitaires de France, 1992).
ABOUT THE COVER
This sketch of an eye is based on a sketch in the notes of René Descartes. The
eye, as the conduit through which we view and understand our environ-
ment, serves as a metaphor for the nature of human perception and our
understanding of the universe and our own existence.

Copyright 2004, William S. Hatcher.
ISBN 988-97451-2-7
This book has been produced with the consent of the original authors or rights
holders. Authors or rights holders retain full rights to their works. Requests to
reproduce the contents of this work can be directed to the individual authors
or rights holders directly or to Juxta Publishing Limited. Reproduction of this
book in its current form is governed by the Juxta Publishing Books for the
World license outlined below.
This book is released as part of Juxta Publishing’s Books for the World
program which aims to provide the widest possible access to quality
Bahá’í-inspired literature to readers around the world. Use of this book
is governed by the Juxta Publishing Books for the World license:
1. This book is available in printed and electronic forms.
2. This book may be freely redistributed in electronic form so long as
the following conditions are met:

a. The contents of the ﬁle are not altered

b. This copyright notice remains intact

c. No charges are made or monies collected for redistribution
3. The electronic version may be printed or the printed version may
be photocopied, and the resulting copies used in non-bound format
for non-commercial use for the following purposes:

a. Personal use

b. Academic or educational use
When reproduced in this way in printed form for academic or educa­
tional use, charges may be made to recover actual reproduction and
distribution costs but no additional monies may be collected.
4. This book may be republished regionally or locally without royalty
by publishers who enter into a relevant micropublishing agreement
with Juxta Publishing Limited. Publishers should contact Juxta
Publishing Limited in writing to enquire about the Juxta Publishing
micropublishing agreement. Without entering into a micropublishing
agreement, this book cannot be republished by other publishers.
Any other reproduction or redistribution in any format is forbidden without
the expressed written consent of Juxta Publishing Limited.
Cover design by David Dayco (www.epiphanygraphics.ca)

CONTENTS
Introduction ............................................................................................  9
I. The Nature of the Philosophical Enterprise ......................................  19
1. Philosophy as the pursuit of truth ................................................... 19
2. Philosophy as reflection .................................................................. 20
3. A bridge between science and religion ............................................ 20
II. The Individual Practice of Philosophy .............................................  21
1. Observations and assumptions ....................................................... 21
2. Inner model, point of view, reason ................................................. 22
3. Knowledge and reality, subjectivity and objectivity ......................... 24
4. Truth vs. verification ..................................................................... 27
5. Interferences between the knower and reality .................................. 30
6. Refining our models: an example from the history of science ............ 33
7. Relativity and social subjectivism ................................................... 35
III. Communicating Philosophical Ideas ..............................................  37
1. Intersubjective dialogue ................................................................. 37
2. Limitations in communication ...................................................... 40
3. Objectivity in communication ....................................................... 42
4. The extent and limits of objectivity in communication ................... 46
5. Logical truth, the apogee of propositional objectivity ....................... 49
6. Relational logic vs. attributional logic ............................................ 52
7. Articulating logical truth: logical implication and logical deduction... 53
8. Objectivity in communication revisited: the axiomatic method ....... 60
IV. Reductionism, Subjectivism, and Minimalism ................................  65
1. The extent and limits of objectification .......................................... 65
2. Indeterminacy, Gödel’s theorem...................................................... 67
3. The logic of the scientific method ................................................... 74
V. Minimalistic Metaphysics .................................................................  81
1. Plausible logic as philosophical method........................................... 81
2. Existence....................................................................................... 81
3. Part and whole: composition and the componenthood relation ........ 85
4. Causality ...................................................................................... 89
5. Causality and reason ..................................................................... 91
6. Causality and composition ............................................................. 95
7. God and such................................................................................ 99
8. The value relation ....................................................................... 110
VI. Conclusion and summary .............................................................  114
Notes and References ..........................................................................  116

INTRODUCTION
There can be no serious doubt that the modern period, both in philoso-
phy and in science, begins with René Descartes (1596-1650). Modern
science is squarely based on Descartes’ fusion of Greek geometry and
Arabic algebra into a single unified discipline, algebraic geometry. Greek
geometry arose out of a logical analysis of our global intuition of spatial
objects (e.g., a circle is perfectly and uniformly round). Algebra was the
study of the formal rules for operating with pure quantities (numbers),
whether considered as instruments for measuring (e.g., lengths of line
segments) or for counting (assigning cardinalities to collections of dis-
crete objects). Algebraic geometry allowed for both the quantization of
spatial intuition and for the transfer of geometric intuition to algebra.
Within one generation, Newton and Leibniz had invented calculus and
Newton had written Principia—arguably the greatest single book of
science ever written—which established the law of gravitation and showed
how all the then-known science could be deduced from a few basic
principles.
Descartes’ philosophy was really a modern form of Platonism, in
which innate ideas, implanted in the human mind by God, played a
similar role to the universal forms of Plato’s philosophy. The important
shift, however, was that Descartes’ approach was bottom-up instead of
top-down. It began with undisputable facts of the human condition
(we are conscious, self-aware beings with no intrinsic measure of abso-
lute truth), and moved upward towards the absolute (whose existence
we can deduce from the nature of our innate ideas). For Plato, empirical
observation and logical analysis were only exercises—vulgar approxi-
mations of the true knowledge that came only with the clear intuition
of the forms. For Descartes, however, logical analysis and empirical ob-
servation were an integral part of true knowledge itself. For him, knowing
meant knowledge of causal relationships between phenomena, the lat-
ter giving rise to laws which could be expressed in the exact language of
mathematics. For Plato, mathematics was important, but primarily as
an analogy of the process of perceiving the forms—and of course a
prime example of the usefulness and applicability of such knowledge.
Following Galileo’s dictum that “nature is writ in the language of
mathematics,” Descartes conceived of a breathtaking programme: to build
a complete description of the whole of reality in exact, mathematical

M I N I M A L I S M
language. The immense success of Newton’s Principia, following so closely
on the heels of Descartes’ articulation of his method, provided highly
convincing evidence that such a programme was realizable and indeed
that its achievement was close at hand. The classic, Platonic paradigm of
design was replaced by the Cartesian-Newtonian paradigm of creation
through the establishment of lawful, cause and effect relationships.
Of course, there is no fundamental contradiction between the two
approaches. The Platonic design paradigm focuses on the abstract struc-
tures underlying material reality, while the Cartesian-Newtonian
paradigm focuses on the causal processes by which material reality has
come to reflect these structures. Perhaps Plato would have argued that,
once we really understand the structures themselves (by perceiving clearly
their form), there is nothing else worth knowing about reality. But such
a viewpoint neglects the immense power that comes from the practical
knowledge of how to produce and reproduce these causal processes and
therefore to use the resulting configurations for our own purposes (i.e.,
to satisfy our own subjective desires and accomplish subjective goals).
In other words, pure Platonism is somewhat passive in its epistemologi-
cal stance: we learn the truth in order to conform ourselves to it—to
avoid making mistakes in our interactions with the world. In the Carte-
sian-Newtonian paradigm, we use our knowledge of causal relationships
not only to understand reality but also to change it or, more precisely, to
change our relationship to it. To succeed, the human enterprise needs
knowledge that is both true (accurate) and useful (for the satisfaction of
human needs). The Platonic paradigm gives us truth without necessar-
ily giving us utility. Pure empiricism—trial and error—gives us utility
without formal or structural truth. The Cartesian-Newtonian paradigm
seeks both truth and utility, transcendence and immanence.
However, it is now generally held that the Cartesian programme
has failed. Descartes, it is now felt, asked for too much. By creating his
spirit/matter, soul/body dualism, he has tried both to have his cake and
eat it. For Descartes tacitly assumed that the effective causes of material
phenomena were material and potentially observable, and his successor,
Leibniz, made this assumption an explicit axiom of rationalism. If this
is true, then we can practically explain everything in terms of process
and simply forget about the Platonic realm of absolute, transcendent
and spiritual truth. Knowledge of spiritual reality is deprived of any

utility. It becomes, at best, a bourgeois luxury and, at worst, an obscur-
ing encumbrance. Thus, the idea arose in the 19th and 20th centuries
that materialism was adequate for science, if not for metaphysics, and
that the whole concept of a spiritual (transmaterial) reality could be
dispensed with.
However, modern developments in the hardest of sciences—logic,
mathematics and physics—have shown unequivocally that materialism
is not self-contained, that it is both philosophically and scientifically
inadequate. The first such development was the undecidability princi-
ple of Heisenberg, that joint or simultaneous measurements of certain
physical parameters are logically impossible. At first presented as only a
practical or empirical limitation, the Heisenberg principle turned out to
be a provable mathematical theorem within the Hilbert Space math-
ematical formulation of quantum mechanics. In this strong form, the
Heisenberg principle can be stated as follows: no complete and exact
description of physical reality is logically possible within the framework
(and based on the axioms) of the Hilbert Space model of quantum
mechanics.
As strong as the Heisenberg uncertainty principle may be, it does
not in itself constitute a definitive refutation of Descartes’ programme,
because it leaves open the possibility that some other, more adequate
formulation of quantum mechanics may remove Heisenberg
indeterminancy and restore completeness to our mathematical descripiton
of reality. However, this possibility was destroyed by the phenomenon
of Gödel incompleteness (see IV.2). In 1931, Gödel showed, by an in-
genious but straightforward argument, that any objectively specifiable
mathematical system which is rich enough to contain the basic axioms
and lexicon of arithmetic is incomplete, meaning that the system will
contain true propositions that cannot be proved (nor their negations
disproved).1 In other words, there cannot exist any complete and exact
description of reality. As John Myhill once put it: there is no nonpoetical
description of the whole of reality.
The icing on Gödel’s cake was provided more recently by Roger Penrose
who applied Gödel’s results to show that the human brain cannot be a deter-
ministic device (machine).2 We now know certainly that any substantial theory
of reality represents a compromise (trade-off) between exactness and adequacy.
In particular, totally exact theories (i.e., objectively specifiable formal theories)
I N T R O D U C T I O N

M I N I M A L I S M
will, if non-trivial, always be incomplete (i.e, there will be propositions stateable
in the language of the theory which can be neither proved nor disproved
within the theory). Such theories will be exact descriptions of a circumscribed
part of reality, but never of the whole.
The question naturally arises as to whether there exist theories which
describe the totality of reality (thus, necessarily in metaphorical,
extramathematical language). Such complete but inexact theories would
be the polar complement of the exact partial theories of science. That
such theories do exist is the basic premise of a certain conception of
religion first fully articulated by Bahá’u’lláh (1817-1892), founder of
the Bahá’í Faith. According to this view, the revelations of the great
prophet-founders of the major religious systems of history, insofar as
the contents of these revelations have been accurately recorded and pre-
served, each constitute complete, though highly metaphorical and
nonlinear, descriptions of reality. In particular, Bahá’u’lláh makes the
claim of completeness for his own revelation, contained in over one
hundred volumes of writings composed during the period 1852-1892.
According to the Bahá’í teachings, God has ordained two sources
of valid knowledge of reality: science and revelation. The object of knowl-
edge is the same in both cases, but the methods are different. Science
operates by systematizing the otherwise spontaneous experience of con-
crete reality and, by inductive generalization coupled with creative
conceptualization, moving upward towards abstract, general principles
(laws), which are then tested through further experience by the system-
atic application of certain verification procedures (see II.4). The language
of science is deliberately linear—eschewing metaphor and multiple
meaning—and minimalist—accepting the objective existence of only
those nonobservables strictly necessary to an explanation of observable
configurations (which, as it turns out, is still quite a bit). Thus, the
strengths of science are clarity, precision, and applicability (practical-
ity). Its limitations derive primarily from its partialness (specialization,
fragmentation), relative incompleteness, and general lack of a global
vision.
Revelation is based on the divine authority of the Prophet or Mani-
festation of God, and is the perfect complement to science. In contrast
to the language of science, the language of revelation is nonlinear (ex-
tensive use of metaphor and multiple meaning) and maximalist (as rich

as possible, freely referring to nonobservables). Moreover, Bahá’u’lláh
repeatedly affirms that His revelation is a complete (though nonlinear
and inexhaustible) description of reality.
In contrast to the language of science, the language of revelation
tends to be top-down—beginning with certain very general and univer-
sal principles and then moving by specification and individuation towards
the application of these principles to concrete human experience. Thus,
the strengths of revelation are its adequacy and its completeness, but its
limitations (from the human point of view) lie in its complexity and the
consequent frequent lack of an obvious linear meaning for a given por-
tion of the revelatory text. The student of revelation must be prepared
to struggle to understand the different levels of meaning enfolded in the
revelation.
To sum up: the study of science consists in confronting our experi-
ence of the phenomena of reality, formulating certain propositions whose
meaning is a priori clear (because of the linearity of scientific language),
and applying appropriate verification procedures to determine the truth
or falsity of these propositions. We call this whole process verification
for short. Studying the revelation consists in confronting various por-
tions of the text of revelation, focusing on certain statements whose
truth is known a priori, and then striving to determine various linear
meanings of these statements. We will give the name explication to this
process (meaning to make explicit the meanings of the text). Thus, for
science, clarity of meaning is given a priori but truth is determined a
posteriori. For (revealed) religion, truth is given a priori, but meaning is
determined a posteriori.
The persistent, conjoint application of scientific verification on one
hand, and of careful explication of revelation on the other, yields the
very thing we need for the successful prosecution of the human enter-
prise: truth—accurate, useful, and adequate knowledge of reality. We
may reasonably conclude, therefore, that the method of Bahá’í scholar-
ship is the systematic, judicious, and disciplined application, to the data
of reality, of the twin processes of scientific verification and textual ex-
plication (most particularly applied to the texts of the Bahá’í revelation).
The Bahá’í theory of revelation rests totally on the infallibility of the
Manifestation, and it would be tempting to suppose that, if this theory is
correct, there would be no need for the enterprise of philosophy (other
I N T R O D U C T I O N

M I N I M A L I S M
than, perhaps, the philosophy of science on one hand, and the theology
and philosophy of religion on the other). The thesis of the present mono-
graph is that such is not the case. Philosophy and philosophical discourse
are still needed as a crucial link between the minimalistic exactness of
science and the maximalistic completeness of revelation. Without this
philosophical bridge, we cannot effectively apply the insights of revela-
tion in a practical way nor can we effectively use science to gain an overall
perspective on reality.
Thus, though the present author accepts the validity of the Bahá’í
theory of revelation, our monograph cites only a few passages from the
Bahá’í writings. Moreover, even these quotations do not constitute ap-
peals to authority but are given only to reinforce logical points that have
already been made on other grounds.
As is explained in the course of the present monograph (I.1-3), the
contribution of philosophy to the human enterprise derives from the
mind’s ability to make its current activity into its future object of in-
quiry. This process of reflection leads to a heightened sense of
self-awareness because it enables us, however imperfectly and relatively,
to gain objective self-knowledge through progressive self-objectification.
Once the necessity of philosophy is acknowledged, two extreme
positions are possible. The first is an objectivist (positivistic) reductionism
which holds that there is nothing beyond that which can be objectified.
This position holds that all knowledge, or at least all significant knowl-
edge, can be obtained from the process of objectification. This view of
philosophy is typical of skeptics, positivists, and scientific materialists
generally. The second extreme position is that only the trivial can be
objectified. The characteristic of significant knowledge is precisely its
essential subjectivity—that it resists objectification. Postmodernism/
deconstructionism, existentialism, and some forms of mysticism take
basically this position.
Philosophy in the twentieth century has largely consisted of a rather
unproductive pseudo-dialogue between these two positions, in which
the strategy on each side has been to attack the most blatant weak points
of the other. This has led each side to take some exaggerated stances that
are self-defeating. On one hand, the subjectivists have come to view
science, and its social offspring technology, as the root of all evil and the
source of all human problems. Some have gone so far as to assert that

the truth claims of science are no more valid than the truth claims of
sorcery or primitive mythmaking. On the other hand, the reductionist/
materialist view has gone so far as to claim that basic human emotions
such as love and loyalty are no more than primitive, irrational trash to
be gradually discarded by the truly enlightened (see IV.1). Some phi-
losophers have even suggested that sufficiently advanced electronic
computers will constitute (or may already constitute) functional entities
that are superior to human beings, in part because they lack the bother-
some and irrational emotionality of humans.
These extreme positions are rather easy to refute (see IV.1-2). What
is not so easy is to find a reasonable alternative to both of these ex-
tremes, an alternative that incorporates the obvious strong points of
each. This is what the method we have here called minimalism seeks to
do. But minimalism goes far beyond the attempt merely to seek a pas-
sive, ad hoc compromise between these extremes. Rather, minimalism is
a proactive philosophy of truth-seeking which sees philosophy as a co-
operative dialogue with reality rather than a polemical dialogue between
proponents of various dogmatic points of view.
Some of the fundamental premises of minimalism are: (1) a signifi-
cant (non-trivial) portion of human knowledge can be objectified
(objectification is possible); (2) the whole of human knowledge cannot
be objectified (total objectification is impossible); (3) everything which
can be objectified should be objectified (objectification has a positive
value); (4) the boundary between the objectifiable and the non-
objectifiable cannot itself be objectified (we prove objectification only
by accomplishing objectification); (5) valid human knowledge which
resists objectification is not irrational but transrational (i.e., compatible
with what has been correctly, non-reductionistically objectified); (6)
objectification is primarily a means of obtaining clarity, rather than an
end in itself.
Because minimalism renounces all claim to completeness (see (2)
above), it can afford to be more strict and cautious with what it does
objectify. In particular, minimalistic metaphysical concepts are all em-
pirically grounded in that they represent straightforward generalizations
from observable facts and configurations (see section V).
A particular feature of minimalism is its rigorous treatment of value
notions and concepts. Indeed, if applied only to facts and theories,
I N T R O D U C T I O N

M I N I M A L I S M
minimalism differs little from Descartes’ original method, except (and
this is crucial) for abandoning the Cartesian/Leibnizian principle that
causes of material phenomena are necessarily material (see V.4 and note
53). As it turns out, regarding causality as a logical rather than a mate-
rial or temporal relationship enables us to apply causal reasoning to
certain metaphysical and value concepts in a coherent way.
Indeed, the one point of agreement between the two extremes of
reductionism and subjectivism is that value notions cannot be treated
objectively and rationally. For the reductionist, objectivity implies view-
point neutrality which, in turn, implies value neutrality (the suspension
of value judgements). Thus, in this view, objectification excludes values
by its very nature. For subjectivists, the realm of values is too rich,
varied, and fundamentally irrational to admit of rational treatment.
The minimalistic approach to dealing with values begins with the
crucial observation that objectivity and objectification mean viewpoint
explicitness, not viewpoint neutrality (see III.3). Once this point is clari-
fied, it is seen that one can make value assumptions as clearly explicit as
any other assumptions and thus achieve the same level of objectivity for
values as for theories or facts.
Central to minimalism is the use of and reliance upon the modern
logic of relations (see III.5-7). Indeed, in a certain sense, minimalism is
just the application of relational logic to classical problems in philoso-
phy that have, heretofore, been treated only with the classical attributional
logic of Aristotle (if at all). Relational logic leads us to ask different
kinds of questions than does a purely attributional logic. It turns out
that certain difficult questions have much clearer answers from a rela-
tional viewpoint than from an attributional viewpoint.
A prime example of this logical shift is our treatment of the exist-
ence and nature of God (see V.7-8). Classical, attributional approaches
have tried, without much success, to define God intrinsically as that
Being whose nature has some attribute of necessity (e.g., necessary ex-
istence, necessary perfection). The difficulty with this approach has been
to give any clear and coherent notion of the exact nature of the necessity
involved. Moreover, the uniqueness attributed to God practically guar-
antees that no metaphysical attribute of God can be empirically grounded
(i.e., because God is, by His very nature, different from every possibly
observable configuration). Our approach is to define God relationally

as a universal cause. This definition is not only empirically grounded,
but gives us practical information about how God relates to reality. Of
course, it does not solve the classical problem of defining God’s intrinsic
nature, but it shows rather that we do not have to solve this problem in
order to discourse meaningfully about God and our relationship to Him.
Readers with no technical background whatever in logic or phi-
losophy will probably experience some initial difficulty in following all
the details of our exposition in III.5-6. In order to understand the sub-
sequent exposition, it would be sufficient for the reader to assume the
following points as having been demonstrated: (1) the notion of logical
truth (universally valid truth) can be totally objectified; (2) similarly,
the notion of logical implication or logical consequence can be totally
objectified; (3) there does not exist, however, any mechanical means
(computer algorithm) for determining, in all cases, whether a given
proposition is logically true or whether a given proposition is a logical
consequence of another proposition (logical truth and logical implica-
tion are thus not calculable); (4) logic therefore has the power of deriving
the unobvious from the obvious through a finite sequece of individu-
ally obvious steps.
In all cases the logic referred to here is modern relational (non-
modal) logic. This logic has already been the basis of the modern
revolution in mathematics and physics. Moreover, it is the ultimate
basis both of computer architecture (hardware) and computer program-
ming (software). Indeed, it was the remarkable success of formalization
and objectification based on relational logic that gave impetus to the
extreme of reductionism. Had we not had such unanticipated and un-
precedented success in objectifying large areas of human knowledge,
through the application of relational logic, it is highly unlikely that the
philosophy of materialistic reductionism would ever have gained so many
adherents.
For example, success in artificial intelligence (such as chess playing
programs) have led many to conclude that all human mental functions
might eventually be totally objectified, thus eliminating human subjec-
tivity as a necessary adjunct to human thought. It is only with the
advent of Penrose indeterminism (i.e., the human brain is not wholly
deterministic) that confidence in this ultimte reductionism has begun
to fade.
I N T R O D U C T I O N

M I N I M A L I S M
Our application of relational logic to problems in classical philoso-
phy can thus be seen as the extension to philosphy of those modern
methods which have already proven themselves in science. Thus, al-
though our proof of the existence of God as universal cause (section V)
is certainly interesting in itself, we present it primarily as a detailed
application of the method of minimalism to a classical problem in phi-
losophy. Other examples exist and could be given.
Thus, by what it actually accomplishes, minimalism destroys the
widely-held idea that rigorous formal methods are restricted to and ap-
propriate only for materialist science and that religion and metaphysics
must proceed by other methods, if they are to have any justification at
all. By successfully applying relational logic to metaphysical and ethical
questions, we have made significant steps towards showing that reality
is a unified whole, and that a considerable portion of human knowledge
about metaphysical and ethical reality can be objectified. In other words,
we are no longer justified in equating materialism with reason and logic
and religion/metaphysics with subjective intuition alone.
Looked at another way, minimalism shows that there are general
logical principles which are common to all intellectual endeavors, re-
gardless of the domain of investigation in question. At the same time,
minimalism’s recognition of the limits of objectification shows that
transrational intuition is an essential part not only of religion but of all
intellectual enterprises including science. This is the sense, then, in which
minimalism constructs a viable alternative to the extreme positions of
reductionism, on one hand, and subjectivism, on the other. As we have
seen, this alternative is not just a compromise position or a passive mid-
dle ground, but a proactive philosophy which yields genuine results.

I. THE NATURE OF THE PHILOSOPHICAL
ENTERPRISE
1. PHILOSOPHY AS THE PURSUIT OF TRUTH
There is a broad range of opinions concerning the nature of philosophy.
Some may regard it as no more than a sophisticated word game played
by intellectuals, while others see it as a vital enterprise in which we
engage ourselves wholly in a search for the meaning and truth of our
existence. Still others see philosophy as a useful vehicle for intellectual
debate and clarification of opinions, but not necessarily for the attain-
ment of truth. Philosophy is the counterpart, in the sphere of intellectual
activity, of artistic enterprises, such as music or painting, in which all
can participate usefully but only a few do exceptionally well.
The more general an activity, the more difficult to define it pre-
cisely. George Bernard Shaw illustrated this principle by defining music
as “the least obnoxious form of noise”—a logically impeccable defini-
tion that tells you nothing whatsoever about music. Attempts to define
philosophy can lead to similarly vacuous descriptions, and one can be-
gin to wonder how intelligent and earnest people can dedicate their
lives to an enterprise that they cannot even describe in precise terms.
What is minimally clear is that philosophy is an enterprise which
pursues knowledge of reality. Such a pursuit involves at least three things:
the pursuer (in this case human beings), the thing pursued, and the
method of pursuit. The distinguishing feature of philosophical inquiry
is its openness and universality: it has neither a privileged subject mat-
ter nor a privileged method. Philosophy is therefore different from
religion, which does have a privileged subject matter, and from science,
which has a distinctive method.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that “Philosophy consists in comprehending the
reality of things as they exist, according to the capacity and the power of
man.”3 Here again, philosophy is different from science, which is quite
happy to study things as they appear, and from religion, which invokes
revelation and divine assistance, thereby going beyond the capacities
and powers of natural man.

M I N I M A L I S M
2. PHILOSOPHY AS REFLECTION
Philosophical knowledge is a kind of second-order knowledge born out
of reflection (i.e., the capacity of the human mind to make its current
activity into its future object of inquiry). Each time we execute such a
reflexive act, we take one step upward in the infinite “ladder of abstrac-
tion.” This process has a beginning—in the form of our immediate
consciousness (awareness) of spontaneous sensory impressions and the
subjective inner states they provoke—but no end, since nothing can
prevent the reflexive inner move to a higher level of abstraction. We can
thus think of the data of philosophy as reflections on reflections on
reflections on … [down to] the data of our immediate, unanalyzed and
spontaneous experience of reality. Of course, at any stage of this proc-
ess, we are free to choose just what part of our experience we reflect
upon and just how we go about reflecting upon it. Hence, philosophy
has both content and method, just no privileged content or method.
3. A BRIDGE BETWEEN SCIENCE AND RELIGION
Thus conceived, philosophy is a bridge between the minimalism of sci-
ence, which tends, whenever a choice appears necessary, to prefer local
exactness over global adequacy, and the maximalism of religion, which,
if necessary, may sacrifice a certain degree of local precision to obtain
what it judges to be a more globally adequate view of reality. At its most
general level, philosophy includes all of science but only part of religion,
since the irreducibly mystical dimension of religion seeks experience of
and communion with the Divine and not just human knowledge about
the Divine. Thus, doing philosophy carefully and well is an effective
means of understanding the relationship between and interpenetration
of science and religion. Even more pointedly: doing philosophy badly
results in a faulty understanding of the relationship between science and
religion.
Let us take a look at a few examples of philosophical issues which
are crucial to a proper understanding of the relationship between sci-
ence and religion.

II. THE INDIVIDUAL PRACTICE OF
PHILOSOPHY
1. OBSERVATIONS AND ASSUMPTIONS
Our experience of reality is always partial and limited. Our perceptions
are nothing more than a series of clichés which we mentally complete
into a seamless whole. If you are standing close in front of the window-
less outside wall of a house, you don’t see the rest of the house. How do
you know it is there if you can’t see it? Of course, you know it was there
when you saw it five minutes ago, but how do you know it is there now?
Indeed, since we only experience the present moment in any case,
does the world we observed five minutes ago still exist? Or has it been
destroyed and replaced by the present world, which in turn will disap-
pear, to be replaced by the future world? If you say that of course the
world of five minutes ago didn’t disappear, then it must still exist. Where
is it? Does it exist in another world parallel to this one? Maybe the
universe bifurcates at every instant of time.
The answer to these questions is that we assume macrophysical
objects to have relative stability, at least in the short term, and the world
at the present moment to be a continuation of the world of five minutes
ago. Moreover, these simplifying assumptions are both reasonable and
functional; indeed we could hardly live without them. But the point is
that they are assumptions. They come from us, not from our direct expe-
rience of the world itself. To say even that objects exist is an assumption
which serves to simplify our view of the world by allowing us to con-
ceive of a multitude of different sensations (colors, sounds, shapes,
textures, noises, smells) as being produced by a single whole entity.
Thus, all of our knowledge, even of the simplest and most concrete
thing, is a product of both the thing (the object) and our minds (the
subject) which smoothly completes our partial and limited experience
of the world through a multitude of (mostly unconscious) simplifying
assumptions. This is the inescapable human condition. Our knowledge
is always partly subjective (i.e., accompanied by mental constructs) no
matter how exhaustive and precise may be the observations on which
that knowledge is based.

M I N I M A L I S M
The above is a small example of philosophy at work. These observa-
tions about the human condition belong neither to science nor to religion.
Rather, they are made at a level of generality and abstraction that en-
compasses both science and religion. Every human being is subject to
these conditions whether he likes it or not, and he cannot escape them
through some act of faith, by wishing them away or by ignoring their
existence.
2. INNER MODEL, POINT OF VIEW, REASON
Although these limitations are themselves inescapable, we nevertheless
do have a certain degree of choice in the attitude we take towards them.
There are roughly three logically possible approaches. Let us call them
common sense, insanity, and reason. The common sense approach is
the one taken by the vast majority of people. It consists in remaining
largely unconscious of our simplifying assumptions, adjusting them on
an ad hoc basis only when the circumstances of our lives force us to do
so.
If, for example, our initial relationships in life have been based on
genuine trust and loyalty, we may tend to assume that virtually every-
one is trustworthy until we are victimized seriously by a duplicitous
person. This experience will force us to face our assumptions and modify
them to some extent.
One can also imagine the other extreme in which betrayal has per-
vaded our early relationships. We may then assume rather that people
generally are untrustworthy and consequently find great difficulty in
establishing trustful relationships in adulthood.
In other words, each of us has a unique personal history which we
bring to every new encounter with reality. The sum of this history—the
body of previous experiences and our assumptions about these experi-
ences—constitutes our inner model of reality and determines thereby
our point of view on the world. This inner model creates within us
certain expectations about how reality should behave. These normative
expectations will influence even our simplest perceptions of the world,
sometimes leading us to suppress or omit evident aspects of the ob-
served configuration and sometimes leading us to project or add
wished-for elements that are in reality not present.

The common sense approach to life is essentially passive in that it
allows the process of perception/assumption to go on rather spontane-
ously: we take our point of view as normal and natural until some
experience of reality overwhelms us and forces us to revise our inner
model, perhaps in spite of ourselves. Such experiences occur when our
expectations about how reality should behave are not met. In the com-
mon sense approach to life, our subjective assumptions about reality
may not be optimal, but they tend to be functional (i.e., we tend to
make those assumptions which increase our ability to function in the
world), at least in the short term. Part of our ability to function is our
relationship with other human beings, and so the nature of our as-
sumptions will be influenced by the assumptions of others. Our social
environment serves as a reference group to which we turn for confirma-
tion of our point of view. If we discover that certain of our assumptions
are not in conformity with prevailing social norms, we will tend to
readjust them in the direction of (our perception of) social norms. In
this way, our inner model is not just an individual construct but also a
social construct. It is a construct which is a compromise between the
hard data from reality, on one hand, and certain individual and social
needs, on the other.
The insane approach to life is based on the conviction that we can
make gratuitous and arbitrary assumptions with impunity. In this case,
we give priority to our needs over the data from reality in an egocentric
attempt to make reality conform to our inner model rather than striving
to have an inner model which conforms to reality. Hence, insane as-
sumptions may often be dysfunctional: they actually decrease our ability
to relate successfully to the world, to ourselves, and to others. If the
inner needs which drive insane assumptions are strong enough, then we
may not give them up even in the face of extreme contrary evidence. In
this case, we may temporarily lose all autonomy of life processes and
require therapeutic intervention to defeat the unhealthy pattern.
With the common sense approach we are at least aware that points
of view other than our own are possible and perhaps legitimate, even
though we take our own point of view as the most natural or normal. In
insanity, we not only take our point of view as natural but in fact as the
only possible point of view.
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
The third approach, which we have called reason, is an ongoing
and deliberate attempt to become as aware as possible of our underlying
assumptions. The ideal or goal of reason is to make our assumptions
totally explicit. Reason is thus a proactive attempt to meet life head-on
rather than passively as in the common-sense approach. Reason explic-
itly acknowledges the relativity of one’s point of view. Indeed, in making
our own assumptions explicit, we become aware of other possible as-
sumptions and the rationale for them.
Moreover, making our assumptions explicit gives us greater au-
tonomy and control over life processes. For once we have clearly identified
our operational assumptions, we can apply logic to them and thereby
foresee (predict) their long term consequences. With this knowledge,
we can proceed to modify our assumptions in the light of the longer
term, rather than just the short term as in the case of common sense,
thereby optimizing our autonomy and functionality. In a certain sense,
then, reason is just self-conscious common sense. The journey from
common sense to reason is a journey of increasing awareness, conscious-
ness, and self-knowledge.
3. KNOWLEDGE AND REALITY, SUBJECTIVITY AND
OBJECTIVITY
One of the most contentious issues in the history of philosophy has
been the question of the extent to which it is possible for us to have
objective knowledge of reality. By objective knowledge, we mean a knowl-
edge that is invariant under changes of point of view. The question itself
already involves several assumptions: (1) there does exist a mind-inde-
pendent (objective) reality whose intrinsic features or qualities are
independent of the mental states of the knower; (2) it is in principle
possible to apprehend these objective qualities, if not wholly and per-
fectly, at least to a significant degree; (3) it is possible to formulate or
articulate this understanding in a manner that allows us to communi-
cate it to others and to validate the independency (or invariance) of this
understanding under certain changes of point of view (which we will
call transformations).
The first assumption amounts to the proposition that reality is not
just a mental illusion or figment of our imagination. The logical nega-
tion of this assumption yields absolute subjectivism or solipsism—the

proposition that nothing exists outside of our subjective mental states.
Very few thinkers or philosophers have ever held such a degree of sub-
jectivism, although many would affirm that the world is to some extent
illusory (i.e., that it presents to our perceptions a semblance of perma-
nence and stability that it does not, in fact, possess). However, we reject
as grossly unreasonable the belief that all our perceptions of everyday
reality—including interactions with other people and experiences of
physical pain—are pure products of our individual imagination.4
The second assumption is slightly more nuanced. It does not affirm
that we have a perfect, exact or complete knowledge of objective reality,
only that we can have a relatively significant and useful knowledge of
objective qualities. The antithesis to this assumption holds that, although
objective reality may well exist, we can have no significant knowledge of
it. Let us call this view radical subjectivism.
The argument for radical subjectivism hinges on a logical non se-
quitur and runs something as follows: (a) what is knowledge, in the last
analysis, but certain ideas, perceptions, and intuitions; (b) ideas, per-
ceptions and intuitions are all subjective, mental entities; (c) thus, all
knowledge is subjective; (d) hence, there is no such thing as objective
knowledge (i.e., knowledge of objective qualities and properties of real-
ity).
The fault in the argument lies in the implicit identification of knowl-
edge itself with the object of knowledge. We have already pointed out
above that human knowledge consists of an inner model which we con-
struct on the basis of our interactions with reality. This inner model is a
configuration of internal, mental states and therefore wholly subjective
in nature. However, the ontological status of ideas as mental entities
says nothing whatsoever about whether a given idea is an accurate re-
flection of an objective entity.
An inner model relates to reality like a map relates to a territory.
Ontologically, a map of Canada has nothing in common with Canada.
Canada is a geographical territory made up of earth, water, forests, cit-
ies, people, and animals, while a map of Canada is a piece of paper on
which various colors have been impressed. What makes this mass of
colored fibers into a map of Canada is the existence of an appropriate
correspondence between certain points on the map and certain real lo-
cations in Canada. Similarly what makes our inner model a model of
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
reality is the existence of a correspondence between certain features of
the subjective model, on one hand, and certain features of objective
reality, on the other. Whether a given idea is true or only a vain idea
depends on whether an appropriate relationship exists between the idea
and some portion of objective reality. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has expressed this
conception of the nature of knowledge in the following terms:
Reflect that man’s power of thought consists of two kinds. One kind is
true, when it agrees with a determined [reality]. Such conceptions find
realization in the exterior world; such are accurate opinions, correct
theories, scientific discoveries and inventions.
The other kind of conceptions is made up of vain thoughts and useless
ideas which yield neither fruit nor result, and which have no reality.
No, they surge like the waves of the sea of imaginations, and they pass
away like idle dreams.5
Let us sum up briefly. A human idea is a subjective mental entity,
by its very nature. Some ideas are vain in that they do not correspond to
any reality outside of themselves. Other ideas are true in that they re-
flect or mirror some configuration in reality via an appropriate
correspondence between these ideas and certain features of the configu-
ration. The constellation of ideas that represents our current view of the
world constitutes our inner model of reality and determines the point of
view from which we perceive further input from reality. Reality is like a
territory and our inner model is like a map we have made of that terri-
tory.
Pursuing the map/territory analogy a bit further, let us observe that
there are fundamentally two ways that a map can be inaccurate: it can
lack a proper correspondent to some feature that exists in reality or else
it can contain elements which have no correspondent in reality. In the
first instance, we say the map is inadequate, meaning that it under-
represents reality. In the second instance we say the map is false, meaning
that it portrays or represents reality as having features that in fact do not
exist.
Since our inner model is always based on partial information, it is
bound to be inadequate in various respects, and since it reflects not only
our perceptions but also our desires and needs, it is bound to be false in
certain respects. Our total inner model can thus be true and adequate in

some respects and false or inadequate in others. Thus, when applied to
our total inner model, the terms true and false are, in this precise sense,
relative: we can speak of our inner model as being largely or mostly true
or, on the contrary, largely or mostly false.
So, we have knowledge of reality to the degree that our inner model
is adequate and true. To know something is to have an accurate inner
model of it. This is the nature of knowledge. The knowledge (inner
model) itself is a subjective entity, but the reality represented by the
inner model (what the knowledge is about) may well be objective.
The radical subjectivist fallacy, then, turns on a confusion between
the ontological status of ideas as mental entities, on one hand, and the
ontological status of the object of knowledge, on the other. It confuses
the map with the territory. Thus, whenever we speak of ideas as being
objective or subjective, we must be careful to make precise whether we
are talking about the ideas themselves or the reality reflected by those
ideas.6
4. TRUTH VS. VERIFICATION
Our refutation of radical subjectivism justifies assumption (2): it is in
principle possible to obtain knowledge of objective reality. However,
assumption (2) does not guarantee that we will in practice be successful
in obtaining knowledge of reality; it only says that it is prima facie
reasonable to pursue such knowledge. The question of how, in practical
terms, we actually go about this knowledge-seeking enterprise consti-
tutes the branch of philosophy known as epistemology. 7
Our inner model is, as we have seen, a mosaic of true and false
elements. But we experience our inner model as a seamless whole. We
have no direct insight into its false aspects, because, for us, our inner
model is (our perception of) reality. It would be logically impossible for
us knowingly to maintain a false element in our inner model, because as
soon as we realized its falsity it would no longer be a part of the model!
In other words, we could not truly perceive grass as red while knowing it
is really green. To know grass is green is to perceive it as green (remem-
ber the correspondence between the map and the territory).
Thus, it is important to distinguish between the fact of our inner
model being false in some respect, and our awareness of that fact. To see
this more clearly, think of your inner model as the set of all beliefs that
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
you hold—all the propositions about the world that you currently ac-
cept as true. On the one hand, you are convinced that each of your
beliefs is true, because the instant you doubt a given proposition, it
ceases to be one of your beliefs. On the other hand, given what we know
about the limitations of human knowledge, some of your current beliefs
are bound to be false.8 You just don’t know which ones.
We are thus led to yet another distinction—the distinction between
truth and verification. Truth refers to the accuracy of the correspond-
ence between our inner model and some portion of reality. But our
inner model can be inaccurate without our awareness of this fact. Veri-
fication refers to the process of evaluating the accuracy of our inner
model.
The verification process involves a comparison between our inner
model and the feedback we get from certain particular encounters with
reality. These verification encounters seek to test some particular part of
the inner model about whose validity we are concerned. Of course,
every interaction with reality gives us some feedback about our inner
model, but purely spontaneous encounters may not give us the precise
information we need to validate the portion that concerns us at the
moment. Therefore, verification encounters are usually not spontane-
ous but are rather deliberately structured and contrived by us for the
very purpose of testing a particular part of our model.
More exactly, in verification encounters we seek deliberately to fal-
sify some aspect of our model (i.e., to induce encounters with reality in
which the feedback information clearly and consistently contradicts our
model). The logic of falsification derives from the fundamental observa-
tion that a truly accurate inner model is the one thing that cannot be
legitimately falsified.
On one hand, if we suspect our map to be inadequate in some
respect, then we will attempt to induce the experience of a real event
that has no counterpart in our current map. On the other hand, if we
suspect that our map contains elements having no real correspondant,
then we will strive to bring about those conditions which our model
prescribes as sufficient to produce the event in question. If our model is
false, then what the model says will happen, simply won’t happen. This
systematic exploitation of deliberately contrived experiences of reality is
what is popularly known as experimentation.

To ascertain, through verification, that our model is inaccurate is
only the first step in a process of identifying precisely the erroneous
elements and then finding an appropriate correction. This can some-
times be a short, straightforward process, but is often long and difficult,
involving many false starts and periods of anguishing uncertainty about
just how much of our model may have to be discarded or modified.
Failure to distinguish between truth and verification leads to an-
other, weaker version of subjectivism, which we will call the positivist
fallacy. This fallacy runs something as follows: since (as we falsely sup-
pose) truth is verification, then the only true ideas are those we have
verified to be so. No matter how apparently true a given idea may seem,
it cannot be held to be genuine knowledge until it has passed our veri-
fication procedures. However, these procedures involve knower-initiated
interactions which modify the nature of reality. The knower is no longer
just a passive observer but also a participant—a part of the very reality
he seeks to know. The feedback information generated by verification
procedures is actually created by the action of the knower. Thus, the
only thing we actually know is the reality created by our own verifica-
tion procedures.
We therefore conclude that it is practically impossible to gain
knowedge of objective reality as it is, because we ourselves are always in
the way. We can only know reality as we contrive it to be. In other
words, radical subjectivism may be theoretically false but it is practically
true because human limitations prevent any significant degree of prac-
tical verification of affirmations about objective reality as it is.9
Besides the falsity of the initial premise, this fallacy also trades on
an unstated presumption that reality should be chaotic, with very few
regularities. Historically, most successful scientific theories have been
based on bold generalizations (assumptions) from fairly limited empiri-
cal evidence. The fact that such highly theoretical constructs have been
successfully verified empirically suggests that reality is in fact highly
ordered and highly structured, with deep and subtle regularities. In other
words, we might have pursued empirical verification as rigorously and
systematically as possible and never verified anything because there would
have been nothing to verify!
Subjectivist skeptics have pointed out that we tend to presume regu-
larities from very little experience. They think we project imagined
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
regularities onto reality with little empirical justification. The young
child presumes that his room and bed and mother will be there tomor-
row as they are today, but he has not consciously verified this assumption.
The fact that this stability is actually true does not impress those who
identify truth with verification. According to a certain brand of
skepticism, the child has no right to presume a stability that he has not
consciously verified. Moreover, the poor little thing is even ignorant of
the fact that he has no right to know what he knows.
The point is that if the world were in fact extremely chaotic, unlaw-
ful, and unpredictable, then our inner models would also be chaotic
and unstable—a reflection of the real state of the world. We would
frantically move from one assumption to another, only to encounter yet
another empirical refutation. But the fact is that our experience verifies
our assumptions of stability and order more often than not.
That this order or regularity is often inferred from experience and
not directly observed is extremely strong evidence in favor of Platonism
or realism, which holds that there is an objective and rational order
underlying the phenomena of reality. In other words, the success of mod-
ern science has given a strong empirical ground to Platonism. For most of
us, this is good news and validates Descartes’ contention that “God is
not a deceiver.”
Nevertheless, skeptics of various stripes—positivists, postmodernists
and deconstructionists—continue their assault on realism, mainly by
pointing out just how subjective our theories are and how difficult the
verification procedures may be, at least in certain cases. Moreover, these
criticisms often involve both the radical subjectivist fallacy of identify-
ing the inner model with reality and/or the positivist fallacy of identifying
truth with verification, all seasoned with a strong unstated bias against
philosophical realism.10
5. INTERFERENCES BETWEEN THE KNOWER AND
REALITY
But how do we deal with the fact that the process of verification can
indeed interfere with or modify reality? We do this by incorporating the
knower-reality interaction into our model—by making it explicit. This
is done by requiring that verification procedures be invariant under
certain changes of viewpoint.

For example, in physics, this approach began when, following the
results of the Michelson-Morley light experiment (1897), Einstein made
the explicit assumption that the speed of light was the same for all ob-
servers. This led to the theory of relativity, which is based on the
assumption that all physical observations remain unchanged under uni-
form rectilinear motion. In simple terms, this means that you and I will
never have any way of verifying whether or not we are both at rest or
moving uniformly together in a given direction.
Thus, rather than being the destruction of science, the realization
that observer-reality interactions affect verification has simply led to a
more adequate model of reality. After all, we humans are part of objec-
tive reality and so there is nothing strange or unnatural about having to
take this into account in building our models.
Subjectivist critics of science might acknowledge this, but would
insist this fact implies that the verification process is always relative and
never absolute, because we can never exclude absolutely the possibility
that our verifications are tainted with some undetected knower-reality
interactions. This observation is correct, as has been demonstrated in
twentieth century science by the appearance of a number of indetermi-
nacy principles (Heisenberg in physics, Gödel in mathematics). However,
the relativity of our verification procedures already follows from the fact
that our models are always based on partial information. The indeter-
minacy principles are simply one example of how the finiteness of human
knowledge can express itself.
The relativity of the verification process raises the possibility of an
infinite regress in which we verify truth, evaluate our verification, check
our evaluation, etc. Indeed, the move from truth to verification is a
move up the ladder of abstraction. First we had a territory and a map.
Then we made the map into the territory (the object of knowledge) and
the verification procedure became the new (higher order) map. Thus,
verification is also a form of knowledge, but of a second order. It is
knowledge about knowledge—what in philosophy we call meta-knowl-
edge. But there is no absolute end to this process. We can make
verification into the territory and then we will have meta-meta-knowl-
edge, and so on. Such is the flexibility and openness of philosophy.
Classical philosophy tended to consider that infinite regresses were
logically contradictory and therefore unacceptable. When confronted
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
with the possibility of such a regress, as we are with the hierarchy of
knowledge, meta-knowledge, etc., classical philosophy would find a way
out of the infinite regress by appealing to some absolute principle. For
example, Aristotle declares that an infinite regress of causes is impossi-
ble and therefore concludes that there must be an absolute (first) cause.11
If we applied such a move in the present context, we would con-
clude that since the infinite regress of meta-meta- … meta-knowledge is
not possible, there must be some point of absolutely certain knowledge.
However, from modern mathematics we know that infinite regresses are
not contradictory and in fact occur frequently in nature. Thus, we must
accept the plausibility of the relativity of knowledge represented by the
infinite regress of truth, verification, evaluation of verification, etc.12
In the light of this more sophisticated understanding of infinity,
fundamentally two positions are possible. One is taken by postmodernist
critics of science, who say that once the relativity of scientific knowledge
is admitted, then the truth claims of science and philosophy become no
more valid than any other truth claims, such as those of occultists, sor-
cerers, or mythmakers. Everybody is doing the same thing: constructing
an inner model of reality based on their perceptions and verifying their
model according to their particular criteria. Beyond that, there is no
way of judging which of two models is, in any sense, better or more
accurate than the other.
This position might be called total relativism, meaning that once
any degree of relativity or uncertainty has been admitted, then it follows
that all points of view are epistemologically equivalent. The question is
whether and to what degree such a leap from any relativity to total rela-
tivity is justified. It is easy to see, from both the logical and the historical
perspective, that it is not.
The other position, then, is that the process of iterating or repeat-
ing verification procedures, starting with some body of empirical data,
leads to a progressive refinement of the inner model, and a gradual
sharpening of our point of view. The process of gradual refinement of
our models is an example of convergence, another modern notion con-
nected with infinite regresses. The simple point is that there may always
be inaccuracies in our models, but not always the same inaccuracies. For
example, as we resolve uncertainties on a given level, we may create
new, more refined uncertainties on a higher (meta) level, but we have

nonetheless progressed in our knowledge, because something that was
previously unknown is now known, and nothing that was previously
known is lost. We can therefore think of our successive models as an
increasingly more accurate representation of reality, and this process can
continue indefinitely.
Our analysis has shown that the pursuit of absolute certainty is an
unrealistic philosophical ideal. However, the process of convergence
means that the admitted relativity of our knowledge can imply relative
certainty rather than relative ignorance. To say that our knowledge is
relative means that there is always a logical possibility of error, but not
always a reasonable plausibility of error. There is an immense difference
between a simple possibility and a high degree of probability. This differ-
ence has often been ignored or discarded by subjectivist critics of science,
and especially by those who are inclined to make the leap from any
relativity to total relativity.
6. REFINING OUR MODELS: AN EXAMPLE FROM THE
HISTORY OF SCIENCE
The process of the gradual refinement of our inner model might be
thought of as an ongoing dialogue between ourselves and reality. Each
encounter with reality gives us a certain feedback which either confirms
what we already know, challenges what we already know, or simply gives
us entirely new information. We then respond to this feedback from
reality by adjusting our inner model in some appropriate way.
The history of science exhibits this progression extremely clearly.
Consider, for example, the history of our model of the phenomenon of
gravitation, from Aristotle to Einstein. Aristotle held that heavier ob-
jects fall faster than lighter objects. His reasoning was that the force of
gravitation is directly proportional to the mass, and thus more massive
objects would be subject to a stronger force of attraction and thus fall at
a faster rate. For almost two thousand years, this remained the accepted
model of gravity. Finally, Galileo’s experiments showed that, neglecting
air resistance, all objects fall at the same rate: the acceleration due to
gravity is a constant. This fact refutes Aristotle’s theory, but does not
immediately give a correct theory to replace it.
It was Newton who found the correct theory: the force of gravity is
directly proportional to the mass, as Aristotle had said, but is, at the
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
same time, (quadratically) inversely proportional to the distance be-
tween the mutually attracting objects. Furthermore, the greater the mass
of an object, the greater its inertia (i.e., its resistance to a change of state
of motion). Simply put, it takes more force to move a big rock than it
does to move a little one. Thus, as it turns out, the greater force of
gravitational attraction of heavy objects is compensated by the greater
inertia of the heavy object in such a way that the acceleration due to
gravity is in fact constant (i.e., the same for all bodies). Moreover, New-
ton’s model was verified empirically. In fact it correctly predicted the
observed movements of the planets.
Newton actually defined force not as mass times acceleration, but
rather as the rate of change of momentum (mass times velocity). New-
ton’s successors assumed that mass was constant and only velocity varied.
But, after 1905, when Einstein explicitly brought in the knower-reality
interaction (the constancy of the speed of light), it was immediately
deduced that, at extremely high velocities, mass actually increases. This
permitted a simple mathematical correction (refinement) of the
Newtonian model of gravity, an effect which was subsequently observed
empirically when experimental technique allowed for the acceleration
of small masses to velocities near the speed of light.
But Einstein’s refinement did not contradict Newton’s original theory
in any way. In Einstein’s model, force is still proportional to the rate of
change of momentum. But now we know that both mass and velocity
vary, and not just velocity as Newton’s successors had presumed. Thus,
from Aristotle to Einstein, there was a progressive refinement of our
model of the phenomenon of gravitation in which, at each stage of the
process, our map was modified to take into account a more accurate
knowledge of the territory. Moreover, this is not the end of the story,
because there is a fundamental incompatibility between our respective
models of gravitation and of quantum mechanics, which is our model
of the other three known basic forces of physics (the strong and weak
nuclear forces and electromagnetism). So, a climb further up the ladder
of abstraction is in store for us.
Our summary sketch here of the history of gravitation theory is, of
course, vastly simplified. Progress in science is never a straightforward
linear progression. Science grows by fits and starts, false directions and
cul-de-sacs, serendipitous discoveries and sometimes incredibly outrageous

theories. Nevertheless, that there has been and continues to be an overall
progression and refinement in scientific knowledge is beyond any serious
debate.
7. RELATIVITY AND SOCIAL SUBJECTIVISM
Although it may seem difficult for most of us to believe, there are oth-
erwise intelligent people alive today who believe, in apparent sincerity,
that the Newton-Einstein model of gravitation is a myth on an equal
footing epistemologically with Hitler’s theory of Aryan supremacy or
Nietsche’s strongly held belief in the intellectual inferiority of women.
The ultimate roots of this antiscientist school of thought can probably
be traced to Thomas Kuhn, and his work The Structure of Scientific
Revolutions,13 though his successors and interpreters have perhaps gone
further than Kuhn himself in the direction of antiscientism.
Kuhn was essentially a socio-historian who focused his attention
on science, however not on its content or epistemological method, but
rather on the social behavior of scientists themselves in their pursuit of
scientific knowledge. Kuhn observed that scientists were not the de-
tached, objective observers they sometimes claimed to be, but were
passionate human beings, full of prejudices and weaknesses. He showed
how, at each stage of its development, the discourse of science reflected
the emotional tenor of its times. Science is not somehow outside of
society, but, like everything human, is a product of human culture.
On the basis of this undoubted truth, Kuhn’s successors (and per-
haps Kuhn himelf, though that is not wholly clear) concluded, essentially,
that all cultural products have equivalent truth claims: since science is
produced by culture, it is simply a reflection of culture and nothing
more. Science is a “cultural myth” on a par with any other cultural
myth.
As the reader may already see, this is just a social form of the radical
subjectivist fallacy. The fact that our ideas are themselves subjective men-
tal entities does not mean that these ideas are not true of an objective
reality. In the same way, the fact that our scientific theories are socially
constructed models does not mean that these models cannot be relatively
accurate reflections of an objective reality. One has again uncritically trans-
ferred a property of the models themselves (in this case that they are cultural
products) to the logical content of these models, a classical non sequitur.
T H E   I N D I V I D U A L   P R A C T I C E   O  F   P H I L O S O P H Y

M I N I M A L I S M
It might seem that this social subjectivism would be easy to refute.
Just point to the fact that Newton’s theory of gravitation allows us, on
the basis of a few simple calculations, to place a communications satel-
lite in a fixed orbit with respect to the earth or to send men to the moon
and get them back. This is certainly not true of many other cultural
myths.
Those who attempt to dialogue with convinced postmodernists will
discover that such an attempted refutation will likely not be met with
any coherent direct answer. It will rather generate a stream of discourse
justifying the fact that science is indeed a cultural product. True, but
beside the point.14
Since postmodernism represents the ultimate attack on philosophi-
cal realism, it is useful, in closing this discussion, to make one further
point. From a strictly logical point of view, it would be quite correct to
say that we have no a priori guarantee that our infinite iteration of the
verification process will converge (i.e. that it will lead to a progressive
refinement of our model). Our experience of applying this method might
well have been one of divergence and frustration. This is why the his-
tory of science is so important to this debate: because it shows that there
has been a de facto convergence, whatever our anticipations may be or
may have been. Thus, the success of such models as Newton’s theory of
gravitation constitutes strong empirical evidence in favor of philosophi-
cal realism: if there is no objective order in reality, then it becomes very
difficult to account for such convergences as we have already experi-
enced.
Or, put it another way. If, as we have already entertained above, the
world were in fact totally chaotic, then indeed any cultural myth would
be just as true as science, because all would be equally false. But in such
a world, there would be no communications satellites or moon expedi-
tions (or, alas, weapons of mass destruction).

III. COMMUNICATING PHILOSOPHICAL
IDEAS
1. INTERSUBJECTIVE DIALOGUE
We have discussed assumptions (1) and (2) in the context of a corre-
spondence or dialogue between our inner model and reality. Assumption
(3) now raises the question of intersubjective dialogue, of communica-
tion between different knowers or subjectivities.
The parameters of intersubjective communication are determined
by the intrinsic nature of subjectivity itself. We follow the tradition
initiated by Descartes in considering consciousness or self-awareness as
the primal and defining characteristic of the human being. The indi-
vidual’s consciousness creates an inner world of private states to which
only that individual has direct access. Your consciousness consists pre-
cisely of your thoughts, feelings, and desires, and my consciousness
consists of my thoughts, feelings, and desires. Neither has direct access
to the inner states of the other. Indeed, if I had such access to your inner
states and you to mine, we would be one consciousness and not two.
Thus, the locus of our consciousness defines us. We are our conscious-
ness—the sum total of all of those states to which only we have direct
access.
Individual subjectivities are thus wholly non-intersecting. We can
talk about and share our mutual subjectivities, but we cannot experi-
ence them. I have access to objective reality only through the inner
sensations it induces within me, and I have access to your subjectivity
only to the extent that you can communicate it to me in some manner,
verbal or otherwise.
The primary means of intersubjective communication is language.
For our minimalist purposes, it is sufficient that a given language consist,
on the one hand, of signs or symbols and the relationships between them
and, on the other hand, of significances or meanings that we attach to
these signs or symbols. We say that language involves syntax (the relations
between the signs) and semantics (the relationship between the signs and
their meanings). By a language we thus mean a general, unified system of
syntax/semantics. Each language is associated with a specific linguistic
community of those people who share that language.

M I N I M A L I S M
Our definition of a language is somewhat more restrictive than the
usual linguistic characterization of natural language. However, our no-
tion is surprisingly rich—much richer than might at first be supposed.
Moreover, any reasonably developed natural language will contain at
least the data we have sketched here.
The first and most basic point to make is that the syntax of a lan-
guage is, by its very nature, more concrete than its semantics. Indeed, it
is now known that, without significant loss in generality, we can assume
that any language has a finite number of basic (or irreducible) signs,
called alphabetical letters, and that all other syntactical expressions are
finite linear sequences (strings) of these letters. Though signs are some-
what abstract (they are equivalence classes of tokens under the relationship
sameness of shape), a token itself is a concrete entity that can be used to
represent its equivalence class (sign) in all contexts.
Certain strings, having an appropriate syntactical structure, are des-
ignated as meaningful expressions. Any linear sequence of meaningful
expressions is a text or a discourse.15
The meaning of an expression is itself partly syntactical (grammati-
cal or formal) and partly semantic. The point is that a grammatically
correct expression has an objective existence as a syntactical entity, inde-
pendent of the meanings that may be attached to it. Determining that
a text is grammatically correct, and thus meaningful, is purely objec-
tive, but determining what the meanings are, should be, or may be is
highly subjective (see discussion below, pp. 48 ff.) This distinction be-
tween syntax and semantics is useful, because it allows us to agree
straightforwardly on a certain number of basic issues, and thus to save
our energy for a discussion of the more contentious and difficult
semantic questions.
It is clear that meanings, whatever they may be, are not inherent in
the objective syntactical entities (signs and expressions) themselves.
Ontologically, meanings are ideas or, more precisely, a correspondence
between syntactical entities and ideas. The process by which certain mean-
ings become associated with a given text is a fairly complicated
psycho-linguistic process that has been much studied. However, the es-
sentials of this process are relatively clear and generally agreed upon:
meanings derive from social interactions which develop, for the most part
unconsciously, within a cultural community that has undergone a shared

history. Specific cultures arise from specific histories, specific languages
arise out of specific cultures, and specific texts occur within specific lan-
guages.
There are basically two ways for an individual to become part of a
given linguistic community (i.e., to learn a language): immersion or
translation. In the first instance, we immerse ourselves in the linguistic
community and thereby assimilate spontaneously the conventions of its
language. Immersion thus includes the process of growing up within a
given linguistic community. Translation is the more self-conscious and
deliberate process of learning a correspondence between the conven-
tions of the previously unknown language and a language that is already
known.
Although there are nonverbal forms of communication, many of
these can also be represented by an appropriate language. In any case,
for the time being we will restrict our attention only to those forms of
communication which use some language. Thus, whenever we speak of
intersubjective communication, we implicitly assume that a given lan-
guage is involved. In sum, our communication with objective reality is
mediated by the inner sensations induced by objective entities, and our
communication with other subjects is mediated by a language.
From this perspective, intersubjective communication is a sharing
of meaning. Communication begins when each of us confronts the same
text (discourse), whether I am speaking to you, you to me, or some
third party to both of us. The syntax is concrete and can be presumed to
be perceived similarly by both of us. But to what extent do we under-
stand the text in the same way?
The process by which a given subject attributes meaning to a text is
called interpreting (the text). A text is part of reality, and interpreting a
text is part of the larger process of generating our inner model of reality.
The extent to which our respective inner models or interpretations of a
given text are similar is the extent to which, in a given instance, we have
successfully communicated. We can again apply a map/territory anal-
ogy. The text is like the territory and the interpretation is like the map.
We have communicated to the extent that we each make similar maps
of the same territory.
Just as there is a difference between truth and verification, there is
also a difference between communication and verifying that we have
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
communicated. You and I may in fact have understood a given text in
virtually the same way, but be unable to verify the similarity in our
understandings. (Suppose, for example, that we have each read the same
poem and interpreted it in virtually identical fashion, but that we do
not even know each other.)
2. LIMITATIONS IN COMMUNICATION
In discussing our dialogue with objective reality, we realized that there
are certain inherent limitations in our inner models deriving, on one
hand, from the incompleteness of our information from reality and, on
the other hand, from self-generated falsities arising from those needs
and desires which we incorporate into our picture of reality. In the same
way, our point of view will influence the way we interpret a given text.
But, beyond that, we need to see that there are certain things that can-
not ever, even in principle, be communicated from one subjectivity to
another.
On the most basic level, it is clear that we will never be able to
convey to another human being our own subjective experience. I can of
course describe my experience, and you can acknowledge that my de-
scription seems to describe yours as well. Our experiences can be similar,
but never identical, because my experience is just that—my experience—
and thus not yours.
Consider, for example, that you and I are discoursing about our
respective experiences of the beauty of the same red rose. Your experi-
ence of the rose will induce in you a complex of thoughts, feelings, and
desires to which only you have access. Neither I nor any other can expe-
rience your feelings of the rose; we can each experience only our own
feelings. Suppose that, in actual fact, I experience as greenness what you
and others experience as redness and that, reciprocally, I experience as
redness what you and others experience as greenness. There is no way
we could ever discover and communicate this fact. I will simply have
learned to associate the vocable red with what you and others experience
as redness but which I experience as greenness. We will each classify the
same objects as red or green and indeed will produce the same protocols
under all circumstances. Yet, my perception of what we all call red will
in fact be the same as your and others’ perception of green.

Notice that it is possible to give a perfectly objective definition of,
say, greenness as that quality of precisely those objects which absorb all
the spectrum of white light except the green portion, which they reflect.
The green portion of the light spectrum can likewise be defined objec-
tively in terms of wave lengths as measured on a spectrograph.
Thus, in the same way that we have direct experience not of objects
but of the subjective sensations induced by our encounters with objects,
so in communication we do not have direct experience of another sub-
jectivity but only of the descriptive protocol of the sensations experienced
by the other. Strictly speaking, what we communicate to each other is
not experience but our mutual understanding of experience.
Attempting to verify whether you and I have similar interpretations
of a given text generates an infinite regress similar to the one generated
when we attempt to verify the truth of an idea. The only tool we have to
validate our mutual understanding of a given discourse is to engage in
further discourse, a meta-discourse—a discourse about the previous dis-
course. We thus take a step up the ladder of abstraction. Our initial
discourse was a tool for communicating certain ideas, feelings, and de-
sires. That discourse now becomes the subject of a meta-discourse, and
so on ad infinitum. In other words, just as absolute certainty of knowl-
edge does not exist, neither does perfect communication.16
Also, we again have the phenomenon of convergence. Although
our understanding of a given text will never be perfect, we can eliminate
ambiguities, enlarge our understanding and thereby generate succes-
sively more accurate and more complete approximations to a perfect
understanding. This process is called explication, meaning to make ex-
plicit that which was previously unclear or ambiguous. Just as there
exists a whole gamut of epistemological methods, there are also estab-
lished methods of explication, which will not be treated here in any
detail.
Given the difficulties and limitations attending communication,
one could make an a priori case that these difficulties are so great that
intersubjective communication is practically impossible. This existen-
tialist fallacy is the literary counterpart of total relativism in epistemology.
It consists primarily in confusing understanding with explication, arriv-
ing at the conclusion that no text can be truly understood since no text
can be totally explicated. Starting with the admitted fact that all com-
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
munication is partial, it leaps to the false conclusion that communica-
tion is totally impossible (similar to the some to all leap of total relativism).
We all have the feeling or sense that we communicate with each other,
but, for those who fall victim to the existentialist fallacy, this is just an
illusion. In their view, we are all alone, each enclosed in the cell of our
subjectivity. This essential aloneness becomes, for them, the central fact
of our existence.
The refutation of the existentialist fallacy is similar to the refutation
of the fallacy of total relativism. In the latter case, we appealed to the
observable success of scientific theories such as the Newton-Einstein
theory of gravitation as incontrovertible evidence that science cannot
reasonably be considered a cultural myth on a par with any other cul-
tural myth. In the same way, we can point out the obvious fact that if
communication were only an illusion, then society as we know it would
not and could not exist. All of our higher-order social structures depend
essentially (and demonstrably) on the fact that a significant degree of
intersubjective communication is possible. Indeed, it is difficult to see
how each generation of children could learn language if such communi-
cation were only an illusion.
There is an element of self-refutation in both deconstructionism
and existentialism. In the first instance we put forth as a valid theory
that there cannot be any valid theories. In the second instance, we ex-
pend great efforts in communicating to others that communication with
others is impossible. Of course there are no absolutely valid theories
and there is no perfect communication. The fallacy lies in taking these
limitations to be the central reality rather than only a part of a larger
and more adequate reality.
3. OBJECTIVITY IN COMMUNICATION
We have established beyond any reasonable doubt that significant
intersubjective communication can and does exist. Against the back-
ground of this discussion, we now address assumption (3), which raises
the question of the extent to which we can communicate objective knowl-
edge of reality. On the one hand, we have a dialogue with objective
reality which, under appropriate circumstances, generates a progressively
more refined and accurate inner model of reality. On the other hand, we

maintain an ongoing intersubjective dialogue in which we seek to com-
municate our point of view to others.
All communication seeks to fulfill some goal or purpose. Some-
times the goal is frankly and unashamedly subjective. We seek to share
our thoughts, feelings, and desires to the maximum extent possible,
within the context of whatever limitations are inherent in the commu-
nication process. This is maximalist communication and is epitomized
by poetic language that makes liberal use of such devices as metaphor
and multiple meanings.
At other times we seek to communicate as precisely as possible.
This is minimalist language which renounces the use of metaphor and
multiple meaning. It is epitomized by formal logical languages such as
those used in programming and operating digital computers.
However, whatever may be the goal or intention of a given text, the
fact remains that all discourse emanates from a given point of view. All
text has an author, and the ideas expressed by the author cannot but
reflect his or her understanding of reality. There is not, nor can there
ever be, a totally neutral discourse, that is, a discourse which is wholly
viewpoint-independent.
The question now arises of how to deal with viewpoint-dependency
in our discourse about objective reality. This problem is similar to the
problem of knower-reality interactions in connection with verifications,
and the solution is likewise similar. We dealt with knower-reality inter-
actions by making them explicit in our models. In the same way, we
deal with viewpoint-dependency by making it explicit in our discourse.
We say that a discourse is objective to the degree that it makes ex-
plicit the (assumptions underlying the) viewpoint of its author. A
discourse which refuses to acknowledge its viewpoint is biased, a dis-
course which gives no justification for its viewpoint is dogmatic, and a
discourse which seeks to convey its viewpoint without making it ex-
plicit is subjective.
These definitions are important and deserve further discussion. A
discourse consists of signs (expressions) and their meanings (interpreta-
tions). On one hand, signs are concrete entities, a part of observable,
objective reality. On the other hand, interpretations are ideas and thus
wholly subjective. Ontologically, a discourse is thus a hybrid, partly
objective and partly subjective. It is therefore not in the ontological
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
sense that we apply the predicate objective to a discourse. Applied to
texts, objectivity relates both to the signs of the text and the possible
meanings of the text. A text is objective if it makes certain affirmations
about reality and, at the same time, incorporates certain affirmations
about the relationship between the text and reality. We objectify a given
discourse by extending it to include certain appropriate portions of its
meta-discourse.
This definition of textual objectivity clarifies a major, ongoing mis-
understanding about the nature of objectivity in discourse. Towards the
beginning of the twentieth century, certain positivist philosophers of
science advanced the notion that an author could achieve textual objec-
tivity only by discoursing from a totally neutral, value-free,
assumption-free viewpoint. However, subsequent developments in epis-
temology and linguistics made clear the point that we have already made
in the above: there does not exist any such neutral viewpoint. Any point
of view presupposes numerous assumptions.
Once the myth of viewpoint-neutrality was exploded, there were
two responses in the philosophical community. The deconstructionists/
postmodernists reacted by declaring that objectivity itself is a cultural
myth (on a par with other cultural myths, of course). To strive for view-
point neutrality is itself a value-choice—a viewpoint.
The other response is represented by the approach we have taken
here of defining objectivity not as viewpoint-neutrality but rather as
viewpoint-awareness. In this conception, we can all discourse objec-
tively about anything and from any viewpoint. All we have to do is to
become aware of our assumptions and to state them explicitly. This
notion of objectivity is clearly coherent. The extent to which viewpoint-
awareness is practically achievable is another question which we will
discuss below.
In fact, the notion of objectivity as viewpoint-awareness is not new,
and has a continuous history beginning at least as early as Euclid’s Elements.
This text makes a number of affirmations about geometrical figures and
their spatial relationships. But it does more. To avoid subjective discussions
of these affirmations, Euclid explicitly deduces them all from five explicit
assumptions or axioms. The reader is free to reject Euclid’s axioms if he so
desires, but if he accepts them, then he cannot deny any of Euclid’s further
affirmations. Euclid has made his viewpoint totally explicit. Euclid’s ap-

proach to objectivity in the Elements is known as the axiomatic method and
it has played a prominent role in science and philosophy ever since.
Recall that we have defined reason as the process of becoming aware
of our assumptions about reality (as opposed to common sense, which
is prerational, and insanity, which is irrational). It is obvious that we
cannot discourse objectively—in other words make our assumptions
textually explicit—until we have made them explicit to ourselves. Thus,
textual objectivity is based on reason. Objectivity and rationality go to-
gether. Textual objectivity is an expression of rationality.
Of course, we can choose reason without choosing textual objectiv-
ity. This is what creative artists do. They have become aware of their
viewpoint but choose deliberately to write a subjective text in which
they convey their viewpoint without making it explicit in the text itself.
Their goal is to lead the reader to experience the author’s viewpoint,
without the reader necessarily becoming aware of the process that leads
to the experience.
We are thus not making a value judgement that objective texts are
in all circumstances superior to subjective texts. In each given instance,
it depends on the goal or purpose of the discourse.
Another example of deliberately subjective discourse is propaganda,
a rhetorical form whose purpose is to influence others towards the au-
thor’s viewpoint but in ways that hide this intention. To be effective,
propaganda cannot be objective. Propaganda is not irrational but
antirational, the antithesis of rationality.
Socrates and Plato were the early champions of reason and Plato in
particular took Euclid’s Elements as the model of reason at its best. For
Plato the goal of reason and objectivity was to ascend the ladder of
abstraction towards a more adequate perception of the ultimate forms
or first principles from which every lower thing was derived. Since rea-
son involves increased self-awareness, this Platonic process cannot be
achieved without a substantial degree of subjective self-development,
leading to wisdom, which was for Plato the highest form of knowledge,
objective or otherwise.
The modern positivist attempt to redefine objectivity as viewpoint-
neutrality is something that Plato would have immediately denounced
as a vain sophistry. Indeed, the modern positivist programme was con-
sciously conceived in opposition to philosophical realism and, to some
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
extent, to metaphysics in general. Though differing from positivism in
many respects, deconstructionism and postmodernism share the posi-
tivist bias against realism and metaphysics, and this is why postmodernists
were so quick to use the generally recognized inadequacy of the positiv-
ist notion of objectivity-as-viewpoint-neutrality to formulate an attack
on objectivity and rationality itself in the form of total relativism.
4. THE EXTENT AND LIMITS OF OBJECTIVITY IN
COMMUNICATION
In the preceeding section, we have clarified the nature and conception
of objectivity in communication: it is viewpoint-awareness and not view-
point-neutrality. But to address adequately the problems raised by
assumption (3), we need to consider not just the possibility but the
practicality of achieving any significant degree of viewpoint-awareness.
Our example of the incommunicability of the subjective experience
of redness already shows that there are certain limits to the degree of
objectivity that can be attained in any discourse. We thus begin our
discussion by eliminating the possibility of absolute objectivity, just as
we have already eliminated absolutely adequate truth and absolutely
certain knowledge. We also reject as unreasonable the leap from relative
objectivity to total subjectivity. The reader should now be able to supply
the argument for himself or herself.17
More generally, a little reflection leads to the realization that total
viewpoint-awareness would amount to total self-awareness which is
clearly impossible. How indeed can our mind, which is only part of our
total self, completely encompass that self? Not only would we have to
become totally aware of such things as our unconscious thoughts and
autonomic nerve impulses, but the mind would have to encompass the
mind itself. This latter leads immediately to another infinite regress: the
mind would have to encompass itself, encompass itself encompassing
itself, etc., ad infinitum. The end (solution) to this infinite regress would
be a mind that is totally or absolutely aware of itself. Nothing in our
experience gives us any reasonable basis for believing that we humans
are capable of such total awareness.18
Thus, total objectivity in discourse would require total viewpoint-
awareness, which by definition is equivalent to the God-like quality of
absolute reason. Since these absolutes are, once again, impossible of

human attainment, the question then arises of the extent to which a
high degree of relative objectivity can be attained. The answer, as we
shall see, is quite a bit.
We begin with the extension, by definition, of the notion of truth
to linguistic expressions. Until now the predicate true has applied to
those parts of our inner model which reflect accurately some correspond-
ing portion of reality. In other words, truth is the accuracy of the
correspondence between reality and our inner model. By a proposition
we mean any meaningful linguistic expression which makes affirmations
about the way reality is structured. A typical example of a proposition
would be any simple English sentence in the indicative mood, for ex-
ample, “Grass is green.”
It might seem at first than any meaningful linguistic expression
would be a proposition, but that is too broad. Commands, “Go forth
and multiply,” and wishes, “I hope she loves me,” are meaningful lin-
guistic expressions but not propositions because they make no affirmation
about how reality is in fact structured. A proposition is true if the state
of affairs it affirms to be the case is in fact the case. Thus defined, truth
is a function of two things: structure (of reality) and meaning (of the
proposition).
We have already observed that meanings are partly syntactical (con-
crete and observable) and partly semantical (subjective and unobservable).
The concrete part of meaning has to do with the syntactic structure of
the proposition (e.g., the subject-predicate form of the proposition “Grass
is green”). In its semantic aspect, meaning is a reflection of the inner
model of the author of the discourse and, more generally, of the whole
linguistic community associated with the given language. Meanings
articulate our inner model.
There is thus a correspondence between our inner model and real-
ity, on one hand, and a correspondence between our inner model and
language, on the other hand. The difference is that we construct lan-
guage but we do not construct the objective part of reality. Thus, a
proposition is true if it correctly articulates an accurate inner model. A
proposition will be false (untrue) either because it correctly articulates a
false idea or else because it badly articulates a true idea.
Again, it is important to realize that a proposition may well be true
without our knowing it to be so. “There is intelligent humanoid life on
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
other planets” is a clear proposition whose truth or falsity is presently
unknown to us. A proposition is true if it makes an accurate affirmation
about the structure of reality; we may or may not be in a position to
verify the accuracy of the given affirmation. This is essentially the dis-
tinction between truth and verification that we have already discussed
in a preceeding section.
We need, now, to think about how propositions fare under changes
of viewpoint. Since the grammar or syntax of a language is concrete and
objective, it does not change with any change of viewpoint for gram-
matically correct speakers of the language. What can change is the
interpretation of lexicon: you and I may, even unknowingly, attribute
slightly different meanings to the same lexical terms. The proposition
may then be true under my interpretation but false under yours.
Consider, for example, the statement: “You stepped on the little
child’s toy.” There is a potential ambiguity as to whether it is the toy or
the child that is little. In the first interpretation, I may be telling you
that you stepped on the little toy of the child but not the big toy. In the
second, I may be saying that you stepped on a toy (big or small) of the
small child. Such ambiguities are not the only source of divergent inter-
pretations, but they are a frequent source.
Ambiguities are usually clarified by enlarging the context. If you
have just stepped on something and asked me whether it was the big toy
or the little one, my statement now becomes unambiguous: it is the toy
that is small. On the other hand, perhaps you have wondered which of
two children, one big and one small, has had his toy stepped on.
A proposition is itself a discourse, and its context is simply a longer
discourse in which the proposition is embedded. If the proposition is
ambiguous when taken out of its context, then we must acknowledge
that the proposition gets part of its meaning from its context. However,
the meaning of the total discourse obviously depends on the meanings
of the propositions it includes. This interplay between propositions and
contexts gives rise to what is known as the hermeneutic circle: the mean-
ing of a total context depends on the expressions that make it up and
the meaning of an expression depends in part on its context.
In other words, meaning cannot be completely localized to a sin-
gle expression but must be considered, to some extent, as distributed
throughout a context. Nevertheless, in our ensuing discussion, we

will make the simplifying assumption that propositions constitute
independent, meaning-bearing expressions. In acknowledging this as-
sumption, we are making our point of view explicit. In the light of
the hermeneutic circle, we are therefore treating a somewhat idealized
version of linguistic reality. However, experience has shown that the
degree of idealization involved is not very great, especially with re-
gard to the issue of objectivity in communication.
We now define the important notion of the objectivity of a propo-
sition. A proposition is objective to the extent that its truth (or falsity) is
invariant under changes of viewpoint. We now turn our attention to a
special class of truths that are naturally invariant under changes of view-
point, without our having to attain any viewpoint awareness whatever.
5. LOGICAL TRUTH, THE APOGEE OF PROPOSITIONAL
OBJECTIVITY
A certain pattern has emerged from our various considerations in the
foregoing. First, we address a philosophical notion such as truth, verifi-
cation, objectivity, certainty, or communicability. We then discover that
the notion is coherent but, disappointingly, relative. Of course, our
disappointment is somewhat assuaged by the immense difference be-
tween some relativity and total relativity. Nevertheless our thirst for
absolutes remains unsatisfied. Indeed, in the light of this recurrent pat-
tern, it would be reasonable to conclude that we must abandon the
search for absolutes of any kind. However, we now encounter a notion,
logical truth, which surprisingly and satisfyingly does yield an absolute:
absolute propositional objectivity. More precisely, the logical truths of a
language (such as English) constitute a collection of propositions whose
truth is absolutely objective (i.e., totally independent of viewpoint).
The definition is simple: a logical truth, of a given fixed language L,
is a proposition of L that is true and which remains true under all possi-
ble lexical (re)interpretations (i.e., under all possible changes of viewpoint
for grammatically correct speakers of L). This definition tells us the con-
ditions a proposition must satisfy to be counted a logical truth. However
the definition itself does not guarantee that there are in fact any such
propositions. Indeed, it is initially hard to see how anything could re-
main invariant under such a broad range of changes of viewpoint.
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
The answer lies in the observation that the meaningful expressions
of a language L are generated by two distinct kinds of syntactical expres-
sions, the lexical and the logical. The lexicon comprises several categories,
including all substantives (e.g., nouns, pronouns, nominal and pro-
nominal phrases) and all predicates (e.g., verbs and predicate adjectives)
except the copula of absolute identity. Logical expressions serve as con-
nectors or operators which enable us to build propositions from lexical
expressions and more complex propositions from simpler ones. In Eng-
lish, the main connectors (which we will call the basic connectors) are
“not - - -”, “if … then - - -”, “… and - - -”, “… or - - -”, “… if and only
if - - -”, “… is the same as - - -”, and the so-called quantifiers, “there is
something such that [M]” and “for everything it is the case that [M]”,
where M is a meaningful expression. There are other connectors, but
these will suffice since they constitute a complete set of connectors.19
Thus, any meaningful expression of a language L has an objective
(syntactical) structure in terms of the operators used to build it up,
starting with simple predicates and substantives. This structure deter-
mines the grammatical (or logical) form of the given expression. When
we reinterpret only elements of the lexicon of an expression, we do not
change its logical form. In other words, logical form does not vary un-
der changes of viewpoint (again, among grammatical speakers of the
language L). It follows that every proposition P that has the same logical
form as some logical truth is itself a logical truth. Logical truth is pre-
served under similarity of logical form.20
Let us illustrate with the simplest example, the is of identity. Suppose
I ask you whether or not the proposition “John is the author of the news-
paper article” is true. You will answer that you cannot know until I tell you
which person named John I am referring to and which newspaper article I
am talking about. In other words, you need to know some facts about my
viewpoint in order to determine the truth or falsity of the proposition.
Now, let us substitute in the proposition the substantive John for the nominal
phrase “the author of the newspaper article”. After the substitution is made,
we obtain the proposition “John is John”. If now, I ask you whether or not
the proposition “John is John” is true, you can answer immediately with a
resounding and emphatic yes. Of course you still don’t know which John I
am referring to, but now it no longer matters, because every existing entity
is identical with itself. (Here, as always, we assume that every occurrence

of a fixed proper noun within a given discourse has the same referant or
denotation.) “John is John” is thus a logical truth of the English language.
More generally, we can say that any proposition having the form “A
is A”, where A is any substantive, is a logical truth. Using one of our
quantifiers, we can also affirm as a logical truth that “For everything x,
x is x.” In other words, everything that exists is identical with itself.21
Another simple example would be the proposition: “If it is raining
today, then it is raining today.” Again, “it is raining today” will be true or
false depending on who says it, where and when. Its truth is viewpoint-
dependent. But, “If it is raining today, then it is raining today” will always
be true regardless of the truth or falsity of the proposition “it is raining
today.” It is true no matter who says it or under what circumstances it is
said. It is invariant under any possible change of viewpoint among gram-
matically correct speakers of the English language (because all such speakers
will keep the same logical meaning of the connector “if … then - - -”).22
The reason for this last condition now becomes fully apparent. In
determining logical truth, we are free to reinterpret lexical expressions
but not operational expressions. No grammatical speaker of the lan-
guage will change the meaning of the connectors, because their meaning
is fixed by the very rules of grammar that the speaker is bound to ob-
serve (by virtue of being a grammatical speaker of the language).
In other words: grammar, and the meaning of grammatical opera-
tors, are entirely concrete and objective. These meanings are defined
operationally. They do not depend in any way on the viewpoint of the
speaker (i.e., on the inner model of any subject). Grammar is the formal
aspect of language, the part that is pure form, totally objective, totally
explicit. Yet, when combined appropriately with lexical expressions, gram-
matical form contributes to the meaning of the whole expression.23
Notice that logical truth is defined with respect to (relative to) a
given language. It is therefore not a translinguistic notion. However,
because grammatical form can be made totally explicit, the logical truths
of a given language are determined absolutely (i.e., totally objectively).24
In contrast to grammatical meaning, lexical meaning is not totally
explicit, because it cannot be defined in purely operational terms. Thus,
the lack of total objectivity in communication generally, as well as the
hermeneutic circle, derive from the relative (but irreducible) subjectiv-
ity of lexical meaning.
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
6. RELATIONAL LOGIC VS. ATTRIBUTIONAL LOGIC
Logical truths are those truths that are truth-invariant under all changes
of viewpoint that conserve logical form (all purely lexical
reinterpretations). Logical falsity is another invariant notion. A propo-
sition is logically false if it is false and remains false under all purely
lexical reinterpretations. The negation “Not P” of any logically false propo-
sition P is logically true, and vice-versa. Logical truth and logical falsity
are properties of propositions of a given language L—properties that
either hold or do not hold for a given proposition P of L.25
More generally, a property is a one-place predicate (or attribute)
such as “… is big” , “… is true”, “… is green.” Thus, an attribute
expresses some quality that either holds or does not hold for any given
(single) object. Aristotle’s system of logic, frequently called syllogism,
was capable of dealing only with properties.
However, modern logic is capable of dealing with relations (i.e.,
with predicates (attributes) that may have any (finite) number of places).
For example, a binary (two-place) predicate would be “… is bigger than
- - -” or “… is a brother of - - -”. A three-place predicate would be
betweenness: “… is between - - - and # # #”. Thus, a relation expresses
a link or connection that either holds or does not hold between two or
more objects (or between a given object and itself).
The development of a logic of relations was only begun in the latter
part of the nineteenth century, and completed in the twentieth century.
It turns out that this logic (also called predicate logic ) is much more
powerful and flexible than Aristotle’s syllogism, while including the lat-
ter as a special case (as the predicate logic of unary predicates or attributes).
The greater generality of relational logic with respect to Aristotle’s
logic of attributes brings with it greater power as well. Indeed, the logi-
cal truths of purely attributional logic can be seen to be computationally
decidable. This means that there exists a computer algorithm which will
accept any statement of attributional logic and terminate in a finite
number of steps giving an output of 1 if the statement is a logical truth
and 0 if it is not. We can thus program a computer to detect all and only
logical truths of attributional logic.
However, it is now known (see note 24) that no such algorithm can
exist for the logical truths of relational logic, though these latter are
semidecidable. This means that there exists a computer algorithm with

the following properties: the algorithm will accept any statement of
relational logic. If the algorithm terminates (in a finite number of steps),
then the statement is certainly a logical truth (of relational logic). How-
ever, if the algorithm does not terminate (and it may not), we cannot
conclude that the statement is not a logical truth. We simply do not
know.
Semidecidability is like those irritating medical tests which, when
they come back positive, mean that you definitely have the illness, but
if they return negative, do not allow us to conclude that you do not
have the illness. You still might have the illness.
7. ARTICULATING LOGICAL TRUTH: LOGICAL
IMPLICATION AND LOGICAL DEDUCTION
We want now to take a definite step up the “ladder of abstraction” and
make language itself the object of our discourse. We will thus be talking
about talking—discoursing about discourse. Language will thus be both
the object of our discourse (sometimes called the object language) and
the medium in which we discourse (the so-called metalanguage). These
two languages may well overlap to a large extent, or even be identical.
But we must carefully distinguish their roles relative to each other in
any given context if we are to avoid confusion.
A useful analogy is thinking about thinking. I may use my brain to
study my own brain. My brain as an object of study (a grey mass of
neuronal cells connected to each other) will appear quite different to me
than my brain as experienced (as thoughts, feelings, intuitions, or men-
tal images). The first case would be the brain as object language and the
second the brain as metalanguage.
In order to objectify our discussion of language, we will have re-
course to the use of schematic letters, primarily in referring to various
expressions in the object language. Such devices may seem unnatural at
first, but the clarifying advantages of this approach soon become evi-
dent. Indeed, our discussion of the object language will be focused almost
exclusively on the grammatical and logical form of expressions rather
than on their content. Using schematic letters allows us to consider the
form in abstraction from any specific (and thus distracting) content.
Let us give a simple example. We will henceforth symbolize the
conditional connector “if … then - - -” by use of the horseshoe symbol
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
e, giving “… e - - -”. Thus, the vernacular statement “If I have a fever,
then I am sick” can be symbolized: (I have a fever)e( I am sick). Now, if we
go further, letting the schematic letter P represent “I have a fever” and Q
“I am sick”, then we can represent the original proposition by the sche-
matic form (PeQ). Suppose that, at this point, I proceed to take my
temperature and find that I do indeed have a fever. Thus, P is true. Since
(PeQ) is likewise true, it now follows that Q is true.
This obviously holds for any propositions having the requisite for-
mal relationship with each other. That is, for any propositions P and Q
whatever, if (PeQ) is true and if, further, P is true, then Q is true. This is
a universal rule of predicate logic, the rule known as Modus Ponens.
Such a formal rule of logic is often itself stated in schematic form as
follows:
P, (PeQ)
Q
This would be read as: “For any propositions P and Q, whenever
the two hypotheses P and (PeQ) above the line are true, then the conclu-
sion Q below the the line is also true.” We say the rule is formal because
it only depends on the (logical) form of the propositions, not on their
specific (lexical) content.
Such a rule gives us the right to infer or deduce that the conclusion
(below the line) is true whenever the hypotheses (above the line) hold.
A formal rule therefore establishes a relation between propositions of a
particular form. For example, Modus Ponens involves a three-place rela-
tionship M which holds between any three propositions of the form P,
(PeQ), and Q respectively. More formally, we would say that three propo-
sitions P, X, and Q are in the relation M, symbolically, M(P, X, Q) holds, if
and only if X = (PeQ). In this case, the latter proposition is true when-
ever the first two are (the rule of Modus Ponens).
We want now to focus on binary relations between propositions of
a fixed language L. Examples would be “… is longer than - - -” or “… is
more (grammatically) complex than - - -”. Such statements of relations
between propositions of the object language L actually occur in the meta-
language of L. It is important not to confuse relations between
propositions of L (which give rise to statements in the metalanguage)
with logical operators such as “ if… then …”, that occur within the
object language L itself.

Let us elaborate on this briefly. As we have seen above, the binary
logical operator e combines with two propositions P and Q of a given
language L to yield another (more complex) proposition (PeQ) of the
language L. A relation between propositions of L is a predicate in the
metalanguage of L which applies to two propositions P and Q of L to form
a statement (proposition) within the metalanguage of L—the meta-dis-
course about L. Such a relation is thus a predicate (lexical element) of the
metalanguage of L. Thus, the statement S that “P is longer than Q”,
where P and Q are L-propositions, is itself a proposition of the metalan-
guage of L.
The statement S could also be a proposition of L, but only if the
predicate longer than is part of the lexicon of L. (Remember that object
language and metalanguage can overlap.) However, in no case whatever
can a predicate of a language L be a logical operator of L (remember that
lexical elements and logical operators constitute two distinct, non-inter-
secting categories of syntactical expressions). In other words, a logical
operator such as e is used to build propositions of L from other propo-
sitions of L, while a relation between propositions of L gives rise to a
proposition in the metalanguage about L.
We can however use binary logical operators in the object language,
together with properties (attributes) defined in the metalanguage, to
define binary relations in the metalanguage. The simplest and most
important example is the relationship of logical implication, symbolized
by the double-bodied arrow Y. We now use the conditional connector
e of the object language and the attribute of logical truth (defined in
the metalanguage) to define the binary relationship of implication Y.
Given two L-propositions P and Q, the L-proposition “If P then Q” is
called the conditional with P as antecedent and Q as consequent. We say (in
the metalanguage), of two L-propositions P and Q, that P implies Q, and
we write PYQ, if the conditional (PeQ) is logically true. With a little extra
symbolism, we can neatly schematize this statement. Where P is any L-
proposition, we write (in the metalanguage) |P to mean “P is a logical
truth.” By definition, PYQ means “‘If P then Q’ is logically true”, now
symbolized by |(PeQ). Thus, even more succinctly: PYQ if and only if
|(PeQ). We have thus used the binary logical connector e of the object
language together with the unary predicate (attribute) “|…” of the meta-
language to define the binary relation “… Y - - -” of the metalanguage.
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
To see clearly what this means, we first observe that the conditional
(PeQ) is true if either P is false or Q is true. In other words, to say that
the truth of Q is conditional upon (or relative to) the truth of P is to say
that Q cannot be false if P is true. To say that a conditional “If P then Q”
is logically true is thus to say that every reinterpretation of lexicon that
makes the antecedent P true also makes the consequent Q true, or equiva-
lently, that any lexical reinterpretation that falsifies Q must also falsify P,
or again equivalently, that there is no single lexical interpretation that
satisfies P while falsifying Q (see note 25 for elaboration on terminol-
ogy).
In particular, if Q is logically true then it is absolutely true
(unfalsifiable) and thus true relative to any other proposition P. So a
logically true proposition is implied by any proposition. Similarly, if P is
logically false then it is unsatisfiable and thus implies any other propo-
sition Q. These are, of course, trivial instances of logical implication.
There is one more trivial case worth mentioning. Suppose that P
and Q have no lexical elements in common. Suppose, further, that P is
satisfiable (not logically false) and Q falsifiable (not logically true). Then
P cannot imply Q, because an interpretation of that part of the L-lexicon
which actually occurs in P puts no conditions whatsoever on the inter-
pretation of the lexical elements that occur in Q. Thus, in this case, we
can easily construct an interpretation of the lexical expressions of the
language L that satisfies P while falsifying Q.
Just as for logical truth, the general case for logical implication can-
not be mechanically decided. Precisely, this means it is possible that, for
some L-propositions P and Q, PYQ holds even though we never succeed
in discovering this fact. However, there does exist a finite set of purely
syntactical rules of logic that is complete in the following sense: if PYQ
does in fact hold, then Q can be obtained from P by some finite se-
quence of applications of the logical rules. In this case, we say that we
have deduced Q from P, and we write P|Q. Using this terminology, we
can state the completeness property more succinctly: If P implies Q (thus,
(PeQ) is logically true), then we can deduce Q from P, P|Q. Let us state
this in the form of a schematic rule (similar to Modus Ponens):
PYQ
P|Q

The rules of logical deduction are purely formal (syntactical) and
concrete. As a consequence, we can decide absolutely (mechanically and
objectively), for any given finite set K of L-expressions {S1, S2, …, Sn},
whether or not a given L-expression Sn+1, follows from K by some appli-
cation of the rules. We can also decide, for any given finite sequence
S1S2…Sn of expressions, whether, for each i, 1#i<n, Si+1 follows from the
previous S1, …,Si by our deductive rules. If this is the case, then we say
that the sequence is a deductive sequence or a valid deduction. A deduc-
tive sequence with S1=P and Sn=Q, is a deduction of Q from P or (a proof
of Q from P). To assert that P|Q holds is precisely to say that there does
exist a valid deduction of P from Q.
Thus, it is decidable whether a given sequence of expressions of L is
or is not a valid deduction, but not whether there exists a deduction of a
given Q from a given P (i.e., that P|Q holds). In other words: there is no
absolutely certain method of finding a valid deduction, but there is an
absolutely certain method of verifying that a given sequence is a valid
deduction.
The reciprocal of completeness is called soundness, and is also true:
If Q can be deduced from P by our logical rules, P|Q, then P does in fact
imply Q, PYQ. Putting soundness and completeness together, we thus
have the following equivalence: P implies Q if and only if there exists a
valid deduction of Q from P; symbolically, PYQ (equivalently |(Pe Q)) if
and only if P|Q.
The soundness of our rules follows from the fact that they preserve
satisfaction under any given lexical interpretation. Thus, suppose P|Q.
If, now, P is satisfied by a given lexical interpretation I, then Q is also
satisfied by I. Since this holds for every possible lexical interpretation,
then PYQ by definition. In particular, whatever is deduced from true
propositions is true and whatever is deduced from logically true propo-
sitions is logically true.
This gives rise to several variant forms of the Modus Ponens rule,
each with its strengths and weaknesses. We write each of these variants
in schematic form:
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S
(I)
P, PYQ
Q
P, P|Q
Q
P, |(PeQ)
Q
or equivalently
or equivalently

M I N I M A L I S M
Notice that if, in the above schemata, we strengthen the hypothesis
P to the stronger hypothesis |P, then we can also strengthen the conclu-
sion from Q to |Q, yielding the scheme:
|P, |(PeQ)
|Q
For ease of reference, we also restate the original form of Modus
Ponens:
P, (PeQ)
Q
In this case, we get the conclusion Q with a weaker hypothesis,
(PeQ).
In practice, (I) is generally more useful than (III) for reaching the
simple conclusion that Q holds, and it is helpful to see why. In applying
the form (III) of Modus Ponens, we must know that (PeQ) holds, which
means we must know either that P is false or that Q is true. But since we
also assume P, P cannot be false, and so Q must be known to be true in
order for (PeQ) to be true. Thus, the very act of verifying the two hy-
potheses amounts to knowing that Q is true, which is the conclusion we
are seeking. In other words, if the truth of Q is not in doubt, then we
can immediately affirm Q without having to appeal to hypotheses re-
garding P and the connection between P and Q.
Thus, the context in which Modus Ponens is most frequently ap-
plied is when we seek to establish the truth of Q precisely because it is in
doubt. The usual strategy is to find some P whose truth we know, and
then to find a deduction of Q from P, thus verifying the hypothesis P|Q.
The conclusion that Q is true is now truly novel information.
Interestingly and importantly: even though our logical rules are
themselves obvious, they do not preserve obviousness, because to deter-
mine whether P|Q (and thus PYQ) holds, we must show there exists
some valid deduction of Q from P, and this is undecidable as we have
seen. However, every step of a logical proof is obvious, because we can
determine absolutely and objectively (mechanically) whether or not that
step is justified by our rules. Thus, P may be obviously (even trivially)
true, and the proof of Q from P may be obvious (once we have found it),
but Q, though now known to be true, may not be obviously true at all.
Thus, the power of predicate logic is that it enables us to derive the
unobvious from the obvious in a finite number of individually obvious
(II)
(III)

steps. Herein lies the value of logic and the justification for the central
role it plays in the methodology of minimalism. If logic derived only
the obvious from the obvious, it would be useless. This would likewise
be the case if logic only derived the unobvious from the unobvious (and
certainly if it derived the obvious from the unobvious). As we will see in
the following section, the power of logic to derive the unobvious from
the obvious increases immeasurably the quantity of information that
can be objectively communicated.
The establishment of a complete and sound set of rules for predi-
cate logic has been one of the major intellectual achievements of the
twentieth century. Indeed, the conception, construction, and imple-
mentation of electronic digital computers all make essential use of the
logic of relations. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated:
Know then, with regard to the mathematical sciences, that it was only
in this distinguished age, this great century, that their scope was wid-
ened, their unresolved difficulties solved, their rules systematized, and
their diversity realized. The discoveries made by earlier philosophers
and the views they held were not established upon a firm basis or a
sound foundation for they wished to confine the worlds of God within
the smallest compass and narrow limit and were quite unable to con-
ceive what lay beyond…”26
Notice that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá identifies one of the major limitations of
classical philosophy as its inability or refusal to deal adequately with the
notion of infinity. If reality is indeed infinite, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms
here and elsewhere, then the a priori exclusion of such notions as infi-
nite regresses guarantees that our models will be severely inadequate.
Moreover, such exclusions were made not for any logical reasons but
simply because of the difficulty of the human mind to conceive of an
infinity. This is essentially a form of subjectivism—that what we cannot
conceive doesn’t exist. It confuses our subjective ideas about reality with
reality itself; it confuses the map with the territory.
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
8. OBJECTIVITY IN COMMUNICATION REVISITED: THE
AXIOMATIC METHOD
Earlier on, we established that objectivity is properly understood as view-
point-awareness rather than viewpoint-neutrality. It follows that I can
communicate objectively with you to the degree that I can convey to
you my viewpoint. Of course, we know in advance that it is not possible
to convey the totality of my viewpoint, because that presupposes the
impossible condition of total self-awareness.
However it is possible that a certain part of my inner model can be
made explicit and objectively conveyed to you. In particular, those as-
pects of my inner model which can be formulated as objective
propositions can certainly be conveyed. However, an essential precondi-
tion for objective communication is what may be called the will to truth
on the part of both participants in the dialogue. Our goal must be to
clarify, not to persuade.
First, I must be willing to acknowledge that a given proposition P
accurately reflects a part of my inner model. This, of course, is just a
convoluted way of saying that I recognize that I truly believe P. Notice
that, here, we do not get into any problems of verification. I don’t claim
that I have verified P, only that I believe it to be true. There is an im-
mense difference between knowing what is in fact the case and knowing
what I believe to be the case. A minimum of self-insight is all that is
necessary for the latter. So, the first step in objective communication is
the objective articulation of belief.
However, once committed to a given set of beliefs, P1, …, Pn, I am
also committed to all of the logical consequences of these beliefs, in
other words, to every proposition that is logically implied by the con-
junction of the Pi (i.e., the proposition (P1 & P2 & … & Pn)).27 Of course,
neither you nor I may know initially whether a given proposition Q is
indeed a logical consequence of the Pi, but we both do know that when
and if we find a deduction of Q from (P1 & P2 & … & Pn), then by the
Modus Ponens rule, I am as committed to belief in Q as I am to any of
the Pi.
Such a deduction may be made either by you or by me. It will be
made by me primarily to justify that my belief in Q is consistent with
and flows from my belief in the Pi. However, your motivation in making
the deduction might well be to show me that the highly unreasonable

proposition Q is in fact a consequence of the Pi, the obvious point being
that I must seriously revise my commitment to at least one of the Pi in
order to avoid commitment to the troublesome Q.
The most troublesome case of all is when Q is a logical contradiction
(i.e., a logical falsity of the form “P and not-P”, symbolized by (P&(5P))).28
If such a contradiction can be deduced from the Pi, then the set {P1, …,
Pn} is inconsistent in the precise sense that the Pi cannot be together
(simultaneously) true under any lexical interpretation whatever (which
is equivalent to saying that the conjunction (P1 & P2 & … & Pn) is logically
false).
The reciprocal of the above also holds. That is: if the set {P1, …, Pn}
is inconsistent, then there does exist an explicit deduction of a contra-
diction (P&(5P)) from the Pi. This follows immediately from the
completeness of our logical rules.29
Thus, inconsistency reduces to logical falsehood, which, like logical
truth, cannot be computationally decided. The fact that we have not yet
deduced a contradiction from a given set of beliefs does not mean that
the beliefs are consistent. We may just not have been clever enough to
have found a deduction of a contradiction. Hence, a set of beliefs may
be logically inconsistent without our ever discovering it to be so.30
Again, the presumption is that, in our dialogue, we are both seek-
ing the truth. If that is indeed the case, then I will be just as happy (or
unhappy) whether it is you or I who proves my beliefs inconsistent. If
my beliefs are in fact inconsistent, then that fact is a truth that I want to
know.
Of course, in practice things rarely proceed in this manner. If we
are each seeking not truth but to persuade the other of our viewpoint
(to win the argument), then we will not seek to clarify our respective
positions (for fear of falling into unforeseen contradiction), but rather
to criticize the other’s position while disclosing as little as possible of our
own. We will each focus upon and attack the weakest points of the
other’s belief system. In this case there will be little objectivity in com-
munication because we are not seeking objectivity.31
The prevalence of disputation, aggressivity, and confrontation in
intersubjective dialogue has led to the popular notion that “it is impos-
sible to be objective,” meaning not just that our egotistic human nature
defeats objectivity, but that it is even logically impossible to have an
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
objective dialogue or discourse. But, as we have seen, there is no logical
or linguistic barrier whatsoever to objectivity. We can always choose to
communicate with perfect objectivity, but we both must have the will
to do so—to make our viewpoint explicit. It is true, however, that ob-
jectivity in communication does not happen automatically.
Let us sum up. Objectivity is viewpoint-awareness not viewpoint-
neutrality. Objectivity in discourse can be obtained by first formulating
a certain part of our inner model in the form of objective propositions,
and then explicitly deducing other propositions from the initial ones.
Thus, there can still be doubt as to whether the initial propositions are
true, but no doubt as to the fact that the author holds them (and hence
their logical consequences) to be true. The author has completely con-
veyed (that given part of) his point of view to the reader.
This form of discourse is called the axiomatic method, and it was
used by Euclid in writing his Elements. Starting with only five initial
propositions (called axioms), Euclid gives explicit deductions for hun-
dreds of propositions (called theorems) about geometrical figures. One
can call into question the truth of Euclid’s axioms, but not the fact that
the theorems are all implied by the axioms, because this is shown explic-
itly. This complete objectivity of deductive truth has been recognized
explicitly by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the following passage, among others:
Know then that those mathematical questions which have stood the test
of scrutiny and about the soundness of which there is no doubt are those
that are supported by incontrovertible and logically binding proofs and
by the rules of geometry as applied to astronomy … .32
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s reference to the application to astronomy of the rules
of geometry almost certainly refers to Newton’s Principia, the second
most historically significant use of the axiomatic method. In that work,
Newton deduces the observed laws of planetary motion from essentially
five explicit axioms.
Thus, the axiomatic method provides an eveready framework or
paradigm for objective discourse, whenever there is the will to objectiv-
ity.
The axiomatic method is useful for truth-seeking (our dialogue with
reality) as well as for objectivity in communication (our dialogue with
each other). The organization of (a part of) a personal belief system in

axiomatic form, where most of one’s beliefs are deduced from a few axi-
omatic ones, has the effect of localizing questions of truth and verification
to the axioms themselves. If we have established, by logical deduction,
that P implies Q, then any empirical verification of the truth of P immedi-
ately transfers to Q. We do not have to worry about a separate empirical
verification for Q.
In an axiomatic system (also called an axiomatic theory), every theo-
rem is true, relative to the truth of the axioms. Thus, for such a system,
all the problems inherent in the verification process (which we have
discussed in the foregoing) can be localized to the axioms: the theorems
automatically inherit the degree of empirical verification of the axioms.
This is an extremely important point, because some philosophers
have tried to separate completely the empirical and the logical, holding
that all propositions must be empirically verified independently (if at
all), and that logic serves only as a kind of word game to organize the
body of empirical truths in a useful way. However, our analysis has
shown that logical truth is empirically grounded and inseparable from
empirical truth.33
Suppose, then, that we are given an accumulated body of (rela-
tively) verified truths. We can discover new truth in essentially one of
three ways. We can empirically verify a new proposition Q which was
previously unverified. This could be the result of new experimental tech-
niques or just new experiences of reality (e.g., sending a probe to a
distant planet for the first time). Or, we can discover that the proposi-
tion Q is logically implied by other previously validated truths. Thus,
we can in fact discover new empirical truths by purely logical means, with-
out any immediate recourse to new experience. Of course, in this case the
empirical verification of Q will be inherited, by deduction, from the
ultimate empirical verifications on which the whole system rests.34
In the third instance, we may encounter a clear empirical refutation
of a proposition Q which was already part of our system. We now have
new knowledge (i.e., that what we thought to be a truth is in fact a
falsehood). We will of course respond to this new knowledge by remov-
ing Q from our system. But what if Q is logically implied by other
propositions of our system? Then other propositions will also have to
go. The extent of damage done to a system by a strong empirical refuta-
tion of only one proposition can sometimes be extensive.
C O M M U N I C A T I N G   P H I L O S O P H I C A L   I D E A S

M I N I M A L I S M
Refutation can occur in another way, namely by the deduction of a
logical contradiction (P&(5P)) from some finite set of propositions of the
system. This tells us that our system as a whole is inconsistent, and
means that at least one of the propositions of the system will have to be
discarded. This, again, is new knowledge.35
Thus, the knowledge-seeking enterprise is carried forward neither
by logic alone nor by experience alone, but by an appropriate combina-
tion of both. Moreover, in moving forward from the known to the
unknown, we must be able to conceive of not only what is true but also
what may be true. This involves great use of intuition and the creative
imagination. After all, we cannot apply either empirical or logical tests
until an appropriate proposition has been formulated!

IV. REDUCTIONISM, SUBJECTIVISM, AND
MINIMALISM
1. THE EXTENT AND LIMITS OF OBJECTIFICATION
We now enter into one of the major minefields of contemporary phi-
losophy: the axiomatic method gives us the means for prosecuting an
objective discourse, but does not tell us what can or cannot be objectified
(made explicit in discourse). Among the possible answers to this ques-
tion, there are two extreme positions.
The first is rationalistic or objectivistic reductionism, which says
that everything can be objectified (the strong reductionist thesis) or at
least that whatever cannot be objectified is worthless or meaningless
(the weak reductionist thesis). The other extreme position holds that to
objectivize is to trivialize: the only really significant aspects of our inner
model are so subjective they can never be objectified. Each of these
positions will be discussed in turn.
A reductionist will of course acknowledge, if pushed a bit, that
there are certain emotions, feelings, or intuitions that cannot be
objectified. But the reductionist will regard these not just as transrational,
but as irrational. If we take rationality to be the essence of the human,
then the irrational is, in some sense, nonhuman or antihuman (or, per-
haps, subhuman).
We have already seen that rationality is a precondition to objectiv-
ity, but we have never claimed that rationality reduces to objectivity.
However, the reductionist tends to consider that everything rational is,
in principle, objectifiable, thereby equating the rational with the objec-
tive. Thus, anything that is irreducibly subjective—that resists
objectification—is, from his standpoint, both irrational and subhuman.
Let us consider, for example, a typical reductionist view of the incom-
municability of the subjective sensation of redness, which we discussed in
an earlier section on limitations in intersubjective communication. We
can give an objective definition of the color red in terms of measured
emissions on a spectrograph. We can then say that, since almost all nor-
mal subjects will give essentially the same protocol as a function of this
definition (i.e., they will spontaneously classify as red precisely those ob-
jects spectrographically measured to be so), then whatever experience is

M I N I M A L I S M
not captured by this objective definition is just so much inner trash. It has
no objective existence and thus no real existence. In this way, objectivistic
reductionism tends to equate realness with objectivity.
Reductionism is thus behavioristic and operationalistic. For the strict
reductionist, all meaning is operational (and thus objective, concrete,
and observable). Logical meaning is indeed purely operational, as we
have seen above. However, the reductionist believes that all meaning,
including lexical meaning, is ultimately operational: lexical terms are
either spurious, or else they have an operational meaning that we have
not yet learned how to objectify.
Many reductionists are also materialists, believing that operational
and logical meaning can itself be explained in terms of the observable
neurological configuration of the physical brain and nervous system.
Thus, strict reductionism tends to identify the human, the rational, the
real, the objective, the operational, the observable, and the material. By
logical negation, it also tends thereby to identify the subhuman, the
irrational, the unreal (imaginary), the subjective, the abstract, the
unobservable, and the spiritual.
In refuting reductionism, perhaps the best way to start is with the
very precise observation that objectivity is itself the product of human
subjectivity. We can successfully objectify a certain part of our inner
model only because we, as human subjects, can presume a vast (subjec-
tive) context of intuitively understood meanings, feelings, thoughts,
intuitions, and desires. These spiritual capacities of the human being all
derive from our consciousness (self-awareness), which creates the inner,
subjective world from which language, logic, and rationality all emerge.
Had we not this vast and rich conscious subjectivity, we would not be
able to achieve the very viewpoint-awareness that constitutes objectivity
in the first place.
The reductionist, then, is looking at objectivity only as a finished
product, and he is thereby neglecting the whole process which has been
necessary to produce this product. In declaring human subjectivity to
be, in some sense, unreal, he has defined essential humanity out of
existence.
Further, it is gratuitous and arbitrary to declare what lies beyond
objectivity and/or reason to be irrational. Undoubtedly there are indeed
irrational and subrational elements to human subjectivity, but why can

there not also be transrational elements to our subjectivity—aspects of
our inner experience which go beyond the rational without contradict-
ing the rational? Why is it necessary to see such things as intuition or
mystic experience as against rationality instead of adjuncts to rational-
ity which can indeed illumine reason? In this regard, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
said that reason alone is like a perfect mirror in a dark room—a mirror
which can serve its purpose only when illumined by the light of inner
experience:
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal is the
rational soul… . It is like a mirror which, although clear, polished and
brilliant, is still in need of light. Until a ray of the sun reflects upon it,
it cannot discover the heavenly secrets.36
It is irrational in itself to assume, without justification, that what-
ever lies beyond the rational and objective is necessarily lesser. Indeed, it
is much more reasonable on the face of it to assume that a human
subjectivity capable of producing rationality must itself be, in some
sense, greater than its own product.
And look what is declared by the reductionist to be irrelevant emo-
tional trash: not only our experience of redness, but our experience of
love, of beauty, of communion with God—all the incomparable rich-
ness of human subjectivity.
However, as it turns out, the pursuit of objectivity and the axi-
omatic method has itself led to the ultimate and definitive refutation of
reductionism—Gödel’s incompleteness theorem. Our discussion here
would be inadequate without some attempt to explicate the philosophi-
cal import of this central result of modern logic.
2. INDETERMINACY, GÖDEL’S THEOREM
Gallileo said that nature was writ in the language of mathematics. Math-
ematical language puts a premium on exactness and precision of
expression. Ideally, a mathematical language is totally formalizable in
such manner that every grammatically well-formed expression has only
one logical meaning. In this sense, mathematical language is linear: text
(syntax) is already linear, and if we avoid metaphor and multiple mean-
ing in our lexicon, then our semantics will also be linear. In this case,
each syntactical sign is its own meaning. It is precisely such totally
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
linearized languages that are used, for example, in computer program-
ming. Indeed, the only meaning that a computer can attribute to a
symbol is the symbol itself, because the computer has no subjectivity.
Following Galileo, Descartes conceived of the vast philosophic en-
terprise of generating a complete description of the whole of reality in
exact, mathematical terms. Moreover, Descartes took concrete steps to-
wards the fulfillment of this programme by inventing algebraic geometry,
which, for the first time in history, allowed a quantitative treatment of
spatial intuition. Still, for most philosophers, Descartes’ daring ration-
alistic dream appeared too ambitious to be workable.
However, these perceptions began to change when Isaac Newton
published his Principia in which he did in fact deduce virtually all of the
science then known from a few objective principles. Moreover, Newton
and Leibniz independently invented calculus, which raised the power
and broadened the extent of mathematical language to an unprecedented
degree. And Newton’s theory worked. Now the doubters of Descartes’
dream were on the defensive, and materialism, mechanism, rational-
ism, and objectivism were in the ascendancy.
When, in the nineteenth century, Darwin’s theory of evolution held
forth the possibility of explaining life itself in objective and rational
terms, the triumph of Cartesianism seemed imminent. The first cracks
in objectivism appeared with the development of quantum mechanics
by Bohr, Heisenberg, Dirac, and others in the 1920’s. For the first time,
probabilities, and thus uncertainties, were introduced in an essential
way into the hardest of physical theories. More particularly, Heisenberg’s
uncertainty principle showed that it was impossible—at least within
the established mathematical framework of quantum mechanics—to
describe simultaneously (make explicit) both the position and the ve-
locity of an electron.
The indeterminacy principle was not a definitive refutation of
Cartesianism, because it did not exclude the logical possibility that some
other formal language could be found in which this indeterminacy did
not occur. Nevertheless it certainly did refute the universality of the
existing language, and without suggesting any natural alternative.
The definitive refutation of Cartesianism came in 1931 with the ad-
vent of Gödel’s theorem, which deals with theories in general, not just
particular physical theories. For a proper understanding and articulation

of Gödel’s result, we need to state a few further definitions related to
axiomatic theories.
An axiomatic system T is complete if it deductively decides every
proposition. Precisely, this means that, for every proposition P in the
language L, either P is a theorem of T or else 5P is a theorem of T. If T is
incomplete, then there has to be at least one proposition P which is not
deductively determined (i.e., such that neither P nor 5P is a theorem of
T). But, one of P or 5P has to be true! Thus, if T is incomplete, then there
must be truths in the language L that are not provable in T.
Notice that, trivially, any inconsistent system is complete (and thus
any incomplete system consistent). However, the only interesting com-
plete systems are the consistent ones.
An axiomatic system is objectively specifiable if each of its axioms
can be explicitly designated. Until now, we have only considered axi-
omatic theories with a finite number of axioms. Such theories are certainly
objectively specifiable, but there are in fact objectively specifiable theo-
ries with an infinity of axioms.
Finally, an axiomatic system T in a language L is sufficiently rich if L
contains the basic lexicon of arithmetic and if the axioms of T contain
the basic axioms of arithmetic. This condition is quite weak, and would
certainly have to be satisfied by any axiomatic theory that claimed to
describe all of reality,
Now, Gödel’s theorem establishes that any consistent, objectively
specifiable, sufficiently rich axiomatic theory T is incomplete. Thus, there
will be propositions P in the language L such that neither P nor 5P are
theorems of T. This means that there are true propositions in L that
cannot be proved in T.
It might appear at first that we could overcome Gödel incomplete-
ness of a consistent theory T simply by adding, as new axioms, enough
of the true but unprovable propositions of L to form a complete theory
T’. However, this strategy founders on the following dilemma. If, on
one hand, the new axioms are all explicitly given, then the new theory T’
will itself be objectively specifiable and certainly, as an extension of T,
sufficiently rich (and consistent, since we have added only true proposi-
tions). Thus, by Gödel’s theorem, T’ will itself contain true but unprovable
propositions and thus be incomplete. We say that a sufficiently rich,
objectively specifiable theory is essentially incomplete because not only
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
that theory but all of its objectively specifiable, consistent extensions are
incomplete.
On the other hand if we complete T to T’ by adding all possible true
propositions of L as axioms, then T’ will no longer be objectively
specifiable: its axioms cannot be explicitly designated. In other words,
we can only conceive of this complete theory of everything T’ subjec-
tively. It may exist objectively, but it cannot be specified objectively.
Let us sum up. Descartes’ programme was to generate an exact and
universal language—an objectively specifiable theory giving a complete
description of reality. Gödel’s theorem shows there is a logical incom-
patibility between comprehensiveness and exactness. If we insist on
exactness then we cannot have completeness, and if we insist on com-
pleteness, then we cannot have exactness. But Gödel’s theorem is itself
totally objective. Thus, by Gödel’s theorem, we know absolutely and ob-
jectively that we cannot know everything absolutely and objectively.
Even more: Gödel’s theorem shows that indeterminacy is not the
exception but the rule, because the vast majority of interesting axiomatic
systems will be both objectively specifiable and sufficiently rich (and
this has borne itself out in practice).
Thus, whenever we undertake to articulate our understanding of
reality (to ourselves or others) we must constantly choose between lin-
ear exactness, on one hand, or nonlinear completeness on the other. We
cannot have both. It may be that we can generate an exact description
of any given part of reality, but never of the whole. Or think of it this
way: whenever we succeed in giving an exact description of some part of
reality, we do so by appealing implicitly to a nonlinear description of
some other part of reality. As John Myhill has expressed it: Gödel’s theo-
rem shows that there is no non-metaphorical description of (the whole
of) reality.
This result enables us greatly to clarify the relationship between
scientific theories. A consistent scientific theory is a linear, exact de-
scription of a certain part of reality. Suppose we have two different
theories which each give an exact description of a different part of
reality. Can we not paste together these theories and, gradually develop
an exact description of the whole? Gödel’s theorem tells us in advance
that such a strategy cannot succeed. But what happens if we try? In
most historical instances, this strategy has produced an incompatibility

between the two theories which prevents their being pasted together
into one theory.
Indeed, the central problem of modern physics is the incompatibil-
ity between relativity theory, which explains gravity and the large-scale
structure of the universe, and quantum mechanics, which describes the
other three known forces (electromagnetism, weak nuclear, and strong
nuclear) and explains the small-scale structure of the universe. The much-
discussed superstring theory is an attempt to reconcile this incompatibility
by constructing a broader theory that explains both gravity and quan-
tum mechanics. To succeed, such a theory must make some essential
modifications either in quantum theory, relativity theory, or both.
Thus, Gödel’s incompleteness results constitute a definitive refuta-
tion of classic Cartesianism. Are they not also an equally definitive
refutation of reductionism? From a strictly logical point of view, Gödel’s
incompleteness results do indeed refute the strong reductionist thesis,
everything can be objectified, although it is very difficult for ideological
reductionists to admit defeat, because victory seems to have been stolen
from them at the precise moment they appeared to be on the verge of
success. However, one can still consistently maintain reductionism in
the weaker form: everything truly significant can be objectified. Indeed,
there are several strategies for minimizing the impact of Gödel’s incom-
pleteness results.
Gödel’s theorem tells us there will always be deductively undecid-
able propositions no matter how comprehensive a given, consistent and
objectively specifiable, axiomatic theory may be. However, this in itself
does not mean necessarily that truly significant or important proposi-
tions will in fact be undecidable by a given theory. Furthermore, even if
significant uncertainties are detected (as in the case of Heisenberg inde-
terminacy), they can be dealt with on an ad hoc basis by trying to
construct a more adequate theory. The new theory will also have unde-
cidable propositions, but not the same undecidables as in the previous
theory.
In other words, Gödel’s results do not have any significant effect on
the way science is actually pursued. It is still reasonable to suppose that
science may witness an unending succession of ever more comprehen-
sive theories—yet another example of the convergence of an infinite
regress. Of course, Gödel’s theorem definitely tells us that we will never
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
have one single absolutely comprehensive theory, but it does not ex-
clude the possibility of a progressive refinement and extension of our
theories. The reductionist can therefore choose to believe that any sig-
nificant aspect of human experience will, sooner or later, be successfully
objectified.
It is most important to realize that one does not have to be a
reductionist to think objectification by the axiomatic method valid and
useful. Such, in fact, is the philosophical stance of minimalisim, which
holds that it is useful to objectify whatever can be objectified. Minimalism
is a strictly positive, non-exclusive stance. It is downward closed, holding
that a certain minimum of objectification is necessary for philosophical
cogency, but upward open, recognizing that a significant portion of re-
ality, and thus of our inner model, is nonlinear and transrational.
In contrast to minimalism, reductionism is both downward and
upward closed. It disdains whatever lies beyond the objective and the
rational. Reductionisms of any kind are exclusivist by nature. Indeed,
any positive philosophy, “- - -”, can be turned into a reductionism sim-
ply by adding the global exclusivist clause “and nothing else but - - -.”
Thus, a reductionist accepts the minimalist affirmation that
objectification is valid and useful, but adds the exclusivist restriction
that nothing else but objectification is valid and useful.
Reductionism is thus ideological, because it deliberately goes be-
yond present experience in a negative way, discounting the possibility
that our methods may harbor unforeseen limitations. In contrast,
minimalism is nonideological and pragmatic. It affirms the validity of
what has been achieved in the way of objectification, but remains open
to the possibility both of unforeseen success and of unanticipated limi-
tations. Minimalism is thus forward compatible with all future
contingencies, whereas reductionism is awfully liable to find itself either
defending clearly absurd claims, or else beating a humiliating retreat.
Postmodernistic subjectivism—the other extreme response to the
problem of objectification—is, like reductionism, ideological in nature.
Postmodernism holds that objectification is just a solipsistic exercise in
trivialization, a word-game having no genuine connection with reality.
This position is based on a strong doctrine of logical apriorism, which
goes far beyond Kant, and which claims (contrary to our analysis above)
that logic has no empirical ground.

Postmodernism is a counter-ideology to reductionism, and is usu-
ally articulated in opposition to reductionism, but without any
consideration of the pragmatic stance of minimalism. Postmodernists
have all heard of Gödel’s theorem, though it is most difficult to ascer-
tain how many of them actually understand it. Indeed, Gödel has a
kind of cult status among postmodernists, who attempt to apply to
Gödel’s results the gratuitous some to all leap of relativists: since Gödel’s
theorem shows that total objectification is impossible, then we con-
clude that no (significant) objectification is possible.37
But how can we refute the postmodernist attack on objectification?
How can we demonstrate conclusively that objectification is and can be
useful and nontrivial?
The practical refutation of the subjectivist attack on scientific veri-
fication was the concrete, observable success of such theories as relativity
(gravitation) and quantum mechanics. If someone holds that signifi-
cant objective knowledge of reality is impossible, or that science is just
one among a number of equally subjective cultural myths, then let that
person explain why scientific theories actually work as well and as con-
sistently as they do.
The practical refutation to the existentialist attack on intersubjective
communication was the complexity of modern society. Anyone who
claims that no significant intersubjective communication occurs must
explain how a complex society such as our own actually works as well as
it does (whatever its defects in other regards).
The practical refutation to the postmodernist attack on
objectification is the electronic digital computer. Both computer hard-
ware and computer implementation (software) are based on the logic of
relations, including the total formalization of large parts of arithmetic,
and the use of strictly linear, formalized languages of many kinds and
varieties. Let us recall that the computer, unlike the human brain, is not
a naturally occurring phenomenon. It had to be conceived, constructed,
and implemented. If formal logic and axiomatic systems are simply word
games, having no genuine connection with empirical reality, then why
do computers work? How is it that we can precalculate the trajectory of
an artificial satellite and then execute that trajectory empirically?
Let us recall also that, for most of history, the kinds of intellectual
tasks that computers now accomplish were reserved for an elite handful
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
of individuals who were considered to be intellectuals of the highest
order, deserving of the respect of the masses. Champion chess players
were regarded as supermortals with a unique, superior intellectual gift.
And now, a computer has outplayed the current world champion who,
in the opinion of many, is the strongest world champion in the history
of the game.
These observations are not computer worship. They are facts that
must be taken seriously. They show beyond any reasonable doubt that
truly significant aspects of our inner model can be successfully
objectified.38 Indeed, had it not been for the stunning success of com-
puter formalization and objectification, the philosophy of reductionism
would never have been taken seriously by so many people. All of us who
have worked in this area have been surprised by the degree of success we
have obtained in objectifying large tracts of human thought that ap-
peared initially to be hopelessly complex and subjective.
Thus, postmodern subjectivism flies in the face of reality itself. We
don’t really need philosophy to refute it. Yet, the philosophical refuta-
tion of various postmodernist doctrines is a useful exercise, which, as we
have already experienced in the foregoing, can lead to the clarification
of important points and to the relief of sometimes subtle confusions
(e.g., the confusion between truth and verification).
3. THE LOGIC OF THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD
Minimalism is a philosophy which holds that there is a positive value in
pursuing objectification, without holding that everything can or should
be objectified. Science is the enterprise that develops methods and tech-
niques for both objectification and verification. Deductive logic is one
of these tools, but it is only one-half of the logic necessary for successful
science. The other half is inductive logic.
The essential feature of deductive logic is the existence of a com-
plete set of rules for the logic of predicates: to say that Q follows from P
by deduction is equivalent to saying that P implies Q, symbolically, P|Q
if and only if PYQ. These rules exist only because deduction is a move-
ment from general to particular.
The rule of Modus Ponens is an example: if we know that P holds
and also that PYQ, then in particular we know that Q holds. But we

cannot reverse this rule. Just to know that Q holds does not usually give
us enough information to conclude either that P holds or that PYQ.
Another typical rule of predicate logic is the rule of Universal Speci-
fication: from [For all x,P(x)] to infer P(x). Symbolizing the universal
quantifier for all by œ, we can schematize this rule as follows:
œxP(x)
P(x)
The Universal Specification rule simply encodes the obvious fact
that whatever is true of all things is true of any particular thing: every
implies any. This, again, is clearly an inference from general to particu-
lar.
Inductive logic is a movement from particular to general. It aims at
finding a general law which is logically compatible with the given set of
particulars and from which the set of particulars can be deduced by the
rules of predicate logic. For example, an inductive logical principle would
have, as its aim, to tell us under what conditions it is legitimate to infer
from the particular truths, P(x1), P(x2), …, P(xn), … the general affirmation
œxP(x) (from which each of the P(xi) can be deduced by a single applica-
tion of the rule of Univeral Specification). In other words, how much
particular truth does it take to make a general truth from which the
particulars can be deduced?
One case where it is obviously legitimate to make such an inductive
inference is if we have independently verified every logically possible
particular instance. However, it is in general very rare that we can do
that, and we can never do it if there is an infinite number (or an ex-
tremely large finite number) of particular instances to verify. Moreover,
even when we can execute such a verification, we can legitimately con-
clude that the given general case is true, but we still do not have a rule
for getting the general from the particular.
One successful inductive rule is mathematical induction: if P is a
property which holds only for natural numbers, 0, 1, 2, etc., and if we
can prove (deductively) that P(0) holds and that P(n+1) holds whenever
P(n) holds (i.e., that P(n)YP(n+l), for all n), then we can legitimately con-
clude that œxP(x) holds. This rule can be proved (deductively) from the
fundamental axioms of the system of natural numbers, first fully pre-
sented by Richard Dedekind in 1888.39 However, viewed as a rule of
inference, mathematical induction holds only for a certain limited class
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
of properties and does not, therefore, constitute a general rule of induc-
tive inference analogous to the rules of deductive logic.
The famed British philosopher, John Stuart Mill, formulated four
principles of inductive reasoning which he called the methods of differ-
ence, of agreement, of residues, and of concomitant variation. It was
hoped for a while that appropriate generalizations of Mill’s methods would
lead to a set of rules for inductive logic. However, in the final analysis it
turns out that one of the consequences of Gödel’s incompleteness theo-
rem definitively excludes the existence of a complete set of rules for
inductive inference. Let us take a closer look at this.
Imagine that we are trying to elaborate a scientific theory according
to the usual paradigm of scientific method. We begin with a certain
number of facts or observation statements. We then seek to explain
these facts. What we seek is a theory whose axioms are general proposi-
tions from which we can deduce all of the known observation statements.
Thus, we are seeking a theory in which each of the observation state-
ments is a theorem.40
Of course, the body of facts already constitutes a theory with itself
as axioms (and, therefore, as theorems). But we do not usually consider
a fact-theory to be a satisfactory explanation of itself. Nor would we
consider just any arbitrary extension of the fact-theory as a satisfactory
explanation for the observation statements. Of course, an explanation
for the fact-theory is certainly an extension of the fact-theory, but it is
one in which certain particular deductive (implicational) relationships
have been shown to exist (or not to exist).
First of all, the extended theory must be consistent. This means we
cannot deduce a contradiction from it. Moreover, we require that we
can deduce all of the observation statements from a finite set of general
principles (propositions) within the extended theory. The conjunction
of these general principles would then be the inductive consequence
(generalization) of the original body of facts.41
However, we may legitimately consider any consistent extension of
the fact-theory as a possible explanation for the fact-theory. We evaluate
the explanatory power of a possible explanation by exploring deductive
relationships within the extended theory.
When accumulating facts, we ask the question what (what are things
like?). When seeking an explanation, we ask the question why (why are

things like they are?). Since there are only a finite number of humans,
and every human observer can only make a finite number of observa-
tions in a finite time, the number of facts is always finite. However, the
number of different (logically incompatible) possible explanations for
the body of facts is infinite, as follows from Gödel’s incompleteness
theorem.42
This establishes conclusively that rules of inductive logic cannot
exist, even in principle, because a finite set of facts does not determine a
unique generalization of these facts. As Quine has put it, theory is
underdetermined by fact.43 Nor can we overcome this limitation simply
by multiplying the number of observation statements. As long as the
body of facts is finite, there will be an infinity of logically different,
consistent ways of generalizing from these facts.
To sum up: there exist absolute rules for deductive logic, because
deductive logic is a movement from general to particular. There do not
exist any such rules for inductive logic, primarily because inductive logic
moves from particular to general. Thus, whereas a deductive consequence
follows absolutely and objectively from its antecedent, an inductive con-
sequence is only relatively justified and thus always potentially open to
question.
Nevertheless, the situation is not quite as bad as it may seem. We
have only excluded the possibility of absolute rules for inductive logic,
comparable to the absolute rules of deductive logic. However, we have
not excluded the existence of principles of inductive logic that help guide
us to find the most reasonable generalization in the light of current
knowledge.
The first, and most basic of these principles is the validity principle,
which states that our generalized theory must not only be consistent
but also logically compatible with all observations. With regard to va-
lidity, we find ourselves in an almost humorous situation. It is possible
to prove absolutely that a theory is invalid, because if some of the theo-
ry’s deductive consequences (which we call its predictions) flagrantly
contradict highly authenticated observations, then the theory cannot
be valid. The theory will have to be abandoned or else modified in
some way. But no matter how many predictions of the theory have
been confirmed by observation, the possibility always remains of the
theory’s future invalidation as a result either of novel predictions that
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
contradict known evidence or novel evidence that contradicts known
predictions.
Another principle is conservativity. Our example above of the proc-
ess of elaborating a scientific theory, starting with a certain number of
observation statements, was presented in abstraction from any context.
Clearly, if our only method of finding an inductive generalization from
a fact-theory was to consider each of the infinity of possible explana-
tions one by one in arbitrary sequence, scientific advances would be
impossible save by absolute miracle. However, in the reality of scientific
practice, we are always elaborating a new theory not only with respect
to the relevant facts, but also with respect to a pre-existing background
theory—a theory which will already have proved itself in many respects.
This background theory usually renders certain generalizations of the
fact-theory considerably more reasonable than others.
For example, suppose we are trying to modify the background theory
to accommodate new facts. One technique is to look for a theory that
accommodates the new facts while minimizing changes to the back-
ground theory. This conservative approach to theory modification
eliminates those possible explanations for the new facts which make
gratuitous or arbitrary changes to the background theory, and, at the
same time, suggests positive ways of building the new theory. Thus,
conservativity with respect to the background theory is one of the guid-
ing principles of inductive logic.44
Yet another principle is Occam’s razor, otherwise known as the prin-
ciple of parsimony or simplicity. This principle addresses the issue of
the introduction of new nonobservables as explanations for the new
fact-theory. The simplicity principle says that we should introduce only
those abstract notions that appear irreducibly necessary to explain ob-
servation.
A good example of an application of the simplicity principle is
the original Newtonian theory of gravity. The force of gravity is, it-
self, an unobservable force. What we observe is a persistent deviation
from randomness in the behavior of free objects in the presence of a
large mass like the earth. Nothing that we can observe physically
constrains the objects to move downward, but they all do. The mini-
mally simple explanation is that there is some nonobservable force
that makes them go down. Once we posit this force and observe that

the acceleration it causes is the same for all bodies, we immediately
have Newton’s theory.
Another principle is adequacy. The new theory must really explain
all of the fact-theory, not just part of it. Indeed, if we are fortunate, the
new theory may be superadequate: it may explain much more than just
the original fact theory. (Again, Newton’s theory of gravity, which ex-
plained planetary motion as well as falling objects, is an example.)
There is a certain trade-off between simplicity and adequacy. We
might be willing to accept a more lavish or complicated theory if it is
substantially more adequate than a simpler one. Again, these are quali-
tative principles, not absolute rules, and the effective use of inductive
logic involves openness to future reevaluation of inductive inferences in
the light of new information.45
Besides these general methodological principles, modern science has
generated certain substantive principles which eliminate the need for
explanations in some cases. One of these is the second law of thermody-
namics or the law of entropy. This law says that order, or the evolution
of a system towards order, is improbable, and that disorder, or the de-
generation towards disorder, is a probable (natural) configuration. In
the light of this law, many fact-theories do not necessitate an explana-
tion. If our observations of a system show a steady increase in disorder,
then we do not have to bother looking for a cause to this phenomenon:
this is the natural state of affairs. But if we observe a system that is
evolving persistently towards increased order, then there must be some
cause (whether observable or not) for the phenomenon, and we must
seek out that cause.
More generally, we can often introduce a probability measure of the
likelihood of a given theory being true relative to another theory. We
may say that a given theory has higher probability of truth than another.
Such a measure is always relative to the current state of our knowledge.
New information can radically change these probability measures, mak-
ing a previously discarded theory now the favored one.
Rather than trying to keep constantly in mind each of these princi-
ples and parameters of inductive inference, philosophers of science have
more recently formulated a lumped parameter principle of plausible in-
ference, which we can formulate as follows: to infer, from a given
fact-theory, to the best possible (epistemologically optimal) explanation
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
in the light of current knowledge. Here best possible is meant to include
consideration of validity, conservativity, simplicity, adequacy, and prob-
ability (if relevant).
If we extend the notion of plausible inference to include deduction
as well as induction (the absolutely certain is a fortiori plausible), then
we can say that the basic logic of science is plausible reasoning. When
rules of deduction are applicable we use them. Otherwise, we resort to
the best possible explanation in the light of current knowledge. It is by
an alternation of deduction and induction—of particularization and of
generalization starting with observation—that science is built up.
It may seem at first that the logic of plausibility would be too weak
to account for the success of science, but such a view ignores how easy it
is for our emotional prejudices to insinuate themselves into even the
most rigorous attempts at theory construction. We all feel that we rea-
son plausibly most of the time, but the fact is that we don’t. It is only by
a strong will to rationality that we can consistently apply the plausibility
principle without lapsing into unwarranted (implausible) inferences.46
We have begun our discussion of inductive inference by stressing
the fact that there exists an infinity of possible explanations consistent
with any given finite set of facts. But in practice, we can only consider a
theory once it has been conceived in the first place. Thus, in practice
our choice is not among all the infinity of possible explanations, but
only among the possible explanations that we actually know. It is a
highly creative task to conceive of even one possible explanation for a
given fact-theory. There is, in short, a fundamental methodological dis-
continuity between fact-gathering and theory-conception. We can go
on gathering new facts forever, but until someone has the creativity to
conceive of a possible explanation for these facts, we have no theory to
test for plausibility.
Thus, the common notion that science is determined by hard fact
alone, in presumed contrast to the speculative nature of philosophy or
religion, is simply false. Science involves an essential and irreducible
element of creative theorizing. Nevertheless, no matter how creative a
conceived theory may be, unless it passes the tests of validity, simplicity,
and adequacy, it will not be accepted as justified by the logic of plausi-
bility.

V. MINIMALISTIC METAPHYSICS
1. PLAUSIBLE LOGIC AS PHILOSOPHICAL METHOD
In the preceeding sections, we have dealt primarily with certain meth-
odological issues related to science and philosophy. We have put forward
as a normative methodological ideal a certain philosophy of minimalism,
which holds that it is useful and legitimate to pursue objectification,
but which renounces the reductionistic notion that everything can or
should be objectified.
In certain contexts—when dealing with computer languages, for
example—the practical difference between reductionism and minimalism
is quite small, because the residue of subjectivity that separates them is
almost negligible. However, the more comprehensive the subject mat-
ter, the greater the practical difference between minimalism and
reductionism. In particular, when we arrive at philosophy, reductionism
has become a full-scale, dogmatically-held philosophical ideology which
asserts that everything worthwhile can be objectified. There is an im-
mense gap between such an ideology and the counter-ideology of
subjectivism and postmodernism, which hold that objectification is sim-
ply a word game and that nothing really worthwhile can be objectified.
Because many philosophers tend to fall into one of these two camps,
the approach of non-dogmatic, empirically-grounded minimalism has
never been systematically applied to substantive philosophical issues.
Thus, not only as an example or exercise but also as an intrinsically
valuable enterprise, we propose to deal with some classical philosophi-
cal problems and issues within the minimalistic framework. We will
begin with some assumptions and definitions, which we will state with
a somewhat greater degree of formality than has been the case in the
foregoing text.
2. EXISTENCE
First, and most basic, is the assumption there is something and not
nothing. This assumption is logically prior even to solipsism, which
supposed that there is only subjective existence. One might be tempted
to assert, more boldly, that we certainly know that something exists,
because if, literally, nothing existed then we would not be here to ask
R E D U C T I O N I S M,   S U B J E CT I V I S M,   A N D   M I N I M A L I S M

M I N I M A L I S M
the question as to whether anything existed. Even if our perception of
the world and of ourselves is an illusion, still something (the illusory self
contemplating an illusory reality) exists.
This reasoning (which goes back to Descartes) is certainly correct,
however, it is part of the method of minimalism that we make every
assumption explicit, regardless of how obvious or reasonable it may be.
This is because we are now equally interested both in the results of our
process (the conclusions we draw) and the process itself (the method by
which we arrive at our conclusions).
We now define reality as the totality of (actual) existence, past,
present, and future. Reality is everything there is, where the verb to be is
used in an atemporal or eternal sense. This is a minimalist definition of
reality, because it puts the least possible presuppositions on the nature
of reality. For example, it allows for the existence of transtemporal enti-
ties (entities existing outside of space-time) without actively supposing
that such entities do in fact exist. Thus, time is regarded as an inde-
pendent dimension, and time-bound entities are time-parametered
(existing in the past, present, or future).47
Reality, as we have defined it, is comprised of actual existence and
does not include such things as potential or possible existences (except
insofar as these terms are taken as metaphors for actually existing con-
figurations which allow for certain other actually existing configurations
in the future).
Next, we define a phenomenon as some (nonempty) portion of real-
ity. Thus, every existent is a phenomenon, and reality itself is just one
big phenomenon. Reality and existence are thus interdefinable. Reality
is the sum of all existence and an existent is some (nonempty) part of
reality.
It is most important to see that these definitions are completely
objective, and do not depend for their meaning on any assumptions
concerning the extent of human knowledge. For example, we do not
suppose that we can have an adequate conception of reality, or that
we can know, even in principle, everything there is. Nor do we sup-
pose that we can, in any given case, determine the exact boundaries
of a given phenomenon. But what is beyond dispute is that, when-
ever we consider anything short of the whole of reality, we are
considering a phenomenon that is limited in some way. In this con-

text, limited does not mean isolated or unconnected with other phe-
nomena.48
The same primary logic that justifies the assumption that some-
thing exists (see note 47) also justifies the assumption that human
consciousness exists. Indeed, the very fact that we are conscious of pos-
ing the question of consciousness is primary, irreducible evidence that
consciousness exists. Our (individual) consciousness creates a private
world of inner states (phenomena) to which only we have direct,
unmediated, and privileged access. This world of inner phenomena con-
stitutes our subjectivity. Thus, an individual’s subjectivity is comprised
precisely of all those phenomena to which only that individual has di-
rect, unmediated access.
We say that a phenomenon is subjective if it is wholly internal to
one or more human subjects. The sum total of all subjective phenom-
ena constitutes subjective reality. By objective reality we mean everything
outside of subjective reality (objective reality is thus the Boolean com-
plement of subjective reality). An objective phenomenon is a
phenomenon that is wholly external to human subjectivity.
Again, these definitions are perfectly objective. They do not sup-
pose that we can always know whether a given phenomenon is objective
or subjective. The definition itself does not even presuppose that there
is an objective reality. It only gives a defining characteristic of objectiv-
ity (i.e., the criterion something must satisfy in order to count as
objective).
Of course, we have already given, in the early sections of this mono-
graph, strong arguments against solipsism and other extreme forms of
subjectivism. But the important point to see here is that the present
definitions are logically prior to these philosophical questions. Nor do
these definitions depend for their cogency on one or another solution to
these problems.
Another category of reality is constituted by those phenomena which
can be observed or sensed by all normally endowed human subjects. We
designate this category as concrete reality. A concrete phenomenon is
one to which all normally endowed human subjects have equal, un-
privileged, and direct access, an access unmediated by any subjectivity
other than that of the individual subject himself/herself. Since any indi-
vidual subject has privileged and direct access to his or her internal
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
states, there will always be at least one human subject who has privi-
leged access to some part of any given subjective phenomenon. Hence,
no concrete phenomenon can be subjective: concrete reality is wholly
contained within objective reality.
Of course, this equality of access to concrete objects is an equality-
in-principle. For example, if I am closer to an object than you are, then
I have, momentarily, greater access to it than do you. But the equality-
in-principle means that you and I can change places and thus you can
have the same access I now have. The access of each individual to con-
crete objects is of course mediated to him through the agency of his
own subjectivity via the inner sensations and states provoked within
him by his encounter with the concrete object. But the important point
is that the individual does not depend on the experience or protocol of
other subjects in order to observe a concrete object. The only subjectiv-
ity he must rely upon is his own.
The complement to concrete reality is abstract reality. Abstract real-
ity thus includes all of subjective reality and also that portion of objective
reality to which we have no direct access whatever. We designate the
latter category as invisible or nonobservable reality. Invisible reality is
constituted by such forces and entities as gravity or the individual pho-
tons of light. The existence of such forces and entities can only be detected
indirectly, by the effect these invisible phenomena have on observable
reality. For example, we observe the downward falling of unsupported
concrete objects, but we do not observe the force of gravity that makes
such objects fall. The objective reality of this force is deduced from the
fact that unsupported objects do not behave randomly in the presence
of a large mass such as the earth, but rather all move in a downward
direction.
Again, let us stress that our definition of concreteness in no wise
depends upon our being able, practically, to draw a clear boundary be-
tween the observable and the nonobservable. Extremely small or
extremely distant objects may be presently unobservable but become
observable in the future through the acquisition of more refined tech-
niques of observation. This means that these objects were always
observable in principle and thus concrete, even though the boundary
between the practically observable and unobservable may change. But
this does not undermine the objectivity of the definition itself, because

the definition only requires that there be a boundary, not that we can
determine the boundary in every case.
From now on, when we speak of a phenomenon A as, say, subjec-
tive or concrete, we will mean that A is wholly contained within the
named category. It is quite possible and may frequently occur, that a
phenomenon cuts across several categories, e.g., it may have both a
concrete and an abstract dimension, or both a subjective and an objec-
tive aspect.
Notice that all these categories tell us nothing about the actual struc-
ture of objective reality. They only tell us something about the relationship
between our subjectivity and reality. Notice in particular that we have
not attempted to define material or physical reality as opposed to spir-
itual or non-material reality. In fact, we will never have need of such
notions. In our scheme, the crucial division within objective reality is
between observable and nonobservable. Moreover, it is an essential fea-
ture of the method of minimalism that we will never assume anything
about nonobservable reality beyond what can be plausibly inferred from
our observations of concrete reality. We say that our metaphysics is thus
empirically grounded.49
However, we have gone about as far as we can go with our agnosti-
cism about the structure of objective reality. We must now make some
more explicitly metaphysical definitions and assumptions concerning
reality.
3. PART AND WHOLE: COMPOSITION AND THE
COMPONENTHOOD RELATION
We now assume that any existent phenomenon must be either simple
or composite. That is, a phenomenon B may be composed of other
phenomena A, A…B, or else B may have no components at all, in which
case it is a simple (unified) indivisible whole. We symbolize the
componenthood relationship by a stylized epsilon symbol 0. Thus, A0B
means “The phenomenon A is a component of the phenomenon B.”
Thus, to say that B is composite is to say that A0B holds for at least one
phenomenon A (B has at least one component, namely A). If, for a given
B, A0B holds for no A whatsoever, then B is simple or noncomposite.
According to modern physical theory, all macrophysical, concrete
objects are composites, for they are composed, for example, of electrons,
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
protons, and neutrons. The only candidates for simplicity are the el-
ementary particles of quantum theory. The question of whether the
currently known elementary particles are in fact noncomposite is still an
open question in modern physics.
Notice that a component A of B need not be an immediate compo-
nent of B. It is logically possible that A0A10A20A30… An0B, where A itself
and each of the Ai are all different components of B. We say that A is an
immediate component of B if A0B and if there is no phenomenon D such
that A0D0B. By an ultimate component of B we mean some component
A0B such that no component E0A is a component of B. (Thus, any
simple component of B is an ultimate component, but in general an
ultimate component need not be simple.)
By definition, a phenomenon B is composite if it has components.
If B is itself a component of some other phenomenon A, then we say
that B is an entity. We assume that all simple phenomena are entities.
Composite phenomena in general are also called systems. Thus, some
systems are entities and some are not.
Let us now sum up our ontological categories. With respect to com-
position, we have a hierarchy of complexity. At the lowest level are the
simple entities. A simple entity A is a component but does not have any
components: ?óA0B, for some B. Next are the entity-systems A which
both have components and are components: E0A0B, for some E and B.
Finally, there are the composite phenomena (systems) A which have
components B, but never are themselves components: B0Aó?.
We can often observe and manipulate the composite nature of
macrophysical objects: we can take them apart and sometimes put them
back together. Thus, the metaphysical notion of composition is thor-
oughly grounded empirically. This does not mean that we have a clear
understanding of what composition or simplicity mean in all contexts.
For example, is a subjective idea simple or composite? On the one hand,
the notion of half an idea doesn’t make much sense. On the other hand, it
is not unreasonable to suppose that there may be a certain number of
fundamental, simple ideas which form the components of more complex,
composite ideas. Again, the point is that we do not have to resolve such
issues in order for the metaphysical notion of composition to be objective
and empirically grounded. What we do assume, of course, is that the
question as to whether ideas are simple or composite is a meaningful

question. We assumed this when we supposed that every existing phe-
nomenon is either composite or simple.
We now use the componenthood relationship 0 to define another
useful relationship, the containment relation d, which is defined only
between systems. We say that a system A is a subsystem of a system B, and
we write AdB, if every component E0A is also a component E0B. In this
case, we also say that A is contained in B or that A is a portion of B.
Initially it may seem difficult to grasp the difference between
componenthood and containment. The first step is to realize that
componenthood is the more general and more fundamental notion,
because noncomposites can be components but never subsystems (since
they are not systems). Secondly, a subsystem can be both a component
and a subsystem of another system; one does not necessarily exclude the
other.50
Let us give a few examples. Consider the human body as a biologi-
cal system. The immediate components of the body are its biological
subsystems and the immediate components of these biological subsys-
tems are the organs that comprise them.51 Thus, the digestive system is
both a component of the body and also a subsystem of the body. The
immediate components of the digestive sytems are organs such as the
stomach or the small intestine. The ultimate organic components of the
body as an organism are its cells. The ultimate components of the body
viewed as a physical object are the elementary particles (e.g., electrons
or protons) which are components of the atoms that occur in the vari-
ous cells of the body. All of the components, except possibly some of the
ultimate components, are also systems. But an ultimate component can-
not be a subsystem (by definition, see above).
Or, consider a leaved tree. An individual leaf is a component of the
tree and the set of all leaves is a subsystem, but not a component of the
tree.52
The following simple geometrical example should be helpful in un-
derstanding the difference between components and subsystems. Let B
be the system whose components are precisely the points inside the
larger circle. A is the system whose components are the points within
the smaller circle. Since the perimeter of A is wholly within the perim-
eter of B, every point E in A is also a point in B. So by definition, A is a
subsystem (portion) of B. But A is not a component of B because only
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
points are components, and A is not a point but rather a set of points.
Thus, every point E in A is a component of both A and B, but is a
subsystem of neither (because the points are the ultimate components
of the systems A and B).
We can also use these notions of componenthood and containment
to make more precise our original definitions of reality and phenomena.
Let us use the symbol V to stand for the whole of reality. Since by defi-
nition every composite phenomenon B is a portion of V, every such B is
contained in V, BdV. Thus, by definition every component E0B is a com-
ponent of V, E0V. But components of systems are precisely what we have
defined as entities. Thus, every entity is a component of V. Conversely,
a component of V, E0V, is an entity by definition (it is a component of
something, namely V). In sum: to be an entity is to be a component of V.
Thus reality, V, is that phenomenon whose components are precisely all
existent entitites. Moreover, composite entities are both components
and subystems of V. Systems that are not entities are subsystems of V, but
not components of V.
Let us say that a phenomenon A is a part of a phenomenon B if A is
either a component or a subsystem of B. With this terminology, we can
say that every existing phenomenon B is a part of reality V: either B0V or
BdV. We can also reformulate, as a formal principle, our assumption
that something exists:
P.0. V is composite.
B
A
E •

4. CAUSALITY
We now consider a second relationship that may exist between phe-
nomena: the causality relation. Let A and B be two phenomena (composite
or not). We say that A causes B, and we write A6B, if it is the case that B
exists by virtue of A. If, for some A and B, A6B holds, then A is a cause of
B and B an effect (or result) of A. If there is some A…B such that A6B, then
we say that B is caused or other-caused. If B6B, then we say that B is
uncaused or self-caused. Finally, if for no A whatsoever do we have A6B,
then we say that B is without a cause.
The fundamental principle of the causality relationship, and the
first non-trivial principle of our metaphysics is the principle of sufficient
reason. It says essentially that no phenomenon can exist without a cause.
The precise formulation is as follows:
P.1. Every existent phenomenon B is either caused (other-caused) or
uncaused (self-caused), and never both.
Before we discuss the philosophical cogency of this principle, let us
be sure we understand what it says. In the first place, it does not directly
posit the existence of anything. It does not say that there are uncaused
phenomena (or caused phenomena). But it does say that there are no
phenomena that exist without a cause (i.e., that have no causal link
either with some other phenomenon or with themselves (self-causa-
tion)). Moreover, it says that the categories of self-causation and
other-causation are mutually exclusive: a phenomenon cannot be both
self-caused and other-caused. So, for example, if we have determined
that a certain B is self-caused (i.e., B6B), then by that fact (and P.1), B
cannot be other-caused (i.e., A6B holds only when A=B). Conversely, if
we have determined that A6B holds for some A…B, then B6B cannot
hold.
The principle of sufficient reason means that nothing can exist with-
out a reason for its existence. This reason must be either within itself
(self-causation) or else the reason must lie in some other existent (other-
causation). The case B6B is thus a state of self-sufficiency; the phenomenon
B contains within itself the reason for itself. It exists by virtue of itself
alone. This is why caused and uncaused are mutually exclusive catego-
ries: a phenomenon cannot be self-sufficient and, at the same time, owe
its existence to something other than itself. It cannot exist by virtue of
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
itself and also by virtue of something other than itself. Think of causa-
tion as a dependency relationship. A phenomenon cannot both depend
on itself alone and also depend on something other than itself.
Is causality empirically grounded? The philosopher Hume argued
that it is not, and certainly our definition of A6B (B exists by virtue of A)
is not empirical but thoroughly metaphysical. However, Hume’s argu-
ments only establish that causal links between observable phenomena
are logically inferred from empirical observation rather than observed
directly. This point is now well-understood in science, and does not
undermine the cogency of the notion of causation itself.
In this regard, let us consider once again our well-worn example of
gravity. We observe the fact that unsupported objects fall to the ground,
but we do not observe the force of gravity itself—the causal link be-
tween the initial position of the free object and its final position at rest
on the ground. An unsupported object is free to move in all directions,
but it always moves downward. What we observe, then, is a persistent
deviation from randomness, without any observable cause for this de-
viation. In such cases, the scientific logic of plausible inference allows us
(indeed, compels us) to infer that there is some nonobservable force
that causes the observed behavior. All of the fundamental forces of physics
have been discovered by this indirect reasoning, and none of these forces
is directly observable in itself.
Thus, we accept as a fundamental feature of causality that causal
links (relationships) are inferred, not observed. But there is nonetheless
an empirical basis for such inference. If indeed A6B holds—if B exists by
virtue of A—then there cannot ever be a case of A without B. This gives
us at least a partial (negative) empirical test for causality. If ever we
observe an instance of A without B, then there cannot be a causal link
from A to B. However, no matter how many times we observe A followed
by B, we can never conclude absolutely—from these observations alone—
that A6B holds. (See also the discussion above of inductive inference in
science.)
Thus, “never A without B” is a minimal empirically necessary indi-
cation that B exists by virtue of A. The former condition is thus an
empirical ground for the latter. By respecting this minimal empirical
condition—by refusing to infer a causal link in its absence—we are
assured that we can never have an empirical counterexample to our

metaphysical causality relationship. We may, of course, presume such a
causal link in error, but we are always committed to revising that pre-
sumption as soon as the necessary contrary evidence is forthcoming.53
5. CAUSALITY AND REASON
It is often debated whether the universe is rational or can be rationally
understood. We have already seen in our previous discussion that reason
refers to a certain internal process of the human mind (making our
assumptions explicit). Thus, strictly speaking it is we humans who are
either rational or irrational, not reality itself. However, the causality
relationship, and principle P.1 in particular, enable us to give a coherent
meaning to the notion of the rationality of reality.
Our life can be viewed as a sequence of interactions or encounters
with reality. In each such encounter, we confront some particular aspect
of reality—some phenomenon B. Our senses give us information about
the concrete aspect of B and its structure. This is descriptive informa-
tion that essentially answers the question how? (how in fact is B
structured—what are its qualities and attributes?). As our minds begin
to process this information, there arises another category of questions—
the why? questions. We are not satisfied just to recognize that B is a
certain way. We want to understand what makes B the way it is. We are
looking for a cause A of B, and the principle P.1 tells us that this ques-
tion always has an answer (whether we can find it or not).
A cause A of a phenomenon B is the counterpart in objective reality
of an assumption A’ from which we can logically deduce a certain con-
clusion B’. Thus, P.1 is the precondition of rationality. This principle
says that reason—the subjective process of making our assumptions
about reality explicit—has the potential or the capacity to give us true
information (truth) about the structure of reality.
In other words, when our empirical observations of a phenomenon
B are accurate, we can formulate a proposition B’ which is a true and
accurate (though not complete) description of B. If, further, A causes B,
then the propositon A’ will logically imply the proposition B’. In this
way, the logical relationship of implication (or deduction) mirrors or
reflects the objective relationship of causality: A’YB’ if and only if A6B
holds.
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
The following diagram gives a fuller representation of the relation-
ship between deduction and causality. In this particular example, we
assume that the phenomena A and B are totally objective, but that as-
sumption is not essential since the causality relationship is universal
(i.e., it holds for all categories of reality).
Relationship Between the Inner Model and Reality
By the mental process of idealization, we represent within our subjectivity (mind) the two
observed (or conceived) phenomena A and B, by two propositions A’ and B’ each of
which describes the corresponding phenomenon as existing in the way we have perceived
or conceived it. Our inner model will be correct if our idealization process has correctly
identified and represented (reflected) the fundamental logical features of the phenomena
A and B. If our model is in fact correct and if the phenomenon A does in fact cause the
phenomenon B, then our proposition A’ will logically imply B’. But if our formulation of
propositions A’ and B’ is incorrect (our inner model is inaccurate), then A’ may imply B’
even if A does not cause B, or else A’ may not imply B’ even though A does in fact cause
B. In either of the last two cases, our prediction or expectation, represented by the arrow
of interpretation, will not be realized. But, if our inner model is accurate, and if A does in
fact cause B, then our expectation (prediction) will be realized, and we can go from A to
B either directly (experimentation) or else by the sequence idealization-implication-in-
terpretation (reason).




	
	


		


	
		


	


	 
!
!	"

It should be clear that idealization and interpretation are simply
two aspects of the unified process by which our inner model of reality is
constructed on the basis of our experience of reality. In the common
sense approach to life (see discussion in the foregoing), this ongoing
process is largely spontaneous (unconscious). As we become conscious
of the process (the transition from common sense to reason), we can see
that it involves a continual dialectic between an inward move from real-
ity towards our inner model (idealization) and an outward move from
the inner model towards reality (interpretation).
At the beginning of the transition from common sense to reason,
we are very reliant on direct experience of reality (trial and error, experi-
mentation). However, as the structure of our inner model becomes
increasingly sophisticated, we grow progressively less dependent on di-
rect experience and more confident in our ability to idealize, deduce,
and interpret.
Suppose for example that you can count but cannot add. If you put
seven apples together with eight other apples, you can count the result
and conclude that there are, in fact, fifteen apples. But with the help of
the mental operation of addition (which is a form of deduction), you
can proceed as follows. First you represent the two sets of apples by the
numbers 7 and 8 (idealization). You then add 7 and 8 to obtain the
number 15 (deduction). Finally, you interpret the result (the number
15) as representing the actual quantity of apples that will (or would!)
result from putting together the two sets.
With the use of reason, you can actually predict the result of a
contemplated operation, without actually having to perform the opera-
tion. Without reason (in the above example, when you cannot add),
you must actually perform the operation physically (putting the apples
together) and then experience concretely the results (counting the as-
sembled apples). In other words, reason allows us to replace concrete,
physical manipulations of reality by a purely subjective manipulation of
abstract mental entities (the numbers in the above example). This ex-
ample is also a simple illustration of the way that purely abstract mental
entities (numbers again) can be used to reflect or represent truths about
objective reality (e.g., quantities of apples).
Let us stress again the importance of the fact that causality and
composition are binary relations between phenomena and not simply
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
qualities or attributes of phenomena. Until the late 19th century, the
only formal logic used by philosophers was Aristotle’s syllogistic, which
is a logic only of attributes (not relations). Attributional logic is reason-
ably adequate for the how part of our enterprise, but woefully inadequate
when it comes to the why? question of causality.
Aristotle pointed out that to know some phenomenon B is to know
its properties—what attributes are true or false of B. Grass is green, fire
burns, water flows. We know things by comparing the attributes they
share and the attributes that differentiate them from each other. Total
knowledge of a phenomenon B would be to know every property that is
true of B (and therefore, by the same token, every property that is not
true of B).
But when we begin to ask why a phenomenon B has a certain at-
tribute, then the inadequacies of the attributional approach become
quickly apparent. Classical metaphysics is therefore full of such non-
answers as “grass is green because it is the nature of grass to be green; fire
burns because that is the nature of fire; water flows because it is inher-
ent in the nature of water to flow.” Or, if one has a religious bent, the
answer might be that “God made grass to be green, fire to burn, and
water to flow—that’s why.”
These (non)answers to the why question amount to a negation of
principle P.1, because they affirm that the phenomenon B just is the way
it is—without any reason for its being that way. But, in the light of the
principle of sufficient reason, we can say that we know in advance that
there is some reason (cause) A why B has the properties it has. In other
words, causes are explanations for phenomena, and reasoning about
causes involves us necessarily in relational logic since causality is a rela-
tionship and not just an attribute (though of course other-causedness
and self-causedness are attributes that derive from the causality relation-
ship).
Let us apply P.1 to, say, the greenness of grass. Why indeed is grass
green? The answer is composite. One part of the reason has to do with
the structure of white light—the fact that the entire spectrum of colors
is enfolded within it. The other part relates to attributes of grass itself,
whose structure involves a pigmental substance that has the property of
absorbing the whole spectrum of light except for the green portion,
which it reflects when white light is incident upon it. Note that this is a

case of other-causedness, because self-causation means that the entire
cause has to be within the phenomenon itself. In this case, the cause is
partly within the phenomenon itself (the pigmental substance within
grass) but partly outside of the phenomenon (the nature of white light).
Note also that our explanation of the greenness of grass is wholly
objective, because we appeal to the definition of colors in terms of wave-
lengths of light. Thus, our explanation does not involve any such
supposed subjectivist philosophical conundrums as to whether grass is
still green when there is no one to observe it. Similarly objective expla-
nations can be given for the burning of fire and the flowing of water.
Let us note that all of these objective explanations for concrete phe-
nomena have been generated by modern science. This fact illustrates
the above observation that the principle P.1 of sufficient reason is the
precondition for rationality (and rationality the basis of science).
6. CAUSALITY AND COMPOSITION
Causality and composition are two different, independent relationships.
Neither presupposes the other. Yet, there must be some interaction be-
tween these relations. We posit two empirically grounded metaphysical
principles which link causality and composition. The first is the potency
principle:
P.2. Suppose that A6B holds, where B is composite. Then A6E also holds
where E is any part of B (i.e., where either E0B or EdB).
The logic of P.2 is apparent upon a little reflection. A composite is
made up of its parts and thus owes its existence to the existence of its
parts. If A6B holds (B exists by virtue of A)—if A is a phenomenon
capable in and of itself of producing (all of) B—then in so doing, A
must certainly be able to produce every part of B.
We can also formulate this in Aristotlean terms. Everything is made
of a substance and has a form (structure). The substance of a composite
system consists of the individual components that make it up, while its
structure consists of the various relationships between the components.
In particular, these relationships are reflected within the various subsys-
tems of the composite. Thus, to produce a composite system involves
producing both its components and its proper subsystems (cf. note 50).
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
However, the converse does not hold: producing all of the components
and proper subsystems of B may not be sufficient to produce B.
The notion of causality expressed by the principle P.2 is that of
complete cause (philosophy recognizes several different notions of cause).
The common-sense (and scientific) notion of causality corresponds rather
to Aristotle’s notion of an efficient cause. The efficient cause is the straw
that finally breaks the camel’s back. The complete cause is all of the
other straws which, together with the last one, have broken the back of
the camel. We can make an equation: CC=IP+EC, “The complete cause
equals the initial phenomenon plus the efficient cause.”
Science concentrates on the efficient cause because a given scien-
tific investigation usually moves carefully from the known towards the
unknown. The initial phenomenon is given and generally rather well
known, as is the observed effect. What a specific experiment seeks to
determine is the precise nature of the efficient cause of the effect (i.e.,
exactly what has to be added to the initial phenomenon to produce the
observed (or desired) effect). Scientists of course know it is not the effi-
cient cause alone that produces the effect, but rather the efficient cause
(whatever it turns out to be) plus the initial phenomenon. Since the
initial phenomenon and its features are presumed known, scientists speak
loosely of the efficient cause, once it is known, as the cause, but every-
one is aware of the imprecision in this way of speaking.
However, the minimalistic method we are using here does not pre-
sume any context and seeks to make everything as explicit as possible.
Thus we are led naturally to the notion of complete cause and the prin-
ciple P.2. There can of course be more than one complete cause for a
given effect, but any two such causes are equivalent in the sense that
they are each capable, in and of themselves, of producing the effect in
question. But no such equivalence obtains for efficient causes since the
contexts may be so different.
Suppose for example the effect in question is that a given stone falls
from a height of five feet to the earth. If the presumed context is the earth
and the free stone at a height of five feet, then the efficient cause is the force
of gravitational attraction. However, if the presumed context is the earth,
the stone, and the force of gravity between them, then the efficient cause
becomes whatever has released the stone at a height of five feet (e.g., my
letting it go free). However, the complete cause is the same in both cases.

The success of science in building verifiable theories with robust
predictivity provides ample empirical grounding for the notion of effi-
cient cause. The above analysis and examples show that the notion of
complete cause is equally grounded empirically. Thus, principle P.2 is
empirically grounded.
We now consider one more principle that relates causality and com-
position, the limitation principle:
P.3. A6E cannot hold if E is a component of A, E0A.
Principle P.3 asserts that a composite can never be the cause of one
of its own components. Indeed, as we have already seen above in our
discussion of substance and form, the existence of a composite whole
depends both on its components (its substance) and the various rela-
tionships between these components (its form). Thus, the existence of a
component cannot be due to the composite of which it is a part, be-
cause that composite does not even exist until all its components are
formed. It is quite conceivable that the whole comes into existence si-
multaneously with its components, under the influence of some causal
agent, but not that the whole has caused (and therefore pre-existed) one
of its proper parts.
The logic of P.3 seems impeccable, but there are some cases which,
if not handled thoughtfully, can appear to contradict this principle. For
example, cells in my body are continually dying out and being replaced
by new cells. Suppose my body manufactures a new white cell in the
next instant. Isn’t this a case where the whole (my body) has been the
cause of one of its own parts (the new white cell)?
The solution to this apparent problem becomes immediately clear
when we observe that the new body—the one that contains the new
white cell—is not the same as the (old) body which manufactured (and
thus caused) the new white cell. We have to remember that any time-
parametered phenomenon consists of a succession of stages (which are
themselves phenomena), a stage being the state of the phenomenon at a
given instant of time. Thus, in the above example, we must distinguish
between the body B1 at time t1 and the body B2 at time t2, where we
understand that B2=B'1+WC, where B'1 is B1 however modified in the proc-
ess of producing the new white cell WC. The correct causality relation is
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
then B16WC, which does not contradict P.3, and not the false relation
B26WC.
We also have the option of considering the body as a single dy-
namical system (process) which occupies a certain portion of space-time.
However, now the components of the body are no longer single cells but
the processes by which the process-body’s cells have been produced dur-
ing its entire lifetime. In this case, the process-body is more correctly
viewed as a result of these process-components than as their cause.
Of course, it is quite correct to say that the process-body and its
process-components exist and interact simultaneously. Neither precedes
the other, and neither can exist without the other. Such interaction and
interdependence between whole and part is the very nature of all dy-
namical systems. But this does not in itself imply a causal relation between
whole and part. For example, in the case of the human body, the cause
of the process-body and its process-components is, first of all, the unit-
ing of a male and a female gamete to form the initial zygote, plus the
various environmental conditions that make this organism viable (e.g.,
the mother’s womb which provides such things as protection and nutri-
tion). More generally, in accord with the second law of thermodynamics,
no dynamical (physical) system could cause/maintain a nondegenerating
component process on its own (i.e., without the help of an outside
causal agent in the form of energy input into the system).
The above examples are important in establishing that principle P.3
is empirically grounded, but their complexity should not be allowed to
obscure the simple and straightforward logic of P.3. By definition, a
composite whole exists only when all of its components exist. Thus, it is
logically impossible for the existence of a whole to precede (logically or
temporally) the existence of its components. At best it can come into
existence simultaneously with its components, but this in no wise im-
plies that the whole is the cause of the components.
Notice, however, that P.3 does not exclude the possibility of a com-
ponent preceeding and causing a whole of which it is part. A simple
example is the solar system. According to one viable theory of this sys-
tem, all of the planets were once a part of the sun and were spun off
from the sun. Their rotations around the sun are held to result from an
equilibrium between the centripetal force of their expulsion from the
original sun, and the gravitational attraction of the sun. Moreover, the

structure and nature of each planet is wholly determined by its relation-
ship to the sun (distance, speed of rotation, etc.). Thus, it is the sun and
its dynamics that have produced the solar system in its current form,
and not the solar sytem as a whole that has produced the sun.
7. GOD AND SUCH
We now have before us four empirically grounded, and therefore plau-
sibly true, metaphysical principles (P.0-P.3). We list them together for
easy reference in the ensuing text.
P.0. V is composite.
P.1. Every existing phenomenon B is either caused (other-caused) or
uncaused (self-caused), and never both.
P.2. Suppose that A6B holds, where B is composite. Then A6E also holds
where E is any part of B (i.e., where either E0B or EdB).
P.3. A6E cannot hold if E is a component of A.
Besides P.0, which is absolutely certain, none of the other principles
makes any existence assertions whatever. P.1-P.3 are all universal condi-
tional statements—propositions which affirm that, whenever and if ever
certain conditions are obtained, then certain other conditions must be
fulfilled. In other words, these statements in themselves have no exis-
tential import. However, in conjunction with P.0 (i.e., under the
assumption that something exists), these principles have strong and some-
what surprising existential consequences.
Theorem. It follows from P.0-P.3 that there is one and only one self-
caused phenomenon G. Further, this G is simple (non-composite) and
is a (necessarily unique) universal cause (i.e., a cause of every existent
phenomenon).
Proof. We begin by asking the question “What is the cause of the global
phenomenon V?” By P.1, V is either self-caused or other-caused. Sup-
pose for the moment that it is self-caused, V6V. By P.0, V is composite.
Hence, there is some component E0V. Therefore, by P.2, V6E. But this
contradicts the limitation principle P.3 since E is a component of V.
Thus, V cannot be self-caused. In fact this argument is applicable to
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
any composite and establishes the general principle: that no composite
phenomenon can be self-caused.
Applying P.1 to the above, we now conclude that V must be other-
caused by some phenomenon G…V, G6V. Now, every phenomenon is
either a component or a subsystem of V (see above). We thus have G6V
and G is a part of V. By P.2, we can thus immediately conclude that
G6G (i.e., G is self-caused). This means that G is simple because if G
had some component E, we could then conclude (by P.2) that G6E,
contradicting P.3. Thus, G is self-caused and simple. The simplicity of
G implies that G is an entity (and thus a component of V, G0V).
Moreover, G6V and every phenomenon B is a part of V. Hence, by P.2,
G6B where B is any phenomenon whatever. G is therefore a universal
cause.
Finally, G is the unique uncaused entity. To see this, suppose that G’6G’
for some phenomenon G’. Now, we have already established that G is a
universal cause, so G6G’ also holds. Thus, G’ is both self-caused and
caused by G. However, P.1 asserts that no self-caused phenomenon can
also be other-caused. Thus, G cannot be other than G’ (i.e., G=G’).
Hence, the simple entity G is the only uncaused phenomenon in exist-
ence.
It is important to realize that, in the light of the minimalistic method
we have employed, the above theorem is not an idle word game. We
have showed that the existence of a unique, simple, universal, uncaused
cause follows by pure logic from a few, broad, objective properties of
reality. In more formal terms, the conjuction of P.0-P.3 logically implies
that G exits: (P.0 & P.1 & P.2 & P.3)Y(G exists). This proof is totally objec-
tive. In other words, it is literally impossible that P.0-P.3 be true and
that G not exist. Let us now take P.0 for granted.
Thus, anyone for whom the conclusion that G exists is unacceptable
has only one rational course of action: he must deny one or more of P.1-
P.3. This is not so simple and straightforward as may be imagined at first.
To deny a proposition is to affirm its negation. The negation of any uni-
versal proposition is an existential proposition. Thus, pure logic dictates
that, to deny that G exists, one must affirm the existence of a metaphysi-
cal phenomenon satisfying certain highly implausible conditions.

For example, if we deny P.3, then we affirm that, in objective fact,
there is some composite phenomenon B that causes one of its own com-
ponents. This is not only against logical intuition, it goes against every
known or reported scientific observation of concrete systems. Similarly,
if we deny P.2, then we are committed to belief in the existence of some
system A which has caused the whole system B but which is not a cause
of some proper part E of B. Again, such a configuration contradicts all of
our current knowledge about the dynamics of systems.
Science is based on plausible reasoning. Such reasoning proceeds by
always choosing the most plausible proposition in the light of known
evidence. Each of P.1-P.3 is significantly (one is tempted to say infi-
nitely) more plausible than its negation in the light of current knowledge.
We can thus conclude that denial of the existence of G is irrational and
unscientific. It contradicts the method of science because it involves
deliberately choosing a less plausible alternative in order to avoid a spe-
cific conclusion.
To what extent are we justified in identifying our G with God? The
answer, as we shall see, is that the justification is very great indeed. All
traditions, whether philosophical, religious, or scientific, consider that
God (if He exists) is, first and foremost, the Creator—the ultimate cause
of all existence. We have proved that our G is in fact the one and only
universal cause. This implies, in particular, that every concrete, observ-
able phenomenon is the final step in a (possibly infinite) causal chain
that begins with G.
Philosophy and metaphysics have considered that God’s existence
must be special or intrinsic, that God is self-sufficient—the only phe-
nomenon whose existence is independent of anything else. Again, we
have proved that our G is the only self-sufficient (self-caused) entity in
existence. Other traditions (e.g., Islamic philosophical theology) have
laid great emphasis on the unity of God—that the essence of God can
admit of no division into parts. Again, we have proved that our G is a
simple (and therefore indivisible) entity.
Of course, the prophetic religions in particular have also insisted
that God is a living being and not just an ultimate principle. We have
not yet proved this, but the strength of our minimalistic method is that
it is forward compatible: the notion of God represented by the proved
properties of our G are wholly compatible with such further properties.54
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
However, even without developing further proofs, we can draw cer-
tain conclusions from the fact that every major prophetic religion has
identified their God as the ultimate origin of all existence. For example,
the Hebrew Bible begins with the affirmation that “In the beginning
God created the heavens and the earth,” and continues by recounting
how God made “every living creature that moveth.”55 Thus, whatever
other attributes the Torah ascribes to the God of Israel (that He is their
God, the God who spoke to and through Moses, a jealous God, etc.),
He is and remains the God of Creation, the ultimate cause of all exist-
ence. But we have proved that there can only be one such ultimate cause
of all existence. Hence, the God of Israel, if He exists, is our G.
In other words, as soon as we conceive of God as Creator, then
whatever other attributes we may eventully wish to ascribe to God can
apply only to our G, because in the light of principles P.1-P.3, it is not
logically possible to have more than one Creator. This gives a new, logi-
cal meaning to monotheism.56
If we turn to Christianity, we can draw a similar conclusion. The
Gospel of John presents Jesus Christ as the incarnation of the Logos
(the Word made flesh) and the Logos as the divine agency through
which “All things were made” and without whom “not anything made
… was made” (John 1.1 and 1.3). The Logos itself is identified with
God (John 1.1). Thus, the God of Christianity is identified as the ulti-
mate cause and origin of all being. In the light of principles P.1-P.3,
there is only one such entity, namely our G. So again, all other at-
tributes that Christians attribute to God (e.g., that He loves us, saves
us, guides us) must apply to our G.
The Qur’án, the holy book of Islam, likewise identifies Allah, the
Merciful, the Compassionate, as the Creator of all existence.
Finally, the Bahá’í Writings quite explicitly identify the God of rev-
elation and prophecy with the God of creation:
Existence is of two kinds: one is the existence of God which is beyond
the comprehension of man. He, the invisible, the lofty and the incom-
prehensible is preceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the
cause of causes. He, the Ancient, hath no beginning and is the all-
independent. The second kind of existence is the human existence. It is
... not ancient, is dependent and hath a cause to it.57

Of course, the G of our theorem has certain definite attributes, and
not every conceivable notion of God is compatible with G. For exam-
ple, the simplicity of G contradicts the conception of a Trinitarian God,
at least as a metaphysical principle which sees God as consisting of three
components. (There are other metaphorical interpretations of the Trin-
ity which avoid this contradiction.) Also, the simplicity of God as a
unique entity, noncomposite and distinct from other entities, definitely
contradicts the cruder forms of pantheism which hold that everything
that exists is a part of God (essentially the notion that V=G, i.e., that V
is self-caused). In other words, our theorem shows that the theology of
metaphysical trinitarianism and the theology of strict pantheism are
logically incompatible with principles P.1-P.3. Thus, minimalistic meta-
physics has implications for philosophical theology.
It might appear at first that the notion of God represented by our G
is strictly Deistic (i.e., that it invokes God only as a first principle who
has acted only once to launch the whole system of reality). However, a
little reflection shows that things are not quite so simple. Indeed, one of
the readings of the causality relation A6B is that “the phenomenon A
represents the preconditions for the existence of B.” Under this interpre-
tation, G6G means that “the precondition for the existence of G is that
G exists.” Thus, once we have established that an uncaused G exists, it
follows that it must have always existed and will always exist, because
the only precondition for its existence is that it exist. (If there had ever
been a period when it did not exist, then the condition of its existence
could never have been satisfied so that it could engender itself.) If ever
the condition of existence is satisfied, then it is always satisfied. (This
recalls the words addressed by God to Moses: “I am that I am.”) In
other words, a self-caused entity either never exists or else exists always.
Self-causality implies not only eternality of existence but also eter-
nality (or absoluteness) of state (i.e., that God is “unchanging”). Indeed,
in any system, a change of state is itself a phenomenon which must have
a cause. But G is not composite, and the only cause of G is G itself.
Thus, G could only change if the cause of G changes (i.e., G can only
change if G can change). G is thus either absolutely unchanging or
continually changing in exactly the same way. Logically, these two con-
ditions are equivalent. In the first case we conceive G to be static and, in
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
the second, dynamic. But in neither case is there evolution or modifica-
tion of state.58
In contemplating the fact that we have established such a contro-
versial conclusion on the basis of such natural principles, one should
recall our previous discussion concerning the power of logic to derive
the unobvious from the obvious. Indeed, in the eyes of most people,
our principles P.1-P.3 are so obvious as to be beyond serious contro-
versy. Formulating them as explicit assumptions even appears at first to
be a case of philosophical hairsplitting.
As a matter of fact, these principles are taken for granted in all the
sciences. We have already shown that P.1 has been the basis of natural
science—indeed of rationality itself—during two-thousand years of the
development of Western science and philosophy. Similarly the
componenthood relation is now known to be the ultimate basis of all
mathematics.59 We might think of the principles P.1-P.3 as constituting
part of an indefinite list of general logico-empirical principles that un-
derlie all of scientific or cognitive activity in whatever specific domain.
These general principles articulate what we might call the overall or
gross structure of reality.
This perspective gives a certain natural structure to metaphysics
and epistemology. The most basic truths are the logical truths, which
are absolutely objectifiable (see our previous discussion). Since logical
truths are invariant under all possible lexical changes, they are, in Leibniz’
sense, “true in all possible worlds” (cf. note 20).
Next in generality would be those principles whose articulation
depends upon the fixed meaning of certain fundamental lexical terms
(e.g., cause of, component of), and which are true only in a world (such
as ours) where the particular meanings in question are realized. Included
in this second level of generality would be truths which establish rela-
tionships between two or more of our fundamental notions (e.g., P.2
and P.3) and truths that establish intrinsic properties of a single funda-
mental notion (e.g., P.1). Mathematics would be included in this second
level of generality since the principles of mathematics can all be ex-
pressed in a language whose only fixed lexical term is the componenthood
relation 0.
The truths of the second level of generality would be common to all of
the sciences. These global truths depend on the structure of reality, but only

on the broad structure of reality as a whole, not on any particular feature of
a limited part of reality. Finally, a third level of generality would be those
truths which are local (i.e., which hold only under certain local conditions
that will be satisfied only for systems of a specified type). Physical laws such
as gravity or Archimedes’ principle would be in this third category.60
Viewed in this framework, our theorem shows that the existence of
God as a universal uncaused cause already follows from the global struc-
ture of reality as a whole. No recourse to the intricacies of such theories
as quantum mechanics or general relativity is necessary in order to know
that God exists.
Given the epistemological status of our theorem, one can wonder
why such a clear proof has been so long in coming. The answer to this
question is itself illuminating. Our theorem is a cosmological proof of
God, so-called because it appeals to the extra-logical principle that some-
thing exists (our P.0). There is a continuous history of cosmological
proofs, beginning with Aristotle’s famous proof of an uncaused cause by
appeal to a principle of infinite regress. However, the latter principle is
open to serious debate and is provably false in the strong form articu-
lated by Aristotle (an infinite regress is logically impossible), though
arguably valid in a restricted form (an infinite regress of causes is impos-
sible). More importantly, Aristotle establishes neither the uniqueness
nor the universality of his uncaused cause. Thus, it is perfectly compat-
ible with his proof that there be an infinity of different uncaused causes,
none of which is universal.
The first substantial improvement over Aristotle was effected by
Avicenna (980-1037), who eliminated completely the appeal to any
principle of infinite regress. He did this by bringing in the potency
principle (our P.2) and the whole relationship between cauality and com-
position. Aristotle’s approach (to this question) had neglected
composition altogether and focused on properties of the causality rela-
tion alone.
However, Avicenna’s cosmological proof shares with other, later
proofs the drawback of relying on modal logic. The classical logic that
we have presented is based on only two things: grammatical structure
(which can be made totally explicit) and the truth value (truth or fal-
sity) of propositions. A logical truth is a true proposition that remains
true under all possible reinterpretations of lexicon. In this logic, the
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
validity of a logical principle can be detected in a purely formal manner,
because grammatical form is invariant under changes of lexicon.
Modal logic, like mathematics or physics, makes essential use of a
certain fixed part of the lexicon, in this case the lexical terms necessary
and possible. In modal logic, one distinguishes between truth, necessary
truth, and possible truth. In other words, it is no longer just the fact of
being true that is important, but also the mode (quality) or degree of
truth. The result is that there is no universally agreed upon system of
modal logic. The use of modal logic introduces into logic the same
degree of uncertainty that exists in, say, physics or psychology.
Our theorem is based quite closely on Avicenna’s approach, but it
eliminates completely the use of modalities. Of course, the self-caused
G has a quality of existence that distinguishes it from other-caused phe-
nomena. Some philosophers would say that self-causation represents
necessary existence whereas other-causation is contingent or possible ex-
istence. However, Avicenna’s use of modalities was more complicated
and does not allow this reduction, because he recognized a difference
between necessary by reason of itself and necessary by reason of another. He
also had a third category of “possibly existing without necessity either
by reason of self or of another.” This brief reference should serve to give
the reader some appreciation for the potential complexities of modalities
and modal logic. Our way of eliminating completely the use of modal
logic from Avicenna’s proof appears to be original, but follows a sugges-
tion made by Davidson.61
Some philosophers have contended that simple existence is not
enough for God. Not only must He have supreme attributes, His very
existence must be of a different quality. God, they say, must exist neces-
sarily or not at all. For these philosophers, modal logic is an essential
element of any valid proof of God’s existence. Some would even go so
far as to reject our proof because it only etablishes that a universal cause
exists, but not that a universal cause necessarily exists (whatever that
means).
The modal form of the cosmological proof has many variants, but
it runs roughly as follows: Existence is either contingent (non-existence
is equally possible) or necessary (non-existence is impossible). If all ex-
istence was contingent, then nothing would exist because there would
be nothing to actualize the existence potential of contingents. But some-

thing does exist (our P.0, the mark of a cosmological proof). Thus,
there must be a necessary existent that has actualized the existence po-
tential of everything else. This necessary existent is God.
Insistence on proving God by the use of the modality of necessity
is not only gratuitous and unclear, it can actually be turned into the
following disproof of God: if God is the only phenomenon whose ex-
istence is necessary (whose non-existence is impossible), then God’s
existence should be the most undeniable of all existents. The mark of
an undeniable proposition is that it tends to elicit assent on the part of
most people. But the proposition that God exists is in fact quite con-
troversial and is far from eliciting assent from people generally. Hence,
God’s existence is deniable and hence not necessary. Finally, according
to the modal principle of necessary existence, God does not exist at all
if His existence is not necessary. Hence, God does not exist.62
The superiority of Avicenna’s proof over Aristotle’s lies principally
in Avicenna’s use of both composition and causality, by which he ap-
peals to the obvious potency principle in place of Aristotle’s appeal to
the doubtful/controversial infinite regression principle. Indeed, Avicenna’s
methods anticipate by a thousand years the development of the modern
logic of relations.
Avicenna was quite aware of the novelty of his method, but saw it
only as a new way of proving God’s existence, not as part of a general
(novel) logic. As an historical consequence, Avicenna’s successors (e.g.,
Maimonides, Aquinus, Leibniz) either did not understand or did not
appreciate the subtlety of Avicenna’s method, and reformulated Avicenna’s
proof in Aristotlean terms (e.g., appealing to principles of infinite re-
gression), but using modal logic. They therefore neglected Avicenna’s
essential advance in method while retaining the use of modalities which,
as we have seen above, is really a regression.63 Thus, most later versions
of the cosmological proof have been along the lines we sketched three
paragraphs above, and this version is subject to the Kantian antino-
mies.
The only modern philosopher who has taken a clear negative posi-
tion with regard to any of the principles P.1-P.3 is Bertrand Russell who,
in his debate with the Jesuit philosopher Copplestone, forthrightly de-
nies the principle of sufficient reason P.1. Let us take a quick look at
Russell’s argument.
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
Causality, he says, is purely local in nature. The cause of any local
phenomenon is some other local phenomenon. Thus, when we ask the
question, “What is the cause of the global phenomenon V?” there is a
subtle shift in the meaning of the word cause. Local causality is causality
within the system, but now we are asking what is the cause of the system
itself. This latter question, says Russell, is meaningless.
Thus, Russell denies P.1 not only by accepting that the universe of
existence V is without a cause (either in itself or by something else), but
also by denying us the right to ask the question as to whether V has or
has not a cause. All talk of the ultimate origin of existence is neither true
nor false but simply meaningless, according to Russell.64
The fundamental problem with Russell’s position is that it is thor-
oughly irrational and unscientific. In our previous discussion, we have
already pointed out that the principle of sufficient reason is the very
basis of scientific rationality. It guarantees that the question why? is
always meaningful. Science has been built on the foundation of this
principle, and scientifically-minded philosophers have consistently ex-
alted the principle of sufficient reason as representing the superiority of
scientific thinking over superstitious thinking. Science, they insist, is
not afraid to ask why?, but religion and superstition just say “that’s the
way it is, don’t ask why.” But these same supposed rationalists do not
hesitate at an ad hoc derogation of the principle of sufficient reason in
the one single instance in which the answer to the why question leads to
a conclusion they do not like. Moreover, no logical basis is given for this
derogation. Russell, for instance, simply proclaims the why question to
be meaningless in this one particular instance. He does not attempt to
give any logical justification as to why the question of global causality
should be meaningless.65
A position similar to Russell’s is taken by the cosmologist Stephen
Hawking in his well-known work A Brief History of Time.66 Hawking is
the proponent (and to some extent the originator) of the so-called big
bang cosmological theory. Retro-extrapolating from the fact that the
observable space-time universe is expanding, Hawking and others have
concluded that space-time sprang into being from a point (a so-called
isolated singularity) some ten to twenty billion years ago. Hawkings is a
materialist who believes that space-time is all of reality, V=Space-Time.
He therefore assumes that all causality reduces to temporal causality. If,

further, we assume à la big bang that time itself had a discrete begin-
ning, say fifteen billion years ago, then there cannot be any cause to this
event because there is no temporal before in which the cause could have
existed.
Thus, says Hawking, we simply have to accept the fact that the big
bang (and/or the big bang singularity) existed without a cause. In com-
ing to this conclusion, Hawking does not explicitly discuss the possibility
of self-causality in relationship to the big bang. However, the composite
and evolutionary character of the universe (in particular the law of en-
tropy) exclude self-causation, as we have already seen in our previous
discussion.
The weakness of Hawking’s argument, as he himself acknowledges
explicitly, is that the very laws of physics (the causality relationships)
which predict the big bang singularity cease to hold at any singularity.
But the reasoning of two paragraphs above is based on these laws. There
is thus a gap or hiatus in this reasoning, and so the conception of a
(logical) cause for the big bang is wholly compatible with all of the
current laws of physics. Moreover, Hawking’s assumptions that all real-
ity is space-time and all causality temporal is question begging of the
worst sort. It excludes a priori the possibility of a non-physical dimen-
sion to reality and (à la Leibniz) of logical causality relations between
unobservable and observable reality.
Hawking’s argument for the rejection of the principle of sufficient
reason is thus not compelled by logic, but represents rather his personal
preference in believing that the same physical laws must somehow still
hold even at singular points. In his discussion, Hawking even acknowl-
edges that the God hypothesis may in fact be more reasonable than his
preferred materialistic alternative (which negates the principle of suffi-
cient reason).
Hawking’s position is actually quite similar to the one taken about
two-hundred years earlier by the skeptical philosopher David Hume,
who also assumed that the universe just sprang into existence without
any cause. Hume also made the reductionistic (and question-begging)
assumption that logical causality does not exist and that what we call
causality is just unwarranted extrapolation from temporal succession.
Of course Hawking’s arguments are more scientifically sophisticated
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
than Hume’s, given the intervening progress of physics. But philosophi-
cally and logically they are quite close.
Finally, let us mention, without going into detail, that all of Kant’s
so-called antinomies of reason involve reductionistic and/or question-
begging assumptions which are totally inapplicable to the minimalistic
approach of our theorem. In other words, the antinomial character of
Kant’s arguments are built into the very way they are constructed in the
first place.
8. THE VALUE RELATION
We now consider a third binary relationship, the value relation, which
only holds between (i.e., is meaningful for) entities. Where A and B are
two entities, we write A$B to mean that A is as valuable as B (i.e., the
intrinsic value of A is greater than or equal to the intrinsic value of B).
We write A>B to assert that the value of A is strictly greater than that of
B (we say in this case the A is higher than B). We assume that the intrin-
sic value of an entity is inherent in the very nature and structure of the
entity.
The defining characteristics of the value relation between two enti-
ties depends significantly on the ontological categories to which the
entities belong. For example, for concrete composite (physical) entities,
value is largely a function of complexity of structure, the higher value
accruing to the more complex. Thus, plants are more complex and thus
higher than minerals, animals more complex than plants, and (physi-
cally speaking) humans the most complex of all. Thus, viewed as a
hierarchy of systems, the value of composite physical entities is more or
less directly proportional to their degree of order or fineness of struc-
ture. In thermodynamic terms, the greater the distance from
themodynamic equilibrium, the higher the value.
The value hierarchy of physical entities can also be characterized by
the number and kinds of energy transformations of which they are ca-
pable. For example, a mineral such as a rock is essentially limited to
absorbing and radiating energy. But a plant can also use energy to
complexify its structure (i.e., to grow), and the higher animals are capa-
ble, further, of using energy for locomotion and for physical sensibilities
such as sight and smell. Finally, humans can also process energy in the
form of pure information, decoding and encoding abstract symbols and

sounds (speech). This is clearly a cumulative hierarchy in which each
higher entity can accomplish all the energy transformations of any lower
entity, but not conversely.
Notice that the hierarchy of mineral, vegetable, animal, and hu-
man is precisely Aristotle’s “chain of being.” The difference, however, is
that Aristotle was obliged to appeal to metaphysical (transempirical)
notions to define his chain. Our objective and empirical definitions of
the hierarchy of being are possible because of the vast increase in the
sophistication of scientific knowledge since the time of Aristotle. Thus,
once again, science gives us an empirical ground to a metaphysical no-
tion—the notion of qualitative (value) differences between entities.
Between abstract entities, the value relation of greater to lesser is
essentially the relationship between universal and particular. A univer-
sal will have every positive quality of a particular to the same or higher
degree as the particular. Again, this is empirically grounded by the cor-
responding notion that higher physical entities can accomplish the types
of energy transformations of lower ones, but not conversely.
Notice that we do not presume here (or elsewhere) that two given
entities are necessarily comparable with respect to value. That is, it is
quite conceivable, for entities A and B, that neither A$B nor B$A holds.
We also allow for the possibility that two different entities can have the
same value (i.e., A$B, B$A, and A…B). (Thus, two different dogs or two
different human beings could be of equal value).
The branch of philosophy called ethics is the study of the properties
of the value relationship. In a recent work, Love, Power, and Justice, we
have presented our own analysis of the value relationship.67 In the present
text, we are mainly concerned about the logical connections between
the three relations of value, causality, and componenthood. In fact, we
will explicitly assume only one further principle, the refinement princi-
ple, which links causality with value:
P.4. Where A and B are entities, if A6B, then A$B.
Principle P.4 says that, where entities are concerned, a lower thing
cannot be the cause of a higher thing: only something of equal or higher
value can be the cause of a given entity.
This last principle is also empirically grounded. Indeed, if A and B
are composite physical entities, then P.4 is precisely the second law of
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
thermodynamics. For physical entities, the causality of B by A implies
a transfer or flow of energy from A to B. In such a case there can be
dissipation of energy and loss of order, but (by the law of entropy)
never increase in energy or complexification of structure. Thus, if B is
an effect of the cause A, then A must have equal or greater complexity
than B, which is precisely what A$B means for physical composite
entities.
The principle of refinement P.4 is thus the generalization to all en-
tities (including abstract entities) of an established scientific principle
that holds for concrete composite entities. It gives precise expression to
the traditional philosophical notion that the cause is greater than its ef-
fect. We can now draw corollaries to our theorem.
Corollary 1. God is the supreme good, the most valuable entity in
existence.
Proof. By our theorem, God is the universal cause. Thus, for every
phenomenon A, G6A. But an entity is a phenomenon. Thus, G6A
holds for every entity A. Hence, by P.4, G$A for every entity A (i.e.,
God is the most valuable entity in existence).
In particular, God is more valuable than every human being H,
since G6H and thus G$H. This means that God has every positive (ab-
stract) quality of any given human being. Each individual human has
such positive qualities as consciousness, intelligence, compassion or will
to a specific, finite, and limited degree. However, there is no limit to the
degree that these qualities can exist generally in human beings. But
God is the single creator not just of each human being but of all hu-
manity. Thus, God must have these qualities to a degree that is beyond
every finite or limited degree, thus to an infinite, unlimited degree. God
is thus infinitely intelligent, loving, powerful, etc. In fact, since God is
the only entity whose existence is absolute (uncaused), then it is reason-
able to suppose that God has these qualities to an absolute degree. Thus,
the logical answer to the question “what is God’s nature?” is to say that
“God is like us except for possessing none of our limitations and all of
our positive abstract qualities to an infinite degree.” Of course, we can-
not really imagine what it means to possess such qualities as consciousness
or will to an infinite degree, but the refinement principle does neverthe-
less give us at least a minimal, purely logical, notion of God’s nature.

It is important to realize that this way of reasoning about God’s
nature is not anthropomorphism (i.e., creating God in our image).
Anthroporphism results when we project all of our qualities onto God—
both our limitations and our strengths. We then see God as having such
negative qualities as jealousy, petulance, vengefulness, etc.
For further development of the minimalist method applied to eth-
ics and the value relation, the interested reader can consult the author’s
Love, Power, and Justice cited above.
M I N I M A L I S T I C    M E T A P H Y S I C S

M I N I M A L I S M
VI. CONCLUSION AND SUMMARY
In the course of this monograph, we have threaded our way through a
series of bifurcations, starting with the most basic of all questions, the
question of the existence of an objective, mind-independent reality, and
ending up with the existence and nature of God. At each stage of this
process, we have carefully considered the basic alternatives, and in each
case we have determined that one of them was clearly and significantly
more plausible than the others. The philosophy that results from con-
sistently making the most plausible and rational choice in the light of
our current knowledge, is what we have called minimalism.
The minimalistic method avoids reductionism in several respects.
In the first place, it is empirically based, and so does not presume that
what is the most rational choice in the light of currently known evi-
dence will always be the most rational choice. It is therefore an open
philosophy, not a dogmatic one. In the second place, minimalism does
not suppose that all humanly knowable truth can be obtained by this
method. For example, the philosophy of minimalism is open to the
possibility of such phenomena as divine revelation, in which man may
be given knowledge that transcends any possible rational basis that is
currently known. Minimalism likewise acknowledges that intuition and
mysticism may give rise to transrational modes of knowing reality. But
minimalism does not accept that either divine revelation or mysticism
can contradict the conclusions of reason in the face of the same informa-
tion base. For minimalism, there is a fundamental and important
difference between that which transcends reason and that which contra-
dicts reason—between the transrational and the irrational. Thirdly,
minimalism makes no gratuitous or a priori assumptions, such as the
assumption that all of reality is contained within space-time or that
there are no causality relations between nonphysical and physical phe-
nomena.
In undertaking this exposition, we have sought to show both by
positive example and by critical analysis of classical and modern phi-
losophy, that a truly non-reductionistic rationalism is possible and
productive. We have seen that such an approach can go well beyond the
gratuitous restrictions of materialism and logical positivism without fall-
ing into the excesses of subjectivism and postmodernism. We have also
seen that, contrary to the presumption of many, a non-dogmatic ration-

alism does not favor skepticsm, cynicism, atheism, or even agnosticism
with regards to such fundamental life questions as the existence and
nature of God.
Minimalism is thus a middle way between the gratuitous restric-
tions of logical positivism, which have been uncritically accepted by
many as essential to rational philosophy, and the gratuitous subjectiv-
ism of postmodernism, which willfully abandons the discipline of reason
and logic. Postmodernism has presented itself as freedom from what it
calls “the tyranny of reason.” What we have shown is that this is the
freedom of anarchy and stagnation, whereas the discipline of reason
gives us the freedom of intellectual autonomy and the benefit of observ-
able individual and social progress.
C O N C L U S I O N   A N D   S U M M A R Y

M I N I M A L I S M
NOTES AND REFERENCES
1.
See K. Gödel, Collected Works, Vol. 1, Oxford University Press, New York, 1986, pp.
144-195.
2.
R. Penrose, Shadows of the Mind, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1994.
3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Willmette, 1984,
p. 221. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1844-1921) is the eldest son of Bahá’u’lláh (1817-1892),
founder of the Bahá’í Faith. In his Will and Testament, Bahá’u’lláh designated ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá as his successor and authorized interpreter of his writings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote
a number of philosophical treatises and commentaries, and we will have occasion to
quote from several of them in the course of this monograph.
4.
In Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, Robert Pirsig recounts his tortuous
philosophical journey, which took him to India for ten years where he studied Ori-
ental Philosophy at Benares Hindu University. Pirsig describes his ultimate break
with this philosophy in the following manner, referring to himself in the third per-
son as Phaedrus:
“But one day in the classroom the professor of philosophy was blithely expounding
on the illusory nature of the world for what seemed the fiftieth time and Phaedrus
raised his hand and asked coldly if it was believed that the atomic bombs that had
dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were illusory. The professor smiled and said
yes. That was the end of the exchange.”
“Within the traditions of Indian philosophy that answer may have been correct, but
to Phaedrus and anyone else who reads newspapers regularly and is concerned with
such things as mass destruction of human beings that answer was hopelessly inad-
equate. He left the classroom, left India and gave up.” (p. 144.)
5.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 251.
6.
As good a philosopher as John Locke succumbed to this confusion, holding that our
own ideas and feelings are the only thing we really know, because our immediate
experience is only of our own ideas and feelings. He fell into this view because he
was a radical empiricist who believed that experience and knowledge are identical.
Since our immediate experience is always of our own thoughts and feelings, Locke
concluded (falsely) that our knowledge is only of our own thoughts and feelings. For
Locke, the mind is only a blank slate on which experience writes—a passive recipi-
ent of experience rather than an active processor of experience.
7.
A fairly comprehensive treatment of epistemology can be found in the author’s pre-
vious works: The Science of Religion, Association for Bahá’í Studies, Ottawa, 2nd
edition, 1980; Logic and Logos, George Ronald, Oxford, 1990; The Law of Love
Enshrined, George Ronald, Oxford, 1996.
8.
To say otherwise would be to affirm the obvious absurdity that you are infallible,
that all your ideas and conceptions—from your most casual assumptions about who

is faithful in love to your most speculative beliefs about the cosmos—are totally free
from error.
9.
The positivist viewpoint is sometimes incorrectly formulated by the slogan that
“reality is not observer-independent.” Of course, those realities related to our ac-
tions do depend on us, but in general it is not reality but verification that is partially
dependent on the observer.
10. The positivist-deconstructionist approach in physics is illustrated by Niels Bohr’s
operationalist interpretation of quantum mechanics. Bohr apparently held that quan-
tum events existed only when they were measured—that the quantum measures
(verifications) were the only quantum reality.
11. Notice that the entity that is posited as an end (or solution) to the infinite regress of
causes is a first (uncaused) cause. Uncausedness is one of the attributes that classical
theology attributes to God. Hence, in dealing with the question of an infinite re-
gress of causes, we do have to make a logical choice between accepting that such an
infinite regress can indeed exist, or else accepting the existence of a nonobservable
entity which has one of the major attributes of God as conceived by classical theol-
ogy.
12. Notice that the end (solution) to the infinite regress of verifications is a mind capa-
ble of absolute certainty, again a classical attribute of God.
13. Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, University of Chicago Press, Chicago,
1962.
14. This was demonstrated by the mathematician Alan Sokal, who successfully pub-
lished as a serious article in the journal Social Text a completely phony piece in
which he made various absurd claims, for example that physical reality is nothing
but a social construct. After exposing the hoax, he commented on the state of affairs
which allowed supposedly serious scholars to accept such absurdities as statements
of fact. See Sokal, Transgressing the boundaries: Toward a transformative
hermeneutics of quantum gravity, Social Text, Vol. 46/47, 1996, pp. 217-252; Sokal
and Bricmont, Impostures intellectuelles, Odile Jacob, 2nd edition, Paris, 1999.
15. According to our definition, text (discourse) can be either written or verbal. In the
beginning period of modern linguistics, verbal discourse was considered the pri-
mary or authentic form of linguistic expression, and written text was considered to
be only a secondary transcription of speech. However, once it was realized that spo-
ken language has a syntactic structure essentially identical to written language (e.g.,
where phonemes play the role of alphabetic letters), this difference began to lose its
importance. The successful invention and proliferation of formal and artificial lan-
guages made it clear that nothing was lost by considering all forms of discourse/text
as equally authentic.
16. The mathematical theory of information gives a precise form to this truth via the
following theorem: there can be no transfer of information without the generation
of noise. Of course, we can reduce the ratio of noise to information, but never
N O T E S   A N D   R E F E R E N C E S

M I N I M A L I S M
eliminate noise entirely. Notice also that the end (solution) to the infinite regress of
language, meta-languages, meta-meta-languages, etc., would be an entity capable of
perfect or absolute communication. Such an entity would in fact be the very incar-
nation of the word or logos, yet another divine attribute.
17. As our discourse progresses, the characteristic pattern of the minimalist approach to
philosophy begins to emerge: relative truth does not mean no truth; relative verifi-
cation does not mean total uncertainty; relative objectivity does not mean total
subjectivity. Indeed, many classical and contemporary problems in philosophy have
been generated by a tendency to all-or-nothing on both sides of the debate. In each
case, either extreme position has weak points which proponents of the opposite
extreme can exploit to advance their claims, and either extreme has some truth
which attracts a certain contingent of serious-minded people to that position. As
long as each side talks past the other by focusing only on the other’s weakest points,
each side can remain secure in the sense that what it says is clearly true. Those who,
like myself, attempt to find a more satisfactory position that avoids either extreme
are usually perceived by both sides as traitors to the truth (and indeed such reason-
able positions do undermine the (absolute) truth as perceived by each extreme
position).
In the minimalist perspective, such reasonable positions are not intermediates or
compromises between two extremes. More precisely, minimalism considers phi-
losophy not as a dialogue of persuasion between different opinions but rather as a
dialogue between ourselves (individually and collectively) and reality, a dialogue
whose goal is to find the truth (i.e., to construct the most accurate model possible).
Whether or not others are persuaded by minimalist arguments is strictly a second-
ary consideration. Minimalism focuses on the intrinsic integrity of the philosophic
enterprise, not its acceptability in the eyes of one or another dogmatic position.
18. Notice that we have yet another classical attribute of God: total awareness, a form of
omniscience.
19. The notion of completeness involved here can be made quite precise. The funda-
mental point is that new connectors can be constructed by appropriate combinations
of the basic ones. Moreover, even our basic set is not minimal in this regard: some of
them can be defined by appropriate combinations of the others.
20. The use of the terms grammar and grammatical form in this section might appear
somewhat nonstandard to linguists. Our usage here conforms to that of other logi-
cians such as Quine (see, Quine, Philosophy of Logic, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
1970). Since we make our definition totally explicit, there should be no cause for
confusion with other connotations of these terms.
Logical truth is sometimes informally characterized as truth in all possible worlds. As
it stands, such a characterization is incorrect, because it is quite possible to have a
world in which there is no language as we know it, and thus no grammatical form,
and thus no logical truth. However, given a language L in the world that we do in
fact, have, then a logical truth is indeed invariant under all possible reinterpretations

of its lexicon. It should be clear that reinterpretations of lexicon can only take place
within a given lexical category, never from one category to another.
21. Because logical truth is preserved under similarity of grammatical form, some have
drawn the conclusion that a logical truth is true by virtue of its grammatical form
alone, but this is a serious mistake. A proposition is true because what it affirms
about reality is in fact the case, and a logical truth is first of all a truth. “John is John”
is true because in fact any human being, John in particular, is the same as him(her-
)self. The universality of self-identity is a fact, and this fact allows us to recognize
that any English statement of the form “A is A”, where A is a substantive, is true. In
other words, the fact that we may be able to recognize a logical truth by its form
doesn’t mean that it is true because of its form.
Or put it another way: truth is a semantic notion and so logical truth is a semantic
notion. Once we have defined logical truth (true and truth-invariant under lexical
reinterpretation), we then observe that, in fact, logical truth is preserved under simi-
larity of grammatical form. This latter is thus a property of logical truth, not a
definition of logical truth. Logical truth, like all truth, is thus grounded in empirical
reality. This point will become extremely important in our subsequent develop-
ment, and failure to understand it has been the cause of considerable philosophical
misery for many people.
22. Again we can generalize as in the above and say that, where P is any proposition, the
complex proposition having the form “If P then P” will be true regardless of the
truth value (truth or falsity) of P. In other words, “If P then P” is a logical truth, for
any proposition P.
23. Formalization is the process of presenting the grammar of a language in totally ex-
plicit form. The language L thus presented is said to be formalized. Formalization
should not be confused with the reductionist philosophy called formalism, which
holds that any semantic or linguistic notion is incoherent unless it can be formal-
ized. In other words, formalism attempts to reduce the whole of language to that
part which can be made totally explicit. Minimalism embraces the usefulness of
formal methods, but recognizes that the totality of linguistic reality cannot be for-
malized.
Some philosophers like to dismiss the merely formal as the product of soulless, poeti-
cally insensitive human machines. However, formalization has very great practical
applications with an immense potential for alleviating much human misery. In-
deed, the fact that grammatical form can be made totally explicit is the only thing
that allows us to build and use electronic computing devices. Since a computer is
utterly devoid of consciousness and thus of subjectivity, it cannot read lexical mean-
ing. It can, however, read formal meaning (i.e., that part of the meaning which can
be completely formalized—that is, the part of meaning which can be made explicit
in grammatical form alone).
Although computers have clear limitations, both practical and theoretical (see note
24), we have all been surprised by the extent to which meaning can be formalized.
N O T E S   A N D   R E F E R E N C E S

M I N I M A L I S M
The success of formalization, and of electronic computers in particular, constitutes
irrefutable evidence that grammatical form can indeed be made totally explicit. In
the same way that the Newton-Einstein theory of gravity is concrete evidence that
convergence can and does occur in the pursuit of knowledge, so the successful con-
struction and implementation of electronic digital computing devices is concrete
evidence that a significant proportion of linguistic meaning can be made totally
explicit and objective. Those who feel threatened by this fact are probably reacting
to the formalistic philosophy of many computer scientists, who personally believe
in the reductionistic proposition that there is nothing to language beyond what can
be formalized. Minimalism embraces the reality of formalization but rejects the
gratuitous reductionistic philosophy of formalism.
24. Since grammar can be made totally explicit, there exist computational algorithms
that can recognize mechanically whether or not a given expression is meaningful
(grammatically well-formed). However, since 1936 it has been known and proved
(by A. Church) that there cannot exist, even in principle, an algorithm that will
recognize computationally whether or not a given proposition is a logical truth. We
say that the class of logical truths is (computationally) undecidable. The class of logi-
cal truths is nevertheless semidecidable in that there do exist algorithms with the
following property: if we apply the algorithm to a proposition, and the algorithm
terminates, then we know certainly that the proposition is a logical truth. If, how-
ever, the algorithm does not terminate, then we cannot conclude one way or the
other.
The possibility of the non-termination of algorithms for the class of logical truths
comes from the requirement that logical truths be invariant under all possible lexi-
cal reinterpretations. In some cases, the possible reinterpretations are infinite in
such a way that the computer (whether human or machine) will simply continue
forever. Logical truth thus provides an example of a notion which is absolutely de-
termined without being totally explicit (computable). However, there does exist a
totally explicit set of rules and axioms for generating the set of logical truths.
25. If an L-proposition P is not logically false, then it must be true for at least one lexical
interpretation. In this case, we say that P is satisfiable. If P is not logically true, then
it must be false for at least one lexical interpretation. In this case, we say P is falsifiable.
Thus, any proposition is either satisfiable but not falsifiable (logically true), falsifiable
but not satisfiable (logically false), or both satisfiable and falsifiable (neither logi-
cally true nor logically false). Since by definition a proposition makes an affirmation
about reality, any proposition must have a truth value (i.e., be either false or true)
and thus be either satisfiable or falsifiable.
26. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Tablet of the Universe, unpublished English translation, Haifa,
1995, p. 4.
27. We use the ampersand, &, to symbolize the logical connector of conjunction, and.
We also extend the turnstile symbol | to apply to deductions from finite sets of
propositions. Thus, {P1, …, Pn}|Q means the same thing as (P1 & P2 & … & Pn)|Q (equiva-
lently, (P1 & P2 & … &Pn)YQ ).

28. We symbolize the logical connector not by 5.
29. Indeed, if the Pi are inconsistent, then (P1 & P2 & … & Pn) is logically false, making the
proposition ((P1 & P2 & … & Pn)e(P&(5P))) logically true (remember, a logical falsity
implies anything). Hence, (P1 & P2 & … & Pn)Y(P&(5P)) which, by the completeness of
our rules, yields (P1 & P2 & … & Pn)|(P&(5P)).
30. We can even extend the notions of logical consistency and inconsistency to infinite
sets of propositions: a set X of propositions is consistent if and only if every finite
subset of X is consistent. Or, equivalently, X is inconsistent if and only if some finite
subset of X is inconsistent.
31. Notice an important logical point here. No amount of defects in your system will
remove any defects that really exist in my system. Thus, the fact that I may refute
your system and thereby win the argument of persuasion does not in itself bring me
any closer to the truth of the matter. This simple point illustrates the uselessness of
disputatious dialogue as a method of finding truth or communicating objectively.
32. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Tablet of the Universe, unpublished English translation, Haifa,
1995, p. 7.
33. Our analysis of logical truth draws heavily on the work of the leading American
philosopher W. V. Quine. It is his persistent, meticulous, and careful analysis of
these issues that has shown the way to all of us.
34. In particular, our analysis shows irrefutably that the importance of logic in the epis-
temological enterprise does not depend upon any notion of logical apriorism. This
is important in the present philosophical climate, because many postmodernists
have dismissed logic by claiming (falsely and without justification) that some doc-
trine of apriorism is a necessary adjunct to the application of logic to empirical
reality.
Notice that a logical implication PYQ also establishes an empirical truth: that when-
ever the empirical conditions described by P occur, then the configuration described
by Q must also occur. In other words, implication is the counterpart, in our inner
model, of the objective relationship of cause-and-effect in empirical reality. So we
may gain knowledge of a causal relation in reality by pure logic and not just by
empirical observation of concomitant variations between two phenomena. This point
will be amplified in a later discussion.
35. Moreover, there are rational criteria for deciding which propositions should be
dropped from an inconsistent theory. See W. S. Hatcher, A certain measure of im-
portance, Pensée naturelle, logique et langage, Droz, Geneva, 1987, pp. 61-73.
36. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 208-209.
37. See Jacques Bouveresse, Prodiges et vertiges de l’analogie, Éditions raisons d’agir, Paris,
1999, for a competent discussion of various postmodernist misuses of Gödel’s theo-
rem, with references to works of postmodernist authors.
N O T E S   A N D   R E F E R E N C E S

M I N I M A L I S M
38. Computerization is the ultimate test of objectification, because we know the com-
puter lacks consciousness and is therefore devoid of subjectivity. For example,
algorithmic (mechanical) procedures for calculation have been known since ancient
times. But as long as their use was ultimately in the hands of humans, it was difficult
to be certain that some degree of self-awareness was not necessary to their successful
deployment. Of course, even with computers we must not forget that it is the hu-
man mind that builds them, repairs them, programs them, and interprets the results
of their actions.
39. See Richard Dedekind, Was Sind und Was Sollen die Zahlen?, Braunschweig (6th ed.
1930), English translation in Essays on the Theory of Numbers, Open Court, Chi-
cago, 1901 (reprinted, 1963).
40. Whereas observation statements will usually involve only concrete terms (i.e., those
which refer to observable entities and configurations), the general propositions will
often contain abstract terms (i.e., terms referring to nonobservable entities or forces).
41. Notice that there may not be any deductive links whatever between the facts them-
selves. In particular, this will be the case whenever our observations are all independent
of each other.
42. We sketch the proof. First, we appeal to a well-known Lemma of predicate logic
which affirms that if a proposition P is deductively undecided by a theory T (neither
P nor 5P are theorems of T), then we can consistently extend T by adding either P or
5P as a new axiom. Let us call these extensions T1 and T2 respectively. Clearly T1 and
T2 are logically incompatible, because T1 affirms P whereas T2 affirms its negation 5P.
Yet, both are consistent (non-contradictory and thus true under some appropriate
lexical interpretation).
Now, given the body of facts (accumulated observation statements), let us consider
the theory T generated by taking these facts as axioms. Since we are constructing a
scientific theory, we can assume that T is sufficiently rich. Moreover, T is consistent
unless some of the observation statements logically contradict each other. But this
could happen only if objective reality actually contradicts itself, or else if some of
our observation statements are inaccurate. This first case we reject as highly unrea-
sonable. The second case is always a possibility, but let us assume that our observations
are, in the given instance, reasonably accurate. Thus, T is a consistent, sufficiently
rich, finitely-axiomatized (and thus objectively specifiable) system. Hence, by Gödel’s
incompleteness theorem, there is at least one proposition P in the language L that is
deductively undecided by the theory T. But, by our Lemma, we can consistently
extend T by adding either P or 5P as a new axiom, obtaining the incompatible theo-
ries T1 and T2 both of which are consistent extensions of T and thus, by definition,
possible explanations for the original body of facts that constitutes the axioms of T.
But, each of T1 and T2 contains a finite number of axioms, namely the original axi-
oms plus the one new axiom P (respectively, 5P). Thus, each of T1 and T2 will satisfy
the hypotheses of Gödel’s theorem, and likewise generate deductively undecidable
propositions Q1 and Q2 respectively.

This process can be repeated indefinitely, and each time we will have, for each branch
of the process, a binary choice of consistent extensions. No two of these branches
can yield compatible theories, since each branch will contain at least one proposi-
tion which is the negation of some proposition on any other branch. There is thus
an infinity of pairwise incompatible (and thus essentially different) logically possi-
ble explanations for the original body of facts. Thus, there cannot exist any rule of
inductive logic that will lead us from the given finite body of facts to a unique
generalization of these facts.
Could there be some natural way of eliminating all but a few of these possible
explanations? Could it perhaps be that there is some one universal principle P from
which the facts can be deduced and which is maximally general so as to be uniquely
determined by the facts? The answer is no, because the addition of this universal
principle would still constitute a finitely-axiomatized extension of the original fact-
theory, and thus be logically independent of some deductively undecidable
proposition Q. Each of the propositions P&Q or P&(5Q) would then constitute a
consistent, single principle, more general that P itself, from which the original fact-
theory could be deduced. But these two propositions are logically incompatible,
and so cannot both be legitimately regarded as inductive consequences of the same
fact-theory. Yet, each of these propositions is logically compatible with the original
fact-theory, and each equally satisfies all of the criteria for a putative inductive con-
sequence of the fact-theory.
43. See W. V. Quine, Word and Object, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass., 1980, p. 78.
44. Indeed, Einstein explains that he arrived at his general theory of relativity precisely
by seeking to conserve as much as possible of the Newtonian approach (see his
“Notes on the origin of the general theory of relativity” in Essays in Science, Wisdom
Library, New York, 1934). In particular, by maintaining the Newtonian principle of
the equality of inertial mass and gravitational mass, while accommodating invari-
ance under uniformly accelerated relative motion, Einstein was led directly to the
curvature of the geodesics in Riemannian space-time, with its non-Euclidean met-
ric. Thus, however complex the theory of general relativity may be (and it is very
complex), it was nonetheless discovered by pursuing a principle of simplicity (i.e.,
the conservation of as much of background Newtonian theory as possible).
45. Science is constantly walking a tightrope between the reductionist fallacy on one
hand and the simplicity principle on the other. Suppose I come up with a beauti-
fully simple generalized theory that explains not quite all of the fact-theory. There
will be a very strong temptation to try to reduce the unexplained facts to others that
are explained by the generalized theory. This temptation will be especially strong if
the only generalized theories known to be adequate for the whole of the fact-theory
are considerably more complicated than my beautifully simple but not quite ad-
equate theory.
46. A typical example is afforded by much of the current debate on evolutionary theory.
We now have overwhelming evidence that we cannot explain the origin and pro-
gression of life forms by chance alone. The only plausible conclusion is that there is
N O T E S   A N D   R E F E R E N C E S

M I N I M A L I S M
some force that has caused this progression (i.e., this persistent movement towards
increased complexity and order), but many philosophical materialists still take the
position that, even if chance (randomness) is the least probable explanation, it is
still logically possible, and therefore a legitimate explanation for evolution.
The logic of plausibility is the essence of rationality. Deliberately to choose a less
probable explanation over a more probable one is a serious derogation of scientific
method and indeed of rationality itself. If the scientific community permitted such
derogations freely, the scientific enterprise would soon be transformed into rampant
mythmaking. Everyone would put forth his favorite theories on the basis of his
emotional proclivities rather than on the basis of their plausibility. See my essay
“Myths, models, and mysticism” in Logic and Logos, op. cit., for a more detailed
discussion of this point.
The theory of plausible reasoning I have elaborated in this section has echoes in the
work of contemporary philosophers of science (see, e.g., Newton-Smith, The Ra-
tionality of Science, Routledge, London, 1999; Christopher Norris, Against Relativism,
Blackwell, Oxford, 1997; Alexander Bird, Philosophy of Science, McGill-Queen’s
University Press, Montreal & Kingston, 2000.) My account here is perhaps more
precise but also somewhat more technical than these other authors.
47. The basic problem of metaphysics is determining the relationship between being
and becoming, between existence and transformation of existents, between stasis
and change. There are fundamentally two possible approaches. The first, and most
frequent, is to take being as basic and to see process as a succession of states, a state
being defined as a (time-bound) existent at a given instant of time. The second is to
take process itself as basic, and then to see being as an underlying aspect of process.
In the modern period, the second approach is most closely associated with the work
of Alfred North Whitehead. Our minimalism is clearly within the first tradition.
Indeed, if we are certain of anything, it is that existence itself is not an illusion. But
our perceptions of reality, including our perception of change, could well be illu-
sory. Thus, from a minimalist perspective, the fact of existence (being) is more
fundamental than is change (becoming). Hence, the notion of being is a more ra-
tional and minimalist basis for metaphysics than is the notion of becoming.
48. Indeed, one of the basic open questions of metaphysics is whether global connec-
tions exist (i.e., whether every aspect of existence is connected in some way with
every other aspect of existence). Most philosophers find a positive answer to this
question more attractive, but it is a priori logically possible that connections be-
tween existents are only local and limited and that reality is composed of a number
of worlds that exist in parallel to each other. Our definitions and assumptions are
agnostic on this issue.
49. I am convinced that many of the seemingly intractable problems of classical meta-
physics result from various derogations of this principle. Some authors would consider
what we have called concrete reality to be co-extensive with material or physical
reality. But then, one has the problem of how to deal with objective nonobservables

such as the force of gravity. Are such forces nonmaterial? Others would go the other
way, and declare everything objective to be material, whether observable or not.
This takes care of gravity, but what about the force of love or the human soul. Are
they material? Some would say yes but then they face the problem of trying to ex-
plain these things in material terms. Finally, if one takes the position that all of
concrete reality is material but that nonobservable reality is partly spiritual and partly
physical, then one has the problem of defining the difference between the
nonobservable and physical (e.g., gravity) and the nonobervable and spiritual (e.g.,
love).
All of these positions involve strong metaphysical assumptions that are either mate-
rialistic, idealistic, or Platonistic. We avoid the whole thing simply by not attempting
to make any logical distinction between material and spiritual at all. We retain only
the distinction between observable and nonobservable, which is clearly empirically
grounded if anything is. (The very hardest of modern physics makes a distinction
between observables and nonobservables.)
However, in our informal discussions of reality, we will appeal to various examples
drawn from modern physical theory. In these cases, we will freely use the terms
material and physical in the sense that they are currently used and meant in the
science of physics. This is not part of our metaphysics proper, but only constitutes
examples and analogies to better understand the empirical ground of certain meta-
physical concepts.
50. Note that BdB holds by definition for any composite B, since, trivially, every compo-
nent of B is a component of B. Also, by definition (cf. p. 85), B0B never holds. This,
then, is another logical difference between componenthood and containment: con-
tainment is reflexive but componenthood is not. If AdB and A…B, we say that A is a
proper subsystem of B. Components are automatically proper since A0B only when
A…B. By a proper part of B we mean a phenomenon A which is either a component or
a proper subsystem of B.
51. A biological system is a collection of organs which function together to accomplish
a specific vital function of an organism of which they are a part. Examples are the
digestive system, the nervous system, or the circulatory system. An arbitrary collec-
tion of organs, say the brain and the large right toe, would consitute a portion of the
body as an organism, but would not constitute a component. The human body is an
archetypical example of a modular system, where larger components (systems and
organs) are built from smaller components (organs and tissues, respectively), start-
ing with the ultimate organic components (in this case, differentiated cells).
52. A leaved tree also has a modular structure, beginning with differentiated cells. Since
each leaf functions independently of other leaves, the collection of leaves forms a
subsystem of the tree, but does not constitute a component of the tree.
53. Another aspect of the debate about causality derives from the presumption by many
philosophers (and in particular Hume and Kant) that causality between objective
phenomena necessarily involves temporal succession. When combined with the as-
N O T E S   A N D   R E F E R E N C E S

M I N I M A L I S M
sumption (tentative in Descartes but explicit in his successor Leibniz) that there can
be no non-material causes for material events, we obtain the view that the cause for
any material event can only be another material event which preceeds it in time. (By
an event we mean a time-parametered phenomenon—a phenomenon that is wholly
within time). Further, for a materialist who believes that all of reality is contained
within space-time, the causality relationship itself can only occur within space-time
(i.e., between temporally successive material events).
Our approach, and our assumptions, are completely agnostic on these points. We
do not presume, explicitly or implicitly, that there is in fact a non-material dimen-
sion to reality, and we do not exclude this possibility either. However, all our
definitions and assumptions take into account the possibility that a substantial por-
tion of reality may well be non-material. Hence, we adopt neither the Leibnizian
assumption that material events must have material causes, nor the Humean as-
sumption that the notion of causality necessarily presupposes temporal succession,
nor the materialist assumption that all of reality is contained within space-time.
Thus, in our view, causality is first and foremost a logical relationship (B exists by
virtue of A). Such a relationship may well imply temporal succession if A and B are
material events, but we do not assume such succession to be a necessary (logical)
aspect of causality. In the light of our approach, many of the classical problems of
causality (e.g., those advanced by Kant in his discussion of the so-called antinomies
of reason) can be seen to derive from the question-begging assumptions that reduce
causality to a temporally successive relationship between material events.
54. This is yet another example of the difference between reductionism and minimalism.
We have established a positive proof that our G satisfies certain attributes of God.
But our G is not limited or restricted (reduced) to these properties alone. The no-
tion of God represented by our G is thus compatible with the attribution of other,
more personal qualities to God. Our proof, as it currently stands, is simply agnostic
about these other attributes; it does not exclude them.
55. The Holy Bible, Genesis 1.1 and 1.21.
56. This illustrates the difference between a logical definition, which determines an en-
tity uniquely, and a comprehensive definition, which defines an entity by giving all of
its attributes. Thus, God is logically definable as the unique uncaused entity or the
unique universal cause, but neither of these definitions allows us to deduce all of the
other attributes of God. Traditional philosophy and metaphysics have often attempted
to give comprehensive definitions. Our technique of beginning with a purely logi-
cal definition and then using further arguments to determine other attributes is an
essential part of the method of minimalism.
57. See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Ill., 1997, no. 30.1.
58. Such a dynamic (non-static) stability can be approximated even in complex physi-
cal systems through the phenomenon of convergence towards a fixed point. For

example, under ideal conditions of health, the proportions of certain constituent
elements of the human body may remain fixed even though the actual quantity of
each individual substance is continually changing as a result of ongoing chemical
reactions. This equilibrium is maintained by means of compensating reactions. Sup-
pose, for example that (A+B)+C yields (D+E)+C, while (D+C)+E, yields (A+B)+C. (We
are thus supposing, as a contrived example, that C catalyses the forward reaction
while E catalyses the reverse reaction.) Then, both the forward and the reverse reac-
tions will be ongoing. If the rates of these reactions satisfy certain properties, and
the initial quantities are within certain bounds, the proportions of some of these
substances may remain constant throughout the process. Perhaps, for example, as
soon as certain quantities of A and B combine in the presence of C to produce D and
E, equivalent amounts of A and B are synthesized by the reverse reaction of D and C in
the presence of E. Such reactions have been observed and studied by scientists (e.g.,
Prigogine), and also give rise to phenomenona known as chemical clocks, in which
the concentrations of the substances vary in a regular manner within fixed limits
(periodically).
Of course, for physical systems, such regularity of behavior can only be maintained
approximately and temporarily, by furnishing immense amounts of new energy to
the system, for sooner or later the law of entropy will overtake the system and de-
stroy its dynamic equilibrium. A self-caused entity such as G will of course not be
subject to entropy and thus cannot degenerate.
59. See for example William S. Hatcher, The Logical Foundations of Mathematics,
Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1982.
60. Of course, in contrast to the boundary between categories one and two, the bound-
ary between categories two and three is not objectively specifiable. Thus, we may
not be able to determine, in a given instance, whether a certain principle is local or
global. But our definition itself is objective (Platonistic) and does not depend on
our being able to determine the boundary in all cases.
61. See H. A. Davidson, Avicenna’s Proof of the Existence of God as a Necessarily Exist-
ent Being, Islamic Philosophical Theology, P. Morewedge, Editor, SUNY at Albany
Press, Albany, 1979, pp. 165-187.
62. I owe to Professor Biryukov of the Moscow Institute for Foreign Relations this charm-
ing reductio ad absurdum of the use of modal logic in attempting to prove God’s
existence. The use of the same modality of necessity both to prove God, on one
hand, and then to disprove Him, on the other, illustrates what Kant called the “an-
tinomies of reason” in attempts to prove God. But the antinomial character of these
arguments lies not in reason itself (i.e., in logic) but rather in the equivocal use of
such terms as necessity and contingency.
63. For a detailed comparative discussion of the approach of these authors to the
cosmological proof, see William Hatcher, The Law of Love Enshrined, op. cit.
N O T E S   A N D   R E F E R E N C E S

M I N I M A L I S M
64. See Bertrand Russell, Why I am Not a Christian, Allen and Unwin, London, 1958,
pp. 145 ff.
65. For a more detailed discussion of this issue, see William Hatcher, Logic and Logos,
op. cit., and The Law of Love Enshrined, op. cit.
66. Stephen Hawking, A Brief History of Time, Bantam Books, New York, 1988; ex-
panded edition, 1998.
67. See William Hatcher, Love, Power, and Justice: the Dynamics of Authentic Morality,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill., 1998, 2nd edition, 2002.