THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-12-25

To the f riends g athered at the y outh conference

of the i ndian Sub-continent

dear b ahá’í f riends,

Since the outset of the four year plan we have observed with great plea-

sure the steadily increasing tempo of activity in the indian sub-continent 346.1

346.2

347 .1

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

761and are well aware of the contribution that the youth have made to the

advances achieved in recent years. we now see an able corps of devoted

youth in each of your countries, touched by the spirit of the faith and fired

by the noble vision enshrined in the writings, ready to play a significant role

in the strengthening of the foundations of bahá’í communities and in the

spiritual regeneration of the society to which they belong.

developing distinctive bahá’í communities is a challenge you share with

the rest of your fellow believers in that vast and promising region. you need

to exert every effort to align your thoughts and actions with the Teachings and become the source of inspiration and encouragement to others. when

you come across passive acceptance of the faith, respond with passion for

teaching. when you see compromise of principles in the name of expedi-

ency, demonstrate an even greater sense of spiritual discipline. when you

notice traces of tendencies that lead to division, show forth your ability to act as builders of unity. Aspire to the station of servitude at h is Threshold.

your national institute programs will help you develop your capabilities

of service, which will need to be directed not only to your own commu-

nities but to the society around you. The current generation of youth in

the region is experiencing social change at a phenomenal rate. This change presents your peers with a host of unprecedented challenges, and the great majority finds itself in a state of utter confusion. yet among them are many

who aspire to create a new society in which justice prevails. who but you,

the dedicated servants of the blessed beauty, inspired and moved by his

all-embracing vision of the new world order, can show these youth the

direction they seek? in your deliberations you will need to think of ways to

attract your fellow youth to the faith and persuade them to join you in your

systematic study of the Teachings so that, galvanized by the same vision that spurs you to action, they can become active participants in your movement.

be assured of our loving prayers in the holy Shrines that your efforts may

be reinforced by the Supreme concourse.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

347 .3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

762348

The Five Year Plan

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]