THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

17 February 2016

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The time is approaching when the thoughts of each National Spiritual Assembly turn towards preparations for the National Convention. An essential element of such preparations is the writing of the annual report. The Universal House of Justice has asked us to call to your attention the importance of the annual report and to review some of its basic functions.

As most of you are well aware, the primary aim of the annual report is to give the delegates assembled at the National Convention as well as the members of the community a concise and accurate review of the major activities and achievements of the community as viewed within the context of the Plan. The report may discuss themes, including achievements and challenges, that will assist the delegates in understanding the condition and progress of the Bahá’í community and will stimulate and give direction to their deliberations. It is part of the National Assembly’s attempt, in the words of Shoghi Effendi, to “radiantly and abundantly unfold to the eyes of the delegates, by whom they are elected, their plans, their hopes, and their cares.” It is highly desirable that the annual report be made available to the delegates in advance of the Convention and that it be shared with the friends generally.

A National Assembly’s annual report constitutes a record of the activities of the Faith in its country and, as such, is a document whose research potential is of great historical importance. The House of Justice, the International Teaching Centre, and Offices and Departments at the Bahá’í World Centre rely on information from the annual reports of National Spiritual Assemblies to carry out aspects of their work.

There is no specific format to be followed. When sending a copy of the report to the World Centre, if it is not in English it is sufficient to include a summary translation of key points in English. It is preferable that a copy be sent in electronic form. If a hard copy is sent, kindly send five copies. The Counsellors, of course, should also receive a copy.

You are assured of the supplications of the House of Justice at the Sacred Threshold that your preparations for the National Convention will attract the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty and that the consultations of the delegates will release a potent dynamic that will reinforce the energies of the friends as they apply themselves to the challenging requirements of the new Five Year Plan.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]