* * *Bahá’í Meetings
A Compilation Prepared by the Research Department
of the Universal House of Justice
November 1975
Revised January 1989
From the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh1
The friends of God, one and all, are remembered by the Supreme Pen: The bounties of the
Source of Bounty are at every moment visibly descending. It behoveth the friends in whatever
land they be, to gather together in meetings, and therein to speak wisely and with eloquence, and
to read the verses of God; for it is God’s Words that kindle love’s ﬁre and set it ablaze.
[1]
By My life and My Cause! Round about whatever dwelling the friends of God may enter, and
from which their cry shall rise as they praise and glorify the Lord, shall circle the souls of true
believers and all the favoured angels. And should the door of the true eye be opened unto some,
they shall witness the Supreme Concourse as it circleth and crieth: “Blessed art thou, O house, for
God hath made thee a resting-place for those He favoureth, and a lodging for those He holdeth
dear, and a home for those in whom He hath placed His trust. Unto thee be His praise and His
glory and His endless grace.”
[2]
They who are the beloved of God, in whatever place they gather and whomsoever they may
meet, must evince, in their attitude towards God, and in the manner of their celebration of His
praise and glory, such humility and submissiveness that every atom of the dust beneath their feet
may attest the depth of their devotion. The conversation carried by these holy souls should be
informed with such power that these same atoms of dust will be thrilled by its inﬂuence. They
should conduct themselves in such manner that the earth upon which they tread may never be
allowed to address to them such words as these: “I am to be preferred above you. For witness, how
patient I am in bearing the burden which the husbandman layeth upon me. I am the instrument
that continually imparteth unto all beings the blessings with which He Who is the Source of all
grace hath entrusted me. Notwithstanding the honor conferred upon me, and the unnumbered
evidences of my wealth—a wealth that supplieth the needs of all creation—behold the measure of
my humility, witness with what absolute submissiveness I allow myself to be trodden beneath the
feet of men….”
(Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, rev. ed. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1984), sec. 5, pp. 7–8) [3]
Blessed is the house that hath attained unto My tender mercy, wherein My remembrance is
celebrated, and which is ennobled by the presence of My loved ones, who have proclaimed My
praise, cleaved fast to the cord of My grace and been honoured by chanting My verses. Verily they
are the exalted servants whom God hath extolled in the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’ and other scriptures.
Verily He is the All-Hearing, the Answerer, He Who perceiveth all things.
[4]
From the Writings and Utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá2

Praise be to God! that ye are gathered in one assembly like unto the stars of the Pleiades, are
illumined with the light of the knowledge of God and through the outpouring of the cloud of the
love of God, ye are the fresh ﬂowers of the meadow and plain; ye are intimate and familiar with
inﬁnite unity and love.
Therefore, this meeting is blessed. But if it is ﬁrmly established and become constant, it will
bring forth great results and most weighty developments will be attained. Consequently, persevere
ye in renewing your meetings and display utmost magnanimity in ﬁrmness and steadfastness.
When the root of the tree of the garden is well established and its protection is safeguarded, it will
bring forth luscious fruits.
Likewise, when the regiment of an army and the individuals of a cohort are united and related
with ease, untold triumphs will be acquired. But if they come together one day and disperse
another day, no fruits will be produced.
Therefore, as ye have prepared an army of heaven and become the host of life, ye must
continue to hold meetings, have spiritual communications, be ﬁrm in resolution, steadfast in
purpose and be constant and persevering so that ye may win celestial conquests.
I supplicate and entreat at the Threshold of God to assist and conﬁrm you in ﬁrmness and
steadfastness and cause you to guide the inhabitants of that region.
(Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol. 3 (Chicago: Bahá’í Publishing Society, 1916), p. 690)[5]
If thou seekest after the light of the Kingdom, hasten undoubtedly to the meetings of the
believers, in order that the rays of truth may reﬂect in thy heart.
(Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol. 3, p. 695) [6]
…Hold meetings and read and chant the heavenly teachings, so that city may be illumined
with the light of reality and that country become a veritable paradise by the strength of the Holy
Spirit, for this cycle is the cycle of the Glorious Lord and the melody of oneness and solidarity of
the world of mankind must reach the ears of the East and West.
(Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol. 3, p. 631) [7]
Every meeting which is organized for the purpose of unity and concord will be conducive to
changing strangers into friends, enemies into associates, and Abdul-Baha will be present in his
heart and soul with that meeting.
(Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol. 3, p. 553) [8]
…One consecrated soul is preferable to a thousand other souls. If a small number of people
gather lovingly together, with absolute purity and sanctity, with their hearts free of the world,
experiencing the emotions of the Kingdom and the powerful magnetic forces of the Divine, and
being at one in their happy fellowship, that gathering will exert its inﬂuence over all the earth.
The nature of that band of people, the words they speak, the deeds they do, will unleash the
bestowals of Heaven, and provide a foretaste of eternal bliss. The hosts of the Company on high
will defend them, and the angels of the Abhá Paradise, in continuous succession, will come down
to their aid.
(Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [rev. ed.], (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre,
1982), sec. 39, p. 81) [9]
The hearts of all the friends rejoiced, and in particular, the heart of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, when we
heard of thy rising up to serve the Cause of God, and that thou hast set apart one of the rooms in

thy home for meetings of the lovers of God, so that from it may ascend to the Lord of Revelation
the clamour of chanted prayers.
By the life of God! The queens of the world, with all their castles, cannot boast of such a
room, since from it shineth forth the light of lights.
[10]
We hear that thou hast in mind to embellish thy house from time to time with a meeting of
Bahá’ís, where some among them will engage in glorifying the All-Glorious Lord… Know that
shouldst thou bring this about, that house of earth will become a house of heaven, and that fabric
of stone a congress of the spirit.
(Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, sec. 57, p. 94) [11]
Whensoever a company of people shall gather in a meeting place, shall engage in glorifying
God, and shall speak with one another of the mysteries of God, beyond any doubt the breathings
of the Holy Spirit will blow gently over them, and each shall receive a share thereof.
(Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, sec. 56, p. 94) [12]
Once in every week, gather ye the steadfast friends together in a meeting-place, and there let
them engage in praising and glorifying the Lord.
[13]
It beﬁtteth the friends to hold a gathering, a meeting, where they shall glorify God and ﬁx
their hearts upon Him, and read and recite the Holy Writings of the Blessed Beauty—may my soul
be the ransom of His lovers! The lights of the All-Glorious Realm, the rays of the Supreme
Horizon, will be cast upon such bright assemblages, for these are none other than the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkárs, the Dawning-Points of God’s Remembrance, which must, at the direction of the Most
Exalted Pen, be established in every hamlet and city… These spiritual gatherings must be held
with the utmost purity and consecration, so that from the site itself, and its earth and the air
about it, one will inhale the fragrant breathings of the Holy Spirit.
(Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, sec. 55, pp. 93–94) [14]
Thy letter was received. Thou hast written in regard to the Sunday meeting, saying that it is
established in the utmost of love. Undoubtedly you must be ﬁrm in holding it, and on the day of
meeting raise such song and melody in the gloriﬁcation and praise of Bahá’u’lláh that you may
cause a tumult in that city—so that everyone may hear the call of God and obtain a new spirit
through the soul-refreshing breeze wafted from the rose-garden of the Covenant.
[15]
If it were possible that in every city a few of the awakened ones, when opportunity offered,
could hold a meeting, and therein habitually present the proofs and arguments of God, this would
do much to expand the consciousness of men; provided, however, that the discourse be kept to this
one theme.
[16]
Ye have written as to the meetings of the friends, and how ﬁlled they are with peace and joy.
Of course this is so; for wherever the spiritually minded are gathered together, there in His beauty
reigneth Bahá’u’lláh. Thus it is certain that such reunions will yield boundless happiness and
peace.

Today it behoveth one and all to forgo the mention of all else, and to disregard all things. Let
their speaking, let their inner state be summed up thus: “Keep all my words of prayer and praise
conﬁned to one refrain; make all my life but servitude to Thee.” That is, let them concentrate all
their thoughts, all their words, on teaching the Cause of God and spreading the Faith of God, and
inspiring all to characterize themselves with the characteristics of God; on loving mankind; on
being pure and holy in all things, and spotless in their public and private life; on being upright and
detached, and fervent, and aﬁre. All is to be yielded up, save only the remembrance of God; all is to
be dispraised, except His praise. Today, to this melody of the Company on high, the world will
leap and dance: “Glory be to my Lord, the All-Glorious!” But know ye this: save for this song of
God, no song will stir the world, and save for this nightingale-cry of truth from the Garden of God,
no melody will lure away the heart. “Whence cometh this Singer Who speaketh the Beloved’s
name?”
(Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, sec. 54, p. 93) [17]
Verily, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inhaleth the fragrance of the love of God from every meeting-place
where the Word of God is uttered and proofs and arguments set forth that shed their rays across
the world, and where they recount the tribulations of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at the evil hands of those who
have violated the Covenant of God.
O handmaid of the Lord! Speak thou no word of politics; thy task concerneth the life of the
soul, for this verily leadeth to man’s joy in the world of God. Except to speak well of them, make
thou no mention of the earth’s kings, and the worldly governments thereof. Rather, conﬁne thine
utterance to spreading the blissful tidings of the Kingdom of God, and demonstrating the inﬂuence
of the Word of God, and the holiness of the Cause of God. Tell thou of abiding joy and spiritual
delights, and godlike qualities, and of how the Sun of Truth hath risen above the earth’s horizons:
tell of the blowing of the spirit of life into the body of the world.
(Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, sec. 53, pp. 92–93) [18]
…Rest you assured that the breathings of the Holy Spirit will loosen your tongue. Speak,
therefore; speak out with great courage at every meeting. When you are about to begin your
address, turn ﬁrst to Bahá’u’lláh and ask for the conﬁrmations of the Holy Spirit, then open your
lips and say whatever is suggested to your heart; this, however, with the utmost courage, dignity
and conviction. It is my hope that from day to day your gatherings will grow and ﬂourish, and that
those who are seeking after truth will hearken therein to reasoned arguments and conclusive
proofs. I am with you heart and soul at every meeting; be sure of this.
Hold you the Nineteen Day Feasts with utmost dignity.
[19]
At these meetings, there should be no extraneous conversation whatever. Rather, the
assemblage should conﬁne itself to reading and reciting the Holy Words, and to the discussion of
matters relating to the Cause of God: expounding, for example, conclusive proofs and arguments,
and the Writings of the Best Beloved of mankind. Those who present themselves at these
gatherings must ﬁrst array themselves in spotless clothing, turn their faces toward the Kingdom of
Abhá, and then with lowliness and submissiveness enter in. During the readings they must
maintain complete silence. Should anyone wish to speak, he should say his say in all humility,
with exactitude and eloquence.
[20]
All the meetings must be for teaching the Cause and spreading the Message, and suffering
the souls to enter in the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh. Look at me. All my thoughts are centered around

the proclamation of the Kingdom.
I have a Lamp in my hand searching through the lands and seas to ﬁnd souls who can become
heralds of the Cause. Day and night I am engaged in this work. Any other deliberations in the
meetings are futile and fruitless. Convey the message! Attract the hearts! Sow the seeds! Teach
the Cause to those who do not know.
I enter all meetings, all churches, so that the Cause may be spread. When the MOST
IMPORTANT work is before our sight, we must let go the Important one.
If the meetings or Spiritual Assembly has any other occupation, the time is spent in futility.
All the deliberations, all consultation, all the talks and addresses must revolve around one focal
center and that is: TEACH THE CAUSE! TEACH! TEACH! Convey the Message! Awaken the
souls!
Now is the time of laying the foundation. Now we must gather brick, stone, wood, iron, and
other building materials! This is not the time of decoration. We must strive day and night and
think and work. What can I say that may become effective? What can I do that may bring results?
What can I write that may bring forth fruits?
Nothing else will be useful, today. The interests of such a Glorious Cause will not advance
without undivided attention. While we are carrying this load we cannot carry any other load!
(Star of the West, vol. 4, no. 15 (12 December 1913), p. 256) [21]
Amongst other things is the holding of the meetings for teaching so that blessed souls and the
old ones from amongst the believers may gather together the youths of the love of God in schools
of instruction and teach them all the divine proofs and irrefragable arguments, explain and
elucidate the history of the Cause, and interpret also the prophecies and proofs which are recorded
and are extant in the divine Books and Epistles regarding the Manifestation of the Promised One,
so that the young ones may go in perfect knowledge in all these degrees.
(Tablets of the Divine Plan Revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American Bahá’ís, rev.
ed. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980), pp. 51–52) [22]
…Such a gathering as this is worthy of thanksgiving; it is peerless and unique among
meetings. Other meetings are held from motives of material interests—such as social, political,
commercial, educational—but this assemblage has no other purpose than attainment to the divine
Kingdom; therefore, it is unique, unequaled. The hearts have turned to God; spirits are exalted
through the glad tidings of God; the intentions of all are directed to God. What better meeting
could be imagined than this?
Such a gathering is fundamentally spiritual, sincere and most important. But we must arise in
the accomplishment of its purposes, for our attention is directed toward the heavenly Kingdom
unto which we must render faithful service. Therefore, all individuals present here must be in the
attitude of perfect love and fellowship, manifesting the utmost humility and self-sacriﬁce, turning
our thoughts toward the Kingdom of God so that our meeting may be an expression of the gloriﬁed
hosts of the Supreme Concourse.
(The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to
the United States and Canada in 1912, 2nd. ed. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1982), p. 334) [23]
Thou hast written concerning the meetings and gathering-places of the believers of God. Such
assemblies and gatherings will greatly aid the promotion of the Word and all the audience,
whether friends or not, will become affected. But when the friends have the intention of entering

into these meetings they must disengage the heart from all other reﬂections, ask the
Inexhaustible Divine Conﬁrmation, and with the utmost devotion and humility set their feet in the
gathering-place. Let them not introduce any topic in the meeting except the mentioning of the
True One, neither must they confuse that merciful assembly with complex outside questions.
They must … either commune or supplicate and pray to God, either read Tablets or give out
advices and exhortations.
(Star of the West, vol. 2, no. 6 (24 June 1911), p. 5) [24]
You have written concerning the spiritual meetings. The foundation of the spiritual meetings
must be the teaching and delivering of the Cause of God. In these meetings the believers and
maid-servants of the Merciful must proclaim the proofs and arguments and explain the signs of
the appearance of the Beauty of Abhá—May my life be a sacriﬁce to the beloved ones! Meanwhile
they may read some Tablets and Communes, and at the end of the meetings, if they desire to sing
with the utmost supplication and meekness, it is acceptable. But the fundamental principle of the
establishment of spiritual meetings is for the sake of teaching and delivering the Truth so that
those souls who are present may become informed of the Divine Evidences and Proofs.
((Star of the West, vol. 2, no. 6 (24 June 1911), p. 5) [25]
…Let the beloved of God gather together and associate most lovingly and spiritually and
happily with one another, conducting themselves with the greatest courtesy and self-restraint. Let
them read the holy verses, as well as essays which are of beneﬁt, and the letters of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá;
encourage and inspire one another to love each and all; chant the prayers with serenity and joy;
give eloquent talks, and praise the matchless Lord.
[26]
From the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
They must undertake the arrangement of the regular meetings of the friends, the feasts and
the anniversaries, as well as the special gatherings designed to serve and promote the social,
intellectual and spiritual interests of their fellow-men.
(12 March 1923 to the Bahá’ís of America, Great Britain, Germany, France,
Switzerland, Italy, Japan and Australasia, published in Bahá’í Administration: Selected
Messages 1922–1932 [rev. ed.], (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980), p. 38) [27]
From Letters Written on Behalf of Shoghi Effendi to Individual Believers
With regard to the question that you had asked, Shoghi Effendi feels that as he has formerly
said in Bahá’í meetings it is quite proper for some of the friends to deliver talks, but their
speeches must have a direct bearing on the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and our dear Master. It is not
absolutely necessary that in all the meetings only the writings and utterances of Bahá’u’lláh and
the Master should be read, but when lectures and talks are given they must bear either directly or
indirectly on the Cause.
(10 February 1926) [28]
Regarding your question as to the advisability of holding Bahá’í meetings at a time coinciding
with church meetings; the Guardian would advise the friends to avoid such a coincidence, as
otherwise many church people may feel offended, and this may lead to unnecessary and even
harmful misunderstandings and developments which may injure the Cause and affect its prestige
in the eyes of the public. The friends should, under all circumstances, be careful not to arouse
unnecessarily any feelings of religious antagonism.

(5 September 1936, published in Bahá’í News 111 (October 1937), p. 1) [29]
Since you have found in the Bahá’í Teachings the fulﬁlment of your highest aspirations and
the realization of those ideals most dear to your heart, it is your paramount duty now to spare no
effort for their study and their dissemination.
To this end, the Guardian would recommend that, in addition to your studies of Bahá’í
writings, you closely associate with your fellow-Bahá’ís, and take part in various activities of your
local group, so that you may not only acquire a theoretical knowledge of the Cause, but grow to
become a loving, active and efﬁcient member of the Community.
(25 November 1938) [30]
…In some places the Bahá’ís have held meetings for prayer, for people who desire to meet and
pray. As we have such wonderful prayers and meditations in our writings, the reading of these
with friends who are interested in and crave for this type of small meeting is often a step towards
attracting them to the Faith. Perhaps you could start such an activity in your city.
(4 February 1950) [31]
We should try not to introduce any set patterns into our teaching methods; however, if this
form of group meditation produces unity and a deeper understanding of the teachings, he sees no
reason why it should be not used at least in the beginning of a teaching class—providing the
people want to, like it, and fully understand it has nothing to do with the teachings of the Faith,
but is a method which sometimes proves helpful.
(30 July 1956) [32]

This document has been downloaded from the Bahá’í Reference Library. You are free to use its content subject to the terms of use found at www.bahai.org/legalNotes
From unpublished Tablets unless otherwise noted. ↩
From unpublished Tablets unless otherwise noted. ↩1
2