THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2001-01-16

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

As we write you this message, the conference of the continental coun-

selors approaches a triumphant conclusion.

for eight days the counselors from all the continents have consulted on

the next phase of the process of entry by troops. while they were meeting

during the first five days, 849 members of their Auxiliary boards from 172

countries were arriving at the bahá’í world center and paying their re-

spects at the holy Shrines in anticipation of the moment when they would

all come together in a series of soul-stirring events: ascent of the newly

built Terraces on mount carmel; circumambulation of the Shrine of the

báb; procession along the Arc path for a visit to the international Teaching

center building; a devotional ceremony to mark the occupation by the

Teaching center of its permanent seat; and subsequent joint consultations

concerning their indispensable role in the five year plan on which the bahá’í

world will embark at ri¤ván 2001.

The deliberations of the counselors themselves have been the heart of

these stupendous activities. Their consultations have been marked by a combination of sobriety and effervescence that has refined the character of their discussions and illumined understanding. it is clear from the confident

atmosphere in which they have conferred that their institution has reached a new stage in its maturation. even though they function principally as

individuals, the counselors across all boards have become of one mind. by

internalizing and integrating the lessons and experiences of systematization called for in the four year plan, they have indeed been transformed into

channels of unified thought. we appreciate that the new height in the evolu-

tion of their institution is a reflection, too, of the measure to which, with

their wise and constant advice, the Spiritual Assemblies and other institu-

tions of the world community have evolved.

As the time for the conference drew near, there were signs that the faith

had arrived at a point in its development beyond which a new horizon opens

before us. Such intimations were communicated in our report last ri¤ván

of the change in culture of the bahá’í community as training institutes 351.1

351.2

351.3

351.4

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

77emerged, as the construction projects on mount carmel approached their

completion, and as the internal processes of institutional consolidation and

the external processes towards world unity became more fully synchronized.

They were elaborated in the message we addressed to the conference of the

continental boards of counselors a few days ago. but the extraordinary

dynamics at work throughout the conference crystallized these indications

into a recognizable reality. with a spirit of exultation we are moved to an-

nounce to you: the faith of bahá’u’lláh now enters the fifth epoch of its

formative Age.

recognition of this milestone falls within the patterns established by

Shoghi effendi for marking measures of time in the history of the cause; he

foresaw among these a succession of epochs occurring in the formative Age.

it must fill every devoted follower of bahá’u’lláh with joy and wonder that

his Administrative order has reached so important a point at so crucial a

time, when so many members of the institution of the counselors are gath-

ered in splendid array at the world center of his faith. They will return to

the far corners of the earth as torches aflame with the spirit of service. That

they will pour fresh energy into their activities, there can be no doubt. Their

efforts will surely widen the path leading to the success of the T welve month

plan, and through that to the launching at ri¤ván of the five year enterprise

that will be the first in a series of plans to be pursued until the centenary of

the f ormative Age.

The counselors will leave here anticipating their early consultations with

National Spiritual Assemblies regarding the operation in their countries of

the forthcoming plan. with the involvement of their eager auxiliaries, they

will assist, too, in quickly moving the requisite planning process to regional

and local areas of the community in every land.

in the waning moments of these eventful days, our hearts are turned in

humble gratitude to the Ancient beauty for the abundance of the blessings

he has bestowed. The very earth of carmel is astir with the wonders of

his grace as she responds to the redemptive call he raised in the Tablet

bearing her name. his fervent wish expressed therein resounds in the souls

of his lovers throughout the planet: “o h, how i long to announce unto

every spot on the surface of the earth, and to carry to each one of its cit-ies, the glad-tidings of this revelation. . . .”

351-1 The friends now gathered

351-1. gwb, no. 11.4.351.5

351.6

351.7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

77amid the splendor at carmel’s heart have heard it with new ears and have

reaffirmed their pledge to respond to this divine longing. may their exploits

in the Name of bahá scatter more widely the fragrance of his revelation,

strengthen more firmly the foundation of his institutions, and embolden

more resolutely the activities of his worldwide community, impelling for-

ward the process by which troop after troop will enter into the stronghold

of the Ark of Salvation.

352

Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas Not Yet Universally Applied

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]