NATIONAL AND RELIGIOUS IDENTITIES OF CHILDREN OF
IRANIAN ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN KAYSERİ



A THESIS SUBMITTED TO
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF SOCIAL SCIENCES
OF
MIDDLE EAST TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY



BY



MERVE ÇALHAN




IN PARTIAL FULFILLMENT OF THE REQUIREMENTS
FOR
THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF SCIENCE
IN
PROGRAM OF MIDDLE EAST STUDIES






MAY 2008

Approval of the Graduate School of Social Sciences











_________________________








Prof. Dr. Sencer Ayata








Director


I certify that this thesis satisfies all the requirements as a thesis for the degree of Master of
Science.











________________________







Assoc. Prof. Dr. Recep Boztemur







Head of Department


This is to certify that we have read this thesis and that in our opinion it is fully adequate, in
scope and quality, as a thesis for the degree of Master of Science.











________________________







Assist. Prof. Dr. Aykan Erdemir









Supervisor





Examining Committee Members


Assoc. Prof Dr. Helga Rittersberger  (METU, SOC)     _______________________



Assist. Prof Dr. Aykan Erdemir
(METU, SOC)      _______________________

Assist. Prof Dr. Özlem Tür
(METU, IR)         _______________________

iii





















I hereby declare that all information in this document has been
obtained and presented in accordance with academic rules and ethical
conduct. I also declare that, as required by these rules and conduct, I
have fully cited and referenced all material and results that are not
original to this work.









Name, Last name :


Signature              :

iv
ABSTRACT



NATIONAL AND RELIGIOUS IDENTITIES OF CHILDREN OF
IRANIAN ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN KAYSERİ

Çalhan, Merve
M.S., Program of Middle East Studies
Supervisor: Assist. Prof Dr. Aykan Erdemir

May 2008, 144 pages




This thesis analyzes the construction of children of Iranian asylum-seekers’
national and religious identity who are dwelling in Kayseri provisionally.
Identity construction of the children was based on a ‘flexible’ and
‘malleable’ ground in the research. The research was conducted through
semi-structured, in-depth interviews with a selected group of participants.
The participants belong to two different religious cohorts, Shi’is and
Baha’is. Within the scope of the research question, national and religious of
the children were investigated profoundly by taking into consideration of
related identity theories. In addition, childhood experiences of the children
were examined in order to find out if there is any interplay between
childhood experiences and national and religious identities. It was
determined that ambit of a contested process of identities, national identity
enunciated its vigour by far for all the participants. It was also ascertained
that while for the Shi’i children, religious identity has reduced its strength;
religious identity is still potent for the Baha’i children in the host society.
Moreover, the children’s interrupted childhood results from their religious
professions and their family’s political views reconstructed in Kayseri. The

v
participants’ interrupted childhood in Iran achieved a relative maintenance
in Kayseri without any fragmentation due to relative free environment
comparing to Iran.

Keywords: children of Iranian asylum-seekers, identity construction,
national identity, religious identity, childhood experience.

vi
ÖZ



KAYSERİ’ DE YAŞAYAN İRANLI SIĞINMACILARIN
ÇOCUKLARININ ULUSAL VE DİNİ KİMLİKLERİ

Çalhan, Merve
Yüksek Lisans, Orta Doğu Araştırmaları Programı
Tez Yöneticisi: Yard. Doç. Dr. Aykan Erdemir


Mayıs 2008, 144 sayfa




Bu tez Kayseri’de geçici olarak ikamet eden İranlı sığınmacıların
çocuklarının ulusal ve dini kimliklerinin kurgulanmasını analiz etmektedir.
Bu araştırmada, çocukların kimlik kurgulamaları şekillendirilebilir ve esnek
bir zemine dayanmaktadır. Bu çalışma, seçilmiş katılımcılarla yarı
yapılanmış derinlemesine görüşmelerle gerçekleştirilmiştir. Katılımcılar iki
farklı dini grup olan Şiilik ve Bahailiğe mensuptur. Temel araştırma
sorunsalı kapsamında çocukların ulusal ve dini kimlikleri konuyla ilgili olan
kimlik teorileri dikkate alınarak derinlemesine incelenmiştir. Ayrıca,
katılımcıların çocukluk yaşantılarının ulusal ve dini kimlikleriyle olan
ilişkisi sorgulanmıştır. Birbiriyle yarışan kimliklerin etrafında, tüm
katılımcılar için ulusal kimliğin açık ara farkla üstünlüğünü ilan ettiği ortaya
çıkmıştır. Ayrıca, konuk oldukları toplumda, Şii çocukların dini kimlikleri
gücünü yitirirken, Bahai çocukların dini kimliklerinin hala güçlü olduğu
tespit edilmiştir. Ayrıca, dini inançlarından ve ailelerinin politik
görüşlerinden ötürü İran’da kesintiye uğrayan çocukluk yaşantıları
Kayseri’deki görece özgür ortamdan dolayı bir devamlılık kazanmıştır.

vii


Anahtar Kelimeler: iranlı sığınmacıların çocukları, kimlik kurgulanması,
ulusal kimlik, dini kimlik, çocukluk yaşantısı.

viii















To My Parents

ix
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Firstly I am grateful to my supervisor Assist. Prof. Dr. Aykan Erdemir for
his comments, suggestions, guidance and insight throughout the research.
He has been tremendously patient and supportive through each step of the
process.

I express my endless gratitude to Assoc. Prof. Dr. Helga Rittersberger-Tılıç
for her suggestions and comments. I offer grateful thanks for her patience
and assistance.

I am thankful to Mr. İbrahim Vurgun Kavlak who helped me to reach the
Iranian asylum-seeker children. This research would not have been possible
without him. I want to express my appreciation to Miss. Hilal Kavafoğlu for
her enormous efforts to determine the participants. I am also grateful to
Miss. Leyla who made interpretation throughout the interviews without
charging a fee.

I want to express my deep gratefulness to my parents, Zühal and Mehmet
Gökberk who have supported me both financially and emotionally
throughout my academic endeavors. They always dispel my boredoms and
concerns with their constant interest in me. I could not have got through it
without you!

I indebted to my truehearted friends Ahu Paköz and Can Yalçınkaya who
responded to my interminable questions during the thesis process. Thank
you for your incessant encouragement.

Finally, I would like to express my deep gratitude to the children of Iranian
asylum-seekers to not turn me down to be part of this research. Without

x
them there would have been no thesis. I am also obliged to the many others
who assisted me in carrying out this research.

xi
TABLE OF CONTENTS


ABSTRACT………………………………………………………………..iv

ÖZ…………………………………………………………………………..vi

DEDICATION…………………………………………………………….viii

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS…………………………………………..……...ix

TABLE OF CONTENTS…………………………………………..……….xi

LIST OF TABLES...................................................................................... xiv

CHAPTER


1. INTRODUCTION………………………………...…………….. 1


1.1 Research Question……………………………………....5


1.2 Literature Review……………………………………….7


1.3 Methodology and Research Techniques…………….....16


1.4 Selection of the Research Site and Research

Participants………………………………………………..19



1.5 Data Collection and Field Experience………………....21


1.6 Significance of the Research…………………………..23


1.7 Research Ethics………………………………………..24



1.8 Organization of Chapters………………………………26

2. THEORETICAL BACKGROUND……………………………..27


2.1 Overview of Identity Theories…………………………27



2.1.1 National Identity……………………………....33



2.1.2 Religious Identity……………………………...38

xii


2.1.3 Childhood Experiences………………………..41


2.2 Effects of Adaptation Patterns to Reconstruction of

Identities……………………………………………………45



2.2.1 Non-Linear Models of Adaptation……………45



2.2.2 Linear Models of Adaptation…………………49


3. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND……………………………….51


3.1 Iranian Asylum-Seekers in Turkey since the Islamic

Revolution………………………………………………….51


3.2 The Turkish Regulations on Asylum-Seekers………....55


3.3 Religious Groups in Iran: Baha’is and Shi’is………….60



3.3.1 The Baha’is: An Unrecognized Religious


Minority…………………………………………….63


3.3.2 Iranian Shi’is: The Majority under Pressure….69


4. RESEARCH FINDINGS………………………………………..74


4.1 The Profile of the Interviewees………………………...75



4.2 Analysing In-Depth Interviews………………………...81



4.2.1 National Identity……………………………...82



4.2.1.1 Life in Iran…………………………..83



4.2.1.2 Future Expectations………………....87



4.2.1.3 Life in Kayseri……………………....88



4.2.2 Religious Identity…………………………....101



4.2.2.1 Religious Engagement & Religious

Knowledge…………………………………103



4.2.2.2 Devotionalism…………………….. 105

xiii



4.2.2.3 Ritual Involvement………………....107



4.2.3 Childhood  Experiences……………………..111


4.2.3.1 Spare Time Activities……………...112





4.2.3.2 Child Responsibilities……………...114



4.2.3.3 Family Protection and Parental

Responsibilities…………………………….116



4.3 Analysing the Interplay among National and Religious

Identity…………………………………………………...117


5. CONCLUSION……………………………………………..…120

BIBLIOGRAPHY………………………………………………………...127

APPENDICES……………………………………………………………133

A. Demographic Questions…………………………………………..133

B. Interview Guide…………………………………………………..137

xiv

LIST OF TABLES



TABLES

Table 1 Terms Used for Four Orientations, Based on Degree of
Identifications with Both One’s Ethnic Group and the Majority Group…..48

Table 2 New Applications – Non-European Asylum Seekers, June 2006...54

Table 3 Dimensions of Unity………………………………………………61

Table 4 Socio-Demographic Features of the Interviewees………………...77

Table 5 Socio-Demographic Features of the Interviewees’ Parents……….79


CHAPTER 1

INTRODUCTION: GENERAL STATEMENT OF PROBLEM AREA

This thesis analyzes the forced migration. It subsumes moves of the people who
left their homelands permanently for reasons such as conflicts including civil
war, generalized violence, human rights abuses, political repression and
persecution on the grounds of nationality, race, religion, political opinion or
social group because the state authorities are unable or unwilling to protect them
(Martin, 2002, p. 26, Forced Migration Online, “What is Forced Migration?”
n.d.). In this framework, the thesis comprises child asylum-seekers and the case
is based on Shi’i and Baha’i children of Iranian asylum-seekers between the
ages of 10–16. All the interviewees immigrated to Turkey directly from Iran
with their families. In other words, interviewees are “accompanied children who
are with one or both parents, the family unity principle clearly applies and, in
most cases, a dependant child will be accorded with the parent’s status”
(UNHCR, 2007, p. 98-99). To eliminate any misunderstandings, it should also
be noted that the interviewees are not the Iranian asylum-seekers who entered
Turkey from Iraq.1 In this regard, Baha’is and Muslims will be taken up in order
to reveal various asylum-seeking experiences from the eyes of two different



1 Iranian asylum-seekers who entered Tukey from Iraq is called “Iranian refugees ex-Iraq”. They
constitute a different category. According to UNHCR, “[o]ne of the main protection challenges
was the search for durable solutions fort the almost 1,200 Iranian refugees who reached Turkey
from Iraq in 2002 and who can not return to Iraq or the Islamic Republic of Iran. UNHCR’s
negotiations on durable solutions for this group had, by the end of 2006, failed to overcome the
Government’s conern that resettlement would act as a pull factor and result in more asylum-
seekers coming to Turkey” (“UNHCR 2006 Global Report: Turkey”, 2007, p.3 ). Therefore,
their experiences are rather different than other Iranian asylum-seekers. For further information
see section 3.1.

religions. All the interviewees are living in Kayseri2 provisionally. The
interviewees comprise the Iranian citizens who speak Farsi and who lived in
Iran since their birth. In this research, the scope of the notion of Iranian covers a
person who has or had Iranian citizenship regardless of whether they hold
several citizenships or not.
I chose to work on children because among the world’s refugees, children under
the age of eighteen, making up more than half of any refugee population, are the
most significant “persons of concern” to the UNHCR3 (United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees [UNHCR], 2007). Among the world’s asylum-
seekers, who come from Middle Eastern countries to Turkey constitute a
different case when comparing to the asylum-seekers who come from European
countries. Therefore, it is significant to reveal the term complexity in the
problem area. Even though the terms ‘asylum-seeker’4 and ‘refugee’5 are rather



2 Turkish government has designated twenty-six different cities around Turkey where asylum-
seekers and refugees must reside; one of these cities is Kayseri (“Refugee Voice Newsletter,”
n.d.). Kayseri is one of the largest and the most industrialized cities in Central Anatolia, Turkey.
Its area is 16917 km2 (Kayseri Governorship, “Geographic Structure”). The city’s population is
currently around 1,094,000 (Kayseri Governorship, “Administrative and Demographic
Structure”). It is among the cities that are called as the pioneer “Anatolian Tigers” which have a
strong voice in industry and commerce in Turkey and around the world through their industry
and commerce accumulation that is based on the past. Moreover, the State Planning
Organization indicated that Kayseri is one of the most developed cities in Turkey according to
socio-economic development index 2004 (Kayseri Chamber of Industry, “Economy of Kayseri”,
n.d.).

3 The United Nations General Assembly established the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees on December 14, 1950. The agency is mandated to lead and co-
ordinate international action to protect refugees and resolve refugee problems worldwide. Its
primary purpose is to safeguard the rights and well-being of refugees. It strives to ensure that
everyone can exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe refuge in another State, with the
option to return home voluntarily, integrate locally or to resettle in a third country (UNHCR,
“Basic Facts,” n.d.).

4 According to UNHCR, an asylum-seeker is a foreigner who seeks international protection but
whose eligibility for refugee status has not yet been determined (UNHCR, “Manual on Mandate
RSD,” n.d., p. 7).

5 Etymologic meaning of the word “refugee” derived from the French se refugier, one seeking
asylum. The word was used for Fr. Huguenots who migrated after the revocation in the UK in
the late 17th century. The word meant “one seeking asylum” shifted to mean, “one flees home”
after 1914. The term first applied in this latter sense for civilians in Flanders migrating west to
escape fighting in Word War I (Online Etymology Dictionary, n.d. & Rutter, 2006, p. 16).
According to Article 1 of the 1951 Convention and UNHCR, a refugee is “a person who is

different in terms of their significance, the term ‘refugee’ could not be used for
the people who are coming from outside Europe, non-conventional refugees,
(Kirişçi, 2003) in the Turkish legislation6 (Kirişçi, 2001, p. 76). In this
framework, non-conventional refugees could not stay permanently in Turkey
and they have to resettle in third countries eventually. In this argument, the focal
point is based on the 1951 Convention7, which Turkey initially signed at the end
of World War II.  In this regard, Turkey imposed a geographical and time
limitation like other signatories, whereby only European refugees and asylum-
seekers could access to asylum procedures (İçduygu, 2004, p. 96). Considering
this fact, the term children of Iranian asylum-seekers is used instead of the term
children of Iranian refugees.
In the reserach, I preferred to choose children of Iranian asylum-seekers because
UNHCR sources showed that 1057 children of Iranian asylum-seekers out of
2607 between the ages of 0–17 years constitute the majority among all the
asylum-seekers of the same age groups in Turkey. I preferred to conduct the
research in Kayseri due to the fact that the majority of this specific group is
living in Kayseri. Moreover, Kayseri is close to Ankara which helps to maintain
close contact with the interviewees more easily.
As the number of refugees continuously increased massively with the end of the
Cold War, so devastatingly did the number of children faced with asylum-






outside his or her country of nationality or habitual residence; has a well-founded fear of
persecution because of his or her race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social
group or political opinion; and is unable or unwilling to avail himself or herself of the protection
of that country, or to return there, for fear of persecution” (UNHCR, “The 1951 Refugee
Convention,” n.d., p. 6).

6 For a recent analysis of Turkey’s refugee policies see İçduygu, A.  (2004). Demographic
Mobility and Turkey: Migration Experiences and Government Responses.  Mediterranean
Quarterly, 15(30), 88-99.

7 According to UNHCR sources, “it defines what the term refugee means […]. It was the first
truly international agreement covering the most fundamental aspects of a refugee’s life. It
spelled out a set of basic human rights, which should be at least equivalent to freedoms enjoyed
by foreign nationals living legally in a given country and in many cases those of citizens of that
state under the auspices of the United Nations. It recognized the international scope of refugee
crises and the necessity of international cooperation, including burden sharing among states, in
tackling the problem (UNHCR, “The 1951 Refugee Convention,” n.d., p. 6-7).

seeking experience. UNHCR assumed that an estimated twenty-five million
children, under the age of 17, currently uprooted from their homes, are
increasingly marking the post-Cold War era (UNHCR, “A Child’s World,”
n.d.). They face a broad range of challenges to their development and survival
making them not only a vulnerable subgroup among the world’s children, but
also a vulnerable subgroup among refugees. For this reason, the United Nations
adapted “the Convention on the Rights of the Child” (UNCRC) that is the first
legally binding international instrument to coalesce the full range of human
rights in 1989.
The Convention sets out these rights in 54 articles and two Optional
Protocols. It spells out the basic human rights that children everywhere
have: the right to survival; to develop to the fullest; to protection from
harmful influences, abuse and exploitation; and to participate fully in
family, cultural and social life. […] The Convention protects children's
rights by setting standards in health care; education; and legal, civil and
social services. (The United Nations Children’s Fond [UNICEF]8,
“Convention on the Rights of the Child”, n.d.)
Referring to adoption of UNCRC, the UNHCR released guidelines on the
protection and care of refugee children are based on the 1989 Convention in
1994. Most recently, United Nations prepared a new agenda for the world’s
children which sets out three necessary outcomes: the best possible start in life
for children, access to a quality basic education, including free and compulsory
primary education and ample opportunity for children and adolescents, to
develop their individual capacities in 2002.
As is perceived from these declarations and sessions, refugee and asylum-seeker
children are facing extreme hurdles, which affect their physical and
psychological conditions negatively. Hence, displacement is of utmost
importance that should be firstly considered as a breach of human rights and the
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights takes a strong interest in
the Rights of the Child; therefore, displacement should be secondly considered



8 UNICEF is mandated by the United Nations General Assembly to advocate survival,
protection and development of children. UNICEF is guided by the Convention on the Rights of
the Child (CRC) and struggles to establish children’s rights (UNICEF, “UNICEF in Turkey:
Mission Statement”, n.d.).

as a violation of the rights of the child. In that respect, it violates almost every
right of a child – the right to live, to be healthy, to survive and develop, the right
to grow up in a family environment and to be nurtured and protected, the right
to a have an identity and to belong to an effective nationality, the right for
education and prospects for the future. Within the scope of the Convention on
the Rights of the Child, article 22 deals with broadly rights of asylum-seeker
and refugee children:
[s]tate Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure that a child
who is seeking refuge status or who is considered a refugee in
accordance with applicable international or domestic law and
procedures shall, whether unaccompanied or accompanied by his or her
parents or by any other person, receive appropriate protection and
humanitarian assistance in the enjoyment of applicable rights set forth
in the present Convention and in other international human rights or
humanitarian instruments to which the said States are Parties.
(UNICEF, “Convention on the Rights of the Child: First Part, Articles
21-30,” n.d.)
Therefore, it is vital to understand what these children have experienced in order
to gain insight into their experiences as asylum-seekers.
According to UNHCR sources, every year Turkey receives more than two
thousand immigrants from world to claim asylum. Of all these asylum
applications, the number of those belonging to Iranians reached 1060 out of
1840 in 2006 (“UNHCR Turkey Briefing Note-Statistical Overview”, 2006). It
was the highest rate among the new applicants.
1.1 Research Question
Upon arrival in Turkey, Iranian asylum seeker children come to terms with a
new society with different social and economic dynamics. As I learnt from the
Iranian people who are living in Kayseri, the social environment of Turkey is
quite similar to Iran in terms of leisure time activities, school curriculum and
human relations. Thence, children of Iranian asylum-seekers have advantages in
terms of social adjustment. At this vital point, my research question is to reveal,
‘How do the children of Iranian asylum-seekers reconstruct their national and

religious identity in Turkey?’ In this research, identity is worked on as dynamic
and fluctuating, which is achieved rather than simply given.  Even though
national and religious identity can be regarded as a part of ethnic identity, I
prefer using ‘national identity,’ and   ‘religious identity,’ separately rather than
ethnic identity to avoid from any kind of misunderstandings owing to the fact
that there is no widely agreed-on definition of ethnic identity. I used ‘ethnic
identity’ only if the writers use the term from whom I quote references. Related
with this point of view, in most part of the research, I merely used identity
which refers to national and religious identity [they are my main concern] all of
a lump. Actually, I used the term of identity on a slippery floor in this research
to avoid any kind of generalization. When identity definition runs away from
my triad main concern, I will kindly specify it. One thing I should highlight that
during the research, I came to realize that even different understandings and
emphases exists about identity, they are intertwined in a crucible intrinsically.
For instance, religious identity overlaps national identity in some of the
interviews that I have done.
Within the scope of the research question, my foremost aim is to ascertain
interruption and maintenance perceived by asylum-seeker children in their
identity throughout their asylum-seeking experience. In other words, I will
question both “continuties” and “discontinuties” of their identity on the way of
constructing a new identity in Turkey. My other aim is to throw light on their
childhood experiences and ascertain if there is any interplay and overlapping
among their national and religious identity and childhood experiences. In this
framework, I will try to find out whether deconstruction of national identity in
conventional terms of language, religion, education and etc. takes place or not
(Bash & Zezlina-Phillips, 2006, p. 1).  At this point, I will discuss the most
known identity theories which are congruous with my arguments. It should also
be emphasized that I dwelled upon ‘gender’ issue to shed light on whether the
experiences of girls differ from those of men in terms of exposure,
opportunities, constraints, and responsibilities within the household and the
community.

1.2 Literature Review
This research attempts to eliminate an unmeritorious prejudice regarding
children as a passive receiver of life in which they are living. As Knörr and
Nunes cited, “James & Prout point out, that children ‘must be seen as involved
in the construction of their own social lives, the lives of those around them […].
They can no longer be regarded simply as the passive subjects of structural
determinations’” (Knörr & Nunes, 2005, p. 11). The underestimation of
children’s potential in terms of constructing their own lives causes notable lack
of specific information in asylum-seeker and refugee children studies. Urged by
absence of documentation in this area, the overall purpose of my research is to
present new and further information about children in asylum and highlight the
uniqueness of the asylum seeking experience in Turkey, about which there is a
scarcity of knowledge. In this framework, this research will contribute
significantly to the efforts of sociologists, social workers, psychologists, and
others whose concerns center in identifying and ameliorating the plights of
asylum-seekers and refugee children.
During the literature review, I did encounter some considerable researches,
which laid stress on identity issues of asylum-seeker and refugee children
through different perspectives. In terms of sociological researches that have
been done about asylum-seekers’ and  refugee children’s  identity construction
through the world, Julia Resnik (2006), Deborah Sporton, Gill Valentine and
Katrine
Bang
Nielsen
(2006),
Hadjiyanni
Tasoulla
(2002),
Nadina
Christopoulou and Sonja de Leeuw (2005) have respectable researches and
articles on this field. Even though researches are more deals with ‘refugee’
identity, the term ‘asylum-seeker’ is a weaker identity than ‘refugee’ in this
research.
The article “Post Conflict Identities: Affiliations and Practices of Somali
Asylum Seeker Children” (2006) by Deborah Sporton, Gill Valentine and
Katrine Bang Nielsen, dealt with the exploration of the identities, affiliations

and practices of Somalia asylum-seeker children, aged 11–18. The research was
conducted in Sheffield, UK after the ascertainment of the perpetrators of 2005
terrorist attacks in London. They were the child asylum-seekers from East
Africa. In that respect, the authors argued that the actions of two bombers
should be appraised throughout the complex processes of social identification
on the ground of discrimination and social exclusion in the context of UK
immigration policy. They regarded intersectionality as the key concept and
starting point for understanding the identity construction of young asylum-
seekers. According to the authors, different social categories such as age,
gender, race, religion and class are not fixed or solid but they are enmeshed in
each other which makes young asylum-seekers’ identities fluid, fluctuating and
malleable. Within this process of identity construction, young refugee children
are active agents in terms of constructing and reconstructing their identities. To
demonstrate this intersectionality, the authors discussed how the UK policy may
shape refugee and asylum-seekers’ identity formation and own narratives of the
self. On that point, the authors drew on empirical research with Somali children,
currently living in Sheffield, UK to examine the identity practices and
affiliations of child refugee and asylum-seekers to all pupils in the years 7, 9
and 11 in eight Sheffield secondary schools and one further education college.
Firstly, the authors initiated a questionnaire about children’s senses of identity
and appertaining at home, school and in the community. This questionnaire
allowed the authors to compare the Somalian children’s affiliations and identity
practices with other children from other minority ethnic groups and white
majority children. The qualitative stage of the research was comprised of in-
depth interviews with local authorities, who worked at Somali community
spaces, and was comprised of in-depth interviews with Somali children and their
parents to understand their narratives of the self and their own identities. At the
end of the research, the significance of specific geographical sites such as home,
school and community transpired in terms of both enabling and undermining the
ability of young people to achieve positive outcomes. In this article, I drew upon
the concept of “intersectionality” in order to display the interplay among

national and religious identity and childhood experiences and the malleable face
of identities.
In Julia Resnik’s article, “Alternative Identities in Multicultural Schools in
Israel: Emancipatory Identity, Mixed Identity and Transnational Identity”
(2006) touched upon instability of identities and continuous invention of new
and old identities. She set an example of first, second and third generation
immigrants’ participation in identity construction the recently founded
multicultural schools such as Kedma, Shevah/Mofet and Bialik in Israel. She
determined different identity forms for children who belong to different social
groups. According to the author, rather than facilitating integration into
hegemonic national identity, alternative identity forms provide empowering
options for child immigrants within Israeli society. The Kedma School intended
for the third generation of Mizrahi immigrants from Arab countries. In this
regard, “emancipatory Mizrahi (Oriental) identity” at Kedma stressed the right
to equal opportunity and the positive value of oriental culture. It aimed at
empowering
third
generation
Mizrahi
immigrants
to
eliminate
the
discriminatory socio-cultural hegemony. The Shevah/Mofet School was
founded for the children of immigrants from the Former Soviet Union. The
“mixed Russian-Israeli identity” at Shevah/Mofet buttresses Russian language
and culture so that first and second generation Russian speaking children
surmounted negative stereotypes reserved for immigrants. The Bialik School
attempted to shape a “transnational identity” for the children of migrant workers
as a bridge between Christian and Muslim cultures and the Jewish culture in
Israel.  The “transnational identity” at Bialik inhered in multiculturalism, which
enabled children of migrant workers to live on in the homogenous Jewish
temporal host society, but at the same time prepares them for their next country
of residence. Thus, by owing to these alternative identities child immigrants
were able to immerse themselves in the mainstream society. In fact, Resnik’s
article was comprised of a rather interesting and noteworthy research about
immigrant children’s identity shaping which was based on interviews with the
directors, pedagogic coordinators, and homeroom teachers of the three schools.

The argument in terms of segregation of identity according to ethnic belongings
and regarding identities as being constructed and reconstructed within different
socio-cultural contexts were remarkable in this research.
The most impressive and comprehensive research about refugee children is
Making of a Refugee: Children Adopting Refugee Identity in Cyprus (2002) by
Hadjiyanni Tasoulla who emphasized on dynamic feature of identity
construction by intertwining past, present and future. The author, as a refugee
herself, set out to analyze refugee identity in Cyprus. She focused on the
children whose parents experienced the displacement first hand. In this regard,
this book explored and questioned the “refugee consciousness” of these children
by giving these children a chance to raise their voices about what it is like being
a refugee. As she states “it is through this journey of ‘home is where you come
from’ and ‘home is where you come to’ that identity is grounded and supported”
(Tasoulla, 2002, p. 217). Being an architect, her illustration about formation of
refugee children consciousness in Cyprus bedazzled me in terms of the
dimensions9, which she purposed for the formation of “refugee identity”. These
dimensions are called as a shared identity, an identity grounded in the past, a
transferred identity, a proposeful identity, and a nurtured identity, an identity
grounded in the loss, a dynamic identity and an identity of the future. In the
framework of the scope of the research, the author went through 100 in-depth
interviews with Greek Cypriot children (67 boys and 33 girls), between the ages
6–22. The author also carried out 100 interviews with their parents. Even though
the research is not pertinent to merely identity construction, it is the most wide-
ranging research that I have red about one of the most neglected areas of inquiry
in both refugee and childhood studies.
Apart from the research above, I was also inspired by Children Making Media,
Constructions of Home and Belonging10 (2005) by Nadina Christopoulou and



9 When it is necessary, I will touch upon some of thedimensions in the following chapters.

10 For the article, please see Jacqueline Knörr (Ed.). (2005). Childhood and migration. USA and
London: Transaction Publishers.

Sonja de Leeuw which discussed the findings of a European research project on
“Children in Communication about Migration” (Chicam) with existing theories
on identity and culture. In this research, I was inspired by the writers’
reconcilement of identity issues and the concept of habitus by Bourdieu (1977)
in the context of both new (current situation of uprootedness) and old (pre-
migration) habitus form within which new actions and reactions could be
invented. The concept of habitus is concordant with this research in terms of
throwing light on the interwiewees’ present perceptions and actions about
national and religious identity and childhood experiences through their
experiences of the past.
The other researches which deal primarily with issues pertaining to refugee and
asylum-seeker children are about schooling and educational experiences
(Myers, 1999; Greathouse, 1994; Castro, 1983; Rutter, 2006, Bash &  Philips,
2006, Greathouse, 2000), social work about participation in decision-making
processes and interventions for refugee children (Couch & Francis, 2006), social
exclusion of immigrant groups into the host country (Beirens, Hughes & Spicer,
2007; Anderson, 2001), psychological well being and emotional problems
(Ring, 2002; Derluyn & Broekaert, 2007), unaccompanied minors (Halvorsen,
2005; Kohli, 2005; Wallin & Ahlström, 2005; Antle, 2006; Goldberg & Kralj,
2005, Antle, 2006), acculturation (Curio, 2004; Maegusuku-Hewett, Dunkerley,
Scourfield & Smalley; Anderson, 2001; Berry, Phinney, Sam & Vedder, 2006,
Castro, 1983) and to a lesser extent, ethnicity of immigrant groups (Senders,
2002).
Even though the refugee literature in Turkey is limited in terms of diversity of
the reseraches, there are some noteworthy ones in the field. One of the
expansive and contemporary researches belongs to Önder Beter that is called
The Hopes beyond Borders (2006). This book contends the problems and
difficulties which ‘refugee’ children have in Turkey from their perspectives
generally.  In addition, the book also touched upon child soldiers,
unaccompanied minors and the children who are the victims of woman

circumcision. Moreover, the book covers the migration phenomenon, the
problems which are met in the field, national and international regulations, and
migration policies of states and the future of the refugee problem in Turkey
from a critical point of view. The book also articulates innovations and solutions
to the current problems of refugees. As a social worker, Beter suggests new
opinions to improve social works for refugee well-being in Turkey. Other
significant research belongs to Ülkü Zümray Kutlu. She wrote a thesis which is
called “Turkey as a Waiting Room: Experiences of Refugees in Turkey”. This
research subsumes the asylum-seekers who came to Turkey from the Middle
Eastern countries merely to move to a third country. As Kutlu demonstrated the
asylum-seekers who applied for the status determination to UNHCR have to
wait for a long time. Moreover, if they are recognized as a refugee, they have to
wait again to move to third country. Therefore, they live a period of transition in
Turkey and Turkey is the waiting room on their way to West. In this framework,
the aim of the research to reveal how the asylum-seekers live and perceive the
period of transition in terms of language, housing, job opportunities, health and
education services in Turkey. In order to obtain the information about the issues
above, Kutlu conducted in-depth intervieews with ten recognized refugees at
UNHCR Ankara Branch Office. The results of his research could be explained
briefly. First of all, the international refugee regime does not bring any effective
solutions for today’s asylum-seeker and refugee question. Secondly, being a
transit country, Turkey is lack of effective refugee politics and policies. Thirdly,
refugees are regarding Turkey as a waiting room on their way to West and
throughout this period, they could not take initiative about their lives. As it is
related to one of these research arguments, the refugee experience in Turkey is
not a process in which the immigrants can integrate socially, economically,
culturally and politically. Fourthy, according to the interviews and observations
of the author, refugee experience differs regarding specific cities that
immigrants are settled. Furthermore, interviewees described their refugee
experiences concordant with the term ‘stranger’ in terms of housing, job
opportunities, and health and education services. Finally, author criticized the

dual strategy of Turkish refugee policies and politics on account of emphasizing
a humanitarian aid by giving permission for the non-Europeans for a temporary
stay. On the other hand, as the author highlighted living strategies of refugees
are based on informal ties rather than formal such as kin-friend-refugee
networks. Another research was conducted by Alper Tarımcı (2005) which is
called “The Role of Geographical Limitation with Respect to Asylum and
Refugee Policies within the Context of Turkey’s EU Harmonization Process”.
In his thesis, he analysed geographical limitation11 which Turkey persists in
carrying on due to the security rationale. He discussed whether the geographical
limitation is necessary for Turkey on the way of convergence with European
Union. In other words, this thesis aims to fill the academic work gap in
Turkey’s asylum and refugee policies. In this framework, he put forward the
development of international refugee regime, Turkey’s asylum and refugee
policy, European Union’s asylum policies and EU-Turkey harmonization
process. In addition to these resources, some notable researchers have
significant studies in the field. Serving as a member of the External Relations
Advisory Committee of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
Kemal Kirişçi have academic works on refugee law, irregular migration flow,
asylum regulations, and convergence with EU in terms of asylum regulations in
Turkey. He has numerous articles about immigration, refugees and asylum-
seekers such as “Reconciling Refugee Protection with Combating Irregular
Migration: Turkey and the EU” (2004) and “The Question of Asylum and
Illegal Immigration in the EU and Turkish Relations” (2003). Being the director
of Migration Research Program at Koç University, Ahmet İçduygu focuses on
international migration regime in Turkey. He has various articles such as “How
Do Smuggling and Trafficking Operata via Irregular Border Crossing in the
Middle East? Evidence from Fieldwork in Turkey” (2002) and “Socio-
Economic Development and International Migration: A Turkish Study” (2001).
Çiğdem Alp has a thesis research which is called “Asylum Harmonization



11 As Tarımcı stated, “geographical limitation refers to an option for state parties to accept
asylum seekers only related to the events that occured in Europe before 1 January 1951;
specifically referred to in Article 1 B of the Convention” (Tarımcı, 2005, p. 1).

Process and Its Impacts within the Context of The EU Enlargement” (2005).
She discussed the extension of European asylum acquis to the third countries,
common European asylum policy, and involvement of candidate countries in the
EU’s asylum and migratin strategy and negative implications regarding the
establishment of a European refugee regime and its extension beyond Europe in
general.  She reached some significant results about EU immigration policies
and leveled criticism at the very idea of ‘Fortress Europe’ in terms of lack of
adequate standarts regarding exposure of refugee protection to third countries.
In this framework, sending refugees from the EU territories to the neighbouring
countries can not be an effective solution both for the refugees and third
countries. Being the managing editor of Migration Letters journal, İbrahim
Sirkeci has articles about international migration and internal migration in
Turkey such as “The Ethnic Question in an Environment of insecurity: the
Kurds in Turkey” (1999) and “Socio-Economic Development and International
Migration: A Turkish Study” (2001). He examines patterns of the migration
both economically and politically in Turkey. Finally, Deniz Yükseker has
significant researches on international and forced migration which focused on
Kurdish internal displacement in Turkey, African migrants and asylum-seekers
in Turkey. She approaches migration issue culturally and socially. In this
framework, she has noteworthy articles and surveys. The most cuurent research
is called “A Survey on African Migrants and Asylum Seekers in İstanbul”
(2006) and “Coming to Terms with Forced Migration: Post-Displacement
Restitution of Citizenship Rights in Turkey (2007). In the light of the scope and
focal point of the researches, refugee literature in Turkey consists of politic and
legal researches which are based on shaping refugee law and migration
legislation according the EU convergence process to a large extent.
Some civil society organizations in Turkey have projects and programs about
refugees and asylum-seekers to support asylum-seekers and refugees. One of
them is ‘Human Resource Development Foundation’. Within the scope of the
foundation, ‘Orientation Program for Immigrants from Bulgaria’ and ‘Program
for Supporting Refugee Women Residing in Turkey before Departing for a

Third Country’ were carried out. Association for Solidarity with Asylum-
Seekers and Migrants (ASAM) implements projects and programs about various
problems of asylum-seekers and refugees since 1995. Association initiates
informative works intended for public opinion about asylum-seekers and
refugees and trains immigrants about their rights. Currently, the association is
carrying out ‘Psycological Counselling Project for Asylum-Seekers and
Refugees’. Helsinki Citizens Assembly which is one of the most active NGOs,
carries out ‘Refugee Support Program’. Within the scope of the program,
Refugee Voices which is a quarterly newsletter is being published. In addition,
they prepared an evolution report on UNHCR Refugee Status Determination
Procedural Standarts to make relevant recommendations. Assembly prepares an
informative brochure to provide information to asylum-seekers, refugees and
other non-governmental organizations working with refugees which includes
definition of a refugee, applying procedures for refugee status in Turkey and
information on the UNHCR procedures as well. Furthermore, assembly initiates
and organizes ‘World Refugee Day’ activities and ‘Refugee Advocay Training
Program’ for NGOs. Apart from the beforementioned NGOs, ‘Amnesty
International Turkey’, ‘Organization of Human Rights & Solidarity for
Oppressed People’, ‘Human Rights Association’, ‘Light House Association’,
‘International Catholic Migration Commission’ and ‘Caritas Internationalis’
have humanitarian works, projects and financial support programs to serve and
protect uprooted people, refugees and asylum-seekers in Turkey.
Taking into account the aforementioned researches, and as a result of which
having realized the non-existence of researches which take into consideration
the interplay of national and religious identity and childhood experiences of
asylum-seeker children particularly, my thesis intends to fill this gap.
Considering the above-mentioned research analysis, this research is unique in
the field. Even though interviewing only eight children, in-depth interviews
helped me to reach the asylum-seeker children’s perceptions, feelings and
attitudes in their asylum-seeking experience in order to reveal how they
construct their national and religious identity and experience their childhood.

This research is also unique in terms of the methodogical perspective. I draw
upon Hermeneutics while analyzing the in-depth intervieews to acquire how the
interviewees’ of the past experiences and future anticipations influenced their
understandings, attitudes and actions in the present.
1.3 Methodology and Research Techniques
The theoretical perspective for the proposed study will be referred to
hermeneutics12, which is related to interpretive sociology. Before going into
hermeneutic, it is significant to the interpretive sociology briefly:
[f]or interpretive researchers, the goal of social research is to develop
an understanding of social life and discover how people construct
meaning in natural settings. An interpretive researcher wants to learn
what is meaningful or relevant to the people being studied, or how
individuals experience daily life. In contrast to positivist view that
social life is “out there” waiting to be discovered, interpretive social
science (ISS) states the social world is largely what people perceive it
to be. Social life exists as people experience it and give it meaning. ISS
assumes that multiple interpretations of human experience, or realities,
are possible. In sum, the ISS approach sees social reality as consisting
of people who construct meaning and create interpretations through
their daily social interaction. (Neuman, 2006, p. 88-89)
In this framework, my foremost aim is to reach to inner dynamics of
participants’ lives and thereby subjective level of human experience. With in-
depth interviewing, participants’ unique experiences were captured without
assuming any set of values a better or worse.
Although there are diverse schools of hermeneutic thought, I grounded my
argument on Dilthey who is one of the major theorists of hermeneutics. As
Palmer denoted, Dilthey explained hermeneutic in context of meaning.
According to Dilthey, life must be understood from the experience of life itself,
which is seen in terms of meaning. The context of life are derived from the



12 As Neuman stated, “[h]ermeneutic comes from a god in Greek mythology, Hermes, who had
the job of communicating the desires of the gods to mortals. This method associated with
interpretative social science that originates in religious and literary studies of textual material, in
which in-depth inquiry into text and relating its parts to the whole can reveal deeper meanings”
(Neuman, 2006, p. 87-88).

reality of lived experiences which in “neither a realistic nor an idealistic but a
phenomenological context” (Palmer, 1969, p. 103). The principle component of
meaning subsumes the context of the “past” and “future” for expectations,
which are provisional and finite, and they should be understood in a historical
context (Palmer, 1969, p. 117).
Neuman stated pointed out that interpretive researchers use in-depth interviews
to create meaning in everyday life (2006, p. 88). In the research, I conducted
semi-structured in-depth interviews with the participants in order to capture how
their experiences of the past and anticipations of future influenced their
understanding and actions in the present. I paid attention to understand, to give
meaning to the way of expression and interpretation of their experience.
In hermeneutic phenomenology, meaning changes with time because point of
views and perspectives are subjected to change. In view of this thought,
meaning turns up as mutable through history with alternating socio-economic
dynamics. In short, Dilthey formulated a methodology that approaches the issue
as “experience-expression-understanding” whose aim was to transcend the
objectivity of the natural sciences and returned to human experience (Palmer,
1969, p. 107).
The operation of understanding occurs within the principle of “hermeneutic
circle.” According to the principle, the whole is defined by its parts and the parts
are defined by the whole. The meaning takes place when understanding grips
this mutual interaction of the whole and the parts (Palmer, 1969, p. 118). As one
of the most distinguished philosophers of our time, Ricoeur argued for, “[…]
events and narratives endlessly inform and influence on another. The point is to
examine this process of configuration and reconfiguration of events in
narratives” (Ezzy, 1998, p. 178). I utilized hermeneutic circle especially while I
was analyzing the discontinuities within asylum-seeker children’s identities. I
tried to explain how the children’s relationship between the whole and the parts
changed during the asylum-seeking experience in Turkey. In an advanced state,

while I presumed the both home and host society as the ‘whole’, asylum-seeker
children are presumed as the ‘parts’ of that whole. I tried to demonstrate that
their relations with the home society are different from the relations in the host
society. In a similar vein, the home society’s relations with the asylum-seeker
children are different from the host society’s relations with them. Throughout
the interview, I strived to reveal this ebb and flow between the whole and the
parts in order to reveal the way of construction of identities.
Within this research, I preferred to resort to hermeneutics because I do not aim
at reaching objective knowledge. As Mul denoted in his book, The Tragedy of
Finitude, “[…] Dilthey did not desire objective knowledge, but because this
desire was always coupled with the realization that all knowledge is eventually
rooted in the unfathomability of life” (Mul, 2004, p. 332). At this point,
hermeneutics is in tune with Interpretive Social Science (ISS) as well. As
Neuman (2006) undercored that “[f]or ISS, facts are fluid and embedded within
a meaning system; they are not impartial, objective, and neutral” (p. 92). In
addition, it should also be highlighted that I benefited from only ‘hermeneutic
circle’ where the research question is congruous with the method.
A qualitative approach was employed in this research as the most appropriate
method to analyze the thoughts and perceptions of asylum-seeker children who
are living in Kayseri. The aim of the present research was to present first hand
experiences of the participants, as Yegidis and Weinbach (2006) pointed up;
“qualitative method” aims to catch on human experiences from the perspective
of those who experience them (p. 21).
This method aims at the exploration of normalcy of daily life (Shaw & Gould,
2001, p. 6). It looks for to expose particular details of individuals, groups and
societies that are sometimes typically masked in situations of everyday life.
Hence, “[i]t emphasizes words such as subjective, relative, or contextual;
therefore, there is no pretense that the researcher can collect data in an
objective, value-free manner” (Yegidis & Weinbach, 2006, p. 21). Throughout

the research, every participant gave priority and underlined various things as a
unique individual. They denoted the same thing in multitudinous paths. In this
framework, I did not look for a single and permanent objectivity but I looked for
various and floating subjectivities to interpret phenomena in terms of the
meanings which participants attributed. I tried to get the participant talk to
acquire their everyday life in Kayseri and as well in Iran by in-depth
interviewing. In addition, I tried to bring up an overview of the participants’
culture with comprehensive questions, which touched upon “every edge” of
social life for a holistic research (Shaw & Gould, 2001, p. 6-7).
1.4 Selection of the Research Site and Research Participants
I chose to conduct this research project in the Office of “Association for
Solidarity with Asylum-Seekers and Migrants” (ASAM) in Kayseri for a few
important reasons: (1) according to the UNHCR sources, 186 children – under
the age of 17 –out of 1027 are residing in Kayseri currently. In other words, the
majority of children of Iranian asylum-seekers are amassed in Kayseri; so, it
would be easy for me to decide on interviewees. (2) The presence of one of the
offices of ASAM canalized me to Kayseri in spite of the fact that employees
know almost every asylum-seeker child by name and domiciles. Apart from
these facts, (3) I heard that children of Iranian asylum-seekers drop by the office
almost every week. Thereby, I would connect with them rather easier than I
thought. With all these foreknowledges in mind, I decided on ASAM as an
adequate place to make the interviews.
The large majority of children of Iranian asylum-seekers are residing in Kayseri
as it was highlighted above. Asylum-seeker children in Kayseri are all living
with their nuclear families. According to the ASAM, the majority of the
children are Baha’i and others are Muslims who belong to Shi’i and Sunni
denomination and Christians but they do not know the exact number of children.
The Sunni children are very few in number and their ethnic origin is Kurdish.
They are the ‘Iranian Refugees ex-Iraq’. Majority of the children are attending

school in Kayseri; nevertheless, most of the Baha’i families refrain from
sending their children to school because they have a self-sufficient Baha’i
community in Kayseri to meet the children’s education needs.
The research was conducted through semi-structured in-depth interviews with
selected children of Iranian asylum-seekers, which comprises of two different
religious groups, ‘Shi’is13 and ‘Baha’is14. Even though one may deduce that I
put ‘religion’ in the center of my research, I actually wanted to throw light on
Shi’is’ and Baha’is’ different experiences in order to contrast them because their
migration reasons are quiet different from each other and deserve equal
attention.
After deciding on religion groups, eight participants would be acceptable to
conduct the research. I relied on two main sources at the ASAM office for
identifying potential participants: Mr. İbrahim, project coordinator of
Psychological Counseling Project for Asylum-Seekers and Refugees; and Miss.
Hilal, consultant of ASAM. I went to Kayseri ASAM office three times to
determine the participants. I used purposeful sampling and determined on the
participants with the help of Miss Hilal and Mr. İbrahim according to the
children’s successes on communication skills. Accessing the participants is
rather effortless because whenever Miss Hilal called up, they were expecting to
hear from UNHCR about their permission letter to pass to a third country that
they will stay permanent; therefore, some of them came to the office quiet
earlier that we expected. When they arrived in the office, Miss Hilal informed
them about the research and arranged a proper time for interview. Almost all the



13 Shi’ism is the largest denomination based on the Islamic faith after Sunni Islam. Shia’s
conceded Ali İbn Abi Talib (Muhammad’s cousin and husband of Fatimah) as successor to
Muhammed and rejected the legitimacy of the first three caliphs of Islamic history (Rippin,
2005, p. 122). I will argue the Shi’i understanding of its origins in the following chapters.
14 “The Baháism is a world religion based on the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. He explained that
there is only one God and one human family, and that all religions are spiritually united.
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings offer spiritual guidance as well as directives for personal and social
conduct” (The Baha’is, “About the Baha’i Faith,” n.d.). I will explicate the Baha’i faith in the
following chapters comprehensively.

children that Miss Hilal called came to the office with one of their parents and
mostly with their fathers. I explained the purpose of the research and format.
Just two parents asked to acquire further information. Having relied on Mr.
İbrahim profoundly, children’s parents did not object me interviewing their
children.  I met with the children on the arranged date of the interview. Before
conducting the interview, I delienated the scope of the research to them, then
tried to explain why I drew upon their help. Throughout the research, a child’s
refusal to participate was respected but I did not encounter any difficulties to
induce both parents and children regarding their participation in the interview.
1.5 Data Collection and Field Experience
Data was collected using the individual, semi-structured, and in-depth
interviews with eight children in order to gain insight into how they conduct
their ‘national’, ‘religious’ and ‘child’ identity in Kayseri. To determine the
appropriateness and validity of the questionnaire, a pilot study was administered
three children regardless of their religion and ethnic origin prior to
implementation. Upon completion of the pilot test, I made necessary changes in
the questionnaire. From the data deduced from the pilot test, the final
questionnaire was shaped. In order to able to work a language barrier, the
individual interviews were conducted through the assistance of an interpreter. In
this framework, I relied on the assistance of the interpreter of ASAM office
throughout this study. Her role was to convey questions and responses between
the participants and myself as well as to make up any misunderstandings
derived from cultural differences. Before going into interviews, I informed her
with necessary information about my research. Before the individual interviews,
I initially asked demographic questions to acquire general information about the
participants.
Each participant was interviewed only once and each interview was audiotaped
lasting between 45 minutes to 60 minutes long. I conducted one to one
interviews with the children in ASAM office. Only one of them wanted his

father by herself during the interview but I persuaded her to be interviewed
alone.
While I was preparing the questions, my initial concern was to compose
comprehensive questions, enough to let the participants’ freedom of speech and
expression. I avoided asking questions, which may give rise to vagueness and
confusion. I also avoided using emotional language. I did not persist to request
their leaving story of Iran as my co-supervisor advised me in advance. I also
tried to be sensitive about questions about religion taking into consideration
their possible drawbacks. I did not observe any discomforts in the questions.
Through the interview, as the circumstances required, I changed the order and
form questions according to the answers that I acquired from the participants.
Thence, I did not follow strictly interview guide during the research. Leaving a
room for flexibility, my focus was predominantly on the participants rather than
the questions. In some circumstances, I let them talk about the issues that they
wanted to elaborate on as much as they could in order to obtain more in-depth,
rich, and detailed data with an intensive listening.
In this research, I did not make a psychological trauma analysis. Even though
forced migration is a traumatic experience, I did not ask any questions which is
about violence and persecution that the intervieews might have experienced in
their home country. I thought these kinds of questions would unsettle the
children between the ages 10–16 unnecessarily.
Through the interviews, I did not encounter any challenges regarding
participant’s different language. The existence of an interpreter during the
interviews may seem as a filter for this research, most of the time I was able to
understand what the intervieewes said. Having a little command of Farsi was
my advantage at this point. I could not speak Farsi fluently but I could
understand; therefore, I could engross the conversation between the interpreter
and the participant.

1.6 Significance of the Research
This research was conducted to eliminate an unmeritorious prejudice regarding
children as a passive receiver of life in which they are living. “As James and
Prout pointed out those children ‘must be seen as involved in the construction of
their own social lives, the lives of those around them and […]. They can no
longer be regarded simply as the passive subjects of structural determinations’”
(Knörr & Nunes, 2005, 11). Due to the underestimation of children’s potential
in terms of constructing their own lives, paves the way for notable lack of
specific information in asylum-seeker or refugee children studies.
In the UK during the 1990s there was an increase in the demand for children’s
voices to be heard and their opinions to be sought in matters that affect them.
The UK government ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child
which has important clauses on children’s right to participation. Article 12
stipulates that “States parties shall assure to the child who is capable of forming
his or her views the right to express those views freely in all matters affecting
the child, the views of the child being given due weight in accordance with the
age and maturing of the child” (Morrow, 2004, p. 1).
With all these in mind, children could be enrolled in a research study as
intervieews or consultant if the research topic affects them markedly. In other
words, they could be taken account of as rational agents in researches which
provide knowledge about them. As Bessant contended, children’s involvement
in a research project refers to the idea of “equality”. “[a]s human beings young
people have human rights and ought to be accorded those rights in the same way
other people are” (Bessant,  2006, p. 53). The most crucial point of this research
is to let the children set forth their thought, experiences and perceptions about
asylum-seeking experience and give them a chance to express themselves
freely. As Bessant underlined, this child-centered approach also contribute to
the construction of their own identities (Bessant, 2006, p. 56).

In addition, urged by absence of documentation in this area, the overall purpose
of my research is to present new and further information about children in
asylum and highlight the uniqueness of the asylum seeking experience in
Turkey, about which there is a scarcity of knowledge. In this framework, this
research would contribute significantly to the efforts of sociologists, social
workers, psychologists and other whose concerns center in identifying and
ameliorating the plights of asylum-seeker or refugee children.
1.7 Research Ethics
Ethics in a resreach could be defined as by Sieber, “[…], the application of a
system of moral principles to prevent harming or wronging others, to promote
the good, to be respectful and to be fair” (as cited in Morrow, 2004, p. 1). One
of the quandaries about the research ethics is related to participation of children
in a research study. Such ethical quandaries are raised by particular formulation
of children as vulnerable minorities because of their lack of physical capability
and their lack of knowledge and experience; therefore, they need to be protected
from exploitative researches (Morrow, 2004, p. 6). Even though researchers are
inclined to not involve children in research studies for various ethical
requirements and competency reasons, there is a growing tendency that
children’s views, thoughts and perceptions can and should be taken into
consideration in researches that affect them (Morrow, 2004, p. 2). There are
some noteworthy developments and facilities to eliminate the “fixed-age rule”15
for this growing tendency. For instance, the National Statement on Ethical
Conduct in Research Involving Humans (National Health and Medical Research
Committee (NHMRC) which constitutes a basic guideline for ethical
considerations in researches is being replaced by a new document which is more
inclusive for children’ and young persons’participation in research studies by
allowance to obtain consent from child or young person without parental



As Bessant implied,
“[t]he current
fixed-age
rule
approach,
which
requires
parental\guardianship consent for reserach involving under 18-years-olds” (Bessant, 2006, p.
56).

permission in all matters affecting the child (Bessant, 2006, p. 50-51; Sterling &
Walco, 2003, p. 242).
This research involved children because within the scope of the research
question, the participation of children is incumbent in order to give them a voice
and to gain insight into the forced migration from their perspectives. In addition,
in this research the relevant knowledge could not be derived from adults. In
other words, my research proposal involved children as potential participants.
Moreover, the semi-structured questions were prepared by taking into account
the children’s emotional and psychological safety; therefore, the research is not
contrary to the child’s best interest. It is also significant to keep in mind that,
according to Mizen, in some specific situations, children and young people are
maturing earlier than they were historically. “Many young people have also
demonstrated their capacity to ‘be responsible’, ethical and socially competent”
(as cited in Bessant, 2006, p. 54). Eventhough the children under 18-year-old
participated in this reserach, experiences of the asylum-seeking children
matured them enough to participate in the research and answer the questions.
Therefore, the research is regarded to be low risk for the children.
Furthermore, before the research was conducted on children, particular
requirements about research ethics were taken into consideration. Relevant
information about the research was provided to the parents and children.
Parental and child consent were obtained orally. The consent was based on
‘voluntariness’ so that the children were informed that they could withdraw
from the research whenever they wanted.
Prior to the interview process, all participants and their parents were informed
that their names and addresses would remain confidential when publishing the
results of the research. All participants appear under pseudonym names to
reduce discomfort and treat the participants with dignity. None of the participant
asked for any changes or dismissal of any personal information.

1.8  Organization of the Chapters
The introductory chapter depicts the general statement of problem area and
general information about the interviews, research participants, field experience
and significance of the research. Subsequently, the specific methodology
utilized in the current study is presented.
The second chapter gives the theoretical background of the study by defining
national and religious identity and childhood experiences comprehensively in
referance to related identity theories which will be utilized in analyzing the
interviews and research questions. This chapter ends with yielding the effects of
adaptation patterns to reconstruction of identities.
The third chapter is a historical segment which reveals the situation of Iranian
asylum-seekers since the Islamic Revolution. It presents the Turkish regulations
on asylum-seekers through a continuous historical line. This chapter also offers
a general overview of Shi’is and Baha’is in Iran in order to justify their
immigration reasons.
The forth chapter is devoted to the analysis of the in-depth interviews and
observations. National and religious identity of asylum-seeker children will be
appraised considering the concepts “situational identities” (Smith, 2001),
“substituted identities” (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005), “and fragmented
identities” (Hall, 1996), “ambivalent identities” (Bauman, 2004), “stranger”
(Simmel, 1950) and “memory negotiation” (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005).
The last chapter of the study offers a brief conclusion which presents my own
observations and results of the in-depth interviews. Also, implications and
recommendations for future research were presented.


CHAPTER 2

THEORETICAL BACKGROUND

Identity has come to the forefront in the researches of scholars since the end of
the 1980s and early 1990s (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p. 115). After the
1980s, as Giddens denoted, “the need for identity has increased and the process
of identity construction has become more difficult and complex” (as cited in
Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p. 115).
Unlike the modern concern of identity whose primary interest was to keep
identity static and absolute, the post-modern concern of identity was to avoid
fixation for the sake of fluid identities, which change across time and social
context (Hall, 1996, p. 18). As most of the terms are being exposed to change in
the post-modern era, the term identity was affected by this change; therefore,
multitudinous depictions of identity were cropped up and started to flourish.
In delineating a research that is based on identity is stringent due to the presence
of multitudinous depictions of the term identity; therefore, I tried to present the
related identity definitions which comprises the basic problematic of this thesis.
2.1 Overview of Identity Theories
Definition of identity reveals considerable confusion and ambiguity about the
issue. As Phinney noted, a surprising number of the articles, which he reviewed
about the identity issue, (about two thirds), provided no explicit definition of the
construct (Phinney, 1990, p. 500). Referring to  Phinney’s complaining,
Giddens pointed out, since social identity become popular among scholars since

the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, the need for identity has increased and the
process of identity construction has become more difficult and complex (as
cited in Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p. 115). Hence, to avoid from this
complexity, I decided on to constitute a crucible, which subsumes the most
widely recognized researchers’ identity definition in parallel with data that I
acquired from interviews.
In this research, primarily, identity was worked on as a dynamic product rather
then simply given which is subjected to construction and reconstruction in any
social context. Related with dynamic feature of identity, Anthony Smith used
the most appropriate term, situational, for to explicate national identity in his
book, Nationalism (Smith, 2001). As a result of my research, about identity
literature, I found Anthony D. Smith’s explication of identity intelligible and
comprehensive in the field. As he stated in his own words:
[t]he above analysis may give the impression that collective cultural
identities are somehow fixed and static. That is very far from being the
case. True, we are dealing here with long-term constructs, but these are
not essences or fixed quantities of traits. Cultural identities and
communities are as much subject to process of change and dissolution
as everything else, and these changes may be gradual or cumulative, or
sudden and discontinuous. The only difference from other kinds of
collective identity is the generally slower rate and the longer time-span
of the rhythms of cultural change […]. (Smith, 2001, p. 19-20)
Having realized the slippery floor, which identities derive from, I, thought that
theory of Anthony Smith would be beneficial while I explain identity. In
addition, throughout my research, I came to realize abounding examples of
flexible and malleable identities.
In this research, abundance of both identity theories and terms grasped my mind
so much that making a decision on explaining the identity issue was not easy.
For example, the term hybridization, which is preferred largely in post-modern
debates, was not proper for every case of this research. For instance, one of the
children that I interviewed rejected her native culture and language. Whereas, if
an asylum-seeker or refugee child is subjected to hybridism, he or she

harmonizes native and foreign culture or one culture may become preponderant
when compared with the other. In this case, the asylum-seeker child borned into
her native culture but later on she was subjected to foreign culture codes
intensively; therefore, she eradicated both native and foreign culture by
engulfing both of them.
As I highlighted in advance, Iranian children asylum-seeking experience is
unique owing to the fact that they are temporarily settled in Turkey. Referring to
this fact, the children whom I made interviews with were living by remembering
the past memories and dreaming for future. They are straddling home and host
society; therefore, they could not take place to carry out any of the
acculturation16 attitudes completely, apart from ‘marginalization’, limited
‘separation’ and limited ‘assimilation’ in terms of peer contact and preferring
social activities, which involve both nationals and their own ethnic group. They
do not take on cultural values of host society and move away their own cultural
heritage. They can integrate, separate and assimilate limitedly. Therefore,
throughout the research, my intensive effort has been to avoid putting them in
categorical templates owing to the fact that there is no widely agreed definition
of identity. Moreover, as Phinney (1990) underscored also, comprehensive
range of construction of identity exist; therefore, researchers have to take into
consideration multitudinous paths to explain identity construction. In this
framework, I strived to lay out various theoretical orientations and measures that
are unique to each religious group.
Smith employed identity in a rather straightforward way. To Smith, identity is
tantamount to “sameness.” For instance, the members of a particular group
differ from non-members outside the group who dress, eat, and speak in
different ways. “This pattern of similarity-cum-dissimilarity is one meaning of
national ‘identity’” (Smith, 1991, p. 75). However, even the traditional meaning
of identity touches upon ‘exclusion’ and ‘difference.’ For instance, members of



16As Phinney premised, “[…], acculturation focuses on how immigrant groups relate to the both
host society and their own group as a subgroup of the larger society” (1990, p. 501).

a particular group may constitute a unity within themselves, but they define
themselves and this unity according to other individuals who belong to a
different group. In other words, ‘sameness’ embraces ‘difference’ at the same
time.
According to Hall who is one of the leading scholars in the field of identity
politics, identities are increasingly fragmented and fractured and constantly
exposed to change and transformation as there is a continuously shifting
position in late modern times. Identities are subject to radical change and
transformation within historically specific developments in relation to the
processes of globalization (Hall, 1996, p. 4). He proposed that with modernity,
local development and practices overspread to other cultures and populations
and gave an example of how processes of forced migration transformed into a
global phenomenon (Hall, 1996, p. 4).  In fact, he pronounced that identity is a
process of becoming rather than being within the context of history, language,
and culture. That is, identity changes if the history is told in a different way. As
Hall stated, “[…], we need to understand them as produced in specific historical
and institutional sites within specific discursive formations and practices by
specific enunciative strategies” (Hall, 1996, p. 4). The identity theory of Hall
pointed out narratives and how individuals positioned themselves within the
narratives of the past. Apart from emphasizing the role of narratives in identity
construction, Hall also presented a point of view, which is rather different from
the traditional meaning of identity, which emphasized ‘sameness.’ As Hall
noted, for any identification process, there is a need for the other within the
context of power, which helps to indicate difference and exclusion. Thus,
identities are the product of the marking of difference and exclusion rather than
the traditional meaning which refers to it as an indicator of “constituted unity”
(Hall, 1996, p. 4-5). In a similar vein to Derrida (1981), Laclau (1990) and
Butler (1993), Hall placed great emphasis on the relation to the other through
the construction of identity because identity can not be formed independently of
outside influence. Nevertheless, internal-external dialectic of identity formation
is not sufficient to describe identity construction. Identity construction does not

just transpire from the contrast between a home community and the outside host
community; therefore, it is not enough to ask questions of ‘who am I, where do I
belong and how do I fit into society?’ and of identification by others, such as
‘who are they, are they part of my group?’ In spite of the fact that foregoing
questions form a considerable part of the process of coping with predicaments
and agonies, the identity formation needs further explications. For instance,
“memory negotiation” is also a very noteworthy area in the process of identity
construction (Chirstopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p. 121). As Chirstopoulou and
Leeuw observed,
[i]n the context of migration people are confronted with several
degrees of discontinuity. As their notion of identity is undermined they
apparently start looking for continuity in order to feel ‘at home’ again.
In the new space people feel the need to relate themselves somehow to
the past. In the context of migration identity construction is informed
by both past memory and current experience in the new place. The
notion of home is being articulated in particular in the concept of
family, yet imagined […]. For migrant children this is a common
experience whereby something which is “remembered” but may no
longer exist as such, becomes substituted, “re-membered” and
reconstructed in a new context.  (Chirstopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p.
117-119)
What is really important to me in the theory of Hall is that he regarded identity
as a process of becoming rather than being. He argued that identities are
exposed to change unavoidably and continuously but he missed a significant
point within his identity theory. He overlooked the past may be reinvented and
accommodated into the present more differently than specific discursive
formations and practices. Even though Hall regarded identities as produced in
specific historical and institutional sites, individuals may transform the
historical site by reinventing their experiences with their unique discourses as
Christopoulou and Leeuw contended above. I draw upon memory negotiation
limitedly in the research by asking questions about the past memories and
current experiences in the host society. For example, the notion of home in the
home society was questioned by referring to their home in Iran to throw light on
how it was remembered in their host society.

Tasoulla is another scholar whom I resorted to her research which is about
“refugee identity” formation of refugee children in Cyprus. According to her,
identity could be explained regarding the loss of home, origins and roots (2002,
p. 90). Hadjiyanni stated that when refugee children lose their identity and sense
of belonging, feelings of discrimination and alienation come out and these
feelings lead them to construct a new identity in the host society (2002, p. 90).
In this regard, Hadjiyanni concurs with Hall concerning identity as a process of
becoming rather than being. In addition, she articulated that identity is
reconstructed in a new context as Christopoulou and Leeuw argued beforehand
because she contended that loss of significant values such as home, origins and
roots directed children to construct new identities in their host societies.
I also acceded to Bauman’s depiction of identity in this research. According to
Bauman “[y]es, indeed, ‘identity’ is revealed to us only as something to be
invented rather than discovered; […]. [T]he forever provisional status of
identity can no longer be concealed” (Bauman, 2004, p. 15-16). By declaring
the contingency of identities, he also accepted the elusive, ambivalent and
constructed natures of identities which are in tune with the features of this
research. According to Bauman, identities are not fixed or static.
Longing for identity comes from the desire for security, itself an
ambigious feeling. […], ‘betwixt-and-between’ location, becomes in
the long run an unnerving and anxiety-prone condition. On the other
hand, a fixed position amidst the infinity of possibilities is not an
attractive prospect either. In our liquid modern times, when the free-
floating, unencumbered individual is the popular hero, ‘being-fixed’ –
being ‘identified’inflexibly and without retreat – gets an increasingly
bad press. (Bauman, 2004, p. 29)
Finally, I drew upon Simmel’s notion of “stranger” as well when analyzing the
interviews. As Simmel pointed out,
[t]he stranger […], as the person who comes today and goes tomorrow.
He is, so to speak, the potential wanderer: although he has not moved
on, he has not quite overcome the freedom of coming and going. He is
fixed within a particular spatial group, or within a group whose
boundaries are similar to spatial boundaries. But his position in this
group is determined, essentially, by the fact that he has not belonged to

it from the beginning, that he imports qualities into it, which do not and
cannot stem from the group itself. (Simmel, 1950, p. 402)
Being an outsider, immigrants have significant drawbacks regarding the feeling
of not belonging and being an outcast in the host society. When the period of
immigrants’ habitancy lengthens, they become more unsettling than a tourist in
the eyes of the mainstream society due to the fact that the unknown always
intimidates individuals. Stemming from this tension, immigrants construct their
identities as a synthesis of remoteness and nearness. Thus, the foreigner is
defined by this major duality (as cited in Bagnoli, 2007, p. 33).
2.1.1 National Identity
Nation is regarded as a rather ambiguous word, which used to denote people
linked by residence, birth, and ancestry. It is also used extensively to indicate
territory, its inhabitants, and the government that rules them from a single,
unified center (Joseph, 2004, p. 92).
As Joseph argued, apart from the ambiguity of nation as a term, the success of
nation-states as a connective power upon the inhabitants who are dwelling is
one of the most discussed issues of recent years. To explain roughly, today not
all of the members of a nation by birth are residing in their home country for
numerous reasons. Such a perfect ideal of nation-state was damaged
considerably on the ground of globalization phenomenon. In other words,
globalization dissolved the very ideal of puristic nationalisim and the idea that
nation can really unify (Joseph, 2004, p. 92).
Nation is closely related to national identity which denotes political borders and
autonomy, often justified by arguments centered around distinguishing features
of a group, such as shared cultural heritage and individuals’ sense of belonging
to it, but where the ethnic element is inevitably multiple.
Bearing all these in mind, following section will question, what the primary
constituent elements of a nation and national identity are, based on ethno-

sybolist paradigm; therefore, I preferred to dwell upon Smith’s definition of
national identity which is the most proper definition for this research.
Ethno-symbolist paradigm aroused from the reaction against modernist
paradigm as a middle-ground approach by a number of scholars. In striking
contrast to modernists, they brought pre-existing texture of ethnic ties, myths,
symbols, values, memories and shared emotions in the foreground during the
formation of modern nations (Özkırımlı, 2000, p. 167).
Anthony Smith is the most notable scholar who explicitly acknowledged and
elucidated the ethno-symbolist paradigm to understand the inner worlds of
nationalism. As Smith stated, ethno-symbolist paradigm shares a number of
concerns. The Paradigm’s primary aim is to bring out the symbolic legacy of
ethnic forebears for today’s nations by arguing that a distinct continuity exists
between ‘traditional’ and ‘modern.’ A second common aim is to eliminate
elite’s role in shaping national identities. Ethno-symbolists lay stress on the
relationship between elites and the masses (Smith, 2001, p. 57).
In fact, according to this paradigm, “nations are neither all recent and novel, nor
just products of modernization, then it becomes necessary to search for another
paradigm that would encompass and do justice to the oft-remarked duality […]”
(Smith, 2001, p. 60). Ethno-symbolist paradigm interweaved both objective
factors such as language, religion, customs, territory, and institutions and
subjective factors such as attitudes, perceptions, sentiments, symbols, memories,
myths, values, and traditions to define the term nation.
By directing attention to the ethnic forebears, ethno-symbolist paradigm
grounded on the rise of nations and nationalism17 by a transformation from
ethnie to nation. According to Smith, ethnie or an ethnic community stresses on
the role of a myth of common ancestry, shared historical memories,
differentiating elements of common culture, an association with a specific



17 According to Smith, “nationalism is an ideological movement for attaining and maintaining
the autonomy, unity and identity of a nation” (1991, p. 74).

“homeland” and a sense of solidarity for significant sectors of the population
(Smith, 1991, p. 21; Smith, 2001, p. 13).
As Smith underlined, a nation is neither a state, nor an ethnic community. It is
not a state, because the concept of state relates to autonomous institutions,
which differentiate from other institutions in a given territory. In contrast, nation
is based on a collective will and shared emotions of specific moral community
(Smith, 2001, p. 12).
Nation is not an ethnic community because an ethnic community does not
necessarily presuppose occupy a specific homeland; therefore, members of an
ethnic community are not able to have a shared history and a public culture
(Smith, 2001, p. 12). As Smith stated,
public culture […], represents a key feature of the concept of nation,
endowing it with a sense of unity and a recognized distinctivess. It is
not enough for the designated population to share a common language
or religion and customs. This language or religion must become a
common public property and part of an acknowledged, or official,
distinctive culture. (Smith, 2002, p. 20)
According to Smith, the alteration from demotic ethnie to civic nation has some
significant steps. These include:
•
A movement to a politicized community with a unified policy in order to
constitute a sovereign state.
•
A desire towards a universally recognized “homeland” for an absolute
demarcated territory.
•
A single economy with control over its own resources.
•
A movement to turn ethnic members to legally equal members by
presenting them single code of civil, legal, political rights and duties under a
common legal system.
•
A movement to confer on new roles by re-educating them through
compulsory and standardized mass education in national values, myths and
memories (Smith, 1994, p. 153-154).

Bearing these in mind, Smith delineated nation as “[…] a named human
community occupying a homeland, and having common myths and a shared
history, a common public culture, a single economy and common rights and
duties for all members” (Smith, 1991, p. 14; Smith, 2001, p. 13; Smith, 2002, p.
17). Smith went further and suggested indispensable provisions for survival of a
nation. These are national autonomy, national unity, and national identity
(Smith, 2001, p. 9). Since it is related to my research, I will deal with national
identity.
According to Smith, having created by nationalism, “national identity” was
perhaps the most fundamental and powerful identity myth in the modern world
among the multiple identities which human beings share today (Smith, 1991,
introduction section, para. 6). As Smith denoted, the existence of a homeland18,
common culture, common historical myths, and memories, reciprocal legal
rights for all members of a nation regardless of their gender, status, or race are
the fundamental features of “national identity.” Such a definition, which lays
stress on a number of interrelated components, brings out complex, multi-
dimensional and abstract nature of national identity. In that respect, to Smith,
the term national identity embraces two kinds of dimensions: “Civic and
territorial” and “ethnic and genealogical” (Smith, 1991, p. 15). While civic and
territorial dimension accentuates a definite social space within which members
must live and work and be subject to common laws and institutions under a
common legal system, ethnic and genealogical dimension accentuates presumed
descent ties, vernacular languages, customs, traditions, myths, symbols, and
historical memories. In other words, while national identity comprises cultural
identity with its emphasizes on ethnic and genealogical dimension, it also
comprises political identity with its emphasizes on civic and territorial
dimension. According to Smith, creating a widespread awareness by instilling
ethnic and genealogical dimension, which are pre-existing local ethnic



18 In this definition, Smith enumerated the “existence of a homeland” at the outset because he
strongly supported the idea of “nationals outside the homeland were deemed to be ‘lost’ ”
(Smith, 1991, p. 75).

configurations, such as myths, history and linguistic traditions into the
community, the idea of ethnic nation was imprinted to members’ of the nation’s
memory because nations always presuppose ethnic elements (Smith, 1991, p.
12).
As Smith argued, even though other types of collective identities such as class,
religion, gender, and race may have an affect on the direction of national
identity, they rarely come through to downgrade its significance. The reason,
which lies behind the potency and durability of national identity, is its ubiquity.
National identity is so pervasive that it touches on a wide range of spheres of
life such as, assumptions, myths, values, memories as well as in language, law,
institutions, and ceremonies (Smith, 1991, p. 143-144). With all these
foreknowledges in mind, Smith warned his readers not to underestimate
identities’ “chameleon-like” nature as well (Smith, 1991, p. 144). To Smith,
individuals identify themselves with various identities and roles ─ familial,
territorial, class, religious, occupational groups, regions, parties, confessions,
ethnic and gender ─ Individuals can modify or even abolish these social
classifications, as circumstances require (Smith, 2001, p. 18).
Smith also accentuated that identities which are based on primarily cultural
elements such as religious and national identities tend to resist to dissolutions
more than other types of collective identities, such as classes, regions, parties
and so forth because memories, values, symbols, myths and traditions  tend to
be more persistent and binding (Smith, 2001, p. 19). The above-mentioned
analysis of Smith may make the readers think that collective cultural identities
are static and stark; however, he underscored that every type of identity is
subject to process of change and dissolution. He stated, “these changes may be
gradual and cumulative, or sudden and discontinuous. The only difference from
other kinds of collective identity is the generally slower rate and the longer
time-span of the rhythms of cultural change […].” (2001, p. 19-20).

In short, contrary to criticisms aimed at Smith by Özkırımlı, Smith conceded
and recognized flexibility and the situational context of identities. In this regard,
even though he accepted national identity as the most powerful and dominant
among individuals, he noted that even the strength of national identity could
change within various social-contexts; therefore, I do not take into consideration
the major criticism leveled against ethno-symbolists for their so-called
underestimation of the fluidity and malleability of identities. In the modern
world, memories, symbols, myths, traditions, identities, and the like are also
subject to a constant reinterpretation and ethno-symbolists are aware of this
fact. In this framework, I drew on Smith’s points of view about identities
throughout my research because with his unequivocal attention to the ethnic
memories, myths, symbols and traditional ties, he does not sweep away the
vestiges of the past and its patchwork of ethnic and religious culture, but he
does not regard primordial objects solid and absolute at the same time (Smith,
2001, p. 85-86).
2.1.2 Religious Identity
In this section, religious identity, which is one of my focal points in the
research, is a valid reason to claim refugee status for UNHCR [in case of a
restriction or violation of right to have a religion, to practice one’s religion and
to change religions]; and therefore, it has been examined in detail. (UNHCR,
“Manual on Mandate Refugee Status Determination”, n.d., p. 33). Firstly, some
crucial religious identity definitions will be given and the functions of religion
for immigrants in general will be demonstrated.
As it has been accepted by twentieth century social scientists, religion is still
playing an important role in people’s lives. This view dates back to the
inception of sociology regarding the significance of religion in social life. For
instance, Durkheim who is one of the founders of modern sociology, defined
religion as the cement, which held modern societies together (Alwin, Felson,
Walker & Tufiş, 2006, p. 530). Beyer, a professor of sociology, who focused his

researches primarily on sociological theory of religion and religious diversity in
Canada regarding recent immigrants,  defined religion “as a global societal
system which is transnational in character and acts like nation-states or the
economy” (as cited in Akçapar, 2006, p. 819). For French sociologist Hervieu-
Leger religion is a cultural memory of a society, which helps to transit identity
from one generation to another (Mitchell, 2006, p. 1138). For Hamf, religion
summons the community because religion began to grow in the socialization
process of early childhood (as cited in Mitchell, 2006, p. 1140).
Religious identity describes membership of a community defined by common
beliefs, traditions of ritual, certain symbolic codes and value system or ancestry
(UNHCR, “Manual on Mandate Refugee Status Determination,” n.d., p. 33).
According to Wimberley (1989), the members of a specific religious group
anticipate that each member will perform appropriate religious behaviors and be
compatible with certain normative religious beliefs. This particular kind of role
performance constitutes religious identity (p. 129). According to Smith (1991),
religious identities are quiet different from class, profession and gender
identities owing to the fact that these identities appear from production and
exchange activities but religious identities derive from communication and
socialization (p. 6).  In other words, Smith contended that religion has a dual
character in terms of its spiritual and social role. When masses summon around
a faith, members of that faith feel that they are sharing certain symbolic codes,
value systems, and tradition of belief and ritual. In a way, they have a tendency
to join in a single social community. Within this period, they are subject to
socialization since their early childhood (Smith, 1991, p. 27). Moreover,
religious identities are not acquired but mostly passed on by family, religious
groups or other social entities (Smith, 1991, p. 6).
In the framework of religion, Smith laid out another delicate point. Even though
the foundations of modern nations are not based on a religion simply, Smith
warned his readers about religion’s decisive role in the formation of modern

nations because as Connor and Nash implied, religion is often articulated to the
modern nations as an “imagined kinship” (Mitchell, 2006, p. 1139).
As an imagined kinship, religion has crucial functions among immigrants. Johan
Leman below enumerated these functions,
•
As an institutional conveyor of (ethno-cultural) bridging
•
As a medium of socio-cultural integration
•
As a medium for affirming original culture
•
As a celebration of cultural and religious syncretism
•
As an engine of (non-) adaptation (as cited in Akçapar, 2006, p. 818).
As Akçapar noted, religion plays a very crucial role in the formation of personal
and social identity among immigrants, asylum-seekers and refugees both in the
context of the integration and transit period in the host country19 (Akçapar,
2006, p. 818).
According to the identity theory of Tajfel and Turner, simply being a member of
a group provides individuals with a sense of belonging with an emotional
adherence bonded to that membership (Phinney, 1990, p. 500). In the research, I
assumed this group as a religious group.  According to the theory, if the
preponderant group in a society excludes characteristics of another group and
precludes them from basic ways of life, the excluded group is faced with a
negative distinctiveness (Phinney, 1990, p. 501).
In the research, I measured the individual religiosity of the children by taking
into consideration both religious norm adherence and religious identity salience
(Wimberley, 1989, p. 125).  According to Wimberley, religious norm adherence
is “the degree to which an individual adheres to the normative expectations of
his or her religious group” (1989, p. 130). On this account, Stark and Glock



19 Significant functions and roles of religion will be discussed in Chapter Four in detail by
referring to the interviews that I made with the children in Kayseri.

(1968) set forth five dimensions of “religious commitment” or “religious norm
adherence”:
[b]elief orthodoxy, adherence to set of beliefs associated with one’s
religious tradition; (2) ritual involvement, the performance of public
religious practices; (3) devotionalism, the performance of private
religious practices; (4) experience, perceptions of rather direct contact
with the divine; and (5) religious knowledge, the extent of one’s
knowledge about one’s religion. (as cited in Wimberley, 1989, p. 127)
However, Wimberley (1989) pointed out that religious identity salience20 is
quiet different from religious norm adherence. Religious identity salience
describes how an individual attaches to the specific religion and to what extent
religious identity is superior among the individual’s other identities (p. 130). As
Wimberley (1989) posited, adherence to religious norms does not necessarily
point religious identity salience, nonetheless religious identity salience is closely
referred to the extent to which religious norms are internalized (p. 130). For
Stryker and Serpe, the concept of identity salience is fundamental to identity
theory. According to them, one’s propensity to adhere religious norms in every
given situation shows the salience of religious identity (Wimberley, 1989, p.
130-131). Conclusively, religiosity could be measured out through both norm
adherence and identity salience. Persons who have religious identity salience
will apt to carry out their roles as expected without taking into consideration
rewards and external costs to violate non-religious norms (Wimberley, 1989, p.
136). When I was analyzing asylum-seeker children’s religious identities in the
interview, I took into consideration both norm adherence and religious identity
salience.
2.1.3 Childhood Experiences
In this research, a comprehensive inquiry about ‘childhood’ is necessary
because displacement and multiple traumatic impacts of the asylum-seeking
experience pose a serious obstacle in their childhood experiences. On this



20 As a phenomenon, religious identity salience belongs to Stryker’s (1980) terminology
(Wimberley, 1989, p. 130).

account, childhood was taken up as a social construction in this thesis.  In an
advanced sentence,
[l]ooking further back I can see vast differences between contemporary
and historical childhoods. Today, children have few responsibilities,
their lives are characterized by play not work, school not paid labour,
family rather than public life and consumption intead of production. A
hundred years ago, a twelve-year-old working in a factory would have
been perfectly acceptable. […] These changing ideas about children
have led many social scientists to claim that childhood is a ‘social
construction’. They use this term to mean that understandings of
childhood are not the same everywhere […]. (BBC Open 2.net, “The
Invention of Childhood”, n.d.)
Bearing the foregoing explanations in mind, the interviewees’ childhood
experiences will be examined by taking the implementation of the most
fundamental child rights into account. According to World Childhood
Foundation, “[e]very child has a right to a childhood, security, joy, playfulness
and a general curiosity about life. Every one has right to grow up and develop
socially and intellectually. However, many children are deprived of these most
fundamental rights” (World Childhood Foundation, “About Childhood”, n.d.).
Nevertheless, experiencing childhood is not the same for the children who are
living in different social contexts. For instance, asylum-seeker and refugee
children, they are experiencing childhood rather differently from their coevals
who live in their home country.
Moreover, underestimation of childhood studies prompted to examine
construction of childhood in detail because children are still regarded as passive
receivers of the society in which they are living. Moreover, their own voices and
experiences are generally absent from the discourses of professionals and policy
makers. In this research, I will reveal that children are active creators of their
own life, and their parents’ lives so much that they are able to create new roles
for themselves in various social and cultural contexts. In the light of the above
information, the concept of childhood will be discussed initially as the mainstay
of this sub-title.

As James explained, childhood was conceptualized “[…] within evolutionary
discourses of children’s biological make up and was confined to mother-child
relationships until the 1970s” (as cited in Dona, 2006, p. 23). It has been argued
by Phillippe Aries, a French historian, that childhood did not exist in medieval
society. This gave rise to emergence of a new paradigm in childhood studies
(Dona, 2006, p. 23). This new paradigm regards childhood as a social
construction. As James argued, children are no more the passive recipients but
they are active and independent social agents who are sufficient to construct
their own lives within this new paradigm (as cited in Dona, 2006, p. 23). As
Christensen and Prout underlined, this paradigm shift also paved the way for a
radical change in childhood studies towards an active child participant in the
researches. As a result, children became subjects rather than objects of the
researches (as cited in Dona, 2006, p. 32).
As Sporton, Valentine and Nielsen (2006) underlined, it is significant to
ascertain when the childhood finishes and when the adulthood starts out.  In
most European countries the borders of childhood are defined by touching upon
the age limit. According to this widely accepted age limit, adulthood takes place
at 18. In other words, under the age of 18, all people are accepted as children
who are vulnerable human “becomings” (Jenks, 1996) in most of the European
countries (p. 207). At this point, by accentuating Jeffrey, McDowell, Robson
and Jenk’s point of views Sporton, Valentine, and Nielsen (2006) leveled
against this prescribed definition of childhood for the reasons of its being
hegemonic and based on a normative Western construction (p. 207). In fact, the
United
Nations
Children’s
Fund
(UNICEF),
United
Nations
High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and Convention on the Rights of the
Child (CRC) define a child as “anyone under the age of 18” (UNHCR, Refugee
Children, n.d., p. 5; UNICEF, “Convention on the Rights of the Child:
Summary”, n.d.) but this superficial age limit can not describe the transition
from childhood to adulthood comprehensively. As Jenks implied, this overlooks
cross-cutting lines of cultural understanding of the transition to adulthood (as
cited in Sporton, Valentine, & Nielsen, 2006, p. 207). In other words, apart from

the absolute childhood definition in the legally binding instruments, the concept
of childhood is also ever-changing in various space, time and conditions
whereby the transition to adulthood does not take place at the age of 18 in every
social and cultural context.
This untimely adulthood damages to expeirnce childhood in some cases such as
the case of the children who are experiencing asylum-seeking process. One of
the great majority who could not live their childhood properly are refugees and
asylum-seeker children certainly. As Fantino and Colak (2001) stated, “every
day, nearly 5,000 children become refugees, with a vast number growing up and
spending their entire lives in refugee camps” (p. 588). The children who are
experiencing or has experienced the asylum-seeking process with their families
sometimes assume almost a ‘parental’ responsibility in specific situations. In
case of unaccompanied minors21, asylum-seeker and refugee children have to
face various challenges all alone. In such cases, they have to relinquish their
childhood and take the role of their parent’s adult identity in order to survive. In
short, throughout the asylum-seeking experience, most of the children are
deprived of their childhood.
In this research, even though most of the children of Iranian asylum-seekers
who are living in Kayseri can participate in school, leisure, recreational, and
cultural activities, their child role is replaced by the adult role in situations
where they must interpret for their parents such as the situations in which they
are in contact with local authorities, social workers, and doctors outside the
school since they speak Turkish better than their parents (Anderson, 2001, p.
191). However, as I learnt from ASAM officers, some of the children of Iranian
asylum-seekers are working in restaurants as a dishwasher or a cleaner in order
to support the household economy in Kayseri. Therefore, they could not adapt to
the host society and foreign culture as quickly, unlike the others who could



21 According to UNHCR, “[u]n unaccompanied asylum-seeking child is someone under the age
of 18 years who has been separated from parents and other adult care-givers, is making a claim
for refugee status and needs the care and protection of welfare services in the country of asylum
while that claim is examined and settled” (as cited in Kohli, 2006, p. 707).

because they are going to school. In short, these different cultural and social
contexts of childhood pose a great impediment in experiencing their childhood
in the new context.
In addition, even though Turkey signed the Convention on the Rights of the
Child (CRC) on September 14, 1990 and even though this legally binding
instrument subsumes the asylum-seeker and refugee children’s rights, most of
the children of Iranian asylum-seekers are deprived of their non-negotiable
rights in Turkey. Furthermore, while Turkey ratified the optional protocols of
the Convention on September 8, 2000, on the sale of children, child prostitution,
child pornography and on the involvement of children in armed conflict;
nevertheless article 22 which is about the rights of asylum-seeker and refugee
children was not ratified (UNICEF, “UNICEF in Turkey”, n.d.).
2.2 Effects of Adaptation Patterns to Reconstruction of Identities
This chapter analyses the acculturation22 literature on the theoretical situation of
asylum-seeker children, considering factors that influence their adaptation and
adjustment to host country from the perspective of two discrete models of
adaptation to reveal both of the models are not consistent with the case of
children of Iranian asylum-seekers in Turkey. In this regard, I will examine both
“non-linear” and “linear” models of adaptation.
2.2.1 Non-Linear Models of Adaptation
Asylum-seeker children are often accompanied by stressors, predicaments,
challenges, and potential barriers, such as a new social environment and
neighborhood, a new education system, an additional language, a new
socialization pattern, a new peer group, miscellaneous bereavements, poverty,
loneliness, alienation, discrimination and so forth. All these foregoing reasons
lead to difficulties in adapting to a new society. When this is considered, the



22 Even though, acculturation results in cultural changes in both two cultural groups, I primarily
dealt with the cultural changes within Iranian asylum-seekers’ community in Turkey.

question “How do asylum-seeker children live betwixt and between two
cultures?” gains significance. These cultures refer to those of the immigrant’s
home community and those of the host community at hand. Do they assert their
cultural heritage or conglomeration of cultural representations? Alternatively,
do they encounter any challenges while living in a cross-cultural setting? Do
they successfully adjust to the host society or do they need an effective
adjustment process to engage in their intercultural relations? Even though early
research that was done about adaptation patterns of both asylum-seeker and
refugee children claimed that asylum-seeker and refugee children would
inevitably be absorbed into the host society, this does not happen in every socio-
cultural context because every country has its unique legal, social, economic,
and political concerns. In this regard, it is noted that:
[i]n this framework, two issues are raised: the degree to which people
wish to maintain their heritage culture and identity; and the degree to
which people seek involvement with the larger society. When these two
issues are crossed, an acculturation space is created with four sectors
within which individuals may express how they are seeking to
acculturate. (Berry, Phinney, Sam, & Wedder, 2006, p. 306)

The term acculturation deals broadly with cultural change that occurs when two
or more cultures come into firsthand contact (Phinney, 1990:501). Berry
identified four modes of acculturation, which is one of the most acknowledged
models. These are named “assimilation,” “separation,” “marginalization” and
“integration.”

•
Assimilation

Assimilation occurs when individuals relinquish their native culture and move
into the mainstream culture (Berry et al., 2006, p. 306).

• Separation

Separation occurs when adherence to culture of origin is kept while disavowing
the culture of the host society.

•
Marginalization

Marginalization appears when individuals have negative attitudes towards their
own as well as the host society culture. In this mode of acculturation,
individuals reject the culture of both home and host society.

•
Integration

Integration involves the maintenance of native culture as well as incorporation
into the host society.


Table 1
Terms used for Four Orientations, Based on Degree of Identification with
Both One’s Own Ethnic Group and the Majority Group




Identification with Ethnic Group

Identification with Majority Group             Strong
Weak


Strong                                                      Acculturated                        Assimilated

Integrated


Bicultural

Weak                                                        Ethnically identified                Marginal


Ethnically embedded

Separated

Dissociated



Source: Berry’s “non-linear model”: 1986 (as cited in Phinney, 1990, p. 502).



Berry regards acculturation as a two-dimensional process, which takes into
consideration both the relationship with the culture of home society and the
relationship with the culture of host society, and those two relationships may be
independent (Phinney, 1990, p. 501). According to this model, immigrants can
have either strong or weak identifications with their own or the mainstream
culture because maintenance of home country culture does not require a weak
contact with the host society. Bearing this in mind, while one may boast with

his or her own culture, at the same time, he or she may entertain positive
attitudes towards the host society (Phinney, 1990; Rutter, 2006).

2.2.2 Linear Models of Adaptation

In addition to Berry’s acculturation model, new models of acculturation were
developed over time. One of them is called “staged approaches,” which is
regarded as one of the “linear models,” and this model stresses the processual
nature of adaptation and the temporal dimensions of exile (as cited in Rutter,
2006, p. 43).

In the linear model, the assumption is that strengthening one identity requires
weakening another. Thus, a strong native identity is not possible among those
who become involved in the mainstream society. Harrell-Bond and Al-Rasheed
launched a further staged model with their concept of liminality where the
immigrant identities change in order to construct hybrid identities.

Al-Rasheed cited the following stages:

•
Physical segregation as immigrants in a new host country - In this initial
arrival period, the immigrants are faced with the reality by loss of their
homeland, culture and identity after a possible high occupational and social
status in their home country (as cited in Rutter, 2006, p. 44; Stein, 1981, p. 324).
•
The stage of liminality - With impressive effort to rebuild their lives, old
forms of social stratification and culture of origin break down. As Stein also
observed, within this period, the immigrants undermine the downward mobility
by participating in social activities such as going to school, changing jobs, and
language improvement (as cited in Rutter, 2006, p. 44; Stein, 1981, p. 325).
•
Reincorporation - Having completed the major part of adjustment,
cultural maintenance combined with a preference for interacting with the host
country appears (as cited in Rutter, 2006, p. 44).

Throughout my research, I prefer referring to Berry’s model of acculturation
because it was based on a two-dimensional process which emphasizes asylum-
seekers’ and refugees’ relationship with the culture of the host society and that
of the home society. During the interviews, I witnessed that the intervieews’
acculturation experiences were not based on a fixed and impermeable form;
therefore, I could not use even Berry’s model in its full sense. Even though most
of the asylum-seeker children whom I interviewed chose to maintain their own
culture as a significant stabilizing role, they also had absolute and obvious
contact with the host society. However, I could not denominate this mutual
relationship as an exact ‘integration’ as Berry stated because interviewees have
noteworthy drawbacks to integrate socially, economically, culturally and
politically such as lack of citizenship and work permits, temporary settlement in
Turkey. To eliminate any misunderstandings, one thing should be highlighted.
The reason for referring to Berry’s model is denoting it is not consistent with
children of Iranian asylum-seekers case in Turkey.
In short, asylum-seeker children’s condition in terms of adaptation is rather
ambivalent. Most of them oscillate between two different ways of positioning
the self.  A dream of return is always dominant for almost all children who
either wish to immerse themselves deeper in the society into which they have
just moved. As Rutter (2006) stated, “[…], all processual studies of identity
assume a more or less linear pathway towards eventual incorporation into the
host society or return – in short, a story with a happy ending” (p. 44).

CHAPTER 3

HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF IRANIAN ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN
TURKEY

The following chapter on historical background will examine the reasons of the
immigration flow from Iran to Turkey since 1980s. In this regard, it will be
beneficial to learn both the pushing and the pulling factors that create the
intensive migration flows from Iran since the Islamic Revolution in the first
instance.
This chapter will also touch upon briefly the asylum and refugee policies of The
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and
Turkish government because their policies affect the refugees and asylum-
seekers conditions in host countries. In this framework, a summary of the
regulations, conventions, protocols, laws and reforms undertaken by Turkish
government on migration control and asylum-seeker/refugee protection will be
demonstrated in turn.
3.1 Iranian Asylum-Seekers in Turkey since the Islamic Revolution
Iranians rank first among asylum-seekers in Turkey who come from the Middle
East since the Iranian Revolution of 1979 (Akçapar, 2006, p. 827). After the
setting up of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ayatollah Khomeini installed a
severe and repressive theocracy in Iran. This Shi’i centered state posed a serious
danger for minority ethnic and religious groups; therefore, the people who
opposed the Islamic regime fled from the religious persecution under Khomeini
regime (Mcauliffe, 2007, p. 313). Thereby, initial flow of migration has started
out from Iran to Turkey and Iran has become one of the most significant
countries that produce asylum-seeker ever-more. In fact, 1979 was a ‘breaking

point’ for Turkey as well. As İçduygu implied, “Turkey has also been a major
actor in international transit migratory movements since the 1980s” for various
reasons (as cited in Akçapar, 2006, p. 821). According to Brewer and Yükseker
(2006), political changes triggered to alter population movements in Turkey
such as the Iranian revolution, the Gulf War and the collapse of the Soviet
Union, economic disorders resulted from the collapse of socialist economies and
political and economic turmoil such as civil war in Afghanistan (p. 15).
“Situated in geographical area that serves as a bridge between East and West
and North and South, Turkey has especially been home to waves of transit
migration and illegal labor migration as well as movements of asylum-seekers”
(Brewer & Yükseker, 2006, p. 15-16). In addition, Turkey shares a common
border with regions and countries, which have a lingering history of political
turmoil and ethnic divisions such as Iran and Iraq (Akçapar, 2006, p. 822;
İçduygu, 2004, p. 90). These clashes have pushed people away from their
homelands to other countries where they can find better life, security, and
protection from persecution (İçduygu, 2004, p. 89-90).  Another important
reason is the existing flexible visa policy which further stimulated the massive
swell of asylum-seekers to Turkey (Akçapar, 2006, p. 824). The last reason was
based on the policies of “Fortress Europe”. Within the framework of the policy;
EU countries are still applying fortification of borders and erection of walls to
divert Europe-targeted immigration flow to the peripheral countries around
Europe such as Turkey (İçduygu, 2004, p. 90). On the basis of the preceding
analysis, as İçduygu stated, “between 1980 and 1995, it has been documented
that more than two million people arrived in Turkey as transit migrants, ninety
eight percent of whom were from Iran and Iraq” (as cited in Akçapar, 2006, p.
821).
The Iranians who escaped from Khomeini’s regime including former Shah
supporters, regime opponents, Kurds and members of Jewish and Baha’i
communities arrived in Turkey in the1980s (Kirişçi, 2001, p. 76-77).
Throughout this period, Turkey adopted a policy which allowed the people who
fled from the Islamic regime in Iran to enter the country without visa and stay

temporarily and although it is a big challenge to present the accurate statistics
on their numbers, an estimated one and half million Iranian Kurds, Baha’is and
Jews sought temporary stay in Turkey between 1980-1991 (Kirişçi, 2001, p.
77). As Kirişçi stated, most of them entered third countries by illegal ways. In
other words, they did not apply for registration to UNHCR to acquire the legal
asylum-seeker paper. The others who were registered by UNHCR obtained
residence permit and waited to be resettled after their cases were examined by
UNHCR (Kirişçi, 2001, p. 77). As I learnt from a UNHCR officer, among these
Iranian asylum-seeker groups, Baha’i asylum-seekers were the luckiest ones
when compared to other groups of asylum-seekers because UNHCR is still
deciding on Baha’i asylum-seekers’ cases in a much shorter time than deciding
on other cases. UNHCR officers explained this priority as Baha’i asylum-
seekers have well-founded fear of persecution because their religion is not
recognized officially in Iran and they are subjected to a clear-cut persecution in
Iran.

Table 2
New Applications – Non-European Asylum Seekers, June 2006


Countries of Origin
Year                       Iran
Iraqis
Others             Total

Cases Persons   Cases Persons   Cases Persons   Cases Persons

1997              746   1,392          1,275    2,939        83     117          2,104   4,448
1998            1,169  1,979
2,350    4,672       124    187
3,643   6,838
1999            2,069  3,843         1,148     2,472       184    290        3,401   6,605
2000            2,125  3,926            791    1,671       108    180         3,024   5,777
1,841  3,485             497    998         372    709          2,710   5,177
2002           1,456  2,505             402      974         219    315         2,077    3,794
1,715  3,092            159      342         373    514         2,247   3,948
1225   2030             472      956         540    912         2,237   3,898
1021   1716             490    1047         753   1151        2264    3914
2006              637   1060             118      223          426    557        1181    1840

Source: UNHCR Statistical Data Sheet 2006.

On the basis of preceding statistic, even though after the Islamic Revolution
Iranian nationals ranked the first among asylum applicants, there was a distinct
wane in the number of asylum applications from Iran after 2000. However, they
still compose the top-ten list of asylum applicants in Turkey. Iranians see
Turkey as a stepping stone to the Western countries as the other asylum-seekers
who comes from the Middle East countries. Mohammadi indicated, “[t]oday, it
is estimated that almost four million Iranians from different religious
backgrounds and with diverse socioeconomic status live abroad, scattered in
Western countries, notably the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the
United Kingdom” (as cited in Akçapar, 2006, p. 826). As Abidi and Sarraf
noted, some of the researches pointed out that Iranians do not contemplate
returning to their home country unless the regime change (as cited in Akçapar,
2006, p. 826).
In brief, according to the UNHCR sources, great majority of registered Iranian
asylum-seekers are living in Kayseri, Nevşehir, Van, and Konya today. For
those Iranians whose cases were accepted, the UNHCR tries to find a
resettlement country outside Turkey. The waiting period for those non-European
asylum-seekers to pass to a West country is quite a while and this period’s
length depends on the Turkish asylum regulations.
3.2 The Turkish Regulations on Asylum-Seekers
Understanding of the Turkish regulations on asylum-seekers23 is vital to
understand why Turkey is often perceived as a waiting room for the asylum-
seekers who came from the Middle East countries. In this sense, some
significant regulations on asylum will be discusses in this section.



23 In this section, I preferred to write a title which comprises the asylum-seekers in Turkey
because as İçduygu noted, the people who are seeking asylum in Turkey came from mainly from
the Middle East and various countries of Africa and Asia during recent years (İçduygu, 2004, p.
92). This asylum-seekers came from the Middle Eastern countries are referred to “non-
Convention Refugees” (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 297)  who are not accepted as refugees in Turkish
legislation; therefore I did not use the term ‘refugee’ in title that I wrote.

With the end of the World War II, hundreds of thousands of refugees were
living in makeshift camps; therefore, there appeared a need for international
refugee regime. Even though international community founded refugee
organizations and refugee conventions long ago, legal protection and assistance
are still considerably insufficient On this account, the 1951 Convention relating
to the status of refugees was adopted (UNHCR, “The Wall behind Which
Refugees Can Shelter”, 2001, p. 2). The Convention particularizes who refugees
are, their legal rights and the legal obligations of states that have acceded to the
Convention. The Convention also delineated a refugee’s obligations to host
governments and distinct categories of people who do not meet the requirements
to obtain refugee status (UNHCR, “The 1951 Convention Questions &
Answers”, n.d., p. 4). Within the scope of the Convention, non-refoulment
principle which prevents people from forcible return to the territories where
they could be exposed to persecution has become the corner stone of the
international refugee law (UNHCR, “The Wall behind Which Refugees Can
Shelter”, 2001, p. 2).
Hoping that the ‘refugee crisis’ could be settled in a short time, governments
limited the scope of the Convention to refugees in Europe and to events
occurring before 1 January 1951. Being a guardian of the Convention, UNHCR
received a three-year mandate and it was expected the leave the business when
the problem was solved (“The Wall behind Which Refugees Can Shelter”, 2001,
p. 2).
During this period, Turkey signed the 1951 Convention with both a
“geographical” and a “time” limitation like other signatories, whereby only
European refugees could be granted access to asylum procedures. In other
words, Turkey would give the refugee status only to individuals who escaped
from communist persecution in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union occurring
before 1 January 1951 (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 295).

Following the adoption of the 1951 Convention, the international refugee crisis
did not diminish and refugee world has become more crowded. According to
some critics, this made the Convention outdated and irrelevant on specific
grounds (“The Wall behind Which Refugees Can Shelter”, 2001, p. 2);
therefore, the 1967 Protocol was signed to eliminate the time constraints.
With the 1967 Protocol, while almost all other signatories of the 1951
Convention were removing their reservations on the refugee definition, Turkey
accepted to lift the time but did not remove its geographical reservations that
excluded the non-Europeans from recognition as refugees (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 293;
Kirişçi, 2001, p.74).
The violent fragmentation of the existing states and the formation of new nation
states affected the nature and the size of movements of people into Turkey in the
1990s. Even though Turkish authorities were coping with a manageable flow of
Convention refugees, the situation began to change at the end of 1980s when
growing numbers of Iranians began to seek asylum (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 299;
Kutlu, 2002, p. 30). This “continuing, diversifying and increasing irregular
migration flows” triggered the coming into force of 1994 Regulation on asylum
(İçduygu, 1994, p. 90). As Kirişçi implied, while Turkey turned into a transit
country of irregular migrants and asylum-seekers from Middle Eastern, Asian,
and African countries rapidly, the Turkish authorities were on the alert to
prevent this overwhelming migration flows. In addition, Turkish authorities
were concerned that Turkey started out to become a buffer zone to hamper
refugees and illegal migrants from reaching Europe. Increasingly restrictive
asylum and refugee policies in Western Europe reinforced this concern (Kirişçi,
1996, p. 301; Kirişçi, 2001, p. 79). In that respect, officials from the Ministry of
Interior Affairs drafted the 1994 Regulation, which is entitled “The Regulation
on the Procedures and the Principles Related to Mass Influx and the Foreigners
Arriving in Turkey or Requesting Residence Permits with the Intention of
Seeking Asylum from a Third Country.” Thereby, Turkey began to take into

consideration the asylum applications from nationals of countries outside
Europe (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 293).
Adoption of the 1994 Regulation brought on two different identifications about
the categorizations of refugees. These identifications subsume “Conventional
Refugees” who fled from Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union during the Cold
War and “Non-Conventional Refugees” who fled from the Middle East
countries (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 295-297; Kirişçi, 2001, p. 74-76). As Kirişçi noted,
“[u]ntil the introduction of the 1994 Regulation on Asylum, Turkish national
law had no provisions governing the status of asylum-seekers and refugees
coming from outside Europe” (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 297).
The regulation was separated into five sections. The first section depicted the
procedures and principles that shaped the Regulation to govern asylum in
Turkey. The second section, described the procedures and principles concerning
the asylum applications and status determination. One of the most conspicuous
elements of this section is that asylum-seekers must register with the police
within the five days24 of their entry to Turkish territory. Furthermore, their
reports must be sent to the Ministry of Interior Affairs. Thus, the Ministry
became the final decision-making body for status determination (Kirişçi, 1996,
p. 301-301; Kirişçi, 2001, p. 80). Even though the five-day deadline was
considered a very short time by asylum-seekers, the Turkish authorities found
this deadline reasonably generous when it is compared to many Western
European countries where asylum-seekers have to register with the authorities
within twenty-four hours (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 304; Kirişçi, 2001, p. 85). However,
as the ASAM officers highligted, to implement the asylum-seeking and
immigration procedures to the EU convergence operation plans, Turkey has
initiated ‘Asylum-Seeking-Immigration Twinning Project’ with Denmark and
England consortium in 2004. At the end of the project, ‘Asylum-Seeking and
Immigration National Action Plan’ was prepared through the advices which



24 As Ülkü pointed out in her thesis, “Turkey amended its 1994 asylum Regulation, extending
from five days to ten the deadline for registering asylum claims with the authorities after
arriving in host country in 1999” (Ülkü, 2002, p. 55).

derived from the project. According to this plan, ten day deadline was abrogated
and ‘reasonable period’ to register with the authorities came into force.
The third and fourth sections deal with prevention of mass exodus (Kirişçi,
1996, p. 302; Kirişçi, 2001, p. 80). The final section elaborated on the details of
administrative and legislative rules and principles regarding asylum such as
deportation and temporary protection (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 303). In addition, a
significant development of the Regulation is acceptance of implementation of
the non-refoulment principle on both asylum-seekers and refugees from outside
Europe. This principle had led serious conflict between Turkish authorities, the
UNHCR, Western governments, and non-governmental organizations (Kirişçi,
1996, p. 303).
In addition to the Regulation’s advantages to the asylum-seekers who came
from the Middle Eastern countries, there emerged some considerable
complications derived from the implementation of new asylum practices and
rules within the Regulation. One problem that should be highlighted is “lack of
a clearly defined role for the UNHCR” (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 305). Even though the
Regulation called for a cooperation of the UNHCR and the Turkish authorities,
the Turkish authorities seemed to interrupt this cooperation with the UNHCR
with regard to the sharing of statistical information and to the resettlement of
those asylum-seekers, whose cases have been accepted (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 305).
Moreover, this Regulation called for cooperation on status determination
between the Ministry of Interior Affairs and the UNHCR. At the same time, it
identifies the Ministry of Interior Affairs as the main body responsible for status
determination; nevertheless, UNHCR plays a more active role in status
determination today (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 305) because the authorities of the
Ministry of Interior Affairs has relied on the assessment of the UNHCR (Kirişçi,
2001, p. 86).
Another complication stems from the divergent opinions of the UNHCR and the
Turkish police on deportation. This complication seems to be based on the five

day limit and the differences between the status determination of the Turkish
police and the UNHCR. Here, the particular difficulties start out for non-
European asylum-seekers. The failure to meet the deadline usually tends to an
immediate deportation without examining the merits of the asylum claims. The
majority of the asylum-seekers register with the UNHCR while the Turkish
authorities are searching their cases. Therefore, UNHCR carries out its own
unofficial status determination. As I learnt from a UNHCR officer, if the
asylum-seekers accomplish to register with the authorities within five days, they
have to wait for another several months for a second interview. Moreover, if
these non-European asylum-seekers are accepted as a refugee by the UNHCR to
move to a third country for resettlement, they should wait between eight months
to two years in Turkey. Throughout this waiting period, asylum-seekers could
not obtain work permit and housing but at least they can receive a limited
healthcare and legal advice.  Another result of this complication is that while
Turkish authorities rejected a case, sometimes UNHCR considered the
applicant’s case as “people of concern”; therefore, deportation of these cases
leads to violation of the non-refoulment principle. Nevertheless, according to
the Turkish authorities, interference with their sovereign right to deport lead to
transgression of the Turkish National Laws (Kirişçi, 1996, p. 306; Kirişçi, 2001,
p. 81).
In brief, in spite of the complications and shortcomings of its implementation,
the 1994 Regulation could be regarded as an outstanding achievement regarding
the regularization of the status of asylum-seekers particularly those who came
from the Middle East countries. In other words, it is a radical break from the
past regularization about the non-Convention refugees.
3.3 Religious Groups in Iran: Baha’is and Shi’is
Iran embraces diverse religious groups such as Shi’ite Muslims, Christians,
Zoroastrians, Jews, Baha’is and Sunni Kurds.

Table 3
Dimensions of Unity


Religion
Language*      Shi’te Islam       Sunni Islam         Recognized Religions    Others
Persian (Farsi)   Persians                                      Jews                              Baha’is

Bakhtiaris                                  Zoroastrians

Lurs

Other Indo-
Kurds                 Kurds              Jews (Kurdish
Iranian                                          Baluchi                    speaking)
Other Indo-

Armenian
European
Arabic               Arabs                  Arabs
Other Semitic                                                        Assyrians
Turkish
Azeris

Quashqa’i         Turkoman

Source: *Language classification is based on Nyrop, ed., Iran: A Country Study,
p. 140-43; and Herbert H. Vreeland, ed., Iran (New Haven, Conn Human
Relations Area Files, 1957), p. 48-51 (as cited in Higgins, 1988, p. 177).

According to Higgins, while Shi’ite Muslims make up ninety percent of the
population, Sunni Muslims, Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians, and Baha’is make
up ten percent of the population. In addition, according to the author,
individuals who belong to non-Persian Shi’ite background integrate into Iran
easier than Persian-speaking non-Shi’ites because in the Islamic Republican
State religion takes precedence over language as the primary state ideology for
unity (Higgins, 1988, p. 176-179). Nevertheless, assimilation of religious
minorities is an undesirable act. As Higgins stated, “[a]s a result, religious
minorities are likely to be less well integrated individually in the Islamic
Republic than they were in the Pahlavi State, while linguistic minorities may
eventually be better integrated economically and politically than they were
formerly”(Higgins, 1988, p. 180). Related to the lack of integration of religious
minorities, Varzi accentuated the centrality of Muslim identity in the post-
revolutionary Iran. According to Varzi, Shi’i Islam is indispensable provision to
be a good Iranian (Mcauliffe, 2007, p. 317-318).
On the basis of preceding analysis, I decided on to examine the asylum-seeker
children who belong to Baha’i and Shi’i religious groups because these
particular groups have different relationships with the Islamic Republic of Iran;
therefore, I contrasted the asylum-seeking experiences of the Shi’i asylum-
seeker children against those of Baha’i asylum-seeker children who are living
provisionally in Kayseri. In this framework, I tried to gain insight into the
different interaction ways of Shi’i and Baha’i children with constructed Iranian
identity in the host society to ascertain the continuities and discontinuities
within their identities during identity construction process.  I also examined the
saliency of post-revolutionary Iranian identity, which conflated with Muslim
orthodox Shi’i identity within the asylum-seeker children identities. In addition,
I made comparison between their religious and national identities in order to
learn which one is the most important in their identification of self.

3.3.1 The Baha’is: An Unrecognized Religious Minority
The outgrowth of Shaikhism, which was a movement among the Shia’s caused
to transpire of the Baha’i faith. Adherents of Shaikhism expected the return of
hidden twelfth Imam in 1844 (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 50). As Sanasarian argued
out, Babi movement developed as a faction of Shaikhism initially but
dissociated from it afterwards when its leader, Seyyed Ali Mohammad Shirazi
(1819-50) who was known as Bab, proclaimed himself as Hidden Imam. Having
distinct bounds of Shiism, Bab’s early teachings were a tacit rebellion against
social injustice of the ruler and the ulama. As MacEoin and Smith noted, the
Babi movement was interpreted as a reformist form of Islam (Sanasarian, 2000,
p. 50). As Sanasarian explained, by the execution of Bab and his adherents in
1850 by the government, the development of movement attenuated. Bahaism
emerged once again in 1860 by one of the Bab’s followers, known as
Bahaullah’s declaration of himself as the messiah predicted by Bab. Eventually,
Bahaullah was exiled from Iran and died in Acre in Palestine in 1892. As
Fischel and Cole indicated, today, in addition to Acre, Haifa is also a holy place
for Bahaism because his adherents were buried there (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 50-
51).
Higgins noted that Bahaullah’s successors translated Baha’i texts into many
languages; therefore, Bahaism spread quickly outside Iran, mainly in Third
World countries, Europe and North America and achieved an estimated three
million adherents in over a hundred countries (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 50; Higgins,
1988, p. 181). According to the information, which is derived from the official
web site of Baha’is, with more than five million followers, Bahaism is the
second most widespread faith on earth (The Baha’is ,“What is the Baha’i
Faith?” , n.d.). Based on preceding researches about Baha’i faith and Baha’is,
their teachings initially lay stress on “unity” which was the essential massage of
Bahaullah. He recognized the other major religions such as Christianity,
Judaism, Zoroastrianism, and Islam and their prophets. He thought that there is
only one God, one human race; therefore, “the time has arrived for the uniting

of all peoples into a peaceful and integrated global society” (The Baha’is,
“What is the Baha’i Faith,” n.d.). Apart from unity, Baha’is bring the
importance of universal education, sexual equality, world peace, the elimination
of extremes of poverty and wealth, the harmony of science and religion, a
sustainable balance between nature and technology to the fore (Higgins, 1988,
p. 182; The Baha’is, “What is the Baha’i Faith”, n.d.). As Mcauliffe underlined,
by emphasizing on global society and global citizenship, Baha’is indicated that
national identity downgraded in importance. On that point, Denis M. MacEoin
who is a former lecturer in Islamic studies concurred with Shoghi Effendi who
was the guardian of the Baha’i faith from 1921 until his death in 1957 with
regard to end of nation-states and presage the imminent global unity (Mcauliffe,
2007, p. 320). As Mcauliffe implied, subordination of national impulses is not
so important for many Baha’is (2007, p. 320). Furthermore, as Higgins noted,
Baha’is are refrain from participation in politics25 (Higgins, 1988, p. 182).
According to Sanasarian (2000), Baha’is reject being either a sect or a reform
movement, but a progressive revolution within Islam, but the idea of
progressive revolution conflicts with the Islamic worldview which accepts
Mohammed as the last prophet and Islam as the last major religion (p. 51). The
Baha’is claimed that Bahaullah is the predecessor of Mohammad (Hemmasi &
Prorok, 2002, p. 64).
Though Baha’is are thought to be the largest religious minority in Iran26, Shi’ite
clergy, many Iranian Muslims, and the government do not recognize Bahaism as



25 As Sanasarian (2000) noted, Bahaullah succesor, Abd-al- Baha annonced that Baha’is
disjointed themselves from politics (p. 52). In this regard, Baha’is in the Pahlavi state kept away
from political affairs. According to Mehr, “[s]everal cabinet ministers of the late Pahlavi era
were rumored to be Baha’i, and their Baha’i parentage is acknowledged, though they considered
themselves and were considered by the government to be Muslims” (as cited in Higgins, 1988,
p. 183). Consequently, Baha’is had to find job in private industry which take on qualified
individuals; so they become more succesful in business than the population in general
(Sanasarian, 2000, p. 53-114).

26 Baha’i sources announced that the global Baha’i population is estimated to be in the realm of
five million and it is the second most widespread religion after Christianity (as cited in
Mcauliffe, 2007, p. 325) According to Peter Smith, “estimating the number of Baha’is in Iran
has always been difficult due to their persecution and strict adherence to secrecy” (as cited in

an official religion. As Richard (1995) stated, “[…], despite their considerable
number, the Baha’is have always been treated as non-existent; figuring in the
census of as Muslims, their marriages and inheritances have always run the risk
of not being recognized, or of being annulled” (p. 74). Bahaism is regarded as
an Islamic heresy or a British and Zionist backed political movement in Iran
(Higgins, 1988, p. 182). As Sanasarian implied, even though the Baha’is have
not been a recognized religious minority in either the Pahlavi or the Islamic
Republican State, abuse and harassment which directed to the Baha’is lessened
relatively during the reign of Reza Shah.
The Baha’i community was able to live relatively in peace under the reign of
Mohammad Reza Shah. There were some important reasons for this comfort.
One of them is that the Baha’is had high level of education in contrast to the rest
of Iranian society because Baha’is were not able to be work in government
services since the Iranian civil code presupposed applicants to identify their
religion. Therefore, the only option to live on in Iran is employment in private
sector (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 53). For these above-mentioned reasons, they were
qualified enough to be charged with significant positions and duties. These high
qualifications of the Baha’is made them accede to important positions in the
civil administration, especially in finance within modernization and
Westernization plans conceived by the Shah (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 52). The
second reason is that Baha’i principles fell into the same line with those of the
Shah’s regime. For instance, as Higgins contended, “[…] Baha’is are expected
to obey the laws of the state in which they reside and to refrain from
participation in politics” (Higgins, 1986, p. 182). Their policy of
nonparticipation in political issues and political obedience to the ruler in all
circumstances supported the Pahlavis. All these beliefs and principles turned
Baha’is into loyal subjects of the Pahlavi state and saved them from persecution
that directed to them in Iran.






Sanasarian, 2000, p. 53).Cooper and Kazemzadeh reported the number of Baha’is in Iran has
ranged from one hundred thousand to five hundred thousand  (as cited in Higgins, 1988, p. 182).

However, in contrast to the Baha’i sources which emphasized the privileged
status of Baha’is during the reign of Reza Shah, a notable number of Baha’i
sources argued about many reported acts such as closing down of Baha’i centers
and schools, denying access to government jobs, banning on the publication of
Baha’i literature, nonrecognition of Baha’i marriages and sequestrating the
Baha’i places of worships (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 52; Richard, 1995, p. 74). In
spite of their relative improved status during the reign of Reza Shah, anti-Baha’i
campaign was launched by the ulama in 1955. This riot incited Mohammad
Reza Pahlavi who was the second monarch of the Pahlavi dynasty, to participate
in anti-Baha’i movement because he was under pressure for being too Western
and secular. He was instigated to strengthen and entrench his power by
engaging the support of the clerics.  Hence, the Shah’s government decided to
engage in counter movement against Baha’is in order to reaffirm Shah’s
authority and mollify Islamic leaders. Throughout the riot, Baha’i centers,
religious sites and cemeteries in Tehran were destructed by government officials
(Sanasarian, 2000, p. 52; Higgins, 1988, p. 182; Richard, 1995, p. 74).
As MacEoin implied, the clergy and religious segments carried on with their
harassment collaborated with the government’s secret service agency, the
SAVAK, against the Baha’is in pre-revolutionary Iran (as cited in Sanasarian,
2000, p. 53). Even though United Nations, Amnesty International and other
human rights organizations affirmed the constant persecution towards the
Baha’is, religious groups have felt enmity towards the Baha’is because they
were regarded as true “infidels” who should be destroyed (Sanasarian, 2000, p.
114-116). Some of the Muslim groups regarded Bahaism as the medium of
British colonialist to destroy Shiism. As Douglas Martin who reviewed the
history of the persecution of Baha’is in Iran, implied, Baha’is also were accused
of being collaborators of the Shah’s regime, anti-Islamic spies of Zionism in a
conspiracy with United States and British Governments  (as cited in Sanasarian,
2000, p. 114).

After Khomeini came to power under the Islamic Republic, the situation of the
Baha’is was on the downgrade because the political role of ulama and the
dominance of Islam as a state ideology coalesced. In other words, political
power of ulama enhanced considerably.
Under the Islamic Republic, discrimination and persecution against Baha’is
intensified dramatically.  A much more destructive campaign was unleashed
against the Baha’is. They were showed as a target that should be executed
immediately for to be aided by Zionist to undermine Iran; therefore, they have
subjected to various attacks such as kidnapping, disappearances, mob attacks,
dismissal of Baha’i teachers and students from the schools, arresting, and
execution (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 119). “On 21 August 1980, all nine members of
the Baha’i National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of Iran were arrested by the
Revolutionary Guards and subsequently disappeared”27 (Sanasarian, 2000, p.
116). Apart from the systematic attacks on the rights of live, the government
also has confiscated Baha’i community property and destroyed the House of
Bab, one of the holiest Baha’i shrines in 1983. In June, ten Baha’i women were
killed after being tortured (Higgins, 1988, p. 183; Sanasarian, 2000, p. 117).
Expulsion of Baha’is from jobs and schools increased substantially after 1980.
Islamic Republic of Iran envisaged an effective plan to impede the Baha’is
social and economic development and deprive their livelihood. In the
framework of this plan, Baha’i students who studied at schools and universities
were fired or expelled (Sanasarian, 2000, p. 121). On this account, the growing
threat to Iran’s Baha’is is exposed on the Baha’is official web site. The most
remarkable reported incidents are about denial of Baha’i students in schools and
universities. They are facing with discrimination in higher education and they
are subjected to expulsions in Iranian universities. They are being denied
entrance to the institutions of higher education by the government in order to
undercut the social, economic and cultural progress of Baha’i children and



27 As Sanasarian stated, according to Baha’i sources, 117 people were killed by the end of 1984
(2000, p. 116).

young people so the community (The Baha’is, “The Growing Threat to Iran’s
Baha’is”, n.d.).
In the Islamic Republican state, the Baha’is do not have right to have a religion,
to announce their religion and to practice their religion but they have a right to
change their religion. As Higgins pointed out, “[…], the Baha’is, […], are now
being pressured to change their religious identification as the minimal price for
citizenship in the Islamic Republic” (Higgins, 1988, p. 184). In the meantime,
some of the Baha’is who decided to remain in Iran establishes their safety by
pretending like Muslims. Their lack of distinguishing physical, linguistic, or
behavioral features and their tenet that to become a Baha’i there is no need to
being born into a Baha’i family are the advantages in this process (Higgins,
1988, p. 184).
In brief, the Baha’is still prohibited from enrolling in universities today. Baha’i
arrests and disappearance continue. The Baha’i community is deprived of their
property rights. Marriages, divorces, and inheritance rights were still not legally
recognized.  In the view of these facts, Iranian Baha’is choose either to convert,
pretending like a Muslim, or leave the country to get rid of religious subjugation
in Iran. As Mcauliffe (2007) pointed out, the long-lasting religious suppressions
paved the way for outflow of the Baha’is dramatically so far as to feel that there
was nobody left in Iran with whom the Baha’i asylum-seeker and refugees could
establish links (p. 318).
Additionally, even though it is not mine research question, it should be noted
that Baha’is representation in Turkey is significant in terms of understand the
fictive-kin system among Baha’is. ‘Turkey Baha’i Society’ as a civil initiative
has some noteworthy activities such as arranging formal visits to Edirne for
mayor of Edirne, introduction commision president of Turkish Industrialists’and
Businessmen’s Association, and an administrative board member from Turkish
Economic and Social Studies Foundation which is accepted as a holy place for
Baha’is due to the fact that Bahaullah decided on important matters and he

announced his mission to the world leaders and kings in Edirne (Turkish Baha’i
Community, “News” and “External Relations”). The Society also focuses on
social issues such as violence against women. In this framework, members
arrange panels to draw attention to the issue. As it could be understood from the
Turkish Baha’i Community official web page, the society has close relations
with United Nations, embassies, government members in Turkey. In brief, even
it is not easy to find a relationship, Turkish Baha’i Community has closed-down
relations with politic leaders around the world and it seems that they receive
politic support around social development projects and introduction of Baha’i
faith to the different stratums of Turkish society. Nevertheless, as I talked to
Professor Cüneyt Can, director of the External Affairs Office of the Baha’i
community in Turkey, he contradicts this opinion. Turkish Baha’i Community’s
close relations with Turkish government may be explained by current news in
Turkish Daily News. According to Can, Baha’is in Turkey wants official
recognition from the state and desires the elimination of prejudices and
inaccurate public descriptions of their faith because many Baha’is charge that
Turkey pursues a discriminatory policy against the Baha’i community in Turkey
by not listing their faith on identity cards (Turkish Daily News, 2007). Finally,
as I learnt from Cüneyt Can, Turkish Baha’i Community does not organize any
activities in Kayseri.
3.3.2 Iranian Shi’is: The Majority under Pressure
Shiism is the largest minority denomination after Sunni Islam. Ten percent of all
Muslims belong to the Shiite branch. Most of the adherents of the branch
scattered across Iran, Bahrain, Iraq, Yemen, Lebanon, Azerbaijan, and
Afghanistan (Fuller & Francke, 1999, p. 1-2). The roots of Shiite Islam dates
back to the death of Prophet Muhammad in 632 C.E. Sunnis believe that he died
without leaving any clear-cut evidence about who is going to be his successor
and how the community should be governed. This ambiguity led serious riots
after his death. In this chaotic situation, some Muslims chose to follow Abu
Bakr, the Prophet’s close friend and father- in- law. Some believed that

Muhammad had chose Ali Ibn Abi Talib who is the Muhammad’s cousin, son-
in-law, to succeed him because for Shiites the leader of the Muslim community
should come from direct descendant of Muhammad (Nasr, 2007, p. 35; Mallon,
2006, p. 18). As Savory stated, “[t]hus was born te Shi’at Ali, the ‘Party of Ali’,
consisting of those wo supported the claims of Ali to the caliphate; such persons
were termed ‘Shi’is’” (Savory, 1981, p. 132).  Refusing the legitimacy of the
first three caliphs, Ali was not selected to lead the community; therefore, he
conflicted with his followers and Umayyid Dynasty in Damascus (Mallon,
2006, p. 18-19).

In 680 A.D., troops of the Sunni caliph, soldiers of the second Umayyad caliph
Yazid I, assassinated Ali’s son Hussein along with the the most famous of the
martyred imams in a battle near Karbala in Iraq on October, 680 (Nasr, 2007, p.
40; Mallon, 2006, p. 19). As Fuller and Francke (1999) stated, “[t]he
‘martyrdom’ of Hussein, which Fuad Ajami calls the ‘Karbala paradigm’ has
become the leitmotif of Shi’ite interpretation of the world, around which much
of Shi’ite ritual and iconography revolves” (p. 13).

Today, Shiite Muslims observe the date, which Hussein was killed to
commemorate the day of Ashura on the tenth day of Muharram in the Islamic
calendar annually since the death of Hussein (Mallon, 2006, p. 19). Every year,
Shi’is commemorates his martyrdom with mournings, the 10th of Muharram. As
Mallon stated, “Shiites throughout the world mourn his death, and many
perform the ta’aziyah, a type of passion plays, recounting the killing of the
imam” (Mallon, 2006, p. 19). According to Nasr, anniversary of the death of
Imam Husein is a gripping ritual which reminds Shias their bond to their faith
and community. Moreover, it emphasizes Shi’a distinctiveness and draws
attention to Sunni opprobrium (Nasr, 2007, p. 32-33). As Fuller and Francke
explained this opprobrium stated, throughout the commemoration of Imam
Hussein death is revived by plays, dramas and musics which depicts the story of

Hussein’s martyrdom- despite the fact that human representation is forbidden in
Islam (Fuller & Francke, 1999, p. 14).
Shiites vary in terms of the number of imams. While some believe “Seveners,”
majority of them believe the twelve imams and are called “Twelvers” (also
called Ja-fari) (Mallon, 2006, p. 19). Twelvers are the largest, the most
important, and the most politically active sect in the politics of Shi’ism (Fuller
& Francke, 1999, p. 2). As Fuller and Francke pointed out,
[a]s twelver Shi’ism took shape and crystallized, twelve descendants in
particular were regarded as Imams and by right were owed allegiance
as the leaders of the community in their life time and veneration after
their death. The Shi’a believe in the infallibility of the twelve Imams
and in their direct divine inspiration – doctrines that the Sunnis view as
contrary to the teachings of Islam, […].  In the absence of Twelfth
Imam, the affairs of the faithful are referred to surrogates, learned
ulama, maraji al-taqlid (literally, “sources of emulation”, singular
marji), wha have mastered Islamic jurisprudence and have the authority
of interpreteing Islam’s texts and dicta in terms of contemporary life.
(Fuller & Francke, 1999, p. 13).

Twelvers believe that Muhammad al Mahdi, who is the twelfth imam, will come
back to the earth as a messiah to show the truth and reconstruct the order by
removing the old one which was based on tyranny and oppression. As Savory
pointed out, “[t]he consensus of the Shi’i community was that the Hidden Imam
should be represented on earth by the Shi’i mujtahids, that is, the most eminent
theologians and jurists of the time, who hold the title of ‘Ayatullah,’ or
‘Miraculous sign of God.’” (Savory, 1981, p. 133).
Making up around ninety percent of Iranians, Shiism is enunciated with Iran so
strong today (Savory, 1981, p. 131). Construction the national identity of Iran
within the terms of Shiite Islam dates back to the Safavid Empire between 1502
and 1736. As Savory explained, under the Safavid Empire, Shi’ism gained its
first and ultimate victory in Iran. By adopting the Shi’a branch of Islam, the
Safavid Shahs benefited from the Shi’a appeal to the oppressed masses in order
to generalize Shi’ism at grassroots level. Thereby, Shi’a clergy gained strength

dramatically and religious leaders started to rebuke the shahs and claimed that
they had a pronounced superiority to rule (Fuller & Francke, 1999, p. 72;
Savory, 1981, p. 134).
After the revolution, Ayatollah Khomeini perpetuated the Shi’a propaganda of
Safavid Empire opposed to Pahlevi secularism and he augmented it to
reconstruct the national identity of Iran within the terms of Shiite Islam (Cole,
2002, p. 10). In this respect, Yann Richard (1995) underscored that Shiism is
not an Iranian version of Islam; nevertheless it was subjected to Iranization with
installation a repressive theocracy and development of celebration of martyrdom
of the Imams (p. 77-78). He tried to substantiate his argument by indicating the
Arabic origin of the Shiite prayers and theological texts, locating the holy cities
of Shiites such as Najaf and Qom in Iraq, and marking that Aly and the
descendant of the Prophet’s daughter, the Imams were of Arab blood (Richard,
1995, p. 77).
Shi’i Iranian asylum-seekers ran away from the pressures which grow out of
politic views of the individuals. After transformation of Iran from a monarchy to
an Islamic Republic by Ayatollah Khomeini, Shi’a clergy emerged with
increased strength in Iran. Especially, Ahmedinejad’s election to the presidency
of the Islamic Republic in 2005, political pressures have grown over the entire
population; so, adherents of anti-Islamic regime could not raise their voices and
could not criticize the policies of the government. The people, who have been
affected adversely by the repressive government and its implementations which
are based on religious reflexes therefore, and who could not resist the excessive
repressions found the permanent solution on migrating from Iran.
Turkey is hosting the most of the Iranian Shi’i asylum-seekers provisionally
who were displaced by the religious and politic repressions. The Shi’i asylum-
seekers are coming up against various social and economic challenges. As
Akçapar implied, conversion from Shi’a Islam to Christianity is used as a
migration strategy to live on in Turkey (Akçapar, 2006, p. 817). With this

remarkable apostasy, Iranian Shi’i asylum-seekers constitute a social network
by participation of family members and close friends to this religious wheel. As
I learnt from a social worker in ASAM, some of the Protestant and Catholic
churches in Ankara have become a congregation place for Shiite Iranians.
Moreover, this churches and church-related organizations present a new
institutional role to Iranian asylum-seekers in terms of providing them with
financial, legal, and medical assistance as well as spiritual theory because
Iranians converted to Christianity attended church activities regularly.
According to Akçapar, “[…], this unique situation can be explained by the
social capital theory enhanced by an institutional component” (2006, p. 817).
Thus, with this strategic apostasy, Shiite asylum-seekers fall under a fictive-kin
system such as Baha’is. As Akçapar stated, fictive-kin is a family-type
relationship, which is not based on blood or marriage but rather on religious
rituals and close friendship ties. People with this relationship are known as
fictive kin (Akçapar, 2006, p. 819).

CHAPTER 4

RESEARCH FINDINGS

This chapter will present a comprehensive accounting of the research. I have
envisioned presenting the results of the research in a thematic manner in the
framework of the primary research question. Firstly, I will take up the issues
one by one such as the construction of national and religious identity and
examination of childhood experiences. In this regard, the identity will be
addressed on three fronts. Secondly, I will throw to light on the interplay among
those identities. The ensuing section will be analysed by employing
hermeneutics which lays the theoretical foundation of the thesis. In addition, I
will also cite the interviewees’ in order to reveal the unique perceptions in their
narratives; therefore, the research measures offer a qualitative assessment. To be
commited to the research ethics, I used pseudonyms in lieu of their real names.
The findings of this research provide a significant resource to the means of
children of Iranian asylum-seekers’ identity construction in Turkey. The
asylum-seeker children’s voiced perceptions, feelings and attitudes on their
asylum-seeking experience will conduce to understand how they construct their
national and religious identity. Discussion of the research findings are revealed
within the framework of the overall research question. First and foremost, it
would be benefical to display background information of the interviewees in the
context of the demographic questions which were addressed to the intervieewes
initially before in-depth interviewing.

4.1 The Profile of the Intervieewes
The interviews were held between the dates of 16.09.2007 and 01.10.2007 in
ASAM office with the selected children individually. The interviewees
comprised of eight children of Iranian asylum-seekers (five females and three
males). Participants were divided according to their religion into two groups
(four Baha’i and four Shi’i). Among the eight interviewees, target equality was
provided in terms of religious group. Four Baha’is and four Shi’is were
interviewed delicately. While I interviewed with three girls and one boy among
the Shi’is, I interviewed with two girls and two boys among the Baha’is.  Even
though, I paid attention to divide equally into boys and girls, I was able to make
interview with just one Shi’i boy because Miss. Hilal could not find any Shi’i
boy who was fitting in to the specified age group. The gender distribution
among the intervieewes converts is five females and three males. Even though
gender ratio seems uneven at first glimpse, it is virtually a close represeantation
of the male-female composition of group itself. Each religious group consisted
of an approximately equal number of male and female participants (one Shi’i
boy, three Shi’i girls; two Baha’i boys, two Baha’i girls) from regions of Shiraz,
Isfahan, Urumiye, Tebriz, Kerec and Tahran. Only two of them came to Turkey
from different cities rather than their palaces of birth. All children were between
the ages of 10-16 years and currently residing with their families. I took notice
of selecting children from different regions as much as I could.
All the interviewees have immigrated to Turkey within the last five years but
most of them arrived between 2005 and 2006. All of the intervieews came
directly to Turkey from Iran and all of them settled directly in Kayseri. Six of
them arrived in Kayseri in 2005, one of them arrived in 2001 and the other
arrived in 2006. Five intervieews declared the reasons for choosing Kayseri
depended on already existing social networks such as relatives and close friends.
The other three stated that they had come to Kayseri because UN requested. All
participants were attending school in Kayseri. Just one Baha’i boy out of eight

stated that he had visited school just for four months than he left because he
could not bear some of the Turkish children’s insults in his class.
Regarding the ethnic background of the participants, I should point out that five
participants out of eight are Azerbaijani and three Azerbaijani participants are
Baha’i. Almost all the participants in the research felt most comfortable
speaking in Farsi, while two of them felt equally comfortable speaking in
Turkish.

Table 4
Socio-Demographic Features of the Interviewees
Gender
Age
Religion         Ethnic Background       Place of

Last


Residence

M                     13               Shi’i                    Azerbaijani              Urumiye

F                     10             Shi’i                      Persian

Shiraz

F                     10            Shi’i                      Persian                     Kerec

F                     16               Shi’i
Azerbaijani
Tebriz

M                    12
Baha’i                    Azerbaijani             Isfahan

M                    16              Baha’i                   Azerbaijani               Kerec

F                    15              Baha’i
Persian
Shiraz

F                 14               Baha’i                 Persian                    Tahran

Note: The cities that I wrote down above indicated the cities, which the
participants were living in right before they left Iran.

Most of them were able to remember their parents’ year of birth and place of
birth. Their parents’ ages are around 33-50. While parents of the six
interviewees were born in big cities of Iran, only parents of two interviewees
among the participants were born in a borough. Most of the intervieews have
siblings but they are living with their parents in Turkey because elder siblings
immigrated to a third country. These are all Baha’i and living in Australia.
When it comes to the educational background, very few of their parents were
able to study a department in a college. Most of them were earning money from
marketing and commerce in Iran. Only one out of eight was employed in
marginal sector. Most of their mothers did not work in Iran. They were
housewifes. Their parents’ could not work in Turkey bacuse they do not have
the right to obtain work permit. As cited to Akçapar, “compared with the initial
flow of Iranian migrants just after the Islamic Revolution, today’s Iranian
asylum-seekers in Turkey usually have lower economic status” (2006, p. 822).

Table 5
Socio-Demographic Features of the Interviewees’ Parents
Pseudonyms
Gender      Age          The Place of Origin        Occupation in


Iran
A                        M                -

-
Self-employed
A                        F
Tahran
Nurse
B                        M                43                       -
Self-employed
B
F
-
Kalibar
Self-employed
C                        M                 -
Sher-i Kurd
Self-employed
C                        F                  -
Ahvaz
Housewife
D                        M
-


-


Chapman


D                        F                 36
-

Housewife
E
M
46              Bostanabad
Self-employed
E
F              41                      -
Housewife
H                       M
49               Abadan
Self-employed
H                    F
49              Abadan
Housewife
F                   M
43             Tebriz
Self-employed
F                    F
Urumiye                Housewife

“Table 5 (continued)”
G
M
-
-
Doctor
G                F
34                       -
Self-employed
Note: I used the sign of ‘- when the interviewees do not have any idea about
their parents’ socio-demographic features.


Most of the intervieews’ highest level of education that was completed are
Primary, Secondary and High School in Iran. All of the children are going to
school in Turkey among the interviewees, except one. He explained that he was
going to school but he was put down and harassed by the Turkish students just
because he is a Baha’i. The intervieews are attending school in Turkey from six
months to five years. Even though these time periods are seem quite different
from each other, ASAM officers told me that almost all of the children are able
to adapt to their new school in three months; therefore, this time interval could
be disregarded in the research. What striked me profoundly during the
interview, while all Shi’i asylum-seeker children are going to different schools,
all Baha’is are going to the same school because their social network is more
stronger than Shi’i network in Kayseri.
All the intervieews are living in different town quarters in Kayseri. In addition,
in terms of type of housing, they are all living in an apartment. All of the
interviewees are living in a rented flat with their families. Flats are mostly old
and usually smaller than the interviewees’ flats in Iran. They were not officially
assigned homes either by state or UNHCR in Kayseri. In addition, they have to
find money to pay the rent and other expenses of flat. Therefore, they benefited
from their social network such as kin, friend and asylum-seeker to find a place
to settle in Kayseri. All the interviewees stated that their economic standarts

were much better in Iran but they have to live on a limited budget and they have
to stand up to socio-seconomic bereavement in Kayseri. All of the interviewees
noted that they spended their piravate savings that they brought from Iran on
their first days in Kayseri. Currently, they get help from locals, other asylum-
seekers or remaining relatives in Iran. Additionally, if they have a financial
interview in UNHCR Branch Office in Ankara, they can receive a monthly
financial help which is very limited from UNHCR as well. If their situation is
‘pending’ or they are accepted as an ‘asylum-seeker’ by UNHCR, they could
receive money only for one month, but if their situation is determined as a
‘refugee’, they could receive financial help every month during their stay in
Turkey. Nevertheless, Baha’i asylum-seekers do not have financial problems as
Shi’i asylum-seeers have because they have an organized network in Kayseri in
order to help each other in a discriminatory manner.
4.2 Analysing In-Depth Interviews
For a deeper understanding of the asylum-seeker children’s identity construction
in the host society, eight in-depth interviews were conducted with selected
children in Kayseri. The sub-titles of the examined identities are called national
and religious identity in turn and one should navigate between national and
religious identity in order to capture “intersectionality” (Sporton, Valentine, &
Nielsen, 2006) among those identities. In that respect, intersectionality makes
identities fluid, fluctuating and malleable. In this research, ambivalent face of
asylum-seeker children’s identities are based on a slippery floor which are
constantly being negotiated and changed over the time and social context during
the insertion into host society. They are mostly brewed by the ‘primary
relations’ in family members, neigbourhood and peer groups in the host society
but ‘memory negotiation’ also shapes their identities by referring to both past
memory and current situation of uprootdness in the mainstream society. In the
wake of the foregoing brief explanations, construction of national, religious and
child identities will be analysed comprehensively by examining the
‘interruption’ and ‘maintenance’ of identities. Revealing the interplay between

the works of Smith, Hall, Christopoulou and Leeuw, Bauman and Simmel will
lay the groundwork for this research. Therefore, in-depth interviews were
analysed through the terms of “situational identities” (Smith, 2001), “substituted
identities” (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005), “fragmented identities” (Hall,
1996), “ambivalent identities” (Bauman, 2004), “stranger” (Simmel, 1950) and
“memory negotiation” (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005).
4.2.1 National Identity
In this section, it is significant to understand what kind of values bound Iranians
to bolster a strong sense of national unity, what makes them an Iranian, how
they construct their national identity in exile and most importantly are they able
to carry on their sense of belonging to national identitiy in Kayseri without any
‘interruption’.
National identity analysis of Smith will be the mainstay of this section in order
to enlighten how the children of Iranian asylum-seekers construct their national
identity in Kayseri. Therefore, the questions comprise both objective factors
such as language, customs, territory and subjective factors such as sentiments,
symbols, myths, memories and traditions to shed light into construction of
national identity in Kayseri. For Smith, national identity subsumes both cultural
identity with its emphasizes on common culture, common historical myths and
memories and political identity with its emphasizes on the existence of a
homeland and reciprocal legal rights for all members of a nation.  In this
framework, I took up the issue under three basic titles which are called ‘Life in
Iran’, ‘Future Expectations’, ‘Life in Kayseri’ and ‘Cultural Identity’. These
titles will be addressed to the issues such as acculturation attitudes, language
usage, school, and peer contact, means of communication habits, eating habits,
music and literature.

4.2.1.1 Life in Iran
Within the scope of this sub-title, it is significant to examine that how Iran is
remembered and reconstructed in Kayseri where a new social context is for the
asylum-seeker children. In an advanced state, the questions helped to gain
insight into what Iran means as a homeland for the children. Therefore, this title
subsumes ‘political identity’ indirectly. In this section, validity of
implementation of reciprocal legal rights for all members of a nation will be
questioned related to political identity as well.
Majority of the interviewees miss their daily life in Iran in spite of the hurdles.
Almost all of the children prefer going to school in Iran. While, some of them
legitimized this choice to use their mother tongue, others pointed out the
significance of their home country and their own culture in the following
manner:
In Iran I was attending the religion courses and I was going to school. I
prefer going to school in Iran because I was speaking my mother
tongue and I was living in my culture.  It was very difficult to leave
Iran. I miss our relatives. Educational level is higher in Iran than
Turkey. Besides, beating was forbidden after the revolution but
teachers are beating children at my school. I do not like this…Anyway,
a person’s own homeland and home is the best place to live. (H, 15-
year-old girl, Baha’i)
I am thinking about Iran time and time again. Our home, our food and
everything is better in Iran. I miss my family atmosphere. I know
nothing will be like in Iran henceforth. If I had a choice, I would like to
go to Iran. I want to get rid of my sorrow. I am praying God every
single day. (A, 10-year-old girl, Shi’i)
Two Shi’is complained of about life in Iran considerably rather than other
interviewees. All of the complaints denote the effects of Islamic revolution in
Iran directly. When the asylum-seeker children look back on their old days in
Iran and negotiate their memories, they reconstruct their national identities by
re-membering and passing their lives in review. These children are too far from
feeling like an Iranian; therefore, they do not feel themselves belong to Iran and
Iranian culture. At this point, they disavowed their national identity and directed

towards to identification with the host society or marginalization. The Shi’i
boy’s thoughts about himself justify these connotations about identity
construction in the follwing passage:
Actually I miss Iran’s natural beauties and sightseeing with my parents
but that is all! I have got used to living in Kayseri. Therefore, I forgot
Iran. I have to be acquainted with Iran’s culture again. It is like to be
born again. Eventhough we have relatives in Iran, we do not talk much
about Iran with my parents. In the future, I would like to be in the USA
because I want to be an astronaut. If I did not want to be an astronaut, I
would like to stay in Turkey. My Turkish friends at school forgot that I
am an Iranian. They assume me as a Turk. I feel myself Turk at the
same time. Actually, I am an Iranian at home but I am a Turk at school.
I am one of the most popular students in my class. I forgot about my
life and my friends in Iran. I do not mind Iran at all. I love being in
Turkey. (F, 13-year-old boy, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
Apperantly, he subordinated of his national impulses to feel like a Turk.
Moreover, he is striving to efface the memory of the time in Iran. Therefore, his
national identity has been subjected to a serious ‘interruption’ in Kayseri. As a
matter of fact, his situation is a quandary. He vacillates between being an
Iranian and being a Turk but it seems he prefers to come to terms with ‘being a
Turk’. His identity notion is based on an intricate backdrop. Actually, having
erased all the memories belongs to Iran may expediate his identity construction
but it seems that he is caught in the middle because he has to speak Farsi at
home with his parents. In this situation, his parents act as a reminder of old days
and being an Iranian; therefore he has an ‘ambivalent’, ‘fragmented’, and
‘substituted’ and ‘situational’ identity. His identity is ambivalent because it has
not been shaped yet. His identity is fragmented because he considers himself to
be about equally Turkish and Iranian. His identity is substituted because while
he is an Iranian boy at home, he turns into a Turkish boy at school. His identity
is situational because he is living in Turkey; therefore, he feels like a Turk. He
wants to move to the USA after Tukey. It seems that if he moves to the USA, he
feels like an American this time.
The Shi’i girl whom I made interview directed towards ‘marginalization’ which
results from what Cummins called “bicultural ambivalence” (as cited in Vargas,

1999, p. 287). She declared her rejection of both native culture and host society
culture in her own sentences below:
Being an Iranian is not a thing that I am proud of. When I think about
Iran, I always remember the things which make me sad. The authorities
in Iran repress students who receive education in state schools.
Everyday, they make protestation ‘death to USA!’ and it is forced. I
can unveil my headscarf at class but during the breaks it is forbidden. If
a student champions another country, teachers call their parents to
complain about it. I hate Iran. I feel discomfort about Iran’s
government and society. The Iranian people are not objective. They are
too conservative. When it comes to Kayseri, local people hate all
foreign people. Iranian or American it does not matter. There is a
prejudice against foreigners. My school mates are making fun of me by
calling me Arab, Arab! Is this my fault to be an Iranian? Moreover, I
can not see any difference between Iran and Kayseri. Local people are
so bigoted. I do not make any plan to stay in Kayseri until the end of
my life. Besides, someone who stays in Kayseri more than ten days
goes mad. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
In her case, she does not feel longing for home. She does not feel herself belong
to Iran. She is striving to efface all the memories in Iran but she is not receptive
of the Turkish society as well. In short, she belongs to nowhere; therefore she
has an ‘ambivalent’ and ‘interrupted’ national identity. She feels herself as a
‘stranger’ in the host society. Even though she has been living in Kayseri for six
years and this period of habitancy is long enough to insert herself into the host
society, she evades from any identification. For these very reasons, this
unsettling inversion of her identity leads to marginalization.
Except these two above-mentioned interviewees, almost all of the interviewees
maintain a longing for their homelands and desire to either return or preserve
their nostalgia as a form of identification. The remaining interviewees’ national
identity was not subjected to such a serious interruption. The most surprisingly,
eventhough reciprocal legal rights are not valid for Baha’i cohort in Iran, the
Baha’i participants feel themselves more Iranian than Shi’i cohorts. The Baha’i
participants gave utterance to their feelings in the succeeding passages:
School director and my class mates did not want me to join any activity
at school in Iran. I was sidelined and they did not see me as a student at
all. Once, when we [with his family] went to shopping, they did not

want to sell anything; therefore, I do not like anything in Iran.
Nonetheless, I miss our home and Iran so much. I miss our relatives.
(D, 16-year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
I miss Iran. When I am alone, I am thinking about Iran. I missed mostly
my friends and the games I played. Sometimes, I remember the
persecutions and bad events which my family was subjected to. On the
one hand, I would like to be in Canada because I want to receive
quality education; on the other hand, I would like to be in Iran because
I miss the games I played. (C, 12-year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
I had great time in Iran but we had to veil. Anyway, I was happy in
Iran. Some people deranged us just because we are Baha’i. For
instance, they said ‘you are so dirty’. We did not talk to this kind of
people in Iran. If I had a chance, I want to be in Iran but I love Turkey
also. If the Islamic Regime did not exist, I would like go to Iran. (E, 14-
year-old girl, Baha’i, Azarbaijani)
In this section, I tried to clarify that the asylum-seeking experience is not based
on just violence and persecution, but also based on loss of home. According to
Hadjianni (2002), asylum-seeker children ground their identity in the feeling of
loss which is called “an identity grounded in loss” (p. 90). During the absence of
a physical homeland, asylum-seeker children tend to construct and re-construct
their national identities by remembering their memories in Iran. As Rushdie
argued out, “[immigrants] refuse to become totally assimilated into the host
society, but they do not return to their homelands […]. In the mean time, they
construct an imaginary nation both of the homeland and of their new presence in
exile” (as cited in Mostofi, 2003, p. 689). According to Bagnoli, by straddling
betwixt and between a ‘here’ and a ‘there’, immigrants embark on a process of
reconstructing home in the mainstream society by cherishing of the lost
homeland. A dream of returning home is always in the foreground for the
immigrants even when it can not come true but this vivid dream is considerably
important for the construction of immigrant identities (Bagnoli, 2007, p. 34). On
the basis of the preceding analysis, homeland comprises ‘political identity’ and
it is one of the significant parts that shape national identity according to Smith’s
theory.
In the wake of description of interviewees’s social lives in Iran, ‘future
expectations’ will be analysed in order to make meaning out of their present

perceptions, understanding, attitudes and actions in the light of the past and in
expectation of the future.
4.2.1.2 Future Expectations
Asylum-seeker children construct their identities according to their future
expectations as well. Hadjiyanni denominated it as “an identity of the future”
(Hadjiyanni, 2002, p. 212).
Almost all of interviewees are longing for home and they are thinking about
Iran very often. They miss mostly their home, relatives and school mates. There
were not any professed differences between the Baha’is and Shi’is in terms of
making telephone and e-mail contact. Nearly all of the interviewees perpetuate
communicating with their relatives and remaining family members who are
living in Iran but they could not call up them ever so often.  Suprisingly, in spite
of the extended period of religious subjugation for Baha’is, the Baha’i asylum-
seeker interviewees do not have any ambivalent attachment to Iran as the
homeland. In addition, apart from the Shi’i asylum-seeker children, the Baha’is
are also dreaming of possible return to Iran when if it could be lived safely. The
Baha’i asylum-seeker children remembered Iran with both good and bitter
memories. See, for instance, the succeeding excerpts:
My worst memory in Iran is saying farewell and persecutions at school.
I miss my home and my friends so much. I think about Iran every day.
When we gather with my family, we talk about the future of Iran. We
wish for returning Iran to serve our community. (H, 15-year-old girl,
Baha’i)
I am thinking about Iran very often. I miss my grandparents, my uncle
and my friends. At times we talk on the phone with my grandparents. I
do not like Islamic regime. If I get to choose, I want to be in Iran. (E,
14-year-old girl, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Among the interviewees none of the participants contemplated staying in
Turkey forever “because of high costs of living, economic difficulties and lack
of social services available for asylum seekers and refugees” (Akçapar, 2006, p.
832). In addition, their parents are not allowed to obtain work permission. The

children and their parents could not benefit from health services unless they earn
money. Related to this exclusion, they could not involve in social life
profoundly. This remoteness makes them a withdrawn ‘stranger’ within the
mainstream society; therefore, during their stay in Kayseri, they could just
construct ‘ambivalent’ identities because they do not have the reciprocal legal
rights as Turkish citizens have. The interviewees noted their scant economic
opportunities below:
I do not want to live in Turkey for a long time. Here, everything is
‘old’. Armchairs, carpets, clothes, our home…but in Iran everything
that we have was ‘new’. I can not tell my complaints to my mother. We
have to live on such a little money. I am aware of everything. I have to
be contented with my present life. (A, 10-years-old girl, Shi’i)
I would like to stay in Turkey lesser because Turkey is so expensive
comparing to Iran. (C, 12-year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Most of the interviewees stated that if they had a choice, they would like to live
in Canada, the USA and Australia for numerous reasons. Almost all the
interviewees propounded receiving good education as the most significant
reason but all of the Baha’is also supplemented that they would like to be useful
for humanity. The secondary reason is presence of relatives and close friends in
the destination countries. In an advanced sentence, the prospect of going in
quest of a better future in terms of standarts of education, religious freedoms,
job opportunities impelled the asylum-seekers to reach Canada, the USA,
Australia or some Western European countries.
Iran illuminates their dreams for future prospect. They assume their asylum-
seeking experience as a finite journey. At the end of the road, almost all of them
see themselves in Iran. They can not disengage from Iran at ease throughout this
journey because Iran shields their memories, hopes, dreams, happiness, sarrows
but most importantly their ‘future’. As a Baha’i interviewee pointed out
explicitly:
In the future, I see myself in the middle of Shiraz. (H, 15-year-old
girl, Baha’i)

4.2.1.3 Life in Kayseri
As it could be understood from ‘Life in Iran’ and ‘Future Expectations’
perspicuously, it is obvious that “[t]he homeland is the place of origin, the place
from which migrants come, and it can be thought of as part of the discourse of
migrant identity” (McAuliffe, 207, p. 310). It will be also benefical to analyse
‘Life in Kayseri’ after ‘Future Expectations’ consecutively in order to
understand the children of Iranian asylum-seekers’ present perceptions in the
light of ‘past experiences’ and ‘future expectations’.
Nearly all the interviewees are contented with living in Kayseri. While all the
Baha’is love Kayseri very much, only two Shi’i interviewees expressed that
they love Kayseri. Eventhough the majority of the interviewees emphasized
their pleasure being in Kayseri, not every participant feels like home in Kayseri.
In this regard, ‘maintenance’of their national identity is obvious. When they
enumerated the advantages of being in Kayseri, they also highlighted the
financial problems that they have. Therefore, they do not feel themselves as at
their home. See, for example, the following passages:
Kayseri is much better than Iran. I can go to school in Kayseri. There is
nothing that I dislike. We have just financial problems. Electricity and
water expenses are higher than in Iran. We have difficulties in paying
the bills on time; therefore, I do not feel myself as at my home. (D, 16-
year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
I love Kayseri. I do not have any problems with my friends. Our
financial status was much better in Iran.  Sometimes, when my teacher
asks me to buy something, we could not buy. (F, 13-year-old boy,
Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
Two Shi’i girls had this to share their discontent living in Kayseri with their
sentences below:
I do not want to live in Turkey. Some day I will get rid of Kayseri. The
local people in Kayseri are so bigoted. Actually, if I have a chance, I
prefer living in İstanbul because this metropole city covers the
differences. Here, some of the men can not walk without passing a
word to women. It is so irritating. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i,
Azerbaijani)

It is very difficult to keep away from my homeland; therefore, there is
nothing I like in Kayseri. Actually, for me everywhere is the same
other than Iran. Just being with my family is enough for me. Kayseri is
much more expensive than Iran. My family can hardly meet the
expenses. My only wish is to acquire our acceptance letter from
UNHCR to pass to a third country. I am looking forward to UNHCR’s
reply. (A, 10-year-old girl, Shi’i)
According to Simmel, local people’s attitudes are distinctive in terms of
immigrants’ identity construction. As Simmel noted, the unknown or stranger
always intimidates the individuals in the mainstream society. On this account,
immigrants construct their identities according to ‘remoteness’ and ‘nearness’ as
it was noted in the second chapter. Bearing these in mind, it will be a felicitious
attempt to gain insight into ethnic composition of their neigbourhood and
neighbours’ attitudes towards the Iranian asylum-seekers. Their relations with
neigbours split evenly on the notion of ‘getting along well’. While one half of
the interviewees implied that they have good relations with their neigbours, the
other half told the situation conversely:
We have mostly Baha’i neighbours but there are Turkish as well. Some
of the neigbours mistreat us, but some of them do not. They mistreat us
just because we are Iranian and Baha’i. When I want to play with their
children, they do not allow because I am an Iranian. They accuse us of
having nuclear bomb. They blasphemed us when they learnt we are
Baha’i and shouted: ‘You are impious!’ (D, 16-year-old boy, Baha’i,
Azerbaijani)
Both the Baha’i and the Shi’i asylum-seeker children are being subjected to
pejorative conduct by their neighbours. Particularly, the Baha’is are charged
with impiety. It seems that as an ‘unknown’ or ‘stranger’, some of the local
people especially conservative ones do not indulge the Iranian asylum-seekers
in Kayseri. They prefer erecting a social wall between themselves and the
asylum-seekers by using ‘verbal violance’.
Even though the ethnic composition of the asylum-seekers’ neigbourhood is
mixed, I realized that Baha’is have a propensity for dwelling in the same
neighbourhood. In addition, the Baha’is have constituted a ‘secluded’
community and they exclude the Shi’i asylum-seekers from this community as a

kind of revenge because Baha’is are repressed, persecuted and precluded from
their basic human rights in Iran by Shi’is. The Baha’i asylum-seeker children
expressed that they participate in religious courses in their gathering places,
mahfil28. They also participate in English courses in this place of worship. In
addition, all of the Baha’is told me that they like going to mahfil very much in
their spare times. Two of the Shi’i asylum-seekers underlined that they are not
allowed to participate in social activities in Baha’i mahfil in Kayseri. Being
such a closed community, the Baha’i asylum-seekers have a tendency to stay
grounded within the community in which they receive peer support. Among the
Baha’is whom I interviewed, I encountered a boy who does not go to school in
Kayseri because he told me that he receives enough education in mahfil. With
all these in mind, by supersiding the schools, mahfil educate children
compatible with their future expectations because the children could receive
English course in mahfil to prepare for departure to the USA, Canada or
Australia. With this professed self-sufficiency and self-reliance, the Baha’is
prevent their children from developing any identification and interaction with
the broader culture in which they are resettling. Obviously, the Baha’is
construct their identities according to ‘remoteness’ towards the host society.
Acculturation attitudes or socio-cultural adaptation is also significant in
construction of national identity. In that respect, ‘what strategies do the asylum-
seeker children employ in navigating the social world and surrounding
individuals?’ is a significant question. Therefore, language, school, peer contact
are considerable within the acculturation attitudes. Child asylum-seekers are
faced with plethora of challenges in the host society. According to Couch and
Francis, young29 refugees [child asylum-seekers and refugees] cope with the
acquisition of a new language, adjusting to a new school, forming new



28 I will expand on ‘mahfil’ and Baha’i worship in the section of religious identity
comprehensively.

29 There are miscellaneous age categorizations about the terms of “child” and “youth”.
According to United Nations General Assembly, while “youth” falls between the ages of 16-25
years, “child” falls between the ages of 6-15 (General Assembly of the United Nations,
“Youth”, n.d.). The two interviewees fall into the youth category according to above-mentined
definition in this reserach

friendships and social connections, negotiating interaction with the mainstream
culture, worrying about relatives and friends left behind, while they contend
with the multiple traumatic impacts of the asylum-seeking experience itself
(Couch & Francis, 2006, p. 276-278). Their new identities are framed within the
broader culture which they have resettled.
For child asylum-seekers experiencing language barriers often creates a great
anxiety and impedes social participation (Couch & Francis, 2006, p. 278-282).
According to Christopoulou and Leeuw (2005), continuity in family life is
ensured through language whereby being a strong bearer of cultural identity it
involves the family stories and histories. In this regard, language shapes national
identity which embraces cultural identity as well. It is a clear-cut marker of
‘maintenance’ of national identity. With this considerable role, language is a
medium which helps people to remain connected to a homeland (p. 130). As
Trisielotis implied, “[…] learning the language of the other may correspond to
becoming an active and full member of the host society: that is when the new
language successfully becomes a medium for the expression of emotions” (as
cited in Bagnoli, 2007, p. 36). In this regard, language also sustains immigrants
to develop new codes to construct fledging sense of identities in the mainstream
society. Among the interviewees only two of them had considerable difficulties
in speaking, reading and writing Turkish. The other interviewees could
understand and read Turkish easily but some of them preferred to speak Farsi
throughout the interview. All of the interviewees underscored the difficulties in
acquisition of a new language. The interviewees who are Azarbaijani noted that
they learnt Turkish easily beause their parents know Azerbaijani Turkish.
Therefore, they are familiar with the sounds and letters of Turkish. In addition,
all of the interviewees are eager for learning Turkish. Moreover, two
Azerbaijani children speak Azerbaijani Turkish in their home. Even though all
of the children speak their mother tongue with their parents and Iranian friends,
two children told me that they have set out to forget Farsi in the succeeding
passages:

I learnt Farsi hardly in Iran; therefore, I forgot. If I strive to read, I can
only read only one letter in thirty minutes. My Turkish is better than
my Farsi. (F, 13-year-old boy, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
I speak Farsi with my mother at home but I forgot some of the letters.
(G, 10-year-old girl, Shi’i)
These two children are on the verge of effacement the memories of the time in
Iran. This conspicuous severance from their memories, culture and homeland
occurred when they have lost their mother tongue rather slowly. In a similar
vein, their national identity has been subjected to a relative ‘interruption’. They
have preferred to attach to the host society, rather than safeguarding their
culture. From now onward, they are able to build up healthy relationships with
local people. In parallel with the discourse of Christopoulou and Leeuw in
advance, as the asylum-seeker children’s identity notion undermines, they start
to search for a stabilizing identity in order to fell ‘at home’again. Throughout
this period, while some of the children relate themselves to the past, some of
them immerse themselves deeper in the host society. In the light of the
preceding analysis, as Smith predicated, even the components of national
identity are exposed to process of change and dissolution and these changes may
be gradual or sudden. For these children, construction of identity does not come
true through ‘memory negotiation’ but searching for a stabilizing identity.
Therefore, their fledging identities are ‘situational’ and ‘fragmented’ by their
very nature.
In short, supposedly while all the children speak their mother tongue with their
parents and their Iranian friends to reassert a threatened cultural heritage, they
speak the local language in the public space which denotes a ‘cross-cultural’
adaptation. By having a command of the local language, they are able to
socialize and “serve as cultural intermediaries in the family’s drive for upward
mobility” in the mainstream society (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p. 130).
Adjusting to a new school and education system with a language barrier is a
great handicap for asylum-seeker children. As Couch and Francis stressed out,
“many find it [education] difficult to succeed, owing to a lack of schooling or a

disrupted education prior to arrival in the new country” (2006, p. 278). In
addition, they are most likely learning to write and speak the local language for
the first time.
Nearly all the inteviewees prefer going to school in Iran for various reasons.
Two of the interviewees complained about low education level in Kayseri. They
claimed that they have already known contents of the lessons from their school
in Iran. Majority of the children are being subjected to outrageous insult owing
to the fact that they are Iranian. The Baha’i boy, who left the school in Kayseri,
gave voice to his feeling as such:
I liked going to school in Iran but in Kayseri I do not. Children spitted
my food and asked ‘why do you have such a different food? It is
disguisting’. Sometimes they called me as ‘terrorist!’ Once they threw
my bag to the floor and than kicked it. I can not bear with their disdain
any more. (C, 12-year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Related with the declared bothers and disturbances above, five of the
participants stated that their teachers are helpful to deal with their problems at
school. On the other hand, three participants stated that when they are insulted
by Turkish pupils, their teachers are not interested. In other words, presence of
two different institutional approaches towards asylum-seeker children prevents
any generalization about position of teachers.
In this regard, the word ‘different’ emphasizes something more than contempt
and intolerance. This word reveals how the ‘unknown’ or ‘stranger’ always
intimidates the individuals. Likewise, all asylum-seekers and refugees are more
than a tourist in the eyes of mainstream society because a tourist is on the point
of departure but asylum seekers and refugees are in an ambiguity. Moreover,
they share the public places with the locals more than a tourist. This ceaseless
sharing does not please the locals. They feel inferior for being an asylum-seeker
or refugee. Stigmatization as inferiors paves the way for the development of a
sense of alienation towards host society. They hopelessly attach to their
community and culture with feelings of loneliness and lost. This remoteness
prevents them developing new codes and new identities in the host society.

On the point of forming new a peer contact in a new social context, asylum-
seeker children have considerable difficulties (Couch & Francis, 2006, p. 278).
Among the interviewees, while all of the Baha’is spend their most of the time
with Baha’i peers, Shi’i asylum-seeker children spend their time with both
Iranian and Turkish peers. See, for instance, the following excerpts below:
My most closed friend is an Iranian and she is a Baha’i. We get
together in Mahfil and talked about our memories in Iran. Sometimes,
we talk about our future and sometimes we talk about our religion. (H,
15-year-old girl, Baha’i)
Early on, it was rather difficult for me to make friends with Turkish
students because I could not talk to them. Now, I can speak Turkish;
therefore, making friendship is not difficult anymore. Now, my most
sincere friend is a Turk. I have also Iranian friends but I love all of
them. (G, 10-year-old girl, Shi’i)
Once, I had a Turkish friend but her family was bigoted. They did not
let me to talk to her when they learnt I am a Shi’i. Now we do not see
each other. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
In summary, all the interviewees passed through difficult times quite a while in
terms of conducting peer contact in a new social context. When they learnt to
speak Turkish, they felt more comfortable among their Turkish peers at school.
However, some of them were confronted with pejorative attitudes. By way of
expedient, they turned a blind eye to those who behaved them in a rude way.
Only one among the interviewees preferred to leave the school. Whatsoever way
they choose, there is a fact that school and peer contact is rather significant in
terms of formulating identity and developing values in the new context for the
asylum-seeker children. Asylum-seeker children who attend school get out of
being socially isolated in the host society and they gain opportunity for
recreational activities and other ways to form new friendships.
According to Smith, cultural identity with its emphasizes on common culture,
common historical myths and memories is inseparable part of national identity.
Among the interviewees six out of eight stated that they feel themselves as part
of the Iranian culture. Suprisingly, in spite of having been maltreated in Iran, all
of the Baha’i interviewees are devotedly bound up with the Iranian culture. Two

Shi’i interviewees do not feel themselves as part of the Iranian culture. When
the interviewees thought about Iran, they brought back memories of school
days, their grandparents and their festival. The Baha’i participant expressed her
sorrow to lose her mother referring to the old days in Iran noted hereafter:
When I thought about Iran, I remembered my school and my mother.
She died six years ago. My memories are still fresh in my mind. I
remembered the last Newroz that we were together. (E, 14-year-old
girl, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
When the interviewees thought about the feast, all of them firstly remembered
the Newroz. Two of the Baha’is also remembered the Baha’is religious feast as
well.
Newroz is very significant feast in Iranian culture. It represents our
New Year; therefore, it is the biggest feast in Iran. When we were in
Iran, we presented gifts each other and my parents feasted their friends.
(A, 10-year-old girl, Shi’i)
When I though about the feasts in Iran firstly I remember Newroz and
than Rızvan feast. Rızvan is Baha’is Ramazan feast. This feast
symbolizes the day which our prophet avowed his prophethood. (H, 15-
year-old girl, Baha’i)
While for the two of the Baha’i children the religious festivals is also in the
forefront with Newroz, for the Shi’i children religious festivals are not as
important as for the Baha’is. Remembering their festivals is considerable in
constructing their national identity in the host society. The feasts reinforce the
unity and integrity of their community. When the children celebrate festivals,
they remember their old celebrations with their all family in Iran. Hence, they
also remember their national identity and who they are. In other words,
celebration of significant cultural and religious festivals helps to maintanace of
home country culture. At this point ‘memory negotiation’ serves them to
reconstruct their national identity within the host society. Most of the
interviewees told me that they gathered at Newroz and Rızvan feast in an
immigrant’s home to celebrate but Baha’is and Shi’is organized their
celebrations separately. For example, Shi’i asylum-seeker children could not
participate in Rızvan feasts. Appearently, apart from the distinct discrimination

between locals and asylum-seekers, there is an inter-group discrimination
between Baha’is and Shi’is markedly. Throughout the interviews, especially
Baha’i participants emphasized explicit spatial disparity in terms of sharing
recreation grounds and celebrating their feast. It seems that they demarcated
their social physical sphere in Kayseri. One of the Shi’i interviewee told me that
when they arrived Kayseri early on, Shi’i immigrants community was tied
together enough to organize meetings every week to consolidate the Iranian’s
cohesiveness but for last two years they gathered only once. According to his
narratives, Baha’is are different. They gather together every week and organize
courses for their children. Bearing these aforementioned knowledge in mind,
Baha’is safeguard their cultural heritage more than Shi’i asylum-seekers;
therefore, their children are devotedly attached to traditions in which they
adopted Iran. It seems that their sense of national identity is stronger than Shi’i
asylum-seeker children.
Almost all of the interviewees’ television watch habits change in Kayseri due to
the fact that they fed up with watching mullahs on TV. They can watch Iranian
music channels and films in Kayseri which are broadcasted from the USA.
According to Christopoulou and Leeuw (2005), “[…] satellite TV is a link
between the “there” and “here”. Tuned to programs in the country of origin, it
stood as a constant reminder and a permanent link” (p. 132-133). The
interviewees who watch TV prefer watching music channels and TV series in
Kayseri. They watch both Farsi and Turkish broadcast. Among the Baha’i
interviewees two of them like watching the programs which are with religious
contents. Two of the interviewees stated that they quited watching TV in
Kayseri because they prefer usuing internet to chat with their friends who are
living in the USA. One of the interviewee expressed her pleasure watching
Turkish TV channels in the following manner:
I was fed up with seeing mullahs on TVs in Iran. I can watch TV in
Kayseri happily. I mostly prefer watching cultural programs.
Sometimes my mother changes the channel and watches Iranian
programes. I can hardly calm my nerves. When I see Iranian channels, I
remember the mullahs. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)

All of the interviewees like listening both Farsi and Turkish music. Only one
out of eight could not remember the Iranian singers and music; therefore, he
prefers listening to Turkish music. One of them do not listen Farsi music
intentionally. See, the following excerpt:
I did not listen to Farsi music even in Iran. I prefer listening to hard
rock, blues and mostly west music. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i,
Azerbaijani)
Among the interviewees almost all of the Baha’is prefer reading Farsi books
with religious content. They can warrant these books from the Baha’i library in
Kayseri within the mahfil but they like reading Turkish books at the same time.
The Shi’i participants prefer reading both Turkish and Farsi books.
Their eating habits are not subjected to change in Turkey markedly bacuse they
can eat Iranian food at their home. According to Christopoulou and Leeuw
(2005),
[e]ating is an important everyday ritual for most families, and lot of
time and energy is invested in this. The family table is the “hearth”
around which the familial bonds are nurtured and sustained, and the
time spent with family members and friends around eating is valuable
for reasserting the unity of the family, a unity often threatened by the
shift in circumstances. Although the children were exposed to local
dietary habits (such as fast food), they often expressed their preference
for the diet of the country of origin. (p. 129)
Even though the interviewees prefer eating the Iranian foods, almost all of them
are keen on Turkish foods as well. As Christopoulou and Leeuw noted, for the
asylum-seeker children eating habits have “emotional ingredients” which
reminds the children the memories in their country of origin. As G expressed in
her sentences hereafter:
When my mother cooks pilaf for me, I remember my grandmother
cooking our traditional pilaf in Iran.  I missed my grandmother. (G, 10-
year-old girl, Shi’i)

As Christopoulou and Leeuw (2005) underlined, eating habits are indispensable
part of cultural identity and traditional belongings. In addition, it is a kind of
“family ritual” (p. 129).
In this section, construction of national identity by and large was explained
through ‘hermeneutic circle’ within this section. According to this principle, the
whole is defined by its parts and the parts are defined by whole. The meaning
takes place when understanding grabs the mutual interaction of whole and parts.
In this section, I tried to make meaning of their asylum-seeking experiences to
understand how they construct national identity in the host society. On this
account, their old lives in Iran and their relations with the home society was
questioned before all else. I examined how they defined their home society as a
‘part’ and how their home society defined them as a ‘whole’. I addressed their
narratives and perceptions at this point. First and foremost, I took up their home
society and examined their miscellaneous life patterns within various social
contexts. Islamic regime and the political and religious pressures are the major
reasons for immigrating from Iran. This can be construed as their home society
excluded the ‘sidelinded’ parts by stigmatizing them. Outrageous repression
squelched these parts and they found a way through impasse. They decided to
leave their country. At this point, it is significant to ascertain that how these
excluded parts define their home society. ‘Life in Iran’ gave the answer to this
question. Analysing their memories in Iran conduced to the understanding of
their perceptions about Iran and meaning of home. Almost all the interviewees
could remember their memories. In spite of being subjected to repression and
persecution, they miss Iran because Iran embraces their childhood, their games,
their relatives, their friends, their memories and their future. In this regard,
‘memory negotiation’ helps maintain of home country culture. While some of
the interviewees remember Iran with good memories some also have bad
memories. For instance, I only encountered one Shi’i girl who remembered Iran
merely with dark memories and I met with only one Shi’i boy who has
difficulties in remembering Iran and his memories. However, all of them have
offended the Islamic radicals in their home society. In the section of ‘Future

Expectations’ nearly all of the children I interviewed stated that they want to
return Iran some day. This dream of return illuminates their dreams. They stand
up to the hurdles by embracing their memories and hanging up on their dreams.
In other words, they construct their national identity in the light of the past
experiences and future expectations. Especially those who construct national
identity according to their memories and dreams are able to carry on their sense
of belonging to Iran in Kayseri because their memories and dreams are all
belong to Iran. One of the interviewees who do not remember Iran and the other
one who wants to efface the bad memories of Iran have difficulties in
constructing their ‘interrupted’ national identities in Kayseri because they
belong to nowhere for eradicating their memories.
In the section of ‘Life in Kayseri’, I questioned how the host society defines the
children of Iranian asylum-seekers as a ‘whole’ and how the children of Iranian
asylum-seekers define Kayseri as ‘parts’. I examined this mutual interaction
between the whole and parts according to Simmel’s term ‘stranger’. According
to Thomassen (2005), “the refugees occupy a position in between, neither inside
nor outside the community” (p. 389). The asylum-seeker children that I
interviewed occupy a place neither inside nor outside the host society.
Unquestionably, the host society’s attitudes towards the children of Iranian
asylum-seekers trigger this ambivalent situation. In addition, the host society’s
attitudes shape the acculturation patterns which engender the children to
construct their national identity. Taking into consideration of the social context
in which they have to live, Berry’s acculturation model30 could not be applied to
children of Iranian asylum-seekers who are living in Kayseri. They could not
assimilate because they are precluded from various legal rights. They do not
share the reciprocal legal rights with all members of the host society. I
encountered only one example of limited assimilation. His national identity is
‘ambivalent’, ‘fragmented’, ‘substituted’ and ‘situational’.
While the



30 Berry’s acculturation model could not be applied to the asylum-seekers who come from the
Middle Eastern countries to Turkey in general because as it was underscored in the first chapter,
they are not accepted as a ‘refugee’ in the Turkish legislation. Therefore, they do not have a
chance to be assimilated or to be integrated into the mainstream society.

interviewee disavowed his national and cultural identity, he was receptive of the
Turkish culture. They could integrate limitedly because they are not tolerated by
the members of the host society but they are sharing with them the same public
space. Especially the Baha’i asylum-seeker children they have a tendency to
stay grounded within the community in which they can receive peer support,
instead of developing interaction with the broader culture. Disavowing the
culture of the host society brings on separation but the interviwees could not
separate totally as well because all of the children [except one] are going to
school with Turkish pupils. I encountered only one interviewee as a paragon of
marginalization who disawoves both the culture of home society and host
society together. The majority of the interviewees, especially the Baha’i
children have a propensity for constructing their national identity according to
‘remoteness’. Only one child who is on the verge of a limited assimilation is
constructing his national identity according to ‘nearness’ to the host society.
In the section of ‘Cultural Identity’, I shed light on what kind of values
congregate Iranians to bolster a strong sense of national unity. In other words,
the question of what makes them an Iranian was analysed. Existence of a
common homeland, common language, national feast Nowruz, traditional food
and Farsi music serve as the ‘glue’to maintain national and family unity. These
elements are overriding in terms of constructing a national identity as ‘Iranians’
for the asylum-seeker children. Suprisingly, in spite of their concrete aspirations
for global society and global citizenship, they do not have any difficulties of
claming Iranian national identity. In summary, the reconstruction of their
national identiy was nourished from the absence of homeland, memory
negotiation and synthesis of remoteness and nearness.
4.2.2 Religious Identity
In this section, I contrasted the experiences of Muslims against those of the
Baha’is in order to reveal their distinct religious identity construction by taking
into consideration of both ‘religious norm adherence’ and ‘religious identity

saliance’. As Mcauliffe (2007) pointed out, “religious identities, like national
identities, are neither chorent nor dominant in many individuals. They are
complex and manifest differently in individuals and groups” (p. 313).  For
instance, while for the Baha’i interviewees religion plays an important role for
identification and expression of community, for the Shi’i asylum-seeker
children religion does not have such a significant role.
According to Christopoulou and Leeuw (2005) “[o]ften religion plays the role
of sustaining cultural identity and serves as a reminder and fortifier of habits
and traditions which were forcibly left behind” (p. 130). Therefore, religion has
a significant function for the immigrants as a medium for asserting original
culture, as an institutional conveyor of ethno-cultural bridging, as a medium of
socio-cultural integration, as a celebration of cultural and religious syncretism
and as an engine of (non-) adaptation as Leman pronounced. Within the scope
of this section, I will also examine that which of these functions is being used
by the child participants in Kayseri.
Among the interviewees while the Shi’i asylum-seeker children’s families fled
Iran for being subjected to excessive repression of normative orthodox Islam,
the Baha’i asylum-seeker children’s families fled Iran for being a persecuted for
being a deviant by normative orthodox Islam. As Varzi noted, after the Islamic
Revlolution, orthodox Shi’i Islam has been propounded as the primary
stipulation for being a good Iranian (as cited in Mcauliffe, 2007, p. 318). Hence,
differentiation along the lines of ethnicity, religion, language, class or education
were elided to construct a monolithic and homegenous Iran (Mcauliffe, 2007, p.
317-318). This normative branch of Shi’i Islam does not accept the Bahaism as
an official religion and objects to the defining of Iranian national identity other
than Shi’ite symbols and narratives by non-othodox Shi’is. At this crucial point,
the Baha’i and Shi’i asylum-seekers have a common denominator: They are all
fierily opposed to the mullahs because they were expelled from Iran by fervent
mullahs of orthodox Islam.

Within the scope of this section, I will examine ‘religious engagement &
religious knowledge’, ‘devotionalism’and ‘ritual involvement’ as groundwork in
order to understand how the asylum-seeker children construct their religious
identity in the host society. I will also analyse ‘interruption’ and ‘maintanance’
of their religious identity.
4.2.2.1 Religious Engagement & Religious Knowledge
Within the scope of this sub-title, adherence to set of beliefs associated with the
asylum-seeker children’s religion will be analysed. While the religion is
extremely important for the Baha’i asylum-seeker children, only two Shi’i
interviewee enumareted the significance of religion for herself. Nearly all of
interviewees know about their religion’s basic principles, rules, rituals, holidays,
festivals and commemerations. They mostly came to know their religion firstly
from their parents and secondly from schools but Baha’i asylum-seeker children
learnt religion firstly from their parents and secondly special religious courses
for Baha’is in Iran. They are all still willing for learning the rules of their
religion and implementing the teachings in Kayseri except two Shi’i
interviewees. Nearly all the interviewees implement the rules of their religion.
Six out of eight perform the namaz but only three of them fast additionally due
to the fact that they exempt from fasting on account of their age. They pointed
out that they do not have to participate fully in the daylight fasts because they
need more nourishment due to their growth. All of the children in elementary
and secondary school are told by their parents but children are delighted to be
part of religious activities. A 10-year-old Shi’i girl confessed that she fasts
secretly without telling her mother in Kayseri in the following passage:
I do not fast when I go to school. My mother told me that fasting could
prevent my physical and intellectual development. Nevermore,
sometimes I fast and neither my father nor my mother realizes it. (A,
10-year-old girl, Shi’i)

All the interviewees who implement their religion teachings are pleased to
follow the rule of their religion. In addition, their parents do not put pressure on
them to fast and perform namaz. They just feel up to worship.
While almost all of the Baha’i children give priority to their religious identity
rather than national identity, they seemed rather ambivalent when they were
trying to make a decision between their religion and nationality. Suprisingly,
two Baha’i interviewees vacilliated considerably and thougt quite a while to
make a choice. Finally, they stated that being an Iranian and being a Baha’i are
equally significant for them below:
Being an Iranian Baha’i is important for me. I could not make a
decision at ease. Both of them are important. (H, 15-year-old girl,
Baha’i)
As far as I am concerned, both of them are important for me. (C, 12-
year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
For two Shi’i interviwees neither being an Iranian nor being a Shi’i is important.
The Shi’i girl highlighted that,
Religion is between individual and God. All the religions are important
for me. I do not worship but sometimes I speak with God. Actually,
neither being an Iranian nor being a Shi’i is such a big deal for me.
Nevermore, if I have to make a decision, being an Iranian is much more
important for me than being a Shi’i because religion should not be
interfered in politics. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
Making a healthy analyse on account of the children’s decisions between being
an Iranian and being a Shi’i or Baha’i does not seem possible for this research.
At least it is self-evident that the some of the Baha’i asylum-seeker children
give priority to both of them, the decisions of the Shi’i asylum-seeker children
are more divergent. For Shi’i participants, religion is not so important like the
Baha’i participants. While one of the Shi’i asylum-seeker children seems to put
religion ahead of her nationality, at the end of the interview, it was uncovered
that she is using religion as a medium to go back to Iran with her sentences
below:

Being a Muslim is very important for me. My mother taught me how to
perform the namaz but I pray in Kayseri more than I was in Iran
because I would like to turn back to Iran in some day. (A, 10-year-old
girl, Shi’i)
A Shi’i interviewee pronounced the insignificance nature of the religion for
himself:
Religion is not important for me. I accept what my father professes. It
does not matter. My mother teaches me about the lives of prophets. I
am fond of listening to her. Anyway, there is no difference for me
between being an Iranian and being a Shi’i. (F, 13-year-old boy, Shi’i,
Azerbaijani)
In short, many children follow the standarts and values connected to religion, at
least to the family’s way of practicing religious law and rules. It is significant to
point out that while the Baha’i interviewees are brewing intense religious
identity, the Shi’i asylum-seeker interviewees have ‘ambivalent religious
identity’.
4.2.2.2 Devotionalism
In this section, I will examine the performance of private religious practices
both in Iran and Kayseri. Nearly all of the participants’ parents are comply with
the religious rules both in Iran and Kayseri and they are all frequent prayer and
devoted follower of their religion. Still holding up their beliefs, they provide
their children with moral, spiritual and values-based training in Kayseri. While
all of the Shi’i participants and their parents prefer praying at home in Kayseri,
the Baha’i participants and their parents prefer praying both at home and
‘mağfil’. Almost all the Baha’i participants pointed out that they perform their
private and public religious practices more comfortable in Kayseri than in Iran
due to the fact that the Iranian government does not allow Baha’is to open local
house of worship31 in Iran because they are precluded from any religious rights



31 As Lazich pointed out, local house of worship is called “Mashriqu’l - Adhkar” by Baha’is
(Lazich, 2004, p. 47).

since they did not fit with the official Islamic views. As the Baha’i boy noted
below,
In Iran every Baha’i prays at home. We do not have the local house of
worship; therefore, we were praying secretly at home in Iran. In Turkey
we pray more than we were in Iran because we have to pray for our
remaining community members in Iran who are suffering bitterly. In
addition, we can pray in mağfil more freely in Turkey because Bahaism
is not forbidden in Turkey. (D, 16-year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Either of the Baha’i and Shi’i participants prays more enthusiastically in
Kayseri than they prayed in Iran because they would like get over the financial
and social difficulties which they are living in Kayseri. However, the Baha’i
children also pray for their remaining community members in Iran. Therefore,
while the Baha’i children’s religious identity was not subjected to any
‘interruption’, two Shi’i children’s religious identities were subjected to serious
‘interruption’ in Kayseri.
Moreover, being peripheral actors, Baha’is does not have any public religious
practices in Iran; therefore, they construct strong sense of religious identity in
Turkey. As a Baha’i girl stated below,
Once we visited the destructed house of Bab in Shiraz which was razed
by the government in 1981. We prayed in our car to not draw attention.
(H, 15-year-old girl, Baha’i)
The Shi’i participants did not have any difficulties in praying in Iran but they
prefer praying at their home both in Iran and Kayseri. However, their religious
identity is ambivalent because they are opposed to the normative orthodox Islam
in Iran. As Mcauliffe (2007) underlined, “[t]heir adherence to a more secular
world view, combined with their position as part of the ‘Persian Muslim’
majority produces what could be termed a cultural rather than a religious
Muslim identity” (p. 313).

4.2.2.3 Ritual Involvement
This sub-title refers to the performance of public religious practices of the
interviewees. However, lacking of a public place of worship for the Shi’i
asylum-seekers in Kayseri, the Baha’i asylum-seekers will come to the fore in
this section. As all of the Baha’i participants stated, the Baha’i asylum-seekers
have a specific place to perform the significant festival and feasts in Kayseri
which is called ‘mağfil’. As the Baha’i participants told me that mağfil is a kind
of worship place and it is in private home of a Baha’i adherent. Mağfil is not a
specific place. Sometimes, the Baha’i families who are dwelling in the same
quarter convene in home of a Baha’i and form mağfil. The Baha’i children’s
parents organize religious meetings32 in mağfil in Kayseri. Children could also
participate in these religious meetings which occur every nineteen days on the
first day of each Baha’i month. Througout the meeting, children pray with their
parents, read the Baha’i sacred scriptures and “listen to prayers and selected
passages from the Baha’i scriptures recited by members of the local
community” (Lazich, 2004, p. 48). However, the Shi’i asylum-seeker children
are sidelined from mağfil in Kayseri. Shi’i community as the main preponderant
group excludes Baha’i community and shears them from basic ways of life in
Iran but Baha’i community excludes the Shi’i community from their mağfil in
Kayseri by way of retaliation. According to Tajfel and Turner, both of the
excluded group is faced with a “negative distinctiveness”.
Living in a host society has substituted the places of parts and whole in
hermeneutic circle. While the Shi’i community constituted ‘majority’ as the
dominant religion for over ninety percent of Iranians as a ‘sidelineded whole’ in
Iran, they turned into ‘parts’ in the host society. Even though some of the
Iranian asylum-seekers are excluded from the mainstream society, they can get
access to their religious freedom in Kayseri. For instance, in contrsast to Iran,
Shi’i asylum-seekers have right to change their religion in Turkey. Likewise,



32 As Lazich pointed out, “[r]egular gatherings of the Baha’i community are called ‘feasts’
[…].” (Lazich, 2004, p. 48). I do not give all the details what kind of ceremonies and rituals that
Baha’is have. Possibly, it could be another thesis topic.

Baha’i community’s relationship with whole has shifted as well. Even though
Baha’i community constitutes ‘parts’ of the host society, they have right to
practice their religion, observe religious holidays and manifest their religion in
Kayseri but they were not tolerated to practice their religion in Iran by the
governmet. The Baha’i community in Kayseri draws upon the advantages of
religious freedom.
Moreover, Baha’i asylum-seekers in Kayseri have a library in mağfil which
includes Baha’i sacred scriptures, literature and poetry books which is written in
Farsi and English. Almost all of the children participate in English courses in
mağfil on the weekends. As one of the Baha’i participants noted hereafter:
We are attending religious and English courses in mağfil in Kayseri.
We are learning moral values with my parents to be a good person. (H,
15-year-old girl, Baha’i)
All of the Baha’i children are spending their spare time in mağfils for various
reasons. At that point, the Baha’i participants shape their persent life by
referring the past experiences and future expectations and mağfils are
indispensable places for their future dreams. Attending English courses is a
strong evidence of their desire to pass to a third country.
Baha’is celebtarate the Festival of Ridvan (21 April-2 May) “to commemorate
Bahaullah’s declaration of his prophethood […] in 1863” (Lazich, 2004, p. 47)
in mağfil. They also celebrate “Nowruz” in mağfils as their national festival. A
Baha’i participant enlightened the celebration of Festival of Ridvan below:
When I think about the festivals in Iran, firstly I remember the Festival
of Ridvan. We could not celebrate it in Iran because it is forbidden but
in Turkey we can celebrate it freely. Besides, we can even pray in parks
in Kayseri.  Last year Baha’is raised money and rented a large salon to
celebrate the Ridvan. Throughout the celebration, we listened to music
and the particiants presented gifts to each other. Representation was
demonstrated for the children. (H, 15-year-old girl, Baha’i)
Throughout the interviews, almost all of the participants observe or celebrate
major mainstream secular cultural religious events such as Nowruz. Therefore,

while all the Shi’i participants remembered the Nowruz as the most significant
traditional festival, the Baha’i participants remembered both the Festival of
Ridvan and Nowruz. Celebration of Nowruz is not subjected to an ‘interruption’
in Kayseri for all the interviewees. The Festival of Ridvan turned into a constant
celebration in Kayseri for the Baha’i participants. In the light of the preceding
analysis, the Baha’i interviewees’ religious identity merged into a dominant
religious identity and gained a relative continuity in Kayseri. On the other hand,
the Shi’i interviewees’ religious identity was subjected to ‘interruption’ and
their religious identity gained ambivalency in Kayseri. For instance, regardless
of their religious backgrounds, all Iranians in this research celebrate Nowruz,
the Iranian New Year as a significant secular traditions but neither of the Shi’i
participants reported that they commemorate the death of religious figures or
martyrdom of Imam Hussein.
According to the interviewees, the religion courses in Turkey are more
intelligible and benefical to promote spiritual values than the religion courses in
Iran. As the Baha’i girl stated in the succeeding manner:
The teachers at Iranian schools do not attach any value to Bahaism.
One day, my teacher was teaching the Quran and red a letter wrongly. I
warned her kindly but she ejected me from class. It was so humiliating.
I like attending religion courses in Kayseri because they are very
informative. In addition, my teacher is not repressive like my ex-
teacher in Iran. (E, 14-year-old girl, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
In brief, there is a large “fictive-kin” system among the Iranian asylum-seekers
in Turkey. Within my sample, Baha’i asylum-seeker children epitomized a
perfect example of fictive-kin system but they envisage and draw on this fictive-
kin system as a medium of non-adaptation in host country. In this regard, Baha’i
religious agency gains ground on secluded religious congregation, which
excludes Shi’i Iranian asylum-seekers in Kayseri. On the other hand, while
Baha’is draws on religion as a medium for affirming their own culture and
presence, for some of the Iranian Shi’i asylum-seekers, religion and conversion
are used as a means for migration. Having run away from politic and religious
pressures, Shi’i Iranians could not summon around their religious identity in

Kayseri. For Shi’i Iranians religion is neither a medium for asserting orginal
culture nor a medium for non-adaptation to the host society. They could not
organize any congregations such as Baha’is do; therefore to create alternative
social networks to manage to adversities that they encounter, some of the Shiite
Iranians change their religion in the transit stage of migration in Turkey. That is
to say, the Shi’i immigrant community in Kayseri is noticeably distinct from the
Baha’i immigrant community and Baha’i participants’ religious identity
transpired as the most salient religious identity comparing to Shi’i participants’
religious identity.
Changing of the interaction patterns between parts and whole in hermeneutic
circle causes the different construction of religious identities among the asylum-
seeker children. For instance, it is self-evident that Bahaism has transpired in the
public sphere of Kayseri because the Baha’i community’s relations with the
mainstream society have changed. For instance, Baha’i children could share
their religion with Turkish people and they could even pray in parks in Kayseri.
Appearance of Bahaism in public sphere rather than private sphere caused the
reconstruction of the Baha’i participants’ religious identity in the host society.
By gaining visibility of their religious identities, they obtained a strong sense of
religious identity. In striking contrast to the Baha’i interviewees, the Shi’i
participants’ religious identity reconstructed quite differently because their weak
sense of religious identity consolidated in Kayseri. For the Shi’i participants
religion is not critically important like the Baha’i participants. Therefore, while
religious identity is in the foreground for the Baha’is, national identity was
subordinated. However, they are also able to carry on their national identity as
well. On the other hand, for the Shi’i asylum-seeker children national identity is
more preponderant comparing to their religious identity apperaently. The Shi’i
community’s relations with the mainstream society have changed as well. For
instance, as Akçapar explained, in striking contrast to Iran, even religious
conversion comes true through the social networks such as churches,
missionraries and church-related organization among the Iranian Shi’i asylum-
seekers in Turkey but I did not encounter any sample of religious conversion

among the Shi’i interviewees. In this regard, the Shi’i community gained a
relative religious freedom in Kayseri as well because they were not allowed to
change their religions in Iran. Changing the relations and interactions between
parts and whole for both of the religious community gave rise to appearence of
divergent religious identities.
Bearing the aforementioned information in mind, the concurrent cause for this
two divergent identity construction is based on community coherence as well.
While members of the Baha’i community have a strong religious coherence, the
members of the Shi’i community have weak religious bonds. While the Baha’i
children’s parents are striving excessively to inculcate the tenets of Bahaism
into their children, the Shi’i children’s parents are laying out modicum of effort
to teach their children the tenets of Shiism. In addition, the Shi’i participants’
family routines and traditions are often structured by national reflexes. In
striking contrast to the Shi’i participants, the Baha’i participants’ family
routines and traditions are often structured by religious reflexes. For the Baha’i
participants “religion plays the role of sustaining cultural identity and serves as
a reminder and a fortifier of habits and traditions which were forcibly left
behind” (Christopoulou & Leeuw 2005, p. 129-130). While the Shi’i
participants accentuated especially cultural festivals and traditions, the Baha’i
participants pointed out theological premises of Bahaism such as religious
festivals and feasts that were remembered vividly.
4.2.3 Childhood Experiences
In this section, I will analyse the concept of ‘childhood’. Analysing social
construction of childhood for the children of Iranian asylum-seekers who are
living in Kayseri will shed light on childhood experiences in the host society. In
this framework, I addressed the childhood experiences by taking into account of
legally binding instruments and their most fundamental child rights. In this
section, the overriding concern is to reveal that children are not passive
receivers but they are active creators of their own life and own identities within

new socio-cultural contexts. According to Bash and Phillips, a postmodern
notion of “mutiple identities” do not based on “consumerist choice” where
children might be regarded as passive receivers because to the quantum
metaphor, from the dialectic of cultural encounter the uncertainity arises which
denotes “individuation and self creation” in identity formation (Bash & Phillips,
2006, p. 126).
Within the scope this section, I addressed questions to the interviewees which
examined ‘Spare time Activities’, ‘Child Responsibilities’, and ‘Family
Protection and Parental Responsibilities’. I took up these sub-titles by taking
into consideration of the interviewees’ both post-migration and pre-migration
habitus to analyse and compare their childhood experiences both in home and
host society.
4.2.3.1 Spare Time Activities
Every child has right to playfulness for their intellectual and psychical
development; therefore, it is considerable how and with whom the children
spend their leisure time.
All of the Baha’i participants are happy with the spare time activities in Kayseri
because they pointed out that their parents were loath to provide consent for
playing outside home because of their overmuch concerns about safety;
therefore, parents were concerned about the participation of their children in
activities outside of school. Only one Baha’i participant gave utterance to his
feeling conversely comparing to the other Baha’i participants in the following
passage:
I was playing when I got through with my lessons in Iran. I had enough
spare time to play in Iran. Actually, I have time in Kayseri also.
Besides, I can play outside in Kayseri but there are very few Iranians in
our dwelling place. Therefore, I have to play with Turks most of the
time but when I make a mistake during the game, they shout like “you
are from Iran and you are an infidel!” I prefer playing in Iran. (C, 12-
year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)

In striking contrast to the Baha’i participants, the Shi’i children prefer their
outside activities and games in Iran. Only one of the children complained of
about unfamiliar environment in Kayseri. She stated that their parents do not
give permission them to play oustside because of unsafe pysical environment.
As a Shi’i girl noted below,
I can not play outside in Kayseri fereely because of unfamiliar
environment. My mother thinks that it is unsafe. (A, 10-year-old girl,
Shi’i)
Being in a melancholic mood, a Shi’i boy vacillates between Iran and Kayseri.
He misses his ‘lost’ toys and ‘lost’ book from the ‘lost’ homeland. See, the
following excerpt:
I had a remote-control car in Iran. I loved that car more than any other
toys of mine. Actually, I had a host of toys. All of them were big and
they were not cheap. All of them stayed in Iran. Than, I had poetry
book and I loved that book more than any other books of mine. It
included child poems in it. I learnt Farsi with that poetry book. Here, I
have toys but not like them. On the other hand, I have a few friends in
Kayseri. I can play freely with them outside. (F, 13-year-old boy, Shi’i,
Azerbaijani)
Childhood experiences of the Shi’i boy are grounded in the feeling of loss. He
tries to console himself by emphasizing the advantages of the new environment
in the host society.
A Baha’i girl bridged between Iran and Kayseri by playing Iran games in
Kayseri with her brother. Playing Iran games constitutes a link between ‘there’
and ‘here’ such as an incessant memory negotiator. She expressed her feelings
below:
I had enough time and toy in Iran to play but I could not play in Iran, I
could not skate and I could not spin my hoop as well. I can play in
Kayseri freely but most of the time we play Iranian games with my
brother. Sometimes, I am skating outside with my brother. (E, 14-year-
old girl, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Even though two interviewees preferred spending their leisure time in Iran,
nearly all of them participate in at least school activities apart from the outdoor

games in Kayseri whereby I encountered a swimmer, a chess player, a
basketballer. They can attend these courses free of charge at their school. In
addition, parents do not concern about the participation of their children in
school activities. In addition, the Baha’i participants benefit from the avantages
of ‘mağfil’ in terms of spending their spare time whereby they can read books,
attend English courses and paint as hobby. Among the Shi’i participants one out
of four them prefers neither Iran nor Kayseri. She expressed her opinions in the
succeeding passage:
Only activity that I had in Iran is listening to music. I had enough time
to participate in leisure time activities but I did not have any
opportunity. I could not find any activities in Kayseri. Once I attended
a guitar course. Suddenly my teacher left me alone and said ‘I will
come back as soon as I finish performing namaz’. I left the course on
that day. (B, 16-year-old girl, Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
In short, the children who miss Iran’s physical environment, in reality are
longing for their lost friends, lost games, lost toys in a melancholic mood.
Nevertheless, changing relations between the ‘whole’ and the ‘parts’ in the host
society is useful for the children’s intellectual and physical development. In Iran
almost all of the Baha’i and Shi’i children could not involve outdoor
recreational activities for various reasons but in Kayseri they are not socially
and geographically islolated. They have miscellaneous opportunities for
recreational activities and forming new friendship. For instance, most of the
interviewees stated that they go to the parks to play with their both Turkish and
Iranian friends.
4.2.3.2 Child Responsibilities
Every child has right to live his or her childhood without being charged with
heavy and ardous responsibilities. Children have few responsibilities in their
lives such as play not to work.
According to Christopoulou and Leeuw (2005), asylum-seeker and refugee
children’s role is rather crucial for others members of the household. Being the

main mediator between the host society and their family, they sometimes
undertake great responsibilities for their family (p. 130). For example, “they
assume almost a parental responsibility in situations where they must interpret”
(Anderson, 2001, p. 191). They are the first who learn local language and bring
the new social context into the home through the everyday use at school, in the
neighbourhood and playgrounds. The parents rely on their children in contacting
whether with the locals, doctors, public institutions, local authority officers,
various associations, sellers or the authorities who are responsible from asylum
procedures, etc (Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005, p. 130-133). That is to say,
children constitute the initial link between their family and public sphere of the
host society.
All the children implied that they do not have any heavy responsibilities both in
Iran and Kayseri. All of the children noted that they help their parents with the
housework such as cleaning work, washing up the dishes and clothes, setting up
and cleaning of table as it is the same housekeeping chores in Iran. There is one
additional responsibility that they are charged with is ‘interpretation’ in Kayseri.
All of the bilingual children help their monolingual parents to cope with the
challenges stemming from their lack of Turkish. As Anderson (2001)
underscored, “[a]s a psychiatrist pointed out, the parents can become
increasingly apathetic, reflecting an almost infantile need for care and provision,
failing to learn the language and thus signaling a longer term reliance on their
increasingly self-sufficient children” (p. 192). That is to say, the only situation
in which asylum-seeker children adopt adult role is that when they have to act as
translator. Throughout the interpretation, inversion of the role hierarchy in
family causes them to take on an adult responsibility.
Concerning language, Azerbaijani parents constitute the most advantegous
families in respect to the rest of the parents owing to familiarity with Turkish. A
Baha’i girl expressed her thoughts below:
My father and mother can speak Turkish pretty well. I do not have to
interpret for them. I only interpret for new comer Baha’is and Muslims.

I am fond of making interpretation for them because they need help. (E,
14-year-old girl, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Apart from the ever-changing relationship between the ‘whole’ and the ‘parts’,
there is also a professed change between the parts which brings forth ‘role
changes’ within the household. According to Rutter, “[p]arents can feel very
disempowered by their lack of education and their lack of [local language].
They may see their roles change in the family if their children speak English and
they don’t” (Rutter, 2006, p. 171).
4.2.3.3 Family Protection and Parental Responsibilities
Every child has right to grow up in a secure physchial environment. In addition,
all the children have the right to adequate nutrition and adequate health for their
intellectual and physical development. Lack of foregoing rights may prevent
them enjoying childhood experiences.
All the Baha’i participants without exception explained that their parents were
not able to provide a secure physical environment for them in Iran. The Baha’i
boy expressed an old event in the following manner:
I do not feel safe in Iran. Someones troubled us with telephone. They
asked “where is your father and than hung up the telephone”. (C, 12-
year-old boy, Baha’i, Azerbaijani)
Enroachment upon their rights, having been persecuted and insulted,
sanctioning of the Baha’i faith, the Baha’i interviewees conceded that they have
a safer physical environment in Kayseri. Nevertheless, all of the Shi’i
participants stated that while their parents were able to provide them a safe
environment in Iran, they do not feel safe in Kayseri except two participants.
One of them expressed the past and present situation with her sentences below:
My family was not able to provide a secure environment even for
themselves. My brother was attempted to kidnap. Nevertheless, my
mother is able to provide a secure home environment for me but
Kayseri is so dangerous especially for women. When day turns into
night, I have to go back home. Even though my school is rather close to

our home, I go to the school by school service. (B, 16-year-old girl,
Shi’i, Azerbaijani)
Apart from the secure physical environment, having adequate nutrition and
adequate health are indispensable provisions for intellectual and physical
development of children. Almost all of the children denoted that they were able
to be nourished healtier in Iran and they could not benefit from the health
facilities like in Iran owing to the financial problems in Kayseri. However, they
did not indicate a huge gap between Iran and Kayseri in terms of nourishment
and health opportunities.
In short, their childhood experiences are quiet different in Kayseri than Iran due
to various recreational opportunities and relative free environment comparing to
Iran. The children do not take on the roles and responsibilities of adults [except
interpretation], rising families, working for wages or caring for siblings.
Changing of the interaction patterns between the ‘whole’ and the ‘part’ caused
to reveal different childhood experiences.
4.3 Analysing the Interplay among National and Religious Identity
This thesis is set out to explore ‘intersectionality’ of identities of the children of
Iranian asylum-seekers in order to reveal the interplay among national and
religious identity. Even though it is not the overall purpose of this research, it
would be benefical to analyse the affects of the interplay between national and
religious identity to their childhood experiences.
A noticeable fact in this research is continuing vigour of national identity
without a shadow of doubt is an existing reality as Smith pointed out in his
nationalism theory beforehand. That is to say, national identity is so pervasive
and ubiquitious that other types of collective identities could not keep up with
its durability and potency. National identity is sole representative of ‘collective
rememberance’ among the asylum-seeker children. Nonetheless, one should
bear in mind that this research is based on a ‘two-pronged’ approach which
requires navigation between national and religious identity.

Througout the interviews, I observed a limited interplay between national-
religious and child-religious identities. First of all, elaborating the interplay
between national and religious identity would be felicitious in order to keep to
the point. Even though I did not encounter any national identity which was
constructed on the basis of religious identity, I noticed an obvious national
identity deconstruction with regard to religion concerning the Baha’i children.
In spite of their distinct statement about the superiority of national identity,
when it comes to significance of religion, nearly all of them vacillated between
religious and national identity. After persistent questions, they all preferred to
assert their religious identity. Furthermore, when they thought about the notable
festivals in their country of origin, three out of four implied ‘the Festival of
Rızvan’ in addition to ‘Nowroz’ owing to the fact that the Baha’i children have
immanent religious conviction. As a matter of fact, they have been instilling
with religious tenets profoundly by both their parents and the Baha’i community
in Iran and Kayseri.  Therefore, they had a discursive expression about the
saliency of their identities. Nevertheless, apart from fluctuation between the
identities, their strong attachment to national identity in striking contrast to the
Shi’i children is an unquestionable fact.
The Shi’i children do not have a preponderant religious identity comparing to
the Baha’i children. Even though Iran adopted Shi’ite symbols and narratives to
constitute a national unity after the Revolution, it seems that it is not binding for
the Shi’i asylum-seeker children because they portrayed their identities on the
basis of national identity which is prufied from religious reflexes. Therefore, the
Shi’i children’s way of adaptation of national identity does not comply with the
official ideology of Iran. That is to say, there is no ostensible interplay between
their national and religious identity.
There is also a distinct interplay between religious identity and childhood
experiences for the Baha’i participants. They agreed upon that they are freer in
Kayseri in terms of practicing and professing their religion and drawing upon
outdoor playground and leisure time activities for their physical and intellectual

development in contrast to Iran due to the fact that they were precluded from
their non-negotiatable rights pertaining to practicing their religion, attending
school and using playgrounds. Enroachment upon their basic rights impeded to
enjoy their childhood.  Therefore, plethora of spare time activities and presence
of relative free social environment in Kayseri led asylum-seeker children to
enjoy their childhood.
In short, even though the presence of an obvious interplay between national-
religious and child-religious identities, there is no overlapping among three
identities. Finally, interplay is valid merely for the Baha’i children. I did not
observe any interplay or overlapping among the Shi’i particpants’ identities.


CHAPTER 5

CONCLUSION

This thesis has comprised an investigation of the identity construction of
children of Iranian asylum-seekers in Kayseri. The research was conducted
through semi-structured, in-depth interviews with selected children of Iranian
asylum-seekers in order to analyse the construction of national and religious
identity.  In this research, identity is regarded as fluid and malleable. In this
framework, to accomplish the foremost aim of the research, I questioned the
presence of ‘interruption’ and ‘maintenance’ within the constructed identities as
the main research question. The subordinate research question is ascertainment
the interplay between national and religious identity thoroughly. Due to the
presence of various identity definitions, I proposed an ‘eclectic’ research wich
comprises related identity definitions that comprise the basic problematic of this
thesis. To analyse the research questions, I mainly utilized identity approaches
of Smith, Hall, Christopoulou and Leeuw, Bauman and Simmel to lay the
groundwork for this research. To constitute the main anchor of this research,
“situational identities” (Smith, 2001), “substituted identities” (Christopoulou &
Leeuw, 2005), “fragmented identities” (Hall, 1996), “ambivalent identities”
(Bauman, 2004), “stranger” (Simmel, 1950) and “memory negotiation”
(Christopoulou & Leeuw, 2005) were employed.
In this research, I drew upon ‘hermeneutics’ as the most congruous sociological
method because my first and foremost aim is to grab inner dynamics and
perceptions of the participants. Hermeneutics is based on meaning and thereby
subjective level of human experience. To give meaning to the way of

interpretation of their experiences, comprehensive investigation was done to
ascertain how their experiences of past and anticipations of future influence
their perceptions, attitudes and actions through in-depth interviews. Secondly,
within the scope of hermeneutic thought, subjective level of human experience
is in the forefront and this research does not aim at reaching objective
knowledge. Identity formation of children was considered with a constant flux
both by home and host country of the children involved in order to compare
their ‘pre-migration’ and ‘post-migration’ habitus. Thirdly, I utilized
‘hermeneutic circle’ in order to examine ‘interruption’ and ‘maintenace’ within
asylum-seeker children’s identities.
In order to encapsulate the findings, it will be benefical to enumerate subjective
knowledge that I acquired throughout the interviews. This thesis put forth the
distinct superiority of national identity through the interviewees’ other identity
forms as Smith underlined in his nationalism theory previously. I reached this
notable knowledge by employing ‘hermeneutic circle’. In this framework, how
they defined their home society as a ‘part’ and how their home society defined
them as a ‘whole’ through their perceptions were examined. At this point, I
draw upon ‘memory negotiation’ to reveal how they remember Iran in the
section of ‘Life in Iran’. Even though all the interviewees have offended the
Islamic regime for different reasons, it is striking that even the Baha’i
participants keep their good memories in Iran and they have a stronger national
idenity than Shi’i interviewees. In addition, I came to realise that they would
like to return their homeland if Islamic regime is over or things get better. In
short, interviewees construct their national identities by embracing their
memories and hanging up their dreams of return. Furthermore, the interviewees’
national identity was not subject to any ‘interruption’ in the host society.
Nevertheless, two typical examples of ‘interuption’ can be expressed as well.
One of the interviewees does not remember Iran and other one wants to efface
the memories of Iran completely. On this account, their national identity is
‘fragmented’ and ‘ambivalent’ because they are belong to nowhere for ignoring
and eradicating their memories. On the other hand, host society’s attitudes have

a triggery effect to shape national identity of the children. At this point,
Simmel’s term ‘stranger’ steps in due to the fact that the asylum-seeker children
occupy a place neither inside nor outside the mainstream society. The Shi’i
interviewee who is receptive of the Turkish culture has difficulties in accessing
the host country because parents of the interviewees are precluded from basic
legal rights such as lacking of work permission. Moreover, asylum-seeker
children are aware of their provisional settlement in Kayseri. It is another reason
of feeling like a stranger. At some points, local’s prejudiced and discriminatory
behaviours and attitudes towards asylum-seekers have a strong affect to
consolidate the term stranger. To contend with these challenges, Baha’i asylum-
seekers prefer sheltering under their secluded network in Kayseri. However,
Shi’i asylum-seekers do not have such a strong and interconnected network. In
addition, it is obvious that Berry’s acculturation patterns are not in tune with
perceptions of the interviewees because the beforementioned reasons prevent
them from integrating, assimilating, and saperating in the proper sense. I only
encountered with an example of marginalization.
For Shi’i asylum-seeker children religious identity was interrupted dramatically
due to the fact that they left Iran to run away from the severe repression of
Islamic regime. Even though both Baha’i and Shi’i children are sharing the
similar reasons to leave Iran, Shi’i asylum-seeker children were exposed to
excessive coercion of their own religion. Therefore, their religious identity
attenuated day by day in Kayseri. Having run away from politic and religious
pressures, Shi’i asylum-seekers could not summon around their religious
identity in Kayseri. Examining construction of religious identity revealed that
Baha’i asylum-seeker children religious identity was not subjected to an
‘interruption’ in the host society, but it strengthened markedly. Moreover, an
‘inter-group discrimination’ between Shi’is and Baha’is appeared in Kayseri. In
striking contrast to Shi’i asylum-seekers, Baha’is arrange meetings in mağfils in
Kayseri and they exclude Shi’i asylum-seekers from their network as a social
reprisal due to the fact that they were sidelined by Shi’i islamist radicals in Iran.
In brief, it is obvious that while religious identity of Shi’i interviewees is

‘ambivalent’ and ‘fragmented’, religious identity of Baha’i interviewees is in
the foreground explicitly.
The participants’ interrupted childhood in Iran achived a relative maintenance in
Kayseri without any fragmentation due to relative free environment comparing
to Iran. Nevertheless, they only adopt an adult role in the situations when they
have to interpret for their parents.
This thesis also set out to analyse ‘intersectionality’ of identities of interviewees
in order to display the interplay between national and religious identity and
childhood experiences even though it is not the overall purpose of this research.
I found out a limited interplay between national-religious and child-religious
identities for Baha’i participants. Even though Baha’i children have a strong
national identity than Shi’i children, their national identity was subjected to a
slight deconstruction when I asked them the saliency of national and religious
identities. After a long period of hesitation, they asserted their religious identity
as the most significant identity for themselves. On the other hand, their strong
attachment to national identity is unassailable fact. I could not observe any
ostensible interplay between national and religious identity of Shi’i participants.
I also came to realise a conspicuous interplay between child and religious
identity for Baha’i interviewees owing to the fact that they are able to play in
relatively free social environment in Kayseri than Iran. Having been precluded
from their non-negotiable rights in Iran such as practising and declaring their
religion, attending school and using playgrounds, their childhood was
interrupted in Iran markedly. In contrast to Iran, they have miscellaneous
recreational activities and permission from their parents to participate and enjoy
them without any concerns.
Finally, this study reveals that interviewees’ identity construction comes true in
a ‘hermeneutic circle’. When the asylum-seeker children go to a third country,
the interaction between the ‘whole’ and the ‘parts’ would be subjected to change

once again. Their identity construction process will continue until they turn back
to their country of origin.
Dwelling upon the issues of identity formation of asylum-seeker children
concurrently, the study fills the gap the neglected literature surrounding asylum-
seeker children. This thesis was set out to denote to the aforementioned gap in
the literature which has already been well-demonstrated in the ‘significance of
the research’.
Throughout the research, I tried to take ‘gender’ issue into consideration.
Nevertheless, gender did not play a significant role in construction of children’s
identity in the research. I did not ascertain any kind of difference while the
children were answering the questions in terms of gender whereby the
experiences of girls do not differ from those of boys in terms of exposure,
opportunities, constraints, and responsibilities within the household and the
community. Gender issue could possibly matter in the researches which
includes more than eight interviewees.
Briefly, first and foremost, this research put forth that children are not passive
subjects or powerless pawns but they have a strong potential in terms of shaping
their lives and constructing their identities. Therefore, they could be taken
account of as rational agents in researches. It is noteworthy to underline that the
asylum-seeker children were not coerced to choose their identities. That is to
say, identities were not imposed on them by others. Nevertheless, they shaped
their identities according to the outside circumstances faced by as well as the
outside community and their families. This research helps them to address their
voices to largest masses throughout the world.
As a brief conclusion, I would like to share some of my own additional
information and observation throughout the research. It is obvious that Iranian
asylum-seekers have an economic dependence in Kayseri because their means
of subsistence entirely consumed and their long-term economic security
diminished. Therefore, they are living a downward mobility. Related to this

downward mobility, when I arrived in Kayseri on September 16, I encountered
Iranian and Iraqi asylum-seeker children in ASAM office. Stationary goods
were being distributed to the children by the ASAM officers. Meral Tamer
wrote in her column about this distribution. She stated that,
Angelina Jolie, the goodwill ambassador of the UNHCR, induced
Warren Buffet, one of the richest men in the world, to hold out a
helping hand to the asylum-seekers and refugees. Whereupon, Buffet’s
son and grandchild visited Turkey quietly and unobstrusively at the
beginning of the summer 2007 and talked to asylum-seekers by
meeting with Metin Çorabatır and finally he decided to subscribe fifty
thousand dollars to Turkey. (Tamer, 2007)
This donated amount of money was used to buy stationary goods to the asylum-
seeker children in Kayseri and Nevşehir. Throughout the distribution, happiness
could be seen on children’s faces. The reality is that asylum-seeker children do
not receive any financial help except a limited amount of money that UNHCR
gives to some of the asylum-seekers after initating a financial interview in
UNHCR Branch Office in Ankara. Therefore, most of them are even deprived
of the school materials. Even though I focused upon the children who are
attending school, there are also few children who do not attend school in
Kayseri. As I learnt from the ASAM officers, these children are working in
restaurants as dishwasher or cleaner in order to boost their family financially
and they have a propensity for withholding their labaouring from the ASAM
officers. I should also highlight that apart from the Baha’i and Shi’i Iranian
asylum-seekers, few Iranian Christian asylum-seekers and Iranian refugees ex-
Iraq are residing in Kayseri as well. Nevertheless, the ASAM officers do not
know the exact number of the families with children. Throughout my research, I
have been also in Nevşehir which is another city in Central Anatolia that
asylum-seekers are residing. I encountered a child in ASAM office who is an
Iranian refugee ex-Iraq in this city. I had an opportunity to make short interview
with her. A noticeable fact derived from this interview is that ‘Iranian refugees
ex-Iraq’ constitute the most destitute and downtrodden immigrants in Turkey.
She told me that her life struggle since she arrived in Turkey with her family in
the following manner:

We have been living life of misery for six years in Turkey. When we
managed to approach the UNHCR Branch Office in Van, they refused
assistance for resettlement. Turkish police mistreated us. We were
subjected to ill-treatment. Approximately for six years, we resided in a
village of Van. Life was harsh and insecure. We lived in one-room
houses without bathrooms or running water and without electricity. I
had to abandon my education in Van. Finally, the UNHCR authortities
led us to settle in Nevşehir. Now, I am going to school but my family
can not meet my school expenses. I do not know when UNHCR will
send us to a third country. (14-year-old girl, Iranian refugee ex-Iraq)
According to UNHCR country operation plans, “[…], little prospect for
resettlement and only temporary asylums in Turkey, […] the Iranian refugees
ex-Iraq are effectively stranded. They are growing increasingly frusturated and
even more dependent on UNHCR” (“UNHCR 2006 Country Operations Plans:
Turkey”, n.d.). Moreover, as I learnt from the UNHCR officers, in spite of
coming from a Middle East country, they are the ones who are accepted as a
‘refugee’ according to the Turkish asylum legislation. Being in the most
desperate situation, the case of ‘Iranian refugees ex-Iraq children in Turkey’
need further investigation in order to offer some insight into the children who
are in a quandary.
In this research, I focused on merely the identity construction part. I do not
claim this reserach could be generalized of the findings to all asylum-seeker and
refugee children who are living in different cities in Turkey. However, it does
provide a case study from which other research could come out. More wide-
ranging researches are necessary in order to reach distinct results, including
compatible examination with asylum-seeker children who are residing in
different places and in different situations. This research would lay the
groundwork to fill the huge literature gap about asylum-seeker children in
Turkey. It is my hope that the above research provides some concrete directions
in which further investigations could be initiated in the field.



BIBLIOGRAPHY


Akçapar, Ş. (2006). Conversion as a migration strategy in a transit country:
Iranian Shiites becoming Christians in Turkey. Center for Migration Studies,
40(4), 817-853.

Alwin, F., Felson, J. L., Walker, E. T., & Tufis, P. A. (2006). Measuring
religious identities in surveys. Public Opinion Quarterly, 70(4), 530-564.

Anderson, P. (2001). You don’t belong here in Germany: On the social
situation of refugee children. Journal of Refugee Studies, 14(2), 187-199.

BBC Open2. (n.d.). The invention of childhood: Cultural childhoods. January
22,
from
http://open2.net/theinventionofchildhood/culturalchildhoods.html


Bagnoli, A. (2007). Between outcast and outsider: Constructing the identity of
the foreigner. European Societies, 9(1), 23-44.

The Baha’is. (n.d.). About the Baha’i faith. October 20, 2007, from
http://www.bahai.org/features/intro.

The Baha’is. (n.d.). What is the Baha’i faith? November 18, 2007, from
http://www.bahai.org/faq/facts/bahai_faith.

The Baha’is. (n.d.). The growing threat to Iran’s Baha’is. November 21, 2007,
from http://www.bahai.org/persecution/iran.

Bash, L., Antle, C. M. (2006). Being unaccompanied: A search for meaning.
(Master Dissertation, The University of Calgary, 2006).

Bash, L., Zezlina-Phillips E. (2006). Identity, boundary and schooling:
Perspectives on the experiences and perceptions of refugee children.
Intercultural Education, 17(1), 113-128.

Bauman, Z. (2004). Identity conversations with Benedetto Vecchi. UK and
USA: Polity Press.

Berry, J. W., Phinney, J. S., Sam, D. L., & Vedder, P. (2006). Immigrant
youth: Acculturation; identity, and adaptation. Applied Psychology, 55(3), 303-
332.

Bessant, J. (2006). The fixed age rule: Young people, consent and research
ethics. Youth Studies Australia, 25(4), 50-57.

Christopoulou, N. & Leeuw, S. (2005). Coming of age as “the third
generation”. Children of immigrants in Berlin. In J. Knörr (ed.), Childhood and
Migration from experience to agency (pp. 113-137). USA and London:
Transaction Publishers.

Chaichian, M. A. (1997). First generation Iranian immigrants and the question
of cultural identity: The case of Iowa. International Migration Review, 31(3),
612-627.

Couch, J., Francis, S. (2006). Participation for all? Searching for marginalized
voices: The case of including refugee young people. Children, Youth ad
Environments, 16(2), 272-290.

Dona, G. (2006). Children as a research advisor. International Journal of
Migration, Health and Social Care, 2(2), 22-34.

Ezzy, D. (1998). Lived experience and interpretation in narrative theory:
Experiences of living with HIV/AIDS. Qualitative Sociology, 21(2), 169-179.

Fantino, A. M., Colak, A. (2001). Refugee children in Canada: Searching for
identity. CHILDREN & SOCIETY, 21(5), 309-321.

Forced Migration Online. (n.d.). What is forced migration. November 03,
2007, from http://www.forcedmigration.org/whatisfm.htm.

Ghasemi, S. (n.d.). History of Iran. Iran Chamber Society. November 20, 2007,
from http://www.iranchamber.com/history/safavids/safavids.php.

Hadjiyanni, T. (2002). Making of a refugee: Children adopting refugee identity
in Cyprus. Westport, Connecticut and London: Praeger.

Hall, S. (1996). Who needs identity. In S. Hall & P. Du Gay (Eds.), Questions
of cultural identity (pp. 1-18). London: Sage Publications.

Higgins, P. J. (1988). Minority-State relations in contemporary Iran. In A.
Banuazizi & M. Weiner (Eds.), The state, religion, and ethnic politics.
Afghanistan, Iran, and Pakistan (pp. 167-198). USA: Syracuse University
Press.

İçduygu, A. (2004). Demographic mobility and Turkey: Migration experiences
and government responses. Mediterranean Quarterly, 15(4), 88-99.

Iranian Refugees Alliance. (1998). Unsafe haven: Iranian Kurdish refugees in
Iraqi Kurdistan. Iranian Refugees at Risk. 1-32. November 29, 2007, from
http://www.irainc.org/text/pub/NIreport.pdf.

Jones, M. (2007). Sunni, Shiite? Anyone? Anyone? Can you tell a Sunni from
a Shiite? Congressional Quarterly, 32(2), 57-65.

Karasapan, O. (1989). Gulf War refugees in Turkey. Middle East Report,
0(156), 33-35.

Kayseri Sanayi Odası (n.d.). Kayseri Ekonomisi. October 28, 2007, from
http://www.kayserito.org.tr/media/kayseri_ekonomi.ppt.

Kayseri Valiliği (n.d.). Coğrafi Yapı. February 17, 2008, from
http://www.kayseri.gov.tr/icerix.asp?catxid=3&ekrantip=true&ayrica=listegetir
&menu=genelbilgi&fx=icerik&dbx=icerik&tx=posix&asx=T.C.%20Kayseri%
20Valiliği%20&basx=Coğrafi%20Yapı.

Kayseri Valiliği (n.d.). Nüfus ve İdari Yapı. February 17, 2008, from
http://www.kayseri.gov.tr/icerix.asp?catxid=4&ekrantip=true&ayrica=listegetir
&menu=genelbilgi&fx=icerik&dbx=icerik&tx=posix&asx=T.C.%20Kayseri%
20Valiliği%20&basx=Nüfus%20ve%20İdari%20Yapı.

Kirişçi, K. (1996). Is Turkey lifting the ‘geographical limitation’ – the
November 1994 regulation on asylum in Turkey. International Journal of
Refugee Law, 8(3), 293-318.

Kirişçi, K. (2001). UNHCR and Turkey: Cooperating for improved
implementation of the 1951 Convention relating to the status of refugees.
International Journal of Refugee Law, 13(1/2), 71-97.

Kirişçi, K. (2003). The question of asylum and illegal migration in European-
Turkish relations. Turkish Studies, 4(1), 79-106.

Kohli, R. K. S. (2006). The sound of silence: Listening to what unaccompanied
asylum-seeking children say and do not say. British Journal of Social Work,
36, 707-721.

Knörr, J. & Nunes, A. (2005). Introduction. In J. Knörr (ed.), Childhood and
Migration:  from experience to agency (pp. 9-23). USA and London:
Transaction Publihers.

Kutlu, Z. Ü. (2002). Turkey as a waiting room: Ezperiences of refugees in
Turkey. (Master Dissertation, The Middle East Technical University, 2002).

Lazich, M. C. (2004). Baha’i. In the encyclopedia of religious rites, rituals,
and festivals (pp. 47-48). USA: Routledge.

Maegusuku-Hewett, T., Dunkerley, D., Scourfield, J., & Smalley, N. (2007).
Refugee children in wales: Coping and adaptation in the face of adversity.
CHILDREN & SOCIETY, 21, 309-321.

Mcauliffe, C. (2007). A home far away? Religious identity and transnational
relations in the Iranian diaspora. Global Networks, 7(3), 307-327.

Martin, S. (2002). Averting forced migration in countries in transition.
International Migration, 40(3), 25-40.

Mallon, E. D. (2006). Shiite Muslims the party of aly. America the National
Catholic Weekly, 194(4), 18-21.

Mitchell, C. (2006). The religious content of ethnic identities. Journal of
Refugee Studies, 40(6), 1135-1152.

Mostofi, N. (2003). The perplexity of Iranian-American identity. The
Sociological Quarterly, 44(4), 681-703.

Mul, J. (2004). The Tragedy of finitude: Dilthey’s Hermeneutics of life.
London: Yale University Press.

Myers, K. (1999). National identity, citizenship and education for
displacement: Spanish refugee children in Cambridge. History of Education,
28(3), 313-325.

Nasr, V. (2006). When the Shiite rise. Foreign Affairs, 85(4), 58-74.

Neuman, W. L. (2006). Social research methods: Qualitative and quantitative
approaches. USA: Pearson Education. Inc.

The Online Etymology Dictionary (n.d.). Refugee. October 22, 2007, from
http://216.239.59.104/search?q=cache:lmyYS_WVUmkJ:www.etymonline.co
m/index.php%3Fterm%3Drefugee+etymology+of+refugee&hl=tr&ct=clnk&cd
=1&gl=t.

Özkırımlı, U. (2000). Theories of nationalism: A critical introduction. New
York: St. Martin’s Press.

Palmer, R. E. (1969). Hermeneutics. Interpretation theory in Schleiermacher,
Dilthey, Heidegger, and Gadamer. USA: Northwestern University Press.

Phinney, S. P. (1990). Ethnic identity in adolescents and adults: Review of
research. Psychological Bulletin, 108(3), 499-514.

Prorok, C. V. (2002). Demographic religious minority populations since the
Islamic Revolution. African and Asian Studies, 1(2), 63-86.

Resnik, J. (2006). Alternative identities in multicultural schools in Israel:
Emancipatory identity, mixed identity and transnational identity. British
Journal of Sociology of Education, 27(5), 585-601.

Richard, Y. (1995). Shi’ite Islam. Polity, ideology, and creed. USA: Blackwell
Publishers.

Rippin, A. (2005). Muslims: Their religious beliefs and practices. USA and
Canada: Routledge.

Rutter, J. (2006). Refugee Children in the UK. England: Open University Press.

Shaw, I. & Gould, N. (2001). Qualitative research in social work. London:
Sage Publishers.

Smith, A. D. (1991). National identity. England: Penguin Books

Smith, A. D. (1994). The origins of nation. In J. Hutchinson & A. D. Smith
(Eds.), Nationalism (pp. 147-154). Great Britain: Oxford University Press.

Smith, A. D. (2001). Nationalism: Theory, ideology, history. Malden, Mass:
Polity Press.

Smith, A. D. (2002). When is a nation. Geopolitics, 7(2), 5-32.

Simmel, G. (1950). The sociology of Georg Simmel (K. H. Wolff, Ed.). USA:
The Free Press.

Sporton, D., Valentine, G., & Nielsen, K. B. (2006). Post conflict identities:
Affiliations and practices of Somali asylum seeker children. Children’s
Geographies, 4(2), 203-217.

Stein, B. N. (1981). The refugee experience: Defining the parameters of a field
of study. International Migration Review, 15(1/2), 320-330.

Sanasarian, E. (2000). Religious minorities in Iran. The United Kingdom:
Cambridge University Press.

Sterling, C. M., Walco, G. A. (2003). Protection of children’s rights to self-
detarmination in research. ETHICS & BEHAVIOR, 13(3), 237-247.

Tamer, M. (2007, September 15). Kayseri’de kabus gibi bir gün. Milliyet, from
http://www.milliyet.com.tr/2007/09/15/yazar/tamer.html.

Thomassen, L. (2005). Heterogenity and justice: Borders and communities in
Angellopoulos’s Eternity and a Day. Contemporary Justice Review, 8(4), 381-
395.

Tolson, J. (2005). The Shiite factor. U.S. News & World Report, 138(4), 24-28.

Türkiye Baha’i Toplumu. (n.d.). External Relations. February 17, 2008, from
http://www.tr.bahai.org/Haberler/2006/01ekim.htm.

Türkiye Baha’i Toplumu. (n.d.). News. February 17, 2008, from
http://www.tr.bahai.org/disiliski/2006/12mayis.htm.

UNITED NATIONS. (n.d.). Youth. January 21, 2008, from
http://www.un.org/issues/m-youth.html.

UNHCR. (2001). The wall behind which refugees can shelter. 1-31. January
10, 2008, from http://www.unhcr.org/home/PUBL/3b5e90ea0.pdf.

UNHCR. (2005). Manual on mandate RSD, 1-99.

UNHCR. (2006a). Asylum in Turkey. UNHCR Turkey briefing note.

UNHCR. (2006b). Country operation plans in Turkey. 1-5. December 12,
2007, from http://www.unhcr.org/home/RSDCOI/433a5d7b2.pdf.

UNHCR. (2007). 2006 Global Report: Turkey. 1-6. February 17, 2008, from
http://www.unhcr.org/home/PUBL/4666d2693.pdf 1.

UNHCR. (n.d.). The 1951 Convention questions & answers. 1-20. January 26,
2008, from http://www.unhcr.org/basics/BASICS/3c0f495f4.pdf.

UNHCR. (n.d.). Refugee children: Guidelines on protection and care. 1-76.
November
11,
2007,
from
http://www.unhcr.org/protect/PROTECTION/3b84c6c67.pdf.

UNHCR. (n.d.). The 1951 refugee convention. 1-20. November 03, 2007, from
http://www.unhcr.org/basics/BASICS/3b6917cf4.html#title2.

UNHCR (n.d.). Basic facts. November 08, 2007, from
http://www.unhcr.org/basics.html.

UNICEF. (n.d.). Convention on the rights of the child. November 09, 2007,
from http://www.unicef.org/crc/.

UNICEF. (n.d.). Convention on the rights of the child: First part, articles 21-
30. November 09, 2007, from http://www.unicef.org/turkey/crc/cr23d.html.

UNICEF. (n.d.). Unicef in Turkey: Country profile. January 26, 2008, from
http://www.unicef.org/turkey/ut/ut2_2010.html.

Vargas, C. M. (1999). Cultural mediation for refugee children: A comparative
derived model. Journal of Refugee Studies, 12(3), 284-306.

Wimberley, D. W. (1989). Religion and role-identity: A structural symbolic
interactionist conceptualization of religiosity. Sociological Quarterly, 30(1),
125-142.

World Childhood Foundation. (n.d.). About childhood. January 22, 2008, from
http://www.childhood-usa.org/.

World Refugee Day. (2007, Summer). Refugee Voices, 2, 1-7.


Yegidis, B. L., & Weinbach, R. W. (2005). Research Methods for Social
Workers. USA: Pearson Education. Inc.


APPENDICES

APPENDIX A

DEMOGRAPHIC QUESTIONS

I. DEMOGRAPHIC QUESTIONS
1. Age (Year of birth)
2. Gender
• Male
• Female
4. Place of birth & Year of Birth


Year of
Birth
Village
Town
Borough
City
Person





Father





Mother





Sibling





Sibling





Sibling





Sibling





Sibling





Others

Others





Others





Others






5. Educational background (Highest level of education which was completed)


Unschooled
Primary
School
Secondary
School
High
School
College
Other
Person






Father






Mother







6. Are you going to school in Turkey?
• Yes
• No
7. Since when are you attending school?
8. If yes, which school are you going?
9. Which class are you in?
10. Occupation/Job of your mother and father


Homeland
Occupation
Homeland
Job (last)
Current Job
in Kayseri
(if there is
one)
Father



Mother




11. From which province or city of Iran did you come to Turkey?
12. Did you come directly to Turkey from Iran?
13. If not, where did you arrive first?
14. In which year and month did you come to Turkey?

15. Did you directly settle in Kayseri?
16. In which year did you settle in Kayseri?
17. If not, where did you settle?
18. Did you have a choice?
19. In terms of town quarter where do you live in Kayseri?
20. In terms of type of housing where do you live in Kayseri?

• In a house
• In an apartment
• In a hotel
• In a dormitory
• In street
• Other

21. Whom do you live with?

• By yourself
• With your family
• With your family + a few Iranian family
• With an Iranian family
• With a foreign family
• With a Turkish family
• Other

22.  What religion are you affiliated with?
• Islam
• Christianity
• Judaism
• Bahaism
• No religious affiliation
• Other



APPENDIX B

INTERVIEW GUIDE


1) NATIONAL IDENTITY

• Description of interviewee’s social lives in Iran.


- Could you tell your daily life in Iran? (Recreation activities,
schooling, friends, etc…)
- Could you tell your neighborhood? (Home, the milieu that you
reside, neighbors, human relations, etc…)
- What is your favorite place in Iran? (Home, school, outdoors)
- With whom do you spend your time in Iran mostly?

• Leaving home



- Why did you leave Iran?
-
Narration of leaving story (Could you tell how you came to
Turkey?)

• Life in Country of Residence - Kayseri

-
Could you tell about your daily life in Kayseri?
-
Thoughts on Kayseri (What are the things that you like in
Kayseri? What are the things that you don’t like in Kayseri? Do
you have any advantages and disadvantages living in Kayseri? If
yes, which one would you say is the most serious or most
difficult for you?  What kind of problems do you have? (housing,
school, health, shopping, bureaucracy) How do you cope with
problems in Kayseri? Would you like to be in another location in
Turkey? If yes, where do you like to be and why?)
-
Do you feel yourself like at your home in Kayseri?
-
Could you describe your neighborhood in Kayseri? (Home, the
milieu that you reside, human relations, etc…)
-
Ethnic composition of neighborhood (Where are your neighbors
from? Do you spend time with your neighbors? How often do
you see each other? )

-
What is your favorite place in Kayseri? (Home, school, outdoors,
etc…)
-
With whom do you spend your time mostly in Kayseri?
-
How do local people behave you?
-
Do you have any relation to the local institutions in Kayseri?
(municipality, mukhtar, local police, ASAM, UNHCR)
-
If yes, what kind of relation do you have?
-
Is there any institution which helps you in Kayseri? (in terms of
acculturation of new milieu, financial problems, learning
Turkish, housing, health, school, etc…)


• Acculturation Attitudes (Sociocultural Adaptation)

Language Proficiency and Language Use

- Which language do you speak at home?
-
Do you have Iranian friends in Kayseri?
-
If yes, which language do you speak with your Iranian friends
outside the home?
-
How well do you speak Turkish?
-
How well do you read Turkish?
-
How well do you understand Turkish?
-
How well do you write Turkish?
-
With whom do you speak Turkish?
-
Where do you learn Turkish?
-
Do you receive any help by institutions in terms of learning
Turkish (like municipality, ASAM, governorship, etc…)
-
Are you willing to learn Turkish?
-
Do you run into any problem which derives from using of two
languages?
-
Can your parents speak Turkish?
-
Can your parents read Turkish?
-
Can your parents understand Turkish?
-
Can your parents write Turkish?
-
Which language do they speak with you at home?
-
Do they encourage you to learn Turkish?


School

-
Do you like going to school in Iran? Why?
-
Do you go to school in Kayseri?
-
Do you like going to school in Kayseri?
-
If not, could you describe the reasons?
-
What kind of problems do you encounter at school?
-
Which one is the most serious for you?
-
Who helps you to deal with your problems?

-
Does your teacher help you deal with your problems at school?
-
Is your teacher helpful to get used to new milieu?
-
Do you follow the curriculum of ministry of education at school?
-
If not, which curriculum do you follow?
-
Which lessons are you studying?
-
Are they similar to the courses in Iran?
-
If yes, could you mention about the similarities?
-
Which one do you like the most?
-
What kind of activities do you engage in at school?
-
What is your best friend’s name at your school?
-
Do you see each other except school?
-
What kind of things do you do when you are together?
-
Do you talk about Iran to your Turkish friends?
-
If yes, what kind of things do you talk?
-
Is it easy for you to make Turkish friends at school?
-
Can you get on well with your schoolmates?


Friends (Ethnic and National Peer Contact)

-
What is your best friend’s name?
-
Where does she/he live?
-
If he/she outside Turkey, can you contact each other?
-
How do you contact each other?
-
What kind of things do you speak between each other?
-
Do you join any social activity in Kayseri with your peers except
school?
-
If yes, where are your social activity peers from?
-
With whom do you want to join the social activities? (with your
ethnic group or nationals)
-
Do you have Iranian or Turkish friends mostly in Kayseri?
-
With whom do you spend your time mostly?
-
With whom would you like to spend your time mostly?

• Cultural Identity


Cultural Traditions


-
How important is it for you to be an Iranian?

-
What comes to your mind when you think of Iran? (something
makes you happy or something that make you unhappy)?
-
Do you feel that you are part of Iranian culture?
-
What festival comes to your mind when you think about Iran
firstly?
-
Can you celebrate the festival in Kayseri?
-
If yes, where do & how do you celebrate?
-
Which one do you prefer in Iran or Kayseri?
-
What does the festival mean to you?

-
Do your parents join any activity to strive to keep the Iranians
cohesive in Kayseri?
-
If yes, how often do they participate in?
-
What kind of activity is it?
-
If yes, can children participate in?


Means of Communication Habits


-
Do you watch TV in Iran?
-
What kind of programs do you watch? Do you like to watch?
-
Do you watch TV in Kayseri?
-
If yes, do you have chance watching Iranian TV programs?
-
If yes, where do you watch? (On TV, on internet)
-
What kind of programs do you watch?
-
Do you watch Turkish TV programs?
-
If yes, can you understand?
-
What kind of programs do you watch?
-
Do you use the internet in Kayseri?
-
What is the purpose of using the internet?


Eating Habits


- Do you like eating Iranian food?
-
Do you eat Iranian food in Kayseri?
-
If yes, where do you eat?
-
Do you like eating Turkish food?
-
Which one do you prefer to eat?


Music

-
Do you like listening to music?
-
What kinds of music do you like listening?
-
What is the content of the music that you like to listen?
-
Do you like listening Iranian music?
-
What is your favorite Iranian singer?
-
What is the content of his/her music?
-
Do you listen to Iranian music in Kayseri?
-
Do you like listening to Turkish music?
-
What is your favorite singer? Why?
-
Can you understand what he/she is singing?


Literature

-
Do you like reading books?
-
What kinds of books do you like reading?
-
What is your favorite author?
-
Do you read Persian books in Kayseri?

-
Do you read Turkish books?
-
Could you tell the name of the books that you red in Turkish?


• Iran

- Are you longing for home?

- How often do you think about your life in Iran?
-
What are your favorite things in Iran? What are the things that
you dislike in Iran?
-
What do you miss to do mostly in Iran?
-
Do you talk with your parents about Iran?
-
If yes, what kind of things do you talk mostly?
-
Do you get into touch with remaining family members in Iran?
-
If yes, how?
-
If you had a choice, where would you like to be?
-
Would you like to stay in Turkey?
-
If yes, why? If not, why?
-
If not, where would you like to go? Why?
-
What would you like to see happen in the future?


2) RELIGIOUS IDENTITY


• Religious engagement & Religious knowledge


-
How important religion is to you?

-
Do you know about your religion’s basic principles? (Rules,
rituals, symbols, holidays, festivals, celebration, etc…)
-
If yes, who teaches you about religion in Iran?
-
What kind of things did you learn?
-
Are you still learning about the principles of your religion?
-
Do your parents teach you about religion?
-
If yes, what kind of things do they teach?
-
Do you implement their teachings?
-
If yes, were you pleased to implement their teachings?
-
Do you implement the teaching of your religion in
Iran&Kayseri?
-
If yes, what do you do to implement the teachings?
-
Do you fast?
-
What is the most important for you? (Being Iranian, Being Shi’i
& Being Iranian, Being a Baha’i?
-

• Devotionalism


- Does your family follow religious rules?

-
(Do your parents perform private religious practices in Iran?)
-
Do they pray regularly in Iran?
-
If yes, where do they pray?
-
Do they pray at inside or outside the home (or mosque) mostly in
Iran?
-
(Do they participate in the performance of public religious
practices in Iran?)
-
Do they go to the mosque in Iran?
-
Do they pray regularly in Kayseri?
-
(Do they perform private religious practices in Kayseri?)
-
If yes, where do they pray in Kayseri?
-
Do they pray at in Kayseri mostly?
-
Do they go to the mosque in Iran?
-
If yes, which mosque do they go?
-
If yes, are there any specific places to perform some of the
significant rituals of your religion?
-
Can they organize any religious meeting in Kayseri?
-
If yes, what do they do in the religious meeting?
-
If yes, do you participate?


• School

-
Do you have any religion courses at school in Iran?
-
What do you learn about religion at these courses?
-
Do you have religion courses at your school in Kayseri?
-
Do you share your faith with your classmates in Kayseri?
-
If not, why?

• Getting in Touch with a Different Religion (BAHAI)

-
Do you have any information about the religion in Turkey?
-
If yes, from whom did you learn the information?
-
Do you have a desire to learn about a different religion?



2) CHILDHOOD EXPERIENCE



• Spare Time

-
How do you spend your free time in Iran?
-
Do you have recreational activities in Iran?
-
If yes, what type of recreational activities do you have?
-
Do you have time for play in Iran?
-
How do you spend your free time in Kayseri?
-
If yes, what type of recreational activities do you have?
-
Do you have time for play in Kayseri?
-
Are you charged with heavy responsibilities that prevent you to
play in Kayseri?

• Friends

-
Do you have friends in Kayseri?
-
If yes, where are they from?
-
Do you have enough time to play together?
-
Do your friends help you deal with your problems in Kayseri?

• Child Responsibilities

-
Did you have any responsibility for the household in Iran?
(taking care of siblings, cleaning, cooking, etc)
-
If yes, what kind of responsibilities do you have?
-
Do you help your mother with the housework in Iran?
-
Did the housework interfere with your education?
-
Do you have any responsibility for the household in Kayseri?
-
Do you help your mother with the housework in Kayseri?
-
Do you work to support your family in Kayseri? (the household
economy)
-
If yes, where do you work?
-
Does the work interfere with your education?
-
Do you have siblings?
-
If yes, are you responsible to take care of?

• Children as mediator

-
Do you help your parents to get used to the new environment in
Turkey?
-
What kind of help you provide?
-
Can your parents speak Turkish?

-
If yes, how well do they speak?
-
Do you interpret for them in case of necessity?

• Family Protection and Parental Responsibilities

-
Is your family able to provide a secure physical environment for
you in Iran?
-
Is your family able to create home in the family despite the
violent surroundings in Iran?
-
Could your family create a new home for you in Kayseri?
-
If not, what are the shortcomings?
-
Did the relation between you and your parents change in Turkey?
-
If yes, how?
-
Did the relation to your sibling change?
-
If yes, how?
-
Do you feel safe in Iran&Turkey?
-
If not, what are the reasons?
-
Are your parents able to provide you with adequate nutritious
food and clean water in Iran&Turkey?
-
Are your parents able to provide you with health care facilities in
Iran &Turkey?
-
Do your parents show enough interest to take care of you in
Kayseri&Iran?
-
Do your family help you deal with your problems in Kayseri?
-
Do you spend your time together mostly in Iran or Kayseri?
-
Are there other things that I have not asked about that you would
like to talk?