ite

S11-Jl)IES IN THr: ,.
BABI AND BAHA'I RELIGIONS
(for1nerly Studies in Ba.bi and Baha'f History)
VOLUME FIVE
STUDIES IN HONOR OF
THE LATE HASAN M. BALYUZI
Edited by
MOOJAN MOMEN
•
KALIMA.T PRESS
Los .ANGELES
•
Copyrighted material

•
Copyright © 1988 by Kalimat Press
All Rights Reserved
Manufactured in the United States of America
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data
(Revised for vol. 5)
Studies in Babf and Bab4'f history.
Vol. 5 has title: Stiudies in the Babi and Baha'f religions.
Includes bibliographie.s.
Contents: v. 1. [no title]-v. 2. From Iran east and west/edited by
Juan R. Cole and Moojan Momen-[etc.J-v.
5. Studies in honor of
the late Hasan M. Balyuzi/edited by Moojan Momen.
1. Baha'i Faith-History.
2. Babism-History.
I. Momen, Moojan. II. Cole, Juan Ricardo. Ill. Smith,
Peter, 1947 Nov. 27-
. IV. R. Jackson Armstrong-Ingram.
V. Title: Studies in the B~bi and B~ha'i religions.
BP330.S78 1982 297'.89 83-227
ISBN 0-933770-16-2 (v. 1)
ISBN 0-933770-72-3 (v. 5)
•
Copyrighted material

•
•
•
CONTENTS
Foreword by Moojan Momen ......................
.
Hasan M. Balyuzi (1908-1980):
A Bio-bibliographic Sketch by Moojan Momen ......
.
The Terms ''Remembrancen (dhikr) and ''Gate'' (bdb)
in the Bab's Commentary on the Sura of Joseph
B. Todd Lawson, Ph.D., University of Toronto ........
.
The Sinaitic Mysteries: Notes on Mose-s/Sinai Motifs
in Babf and Baha'i Scripture
Stephen N Lambden, University of Newcastle upon Tyne,
..
Vil
•
Xl
En la.nd ................................
., . . . . . . .
Re)ativism: A Basis for Baha'i Metaphysics
Moojan Momen, Bedfordshire, England. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 185
What Was a Baha'f? Concerns of British Bah,i''is,
1900-1920
Ph-illip R. Smith, University of Birmingham, England . . . 219
Some Aspects of the Establishment of the Guardianship
Loni Bramson-Lerch-e, Ph.D. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
V
Copyrighted Flater al

NOTE
All dates in this volume are given as either B.C.E. (Before
the Christian, or Common, Era) or C.E. (Christian, or Com-
mon, Era) in place of B.C. and A.D., respectively. This usage
has been adopted by many in the fie1d of religious studies be~
cause it avoids the theological implications of the latter (B.C. =
Be:fore Christ, and A.D. ,= anno domini, In the year of our
Lord), which believers in non-Christian religions may not find
acceptable.
•
M. MOMEN
Copyrighted material
•

FOREWORD
In the range of Baha'i literature that has been published in
recent years, there has been a great deal of historical work
done-biographies of the central figures of the Baha'f F·aith,
general histories, biographies of prominent Baha'fs, as well as
the series Studies in Bab{ and Bahd 'i History and various pap-
ers that have appeared in scholarly periodicals. This upsurge
of interest in. Baha'i history was to a large extent prompted
by the work of Hasan Balyuzi, whose contribution to Baha'i
studies is commemorated in this volume. Other a~eas of Ba-
ha.'i studies have not, however, received so much attention. In
this volume, the aim is to broaden this stream of scholarly ma-
terial so that it will include areas of study other than history.
The reader will note that, in keeping with this purpose, the
title of the series has been changed.
The first paper takes us on to textual studies. It has always
been assumed, particularly by Western scholars,. that when
Sayyid 'Ali Mullammad Shiraz£ took on the title of the Bab
(Gate) at the beginning of his ministry, this title reie.rred to
those earlier Babs, who in Shf
1i history had acted as inter-
mediaries between the occulted Twelfth [mam and the be-
lievers. Todd Lawson has, however, carried out a careful
study of Shf'i literature in the tra,dition of which the Bcib was
writing, and he demonstrates that the term bdb more usually
referred to the Ima.m himself. as does the associated term
••
Vll
•
. Copyrighted material

viii
Moojan Momen
dhikr (Remembrance) which the Bab also used to refer to him-
-self in his early writings. Lawson goes on to examine the text
of the Qayyum al-Asma which was written in the first year of
the· Bib's ministry. He produces further evidence here which
suggests that the Bab claimed a station equivalent to that of
Mutan1mad or to that of the Imams from the very beginning
of his ministry, albeit bis claim was somewhat camouflaged
initially.
The second paper also explores the field of textual studies.
Stephen Lambden examines the .manner in which the episode
of Moses' encounter with the Burning Bush on Mount Sinai
has become, in the writings of the Bab and Baha'u'llah, a
typological theme which serves to denote the manifestation of
the deity on the earthly plane. Lambden's detailed study
shows that Baha'u'll4h uses this imagery to expound his
teachings on this subject and also to de:fend himself against
charges of having claimed to be God.
The third paper explores the area of Baha'i metaphysics.
Very little has been written on this subject in the past. This
paper attempts to show that there is a. good reason for· this,
since the Baha'i position is that it is not possible to obtain any
absolute knowledge of metaphysics. All metaphysical state-
ments are purely relative to the person who makes them.
Hence even seemingly contradictory positions can be simul-
taneously ''true." This metaphysical relativism serves as the
theoretical foundation for the Baha'i position on the essential
unity of all religions.
In a volume commemorating Hasan Balyuzi, it would not be
ap-propriate to, have included no history at alt, since this was
his main area of interst. The~efore, the last two papers are
historical ones. One of these deals with a subject that was
close to Hasan Balyuzi's heart, the history of the British Baha'i
community. More specifically, Phillip Smith examines the
way British Baha'is saw themselves during the first two de-
cades ,of the present century. Although the presentation of the
•
Copyrighted material

•
Foreword
• lX •
Bah4'iteachings in 1iterature from this period may seem simi-
lar to what is expounded today, Smith argues. that the Bah4' rs
themselves viewed their Faith very differently. The Baha'i
movement was, to many of the Baha'fs of that time, not a sep-
arate and independent religion. Rather,. it was a revival of
mankind's religiosity, a revival that could occur within the
context of established religious. forn1s ..
Times of transitioq are critical periods in the history of any
religion. In Baha'i history, a number of these critical periods
have been associated with the transfer of religious leadership.
Loni Bramson-Le11che examines one such period (from the
death of 'Abdu'l-Baha into the beginnings of the institution of
the Guardianship) from the viewpoint of what occured within
the American Baha'i community. As with other critical
periods, the spectre of schism and disintegration arose. In this
case, it was associated with opposition to Shoghi Effendi's ef-
forts to establish the Baha'i administrative system.
In all, it is hoped that the publication of this volume will
serve both to develop Bah4'f history and at the same time to
widen the field of Bah4,i studies. Although an effort was
made to include here papers on Baha'i theology and philoso-
phy, these essays were not completed in time. They will, it is
hoped, be included in subsequent volumes in the series .
•
M.MOMEN
BEDFORDSIURE, ENGLAND
DECEM.BER 1987
Copyrighted material

HASAN M. BAL YUZI
as a young man.
•
Copyrighted matonat

•
HASAN M. BALYUZI (1908-1980)
A Bio-bibliographical Sketch
Hasa.n Muvaqqar Balyuzi was born into a distinguished Ira-
nian family on 7 September 1908. His forebearers had been
merchants on the Gulf Coast of Iran. His father, Mirza 'Alf
Mul}ammad Khan. Muvaqqaru'd-Dawlih, had received part of
his education in England and had risen to high office on his
return to Iran, becoming governor of Bushihr and the Gulf
Ports and later Minister of Public Works until his death in
1921. When the British occupied Bushihr in 1915, Muvaq-
qaru',d-Dawlih, who was then the governor, and his family
were exiled to India. Thus, Hasan Balyuzi received some of
his early education in English at Poona. Later, after spending
some time in Tehran and Shiraz, Balyuzi traveled to the Amer-
ican University at Beirut to continue his studies.
The links between the family of Balyuzi and the Baha'i
Faith were strong. His father was one of the paternal rela-
tives of the Bab, and his mother was a relative of the Bab's
wife. Altho,ugh both of his parents were Baha'is, the restric-
tions on openly discussing the new religion in th.e presence of
servants and others in the household meant that Hasan
learned little about the Baha'i Faith in his childhood years.
But later, his reading of a few Baha'f books, and in particular
his meeting with Shoghi Effendi in Haifa in 1925, while on his
•
Xl
Copyrighted material

•
xii
Moojan Momen
way to take up his studies in Beirut, turned him into a con-
firn1ed believer.
His initial studies were in chemistry, but when it came to
post•graduate wor:k, he chose the field of history. In 1932, he
came to London where he pursued his study of history at the
London School of Economics. He obtained a master's degree
and was proceeding with his doctorate when the outbreak of
the Second World War interrupted his studies. He thereafter
took up an appointment with the newly forn1ed Persian Ser-
vice of the British Broadcasting Corporation. His numerous
broadcasts included tal!ks on Iranian culture, W estem history
and culture, translations into Persian of many classics of En-
glish prose and poetry, as well as features on current affairs,
and interviews with Iranian personalities. His talks were
greatly admired by the Iranian audience of the BBC over the
course of more than twenty years. Some of his translations of
English literature were published in Iran.
During the Second World War, Hasan Balyuzi married
Mary (Molly) Brown (the daughter of Kathleen Brown. later
Lady Hornell). who was a member of Sadler's Wells Ballet.
They lived temporarily in Evesham, where the BBC Persian
Service had moved for the du.ration of the war. They had five
sons. Balyuzi was, by this time, very fully involved in the
work of the British Baha'{ community. From 1933, he had
been elected each ye.ar to the national administrative body,
the National Spiritual Assembly. In 1942, he became its chair-
man, a position that he held almost continuously until 1960.
In addition, he was ap,pointed to numerous committees of this
body, played an active role in the London Baha'i community
and traveled and lectured around the country. His Baha'i re-
sponsibilities greatly increased when, in 1957, he was a.p-
pointed by Shoghi Effendi as one of the Hands of the Cause of
God, the highest rank of service and ho,nor in the Baha'i com-
munity. His responsibilities included the propagation and pro-
tection of the Baha'i Faith; but the full range of the role of the
Copyrighted material

•
Hasan M. Balyuzi
•••
Xlll
Hands was only revealed by the death of Shoghi Effendi one
month after Balyuzi's appointment. Since Shoghi Effendi had
named the Hands of the Cause as the ''Chief Stewards, of Ba-
ha'u'l14h's embryonic World Co.mmonwealth," it fell to them
to organize the affairs of the Baha'f Faith in the period from
1957 until the election of the Universal House of Justice in
1963.
It is, however, as an author and scholar that Hasan Balyuzi
is most remembered. To appreciate the importance of his
work, it is necessary to understand the situation in th.e 1960s
when his books ·began to appear. The work of Balyuzi began
the process of correcting three major deficiencies that existed
at this time in the range of literature about the Bahi'f Faith.
First, although more than half a century eal.ier there had been
much research done on Baba' r subjects by scholars such as
Prof. E. G. Browne, and the Russian scholars Baron Rosen
and Capt. Tumansky, this effort had not been followed up by
subsequent generations of sch.olars and almost nothing of an
academic nature had appeared for fifty years or more. There
was, therefore, a pressing need to revitalize the academic
study of the Baha'f Faith. Second, in 1960, the only informa-
tion that most Baha'{s had about the history of their religion
came from a very few books. The history of the Bab{ period
was co¥ered at length in Shoghi Effendi's translation of Nabfl's
na1rative, The Dawn-Breakers, and popularized by William
Sea.rs in his Release the Sun. But for information about subse-
quent periods, the Bah4'fs only had the masterful but sketchy
outline in Shoghi Effendi's God Passes By, the relevant chap-
ters in Esslemont's Bahd
1u'llah and the New Era, and a few
narrative and anecdotal works such as Lady Blomfield's The
Chosen Highway and May Maxwell's An Early Pilgrimage. The
earlier works by scholars such as Browne were by this time
out of print and, in any case, they were mainly concerned with
the earlier Bab{ period. Even in the Persian language, there
was no comprehensive history of the Baha'i Faith in print .
•
Copyrighted material

•
xiv
Moojan Momen
There .had been several attempts to produce such a work, but
all of these were either incomplete, unpublished, or out of
print. It was, therefore, urgent that someone do the research
necessary to bring out a readable, concise but comprehensive
account of the central figures of the Baha'i Faith. Third, since
the death of George Townshend in 1957, very little good new
material of any kind had been published. on any aspect of the
Baha'i Faith. There was a ,dearth of first-rate authors who
could p·roduce a flow of books, and this lack was keenly felt
by the Baha'i community.
When Balyuzi published a brief essay on the life of Baba' -
u•llah in 1938 (an enlarged version of this work appeared in
1963). Shoghi Effendi encouraged him to continue this work
by adding essays on the lives of the Bab and 'Abdu'l-Baha ..
But his numerous other pressing duties prevented him. Dur-
ing the peri,od from 1957 onwards, grief at the passing of
Sboghi Effendi and the burden of his responsibility a:s a Hand
of the Cause took a h-eavy toll on Balyuzi's physical and psy-
chological health. During the course of these years ill health
caused him to give up full-time work at the BBC, which led to
financial problems and increased the strain on him .. When in
1963, ill h.ealth also forced his premature retirement from an
active, public life in the Baba.' i community j he determined to
return to the project of completing his trilogy on the central
figures of the Baha'i Faith. Confined to his home, he produced
a series of books that were published over the next twenty-
two years.
The first book was a biography of 'Abdu'l-Baha. He ha.d
completed some of the preliminary work twenty years earlier
after receiving Shoghi Effendi's encouragement to write his
trilogy. As work progressed on this book, however, it became
clear to him that the subject of Prof. Browne's relatio.ns with
the Baha'i Faith required a separate monograph if he was to
avoid a ''diversion'' of a ''magnitude that was inappropriate'' 1
in his book on 'Abdu'l-Baha. Thus it was that Edward Gran-
ville Browne and the Baha'i Faith was published in 1970, w·hile
Copyrighted material

•
Hasa,i M Balyuzi
xv
HASAN M. BALYUZI
relaxing in his study, c. 1978.
Copyrighted matonat

xvi
Moojan Mom.en
.
the publication of 'Abdu'l-Bahd: The Center of the Covenant of
Bahd'u'lld'h was delayed until 1971.
As he started to write The Bab: The Herald of the Day of
Days, th.e book that completed his trilogy, Balyuzi was con-
cerned that his book should not be merely a rewriting of
Shoghi Effend:i•s translation of N.abfts narrative. His problem
was resolved when documents from the British Public Records
Office relating to the period of the &b were made available
to him. His book became ''the first in the ·range of Baha'i
Faith literature to make extensive use of official documents
from governmental archives.2'' It was p-ublished in 1973.
Muhammad and the Course of Islam (published in 1976) was
the next book. He wrote this because be felt that there was no
history of Islam available that combined accuracy and schol-
arship with a sympathetic approach to the religion. He also
felt that it was essential for W estem Baha'fs to obtain a better
grasp of Islam to improve their understanding of their own
religion ..
Having completed his trilogy of the central figures, it be-
ca.me clear that the relatively small and sketchy nature of the
volume on Baha'u'llah was inappropriate when compared
with the much fuller volumes on the Bab and 'Abdu'l-Baha.
Balyuzi therefore decided to begin research on a more detailed
biography of Baha'u'l1'11, even while he was writing his book
o.n Islam. It was always his practice work on several projects
simultan.eously.
For Bahd'u'llah: the King of Glory, Balyuzi read every
source he could obtain. He planned from the start to make
this project more than one volume. But as he wrote and came
across more and more material, so the projected size of the
work increased to four volumes. Then in October 1979, he
suffered a heart attack. He appeared to make a good recov~
ery, and bis energy and enthusiasm increased. But, in the
event,. he had completed only one volum.e and had written
most of a second when he passed aw.ay in his sleep on 12
February 1980.
Copyrighted material

Hasan M Balyuzi
••
XVll
Balyuzi had hoped to publish a series of small booklet~ on
the lives of prominent members of the Afnan family, the fam-
ily of the BAb. After his death, a short volume on the wife of
the Bab, Khadijih Bagum, the first of these, was published in
1981, while the material written for the second was incorpo.-
rated (as Chapter 17, on Nuri'd-Din Afn~n) into the second
volume of his series on Baba'u'llah, Eminent &hd'{s in the
Time of Bah4'uTlldh, published in 1985. He had left written in~
structions that a trust, the Afnan Library Trust, be set up
which would form a Baha'i Faith research library, and to this·
he donated all of his Baha'i books and papers~ This trust was
established. It is hoped that it will eventually fulfill his wish
and develop into a research library for all scholars.
Of Balyuzi's character and ability, it must be left to future
writers to assess these adequately. Only the passage of time
will allow them to be justly appreciated. Much of his writing
ran counter to present-day styles of scholarly prose. But his
work in imbued with two qualities which will cause it to be
remembered long after much other material written to such
standards has been forgotten. First, was his assiduous pursuit
of truth. H.e would take endless trouble to track down even
the most minor fact or date. He would write several letters in
pursuit of just one piece of information which might take up
only one line in his book. He did not hesitate to discard large
sections of his manuscript if his researches left any doubt as
to the truth of what he had written. Edward Granville Browne
and the Bahd '{ Faith was rewritten three times because new
facts emerged that caused him to reconsider his earlier
•
versions.
Second, was his integrity. Th-ere are no hidden motives in
his writings. He wrote nothing for fame or self-advancement.
He wrote only what he thought correct after due considera-
tion. His books clearly show him to be a Baha'f,. but nothing is
concealed or distorted to protect the Baha'f Faith, or anyone,
or anything. He always .maintained that it was best to tell it
''warts and all.,,
•
•
Copyrighted material

•
xviii
Moojan Mom.en
Another characteristic that marked him out was his gener-
osity with the materials in his possession. Not for him to
jealously guard his sources to prevent others from using them
before he could get into print. He lent whatever he had fr-eely
and without hesitation. He was pa.rticularly anxious to pro-
mote Baha'i studies, and it was to this end that he arranged
for the establishment of the Afnan Library Trust. He had an
extensive knowledge of the history of Iran, as well as a p·ro-
found grasp of the unde'.rcurrents of Iranian affairs. He could
recount biographical information and family background for
almost any notable of the last two hundred years of Iranian
history, particularly if the person hailed from his native
Shiraz.
To those who knew him, he was warm, witty, urbane, a
keen follower of current affairs (his family still possesses an
enormous collection of newspaper cuttings extending over
many years), and much given to recounting stories (particu-
larly if these were .amusing). His gentle, unassuming nature
would perhaps have led him to go unn.oticed in a group, had
he not had great natural dignity and nobility. He held a warm
affection for all as.pects of Ir-anian culture, and particularly for
those emanating from his beloved S-hiraz. But he also appre-
ciated the cutlural achievements of the British and other na-
tio.ns. Towards the end of his life, events occuring in Iran
caused him great pain, none more than the destruction of the
House of the Bab in Shiraz b,y the revolutionary government.
His interests were wide-ranging and he could converse on
almost any topic,. but he never made a pretence of knowledge
in areas where he had n-one.
The following passage from the writings .of Mfrza Abt.i'l-
Fac}l Gulpayganf, whom Balyuzi much admired, sums up well
the philosophy tl1at embued the character and writings of Bal-
yuzi himself:
Although the author is a believer in the holy path of the Baha'i
Faith, God is my witness-and He suffices as a witness-that [
Copyrighted material

•
Hasan M. Balyuzi
have not been unduly influenced in the writing of this history b}r
my love or faith. My devotion to Baha'u'llab has not deflected me
from the path of fairness. For the station of a historian is beyond.
that of love and dev-otion and too sacred to be defiled by bias and
preju.dice. A historian must put to one side his love or bate for var·
ious groups \Vhen writing about historical events and must with
the utmost justice and equity record what he knows. For truthful~
n.ess is a precious gem and the fairness of human beings is their
purest ornament.
The following is a list of his publications:
English Works:
&Jui'u'lldh. London: Baha'f Publishing Trust, 1938.
A Guide to the Administrative Order. London: Baha'i: Publish-
ing Trust, 1941.
Bahd 'u 'lltih: A Brief Life,. Followed by an Essay on the Manifes-
tatwn of Gcd entitled: The Word made Flesh. London: George
Ronald, 1963.
Edwat:d Granville Browne and the Bahti'{ Faith. London: George
Ronald,. 1970.
'Abdu'l~Baha: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahd'u'lltih. Lon-
don: George Ronald, 1971.
The Bab: The Herald of the Day of Days. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1973.
Muhammad and the Cot{rse of Islam. Oxford: George Ronald,
1976 .
&hd'u'll4h: The King of Glory. Oxford: George .Ronald, 1980.
Khad{jih Bo.gum: The Wife of the Bab. Oxford: George Ronald,
1981 ..
Eniinent Baha'fs in the 1~itne of Bahti'u 'lld.h. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1985.
Persian Works:
Ndbarddarl. Tehran: Chapkhanih TAban, 1351.
-
Copyrighted material

•
xx
Moojan Momen
Tundbdd Havddi!J!.
Tehran: Chapkhanih Faros, 1353.
Vazhih-hdy•i Farsi dar Zabdn lngiltsf. Tehran: Chapkhanih
Faros, 2535.
M.MOMEN
NOTES
1. 'Abdu 'J.Bah4, p. xi.
2. The Bab, p. xi .
•
Copyrighted material