Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Eighteen

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Cover design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
and the Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarship Grant
174 B.E. 2017 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-32-9
Copyright © 2017, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

Such are the mysteries of the Word of God,
which have been unveiled and made manifest,
that haply thou mayest apprehend the morning
light of divine guidance, mayest quench, by the
power of reliance and renunciation, the lamp of
idle fancy, of vain imaginings, of hesitation,
and doubt, and mayest kindle, in the inmost
chamber of thine heart, the new-born light of
divine knowledge and certitude.
— Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 48

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................. 3
An Inquiry on the Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
Hooshmand Badee .................................................................... 5
Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
JoAnn Borovicka .................................................................... 31
Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind: Bahá’í Gloss on a Buddhist Puzzle
Roland Faber .......................................................................... 53
Themes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of The Divine Plan Illustrated by
Scriptural References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Lameh Fananapazir ............................................................... 107
Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge ............................................................................. 215
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge ............................................................................. 351
“Some Answered Questions” and Its Compiler
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani ...................................................... 425
A Comparison between the Commentary and Interpretation of an
Islamic Tradition by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Ayatu'llah Khomeini
Moojan Momen ................................................................... 453
In the Presence of the Beloved: Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’: A Revised
Provisional Translation and Notes
Nima Rafiei .......................................................................... 471
Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani ............................................... 491
Appendices
Bibliography of Writings and Abbreviations used in this book .... 529
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-17 .................................... 531
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ....................................... 545
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications ............................................ 546
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ................................. 547

Preface
We have received a rich collection of divinely revealed
words. Bahá’u’lláh refers to that collection as an ocean
containing precious pearls of meanings and mysteries hidden in
its depth. He repeatedly calls upon each one of the believers to
dive deeply in this ocean and try to discover and extract those
pearls. This is a spiritual obligation for each individual believer.
By making it an individual obligation, He has made such efforts
a permanent activity at all times. The beauty of this
unprecedented, collective, and continuing endeavor is that it
releases such studies from the monopoly of a selected few and
opens the door to everyone for such undertaking. Since the
knowledge, skills, and aptitudes of people are different and
their experiences are constantly changing in quality and
quantity, the end results of such studies will be an immense,
diverse, and endless body of spiritual knowledge. It will be a
collective effort that each individual member will benefit from
its outcome. This process releases us from religious rigidity,
and stagnation, and generates vitality in our understanding and
beliefs. `Irfán Colloquia and the Lights of `Irfán are facilities
for support and promotion of such endeavors.
The present volume includes articles employing a variety of
approaches in discovering the pearls of knowledge and
meanings from the ocean of Bahá’í sacred texts. Articles
published in this book present the views and understandings of
their authors and are not necessarily congruous with the formal
and prevalent views, thus encouraging other scholars to further
investigate the same subjects. In addition, the texts of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

articles are published as provided by the authors. Their writing
styles and scholarly approaches are therefore different.
The references of the article on “Nietzsche and the Bahá’í
Writings” which was published in Book Seventeen was
mistakenly omitted in electronic transfer of the manuscript. It
is republished here in its revised and complete text. Provisional
translations of the Bahá’í Writings in English by the authors are
for the documentation of the contents of the articles and
should not be separately published and distributed as
authorized translations. Articles are published in this volume
according to the alphabetical order of the authors’ surnames.
`Irfán publications are sponsored by the generous support of
Haj
Mehdi
Arjmand
Memorial
Fund
and
voluntary
contributions of the friends of the `Irfan Colloquium. It is
hoped that such supports as well as the collaboration of
scholars would make it possible to continue the `Irfan project
and services.
Iraj Ayman
April 2017

An Inquiry on the Role of Religion
in Wealth and Poverty
Hooshmand Badee
Abstract
In theory, the spirit of all Faiths is upholding the well-
being of all people, believers and non-believers, and
therefore a coherence of material and spiritual
development is prescribed in all Holy Scriptures. The
presentation will identify possible areas where religion
has contributed to the debate on wealth creation and
poverty eradication. Finally, it will conclude that the
effective partnership of the two disciplines of religion
as a spiritual realm and economics as a social science,
although different entities, fosters human well-being.
Care must be taken that wealth creation and poverty
eradication have many facets and cannot be dealt with
solely from a religious perspective. Therefore, this
presentation is not a purely theological exercise to judge
the correctness or validity of any religious position, but
rather a neutral study of social, cultural, economic,
historical, and religious exploration.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Introduction
The concept of wealth is difficult to define or measure
because it is mainly a stock of assets such as house, land or
personal possessions and accumulated money; therefore, it is
different from income. Income is a flow while wealth is a stock.
If we define wealth as the abundance of valuable possessions
and assets, then it is difficult to measure because they can be
appreciated or depreciated. The question is how income and
wealth affect well-being, standard of living, and the creation of
a happy life. Currently, Gross Domestic Product (or GDP)
measures standard of living and economic growth in a country.
This measurement is based solely on the monetary value of
goods and services and ignores for example negative
externalities such as the production of those unnecessary and
damaging products affecting the life of humans, animals, and
the environment. A ‘happy life’ could not be measured in terms
of monetary values alone but rather in terms of well-being;
income being one of the features. With ‘well-being’ the all-
encompassing levels of deprivation need to be addressed. For
example, a good society should be measured in terms of how
human rights is respected and practiced, or in terms of how
women and girls are treated. Hence, those values applied in
current socio-political-economic systems need to be revised.
Religion can suggest values that can redirect attention away
from selfish greed and the need to own and consume. Values
such as honesty, trustworthiness, compassion, cooperation and
fairness are moral resources and should become part of an
economic system.
Wealth accumulation
According to economist Thomas Piketty, “The distribution
of wealth is one of today’s most widely discussed and
controversial issues.”1 Piketty is concerned about the long-term
evolution of wealth. He raises questions such as: do the
dynamics of private capital accumulation inevitably lead to the

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
concentration of wealth in ever fewer hands? The problem of
wealth accumulation and its concentration in the hands of a
few is expanding and keeps growing locally, nationally, and
globally. As the economy grows, concentration of private
wealth gets worse. Exploring this view, Oxfam has been giving
depressing updates on wealth concentration each year. For
example, they have reported that in 2010, 388 richest people in
the world owned more wealth than that owned by the bottom
half of the world population. In 2014, 85 richest people were in
the same position. In 2015 the number reduced to 80 people.
This year (2016) Oxfam predicted that 62 richest people own
more wealth than the total wealth of the bottom half of world
population. Sadly, the private wealth concentration is getting
worse and worse each year.
This kind of wealth accumulation and its concentration in
the hands of few is dangerous because it causes imbalance in the
market and economic activities including shortages and
surpluses of products and hence wastage of valuable rare earth
resources. Concentration of wealth also means concentration
of social and political power, and concentration of privileges,
and opportunities. This may cause destroying harmony and
democracy, and pushes the world towards social explosions. The
reverse is also true, if we do not have any wealth, we have no
power, no privileges, and no opportunities. The bottom 50% of
the world population who own only a small fraction of 1% of
the global wealth, belong to this category. Concentration of
wealth was observed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, He said if “…some are
accumulating exorbitant wealth and others are in dire want —
under such a system it is impossible for man to be happy.” [FWU 39]
Concentration of wealth is an ongoing non-stop process
under the present economic system. A current economic
assumption is that human happiness can be achieved merely by
increasing the wealth of the individual members of society. The
underlying assumption is that all human beings are motivated
by self-interest, selfishness and greed and that the more any
particular economic policy caters for these base motivations,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the more successful it will be. The self is primarily seen seeking
to maximize his or her own utility, often through maximization
of consumption opportunity. The root idea flowing from self-
interest is consumer sovereignty and utility maximisation. The
rationale is that consumers know their interests best and can act
to advance them through exchange. For many, prosperity lies in
increasing consumption and each consumer will pursue his or
her opportunities until the marginal cost of a transaction
exceeds the benefits of it. Each person maximizes utility or
happiness subject to a number of constraints, including
income. Thus, the economic theory considers mainly monetary
aspects of life and ignores other factors, such as those values
that are essential for creating interactions among people, and
those necessary values for protecting the environment, and
respecting the future generation.
Let us draw our attention to the point that the richest people
are not necessarily immoral people, as popularly imagined; it is
partly the systems that allow them to behave immoral. Since
1776 with the publication of The Wealth of Nations by Adam
Smith, that the modern economic system or the free market
economy has been in operation, those in power and perhaps
with good intentions have tried to bring a better life for the
generality
of
the
population,
but
the
manipulation,
mismanagement and abuse of systems has created a condition
which led to widening of the gap between the rich and the poor.
Shoghi Effendi in 1927 perceived the need for a system that
“…prevents among others the gradual control of wealth in the
hands of a few and the resulting state of both extremes, wealth
and poverty.”2 It can also be said that wealthy people have
enormous political power and influence and do not allow
decision-makers to prevent them from becoming even
wealthier. The current free market system is out of control and
does not convey the original message advocated by its founder,
Adam Smith, in his second book The Theory of Moral
Sentiments. In this book, Smith discusses the position of
philosophers and those in charge of the society. He argues that

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
it would be contradictory and unjust for them just to think
about their own self-interest. Instead they should cultivate a
sense of public duty in order to be any good at helping to solve
the world’s most pressing problems. Disappointingly, this vital
and critical idea of the founder of the free market system is
forgotten. There is a need for a new way of thinking to change
the economic structure of the whole society. The Universal
House of Justice believe that “A fresh look at the problem is
required…”3 And in a more recent statement it is stated “With
prevailing modes of thought found to be badly wanting, the
world is in desperate need of a shared ethic, a sure framework
for addressing the crises that gather like storm clouds.”4 In
reference to capitalism, in a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, it is stated: “There is nothing in the teachings against
some kind of capitalism; it present form, though, would require
adjustments to be made.”5
Concerning the issue of poverty, the current process of
globalization, although defective in many ways, is one way for
poverty reduction. According to the World Bank, the number
of people who have come out of absolute poverty in last three
decades has fallen from 1.2 billion to 700 million.6 The concern,
however, is that the poverty reduction has not occurred evenly
across the globe. Supporting this view, the Noble Memorial of
Economic Science 2001, Joseph Stiglitz writes:
The current process of globalization is generating
unbalanced outcomes, both between and within
countries. Wealth is being created, but too many
countries and people are not sharing in its benefits.
They also have little or no voice in shaping the process.
Seen through the eyes of the vast majority of women
and men, globalization has not met their simple and
legitimate aspirations for decent jobs and a better
future for their children. Many of them live in the limbo
of the informal economy without formal rights and in a
swathe of poor countries that subsist precariously on

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the
margins
of
the
global
economy.
Even
in
economically successful countries some workers and
communities
have
been
adversely
affected
by
globalization. Meanwhile the revolution in global
communications
heightens
awareness
of
these
disparities... these global imbalances are morally
unacceptable and politically unsustainable.7
Another
worrying
condition
of
current
process
of
globalization is that increasing the wealth of the rich is much
steeper than the decline of the poverty level, and this is exactly
the concern in the Bahá’í writings, and hence advocating the
role of government in elimination of extremes of wealth and
poverty. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “The government of the
countries should conform to the Divine Law which gives equal
justice to all. This is the only way in which the deplorable
superfluity of great wealth and miserable, demoralizing,
degrading poverty can be abolished” [PT 159]. He, elsewhere
emphasizes the important role of government in balancing the
economic power:
There must be special laws made, dealing with these
extremes of riches and of want. The members of the
Government should consider the laws of God when they
are framing plans for the ruling of the people. The
general rights of mankind must be guarded and
preserved. [PT 159]
The role of religion
For a discussion of the role and function of religion and its
connection with wealth and poverty we need to understand and
be clear about the claims of the Founders of Faiths and the
nature of the contents of Holy Scriptures and the ways they can
be interpreted. Did for example, Mu˙ammad, Jesus, Moses,
Bahá’u’lláh and other Prophets of God appear to solve our
economic problems? Did anyone of these Prophets claim to be

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
experts in wealth creation and poverty eradication? Are the
Holy Scriptures academic textbooks containing materials on
the subject of wealth and poverty? The Bahá’í Writings
maintain the view that these prophets are divine educators, and
Holy Scriptures are guidance for better living and creating
love, fellowship and unity amongst people. Bahá’u’lláh states:
“The Prophets and Messengers of God have been sent down for
the sole purpose of guiding mankind to the straight Path of
Truth” [GWB 156-157]. However, religions also have expressed
views on how the poor and the rich should be treated. There are
principle guidelines, recommendations and commandments
about what should be consumed, what should be produced, and
the way resources should be distributed. These instructions are
mainly with moral and spiritual foundation affecting human
behaviours. These guidelines help experts in different fields to
device programs, models and systems with a moral and ethical
approach.
The main functions of religion in relation to wealth and
poverty can be summarized as follows: First, religion can
redirect human thought to spiritual concerns, focusing on
spiritual aspect of wealth and poverty, and remind them of the
duty to care for other human beings. It can be argued that
alleviating poverty is about restoring the caring attitude. A
number of spiritual principles supports this claim, for example,
the Christian command “Love your neighbor as yourself,”8 the
Islamic command of Muslim brotherhood which states “without
doubt believers are brothers of one another,”9 the Jewish
appreciation of Jewish community solidarity, and Bahá’u’lláh’s
exhortations to the Bahá’ís: “Consort with the followers of all
religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship” [GWB 95].
These statements are clearly reflecting upon relationship and
interdependence by way of love, a condition necessary to
appropriate wealth creation and poverty alleviation. The true
spirit of all the Faiths can influence this aspect of human
affairs. Second, religion can provide the ethical function.
Altruism is a human quality, which emphasises the human

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

responsibility towards others. Religion reminds people of this
condition of human nature, to seek selflessly to benefit others.
Third, religion teaches society proper values and principles to
be applied in a given socio-political-economic system. Wealth,
fame and power are now considered synonymous in many
societies. Those with wealth have the power to control the lives
of the poor. The current capitalistic value system maintains
differences between the poor and the rich. Greed is an
unacceptable quality, but it is one of the features of capitalistic
system. It would be more appropriate if a socio-political-
economic system were based on fair values, enabling survival of
all the people rather than survival of the wealthy. Currently
none of the existing systems satisfy this condition. Shoghi
Effendi states: “Every system, short of the unification of the
human race, has been tried, repeatedly tried, and been found
wanting…crisis has succeeded crisis” [WOB 190]. There is a need
for an economic system that is fair, flexible, and universal, and
based on human values. Religion is the source of human values,
and provides hope for the vast majority of the planet’s
inhabitants. Therefore, according to the Bahá’í International
Community, it is “…inconceivable that a peaceful and
prosperous global society, a society which nourishes a
spectacular diversity of cultures and nations, can be established
and sustained without directly and substantively involving the
world’s great religions in its design and support.”10
A survey of religion on wealth and poverty
Religiosity is a growing phenomenon, especially among the
poorer societies. Claims are made by a number of researchers
that poverty is a cause of religiosity, or the poor people are
more spiritual. Jacob Olupona, an expert in African spirituality
confirms that in Africa the most impoverished people tend to
be deeply spiritual.11 Also, research carried out by two political
scientists, Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart, indicate how
religion is growing, especially amongst poor and oppressed
communities. A feeling of insecurity, lack of food and fight for

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
survival for example, create the seedbed for religious
dependency. A need for dependence amongst the oppressed and
the poor, therefore, strengthens religious belief. These experts
found close correlation between poverty and religiosity in
eighty societies, covering most of the world’s major Faiths.
Based on their research, it is argued that religious dependency
persists most strongly among vulnerable populations, especially
those in the poorer nations and in failed states, facing personal
survival-threatening risks. The researcher’s claim is that
exposure to physical, societal and personal risks drive
religiosity. Conversely, a systematic erosion of traditional
religious practices, values and beliefs appear to have occurred
among the more prosperous strata in the rich nations. At the
same time, a growing proportion of the population — in both
rich and poor nations — spend time thinking about the meaning
and purpose of life. It is argued that in developed countries, the
established churches are losing their ability to tell people how
to live their lives, but spiritual concerns, broadly defined, may
be becoming increasingly important.12
Poverty has many faces. It can be material, social, cultural,
or spiritual. The causes of poverty can be man-made or through
natural disasters such as: shortage of physical and human
resources; political instability; internal conflict; national debt
crisis; human rights issues including discrimination and social
inequality; poor health-care system; unemployment; weak and
unrecognized currency in the international market; social
exclusion; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and
hurricanes. Also, the poor have little opportunity for adequate
education and gaining skills or having access to necessary
resources for wealth creation.
Furthermore, the presence of certain values in the current
economic and market condition upholds poverty. For instance,
through effective advertisement, the need is created to
consume; also, excessive availability of credit makes it easier to
buy and fall into debt; and social status is constructed in terms
of what one possesses. Therefore, the more one possess, the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

higher their social standing. The consumption driven economy
urges cheap production in order to participate in a competitive
market. The result is the exploitation of labour and resources.
These values stimulate consumption and they create the illusion
that poverty can only be alleviated by increased consumption
and a proper life is a life of consuming more goods. The more
one has, the richer she/he appears: while, in fact, in trying to
possess more one become poorer.
A comparative study of religion, wealth and
poverty
In modern time, due to creativity, innovation, improved
transportation,
and
increased
human
and
technological
capabilities, the wealth of nations has increased significantly.
The question is whether the balancing forces of growth,
competition and technological progress would lead to reduced
inequality and create greater harmony among the classes? The
challenge, therefore, is not increasing the wealth but how it is
created rightfully and distributed fairly. The aspect of wealth
redistribution and its accumulation in the hands of a few have
been the concern of Holy Scriptures and hence laws are set for
its just distribution. The phrase “poverty” can be interpreted as
either spiritual or material poverty. However, the spirit of the
teachings of all Faiths encourages earning through integrity and
hard works to support own self, one’s own family, helping
others, and contributing for social progress. In practice there is
variation about the two concepts of wealth and poverty among
the different Faiths and within a particular Faith. Here a brief
description of wealth and poverty is provided from perspective
of Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and the Bahá’í Faith. It is worth
noting that given centuries of divergent interpretations of
Scriptures and a huge range of practice within each, attempting
to summarize Faith’s perspective on wealth and poverty in few
pages would not be justified, but some salient lines of thought
in each could be identified.

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
Judaism
Judaism sees no merit in poverty. It is stated, “We are on
earth to experience and enjoy this life within the constraints of
the law.”13 These rules include a very strong responsibility to
support those in need. According to the Jewish view “poverty is
an unmitigated evil.”14 Jews see no virtue in poverty, poverty is
pointless suffering, and hence it is not admired. The Jewish
attitude towards wealth is quite positive. In fact, wealth, peace,
and/or long life are rewards from God for obeying God’s
laws.15 God will bless those that use their wealth to help the
poor.16 Jewish view on wealth is very much related to charity.
Hence, acquiring wealth is praiseworthy, because it allows them
to contribute generously to charity and to help the poor
regardless of their background. It is clear that Judaism sees
nothing wrong with wealth as long as it is obtained honestly and
used to help the poor. In other words, wealthy people should
not live in luxury, and wasting their wealth on unnecessary
things. Asceticism and becoming financially a burden on others,
on the other hand, was opposed by many of the Jewish scholars
and philosophers. According to Jewish scholar Joseph Isaac
Lifshitz, Jewish law calls upon Jews to do everything in their
power to avoid becoming a burden on others. They are to be
responsible for their own welfare and not to rely on the
community to provide for them.17
Christianity
In Christianity, poverty and a humble life help bring
individuals closer to God. Wealth is not inherently evil, but
greed causes people to act in their own self-interest and
distracts believers from helping others. In the New Testament,
it is stated, “Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the
kingdom of God” [Luke 6:20]. The term ‘poor’ may be interpreted
as detachment from material things; one should have a humble
life and not be possessed by material wealth. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

When Christ came upon the earth, those who believed in
Him and followed Him were the poor and lowly, showing
that the poor were near to God. When a rich man believes
and follows the Manifestation of God, it is a proof that
his wealth is not an obstacle and does not prevent him
from attaining the pathway of salvation. [PUP 216]
Christ says to His Disciples, “Blessed are the poor.” For
those who struggle in difficult times, such as material poverty,
this would bring them comfort and hope. Struggles during
difficult times give people an opportunity to try for
improvement while placing trust in Christ and let Him be the
source of hope, strength and security. In the Hidden Words,
Bahá’u’lláh states:
O Son of My Handmaid! Be not troubled in poverty nor
confident in riches, for poverty is followed by riches,
and riches are followed by poverty. Yet to be poor in all
save God is a wondrous gift, belittle not the value
thereof, for in the end it will make thee rich in God, and
thus thou shalt know the meaning of the utterance, ‘In
truth ye are the poor’… [HW Persian #51]
Also, Jesus rejects the possibility of dual service. He said:
“No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and
love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise
the other. You cannot serve both God and wealth” [Matthew 6:24].
For an understanding of this verse, we look at the Saint Paul’s
interpretation. According to Saint Paul, “The love of money is
a root of all kinds of evil” [Timothy 6:10]. Consequently, wealth is
looked at negatively if a person places it above spirituality.
Therefore, it is not about whether or not one saves up money
or accumulates wealth. It is about one’s motives for doing so.
Looking at this from a different perspective, it would be
possible to consider ‘poverty’ as having a humble and simple
life, and being content and satisfied, which are in agreement
with the spirit of Christian Faith. And since the main message

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
of Christ is love and fellowship, then association with others
will be more effective if a person has enough material
possession to be able to give a part of it generously to those in
need, rather than asking for help or to beg.
The following statement from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá suggests that
references in the Bible to poverty and wealth may also have a
literal meaning:
And the seventh question: Bahá’u’lláh hath been made
manifest to all mankind and He hath invited all to the
table of God, the banquet of Divine bounty. Today,
however, most of those who sit at that table are the
poor, and this is why Christ hath said blessed are the
poor, for riches do prevent the rich from entering the
Kingdom; and again, He saith, ‘It is easier for a camel to
go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to
enter into the Kingdom of God.’ [Matthew 19:24; Mark
10:25] If, however, the wealth of this world, and worldly
glory and repute, do not block his entry therein, that
rich man will be favoured at the Holy Threshold and
accepted by the Lord of the Kingdom. [SWAB 195]
The interpretation of wealth, particularly from Protestant18
point of view is that the pursuit of wealth is not only
acceptable but it is an outcome of faith and a religious duty.
This perspective is generally attributed to Calvinist, associated
to John Calvin19. Calvinism as a school of thought set the stage
for the later development of capitalism in northern Europe. In
this view, elements of Calvinism represented a revolt against
the medieval condemnation of profit earning and wealth
accumulation in general. The view considers hard work and
good and healthy lifestyles as spiritual acts. The supporters are
strong advocates of wealth creation, and to avoid wealth
becoming an obstacle to faith. Among those who view wealth as
an outcome of faith are the supporters of prosperity theology,
viewing that God promises wealth and abundance to those who
will believe in him and follow his laws.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Max Weber20 in 1904-1905 submitted a thesis and argued
that Reformed Calvinist and Protestantism have led to modern
capitalism. The English translation of his work, which was in
German, was published in book form in 1930 as The Protestant
Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. Weber argued that
capitalism in northern Europe evolved because the Protestant,
particularly Calvinist ethic influenced large numbers of people
to engage in work in the secular world, developing their own
enterprises and engaging in trade and the accumulation of
wealth for investment. Weber's work focused scholars on the
question of the uniqueness of Western civilization and the
nature of its economic and social development. Scholars have
sought to explain the fact that economic growth has been much
more rapid in Northern and Western Europe and its overseas
offshoots than in other parts of the world including those
Catholic and Orthodox churches that have been dominant over
Protestantism.
Islam
In Islam, the Prophet’s Hadíths indicate that poverty is a
danger and threat for both individuals and societies. It is an
unwanted situation from which every Muslim should protect
himself. He Himself prayed “O My Allah, I refuge to you from
the evils of poverty”21, and He advised the following prayer for
His friends: “Refuge to Allah from the evils of poverty, famine,
degradation, oppressing and oppressed.”22 Indeed a devoted
Muslim is one who has adequate wealth, but never puts it into
his/her heart. Hence, wealth is good as long as it does not
become a source of pride, arrogance and oppression or cause
people to be enslaved to it. Furthermore, Islam considers that
struggling to make a living by producing something through
commerce is a meritorious act. In order to sustain a good life in
this world, working and having enough property is imperative
for everyone in Islam. Moreover, working to obtain property
and maintain a good life is accepted as a valuable effort and
worship. It is stated in the Qur’an that while the night is

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
created for rest, the day is created for the maintenance of life
[Qur’án 28:73].
The holy Qur’an provides two levels of poverty: (1) those
living at or below the poverty level defined as the poor (al-
fuquara). These are the persons who lack material means,
possessions or income to support them.23 And (2) those living
very much below it, defined as the destitute (al-masakin). The
destitute (miskin) is in misery, dependent on others, either
unable to work or not earning enough to maintain himself and
his family. As compared to the poor (fakir), he is in a worse
economic condition, well below the poverty level. Hence, there
is a distinction between the poor, the destitute, and a person
who uses begging as a profession.
The guidance from the verses of the Qur’an refers to charity
as an important approach to reduce poverty. Charity-based
Islamic models are financially and socially sustainable because
they are based on the concepts of brotherhood, local
philanthropy, and volunteer services. These can broadly target
the economic and social needs of the poor.
Another important measure for poverty eradication in Islam
is Zakah. It is a mandatory duty for the wealthy to perform.
Zakah is an important means for poverty alleviation if work is
not available or its return is not sufficient to meet the
individual's basic needs in life. Every wealthy Muslim must pay
Zakah to complete his worship to God.24 Being wealthy means
having “Nisab” which is a given level of monetary or in-kind
wealth exceeding one’s needs and that of his family. Zakah is a
religious duty calculated as a fixed percentage on each form of
wealth. It is calculated as 2.5% of most physical and financial
assets, 5% of agricultural products from artificially irrigated
land and 10% for naturally irrigated land; for cattle not used
for land work it is levied in-kind after a minimum number for
each kind. Zakah is to be paid at the end of each lunar year;
only Zakah of the agricultural products is to be paid, mostly in-
kind, at the harvesting time.25

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

There is, however, the need for clarification when discussing
wealth creation and wealth redistribution from Judaism,
Christianity and Islamic perspective. They do indeed have a
great deal to say about the poor, about work, and about social
justice. But their teachings are revealed for another age and a
relatively primitive economy. It should be noted that economic
ideas are always and closely a product of their own time and
place. The exploration of the Bahá’í teachings on economics has
occupied an important place in the Bahá’í Writings because
Bahá’u’lláh has appeared at a time of global economic
integration and interdependency of nations. The economic
teachings have a vital effect on the Bahá’í community and on
the wider society.
The Bahá’í view on wealth and poverty
In the Bahá’í writings the acquisition of wealth is not
condemned, but ‘true wealth’ has been interpreted differently.
The notion of true wealth consists of faith and building moral
character and wisdom. The Writings consider the dual nature of
human beings. This unique perspective connects material and
spiritual well-being. The view is that human beings are spiritual
in nature and thus, material well-being alone cannot guarantee
human happiness. Bahá’ís are directed that they would be
happier if the spiritual aspects of their lives are fulfilled and
developed alongside the material; it is stated that “…only when
material and spiritual civilization are linked and coordinated
will happiness be assured” [PUP 110]. Abdu’l-Bahá refers to
concepts of spirituality and wealth as two different things.
Consequently, there is no need for a complete rejection of one
for total acceptance of the other. Confirming this ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says “Material progress and spiritual progress are two very
different things, and that only if material progress goes hand in
hand with spirituality can any real progress come about” [PT 107].
Wealth is regarded positively in the Bahá’í Writings. For
example, Bahá’u’lláh approves the need for wealth after the

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
stage of maturity. Moreover, wealth is appreciated if it is
acquired legitimately through honest work, and is spent
sensibly. In the following statement, Bahá’u’lláh describes the
attainment of wealth by one’s own efforts and hard work as
desirable after reaching the stage of maturity:
…man should know his own self and recognize that
which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or
abasement, wealth or poverty. Having attained the stage
of fulfilment and reached his maturity, man standeth in
need of wealth, and such wealth as he acquireth through
crafts or professions is commendable and praiseworthy
in the estimation of men of wisdom, and especially in
the eyes of servants who dedicate themselves to the
education of the world and to the edification of its
peoples. [TB 34]
The stage of fulfilment and reaching maturity in the light of
this discussion can be described as attaining a high level of
human consciousness where the acquisition of wealth becomes
worthy, if achieved through appropriate means and expended
for an appropriate ends. Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes how
wealth should be acquired and spent. He said, “Wealth is
praiseworthy in the highest degree, if it is acquired by an
individual’s own efforts and the grace of God, in commerce,
agriculture, art and industry, and if it be expended for
philanthropic purposes” [SDC 4]. According to this passage, the
first condition for acquiring wealth is that it must be earned by
one’s own efforts. This emphasises the need to work and be a
productive member of the society. The second condition is that
the income earned be spent on charitable and philanthropic
activities, thereby directing the Bahá’í community towards a
culture of philanthropic, humanitarian and benevolent acts. The
understanding is that one should not be possessed by the love
of wealth but being detached. In the following statement
attributed
to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains
the
meaning
and
implication of material detachment:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Detachment does not consist in setting fire to one's
house, or becoming bankrupt or throwing one's fortune
out of the window, or even giving away all of one's
possessions. Detachment consists in refraining from
letting our possessions possess us. A prosperous
merchant who is not absorbed in his business knows
severance. A banker whose occupation does not prevent
him from serving humanity is severed. A poor man can
be attached to a small thing. [ADP 135]
For further analysis of wealth creation and redistribution
there is a need to make a distinction between ‘means’ and
‘ends’, otherwise what is a mere instrument could become the
main goal of an individual in life. Reminding His followers of
the importance of reliance in God while engaging in an
occupation, Bahá’u’lláh said: “It is incumbent upon each one of
you to engage in some occupation … Hold ye fast unto the cord
of means and place your trust in God, the Provider of all
means” [KA para#30]. The affirmation is that the money earned is
a ‘means’, not an ‘end’ and that God is ‘the provider of all
means.’ These ‘means’ are those that are befitting human
dignity. The indication is that our economic models cannot
reduce
all
values
to
money
or
what
is
known
as
‘commoditization’26 in a competitive market.
Expounding on the same subject, the Universal House of
Justice, addressing the Bahá’í community, stresses that the
acquisition of wealth as a ‘means’ for achieving higher ‘ends’
such as meeting one’s basic needs, promoting the welfare of
society, and contributing to the establishment of a world
civilisation is praiseworthy.27 Exploring the concept of wealth
and the justification for acquiring it, the Universal House of
Justice states: “However constructive and noble the goal,
however significant to one’s life or to the welfare of one’s
family [wealth] must not be attained through improper
means.”28 Examples of “improper means” might include using
child labor, paying low wages for reducing cost to increase

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
profit, unfair trade through aggressive competition, or any
activities that lead to the destruction of the environment.
Furthermore, policies, which internalise ‘negative externalities’,
should be carefully evaluated so as not to foster attitudes of
self-satisfaction and selfishness. Negative externalities are
where the actions of an individual or a firm has an impact on
others for which they do not pay, such as the cost of damaging
roads and polluting the air by driving a car. Internalising
negative externality means that in this example car drivers are
responsible to pay the cost of road maintenance and
pollution.29 In a similar fashion it should be noted how
economic theory with its self-interest utilitarianism has reduced
everything to commodities. To avoid these difficulties, there is
much guidance as to how to carefully weigh the difference
between gaining wealth in fields such as agriculture, commerce,
the arts and industry, and in obtaining it without effort or
through improper means.
Economist and philosopher Amartya Sen has commented on
the two elements of ‘means’ and ‘ends’. He is establishing an
association between the two in relation to commodities and a
level of ‘functioning’ in life. The commodities over which a
person had command were, after all, only a means to an end,
and that end was a level of functioning in life, being able to live
the kind of life that one values. This ‘functioning’ was subject
to objective measurement as well, such as: life expectancy,
infant mortality, literacy, morbidity, political participation and
so on.30 Sen was concerned that the average longevity of a
resident of a poor neighborhood in New York is less than that
of a resident of Dhaka in Bangladesh, despite the fact that not
only incomes, but real incomes, are many times higher in some
parts of New York than in Dhaka.31 Sen’s view helps to better
understand the legitimacy of how wealth is obtained and how it
is spent in relation to ‘means’ and ‘ends’.
Reflecting on the following verse from the Bible “You
cannot serve both God and wealth” [Matthew 6:24] one can view it
in the light of the two concepts of ‘ends’ and ‘means’. That is,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

God is the ‘ends’ and money or wealth is the ‘means’. As the
human being is spiritual in nature, material means can be used
to serve spiritual ends.
On the issue of poverty, the question can indeed be asked
whether the concepts of religion and poverty belong together?
One may argue that poverty is a material condition related to
food, housing, clothing, and other necessities for living; and
religion is a spiritual entity related to transcendental.
Therefore, these two do not belong to each other. However,
studying religious scriptures, we can maintain that religion has
positive effects on poverty reduction. For example, religion
supports the production of those goods and services that are
befitting human dignity, hence avoiding the production of
commodities that are destructive and damaging to human life
and to the environment. Religion encourages moderation, and
inspires believers to work and be productive members of the
society. Religion focuses on the importance of education.
Education, also leading to the emancipation and empowerment
of women, inspiring them to participate at all levels of society
resulting in an increase in the wealth of a nation. The positive
opportunities and accomplishments achieved through spiritual
education will create the necessary conditions for activities
resulting in acquiring wealth and a smoother process of
attaining well-being.
The role of religion when it comes to poverty can never be
reduced to merely sympathy and well-wishing, nor empty words
of comfort by emphasising a better future still to come.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is talking about the real need of the poor which
are food, cloths, housing, good health, and education. People
with different religious affiliations need to play an active role
in attempting to alleviate poverty. Religion, therefore, creates
an awareness of the problem of poverty by redirecting the
attention to a higher spiritual existence, devoid of material
needs, but does not change the existential effects of poverty.

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
Monetary instruments such as money and wealth are ‘means’
and in some sense determine the way we can relate to others,
particularly to those in need. In this dispensation, the rich are
given the responsibility to take care of the poor. This is
confirmed in numerous Writings of the Founder of this Faith:
o “Blessed is … the rich one who careth for the poor…” [TB 70]
o “O children of Dust! Tell the rich of the midnight sighing
of the poor…” [HW Persian #49]
o “O ye rich ones on earth! The poor in your midst are My
trust, guard ye My trust, and be not intent only on your
own ease.” [HW Persian #54]
o “They who are possessed of riches, however, must have
the utmost regard for the poor…” [GWB 202]
o “O ye rich ones of the earth! Flee not from the face of
the poor that lieth in the dust…” [GWB 314]
o “The beginning of magnanimity is when man expendeth
his wealth on himself, on his family and on the poor
among his brethren in his Faith.” [TB 156]
It requires a great deal of material sacrifice and spiritual
enrichment by the rich to guard the poor. However, the wealthy
Bahá’ís taking responsibility for the poor does not exclude the
poor from taking responsibility for their own lives. Bahá’u’lláh
states: “…the poor may exert themselves and strive to earn the
means of livelihood. This is a duty which, in this most great
Revelation, hath been prescribed unto every one, and is
accounted in the sight of God as a goodly deed” [GWB 202].
Shoghi Effendi states that: “Every individual, no matter how
handicapped and limited he may be, is under the obligation of
engaging in some work or profession…” [DG 47]. The term
handicapped may raise a question as to how would one expect a
handicapped person to work and whether this refers to someone
with physical or mental disability, while knowing that begging
is forbidden. It may be said that the effectiveness of a disabled

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

individual’s work depends on the availability of social and
medical services along with technological advancement to support
such people to be engaged in work that they can perform. In
developed countries, more attention is paid to ensure that
people with physical and mental disabilities receive appropriate
support to engage in some form of profession, which improves
their sense of well-being, as well as allows them to be more
productive members of the society. Good planning by
governments and on the part of institutions, and of course in-
dividual self-initiative are partly responsible for such provisions.
As the Bahá’í community evolves and principles such as work
as worship, compulsory education, participation of women in
social and economic activities are applied, absolute poverty
shall disappear and there will not be any need for individuals to
remain in absolute poverty. However, it is not reasonable to
think that the individuals’ generosity is the only way of dealing
with the challenges of poverty. The role of the government and
good governance through legislation and other methods such as
social welfare programs is crucial in its eradication. Therefore,
when expressing concern about poverty, the Bahá’í Writings
suggest a holistic approach, keeping all needs of humans in
mind by creating a balance in human life.
Conclusion
This paper maintained the view that religion is able to have
positive effects on wealth creation and poverty alleviation. The
view presented that Holy Scriptures emphasise the production
of those goods and services that are befitting human dignity.
Religion has traditionally defined human nature, and our
relationship with each other and with respect to the
environment. Religion is “the cause of development and the
animating impulse of all human advancement” [PUP 361]. All
Faiths encourage the practice of moderation, which may result
in avoidance of shortages and surpluses of commodities in the
market and hence the efficient use of valuable resources.

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
Religion also encourages sharing and caring and hence
influences improved wealth redistribution. Many of the
important decisions about family, work and savings have been
rooted in religious beliefs. Religion focuses on the importance
of education and training for the development of human
resource that constitutes the ultimate basis for wealth of
nations. The positive opportunities and accomplishments
achieved through education will create the necessary conditions
for well-being. Work done in a spirit of service is considered as
worship, and this spiritual principle inspires believers to be
productive members of the society. Religion reveals to us
principles that are neither invention of the human mind nor
social conventions, rather, insights into reality. Science helps us
apply these principles to the social reality in which we are
immersed. The proposition is that there is economic poverty
but there is also spiritual and moral impoverishment. It is this
latter form of poverty that has a direct impact on economic
poverty because it prohibits a person from living and
functioning to his or her full potential. The perception,
therefore, is that the two disciplines of religion as a spiritual
realm and a source for moral regeneration, and economics as a
social science, although different entities, the effective
partnership of the two fosters human well-being through right
channels of wealth creation, and wealth redistribution. Hence,
there is no need for the complete rejection of one, and the total
acceptance of the other, it is with the partnership of material
advancement and spirituality that any real progress come about.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bahá’í International Community. ‘Statement on Sustainable
Development,’ World Summit on Sustainable Development,
Johannesburg, South Africa (August 26, 2002).
Begg, David, Stanley Fischer, and Rudiger Dornbusch. Economics.
London: Pearson Education (2006).
Lifshitz, Joseph Isaac. Markets, morals and religion. Transaction
Publishers (2008).

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Olupona, Jacob. Spirituality in Africa, HARVARD Gazette
(2009:xvi), online at news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2015/
10/the-spirituality-of-africa
Piketty, Thomas. Capital in the Twenty-First Century. London: The
Belknap Press of Harvard University (2014).
Sacks, Jonathan. Wealth and Poverty: A Jewish Analysis. The Social
Affairs Unit (1985), online at  socialaffairsunit.org.uk/digipub/
index2.php ?option=content&do_pdf=1&id=16
See Noris, P. and Inglehart, R. Sacred and Secular: Religion and
Politics Worldwide (2011).
Sen, Amartya, ed S. McMurrin. Equality of What. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press (1980).
Sloman, John. Economics, 6th ed. London: Pearson Education (2006).
Stiglitz, Joseph. Making Globalisation Work. London: Penguin Books
(2006).

NOTES
1 Piketty, Thomas. Capital in the Twenty-First Century, London: The
Belknap Press of Harvard University, 2014, p. 1.
2 Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 28 October 1927. In Helen Hornby, Lights of
Guidance, New Delhi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983, p. 548, no. 1860.
3 Universal House of Justice, The Promise of World Peace, p. 10, Haifa,
Bahá’í World Centre Publication, 1985.
4 Ibid., letter dated 1 March 2017.
5 Shoghi Effendi, latter dated 19 November 1945. Lights of Guidance, p.
550, no. 1869.
6 The World Bank projects that global poverty will have fallen from 902
million people or 12.8 per cent of the global population in 2012 to 702
million people, or 9.6 per cent of the global population, this year. Source:
www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2015/10/04/world-bank-
forecasts-global-poverty-to-fall-below-10-for-first-time-major-hurdles-
remain-in-goal-to-end-poverty-by-2030
7 Stiglitz, Joseph. Making Globalisation Work, London: Penguin Books,
2006 p. 269.
8 Luke 19:18; Matthew 22:39.
9 Qur’an, Surat al-Hujurat, “إِﻧﱠﻤٌﺎ  َاﻟْﻤُﺆْﻣِﻨُﻮن  ٌإِﺧْﻮَة.” 49:10.

Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty

10 Bahá’í International Community. ‘Statement on Sustainable
Development,’ World Summit on Sustainable Development,
Johannesburg, South Africa, August 26, 2002.
11 Olupona, Jacob. (2009:xvi). Spirituality in Africa, HARVARD gazette,
(news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2015/10/the-spirituality-of-africa/)
12 See Noris, P. and Inglehart, R. Sacred and Secular: Religion and Politics
Worldwide, 2011.
13 See: 613 mitzvot (commandments).
14 Sacks, Jonathan. Wealth and Poverty: A Jewish Analysis, The Social
Affairs Unit 1985. socialaffairsunit.org.uk/digipub/index2.php
?option=content&do_pdf=1&id=16
15 See: Leviticus 26: 3-13; Deuteronomy 11: 13-16; Deuteronomy 25:15;
Proverbs 22:4.
16 See: Deuteronomy 15:10; Isaiah 1:17-19; Proverbs 19:17.
17 See: Lifshitz, Joseph Isaac (2008). Markets, morals and religion,
Transaction Publishers. p. 123.
18 Protestantism, movement that began in northern Europe in the early 16th
century as a reaction to medieval Roman Catholic doctrines and practices.
Along with Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy, Protestantism
became one of three major forces in Christianity. After a series of
European religious wars in the 16th and 17th centuries, and especially in
the 19th century, it spread throughout the world. Wherever Protestantism
gained a foothold, it influenced the social, economic, political, and
cultural life of the area. The name was attached not only to the disciples
of Martin Luther (c. 1483–1546) but also to the Swiss disciples of
Huldrych Zwingli (1484–1531) and later of John Valvin (1509–64). The
Swiss reformers and their followers in Holland, England, and Scotland,
especially after the 17th century, preferred the name Reformed. See
www.britannica.com/topic/Protestantism
19 John Calvin, French Jean Calvin, or Calvin (born July 10, 1509, Noyon,
Picardy, France — died May 27, 1564, Geneva, Switzerland) theologian
and ecclesiastical statesman. He was the leading French Protestant
Reformer. His interpretation of Christianity, advanced above all in his
Institution Christiane religionist (1536 but elaborated in later editions;),
and the institutional and social patterns he worked out for Geneva deeply
influenced Protestantism elsewhere in Europe and in North America. The
Calvinist form of Protestantism is widely thought to have had a major
impact on the formation of the modern world. See:
www.britannica.com/biography/John-Calvin
20 Max Weber, (born April 21, 1864, Erfurt, Prussia, [now Germany] — died
June 14, 1920, Munich, Germany) German sociologist and political
economist best known for his thesis of the “Protestant ethic,” relating

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


Protestantism to Capitalism, and for his ideas on bureaucracy. Weber’s
profound influence on sociological theory stems from his demand for
objectivity in scholarship and from his analysis of the motives behind
human action. See: www.britannica.com/biography/Max-Weber-German-
sociologist
21 See: Ibn Hanbal, 1953.
22 Ibid.
23 See: Ul-Haq, 1996.
24 Qur’an 107: 1-7; 21:73; 19:31; 19:55.
25 See: Al Qaradawi, 1981.
26 John Sloman. Economics, 6th ed., London: Pearson Education, 2006, p. 157.
27 Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010, Haifa, 2010.
28 Ibid.
29 For ‘Negative externalities,’ See: Begg, Fischer, and Dornbusch,
Economics, pp. 304-305.
30 Amartya Sen. Equality of What, S. McMurrin (ed.), Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1980, P. 37.
31 Ibid.

Biblical References in
Tablets of the Divine Plan
JoAnn Borovicka
Abstract
Throughout His Tablets of the Divine Plan, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá makes liberal reference to biblical stories, verses,
and images. A problem that may arise for many
contemporary readers is that of biblical illiteracy;
research shows that knowledge of the Bible is at an all-
time low at this time. Lack of familiarity with the
contexts of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s biblical references could not
only undermine one’s full understanding of His
instruction, but may also render one incapable of
following ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s example of integrating biblical
references into one’s teaching. The purpose of this
paper is to explore the contexts of four biblical
references found in the Tablets of the Divine Plan in
order to demonstrate the value that biblical literacy
brings to the study and implementation of these Tablets.
Introduction
In His Tablets of the Divine Plan, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá praises the
unifying and educative effects of previous Dispensations and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

emphasizes that the essential task at this time is “the promotion
of divine teachings which are the foundations of the holy
religions” in order that “affinity between the hearts of the
world of humanity” may be established [TDP 14.9]. He refers to
the spiritual foundations that all religions share as the
“Collective Center of the sacred religions” [TDP 1411]. In
addition to stating this mandate, the Tablets themselves provide
examples of how to operate in this Collective Center as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá integrates stories, verses, and images from the
Holy Bible in His instruction — every Tablet has at least one
biblical image or reference.1 For example, in the following
passage ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sets out a call to action in the language of
the Bible:
Every one of the important souls must arise, blowing
over all parts of America the breath of life, conferring
upon the people a new spirit, baptizing them with the
fire of the love of God, the water of life, and the
breaths of the Holy Spirit so that the second birth may
become realized. For it is written in the Gospel: “That
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born
of the Spirit is spirit [John 3:6].” [TDP 14.6]
In another Tablet He uses biblical terms in His description
of the desired qualities of Bahá’í teachers:
As regards the teachers, they must completely divest
themselves from the old garments and be invested with a
new garment. According to the statement of Christ,
they must attain to the station of rebirth — that is,
whereas in the first instance they were born from the
womb of the mother, this time they must be born from
the womb of the world of nature.... They must be
baptized with the water of life, the fire of the love of
God and the breaths of the Holy Spirit; be satisfied with
little food, but take a large portion from the heavenly
table.... They must make the blind seeing, the deaf

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
hearing, the extinguished one enkindled and set aglow,
and the dead quickened. [TDP 13.7]
Most of the terms in the two passages above represent
biblical images: heaven as the source of divine teachings [John
3:31]; the Holy Spirit as a blowing breath or wind2 [John 3:8];
realization of the life of the spirit as a second birth [John 3:3-5];
baptism by water and fire [John 3:22-23; Matthew 3:11; Luke 3:16];
changing the old garment for the new [Luke 5:36]; helping the
blind see, the deaf hear, and the dead live [Matthew 11:5]. Abdu’l-
Bahá, the Perfect Exemplar, embraces biblical stories and
terminologies and focuses on their spiritual meaning to the
degree that the biblical terms themselves become vehicles for
His instruction — there is no division between the
nomenclature of the Bible and Bahá’í guidance. There are many
such examples throughout the Tablets of the Divine Plan; in
fact, every Tablet contains at least one biblical reference.3 And
it is precisely at this point that we are confronted with the
modern problem of biblical illiteracy.
All recent polls and research indicate that biblical literacy in
America is at an all-time low.4 This is a drastic change from the
early 20th century — the time of the writing of the Tablets of
the Divine Plan — when basic literacy and biblical literacy were
“intimately intertwined” in North American public education
systems that made liberal use of biblical stories and verses in
primers as well as in instructional material at every grade level.5
Due to changes in perception of the role that religious
literature plays in the public arena, America’s public schools as
well as its civic spaces are now largely devoid of direct biblical
content — even though the Bible is widely recognized as the
most influential book in the history of Western Civilization.6
Today’s high-school English teachers note that even the simplest
biblical allusions in English literature “must be explained to
students clueless about the biblical story line and even the most
prominent characters in Scripture.”7 Pollster George Gallup has
called the United States “a nation of biblical illiterates.”8

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Theologian Richard Rohr bemoans the situation as “collective
ignorance.”9 Being a cross-section of the greater community, it
is likely that Bahá’ís may be lacking in biblical knowledge as
well. This author is not aware of statistical studies in this
regard; however, her experience over years of facilitating Bahá’í
Bible Study workshops attest to the notion that the average
Bahá’í today is no more educated about the Bible than the
average American.
The problem is one of connecting fully with the Bahá’í
Writings. When a writer refers to a literary work or the
utterance of a historical person, be it religious or secular, he or
she demonstrates appreciation of that quotation, knowledge of
its origin, and awareness of its context. When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
quotes a Bible verse or uses biblical terminology, can we not
assume His knowledge of the contexts of those words? Context
includes things such as surrounding verses, background
information, whole stories, and entire chapters. Ignorance of
the same on the part of the reader is to miss out on meaning.
For example: to quote Martin Luther King’s statement “I have a
dream” is to evoke the history of the entire Civil Rights
movement in the United States. The simple statement, “A rose,
by any other name, would smell as sweet,” evokes all of the love
and tragedy of Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. To quote these
passages is to demonstrate knowledge of their larger settings. If
one were to unfamiliar with them as a reader, one would be
sadly missing out.
It is extremely likely that Bahá’í readers in the early 20th
Century were familiar with the contexts of the biblical
references found in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets because the verses
and stories of the Bible were a dominant presence in public
discourse, family reading, and public school education at that
time. Indeed, it is very likely that the American Bahá’ís of 1916
and 1917 learned to read through Bible verses and stories. The
point that I hope to make in this paper is that readers today
who seek to glean as much as possible from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
instructions and to follow the example He puts forth in His

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
Tablets would very likely benefit from study of the biblical
stories and verses referenced therein. With this in mind, this
paper will explore the biblical contexts of four of the Bible
references found in Tablets of the Divine Plan and reflect on
the value that this knowledge brings to the study of these
Tablets.
“Sown on Good Soil” [Luke 8:15]
In His 20 March 1916 Tablet to the Central States, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá uses a Bible reference as He compares teaching the Cause
of God to scattering seeds:
The sons and daughters of the kingdom are like unto the
real farmers. Through whichever state or country they
pass they display self-sacrifice and sow divine seeds.
From that seed harvests are produced. On this subject it
is revealed in the glorious Gospel: When the pure seeds
are scattered in the good ground heavenly blessing and
benediction is obtained. [TDP 3.3]
Then He states: “I hope that you may become assisted and
confirmed, and never lose courage in the promotion of the
divine teachings” [TDP 3.3]. But what might cause one to “lose
courage in the promotion of divine teachings,” especially when
the harvest of sowing divine seeds brings “blessing and
benediction”? [TDP 3.3] Some answers to that question can be
found in the Gospel story that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to; that
being the Parable of the Sower, a teaching story attributed to
Christ that is found in the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke
[Matthew 13:1-23; Mark 4:1-20; Luke 8:4-15].
The Parable of the Sower describes four different outcomes
of scattering seeds — the seeds fall variously on a path, on
rocky ground, among thorns, and on good soil — and then the
spiritual meanings of these different outcomes are explained in
Scripture following the parable: (1) The seeds fallen on the path
are eaten by birds, meaning: “The seed is the Word of God.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

When anyone hears the Word of the kingdom and does not
understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what is
sown in the heart; this is what was sown on the path” [Luke 8:11-
12]. (2) Seeds that fall on rocky ground sprout quickly — but
then wither and die, meaning: “The ones on the rock are those
who, when they hear the Word, receive it with joy. But these
have no root; they believe only for a while and in a time of
testing fall away” [Luke 8:13]. (3) Seeds that fall on thorns sprout
but are eventually choked out: “As for what fell among the
thorns, these are the ones who hear; but as they go on their way
they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life,
and their fruit does not mature” [Luke 8:14]. (4) Finally, seeds
that fall on good ground bring a plentiful harvest, meaning:
“But as for that in the good soil, these are the ones who, when
they hear the Word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart,
and bear fruit with patient endurance” [Luke 8:15].
When read in its entirety, the Parable of the Sower referred
to by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not just list the possible outcomes of
teaching endeavors, but also offers insights into spiritual
barriers that restrict progress, such as lack of understanding,
lack of spiritual roots, and being overwhelmed by the cares and
riches of the world. These are challenges that can, with
forethought,
insight,
wisdom,
and
accompaniment,
be
overcome in the seeker as well as the teacher.
“Shake Off the Dust From Your Feet” [Matthew 10:14]
In His 19 April 1916 Tablet to the United States and Canada,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes three conditions necessary to attain the
spiritual station of the “Hosts of God”10 [TDP no. 8.3]. The first
condition is absolute “firmness in the Covenant of God” [TDP
no. 8.8], the second condition is “fellowship and love amongst
the believers” [TDP no. 8.9], and the third is “utmost severance”
[TDP no. 8.11]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s description of the third condition
includes a Gospel reference:

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
Teachers must continually travel to all parts of the
continent, nay, rather, to all parts of the world, but they
must
travel
like
‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
who
journeyed
throughout the cities of America. He was sanctified and
free from every attachment and in the utmost severance.
Just as His Holiness Christ says: Shake off the very dust
from your feet. [TDP 8.11]
This Gospel reference is comparable to the statement in
Matthew 10:14 attributed to Christ: “If anyone will not
welcome you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from
your feet as you leave that house or town” [Matthew 10:14]. This
is just one verse from an entire chapter that is often entitled by
biblical scholars “the Mission of the Twelve” in which Christ
gives His Apostles instructions and tells them what to expect in
the course of their ministries. An examination of this entire
chapter reveals a fuller picture of what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
referencing. As stated in the Gospel of Matthew in words
attributed to Christ:
See, I am sending you out like sheep into the midst of
wolves; so be wise as serpents and innocent as doves.
Beware of them, for they will hand you over to councils
and flog you in their synagogues; and you will be
dragged before governors and kings because of me....
Brother will betray brother to death, and a father his
child, and children will rise against parents and have
them put to death; and you will be hated by all because
of my name. [Matthew 10:16-18, 21-23]
When considering the context of the Gospel verse referenced
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we are reminded that detachment from the
way one is received when teaching the Faith is more than not
getting one's feelings hurt when one is not welcome; it also
involves willingly encountering all manner of situations and
intense troubles that require great courage such as hostility,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

floggings, governmental accusations, betrayals of those closest
to you, death, and hatred by the generality of the people.
“Blessed Are the Poor” [Luke 6:20]
In the 8 April 1916 Tablet to the United States and Canada,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá directs the friends to teach “the reality of the
Bible, the Gospel and the new divine teachings” throughout
Mexico and Central America, the islands of the West Indies,
and South America, and He says to “attach great importance to
the indigenous population of America” [TDP 6.8]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
summarizes His call to action with a Gospel verse concerning
the poor, stating:
In short, O ye believers of God! Exalt your effort and
magnify your aims. His Holiness Christ says: Blessed are
the poor, for theirs shall be the Kingdom of Heaven.
[TDP no. 6:12]
The Gospel quote cited is just one verse from the
“Beatitudes”11 in Luke 6 — a set of four verses attributed to
Christ that occur within a larger teaching often referred to as
the “Sermon on the Plain.”12 The setting of the Sermon on the
Plain is presented at the beginning of Luke 6 where it is
established that those in power at the time of Christ are
opposed to His teachings and plotting against Him. Meanwhile
in the countryside, Christ addresses His twelve Apostles, other
disciples, and “a great multitude of people” from all over who
“had come to hear Him and to be healed of their diseases” [Luke
6:17-18]. In the Beatitudes Christ describes something of the
nature of His new community and His expectations for His
followers. The quote that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to regarding the
poor is in the first verse of these Beatitudes:
Then he looked up at his disciples and said: “Blessed are
you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you will be

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you will
laugh. Blessed are you when people hate you, and when
they exclude you, revile you, and defame you on
account of the Son of Man. Rejoice in that day and leap
for joy, for surely your reward is great in heaven; for
that is what their ancestors did to the prophets.” [Luke
6:20-23, NRSV]
There are many understandings of this Scripture, including that
it establishes the inclusive nature of Christ’s community that
embraces those marginalized by mainstream society.13 These
verses also make it clear that Christ’s followers — those who
would look to His teachings to rectify the inequalities of the
present — could expect to be hated, excluded, reviled, and
defamed.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s reference to this Scripture is instructive of
many things, including the inclusive mandate of the Bahá’í
community. It also draws attention to the social conditions in
the Americas at the time of the writing of the Tablets of the
Divine Plan. In the early 20th century, racism — one of the
prime causes of poverty, hunger, and weeping — was enshrined
in law in the Americas, and those who would work for racial
unity were not only hated, excluded, reviled, and defamed, but
often murdered.14 For Bahá’ís, acceptance of and working for
race unity — both within the Bahá’í community and in the
greater society — was slow going and a great struggle
particularly because at that time, as stated by historian Louis
Venters, “majority public opinion and governmental policy at
all levels were both running in precisely the opposite direction.”
He continues, “Given the pervasiveness of white supremacy,
nothing but the persistence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the
consciences of individual Bahá’ís kept Jim Crow ideas and
practices from taking hold in a nascent faith community.”15 The
Beatitudes in their entirety are supportive of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
persistent guidance to attend to the principles and practices of
inclusiveness and race unity — they succinctly state the spiritual

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

importance of the poor and disenfranchised, the standard of
solidarity with the suffering and the oppressed, and the social
ostracism one could expect by obeying this mandate.
Included in the Sermon on the Plain, immediately following
the Beatitudes, are the “Woes.” These are verses that address
those who would ignore or profit off of the suffering and the
oppressed:
But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your
consolation. Woe to you who are full now, for you will
be hungry. Woe to you who are laughing now, for you
will mourn and weep. Woe to you when all speak well of
you, for that is what their ancestors did to the false
prophets. [Luke 6:24-26]
In a world that idealizes power, privilege, money, and status,
and where “oppression and injustice toward the poor and the
outsider are the universal norm,”16 the Beatitudes and the
accompanying Woes are subversive — they turn the world
upside down [Acts 17:6]. The message was revolutionary at the
time of Christ and it is revolutionary today. The rich, the full,
the satisfied, and those easily accepted by the old order “are
challenged and made to face the consequences of their lot”17 —
all are held to a spiritual standard in which being a follower of
the Word of God requires hungering for justice, attending to
the marginalized, being in solidarity with suffering and the
oppressed, and acting on behalf of divine teachings regardless
of the status quo. These verses establish that there are dire
consequences for resting in one’s comfort zone. And lest one
may be tempted to focus one’s energy in enmity to the
oppressor instead of the empowerment of the oppressed, the
verses following the “woes” in the Sermon on the Plain demand
that all believers proactively love their enemies, despite the
persecution they may endure:
But I say to you that listen, Love your enemies, do good
to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
for those who abuse you.... Do to others as you would
have them do to you. [Luke 6:27-28]
Continuing with the same theme, the next passage prohibits
judging or condemning others and teaches, instead, forgiveness:
“Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn,
and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be
forgiven” [Luke 6:37]. The final section of the Sermon on the
Plain starts out with a call for obedience attributed to Christ
that may be the most poignant verse in the entire Gospel: “Why
do you call me ‘Lord, Lord,’ and do not do what I tell you?”
[Luke 6:46] There follows a parable on the necessity of obedience
to the Word of God:
I will show you what someone is like who comes to me,
hears my words, and acts on them. That one is like a man
building a house, who dug deeply and laid the
foundation on rock; when a flood arose, the river burst
against that house but could not shake it, because it had
been well built. But the one who hears and does not act
is like a man who built a house on the ground without a
foundation. When the river burst against it, immediately
it fell, and great was the ruin of that house. [Luke 6:47-49]
In brief, the Sermon on the Plain (that is, the larger context
of the verse quoted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá) establishes the absolute
inclusive nature of the community of the faithful, the
blessedness of the poor, the necessity of reaching out to the
powerless and marginalized, the persecution to be expected
when acting on behalf of these divine teachings, the hazards
inherent in oppression and apathy, the right actions of love,
forgiveness, and a nonjudgmental attitudes in any situation,
and the necessity of obedience to the Word of God. All of this
is evoked by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s reference to the one verse from the
Sermon on the Plain: “Blessed are the poor...” [TDP 6:12].
It should be of great interest to all the Bahá’ís in the
Americas that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states the importance of bringing

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the Word of God to the poor in four different ways in this
Tablet. First, He quotes the verse from the Gospel of Luke that
we have examined:
In short, O ye believers of God! Exalt your effort and
magnify your aims. His Holiness Christ says: Blessed are
the poor, for theirs shall be the Kingdom of Heaven.
[TDP no. 6:12]
Then He restates that Scripture in His own words:
In other words: Blessed are the nameless and traceless
poor, for they are the leaders of mankind. [TDP no. 6:12]
Then He restates the same point with a quote from the Qur’an:
Likewise it is said in the Qur’an: “And We desire to
show favor to those who were brought low in the land,
and to make them spiritual leaders among men, and to
make of them Our heirs.” [Qur’án 28:5; TDP no. 6:12]
And then He restates that Scripture in His own words:
Or, we wish to grant a favor to the impotent souls and
suffer them to become the inheritors of the Messengers
and Prophets. [TDP no. 6:12]
Abdu’l-Bahá states the standard and then repeats it again,
then again, and yet again. The guidance is clear: it is the Will of
God that the poor be the “spiritual leaders among men” — the
“inheritors of the Messengers and Prophets” — and it is
incumbent upon all “believers of God” to “Exalt your effort
and magnify your aims” in this regard. When one considers that
“most of the people who have ever lived on this planet have
been oppressed and poor,”18 the degree to which efforts in this
regard must be magnified becomes apparent. And, as
demonstrated above, the context of the Gospel verse that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá references offers guidance on the manner in

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
which one must and must not approach this task, as well as an
alert to the social ostracism that one might expect on this path.
“Go Ye Into All the World” [Mark 16:15]
In four of the Tablets of the Divine Plan ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers
to a certain call to action found in the New Testament. In the
Tablet to the Northeastern States He writes:
It is stated in the blessed Gospel: Travel ye toward the
East and toward the West and enlighten the people with
the light of the Most Great Guidance, so that they may
take a portion and share of eternal life. [TDP no. 1.3]
To the Southern States He refers to the same call to action in
these words:
It is also mentioned in the Gospel: Travel ye to all parts
of the world and give ye the glad tidings of the
appearance of the Kingdom of God. [TDP no. 2.3]
Similarly, to the Western States ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
It is also recorded in the blessed Gospel: Travel ye
throughout the world and call ye the people to the
Kingdom of God. [TDP 4.4]
And to the United States and Canada He writes:
Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to the West of the
world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God.
[TDP no. 6.5]
All four of these statements are comparable to verse 16:15 in
the Gospel of Mark: “And he said unto them, Go ye into all the
world, and preach the gospel to every creature” [Mark 16:15].19 As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá indicates,20 this call to action is attributed to
Christ. Of particular interest is that in Mark’s Gospel this

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

particular instruction was given by Christ and received by the
Apostles after Christ’s Resurrection.21
The Bahá’í understanding of Christ’s Resurrection is that it
was “a true resurrection” [SAQ 23.7], a spiritual awakening in the
hearts of Christ’s Apostles after the devastation of the
crucifixion, after which they taught the Cause of Christ. In the
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
We explain, therefore, the meaning of Christ’s
resurrection in the following way: After the martyrdom
of Christ, the Apostles were perplexed and dismayed.
The reality of Christ, which consists in His teachings,
His bounties, His perfections, and His spiritual power,
was hidden and concealed for two or three days after
His martyrdom, and had no outward appearance or
manifestation — indeed, it was as though it were entirely
lost. For those who truly believed were few in number,
and even those few were perplexed and dismayed. The
Cause of Christ was thus as a lifeless body. After three
days the Apostles became firm and steadfast, arose to
aid the Cause of Christ, resolved to promote the divine
teachings and practice their Lord’s admonitions, and
endeavoured to serve Him. Then did the reality of
Christ become resplendent, His grace shine forth, His
religion find new life, and His teachings and
admonitions become manifest and visible. In other
words, the Cause of Christ, which was like unto a
lifeless body, was quickened to life and surrounded by
the grace of the Holy Spirit.
Such is the meaning of the resurrection of Christ, and
this was a true resurrection. [SAQ 23.6–7]
Because the verse cited by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (“And he said unto
them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature” [Mark 16:15]) is set in the context of the Resurrection,
inherent in this verse is the need to overcome perplexity,

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
dismay, and other paralyzing factors that can turn the Cause of
the Manifestation into a “lifeless body” [SAQ 23.6]. A factor that
often causes perplexity and dismay is past failure; therefore, it
is interesting that the vast propensity for human failure is
demonstrated in the Scripture preceding Mark 16. For example,
in Mark 14 (the chapter that tells of the activities of Christ and
the Apostles immediately before and during His arrest) it is told
that the Apostles repeatedly failed to stay awake in prayer with
Christ at the Garden of Gethsemane even though He asked them
— three times — to stay awake [Mark 14:32-41]. With the
immanence of the crucifixion, the Apostle Peter failed in His
support of Christ by denying Him three times [Mark 14:66-72].
And, as predicted by Christ [Mark 14:27], all of His Apostles
failed in their allegiance to Him and became “deserters” after
He was arrested [Mark 14:50]. It is telling that Christ’s specially
chosen Apostles are completely absent throughout the story of
His arrest and crucifixion in Mark 15. Additionally, when the
women who first experienced the Resurrection shared the living
Reality of Christ with certain Apostles, the Apostles “believed
not” [Mark 16:11]. It is to these Apostles — those who failed
Christ in various ways in the past — who Christ calls to action
and on whose shoulders the work of His Cause depends. In
fact, in the Gospel story, right before Christ gives the call to
action to His Apostles He upbraids them for their failings:
Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at
meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and
hardness of heart, because they believed not them which
had seen him after he was risen. And he said unto them,
“Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature.” [Mark 16:14-15]
One of the messages in this Scripture is that despite past and
repeated human failure, those with eyes to see are still called
upon to represent and teach the Word of God. As stated by
New Testament scholar C. M. Tucket, Mark’s story implies that
“failure can be and is overcome. The power of forgiveness and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

restoration is in the end greater than human failure and its
consequences.”22 The history of Christianity, today the most
widespread religion in the world, testifies to the success of
these original teachers despite their human failings.
Another theme inherent in Mark 16:15 is the need to take the
teachings of the Manifestation of God everywhere — including
hostile territory — and the inevitability of suffering in the path
of teaching the Word of God. Although the Apostles became
followers in the pastoral environment of the Galilee, an area
that was relatively accommodating to Christ’s teachings, Christ
never promised “a glorious, trouble-free existence.”23 Earlier in
the Gospel, Christ walked with the Apostles from Galilee to
Jerusalem — the seat of authority and power that would reject
His teachings. During the walk to Jerusalem He assured His
Apostles that “The cup that I drink you will drink” [Mark 10:39].
Shortly after arriving in Jerusalem Christ was arrested, put on
trial, mocked, tortured, and killed. Therefore, the mandate to
“Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature” [Mark 16:15] includes being prepared to teach in areas
hostile to the Word of God and to endure persecution.
The Apostles to whom the Mark 16:15 call to action was
addressed did rise to lives of teaching, travel, and persecution,
as did thousands of early Christians. In The Secret of Divine
Civilization ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
In the days of Jesus only a few individuals turned their
faces toward God; in fact only the twelve disciples and a
few women truly became believers, and one of the
disciples, Judas Iscariot apostatized from his Faith,
leaving eleven. After the ascension of Jesus to the
Realm of Glory, these few souls stood up with their
spiritual qualities and with deeds that were pure and
holy, and they arose by the power of God and the life-
giving breaths of the Messiah to save all the peoples of
the earth. Then all the idolatrous nations as well as the
Jews rose up in their might to kill the Divine fire that

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
had been lit in the lamp of Jerusalem. “Fain would they
put out God’s light with their mouths: but God hath
willed to perfect His light, albeit the infidels abhor it” [2
Qur’án 9:33]. Under the fiercest tortures, they did every
one of these holy souls to death; with butchers’ cleavers,
they chopped the pure and undefiled bodies of some of
them to pieces and burned them in furnaces, and they
stretched some of the followers on the rack and then
buried them alive. In spite of this agonizing requital, the
Christians continued to teach the Cause of God, and
they never drew a sword from its scabbard or even so
much as grazed a cheek. Then in the end the Faith of
Christ encompassed the whole earth. [SDC 81]
According to the biblical context connected to Mark 16:15
discussed above, an enlarged understanding of that single verse,
“Go into all the world and proclaim the good news to the whole
creation,” may be understood as: Go, all of you whose souls
have been resurrected by the recognition of the Word of God.
Take with you all of your human inadequacies and, despite your
past failures, go into all the world — including areas that are
unfamiliar, deemed undesirable, or threatening — and proclaim
the good news of the Word of God to the whole creation
regardless of the suffering and persecution that you will, no
doubt, endure on this path.
In light of the context of Mark 16:15, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement, “It is also mentioned in the Gospel: Travel ye to all
parts of the world and give ye the glad tidings of the
appearance of the Kingdom of God” [TDP 2.3] is more than a
general call to action; it includes acceptance of personal
inadequacy, forgiveness of failure, a call for courage, and a
reminder that sacrifice is integral to service in the Cause of
God.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Reflections on the Value of Biblical Literacy in
the Study of the Tablets of the Divine Plan
This brief overview of the contexts of four biblical verses
referenced in the Tablets of the Divine Plan demonstrates the
richness that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá draws on while quoting the Bible.
For example, when examined in the context of the entire
Parable of the Sower, His statement “When the pure seeds are
scattered in the good ground heavenly blessing and benediction
is obtained” [TDP 3.3] includes alerts on barriers to spiritual
progress as well as encouragement to be steadfast regardless of
the outcome of teaching. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instruction to “Shake
off the very dust from your feet” [TDP 8.11] not only draws on
ancient biblical imagery symbolizing detachment, but, when
understood in its full context, also makes the point that this
“dust” includes all manner of severe tests and difficulties that
may arise while spreading the Word of God. His use of the
verse, “Blessed are the poor, for theirs shall be the Kingdom of
Heaven” [TDP 6:12] evokes the entire Sermon on the Plain
including its message of the Manifestation’s solidarity with the
oppressed, the spiritual bankruptcy of haughty power, the
inevitable persecution that arises when speaking out for the
oppressed, the absolute necessity of forgiving and refraining
from judging others, and an appeal for obedience to the Word
of God. And when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in four different Tablets,
refers to the Gospel call to action, “Travel ye throughout the
world and call ye the people to the Kingdom of God” [TDP 4.4],
we find that the greater context of that Scripture teaches the
necessity of a resurrection of the Spirit in one’s heart,
acceptance of multiple human faults, and the warning that
courage will be needed to endure the sacrifice that is necessary
when spreading the Cause of Justice. From a few words in black
and white, each quotation leaps into multiple shades of color
when the contexts are explored — when biblical literacy is
expanded.

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
There are many secular arguments for increased biblical
literacy. In the words of the Supreme Court, the Bible is “the
world’s all-time best seller”24 and has had a role in every major
movement in Western Civilization.25 Its imagery, idioms,
themes, characters, and stories are infused in music, literature,
and art from Beethoven to Garth Brooks, Shakespeare to Toni
Morrison, and Michelangelo to Andy Warhol. For Bahá’ís there
is another argument for biblical literacy: Bahá’í literacy and
biblical literacy are intertwined. As seen in the Tablets of the
Divine Plan, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often uses the language of the Bible
in His instruction. It is of value to Bahá’ís to know that
language in all of its richness in order to connect with the
nuances of Bahá’í text delivered in the form of biblical
references — something we see not only in Tablets of the Divine
Plan, but in the Writings of all of the Central Figures of the
Faith. A brief search of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb,
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reveals over one hundred direct mentions of
the Gospel, over one hundred and fifty direct mentions of
Moses, and over two hundred direct mentions of Jesus Christ.26
These numbers don’t include the many additional biblical
allusions, quotations, prophecies, and references to biblical
stories that can be found throughout the Bahá’í Writings.
In addition to accessing the richness of biblical references in
the Bahá’í Writings, increased biblical literacy empowers one to
have meaningful and distinctive conversations with friends
from religious traditions who especially revere the Hebrew and
Christian Scriptures. As stated previously, in the Tablets of the
Divine Plan ‘Abdu’l-Bahá demonstrates that one way to
communicate in the “Collective Center of the sacred religions”
is to is to interweave sacred traditions in one’s discourse [TDP
14.11]. Familiarity with as well as love of such traditions, both
of which are evidenced by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Tablets of the
Divine Plan, would be essential for sincerity in these
conversations so vital to establishing “affinity between the
hearts of the world of humanity” [TDP 14.9].

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Questions for Further Study
Although not in the purview of this paper, this study brings
up additional questions worthy of exploration including:
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes reference to the Qur’an in ten of the
fourteen Tablets of the Divine Plan27 — how does knowledge of
the contexts of the Qur’anic references enhance our
understanding of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s guidance? Many of His
Qur’anic
references
are
in
combination
with
biblical
references28 — what insights can we glean from His
interweaving of specific Qur’anic and biblical verses? In 1916-
17, the recipients of the Tablets of the Divine Plan were
predominantly of Christian background and probably had little
knowledge of the Qur’an — what does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s choice of
Islamic verses tell of what He especially wanted the West to
know about Islam? And finally, when studied in the entire
context of the Tablets of the Divine Plan, in what way does
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s use of biblical and Islamic references transform
the conventional meanings of those traditions?
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Allison, Dale C. “Matthew” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed.
John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2013, pp. 844–86.
Comparative Study Bible. Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1999.
Coogan, Michael D, Ed. The New Oxford Annotated Bible. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2010.
Franklin, Eric. “Luke” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed. John
Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2013, pp. 922-959.
George Gallup Jr. and Jim Castelli, The People’s Faith: American
Faith in the 90’s. New York: Macmillan, 1989.
Gallup Poll. “Religion.” www.gallup.com/poll/1690/Religion.aspx
Kieffer, Rene. “John” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed. John
Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2013, pp 960-1000.

Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
Kwon, Lillian. “Bible Illiteracy in U. S. at Crisis Point” in Christian
Post, June 16, 2014 edition.
Lance W. Roberts. Recent Social Trends in Canada, 1960-2000.
Canada: McGill-Queen's Press, 2005.
Lugo, Luis. “The Decline of Institutional Religion: Faith Angle
Forum, South Beach, Florida.” Washington, DC: Pew Research
Center, 2013.
Prothero, Stephen. Religious Literacy: What Every American Needs
to Know About Religion — And Doesn’t. San Francisco: Harper
Collins, 2007.
Rohr, Richard. Gospel Call for Compassionate Action (Bias from the
Bottom) in CAC Foundation Set (CAC: 2007), CD, MP3
download.
———. Scripture as Liberation (CAC: 2002), MP3 download.
The Association of Religion Data Archives (ARDA). “Greenland,”
“Canada,” “United States.” www.thearda.com/internationalData/
countries/Country_94_1.asp
Tucket, C. M. “Mark” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed. John
Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2013, pp 886-922.
Venters, Louis. No Jim Crow Church: The Origins of South
Carolina’s Bahá’í Community. Gainesville, Florida: The University
Press of Florida, 2015.

NOTES
1 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also integrates verses and images from the Qur’an in the
Tablets of the Divine Plan. Perhaps the Bible references were used because
they were familiar to His readers; perhaps references to the Qur’an were
used because His readers needed to develop familiarity with Islamic
Scripture. For the purpose of this paper, the focus will be on biblical
references.
2 Note: rûah (Hebrew) and pneuma (Greek) can both be translated as breath,
wind, or Spirit (Kieffer, p. 966).
3 See TDP 1.3; 2.3; 3.3; 4.4, 4.5; 5.2; 6.5, 6.6, 6.12; 7.3; 8.2, 8.11; 9.2; 10.9;
11.2; 12.4; 13.2, 13.7; 14.6, 14.10.
4 Prothero, p. 2, 38-39, 164; Gallup and Castelli, p. 60; Kwon
5 Prothero, p. 70; see also 79

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


6 Prothero, p. 164
7 Evans, William B. The Associate Reformed Presbyterian Magazine
(March/April 2013, pp. 10-11) January 24, 2014.
8 George Gallup Jr. and Jim Castelli, The People’s Faith: American Faith in
the 90’s. New York: Macmillan, 1989, p. 60.
9 Rohr, p. 16.
10 Also referred to as the “heavenly armies” (TDP 8.1), the “armies of God”
(TDP 8.2), and “Apostle of Bahá’u’lláh” (TDP 8.4).
11 The term beatitude comes from the Latin noun be titūdō which means
“happiness.”
12 The four Beatitudes of the Sermon on the Plain found in the Gospel of
Luke are comparable in many ways to the eight Beatitudes of the Sermon
on the Mount found in Matthew 5:3-12.
13 See Franklin, p. 935
14 Venters, pp. 42, 47, 59, 75, 96, 99
15 Venters, p. 53
16 Rohr
17 Franklin, p. 935
18 Rohr
19 The publisher of Tablets of the Divine Plan indicates that all four of these
statements are comparable to Mark 16:15. These verses also evoke a later
passage in the same Gospel: “And after that, Jesus Himself sent out through
them from east to west the sacred and imperishable proclamation of eternal
salvation” (Mark 16:20, sometimes placed after Mark 16:8, NRSV).
20 See TDP 6.5
21 The story of the crucifixion and burial of Christ is found in Mark 15; the
story of the Resurrection is found in Mark 16.
22 Tucket, pp. 991-992
23 Tucket, p. 921
24 Prothero, p. 167
25 Prothero, p. 59, 167
26 www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts
27 TDP 1.3; 2.3; 4.3; 5.2; 6.12; 9.2, 9.3, 9.12; 11.2; 12.8; 13.2; 14.2, 14.10
28 TDP 1.3; 2.3; 5.2; 6:12; 9.2; 14.10

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind:
Bahá’í Gloss on a Buddhist Puzzle
Roland Faber
1: Non-Duality
The following considerations are an exercise in non-dual
thinking.1 Non-duality is of central importance to Buddhist
thought and experience.2 And if, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms,
human essence reveals itself in thought (and mind) [PT 2], the
core of which is mystical contemplation [PT 54], then the
awareness
of
this
profound
mode
of
thinking
(and
experiencing) is not irrelevant to the spiritual existence of
humanity. Non-duality is, however, often misinterpreted to
exhibit monistic intentions, being the opposite of metaphysical
dualism. If dualism, the simple differentiation between God (or
ultimate Reality) and the world, is (wrongly or rightly)
identified mostly with Abrahamic religions, from their
perspectives (if dualism is adopted) monism stands as an
accusation against Asian religious expressions, such as the
Advaita Vedanta view in Hinduism,3 and against Buddhism in
general.4 This opposition manifests itself as the impasse of an
uncompromising alternative between the affirmation of the
absolute difference between the world and God, on the one
hand, and the inseparable unity of the world with ultimate
Reality, on the other.5 Yet, it is precisely in this antagonistic

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

force field that Buddhist thought is already distorted and will
be misrepresented if it is “identified” in this way, which often
happens in the interest of an apologetic defense of seemingly
unavoidable implications of Abrahamic notions regarding a
“personal” God.6 Nevertheless, the current considerations want
to demonstrate that neither of these mutually exclusive views is
necessary or even necessarily true insofar as they are used to
“identify” (or estrange) the religious other. As a matter of fact,
non-dualism, which cannot only be found in Buddhism, but also
in many mystical streams of Eastern and Western religious
traditions (and their philosophical articulation) throughout all
of their phases of existence, does not attach itself to either side
— dualism or monism.7 Instead, by insisting on the non-
difference between phenomenal reality and ultimate Reality, it
begins at, and always reaches beyond, identity and difference,
dualism and monism, transcendence and immanence, alike.8
Yet, there is one problem we must face from the outset when
we try to understand the concept and reality of non-duality in
the way it is actually meant to be operating in diverse religious
systems, theoretically and practically. Since non-duality cannot
be expressed in terms of difference, although it does also not
comply to the terms of identity (of God and the world) either,
the expression of non-dualism necessitates the use of a language
that escapes both fallacies of identification and simple
differentiation, but only for the price of following closer the
semiotic conventions of a language that seems to be monistic,
that is, a language of (seeming) identification.9 Especially since
dualism, that is, the assumption of a simple difference between
God and the world, appears to be the stronger adversary in the
dual rejection of identity and difference (even linguistically),
the language of non-duality needs some greater degree of
sophistication for it to be discerned from monistic language, as
it is rather clear that dualistic language does not capture the
non-differential articulation of ultimate Reality from mundane
reality in any intelligible way conceivable.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
This can be demonstrated with one of the most important
formulations of non-dualism in Western philosophy, although
its potential Eastern background must not be ignored, and it
can be found in various forms in Eastern thought and religious
contexts, too.10 So is the statement “the All is one” seemingly
monistic, as is the converse phrase “the One is all.” On the
surface, they seem to be conveying not only the unity of the
cosmos of all existence, but, especially in the reverse form, the
divinity of this unity, be it named God or otherwise, and the
One as being identical with everything. This formula was often
(and sometimes falsely) accused of being pantheistic, where
dualists and dualist understanding of the relationship of God
and the world is concerned, or was even by some of its
proponents affirmed in a pantheistic manner. However, even if
such an accusation were true, although it is not, it already lacks
the ability to address an “identity” of mundane reality with God
where the concept of God is not utilized, as in Buddhism.11 In
any case, a closer look will reveal that both versions of this
formula, in fact, exhibit neither a dualistic nor a monistic
intention.
In one of its most iconic Western philosophical renderings,
arising from the Enneads of great Egyptian philosopher
Plotinus (ca. 204-270), the non-dual character of the meaning of
these formulas should be readily evident: “The One is all things
and no one of them; the source of all things is not all things; all
things are its possession....” [Enneads V.2.1].12 This is what the
theosophical Sufi tradition, giving the same pair of formulas a
“fitting” (although paradoxical) language, commonly refers to
the “unity of Being” (wa˙dát al-wujúd).13 As with other
formulations that were based on mystical paradoxical language,
such seeming “identity” of all beings with the One Being (God)
was, in the Christian and Islamic orthodox context, habitually
accused of heretical pantheism or monism. It happened to
Meister Eckhart and al-Hallaj alike when they articulated their
mystical unity with God in a language that seemed inevitably to
imply the monistic identity of their own “being” with that of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the Godhead (grunt) or of ultimate Reality (al-˙aqq),
respectively.14 In the Islamic context, the instigation of this
formula was ascribed to another seminal non-dual thinker: the
great Andalusian Sufi philosopher Ibn ‘Arabi (1165-2140 CE),
with all the suspicion of heresy that followed his and his
followers’ thought patterns. But, as William Chittick has
demonstrated, neither did Ibn ‘Arabi, in fact, use this
formulation nor has he meant his thought to be simplified in
this monistic, pantheistic way.15 But differentiations often, and
often systematically, do not play a role in antagonistic
exchanges, especially if the feeling of the entitlement to
religious superiority of their respective orthodoxy motivates
them. And so, while even followers of this philosophy might,
over time, not have withstood the transformation of the non-
dual language of their masters into monistic simplifications, the
monistic interpretation of the “unity of Being” became the
basis for the dualistic alternative of an only apparent unity of
the All and the One, proposed as phenomenal (not ultimate) and
epistemological (not ontological) “unity of witnessing” (wa˙dát
ash-shuhúd), devised by the Indian Sufi sheikh and philosopher
Shaykh Ahmad al-Faruqi al-Sirhindi (d. 1624), and which in
typical Abrahamic manner was again closely identified with the
view of the orthodoxy.16 One may sense this antagonism to be
furthered by the misidentification of monistic with non-dual
language, however. It tends to arise from the attempt of non-
dualists to mold the intellectual discourse on conceptually
unfathomable mystical experience, provoking an impasse for
the irreconcilable alternative thought pattern of dualism, which
again is only effective under the already presupposed exclusion
of the non-dual alternative (while it is itself not in need to
further any oppositional energies). What is more, one may in
these antagonisms also see the cultural restraints and prejudices
impacting the mutual view of the religious other. Al-Sirhindi,
being of Indian descent and cultural heritage, might have read
Ibn ‘Arabi in the context of, and in similarity with,
formulations of Advaita Vedanta or Buddhist non-dualisms,
which for a long time, at least effectively from Nagarjuna (ca.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
150-250 CE) and Sankara (ca. 800 CE) and their interpretation
of certain Buddhist Sutras and the Upanishads, were pregnant
with many formulations that insinuated monistic “identity” (of
ultimate Reality with the world), even while instead (often)
aiming at non-duality — note, for instance, the supposed
“identity” of atman with brahman or of samsara and nirvana.17
That even a clearly orthodox rendering of non-duality in the
context of a “theistic” differentiation of God from the world is
not only possible, but rather a necessity of sophisticated
thinking that wants to do justice to the implications of theism
can be perceived from the great Catholics theologian Karl
Rahner’s (1904-1984) formulation of God’s relation to the
world as neither dualistic nor pantheistic. In Rahner’s subtle
discernment of an orthodox Christian understanding, we
observe that it is not at all close to “a more popular form of
dualism which places God and the non-divine simply as two
things alongside each other.” And while “we say against
pantheism that God and the world are different, this statement
is radically misunderstood if it is interpreted in a dualistic
way.” Instead, he adds that the “difference between God and
the world is of such a nature that God establishes and is the
difference of the world from himself, and for this reason he
establishes the closest unity precisely in the differentiation.”18
Rahner, thereby, actually defines the non-dualism sought here
precisely by articulating it as the mystery of the divine non-
difference from the world. If God is the difference from the
world (that is, is identical with this difference), God is so close
to the world that, while the world is not God, there is no
difference “between” God and the world.
I have, over the course of the last decades, made this non-
difference — as it appears, for instance, in mystical thinkers
such as Meister Eckhart and Nicolas of Cusa in the West — the
center of my philosophical endeavor to understand the mystical
unity articulated in philosophical and religious discourses
across religions.19 In our current context, now, as this deep
non-dualism is beyond any opposition of categories, it does

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

also allow for the pursuit of an interesting transreligious
conversation between Abrahamic “theism” and Buddhist “non-
theism” from a Bahá’í perspective — that is, the one limited by
the perspective and training of the author and in no way
claiming any religious authority in its interpretation — namely,
one of which the author thinks that it would be deeply
appreciative of the principle that difference (in thought and
practice) should never become opposition.20 That is, if we
could, on closer investigation, also find a place for non-dualism
and non-difference in Bahá’í thought.21 In what follows, I will
be concerned with one of the most profound expressions of
this non-dualism in the Buddhist universe of thought and
experience: the Luminous Mind. Reading selected Bahá’í
scriptural texts and their conceptual formulations as a non-
dualistic commentary on this Buddhist concept, this resonant,
intertextual interference will also reflect back onto the Bahá’í
texts so as to let their mutual transreligious correspondence in
the articulation of the mystery of ultimate Reality in relation to
our universe become visible.22
2: Why Buddhism?
The conversation with Buddhism is a fascinating and pressing
question for the Bahá’í understanding of the unity of religions.
Given the overwhelming diversity of conceptualizations within
and between the existing manifold of religions, a responsible
Bahá’í understanding of this multiplicity by, at the same time,
positing a fundamental agreement of all religions, becomes
challenging. Bahá’í discourse has suggested diverse sites for
situating such a unity, for instance, in the common source (God
or ultimate Reality), the convertibility of ethical attributes and
activities engaged in the religious transformation of the human
character, or the corresponding mystical core of all religions.23
But Buddhism, it seems, must be viewed as the furthest frontier
in any such endeavor to create or adopt a conceptuality so
profoundly pervading that it could be considered sufficient in
establishing this proposed unity of religions, because the Bahá’í

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
writings appear, on the surface, to be contradicting the
Buddhist worldview, while, at the same time, confessing the
Buddha to be of the same essential Reality inhering in all divine
Manifestations.24 The reasons for the challenge that Buddhism
provides for the Bahá’í understanding of transreligious unity in
this regard, can be found, first and foremost, in the fact that
Buddhism does neither use (or is compatible to) the “theistic”
language that Abrahamic (and partly also Hindu) traditions
employ, nor submit the metaphysical categories in which its
religious tenets are expressed to that of the philosophical
patterns with which all Western religious traditions have been
pervaded.25 Rather than signaling an underlying unity, Buddhist
language and spiritual intentions appear to be fundamentally
different from that of Western and Abrahamic categories and
inclinations: they do not entertain the concept of God, but
rather deny its very meaningfulness; they do not contemplate
revelation, but offer methods of enlightenment; they do not
aim at a divine world, but suggest the exhaustion of all worlds;
they do not express themselves through messages of a Prophet,
but encourage the imitation of the experience of the Awakened
One; they do not claim immortality for the soul, but the
selflessness of pure existence.26
Nor is Buddhism in any substantial way or detailed
differentiation considered in Bahá’í scriptures.27 We miss its
expositions
compared,
for
instance,
with
Christianity,
especially in the many conversations ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had with
Christian audiences and in culturally Christian lands when he
travelled to Europe and America between 1911 and 1913.28 In
the mind of contemporary Bahá’ís of that time, this must
already have been a challenge, as we know of Western Buddhist
to converse with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá;29 of the presence of Buddhist
teachers in America and Europe at the same time the teachings
of which were, like the Bahá’í message, available to any open-
minded religionist;30 and also of the presence of Buddhists at
the originally interreligious conversations in the wake of the
first World Parliament of Religions (1893) at Sarah Farmer’s

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Green Acre gatherings.31 Despite several important attempts to
bridge the missing discussion, we still lack a developed body of
literature (from either side) for an informed transreligious
discourse. In any case, such a discourse would have to raise
fundamental questions of how to proceed conceptually and
methodically in order to gain a deeper understanding of, and to
be enabled to realize, the Bahá’í imperative to contribute to the
reconciliation
of
religions
with
their
vastly
different
worldviews.32
Myron Phelps, one of the Western Buddhist who became a
Bahá’í remembers, when he visited Akká, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to have
said that, compared with Christ and his circumstances, the
Buddha “came to a part of the world where civilization was
much more advanced, ... ripe in philosophical and metaphysical
speculations”33 so that his teachings had to mirror this
sophistication. This is a very apt observation, and one that we
should take seriously in our engagement with Buddhism from a
Bahá’í perspective. In other words, it is not enough to conclude
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement, at one point, that while the
Buddha has taught the “unity of God” (the doctrine of taw˙íd),
later Buddhism has lost contact to this original teaching
(something ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also says about Christianity) [SAQ 43],
wherefore any conversation between Bahá’í and Buddhist
conceptuality would basically be irrelevant since the original
teachings are now obscured. Instead, we must match the
sophistication of the Buddhist conceptuality in a fair Bahá’í
conversation with historical and contemporary Buddhism(s);
even more so since the sophistication of these Buddhist
literatures (for Buddhists) not only reflect historical documents,
but scriptures that, in concurrence with Bahá’u’lláh, exhort the
power of the Word or Spirit present through them if we do not
denigrate them — and we never should.34
In fact, such a differentiated and non-oppositional approach
will rather remind us of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s hint that, like the
original doctrine of the Buddha, the “unity of God” (taw˙íd) is
meant to overcome “vain imaginings” in addressing the mystical

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
inaccessibility of the unspeakable ultimate Reality [SAQ 82].35 In
the same way, the conceptual sophistication of the Buddha and
Buddhist scriptures as well as the deep reflections of Buddhist
holy figures and teachers throughout the centuries was meant to
eradicate the trappings of the labyrinths of thinking and the
clinging to any oppositional categorizations of reality
(samsara), which the Buddha and the Dharma-tradition as a
whole view as hindrance for the salvific effectiveness arising
from the direct experience of ultimate Reality (dharmakaya).36
We note similar warnings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá not
to get lost in conceptual speculation, but instead, against all
imitation and prejudices, to directly investigate Reality (al-
˙aqq) [PT 3, 41; PUP 26; GWB 125]. In fact, this is a sign, common
to the diverse religious traditions, of the workings of mystical
non-dualism in our mind and heart: Non-dual thought is meant
to overcome thought altogether.37 However, the process that
the Buddha suggests cannot proceed without an appropriately
engaged and sophisticated deconstruction of these categories,
which otherwise, that is, by simple denial, only would lead to
reiterations of imaginative projections onto Reality instead of
helping us to free ourselves from such limitations.38 Such is the
challenge that the Bahá’í discourse faces in the light of
Buddhism, especially if it does want to remain true to its own
universal imperative to connect the threads of all religious
traditions.39 For this endeavor to succeed, it must, hence, also
deconstruct the limitations of Abrahamic religious habits of
thought and Western philosophical categories, as far as they
limit the deeper understanding of their own scriptures: first,
not to subsume Buddhist concepts and methods under
Abrahamic categories and intentions; second, not to simply
apply its own scriptural categories uncritically by assuming that
our limited interpretations, which have historically developed
predominantly in Western contexts, can be supposed to be
universally explicative of their meaning;40 and, third, not to
simply abandon the conceptual maze with which we are
confronted in the serious conversation with any religion, but in
rare degrees of sophistication with Buddhism, by just

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

“agreeing” that such a conceptual engagement was not of
ultimate relevance anyway.
Serious attempts of Bahá’í investigations into Buddhism are
not lacking. They are of different kinds and exhibit various
degrees of awareness of the methodological, philosophical, and
linguistic complexities of such a transreligious discourse.
Roughly, I find four approaches to comparison in Bahá’í
literature, generally situated in the methodological approaches
to religious studies, comparative religion, and comparative
theology, at work: contributions in the prophetic proof-text
tradition, demonstrating from Buddhist texts that Bahá’u’lláh is
the expected Buddha Maitreya (Jamshed Fozdar);41 comparisons
of Buddhist and Bahá’í concepts in the interest of finding
textual evidences for similarities and differences (Ian Kluge);42
comparisons with broadly Buddhist or common intellectual and
spiritual schemes as points of reference for Bahá’í resonances
(Moojan Momen);43 and rare commentaries that use Buddhist
conceptual frameworks to inform Bahá’í readings of their own
writings (Juan R. Cole).44
Another kind of access altogether begins with overarching
questions of religious pluralism,45 which is mainly conducted
from within Christianity and often in light of the perceived
otherness of Buddhism.46 In the Bahá’í context, although it has
not been developed beyond a few applications to Buddhism,
this discourse concerns itself mostly with the fundamental
axiom of the relativity of religious truth and its relevance for
questions of relating theism or dualism to monism or non-
theism (Moojan Momen).47 Much more work must be done in
this venue in order for Bahá’í contributions to be taken
seriously in related interreligious discourses that have, until
now, mostly excluded Bahá’í impulses — especially since
institutional dialogue between religions, of which the Bahá’í
Faith has been an active partner over the last twenty years,
cannot substitute spiritual and intellectual dialogue.48

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
While the relativity of religious truth — as it is a central
Bahá’í axiom49 — is helpful to address these issues of difference
from a Bahá’í perspective, we must not take a shortcut,
assuming that the discovered differences are confined to, or
merely expressive of, only cultural and linguistic questions, that
is, the social side of the teachings of diverse religions, which
Bahá’í scriptures understand to be changing over time.50 Rather,
we will only have taken the Buddhist conversation partner
seriously if we also develop a sensibility for the fact that the
perceived discrepancies of Buddhist language and spiritual
intention from Western (and even many Eastern) religious
traditions and philosophical conceptualizations reach deep into
the respective spiritual identity.51 Only then will we have
addressed the challenge that such a conversation implies for the
proposed claim of transreligious unity52 and will have mounted
a serious attempt to reconciliation in a meaningful and
respectful conversation between them. Otherwise, any such
attempt to address these challenges will always potentially face
resistance from within the Buddhist universe of discourse,
namely, whenever the feeling could arise that such an attempt
tries to establish superiority over Buddhism by controlling the
dialogue or to claim its inclusion in a new universe (such as the
Bahá’í universe) that would be perceived to be equal to the
erasure of Buddhist identity and existence — a move that would
also appear to be counter to Shoghi Effendi’s understanding of
the Bahá’í reconciliation of religions.53
If I am, at least in principle, to name my own approach,
here, it is meant to seek Bahá’í scriptural articulations of non-
duality and to view them as a commentary on Buddhist
concepts in their own context, thereby not only harvesting
insights for a deeper understanding of Bahá’í concepts, but also
yielding an access to the meaning of Bahá’í scriptures and
categories for Buddhist conversation partners. As this
oscillation also reflects back onto the Bahá’í texts, it has the
fortunate side effect to instigate the widening of their
interpretation beyond Western limitations and to seek the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

mutual immanence of both religious traditions from the deeply
mystical articulation of ultimate Reality.54 This mutual
transformation may, then, also become available as an
appropriate procedure of establishing unity in a non-dualistic
way, that is, beyond and counter to the simplifications and
presupposed limitations of the dialectic of monism and
dualism.55
The main Buddhist concept that is brought into this
conversation of mutual resonance, is, as already mentioned,
that of the Luminous Mind. It will allow us to reflect back on
Bahá’u’lláh’s surprising rendering of the very same formulas,
which we find already in Plotinus, in which non-dualism
expressed itself in Western philosophical and religious
discussions on the correlation of ultimate Reality to our world
of becoming over the centuries. It will direct our attention to
the resonance of Bahá’u’lláh’s discussion of the concept of the
Uncompounded Reality, which again will enable us to view it as
a commentary on the Luminous Mind. The choice is not
arbitrary; rather it reflects two of the deep designations of the
Reality of Realities in both Buddhism and Bahá’í Faith.
3: The Luminous Mind
The concept of the Luminous Mind is a central Buddhist
signification of ultimate Reality, Westerners would say: God;
but also of the essence of human existence, Westerners might
say: the soul; and the essence of cosmic reality, Westerners
might say: the infinite worlds of God — all in one. Peter Harvey
in his book The Selfless Mind found that the concept of the
Luminous Mind already appears in early Buddhist sutras of the
Anguttara Nikaya (1.8-10 & 10-11). There, it is called
pabhassara chitta or “brightly shining mind,” exhibiting a (clear)
light metaphoric, and in some of the texts it importunately also
implies that loving-kindness is a central quality of this mind
(chitta).56 One of the central text formulates its meaning with a
(for Western minds) highly paradoxical puzzle:

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Luminous, monks, is the mind. And it is defiled by
incoming defilements.
Luminous, monks, is the mind. And it is freed from
incoming defilements.57
Several important aspects arise from this enigmatic account:
Mind is in and of itself of pure nature. This is indicated with its
luminosity, clarity, or unobstructedness. Yet, mind is also
defiled, that is, in the state of darkness, murkiness,
obstructedness, which means, mind is in some state of illusion
and suffering.58 The commentary on the same sutra understands
this “defilement” to mean that which one of the most basic
Buddhist ascriptions to the origins of sufferings designates as
the culprit: namely, attachment. Attachment, in its own turn,
signifies the most profound processes and activities by which
we are bound to the inescapable repetition of this suffering.59
These
are
the
fundamental
hindrances
to
ever
reach
enlightenment and liberation in Buddhist analysis such as
ignorance, hate, delusion and greed.
However, this is (at least for ears trained in Western
categorizations) paradoxical: the Luminous Mind is not
“fatally” bound to the repetition of attachment and its reasons
that suggests the samsaric process; it can be freed from those
defilements, those attachments, those modes of infliction and
perpetuation of suffering, because it is already always free
from defilements. An interesting puzzle emerges: In its purity,
the Luminous Mind is (always and will always be) untouched by
defilements and, hence, resides always in a natural state of
luminosity and loving-kindness, even while it is defiled. This
again is, in fact, the reason that the Luminous Mind can be
freed from those defilements. The question is — how? The
answer lies in what the Buddhist path of liberation is about, the
eightfold path the ingredients of which are differently
emphasized in the diverse Buddhist traditions.60

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In its development throughout the “three turnings of the
wheel” from the early schools to Mahayana and Vajrayana, the
Luminous Mind took on different, yet related functions,
connected by, we could say, the Hermetic understanding of
reality for which macrocosm and microcosm mirror each other.
Hence, the Luminous Mind designates the non-dual “identity”
of the Self, which is anatta, No-Self, the Self without
substantial identity, with its cosmic non-substantial continuity
beyond individual lives, also called bhavanga or mind-stream. It
names the storehouse-consciousness or alaya vijnana, the root
awareness of emptiness and all karmic seeds in the Yogacara. It
expresses the Buddha-nature of all existence, the Buddha-seed
or thatagatagarba. And it indicates the absoluteness of ultimate
Reality, which is inexpressible, and is called dharmakaya or the
Dharma-body of the Buddha.61 In its final appreciation, the
Luminous Mind began to hold the key to the essence of
Buddhist doctrine, experience, and Reality within Tibetan
Buddhism as treasured by Dzogchen or the “Great Perfection”
with which I will be concerned further here.
Dzogchen or Atiyoga is taught and practiced in all four
classical lineages of Tibetan Buddhism, but especially harbored
as the treasure of the Old School or Nyingma. Dzogchen
understands itself as the highest and unsurpassable teaching of
the Buddha. Being beyond all other Buddhist paths, it indicates
the ultimate secret of the Buddhist Dharma.62 In this context,
the Luminous Mind of Dzogchen indicates Reality itself, its
awareness, and the path for attaining both of them, at once.63
Most importantly, however, it is in its core, and can only be
fathomed if we understand it to be, the expression of radical
non-dualism.
Dzogchen, or the path of Great Perfection, concurs with
earlier renderings of radical non-dualism, for instance, of the
Heart Sutra. In this sutra, Avalokitesvara, the great Bodhisattva
(but really the Buddha) of compassion, gains insight into
ultimate Reality as that which in its “essence” is utterly empty
(of self-existence), that is, that which has no “essence” that

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
could in any form be expresses as this or that, such that even
form (structure, character, organization, energy) and emptiness
(the formlessness itself) are the same.64 Dzogchen builds also on
the radical view of Madhyamika, which became famous (even in
the West) for Nagarjuna’s, the great Buddhist sage’s and
philosopher’s, “equation” for which there is no difference
between samsara and nirvana.65 This radical non-duality is the
essence of what Buddhists call the perfection of wisdom,
prajnaparamita, elaborated in the notion of emptiness or
sunyata.66 And Dzogchen is, in its own understanding, the Great
Perfection of this Wisdom that arises in (but always is already)
the pristine, luminous, empty, all-relational, spontaneous
consciousness (or chitta) beyond any duality, be it of subject or
object, perceiver or perceived, phenomenal or ultimate, relative
or absolute, samsara or nirvana, the temporal or the eternal.
This chitta is not a regular “mind,” which is always bound to
the defiled state in which the dualism between these realities
seems to be real and that even creates them as oppositional
“realities.” The Luminous Mind is the enlightened mind, the
“chitta beyond chitta” — the essence and natural state of the
mind and the essence of existence.67 This Reality is the Buddha.
In Dzogchen, this Reality, which is also our true identity, is
experienced in the unperturbed presence of the “now,” called
rigpa; and in this experience, it releases the awareness of radical
non-duality: that the All is one, and that the One, the Buddha, is
all, as all (the All) exhibits the Buddha-nature.68
A few contemporary textual witnesses will support the
understanding of this non-dualism as non-dualism, that is,
sufficiently clear so as for us not to fall into the trap of
confounding it with a strict monism of simple “identity,”
which, to say it again, would already be a reaction to a mindset
that presupposes dualism as natural state of existence and the
operation of the mind — something that Buddhism strictly
wants to overcome — but as genuine alternative to both
dualism and monism in which the enlightenment experience
consists.69

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In his book on Sufism and Buddhism, Yousef Daoud
describes the Dzogchen view, which he relates to Ibn ‘Arabi’s
understanding of ultimate Reality or God or al-˙aqq, in these
terms:
Everything that is, is interconnected. What lies behind
it, hidden by a veil of our cognition and deluded
consciousness, is Buddha-nature (dharmata) or the
absolute reality of pure, enlightened Mind: dharmakaya,
the experience of which is called bodhichitta. It is
eternally abiding, unchanging, uncreated, and beyond
our world of becoming.70
Here, the Buddha-nature is the pure, enlightened Mind; and it is
ultimate Reality. Its “character” compares with that of ultimate
Reality or God (al-˙aqq) in Sufism,71 indicating the “essence” of
God as eternal, uncreated, but also as all-relational.
In the Supreme Source Tantra, one of the central scriptures
of Dzogchen, dharmakaya (ultimate Reality as the Dharma-body
of the Buddha) even speaks as “person” in the first person
account of the Buddha Samantabhadra: “I am self-arising
wisdom that has existed from the beginning.... I am the supreme
source of everything, pure and total consciousness.”72 It is here
that the two non-dual formulas appear in their most dense
form: “The ineffable is the ultimate nature of existence: the
ineffable essence is one. One is the supreme source, pure and
total consciousness. The phenomena of creation are duality.”73
The voice of Samantabhadra then explains further that
As the essence of mind, the fundamental substance, I am
the source of all phenomena. ‘Supreme,’ refers to self-
arising wisdom, the supreme maker that gives rise to all
phenomena of existence. ‘Source’ refers to the ‘creator.’
… ‘Total’ means that self-arising wisdom, the true
essence, permeates and pervades the whole animate and
inanimate universe.74

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Here, we find ultimate Reality to be understood as “creator” of
the phenomenal world, but in its “essence” being all-relational,
pervading the All, and without being any of the phenomena. It
is the One of the All, and All-in-One. And it appears in the
“personal” voice, while it is beyond any description.
Chogyal Namkhai Norbu, one of the primary living masters
of Dzogchen, comments on the Supreme Source Tantra, saying:
Self-arising wisdom, the essence of all the Buddhas,
exists prior to the division of samsara and nirvana and is
beyond the limits of transmigration and liberation. As it
... is intrinsically pure, this original condition is the
uncreated nature of existence ..., the ultimate nature of
all phenomena. It cannot be identified with a stable and
eternal substance ... and is utterly free of all the defects
of dualistic thought.... It is given the name ineffable
[because it is] ... beyond the conceptual limits of being
and non-being.... Self-arising wisdom, primordially
empty, is in the condition similar to space, and it
pervades all beings without condition, from glorious
Samantabhadra down to the tiniest insect on a blade of
grass. For this reason that total state of dharmakaya, the
inseparability of the two truths, absolute and relative, is
called the “primordial Buddha.75
The absolute and the relative are non-different. Ultimate reality
is
all-encompassing
and
all-pervading,
immanent
and
transcendent. It is beyond any simple differentiation of the
relative world of samsara, as it is all-relational, and the absolute
transcendence of nirvana, as it is all-encompassing. Its “name”
is ineffable. As such, it is the uncreated essence of existence,
while not being “identical” with anything of which it indicates
the pure nature of its being. Reality is Consciousness, but this
consciousness is neither caught in the dualistic opposition of
subject and object nor caught in the illusion of the simple
identity of subject and object. It is beyond the difference of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

identity and difference. It is the consciousness that is non-
different from anything.
One of the greatest masters of radical Dzogchen of all times,
the Tibetan Nyingma teacher and (considered as the)
manifestation of the Mahabodhisattva Manjushri, Longchenpa
(1308-1364), in his fourteenth century Treasury of the
Dharmadhatu, begins his first chapter with this poem on the
Luminous Mind:
Everything arises in the vast matrix of spontaneity
And Spontaneity is the ground of everything,
But empty in essence, never crystallizing.
The ground is nothing although it appears as everything.
Samsara and Nirvana arise as spontaneity in the trikaya
matrix ...
It is the creativity of the luminous mind...
Being nothing at all, yet appearing as everything
whatsoever ...
In its sameness it is the dharmakaya of luminous mind;
... empty of self, unchanging, unsublimating,
... self-sprung awareness in the now, reality itself ....76
Here, the Luminous Mind is clearly indicative of ultimate
Reality (dharmakaya); the non-difference between relative and
absolute, samsara and nirvana; and, most importantly, it does
not passively hide in its detached “rest,” but moves as pure
“activity” or spontaneity or creativity. To be creative, here, is
not an illusion, and to hold detachment and creativity together
in one non-dual consciousness is the original nature of the mind
— in all of us.
In his Instructions on the Nonduality of Dzogchen, Tulku
Pema Rigtsal elaborates accordingly:

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
[W]hen we understand that... affirmation and negation
of nirvana and samsara... are merely elaborate mental
concepts, we realize that all discursive concepts are
empty in themselves and are the sameness of reality
itself. There is no view and meditation more profound
than this.77
Primal awareness, free of dualistic perception, is called
“luminous mind.”... [T]he essence of the nature of mind
is uncompounded and immutable. The primal awareness
that is the true nature of mind is profound clarity...
eternal life....78
This gives us deep confidence on the difference between
Buddha and sentient being. Repeating ... Longchenpa’s
The Treasury of the Dharmadhatu .... Recognition of
the nature of mind is Buddha; in the absence of that
recognition, we remain deluded and sentient beings.79
In this exposition, it is clear that both the conceptualizations
of immanence and transcendence, the Absolute and the
Relative, affirmation and negation, are constructions of the
mind. Nor is nirvana “in itself” the unconstructed Reality, the
assumption of which would indicate another dualistic
“identification” of the “essence” of Reality. Only in the
overcoming of even that construction of the unconstructed do
we gain a glimpse of the non-duality that is intended: that
which is nothing and, hence, is not different from anything;
that which is everything, yet, by being nothing at all, cannot be
identified or named, or differentiated; that which is one, even
the One, as it is the inexpressible unity of the All (and
everything in it), and, yet, is closer to everything than the “self-
identity” of anything with itself.
The puzzle of the Luminous Mind, as presented throughout
these texts, confronts us with at least three complex or
paradoxical questions. First, how can the Luminous Mind be
pure, undefiled, while being defiled? In this paradox is based the
Dzogchen view that the way toward, and the aim of, liberation

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

are the same. In fact, given the ancient teachings of the Buddha,
this means that there is no way to bridge samsara in order to
reach nirvana, because we are already there and of its nature.80
Second, how can the Luminous Mind be both the relativity and
absoluteness, or samsara and nirvana, at once? In this paradox
is based the Dzogchen view that there are two modes of the
Luminous Mind: on the one hand, it is the realization of
emptiness (being nothing, or empty of Self) and, on the other
hand, it names the realization of unobstructed creativity (being
everything), which functions are called trekcho and togal,
respectively.81 Third, how can samsara and nirvana, relative and
absolute, emptiness and creative arising, be non-dually one, the
One
who
is
named
the
Buddha,
the
Buddha
realm
(Dharmadhatu), pure radiant spaciousness, pure emptiness,
Samantabhadra, the primal Buddha, yet, before dualism and
monism? In this paradox is grounded the Dzogchen view that
ultimate Reality is beyond our dualistic interpretation of the
One and the multiplicity of existence, but also their mutual
identification. Instead, the One Beyond is the All-One.82
4: Productive Interference
In relation to the Bahá’í writings, we find a plethora of
resonances with these witnesses of the Luminous Mind. We
could talk about the linguistic serendipity that the Sanskrit
word bha, luminosity, enshrined in its concept as pabhassara
chitta, is also implied in the Arabic root of bahá’. Although
unrelated, they have virtually the same meaning of light,
ultimacy, brightness, and purity, releasing the resonances of the
light-metaphoric of Buddhist and Bahá’í scriptures.83
Additionally, one is immediately reminded of the utilization
of this luminosity in Sufi and Illuminist traditions within Islam
and their counterparts in Indian, Chinese and East Asian
Buddhist
schools.84
Note
the
closeness
of
the
nur
muhammediyyah, the Muhammedan light of Ibn Arabi and
Persian metaphysics of Suhrawardi and Mullá Sadar al-Dín

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Shirazi,85 in a sense the counterpart to the Greek and Christian
Logos, the manifest aspect of the invisible and inaccessible
Reality of God,86 to the light imagery expressed, for instance,
by Amitabha, the Buddha of infinite light,87 or, in Dzogchen, by
Samantabhadra, the primordial Buddha, who personifies the
Luminous Mind, and who/which is called by its nature the
“Immutable Light.”88
We could, of course, with equal interest, also immerse
ourselves more into the implications of the concept of chitta,
mind, and its relation to the Bahá’í understanding of the Primal
Mind, or Will, or Manifestation [SAQ 53],89 nurtured by a long
tradition through Jewish, Hellenistic, Christian and Islamic
(religious) philosophy in the interchange of Greek, Persian and
Indian thought patterns. We would find deep resonances with
similar concepts in the Jewish and Hellenistic Wisdom
Literature, Philo of Alexandria, Heraclitus’s and again St.
John’s Logos, but also the Stoic Pneuma, and, Aristotle’s and
Plotinus’s First Intellect. It would be worthwhile to investigate
the astonishing non-duality of some of these concepts of the
manifest Reality of the unknown essence of the Godhead, for
instance, the oneness of its all-encompassing and all-pervading
nature, with the Báb’s, Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
insistence that both this transcendence and immanence are
indicative the same ultimate Reality.90 We could also think
deeper of the consequences that the intellectual and material
nature of the Spirit in some of these traditions finds a
reflection in the Báb’s characterization of the Primal Will as
“matter” and activity and its non-dual indifference from the
Divine Purpose as the origin of all “forms” of existence.91
Arising from the Shaykhi process philosophy of the pure
activity of the Primal Will,92 we could find astonishing
connections with the Buddhist non-duality of form and
emptiness, eternal rest and infinite spontaneity, samsara and
nirvana. In fact, given the theme of my transreligious
considerations, I will take up this line of thought with the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

maybe most profound aspect of the Luminous Mind, namely its
radical non-duality. Let me elaborate with six related points:
First, the indicator of non-dualism in Buddhist thought, and,
I would claim, also in the Bahá’í writings, is, as already stated,
non-difference. Since it is often simply named Oneness, it is
easy to miss that it is not the same as identity, or simply
difference from (the differentiations of) multiplicity. Instead,
it means that Reality is not composed and, hence, cannot be
explicated in any analysis or construction. Construction is the
sign of attachment from which the Buddhist path wants to
liberate all sentient beings.93 It is the illusion of “reality” and
indicates the incapability of samsara, the cyclical bind of
causality, of birth and death, of becoming and perishing.
Composition and decomposition are the signs of the defiled
mind. Hence, Buddhist analysis of this defilement, its reasons,
and the suffering they cause, whether philosophically in
reflection of the intellectual mind or practically in the
immediate insight gained (in general) by meditation, aims at
demonstrating that any substantial unity, such as the
possessiveness of self-identical Self, can, in fact, be analyzed
into components, which never lead to any self-subsisting base
or
un-composed
oneness
and,
hence,
exhibits
only
impermanence.94
Yet, as the Buddha affirms in a famous and often quoted
statement in Udana 80:18 of the Khuddaka Nikaya in the
Theravada Sutta Pitaka, there is a way out of the samsaric
reality of impermanence. There is salvation from its inherent
suffering, created by attachment. There is a way beyond this
ignorance. The reason is that there is — as in the Bahá’í
writings95 — an Uncompounded Reality, which is without (and
before) construction and change, and that is what nirvana
means.96 Since this Reality is beyond all composition, it is also
beyond any conceptual construction, that is, it is beyond the
inherent duality of thought.97 In this sense, it is non-duality
itself. Therefore, it is inconceivable, imperceptible, and
inaccessible. It is at once Reality itself, but also experienced in

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
the realization of the emptiness of all composed appearances,
and it communicates the immediate bliss of cessation in perfect
calmness.
Second, as this “uncompounded Reality” excludes dualism
and monism alike, its non-difference can neither be expressed
by substantial oneness nor by duality. Nevertheless, in order
not to fall back into monistic and dualistic patterns, it must,
paradoxically, be expressed as both at once: as inaccessible
oneness and an infinite manifold.98 As Yousef Daoud with
regard to Sufi-Buddhist dialogue confirms: If we seek God or
ultimate Reality, we must do both at one, cease to name
Reality, that is, accept that the Reality of God appears in no
name and, as we must articulate (and realize) this namelessness,
we must do so in the irreducible infinite multiplicity of
different names and attributes.99 Nagarjuna expresses this same
insight as the non-difference of samsara and nirvana.100 It is a
consequence of the uncompounded nature of ultimate Reality
that Reality cannot appear in mere difference from composed
reality, but neither as the identity of it. Since uncompounded
Reality is beyond all conceptuality, it cannot be named, but no
name can be different from it either. This is also the secret of
Plotinus’s scheme of emanation of which Michel Sells has made
this most interesting analysis: While the apophatic One
emanates the Intellect as its (first) manifestation, it is not
different from it, as long as the Intellect “looks into” the
undifferentiated One. Only when the Intellect “looks at” itself
it creates difference, the difference of Self, which — similar to
the Báb’s and Bahá’u’lláh’s renderings of this relationship
between unmanifest and manifest Reality — is still the Self of
ultimate Reality.101 And from this movement of the Intellect,
for Plotinus, creation springs. We find ample evidence for this
logic in the Bahá’í writings: from the adaptation of the Islamic
˙adíth “He who knows himself hath known his Lord”102 by all of
the central figures of the Bábí-Bahá’í religions — which,
following Henry Corbin, has its own history with Ibn ‘Arabi103

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

— to statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the non-difference of the
Self from the Manifestations.104
Third, regarding the characterization of the universal
manifest Reality of the Godhead or the Primal Will or Mind,
which the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh identify with the Primal
Manifestation, the same logic prevails in Bahá’u’lláh’s assertion
of the non-dual unity of unmanifest Divinity with its Primal
Manifestation.105 In his Commentary on a Verse of Rumi, for
instance, Bahá’u’lláh designates this indistinction: “the essence
of belief in Divine unity” as it regards “Him Who is the
Manifestation of God and Him Who is the invisible, the
inaccessible, the unknowable Essence as one and the same”
[GWB 84].106 This does, of course, not imply any monistic
identity of unmanifest and manifest Reality, of Manifestation
and the Godhead, which is not only clear from countless
apophatic passages in Bahá’u’lláh, even from the same tablet,
but also from the non-dualistic logic itself by which
Uncompounded Reality is indifferent (in itself) to and, hence,
non-different from its manifestations [SWB 58].107 This again
corroborates Plotinus’ and Nagarjuna’s, as well as Dzogchen’s,
understanding of the Luminous Mind.
Fourth, the same logic also underpins Ibn ‘Arabi’s
speculation on the nameless oneness of God as it expresses
itself in infinite attributes. An attribute of God has no
“identity” in itself, but only as it inheres in the essence of God,
the Reality from which all attributes are non-different.108
‘Abdu’l-Bahá indicates the same thought, which, thereby,
reveals its non-dualistic intention, when he confirms that in
God’s essence there are no attributes distinct from it [SAQ 37].
Yet, as this divine essence is inaccessible to these attributes,
their unity is always beyond themselves.109 In Buddhist terms,
this affirms their essential emptiness.110 As these attributes, for
Ibn ‘Arabi and Bahá’u’lláh alike, are most perfectly mirrored in
the Primal Manifestation,111 it is their unity, although the Self
of the Primal Manifestation is itself empty of substantiality

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
[GWB 22],112 except being the Self of the essence in which the
attributes are indistinct [PM 54, 176].
As for Longchenpa all phenomenal existence is only a
creative dream of the Luminous Mind (as long as it is not
reiterated in dualistic oppositions of subject and object), so is
for Ibn ‘Arabi all existence only “realized” as it manifests the
attributes of God in actualization.113 As for Longchenpa, so for
Ibn ‘Arabi and Bahá’u’lláh, all is empty of self-existence (as
only the unmanifest God emphatically exists); and it is this
emptiness (sunyata) which is the Self of the Buddha or the
Primal Manifestation.114 And as for Longchenpa as well as for
Mahayana traditions in general the root-expressions of this
Reality of the Luminous Mind, the Buddha, are wisdom of
emptiness and compassion of non-difference,115 in Ibn ‘Arabi
its root-attributes are divine knowledge and mercy.116 However,
while this is also true for the Bahá’í writings [PM 99, TB 118], it
may be interesting to note that in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary
on the Islamic Tradition “I was a Hidden Treasure” the root
attributes of divine manifestation and creation are Love and
Beauty117 — and we may wonder as to the implications of this
shift for a Bahá’í commentary on the Luminous Mind.
Fifth, the logic of non-difference has another consequence:
We must not confound, as already mentioned earlier, language
utilizing the Greco-Islamic heritage by the Bahá’í conceptuality
with its meaning, as if Greek thought defines the meaning of
the Bahá’í writings for us. Not only does Bahá’u’lláh warn us
that revelation is not exhausted by any linguistic mold (or
language as such);118 and as it is always relative to its diverse
audiences,119 it functions much like the “skillful means” (upaya)
of Buddhist scripture by which the Buddha addresses each
sentient being according to its spiritual horizon.120 But the
influx of Shaykhi and Sufi terminology in Bábí-Bahá’í scripture,
as their “genetic language code” is not exclusively bound by
Western patterns of substantialism and often presents
alternatives to it,121 relieves us of the assumption that we are

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

bound by dualistic Greek categories, or even that we must
defend them against Buddhist non-duality.
Case in point is the conjecture, held by some Bahá’í scholars,
that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá use the categories of
“essence” and “attribute” in an Aristotelian substantialist
manner.122 Yet, in light of Ibn ‘Arabi and Longchenpa, this
proves to be not an inescapable conclusion to make. If we care
to be open to a Buddhist reading of these categories, a very
interesting insight will surface: namely, that for both Bahá’í and
Buddhist thought “essence” is inaccessible in principle [SAQ 120-
121]. As Roger Corless has demonstrated: While in Aristotelian
lore, the underlying dualistic substantialism of Aristotle’s
philosophy seems to imply that we can know the unknowable
essence of God, and really the essence of anything, to some
extent through its inherent attributes, the Buddhist non-dualism
asserts that there is no essence that could be differentiated
from its attributes. And this means that no “essence” can be
identified (which presupposes dualism) or, more cautiously: It is
not that there is no essence, but that it is intrinsically
inaccessible.123
In
this
sense,
we
must
say
that
the
uncompounded Reality is inaccessible — period.124 In Buddhist
terms, this allows for the mutual emptiness of all dharmas, and
of them with the inaccessible, but indistinct essence, which then
connotes emptiness itself, the Self of emptiness, the Buddha.125
Sixth, the anthropological implications of this don-dualism,
already hinted at earlier, should now become obvious if we take
into account the Bahá’í and Buddhist resonance of the Hermetic
mirroring of the universal Reality or Mind and our mind or self
or soul. I agree with Fozdar’s analysis on this point: that the
Bahá’í concept of the soul, including related concepts such as
the heart (qalb) or the secret (sirr),126 mirrors the Buddhist
concept of the mind or chitta [PM 114]. And it does so precisely
not in its Western, Aristotelian, dualistic sense, as Bahá’ís, at
least in the West, might be inclined to think of the soul’s
reality: namely in dualistic opposition to the body (simple, non-
relational immortality)127 and, more importantly, here, in terms

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
of a dualistic consciousness that is not able to overcome the
samsaric illusion of the opposition of subject and object,128
although
this
transformation
is
essential
to
mystical
consciousness in any religious tradition129 and is, in fact, an
empirical reality.130 Instead, non-dual consciousness would have
to be understood in the non-dual sense of being beyond
simplistic monism and dualism. Its reality is like the Luminous
Mind (which is its very nature) a chitta non-chitta, beyond all
grasping of images and concepts, formless, beyond imaginings
and self-projections, being the pure awareness of itself as it, as
uncompounded Reality [SWAB 47]. To this testifies not only
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s direct claim that the soul is not composed and,
hence, eternal [PT 29]. It is, moreover, deeply engrained in
Bahá’u’lláh’s understanding of the soul, for instance, in his
Commentary on “He who knows himself knows his Lord,” as
that which (as the rational soul) analyzes everything in its
constructedness, but can itself not be analyzed in such a way,
and, hence, is a secret to itself and as such a sign of God [GWB
#82]. In its purity-uncompoundedness-eternity, it is — as
Bahá’u’lláh [GWB #80] and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PT 110] state alike —
untouched by any kind of limitations and debilitations, like the
Luminous Mind. As it cannot be known in its essence, it is also
empty of Self, or its Self is beyond itself; and to know oneself
as such is to know God, as both are apophatically indifferent
[GWB #1, 49]. As the soul or human mind is all the divine
attributes [GWB #27], that is, as they are its very reality, its
reality again mirrors, or better, is indifferent from the reality
of the Primal Manifestation. In fact, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Makatíb-
i Abdu'l-Bahá’, declares that “the Primal Will which is the
Universal Reality ... becomes resolved into the innumerable
forms”131 such that we are like waves of one ocean. This is also
true for the Luminous Mind: the universal dharmakaya is the
“essence” of our very being such that we are already always the
Buddha in nuce, the thatagatagarba, of Buddha-nature. It is the
secret of the Luminous Mind, that we are already this purity,
although in ignorance defiled, as it is the secret of the Bahá’í
understanding of soul-mind-heart that it is already always the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

brightly shining sun even if it seems to be hidden under the
clouds of limitation and infliction [GWB #80].
5: Uncompounded Reality
We can now relate this non-dualism to a tablet of
Bahá’u’lláh that, in my view, represents one of the most
interesting sites for a Bahá’í gloss reflecting the Luminous Mind
as well for the transreligious Bahá’í discourse with Buddhism in
general: the Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa or the Tablet on the
Uncompounded Reality.132 It can function as commentary on
the Luminous Mind, because it reflects its “characteristics”:
that all is one and that the One is all; that Reality must be
understood in a non-dualistic way; and that the language used
to indicate its mystery (al-˙aqq) is not fixated on either its
monistic expression, a field of spacious emptiness, or a theistic
one, the Thou of a personal God.133 As with the ultimate
Buddha Samantabhadra, who is the Luminous Mind itself and
its Self, in this tablet of Bahá’u’lláh, al-˙aqq, ultimate Reality,
can be expressed as both while being beyond any such
annotation.134
Bahá’u’lláh’s tablet is itself a commentary.135 It elaborates
ultimate Reality by way of relating it to the seemingly monistic
maxim, affirmed by the theosophical Sufi tradition in the wake
of Ibn ‘Arabi and Mullá Sadra, commonly referred to as wa˙dát
al-wujúd or unity of being and opposed by al-Sirhindi’s wa˙dát
ash-shuhúd or unity of appearance, by taking this opposition
back to its roots in the ancient non-dualistic formula, already
expressed in Plotinus and even much earlier in the Upanishads
as well as in Dzogchen, namely: that the One is all things.
Bahá’u’lláh answers the confusion that issued from this ancient
non-dualism and its erroneous confounding with monism or
pantheism, as it was discussed in the Islamic philosophical
disputes, especially, in the concrete context of Bahá’u’lláh’s
tablet, in and after the great Persian philosopher Mullá Sadra.136
In this way, Bahá’u’lláh’s discussion of the non-dualistic

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
formula indirectly comments on all the characterizations of the
Luminous Mind that we have discovered so far. First of all, we
must acknowledge, as the maybe most important observation
from which all else will follow, that Bahá’u’lláh’s answer in the
tablet begins with the affirmation of the formula of Plotinus
that “the One is all things,” indicating its relevance for a Bahá’í
understanding of non-dualistic argumentation as well as its
Buddhist connotations.137 Bahá’u’lláh, then, goes on to give
basically four arguments for the truth of this formula while, at
the same time, releasing its non-dualistic understanding and
safeguarding it against both its monistic and dualistic
misconstruction. Here are Bahá’u’lláh’s four arguments:
The first argument: Bahá’u’lláh takes the formula apart by
interpreting their parts for themselves in a non-dualist manner.
He renders “all things” not as meaning “all phenomena,” but as
indicating all the divine attributes: they must be viewed as the
“essence” or “nature” of all phenomenal beings. That is, the
phrase “all things,” here, indicates the pure reality of all
existents.138 Further, Bahá’u’lláh takes “the One” of the formula
to mean the Uncompounded Reality itself in which these
attributes indistinctly inhere while being its emanations.139 Like
the Luminous Mind, the reality of all things is not their
phenomenal existence, but the purity of their essential nature,
which is constituted by the divine attributes as that which is
realized when “all things” realize themselves. As with the puzzle
of the Luminous Mind, in Bahá’u’lláh’s view, while all things
are already pure in their nature (the divine attributes that makes
them real), all else is only illusion, vain imaginings, unreality,
defilement, and attachment [GWB #100 136; HW Arabic #11, #13,
#22]. Their reality again is empty since it has no self-existence
either. What is more — as the more unexpected implication of
non-duality rather than monism: As the reality of the divine
attributes (which are the reality of all things) is itself beyond
themselves, they are, like the Reality of the Luminous Mind,
empty of Self, inhering in the Self of God, which is the Primal
Manifestation. Yet, the manifest Self of God is itself again

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

empty of Self, as it finds its “nature” only in and through the
inaccessible, apophatic essence of God.140 And, finally, to close
the non-dual circle: Without any dualistic differentiation (or
even opposition) and without any monistic identification, we
must now also say that the essence of God is again empty of
Self as it has no “essence” that can be differentiated from its
attributes or identified with anything and, hence, cannot be
differentiated from (although it is the difference from) its Self,
the manifest God, which again means that it cannot be
differentiated from “all things” of which its attributes are their
non-dual nature.
The second argument: Bahá’u’lláh affirms the non-dualistic
meaning of this formula already simply by quoting Plotinus,
probably as inherited by the discussion of it in Mullá Sadra. It
means what it coveys: that although the One is all things, it is,
at the same time, none of them. Thereby, Bahá’u’lláh equally
affirms
identity
and
difference;
or
stated
differently:
Bahá’u’lláh affirms that the Reality of all things can neither be
grasped as identical with all things nor as different from them.
It is apophatically, inexplicably beyond both identity and
difference. Yet, as it manifests itself in them, Reality must
always be addressed with both the seeming “identity” of
apophatic oneness and the seeming difference of the
multiplicity of all names and attributes. This insight is virtually
indistinguishable from the meaning of the Luminous Mind,
who/which must also always be expressed as both: the
emptiness of all things, and, as such, as their essence; yet, not as
“being” any of the phenomena, but rather their spontaneous
arising and cessation of its creativity. With Ibn ‘Arabi,
Uncompounded Reality, al-˙aqq, is non-dual “Supreme ...
Consciousness,” disclosing “itself in the three realms of cosmos,
self, and scripture,” as Chittick remarks.141
The third argument: As with the Luminous Mind, Bahá’u’lláh
differentiates between two modes of the non-dual, indistinct
Uncompounded Reality: as taw˙íd-i-wujúd or oneness of being,
only the Uncompounded Reality really exists;142 and as taw˙íd i-

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
shuhúd or oneness of appearance, the same Uncompounded
Reality is indistinctly present in all beings.143 Overcoming the
traditional opposition between monism and dualism, theism
and non-theism, Bahá’u’lláh here indicates that both modes of
indistinct unity are equally valid in naming the non-conceptual
nature of Uncompounded Reality, as the Beyond that is all-
encompassing and as the Presence that is all-pervading all
existence.144
What is peculiar, however, in Bahá’u’lláh’s discussion of the
fallacies of dualism and monism is that it even heightens the
non-dual character of the classical opposition by reversing the
meaning of both sides against their respective antagonistic, that
is, dualistic, schematization in the tradition.145 This is a subtle,
but nevertheless important point to acknowledge so as to really
be able to recognize the non-dualist intention of Bahá’u’lláh’s
answer to both sides of the divide: While wa˙dát al-wujúd did,
in the classical discourse (but already in its simplification that
does not hold true, for instance, for Ibn ‘Arabi), allow to be
intended to express a monistic unity (the One is all things),
Bahá’u’lláh’s different formulation taw˙ídi-wujúdi, “wherein all
things are negated with a ‘no’ and only Absolute Reality is
affirmed,”146 indicates the absolute transcendence of ultimate
Reality. And while wa˙dát ash-shuhúd, was (in the context of a
monistic reading of the formula “the One is all things”) meant
to uphold the orthodox dualistic transcendence of God
infinitely beyond all creatures, Bahá’u’lláh’s formulation
taw˙ídi-shuhúdi, seemingly identical with the classical one,
conversely indicates the absolute immanence of the indistinct
uncompounded Reality in all creatures “where the signs of the
Primal Divine Unity the manifestation of Eternity, and the
effulgences of the Singleness can be observed in all things.”147
The fourth argument: Bahá’u’lláh now unites both modes of
indistinction, which are only relatively true in themselves, as
indistinctly true in the self-manifestation of Uncompounded
Reality.148 This move captures the essence of Bahá’u’lláh’s new
concept of the Manifestation in the Bahá’í understanding.149 As

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

with the Luminous Mind, who/which comprises the Absolute
and the Relative, unity and multiplicity, samsara and nirvana,
emptiness and spontaneity in the luminosity of the dharmakaya,
for Bahá’u’lláh the indistinction between apophatic Reality and
its Manifestation is expressed in the relative uncompounded-
ness of the Primal Manifestation. Although the “locus of the
Divine Unity, even though outwardly it is given a name and
appears to be bound by limitations,” Bahá’u’lláh states, the
Manifestation “is in His inner reality uncompounded (basit),
sanctified from limitations.” Yet, this “uncompounded state
is,” at the same time, “relative and attributive (idafi wa nisbi)
and not,” as Bahá’u’lláh adds, “uncompounded in an absolute
sense (min kull al-jihat).”150 The Manifestation is the non-
difference of its Self from the apophatic Uncompounded
Reality, much as we have found in Plotinus and Longchenpa.
The Manifestation is the ultimate non-dual indistinction.151 This
self-manifestation is Samantabhadra, the Self of immortal light,
and the Bahá’ Alláh, not Mírzá Óusayn ‘Alí Núrí, but the
apophatic luminosity of God’s Self [SAQ #31]. It is the chitta
that “is” beyond itself it: pabhassara chitta152 [SAQ #31].
What is more, this ultimate oscillation of indistinction is an
important instrument in Buddhism to hinder any new
reiteration of any fixed labels by which we would again fall into
the ignorance of defilement, clouding the luminosity of its
detachment.153 As the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh have made clear in
many passages of their writings: Although the Primal
Manifestation can declare itself “God,” it is never identical
with God;154 and although the Manifestation creates, it is not
the creator.155 Or with Plotinus: Only the intellect that
understands itself indistinct from, but not identical with, the
inaccessible essence of Uncompounded Reality, that is, does
neither claim identity with Reality nor difference from it, is the
Manifestation of it.156
And we can take even one more step, which is the ultimate
consequence arising from this movement of indistinction
beyond identity and difference, a step expressed by Nicolas of

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Cusa and Nagarjuna alike,157 and ultimately presenting to us the
mystery of the Luminous Mind as Uncompounded Realty in
reciprocal resonance between the deepest intentions of
Buddhism and the Bahá’í writings: that the inexpressible Reality
is itself even beyond any distinction and indistinction,158 even
that of the unmanifest and manifest Reality of itself, which
Bahá’u’lláh indicates in his rendering of the ultimate meaning
of the Bahá’í understanding of the unity of God (taw˙íd) [GWB
#24].
6: Mutual Learning
In this final section, I want to at least touch on a few
implications that such a transreligious dialogue can offer.
Transformation, as has been demonstrated by decades of
experience with, and refection on, interreligious dialogue,159
and as was mentioned in the beginning, must be viewed as a
mutual endeavor.160 This necessity of mutual learning is also
confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh’s deeply relational insight in the
difference of the intentions, situations, and limitations of the
revelation related to any Manifestation161 [GWB #22]. This
mutual “otherness” of revelations is, in its meaning, by no
means exhausted through the “inclusion” of earlier revelations
in later ones in the process of progressive revelation.162 Rather,
while the novelty of a later revelation will overarch the
limitations of the situational aims of an earlier one, the latter
one remains relative to the former one (or “other” one) by the
fact that no revelation exhausts all revelations completely and,
hence, as it adds meaning and purpose, also can generously refer
to the unique meaning and purpose of any other revelation. In
other words, instead of supersession and superiority,163 organic
relatedness may be a better model to understand the unity of
revelatory development, not by depriving any revelation of its
unique impulses while viewing the emergence of new ones such
that all others through its novelty appear in a new light.164

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

So, what can Bahá’ís learn from Dzogchen’s non-dualism? Let
me recall one of the initial questions arising from the puzzle of
the Luminous Mind: If chitta is, in its nature, already luminous,
how does Dzogchen understand the process of liberation from
defilements? As our mind is (indistinct from) the Luminous
Mind, there is no way towards it, no path of salvation, no
process of liberation that could reach it. Dzogchen draws the
radical consequence that, as we are already it, we have (almost
in Daoist manner) nothing left to do to achieve it (wu wei),165
not even to meditate — arguably the most essential Buddhist act
“on
the
way
toward”
liberation
imaginable.166
Hence,
Longchenpa’s radical Dzogchen was opposed to any gradualism,
expressed in so many ways in Buddhist orders of meditation or
states and levels of advancement. Dzogchen, to the contrary,
needs nothing of it. All that is necessary is to realize the
moment of rigpa, nothing more. As Bahá’ís are often advised to
exert all possible effort on the strait path [GWB #125] — holding
the laws, developing their character, their organization, the
order that will come to fruition in the spiritual realization of
the Most Great Peace, and climbing the ladder of mystical
stations — it seems almost paradoxical to find Dzogchen to
undermine all Buddhist “efforts.” This is the reason that
Dzogchen has been deeply hidden in gradualist teachings
throughout Tibetan schools — its adherents, at times, being
persecuted. But it is also the reason that Dzogchen today
increasingly sees itself as independent of its Buddhist context,
actually any religion, becoming universally accessible.167 This is,
I think, something to ponder for a religion like the Bahá’í Faith
that claims the same universality: Can the unity of religions be
reached from different paths?168 And how, given their mutual
claim of universality, would they relate to one another? It is
interesting that Bahá’u’lláh makes similar statements that avoid
gradualism, that is, avoids the implication of superiority and
supersession. In the Seven Valleys Bahá’u’lláh refers to the
wayfarer, who is potentially everyone in every religion, to be
able to, indeed, escape all gradualism and traverse all stations at

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
once, “in seven breaths, nay rather in a single breath”169 [SVFV
65].
Conversely, what could Buddhists learn from the Bahá’í
writings? Let me back up for a moment and mention a
surprising connection of Dzogchen with Abrahamic renderings
of God as creator. Buddhism in general, although not
universally, negates the meaningfulness of calling this Reality
God.170 It rests its argumentation precisely on the refutation of
the concept of the creator. Instead, ultimate Reality is not a
creator; rather is the All infinite and without cause, but it is
also ultimately illusionary (samsara).171 Dzogchen, however,
represents an interesting, maybe only apparent, turn to, first,
an affirmation of phenomenal reality as momentous expression
of the creative nature of ultimate Reality. This means that,
although the world might still be viewed in terms of illusion, its
phenomenal reality is, in its essence, indistinct from the
creativity of the Luminous Mind.172 While the Supreme Source
Tantra and Longchenpa name Samantabhadra as creator, they
mean the spontaneity of emptiness.173 But Diidjom Lingpa, a
contemporary of Bahá’u’lláh, confirms in his Vajra Heart
Tantra that the infinite creativity of the Luminous Mind, again
represented by Samantabhadra, actively creates all mental and
physical elements from its primordial modes of wisdom,
although mysteriously through ignorance and defilement.174 This
resonates with the Bahá’í view on creation, which can, in one
perspective, be understood as illusion and mirage [GWB #153;
SAQ #79], but is in its root nature nothing but the creative
emanation of Uncompounded Reality [SAQ #53-54]. Being
without beginning and end, as in Buddhism, in its origin,
however, phenomenal reality arises not by ignorance, but by
effortless love and beauty, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states in his
Commentary on the Islamic Tradition “I was a Hidden
Treasure.”175 And since the Primal Manifestation is the creative
origin of the material universe176 [SAQ #82], it is so by being
indistinct from Uncompounded Reality and by being indistinct

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

from this creative process and its motives: love and beauty.
Listen to Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Manifestation:
Know thou that, verily, the “Manifestation” is not
composed of... elements, nay, rather. He is the Mystery
of Oneness, of... the Eternal Essence and the
Unknowable Reality... which has never been nor shall
ever be separate from all else....177
Finally, we can look back and ask whether that which
Bahá’u’lláh claims to be the foundation of religion, namely,
their unity, can be expressed with the mutual immanence of
both Bahá’í and Buddhist non-dualism. Two final Bahá’í
quotations
will
corroborate
this
luminous
oscillation.
Bahá’u’lláh’s Seven Valleys indicate the emptiness of the world
in the indifference of ultimate Reality from it, by saying: “This
is the plane whereon the vestiges of all things are destroyed in
the traveller, and on the horizon of eternity the Divine Face
riseth out of the darkness and the meaning of ‘All on the earth
shall pass away, but the face of thy Lord...’ is made manifest”
[SV 36-37, quoting Qur’an 55:26-27]. And the first of the Arabic
Hidden Words may indicate the Luminous Mind as our
immanent reality: as the pure and undefiled “being” of our own
nature, which we must nevertheless discover and fulfill: “O
SON OF SPIRIT! My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly
and radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient,
imperishable and everlasting.” [HW Ar. #1]
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Abe, Masao. “God and Absolute Nothingness,” in Arvind Sharma
(ed.), God, Truth and Reality: Essays in Honor of John Hick.
Eugene, OR: Wipf and Stock, 1993.
Abe, Masao. Zen and Western Thought. Honolulu: University of
Hawaii Press, 1985.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Bocking, Brian, et al. (eds.), A Buddhist Crossroads: Pioneer Western
Buddhist and Asian Networks 1860-1960. London: Routledge,
2015.
Brainard, Samual. Reality and Mystical Experience. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University, 2000.
Brown, Vahid. “The Beginning that Hath No Beginning: Bahá’í
Cosmogony,” in Lights of Irfan 3 (2002).
Brown, Brian Edward. The Buddha Nature: A Study of the
Tathāgatagarbha and Ālayavijñāna. Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass
Publishers, 2004.
Brown, Keven. “Abdu'l-Bahá's Response to Darwinism: Its Historical
and Philosophical Context,” in Keven Brown (ed.), Evolution and
Bahá’í Belief: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's Response to Nineteenth-Century
Darwinism. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2001.
Chattopadhyaya, D. P. “Neoplatonism and the Parallel Indian Ideas,”
in Paulos Mar Gregorios (ed.), Neoplatonism and Indian
Philosophy. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2002.
Chittick, William. “Ibn Arabi on the Ultimate Model of the
Ultimate,” in J. Diller and A. Kasher (eds.), Models of God and
Alternative Ultimate Realities. Dordrecht: Springer, 2013.
Clarke, J. J. The Tao of the West: Western Transformation of Taoist
Thought. New York: Routledge, 2000.
Corbin, Henry. Alone with the Alone: Creative Imagination in the
Sufism of ‘lbn Arabi. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1997.
Corless, Roger J. “Can Buddhism Validate the Truth of God
Incarnate?” in Modern Theology 3:4 (1987).
Corless, Roger J. “Speaking of the Unspeakable: Negation as the Way
in Nicholas of Cusa and Nāgārjuna,” in Buddhist-Christian Studies
2 (1982).
Daoud, Yousef. The Rose and the Lotus: Sufism and Buddhism.
Xlibris Cooperation, 2009.
Dharmasiri, Gunapala. A Buddhist Critique of the Christian Concept
of God. Antioch, CA: Golden Leaves Publishing, 1988.
Dunn, James D. G. Christology in the Making: A New Testament
Inquiry into the Origins of the doctrine of the Incarnation. Grand
Rapids: Eerdmans Publishing, 1996.
Ellwood, Robert S. Mysticism and Religion. New York: Seven Bridges
Press, 1999.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Esslemont, J. E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era: An Introduction to the
Bahá’í Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2006.
Faber, Roland. “De-Ontologizing God: Levinas, Deleuze and
Whitehead,” in Catherine Keller and Anne Daniell (eds.), Process
and Difference: Between Cosmological and Poststructuralist
Postmodernism. New York: State University of New York Press,
2002.
Faber, Roland. Prozeßtheologie. Zu ihrer Würdigung und kritischen
Erneuerung. Mainz: Matthias Grünewald Verlag, 2000.
Faber, Roland. “Bodies of the Void: Polyphilia and Theoplicity,” in
Christian Boesel and Catherine Keller (eds.), Apophatic Bodies:
Negative Theology, Incarnation, and Relationship. New York:
Fordham, 2010.
Faber, Roland. “Der transreligiöse Diskurs: Zu einer Theologie
transformativer Prozesse,” in Polylog 9 (2002).
Faber, Roland. “Gottesmeer — Versuch über die Ununterschiedenheit
Gottes, ” in Thomas Dienberg and Michael Plattig (eds.), “Leben in
Fülle”: Skizzen zur christlichen Spiritualität. Münster: LIT, 2001.
Faber, Roland. “On the Unique Origin of Revelation, Religious
Intuition and Theology,” in Process Studies 28:3-4 (1999).
Fazel, Seena. “Interreligious Dialogue and the Bahá’í Faith: Some
Preliminary Observations,” Jack McLean (ed.), Revisioning the
Sacred: New Perspectives on a Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press, 1997.
Fazel, Seena. “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,” in
Interreligious Insight 1:3 (2003).
Fenner, Peter. Radiant Mind: Awakening Unconditioned Awareness.
Boulder, CO: Sounds True, 2007.
Ferrer, Jorge N. “The Future of World Religion: Four Scenarios, One
Dream,” in Tikkun (Winter 2012).
Fozdar, Jamshed. Buddha Maitrya-Amitabha Has Appeared. New
Delhi, Bahá’í Publishing, 1976.
Gail, Marzieh. “Familiar ‘Akká Voices,” in Myron H. Phelps, The
Master in ‘Akká. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1985.
Harvey, Peter. The Selfless Mind: Personality, Consciousness and
Nirvana in Early Buddhism. London: Routledge, 1995.
Hatcher, John S. “The Validity and Value of an Historical-Critical
Approach to the Revealed Works of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation: Papers presented at the
First Irfan Colloquium, Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.
Hatcher, John S. From Sin to Salvation: The Ascent of the Soul.
Wilmette: IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2016.
Izutsu, Toshihiko. Sufism and Taoism: A Comparative Study of Key
Philosophical Concepts. Berkeley: University of California Press,
1984.
King, Richard. Indian Philosophy: An Introduction to Hindu and
Buddhist Thought. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 1999.
Kluge, Ian. “Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings,” in
Lights of Irfan 4 (2003).
Kluge, Ian. “Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological
Rapprochement,” in Lights of Irfan 8 (2007).
Knitter, Paul. One Earth, Many Religions: Multifaith Dialogue and
Global Responsibility. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1995.
Lai, Whalen and Michael von Brück. Christianity and Buddhism: A
Multicultural History of Their Dialogue. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis
Books, 2001.
Lai, Whalen and Michael von Brück. Christianity and Buddhism: A
Multicultural History of Their Dialogue. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis
Books, 2001.
Lai, Whalen. “Buddhism in China: A Historical Survey,” in Antonio
S. Cua (ed.), Encyclopedia of Chinese Philosophy. New York:
Routledge, 2003.
Lambden, Stephen. “The Word Bahá: Quintessence of the Greatest
Name,” in Bahá’í Studies Review, 3:1 (1993).
Lepard, Brian. In the Glory of the Father: The Bahá’í Faith and
Christianity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2008.
Lundberg, Zaid. “From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of
Prophets,” in Lights of Irfan 3 (2002).
Massao, Abe. “Kenotic God and Dynamic Sunyata,” John B. Cobb
and Christopher Ives (eds.), The Emptying God: A Buddhist-
Jewish-Christian Conversation. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books,
1990.
May, Dann. “The Bahá’í Principle of Religious Unity,” in Jack
McLean (ed.), Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í
Theology. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press, 1997.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

McCagney, Nancy. Nagarjuna and the Philosophy of Oneness.
Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 1997.
McGinn, Bernard. The Mystical Thought of Meister Eckhart: The
Man From Whom God Hid Nothing. New York: Crossroads
Publishing, 2001.
Mizuno, Kogen. Essentials of Buddhism: Basic terminology and
Concepts of Buddhist Philosophy and Practice. Tokyo: Kosei
Publishing, 1996.
Momen, Moojan. “A Bahá’í Approach to Other Religions: The
Example of Buddhism,” in Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith
and the World’s Religions. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003.
Momen, Moojan. “Introduction to Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa),” in Lights of Irfan
11 (2010).
Momen, Moojan. “The God of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan Momen (ed.),
The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2003.
Momen, Moojan. Buddhism and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1995.
Momen, Moojan. Understanding Religion: A Thematic Approach.
Oxford: Oneworld, 2009.
Nishitani, Keiji. Religion and Nothingness. Berkeley: University of
California Press, 1983.
Norbu, Chögyal Namkhai. The Supreme Source: The Fundamental
Tantra of the Szogchen Semde Kunjed Gyalpo. Ithaca, NY: Snow
Lions Publications, 1999.
Odin, Steve. Process Metaphysics and Hua-Yen Buddhism: A Critical
Study of Cumulative Penetration vs. Interpenetration. Albany:
SUNY Press, 1982.
Panikkar, Raimundo. The Intra-Religious Dialogue. New York:
Paulist Press, 1999.
Panikkar, Raimundo. The Silence of God: The Answer of the Buddha.
Maryknoll, NY: Orbis, 1989.
Phelps, Myron H. The Life and Teachings of Abbas Effendi: A Study
of the Religion of the Bábís. New York: Knickerbocker Press,
1912.
Rahner, Karl. Foundations of Christian Faith: An Introduction to the
Idea of Christianity. Crossroad Publishing Company, 1982.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind
Rigtsal, Tulku Pema. The Great Secret of Mind: Special Introductions
on the Nonduality of Dzogchen. Boston: Snow Lions Publications,
2012.
Roy, Louis. Mystical Consciousness: Western Perspectives and
Dialogue with Japanese Thinkers. Albany: State University of New
York Press, 2003.
Saiedi, Nader. Logos and Civilization: Spirit, History, and Order in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. University Press of Maryland, 2000.
Savi, Julio. Towards the Summit of Reality: An Introduction to the
Study of Bahá’u’lláh's Seven Valleys and Four Valleys. Oxford:
George Ronald, 2008.
Savi, Julio. “Religious Pluralism: A Bahá’í Perspective,” in World
Order, 31.2 (2000).
Schmidt, Leigh Eric. Restless Souls: The Making of American
Spirituality: From Emerson to Ophra. New York: Harper San
Francisco, 2005.
Sells, Michael. “Apophasis in Plotinus: A Critical Approach,” in
Harvard Theological Review 87:3-4 (1985).
Sells, Michael. Mystical Languages of Unsaying. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 1994.
Sharma, Arvind. The Philosophy of Religion and Advaita Vedanta: A
Comparative Study in Religion and Reason. University Park:
Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995.
Sodargye, Khenpo. Heaven of Peace: Finding our True Home in the
Mind and Heart. Bodhi Institute of Compassion and Wisdom,
2013.
Sours, Michael. The Station and Claims of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing, 1997.
Sours, Michael. Without Syllable and Sound: The Worlds Sacred
Scriptures in the Bahá’í Faith. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2000.
Strong, John S. The Experience of Buddhism: Sources and
Interpretations. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing, 1995.
Suzuki, D. T. “Shin Buddhism,” in Alfred Bloom (ed.), Living in
Amida’s Universal Vow: Essays in Shin Buddhism. Bloomington,
IN: World Wisdom, 2004.
Teasdale, Wayne. The Mystic Heart: Discovering the Universal
Spirituality in the World’s Religions. Novato, CA: New World
Library, 1999.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Velasco, Ismael. “Achieving Reconciliation in a Conflicting World,”
in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies 18:1-4 (2010).
Walbridge, John The Wisdom of the Mystic East: Suhrawardi and
Platonic Orientalism. Albany, NY: State University of New York
Press, 2001.
Waldenfels, Hans. Absolute Nothingness: Foundations for a
Buddhist-Christian Dialogue. New York: Paulist Press, 1980.
Watson, Bruce. Light: A Radiant History from Creation to the
Quantum Age. New York, Bloomsbury, 2016.
Williams, Paul. Buddhist Thought: A Complete Introduction to the
Indian Tradition. London: Routledge, 2000.
Xing, Guang. The Concept of the Buddha: Its evolution from early
Buddhism to the trikāya theory. New York: Routledge, 2010.

NOTES
1 Robert S. Ellwood, Mysticism and Religion. New York: Seven Bridges
Press, 1999, Chs. 2 & 5.
2 Masao Abe, Zen and Western Thought. Honolulu: University of Hawaii
Press, 1985, ch. 1.
3 Arvind Sharma, The Philosophy of Religion and Advaita Vedanta: A
Comparative Study in Religion and Reason. University Park: Pennsyl-
vania State University Press, 1995, ch. 1; Masao Abe, “God and Absolute
Nothingness,” in Arvind Sharma (ed.), God, Truth and Reality: Essays in
Honor of John Hick. Eugene, OR: Wipf and Stock, 1993, 33-45.
4 Hans Waldenfels, Absolute Nothingness: Foundations for a Buddhist-
Christian Dialogue. New York: Paulist Press, 1980, ch. 9; Whalen Lai and
Michael von Brück, Christianity and Buddhism: A Multicultural History
of Their Dialogue. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 2001, ch. 6.
5 Gunapala Dharmasiri, A Buddhist Critique of the Christian Concept of
God. Antioch, CA: Golden Leaves Publishing, 1988, ch. 2.
6 Wayne Teasdale, The Mystic Heart: Discovering the Universal Spirituality
in the World’s Religions. Novato, CA: New World Library, 1999, ch. 3.
7 Moojan Momen, Understanding Religion: A Thematic Approach. Oxford:
Oneworld, 2009, ch. 2.
8 Roland Faber, “De-Ontologizing God: Levinas, Deleuze and Whitehead,”
in Catherine Keller and Anne Daniell (eds.), Process and Difference:
Between Cosmological and Poststructuralist Postmodernism. New York:
State University of New York Press, 2002, 209-234.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind

9 Michele Sells, Mystical Languages of Unsaying. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1994, ch. 1.
10 D. P. Chattopadhyaya, “Neoplatonism and the Parallel Indian Ideas,” in
Paulos Mar Gregorios (ed.), Neoplatonism and Indian Philosophy. Albany:
State University of New York Press, 2002, 31-44.
11 Keiji Nishitani, Religion and Nothingness. Berkeley: University of
California Press, 1983, ch. 4.
12 Michael Sells, “Apophasis in Plotinus: A Critical Approach,” in Harvard
Theological Review 87:3-4 (1985): 47-65.
13 Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization: Spirit, History, and Order in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. University Press of Maryland, 2000, 69-78
14 Bernard McGinn, The Mystical Thought of Meister Eckhart: The Man
From Whom God Hid Nothing. New York: Crossroads Publishing, 2001,
chs. 2-3; Toshihiko Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism: A Comparative Study of
Key Philosophical Concepts. Berkeley: University of California Press,
1984, ch. 1.
15 William Chittick, “Ibn Arabi on the Ultimate Model of the Ultimate,” in
J. Diller and A. Kasher (eds.), Models of God and Alternative Ultimate
Realities. Dordrecht: Springer, 2013, 915-17.
16 Julio Savi, Towards the Summit of Reality: An Introduction to the Study
of Bahá’u’lláh's Seven Valleys and Four Valley. Oxford: George Ronald,
2008, 13-15.
17 Richard King, Indian Philosophy: An Introduction to Hindu and Buddhist
Thought. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 1999, chs. 6 & 8.
18 Karl Rahner, Foundations of Christian Faith: An Introduction to the Idea
of Christianity, 62)
19 Non-Dualism has played a central role in my own work in process thought,
postmodern thought and interreligious discourse over the last two
decades, and has found expression in concepts like in/difference, mutual
immanence, transpantheism, polyphilia and theopoetics. See, for instance:
Roland Faber, The Divine Manifold. Lanham: MD, Lexington Books,
2014; Roland Faber and Catherine Keller, “Polyphilic Pluralism: Becoming
Religious Multiplicities,” in Chris Boesel and Wesley Ariarajah (eds.),
Divine Multiplicity: Trinities, Diversities, and the Nature of Relation.
New York: Fordham University Press, 2014, 58-81; Roland Faber, “The
Mystical Whitehead,” in Marc Pugliese and Gloria Schaab (eds.), Seeking
Common Ground: Evaluation and Critique of Joseph Bracken's
Comprehensive Worldview. Milwaukee, WI: Marquette University Press,
2012, 213-34; Roland Faber, “Bodies of the Void: Polyphilia and
Theoplicity,” in Christian Boesel and Catherine. Keller, eds, Apophatic
Bodies: Negative Theology, Incarnation, and Relationship. New York:
Fordham, 2010, 200-226; Roland Faber, God as Poet of the World:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


Exploring Process Theologies. Louisville: WJK, 2008; Roland Faber, “Der
transreligiöse Diskurs: Zu einer Theologie transformativer Prozesse,” in
Polylog 9 (2002): 65–94; Roland Faber, Prozeßtheologie. Zu ihrer
Würdigung und kritischen Erneuerung. Mainz: Matthias Grünewald
Verlag, 2000; And there is a stunning resonance between them and both
Buddhist metaphysics and the Shaykhi background of Bahá’í thought, yet
to be engaged with properly. But this connection will, at best, remain only
in the background of the following thought experiment. See: Idris Samawi
Hamid, The Metaphysics and Cosmology of Process According to Shaykh
Ahmad al-Ahsa’i: Critical Edition, Translation and Analysis of
Observations in Wisdom. Ann Arbor, MI: university of Michigan, 1998.
20 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet to Jamal-i-Burujirdi (Law˙-i-Jamál-i-Burujirdí). transl.
Khazeh Fananapazir, in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, 5:1-2 (1991) 4-8,
hurqalya.ucmerced.edu/journals/bsb.
21 In the discussion of monism and dualism, theism and non-theism, at least
their relativity it is affirmed by some Bahá’í scholars (Momen) as being
essential to Bahá’í scriptures, it is accepted in a qualified, but
hierarchically limited form by others (Saiedi), and rejected by yet others
(Kluge). Many of the related problems could be avoided if they would be
understood on the basis of the third alternative, however, non-dual
thought. See: Moojan Momen, “Relativism: A Basis For Bahá’í
Metaphysics,” in Moojan Momen (ed.), Studies in Honor of the Late
Hasan M. Balyuzi. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1988, 185-218; Moojan
Momen, “Relativism: A Theological and Cognitive Basis For Bahá’í
Ideas,” in Lights of Irfan 12 (2010): 367-97; Ian Kluge, “Relativism and
the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan 9 (2008): 179-238; Ian Kluge,
“Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan 9 (2008): 179-238;
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Báb.
Waterloo, ON: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2010, Introduction.
22 Roland Faber, “Der transreligiöse Diskurs: Zu einer Theologie
transformativer Prozesse,” in Polylog 9 (2002): 65–94.
23 Dann May, “The Bahá’í Principle of Religious Unity,” in Jack McLean
(ed.), Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology.
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997,
1-36.
24 Michael Sours, The Station and Claims of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing, 1997, ch. 2.
25 Moojan Momen, “A Bahá’í Approach to Other Religions: The Example of
Buddhism,” in Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s
Religions. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003, 167-188.
26 Paul Williams, Buddhist Thought: A Complete Introduction to the Indian
Tradition. London: Routledge, 2000, ch. 2.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind

27 Michael Sours, Without Syllable and Sound: The Worlds Sacred Scriptures
in the Bahá’í Faith. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2000, ch. 9.
28 Brian Lepard, In the Glory of the Father: The Bahá’í Faith and
Christianity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2008.
29 Marzieh Gail, “Familiar ‘Akká Voices,” in Myron H. Phelps, The Master in
‘Akká. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1985, 15-16.
30 Brian Bocking, et al. (eds.), A Buddhist Crossroads: Pioneer Western Bud-
dhist and Asian Networks 1860-1960. London: Routledge, 2015, ch. 1.
31 Leigh Eric Schmidt, Restless Souls: The Making of American Spirituality:
From Emerson to Ophra. New York: Harper San Francisco, 2005, ch. 5.
32 Ismael Velasco, “Achieving Reconciliation in a Conflicting World,” in
The Journal of Bahá’í Studies 18:1-4 (2010): 95-134.
33 Myron H. Phelps, The Life and Teachings od Abbas Effendi: A Study of
the Religion of the Bábís, or the Beha’is Founded by the Persian Báb and
by his Successor, Beha Ullah and Abbas Effendi. Second revised edition.
New York: Knickerbocker Press, 1912, 131-2.
34 Sours, Syllable, chs. 1-2.
35 See also Stephen Lambden, “The Background and Centrality of Apophatic
Theology in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture,” in Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning
the Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles: Kalimat
Press, 1997, 37-78.
36 The Brahmajala Sutta: The Discourse on the All-Embracing Net of Views.
trans. Bhikkhu Bodhi. Kandy: Sri Lanka: Buddhist Publication Society,
2013.
37 The Brahmajala Sutta: The Discourse on the All-Embracing Net of Views.
trans. Bhikkhu Bodhi. Kandy: Sri Lanka: Buddhist Publication Society,
2013.
38 Peter Fenner, Radiant Mind: Awakening Unconditioned Awareness.
Boulder, CO: Sounds True, 2007, chs. 1-3.
39 Zain Lundberg, “From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of
Prophets,” in Lights of Irfan 3 (2002): 59-82.
40 Momen, Bahá’í Approach, 167.
41 Jamshed Fozdar, Buddha Maitrya-Amitabha Has Appeared. New Delhi,
Bahá’í Publishing, 1976.
42 Ian Kluge, “Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological
Rapprochement,” in Lights of Irfan 8 (2007): 125-78.
43 Moojan Momen, Buddhism and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George Ronald,
1995.
44 Juan R. Cole, “A Zen Gloss on Bahá’u’lláh Commentary on ‘He who
knoweth his self knoweth his Lord’” @ www-
personal.umich.edu/ jrcole/bhzen1.htm.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


45 Seena Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,” in Interreligious
Insight 1:3 (2003): 42-49.
46 Whalen Lai and Michael von Brück, Christianity and Buddhism: A
Multicultural History of Their Dialogue. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books,
2001.
47 Moojan Momen, “The God of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan Momen (ed.), The
Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003.
48 Seena Fazel, “Interreligious Dialogue and the Bahá’í Faith: Some
Preliminary Observations,” Jack McLean (ed.), Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives on a Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997,
137-152
49  “The fundamental principle enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh…is that religious
truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is a continuous
and progressive process, that all the great religions of the world are divine
in origin, that their basic principles are in complete harmony, that their
aims and purposes are one and the same, that their teachings are but facets
of one truth, that their functions are complementary, that they differ only
in the nonessential aspects of their doctrines, and that their missions
represent successive stages in the spiritual evolution of human society....”
[PDC 1]
50 Julio Savi, “Religious Pluralism: A Bahá’í Perspective,” in World Order,
31.2 (2000): 25-41.
51 Raimondo Panikkar, The Silence of God: The Answer of the Buddha.
Maryknoll, NY: Orbis, 1989, chs. 1-3.
52 J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era: An Introduction to the
Bahá’í Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2006, ch. 8.
53  “Far from aiming at the overthrow of the spiritual foundation of the
world’s religious systems, its avowed, its unalterable purpose is to widen
their basis, to restate their fundamentals, to reconcile their aims, to
reinvigorate their life, to demonstrate their oneness, to restore the
pristine purity of their teachings, to coördinate their functions and to
assist in the realization of their highest aspirations.” [WOB 114]
54 Helen Bassett Hornby, Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. New
Deli: Bahá’í Publishing, 2010, #1704.
55 Roland Faber, “Gottesmeer — Versuch über die Ununterschiedenheit
Gottes,” in Thomas Dienberg and Michael Plattig (eds.), “Leben in Fülle”:
Skizzen zur christlichen Spiritualität. Münster: LIT, 2001, 64–95.
56 Peter Harvey, The Selfless Mind: Personality, Consciousness and Nirvana
in Early Buddhism. London: Routledge, 1995, 157-160.
57 Pabhassara Sutta: Luminous. Transl. from the Pali by Thanissaro Bhikkhu
@ www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/an/an01/an01.049.than.html.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind

58 Kogen Mizuno, Essentials of Buddhism: Basic terminology and Concepts
of Buddhist Philosophy and Practice. Tokyo: Kosei Publishing, 1996, chs.
3-4.
59 Mizuno, Essentials, ch. 8.
60 Williams, Thought, chs. 4-7.
61 Harvey, Mind, ch. 10; Khenpo Sodargye, Heaven of Peace: Finding our
True Home in the Mind and Heart. Bodhi Institute of Compassion and
Wisdom, 2013, 80-1.
62 See Keith Dowman, “Introduction,” in Spaciousness: The Radical
Dzogchen of the Vajra- Heart. Longchenpa's Precious Treasury of the
Dharmadhatu (Kathmandu, Nepal: Vajra Publications, 2013), xiii-xxix.
63 Tulku Pema Rigtsal, The Great Secret of Mind: Special Introductions on the
Nonduality of Dzogchen. Boston: Snow Lions Publications, 2012, ch. 1.
64 John S. Strong, The Experience of Buddhism: Sources and Interpretations.
Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing, 1995, 140-141.
65 Nancy McCagney, Nagarjuna and the Philosophy of Oneness. Lanham,
MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 1997, ch. 3.
66 Williams, Thought, ch. 5; Kyabje Kalu Rinpoche, Luminous Mind: The
Way of the Buddha. Boston: Wisdom Publications, 1993, 146-7.
67 Harvey, Mind, 169-175.
68 Kalu Rinpoche, Mind, 15-26.
69 Whalen Lai, “Buddhism in China: A Historical Survey,” in Antonio S. Cua
(ed.), Encyclopedia of Chinese Philosophy. New York: Routledge, 2003, 8-
19.
70 Yousef Daoud, The Rose and the Lotus: Sufism and Buddhism. Xlibris
Cooperation, 2009, 55.
71 Izutsu, Sufism, ch. 2.
72 Chögyal Namkhai Norbu, The Supreme Source: The Fundamental Tantra
of the Szogchen Semde Kunjed Gyalpo. Ithaca, NY: Snow Lions
Publications, 1999, 55.
73 Norbu, Source, 56.
74 Ibid.
75 Ibid. 20.
76 Dowman, Spaciousness, 5-6.
77 Rigtsal, Secret, 48.
78 Ibid., 57-8.
79 Ibid., 217.
80 Ibid., xxvii-iii.
81 Dowman, Spaciousness, xvi.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


82 Faber God, §41.
83 Stephen Lambden “The Word Bahá: Quintessence of the Greatest Name,”
in Bahá’í Studies Review, 3:1 (1993): 19-42; see also the revised version:
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 8:2 (1997-1998): 13-45.
84 Bruce Watson, Light: A Radiant History from Creation to the Quantum
Age. New York, Bloomsbury, 2016, ch. 3.
85 John Walbridge, The Wisdom of the Mystic East: Suhrawardi and Platonic
Orientalism. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2001, ch. 3.
86 James D. G. Dunn, Christology in the Making: A New Testament Inquiry
into the Origins of the doctrine of the Incarnation. Grand Rapids:
Eerdmans Publishing, 1996, ch. 7.
87 Lambden, Word, 19-42; D. T. Suzuki, “Shin Buddhism,” in Alfred Bloom
(ed.), Living in Amida’s Universal Vow: Essays in Shin Buddhism.
Bloomington, IN: World Wisdom, 2004, ch. 4.
88 Norbu, Source, 21.
89 See also Savi, Summit, 273-277.
90 Momen, God, 23-26.
91 Saiedi, Gate, 201-204. We can find a similar view in the West virtually
only in the philosophy of Alfred N. Whitehead, Process and Reality: An
Essay in Cosmology. ed. by D. R. Griffin and D. W. Sherburne. New
York: Free Press, 1978, 21-2.
92 Keven Brown, “Abdu'l-Bahá's Response to Darwinism: Its Historical and
Philosophical Context,” in Keven Brown (ed.), Evolution and Bahá’í
Belief: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's Response to Nineteenth-Century Darwinism. Los
Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2001, 68-74. Again, this move is unparalleled,
except for Alfred North Whitehead, see: Faber, Poet, § 32.
93 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its evolution from early
Buddhism to the trik ya theory. New York: Routledge, 2010, ch. 4.
94 Mizuno, Essentials, ch. 4.
95  “To every discerning and illuminated heart it is evident that God, the
unknowable Essence, the Divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond every
human attribute, such as corporeal existence, ascent and descent, egress
and regress” [GWB #93]. “It should be remembered in this connection
that the one true God is in Himself exalted beyond and above proximity
and remoteness. His reality transcendeth such limitations. His relationship
to His creatures knoweth no degrees. That some are near and others are
far is to be ascribed to the manifestations themselves.” [GWB 19]
96 Brian Edward Brown, The Buddha Nature: A Study of the Tathāgatagarbha
and Ālayavijñāna. Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass Publishers, 2004, 5.
97 Strong, Experience, 143-151; “Exalted, immeasurably exalted art Thou, O
my Beloved, above the strivings of any of Thy creatures, however learned,

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind

to know Thee; exalted, immensely exalted art Thou above every human
attempt, no matter how searching, to describe Thee! For the highest
thought of men, however deep their contemplation, can never hope to
outsoar the limitations imposed upon Thy creation, nor ascend beyond
the state of the contingent world, nor break the bounds irrevocably set
for it by Thee.” [PM #184]
98 I have called this the necessary contrast between apophasis and polyphilia:
Faber, God, Postscript; Manifold, chs. 8, 15, and passim; Roland Faber,
““Ecotheology, Ecoprocess, and Ecotheosis: A Theopoetical
Intervention,” in Salzburger Zeitschrift für Theologie 12 (2008): 75-115.
99 Daoud, Rose, 63.
100 McCagney, Nagarjuna, 95.
101 Sells, Languages, ch. 1.
102 Bahá’u’lláh, Commentary on the Islamic Tradition “He who knoweth his
self hath known his Lord (Man ‘arafa nafsahú faqad ‘arafa Rabbahú).
transl. Shoghi Effendi and Juan Cole, 1996 @ bahai-
library.com/bahaullah_knoweth_himself_cole.
103 Henry Corbin, Alone with the Alone: Creative Imagination in the Sufism
of ‘lbn Arabi. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1997, 120.
104 Momen, God, 20.
105 The term “Primal Manifestation” is related to, and identical in its
meaning with, terms such as “Primal Will” or “Primal Point,” often used
in the Bahá’í Writings to indicate the divine nature of the Manifestations,
and their essential unity in the Mind, Will, or Word of God, indicating
the manifest God, not te unmanifest Godhead; see: Momen, God, 23-24.
In fact, Bahá’u’lláh uses this term, for instance, in this passage of the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán, indicating that “by ‘divine Presence’ is meant the ‘Secondary
Revelation of God,’ interpreted as the ‘Holy Outpouring,’ [which] is
admittedly applicable to the world of creation, that is, in the realm of the
primal and original manifestation of God. Such revelation is confined to
His Prophets and chosen Ones, inasmuch as none mightier than they hath
come to exist in the world of being. This truth all recognize, and bear
witness thereto. These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the recipients
and revealers of all the unchangeable attributes and names of God. They
are the mirrors that truly and faithfully reflect the light of God.
Whatsoever is applicable to them is in reality applicable to God, Himself,
Who is both the Visible and the Invisible”; Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i ˆqán:
The Book of Certitude. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 1974, 141.
106 See also: Bahá’u’lláh, Commentary on a Verse of Rumi. transl. by Juan R.
Cole. @ whoisbahaullah.com/windflower/translations-on-this-
site/translations/127-commentary-on-a-verse-of-rumi.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


107 See also Bahá’u’lláh on the Báb: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the
Kitáb-i Aqdas pp. 42-3; on himself and all Manifestation: Gleanings, #22.
108 Izutsu, Sufism, ch. 7; Corbin, Alone, 114-115.
109 Juan R. Cole, “The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings,” in
Bahá’í Studies 9 (1982) @ bahai-library.com/cole_concept_manifestation,
Chart II.
110 Savi, Summit, 255-260; Dowman, Spaciousness, 43.
111 Corbin, Alone, 120.
112 Coming from the Primal Will, all Manifestations have their “essence” in
the station of pure abstraction and essential unity” indistinct, that is
without substantial differentiation (and based on substantialist
philosophical categories), from one another.
113 Sells, Languages, 75-77; Corbin, Alone, 105-112.
114 Saiedi, Gate, 164, following the Hadíth of Imam Sadiq, to which the Báb
often refers in characterization of the non-duality of the Primal Point
(Will, Mind), namely, that “servitude is a substance the essence of which is
divinity.”
115 Dowman, Spaciousness, Canto IV; Massao Abe, “Kenotic God and
Dynamic Sunyata,” John B. Cobb and Christopher Ives (eds.), The
Emptying God: A Buddhist-Jewish-Christian Conversation. Maryknoll,
NY: Orbis Books,1990, 3–68.
116 Sells, Ibn ‘Arabi, 991.
117 Momen, God, 20.
118 Sours, Syllable, chs. 1-2.
119 John S. Hatcher, “The Validity and Value of an Historical-Critical
Approach to the Revealed Works of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan Momen
(ed.), Scripture and Revelation: Papers presented at the First Irfan
Colloquium, Oxford: George Ronald, 1997, 27-52.
120 Williams, Thought, 170; Faber, Manifold, ch. 4.
121 Vahid Brown, “The Beginning that Hath No Beginning: Bahá’í
Cosmogony,” in Lights of Irfan 3 (2002): 21-40.
122 Ian Kluge, “Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of
Irfan 4 (2003): 17-78; “The Bahá’í Writings and the Buddhist Doctrine of
Emptiness: An Initial Survey,” @ bahai-
library.com/kluge_buddhist_doctrine_emptiness.
123 R. Corless, “Can Buddhism Validate the Truth of God Incarnate?” in
Modern Theology 3:4 (1987), 336-7.
124 This is a truth of virtually all Western and Eastern religious traditions if
we are inclined to see it as consequential and not as an item of a dogmatic
system that, despite this profound ultimacy of the apophatic nature of
Reality, goes on to, in its further discussions of God or ultimate Reality

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind

in relation to the world, as if this insight has no real implications. See also
Lambden, Background, passim.
125 Dowman, Spaciousness, Canto XIII; Steve Odin, Process Metaphysics
and Hua-Yen Buddhism: A Critical Study of Cumulative Penetration vs.
Interpenetration. Albany: SUNY Press, 1982, part I.
126 Savi, Summit, ch. 12.
127 Roland Faber, “Bodies of the Void: Polyphilia and Theoplicity,” in
Christian Boesel and Catherine. Keller (eds.), Apophatic Bodies: Negative
Theology, Incarnation, and Relationship. New York: Fordham, 2010, 200-
226.
128 Kluge, Buddhism, 155; see however: Gilles Deleuze, Pure Immanence:
Essays on a Life. Brooklyn, NY: Zone Books, 2005, ch. 1; Roland Faber,
“Multiplicity and Mysticism: Toward a New Mystagogy of Becoming,” in
Nicholas Gaskill and A. J. Nozek (eds.), The Lure of Whitehead.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2014, 187-206; Roland
Faber, “Becoming Intermezzo: Eco-Theopoetics after the Anthropic
Principle,” in Roland Faber and Jeremy Fackenthal (eds.), Theopoetic
Folds: Philosophizing Multifariousness. New York: Fordham University
Press, 2013, 212-238.
129 Teasdale, Heart, ch. 3; F. Samual Brainard, Reality and Mystical
Experience. University Park: Pennsylvania State University, 2000, ch. 8.
130 Louis Roy, Mystical Consciousness: Western Perspectives and Dialogue
with Japanese Thinkers. Albany: State University of New York Press,
2003, ch. 3.
131 Momen, God, 20.
132 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa).
intro. and trans. Moojan Momen: “Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa),” in: Lights of Irfan 11
(2010): 213-21.
133 Izutsu, Sufism, ch. 2.
134 See also the fascinating tablet of Bahá’u’lláh on al-˙aqq: Bahá’u’lláh, The
Law˙-i ˙aqq (The Tablet of the Ultimately Real). transl. Stephen Lambden
@ hurqalya.ucmerced.edu/node/379; Stephen Lambden, Introduction to
The Law˙-i ˙aqq/Law˙ al-Óaqq (Tablet of Truth/True One/Ultimately
Real) @ hurqalya.ucmerced.edu/node/378.
135 Moojan Momen, “Introduction to Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa),” in: Lights of Irfan 11
(2010): 203-212.
136 Momen, Introduction, 204-205.
137 Bahá’u’lláh, Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa, 213; Sells, Apophasis, 60.
138 Bahá’u’lláh, Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa, 213.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


139 Bahá’u’lláh, Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa, 213-214.
140 Cole, Concept, Chart II.
141 Chittick, Ibn ‘Arabi, 920.
142 Ibn ‘Arabi writes in his al-Futuhat al-Makkiyya I:272 “The is naught in
existence (al-wujúd) save God and none knoweth God except God...”
(Reference by Stephen Lambden).
143 Bahá’u’lláh, Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa, 214-215.
144 Momen, God, 9-11; Relativism, 7-14. Because of the non-substantialist
and non-dualist understanding I affirm here, the arguments against
Momen by Kluge (see note 23), which are still based on substantialism and
dualism, are not applying. For my own development of non-dualism as
basis for this transreligious conversation, see: Faber, God, §40.
145 Bahá’u’lláh, Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa, 214-215.
146 Ibid., 214.
147 Ibid., 214.
148 Ibid., 215.
149 Roland Faber, The Garden of Reality: Transreligious Relativity in a
World of Becoming (forthcoming), ch. 7.
150 Bahá’u’lláh, Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa, 215.
151 Momen, God, 25; Faber, God, §40; Garden, ch. 7.
152 Sells, Languages, ch. 1.
153 Kalu Rinpoche, Mind, 146-147. Bahá’u’lláh, KA, ¶54: “…on the wings of
detachment, soar beyond all created things.”
154 Momen, God, 25.
155 Saiedi, Gate, 190-192; Vahid Brown, “The Beginning that Hath No
Beginning: Bahá’í Cosmogony,” in Lights of Irfan 3 (2002): 21-40.
156 Sells, Languages, ch. 1.
157 Faber, Garden, ch. 7; Gottesmeer, passim; Roger J. Corless, “Speaking of
the Unspeakable: Negation as the Way in Nicholas of Cusa and
Nāgārjuna,” in Buddhist-Christian Studies 2 (1982): 107-117.
158 Faber, Manifold, ch. 13; God, §40; Roland Faber, Prozeßtheologie. Zu
ihrer Würdigung und kritischen Erneuerung. Mainz: Matthias Grünewald
Verlag, 2000, §31.
159 Paul Knitter, One Earth, Many Religions: Multifaith Dialogue and Global
Responsibility. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1995, chs. 1-2.
160 Raimon Panikkar, The Intra-Religious Dialogue. New York: Paulist Press,
1999, chs. 4-5; Fazel, Dialogue, 2-3.
161 Sours, Station, chs. 4-6.

Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind

162 Here, we approach the difference between religious inclusivism (by which
one can ultimately only be saved to the truth of one religion) and religious
pluralism (by which this truth is found in all religions): David Griffin
(ed.), Deep Religious Pluralism. Louisville, Westminster John Knox, 2005,
chs. 1-2; Fazel, Pluralism, passim; Roland Faber and Catherine Keller, “A
Taste for Multiplicity: The Skillful Means of Religious Pluralism,” in John
Cobb (ed.), Religions in the Making: Whitehead and the Wisdom
Traditions of the World. Eugene, OR: Cascade Books, 2012, 180-207.
163 Jorge N. Ferrer, “The Future of World Religion: Four Scenarios, One
Dream,” in Tikkun (Winter 2012): 14-6, 63-4; Seena Fazel, “Bahá’í
Approaches to Christianity and Islam: Further Thoughts on Developing an
Inter-Religious Dialogue,” in Bahá’í Studies Review 14 (2008): 41-53.
164 Faber, God, §36; Roland Faber, “On the Unique Origin of Revelation,
Religious Intuition and Theology,” in Process Studies 28:3-4 (1999): 273-
289; Roland Faber, “The Sense of Peace: A Para-doxology of Divine
Multiplicity,” in C. Keller and L. Schneider (eds.), Polydoxy: Theology of
Multiplicity and Relation. London: Routledge, 2011, 36-56.
165 J. J. Clarke, The Tao of the West: Western Transformation of Taoist
Thought. New York: Routledge, 2000, 84-6.
166 Rigtsal, Secret, ch. 2.
167 Dowman, Spaciousness, Introduction.
168 GWB #128; John Hatcher, From Sin to Salvation: The Ascent of the Soul.
Wilmette: IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 273. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, 71: “Blessed is
he who preferreth his brother before himself. Verily, such a man is
reckoned, by virtue of the Will of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise,
with the people of Bahá who dwell in the Crimson Ark.”
169 Similar statements may be found for instance: “O SON OF LOVE! Thou
art but one step away from the glorious heights above and from the
celestial tree of love. Take thou one pace and with the next advance into
the immortal realm and enter the pavilion of eternity….” [HW Persian
#7]; or “He should forgive the sinful, and never despise his low estate, for
none knoweth what his own end shall be. How often hath a sinner
attained, at the hour of death, to the essence of faith, and, quaffing the
immortal draught, hath taken his flight unto the Concourse on high! And
how often hath a devout believer, at the hour of his soul's ascension, been
so changed as to fall into the nethermost fire!” [GWB 265].
170 Dharmasiri, Critique, ch. 2.
171 Kalu Rinpoche, Mind, 67-172.
172 Dowman, Spaciousnss, Canto VII.
173 Nurbu, Source, 135-203.
174 The Vajra Heart Tantra: A Tantra Naturally Arisen from the Nature of
Existence from the Matrix of Primordial Awareness of Pure Perception

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


(Tib. Dag snang ye shes drva pa las gnas lugs rang byung gi rgyud rdo rje'i
snying po). Collected Works of H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche, in Alan Wallace,
“Is Buddhism Really Nontheistic,” AAR 1999,
www.alanwallace.org/Is%20Buddhism%20Really%20Nontheistic_.pdf).
175 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Commentary on the Islamic Tradition ‘I Was a Hidden
Treasure’, transl. by Moojan Momen, in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, 3:4
(1995): 4-35
176 Saiedi, Gate, 97-8.
177 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of Manifestation, bahai-library.com/bahaullah
_lawh_zuhur, §2; see also Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of Manifestation, trans.
Stephen Lambden, @ hurqalya.ucmerced.edu/node/450.

Themes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of The
Divine Plan Illustrated by Scriptural
References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Lameh Fananapazir
Abstract
The Tablets of the Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (March
1916–March 1917), His Will and Testament, and the
Law˙-i-Karmil
(Tablet
of
Carmel)
revealed
by
Bahá’u’lláh are described by Shoghi Effendi as the three
“Charters” for promotion of the Cause of God [MBW 84-
85]. Those revealed by the Center of the Covenant share
several closely related subjects which will be examined
here, specifically in the context of their references to
the Bible and to the Qur’án. Problems facing humanity
arising from a crisis of Faith — a spiritual affliction
caused
by
humanity
being
denied
Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation — a situation addressed in the Tablets of the
Divine Plan.
Introduction
‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed fourteen succinct and seminal letters
over a period of one year during the latter part of World War
I. Addressed to North America about five years prior to His

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

ascension, they constitute one of three “Charters” of the Faith
of Bahá’u’lláh.
All the teaching plans launched by the beloved Guardian,
as well as those subsequently directed by the Universal
House of Justice, are stages in the implementation of
this master plan conceived by the Centre of the
Covenant for the diffusion of the Message of
Bahá’u’lláh.1 [MBW 84-85]
The “Tablets of the Divine Plan” mandate members of the
North American community to undergo a spiritual baptism and
arise to proclaim the advent of the Kingdom of God, relying on
the support of the Holy Spirit and confident that their efforts
will bear fruit in a fertile field and that the Divine Word will
transform souls and create unity and harmony. The letters are
replete with direct and indirect references to the Bible and the
Qur’án, demonstrating that the Source of inspiration of all
Dispensations is One, and that Bahá’u’lláh is the Promise and
fulfillment of the Glad-tidings of the Bible and of the Qur’án.
The Tablets remind us that Christianity triumphed through the
exemplary sacrificial efforts of the disciples to propagate far
and wide the ‘Good News’ of the coming of the Kingdom. Five
years later, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and Testament, challenged
us even more directly to follow their example:
It behooveth them not to rest for a moment, neither to
seek repose. They must disperse themselves in every
land, pass by every clime, and travel throughout all
regions. Bestirred, without rest, and steadfast to the
end, they must raise in every land the triumphal cry “Ya
Bahá’u’l-Abhá!” (O Thou the Glory of Glories)…. The
disciples of Christ forgot themselves and all earthly
things, forsook all their cares and belongings, purged
themselves of self and passion, and with absolute
detachment scattered far and wide and engaged in
calling the peoples of the world to the divine guidance;

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
till at last they made the world another world, illumined
the surface of the earth, and even to their last hour
proved self-sacrificing in the pathway of that beloved
One of God. Finally in various lands they suffered
glorious martyrdom. Let them that are men of action
follow in their footsteps! [WT 10-11]
The purpose of this presentation is to examine themes of the
Tablets of the Divine Plan in the context of overt and oblique
references to the Gospels and the Qur’án, and allusions to the
early followers of Christ. These include (a) the importance of
attaining ‘the Straight Path’ and investigating the truth; (b) a
declaration of the Oneness of Divine Purpose and the Oneness
of Faith; (c) the role of the North America community in
establishing ‘the oneness of humanity’; (d) the necessity to
undergo a spiritual rebirth and the requisite spiritual qualities
of those whose privilege is to promote the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh;
(e) the duty of every Bahá’í in North America to travel teach,
and as bidden by the “Divine Gardener” to plant the “seed”; (f)
the creative power of the Holy Spirit and the ability of the
Divine Word to transform darkness into light and to revive
seemingly spiritually lifeless souls; (g) the influence or power of
one (individual) or a few; (h) the exhortation to follow the
sacrificial example of the disciples who through their death and
suffering testified to their faith in their Lord and belief in the
promise of the coming of the kingdom of God; (i) the
importance of unity of the friends through faithfulness to the
covenant as they resolutely and single-mindedly endeavor to rid
humanity of its divisions and rancor and to replace the hatred
with love and amity; and (j) the critical need for Bahá’ís to be
able to explain the truths of the Bible and of the Qur’án if they
are to understand adequately their own Faith, as an essential
preliminary to teaching it, and, importantly, if they are to usher
in the unity of mankind and reconciliation of the religions.
Humanity is beset by several seemingly intractable issues.
These include irrational nationalism and territorial and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

ideological conflicts, excessive expenditure of global resources
on armaments, corruption, a widening gap between the rich and
the poor, global warming, population growth coupled with
finite resources, energy demand-supply uncertainties, instability
of global economics and reservations concerning sustainable
development, continuing health worries, lack of clean water
supply, transnational organized crime, inharmonious relation of
science and faith, racial, religious and sectarian prejudice,
disintegration of the fabric of society due to ethical and moral
decay, and lack of universal education. Additionally, the world
has recently witnessed a series of appalling atrocities due to a
resurgence of militant religious fanaticism.
As noted by Shoghi Effendi, humanity regrettably is often
prompted to take definitive measures and redeem itself only
after disastrous events:
Much suffering will still be required ere the contending
nations, creeds, classes and races of mankind are fused
in the crucible of universal affliction, and are forged by
the fires of a fierce ordeal into one organic
commonwealth, one vast, unified, and harmoniously
functioning system. Adversities unimaginably appalling,
undreamed of crises and upheavals, war, famine, and
pestilence, might well combine to engrave in the soul of
an unheeding generation those truths and principles
which it has disdained to recognize and follow. A
paralysis more painful than any it has yet experienced
must creep over and further afflict the fabric of a
broken society ere it can be rebuilt and regenerated.
[WOB 193-194]
The followers of Bahá’u’lláh, however, cannot let the
happenings of the world and adversity sadden them. Their duty
is to arise and rescue society from the evident evils under which
it groans, and to carry out the wishes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as
expressed in His Tablets of the Divine Plan. Shoghi Effendi
explains:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Who knows but that these few remaining, fast-fleeting
years, may not be pregnant with events of unimaginable
magnitude, with ordeals more severe than any that
humanity has as yet experienced, with conflicts more
devastating than any which have preceded them.
Dangers, however sinister, must, at no time, dim the
radiance of their new-born faith. Strife and confusion,
however bewildering, must never befog their vision.
Tribulations, however afflictive, must never shatter
their resolve. Denunciations, however clamorous, must
never sap their loyalty. Upheavals, however cataclysmic,
must never deflect their course. The present Plan,
embodying the budding hopes of a departed Master,
must be pursued, relentlessly pursued, whatever may
befall them in the future, however distracting the crises
that may agitate their country or the world. [ADJ 72]
History records that true religion has at various times been a
vital force for the betterment of mankind. Man has a spiritual
yearning and needs to be put in touch once again with his
spiritual nature. Bahá’u’lláh remarks “every body calleth aloud
for a soul”, and adds, “heavenly souls must needs quicken, with
the breath of the Word of God, the dead bodies with a fresh
spirit” [ADJ 82-83]. At their core, many of the problems that
humanity faces are due to deficient ethics and morality. Faced
with a similar situation at the beginning of Islám, the Qur’án
attributed the evil to a spiritual malaise requiring divinely
ordained solutions:
In their hearts is a (spiritual) disease; and God has
increased their disease: and grievous (painful) is the
penalty they (incur, will face), because of their denial (of
divine Message).2
The Bahá’í Faith provides the necessary spiritual remedies:
The vitality of men’s belief in God is dying out in every
land; nothing short of His wholesome medicine can ever

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

restore it. The corrosion of ungodliness is eating into
the vitals of human society; what else but the Elixir of
His potent Revelation can cleanse and revive it?
The world is in travail and its agitation waxeth day by
day. Its face is turned towards waywardness and
unbelief. Such shall be its plight that to disclose it now
would not be meet and seemly. [GWB 200]
And again:
Religious fanaticism and hatred are a world-devouring
fire, whose violence none can quench. The Hand of
Divine power can, alone, deliver mankind from this
desolating affliction. [GWB 288]
The Tablets of Divine Plan may be regarded as the
instrument that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá devised during the dark days of
World War I for the purpose of proclaiming the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh to the remotest corners of the earth. The Divine
Plan is laid out in fourteen letters, four addressed to the Bahá’í
community
of
North
America
and
ten
addressed
to
communities in specific geographic areas. In the letters He
summons the American and Canadian believers to arise and
establish the Cause of God throughout the planet.
The Tablets of the Divine Plan contain several direct and
indirect quotations from the Gospels and the Qur’án, the study
of which increases significantly our understanding of our
mission.
Theme one: “Guide us to the straight path”
(Ihdiná aß-ßirá†u’l-mustaqím)
This invocation appears is the sixth verse (áyah) of the first
chapter (súrah) of the Qur’án, Al-Fátihah, or ‘The Opening’
which has a total of seven verses. The súrah was revealed by

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Mu˙ammad initially in Mecca and subsequently re-revealed in
Medina3.
The significance of this verse is underscored by the fact that
it is quoted twice, in both the second and ninth Tablets of the
Divine Plan, and several more times in the Writings of the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh. It encapsulates several related themes that are
essential to our teaching efforts and to our ability to explain
the relation of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh to Islám and to earlier
dispensations.
Expectation
Attaining ‘the Straight Path’ or ‘the Way’ of God (the Íirá†4),
is part of a prayer that Muslims are required to repeat fives
daily. Muslims are thereby reminded not only to pursue God’s
good pleasure in their lifetime, but also to anticipate the Path
of God and His Guidance. They are to avoid “the (path) of
those who earn (God’s) anger nor of those who go astray
crooked ways.”11 If Muslims follow the admonition to follow
the Straight Path fástaqímú, i.e. “be straightforward” they shall
be rewarded with the glad-tiding of entering the paradise of
Divine good pleasure:
And for those who say, “Our Lord is God,” and then
follow the Straight Path without deviation, the angels
descend upon them from time to time (with the
Message): “Do not fear or grieve, but rejoice in Paradise
which you have been promised.5
Bahá’u’lláh states that the ‘Good News’ promised by earlier
Dispensations is fulfilled today:
Glory be to God Who has revealed the Verses in Truth
to the Prophets and Messengers ... In these verses are
given Glad Tidings concerning the Straight Path of God,
where all things are explained in detail, as a guide and a
reminder for those who enter the Divine Paradise by the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

leave of God. Verily they will be guided to Salvation and
will be led to the Holy Shores, nigh unto God, the Help
in Peril, the Mighty, the Self-Subsisting.6
Attaining the Straight Path requires receptivity and a desire for
spiritual enlightenment:
Those who deny our verses (signs) are deaf and dumb, in
darkness. Whomsover God will, He leads astray, and
whomsoever He will, He places him upon a Straight
Path.7
The Qur’án therefore envisions that when God re-reveals His
Straight Path Muslims will plead that God does not allow them
to be shamed, e.g. by inability to recognize the event after all
of the Divine exhortations.8
Expectation of the Straight Path (Way) in Judeo-
Christianity
The Jews similarly pray for, and anticipate, as promised in
the Tanakh by their Prophets, Isaiah and Micah, future Divine
Paths and guidance:
Let us go to the Mount of the Lord... that He may
instruct us in His ways,
And that we may walk in His paths... [Isaiah 2:3]
For the days to come,
The Mount of the Lord’s House shall stand firm above
the mountains;
And it shall tower above the hills.
The peoples shall gaze upon it with joy,
And the many nations shall go and shall say
“Come, let us go up to the Mount of the Lord...

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
That He may instructs us in His ways,
And that we may walk in His paths.” [Micah 4:1-2]
Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her,
that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is
pardoned: for she hath received of the Lord’s hand
double for all her sins.
The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare
ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a
highway for our God.
Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and
hill shall be made low; and the crooked shall be made
straight, and the rough places plain:
And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed (The Presence
of the Lord shall appear), and all flesh shall see it
together. [Isaiah 40:2-5]
Moses prayed that God grants the Children of Israel
recognition of His ways:
... pray let me know Your ways, that I may know You
and continue in Your favor. Consider, too, that this
nation is Your people. [Exodus 33:13]
It is also part of a prayer of the Psalms (Zabur in the Qur’án):
Let me know Your paths, O Lord; teach me Your Ways;
Guide me in Your true way and teach me, for You are
God, my deliverer;
it is You I look to at all times. [Psalms 25:4-5]
In the sermon on the Mount Jesus warned that “strait is the
gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few
there be that find it” [Matthew 7:14].

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

“God guides whom He will to a Path that is straight”
— there is therefore no need to compel anyone to
accept Islám 9
Ultimately, God will define the nature of the Straight Path
and will thus determine which Muslim enters it depending on
his or her receptivity:
The life of this world is alluring to those who reject
faith, and they scoff at those who believe. But the
righteous will be above them on the Day of
Resurrection; For God bestows His abundance without
measure on whom He will.
... God by His Grace guided the believers to the Truth,
concerning that wherein they differed. For God guides
whom He will to a Path that is straight.10
In the beginning of the eleventh Tablet addressed to the
Bahá’ís of the Central States ‘Abdu’l-Bahá eulogizes the station
of the follower of Bahá’u’lláh who has been selected by God to
recognize His Day and privileged to promote His Cause. He
quotes the following verse of the Qur’án:
God will choose for His special Mercy whom He will —
for God is Lord of grace abounding. 11
An identical statement is also contained in another verse of the
Qur’án:
It is never the wish of those without Faith among the
People of the Book (religious leaders), nor the
polytheists (pagans), that anything good should come
down to you from your Lord. But God will choose for
His special Mercy whom He will — for God is
Lord of grace abounding.12
In this context, a prayer revealed in the ninth Tablet of
Divine Plan expresses the profound gratitude of the followers

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
of Bahá’u’lláh for having been directed to God’s promised
straight path:
O Thou kind Lord! Praise be unto Thee that Thou hast
shown us the highway of guidance...
“Guide us to the siráta almustaqeem” comprises
several considerations including a reminder to
Muslims of their important spiritual responsibility to
investigate the Truth
Evidently, the expectations of the ‘straight Ways’ or ‘right
Paths’ of God in the Bible and aß-ßirá† mustaqím in the Qur’án
are incompatible with institutionally inspired beliefs of finality
of any Dispensation, including that of Islám, for it is evident
that the ways represent spiritual journeys and do not constitute
per se a final destination.
In the Tanakh13 the Lord of Hosts declares to the followers
of Moses that when they search for Him, they will find Him, “if
only you seek me wholeheartedly [Jeremiah 29:13]. In the Gospels,
the Heavenly Father will respond to the Christian but he is
required to ask, seek and knock [Matthew 7:7-8]. Likewise, Alláh’s
or God’s guidance to His way (sabil, pl. sobul) is, as stated in
the Qur’án and commented on by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-
ˆqán, conditional on Muslims making a sincere effort to
investigate the truth free of preconceived notions and imitation
(taqlíd)14:
And those who strive in Our (Cause) — We will certainly
guide them to Our Paths: for verily God is with those
who do right.15
Follow not that which thou hast no knowledge, verily,
the hearing, and the sight and the heart, each of these
shall be enquired of.16

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

O ye who believe! If a wicked person comes to you with
any news, ascertain the truth, lest ye harm people
unwittingly, and afterwards become full of repentance
for what ye have done.17
O my Lord! advance me in knowledge.18
… Fear God and God will give you knowledge.19
Are those equal, those who know and those who do not
know? It is those who are endued with understanding
that receive admonition.20
The declaration of the Oneness of God is the Straight
Path
Clearly, as God is Infinite, the declaration that He is One21 is
not a description and an understanding of His unknowable
reality but a declaration that the Source of Inspiration (wa˙y)
of all faiths and all humanity is one.
I beg of Thee, O my God, by Thy power, and Thy might,
and Thy sovereignty, which have embraced all who are in
Thy heaven and on Thy earth, to make known unto Thy
servants this luminous Way and this Straight Path, that
they may acknowledge Thy unity and Thy oneness, with
a certainty which the vain imaginations of the doubters
will not impair, nor the idle fancies of the wayward
obscure. [PM #176]
The Torah states that God is One:
Hear O Israel, The Lord our God is one Lord22
Christ affirmed this teaching to be the greatest Law of God:
And one of the scribes came, and having heard them
reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment
of all?
And Jesus answered him, The first of all the
commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is
one Lord:
And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all
thy strength: this is the first commandment. [Mark 12:28-30]
The Qur’án also declares God is one.
Say: He is God, the One and Only 23
It proclaims that the assertion that Jews, Christians and
Muslims worship the same Lord constitutes the Straight Path:
Verily God is my Lord and your Lord: Him therefore
serve ye: this is a Way that is straight (háthá siratun
mustaqeemun).24
It is a declaration of the Oneness of the Way of God
Man is on the right Path and not on the crooked way when he
realizes that every religious dispensation, ummah or shariat,
share the same spiritual truths, and is an integral part of the
same eternal Faith of God. Bahá’u’lláh attests to this unity of
the Divine Purpose:
Thus doth the Lord make plain the ways of truth and
guidance, ways that lead to one way, which is this Straight
Path. Render thanks unto God for this most gracious
favour; offer praise unto Him for this bounty that hath
encompassed the heavens and the earth; extol Him for
this mercy that hath pervaded all creation. [KA 24]
The religions differ only in the potency of the light of their
revelation and in their social laws, which are not designed to be

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

permanent and require to be abrogated and discarded when they
no longer serve the best interests of the individual or society.
Hence, bearing witness to the truth of one religion is a
testimony of belief in all faiths. Conversely to deny one is to
deny all of them. It is in this context that Christ declared to the
Jewish leaders of His time who opposed Him that had they
truly understood Moses and His Writings they would also have
recognized Him.25 Hence, the Qur’án declares that the religion
(dín or deen) revealed to Mu˙ammad is the exact same as the
one revealed to earlier prophets. The warning is added that
Muslims must not divide the One Common Faith.
He has established for you the same religion as that
which He enjoined on Noah — the same inspiration sent
to thee, and the same We enjoined on Abraham, Moses,
and Jesus: Namely, that ye should remain steadfast in
Religion, and make no divisions therein: this is hard for
the mushrikún26. God chooses to Himself those whom
He pleases, and guides to Himself those who turn (to
Him).27
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in the first sentence of the first Tablet of the
Divine Plan addressed to the Bahá’ís of the Northeastern States,
refers to the Bahá’u’lláh, the Source and Center of our Faith, as
the “threshold of oneness.” In the eleventh Tablet of the Divine
Plan addressed to the Bahá’ís of the Central States He
emphasizes that the flag of unity is to be raised by establishing
the
Oneness
of
God
and
the
Oneness
of
religion.
Unfortunately, all paths have become crooked largely due to
insistence on false theories of superiority, finality and
exclusivity of religion. They require to be cleared of these
divisive concepts and straightened. In this manner, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá anticipates, the joy of unity will overflow to the rest of
humanity:
... the call to the world of unity, “There is no God but
One God, and all the Messengers, from the beginning to

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
the Seal of the Prophets (Mu˙ammad) ...” may be raised;
the flag of the oneness of the world of humanity be
unfurled, the melody of universal peace may reach the
ears of the East and the West, all the paths may be
cleared and straightened, all the hearts may be attracted
to the Kingdom of God, the tabernacle of unity be
pitched on the apex of America, the song of the love of
God may exhilarate and rejoice all the nations and
peoples, the surface of the earth may become the eternal
paradise, the dark clouds may be dispelled and the Sun of
Truth may shine forth with the utmost intensity. [TDP 79]
In keeping with the principle of oneness of faith the
Guardian points out that describing the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh as
“a new religion” fails to do justice to its admittedly wider role
— the unification of all religions:
Ceasing to designate to itself a movement, a fellowship
and the like — designations that did grave injustice to its
ever-unfolding system… refusing to be labeled as a mere
philosophy of life, or as an eclectic code of ethical
conduct, or even as a new religion… Far from wishing to
add to the number of the religious systems, whose con-
flicting loyalties have for so many generations disturbed
the peace of mankind, this Faith is instilling into each of
its adherents a new love for, and a genuine appreciation,
of the unity underlying the various religions represented
within its pale. [WOB 196-197]
Shoghi Effendi notes further the following remarkable and
instructive observation by Bahá’u’lláh:
The well-being of mankind, its peace and security are
unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly
established. [WOB 203]
In turn, the unity of mankind cannot be established unless and
until there is unity of religion. This understanding is therefore a

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

central piece of the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith which aim to
establish the oneness of humanity. Establishment of the oneness
of the religions represented within its pale is hence also critical
to promoting global tranquility. It achieves unity of religion by
asserting that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that
Divine Revelation is progressive, not final [WOB 58], and by
reminding the followers of Moses, Christ and Mu˙ammad of
the essential moral and ethical dimensions of their Faith.
“All the Prophets of God,” asserts Bahá’u’lláh in the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán, “abide in the same tabernacle, soar in the
same heaven, are seated upon the same throne, utter the
same speech, and proclaim the same Faith.” From the
“beginning that hath no beginning,” these Exponents of
the Unity of God and Channels of His incessant
utterance have shed the light of the invisible Beauty
upon mankind, and will continue, to the “end that hath
no end,” to vouchsafe fresh revelations of His might
and additional experiences of His inconceivable glory.
To contend that any particular religion is final, that “all
Revelation is ended, that the portals of Divine mercy
are closed, that from the daysprings of eternal holiness
no sun shall rise again, that the ocean of everlasting
bounty is forever stilled, and that out of the Tabernacle
of ancient glory the Messengers of God have ceased to
be made manifest” would indeed be nothing less than
sheer blasphemy.
“They differ,” explains Bahá’u’lláh, “only in the
intensity of their revelation and the comparative
potency of their light.” And this, not by reason of any
inherent incapacity of any one of them to reveal in a
fuller measure the glory of the Message with which He
has been entrusted, but rather because of the
immaturity and unpreparedness of the age He lived in to
apprehend and absorb the full potentialities latent in
that Faith. [WOB 58]

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Thus, every Divine Prophet is the Way of God, and His
Revelation guides humanity along the same Straight Path of
truth.
They Who are the Dawning-Places of Revelation and the
Manifestations of the Cause of thy Lord, the Most
Merciful, Who have sacrificed Their souls and all that
They possessed in His Straight Path. [TB 205]
He hath sent forth His Messengers, and sent down His
Books, that they may announce unto His creatures
the Straight Path. [WOB 211]
The Prophets and Messengers of God have been sent
down for the sole purpose of guiding mankind to
the Straight Path of Truth. The purpose underlying their
revelation hath been to educate all men, that they may,
at the hour of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and
sanctity and with absolute detachment, to the throne of
the Most High…. [GWB 156-157]
Apparent exclusivist statements such as that of Jesus’ “I am
the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father,
but by me” [John 14:6] are to be appreciated in the context that
no prophet can be gainsaid in His Dispensation, during which
time humanity needs to focus on His particular Message. This
understanding that in their essentials the multiple Ways of God
represent the One Path of God, and all Dispensations are
expressions of the same Faith is a powerful illustration of the
evolutionary nature of Divine Revelation. It becomes a potent
means for ensuring the organic unity of humanity — a primary
purpose of the Tablets of the Divine Plan and of the travel-
teaching efforts that they exhort us to engage in.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The siráta almustaqeem is an affirmation of the
Oneness of mankind in this Day
The Qur’án explains that humanity is one but that spiritual
leaders in possession of the revealed Word have caused
divisions largely due to differences in interpretation. It
promises that God will, however, rectify the situation for the
believers:
Mankind was one single nation, and God sent
Messengers with glad tidings and warnings; and with
them He sent the Book (of Revelation) in truth, to judge
between people in matters wherein they differed; but the
people of the Book (spiritual leaders in possession of the
Book and to interpret it), after the clear Signs came to
them, did not differ among themselves, except through
selfish contumacy. God by His Grace guided the
believers to the Truth, concerning that wherein they
differed. For God guides whom He will to a path that is
straight.28
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘the Shepherd’ of all sections of humanity
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Southern States ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá writes:
... the divine policy is justice and kindness toward all
mankind. For all the nations of the world are the sheep
of God, and God is the kind shepherd. He has created
these sheep. He has protected them, sustained and
trained them. What greater kindness than this? And
every moment we must render a hundred thousand
thanksgivings that, praise be to God, we are freed from
all the ignorant prejudices, are kind to all the sheep of
God, and our utmost hope is to serve each and all, and
like unto a benevolent father educate every one.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
This is a reference to the statement of Christ anticipating the
unification of religious systems and the establishment of ‘one
fold and one shepherd’:
I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am
known of mine.
As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father:
and I lay down my life for the sheep.
And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them
also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there
shall be one fold, and one shepherd. [John 10:14-16]
The Apostle Peter teaches that the elders feed the flock of
God in their care without recompense until the Chief Shepherd
comes:
Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the
oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly; not
for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind;
Neither as being lords over God’s heritage, but being
ensamples (examples) to the flock.
And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall
receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.
Today, Bahá’u’lláh, “the Chief Shepherd” guides humanity back
to this Straight Path:
O ye children of men: the fundamental purpose
animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to
safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the
human race… This is the Straight Path, the fixed and
immovable foundation. [WOB 202-203]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The Bahá’ís of North America must guide humanity
towards the Straight Path of the Oneness of humanity
and the realization that “the earth is but one country
and mankind its citizens”
Man has always been one in the sight of God. In support of
this, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes from the “great Qur’án”29 in the
thirteenth Tablet addressed to the Bahá’ís of Canada and
Greenland:
“Thou shalt see no difference (‘tafawut’ or real disparity
in the attributes) in the creatures of God.” In other
words, He says: From the ideal standpoint, there is no
variation between the creatures of God, because they are
all created by Him. From the above premise, a
conclusion is drawn, that there is no difference between
countries.
Again He references the Quran148 in the ninth Tablet
addressed to the Bahá’ís of the Northeastern States to indicate
that the Light of God, Bahá’u’lláh in this day, does not favor
either the East or the West but belongs to all mankind. Now, it
is part of the mission of the Bahá’í community of North
America to proclaim and live by the principle of the “Oneness
of mankind”:
All countries, in the estimation of the one true God, are
but one country, and all cities and villages are on an
equal footing. Neither holds distinction over another.
All of them are the fields of God and the habitation of
the souls of men.
In every city and village they must occupy themselves
with the diffusion of the divine exhortations and
advices, guide the souls and promote the oneness of the
world of humanity

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Hence, love for the Divine Essence and recognition
of His Manifestation is the siráta almustaqeem — the
Straight Path of God
“Guide Thou us on the Straight Path,” which is: “Show
us the right way, that is, honor us with the love of Thine
Essence, that we may be freed from turning toward
ourselves and toward all else save Thee, and may become
wholly Thine, and know only Thee, and see only Thee,
and think of none save Thee.” [SV]
The divine Essence, sanctified from every comparison
and likeness, is established in the Prophet, and God’s
inmost Reality, exalted above any peer or partner, is
manifest in Him. [TB, Ishráqát]
Say: O children of dust! He Who is the Spirit of Purity
saith: In this glorious Day whatsoever can purge you
from defilement and ensure your peace and tranquillity,
that indeed is the straight Path, the Path that leadeth
unto Me. [TB 171; TU 7-8]
The Íirá† is specifically the revealed Divine Word —
in this Day, Bahá’u’lláh
He hath clearly set forth His Straight Path in words and
utterances of highest eloquence. [TB, Ishráqát]
The episode of Sinai hath been re-enacted in this
Revelation and He Who conversed upon the Mount is
calling aloud: Verily, the Desired One is come, seated
upon the throne of certitude, could ye but perceive it.
He hath admonished all men to observe that which is
conducive to the exaltation of the Cause of God and
will guide mankind unto His Straight Path. [TB 248]
O servants! Verily I say, he is to be accounted as
truthful who hath beheld the Straight Path. That Path is

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

one, and God hath chosen and prepared it. It shineth
resplendent amongst all paths as the sun amongst the
stars. Whosoever hath not attained it hath failed to
apprehend the truth and hath gone astray. Such are the
counsels of the incomparable, the peerless Lord. [TU 68]
We have revealed Ourself unto men, have unveiled the
Cause, guided all mankind towards God’s Straight Path,
promulgated the laws and have enjoined upon everyone
that which shall truly profit them both in this world and
in the next. [TB 251]
We have truly revealed the signs, demonstrated the
irrefutable testimonies and have summoned all men unto
the Straight Path. Among the people there are those who
have turned away and repudiated the truth, others have
pronounced judgement against Us without any proof or
evidence. The first to turn away from Us have been the
world’s spiritual leaders in this age — they that call upon
Us in the daytime and in the night season and mention
My Name while resting on their lofty thrones. [TB 254]
Recognition of the station of a Manifestation of God is
inseparable from following the ordinances of His Revelation
[KA 19]. Hence, both represent the Straight Path of God. In this
connection, Bahá’u’lláh refers to the earlier revelation
contained in the Qur’án as the Straight Path and the Way of
God.
Perused ye not the Qur’án? Read it, that haply ye may
find the Truth, for this Book is verily the Straight Path.
This is the Way of God unto all who are in the heavens
and all who are on the earth... [GWB XVIII]
The Báb declares that He is the Straight Path:
Some of the people of the city have declared: ‘We are
the helpers of God’, but when this Remembrance came

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
suddenly upon them, they turned aside from helping Us.
Verily God is My Lord and your true Lord, therefore
worship Him, while this Path from ‘Alí [the Báb] is none
but the Straight Path in the estimation of your Lord.
[SWB 45]
O concourse of the faithful! Incline your ears to My
Voice, proclaimed by this Remembrance of God. Verily
God hath revealed unto Me that the Path of the
Remembrance which is set forth by Me is, in very truth,
the Straight Path of God, and that whoever professeth
any religion other than this upright Faith, will, when
called to account on the Day of Judgement, discover
that as recorded in the Book no benefit hath he reaped
out of God’s Religion… [SWB 63]
Bahá’u’lláh similarly announces that He is the Guide to the
Straight Path.
I am the guiding Light that illumineth the way. [TB]
O Living Temple! We, verily, have made Thee a mirror
unto the kingdom of names, that Thou mayest be,
amidst all mankind, a sign of My sovereignty, a herald
unto My presence, a summoner unto My beauty, and a
guide unto My Straight and perspicuous Path. [SLH 43]
And furthermore that His Revelation today represents the
Straight Path of God:
This is a Book which hath become the Lamp of the
Eternal unto the world, and His straight, undeviating
Path amidst the peoples of the earth. Say: This is the
Dayspring of Divine knowledge, if ye be of them that
understand, and the Dawning-place of God’s command-
ments, if ye be of those who comprehend. [KA 87]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

He equates the Straight Path of God in this Day with the Great
News or Great Announcement of the Qur’án:30
My Forerunner (the Báb), Who laid down His life for
this Great Announcement, this Straight Path. [ESW 141]
Say, O My loved ones in My lands! ... He hath made
known unto you His Straight Path and hath acquainted
you with His Great Announcement. [TB 121]
Acquaint the people with the holy verses of thy Lord
and make known unto them His Straight Path, His
mighty Announcement. [TB 52]
... all heavenly Scriptures bear evidence to its over-
powering majesty. In this Day the Book solemnly
testifieth to His glory and the Balance is moved to lift
up its voice. This is the Day wherein the Ṣirá† calleth
aloud: ‘I am the Straight Path’, and Mount Sinai
exclaimeth: ‘Verily the Lord of Revelation is come.’ [TB
237]
The Qur’án warns the individual that he has the
choice of either rejecting the Revelation or taking
the Straight Path to God
This is an admonition: Whosoever will, let him take a
(straight) Path to his Lord.31
This exhortation is again enforced by Bahá’u’lláh:
Thus doth the Nightingale utter His call unto you from
this prison. He hath but to deliver this clear message.
Whosoever desireth, let him turn aside from this counsel
and whosoever desireth let him choose the path to his
Lord. [Tablet of Ahmad, in BP 210]

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
For the followers of Bahá’u’lláh the Íirá†u’l-
Mustaqím is heeding His Call to arise and proclaim
His Faith to all mankind
O Lord, my God! Praise and thanksgiving be unto Thee
for Thou hast guided me to the highway of the kingdom,
suffered me to walk in this Straight and far-stretching
path, illumined my eye by beholding the splendors of
Thy light, inclined my ear to the melodies of the birds of
holiness from the kingdom of mysteries and attracted
my heart with Thy love among the righteous.
O Lord! Confirm me with the Holy Spirit, so that I may
call in Thy Name amongst the nations and give the glad
tidings of the manifestation of Thy kingdom amongst
mankind. [TDP]
The Herald of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, “commanded the
sovereigns of the earth to arise and teach His Cause” [GPB 376],
and Bahá’u’lláh admonished every one of His followers to teach
the Cause of God, “for God hath prescribed unto every one the
duty of proclaiming His Message” [GWB 278]. Any Bahá’í
engaged in this activity is hence treading the Straight Path and
is transformed by the experience.
Consistent with this explanation is that verse 6 of súrah Al-
Fátihah referring to aß-ßirá†a al-mustaqím in the second letter
of the Tablets of Divine Plan is interposed between a statement
about the importance of teaching at least one soul and an
exhortation to travel teach:
One of the holy Manifestations, addressing a believing
soul, has said that, if a person become the cause of the
illumination of one soul, it is better than a boundless
treasury. If God guide, through thee, one soul, it is
better for thee than all the riches!” Again He says,
“Direct us to the Straight Path!” that is, Show us the
right road. It is also mentioned in the Gospel: Travel ye

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

to all parts of the world and give ye the glad tidings of
the appearance of the Kingdom of God. [TDP 11]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá associated the Straight Path in several of His
other Writings with teaching and guiding humanity to the
Truths of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh:
I beseech Him to assist those brethren to promote His
Word in those most distant places, cause them to be
servants to His precious olive-garden, keepers of His
inaccessible fortress and guides to his Straight Path! [TAB
599]
Verily I supplicate God in heart and spirit to make you
signs of guidance, standards of sanctity and fountains
of knowledge and understanding, that through you He
may guide the seekers unto the Straight Path and lead
them unto the Mighty Way in this Great Cycle. [TAB 408]
If this be the endeavor, strive with life and heart and
guide the people to the Kingdom of God, lead them to
the Straight Pathway, inform them of the greatness and
magnitude of this Cause and give them the glad-tidings
through the bounty of divine providence and the
revelation of the Sun of Truth in this great age. [TAB 360]
Verily I supplicate God in heart and spirit to make you
signs of guidance, standards of sanctity and fountains
of knowledge and understanding, that through you He
may guide the seekers unto the Straight Path and lead
them unto the Mighty Way in this Great Cycle. [TAB 407]
O thou who art conscious!
At last thou didst learn of the path of salvation and
didst find the straight way. [TAB 309]

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Verily I read thy recent letter, and noted its beautiful
contents and meanings which proved thy firmness in
the Straight Path. [TAB 259]
The Íirá†u’l-Mustaqím is also a reference that our duty
to teach should entail ‘opening the eyes’ and increasing
perception. Those engaged in this holy endeavor must
so kindle the love of God and the desire of Truth in the
hearts and souls of the seekers that all will cry out to
attain the Íirá†u’l-Mustaqím
‘Abdu’l-Bahá thus summarizes our purpose as the followers of
Bahá’u’lláh:
They must make the blind seeing, the deaf hearing, the
extinguished one enkindled and set aglow, and the dead
quickened. [TAB 721]
This understanding is also implicit in the daily prayer revealed
in the Tablets of the Divine Plan for those who are engaged in
teaching. It contains the second reference to verse 6 of súrah al-
Fátihah:
O Thou kind Lord! Praise be unto Thee that Thou hast
shown us the highway of guidance, opened the doors of
the kingdom and manifested Thyself through the Sun of
Reality. To the blind Thou hast given sight; to the deaf
Thou hast granted hearing; Thou hast resuscitated the
dead; Thou hast enriched the poor; Thou hast shown the
way to those who have gone astray; Thou hast led those
with parched lips to the fountain of guidance; Thou hast
suffered the thirsty fish to reach the ocean of reality;
and Thou hast invited the wandering birds to the rose
garden of grace.
O Thou Almighty! We are Thy servants and Thy poor
ones; we are remote and yearn for Thy presence, are
athirst for the water of Thy fountain,32 are ill, longing

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

for Thy healing. We are walking in Thy path and have no
aim or hope save the diffusion of Thy fragrance, so that
all souls may raise the cry: O God, “Guide us to the
Straight Path.” May their eyes be opened to behold the
light, and may they be freed from the darkness of
ignorance. May they gather around the lamp of Thy
guidance. May every portionless one receive a share.
May the deprived become the confidants of Thy
mysteries.
O Almighty! Look upon us with the glance of
mercifulness. Grant us heavenly confirmation. Bestow
upon us the breath of the Holy Spirit, so that we may be
assisted in Thy service and, like unto brilliant stars,
shine in these regions with the light of Thy guidance.
Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Wise and
the Seeing. [TDP 61-65]
Praise be to God! you have heard the call of the
Kingdom. Your eyes are opened; you have turned to
God. Your purpose is the good-pleasure of God, the
understanding of the mysteries of the heart and
investigation of the realities. Day and night you must
strive that you may attain to the significances of the
heavenly kingdom, perceive the signs of divinity,
acquire certainty of knowledge and realize that this
world has a creator, a vivifier, a provider, an architect,
— knowing this through proofs and evidences and not
through susceptibilities, — nay, rather, through decisive
arguments and real vision [FWU 65].
The servants who dedicate themselves to the education
of the world and to the edification of its peoples —
They are, in truth, cup-bearers of the life-giving water
of knowledge and guides unto the ideal way. They direct
the peoples of the world to the Straight Path and
acquaint them with that which is conducive to human

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
upliftment and exaltation. The Straight Path is the one
which guideth man to the dayspring of perception and
to the dawning-place of true understanding and leadeth
him to that which will redound to glory, honour and
greatness. [TB 35]
Have not His instructions paved before us the broad
and Straight Path of Teaching? [BA 16]
Bahá’u’lláh admonishes the religious leaders that,
through blind imitation and fanaticism, have
misguided their followers and caused them to deviate
from the Straight Path
Quoting the Qur’án He writes in the mighty ˆqán [KI 16]:
Thus He (Prophet Mu˙ammad) saith:
“O people of the Book! Why disbelieve the signs of God
to which ye yourselves have been witnesses?” [Qur’án,
3:70]
And also He saith: “O people of the Book! Why clothe
ye the truth with falsehood? Why wittingly hide the
truth?” [Qur’án, 3:71]
Again, He saith: “Say, O people of the Book! Why repel
believers from the way of God?” [Qur’án, 3:99]
Again, He wrote:
The blind fanaticism of former times hath withheld the
hapless creatures from the Straight Path. [ESW 162]
We can well perceive how the whole human race is
encompassed with great, with incalculable afflictions.
We see it languishing on its bed of sickness, sore-tried
and disillusioned. They that are intoxicated by self-
conceit have interposed themselves between it and the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Divine and infallible Physician. Witness how they have
entangled all men, themselves included, in the mesh of
their devices. They can neither discover the cause of the
disease, nor have they any knowledge of the remedy.
They have conceived the straight to be crooked, and
have imagined their friend an enemy. [GWB 213]
The Lord of the world saith: O servants! Forsake your
own desires and seek that which I have desired for you.
Walk ye not without one to guide you on the way, and
accept ye not the words of every guide. How numerous
the guides who have gone astray and failed to discover
the Straight Path! He alone is a guide who is free from
the bondage of this world and whom nothing
whatsoever can deter from speaking the truth. [TU 70]
Those eminent divines and men of learning who walk
the Straight Pathway and are versed in the secrets of
divine wisdom and informed of the inner realities of the
sacred Books; who wear in their hearts the jewel of the
fear of God, and whose luminous faces shine with the
lights of salvation — these are alert to the present need
and they understand the requirements of modern times,
and
certainly
devote
all
their
energies
toward
encouraging
the
advancement
of
learning
and
civilization. “Are they equal, those who know, and those
who do not know?… Or is the darkness equal with the
light?” [SDC 34; Qur’án 39:12; 13:17]
The Íirá†u’l-Mustaqím also refers to the spiritual
qualities acquired through the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, which in turn is a testimony of the
transforming power of His Revelation
Lay not aside the fear of God, O kings of the earth, and
beware that ye transgress not the bounds which the
Almighty hath fixed. Observe the injunctions laid upon

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
you in His Book, and take good heed not to overstep
their limits. Be vigilant, that ye may not do injustice to
anyone, be it to the extent of a grain of mustard seed.
Tread ye the path of justice, for this, verily, is the
Straight Path. [SLH 188; PDC 22]
O my friend! In all circumstances one should seize upon
every means which will promote security and tranquillity
among the peoples of the world. The Great Being saith:
In this glorious Day whatever will purge you from
corruption and will lead you towards peace and
composure, is indeed the Straight Path. [TB 171]
A goodly character is a means whereby men are guided
to the Straight Path and are led to the Great
Announcement. Well is it with him who is adorned with
the saintly attributes and character of the Concourse on
High. [TB 35]
Disencumber yourselves of all attachment to this world
and the vanities thereof. Beware that ye approach them
not, inasmuch as they prompt you to walk after your
own lusts and covetous desires, and hinder you from
entering the Straight and glorious Path. [GWB 276]
Theme two: Individual Bahá’ís must undergo a
spiritual baptism if their teaching efforts are
to prove effective
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of Canada and Greenland (#13),
‘Abdu’l-Bahá expands on the essential qualities of an effective
teacher.
As regards the teachers, they must completely divest
themselves from the old garments and be invested with a
new garment. According to the statement of Christ,
they must attain to the station of rebirth — that is,
whereas in the first instance they were born from the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

womb of the mother, this time they must be born from
the womb of the world of nature. Just as they are now
totally unaware of the experiences of the fetal world,
they must also forget entirely the defects of the world
of nature. They must be baptized with the water of life,
the fire of the love of God and the breaths of the Holy
Spirit; be satisfied with little food, but take a large
portion from the heavenly table. They must disengage
themselves from temptation and covetousness, and be
filled with the spirit.
“... they must completely divest themselves from the
old garments and be invested with a new garment”,
and “they must attain to the station of rebirth”
Those engaged in teaching must not be bound by effete
tradition and customs and outdated ideas, but instead, they
must resolutely present the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in its pure and
pristine form. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to a similar requirement in
the time of Christ.
On being questioned as to why His disciples did not follow
the laws and traditions of the Dispensation of Moses, Jesus
explained that the truths of every new Dispensation require a
new format for their adequate expression:
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to
fast: and they come and say unto him, Why do the
disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but thy
disciples fast not?
And Jesus said unto them, ...
No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old
garment: else the new piece that filled it up taketh away
from the old, and the rent is made worse.
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the
new wine doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled,

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
and the bottles will be marred: but new wine must be
put into new bottles.
And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they
(your disciples) on the sabbath day that which is not
lawful?
And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man,
and not man for the sabbath:
Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
[Mark 2:18-19; 21-22; 24; 27-28]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in the thirteenth Tablet of the Divine Plan,
refers to this passage and exhorts Bahá’í teachers to also
undergo a spiritual baptism:
... they must completely divest themselves from the old
garments and be invested with a new garment.
According to the statement of Christ, they must attain
to the station of rebirth — that is, whereas in the first
instance they were born from the womb of the mother,
this time they must be born from the womb of the
world of nature. Just as they are now totally unaware of
the experiences of the fetal world, they must also forget
entirely the defects of the world of nature. They must
be baptized with the water of life, the fire of the love of
God and the breaths of the Holy Spirit; be satisfied with
little food, but take a large portion from the heavenly
table. They must disengage themselves from temptation
and covetousness, and be filled with the spirit. Through
the effect of their pure breath, they must change the
stone into the brilliant ruby and the shell into pearl.
Like unto the cloud of vernal shower, they must
transform the black soil into the rose garden and
orchard. They must make the blind seeing, the deaf
hearing, the extinguished one enkindled and set aglow,
and the dead quickened.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

“According to the statement of Christ, they must attain
to the station of rebirth ... They must be baptized with
the water of life, the fire of the love of God and the
breaths of the Holy Spirit” — Faith and man reborn
through the trumpet-blast of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
and the diffusion of its Truths
In the last Tablet to Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada
‘Abdu’l-Bahá returns to this topic — explaining by quoting the
Gospels that materialism begets materialism whilst spirituality
attracts spirituality:
Every one of the important souls must arise, blowing
over all parts of America the breath of life, conferring
upon the people a new spirit, baptizing them with the
fire of the love of God, the water of life, and the
breaths of the Holy Spirit so that the second birth may
become realized. For it is written in the Gospel: “That
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born
of the Spirit is spirit.”
The Apostle Paul explains that John, the Herald of Christ,
“baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the
people, that they should believe on him which should come
after him, that is, on Christ Jesus” [Acts 19:4]. Symbolically, as
they immersed themselves in the river and washed away the
grime of this mundane world they at the same time, and as
attested by John the Baptist Himself, prepared themselves for a
spiritual rebirth through Christ:
I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he
that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I
am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the
Holy Spirit, and with fire. [Matthew 3:11]
(Notably, “Jesus himself baptized not (literally), but his
disciples” did so [John 4:2].)

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement is also a reference to the following
explanation that Christ gives to Nicodemus, a member of the
Sanhedrin and keeper of traditions of the Dispensation of
Moses — only a spiritual rebirth allows the individual to “see”:
Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say
unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see
the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born
when he is old? can he enter the second time into his
mother’s womb, and be born?
Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a
man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter
into the kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is
born of the Spirit is spirit. [John 3:3-6]
“Blessed,” i.e. sanctified and consecrated
In the third Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Central States
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the Faith requires “blessed souls and
detached teachers”. In the sixth Tablet He writes:
Now is the time for you to divest yourselves of the
garment of attachment to this world that perisheth, to
be wholly severed from the physical world, become
heavenly angels, and travel to these countries. I swear by
Him, besides Whom there is none other God, that each
one of you will become an Israfil33 of Life, and will blow
the Breath of Life into the souls of others.
And again in the same communication:
... fluent speakers, who are detached from aught else
save God, attracted with the fragrances of God, and
sanctified and purified from all desires and temptations.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Their sustenance and food must consist of the teachings
of God. First they must themselves live in accordance
with those principles, then guide the people.
These essential qualities are emphasized by Bahá’u’lláh as
quoted by Shoghi Effendi:
Say: O servants! The triumph of this Cause hath
depended, and will continue to depend, upon the
appearance of holy souls, upon the showing forth of
goodly deeds, and the revelation of words of
consummate wisdom. ... “Let your principal concern be
to rescue the fallen from the slough of impending
extinction, and to help him embrace the ancient Faith of
God. Your behavior towards your neighbor should be
such as to manifest clearly the signs of the one true God,
for ye are the first among men to be re-created by His
Spirit, the first to adore and bow the knee before Him,
the first to circle round His throne of glory.” [ADJ 82-83]
“By the righteousness of God!” writes Bahá’u’lláh, “The
world, its vanities and its glory, and whatever delights it
can offer, are all, in the sight of God, as worthless as,
nay even more contemptible than, dust and ashes.
Would that the hearts of men could comprehend it.
Wash yourselves thoroughly, O people of Bahá, from
the defilement of the world, and of all that pertaineth
unto it. God Himself beareth Me witness! The things of
the earth ill beseem you. Cast them away unto such as
may desire them, and fasten your eyes upon this most
holy and effulgent Vision.” “O ye My loved ones!” He
thus exhorts His followers, “Suffer not the hem of My
sacred vesture to be smirched and mired with the things
of this world, and follow not the promptings of your
evil and corrupt desires.” And again, “O ye the beloved
of the one true God! Pass beyond the narrow retreats of
your evil and corrupt desires, and advance into the vast

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
immensity of the realm of God, and abide ye in the
meads of sanctity and of detachment, that the fragrance
of your deeds may lead the whole of mankind to the
ocean of God’s unfading glory.” “Disencumber your-
selves,” He thus commands them, “of all attachment to
this world and the vanities thereof.” [ADJ 30-31]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes the necessary qualities of Bahá’í
teachers as “severed, holy, sanctified and filled with the love of
God” (seventh Tablet of the Divine Plan), and as “souls who are
in a condition of the utmost severance, purified from the
defects of the world of nature, sanctified from attachment to
this earth, vivified with the breaths of eternal life” (eleventh
Tablet of the Divine Plan).
Shoghi Effendi describes the vision guiding the followers of
Bahá’u’lláh as similar to that which motivated the early
Christians:
Of such men and women it may be truly said that to
them “every foreign land is a fatherland, and every
fatherland a foreign land.” For their citizenship, it must
be remembered, is in the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh.
Though willing to share to the utmost the temporal
benefits and the fleeting joys which this earthly life can
confer, though eager to participate in whatever activity
that conduces to the richness, the happiness and peace
of that life, they can, at no time, forget that it
constitutes no more than a transient, a very brief stage
of their existence, that they who live it are but pilgrims
and wayfarers whose goal is the Celestial City, and
whose home the Country of never-failing joy and
brightness. [WOB 198]
They dwell in their own countries, but only as
sojourners (wayfarers) ; they bear their share in all things
as citizens, and they endure all hardships as strangers.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Every foreign country is a fatherland to them, and every
fatherland is foreign...
Their existence is on earth, but their citizenship is in
heaven.
They obey the established laws, and they surpass the laws
in their own lives...
They love all men, and they are persecuted by all...
They are reviled, and they bless; they are insulted, and
they respect...
Doing good they are punished as evil-doers; being
punished they rejoice, as if they were thereby quickened
by life.34
Detachment — Shake off the very dust from your feet
In the Tablets of Western States (#12 of 14) He writes:
(The teachers of the Cause) must be embodied spirit,
personified intellect, and arise in service with the
utmost firmness, steadfastness and self-sacrifice. In
their journeys they must not be attached to food and
clothing. They must concentrate their thoughts on the
outpourings of the Kingdom of God and beg for the
confirmations of the Holy Spirit. With a divine power,
with an attraction of consciousness, with heavenly glad
tidings and celestial holiness they must perfume the
nostrils with the fragrances of the Paradise of Abhá.
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada (#8
of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
Teachers must continually travel to all parts of the
continent, nay, rather, to all parts of the world, but they
must travel like ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who journeyed through-
out the cities of America. He was sanctified and free

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
from every attachment and in the utmost severance. Just
as His Holiness Christ says: Shake off the very dust
from your feet.
The reference is to the admonishment of Christ to His disciples
about detachment and how they should handle rejection whilst
travel-teaching:
These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them,
saying ...
And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is
at hand.
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out
devils: freely ye have received, freely give.
Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your
purses,
Nor scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither
shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his
meat.
And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon
it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you.
And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your
words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake
off the dust of your feet. [Matthew 10:5, 7-10, 13-14]
Christ’s instructions are repeated in the Gospel of Mark:
And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send
them forth by two and two...
And commanded them that they should take nothing for
their journey, save a staff only; no scrip, no bread, no
money in their purse:
But be shod with sandals; and not put on two coats.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

And he said unto them, In what place soever ye enter
into an house, there abide till ye depart from that place.
And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you,
when ye depart thence, shake off the dust under your
feet for a testimony against them... [Mark 6:7-11]
At the time of the Gospel, pious Jews on leaving Gentile
cities often shook the dust from their feet to show their
separation from Gentile practices. By shaking off the dust of a
place from their feet the disciples symbolically showed that the
people rejecting their message were making a wrong choice.
They had done as bidden by Christ and were not required to
linger on or argue with folks who refuse the message and
contend with people who had shut their ears. If they were not
receptive their instructions were not to bother with them — not
even with their dust! They certainly should not leave the place
expecting compensation for their efforts. Bahá’í teachers are to
demonstrate the same attitudes:
As to those souls who are preaching the Word of God, it
behooveth them to shake the dust of every land which
they have passed by off their shoes and to be with God
and without need of the rich — although their bed is the
soil, their light is the stars of the sky and their food is
the herbs of the desert — because theirs is the wealth of
the Kingdom, the honor of the realm of might and the
bounty of the divine world; and they are not in want of
this world and its cares. Their throne is the mat of
humility, their honor is in suffering every lowliness in
the path of the Loving Lord and their wealth is being
empty-handed from the pomps of the world and its
vanities and their provision is trusting in God and being
severed from all that is on the earth and its wealth. [TAB
60-61]

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Contention is similarly forbidden in our Faith
Christ had declared “by this shall all men know that ye are my
disciples, if ye have love one to another” [John 13:35]. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá also states that the believers in the arena of teaching must
demonstrate love and fellowship towards each other (#8 of 14):
The divine friends must be attracted to and enamored of
each other and ever be ready and willing to sacrifice
their own lives for each other. O ye friends! Fellowship,
fellowship! Love, love! Unity, unity! — so that the power
of the Bahá’í Cause may appear and become manifest in
the world of existence.
If two souls quarrel and contend about a question of the
divine questions, differing and disputing, both are
wrong. The wisdom of this incontrovertible law of God
is this: That between two souls from amongst the
believers of God, no contention and dispute may arise;
that they may speak with each other with infinite amity
and love. Should there appear the least trace of
controversy, they must remain silent, and both parties
must continue their discussions no longer, but ask the
reality of the question from the Interpreter.
Elsewhere, He states:
O ye beloved of the Lord! In this sacred Dispensation,
conflict and contention are in no wise permitted. Every
aggressor deprives himself of God’s grace. It is
incumbent upon everyone to show the utmost love,
rectitude of conduct, straightforwardness and sincere
kindliness unto all the peoples and kindreds of the
world, be they friends or strangers. So intense must be
the spirit of love and loving-kindness, that the stranger
may find himself a friend, the enemy a true brother, no
difference whatsoever existing between them. [WT 13]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

O army of God! Beware lest ye harm any soul, or make
any heart to sorrow; lest ye wound any man with your
words, be he known to you or a stranger, be he friend or
foe. Pray ye for all; ask ye that all be blessed, all be
forgiven. Beware, beware, lest any of you seek
vengeance, even against one who is thirsting for your
blood. Beware, beware, lest ye offend the feelings of
another, even though he be an evil-doer, and he wish you
ill. Look ye not upon the creatures, turn ye to their
Creator. [SWAB 73]
The Báb instructed that the teacher listen attentively to a seeker
and present valid proofs of faith without contention.
Take heed to carefully consider the words of every soul,
then hold fast to the proofs which attest the truth. If ye
fail to discover truth in a person’s words, make them
not the object of contention, inasmuch as ye have been
forbidden in the Bayán to enter into idle disputation
and controversy, that perchance on the Day of
Resurrection ye may not engage in argumentation, and
dispute with Him Whom God shall make manifest. [SWB
134]
Bahá’u’lláh prohibited contentious arguments:
Revile ye not one another. We, verily, have come to
unite and weld together all that dwell on earth... If
anyone revile you, or trouble touch you, in the path of
God, be patient, and put your trust in Him Who
heareth, Who seeth... ye have been forbidden to engage
in contention and conflict. [ESW 24]
“Living sacrifice”
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of Canada and Greenland (#5 of
14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “the believers of God must become
self-sacrificing ...” In His Will and Testament He writes:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
The disciples of Christ forgot themselves and all earthly
things, forsook all their cares and belongings, purged
themselves of self and passion and with absolute
detachment scattered far and wide and engaged in
calling the peoples of the world to the Divine Guidance,
till at last they made the world another world, illumined
the surface of the earth and even to their last hour
proved self-sacrificing in the pathway of that Beloved
One of God. Finally in various lands they suffered
glorious martyrdom. Let them that are men of action
follow in their footsteps! [WT 10-11]
The term “living sacrifice” was coined by the Apostle Paul
who admonished the Christians in Rome to sacrifice themselves
to God, not as a sacrifice on the altar, as the Mosaic Law
required the sacrifice of animals, but by consecrating their lives
to God:
I beseech you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God
to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, pleasing
to God, which is your reasonable service.
And be not conformed to this world: but be ye
transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may
prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect,
will of God. [Romans 12:12]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in turn exhorts us to become a living sacrifice in
the path of teaching:
Even as dust upon the Sacred Threshold, in utter
humility and lowliness, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is engaged in the
promulgation of His signs in the daytime and in the
night season. Whensoever he findeth time he prayeth
ardently, and beseecheth Him tearfully and fervently,
saying:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

O Thou divine Providence, pitiful are we, grant us Thy
succour; homeless wanderers, give us Thy shelter;
scattered, do Thou unite us; astray, gather us to Thy
fold; bereft, do Thou bestow upon us a share and
portion; athirst, lead us to the well-spring of Life; frail,
strengthen us that we may arise to help Thy Cause and
offer ourselves as a living sacrifice in the pathway of
guidance. [SWAB 315]
As attested by Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was a living sacrifice to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.
[BK 199]
Shoghi Effendi also writes on this topic:
The community of the organized promoters of the Faith
of Bahá’u’lláh in the American continent — the spiritual
descendants of the dawn-breakers of an heroic Age, who
by their death proclaimed the birth of that Faith — must,
in turn, usher in, not by their death but through living
sacrifice, that promised World Order, the shell ordained
to enshrine that priceless jewel, the world civilization,
of which the Faith itself is the sole begetter. While its
sister communities are bending beneath the tempestuous
winds that beat upon them from every side, this
community, preserved by the immutable decrees of the
omnipotent Ordainer and deriving continual sustenance
from the mandate with which the Tablets of the Divine
Plan have invested it, is now busily engaged in laying the
foundations and in fostering the growth of those
institutions which are to herald the approach of the Age
destined to witness the birth and rise of the World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh. [ADJ 7]

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Theme three: Creation of unity in the world
and maintenance of unity in the faith
“Take ye hold of the Cord of God, all of you, and
become ye not disunited”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains in the fourteenth Tablet that although
there are many means for bringing people together none is as
effective, comprehensive and permanent as Faith:
In the contingent world there are many collective
centers which are conducive to association and unity
between the children of men. For example, patriotism is
a collective center; nationalism is a collective center;
identity of interests is a collective center; political
alliance is a collective center; the union of ideals is a
collective center, and the prosperity of the world of
humanity is dependent upon the organization and
promotion of the collective centers. Nevertheless, all the
above institutions are, in reality, the matter and not the
substance, accidental and not eternal — temporary and
not
everlasting.
With
the
appearance
of
great
revolutions and upheavals, all these collective centers
are swept away. But the Collective Center of the
Kingdom, embodying the institutions and divine
teachings, is the eternal Collective Center. It establishes
relationship between the East and the West, organizes
the oneness of the world of humanity, and destroys the
foundation of differences. It overcomes and includes all
the other collective centers. Like unto the ray of the
sun, it dispels entirely the darkness encompassing all the
regions, bestows ideal life, and causes the effulgence of
divine illumination. Through the breaths of the Holy
Spirit it performs miracles; the Orient and the Occident
embrace each other, the North and South become
intimates and associates, conflicting and contending
opinions disappear, antagonistic aims are brushed aside,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the law of the struggle for existence is abrogated, and
the canopy of the oneness of the world of humanity is
raised on the apex of the globe, casting its shade over all
the races of men. Consequently, the real Collective
Center is the body of the divine teachings, which include
all the degrees and embrace all the universal relations
and necessary laws of humanity.
For the Faith to create the unity of mankind it cannot
become disunited internally
In the fourth Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada (#14/14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ quotes the following from the
Qur’án:
Take ye hold of the Cord of God, all of you, and
become ye not disunited.
The entire verse is as follows and underlines the power of Faith
to transform hatred and enmity to love and unity:
And hold ye fast by the cord of God, all of you and be
not divided among yourselves; and remember with
gratitude God’s favour on you; for ye were enemies and
He joined your hearts in love, so that by His Grace, ye
became brethren; and ye were on the brink of the Pit of
Fire, and He saved you from it. Thus doth God make
His Signs clear to you: That ye may be guided.35
Shoghi Effendi explains that “The word ‘cord’ so often
mentioned in the Teachings means both the Faith itself and also
the power of the Faith which sustains those who cling to it.”36
This power derives its strength from the Covenant.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
In His Will and Testament ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also warns us
to remain firm in the Covenant if we are to remain
on the Straight Path
O ye beloved of the Lord! Strive with all your heart to
shield the Cause of God from the onslaught of the
insincere, for souls such as these cause the Straight to
become crooked and all benevolent efforts to produce
contrary results.
O God, my God! I call Thee, Thy Prophets and Thy
Messengers, Thy Saints and Thy Holy Ones, to witness
that I have declared conclusively Thy Proofs unto Thy
loved ones and set forth clearly all things unto them,
that they may watch over Thy Faith, guard Thy Straight
Path and protect Thy Resplendent Law. Thou art, verily,
the All-Knowing, the All-wise! [WT 22]
In the third Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada (#8 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that to achieve unity,
firmness in the Covenant must become the first duty of ever
soldier in the armies of God:
The first condition is firmness in the Covenant of God.
For the power of the Covenant will protect the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh from the doubts of the people of error. It is
the fortified fortress of the Cause of God and the firm
pillar of the religion of God. Today no power can
conserve the oneness of the Bahá’í world save the
Covenant of God; otherwise differences like unto a
most great tempest will encompass the Bahá’í world. It
is evident that the axis of the oneness of the world of
humanity is the power of the Covenant and nothing else.
Had the Covenant not come to pass, had it not been
revealed from the Supreme Pen and had not the Book of
the Covenant, like unto the ray of the Sun of Reality,
illuminated the world, the forces of the Cause of God
would have been utterly scattered and certain souls who

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

were the prisoners of their own passions and lusts would
have taken into their hands an axe, cutting the root of
this Blessed Tree. Every person would have pushed
forward his own desire and every individual aired his
own opinion!... Therefore, in the beginning the believers
must make their steps firm in the Covenant so that the
confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh may encircle them from all
sides, the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse may
become
their
supporters
and
helpers,
and
the
exhortations and advices of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, like unto the
pictures engraved on stone, may remain permanent and
ineffaceable in the tablets of all hearts.
Theme four: The holy spirit and
transformative power of the word of god
The “Holy Spirit (Ghost)” (ruach ha-kodesh or the breath of
God in Hebrew, and Rú˙ al-Qudus in Arabic). The Qur’án
states that Christ was fortified by the Rú˙ al-Qudus.37 Also, the
Qur’án states that it was the source of Mu˙ammad’s Message38.
In the last Tablet of the Divine Plan ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes
the power of the Holy Spirit to once again revive humanity
and, in particular, to create unity:
Consider how the religions of God served the world of
humanity! How the religion of Torah became conducive
to the glory and honor and progress of the nation of
Israel! How the breaths of the Holy Spirit of His
Holiness Christ created affinity and unity between
divergent communities and quarreling families! How the
sacred power of His Holiness Mu˙ammad became the
means of uniting and harmonizing the contentious
tribes and the different clans of Peninsular Arabia — to
such an extent that one thousand tribes were welded
into one tribe; strife and discord were done away with;
all of them unitedly and with one accord strove in

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
advancing the cause of culture and civilization, and thus
were freed from the lowest degree of degradation,
soaring toward the height of everlasting glory! Is it
possible to find a greater Collective Center in the
phenomenal world than this? In comparison to this
divine Collective Center, the national collective center,
the patriotic collective center, the political collective
center and the cultural and intellectual collective center
are like child’s play!
Now strive ye that the Collective Center of the sacred
religions — for the inculcation of which all the Prophets
were manifested and which is no other than the spirit of
the divine teachings — be spread in all parts of America,
so that each one of you may shine forth from the
horizon of reality like unto the morning star, divine
illumination may overcome the darkness of nature, and
the world of humanity may become enlightened. This is
the most great work! Should you become confirmed
therein, this world will become another world, the
surface of the earth will become the delectable paradise,
and eternal Institutions be founded.
The friends must rely on Bahá’u’lláh and the creative
power of His Word 39 — they must call on the Holy
Spirit for assistance
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Southern
States (#10 of 14) asks every teacher to read a prayer with the
following invocation:
How can I succeed unless Thou assist me with the breath
of the Holy Spirit, help me to triumph by the hosts of
Thy glorious kingdom, and shower upon me Thy
confirmations, which alone can change a gnat into an
eagle, a drop of water into rivers and seas, and an atom
into lights and suns?

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In the Tablet addressed to the Bahá’ís of Northeastern states
(#1 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes the Qur’án:
The soil was black and dried. Then we caused the rain to
descend upon it and immediately it became green,
verdant, and every kind of plant sprouted up
luxuriantly.
This refers to the following verse of the Book:
O men! if ye doubt as to the resurrection … And thou
hast seen the earth dried up and barren: but when We
send down the rain upon it, it stirreth and swelleth, and
groweth every kind of luxuriant herb.
This, for that God is the Truth, and that it is He who
quickeneth the dead, and that He hath power over
everything:
And that “the Hour” will indeed come — there is no
doubt of it — and that God will wake up to life those
who are in the tombs.40
‘Abdu’l-Bahá expands:
In other words, He says the earth is black, but when the
spring showers descend upon it that black soil is
quickened, and variegated flowers are pushed forth. This
means the souls of humanity belonging to the world of
nature are black like unto the soil. But when the
heavenly
outpourings
descend
and
the
radiant
effulgences appear, the hearts are resuscitated, are
liberated from the darkness of nature and the flowers of
divine
mysteries
grow
and
become
luxuriant.
Consequently man must become the cause of the
illumination of the world of humanity and propagate
the holy teachings revealed in the sacred books through
the divine inspiration... Praise be to God, that the
Northeastern States are in the utmost capacity.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanation provides three lessons. First, we
have a duty to be the cause of illumination of mankind. Second,
this success requires “propagation of the sacred book” which
clearly include the Bible and the Qur’án. Third, the Divine
Word, re-voiced to humanity, is capable of renewing the
spiritual life of humanity. It is this transformation, the
“supreme and distinguishing function of His (Bahá’u’lláh’s)
Revelation which is none other than the calling into being of a
new race of men.” [ADJ 16]
Bahá’u’lláh, referring to the transformation effected by
every Revelation in the ways, thoughts and manners of
the people, reveals these words: “Is not the object of
every Revelation to effect a transformation in the whole
character of mankind, a transformation that shall
manifest itself, both outwardly and inwardly, that shall
affect both its inner life and external conditions? For if
the character of mankind be not changed, the futility of
God’s universal Manifestations would be apparent.”
[WOB 25]
It constitutes the greatest proof of the Divine Word — the
“good fruits” of the “good Tree” of true Faith.
The Gospel of John rings out with the statement that the
Divine Word or Kalimah is capable of transforming darkness
into light and reviving seemingly spiritually lifeless souls:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God.
All things were made by him; and without him was not
any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the
life was the light of men.
And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness
comprehended it not (can never extinguish it)...
He came unto his own, and his own received him not.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

But as many as received him, to them gave he power to
become the sons of God, even to them that believe on
his name:
Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the
flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. [John 1:1-5, 11-13]
In the Gospel of Matthew Jesus asks that the validity of the
future Revelation from God be tested and recognized by its
fruits:
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a
corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn
down, and cast into the fire.
Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. [Matthew
7:16-20]
And, the Qur’án similarly speaks of the good fruits of a good
tree:
Seest thou not how God sets forth a parable? — A good
Word is as a good tree: whose root is firmly fixed, and
its branches (reach) to the heavens,
It brings forth its fruit at all times, by the leave of its
Lord. So God sets forth parables for men, in order that
they may receive admonition.
And the parable of an evil Word is that of an evil tree:
it is torn up by the root from the surface of the earth: it
has no stability.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
God will establish in strength those who believe, with
the
Word
that
stands
firm,
in
this
world
And in the Hereafter; but God will leave, to stray, those
who do wrong: God doeth what He willeth.41
Emulating the early followers of Christ, the apostles of
Bahá’u’lláh must become spiritual farmers and toil in the field
of service to humanity. Their concern must be to plant the seed
(Word) — God will water the soil and the seed will reveal its
inherent potentialities depending on the Divine Will and the
receptivity of the souls.
... the ground is rich, the rain of the divine outpouring
is descending. Now you must become heavenly farmers
and scatter pure seeds in the prepared soil. The harvest
of every other seed is limited, but the bounty and the
blessing of the seed of the divine teachings is unlimited.
[TDP 6]
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Central States (#3 of 14),
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also writes:
A person declaring the glad tidings of the appearance of
the realities and significances of the Kingdom is like
unto a farmer who scatters pure seeds in the rich soil.
The spring cloud will pour upon them the rain of
bounty, and unquestionably the station of the farmer
will be raised in the estimation of the lord of the village,
and many harvests will be gathered.
Therefore, ye friends of God! Appreciate ye the value of
this time and be ye engaged in the sowing of the seeds,
so that you may find the heavenly blessing and the lordly
bestowal. Upon you be Bahá’u’l-Abhá!
The allusions are to a parable of Christ in the Gospel of
Matthew. Jesus explains that the farmer should not be too

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

concerned with the fate of the seed for that is largely outside
his control:
And he (Jesus) spake many things unto them in parables,
saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow;
And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and
the fowls came and devoured them up:
Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much
earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had
no deepness of earth:
And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and
because they had no root, they withered away.
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up,
and choked them:
But other fell into good ground, and brought forth
fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some
thirtyfold...
When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and
understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and
catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is
he which received seed by the way side.
But he that received the seed into stony places, the same
is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth
it;
Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while:
for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of
the word, by and by he is offended.
He also that received seed among the thorns is he that
heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the
deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he
becometh unfruitful.
But he that received seed into the good ground is he that
heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold,
some sixty, some thirty. [Matthew 13:1-23]
The heavenly armies of the Lord of Hosts
The Lord of Hosts is referred to in the Bible as ‘Elohe
Tzevaot’ or ‘Yahweh Sabaoth’. In the account of Elishá
(successor to the Prophet Elijáh) there is a realization by his
young servant, when his eyes were opened, that the supporting
hosts of heaven were more numerous than the armies of the
king who had come to attack them:
Therefore sent he (King of Syria) thither horses, and
chariots, and a great host: and they came by night, and
compassed the city about.
And when the servant of the man of God (Elishá) was
risen early, and gone forth, behold, an host compassed
the city both with horses and chariots. And his servant
said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we do?
And he answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are
more than they that be with them.
And Elisha prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his
eyes, that he may see. And the LORD opened the eyes of
the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain
was full of horses and chariots of fire round about
Elisha. [2 Kings 6:14-17]
In the New Testament, the forces of darkness are defeated by
the Heavenly Host led by the Archangel Michael during the
anticipated spiritual war [Revelation 12:7-9]. The Qur’án also
refers to the Hosts of thy Lord of Hosts as junooda rabbika:
... God lead astray whomsoever He will and guide
whomsoever He will. And none knows the hosts of thy
Lord but He...42

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains in the third general Tablet to the
Bahá’ís of United States and Canada (#8 of 14):
The Blessed Person of the Promised One is interpreted in
the Holy Book as the Lord of Hosts — the heavenly
armies. By heavenly armies those souls are intended who
are entirely freed from the human world, transformed
into celestial spirits and have become divine angels. Such
souls are the rays of the Sun of Reality who will illumine
all the continents. Each one is holding in his hand a
trumpet, blowing the breath of life over all the regions.
They are delivered from human qualities and the defects
of the world of nature, are characterized with the
characteristics of God, and are attracted with the
fragrances of the Merciful. Like unto the apostles of
Christ, who were filled with Him, these souls also have
become filled with His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh; that is, the
love of Bahá’u’lláh has so mastered every organ, part
and limb of their bodies, as to leave no effect from the
promptings of the human world.
He exhorts the “Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh” to enroll as soldiers in
the armies of God:
These souls are the armies of God and the conquerors of
the East and the West. Should one of them turn his face
toward some direction and summon the people to the
Kingdom of God, all the ideal forces and lordly
confirmations
will
rush
to
his
support
and
reinforcement. He will behold all the doors open and all
the strong fortifications and impregnable castles razed
to the ground. Singly and alone he will attack the armies
of the world, defeat the right and left wings of the hosts
of all the countries, break through the lines of the
legions of all the nations and carry his attack to the very
center of the powers of the earth. This is the meaning of
the Hosts of God.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Today, Bahá’u’lláh is the Manifestation of the Lord of Hosts
as indicated in the second Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada (#7 of 14):
Praise be to ... the Desired One that ye have become
confirmed in the promotion of divine teachings in that
vast Continent, raised the call of the Kingdom of God
in that region and announced the glad tidings of the
manifestation of the Lord of Hosts and His Highness
the Promised One. Thanks be unto the Lord that ye have
become assisted and confirmed in this aim. This is
purely through the confirmations of the Lord of Hosts
and the breaths of the Holy Spirit.
Again in the Tablet He writes:
... with eyes turned to the Kingdom of God, they must
deliver the glad tidings of the manifestation of the Lord
of Hosts to all the people.
And in the tenth Tablet:
... help me to triumph by the hosts of Thy glorious
kingdom, and shower upon me Thy confirmations
The Guardian referred obliquely to the American believers
who had arisen to pioneer as the Hosts of Heaven:
Because there have been so many applicants in America,
the Guardian has written them that they may place their
pioneers in any virgin area in the world. His objective
now is to fill these lands yet unconquered by the Hosts
of Heaven and he feels the initial impact must be made
now... Furthermore, as the Chief Executors of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Divine Plan, He expects the Americans to bear
the brunt of the load everywhere. [UD, letter 1953 June 5]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Theme five: The light of unity will envelop
the whole earth
God promises that “He will lead them from darkness
into Light”
At the beginning of creation God will that there should be
light:
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
And God saw the light, that [it was] good: and God
divided the light from the darkness. [Genesis 1:3-4]
The Prophet Isaiah promises that the Light will appear
sevenfold stronger [Isaiah 30:26], and the Revelation of St. John
states that the Glory of God (Bahá’u’lláh) will be the Light of
the City:
And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the
moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it ...
And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in
the light of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their
glory and honour into it.
And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for
there shall be no night there. And they shall bring the
glory and honour of the nations into it. [Revelation 21:23-27]
Bahá’u’lláh has fulfilled this promise:
At a time when darkness had encompassed the world, the
ocean of divine favour surged and His Light was made
manifest, that the doings of men might be laid bare.
This, verily, is that Light which hath been foretold in the
heavenly scriptures. Should the Almighty so please, the
hearts of all men will be purged and purified through
His goodly utterance, and the light of unity will shed its
radiance upon every soul and revive the whole earth. [TU 8]

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Today, the North American Bahá’í community has the
responsibility to declare that Bahá’u’lláh has brought
the Divine Light
As promised the Light came from the east but as illustrated
by the Tablets of Divine Plan it now shines on the West:
For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth
even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son
of man be. [Matthew 24:27]
In the ninth Tablet of the Divine Plan ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
The continent of America is in the eyes of the one true
God the land wherein the splendors of His light shall be
revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith shall be
unveiled, where the righteous will abide and the free
assemble.
He adds:
They must realize the value of this bounty; because they
have obtained such a favor and in order to render
thanksgiving for this most great bestowal, they must
arise in the diffusion of divine fragrances so that the
blessed verse of the Qur’án, “God is the light of heaven
and earth: the similitude of His light is a niche in a wall,
wherein a lamp is placed, and the lamp enclosed in a case
of glass; the glass appears as if it were a shining star. It
is lighted with the oil of a Blessed Tree, an olive neither
of the East, nor of the West; it wanteth little but that
the oil thereof would give light, although no fire
touched it. This is the light added unto light. God will
direct unto His light whom He pleaseth.” 43

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Unity is Light, and hatred, animosity and warfare is
darkness. In this Day the Light of Divine Guidance is
focused on creation of unity
Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live
in, and centre your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements … Turn your faces from the darkness of
estrangement to the effulgent light of the daystar of
unity … Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of
one branch. [TU]
... we must strive with heart and soul in order that this
darkness of the contingent world may be dispelled, that
the lights of the Kingdom shall shine upon all the
horizons, the world of humanity become illumined, the
image of God become apparent in human mirrors, the
law of God be well established and that all regions of the
world shall enjoy peace, comfort and composure
beneath
the
equitable
protection
of
God.
My
admonition and exhortation to you is this: Be kind to all
people, love humanity, consider all mankind as your
relations and servants of the most high God. Strive day
and night that animosity and contention may pass away
from the hearts of men, that all religions shall become
reconciled and the nations love each other, so that no
racial, religious or political prejudice may remain and
the world of humanity behold God as the beginning and
end of all existence. God has created all and all return to
God. Therefore love humanity with all your heart and
soul. [FWU]
Conferring ‘life’ and ‘light’ to the world
Christ declared that His disciples must bestow “life” and “light”
to the world:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot
be hidden; nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under
a basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all
who are in the house. “Let your light shine before men in
such a way that they may see your good works, and
glorify your Father who is in heaven”. [Matthew 5:13-16]
Then Jesus again spoke to them, saying, “I am the Light
of the world; he who follows Me will not walk in the
darkness, but will have the Light of life.” [John 8:12]
In the third Tablet to the Bahá’ís of United States and
Canada (#8 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá supplicates God:
Extinguish this fire, so that these dense clouds which
obscure the horizon may be scattered, the Sun of Reality
shine forth with the rays of conciliation, this intense
gloom be dispelled and the resplendent light of peace
shed its radiance upon all countries.
O Lord! Draw up the people from the abyss of the ocean
of hatred and enmity, and deliver them from this
impenetrable darkness. Unite their hearts, and brighten
their eyes with the light of peace and reconciliation.
Deliver them from the depths of war and bloodshed, and
free them from the darkness of error. Remove the veil
from their eyes, and enlighten their hearts with the light
of guidance. Treat them with Thy tender mercy and
compassion, and deal not with them according to Thy
justice and wrath which cause the limbs of the mighty to
quake.
He describes the “extraordinary capacity” that people will
have to “hearken to the Divine Teachings” after having
experienced World War I. This reminds us of the readiness
today that the world has to listen Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings on
religious unity after experiencing recurrent acts of violence in
the name of religion. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes that the conflicts

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

had become “world-consuming” but that “the rays of peace are
world-enlightening”:
One is death, the other is life; this is extinction, that is
immortality; one is the most great calamity, the other is
the most great bounty; this is darkness, that is light; this
is eternal humiliation and that is everlasting glory; one is
the destroyer of the foundation of man, the other is the
founder of the prosperity of the human race.
... in a short space of time, (through travel-teaching)
most wonderful results will be produced, the banner of
universal peace will be waving on the apex of the world
and the lights of the oneness of the world of humanity
may illumine the universe
In the Tablet to the Western States (#4 of 14) He writes:
They must play the melody of international conciliation
with such power that every deaf one may attain hearing,
every extinct person may be set aglow, every dead one
may obtain new life and every indifferent soul may find
every extinct person may be set aglow, every dead one
may obtain new life and every indifferent soul may find
ecstasy.
Whilst in America seven years earlier ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was heard to
remark:
May this American democracy... be the first nation to
establish the foundation of international agreement.
May it be the first nation to proclaim the unity of
mankind. May it be the first to unfurl the standard of
the ‘Most Great Peace’… The American people are
indeed worthy of being the first to build the tabernacle
of the great peace and proclaim the oneness of
mankind… May America become the distributing center
of spiritual enlightenment and all the world receive this

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
heavenly blessing. For America has developed powers
and capacities greater and more wonderful than other
nations… May the inhabitants of this country become
like angels of heaven with faces turned continually
toward God. May all of them become servants of the
omnipotent One. May they rise from their present
material attainments to such a height that heavenly
illumination may stream from this center to all the
peoples of the world… This American nation is equipped
and empowered to accomplish that which will adorn the
pages of history, to become the envy of the world and
be blest in both the East and the West for the triumph
of its people… The American continent gives signs and
evidences of very great advancement. Its future is even
more promising, for its influence and illumination are
far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually. [WOB 75-76]
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Western States (#4 of 14)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
God says in the great Qur’án: “Verily God is the helper
of those who have believed. He will lead them from
darkness into light.” This means: God loves the
believers, consequently He will deliver them from
darkness and bring them into the world of light.
The verse of the Qur’án to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers is as
follows and contains a warning for those who reject Faith:
God is the Protector (patron) of those who have faith:
He brings them out of darkness into the light. Of those
who reject faith the patrons are the Evil Ones: from
light they will lead them forth into the depths of
darkness: they shall be given over to the fire: they shall
abide therein for ever.44
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of Canada and Greenland (#5 of
14) He refers to another related verse of the Qur’án:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

God says in the great Qur’án: A day will come wherein
the lights of unity will enlighten all the world. “The
earth will be irradiated with the light of its Lord.” In
other words, the earth will become illumined with the
light of God. That light is the light of unity. “There is no
God but God.”
And the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord, and
the Book shall be set, and the prophets shall be brought
up, and the witnesses; and judgment shall be given
between them with equity; and none shall be wronged.45
Theme six: The apostles of Christ proclaimed
the good news of the coming of the kingdom
of God (‘the Father’) — His kingdom has come
Therefore, each individual Bahá’í residing in North
America must now aspire to become a herald of
Bahá’u’lláh’s kingdom in these vast and spacious lands
In a prayer to be recited by “whoever sets on a teaching
journey to any place” in the second general Tablet to the
Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada (#7 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá describes a Bahá’í who has arisen to proclaim the Divine
“Word” and the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh as a “herald of the
Kingdom”:
O God, my God! Thou seest me enraptured and attracted
toward Thy glorious kingdom, enkindled with the fire of
Thy love amongst mankind, a herald of Thy kingdom in
these vast and spacious lands, severed from aught else
save Thee, relying on Thee, abandoning rest and
comfort, remote from my native home, a wanderer in
these regions, a stranger fallen upon the ground, humble
before Thine exalted threshold, submissive toward the
heaven of Thine omnipotent glory, supplicating Thee in
the dead of night and at the break of dawn, entreating

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
and invoking Thee at morn and at eventide to graciously
aid me to serve Thy Cause, to spread abroad Thy
teachings and to exalt Thy Word throughout the East
and the West.
Bahá’u’lláh describes to a Muslim cleric the fact that one of
the greatest Prophets of the Bible gave the good news of His
Day, the coming of the Lord God and the descent of the ‘City
of God’ from heaven:
O Shaykh! Peruse that which Isaiah hath spoken in His
Book. He saith: ‘Get thee up into the high mountain, O
Zion, that bringest good tidings; lift up thy voice with
strength, O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings. Lift it
up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah: “Behold
your God! Behold the Lord God will come with strong
hand, and His arm shall rule for Him.”’ This Day all the
signs have appeared. A Great City hath descended from
heaven, and Zion trembleth and exulteth with joy at the
Revelation of God, for it hath heard the Voice of God
on every side.” [ESW 144-145]
For more than two thousand years now the Christians have
prayed for the advent of the Kingdom of God:
... Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy
name.
Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in
heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread. [Matthew 6:9-11]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Travel-teaching — Bahá’ís must follow the example the
Disciples of Christ who sacrificed themselves in
distant lands to proclaim the coming of the Kingdom46
‘Abdu’l-Bahá paraphrases Mark 16:15 four times in the
fourteen
Tablets,
indicating
quite
clearly
the
critical
importance of travel teaching in the charter:
(a) Tablet to the Northeastern States (#1):
It is stated in the blessed Gospel: Travel ye toward the
East and toward the West and enlighten the people with
the light of the Most Great Guidance. so that they may
take a portion and share of eternal life.
(b) Tablet to the Southern States (#2):
It is also mentioned in the Gospel: Travel ye to all part
of the world and give ye the glad tidings of the
appearance of the Kingdom of God.
(c) Tablet to the Western States (#4):
It is also recorded in the blessed Gospel: Travel ye
throughout the world and call ye the people to the
Kingdom of God
(d) In the second Tablet to the United States and Canada (#6 of 14):
His Holiness Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to
the West of the world and summon the people to the
Kingdom of God.
The Biblical quotation is:
He (Jesus) said to them (His disciples), “Go into all the
world and preach the gospel to all.47
This instruction is also in the Gospel of Luke:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
... proclaim everywhere the kingdom of God [Luke 9:60]
In a similar vein, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the third Tablet to the United
States and Canada (#7 of 14) states:
Therefore with hearts overflowing with the love of God,
with tongues commemorating the mention of God, with
eyes turned to the Kingdom of God, they must deliver
the glad tidings of the manifestation of the Lord of
Hosts to all the people.
Travel teaching is also the mandate of the other two charters
of the Faith. In the Tablet of Carmel Bahá’u’lláh expresses the
following wish that motivates and mandates His followers to
arise and proclaim His Faith throughout the world:
… Oh, how I long to announce unto every spot on the
surface of the earth, and to carry to each one of its
cities, the glad-tidings of this Revelation …
‘Abdu’l-Bahá exhorts the friends also in His Will and
Testament to emulate the Disciples of Christ (Haváriyyún-i-
Óa∂rat-i-Massih):
… ye that stand fast in the Covenant! When the hour
cometh that this wronged and broken-winged bird will
have taken its flight into the Celestial Concourse..., it is
incumbent upon … all the friends and loved ones, one
and all to bestir themselves and arise with heart and soul
and in one accord, to diffuse the sweet savors of God,
to teach His Cause and to promote His Faith. It
behooveth them not to rest for a moment, neither to
seek repose. They must disperse themselves in every
land, pass by every clime, and travel throughout all
regions... must kindle the flame of Divine love in every
assembly; that the light of truth may rise resplendent in
the midmost heart of the world, that throughout the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

East and throughout the West a vast concourse may
gather under the shadow of the Word of God …
In these days, the most important of all things is the
guidance of the nations and peoples of the world.
Teaching the Cause is of utmost importance for it is the
head corner-stone of the foundation itself. This
wronged servant has spent his days and nights in
promoting the Cause and urging the peoples to service.
He rested not a moment, till the fame of the Cause of
God was noised abroad in the world and the celestial
strains from the Abhá Kingdom roused the East and the
West. The beloved of God must also follow the same
example. This is the secret of faithfulness, this is the
requirement of servitude to the Threshold of Bahá!
The disciples of Christ forgot themselves and all earthly
things, forsook all their cares and belongings, purged
themselves of self and passion and with absolute
detachment scattered far and wide and engaged in
calling the peoples of the world to the Divine Guidance,
till at last they made the world another world, illumined
the surface of the earth and even to their last hour
proved self-sacrificing in the pathway of that Beloved
One of God. Finally in various lands they suffered
glorious martyrdom. Let them that are men of action
follow in their footsteps!
Theme seven: The power of one individual to
influence the course of religious history
As farmers we must plant the seed in a rich soil — the
Divine showers will bless the effort with an abundant
harvest
In the second Tablet of Divine Plan addressed to the
Southern States ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
A person declaring the glad tidings of the appearance of
the realities and significances of the Kingdom is like
unto a farmer who scatters pure seeds in the rich soil.
The spring cloud will pour upon them the rain of
bounty, and unquestionably the station of the farmer
will be raised in the estimation of the lord of the village,
and many harvests will be gathered.
Our duty is to teach at least one soul
In the Tablet addressed to the Bahá’ís of Northeastern States
(#1 of 14) He quotes the Qur’án to highlight the potentially
manifold consequences of the action of one believer who arises
to serve his Lord.
During the lifetime of Jesus Christ the believing, firm
souls were few and numbered, but the heavenly blessings
descended so plentifully that in a number of years
countless souls entered beneath the shadow of the
Gospel. God has said in the Qur’án48: “One grain will
bring forth seven sheaves, and every sheaf shall contain
one hundred grains.” In other words, one grain will
become seven hundred; and if God so wills He will
double these also. It has often happened that one blessed
soul has become the cause of the guidance of a nation.
Now we must not consider our ability and capacity, nay,
rather, we must fix our gaze upon the favors and
bounties of God, in these days, Who has made of the
drop a sea, and of the atom a sun.
In the Tablet to the Southern States (#2 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states:
... a person become the cause of the illumination of one
soul, it is better than a boundless treasury... If God
guide, through thee, one soul, it is better for thee than
all the riches!

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

On another occasion ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
... one sanctified soul will become the cause of
quickening of a hundred thousand souls... for the
guidance of one soul is greater than the sovereignty of a
kingdom.49
Shoghi Effendi reinforces this point by quoting the above
passage in The Advent of Divine Justice. He concludes:
It has often happened that one blessed soul has become
the cause of the guidance of a nation. [ADJ 57]
In a similar vein he writes elsewhere:
Just one mature soul, with spiritual understanding and a
profound knowledge of the Faith, can set a whole
country ablaze — so great is the power of the Cause to
work through a pure and selfless channel. [CC2 223]
One soul can be the cause of the spiritual illumination
of a continent. [CC2 20]
In addition to its literal meaning, the following blessed verse
of the Qur’án is imbued with a similar spiritual understanding:
… whoso saveth the life of one, it shall be as if he had
saved the life of all mankind.50
This is attested to by Bahá’u’lláh:
Whosoever quickens one soul in this Cause is like unto
one quickening all the servants. [BWF 204]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá illustrates this point in the Tablet to the
Bahá’ís of the Southern States (#10 of 14) by referring to the
sacrificial efforts of Bartholomew who opened up a whole
country to the Faith of Christ:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Nearly two thousand years ago, Armenia51 was enveloped
with impenetrable darkness. One blessed soul from
among the disciples of Christ hastened to that part, and
through his effort, erelong that province became
illumined. Thus it has become evident how the power of
the Kingdom works!
The power of the faith of the first guide … become
manifest in the lives of other believers, until one
sanctified soul will become the cause of quickening a
hundred thousand souls.52
Undeterred by fewness of numbers
In the thirteenth Tablet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
O ye believers of God! Be not concerned with the
smallness of your numbers, neither be oppressed by the
multitude of an unbelieving world. Five grains of wheat
will be endued with heavenly blessing, whereas a
thousand tons of tares will yield no results or effect.
One fruitful tree will be conducive to the life of
society, whereas a thousand forests of wild trees offer
no fruits. The plain is covered with pebbles, but
precious stones are rare. One pearl is better than a
thousand wildernesses of sand, especially this pearl of
great price, which is endowed with divine blessing.
Erelong thousands of other pearls will be born from it.
When that pearl associates and becomes the intimate of
the pebbles, they also all change into pearls.
The ‘Parable of the Sower’
‘Abdu’l-Bahá reiterates this vital understanding in His Tablet
to the Bahá’ís of the Central States (#11 of 14):
The sons and daughters of the kingdom are like unto the
real farmers. Through whichever state or country they

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

pass they display self-sacrifice and sow divine seeds.
From that seed harvests are produced. On this subject it
is revealed in the glorious Gospel: When the pure seeds
are scattered in the good ground heavenly blessing and
benediction is obtained.
This is a reference to a parable of Christ given in the Gospel of
Matthew. In this parable Christ had explained that His disciples
should plant the seed and not be over-concerned with the
results. He compares the Word of God and the Divine teachings
to seeds that are scattered by a farmer. Some are not
appreciated because of shallowness of belief, lack of
preparedness, and mundane concerns. Others encounter
opposition. But some are appreciated by understanding hearts
and yield abundant fruit according to the receptivity of the
individuals:
Behold, a sower went forth to sow;
And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and
the fowls came and devoured them up:
Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much
earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had
no deepness of earth:
And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and
because they had no root, they withered away.
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up,
and choked them:
But other fell into good ground, and brought forth
fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some
thirtyfold.
Who hath ears to hear, let him hear …
But he that received seed into the good ground is he that
heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold,
some sixty, some thirty. [Matthew 13:1-23]
Theme eight: ‘The mystery of reversal’ or
‘sirru’t-tanqís’
At the beginning of every Dispensation certain human beings
are exalted whilst others are debased. Lowly believers embrace
the Faith and embody its spiritual principles, and undertake the
arduous task of proclaiming its Truths. Conversely, others
including some spiritual leaders are demeaned by their
blindness, and lack of receptivity and response to the Message.
Shaykh A˙mad-i-Ahsá’í, who heralded the advent of the Faith of
the Báb”, prophesied that at the appearance of the Promised
One all things would be reversed, the last would be first, the
first last.
Bahá’u’lláh in one of His Tablets refers to the “symbol
and allusion” of the “mystery of the Great Reversal in
the Sign of the Sovereign”. He states: “Through this
reversal He hath caused the exalted to be abased and the
abased to be exalted”, and He recalls that “in the days of
Jesus, it was those who were distinguished for their
learning, the men of letters and religion, who denied
Him, whilst humble fishermen made haste to gain
admittance into the Kingdom.” [KA note #171]
Hence, to encourage individual Bahá’ís to arise and not to be
overwhelmed by any consideration of their limitations and the
magnitude of the task before them, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes from
the Gospels and the Qur’án in the final Tablet addressed to the
entire community of the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada (#14 of 14) that speaks to this principle.
Matthew 5 contains nine ‘Beatitudes’, the first one of which
reads:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom
of Heaven.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
In other words: Blessed are the nameless and traceless
poor, for they are the leaders of mankind.
Likewise it is said in the Qur’án: “And We desire to
show favor to those who were brought low in the land,
and to make them spiritual leaders among men, and to
make of them Our heirs.”53 Or, we wish to grant a favor
to the impotent souls and suffer them to become the
inheritors of the Messengers and Prophets.
Notably, later in the Gospel Christ adds:
So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many be
called, but few chosen. [Matthew 20:16]
In the same Tablet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá provides examples of this
and refers to two dedicated female followers of Christ who
fulfilled valuable functions in early days by promoting the Faith
of Christ and supporting His disciples.
Consider! The station and the confirmation of the
apostles in the time of Christ was not known, and no
one looked on them with the feeling of importance —
nay, rather, they persecuted and ridiculed them. Later on
it became evident what crowns studded with the
brilliant jewels of guidance were placed on the heads of
the apostles, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of
John.
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Western States (#12 of 14)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá reveals the following prayer for those engaged in
teaching:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
O Lord! I am single, alone and lowly. For me there is no
support save Thee, no helper except Thee and no
sustainer beside Thee. Confirm me in Thy service, assist
me with the cohorts of Thine angels, make me victorious
in the promotion of Thy Word and suffer me to speak
out Thy wisdom amongst Thy creatures. Verily, Thou
art the helper of the weak and the defender of the little
ones, and verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty and
the Unconstrained.
Theme nine: Encouragement tinged with
admonishment
The addresses to the American community are replete with
encouragement, as exemplified by the following statement in
the second Tablet to the entire Bahá’í community of the United
States and Canada (#7 of 14):
The full measure of your success is as yet unrevealed, its
significance still unapprehended. Erelong ye will, with
your own eyes, witness how brilliantly every one of you,
even as a shining star, will radiate in the firmament of
your country the light of divine Guidance, and will
bestow upon its people the glory of an everlasting life...
The range of your future achievements still remains
undisclosed. I fervently hope that in the near future the
whole earth may be stirred and shaken by the results of
your achievements.
And again, in the third Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada (#8 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
O ye Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh!
May my life be sacrificed for you! ...
Behold the portals which Bahá’u’lláh hath opened before
you! Consider how exalted and lofty is the station you

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

are destined to attain; how unique the favors with which
you have been endowed.54
Shoghi Effendi expresses the same confidence in the American
community:
Such vacillation, failure, or neglect, the American
believers, the ambassadors of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh,
will, I am firmly convinced, never permit. Such a trust
will never be betrayed, such hopes can never be
shattered, such a privilege will never be forfeited, nor
will such praises remain unuttered. Nay rather the
present generation of this blessed, this repeatedly
blessed, community will go from strength to strength,
and will hand on, as the first century draws to a close, to
the generations that must succeed it in the second the
torch
of
Divine
Guidance,
undimmed
by
the
tempestuous winds that must blow upon it, that they in
turn, faithful to the wish and mandate of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
may carry that torch, with that self-same vigor, fidelity,
and enthusiasm, to the darkest and remotest corners of
the earth. [ADJ 74-75]
There are, however, a couple of instances where the letters
exhibit impatience concerning the slow pace of progress. In the
Tablet to the Bahá’ís of Canada and Greenland (#5 of 14)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
Although in most of the states and cities of the United
States, praise be to God, His fragrances are diffused,
and souls unnumbered are turning their faces and
advancing toward the Kingdom of God, yet in some of
the states the Standard of Unity is not yet upraised as it
should be, nor are the mysteries of the Holy Books, such
as the Bible, the Gospel, and the Qur’án, unraveled.
In the Tablet to the Southern States (#10 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
remarks:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
It is about twenty-three years that the fragrances of God
have been diffused in America, but no adequate and
befitting motion has been realized, and no great
acclamation and acceleration has been witnessed. Now it
is my hope that through the heavenly power, the
fragrances
of
the
Merciful,
the
attraction
of
consciousness, the celestial outpourings, the heavenly
cohorts and the gushing forth of the fountain of divine
love, the believers of God may arise and in a short time
the greatest good may unveil her countenance, the Sun
of Reality may shine forth with such intensity that the
darkness of the world of nature may become entirely
dispelled and driven away...
Again, in the Tablet to the Central States (#3 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá remarks:
So far the summons of the Kingdom of God and the
proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity
has not been made in these states systematically and
enthusiastically. Blessed souls and detached teachers
have not traveled through these parts repeatedly;
therefore these states are still in a state of heedlessness.
Again, in the Tablet to the Western States (#4 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá remarks:
... the lamp of the love of God is not ignited in a
befitting and behooving manner, and the call of the
Kingdom of God has not been raised. Now, if it is
possible, show ye an effort in this direction. Either
travel yourselves, personally, throughout those states or
choose others and send them, so that they may teach the
souls.
Additionally, there are some implicit admonishments. In
Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Western States (#12 of 14), after

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

praising the beauty of the land and climate of the region,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
... Particularly was I greatly pleased with the meetings in
San Francisco and Oakland, the gatherings in Los
Angeles, and the believers who came from the cities of
other states. Whenever their faces cross My memory,
immediately infinite happiness is realized.
Therefore I hope that the divine teachings like unto the
rays of the sun may be diffused in all the Western
States, and the blessed verse of the Qur’án, “It is a good
City and the Lord is the Forgiver!” may become realized.
The “good City” (balad; also country, region) is a reference in
the Qur’án to a region in Yemen occupied by a tribe ‘Shebá’ or
Sabá, which was characterized by pure air and good fortune.
There was indeed a sign for Sheba in their dwelling-
place: Two gardens on the right hand and one to the left:
eat of the provision of your Lord and render thanks to
Him. A good (fair) land (balad; also city or country) and
a forgiving Lord! 55
It is noteworthy that the next two verses carry an implicit
warning. Despite the great prosperity bestowed upon them, the
inhabitants of Shebá turned away from God and were
consequently punished by an environmental disaster:
But they turned away. So we sent the flood of Arim
(burst dam) upon them and exchanged their two gardens
for two gardens bearing bitter fruit ...
Thus did We recompense them for having disbelieved.
And do We recompense any but the disbelievers?56
However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá merely emphasizes the current good
fortune of California and neighboring states and the indulgence
of their Lord.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
The next verse of the Qur’án that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes may
also contains a similar admonition:
Likewise, the significance of another Qur’anic verse,
“Do ye not travel through the land?”
There are several verses in the Qur’án with the phrase “do ye
not travel through the land?” or “have they not journeyed
(traveled) upon the earth”. All relate to the adverse outcomes of
earlier civilizations that were heedless of Divine Mercy:
Do they not travel through the earth and see what was
the end of those before them? They were more numerous
than these and superior in strength and in the traces
(they have left) in the land: yet all that they
accomplished was of no profit to them.
For when their apostles came to them with Clear Signs,
they exulted in such knowledge (and skill) as they had;
but that very (wrath) at which they were wont to scoff
hemmed them in.
But when they saw Our Punishment, they said: “We
believe in God, — The One God — and we reject the
partners we used to join with Him.”
But their professing the Faith when they (actually) saw
Our punishment was not going to profit them. (Such has
been) God’s way of dealing with His servants (from the
most ancient times). And even thus did the rejecters of
God perish (utterly)!57
Have they not journeyed upon the earth and observed
how those before them fared in the end? They were
greater than them in strength. They tilled the earth and
built upon it more than have they, and their Messengers
brought them clear proofs. For God would never wrong
them, but themselves did they wrong.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Then the end of those who committed evil deeds was
most evil, for they denied God’s signs and mocked them.
God originates creation, then brings it back, then unto
Him shall ye be returned.
And on the Day when the Hour is come, the guilty shall
despair.58
O ye who believe! If ye will aid (the cause of) God, He
will aid you, and plant your feet firmly. But those who
reject (God), for them is destruction, and (God) will
render their deeds astray (from their mark).
That is because they hate the Revelation of God; so He
has made their deeds fruitless.
Do they not travel through the earth, and see what was
the end of those before them (who did evil)? God
brought utter destruction on them, and similar (fates
await) those who reject God.
That is because God is the Protector of those who
believe, but those who reject God have no protector.59
Do they not travel through the land, so that their hearts
(and minds) may thus learn wisdom and their ears may
thus learn to hear? Truly it is not their eyes that are
blind, but their hearts which are in their breasts.60
Nor did We send before thee (as apostles) any but men,
whom We did inspire, — (men) living in human
habitations. Do they not travel through the earth, and
see what was the end of those before them? But the
home of the Hereafter is best, for those who do right.
Will ye not then understand?61
Do they not travel through the earth, and see. What was
the end of those before them, though they were superior
to them in strength? Nor is God to be frustrated by

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
anything whatever in the heavens or on earth: for He is
All-Knowing, All-Powerful.
If God were to punish men according to what they
deserve, He would not leave on the surface of the
(earth) a single living creature: but He gives them respite
for a stated term: when their term expires, verily God
has in His sight all His servants.62
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then returns to the heartwarming good news of
God’s ability to transform the individual and society if they
arise to act as His instruments and His counsels:
... and of the verse, “Behold the traces of the Mercy of
God!” become revealed in the utmost effulgence.
This is a reference to the following verse of the Qur’án:
Look, therefore, at the prints (traces, marks, vestiges,
evidences) of God’s mercy (in creation): how He
quickeneth the earth after her death. Lo! He verily is the
Quickener of the dead, and He is Able to do all things.63
Theme ten: Bahá’ís must study the Bible and
the Qur’án
They must “propagate the holy teachings revealed in
the sacred books through the divine inspiration.”
Our Writings including the Tablets of the Divine Plan
provide several reasons why Bahá’ís in North America are urged
to study the Bible and the Qur’án.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Belief in Islám (Mu˙ammad and the Qur’án) and
Christianity is essential to being a follower of
Bahá’u’lláh — it defines a Bahá’í
Indeed, the essential prerequisites of admittance into the
Bahá’í fold of Jews, Zoroastrians, Hindus, Buddhists,
and the followers of other ancient faiths, as well as of
agnostics and even atheists, is the wholehearted and
unqualified acceptance by them all of the divine origin of
both Islám and Christianity, of the Prophetic functions
of both Mu˙ammad and Jesus Christ… [PDC 110]
“An essential preliminary” to teaching
We are far more effective in teaching Christians and
Muslims if they determine that we truly believe in their
religions and consider their scriptures part of our own. Study
of the Bible and the Qur’án is thus critical to our mission to
promote the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith, and thereby create
the unity of mankind and the reconciliation of the antagonistic
religions. Notably, Bahá’u’lláh at the beginning of the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán states that we should “consider the past” [KI 4]. The
originally phrase, “názer be ayyam Qabl shavid,” translates
“observe the ‘days’ of past dispensations . These dispensations
are best considered in the context of their scriptures and
teachings as exemplified by the following statement of
Bahá’u’lláh in His Book of the Covenant: “Consider ye and call
to mind that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the
Qur’án” [Kitáb-i-Ahd 1]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also admonished us to
“consider the past (dispensations)” [BWF 394]. The Tablets of the
Divine Plan affirm our unequivocal belief in Judeo-Christianity
and Islám, and reignite our determination to study their
scriptures. It is worth noting that Marcus Bach, a Christian to
whom Shoghi Effendi presented the Bahá’í Faith, was left in no
doubt about the Guardian’s love for Christ:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
But the thing that struck me most as our meeting
progressed was his unquestioned devotion to the
Galilean (Jesus).64
Central to our appreciation of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh
The Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi often
refer to the Bible and the Qur’án in their Writings. Study of
the Bible and of the Qur’án therefore increases the
understanding of our faith. Shoghi Effendi placed special
emphasis on the study of the Bible and the Qur’án in The
Advent of Divine Justice, an indispensible letter addressed to
the Bahá’ís of North America in 1938, setting out the spiritual
prerequisites for success in every activity directed at advancing
the Faith.
Those who participate in such a campaign, whether in an
organizing capacity, or as workers to whose care the
execution of the task itself has been committed, must,
as an essential preliminary to the discharge of their
duties, thoroughly familiarize themselves with the
various aspects of the history and teachings of their
Faith... They must strive to obtain, from sources that
are authoritative and unbiased, a sound knowledge of
the history and tenets of Islám — the source and
background of their Faith — and approach reverently
and with a mind purged from preconceived ideas the
study of the Qur’án which, apart from the sacred
scriptures
of
the
Bábí
and
Bahá’í
Revelations,
constitutes the only Book which can be regarded as an
absolutely authenticated Repository of the Word of
God. [ADJ 49]
Shoghi Effendi urged us to make the necessary effort:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

… the Guardian would certainly advise, and even urge
the friends to make a thorough study of the Qur’án, as
the knowledge of this sacred Scripture is absolutely
indispensable for every believer who wishes to
adequately understand and intelligently read, the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh… [DG 63]
With regard to the school’s program (Louhelen) for the
next summer; the Guardian would certainly advise, and
even urge the friends to make a thorough study of the
Qur’án, as the knowledge of this sacred Scripture is
absolutely indispensable for every believer who wishes
to adequately understand and intelligently read, the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Although there are very few
persons among Western Bahá’ís who are capable of
handling such a course in a scholarly way, the mere lack
of such competent teachers should encourage and
stimulate the believers to get better acquainted with the
Sacred Scriptures of Islám. In this way, there will
gradually appear some distinguished Bahá’ís who will be
so well versed in the teachings of Islám as to be able to
guide the believers in their study of that religion. [DG 63]
As regards the [Summer School] courses, he would
advise you to continue laying emphasis on the history
and teachings of Islám, and in particular on the Islamic
origins of the Faith.65
... We must remember that every religion sprang from
some root, and just as Christianity sprang from
Judaism, our own religion sprang from Islám, and that
is why so many of the teachings deduce their proofs
from Islám.66
Shoghi Effendi hopes that your lectures will not only
serve to deepen the knowledge of the believers in the
doctrines and culture of Islám, but will set their hearts

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
afire with the love of everything that vitally pertains to
Mu˙ammad and His Faith. [LG #1664]
All humanity have the capacity to reflect the divine light. We
therefore proclaim Bahá’u’lláh’s Message to all, and do not
direct our teaching efforts merely at like-minded individuals.
Our study of the scriptures allows us to address both liberal as
well as conservative Christians and Muslims. Otherwise, how
could we witness the miraculous ability of the Divine Word to
open the eyes and ears, to soften the hearts, and thus transform
seemingly more recalcitrant beings? Many Christians and
Muslims in North America are very familiar with their
scriptures.
Therefore,
we
often
have
to
fortify
our
presentations with explanations by Bahá’u’lláh of the truths
enshrined in the Bible, and the Qur’án. Otherwise, our
presentations will not resonate with most Christians and
Muslims, and whilst possibly appearing enticing and attractive
they will be rejected and resisted on the grounds that they are
non-scriptural and dangerously naïve.
While ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was writing the Tablets of the Divine
Plan, Europe was waging some of the bloodiest battles of
World War I.67 There were then only a few thousand Muslims in
the United States, mostly migrants from the Ottoman Empire
and the Indian subcontinent. It is therefore worth meditating as
to why He included in these letters addressed to North America
fourteen direct quotations from the Qur’án. One can only
conclude that He foresaw the need for the American believers
to become familiar with the scripture and prepare themselves
for the time when Muslims will become a prominent part of the
landscape. Since then Islám has become the fastest growing
religion in North America, and an independent research group
estimates that in 2015 there were about 3.3 million Muslims of
all ages living in the United States, or about 1 per cent of the
population, compared to about 71% Christians, and 5.7 million
Jews and 2.1 million Hindus.68 By 2050, the American Muslim

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

population is projected to reach 8.1 million people, or 2.1% of
the total population.69
The resurgence of Islám, the increasing number of Muslims
in predominantly Judeo-Christian Western democracies and the
unfortunate escalating violence in the name of Islám have
added to the urgency of the call to action embodied in the
Tablets of Divine Plan. The world-wide evidences of nefarious
results of religious fanaticism and hatred also underline the
Guardian’s urgent and specific exhortations to Bahá’ís almost
eight decades ago to familiarize themselves with the Qur’án and
Islám.
Essential for our presentations of the scriptural basis
of ‘One Common Faith’ and ‘Progressive Revelation’
— acceptance of these precepts is critically important
for the establishment of unity, our avowed goal
Our stated task is facilitated by the fact that every religion
confirms earlier Dispensations and gives the good news that
God will in due time reveal further truths. Additionally, the
Dispensations of Moses, Christ, Mu˙ammad, and Bahá’u’lláh
share identical eternal spiritual values. Hence, explanations that
focus on the rebirth of the essential [PUP 445] ethical and moral
teachings of Judaism, Christianity and Islám, rather than an
emphasis on their clearly outdated social laws and effete
traditions, promote organic unity.
In the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Northeastern States (#1 of
14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá thus defines the function of the individual:
... man must become the cause of the illumination of the
world of humanity and propagate the holy teachings
revealed in the sacred books through the divine
inspiration.
Furthermore, Shoghi Effendi in The Advent of Divine
Justice quotes from the Tablets of Divine Plan, dated April 5,

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
1916 and addressed to the Bahá’ís of Canada and Greenland (#5
of 14), in which Ábdu’l-Bahá links the lack of hoped-for
progress in establishing harmony in several parts of the United
States directly with the failure of the North American Bahá’í
community to provide the scriptural evidence and basis for the
unifying principles of our Faith, such as the Oneness of God,
the Oneness of Faith and progressive revelation.
Although in most of the states and cities of the United
States, praise be to God, His fragrances are diffused,
and souls unnumbered are turning their faces and
advancing toward the Kingdom of God, yet in some of
the states the Standard of Unity is not yet upraised as it
should be, nor are the mysteries of the Holy Books, such
as the Bible (the Tanakh), the Gospel, and the Qur’án,
unraveled. Through the concerted efforts of all the
friends the Standard of Unity must needs be unfurled in
those states, and the divine teachings promoted, so that
these states may also receive their portion of the
heavenly bestowals and a share of the Most Great
Guidance. [ADJ 57-58]
It is the duty of Bahá’ís to provide the interpretations
and explanations of the ‘mysteries’ of the Bible and
the Qur’án
The Bible discourages Jews and Christians from interpreting
the scriptures70. Muslims are similarly warned that attempts to
explain the abstruse parts of the Qur’án (the mutashabihát) that
are susceptible to interpretation (ta’wíl) is likely to cause
divisions.71 The ta’wíl and the explanations (tafsír) of the
mutashabihát are reserved for a future Day of God.72 It is
therefore the duty of Bahá’ís to provide the scriptural
interpretations in the light of the extensive explanations of the
Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi. It is of
interest that in response to a query of the Hand of the Cause of
God, Ibn-i-Abhar, as to how he could, confined and chained in

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

a prison, best teach the Faith, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá lovingly advises him
to read the Qur’án night and day and to provide its ta’wíl and
its tafsír.73
It is instructional that in the Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the
United States and Canada (#6 of 14) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasizes
the importance of teaching the Catholics of Mexico through
explanations from the Bible. It is also noteworthy in this
context that since then Roman Catholicism has lost influence in
Mexico and South America whilst Bible-based evangelical
Protestant groups have made significant advances.74 One can
only speculate the magnitude of the success that American and
Canadian Bahá’ís would have enjoyed had they earnestly heeded
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s admonition.
Likewise the republic of Mexico is very important. The
majority of the inhabitants of that country are devoted
Catholics. They are totally unaware of the reality of the
Bible (Old Testament or Tanakh), the Gospel and the
new divine teachings. They do not know that the basis
of the religions of God is one and that the holy
Manifestations are like unto the Sun of Truth, rising
from the different dawning-places. Those souls are
submerged in the sea of dogmas. If one breath of life be
blown over them, great results will issue therefrom. But
it is better for those who intend to go to Mexico to
teach, to be familiar with the Spanish language.
Additionally, in the context of Judeo-Christianity and Islám,
the World Order letters written by Shoghi Effendi (March 28,
1941) state unequivocally as a “fundamental principle of
religious truth”, that “declared ... the primary purpose (of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh) is to enable every adherent of these
Faiths to obtain a fuller understanding of the religion with
which he stands identified, and to acquire a clearer
apprehension of its purpose” [WOB 58].

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
At a time when the light of Islám is dimmed by
atrocities carried out in its name, it is our duty to
defend the spiritual truths of Islám, for while
Bahá’u’lláh has unconditionally abrogated the
Dispensation of Islám He has not abrogated the Faith
or religion of Islám
Shoghi Effendi wrote in 1936:
The truth is that Western historians have for many
centuries distorted the facts to suit their religious and
ancestral prejudices. The Bahá’ís should try to study
history anew, and to base all their investigations first
and foremost on the written Scriptures of Islám and
Christianity.75
It was with feelings of great joy, pride and satisfaction that
Shoghi Effendi declared that a Christian Queen76 had through
her recognition of the Mission of Bahá’u’lláh expressed her
belief in the prophetic function of Mu˙ammad:
… God is All, everything. He is the power behind all
beginnings.... His is the Voice within us that shows us
good and evil. But mostly we ignore or misunderstand
this voice. Therefore, did He choose His Elect to come
down amongst us upon earth to make clear His Word,
His real meaning. Therefore, the Prophets; therefore,
Christ, Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh, for man needs from
time to time a voice upon earth to bring God to him, to
sharpen the realization of the existence of the true God.
Those voices sent to us had to become flesh, so that
with our earthly ears we should be able to hear and
understand. [PDC 109]
Shoghi Effendi considered this expression of faith in
Mu˙ammad by Queen Marie of Romania as a testimony of our
dedication to the principle of ‘One Common Faith’:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

What greater proof … can the (Muslim clergy) … require
wherewith to demonstrate the recognition by the
followers of Bahá’u’lláh of the exalted position
occupied by the Prophet Mu˙ammad … What greater
evidence of our competence can they demand than that
we should kindle… the spark of an ardent and sincere
conversion to the truth voiced by the Apostle of God,
and obtain from the pen of royalty this public, and
indeed historic, confession of His God-given Mission?
[PDC 109]
It would therefore be a grave departure from this essential
principles of the Bahá’í Faith for any believer to speak
disparagingly of Islám, Mu˙ammad or the Qur’án:
(let no Muslim) … think for a moment that either Islám,
or its Prophet, or His Book, or His appointed
Successors, or any of His authentic teachings, have
been, or are to be in any way, or to however slight a
degree, disparaged. [PDC 108]
To exemplify the principle of One Common Faith, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá spoke about the Faith of the Nazarene in the Synagogues
and defended the Prophet of Arabia in Synagogues and
Churches. The beloved Guardian writes:
There is so [much] misunderstanding about Islám in the
West in general that you have to dispel. Your task is
rather difficult and requires a good deal of erudition.
Your chief task is to acquaint the friends with the pure
teachings of the Prophet as recorded in the Qur’án, and
then to point out how these teachings have, throughout
succeeding ages, influenced nay guided the course of
human development. In other words you have to show
the position and significance of Islám in the history of
civilization.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
The Bahá’í view on that subject is that the Dispensation
of Mu˙ammad, like all other Divine Dispensations, has
been fore-ordained, and that as such forms an integral
part of the Divine Plan for the spiritual, moral and
social development of mankind. It is not an isolated
religious phenomenon, but is closely and historically
related to the Dispensation of Christ, and those of the
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. It was intended by God to succeed
Christianity and it was therefore the duty of the
Christians to accept it as firmly as they had adhered to
the religion of Christ.
You should also cautiously emphasize the truth that due
to the historical order of its appearance, and also
because of the obviously more advanced character of its
teachings, Islám constitutes a fuller revelation of God’s
purpose
for
mankind.
The
so-called
Christian
civilization of which the Renaissance is one of the most
striking manifestations is essentially Muslim in its
origins and foundations. When medieval Europe was
plunged in darkest barbarism, the Arabs regenerated and
transformed by the spirit released by the religion of
Mu˙ammad, were busily engaged in establishing a
civilization the kind of which their contemporary
Christians in Europe had never witnessed before. It was
eventually
through
Arabs
that
civilization
was
introduced to the West. It was through them that the
philosophy, science and culture which the old Greeks
had developed found their way to Europe. The Arabs
were the ablest translators, and linguists of their age,
and it is thanks to them that the writings of such well-
known thinkers as Socrates, Plato and Aristotle were
made available to the Westerners. It is wholly unfair to
attribute the efflorescence of European culture during
the Renaissance period to the influence of Christianity.
It was mainly the product of the forces released by the
Muhammadan Dispensation. From the standpoint of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

institutionalism Islám far surpasses true Christianity as
we know it in the Gospels. There are infinitely more
laws and institutions in the Qur’án than in the Gospel.
While the latter’s emphasis is mainly, not to say wholly,
on individual and personal conduct, the Qur’án stresses
the importance of society. This social emphasis acquires
added importance and significance in the Bahá’í
Revelation. When carefully and impartially compared,
the Qur’án marks a definite advancement on the Gospel,
from the standpoint of spiritual and humanitarian
progress. The truth is that Western historians have for
many centuries distorted the facts to suit their religious
and ancestral prejudices. The Bahá’ís should try to study
history anew, and to base all their investigations first
and foremost on the written Scriptures of Islám and
Christianity.77
And again,
It is for (Bahá’ís) to try and gradually undermine this
prejudicial attitude towards Islám, and to bring to full
light the great historical accomplishments which that
Faith achieved … the friends should emphasize the study
of Islám and its scripture. They should not depend too
much on the Western writers on that subject, but should
rather thoroughly investigate themselves, basing their
studies first and foremost on the Qur’án, which is
absolutely authentic.78
The Guardian urged the friends to defend Islám by
examining and emphasizing the spiritual fruits, and cultural and
scientific achievements of Islám in its early phases. The present
tragedy of Islám is largely due to insistence by a clergy on the
“non-essential”15 social laws that, as anticipated in the Qur’án79,
have been abrogated by Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi wrote in
defense of Islám in 1933:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án
… (Islám) is not only the last of the world religions, but
a fuller Revelation than any one preceding it. The
Qur’án is not only more authoritative than any previous
religious gospel, but it contains also much more
ordinances, teachings and precepts, which taken
together constitute a fuller Revelation of God’s purpose
and law to mankind than Christianity, Judaism or any
other previous Dispensation. This view is in complete
accord with the Bahá’í philosophy of progressive
revelation, and should be thoroughly accepted and
taught by every loyal Christian Bahá’í.80
And again in 1948,
Islám attained a very high spiritual state, but western
scholars are prone to judging it by Christian standards.
One cannot call one world Faith superior to another, as
they all come from God; they are progressive, each
suited to certain needs of the times.81
Beyond defending Judaism, Christianity and Islám, the Bahá’í
Faith is vested with the important role of resurrecting and re-
animating these religions as anticipated in the Bible and in the
Qur’án:
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and
now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of
God: and they that hear shall live. [John 5:25]
How can ye withhold faith from God? Ye were dead and
He gave you life; next He will cause you to die; next He
will restore you to life: next shall ye return to Him!
[Qur’án 2:238]
Shoghi Effendi explains further:
(The Faith’s) avowed, its unalterable purpose is to widen
their basis, to restate their fundamentals, to reconcile

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

their aims, to reinvigorate their life, to demonstrate
their oneness, to restore the pristine purity of their
teachings, to coordinate their functions and to assist in
the realization of their highest aspirations. These
divinely-revealed religions, as a close observer82 has
graphically expressed it, “are doomed not to die, but to
be reborn... ‘Does not the child succumb in the youth
and the youth in the man; yet neither child nor youth
perishes?’ [WOB 114]
Summary
The Tablets of the Divine Plan mandate the Bahá’ís of North
America to arise and, individually and collectively, travel and
proclaim the advent of the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh. The many
references to the Bible and the Qur’án serve to imprint on our
minds and souls the Oneness of Faith. We are asked to emulate
the zeal and sacrificial endeavors of the disciples of Christ, to
undergo a spiritual rebirth, and to become sanctified from
mundane attachments. We are assured that the Holy Spirit and
the heavenly Hosts will rush to lend their assistance to our
efforts. Spiritually transformed and well informed teachers
must create unity by explaining the truths of the scriptures and
thereby demonstrating the oneness of divine purpose. The
creation of religious unity will promote the unity of mankind,
which in turn will assure global peace and tranquility.

NOTES
1 From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an
individual believer, September 29, 1977.
2 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:10:
َﻓِﻲ ﻗُﻠُﻮﺑِﮭِﻢ ﻣﱠﺮَضٌ ﻓَﺰَادَھُﻢُ ﷲّ ُ ﻣَﺮَﺿًﺎ وَﻟَﮭُﻢ ﻋَﺬَابٌ أَﻟِﯿﻢٌ ﺑِﻤَﺎ ﻛَﺎﻧُﻮا ﯾَﻜْﺬِﺑُﻮن
3 al-Fátihah, The Opening, 1:1-7:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án








In the name of God, the Beneficent, the Merciful.
Praise be to God, Lord of the Worlds,
The Beneficent, the Merciful.
Master of the Day of Judgment,
Thee (alone) we worship; Thee (alone) we ask for help.
Show us the Straight Path (Sirát almustaqeema),
The path (Sirát) of those whom Thou hast favoured;
Not the (path) of those who earn Thine anger nor of those who go
astray.
4 Traditionally, 'Sirát' is interpreted literally and incredibly as a narrow sharp
bridge which every person must pass on the Day of Resurrection and the
Day of Judgment or 'yawmi alddeen' to attain paradise. The sinners fall
into the fires of hell but the righteous will successfully navigate the bridge
and quench their thirst by imbibing from the cool and refreshing waters
of 'kawthar', a river 'of abundance' in paradise. The Church is afflicted by
similar literal imagery of a bridge, ladder, or stairway to heaven.
5 Óá-mím (Abbreviated Letters), or Fußßilat, Expounded or 41:30:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


6 Suratu’l Nus'h: Provisional Translation This is Suratu’l-Nus’h (Admonition
or Exhortation). For those who want to heed God’s admonitions.
Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh for Siyyid Ja'far-i-Yazdí, Provisional Translation
by Afaf A. Stevens.
7 al-An'ám, The Cattle, 6:39:

8 Ál-i-‘Imrán, or The Family of Ímrán, 3:194:

“Our Lord! Grant us what Thou didst promise unto us through Thine
Apostles, and save us from shame on the Day of Judgment: For Thou
never breakest Thy promise.”
9 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:256:


Let there be no compulsion in religion: Truth stands out clear from
error: whoever rejects evil and believes in God hath grasped the most
trustworthy hand-hold, that never breaks. And God heareth and
knoweth all things.
10 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:212-213:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án


11 Ál-i-’Imrán, The Family of Ímrán, 3:74:

12 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:105:

13 Tanakh is referred to as Old Testament by Christians. It is an acronym of
the first Hebrew letter of Torah (“Teachings”), Nevi'im (“Prophets) and
Ketuvim (“Writings”).
14 Zukhruf, Gold Ornaments, 43:22-23:


Nay, They say, “we found our father following a creed, and surely we
are rightly guided in their footsteps”.
Likewise, “We sent no Warner before thee to any people, but the
wealthy ones among them said: “We found our fathers following a
certain religion, and we will certainly follow in their footsteps.”
Also, Hud 11:9:
ُﻓَﻼَ ﺗَﻚُ ﻓِﻲ ﻣِﺮْﯾَﺔٍ ﻣﱢﻤﱠﺎ ﯾَﻌْﺒُﺪُ ھَﺆُﻻء ﻣَﺎ ﯾَﻌْﺒُﺪُونَ إِﻻﱠ ﻛَﻤَﺎ ﯾَﻌْﺒُﺪُ آﺑَﺎؤُھُﻢ ﻣﱢﻦ ﻗَﺒْﻞ

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


Be not then in doubt as to what these men worship.
They worship nothing but what their fathers worshipped …
15 al-‘Ankabút, The Spider, 29:69:
16 Baní-Ísrá-íl, The Children of Israel, 17:36:

17 al-Hujurát, The Private Apartments, 49:6:

18 Tá-Há, 20:114:
زِدْﻧِﻰ ﻋِﻠْﻤًﺎ رﱠبﱢ
19 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:282:
ٌﻋَﻠِﯿﻢ  ٍﺷَﻲْء  ﺑِﻜُﻞﱢ  ُ ّوَﷲ  ُ ّﷲ  ُوَﯾُﻌَﻠﱢﻤُﻜُﻢ  َ ّﷲ  ْوَاﺗﱠﻘُﻮا
20 al-Zumar, The Crowds, 39:9:
َﯾَﻌْﻠَﻤُﻮن  َﻻ  َوَاﻟﱠﺬِﯾﻦ  َﯾَﻌْﻠَﻤُﻮن  َاﻟﱠﺬِﯾﻦ ﯾَﺴْﺘَﻮِي  ْھَﻞ  ْﻗُﻞ
21 Note the similarity of ‘One’ in the Hebrew (Echad) and the Arabic (Ahad).
22 Deuteronomy 6:4: Shema Yisrael Adonai Eloheinu Adonai Echad
23 al-Ikhláṣ, Sincerity, 112:1:

Qul huwa Allahu ahadun
24 Maryam, Mary, 19:36:

25 John 5:39-47:
Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they
are they which testify of me.
And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.
I receive not honour from men.
But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án

I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall
come in his own name, him ye will receive.
How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not
the honour that cometh from God only?
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that
accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust.
For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me; for he wrote of
me.
But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?
26 Those that unnecessarily multiply entities or concepts such as God (those
that make distinctions between religions or the Godhead such as
Trinitarians).
27 Shúrá, 42:13:
ِﺷَﺮَعَ ﻟَﻜُﻢ ﻣﱢﻦَ اﻟﺪﱢﯾﻦِ ﻣَﺎ وَﺻﱠﻰ ﺑِﮫ
َﻧُﻮﺣًﺎ وَاﻟﱠﺬِي أَوْﺣَﯿْﻨَﺎ إِﻟَﯿْﻚَ وَﻣَﺎ وَﺻﱠﯿْﻨَﺎ ﺑِﮫِ إِﺑْﺮَاھِﯿﻢ
وَﻣُﻮﺳَﻰ وَﻋِﯿﺴَﻰ أَنْ أَﻗِﯿﻤُﻮا اﻟﺪﱢﯾﻦَ وَﻻَ ﺗَﺘَﻔَﺮﱠﻗُﻮا ﻓِﯿﮫِ ﻛَﺒُﺮَ ﻋَﻠَﻰ اﻟْﻤُﺸْﺮِﻛِﯿﻦَ ﻣَﺎ
ﺗَﺪْﻋُﻮھُﻢْ إِﻟَﯿْﮫِ ﷲﱠ ُ ﯾَﺠْﺘَﺒِﻲ إِﻟَﯿْﮫِ ﻣَﻦ ﯾَﺸَﺎءُ وَﯾَﮭْﺪِي إِﻟَﯿْﮫِ ﻣَﻦ
ُﯾُﻨِﯿﺐ
28 al-Baqarah, the Cow, 2:213:

29 al-Mulk, Sovereignty, 67:3:

30 Name and subject of the 78th Súrah of the Qur’án, al-Naba, The Tiding or
Great News.
31 al-Insán, Man, 76:29:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


32 Revelation 21:6: “I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the
water of life freely.”
33 The counterpart of Israfil is the angel Raphael (Hebrew, 'God Heals') in
Judeo-Christianity. In Islamic tradition the angel Israfil will blow the
trumpet announcing the coming of the Day of Resurrection.
34 'The Epistle of Mathetus to Diognetus', describing Christians in 2nd
century AD.
35 Ál-i-‘Imrán, The Family of ˆmrán, 3:103:

36 From a letter on behalf of the Guardian to an individual believer, April
18, 1941. Lights of Guidance, #1604.
37 al-Baqarah, The Cow 2:87 and 2:253; and al-Má'idah, The Table Spread,
5:110.
38 al-Má'idah, 5:110 and al-Nahl, 16:102.
39 ESW 21: “Verily we shall render Thee victorious by Thyself and Thy pen.”
40 al-Óajj, The Pilgrimage, 22:5:
وَﺗَﺮَى اﻷْ َرْضَ ھَﺎﻣِﺪَةً ﻓَﺈِذَا ٍأَﻧﺰَﻟْﻨَﺎ ﻋَﻠَﯿْﮭَﺎ اﻟْﻤَﺎء اھْﺘَﺰﱠتْ وَرَﺑَﺖْ وَأَﻧﺒَﺘَﺖْ ﻣِﻦ ﻛُﻞﱢ زَوْجٍ ﺑَﮭِﯿﺞ
41 Ibráhím, or Abraham, 14:24-27:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án


42 al-Muddaththir, The Covered One, 74:31:

43 al-Núr, Light, 24:35:

44 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:257:

45 al-Zumar, The Troops, 39:69:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


46 The Disciples of Christ were an unlikely group to be sent forth on his
mission to reach the world. There was nothing special or spectacular
about them. The twelve apostles were just ordinary working men. One
was a tax-collector. At least four of the apostles were fishermen (probably
the reason that one of the earliest and most prominent Christian symbols
was the fish — the Greek word for fish, ichthus, formed an acrostic:
Iesous Christos Theou Uios Soter, which means “Jesus Christ, Son of God,
Savior”.) But Jesus entrusted them with the most extraordinary task of
proclaiming the advent of the kingdom of God to the entire world
including one of the mightiest empires ever known.
Peter was crucified upside down about 66 AD in Rome.
Paul was beheaded about the same time also in Rome.
Andrew traveled and preached widely in Russia, Asia Minor, Turkey and
in Greece. He was crucified in Greece.
“Doubting” Thomas was active in Syria and according to tradition in
India where he died pierced by spears of four soldiers.
Philip had a ministry in North Africa and then in Asia Minor where he
converted the wife of a Roman proconsul and was consequently cruelly
put to death by him.
Matthew ministered in Persia and Ethiopia and is reported to have been
stabbed in Ethiopia.
Bartholomew travelled to India, Armenia, Ethiopia and Southern Arabia.
There are various accounts of his martyrdom.
James the son of Alpeus taught in Syria where he was stoned and then
clubbed to death.
Simon the Zealot went to Persia and was martyred after refusing to
sacrifice to the sun god
Matthias (elected to replace Judas) went to Syria and was burnt to death.
John traveled to Ephesus and was exiled to the island of Patmos.
according to an early Latin tradition was cast into boiling oil in Rome.
47 King James Version: every creature;
God's Word version: tell everyone the good news;
Easy Read Version translation of the Bible: Go everywhere in the world.
Tell the good News to everyone)
(The Greek word is κτίσις or ktisis — all created beings 'believers and
unbelievers, and institutions).
48 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:261:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án


49 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Provisional Translations, Star of the West (Volume 1).
50 al-Maida, The Table Spread, 5:32:

On that account: We ordained for the Children of Israel that if any one
slew a person — unless it be for murder or for spreading mischief in the
land — It would be as if he slew the whole people: and if any one saved
a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the whole people. Then
although there came to them Our Apostles with Clear Signs, yet, even
after that, many of them continued to commit excesses in the land.
51 The History of the Armenian Church:
Along with his fellow apostle Jude Thaddeus, Bartholomew is reputed
to have brought Christianity to Armenia in the 1st century. Thus, both
saints are considered the patron saints of the Armenian Apostolic
Church.
Eusebius of Caesarea's Ecclesiastical History (5:10) states that after the
Ascension, Bartholomew went on a missionary tour to India, where he
left behind a copy of the Gospel of Matthew. Other traditions record
him as serving as a missionary in Ethiopia, Mesopotamia, Parthia, and
Lycaonia. Popular traditions and legends say that Bartholomew
preached the Gospel in India, then went to Greater Armenia.
He is said to have been martyred in Albanopolis in Armenia. According
to one account, he was beheaded, but a more popular tradition holds
that he was flayed alive and crucified, head downward. He is said to
have converted Polymius, the king of Armenia, to Christianity.
Astyages, Polymius' brother, consequently ordered Bartholomew's
execution.
The 13th century Saint Bartholomew Monastery was a prominent
Armenian monastery constructed at the site of the martyrdom of
Apostle Bartholomew in the Vaspurakan Province of Greater Armenia
(now in southeastern Turkey).
52 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Provisional Translations, Star of the West (Volume 1).
53 al-Qasas, The Story, 28:5:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18



And We wished to be gracious to those who were being depressed in
the land, to make them leaders (in faith, imáms) and make them heirs
54 Also quoted by Shoghi Effendi in ADJ 62-63 and WOB 77.
55 Sabá or Shebá, 34:15:

56 Sabá or Shebá, 34:16-17:

57 Mú-min, or The Believer, 40:82-85:

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án


58 Al-Rúm, The Byzantines, 30:9-12:




59 Mu˙ammad, 47:7-11:





60 al-Óajj, The Pilgrimage, 22:46
61 Yúsuf, Joseph, 12:109:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18



62 Fá†ir, The Originator of Creation; or Maláïka, The Angels, 35:44-45:


63 al-Rúm, The Byzantines, 30:50
64 Shoghi Effendi, by Marcus Bach, published in The Circle of Faith, Chapter
3, pp. 49-83, New York: Hawthorn Books, Inc., 1957 and also A meeting
with Shoghi Effendi, by Marcus Bach One World publications, p.37: “But
the thing that struck me most as our meeting progressed was his (Shoghi
Effendi's) unquestioned devotion to the Galilean (Jesus).”
65 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer
dated October 14, 1936 published in Bahá’í Institutions p. 95.
66 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer
dated March 5, 1957 published in Compilation no. 66.
67 Battles of Verdun, Jutland and Somme.
68 Pew Research Center, May 12, 2015: America’s Changing Religious
Landscape
69 Basheer Mohammad, Pew Research Center, January 6, 2016: A new
estimate of the U.S. Muslim population.
70 Deuteronomy 4:1-2:
Now therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the statutes and unto the
judgments, which I teach you, for to do them, that ye may live, and go
in and possess the land which the Lord God of your fathers giveth you.
Ye shall not add unto the word which I command you, neither shall ye
diminish ought from it, that ye may keep the commandments of the
Lord your God which I command you

Tablets of the Divine Plan References to the Bible and the Qur’án

2 Peter 1:20:
“knowing this first: that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private
interpretation” (i.e. the scriptures do not come from a private
understanding nor must it be subjected to interpretation by the
individual).
Revelation 22:18-19:
For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of
this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto
him the plagues that are written in this book:
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this
prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out
of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.
71 Ál-i-’Imrán, or The Family of ˆmrán, 3:7:

He it is Who hath revealed unto thee the Scripture wherein are clear
revelations — they are the substance of the Book — and others (which
are) allegorical. But those in whose hearts is doubt pursue, forsooth,
that which is allegorical seeking (to cause) dissension by seeking to
explain it. None knoweth its explanation (ta’wíl) save God. And those
who are of sound instruction say: We believe therein; the whole is from
our Lord; but only men of understanding really heed.
72 al-A’ráf, The Heights, 7:52-53:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


And now have we brought them the Book: with knowledge have we
explained it; a guidance and a mercy to them that believe.
What have they to wait for now but its interpretation (ta’wíl)? When
its interpretation (ta’wíl) shall come, they who aforetime were
oblivious of it shall say, “The Prophets of our Lord did indeed bring
the truth; shall we have any intercessor to intercede for us? or could we
not be sent back? Then would we act otherwise than we have acted.”
But they have ruined themselves; and the deities of their own devising
have fled from them!
73 reference.bahai.org/fa/t/o/MASH2/mash2-233.html
74 John L. Allen Jr. The dramatic growth of evangelicals in Latin America.
National Catholic reporter. Aug. 18, 2006.
75 Lights of Guidance #1664: From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to an individual believer, April 27, 1936.
76 Queen Marie of Romania
77 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer
dated April 27, 1936 published in Lights of Guidance 1664.
78 Shoghi Effendi, letter, 7 May 1936.
79 al-Baqarah, The Cow, 2:106:

None of Our revelations (verses) do We abrogate or cause to be
forgotten, but We substitute something better or similar: Knowest
thou not that God Hath power over all things?
80 Lights of Divine Guidance #1670: From a letter written on behalf of the
Guardian to an individual believer, November 12, 1933.
81 From a letter written on behalf of the Guardian by his secretary to an
individual believer, November 19, 1945: Bahá’í News, No. 210, p. 3,
August 1948.
82 Ibsen, Emperor and Galilean.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í
Writings
Ian Kluge
Introduction
This paper takes its cue from Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian
of the Bahá’í Faith, who calls on Bahá’ís “to investigate and
analyse the principles of the Faith and to correlate them with
the modern aspects of philosophy and science.”1 He reinforces
this point by saying,
The Cause needs more Bahá’í scholars, people ... who
have a deep grasp of the Teachings and their
significance, and who can correlate its beliefs with the
current thoughts and problems of the people of the
world.2
He adds, furthermore, that
If the Bahá’ís want to be really effective in teaching the
Cause they need to be much better informed and able to
discuss intelligently, intellectually, the present condition
of the world and its problems ... who [are] capable of
correlating our teachings to the current thoughts of the
leaders of society.3

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

It is worth noting that the Guardian associates “really
effective” teaching with the ability to “correlate” the Bahá’í
teachings with current issues and debates in society. Such
correlations can be “really effective” because they help make
the Writings part of public discourse about contemporary
topics and, thereby, draw awareness to the Writings themselves
by showing their relevance to modern issues. In addition, they
can show that the Bahá’í Writings have uniquely new ideas and
perspectives to share with the world.
The concept of grand narratives has been and is still under
continued and strenuous attack in our time, being blamed,
among other things, for being totalitarian and setting the stage
for
totalitarian
regimes;4
for
engaging
in
intellectual
“terrorism”5 by ‘marginalizing the ‘others’ who are different;
and for Western triumphalism and its concomitant colonialism.
The Bahá’í Faith has not — to the best of our knowledge — been
explicitly accused of these short-comings, but the existence of
its grand narrative of progressive revelation leaves it open to
allegations of this nature. Therefore, in the first part of this
paper we shall examine the nature of grand narratives, appraise
some of the major attacks on them and present our
understanding of the Bahá’í grand narrative and why the
criticisms vis-à-vis grand narratives do not apply to the
Writings.
In the second part of this paper we correlate the Bahá’í grand
narrative with the three most influential non-totalitarian grand
narratives of the twentieth century — Oswald Spengler, Arnold
Toynbee and Pitirim Sorokin — and point out the unique
features of the Bahá’í grand narrative that compensate for the
short-comings of other theories.
We draw three major conclusions from our study. First, the
arguments against grand narratives are logically unconvincing
and paradoxically self-refuting. Second, there are numerous and
far-reaching correlations between the Bahá’í Writings and the
work of Spengler, Toynbee and Sorokin. Third, alone among

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
these grand narratives, the Bahá’í Writings go beyond diagnosis
of the patterns of human history and complete the diagnosis
with a prescription and the establishment of a healing
institution, i.e. the Universal House of Justice. This
completeness — diagnosis, prescription and healing institution
— allows the Writings to work as a plan for the next stage of
human evolution.
PART I: Grand Narratives
Background, Controversies and an Overview of
the Bahá’í Grand Narrative
1: Introduction
Grand narratives or metanarratives are stories or narratives
by means of which we interpret and understand history. A
narrative may be defined as a series of coherently presented real
or imagined events explicitly or implicitly embedding an
interpretation of the events. In the field of history, such events
and
their
interpretations
may
cover
local,
national,
international and even cosmic history.6 Their prime task is
reveal certain patterns, trends, laws or themes guiding,
informing, shaping the historical processes in societies, nations
or even the world as a whole.7 In other words, metanarratives
purport to demonstrate that history has implicit or explicit
order, coherence and meaning despite superficial appearances
of disorder, randomness even anarchy. Consequently, for grand
narratives the unfolding of history is not just a series of
random, accidental events without any overall order, tendency
or direction. Instead, history has patterns and to that extent is
rational and can be understood rationally.
Moreover, these patterns, themes or principles help us
establish (1) values; (2) criteria for objectively evaluating
historical facts as well as standards for identifying goodness,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

truth, legitimacy; (3) consequences and/or logical inferences
from the grand narrative and (4) criteria for making predictions
about the course of history. They are the contexts within which
we form our beliefs. In embryonic or fully developed form,
grand narratives embody a world-view by which both
individuals and societies consciously or unconsciously orient
their lives in regards to fundamental values such as meaning and
purpose, ‘the good,’ justice and ‘evil.’ As will be shown below,
history is replete with examples of grand narratives functioning
as world-views for numerous civilizations.
For grand narratives, the unfolding of history is not just a
series of random, accidental events without any overall order,
tendency or direction. Instead, history has patterns and to that
extent is rational and can be understood rationally. The
existence of order, coherence and meaning in history makes
some degree of predictability possible. Consequently, these
patterns, themes and laws make some degree of historical
predictability possible. The kind of predictions are usually
statistical in nature; like actuarial tables in the life insurance
industry, the patterns of events allow us to calculate general
trends — or the probability of death among certain groups of
people — without being able to predict an individual death. The
immense
profitability
of
the
life
insurance
industry
demonstrates the effectiveness of such statistical predictions.
The Bahá’í Writings explicitly embody a grand narrative of
the history of humankind as well as a vision for its future
culmination in a unified global commonwealth. Without this
grand narrative, much of the raison d'être of the Bahá’í Faith
would vanish since it is Bahá’u’lláh’s specific mission as a
Manifestation of God to guide human history to its
culmination in world unity [WOB 162]. In the words of Shoghi
Effendi,
Unification of the whole of mankind is the hall-mark of
the stage which human society is now approaching.
Unity of family, of tribe, of city-state, and nation have

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
been successively attempted and fully established.
World unity is the goal towards which a harassed
humanity is striving [WOB 202, emphasis added].
This study of grand or metanarratives and the Bahá’í Writings
aims to accomplish three main goals:
1. To show how the Bahá’í Writings explicitly embody a
grand narrative of the history of humankind;
2. To show how the Bahá’í grand narrative has important
similarities to three influential metanarratives by Oswald
Spengler, Arnold J Toynbee and Pitirim Sorokin;
3. To demonstrate the untenability of various criticisms of
the concept of grand narratives in general, and of the
Bahá’í grand narrative in particular.
These three goals are interdependent insofar as they are
necessary to provide more than a skeletal presentation of the
subject and to be useful in explicating the Bahá’í Writings, in
apologetics and engaging in dialogue with other religions or
schools of thought.
2: Grand Narratives: The Historical Background
Grand narratives are not a modern invention. Religions
embed metanarratives either in developed or in embryonic
form.8 One of the earliest is the Zoroastrian doctrine that
existence is a universal and cosmic struggle between truth and
order on one side and lie and chaos on the other; our duty is to
support the truth and order. This view gives a cosmic
dimension to all individual and social actions, e.g. personal
business dealings or exchanges with neighbors as well as
political events at the local, national and even transnational
levels. In short, history is a struggle for the victory of the good.
The Jewish grand narrative concerns the story of the Jewish
people (and by extension, humanity as a whole) overcoming
their exile from Paradise and finding their way home to the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Promised Land. During the wanderings, a pattern emerges of
falling away from God, suffering the consequences and
eventually triumphing. Here, too, victory, i.e. attainment of
the Promised Land, is identified with the good. The Christian
grand narrative includes the struggle or good against evil, but
has a personal salvational emphasis focussed on the redemption
for original sin bought for us by the crucifixion. The ultimate
providential aim is for individuals to save their souls and to
work for the establishment of the kingdom of heaven on earth.
The Muslim metanarrative takes up this theme of a providential
kingdom on earth which is set forth in greater detail than in
Christianity and proclaims the end of historical revelation with
Mohammed. The Muslim revelation essentially marks the end of
history as a process to a greater goal.
Numerous philosophers have written enormously influential
grand narratives about particular societies and about universal
history. Saint Augustine’s City of God — clearly influenced by
Zoroastrian dualism — portrays the history of humankind as a
struggle between God and the Devil, and our need to choose
between the City of Man and the City of God. This clearly fits
into the Christian tradition. The 12th century CE theologian
Joachim of Fiore included the concept of progress in his three-
fold division of history: the Age of the Father with its Old
Testament emphasis on law and obedience; the Age of the Son
which included law but emphasized mercy; and the Age of the
[Holy] Spirit in which a “universal Christian society”9 would
emerge. Ibn Khaldun, a 14th century CE Arab Muslim writer
also saw a cyclic pattern of increasing immorality and
corruption when successors took over from the founding
generations of great dynasties. The cyclical nature of this
seemingly inevitable process allows a measure of predictability
in the historical process if not in specific events then in the
nature and sequence of events. Giambattista Vico’s The New
Science (1725 CE) shows history as a progressing and expanding
spiral. The cycles represent the three stages of development: the
age of the gods in which humans are ruled by supernatural

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
beings or God; the age of heroes in which humans are ruled by
aristocratic classes; the age of equality in which all people
viewed themselves as equal at least insofar as they shared a
common humanity. The first led to theocratic government or
rule by priests; the second to aristocratic government or
monarchies; the third led to republican or democratic
government. According to Vico “the nature of peoples is first
crude, then severe, then benign then delicate and finally
dissolute.”10 After this, the cycle begins again though always
“recurring on a higher plane.”11 Thus Vico combined the ideas
of progress and cyclical patterns to show history as predictable
at least the kind of developments we can expect.
The 18th century CE of the European Enlightenment — so
vehemently excoriated by the postmodernists — marks the
beginning of an unusually productive period in the efforts to
understand history. What almost all of these efforts have in
common is belief in the progress of humankind not only in
scientific knowledge but also in the growth of rationality,
freedom and social and cultural tolerance. Moreover, a theme
hitherto implicit in earlier grand narratives came to the fore at
this time: the perfectibility of man, society and the world.
Kant’s “Idea of a Universal History from a Cosmopolitan Point
of View” is a good example.12 According to Kant, the purpose
of history is the extension of individual freedom in an ordered
national and international society. Viewing history as a whole,
he states,
history, which is concerned with narrating these
appearances, permits us to hope that if we attend to the
play of freedom of the human will in the large, we may
be able to discern a regular movement in it, and that
what seems complex and chaotic in the single individual
may be seen from the standpoint of the human race as a
whole to be a steady and progressive though slow
evolution of its original endowment.13
According to Kant,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The history of mankind can be seen, in the large, as the
realization of Nature’s secret plan to bring forth a
perfectly constituted state as the only condition in
which the capacities of mankind can be fully developed,
and also bring forth that external relation among states
which is perfectly adequate to this end.14
The mechanism by which humanity will actualize its “original
endowment” is that our lower animal nature drives us to
overcome ourselves — because we can’t accept ourselves as
mere animals — and to develop our higher natures. From a
Bahá’í perspective this is a true but inadequate motivation for
progress because it sidesteps the need for Manifestation.
Hegel’s Philosophy of History sees history as the conscious
self-actualization of the Spirit in humankind and through
human history and the growth of freedom. In the end, all
humans will recognize themselves as free and as one with the
Spirit. Hegel’s erstwhile student, Marx, also promulgated a
metanarrative based on the concept of class war between the
ruling classes and the ruled and exploited. Eventually, the
exploited classes would triumph and there would be a
“withering away of the state.”15 Some modern feminist
metanarratives center on the claim that patriarchy, i.e. a male-
dominated society has a specifically anti-female agenda which
has dominated history so far in all parts of the world. Instead
of seeing history in terms of class struggle, they see it terms of
struggle between the sexes with themselves in the role of the
proletariat.
The Bahá’í Writings do not view history as a struggle
between classes, genders, political parties, races, tribes or
nations but rather as a struggle to increase awareness of and
commitment to the unification of mankind. This struggle is
spiritual, epistemological and ethical in nature and employs
persuasion, and instead of various methods of power-seeking
such as partisan political warfare. They aim “to awaken spiritual
susceptibilities in the hearts of mankind, to kindle anew the

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
spirit of humanity with divine fires and to reflect the glory of
heaven to this gloomy world of materialism” [PUP 7]. The
Writings view history as a process leading to the unification of
humankind in a global federal commonwealth united by “one
common faith” [SAQ ch.12].16
although this process does not necessarily follow a simple
linear progress. With this goal in mind, they emphasize a
“world-embracing” [TB 86] vision because there is no other
adequate way of understanding human nature and history in the
contemporary world. Less expansive views do not allow us to
see the global development of humankind that has already been
achieved, nor to project these achievements into the future just
as we cannot ‘see’ the progress of a river from a deep valley.
However, a “world-embracing” vision allows such insight in the
same way that we may see the course of a river from a high
mountain.
Furthermore, the Writings are not alone in recognizing that a
“world-embracing”
vision
is
necessary
for
a
deeper
understanding of human history. There are several new
developments in the pursuit of global historical studies. We
observe, for example, the establishment of the World History
Association which studies history from “a trans-national, trans-
regional, and trans-cultural perspective”17 has been growing and
developing since 1980. An examination of the WHA’s
specialities shows that the WHA is doing the same kind of
studies as Spengler, Toynbee and Sorokin.18 We also note the
rising interest in ‘Big History,’19 which starts history with the
Big Bang and reveals various patterns repeating themselves
throughout cosmic and human history.20 Juan Jose Gomez-
Ibarra’s A Scientific Model of History: Where is the Future
Leading Us21 (2003) shows the scientific laws — such as Malthus
and Toynbee’s ‘challenge and response — underlying historical
processes. Ross E. Dunn and Laura J. Mitchell’s Panorama: A
World History is yet another example of historians working
from a global perspective. In addition, there is Immanuel
Wallerstein’s “world systems theory.”22 Sebastian Conrad calls

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

these expanded visions of history the “all-in version of global
history”23 or “planetary comprehensiveness.”24 We also refer
readers to R. MacNeil and W.H. MacNeil, The Human Web: A
Bird’s-Eye View of World History25 which demonstrates how
communications are unifying the world. Finally, we should take
note of the rise of Civilizational Science, an interdisciplinary
field which uses a scientific approach (e.g. the Annales School)
to pursue macro-historical studies (e.g., Toynbee) to “address
some of the most important problems of globalizing society in
the 21 century and beyond.”26
3: Why Grand Narratives? Four Reasons
At this point we may ask ‘Why are humans so fascinated with
grand narratives? Why do these ‘stories’ keep reappearing — as,
for example, in the recent ascent of Big History, Global
History and scientific history? ‘What characteristics seem to
make them indispensable?’ Why, for example, are the works of
Spengler, Toynbee, Sorokin and Marx still read even though
most professional historians ignore them or dismiss them as
misleading? Why do established academic historians like the
MacNeil’s still try to demonstrate the existence of a pattern
uniting global history?
In our view, there are at least four reasons why grand
narratives survive and will continue to survive.
First, every religion is a grand narrative — at least in outline
or embryo form — that shapes our understanding of the reality,
truth, goodness and morality, justice, human nature, and
values. Religious stories provide a way of understanding
individual and group behavior in the present and the past. For a
pre-literate culture to say ‘We do things this way because our
ancestors did’ is, in effect, an embryonic grand narrative about
the past, present and future. In short, as long as religions exist,
grand narratives will continue. The fact that anthropologists
have never encountered a group of humans without religion
indicates how indispensable religion and its implicit and explicit

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
grand narratives are to human survival and well-being.
Religions, of course, are more than metanarratives; they are,
for the most part, revelations from God [GWB 217]27 to advance
our spiritual development. However, when we accept a
Manifestation and His spiritual teachings, we also implicitly
accept a grand narrative. Consequently, it seems self-evident
that believing we can live without a grand narratives of one
kind or another violates our empirical anthropological
knowledge of human nature.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá presents a second reason why metanarratives
are necessary: they are necessary to help us make sense of
ourselves and the world in general, i.e. they have an
epistemological function. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “The
human spirit, which distinguishes man from the animal, is the
rational soul, and these two terms — the human spirit and the
rational soul — designate one and the same thing” [SAQ ch.55].
Because humans have a “rational soul,” we naturally want things
to ‘make sense,’ i.e. to be understandable, intelligible,
justifiable, self-consistent and practicable. Even Pieter Geyl,
one of most relentless critics of metanarratives, admits that it
is “an ingrained habit of human nature ... to try to construct a
vision of history in which chaos, or apparent chaos, is restored
to order.”28 (Unfortunately, he does not ask why this habit is so
deeply ingrained.) Without order, there is no understanding,
and without understanding life becomes meaningless and even
catastrophic: it is virtually impossible to make sense of
ourselves and the world around us and, thereby, a clear sense of
identity, of our values and of our goals. This, in turn,
undermines our ability to act rationally and coherently and to
maintain social relationships. How could a society made up of
such individuals function? If we cannot act with a certain
consistency, we shall often undermine our own efforts and
confuse ourselves and others. In effect, we fail to actualize
ourselves as “rational souls” — our essential attribute [SAQ ch.55]
— at the personal and societal level, and, therefore, cannot
function optimally. For example, if we fail to recognize and act

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

on the Bahá’í teaching that all human beings have both a
spiritual and a physical nature [SAQ ch.29] and that the spiritual
function must rule, then we are severely hindered in actualizing
our essence as “rational souls.” In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
“If the physical or natural disposition in him should overcome
the heavenly and merciful, he is, then, the most degraded of
animal beings” [PUP 41]. We are incomplete beings whose
“spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 339] remain dormant. We remain
at or close to the level of animals without the activation of our
higher capacities.
Helping us gain such understanding of ourselves and the
world is one of the benefits conferred by the Manifestations
Who, for example, teach us about our spiritual and animal
natures and the long-term benefits of having our spiritual
nature in control. In addition, the Manifestations provide a
‘map’ or a guidebook to reality, its nature, its purpose and its
goal or final cause. As humankind progresses, the accidental or
culture-bound
attributes
of
former
metanarratives
are
abandoned and a new Manifestation arrives to establish a new
grand narrative commensurate with the intellectual, social,
material and spiritual development of the time. In other words,
the continual presence of Manifestations means that there
never has been a time when grand narratives of one kind or
another have not guided human thought, feeling and action. In
short, metanarratives are so important to human development
that God sends Manifestations to establish them.
The third major function of grand narratives is also
epistemological but in a more technical sense, i.e. to bring
order to our knowledge and thinking. Bringing order to any
kind of knowledge and thought requires us to prioritize or
privilege (a) some facts over others vis-à-vis truth, relevance
and importance and (b) some sources of knowledge and
knowledge-claims over others. In practical terms, we must
choose if we are going to take surgical advice from a surgeon or
an astrologer. We must be able to recognize and distinguish
between the essential and non-essential aspects of information

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
and discard what is less important and unreliable sources. In
religion, it is the Manifestation Who “distinguishes the essential
and the authentic from the nonessential and spurious in their
teachings” [PDC 108]. Such distinctions are necessary because no
one can accept all knowledge sources and knowledge as equally
relevant or as equally valid because that makes it impossible to
take action — which requires us to select one option or fact
over another. Furthermore, such distinctions are also necessary
because humans are fallible and not all knowledge claims are
equally valid.29 This inevitably sets up a hierarchy of knowledge.
The Writings obviously privilege Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi as infallible knowledge vis-à-vis the teachings of
the Faith. Moreover, Bahá’u’lláh, God’s Manifestation for this
age, clearly rejects some sources of knowledge as invalid when
he says,
Its [the world’s] sickness is approaching the stage of
utter hopelessness, inasmuch as the true Physician is
debarred
from
administering
the
remedy,
whilst
unskilled practitioners are regarded with favor, and are
accorded full freedom to act... [GWB 39-40]
Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
This
panacea
[of
religion]
must,
however,
be
administered by a wise and skilled physician, for in the
hands of an incompetent all the cures that the Lord of
men has ever created to heal men's ills could produce no
health, and would on the contrary only destroy the
helpless and burden the hearts of the already afflicted.
[SDC 98]
The Writings clearly endorse such prioritizing since not all
remedies and/or knowledge claims are equally effective as
shown
in
the
reference
to
“unskilled
practitioners.”
Furthermore, from the quotations given above, the Writings
clearly privilege one side of the following binary oppositions:
competent/incompetent; rational/irrational; true/untrue; order/

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

disorder; health/sickness; knowledge/ignorance; and enemy/
friend. Indeed, the unskilled physician who pretends to be
skilled is, in effect, an enemy to the patient. It is irrational to
bar the “true Physician” because doing so upends the proper
order of things and is, thereby, not only chaotic but unjust.
Other binary oppositions implicitly or explicitly found in the
Writings and the Bahá’í grand narrative are essential/accidental;
order/disorder; progressive/regressive; noumenal/phenomenal;
true/untrue; moral/immoral; knowledge/superstition; rational/
irrational, good/evil-satanic [GWB 19] and primitive/civilized.
These binary oppositions are a part of the Bahá’í
metanarrative.
Removing
them
undermines
the
Bahá’í
teachings. For example, if we refuse to privilege truth, i.e.
refuse to declare truth superior to untruth, we would also
undermine every statement in which Bahá’u’lláh claims to speak
the truth. He says, “Wherefore, should one of these
Manifestations of Holiness proclaim saying: ‘I am the return of
all the Prophets,’ He, verily, speaketh the truth” [GWB 51]. This
statement, which is taken as true in the Bahá’í context, is
privileged over its denial and, therefore, is more valuable than
the denial of Bahá’u’lláh’s words since it reveals something
fundamental about the Manifestations and history. In short, the
denial is simply wrong.30 By means of these oppositions,
metanarratives take on a prescriptive function not only for
individuals but for entire societies which use them to construct
their world views. In short, metanarratives help individuals and
societies make sense of the world.
Privileging truth statements is also an example of the
“legitimation of knowledge,”31 which is to say that the
metanarrative provides the standard for identifying truth. It
provides the foundational principles by which to distinguish
‘real knowledge,’ fact or truth from error, superstition, myth
or the utterances of the insane. Of course, the “legitimation of
knowledge” is obvious in the Bahá’í Faith insofar as both
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are regarded as infallible and
Shoghi Effendi as infallible his interpretations of the Writings.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Say: This [revelation] is the infallible Balance which the
Hand of God is holding, in which all who are in the
heavens and all who are on the earth are weighed, and
their fate determined, if ye be of them that believe and
recognize this truth. Say: Through it the poor have been
enriched, the learned enlightened. [GWB 136]
Because the Manifestation and His revelation are the balance
for assaying the truth, He also has to clear away — uproot and
destroy — falsehood. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The divine Manifestations have been iconoclastic in
Their teachings, uprooting error, destroying false
religious beliefs and summoning mankind anew to the
fundamental oneness of God. [PUP 154]
Thus, the metanarrative becomes the gatekeeper of knowledge.
It is worth emphasizing that the Manifestations mission of
“uprooting error” and “destroying false religious beliefs” shows
that not all knowledge-claims are valid and that at least some
beliefs are erroneous.
The fourth major function of grand narratives is the
“legitimation of power,” i.e. they provide a rationale to explain
why certain individuals or groups have power and why or why
not such power is legitimate or illegitimate. Such legitimation is
necessary to maintain at least a certain minimum of social
stability. The Bahá’í grand narrative also fulfills this function
insofar as its metaphysical framework explains the unique
metaphysical status of the Manifestations:
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to
bind the one true God with His creation, and no
resemblance whatever can exist between the transient
and the Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute, He
hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure
and stainless Soul be made manifest in the kingdoms of
earth and heaven. Unto this subtle this mysterious and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

ethereal Being He hath assigned a twofold nature; the
physical, pertaining to the world of matter, and the
spiritual, which is born of the substance of God
Himself. He hath, moreover, conferred upon Him a
double station. The first station, which is related to His
innermost reality, representeth Him as One Whose voice
is the voice of God Himself ... The second station is the
human station, exemplified by the following verses: “I
am but a man like you.” [GWB 66]
This passage explains why, metaphysically speaking, the
power of the Manifestations is legitimate: They are God’s
representative on earth. Their power is justified or legitimated
by Their omniscience because They, not we, truly understand
what is best for humankind inasmuch as Their knowledge of us
is complete and not limited by time or space. Moreover,
because Their power is metaphysically based, there is no
legitimate replacement — Their status, power and omniscience
are part of the basic structure of reality itself. Lyotard,
Foucault, and others would, of course, portray God as a
dictator but this critique overlooks the free will God bestows
upon the individual as one of our essential attributes. We shall
discuss this in more detail below.
4: The Bahá’í Grand Narrative: Getting Started
There is, in our view, no question that the Bahá’í Writings
establish a grand narrative of the gradual unification of
humankind into a world federal commonwealth united in “one
common faith” [SAQ ch.12]. This will be achieved by the
actualization of humanity’s physical, intellectual and spiritual
potentials guided by the successive Manifestations of God each
of Whom inaugurates a dispensation [DG 7].32 Each dispensation
passes through a spring, summer, autumn, fall and winter at
which time a new dispensation begins. The pattern of ascent,
apex and decline is universal and applies to all cultures none of
which is eternal and each of which has an inevitable, pre-

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
ordained end. Thus the Bahá’í metanarrative reflects a synthesis
of linear, i.e. progressive as well as cyclical theories of history
which may be represented by an expanding and advancing
spiral. Our progress is inspired and guided by the succession of
Manifestations to the goal of unifying mankind into a federal
world commonwealth united by “one common faith.” This final
goal sheds new light on the meaning to human history as a
whole. For example, W.W. II may be seen not only as a result
from a series of tragic diplomatic, political and military events
but also as a part of the process of weakening the colonial
powers and, thereby, enabling colonized peoples to begin their
struggle for freedom and future independent development.
Regarded cosmically, the Bahá’í grand narrative begins with
the intentional creation of the phenomenal world by a loving
God [PUP 298] Who bestows on all things signs of “His names
and attributes” [GWB 178] as well as the latent perfections [GWB
259] to be actualized over time. These divine bestowals are real
and objective values which form an integral part of the cosmic
historical process, i.e. the struggle to actualize the potentials
inherent in all things. Since humans struggle to do the same,
their evolutionary striving for complete actualization is a
specialized case of the teleological striving of the entire
phenomenal world. From this we may infer that history has a
meaning, and exemplifies certain values like unity, self-
overcoming and “awaken[ed] spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7].
The divine origin of the phenomenal, i.e. created world and the
presence of God’s “names and attributes” in all things
demonstrates that these values are real and objective aspects of
phenomenal reality. It also demonstrates the sacred nature of
reality as well as the sacred nature of the cosmic and human
historical process.
The human historical process is the vanguard of cosmic
evolution because God created man as the “supreme talisman”
[GWB 259] who not only represents all “the names and
attributes” of God in creation but is also the “fruit” [PUP 6] or
ultimate purpose of cosmic evolution. Mankind is the highest

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

expression of the cosmic process. Without humankind, the
material world would have “no use” [SAQ ch.50]. From this we
may conclude that in the Bahá’í grand narrative, cosmic
evolution and human evolution and history are integrated, i.e.
aspects of a greater whole. Humankind plays a real part in the
evolution of the cosmos — it is not “an accidental composition
or arrangement” [SAQ ch.47] but is, rather, an essential part of
the cosmos actualizing its own hidden potentials. This suggests
that a proper understanding of humans and human nature is
necessary for a proper understanding of the physical world.
Because cosmic evolution has a purpose, it is both teleological
and progressive and, thereby, rational, i.e. the purpose and the
means are adapted to one another and work together. The same
is true of mankind’s historical development inasmuch as it is
directed to achieving a goal set by “that invisible yet rational
God” [WOB 112].
In the historical process, we observe the expansion of the
social unit, i.e. increasing inclusiveness to include previously
excluded or marginalized groups. This process seems to be
proceeding with increasing speed since the 15th century CE with
the European voyages of ‘discovery,’ The entire history of
mankind from pre-historic times to the 21st Century can be
understood in light of this theme. In the words of Shoghi
Effendi,
This will indeed be the fitting climax of that process of
integration which, starting with the family, the smallest
unit in the scale of human organization, must, after
having called successively into being the tribe, the city-
state, and the nation, continue to operate until it
culminates in the unification of the whole world, the
final object and the crowning glory of human evolution
on this planet. It is this stage which humanity, willingly
or unwillingly, is resistlessly approaching. [PDC 117]
He re-emphasizes this by saying,

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Unification of the whole of mankind is the hall-mark of
the stage which human society is now approaching.
Unity of family, of tribe, of city-state, and nation have
been successively attempted and fully established.
World unity is the goal towards which a harassed
humanity is striving. Nation-building has come to an
end. [WOB 202, emphasis added]
We begin with the family, advance through clan and tribe,
then proceed to city-states, nations, empires and collaborative
supra-national alliances and end with a world federal
commonwealth. The changes in consciousness and spirituality
required for this development occur through the often
unnoticed influence of the successive Manifestations, and in
our age, of Bahá’u’lláh Whose teachings are the most
appropriate and advanced guidance for our time. In the process
of actualizing its potentials, humankind starts coalescing into
larger and larger social units which require further actualization
of social capacities, intellectual and spiritual capacities and
even material capacities. It is worth noting the inevitability of
mankind’s integration into one global commonwealth in which
“All men will adhere to one religion, will have one common
faith, will be blended into one race, and become a single
people”
[SAQ ch.12]. This process will not be without
tremendous suffering; as Shoghi Effendi tells us,
Much suffering will still be required ere the contending
nations, creeds, classes and races of mankind are fused
in the crucible of universal affliction, and are forged by
the fires of a fierce ordeal into one organic
commonwealth, one vast, unified, and harmoniously
functioning system. [WOB 193]
Such statements facilitate the conclusion that the Bahá’í
Writings portray history as teleological with a divinely fixed
and inescapable goal. Our only choice is whether we shall
advance towards this goal “willingly or unwillingly.” Following

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the analogy of adolescence [PUP 439] used in the Writings,
humanity may choose to grow up the hard way or the easier
way, but in either case we shall grow up. Those who oppose
global unification will end up working for it despite their
intentions. As the Báb says, “All are His servants and all abide
by His bidding!” [SWB 214] In other words, subjectively we may
think our actions hinder the unificatory process but
objectively, in actual effect, our actions help the process in the
long run. This is illustrated by the Bahá’í diaspora after the
1979 revolution in Iran. The Bahá’í diaspora spread the
teachings of the Faith on a global scale and drew world-wide
attention which attracted more people to Bahá’u’lláh.
Progressing to the goal of world unification requires the
actualization of intellectual potentials and the “awaken[ing of]
spiritual susceptibilities in the hearts of mankind” [PUP 7].
Awakening the “susceptibilities” is a duty incumbent on all
insofar as Bahá’u’lláh states, “All men have been created to
carry forward an ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214]. In this
process, humanity is guided by the successive Manifestations of
God each of Whom inaugurates a dispensation that passes
through a spring, summer, autumn, fall and winter at which
time a new dispensation begins to progress even further
towards the ultimate goal. Two points are clear from this
teaching. First, dispensations and their associated civilizations
are not eternal. There is no final divine dispensation — a
teaching contradicted by Judaism, Christianity, Islam and some
interpretations of Buddhism — and there is no final civilization
which humans cannot surpass. This doctrine undercuts the
hubris of religious and cultural supremacist ideologies. Second,
Manifestations are one of the ways in which God takes active
part in human history. In other words, God is a ‘God of history’
insofar as He works through the actual, messy historical
processes in which flawed human beings struggle through
countless difficulties, many of them created by nature and/or
their own behaviors. In other words, history manifests a

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
salvational or providential plan to bring genuine peace and
advance the material and spiritual evolution of mankind.
Shoghi Effendi outlines the mission of Bahá’u’lláh — and all
other Manifestations — as follows:
Repudiating the claim of any religion to be the final
revelation of God to man, disclaiming finality for His
own Revelation, Bahá’u’lláh inculcates the basic
principle of the relativity of religious truth, the
continuity of Divine Revelation, the progressiveness of
religious experience. His aim is to widen the basis of all
revealed religions and to unravel the mysteries of their
scriptures. He insists on the unqualified recognition of
the unity of their purpose, restates the eternal verities
they enshrine, coordinates their functions, distinguishes
the essential and the authentic from the nonessential and
spurious in their teachings, separates the God-given
truths from the priest-prompted superstitions, and on
this as a basis proclaims the possibility, and even
prophecies the inevitability, of their unification, and the
consummation of their highest hopes. [PDC 107]
This passage shows that the Manifestations have all been
working towards the final goal of the historical process as a
whole. This is one of the outstanding and unique features of the
Bahá’í grand narrative: it includes without any qualification, all
the Manifestations of God from all major religions as equal
partners in history and especially in the spiritual history of
mankind. All Manifestations have an unqualifiedly rightful
place in the unfolding of history and are not accepted merely as
a courtesy, as a matter of ‘political correctness’ or as display of
tolerance.
At this point, the Bahá’í grand narrative shows part of its
metaphysical foundations:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

These Manifestations of God have each a twofold
station. One is the station of pure abstraction and
essential unity. In this respect, if thou callest them all by
one name, and dost ascribe to them the same attributes,
thou hast not erred from the truth. Even as He hath
revealed: “No distinction do We make between any of
His Messengers.” ... The other station is the station of
distinction, and pertaineth to the world of creation, and
to the limitations thereof. In this respect, each
Manifestation of God hath a distinct individuality, a
definitely prescribed mission, a predestined revelation,
and specially designated limitations. [GWB 50]
At the spiritual level, all the Manifestations are ontologically
one and the same which is why Bahá’ís must accept and value all
Manifestations as completely equal in all respects. However,
the Manifestations are also distinct historical individuals
fulfilling particular mandates for particular places, times and
circumstances. From this perspective it becomes clear that
contrary to the apparent plethora of religions, there is only one
religion for all of humanity. All past religions have revealed
various aspects appropriate to various spiritual, intellectual and
material conditions. In the words of Dr. Moojan Momen,
Thus, we may describe Bahá’u’lláh’s project as that of
creating a metareligion — a religion that encompasses
and provides a theoretical framework within which it is
possible to see the truth of all religion.33
In other words, from the unity of the Manifestations’
missions, we also find that there is, in the last analysis, only one
human history to which partial histories contribute.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
5: The Four Foundational Principles of the Bahá’í
Grand Narrative
In our view, the Bahá’í grand narrative is built on four
principles. All attributions to the Bahá’í metanarrative must
agree with or converge on or, at least, not contradict these
principles which form the rational and coherent foundation of
this master narrative. With this narrative we may interpret
major historical developments by contextualizing them, i.e. by
locating them and their effects vis-à-vis the advance towards
world unification. As shall be discussed below, such assessments
must also take into account “the wisdom of God” which
reconciles human free will with a pre-determined historical
outcome.34
In our understanding, the first foundational principle of the
Bahá’í historical metanarrative is the doctrine of “progressive
revelation.” This doctrine asserts that mankind’s development
is inspired and guided by successive Manifestations of God
Who lead us to the continued actualization of our spiritual and
material potentials. According to the Writings, “without the
teachings of God the world of humanity is like the animal
kingdom” [PUP 62] i.e. without the Manifestations, humankind
would never advance beyond the limits of materialistic thought
to the higher levels of specifically human development. The
Manifestations’ spiritual teachings enable humanity’s other
capacities to develop and progress:
“Progress” is the expression of spirit in the world of
matter. The intelligence of man, his reasoning powers,
his knowledge, his scientific achievements, all these
being manifestations of the spirit, partake of the
inevitable law of spiritual progress and are, therefore,
of necessity, immortal. [PT 90, emphasis added]
Two statements are worth noting. First, matter becomes
progressive through the action of spirit. Without spirit, matter
is intrinsically in motion [SAQ ch.63] but it is not progressive in

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the sense of having an intrinsic final cause that leads it to
transcend its inherent limitations in greater unities. Second,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, refers to “the inevitable law of spiritual
progress” which makes it clear that, with the guidance of the
Manifestations, human progress is pre-destined, unavoidable
and certain. This guaranteed — though not necessarily simple
linear — progress is a distinguishing feature of the Bahá’í grand
narrative. Insofar as the Manifestations inspire mankind’s
progress, they are the origins of culture. As humanity advances
spiritually and materially, additional Manifestations appear
with new time-appropriate teachings that help us take the next
step in spiritual and social progress. The essential teachings of
the past are renewed, new teachings are added and the
accidental features suitable to past times and places are
abandoned.
Shoghi
Effendi
writes
the
aim
of
each
Manifestation is to
widen the basis of all revealed religions and to unravel
the mysteries of their scriptures. He insists on the
unqualified recognition of the unity of their purpose,
restates the eternal verities they enshrine, coordinates
their functions, distinguishes the essential and the
authentic from the nonessential and spurious in their
teachings, separates the God-given truths from the
priest-prompted superstitions, and on this as a basis
proclaims the possibility, and even prophecies the
inevitability, of their unification, and the consummation
of their highest hopes. [PDC 108, emphasis added]
All these measures serve Bahá’u’lláh’s command that “All
men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization” [GWB 214]. It is worth noting that “civilization” is
singular thereby reminding us that the ultimate goal of the
historic process is one civilization joined in a global federal
commonwealth united in “one common faith” [SAQ ch.12]. Each
culture makes its contribution to the final whole, thereby safe-
guarding the principle of unity in diversity. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
prescribes other guidelines for contributing to an “ever-
advancing civilization”:
It is now the time in the history of the world for us to
strive and give an impetus to the advancement and
development of inner forces — that is to say, we must
arise to service in the world of morality, for human
morals are in need of readjustment. We must also render
service to the world of intellectuality in order that the
minds of men may increase in power and become keener
in perception, assisting the intellect of man to attain its
supremacy so that the ideal virtues may appear. [PUP 325]
A key aspect of progressive revelation is that revelation is
never-ending. Shoghi Effendi says, that Bahá’í
teachings revolve around the fundamental principle that
religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine
Revelation is progressive, not final. Unequivocally and
without the least reservation it proclaims all established
religions to be divine in origin, identical in their aims,
complementary in their functions, continuous in their
purpose, indispensable in their value to mankind. [WOB 58]
This declaration not only establishes the centrality of
progressive revelation in the Bahá’í world view, but also
outlines the basic grand narrative explicitly and implicitly
present in the Writings. Divine revelations exist to guide
humankind throughout the phases of its development in a way
that is appropriate to its condition at any given time. Hence, it
progresses, i.e. reveals more as the human condition warrants
and as we “awaken spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7]. There is no
end to this revelation and, therefore, no final Manifestation or
final formulation of the truth. Truth is “relative” inasmuch as
the expressions of the divine truth are adapted to human
condition at any given time, but — and this is essential to note
— these culture-formed relative expressions are all expressions
of certain enduring truths or “eternal verities” [PDC 108] as

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Shoghi Effendi calls them. In other words, “truth is one,
although its manifestations may be very different” [PT 121]. The
fact that revelation is progressive means that the Bahá’í grand
narrative of mankind’s history is teleological, i.e. goal and
purpose driven to a particular end, i.e. the unification of
mankind into a global federal commonwealth joined in “one
common faith.” In other words, appearances to the contrary,
history has an inherent order that includes some measure of
predictability.
5.1: The Second Foundational Principle: The Oneness
of Humankind 35
The second foundational principle of the Bahá’í grand
narrative is
the principle of the Oneness of Mankind, the
cornerstone of Bahá’u’lláh's world-embracing dominion,
implies nothing more nor less than the enforcement of
His scheme for the unification of the world. [WOB 36]
Without recognizing the essential one-ness of mankind, the
vision of history as a grand narrative aimed at the unification
of mankind would lack a workable foundation. Physical things,
ideas and beliefs or events cannot be united in any durable way
without sharing something in common.36 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes it
clear that all human beings share an identical, essential nature in
several ways. First, he declares that “there are two natures in
man: the physical nature and the spiritual nature” [SAQ 118]. All
human beings share this constitutional make-up. At the physical
or natural level this essential nature is demonstrated by the
universality of medical and physiological studies. While some
medical differences between ethnic groups exist,37 they are not
enough to change our essential human nature. Even more, all
humans share the essential attribute of having a “rational soul”
which “is the human reality” [SAQ ch.38] or essence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says that which

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
distinguishes man from the animal is the rational soul,
and these two names — the human spirit and the rational
soul — designate one thing. This spirit, which in the
terminology of the philosophers is the rational soul,
embraces all beings, and as far as human ability permits
discovers the realities of things and becomes cognizant
of their peculiarities and effects, and of the qualities
and properties of beings. [SAQ ch.55]
From these passages, we may conclude that humankind shares
“the human spirit” or the “rational soul” as well as its dual
constitution of our natural and spiritual aspects. Moreover, for
all humans our natural or animal aspects are the source of “all
imperfection” and the spiritual aspect is the “source of all
perfection,” i.e. good [SAQ 118]. In short, all human beings share
the same ontological structure which, as we shall see, the
natural and spiritual aspects of the soul explain the origins of
good and evil in humankind, i.e. the vices and virtues. On the
other hand, the powers of the rational soul explain why humans
everywhere have, at least in principle, the universal capacities
for learning and thought, for rational action like building
societies, and for creative invention among other things. Of
course, the presence of these capacities does not always mean
they are used to the same degree or to the same advantage. Nor
does it prevent societies from getting ‘sick’ or succumbing to
“maladaptive” i.e. self-destructive ideologies.38
5.2: The Third Principle: The Unification of Mankind
The third principle of the Bahá’í grand narrative is the
ultimate goal of the unification of humankind in a global
commonwealth in which
All men will adhere to one religion, will have one
common faith, will be blended into one race, and
become a single people. All will dwell in one common
fatherland, which is the planet itself. [SAQ ch.12]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Shoghi Effendi makes the international aspect of this goal clear:
The unity of the human race, as envisaged by
Bahá’u’lláh, implies the establishment of a world
commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and
classes are closely and permanently united, and in which
the autonomy of its state members and the personal
freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose
them are definitely and completely safeguarded. [WOB 203]
Clearly, the Bahá’í grand narrative is teleological in nature, a
principle that allows us to understand and judge historical
developments in light of the ultimate goal, i.e. whether they
facilitate or hinder humanity’s progress to this endpoint.
At this point it is essential to note a unique feature of the
Bahá’í grand narrative. It combines freedom of the individual
will with the principle of a determined ultimate goal in history.
In other words, world unification is an inevitable goal —
ultimately pre-determined by God — but how we get there, by
easy ways or hard or by whatever process we individually and
collectively choose, history will arrive at a global federal
commonwealth united by “one common faith.” For example,
humanity could have chosen the Most Great Peace when
Bahá’u’lláh offered it but chose instead the trouble-ridden path
to the Lesser Peace, leading Bahá’u’lláh to exhort, “Now that ye
have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye fast unto this, the
Lesser Peace, that haply ye may in some degree better your own
condition and that of your dependents” [GWB 253].
Statistical science tells us there is nothing inherently
contradictory about a process that combines free individual
choices and predictable and pre-determined ends for groups.
Consider the actuarial tables compiled by life insurance
companies. Countless millions of uncoordinated free individual
decisions about life-style lead to orderly patterns and trends in
death statistics that enable us to make predictions about groups
and as well as identify life-expectancy probability for

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
individuals. Of course, there are always exceptions but the
majority of people do, in fact, die as predicted which is why life
insurance companies are so immensely profitable. The reason
for this paradoxical result is the inherent parameters of human
nature which constrain the number of possible outcomes which
in turn leads inevitably to the formation of patterns and/or
trends.
Another
illustration
of
this
apparently
self-
contradictory phenomenon can be seen in the graph line of
stock investments. The graph are the results of countless free
uncoordinated individual decisions, but the overall direction or
trend shows a preferential movement in a certain direction even
if contrary trends appear from time to time. Many of these
patterns and trends are so predictable that computers can be
programmed to anticipate them and take action.
5.3: The Fourth Principle: The Means of Unification
Finally, the fourth principle of Bahá’í meta-history are the
processes by which unification takes place. The first of these is
the Manifestation of God Who comes to inaugurate a new
stage of evolution in which humankind will make more
spiritual, material and cultural progress. This process begins
with
destabilizing
the
established
—
though
already
disintegrating — order. Bahá’u’lláh says,
The world's equilibrium hath been upset through the
vibrating influence of this most great, this new World
Order. Mankind's ordered life hath been revolutionized
through the agency of this unique, this wondrous System
— the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.
[GWB 136]
In other words, God sends a new Manifestation when one
phase of human development has run its course i.e. actualized
its potentials and a new one is to begin self-actualizing. Because
the previous revelation and its social order no longer meets the
needs of human progress, the new Manifestation arrives to

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

guide humankind through the next stage of spiritual, material
and cultural growth. Through the Manifestations, God acts in
the historical process.
The second aspect of the means by which God participates in
history refers to the two-fold action when a new stage of
development starts within a worn-out civilization without any
new potentials left to actualize. Shoghi Effendi notes while one
historical process is the death agonies of an old world order,
The second proclaims the birth pangs of an Order,
divine and redemptive, that will inevitably supplant the
former, and within Whose administrative structure an
embryonic
civilization,
incomparable
and
world-
embracing, is imperceptibly maturing. The one is being
rolled up, and is crashing in oppression, bloodshed, and
ruin. The other opens up vistas of a justice, a unity, a
peace, a culture, such as no age has ever seen. [PDC 17,
emphasis added]
In other words, two historical processes operate at the same
time — a degenerating process of the old order of society and,
growing within it, (Toynbee’s “chrysalis” and “internal
proletariat”) a new revelation and its concomitant civilization.
As the old civilization declines, the vigor of the new revelation
and world order increases until it is established.39 The new
civilization will be better able to meet the challenges of the
next stage of human development.
Finally, the means by which history advances is through the
expansion of the social order, i.e. growing inclusivity. Shoghi
Effendi states,
Unification of the whole of mankind is the hall-mark of
the stage which human society is now approaching.
Unity of family, of tribe, of city-state, and nation have
been successively attempted and fully established.
World unity is the goal towards which a harassed

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
humanity is striving. Nation-building has come to an
end. The anarchy inherent in state sovereignty is moving
towards a climax. A world, growing to maturity, must
abandon this fetish, recognize the oneness and whole-
ness of human relationships. [WOB 202, emphasis added]
In other words, social units show an increase in the number
and variety of people who are included as ‘one of us’ or even
seen as ‘fully human.’ Conversely, the number of people who
are considered as irredeemably ‘other’ are reduced. This must
happen on an individual and collective level.
To reach the next, i.e. global stage of historical
development, we must recognize that “nation-building has
come to an end” at least in the traditional sense and it is now
time to concentrate our efforts on building a global federal
commonwealth united by “one common faith.” This involves
numerous and radical changes in personal and collective self-
image and self-definition; in the expansion of spiritual capacity;
in personal and societal ethical standards; political and social
world-views and practices; and in a re-alignment of our
loyalties vis-à-vis national state and the world. However, we
must not think this is necessarily a single straight-forward
process especially in the contemporary world when two
processes are at work.
6: The Metaphysical Foundations of the Bahá’í
Grand Narrative
The Bahá’í grand narrative of world history is grounded in
the metaphysical and ontological teachings embedded in the
Bahá’í Writings. The reason for this is clear: history is a part of
the phenomenal world created by God and the metaphysical and
ontological principles laid down in the Writings are the pre-
conditions that inform and shape everything that exists or
happens in the phenomenal world. Consequently, the historical
process is necessarily linked to the appropriate metaphysical

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

and ontological principles or pre-conditions. For that reason
the most complete form of a grand narrative of world history is
one capable of connecting the metaphysical foundations with
the actual historical processes. This give us the greatest possible
understanding
we
can
obtain
within
the
inherent
epistemological limits of humankind. It also increases logical
coherence because it contains within itself all the metaphysical
principles needed to justify its own arguments, inferences and
conclusions. Only three other metanarratives attempt such
comprehensiveness: Hegel and Marx, and to a lesser degree
Toynbee.
The metaphysical foundation of the Bahá’í grand narrative is
the existence of God as the “the Creator of earth and heaven”
[ESW 40], “the Sustainer” [TB 144] of all that exists. This has at
least five important consequences. First, the phenomenal world
is intentional, i.e. it is intentionally brought into existence by
an act of God’s Will:
Through His world-pervading Will He hath brought into
being all created things ... All that is in heaven and all
that is in the earth have come to exist at His bidding,
and by His Will all have stepped out of utter
nothingness into the realm of being. [GWB 318]
It is important to notice that God intended, i.e. wanted the
phenomenal world to exist because He loved it: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states “The cause of the creation of the phenomenal world is
love” [PUP 297] which also suggests that by virtue of God’s love,
creation, the phenomenal world has inherent value. This, in
turn, establishes that in the Bahá’í grand narrative, at least some
values are objective and real, and that ethical subjectivism does
not universally apply. It also means that Hume’s Guillotine —
the impossibility of getting from a description to a prescription
— does not work with the Bahá’í metanarrative because at least
some values are inherent in phenomenal things.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
What we also learn from the pervasiveness of the divine Will
is that the phenomenal world cannot explain itself in strictly
phenomenal terms — as materialist and atheist systems require —
but must be referenced to something that is beyond it in
capacity and power and is unavoidable. Any attempt to explain
physical nature by strictly physical means ends in an infinite
regress since any alleged ‘final’ explanation lapses into an
infinite sequence of physical causes. Bahá’u’lláh also speaks of
“the Divine Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all
that is on the earth” [GWB 5] and notes that “Happy is the man
that hath apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath
revealed from the Heaven of His Will, that pervadeth all
created things” [GWB 335, emphasis added]. Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
refers to “the divine breath which animates and pervades all
things” [PUP 58]. Bahá’u’lláh also states,
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent testimony
to the revelation of that Most Great Light. [GWB 177]
Already at this point it is clear that the existence of a creator
God Whose Will permeates all things will have a dramatic
effect on how we contextualize and write world history.
Whether or not human history is contextualized in a theistic,
atheistic or agnostic way matters because the kind of world-
view we espouse — either consciously or unconsciously —
contextualizes our thinking and, thereby, influences our
judgments about values, human nature, motivations, actions,
events, society, politics, justice and truth to name only a few.
Our understanding, evaluation and presentation of lives or
events will be dramatically different if contextualized by an
indifferent world of matter, random mutations and struggle for
survival or by a world in which there are intentions, purpose,
order and even love for our existence.40 For example, the nature
of the Bahá’í grand narrative will be in sharp contrast to the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

atheist Marxist grand narrative or agnostic grand narrative by
the McNeil’s The Human Web: A Birds-Eye View of World
History.41 Different questions will arise for historians such as
‘What is God’s intention or desire in creation?’; ‘How is this
intention made known to us?’; ‘How do we best meet this
intention?’; ‘What kind of values are implicit in this intention?’
Furthermore, different events or kinds of events will be
important, less important or unimportant depending on the
metaphysical context.
It also follows logically that a phenomenal world with a
purpose allows us to evaluate, prioritize, judge and interpret
historical events and persons in light of that purpose which is
objectively embodied in reality. This distinguishes the Bahá’í
grand narrative from those like Marxism which attempts to
explain world history in strictly immanent, i.e. non-
transcendental and materialist terms. The problem is that
without an objective standard by which to render evaluations,
historical understanding ultimately becomes an exercise in
personal
and
collective
subjectivity
and
preferences.
Furthermore, the context we choose also affects the kinds of
evidence we are or are not willing to accept; the kind of
explanations or possibilities we are willing to explore; the
interpretation of events, actions and developments; the
conclusions and judgments we draw and the values by which we
draw them; the delineation of meaning; and the attitudes with
which we approach our material. With the possible exception
of chronicles, i.e. simple lists of events or objects, it is
extremely difficult, if not impossible, to write any kind of
history without these factors coming into play to one degree or
another. It is also clear that even the effort to avoid
metaphysics and ontology in history writing lands us in an
alternate metaphysics.
It might be argued that historians do not — or should not —
mix the study of history with any school of metaphysics and its
theological implications. However, the problem with this
position is that we cannot avoid taking metaphysical — and

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
implicitly, theological — standpoints no matter what we do
when studying history. It is obvious that empiricism,
positivism, the scientific method et al. do not avoid
metaphysics but merely assert a different kind of metaphysics
and the implicit theologies or a-theologies. Each of the
following propositions is metaphysical — and implicitly a-
theological — to the core: (1) ‘There is no, or we can detect no,
transcendentally originated purpose in the cosmos,’ (2) ‘The
only valid and decisive evidence is physical/material evidence’
that is the same for all viewers; (3) ‘We seek only facts in
history.’ The first two propositions are manifestly metaphysical
in nature and the second is obviously self-refuting. No valid
material evidence that such is the case can be produced — even
in theory. The third statement is logically circular because those
who support it will only accept material evidence as ‘facts’ to
begin with. The argument that historians must reject ‘miracles’
i.e. divine involvement in history is also problematic — but only
if we accept Hume’s definition of miracles violating the laws of
nature.42 If, on the other hand, we define miracles statistically,
like quantum theory, we would say that a miracle is an event of
an extremely low order of probability.43 Being highly
improbable and being absolutely impossible are two different
things — and obviously a miracle is a highly improbable event.
In other words, the argument that a Bahá’í grand narrative
contaminates history with metaphysics and theology is not in
itself a valid reason to reject it because any objection
inescapably makes the same ‘error’ of at least implicitly
invoking metaphysics.
The second consequence of God’s role as Creator and
Sustainer is that the Bahá’í metanarrative connects human
history to natural history and the evolution of the universe. In
other words, mankind’s history is an intrinsic part of the
“divine milieu” 44 as Teilhard de Chardin calls it and humankind
is not as an accidental outcome of random mutations or
chemical processes. Rather, humanity is a necessary goal of
cosmic history.45 As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Moreover, it is necessary that the signs of the
perfections of the spirit appear in this world, that the
realm of creation may bring forth endless fruits, and
that this body of the contingent world may receive life
and manifest the divine bounties ... So, for example, the
rays of the sun must shine upon the earth and its heat
must nurture all earthly beings; if the rays and heat of
the sun were not to reach the earth, it would remain idle
and desolate and its development would be arrested.
Likewise, were the perfections of the spirit not to
appear in this world, it would become dark and wholly
animalistic. It is through the appearance of the spirit in
the material body that this world is illumined ... If man
did not exist, if the perfections of the spirit were not
manifested and the light of the mind were not shining in
this world, it would be like a body without a spirit. By
another token, this world is even as a tree and man as
the fruit; without the fruit the tree would be of no use.
[SAQ ch.52]
We hardly need mention that the Writings support the
concept of intelligent design of the phenomenal world.
According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
This composition and arrangement arose, through the
wisdom of God and His ancient might, from one natural
order. Thus, as this composition and combination has
been produced according to a natural order, with
perfect soundness, following a consummate wisdom,
and subject to a universal law, it is clear that it is a
divine creation and not an accidental composition and
arrangement. [SAQ ch.47]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also speaks of the “the mysteries and creative
purposes hidden within the phenomenal world” [PUP 74]. Because
the phenomenal world is an intentional creation of God, it is
inherently imbued with a purpose, i.e. God’s purpose which is

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
the final cause of creation itself. The final cause directs or
guides the proximate causes — the material, efficient and
formal causes [SAQ ch.80]46 — so that they harmonize with the
final cause.
The third consequence of God’s role as Creator concerns
purpose. If creation is intended by God, it has a purpose. If
something has a purpose — especially God’s purpose — it has
intrinsic value by which to judge whether a thing and/or event
supports or opposes the divine purpose. Furthermore, because
it has intrinsic value, it also has meaning or significance or
importance for thought and action. This situation is
noteworthy for grand narratives of world history because it
implies that human history is not embedded in a fortuitous and
essentially chaotic universe but, rather, is part of a universe
with a final cause, a purpose, value and meaning. In other
words, history takes place in a “divine milieu,”47 in an
environment actualized and fashioned by God’s presence
through His divine Will and signs of His ubiquitous presence.
Showing how at least some of the major events of world history
fit into and exemplify the divine signs either by their presence
or indirectly by their absence is one of the challenges of the
Bahá’í grand narrative.
When metahistorical studies are contextualized by a “divine
milieu,” the next logical step is to discover what this purpose is
and how it is reflected in human history. Our knowledge of
purpose, value and meaning which comes primarily through the
Manifestations, provides the standards or criteria by which to
evaluate the importance of historical events. Grand narratives
that omit the intrinsic and objectively real purpose, value and
meaning of historical developments become untenable since, in
effect, they are distorting history by errors of omission. For
example, the Bahá’í Writings say that the final goal of human
history is the unification of mankind, from which it logically
follows that it is unsound and short-sighted to neglect this
information in interpreting and evaluating historical persons
and/or events. Shoghi Effendi makes such a judgment when he

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

says, that “Nation-building has come to an end” [WOB 202], a
statement which, in effect, discourages “nation building” as a
side-line of contemporary political action.48
The fourth consequences of God’s act(s) of creation is that
value is not only innate to all existence but is also objectively
real and not merely a personally subjective or even socially
subjective phenomenon. In other words, the Writings espouse
value realism, i.e. the belief that at least some values — ethical
or otherwise — do not depend on human observers, i.e. they are
not subjective individually or socially. At least some values are
objective, established in the natural world by the presence of
the signs and Names of God [SAQ ch.50]. The objectivity of these
values is confirmed by Shoghi Effendi who states that all the
Manifestations assert the “eternal verities” [PDC 108] in each
dispensation. Such “verities” are “eternal” precisely because
they endure and are objectively real, i.e. not dependent on
human opinion either individual or collective. The manner in
which these “verities” are applied diverges among dispensations
but the “verities” themselves do not. We might characterize this
situation as ‘theme and variations’ or, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
“truth is one, although its manifestations may be very
different” [PT 128]. The application of these values such as the
nature of the good, also varies with the level of creation. For
the plants, animals and humans, the value is growth to its
highest possible condition but ‘growth,’ while essentially the
same in all cases has different attributes in a plant and a human.
In other words, nature and the human history embedded in it,
are value-laden and have been so from the earliest beginnings of
the phenomenal world. This implies that the struggles of history
are unconscious or conscious efforts to attain the appropriate
good. World history has an objective ethical dimension.
A fifth consequence of divine creation is that the historical
process is essentially rational insofar as it is mandated by the
“invisible yet rational God” [WOB 112]. Thus, it is divinely
endowed with an innate purpose or goal and a correlated means
of achieving this goal, i.e. the establishment of a global federal

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
commonwealth united in “one common faith” achieved with the
guidance of the successive Manifestations of God and the
actualization of humanity’s intellectual and spiritual potentials.
For this reason the holy Manifestations of God appear in the
human world. They come to
educate and illuminate mankind, to bestow spiritual
susceptibilities, to quicken inner perceptions and
thereby adorn the reality of man — the human temple —
with divine graces. [PUP 330]
Bahá’u’lláh explains the necessity for an orderly development in
history:
Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light
of Divine Revelation hath been vouchsafed unto men in
direct proportion to their spiritual capacity. Consider
the sun. How feeble its rays the moment it appeareth
above the horizon. How gradually its warmth and
potency increase as it approacheth its zenith, enabling
meanwhile all created things to adapt themselves to the
growing intensity of its light ... Were it, all of a sudden,
to manifest the energies latent within it, it would, no
doubt, cause injury to all created things .... In like
manner, if the Sun of Truth were suddenly to reveal, at
the earliest stages of its manifestation, the full measure
of the potencies which the providence of the Almighty
hath
bestowed
upon
it,
the
earth
of
human
understanding would waste away and be consumed; for
men's hearts would neither sustain the intensity of its
revelation, nor be able to mirror forth the radiance of
its light. Dismayed and overpowered, they would cease
to exist. [GWB 87]
The divine Manifestations arrive in succession to inaugurate
new dispensations, i.e. new steps towards the ultimate goal of
world unity when humankind is socially, intellectually and
spiritually ready to take the next step. This sequential order is

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

rational in two senses of the word. First, it represents a
‘natural’ or ‘organic’ rationality in which each step is the
fulfillment of the appropriate potentials (for the goal) of the
previous step and the preparation for the actualization of the
next stage. The underlying reason for each step is that it
facilitates reaching the goal or final cause in an orderly manner.
Second, the same principle applies in logical reasoning; each
step in a chain of logical inferences must be the necessary and
sufficient condition for the next inference.49 Hegel’s belief that
the historical process functioned dialectically may have been
mistaken, but his insight that there is an underlying rational
sequence in history agrees with the Bahá’í Writings. Science also
shows that the cosmic process itself is rational and orderly
insofar as science is based on the observation that the universe
works by means of classical and statistical laws and regularities.
We hasten yet again to add that the teleological and rational
nature of the historical process does not necessarily deny
individual free will. Our collective goal is pre-determined — the
world commonwealth and the actualization of human potentials
— but this does not pre-determine any of our personal decisions
for good or bad. Morally speaking the individual remains free
to make whatever choices s/he wants:
Certain matters are subject to the free will of man, such
as acting with justice and fairness, or injustice and
iniquity — in other words, the choice of good or evil
actions. It is clear and evident that the will of man
figures greatly in these actions ... he is free in the choice
of good and evil actions, and it is of his own accord that
he performs them ... All these deeds and actions are
under his own control, and he is therefore accountable
for them. [SAQ ch.70]
In other words, individual and collective free will operates
within the context of the teleological historical process. To put
it another way, God has determined the ultimate goal of the
historical process insofar as He has endowed humanity with the

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
potentials to work towards this goal, but we are personally and
collectively free to decide whether or not to strive for this goal
and by what means. Furthermore, free will also means that we
are free to do evil or to be “perverse.”
His purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit and
the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own
innate powers, unto the shores of the Most Great
Ocean, that thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-
Glorious may be distinguished and separated from the
wayward and perverse. [GWB 70, emphasis added]
God also gives us free will so that the “pure in spirit” may be
differentiated from “the wayward and the perverse” by means
of their own free moral choices.
The issue of free will inevitably raises the problem of evil.
Before proceeding, two points must be noted. First, both good
and evil acts require choices, i.e. they must be conscious and
intentional. We cannot claim to have acted virtuously because
an involuntary arm spasm caused us to swerve and avoid hitting
a man collapsed on the road in front our car. Nor can we claim
a baby committed an evil act if it accidentally poked and
blinded us in one eye. For this reason, natural disasters are not
evil since nature is not conscious and cannot form intentions.
Second, without the potential of choosing evil, our will would
not really be free. Indeed, if we were only allowed to do good
deeds, we would be robots or zombies without consciousness,
intention, choice and action. In short, we would not be human
beings and God’s creation would lack purpose. True freedom
requires the right to do wrong. The Universal House of Justice
explains,
Bahá’u’lláh also raises the possibility that possessing free
will, human beings may well commit evil and “wittingly” break
“His law.” By the exercise of his free will, man either affirms
his spiritual purpose in life or chooses to perpetuate evil by
living below his highest station. The question is asked: “Is such

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

a behaviour to be attributed to God, or to their proper selves?”
And [Bahá’u’lláh] concludes: Every good thing is of God, and
every evil thing is from yourselves [MUHJ63 663].
Genuine evil, i.e. malicious criminal acts — not tragic
accidents, oversights, good intentions gone wrong and results
of ignorance — is caused, and can only be caused by, human
beings. Along with other factors such as unforeseeable natural
disasters, tragic accidents and good intentions gone wrong, evil
is the source of the apparent irrationality of history. However,
God does not allow man-made anarchy and crime — or even
natural disasters — to divert the historical process from its
ultimate goal. Even those who disobey and defy God will
eventually discover that as the Qur’an says, “they plotted, and
God plotted; and God is the best of plotters.”50 As the Báb
states, “All are His servants and all abide by His bidding!” [SWB
216, emphasis added] In short, even their opposition will eventually
be made to serve God’s purpose. This is reminiscent of Milton’s
Paradise Lost in which God allows free will to Satan and his
fallen angels and uses their evil actions as an opportunity to
bring out greater good.51 The same idea underlies Hegel’s
concept of “the cunning of reason ... [which] sets the passions
to work for itself.”52 Bahá’ís have a concrete example of this in
our own history. The IRI sought to extirpate the Bahá’í Faith
but by driving many Bahá’ís out of Iran, it effectively spread
the Faith into more countries than ever before.
We should point out in passing that the Báb’s teaching forms
the basis of a Bahá’í theodicy, i.e. an explanation of evil and its
role in a divinely created universe. Mankind has freedom to do
ill, but God has the power to use evils for greater good. This
preserves free will in mankind and assures the advancement of
humankind. Unfortunately, we shall not be able to advance this
topic at this time.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
7: Essentialism and the Bahá’í Grand Narrative
The Bahá’í Writings and the metanarrative that grows out of
them support essentialism, i.e. the philosophical view that all
things have specific nature and attributes that distinguish them
from other things in a real and objective way. According to the
Writings, all things have an essence, among them God [SAQ
ch.37]; “all created things” [SWAB 111]; the human soul [GWB 159];
humankind [SWAB 184]; justice [GWB 167]; beauty [GWB 321];
species of living things [GWB 300]; truth [GWB 328]; religion [PUP
344]; “this new age” [PUP 304]; “existence” [SWAB 157] and the
spirit [SWAB 167]. These references to the essence are even more
wide-spread once we realise that such phrases as “inmost
reality”; “the realities of,” the “inner reality,” and “inner
realities” also refer to the essence of things.53 As we shall
demonstrate below, essentialism is the logical and ontological
foundation of the doctrine of progressive revelation.
According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, essences cannot be known
directly and immediately by intuitive insight but can be known
only indirectly by studying their actualized attributes or
qualities:
As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited
ones, is of their attributes and not of their essence, how
then can it be possible to understand in its essence the
unbounded Reality of the Divinity? For the inner
essence of a thing can never be known, only its
attributes ... Thus everything is known by its attributes
and not by its essence: Even though the human mind
encompasses all things, and all outward things are in
turn encompassed by it, yet the latter are unknown with
regard to their essence and can only be known with
regard to their attributes ... That is, as created things
can only be known through their attributes and not in
their essence, the reality of the Divinity, too, must be
unknown with regard to its essence and known only with
respect to its attributes. [SAQ ch.59]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The principle of knowledge by attributes even applies to God
Whose attributes are made known to us by the Manifestations.
These revelations are basis for reasoning about God.
Furthermore, there are two kinds of attributes — essential
and accidental. Essential attributes are those that a thing must
have to be the kind of thing it is e.g. three wheels to be a
tricycle. Accidental attributes are those which are “non-
essential” [TAB3 562] as illustrated in the statement that “that
which is changeable is accidental, evanescent” [PUP 416]. The
tricycle’s color can be changed and, therefore, may be seen as
“evanescent” but the necessity of three wheels is permanent or
essential. God, of course, has no accidental attributes since that
would deny His unchangeable nature and perfect unity.
The distinction between essential and accidental attributes is
the metaphysical foundation for progressive revelation.
Writing about these two aspects of the divine teachings,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
Each one of the divine religions has established two
kinds of ordinances: the essential and the accidental. The
essential ordinances rest upon the firm, unchanging,
eternal foundations of the Word itself. They concern
spiritualities, seek to stabilize morals, awaken intuitive
susceptibilities, reveal the knowledge of God and
inculcate the love of all mankind. The accidental laws
concern the administration of outer human actions and
relations, establishing rules and regulations requisite for
the world of bodies and their control. These are ever
subject to change and supersedure according to
exigencies of time, place and condition. [PUP 338, emphasis
added]
Elsewhere ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares,
We must remember that these changing laws are not the
essentials; they are the accidentals of religion. The

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
essential ordinances established by a Manifestation of
God are spiritual; they concern moralities, the ethical
development of man and faith in God. They are ideal
and necessarily permanent — expressions of the one
foundation
and
not
amenable
to
change
or
transformation. Therefore, the fundamental basis of the
revealed religion of God is immutable, unchanging
throughout the centuries, not subject to the varying
conditions of the human world. [PUP 365]
Shoghi Effendi refers to this distinction between the
essential and the accidental when he discusses the permanent
“eternal verities” that underlie all religions in contrast to the
temporary “nonessential and spurious in their teachings” [PDC
108]. In a very apt metaphor, one author calls these “eternal
verities” the “golden core”54 of religion which is different from
the accidental adaptations to a particular time and place. In the
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “every one of the divine religions
contains essential ordinances, which are not subject to change,
and material ordinances, which are abrogated according to the
exigencies of time” [PUP 106]. Moreover, he adds,
The second division comprises laws and institutions
which provide for human needs and conditions
according to exigencies of time and place. These are
accidental, of no essential importance and should never
have been made the cause and source of human
contention. [PUP 393, emphasis added]
Here we see how the Bahá’í principle of rejecting religious
conflict of any kind is logically justified by its metaphysical
basis in the essence/accident distinction. The rejection of
religious conflict is not solely a matter of good will towards
men but also a matter of logical reasoning.55 This also
demonstrates ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s dictum that “The world of minds
corresponds with the world of hearts” [PUP 270] insofar as our

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

good will towards humankind is correlated to rational
philosophical principles.
The essence/attribute distinction allows us to avoid the
apparent contradiction between the “eternal verities” which are
absolute and unchangeable and Shoghi Effendi’s statement that
“religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine
Revelation is progressive, not final” [WOB 58; cf. PDC Preface]. The
seeming self-contradiction is solved by recalling that the
changes affect the accidental or culture-bound attributes of a
revelation and not in its permanent inner essence or “eternal
verities.” This distinction meets the requirements of both
stability and growth. The “eternal verities” provide a stable
foundation for knowledge and faith, without which, ethics
would be inescapably reduced to subjectivity and preference.
The accidental qualities allow — under the guidance of the
Manifestation for a specific age — adaptation of the essentials
to various cultural conditions.
8: The Ontology of Potentials
Another aspect of the metaphysics underlying the Bahá’í
grand narrative of world history is the ontology of potentials
which characterizes the nature of created things. The ontology
of potentials — which has its roots in Aristotle56 — states that
(1) all things are characterized or defined by particular set of
potentials or changes they can or cannot undergo; (2) this set of
potentials is their essence as a member of a species or group
and as a unique individual within that group; (3) all things seek
to actualize their potentials to an optimal degree illustrating
thereby the principle of perfectibility which is especially true of
the human soul [PT 85]. This principle is at work in the doctrine
of progressive revelation which depends on continual progress
in our self-actualization to operate. Let us examine an example
of these ideas. At birth, a puppy has a certain set of potentials
that make it (a) a member of the dog species and (b) a specific
set of potentials that make it a particular puppy. No matter

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
what happens, it has no potentials to become a grasshopper or a
duck. No amount of tinkering with the puppy’s environment
and education can change this. During its life-time, a dog can
actualize its potentials for protection, playing Frisbee and
Flyball and obeying certain commands. However, few if any
beings — dogs or humans — exist long enough to actualize their
full potentials for which reason unactualized attributes and
potentials are necessary aspects of their essence. In that sense,
there is a mystery in all created beings.
The Writings make it clear that potentials are not small
physical ‘things’ embedded in an entity like raisins in a bun.57
According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá potentials are present but not
visible or apparent: “from the beginning of its formation, all of
these [branches and leaves] existed potentially, albeit invisibly,
in the seed” [SAQ ch.51]. Elsewhere he states,
One of the functions of the sun is to quicken and reveal
the hidden realities of the kingdoms of existence.
Through the light and heat of the great central luminary,
all that is potential in the earth is awakened and comes
forth into the realm of the visible. [PUP 74, emphasis added;
cf. PUP 186]
The Writings reject strict empiricism in which being real is
equivalent to being perceptible [SAQ ch.16], and assert the
existence of “intellectual realities” which “do not exist
outwardly ... that is to say, intellectual realities which are not
sensible, and which have no outward existence” [PUP 186, emphasis
added]. Furthermore, since potentials are an aspect of an entity’s
essence, and the essence of things is not available for direct
human knowledge [SAQ ch.74] it seems to follow that, like
essences, the potentials of things are known by their qualities or
attributes, i.e. by their effects in the world. In themselves they
are not unperceivable — although their effects may be well
known and predictable. In the sciences, the subject of non-
sensible and unpredictable potentials, i.e. hidden, undetectable
possibilities is covered by the subject of ‘emergence.’ For

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

example, nothing in oxygen and hydrogen atoms provides
empirical evidence that the combination of these atoms, i.e.
water, will (1) be transparent; (2) be a liquid and (3) will expand
when cooled below 4 degrees C unlike all other materials. This
and other examples of emergence — the symmetrical and fractal
based patterns of snowflakes for example — support the Bahá’í
view of the reality of potentials.
The ontology of potentials is essential to the Bahá’í grand
narrative insofar as it grounds the concept of the perfectibility
of man which is itself essential to the doctrine of progressive
revelation. According to Bahá’u’lláh we must “Regard man as a
mine rich in gems of inestimable value. Education can, alone,
cause it to reveal its treasures, and enable mankind to benefit
therefrom” [GWB 259]. Bahá’u’lláh informs us that only
education can actualize these gem-like potentials and make
them visible, and, thereby allow us to fulfill His command that
“All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization” [GWB 214]. It is important to notice the universal
and categorical term “all” which tells us there are no exceptions
to this purpose. The actualization of potentials and most
especially the actualization of the higher spiritual potentials are
vital to the goal of the unification of humankind. Only by
striving for self-transcendence and self-overcoming can this
goal be reached [PUP 143].
Only by improving spiritually as well as materially can
we make any real progress, and become perfect beings.
It was in order to bring this spiritual life and light into
the world that all the great Teachers have appeared.
They came so that the Sun of Truth might be
manifested, and shine in the hearts of men, and that
through its wondrous power men might attain unto
Everlasting Light. [PT 63]
In this passage, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá connects the three concepts of
spiritual and material progress with the doctrine of progressive
revelation as initiated and guided by God’s Manifestations.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
The ontology of potentials is the basis of an objective
standard by which to measure human progress, i.e. the degree to
which potentials have been actualized in any given individual or
society. In regards to individuals — including ourselves —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The only real difference that exists between people is
that they are at various stages of development. Some are
imperfect — these must be brought to perfection. Some
are asleep — they must be awakened; some are negligent
— they must be roused; but one and all are the children
of God. Love them all with your whole heart; no one is a
stranger to the other, all are friends. [PT 171]
This can be applied not only to individuals who, for
whatever reason, have not actualized their potentials but also
to cultures and nations, as seen in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s question
about Persia: “Must she now, for this contemptible sloth, this
failure to struggle, this utter ignorance, be accounted the most
backward of nations?” [SDC 8] Similarly, he says of Paris, and by
extension, the West, that “her spiritual progress is far behind
that of her material civilization” [PT 27]. Shoghi Effendi refers
to “backward peoples” [UD 25] in various parts of the world.
The objective standard by which to assess progress is the degree
to which this person, or this culture have actualized or
expanded the actualization of their latent potentials. From a
Bahá’í perspective, the answer seems clear: advanced individuals
or cultures are those which have actualized the most potentials
and provided more opportunities for more people to develop
their potentials, i.e. their “inestimable gems.”
However, it must be emphasized that the actualization of
potentials must not be one-sided, especially in the materialist
direction:
I want to make you understand that material progress
and spiritual progress are two very different things, and
that only if material progress goes hand in hand with

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

spirituality can any real progress come about ... The
laws of God may be likened unto the soul and material
progress unto the body. If the body was not animated
by the soul, it would cease to exist. It is my earnest
prayer that spirituality may ever grow and increase in
the world, so that customs may become enlightened and
peace and concord may be established. [PT 108]
In other words, progress consists of the actualization of our
material, intellectual and above all our spiritual potentials to
the greatest degree possible in the greatest possible number of
people. Of course, in light of the final goal of world history,
we are all spiritually and/or materially “backward,” albeit not
necessarily in equal measure.
9: Controversies about Grand Narratives
Grand narratives are sharply criticized and strenuously
rejected by contemporary historians, postmodern philosophers
and cultural studies scholars. Since the Bahá’í Writings
explicitly present a grand narrative, it is, in my view,
imperative to understand at least some of these critiques and
the possible answers — especially those from the Bahá’í
Writings. Such knowledge is not only valuable to Bahá’ís
engaged in teaching or apologetics but also to scholars of
comparative religion and philosophy.
Ever since the publication of Spengler’s Decline of the West
(1919) and Toynbee’s A Study of History (1934–1961) grand
narratives have been a highly controversial subject among
philosophers, historians and cultural studies scholars. Among
the philosophers, Karl Popper, an influential philosopher of
science, was the most persistent and systematic opponent who
not only rejected grand narratives as intellectually mistaken but
also as a potent source of evil. In The Poverty of Historicism
(1957) and The Open Society and Its Enemies (1962) Popper
strives to undermine the philosophical underpinnings which

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
make grand narratives possible. In so doing, he anticipates most
of the postmodernist — e.g. Lyotard — critiques about the
“totalization”58 and “terrorism”59 supposedly inflicted by
metanarratives.
In The Poverty of Historicism and The Open Society and Its
Enemies Popper blames metanarratives from Plato to Hegel and
Marx for the rise of totalitarian regimes in Fascist Italy, Nazi
Germany and Communist Russia. In fact, he dedicated The
Poverty of Historicism to all those who “fell victim to the
fascist and communist belief in Inexorable Laws of Historical
Destiny.”60 His objection to grand narratives and the implied
ability to predict — or identify possible or probable
developments — is that grand narratives lead to all the
associated ills of totalitarianism: omnipresent state planning;
gleichschaltung, i.e. an enforced coordination of all aspects of
public and private life; and the reduction of the individual to a
mere means or tool of the state. For Popper grand narratives
have no redeeming features.
According to Popper, grand narratives (although the term
had not yet been invented) are a part of “historicism” which he
defines as
an approach to the social sciences which assumes that
historical prediction is their principal aim, and which
assumes that this aim is attainable by discovering the
‘rhythms’ or the ‘patterns’ the ‘laws’ or the ‘trends’ that
underlie the evolution of history.61
In Popper’s view, there are no laws manifested in history,
which means, in effect, there are no regularities, patterns or
trends to be seen and, therefore, no grand narratives to be
established. Therefore, “History has no meaning.”62 Because it
has “no meaning” it has no goals or even a general direction, i.e.
is not teleological. He continues, saying that, “There is no
history of mankind, there is only an indefinite number of
histories of all kinds of aspects of human life.”63 With this

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

statement,
Popper,
like
the
postmodernists,
asserts
a
nominalistic view of history by breaking up all concepts of a
universal ‘human history’ into a multitude of smaller individual
histories of localities, nations and so on. Toynbee aptly
describes Popper’s view as “antinomian”64 insofar as the
historical process is not subject to any regularity or law.
In light of our foregoing discussion of the Bahá’í grand
narrative, the clash between the Bahá’í teachings and Popper’s
views are inescapable. However, in our view, none of Popper’s
critiques of metanarratives are especially salient.
The first weakness is blatant self-contradiction at the most
fundamental level: to make his complaint about ‘historicism’
and grand narratives, Popper indulges in ‘historicism’ himself.
He claims that there are no predictable patterns in history and
yet he asserts the existence of such patterns on the basis of
historical events in Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany and Communist
Russia and then predicts that such grand narratives necessarily
and inevitably lead to totalitarian states. If history has no
pattern and cannot be predicted, on what basis does he make
his prediction? And without evidence, i.e. patterns or laws — or
even the possibility of evidence — why should we accept his
word? On this score, Popper’s argument is logically flawed and
unpersuasive.
There is a second weakness, namely, if history is too complex
to allow grand generalizations or grand narratives of history,
then there is no basis for Popper’s thesis that history lacks
order and is too complex to be known. How could he know this
if history is too complex to be knowable? Such a judgment
already pre-supposes a complete knowledge of history —
something he says is beyond us. The most he can say is that he
can discover no order — but it does not logically follow
therefrom that no order exists. Nor is his inability to find an
order in history logically sufficient to reject all other attempts
to disclose such order and meaning. In short, Popper asserts but
he does not prove.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
A third weakness is that Popper’s denial of meaning in
history is, in effect, no more than a proposal for a different
meaning of history, i.e. for an alternate grand narrative of the
historical process even though his argument supposedly forbids
metanarratives. To say that human actions lack order and
meaning and exhibit no value or purpose is, in effect, an
alternative interpretation of history, albeit a negative one. This
is no logical caprice such as claiming that ‘nothing’ is
‘something.’
Popper’s
negative
metanarrative
resembles
positive metanarratives insofar they both embed a certain set
of beliefs, principles and values and both prohibit certain other
views. In short, both function in a similar manner. Popper’s
grand narrative endorses or at least encourages a particular set
of beliefs and values, i.e. those usually associated with atheist
secular humanism which recognizes humankind as the only
source of values and only the physical as real.
Despite his arguments against grand narratives, Popper still
feels the need for some sensed of meaning in history: “Although
history has no ends, we can impose these ends of ours upon it;
and although history has no meaning, we can give it a
meaning.”65 Unfortunately, there is an obvious problem here. If
we know that the historical process is intrinsically chaotic and
complex beyond all human understanding, it is difficult to see
how we can successfully “impose” our own order on it. Either
this man-made order is entirely fictional and, therefore,
dubious, or it reflects or connects to something real in the
historical process. However, in the latter case Popper’s
rejection of grand narratives would be at least partially false,
i.e. there is at least some genuine order we can connect with.
The fourth — and the most important problem with Popper’s
theories — is clear by reference to the Bahá’í Writings: history
is turbulent and sometimes even chaotic but there is one
constant throughout: human nature. The essential oneness of
human nature is the field on which all the historical turmoil
plays out. Whatever the historical events, the responses are
inevitably shaped and limited by human nature itself. As W.H.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Walsh notes, “history is properly concerned with human
experiences,”66 adding that “History is intelligible ... because it
is a manifestation of mind.”67 History is constituted by our
understandings of and reactions to what we experience. R.G.
Collingwood expresses the same idea as follows: “For history,
the object to be discovered is not the mere event, but the
thought expressed in it.”68 Thought, “the object to be
discovered” is also shaped and limited by human nature no less
than action. The conclusion is inescapable: the human mind —
or the “rational soul” as the Bahá’í Writings call it — is the
underlying common denominator that unifies all the various
histories of humankind. W.H. Walsh concludes that “[A]
fundamental set of generalizations, belonging to the science of
human nature, is presupposed in all historical work.”69
The unity of human nature is a foundational principle of the
Bahá’í Writings. It is most obviously evident at the physical
level. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
When we observe the human world, we find various
collective expressions of unity therein. For instance,
man is distinguished from the animal by his degree, or
kingdom. This comprehensive distinction includes all the
posterity of Adam and constitutes one great household
or human family, which may be considered the
fundamental or physical unity of mankind. [PUP 190,
emphasis added]
In other words, human nature as a whole is distinguished from
animal nature and, therefore, humans make up one family that
illustrates “the physical unity of mankind.” The sciences
provide decisive evidence for this “physical unity.” It is self-
evident
that
medical
science,
i.e.
doctors,
surgeons,
physiologists and pharmacologists study the same basic texts
the world over because our physiological processes and organs
are essentially the same regardless of ethnic origins. Moreover,
in the 1950’s, humanist psychologist Abraham Maslow
established his widely influential70 hierarchy of physical, psycho-

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
social and even spiritual needs which characterize human nature
everywhere.71 All humans have D-needs for survival — air,
water, food, shelter, protection, appropriate clothing and
opportunities to look after ourselves — and B-needs which we
need not to survive but to thrive, to be fulfilled as specifically
human individuals. Among these needs are purpose and
meaning, friendship and appreciation.
Further evidence for the essential oneness of mankind comes
from anthropology and cognitive science. As noted by
prominent anthropologist Donald E Brown in Human
Universals, “human biology is a key to understanding many
human universals.”72 In The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of
Human Nature, Steven Pinker, a cognitive scientist, explores
the philosophical history leading to the rejection of the concept
of a universal human nature. Based on but also extending the
work of Donald Brown, he lists over three hundred traits as
universal.73
The Bahá’í Writings also inform us that the universal
attributes of humankind are not only physical but also spiritual
and intellectual:
The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the
animal, is the rational soul, and these two terms — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one and
the same thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of
the philosophers is called the rational soul, encompasses
all things and as far as human capacity permits. [SAQ
ch.55]
The message is clear: regardless of culture, time, place or
circumstance, all people share one human nature because they
all have a rational soul. We also share a higher, spiritual nature
and a lower animal nature which the higher nature must control.
In addition, we all possess “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 339]
which must be cultivated in order to make spiritual progress
possible. Since there is a universal human nature, it must be

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

manifested in historical human actions. Indeed, a universal
ethic is also possible because of our universal human nature
insofar as at least some ethical rules apply to everyone at all
times and in all places. God being the creator of human nature,
means that no one is better qualified than He to establish what
this ethic is. As Shoghi Effendi notes, all the Manifestations
teach the “eternal verities” [PDC 107]. Consequently, objective
and cross-cultural moral standards exist across all cultures,
places, times and circumstances.
Not only is human nature universal, it is also stable over
time, i.e. it is historically stable. This is evident in Shoghi
Effendi’s statement that the successive Manifestations “restate
the eternal verities” [PDC 108] over the course of human history.
If human nature changed, then the “eternal verities” would not
be relevant through historical changes. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, reinforces
this point when, writing of evolution, he says that man’s
“species and essence undergo no change” [SAQ 183]. In short,
human nature is constant. The actualization of hidden and
latent potentials is not, of course, a change in nature but a
fulfillment or completion of our nature. Such actualization of
potentials is what occurs during the historical process that, in
the Bahá’í grand narrative, culminates in a world-wide federal
commonwealth united by “one common faith.”
Another criticism of grand narratives is that they do not
follow the methods of ‘scientific history.’ The demand for
‘scientific history’ is itself problematic and, therefore, weak. It
is hard to know what this demand is supposed to mean. Clearly,
grand narratives cannot follow the methods of the experimental
sciences though it can follow the scientific method of forming
a hypothesis, gathering evidence, testing the hypothesis and
then arriving at a conclusion. However, as we shall see, the
three writers examined by this study — Spengler, Toynbee and
Sorokin — fulfill the requirements of the scientific method.
However, if by ‘scientific’ we mean limiting all conclusions
to what can be directly and literally documented, then R.G.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Collingwood makes the obvious point that history is more than
just documentable events and is the history of “the thoughts
out of which these events grew?”74 Elsewhere he says, history
cannot be limited to external events. William H McNeil
expresses this issue more dramatically, commenting that “ink-
soiled paper does not and never has embraced all the parameters
of human life with which historians might appropriately
concern themselves.”75 William H Dray notes, “For it is surely
the historian’s task ... not only to establish the facts, but to
understand them. And this will involve him in giving
explanations.”76 Explanations require interpretations and
interpretations lead to judgments. He adds,
Application of the evidence criterion to history isn’t
contentious: we do not find theorists arguing that
history should be written in contravention of the
evidence. Nonetheless, to ask how and to what extent
the evidence should guide historical accounts does
permit substantive debate ... The extent to which
historical accounts are constrained by the evidence
invites consideration of the question of under-
determination. It may be that historical accounts are
determined by the evidence to a significantly lesser
extent than are scientific accounts; in particular in so
far as those historical accounts are interpretive or
narrative.77
Other criticisms of grand narratives assert that they require
the marginalization of certain knowledge, beliefs, and peoples
as individuals or groups. This critique is invalid insofar as the
Bahá’í teachings reject the marginalization of people(s) and
argue for the essential oneness of mankind. However the
marginalization of people(s) is not the same thing as the
marginalization of ideas and knowledge-claims. Marginalizing
individuals qua individuals cannot be justified but, the entire
concept of ‘progress’ which is integral to the Writings (see
below) necessitates leaving some knowledge behind as mistaken,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

impractical, malevolent or even “the outcome[s] of human
perversity” [GWB 217] as Bahá’u’lláh says of “a few” religions.
The rejection and marginalization of human beings and the
rejection and marginalization of ideas, knowledge, beliefs and
customs are not at all the same things. Bahá’u’lláh’s foregoing
words about some religions as the “outcome[s] of human
perversity” demonstrates, the Bahá’í Writings themselves show
no hesitation in rejecting certain beliefs as false and
superstitious and, in the case of a few religions, even perverse.
Indeed, the Writings clearly acknowledge the existence of
“error” [SAQ ch.46], “idle fancies and vain imagining” [ESW 15],
“ignorance” [SAQ ch.60], “heedlessness and superstition” [PB 95],
and even “absurd” [TAF 18] i.e. illogical arguments. Furthermore,
Bahá’u’lláh advises us to “meditate profoundly ...so that light
may be distinguished from darkness, truth from falsehood,
right from wrong, guidance from error, happiness from misery,
and roses from thorns” [KI 8]. In other words, the Writings
clearly assert that not all claims to know the truth are really
true, or, conversely, that some views and opinions, no matter
how passionately held are simply wrong and must be rejected if
humankind is to make progress. Indeed, the whole concept of
progress which plays such an essential role in the Writings,
means that some knowledge, some beliefs, some practices must
be abandoned, i.e. permanently marginalized. Bahá’u’lláh’s
assertion that “All men have been created to carry forward an
ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214] virtually requires us to
leave behind all those beliefs, attitudes, loyalties and practices
that hinder progress, and most notably, those that hinder
progress towards the unification of humankind. His statement
also requires us to recognize that humanity as a whole shares the
same divinely given task.
A final critique of grand narratives is that they artificially
impose a pattern or agenda on the historical process. It is
difficult to understand this critique since to one degree or
another, all histories except, perhaps, the simplest lists of
names or events can avoid some ‘imposition’ on their material.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
However, even with simple chronologies we cannot avoid some
choice of what to include and leave out and, thereby, the
judgments and interpretations entailed by such selection. All
histories must do this and even more: making choices about
what to accept as evidence (documents, oral traditions, eye
witnesses,
logical
deductions);
judging
importance
and
relevance; and identifying meanings and implications. Thus,
making imposing patterns a special misdeed for grand
narratives is an obvious case of special pleading. Imposing an
‘agenda’ is no unique sin of metanarratives. Nor is it necessarily
dishonest or obfuscating if we are open about writing to prove
a certain viewpoint. Such statements of intent allow readers to
investigate for themselves and form independent judgments.
Moreover, criticizing an author like Toynbee for finding
religious truths illustrated in history seems hypocritical in light
of the respectful reception given to Marxists like Eric
Hawbsbawn and E.P. Thompson. Marxism itself is a grand
narrative and those who work within the Marxist metanarrative
are fleshing out smaller fragments of it. In our view, the
common sense attitude to this issue lies with Sebastian
Conrad’s defense that the concept of world history is, in
principle,
no
less
viable
than
other,
more
limited,
historiographical theories and practices.78 Such efforts are not
inherently and necessarily flawed and, therefore, cannot be
rejected a priori.
10: Global Grand Narratives
To help us understand the nature of grand narratives of
global history in particular, we must reflect on two inter-
connected problems — scale and order. All global grand
narratives claim that if we study history on a world scale we
will be able to observe patterns of that are not visible at sub-
global scales. However, this leads to a problem with other
historians who work with smaller units of study such as nations.
Georg Iggers writes that world historians like Fukuyama and
Huntington are not

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

taken seriously in recent historiography not only
because of the political implications of their work but
also because they operate on a speculative plane of
global history alien to historians who avoid such
schemes in their empirical work. However, the
developments of past decade and a half have shown that
neither the turn to micro-history nor the older patterns
of national and regional history are sufficient for
dealing with the transformations that are taking place
on a global scale ... it is indisputable that there are
processes of modernization taking place before our
eyes, most clearly in the scientific, technological and ...
economic
spheres,
and
...
[modernization]
has
transformed societies globally ... [and] must be taken
seriously on a world scale.79
Sebastian Conrad makes a similar point arguing that contrary
to what opponents80 of grand narratives assert,
No unit [local, national, global] of study is inherently
superior ... No unit is the one and only true unit of
inquiry. What is more, different units direct our
attention to different processes. Different units ... are
not only different windows on the same subject, but
each window allows us to see processes that might not
have come into view through another window. The
common criticism that the grand narratives get the
details wrong is beside the point — they aim at larger
processes and trends.81
In other words, there are some kinds of historical knowledge
we can only obtain by taking an expansive, global view. This is
not difficult to illustrate. A close sociological study of a single
family lets us focus very specifically on individual situations,
self-images, familial dynamics, motives and actions among
other things. We acquire detailed knowledge of individuals.
However, such a narrow study does not tell us much about the

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
trends and patterns in family life at the regional or even
national level. Indeed, at the smaller scale, such knowledge is
not available for observation. In statistics it is established that
a small sample size is unreliable for drawing general conclusions
about very large groups of people because some causal factors,
correlations, trends and patterns only become significant when
the sample size is sufficiently large. Appropriate sample size
also washes out the outliers, those anomalies that can easily
distort the knowledge we get from small scale studies. The
difference in gathering knowledge at different scales is why
historian William H McNeil states, “historian’s fixity of
attention on national and local affairs is misleading.”82
Similarly, Sebastian Conrad explains, “Global history thus
acknowledges the causal relevance of factors that do not lie
within the purview of individuals, nations, and civilizations.”83
What the foregoing discussion suggests is that insisting that
only one scale or perspective is valid, denies us access to
knowledge that may be essential to humankind.
Sebastian Conrad rejects complaints about grand narratives
getting factual details wrong as being “beside the point”84
because grand narratives “aim at larger processes and trends.”85
Larger processes or statistical sample sizes are not as sensitive
to errors in detail as smaller processes and sample sizes where
they can have undue influence on a smaller pool of data.
Conrad makes the same point about errors allegedly found in
meta-historians like Arnold Toynbee and Oswald Spengler. By
itself, the existence of the outlier or detail error is not enough
to disprove anything in large scale studies. W.H. Walsh makes
the same point by saying that in the sphere of global history “a
man can be wrong in detail and sound in essentials.”86 To assert
that an outlier or error invalidates a general trend or pattern or
a grand narrative, we must show in each case the reasons why
this difference causes a severe distortion in the pattern that has
been found. The mere assertion of error is not enough.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

We shall now get into more details of the Bahá’í grand
narrative in comparing and contrasting them with the work of
Spengler, Toynbee and Sorokin.
PART II
The Bahá’í Grand Narrative and Spengler,
Toynbee and Sorokin
Oswald Spengler’s two-volume The Decline of the West
published in Germany in 1918 is one of the best known
metanarratives of the 20th Century. Despite the largely academic
controversies surrounding this two volume magnum opus, it is
still widely available in various translations and in both book
and e-format which suggests that it still arouses considerable
interest. In 1952, H. Stuart Hughes wrote that despite the
“bitter invective, icy scorn, urbane mockery or simply
pretending that it is not there,”87 Spengler’s work continues to
attract readers and generate “intellectual excitement.”88 Half a
century later, Neil McInnes’s article “The Great Doomsayer”89
provides a cavalcade of the major contemporary thinkers who
have been influenced by Spengler, despite his continued poor
reputation amongst academics. Among them we find Francis
Fukuyama, author of The End of History and The Origins of
Political Order; Hans Robert Jauss, the originator of reception
theory; Henry Kissinger; F. Scott Fitzgerald; and Michael
Foucault.90 Others include Joseph Campbell, Northrop Frye,
Theodor Adorno, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Martin Heidegger,
Camille Paglia, Ernest Hemingway and Hans Morgenthau.91 His
far-reaching influence alone makes his ideas worth careful
study. Adda B Bozeman notes this need for more careful study
in “Decline of the West? Spengler Reconsidered.”92 W. Reed
Smith
explains
Spengler’s
and
Toynbee’s
contemporary
relevance in his 2009 article “Megalopolis versus Social
Retardation: The Continuing Relevance of the Views of
Spengler and Toynbee on the Variability of the Rate of Cultural

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Change.”93 Mehdi Mozafari’s Globalization and Civilization
also notes Spengler’s wide-ranging influence on contemporary
thought.94 Neil McInnes points out that if nothing else, “there
gradually arose after Spengler a sustained interest in what was
variously called the science of civilization, cultural studies and
comparative macrosociology.”95 A renewed appraisal of
Spengler’s continued relevance was published in 2001 by John
Farrenkopf, a professor of history and political science.96 This
curious contrast between Spengler’s negative reception among
academic historians and his wide-spread influence among major
writers, diplomats and thinkers is something that requires
further exploration. Such a serious disconnect suggest that
something important is being overlooked in his work. Later, we
shall see that the same may be said of Arnold Toynbee.
In outline, Spengler’s theory is clear. The first issue to note
is Spengler’s distinction between ‘Culture’ and ‘civilization.’ As
such, this distinction does not exist in the Bahá’í Writings. For
Spengler, Culture is the phase in which all later civilizations
have their start; according to Spengler, “The Civilization is the
inevitable destiny of the Culture.”97 The transition from
Culture to Civilization is “the victory of the inorganic
megalopolis
over
the
organic
countryside
which
was
henceforward to become spiritually ‘the provinces.’ “98 W. Reed
Smith notes,
The California wine country may still be semi-rural, but
it is nevertheless thoroughly megalopolitan in outlook
and lifestyle. One can live in rural Mississippi and still
be thoroughly megalopolitan in outlook. Indeed,
megalopolitanism is a world-view, a way of life; and
although it is springing forth from the overgrown urban
centers such as New York and Los Angeles, it cannot and
should not be misunderstood to be somehow limited to
people living within the city limits of the great cities.99
Culture contains all the potentials that it and its subsequent
civilization can actualize. It is the time of true creativity in all

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

areas of human endeavor and a time genuinely experienced
religiosity. Perhaps the most basic aspect of a culture is its
“world-feeling”100 i.e. its feeling about the nature of reality as,
for example, being inherently alive, or inherently sacred or as
am image of a greater reality, or, as in materialism, inherently
utterly passive or ‘dead.’ This underlying “world-feeling” shapes
all of a culture’s artistic, intellectual and practical activities.
What Spengler says about mathematics and different theories
of number in the following passage is true of everything else:
We find an Indian, an Arabian, a Classical, a Western
type of mathematical thought and, corresponding with
each, a type of number — each type fundamentally
peculiar and unique, an expression of a specific world-
feeling, a symbol having a specific validity which is even
capable of scientific definition, a principle of ordering
the Become which reflects the central essence of one and
only one soul, viz., the soul of that particular Culture.101
Another important aspect of the “world-feeling” is the
“Destiny-idea [in which] the soul reveals its world-longing, its
desire to rise into the light, to accomplish and actualize its
vocation.”102 Spengler believes that the eight ‘high cultures’ he
has selected possess the “Destiny-idea” to a superlative degree
although he admits that “to no man is it entirely alien.”103 In
other words, both individuals and cultures possess a “Destiny-
idea” at least during their growing cultural phases. For
Spengler, “world-feeling,” “Destiny-idea” and “prime symbol”
are connected.
the Destiny-idea manifests itself in every line of a life.
With it alone do we become members of a particular
Culture, whose members are connected by a common
world-feeling and a common world-form derived from
it. A deep identity unites the awakening of the soul, its
birth into clear existence in the name of a Culture, with
the sudden realization of distance and time, the birth of

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
its outer world through the symbol of extension; and
thenceforth this symbol is and remains the prime symbol
of that life, imparting to it its specific style and the
historical form in which it progressively actualizes its
inward possibilities.104
The “prime symbol” which is connected to the “world-
feeling” and “Destiny-idea” grows out of the intuitions of
space
and
time
whose
importance
has
been
grossly
underestimated by academic historians.105 For the Classical or
Apollonian Greek world, time and space were a single point in
the present as illustrated for example in ancient Greek drama.
Greek drama required (1) unity of time: the action could take
no more time than the duration of the play; (2) unity of space:
the action could not require a change of scene; (3) unity of
action: there could only be one action/plot with only minimal
subplots, if any. Throughout The Decline of the West, Spengler
shows how Greek culture, e.g. mathematics and art reflected
their prime symbol of ‘one-ness.’ Greek philosophy, for
example, was heavily focussed on the problems of the one and
the many, being and becoming, essence and attribute — all of
which are aspects of their prime symbol. Western, or Faustian
culture’s prime symbol was “an infinitely wide and profound
three dimensional space”106 as reflected in the invention of
calculus, i.e. the mathematics of movement and approaching
infinity; in invention of multi-dimensional, i.e. unlimited
geometries, and the fugue which is an attempt at infinite
complexity in music. The Magian or Arab, Hebrew and Iranian
prime symbol is a cavern which exhibit the
“Semitic” primary-dualism which , ever the same under
its thousand forms, fills the Magian world. The light
shines through the cavern and battlers against the
darkness [John i, 5]. Both are Magian substances. Up and
down, heaven and earth become powers that have entity
and contends with one another.107

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In more general terms, the Magian Cavern is an inherently
mysterious place inhabited by enigmatic and shadowy beings
whose cryptic struggles are reflected in the sinewy complexities
of Arabesques and in the transformations of algebra.
As in the Bahá’í Writings, each culture and civilization lasts
about one thousand years the last centuries of which are a
hardening of flexible creative culture into a civilization which
marks the final phase of its existence. Moreover, each culture is
an organic entity that passes through its phases of development
without any chance of deviation. In human terms, this process
resembles
human
growth,
from
birth,
to
childhood,
adolescence, youth, adulthood and old age. More commonly,
though, Spengler uses the seasonal cycle as his organic analog;
here, too, there is no chance of avoiding the inevitable. No act
or cultural-political program can deflect this order. The last
season — the one in which Spengler locates us — is winter,
which
is
dominated
by
dominated
by
technology,
commercialism and vulgarity. It is in the winter phase that the
“Destiny-idea” is “overpowered by matter-of-fact feeling and
mechanizing thought.”108 In other words, most people no longer
have any ability to conceive of themselves anything more than
physical beings with a super-natural destiny of vocation. They
feel soul-less and rootless who confuse being lost with being
free. This time of confusion gives rise to a period of “let’s
pretend” spirituality or what Spengler today would call ‘new
age hocus pocus,’ along with the mock-spirituality of
Hollywood supernaturalism intended to entertain. However,
[t]he fact that the latter [pseudo spirituality] is possible
at all foreshadows a new and genuine spirit of seeking
that declares itself, first quietly, but soon emphatically
and openly, in the civilized waking consciousness ...
[However] The material of the Second religiousness is
simply that of the first, genuine, young religiousness.109
He also sees the loss of genuine religiosity as a sign of the
autumn and winter season, i.e. taking over a culture:

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
It is this extinction of living inner religiousness, which
gradually tells upon even the most insignificant element
in a man's being, that becomes phenomenal in the
historical world-picture at the turn from the Culture to
the Civilization, the Climacteric of the Culture, as I
have already called it, the time of change in which a
mankind loses its spiritual fruitfulness for ever, and
building takes the place of begetting. Unfruitfulness —
understanding the word in all its direct seriousness —
marks the brain-man of the megalopolis, as the sign of
fulfilled destiny, and it is one of the most impressive
facts of historical symbolism that the change manifests
itself not only in the extinction of great art, of great
courtesy, of great formal thought, of the great style in
all things, but also quite carnally in the childlessness and
“race-suicide” of the civilized and rootless strata,
phenomenon not peculiar to ourselves but already
observed and deplored — and of course not remedied —
in Imperial Rome and Imperial China.110
As a civilization approaches its end, it also experiences a
“Second Religiousness”111 which is marked by a “deep piety.”112
However,
neither in the creations of this piety nor in the form of
the Roman Imperium is there anything primary and
spontaneous. Nothing is built up, no idea unfolds itself
— it is only as if a mist cleared off the land and revealed
the old forms, uncertainly at first, but presently with
increasing distinctness. The material of the Second
Religiousness is simply that of the first, genuine, young
religiousness
—
only
otherwise
experienced
and
expressed ... finally the whole world of the primitive
religion, which had receded before the grand forms of
the early faith, returns to the foreground, powerful, in
the guise of the popular syncretism that is to be found
in every Culture at this phase.113

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Because all cultures pass through the same life-cycle in the
same seasonal order for roughly the same length of time, the
meaning of the word ‘contemporary’ is decisively altered
inasmuch as events may be separated by a thousand years, but if
they occur at the same phase or season in the life cycle of two
cultures, these events are ‘contemporary.’ For example,
Spengler sees Julius Caesar and Napoleon as contemporaries
because they fulfilled the same basic role at the same point in
the seasonal cycle albeit it in different cultures. Both mark the
beginning
of
the
winter
season
of
their
cultures.114
Furthermore, the history of a culture is predictable insofar as
the specific phases of development can be foretold as well as
the sub-phases, such as the “second Religiousness” or, in the
last phases of civilization, “Caesarism” i.e. the rule of strong
leaders able to impose their will on society as well as the rule of
money.
Ironically,
Caesarism
“grows
on
the
soil
of
Democracy”115 although it eventually asserts itself over popular
will, money or aristocracy. According to Spengler, the West is
now in the middle of its winter or civilizational phase.
As cultures harden into the winter of civilization, the
“destiny-idea” in individuals is replaced by “matter-of-fact-
feeling and mechanizing thought.”116 Spengler does not limit the
“Destiny-idea” to any particular race, class, nation or culture.
The eight “high Cultures” he mentions are simply the
outstanding achievers among humanity. The intuited “Destiny-
idea” “manifests itself in every line of a life”117 and connects us
by a common world-feeling and a common world-form”118 to
the culture in which we live. For Spengler, destiny is more
important than external causality because destiny is what we
choose to do as opposed to what is forced upon us. Our
intuition of time and space becomes “the prime symbol of that
[cultural] life, imparting to it its specific style and the
historical form in which it progressively actualizes its inward
possibilities.”119 The hidden influence of the “prime symbol”
shapes all aspects of life in every culture as it actualizes its
potentials.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
According to Spengler, “High Cultures” are the true focus of
historical studies, not nations, races, states or empires. The
latter are subunits of what Spengler calls “High Culture”120
which are subject to the seasonal cycles. There have been eight
major cultures in the past: the Babylonian, Egyptian, Chinese,
Indian,
Mayan/Aztec,
Classical
Greco-Roman,
Arabian
(including Jewish and Persian) or Magian, Western or Euro-
American. These are “high Cultures.”121
The group of the high Cultures is not, as a group, an
organic unit. That they have happened in just this
number, at just these places and times, is, for the human
eye, an incident without deeper intelligibility.122
This list demonstrates two important aspects of Spengler’s
theory of history. First, not all cultures are “High Cultures” i.e.
cultures with a strongly developed “Destiny-idea” and the
subsequent unity and strength that grow out of this idea.
Second, “High Culture” is not dependent on a biological
conception of race as shown by the presence of only one
Western or Euro-American High Culture. In fact, Spengler had
no use for biological and darwinian concepts of race, and, like
Nietzsche, thought of ‘race’ as a matter of character, style and
form, and tradition.123 His list includes no African cultures —
he does not, of course, think Egyptian culture was Black —
because from his perspective no “High Cultures” existed in
Africa. As the rest of his list shows, biological race was not a
factor in this judgment. His contempt for Hitler — despite the
Nazis’ attempt to enlist Spengler as a fore-runner — is wittily
summarized by his statement that Germany needs a hero, “not a
heroic tenor.”124 In regards to the Jews, he viewed the tensions
between Jewish and Christians as being about cultural heritage,
not blood.
The foregoing examples of Spengler’s method of historical
study reveal three important aspects of his work.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

First, he unequivocally rejects the linear view of history as a
progressive sequence from ancient to modern with its implied
superiority of Western culture. He regards this as a distorted
view of history.125 In Spengler’s view, there is no progress in
history — cultures simply go through their life-cycle but they
are not working towards anything but the actualization of their
potentials as their natural goal. The Writings and Spengler are
in glaring disagreement about progress as indicated by the
Bahá’í doctrine of progressive revelation and Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement that “All men have been created to carry forward an
ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214]. However, this progress
is not confined to any one particular culture but — as the
‘Amazonian’ metaphor of the Bahá’í grand narrative suggests —
historical progress is made up of tributary contributions from
different cultures at different times. No one culture or people
bears the entire burden of making progress. However, the
progress made by humankind is objectively real and the
Writings set an objective standard for assessing progress in
both individuals and cultures: the degree of actualization of
inherent physical, intellectual and spiritual capacities. More
advanced cultures actualize more potentials in more people
than less advanced cultures. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, implicitly applies
this standard when he speaks of some peoples and tribes as
practicing “savageries” [SAQ ch.77] and proceeding to the
necessity for education i.e. actualization of the intellectual and
spiritual capacities to lift them out of this condition. He asks,
rhetorically,
How long shall we drift on the wings of passion and
vain desire; how long shall we spend our days like
barbarians in the depths of ignorance and abomination?
God has given us eyes, that we may look about us at the
world, and lay hold of whatsoever will further
civilization and the arts of living. He has given us ears,
that we may hear and profit by the wisdom of scholars
and philosophers and arise to promote and practice it.
[SDC 3, emphasis added]

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
In contrast, Spengler does not think that any such standards
among cultures and civilizations exist and, therefore, there is
no such thing as ‘progress’ in history. He is unable to do so
because the monadic nature of each culture and civilization
make impossible the application of any common standard of
assessment.
Second, Spengler rejects the limitations of ‘scientific’
history, i.e., the belief that
history joins astronomy and volcanology in being an
evidentially
but
non-experimental
discipline
...
Nonetheless, to ask how and to what extent the evidence
should guide historical accounts does permit substantive
debate ... It may be that historical accounts are
determined by the evidence to a significantly lesser
extent than are scientific accounts; in particular in so
far as those historical accounts are interpretive or
narrative.126
Historical understanding based strictly on material evidence
is, in Spengler’s view, inappropriate and insufficient for dealing
with the complexities and depths of human thought, feeling,
personal and socio-political action values, religion and culture.
Concepts like “world-feeling,” “Destiny-idea” and “prime
symbol” play an extremely important role in the inner, often
unconscious motivation for actions, beliefs and values. That is
why, in his view, we also need intuition, empathy and
‘einfuehlung’127 (‘feeling our way into the life and perspective
of
another
being’)
are
necessary
in
the
process
of
understanding, explaining and interpreting history.128 Because
history is made by humans, we need not only facts but also
assessment and interpretation of facts and their implications.
In other words, according to Spengler, the ‘hard’ basic facts of
history are necessary but not sufficient to understand the past
that humans make. This conclusion has a major impact on how
we view — and write — history.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In regards to historical methodologies, there is a clear
convergence — though not full agreement — between the Bahá’í
Writings and Spengler. Both agree that by themselves,
“materialistic’ methodologies and attitudes,”129 i.e. methods and
attitudes limited to what can be known via documents or other
physical evidence — are insufficient for an adequate
understanding of the past. Humanity cannot be understood by
way of its physical remnants alone. However, the Writings go
further than Spengler (or Dilthey) insofar as they see the
necessity of developing our “spiritual susceptibilities” which
includes “the quickening of mental capacity” [PUP 340]. With
such a spiritually-based “quickening” of our intellects historians
will be able gain new, and hitherto invisible, insights into the
historical process. In other words, clinging to the “materialist
methodologies” hinders the progress of acquiring historical
insights both for Spengler and the Bahá’í Writings.
Third, Spengler studied history not on the basis of sequential
events and cause-and-effect relationships but rather on the
basis of forms, structures and functions, or, as he put it,
“morphologically.”130 He completely rejects the division of
history into ancient, medieval, renaissance and modern as being
Euro-centric and, thereby, distorted. Instead, he focussed on
the repetitions that occurred as cultures went through the
various phases in their life-cycles. His morphological studies
examine the forms, structures and functions in which cultures
express their ideas, feelings, art, sciences, religion and politics
among others. He found there are amazing correspondences and
analogs between unalike cultures in the same phases of
existence.
One of the most controversial aspects of Spengler’s theory is
that each culture is self-contained and can neither influence or
be influenced by other cultures. To paraphrase St. Thomas
Aquinas, the reason is that whatever influence is received from
the outside, is always received in the terms of the receiver’s
beliefs131 i.e. in ways that the receiver can understand. This is
also because each culture has its own “world-feeling,”132

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
“Destiny-Idea”
and
“prime
symbol”
are
essentially
incomprehensible to other cultures. Their fundamental “world-
feelings,” “Destiny-ideas” and “prime symbols” are too
different for that to happen. Each culture can only see other
cultures from its own perspective and, therefore, never really
‘contact’ or understand the other culture in itself.133 The
influence that is ‘sent out’ is not the same as the influence that
arrives. Intercultural influence as usually understood does not
occur. Furthermore, [c]onnotations are not transferable”134 are
an enormous part of any culture’s communication. Because
each culture is essentially isolated each culture also has its own
character that shapes all aspects of its life, beginning with the
“world-feeling” and including the sciences, arts, philosophy,
mathematics, music and religion. The Bahá’í Writings, as will be
shown below, reveal the serious short-coming of this view.
One of the unavoidable consequences of that cultures are
self-enclosed monads is a strong epistemological and ethical
relativism. ‘Truth’ is truth for one culture — there are no
universal truths just as there is no universal good. As we shall
see later, Spengler undermines his own position in this regard
by positing a number of universal attributes of humans and
cultures.
11: Comparing the Bahá’í Writings with Spengler
One of the first questions we might ask vis-a-vis the Bahá’í
Writings and Spengler is if there are any correlations with
Spengler’s “Destiny-idea,” “world-feeling,” and “prime symbol.
In our view, the strongest such correlation concerns the
“Destiny-idea.” The Bahá’í Writings exemplify the concept of
“Destiny-Idea” insofar as the Manifestations have a general and
a unique mission that that informs all cultures They inaugurate.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares that
The mission of the Prophets, the revelation of the Holy
Books, the manifestation of the heavenly Teachers and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the purpose of divine philosophy all center in the
training of the human realities so that they may become
clear and pure as mirrors and reflect the light and love
of the Sun of Reality. [PUP 60, emphasis added]
This is the general mission of all Manifestations. However,
each Manifestation also has a unique mission within the
historical process. In addition to their station of “essential
unity” [GWB 52] the Manifestations have another station.
The other station is the station of distinction, and
pertaineth to the world of creation, and to the
limitations thereof. In this respect, each Manifestation
of God hath a distinct individuality, a definitely
prescribed mission, a predestined revelation, and
specially designated limitations. [GWB 52, emphasis added]
From this perspective, each culture inaugurated by the
Manifestation has a general purpose or mission and a particular
task in achieving the general mission. In this way a “Destiny-
idea” is imparted to the cultures receiving guidance from the
Manifestations.
In our understanding, the Writings also exemplify what
Spengler calls “world-feeling,” i.e. our attitude and feelings
about the world around us. For example, it is possible to have a
“world-feeling” of mistrust as in Sartrean existentialism, a
power struggle as in Marxism or Fascism, or disenchantment as
in much modern literature and philosophy. The fact that all
things but especially humanity exemplify the names of God is,
indeed, a “re-enchantment of the world”135 as a sacred place,
and all beings as fundamentally sacred. Every being is a moment
of divine revelation in its own way.
How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine
in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that
surge within a drop! To a supreme degree is this true of
man, who, among all created things, hath been invested

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
with the robe of such gifts, and hath been singled out
for the glory of such distinction. For in him are
potentially revealed all the attributes and names of God
to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or
surpassed. [GWB 176]
In our view, Bahá’u’lláh’s statement expresses the Bahá’í
“world-feeling” of the sacred nature of reality and the high
station of humankind and its spiritual vocation and destiny.
This “world-feeling” pervades the Writings and should pervade
Bahá’í life. Indeed, this statement is a potent encapsulation of
many Bahá’í teachings as well as the Bahá’í “world-feeling.”
In the Bahá’í Writings, the “prime symbol” as Spengler uses
it, is ‘light’ which implicitly includes space since light has to be
‘somewhere,’ i.e. perceived in some perceptual or conceptual
space. (Spengler’s “prime symbol” involves varying intuition of
space.) The pervasive sun, light and dark imagery used
throughout the Writings; the emanationist metaphysics
associated with the image of the sun136; and the importance of
‘planes’ suggest — to this author at least — that light is the
underlying symbol of the Writings.
Another concept important to Spengler is ‘pseudomorphosis’
which happens when
an older alien culture lies so massively over the land that
a young Culture, born in the land cannot get its breath
and fails not only to achieve pure and specific
expression forms, but even to develop its own self-
consciousness.137
This concept has some obvious similarities to post-colonial
situations in which an alien culture smothers or almost
smothers a newer culture struggling for existence. Although the
concept of pseudomorphosis has no counterparts in the
Writings, it is relevant in another, pragmatic way. It serves to
alert us to the temptation or danger of allowing “an attempt [to

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

be] made to impose, on the Bahá’í community's own study of
the Revelation, exclusively materialistic methodologies and
attitudes antithetical to its [the Faith’s] very nature.”138 A
pseudomorphosis is precisely what might happen if such an
imposition of “a purely materialistic interpretation of reality
[were] imposed on scholarly activity of every kind, at least in
the Western world.”139 Those who support such a “materialistic
framework ... have even gone so far as to stigmatize whoever
proposes a variation of these [materialistic] methods as wishing
to obscure the truth rather than unveil it.”140 To forestall a
pseudomorphosis — at least in the culture of scholarship — it is
necessary to avoid undue reliance and trust on “materialistic
methodologies.”
Perhaps the most important similarity between the Bahá’í
grand narrative and Spengler are the concepts of societies, the
world, cultures and civilizations as being organic in nature. In
other words, they embody highly complex inter-active
relationships that transcend the mere sum of their constituent
parts. The underlying belief that the Writings and Spengler
share is that society is more than a collection of atomic, i.e.
separate and distinct individuals who are not intrinsically
connected in any way. Rather, society has an emergent
character, i.e. a nature or essence that cannot be reduced to its
constituent
parts.
A
classic
illustration
of
emergent
characteristics is water which has qualities and behaviors that
cannot be reduced to or predicted from oxygen and hydrogen
by themselves. When two hydrogen and one oxygen atom are
joined, a whole new level or plane of reality becomes manifest
with new, hitherto unknowable attributes such a liquidity and
expansion when frozen. The organic view of society makes the
same point about groups of individuals. Bahá’u’lláh points to
this organic nature of society when He says, “Regard the world
as the human body” [GWB 254]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of “the
great body of human society” [PUP 233, SDC 33, PDC 122].
The seasonal analogy supports the organic view of society
insofar as we are expected to take it seriously as a model for a

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
natural process it directs our analysis and judgment into that
direction. Moreover, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá relates the physical and
spiritual seasons in Some Answered Questions in a series of
passages too long to quote here [SAQ ch.14]. In this section, he
explains the correspondences between the physical and spiritual
seasons. After explaining the physical and spiritual spring,
summer and autumn, he says,
Winter arrives — that is, the chill of ignorance and
unawareness envelops the world, and the darkness of
wayward and selfish desires prevails. Apathy and
defiance ensue, with indolence and folly, baseness and
animal qualities, coldness and stone-like torpor, even as
in the wintertime when the terrestrial globe is deprived
of the influence of the rays of the sun and becomes
waste and desolate. Once the realm of minds and
thoughts reaches this stage, there remains naught but
perpetual death and unending non-existence. [SAQ ch.14]
It must be noted that “nonexistence” in the Writings is
relative, i.e. it means ‘existent’ or ‘nonexistent’ relative to
something that is higher or lower in the scale of being, For
example, the human world is nonexistent from the perspective
of the mineral world because the mineral world cannot perceive
and comprehend mankind’s existence [SAQ ch67]. The spiritual
world of the “rational soul” does not exist for the animal soul.
In other words, by living more according to their “animal
instincts” and not according to the “rational soul,” people slip
into ‘nonexistence’ in regard to their specifically human
capacities.
Spengler agrees that societies and cultures are organic in
nature. H. Stuart Hughes writes,
Spengler called his method ‘morphological.’ That is, it
represented an application to history of the biologists’
concept of living forms. Each culture, in his view, was
an organism, which like any other living thing went

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

through a regular and predictable course of birth,
growth, maturity and decay. Or in more imaginative
language, it experienced its spring, summer, autumn,
and winter. This biological metaphor provided the
conceptual frame giving unity and coherence to the
rest.141
As already noted, the Writings accept the organic “conceptual
frame” for thinking about culture.
In addition to the seasonal metaphor, the Writings also use
the metaphor of human growth from birth to old age as an
explanatory principle in understanding the life-cycles of
societies and cultures. For example, Shoghi Effendi writes
The long ages of infancy and childhood, through which
the human race had to pass, have receded into the
background.
Humanity
is
now
experiencing
the
commotions invariably associated with the most
turbulent stage of its evolution, the stage of
adolescence, when the impetuosity of youth and its
vehemence reach their climax, and must gradually be
superseded by the calmness, the wisdom, and the
maturity that characterize the stage of manhood. Then
will the human race reach that stature of ripeness which
will enable it to acquire all the powers and capacities
upon which its ultimate development must depend.
[WOB 202]
Obviously, the seasonal and the human growth metaphor
deliver the same message: societies and cultures are living things
and go through the appropriate phases of development and,
eventually, die. Such a life course applies to all living things, i.e.
is predictable. The Writings and Spengler agree on this issue.
Predictability is one of the most controversial issues in
regards to historical metanarratives. Can historians predict
future events and/or developments? Of course, Bahá’u’lláh can

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
do so — and does so in His letters to the monarchs of Europe —
but He is a Manifestation with privileged access to timeless
knowledge. Ordinary historians lack such divine insight.
However, they can — if they wish — make use of three sources
of information to make well informed guesses about the general
course of coming events. The first is the recognition of
repeating patterns in the past, for example, all cultures undergo
birth and death; power struggles occur within them; the deaths
are often violent. There is a long history of historians finding
various patterns even in our time as seen in the rise of “Big
History” and Global History142 as an academic discipline and
such publications as The Human Web by two distinguished
historians.143 These studies provide positive reasons for
believing such patterns are real.
The belief that there are patterns in the historical process is
supported by the universality of human nature. The Bahá’í
Writings recognize the oneness of human nature explicitly,
while Spengler’s vision of detailed correspondences in the
phases of eight unconnected “High Cultures” implicitly pre-
supposes the universality of human nature. The Bahá’í Writings
go even further — they predict specifics such as the decline and
degeneration of religion and civil society, the arrival of a new
Manifestation and the persecution and ‘war’ against the new
faith. The exact outward attributes of these events depends on
time, place and situation but the essential events re-occur. That
is because human beings are specific kinds of entities and,
therefore, have a wide but limited range of responses to
situations. There are, for example, only so many ways to deal
with a severe drought: we can stay and try to survive; we can
migrate to better weather; we can make deals for food e.g.
labor; we can wait for others to donate food; or we can plunder
food from other groups either by raids or outright conquest.
Since human nature is universal, i.e. human responses to various
situations fall within certain parameters — as we see in clinical
and social psychology — we would logically expect repeating

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

patterns and a resulting ability to predict the future, at least in
outline.
The third support for belief in historical patterns comes
from the organic nature of society. Like all other organisms and
organizations, societies have needs that must be met for
survival. For example, as the Writings indicate, unity or social
cohesion based on a common goal and/or world-view; they also
need structure and a willingness to work within it [MBW 103]. It
is possible to predict that if these needs are not met, society
will disintegrate.
The organic metaphors have a number of far-reaching con
sequences in regards to our understanding of cultures and
history. One of the most important is how they shape the
relationship between the individual in society, especially in
regards to freedom. To exist, organisms require a balance
between the nature and the interests of the individual and the
nature and interests of the whole, i.e. society. Cancer, for
example, is precisely the result of this balance being lost and
individual cells going out of control, act only for their own
interests and, thereby, destroy the organism itself. In short, it is
an excess of individual ‘liberty’ by one part at the expense of
the whole. That, i.e. the necessity of “reciprocity” [PUP 338], in
organic systems is why the Bahá’í Writings do not present
individual liberty as an isolated end-in-itself that over-rides all
other values under all circumstances. It is an important value
but not the only one and, therefore, must be balanced with
others. For that reason, Bahá’u’lláh states, “We approve of
liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse to sanction it in
others” [GWB 335]. He adds,
Consider for instance such things as liberty, civilization
and the like. However much men of understanding may
favorably regard them, they will, if carried to excess,
exercise a pernicious influence upon men. [GWB 216]

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Indeed, He goes on to warn us that “If carried to excess,
civilization will prove as prolific a source of evil as it had been
of goodness when kept within the restraints of moderation”
[GWB 342].
He also states,
Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition, whose flames
none can quench. Thus warneth you He Who is the
Reckoner, the All-Knowing. Know ye that the
embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the animal. That
which beseemeth man is submission unto such restraints
as will protect him from his own ignorance ... Liberty
causeth man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and to
infringe on the dignity of his station. It debaseth him to
the level of extreme depravity and wickedness ... We
approve of liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse
to sanction it in others. We, verily, are the All-
Knowing. [GWB 335, emphasis added]
In our understanding of this declaration, the rights of the
individual should not extend to the point of damaging the
society on which s/he depends, or to demean “the dignity of his
station” as a human being. Spengler has similar ideas about
freedom of which he says, “now what is understood by freedom
is in fact indiscipline,”144 which rejects the “submission” we
need to act in accordance with our “dignity.” Elsewhere,
Spengler says, that people want “freedom from something;”145
i.e. something that “is always, purely negative. It consists in the
repudiation of tradition, dynasty, Caliphate.”146 These words
imply, that freedom — as stated by Bahá’u’lláh — needs to be
‘disciplined,’ i.e. kept within proper bounds in order not to
become a destructive part of the social organism.
As noted above, cultures and dispensations inevitably decay
and die and will be replaced. Bahá’u’lláh and Spengler agree that
not only modern Western civilization but also the world as a
whole is in its final stages of its winter phase and requires

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

renewal. At first sight, and certainly judged by the title,
Spengler’s views are confined to the western civilization.
Appearances to the contrary, it must be observed that the term
‘West’ is no longer as geographically confined as it once was.
This can be observed in the domination of western science and
technology as well as their products and impacts on thought,
feelings, attitudes, expectations and tastes in arts and
entertainment. Spengler’s concerns about the effects of science
and technology can also be applied globally to virtually all other
cultures and civilizations. In other words, many of the
symptoms of decline can be discovered in all modern societies
which to a large extent are all westernized and thus susceptible
to Spengler’s analysis. Consequently, there are good reasons to
see Spengler’s study as having global relevance and working in
support of Bahá’u’lláh’s descriptions of the global winter
phase.
However, it is important to recall that the disintegration of
an old world order does not mean ‘total destruction’ of
everything it has achieved and contributes to the advancement
of mankind. There is genuine good in current civilization of the
West as well as the world that is worth preserving. We cannot
contribute to “an ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214] if we
constantly reject and abandon the achievements of the past and
cannot use them to make progress in the future. In short, we
must accept the good of the past and re-think it in light of
Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation.
Spengler tries to comfort us by saying that there is nothing
we can do about our current situation147 and that like ancient
Rome, the time for greatness in art, philosophy and great
literature is past, and that engineers, physical scientists,
financiers and inventors are the genuinely pre-eminent
‘philosophers’ of our time.148 He sums up his view by saying
“We have descended from the perspective of the bird to that of
a frog.”149 I suspect ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would approve of this
metaphor which suggests we have fallen from a spiritual or

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
transcendental view of the world to a lower, strictly materialist
view of reality.
Living in the winter or old age of a culture is extraordinarily
difficult even if we know that a new and even greater will arise
from the ruins of the old. Shoghi Effendi refers to the
steadily deepening crisis which mankind is traversing, on
the morrow of the severest ordeal it has yet suffered,
and the attendant tribulations and commotions which a
travailing age must necessarily experience, as a prelude
to the birth of the new World Order, destined to rise
upon the ruins of a tottering civilization. [CF 39]
Bahá’u’lláh predicts the world’s “perversity will long
continue [GWB 118, emphasis added]. Statements like these are not
negativistic but, on the contrary, are intended encourage an
‘evolutionary attitude.’ Such an attitude ensures we do not
become obsessively attached to any particular cultural or
dispensational form and defend it as the necessary and final
form a society or a religion can take. These dire predictions
may also be seen as an intellectual anti-dote against clinging to
the past. We might also see it as an on-going reminder to
remain humble. In summary, this life-cycle model of history
emphasizes that cultures and dispensations are both unique and
limited in the potentials they have to actualize and that cultural
death is normal. Shoghi Effendi makes a similar point about the
fall — and rise — of cultures saying,
Such simultaneous processes of rise and of fall, of
integration and of disintegration, of order and chaos,
with their continuous and reciprocal reactions on each
other, are but aspects of a greater Plan, one and
indivisible, whose Source is God, whose author is
Bahá’u’lláh, the theater of whose operations is the entire
planet, and whose ultimate objectives are the unity of
the human race and the peace of all mankind. [ADJ 72]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

However, the Bahá’í Writings differ from Spengler insofar
as they note that the exhaustion and fall of one civilization is
closely connected to the rise of a new one through the influence
of a new Manifestation. The new culture originates with the
inspirational power of a new Manifestation until it, too, is
exhausted and disintegrates.150 This sequence of events
constitutes the basis of progressive revelation which is another
Bahá’í concept incompatible with Spengler’s grand narrative. In
his view, there is no progress in any human activities; instead,
there is only an accumulation of absolutely irreconcilable
creations rooted in different “world-feelings,” “Destiny-ideas,”
and “prime symbols.” Consequently, Spengler advocates
epistemological and ethical relativism because he does not
believe there is any objective, ‘Archimedean point’ from which
to judge as to truth and morality. On this score, too, he is in
conflict with the Bahá’í Writings which see the Manifestation
i.e. Bahá’u’lláh, as being such an ‘Archimedean point.’
Moreover, Spengler’s relativism also requires him to reject
progressive revelation since the idea of progress entails making
epistemological and moral judgments about the value, moral
legitimacy
and
truthfulness
of
cultural
practices
and
achievements. However, Spengler’s relativism must not be
conflated and confused with Shoghi Effendi’s statement that
for Bahá’ís, “religious truth is not absolute but relative” [WOB
115]. In our understanding, Shoghi Effendi refers to the manner
in which “religious truth” is expressed is “relative,” i.e. adapted
for specific times, places and circumstances without suggesting
that the essential religious truths, the “eternal verities” [PDC
108], are dependent on us or our situations.151
Indeed, unlike the Writings, Spengler sees no connection
between the rise and falls of the “high Cultures” and in that
sense, history is random and irrational. In his view, no real
contact between cultures and civilizations is possible. The
Bahá’í Writings, on the other hand, see the fall of one
civilization as the necessary prelude to the ascent of the next.
Precisely because the destruction of the old is necessary for the

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
construction
of
the
new.
Speaking
of
contemporary
Christianity, Shoghi Effendi states, it
weakened, and was contributing, in an increasing measure,
its share to the process of general disintegration — a
process that must necessarily precede the fundamental
reconstruction of human society. [WOB 186]
In regards to these twin disintegrative and integrative
processes, Shoghi Effendi notes,
How striking, how edifying the contrast between the
process
of
slow
and
steady
consolidation
that
characterizes the growth of its infant strength and the
devastating onrush of the forces of disintegration that
are assailing the outworn institutions, both religious and
secular, of present-day society! [WOB 154]
In other words, in the Bahá’í grand narrative correlates a
process of disintegration with a process of construction and
integration, both of which work simultaneously because both
have the same immediate cause, viz. a new dispensation
inaugurated by a new Manifestation of God. The disintegrative
phase is also necessary because without it, the new dispensation
and culture would have no space to grow and expand.
Knowledge of the twin processes also gives Bahá’í a
confidence in life in the contemporary historical processes and,
thereby, protection against depression, despair and the
temptations of nihilism in regards to the future. Unfortunately,
in Spengler’s theory of cultures as isolated monads and no
connection between the fall and rise of cultures, such
pessimism, despair and nihilism come all too easily. We should
also note at this point that Spengler’s concept of a “Second
Religiousness” does not correspond to the arrival of a new
Manifestation and surge of new spiritual energy; rather, it
refers to a fresh but uncreative burst of enthusiasm for old

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

religious forms and in that sense is a reactionary not
revolutionary development.
Despite the foregoing differences, the Writings and Spengler
agree that cultures and civilizations are based in religion and
succumbs with the fall of religion:
Every soul has religion, which is only another word for
its existence. All living forms in which it expresses itself
— all arts, doctrines, customs, all metaphysical and
mathematical form-worlds, all ornament, every column
and verse and idea — are ultimately religious, and must
be so ... As the essence of every Culture is religion, so —
and consequently — the essence of every Civilization is
irreligion — the two words are synonymous ... It is this
extinction of living inner religiousness, which gradually
tells upon even the most insignificant element in a man's
being, that becomes phenomenal in the historical world-
picture at the turn from the Culture to the Civilization
the Climacteric of the Culture ... the time of change in
which a mankind loses its spiritual fruitfulness for ever,
and building takes the place of begetting ... the change
manifests itself not only in the extinction of great art,
of great courtesy, of great formal thought, of the great
style in all things, but also quite carnally in the
childlessness and “race-suicide” of the civilized and
rootless strata, a phenomenon not peculiar to ourselves
but already observed and deplored — and of course not
remedied — in Imperial Rome and Imperial China.152
The Bahá’í Writings see “Divine Revelation” and the cultures
that arise from it, as “orderly, continuous and progressive and
not spasmodic or final” [WOB 115]. In other words, the
Manifestations do not appear in accidental order but appear
according to the evolutionary needs of humankind. As we have
already mentioned above, the Bahá’í view is that history is
rational, not fortuitous, and teleological and not aimless. By

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
contrast, no inherent order exists between the rise and fall of
Spengler’s “High Cultures.”
The various issue considered above lead to an important
question, viz. ‘Is it useful to us to know about historical
patterns and the possibility of predicting them?’ First, it seems
obvious that we can expect different attitudes and actions
between a world-view that sees history as having some
explainable order and one that sees history as a haphazard
sequence of events. Bahá’í who sees the twin processes of
disintegration and construction at work now and in the past,
will actually be able to view the current world situation with an
attitude of hope, a sense of meaning, a clear sense of values, a
clear commitment to purposive action and a sense of
compassion for those who flounder in confusion in the changes
of our time. Such knowledge provides understanding of our
spiritual, social and political environment and with such
understanding comes a certain sense of control; confidence; an
enhanced capacity to analyze, assess and judge. In other words,
it enhances our capacity for rational thought and — sometimes
–for rational action. These psycho-spiritual assets may seem
trivial when limited to an individual but can have enormous
socio-political impact if wide-spread throughout society. It
might conceivably affect leadership decisions — although we
find this unlikely given the need for popularity to win
elections. However, the understanding facilitated by a
knowledge of future historical phases, allows us to evaluate
current developments and policies vis-à-vis the inevitable
changes that must come.
Historical patterns enable us to make predictions about the
future but we must still determine if these predictions are
general and/or specific. Knowing in which season we are e.g.
winter allows us to predict some of the phenomena mentioned
in the Writings, as the attributes of the winter season:
When that Sun reaches its zenith it begins to decline,
and that summer season of the spirit is followed by

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

autumn. Growth and development are arrested; soft
breezes turn into blighting winds; and the season of
dearth and want dissipates the vitality and beauty of the
gardens, the fields, and the bowers. That is, spiritual
attractions vanish, divine qualities decay, the radiance
of the hearts is dimmed, the spirituality of the souls is
dulled, virtues become vices, and sanctity and purity are
no more. Of the law of God naught remains but a name,
and of the divine teachings naught but an outward
form. The foundations of the religion of God are
destroyed and annihilated, mere customs and traditions
take their place, divisions appear, and steadfastness is
changed into perplexity. Spirits die away, hearts wither,
and souls languish. [SAQ ch.14]
Shoghi Effendi is even more explicit about the general trends:
The signs of moral downfall, consequent to the
dethronement of religion and the enthronement of these
usurping idols, are too numerous and too patent for
even a superficial observer of the state of present-day
society to fail to notice. The spread of lawlessness, of
drunkenness, of gambling, and of crime; the inordinate
love of pleasure, of riches, and other earthly vanities;
the laxity in morals, revealing itself in the irresponsible
attitude towards marriage, in the weakening of parental
control, in the rising tide of divorce, in the
deterioration in the standard of literature and of the
press, and in the advocacy of theories that are the very
negation of purity, of morality and chastity — these
evidences of moral decadence, invading both the East
and the West, permeating every stratum of society, and
instilling their poison in its members of both sexes,
young and old alike, blacken still further the scroll upon
which are inscribed the manifold transgressions of an
unrepentant humanity. [PDC 114]

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
However, while general trends and patterns may be
predictable, nothing either in the Writings or Spengler allows us
to make specific predictions about future events. Of course,
this applies to us and not to Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’u’lláh, for example, foretold specific
events like the catastrophes awaiting France and Germany and
the downfall of Sultan Abdu’l-Aziz.
12: Toynbee and the Bahá’í Grand Narrative
Arnold Toynbee is one of the most controversial historians
of the 20th Century, the main reason for this being his twelve
volume magnum opus A Study of History, published between
1934 and 1961. In the years before he died, Toynbee, with the
aid of Third Reich historian Jane Caplan, released a huge one
volume abridgement of his twelve volume magnum opus in
which he gave his final responses to criticisms and made final
adjustments to his ideas. This is the text to which we shall
generally refer because it represents Toynbee’s thought in its
final form. When necessary, we shall consult his original twelve
volume work. An incredibly prolific author, Toynbee also
wrote more than a dozen works about history and
historiography. It is worth noting that decades before Edward
Said and post-colonial studies, Toynbee was sharply critical of
the West’s representation of Islamic history and cultures.
The reception of Toynbee’s A Study of History was and
remains sharply divided. He is the only historian to have been
on the cover of Time magazine (March 17, 1947) which
indicates just how famous he had become — and still is —
among the general public. During the 1990’s, his advocacy of a
civilizational rather than national approach to history has
gained “renewed currency”153 with the rise in academia of Big
History, Global History, World Systems Theory and the World
History Association. Sebastian Conrad’s book, What is Global
History? suggests that in light of social, economic and cultural
globalization, civilizational not national studies of history not

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

only will but must come to the fore. Particularly noteworthy on
this issue are the words of J R McNeil and William H McNeil,
who write in The Human Web that history shows clear patterns
of increasing development and expansion in communication,
trade, ideas, and competition throughout history. They write,
“So the general direction of history has been toward greater and
greater social cooperation — both voluntary and compelled —
driven by the realities of social competition.”154 This statement
strikes a Bahá’í ‘note’ for three reasons. First, it asserts that
history has a “direction” or goal; second, it harmonizes with
Shoghi Effendi’s statements about the expansion of the social
units, i.e. the expansion of co-operation; third, this
development will occur with or without the consent or wishes
of the historical actors. As the Báb says, “All are His servants
and all abide by His bidding!” [SWB 216] From a Bahá’í
standpoint, the only major omission here is failure to refer to
the Manifestations. These new developments in historiography
suggest that Toynbee — and Spengler and Sorokin — had simply
been too far ahead of his time for a majority of academics.
Among academic historians, however, the response to his
work rangers from open hostility and even mockery to
respectful and carefully reasoned disagreement. According to
H. Trevor-Roper, Toynbee was “the Messiah” of his own
concocted “religion of Mish-Mash … his mind is ... fundamentally
anti-rational and illiberal.”155 Trevor-Roper misreads Toynbee as
saying that we should “all creep back under the skirts of a
received medieval church.”156 In contrast to Trevor-Roper’s
spleen, we have the respectful but rigorous critique of W.H.
Walsh, an important philosopher of history who asks if “any
amount of historical knowledge can serve as an adequate
ground of such deductions about the meaning of history as are
drawn here?”157 The problem with this question concerns what is
included “historical knowledge.” Toynbee, like Spengler, answer
this important question by showing the limits of strictly
empirical knowledge and the need for empathy, intuition, and
judgment in understanding history and acquiring “historical

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
knowledge.” Pieter Geyl is similarly meticulous but respectful
in his criticism of “apriorism”158 i.e. Toynbee’s imposition of
his ideas upon the historical materials. There is one major
problem with this critique. First, it is easy to make but virtually
impossible to prove. The extreme wealth of historical data in
Toynbee’s twelve volume opus does not support the belief that
Toynbee’s schema did not develop from or engagement with his
empirical studies. It is not credible to assert that such breadth
and depth of engagement did not play a major role in the
formation of his schema. In fact, we know empirical evidence
played a key role in shaping his ideas because they led Toynbee
to revise his conclusions in Volume 12 and in his personal one
volume abridgement. Second, the apriorism critique can be
made of almost any historical study, because bare facts seldom
simply ‘speak for themselves’ — they must be evaluated and
understood and doing so requires bringing other, external
concepts to bear. The Holocaust (Shoa) provides a classic
example. There is no physical document of any kind linking
Hitler personally to the Wannsee Conference (January, 1942)
when the decision to annihilate European Jewry was made. The
diaries of Goebbels, Hitler’s closest confidant, and Hitler’s
Table Talk mention nothing about this. What does this fact tell
us by itself? Contrary to what Holocaust deniers say, this fact
tells us very little. To understand this fact, we must bring in
not only facts but, among other things, our empathy, intuition
and “Einfuehlung” — all non-empirical factors — to make sense
of this.
Let us now turn to Toynbee’s grand narrative in outline. One
of the most obvious similarities concerns the structure of the
historical process. As we understand them, the Bahá’í Writings
combine a two-fold pattern in the unfolding of civilizations:
the “circle of life” as The Lion King calls it, with a cycle of
seasons, birth and death, and the linear progress as seen in
“progressive revelation.” We have previously described this as
an expanding stretch out spiral, or, in Toynbee’s terms as a
chariot’s wheels and axle. In Toynbee’s words, the wheel and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

axle of a chariot is such that “under the repetitive movement of
the wheel ... the vehicle ... attains its unique realization ... and
its unique goal.”159 This common structure of the historical
process is significant for three reasons. First, it means that
history is not a random process, a mere sequence of events
without
any
long-term
structure,
direction
or
goal.
Appearances to the contrary, history is teleological and has
order. This is significant because of the tremendous effect the
realization of such order has on the world-views of both
individuals and collectives. In turn, this affects life choices,
values, motivation, conduct and virtually all other aspects of
the human psyche. For proof we need look no further than the
tremendous motivating effect Marx’s equally teleological
theory of history had on his followers and their willingness to
suffer and sacrifice.
Second, these models of history mean that history — at least
in its broad strokes — is predictable, especially if we are aware
of our position — such as winter or a period of moral
disintegration — in the process. We can, as a minimum, know
what sort of developments to expect. Finally, because we can,
at least broadly, predict future developments, we are also better
equipped to serve the needs of our time. As Bahá’u’lláh says,
“Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in,
and
center
your
deliberations
on
its
exigencies
and
requirements” [GWB 213].
The heart of Toynbee’s theory is the concept of “challenge-
and-response,”160 i.e. the belief that all cultures and civilizations
face challenges to which they must respond successfully if they
are to continue their growth and development. The image he
uses is that of mountain climbers scaling a cliff: some succeed
and reach the next challenge; some remain stuck, or “arrested”
at a certain point; and some barely get started and are
“abortive,” i.e. stop. Failure means either repeatedly facing the
same challenge until they are conquered or succumbing to them
or giving up and ‘aborting’ their climb. However, no response
is pre-determined — challenge-and-response is not the same as

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
cause-and-effect161 — and neither tools nor race162 nor other
physical advantage guarantee success. As with the Bahá’í
Writings, personal and collective free will are essential features
of Toynbee’s grand narrative. What matters ultimately in the
success or failure of a civilization is “the vision, initiative,
persistence and above all, self-command ... [and] the spirit in
which Man responds”163 to the challenges s/he faces.164
Toynbee applies the challenge-and-response criteria to 28
civilizations. Nineteen of these are major: Egyptian, Andean
(Incan), Sinic or Shang, Minoan, Sumerian, Mayan, Indian,
Hittite, Western or European, Russian Orthodox Christian, Far
Eastern (China, Korea, Japan from 500 CE to 1912 CE),
Persian, Arabic, Hindu, Mexican or Aztec, Yucatec and
Babylonic. Some of these civilizations are related or “affiliated”
to earlier predecessors in the same region as for example, `the
original Sinic civilization around the Yellow River and the later
Far Eastern civilization. The Yucatec and the later Aztec
civilization
are
another
example.
Among
the
aborted
civilizations, he includes the Irish165 and Scandinavian,166 and
among the “arrested” civilizations i.e. those which attained a
certain point and never moved on to the next challenge, he
includes the Inuit or Eskimo and the Ottoman.167 There is, of
course, controversy about some of what he designates as
separate ‘civilizations’ — e.g. the Sinic and the Far Eastern —
but the list is sufficiently long and varied to preclude criticisms
of having too narrow a base and being tainted by racism.
Another major similarity is the most essential criteria of
growth in a civilization is inward, spiritual growth not material
progress. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reminds us that
no matter how far the world of humanity may advance
in material civilization, it is nevertheless in need of
spiritual virtues and the bounties of God. The spirit of
man is not illumined and quickened through material
sources. [FWU 58]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Elsewhere he reminds us that
hearts must receive the Bounty of the Holy Spirit, so
that Spiritual civilization may be established. For
material civilization is not adequate for the needs of
mankind and cannot be the cause of its happiness.
Material civilization is like the body and spiritual
civilization is like the soul. Body without soul cannot
live. [ABL 29]
This statement clearly establishes the primacy of the spiritual
over the material in the development of civilization. Without
inward spiritual development, true civilization cannot arise or
thrive. It is possible to be “materially advanced but spiritually
backward” [MUHJ68]. Toynbee has similar views regarding what
he calls the “movement of transference”168:
True growth consists in a progressive change of
emphasis and transfer of energy and shifting of the
scene of action out of the field of the macrocosm and
into that of the microcosm; and in this new arena
victorious responses to challenges do not take the form
of overcoming an external obstacles but manifest
themselves instead in a progressive self-articulation.169
Toynbee’s term for this “transfer of energy” from the outer
phenomenal world to his inner psycho-spiritual nature is
“etherialization ... in which challenges do not impinge from the
outside but arise from within.”170 This, too, corresponds with
the primacy of inward growth over external, material
development in the Bahá’í Writings. “Etherialization” is a sign
of growth because
Growth means that the growing personality or
civilization tends to become its own environment and
its own challenge and its own field of action. In other
words, the criterion of growth is progress towards self-
determination.171

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
‘Abdu’l-Bahá shows a similar connection between inward
freedom — becoming one’s own challenge and thinking for
one’s self — and growth:
When freedom of conscience, liberty of thought and
right of speech prevail — that is to say, when every man
according to his own idealization may give expression to
his beliefs — development and growth are inevitable.
[PUP 197]
The material factors present the human and natural
environmental challenges but the human spirit — in both its
secular and religious sense — decides whether or not to
confront the challenges and how and with what persistence.
This spirit cannot be reduced to material explanations and
consequently, purely materialist explanations are inadequate to
explain why civilizations arise or fail. Here, too, Toynbee’s
thought converges with the Bahá’í Writings insofar as both are
premised on religion as essential for an adequate understanding
humankind. Moreover, Toynbee’s “trans-rationalist”172 views —
reason can tell us some things but not everything — agrees with
the “moderate rationalist”173 views found in Gleanings from the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Both the Writings and Toynbee agree
that the understanding and wisdom about human experience
gathered by the “Higher Religions”174 has relevance to our
interpretation and understanding of history which is, after all,
the record of human actions. In other words, both the Writings
and Toynbee recognize that non-material factors, i.e. spirit are
definitive in civilizational success or failure. As Toynbee says,
“the spiritual progress of individual souls in this life will in fact
bring with it much more social progress than could be attained
in any other way.”175
The issue of spirit inevitably raises the question of God or
the divine in Toynbee’s theory of history. Toynbee certainly
recognizes the transcendent and imminent as ontologically real
forces in history. He borrows his term for this ground-of-being

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

from Henri Bergson, i.e. the “elan vital.” Toynbee writes that
he has
attained the conception of one omnipresent power
which
manifests
itself
in
the
performance
and
achievements of all Mankind and all Life. We may
conceive of this power as a transcendent first cause and
call it God, or as an imminent source of continuous
creation and call it (as Bergson calls it) Evolution
Creatrice or Elan Vital.176
Like the Bahá’í Writings, Toynbee recognizes that a non-
material power is manifesting itself through the phenomenal
world and that ‘what we see is not all that we get.’ This elan
vital, which is referred to throughout A Study in History serves
as the ground-of-being of all things. Like the Bahá’í concept of
God, Toynbee’s elan vital is both a “transcendent final cause”
and an omnipresent “immanent source of continuous creation.”
It is important to note that the elan vital is the immanent
source of creation and is not creation itself as it is in
pantheism. As in the Writings, creation is an on-going process.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us that the “creation thereof [the
universe] is without beginning and without end” [PUP 378] and
Bahá’u’lláh says, “Endeavour now to apprehend from these two
traditions the mysteries of ‘end,’ ‘return,’ and ‘creation without
beginning or end’” [KI 168]. In other words, the concept of God
in the Writings and in Toynbee is ontologically similar but not
necessarily the same inasmuch as Toynbee’s concept does not
include an exact counterpart of the concept of divine
Manifestations as messengers of God. However, he has an
analogous concept, i.e. the creative individuals who provide the
creative impulse at the start of a civilization. They
are superhuman in a very literal for they have attained
self-mastery which manifests itself in a rare power of
self-determination ... they are privileged human beings
whose desire it is ... to set the imprint of the elan upon

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
the whole of mankind ... The creative personality feels
the impulse of internal necessity to transfigure his
fellow men by converting them to his own insight.177
Elsewhere he states that it is “creative personalities ... [who
are] in the vanguard of civilization.”178 From statements such as
these, we can observe that Toynbee’s thought was moving in
the direction of recognizing Manifestations as originators of
civilization. Like the Writings, Toynbee recognizes that strictly
materialist explanations of the birth of civilizations are
inadequate.
While
such
explanations
can
describe
the
conditions under which a civilization started to grow, they
cannot explain why in similar or even the same conditions, the
civilizational process begins in one place but not in another. In
fact, the creative elan or drive of a civilization requires what
Toynbee calls a “creative minority” which devises solutions to
the challenges and unifies a shapeless social mass to give it
direction and a new spirit. A good example of such a creative
minority
would
be
Charles
Martel
and
his
grandson
Charlemagne — although the ultimate source of their power
comes from Christ Who is the fountainhead of Western
Civilization. When civilization starts top breakdown, the
“creative minority” is replaced by a “dominant minority” which
cannot rule by attraction and loyalty but rule through violent
oppression, marginalizing or even ‘crusades’ as did Catholicism
during the Albigenisan campaigns (1209–1229 CE).
The importance of spiritual and religious aspects of
civilizations is also evident in the later development of
civilizations. Toynbee refers to these as “higher religions that
liberate human beings from their servitude to their ancient
civilizations.”179 In other words, they are explicitly, i.e.
consciously addressed to all of humanity and not to a portion
of it. (This, of course, creates a confusions with Judaism which
has elements of both insofar as some groups stress universal
appeal and others stress the matrilineal blood-line to determine
‘Jewish identity.’) Interestingly enough, Toynbee’s definition

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

bears some resemblance to the Bahá’í teaching of overcoming
ancestral imitations in the process of progressive revelation. To
break out of an ancestral religious mindset and culture
obviously requires that we abandon at least some inherited
attitudes, beliefs, laws, formulations and practices by
recognizing them as growth-inhibiting or even harmful.
The challenges faced by civilizations are not necessarily
external military threats but could also involve the natural
environment as in droughts, floods, human or animal disease or
internal problems with governance, economics, technology,
culture or spiritual issues. For this reason, according to
Toynbee, when civilizations fall, the external military attacks
usually finish off a culture that is already fatally weakened from
within. The fall of a corrupt Rome to the Germanic barbarians
in 410 CE, 450 CE and finally in 476 CE is an obvious example
of fatal inward weaknesses inviting conquest by vigorous
external enemies. Here, too, is a strong convergence with the
Bahá’í Writings inasmuch as both agree that the inner life of a
civilization i.e. its spiritual and moral life, its “spirit” plays a
decisive role in deciding whether a civilization collapses or
survives to face a new challenge. Material means are secondary.
To remind us of this truth, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
I want to make you understand that material progress
and spiritual progress are two very different things, and
that only if material progress goes hand in hand with
spirituality can any real progress come about. [PT 108]
This strong emphasis on the inward mental, spiritual and
moral condition of a civilization as the crucial element in its
rise or fall is another reason why strictly materialist
understandings of history are inevitably inadequate. The
information they provide is necessary but is not sufficient.
Empathy, intuition and “Einfuehlung” are also necessary.
In Toynbee’s grand narrative, all civilizations go through a
“time of troubles” i.e. a period of conflict between members of

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
a civilization. This time of troubles ends with the establishment
of a “universal state” which is the guarantor of order and
relative peace within a particular civilization. WWI and WWII
may be seen as a “time of troubles” for the nations of Europe
and the European Union with its headquarters in Brussels as an
attempt to establish a “universal state” to keep order. The
current existential difficulties of the E.U. are perhaps the first
signs of the inevitable breakdown after a “universal state” has
been established. The United Nations may also be understood as
the embryo of a future “universal state” or global civilization.
However, we must not forget that for Toynbee the “universal
state” is only a stop-gap measure to prevent an inevitable
decline of a particular civilization. Two consequences follow.
One is the rise of an “external proletariat” whose aim is to
bring down the “universal state” in one way or another. The
Germanic tribes were the “external proletariat” to Rome which
they wore down until the final conquest in 476 CE. The other is
the “internal proletariat,” the excluded classes within the
civilization, the disenfranchised and marginalized, but within
the proletariat, we often find a “chrysalis”180 which are the form
of a new religion, or what Toynbee calls a “universal church.”181
“Our survey ... has shown that principle beneficiaries of
universal states are universal churches ... [and that] the church
is flourishing while the state is decaying.”182 In short, “universal
churches lead to new civilizations. Let us, therefore, take note
of the following quote from Shoghi Effendi who reminds us of
the “twin processes of internal disintegration and external
chaos are being accelerated every day and are inexorably
moving towards a climax” [TDH 23]. This “twin process” is what
Toynbee observes when he refers to the “universal church”
growing amid the tumbling ruins of the “universal state.”
Shoghi Effendi refers to the
steadily deepening crisis which mankind is traversing, on
the morrow of the severest ordeal it has yet suffered,
and the attendant tribulations and commotions which a
travailing age must necessarily experience, as a prelude

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

to the birth of the new World Order, destined to rise
upon the ruins of a tottering civilization. [CF 39]
Here, too, the Bahá’í Writings are in general agreement with
Toynbee’s theory.
Having examined some of the factors that make civilizations
grow, let us now examine their breakdown and decline. Let us
start by recalling that the Bahá’í Writings assert that “the
source of his calamities ... resides within Man himself; he carries
it in his heart.”183 Bahá’u’lláh reminds us that, “Every good
thing is of God, and every evil thing is from yourselves” [GWB
149]. In other words, we cannot blame the decline of a
civilization on God. As already noted, both the Writings and
Toynbee agree that the spirit within people determines our
creative or destructive reactions to events in the material
world. Individuals and collectives have free will, i.e. the power
of self-determination, and, therefore, are responsible for their
fates. In his examination of the characteristics that encourage
and/or carry forward the process of disintegration, Toynbee
lists behaviors that the Bahá’í Writings describe as being
“imitations” and, therefore, to be rejected. He defines
imitation as an orientation towards the elders and a
simultaneous turn away from “the pioneers.”184 As a result, a
passive attitude develops and there is a loss of flexibility and
freedom in dealing with new challenges. He also says that
idolatry has its roots in
intellectually and purblind worship of the part instead
of the whole, of the creature instead of the Creator, of
Time instead of Eternity; and this abuse of the highest
faculties of the human spirit ... has its fatal effect upon
the object of idolization ...In practical life this moral
aberration may take the comprehensive form of an
idolization of the idolator’s own personality or own
society ... or may take the limited form of idolization of
some institution or particular technique.185

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
‘Abdu’l-Bahá warns us about the dangers of imitation, saying
Imitation
destroys
the
foundation
of
religion,
extinguishes the spirituality of the human world,
transforms heavenly illumination into darkness and
deprives man of the knowledge of God. [PUP 161]
He adds, “The essence of all that We have revealed for thee
is Justice, is for man to free himself from idle fancy and
imitation” [TB 156]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out that “Man must
leave imitation and seek reality” [PUP 169]. The notion that
imitation is a way of avoiding reality is one that plays an
extremely important role both in the Bahá’í grand narrative as
well as Toynbee. Simply imitating past beliefs and past
practices destroys the prospects for human progress by making
impossible the actualization of new personal and collective
potentials. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Therefore, we learn that allegiance to the essential
foundation of the divine religions is ever the cause of
development and progress, whereas the abandonment
and beclouding of that essential reality through blind
imitations and adherence to dogmatic beliefs are the
causes of a nation's debasement and degradation. [PUP 363]
As the foregoing quotation shows, what makes A Study of
History especially interesting for Bahá’í is that it explores in
great detail the various forms of imitation and how they
destroy a civilization. The first of these is “mimesis,”186 i.e.
following examples in behavior, thought and attitudes. To a
certain extent mimesis is necessary for social cohesion. The
problems with mimesis begin with its inevitable “mechanization
of human movement and life.”187 The essential danger is that it
prevents taking original and creative, often tradition-breaking
action to engage new problems and situations. It destroys the
flexibility, strength, willingness as well as daring needed to
succeed in a constantly changing historical process in which
new challenges are the rule and not the exception. Too much

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

mimesis, i.e. too much of a good thing, can apply to social
relationships, financial and economic structures, military
thinking, religion and values and technology among other
things. Too much mimesis also destroys individual freedom and
all the advantages it brings.
A second form of mimesis or imitation is what Toynbee calls
“the idolization of an ephemeral self.”188 Civilization is self-
satisfied and content to be what it is instead of seeking new and
creative ways to secure inward growth and/or meet external
challenges. Toynbee’s main examples are Athens and Venice
both of which ‘worshipped’ themselves in their most successful
form until they were destroyed. This “idolization” can also
affect “ephemeral institutions.”189 In other words, institutions
are so convinced of their perfection that they cannot conceive
of any reason to change their thinking and/or modus operandi.
Toynbee’s prime examples are the Catholic and Eastern
Orthodox churches. As shown by His letter to Pope Pius IX,
Bahá’u’lláh shows the need for Catholicism to abandon its self-
adulation as it is and to make the changes necessary to serve
humankind.
A third kind of imitation is the “idolization of an ephemeral
technique.”190 For Toynbee this applies chiefly to military
techniques as seen in the story of David and Goliath. The
Philistines relied on slow moving but heavily armored warriors
who were successful against all enemies — except a man with a
sling. We observe this story even today with the success of
asymmetrical,
i.e.
low-tech
warfare
against
the
highly
sophisticated war machinery of the First World. Of course,
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá do not specifically mention this
vis-à-vis warfare, but They do deal with it in another form, i.e.
the West’s continued reliance on material methods, i.e.
technology to solve problems that can only be solved by
spiritual means. There are no material and technological
remedies for spiritual problems. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
No matter how far the material world advances, it
cannot establish the happiness of mankind. Only when
material and spiritual civilization are linked and
coordinated will happiness be assured. [PUP 108]
13: Pitirim Sorokin and the Bahá’í Grand Narrative
Pitirim Sorokin, a Russian-American sociologist and founder
of the sociology department at Harvard, is regarded as one of
the foremost sociologists of the 20th Century. Employing
quantitative, i.e. statistical methods to support his qualitative
judgments and conclusions about world history, he developed a
cyclical theory of history based on the identification of three
types of ‘culture complexes’ which alternate as the dominating
force in a society. Sorokin calls these three types the sensate,
the ideational and the idealistic or integral culture complex.
Each of them presents a complete world-view with its own
o metaphysics or theory of reality;
o epistemology or theory of truth and knowledge:
o logic or beliefs about rationality and reasoning;
o methods of validation;
o philosophy of human nature;
o ethics, justice and law;
o theory of governance and politics;
o aesthetics or theory of beauty and art;
o theory of science;
o theory of society, its nature and requirements.
We shall explore these three forms of culture complexes in
more detail below. Before beginning, we must note that
Sorokin goes to great lengths to show how his three culture
complexes manifest in philosophy, especially in epistemology;
in science; in religion; in the fine arts; in ethics and law; and in

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

politics, government and economics. In a paper such as this, it
is impossible for us to follow him across this broad swath of
human activity. We shall, therefore, focus most of our
attention on the philosophical aspects of his studies because the
“defining characteristic of each type derives from its principles
of ultimate truth through which it organizes reality.”191 In
short, Sorokin’s central principle is philosophical and we shall
follow his lead.
Perhaps the most unique feature of Sorokin’s philosophy of
history is the voluminous use of statistics. Historian Richard L.
Simpson states,
He and his assistants did a more complete and
systematic job of classifying cultural items and tracing
their fluctuations than anyone before or since has
attempted. Staggering numbers of artistic and literary
works, legal and ethical codes, and forms of social
relationships
are
classified,
and
their
changing
proportions of Sensatism and Ideationalism are graphed.
Sorokin has shown quantitatively, where others have
only argued qualitatively, to what extent fluctuations in
thought
patterns
parallel
fluctuations
in
other
departments of life. His numerical time charts should
enable historians in the future to delineate the
boundaries of such periods as the Middle Ages and the
Hellenistic Age with a precision never before possible.192
This statement calls for several comments. The use of
quantitative and statistical methods makes a significant
contribution to bringing history and the methods of science
closer together. Through the statistical analysis of large
numbers of events in the sciences, arts, philosophy, religion,
economics and so on, Sorokin and his collaborators were able
to identify large scale patterns and trends in the historical
process. In other words, despite seemingly overwhelming
amounts of data, Sorokin provided scientific, i.e. quantitative
proof that patterns and trends exist. The existence of such

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
patterns and trends opens the possibility of making the same
kind of statistical predictions used in the life insurance
industry. Despite virtually endless amounts of data generated
by millions of customers all making independent decisions,
actuarial tables are able to identify patterns and groups among
policy holders. They use these patterns to make predictions
about mortality among various groups. Although actuarial
tables cannot predict the death of any one individual, they can
accurately predict when people with a defined set of health and
life-style attributes tend to die. Using this information, they set
personal life insurance rates. The enormous profitability of the
life insurance industry is quantitative proof that this method
works. Sorokin’s use of statistical methodology provides
quantitative, i.e. scientific proof that Popper, Geyl and
Montagu are factually wrong in their rejection of historical
patterns and trends.
Sorokin and his co-workers discovered that there are three
basic types of culture complexes and that the “defining
characteristic of each type derives from the principles of
ultimate truth through which it organizes reality.”193 On this
basis, we can deduce a significant portion of a culture’s
attributes. Sorokin writes,
the distinguishing of one variable of a culture enables us
to construct logically a large network of connections
with many of its other variables; to forecast what will be
the nature of each of these variables if the culture is
logically integrated; and, in this way, to comprehend
quickly the enormous diversity of its traits, qualities,
quantities, in one united and all-embracing system ... If
we discover that this culture does contain the
appropriate body of traits and variables, by one stroke
we obtain several important cognitive results: (1) a
highly intimate and certain understanding of many of
the important aspects of the culture; (2) an insight into
the nature and workings of most of its significant

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

components; (3) a knowledge of the spectrum of its
dominant mentality; (4) a comprehensive grasp of the
very complex network of relationships between many of
its traits which otherwise would escape us ; and (5) an
answer to the question as to whether or not, and to what
extent and in what parts, the culture is indeed logically
integrated. 194
In his numerous works, Sorokin demonstrates how these
culture-complexes manifest in actual societies. He shows not
only the alternating dominance of one culture-complex or
another but also that the dominance of one culture-complex is
not absolute, i.e. vestiges of the other complexes remain active.
We shall discuss this “superrhythm”195 of history in more detail
below.
Ideational Culture
The first of Sorokin’s three culture complexes is the
ideational or spiritually oriented culture. Sorokin writes,
By Idealism as philosophy, metaphysics, or mentality is
meant a system of ideology which maintains that the
ultimate, or true, reality is spiritual, in the sense of God,
of Platonic ideas, of immaterial spirit, of soul, or of
psychical reality.196
In other words, the most obvious — and most important —
belief for ideational culture is the existence of God, or a
ground of being, or a mysterious and unknowable Tao, or a
cosmic process of dependent origination as the origin and
ultimate governor of the universe. Of course, this transcendent
orientation may be expressed differently in different cultures
but is ultimately the same everywhere: “truth is one, although
its manifestations may be very different” [PT 128]. The Bahá’í
Writings are clearly ideational in this regard. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says, “That which we imagine, is not the Reality of God; He, the

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Unknowable, the Unthinkable, is far beyond the highest
conception of man” [PT 25] and Bahá’u’lláh reminds us that God
is “the Inaccessible, the Omnipotent, the Omniscient, the Holy
of Holies” [GWB 5]. The foundational importance of the
Transcendent is significant because it means that ideational
cultures view human existence sub specie aeternitatis i.e. in
relationship to the Transcendent and not only in relationship to
the phenomenal world or human ambition, desire and
convenience. Indeed, human desires and ambition take second
place not only because it is the Transcendent Who determines
truth, beauty, justice, goodness and all other genuine values but
also because the omniscient and omnipotent Transcendent
knows our nature and understands our best long-term
advantages better than we do. As Bahá’u’lláh says, “It is
incumbent
upon
everyone
to
observe
God's
holy
commandments, inasmuch as they are the wellspring of life
unto the world” [TB 126], i.e. they bring true life to us.
Furthermore, ideational cultures, have a long-term time
perspective on existence; they think and evaluate in terms of
eternity and not in terms of short-term effects.
According to the ideational world view, the ultimate truth
and ultimate basis for truth is an inherently unknowable
Transcendental entity, process, power or ground of being. It is
absolutely independent of any other beings although these
individual
beings
are
completely
dependent
on
this
Transcendental whatever it may be. Since its existence does not
depend on itself alone, creation is not ‘fully’ real. Some like
Plato regard the world as a shadows of a transcendent ideal
world; others as an illusion or a dream or as a sinful distraction
from the quest for salvation for the soul. While the Bahá’í
Writings do not denigrate the phenomenal world, they make it
clear that it is of secondary importance insofar as it is only a
stage, a transition period on the journey of our existence. It is
not the final stopping point and, therefore, cannot be an
ultimate value. That is the inescapable conclusion that follows

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

from our spiritual nature. Throughout the Writings we find
reminders that we shall not find our final destiny in this world:
Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this
nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A shadow
hath no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy,
and nothing more; it is but images reflected in water,
and seeming as pictures to the eye. [SWAB 177]
Because of its transcendental orientation, the ideational
culture regards intuition, spiritual insight and mystical
experiences as valid sources of knowledge and concomitantly
places little trust in sensory or empirical knowledge and values
logic only insofar as it supports intuition or revelation or the
quest for salvation: “Pure logical reasoning and the testimony
of the organs of sense have only a subsidiary role and only
insofar as they do not contradict revealed Scripture.”197
Knowledge about the empirical or sensory world is secondary
(but not worthless) to knowledge about personal salvation or
one’s ultimate destiny. The Bahá’í Writings also recognize the
importance of intuition in the quest for knowledge. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá declares,
True distinction among mankind is through divine
bestowals and receiving the intuitions of the Holy
Spirit. If man does not become the recipient of the
heavenly bestowals and spiritual bounties, he remains in
the plane and kingdom of the animal. [PUP 316, emphasis
added]
Elsewhere he refers to the necessity of receiving the bounties
of the Holy Spirit to make reason effective [PUP 302]. This
harmonizes with ideational cultures which are more open to
what Sorokin calls “the supraconscious mode of cognition”198
which comes from the “supraconsciousness” an aspect of the
mind above the unconscious, the ego or super-ego. It is
“egoless”199 i.e. beyond all sense of individuality. As a
sociologist, Sorokin avoids explicitly drawing any metaphysical

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
conclusions from the existence of the supraconsciousness
(which he deduces from cultural evidence) but it is clear that he
believes in the reality of a Transcendent with which all cultures
try to harmonize. The supraconsciousness which puts us into
touch with the Transcendent is the source of human inspiration
not only in religion but also in the arts, sciences and social
relations.
From the ideational perspective, humankind is essentially
spiritual in nature and, therefore, a spiritual destiny beyond the
material world. Our destiny is not here. The challenge of
attaining our proper destiny is to achieve the “ennoblement of
character.”200 Bahá’u’lláh states,
From the heaven of God's Will, and for the purpose of
ennobling the world of being and of elevating the minds
and souls of men, hath been sent down that which is the
most effective instrument for the education of the
whole human race. [GWB 93]
Either acting through Manifestations or inspiring the
supraconscious, the Transcendent sets the standards of what is
or is not true, good, just and beautiful; human considerations
about utility, pleasure, convenience or rationality are simply
irrelevant because the underlying assumption is that God knows
us — and what is good for us — better than we know ourselves.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá may be referring — at least in part — to the
supraconscious when he instructs us “to awaken spiritual
susceptibilities in the hearts of mankind, to kindle anew the
spirit of humanity with divine fires and to reflect the glory of
heaven to this gloomy world of materialism” [PUP 7]. The
“spiritual susceptibilities” like the supraconsciousness connects
us to the Transcendent or God and thereby helps us understand
ethics (the good), law (the just), art (the beautiful) and
knowledge (the true) are based on revelation or divine
commands or the inspiration of the supraconscious through
which we are connected to the Transcendent. This means that
ideational ethics are not utilitarian in the material sense, but

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

rather, in a spiritual sense, seeking to bring us closer to God201
by actualizing above all our spiritual potentials. They do not
aim at “the greatest happiness or comfort or self-esteem for the
greatest number” but rather at living harmoniously with the will
of the Transcendent.
Sorokin identifies two kinds of ideationalism. “Ascetic
ideationalism” seeks to suppress physical and social needs as
much as possible, and often seeks to dissolve rejects the ego or
sense of self. The Bahá’í Writings, of course, prohibit extreme
asceticism and permanent withdrawal from the world [KA 195].
Sorokin also recognizes what he calls “active ideationalism”202
which seeks to fulfill its spiritual mission by minimizing and
controlling but not suppressing physical needs and by seeking
to transform or spiritualize itself and the world and everyone in
it.203 This, of course, is the mission which all Bahá’ís undertake
as their life’s work. Indeed, towards the end of his life Sorokin
published The Ways and Power of Love (1954) in which he
extolls altruistic and universal love, not only as a necessary
social feeling but as an organizing principle for societies and
the world as a whole. The affinities with the Bahá’í Teachings
are too obvious to require in-depth discussion.
Ideational cultures share other important characteristics.
They value self-control of the senses and emotions. They do not
view self-expression of feeling as necessarily intrinsically
valuable for its own sake. Nor do they see liberty or freedom as
an ultimate value in all aspects of life. Rather, they emphasize
what Sorokin calls “ideational liberty” or an “inner liberty”204
which concerns reducing demands and restraining desires or
surrendering our will to the Transcendent. This emphasis on
self-control is clearly evident in Bahá’u’lláh’s statements
regarding freedom or liberty.
Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition ... Know ye
that the embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the
animal. That which beseemeth man is submission unto
such restraints as will protect him from his own

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
ignorance, and guard him against the harm of the
mischief-maker. Liberty causeth man to overstep the
bounds of propriety, and to infringe on the dignity of
his station. It debaseth him to the level of extreme
depravity and wickedness. [GWB 335]
In short, liberty must be “[t]rue liberty [which] consisteth in
man's submission unto My commandments” [GWB 336]. God’s
commandments are “true liberty” because they bring our
thoughts and actions into alignment with our true nature or
essence as human beings.
Ideational economic beliefs and practices must also reflect
or be compatible with revelation and intuition. For example, in
the Middle Ages taking interest or usury was forbidden to
Christians and the principle of a “just price” was applied to
sales of all kinds. The modern principle that price is what the
traffic will bear i.e. what people are willing to pay is viewed as
an invitation to limitless greed — and, therefore, as damaging to
the soul. The Bahá’í Writings also present economic teachings
to enact spiritual values in the phenomenal world. Economic
principles must reflect that human beings are spiritual entities
made in the image of God and in whom “are potentially
revealed all the attributes and names of God to a degree that no
other created being hath excelled or surpassed. All these names
and attributes are applicable to him” [GWB 177]. In other words,
Bahá’í teachings recognize that in economics more than strict
economic matters must be taken into consideration. To a
certain degree, economics are always a matter of psychology
and spirituality, and when these change so will the economic
operations. Bringing economics more into line with a spiritual
outlook is precisely what ideational cultures do.
From the foregoing survey of the major attributes of
ideational cultures, it is clear that the Bahá’í Writings have
many ideational attributes. However, for reasons to come, we
would not describe the Writings as ideational.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Sensate Culture
Sorokin asserts that “Sensate culture is the opposite of the
Ideational in its major premises.”205 It asserts that reality is
strictly material/physical and that there are no super-sensory
beings and processes of any kind. Truth is wholly empirical and
sensory, i.e. all truth-claims must be based on sensory or
material evidence that can be subjected to the scientific method
with
its
requirements
of
quantifiability;
objectivity;
repeatability and falsifiability. In Sorokin’s words, “The Sensate
mentality, knowledge, science, is characterized by materialism,
empiricism, mechanisticism, determinism, quantitativism.”206 In
other words, all knowledge has a material basis; all material
processes are explainable in mechanistic, i.e. cause-and-effect
terms which enshrine determinism and reject free will; and only
things that can be counted and quantified are real. Conversely,
“inner experience — divine inspiration, mystical union,
revelation, pure meditation, ecstasy, trance”207 as well as the
assistance of the Holy Spirit in acquiring knowledge [PUP 302]
are rejected as delusional. At this point it is already clear that
the sensory culture-complex and the Bahá’í Writings are
incompatible
at
the
most
fundamental
level
vis-à-vis
metaphysics, ontology and epistemology. The dismissal of non-
sensory, i.e. transcendental ‘being’ like God is not reconcilable
with belief in an omnipotent, omnipresent and omniscience
God Who is the willing creator and organizer of all things; Who
gives all things their nature and Who is, therefore, the source of
all knowledge. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, of course, rejects materialism as
an adequate world-view in his talks at Stanford and compares it
to the natural outlook of animals. “Then why should we go to
the colleges? Let us go to the cow” [PUP 361].
For the sensate cultures, humankind is an entirely physical
being which can be studied and known completely by strictly
empirical methods. Because we have no soul we have ‘spiritual
needs’ which will be shown to have biological explanations nor
need we be concerned about the after-life. Furthermore, all

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
values, e.g. ethical, theological, societal values must be based
on sensory evidence; must be testable by scientific means; and
must be justified by tangible utilitarian benefits such as health,
pleasure (“hedonism”) convenience, power, wealth or other
tangible.208 They define ‘good’ and ‘right’ in strictly practical
terms. Sorokin writes that the “sensate mentality”
chooses and emphasizes predominantly the sensate,
empirical, material values. Eudaemonism, hedonism,
utilitarianism, sensualism; the morals of “ Carpe diem,”
... Man should seek pleasure and avoid pain; utility is
positive, disutility is negative. The maximum pleasure
for the greatest number of beings, this is in essence the
motto of Sensate moralists. The second characteristic of
the moral systems of a Sensate culture type is that they
are never absolute, but are always relativistic, varying
“according to circumstances and situations.” They can
be modified, have no sacred, unalterable, eternal
imperatives.209
Obviously, sensate moral relativism is logically incompatible
with Shoghi Effendi’s statement that the Manifestation “insists
on the unqualified recognition of the unity of their purpose,
restates the eternal verities they enshrine ... distinguishes the
essential and the authentic from the nonessential and spurious
in their teachings” [PDC 108]. In relativism, “eternal verities” are
logically impossible because verities that are eternal are true
under all circumstances and from all perspectives. According to
the Bahá’í Writings, the accidental outward expression of the
verities might change, but the essential truth always remains. In
practical application, the philosophy of materialism supplies
the principles on which society, law, economics, science and
technology and even the arts are built. In a sensate culture
people think primarily in materialist terms on such issues as ‘the
good life,’ ‘success,’ a ‘good person,’ a ‘good job;’ the soul or
spirit is reduced to physical brain function or to computer
soft-ware, spirituality is reduced to feeling good or strong self-

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

esteem and belief in God to childish fear. To paraphrase Oscar
Wilde, they confuse ‘value’ which is not necessarily sensory
with ‘price’ which can easily be measured. 210 Naturally, sensate
cultures have a strong, natural tendency to atheism and
secularism, often in militant forms, as seen, for example, in the
new atheist movement. In our view, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sums up the
sensate perspective when he says,
Mankind is submerged in the sea of materialism and
occupied with the affairs of this world. They have no
thought beyond earthly possessions and manifest no
desire save the passions of this fleeting, mortal
existence. Their utmost purpose is the attainment of
material livelihood, physical comforts and worldly
enjoyments such as constitute the happiness of the
animal world rather than the world of man. [PUP 335]
How compatible is the sensate world-view with the Writings?
Insofar as the sensate culture’s thorough-going materialism in
metaphysics, ontology and epistemology are concerned, there is
no compatibility. The denial of any non-sensory beings, entities
or truths cannot be reconciled with the assertion that a non-
sensory God, soul and spiritual truths exist — they are logical
negations of one another.211 Claiming that each is valid from its
point of view does not actually reconcile their specific
contradictions but simply compartmentalizes them in separate
boxes where their actual contradictions remain unresolved.
However, we might ask if there are certain issues on which the
two might be seen as compatible, i.e. two aspects of a whole
like the yin/yang symbol. For example, the Bahá’í Writings do
not deny the need for an existence free from physical
deprivations and disease, a sense of well-being, security and
opportunities to earn a reasonable living. Nor do they deny that
to some degree utilitarianism, i.e. “the greatest happiness for
the greatest number” or the good of the community as a whole
is an important consideration. Because of their underlying
metaphysics, ontology, epistemology and philosophy of human

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
nature, the Writings proclaim that these goals cannot be
attained by strictly material means but must include the
spiritual aspects of existence. In short, the sensate beliefs are
necessary but not sufficient. Here is where the reconciliation
breaks down because the sensate view cannot by virtue of its
materialist metaphysic admit that spiritual entities and beliefs
have any role in the quest for well-being. The Bahá’í Writings
have no difficulty including the material needs of mankind
despite their spiritual foundations whereas the sensate view is
logically unable to make any such accommodations.
This last point brings us to Sorokin’s integral culture which
is precisely a synthesis of the ideational and sensate.
Integral Culture
Sorokin’s third culture is the integral culture which
dominated Greece in 4th and 5th centuries BCE and Europe
during the 13th and 14th centuries CE. Naturally, we must recall
that no one culture-complex dominates society absolutely but
always exists with ideational and sensate undercurrents at work.
In Greece during this time the most influential philosophers
were Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, both of whom combined the
ideational, intuitive “truth of faith” with the empirical “truth
of the senses” to form a coherent philosophy or world-view.
Plato’s intuitive “truth of faith” concerned the Ideal Forms of
which all phenomenal things are shadows as noted by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá: “Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this
nether place [the phenomenal world] is only its shadow
stretching out” [SWAB 178]. In other words, the phenomenal
world is merely an image that is dependent on the original and,
thereby, less real than the Kingdom which “is a spiritual realm, a
divine world, and it is the seat of the sovereignty of the
almighty Lord” [SAQ ch.67]. For Plato, the Ideal Forms can only
be understood by intuition within the limits of human capacity.
For Aristotle the “truth of faith” was in the ‘forms’ i.e. Platonic
ideas that are embedded within things, just as the Names of God

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

are immanently reflected from within things. Plato, Aristotle
(and later Thomas Aquinas) and the Bahá’í Writings unite these
kinds of truth into a rational and coherent world-view.212
Moreover, because integralist truth “combines into one organic
whole the truth of the senses, the truth of faith and the truth of
reason”213 it has a more complete understanding of reality, and,
thereby, is closer to the truth. He writes,
the integral truth is not identical with any [one] of the
three forms of truth, but embraces all of them. In this
three-dimensional aspect of the truth of faith, of
reason, and of the senses, the integral truth is nearer to
the absolute truth than any one-sided truth of one of
these three forms ... The threefold integral system of
truth gives us ... a more adequate knowledge of the
reality ..... Each of these systems of truth separated
from the rest becomes less valid or more fallacious.214
‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes that “the grace of the Holy Spirit is the
true criterion regarding which there is no doubt or uncertainty”
[SAQ ch.83] thereby showing that without consideration of the
spiritual realm, our epistemic processes are inherently
incomplete and, therefore, open to doubt. Vis-à-vis the world
at
large,
this
means
that
the
current
Western,
i.e.
predominantly sensate culture has an inadequate and thereby
misleading concept of reality. Sorokin writes,
the major premise [of integral culture is] that true
reality is partly supersensory and partly sensory — that it
embraces the super-sensory and the super-rational aspect
plus the rational aspect and finally the sensory aspect,
all blended into one unity, that of the infinite manifold,
God.215
On the basis of this statement, one might conclude that the
one-sided sensate view of reality also presents obstacles to
thinking about God. As the contemporary debates about God
demonstrate, a one-sided view of reality makes it especially

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
difficult to think coherently about God. A question such as
‘Can God lift an object heavier than Himself?’ is a good
example of confusion between the material with the spiritual.216
Finally, both the Writings and Sorokin view humans as dual
in nature — as material and spiritual with the spiritual being our
higher nature. Sorokin notes that man is “a supersensory and
super-rational being,”217 who possesses a “supra-consciousness”
connecting him to a transcendental reality from which he draws
inspiration and understanding. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us that
“In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature and
his material or lower nature. In one he approaches God, in the
other he lives for the world alone” [PT 61]. For both the Bahá’í
Writings and Sorokin ignoring our spiritual or supraconscious
we is a devastating mistake because we fail ourselves by not
actualizing all our potentials for knowledge and spiritual
development.
The kinship of integral culture and the Bahá’í Writings is
obvious insofar as they agree on the foundations of
metaphysics notably on the dual nature of ‘existence’ which has
two aspects or ‘levels.’ The first and primary aspect is the
Transcendent
i.e.
“transpersonal
source
...
[that
is]
providential, guiding culture through history with a definite
plan.”218 In other words, the integralist culture not only
recognizes a superior Being Who is the source of phenomenal
reality and all knowledge about it. It also plays a role in
“guiding” human history according to a plan of some kind, i.e.
plays a role in humankind’s unfolding history through the
inspirations of the supraconscious in particular people.
Sorokin’s descriptions of integral culture make no mention of
Manifestations of God or prophets; the gifted people inspired
through the supraconscious are the closest to that exalted
position. The second aspect or level of reality is the
phenomenal world, i.e. physical existence, which, as we seen
above, is a “shadow” i.e. an image of something more real than
itself. Like a shadow it is completely dependent on its original.
Both the Bahá’í Writings and integral culture reject any extreme

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

denials or mortifications of our physical nature as a proper
response to living in this shadow world. They advocate a
moderate, i.e. balanced approach to self-discipline or self-
control. As we shall see below, the Writings and Sorokin’s
theories also agree that metaphysics is includes by a potentialist
ontology that characterizes all individual things.
How, we may ask, is Sorokin’s theory of culture-complexes
relevant to the philosophy of history and the subject of grand
narratives and to the Bahá’í grand narrative in particular?
Sorokin’s answer is clear: cultures and history have empirically
demonstrable
patterns,
they
go
through
empirically
demonstrable cycles and show empirically demonstrable
progress in our understanding of reality — albeit not in a simple
linear form as the Enlightenment thought. Moreover, the three
culture complexes dominate societies in an oscillating pattern
whereby the decline of one leads to the rise of another. The
periods of domination are not always of the same length and no
one culture complex is ever absolutely dominant; the two
remaining culture-complexes remain active as undercurrents
one of which will be ‘ready’ to take the dominant position by
meeting the needs. These three culture-complexes and their
alternating periods of dominance in a society constitute what
Sorokin calls the “superrhythm”219 of history.
This “superrhythm” brings up the issue of progress. Does
Sorokin’s philosophy of change in history include the concept
of ‘progress, i.e. improvement in knowledge or social practice?
Does history have a direction or is it subject to divine
guidance? He clearly rejects the Enlightenment view of an
“Omnipotent Evolution and Providential Progress unerringly
lead mankind ever nearer to some goal or toward some ‘bigger
and better’ state.”220 Obviously this conflicts with the Bahá’í
teaching of “progressive revelation” and belief in an “ever-
advancing
civilization”
under
the
guidance
of
the
Manifestations.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
However as Barry V Johnston points out, in effect, Sorokin
re-introduces the concept of progress in another form that
turns out to converge with the Bahá’í Writings. Sorokin wanted
a solution for the problem that the “superrhythm” of three
culture-complexes would simply go on forever without any
movement towards ultimate truth or at least towards
improvements, expansions, of knowledge and understanding.
Without such a direction, without improvement the cycles of
history would be rather pointless. Sorokin sees the solution in
the periods of integral culture which embrace and connect
ideational, sensate and integral views of truth i.e. connected the
“truths of reason, senses and faith”221 and thereby gained a
broader and deeper understanding of reality. Consequently,
integral culture more accurately reflects human nature with its
intellectual, sensory and intuitive faculties. Insofar as our
understanding of reality has improved, there has been and will
be progress in history, although it is not necessarily an
unbroken linear progress as imagined by the Enlightenment.
Consequently, we conclude that like the Bahá’í Writings,
Sorokin recognizes epistemological progress which, in turn,
leads to progress in other areas of humanity’s existence as new
knowledge is applied. In this sense it seems clear that over the
long term humanity has advanced beyond its ancestors. This is
at least a partial reconciliation between the Writings and
Sorokin.
There are several reasons why the dominance of the three
culture-complexes oscillates. According to Sorokin, the most
important is that in each culture-complex, “the system of truth
is partly true and partly false”222 and as the falsities expand a
society has “either to continue the dangerous drift and suffer
fatal atrophy or else to correct the mistake”223 by adopting a
more adequate system of truth. He adds, “Some cultures, like
the Graeco-Roman and the Western were able to make such a
shift several times; others could not do so.”224 In other words,
the inadequacies in each culture-complex help drive the
historical process forward.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Furthermore, another reason for change occurs from within
the three culture-complexes as well as all other things. The basis
of this change is the potentialist ontology the Bahá’í Writings
and Sorokin share. The Writings recognize this in their
references to the “potential in the seed” [PUP 91]; of the sun
awakening “all that is potential in the earth” [PUP 74]; of the
“virtues potential in mankind” [PUP 70]; of the inventions
“potential in the world of nature” [PUP 309]; and of the embryo
progressing until “that which was potential in it — namely, the
human image — appears” [PUP 359]. Sorokin’s sociology and
philosophy of history is also potentialist. He discusses this
under the “principle of immanent change”225 by which he means
that the basis of change is in the potentials or essence immanent
in a thing. Each thing possesses “‘immanent self-regulation and
self-direction.’”226 The environment can stimulate change but it
cannot determine the kind of change we will see. No amount of
environmental influence can make a duck manifest the
attributes of a donkey. The potentials for such a change are not
present. Things are not simply the passive playthings of the
environment. 227 As Sorokin says, Sorokin puts it, the essence of
a thing “the determining potentialities of the system are the
system itself and are its immanent properties.”228 The Bahá’í
rejection of “environmentalism” is found not only in its
potentialist ontology but also in the spiritual guidance we
received from Bahá’u’lláh: the “the faith of no man can be
conditioned by anyone except himself” [GWB 143] even if all
others in society oppose him or her. Elsewhere Bahá’u’lláh says
of the true believers that they will persevere in faith “even if all
the powers of earth and heaven were to deny Him” [GDM 55].
Logically, if “environmentalism”229 or “externalism”230 are false,
then all things — but at least humans — must have some degree
of free will. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
Certain matters are subject to the free will of man, such
as acting with justice and fairness, or injustice and
iniquity — in other words, the choice of good or evil
actions. It is clear and evident that the will of man

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
figures greatly in these actions. But there are certain
matters where man is forced and compelled, such as
sleep, death, sickness, failing powers, misfortune, and
material loss: These are not subject to the will of man
and he is not accountable for them. [SAQ 287]
In the phenomenal world, we are subject to the laws of
physical existence but we have the capacity to be spiritually
free. Sorokin does not specifically discuss free will but a
reading of his texts clearly shows that he assumes it as real and
effective.
Finally we should note that more than any other historian —
even Toynbee — Sorokin has made a careful study of the “over-
ripe” conditions of our sensate culture and its ills.
Pre-Conclusion
Because — as Shoghi Effendi urged us to do — we have
examined so many correlations vis-à-vis grand narratives in
history, we believe it is fitting to end with a review of some of
the aspects which make the Bahá’í grand narrative of mankind’s
history unique and especially suitable for the religious and
cultural divisions in the contemporary world. From our
perspective, the doctrine of progressive revelation is the
‘flagship’ teaching of the Faith in regards to a global
metanarrative. Numerous other teachings are implicitly present
in this doctrine. First, is its hitherto unprecedented religious
inclusiveness. Other religions are not merely recipients of good
will and toleration, they are incorporated as equal, necessary
and essential parts of a single global “meta-religion” of which
the Bahá’í dispensation is the latest but by no means the final
phase. It is difficult to imagine a more rational and more
morally satisfying alternative to the problem of religious and
cultural disunity among humankind. Second, embedded in
progressive revelation is the concept of progress as primarily
spiritual but also as material progress. This also shows that in

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the Bahá’í Writings, the idea of progress has a theological basis
as a necessary part of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation The sequence and
nature of different divine revelations depends on the degree of
spiritual progress a society has made: “Know of a certainty that
in every Dispensation the light of Divine Revelation hath been
vouchsafed unto men in direct proportion to their spiritual
capacity” [GWB 87]. In this way their progress is expedited to the
next stage. Furthermore, “All men have been created to carry
forward an ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214], a statement
which, in effect, makes spiritual and material progress a
religious duty for all. This is doctrine is especially suited to a
world harshly divided by sectarian prejudices and horrible
material inequities. From the foregoing, we observe the
objective ethical standard to evaluate individual and collective
acts. This avoids the quagmire of ethical relativism which
creates confusion because it can justify anything.
Because religion and culture are so intimately connected,
progressive revelation leads logically to the conclusion that
eventually humankind will be united into a federal global
commonwealth united by “one common faith.” Religious
history — and history in general — exhibit a clearly foreseeable
purpose. The clarity of this purpose leads to the next implicit
concept in progressive revelation: the Universal House of
Justice. If we have a clear goal, then the obvious question is
‘How shall we get there?’ As noted in our Introduction, the
Bahá’í Writings are not limited to mere diagnosis of human
history but also provide a prescription for healing the world’s
ills as well as the institution for putting the healing into
practice. Recommending universal love — as Toynbee and
Sorokin do — is not in itself a prescription except in the
vaguest sense especially in the contemporary world. What
humankind requires is a program of practical steps on the
practice of love and an institution or vanguard to guide this
practice. This is especially true when we think on a global inter-
cultural and international scale. While good will and good
feelings are necessary, they are not sufficient in humanity’s new

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
situation. Moreover, the Universal House of Justice develops
plans to bring both individuals and societies closer to the goal
of unification. Such planning and coordination are necessary
because individual action while necessary is not sufficient at
this time in history.
In addition, the teaching of progressive revelation also
implies the essential oneness of human nature. We cannot
expect the world to become united if we do not believe that
human nature has certain universal aspects that can be the
common basis for unity. The essential oneness of humankind
also points to the “eternal verities” i.e. the universal ethical
principles on which unity can be established to become the
foundation for spiritual evolution. Finally, the harmonization
of science and religion as part of our material and spiritual
progress since both of them are necessary and inescapable
aspects of human existence. The apparent conflict between
science and religion is symptom of short-sightedness and lack
of true understanding that must be over come because both of
them are undeniable aspects of human nature.
Conclusion
Our conclusion consists of four major points.
First, the Bahá’í Writings present a well-developed,
spiritually based grand narrative of human history that lays the
foundations for the unification of humankind.
Second, the Bahá’í Writings share numerous similarities with
the historical theories of Spengler, Toynbee and Sorokin but go
much farther in developing spiritual and practical responses to
the problems explored in these other grand narratives. Unlike
the other grand narratives, the Bahá’í Writings provide not only
a description or diagnosis of the historical process but also a
prescription or plan of action and an institution to put these
plans into action as guided by Bahá’u’lláh, the Manifestation of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

God for this age. This institution is the Universal House of
Justice.
Third, the grand narratives we have studied show that it is
necessary to adopt a “world-embracing” vision to observe the
identifiable patterns and trends exist in the historical process
and that using these patterns it is possible to make testable
predictions about future trends. The existence of these patterns
based on a universal human nature allows greater understanding
of our position in the historical process. Perspectives that are
too narrowly specialist do not serve us well vis-à-vis the global
aspects of human history.
Fourth, the various attempts to undermine and invalidate
grand
narratives
are
often
logically
self-contradictory;
unscientific vis-à-vis the use of statistics; inaccurate in their
presentation of human nature; and motivated more by political
than scholarly concerns, especially in the case of Popper and the
postmodern philosophers. None of the arguments against grand
narratives present insuperable obstacles for advocating the
Bahá’í grand narrative.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a
Hidden Treasure’.” Translated and Introduced by Moojan Momen.
This translation is published online with permission of the translator
at bahai-library.com/abdulbaha_kuntu_kanzan_makhfiyyan
———. Tablet of the Universe; emphasis added. Original Tablet in
Makatíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, pp 13-32. Anonymous translation.
bahai-library.com/abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih
Collingwood, R.G. The Idea of History. New York: Oxford
University Press, 1956.
Conrad, Sebastian. What Is Global History? Princeton: Princeton
University Press, 2016.
Day, Mark. The Philosophy of History. New York: Continuum
International Publishing Group, 2008.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Dray, William H. Philosophy of History. Inglewood Cliffs, N.J.:
Prentice Hall, 1964.
Geyl, Pieter, Debates With Historians. The Hague: Fontana Library,
1962.
Gomez-Ibarra, Juan, J. A Scientific Model of History. New York:
Writer’s Advantage, 2013.
Gilderhus, Mark, T. History and Historians. Upper Saddle River,
N.J.: Prentice Hall, 2003.
Iggers, Georg. H. Historiography in the Twentieth Century.
Middleton, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1997.
Kluge, Ian. “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings” in
Lights of Irfan 4, 2003. bahai-library.com/kluge_aristotelean_lights4.
Also at www.bahaiphilosophy.com/
———. “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings.” in Lights of Irfan 14, 2013.
bahai-library.com/kluge_reason_writings_2013. Also at
www.bahaiphilosophy.com
Lemon, M.C. Philosophy of History. New York: Routledge, 2003.
Lyotard, Jean-Francois. The Postmodern Condition. Minneapolis:
University of Minnesota Press, 1979.
MacNeil, J.R. and The Human Web. New York: W.W. Norton &
Company, 2003.
Montagu, Ashley. Toynbee and History. Boston: Porter Sargent
Publisher, 1956.
Popper, Karl. The Open Society and its Enemies, I — II. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1971.
———. The Poverty of Historicism. Abington, Oxon: Routledge,
2002.
Sorokin, Pitirim, A. The Basic Trends of Our Time. New Haven,
Conn.: College and University Press, 1964.
———. The Crisis of Our Age. Chatham, N.Y.: Oneworld Publications,
1992.
———. The Reconstruction of Humanity. Boston: Beacon Press, 1948.
———. Social and Cultural Dynamic, I — IV. New York: Bedminister
Press, 1962.
———. Social and Cultural Dynamics. Abridged and Revised by Pitirim
Sorokin. Boston: Porter Sargent Publisher, 1957.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Spengler, Oswald. The Decline of the West, I — II. Translated by
Charles, Francis Atkinson. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1926.
———. The Decline of the West, I — II. Abridged edition by Helmut
Werner. New York: Oxford University Press, 1991.
Toynbee, Arnold, J. A Study of History, Volumes 1 — XII. New
York: Oxford University Press, 1962.
———. A Study of History, One volume abridgement by Arnold J
Toynbee and Jane Caplan. New York: Barnes and Noble, 1995.
Wilkins, Burleigh Taylor. Has History Any Meaning? New York:
Cornell University Press, 1978.

NOTES
1 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, in Scholarship, p. 17;
emphasis added;
2 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, 21, October, 1943 in
Scholarship, p. 4’ emphasis added.
3 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, 5 July, 1949, in
Scholarship, p. 11; emphasis added.
4 Karl Popper, The Poverty of Historicism, dedication page: “In memory of
the countless men women and children ... who fell victims to the fascist
and communist belief in Inexorable Laws of Historical Destiny.”
5 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
6 The ‘Big History’ movement begins its deliberations with the Big Bang and
proceeds through evolution to human history.
7 Kelly Boyd, Encyclopedia of Historians and Historical Writings, Vol. 1, p.
1245.
8 Our remarks are confined to those grand narratives that apply to humanity
as a whole, not to a particular nation, as for example with Sima Qian
(China, circa 100.B.C.) and Ibn Battuta (14th Century CE).
9 Matthias Reidel, “A Collective Messiah,”
www.revistamirabilia.com/sites/default/files/pdfs/2012_01_03.pdf
10 Giambattista Vico, The New Science quoted in Gilderhus, History and
Historians, p. 53.
11 Mark T. Gilderhus, History and Historians: A Historiographical
Introduction, p. 53.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings

12 Ian Kluge, “Kant’s ‘Perpetual Peace’ and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of
Irfan, Vol. 13, 20012 or at www.bahaiphilosophy.com/kant-s —
perpetual-peace — and-the-baha-i-writings.html
13 Immanuel Kant, Perpetual Peace and Other Essays, translated by Lewis
White Beck, “Introduction,” emphasis added.
www.marxists.org/reference/subject/ethics/kant/universal-history.htm
14 Immanuel Kant, Perpetual Peace and Other Essays, translated by Lewis
White Beck, 8Th Thesis; emphasis added.
15 Vladimir Lenin, The State and Revolution, #4,
www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/staterev/ch01.htm and
Frederich Engels, Anti-Duehring, Part 3, Chp. 2
www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1877/anti-duhring/ch24.htm
16 This paper uses the new translation of Some Answered Questions. As far
as the philosophical aspects of Some Answered Questions are concerned,
there are no conceptual, terminological and argumentative differences
between the older version and the new one.
17 World History Association, Mission Statement, www.thewha.org/about-
wha/history-mission-and-vision-of-the-wha/
18 WHA, “Areas of Specialization,” www.thewha.org/about-wha/areas-of-
specialization-in-world-history/
19 David Christian, Maps of Time: An Introduction to Big History.
20 Grinin, Korotayev, Rodrigue, editors, Evolution: A Big History
Perspective, p. 269.
21 Juan J. Gomez-Ibarra, A Scientific Model of History.
22 Immanuel Maurice Wallerstein and Immanuel Wallerstein, World-Systems
Theory: An Introduction.
23 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History?, p. 7.
24 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History? p. 7.
25 J.R. MacNeil and W.H. MacNeil, The Human Web: A Bird’s-Eye View of
World History.
26 Vladimir Alaykin-Izvekov, “Civilizational Science: The Evolution of a
New Field,” in Comparative Civilizations Review, Spring, 2011. See also
Fernand Braudel, A History of Civilizations.
27 Speaking of religions in general, Bahá’u’lláh says, “All of them, except a
few which are the outcome of human perversity, were ordained of God,
and are a reflection of His Will and Purpose.”
28 Pieter Geyl, Debates with Historians, p. 156.
29 It is essential to understand that rejecting a claim to knowledge is not the
same thing as a rejection or a devaluing of the person making the claim.
This is a common error. The consultation process works to avoid this

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


confusion by disassociating a statement from the person making the
statement.
30 For an in-depth discussion, see Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í
Writings” in Lights of Irfan, Vol. 14, 2013 or
www.bahaiphilosophy.com/published-articles.html
31 Jean-Francois Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.31.
32 Bahá’u’lláh is not only the Manifestation for this age but also the
inaugurator of the next cycle of human development beyond global unity
over the next 500,000 years.
33 Moojan Momen, The God of Bahá’u’lláh, www.bahai.org/documents/
essays/momen-dr-moojan/god-bahaullah; emphasis added.
34 “The shrewdness of God” is, of course, reminiscent of Hegel’s “the
cunning of history” but I felt that ‘cunning’ has too many negative
connotations to use in connection with God. For Hegel, too, history
works through the convoluted twists and turns of human action to a pre-
determined end.
35 One of the best contemporary books on this is Human Universals by
anthropologist Donald E. Brown. See also The Blank Slate: The Modern
Denial of Human Nature.
36 As the French poet Lautreament says so memorably: such an attempted
union of absolute differences would be like the chance meeting of a
sewing machine and umbrella on an operating table.
37 Examples of medical differences between ethnic groups are Tay-Sachs
disease which is largely found among Ashkenazi Jews of Europe; sickle-
cell anemia which is primarily found among Africans and African-
Americans; and cystic fibrosis which is mainly found in European-
Americans.
38 Robert P Edgertopn, Sick Socities, p. 43.
39 Pitirim Sorokin as a similar vision of the alternation of sensate, ideational
and integral culture types.
40 Bahá’u’lláh: “I loved thy creation, hence I created thee. Wherefore, do
thou love Me, that I may name thy name and fill thy soul with the spirit
of life” [HW Ar. #4]
41 J.R. McNeil and William H McNeil, The Human Web: A Birds-Eye View
of World History.
42 David Hume, An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, “Of
Miracles,” Part I.
43 Ian Kluge, July 9, A Dramatic Monologue.
44 Teilhard de Chardin, The Divine Milieu.
45 French Jesuit Teilhard de Chardin, similarly links natural and human
evolution in The Phenomenon of Man.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings

46 The Writings accept Aristotle’s theory of four-fold causation. This has
numerous consequences, including a way to reconcile religion and science.
47 Teilhard de Chardin, The Divine Milieu, p. 113.
48 In our understanding, Shoghi Effendi means that the emphasis of political
evolution should no longer be on the establishment of new nations
because that increases “The anarchy inherent in state sovereignty” [WOB
202]. International divisiveness increases the likelihood of war or
regressive economic conflicts.
49 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights of Irfan Vol 14,
2013. www.bahaiphilosophy.com
50 Qur’án 8:30 in Law˙-i-Sultan (Guardian, Browne) Provisional translation.
51 John Milton, Paradise Lost, Book I, l. 159–165.
52 Hegel, General Introduction in The Philosophy of History, trans by
Robert S Hartman, III, 2, c. www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/
works/hi/introduction.htm
53 For a complete list with specific references, see Ian Kluge, “The
Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights of Irfan 4
(2003) and Ian Kluge, “Bahá’í Ontology: Part One: An Initial
Reconnaissance” in Lights of Irfan 6 (2005) and “Bahá’í Ontology: Part
Two Further Explorations, Vol. 7 (2006); or www.bahaiphilosophy.com .
54 Alexander Skutch, The Golden Core of Religion.
55 Ian Kluge, “From Tolerance to Unity” The Bahá’í and Conviviality” in
Living Traditions and Universal Conviviality edited by Roland Faber and
Santiago Slabodsky.
56 Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights
of Irfan, Vol. 4, 2003 or bahai-library.com/series/Irfan and
www.bahaiphilosophy.com
57 To argue that in living things, DNA is the physical potential simply pushes
the problem back into an infinite regress. From what did DNA arise and
get the ability to determine development? As a result of this infinite
regress we eventually conclude that something non-material, i.e. an
essence must be part of the explanation.
58 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.34.
59 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
60 Popper, The Poverty of Historicism, the dedication page.
61 Karl Popper, The Poverty of Historicism, p. 3.
62 Karl Popper, The Open Society and its Enemies, Vol. 2, p. 269.
63 Karl Popper, The Open Society and its Enemies, Vol. 2, p. 270.
64 Arnold Toynbee, quoted in “Toynbee” in Encyclopedia of Philosophy,
Volume 7/8, p. 153.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


65 Karl Popper, The Open Society and Its Enemies, Vol. 2, p. 278; emphasis
added.
66 W.H. Walsh, Philosophy of History, p. 45.
67 W.H. Walsh, Philosophy of History, p. 49.
68 R.G. Collingwood, The Idea of History, p. 214.
69 W.H. Walsh, Philosophy of History, p. 71. We might note in passing that
if the basis of history is the “science of human nature” then grand
narratives have at least a scientific basis, and, in the Bahá’í case, represent
a close convergence of science and religion.
70 A Review of General Psychology survey, published in 2002, ranked
Maslow as the tenth most cited psychologist of the 20th century;
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Maslow
71 Abraham Maslow, Towards a Psychology of Being. 1962.
72 Donald E Brown, Human Universals, p. 6. Brown adds “the study of
universals has been effectively tabooed as an unintended consequence of
assumptions that have predominated in anthropology and other social
sciences.” p. 6.
73 Steven Pinker, The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature, p.
433–439.
74 R.G. Collingwood, The Idea of History, p. 132.
75 William H. McNeil, Mythhistory and Other Essays, p. 73.
76 William H Dray, Philosophy of History, p. 5; emphasis added.
77 Mark Day, The Philosophy of History, p. 55; original emphasis.
78 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History? p. 8 and throughout the book.
79 Georeg G. Iggers, Historiography in the Twentieth Century, pp. 155–156;
emphasis added.
80 British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper one of Toynbee’s severest critics
described “Toynbee's work as a “Philosophy of Mish-Mash.” Pieter Geyl
described Toynbee's ideological approach as “metaphysical speculations
dressed up as history” Walter Kaufmann also sharply rejected Toynbee.
Jean-Francois Lyotard, who invented the term ‘grand narrative,’ made the
rejection of such narratives an integral part of postmodernism.
www.liquisearch.com/arnold_j_toynbee/reception_and_criticism
81 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History?, p. 133 — 134; emphasis added.
82 William H McNeil, Mythistory and Other Essays, p. 79.
83 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History, p. 89.
84 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History, p. 134.
85 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History, p. 134.
86 W.H. Walsh, Philosophy of History: An Introduction, p. 166. 6

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings

87 H. Stuart Hughes, Oswald Spengler, p. 1.
88 H. Stuart Hughes, Oswald Spengler, p. 2.
89 Neil McInnes, “The Great Doomsayer,” in The National Interest, Summer,
1997. nationalinterest.org/bookreview/the-great-doomsayer-oswald-
spengler-reconsidered-915
90 Neil McInnes, “The Great Doomsayer”, in The National Interest, Summer,
1997. www.questia.com/read/1G1-19657029/the-great-doomsayer
91 Wikipedia, “The Decline of the West,”
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Decline_of_the_West#Reception
92 Adda B Bozeman, “Decline of the West? Spengler Reconsidered” in VQR,
Spring 2016, vqronline.org/essay/decline-west-spengler-reconsidered
93 W. Reed Smith, “Megalopolis versus Social Retardation: The Continuing
Relevance of the Views of Spengler and Toynbee on the Variability of the
Rate of Cultural Change,” in Comparative Civilizations Review 61, Fall 2009.
journals.lib.byu.edu/spc/index.php/CCR/article/viewFile/12966/12830
94 Mehdi Mozafari, Globalization and Civilization, 2002;
www.questia.com/read/108216509/globalization-and-civilizations
95 Neil McInnes, “The Great Doomsayer”, in The National Interest, Summer,
1997.
96 John Farrenkopf, Prophet of Doom: Spengler on World History and
Politics, Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2001.
97 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 31.
98 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 148.
99 W. Reed Smith, “Megalopolis versus Social Retardation: The Continuing
Relevance of the Views of Spengler and Toynbee on the Variability of the
Rate of Cultural Change.” in Comparative Civilizations Review.
100 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 59.
101 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 118.
102 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 118.
103 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 118.
104 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 174.
105 Spengler spent part of his university studies in advanced mathematics.
106 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 174.
107 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 233.
108 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 118.
109 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 310.
110 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 359.
111 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 310.
112 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 310.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


113 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 310 — 311;
emphasis added.
114 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 418.
115 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 464.
116 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 118.
117 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 174.
118 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 174.
119 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 174.
120 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 179.
121 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 179.
122 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 37.
123 H. Stuart Hughes, Oswald Spengler, p. 124–127.
124 H. Stuart Hughes, Oswald Spengler, p. 127.
125 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p.17.
126 Mark Day, The Philosophy of History, p. 55; emphasis added.
127 This term was introduced by Wilhelm Dilthey in his theory of historical
studies.
128 William H Dray, Philosophy of History, p. 5.
129 The Universal House of Justice, 1997, July 20, “Scholarship and Related
Subjects.” Ocean.
130 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 4.
131 Aquinas, Summa Theologica, Question 76, Article 1, Objection 3.
132 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p.14.
133 This is the Kantian — or solipsistic — side of Spengler and much
contemporary philosophy: all things are locked into their own
perspectives. This view has become a political and social ideology in the
21st Century.
134 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 57.
135 Morris Berman, The Reenchantment of the World, 1981.
136 Bahá’u’lláh,, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 234; Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 60;
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 14, 59 89, 256,
286, 313, 423; Some Answered Questions, p. 108, 202, 203, 294, 295;
137 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 189.
138 The Universal House of Justice, 1998, March 19, Complete Compilation
on Scholarship, Ocean.
139 The Universal House of Justice, 1997 Jul 20, Scholarship and Related
Subjects. Ocean.

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings

140 The Universal House of Justice, 1998 Feb 08, Materialistic Elements in
Academic Scholarship, p. 4.
141 H. Stuart Hughes, Oswald Spengler, p. 10.
142 See, for example, Global History degrees at Heidelberg www.uni-
heidelberg.de/courses/prospective/academicprograms/global_history_en.
html or the Oxford University Centre for Global History,
global.history.ox.ac.uk/
143 J R McNeil and William H McNeil, The Human Web, 2003.
144 Oswald Spengler, Decline of the West, Vol.1, p. 292.
145 Oswald Spengler, Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 413; emphasis added.
146 Oswald Spengler, Decline of the West, Vol. 2, p. 456.
147 Oswald Spengler, Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 44.
148 Oswald Spengler, Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 44.
149 Oswald Spengler, Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 43.
150 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star of the West 3, p. 173.
151 This depends on the distinction between appearance and underlying
reality and essence and accidental attribute. For an example of this
distinction see The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 199.
152 Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, Vol. 1, p. 358 — 9.
153 Sebastian Conrad, What is Global History?, p. 57.
154 J.R. McNeil and William H. McNeil, The Human Web, p. 6.
155 Stephen Epstein, “History Man” in The Weekly Standard, December 13,
2010, www.weeklystandard.com/history-man/article/520688
156 Hugh Trevor-Roper, “Testing Toynbee’s System” in Ashley Montague
editor, Toynbee and History, p. 122.
157 W. H. Walsh, “The End of a Great Work,” in Ashley Montague, editor,
Toynbee and History, p. 125; original emphasis.
158 Pieter Geyl, Debates with Historians, p.185.
159 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 4, p. 36.
160 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 97; also A Study
of History, Volume 1, p. 271.
161 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 97.
162 Arnold Toynbee, A Study in History, Volume 1, p. 233, states “we must
infer that the capacity for civilization is not a monopoly of an fraction or
fractions of the human family ... there is no warrant for supposing that
one particular fraction — the Black Race — has been born without this
birthright and is congenitally incapable of civilization just because it has
failed to make one of these creative contributions so far.” Toynbee would
probably not have written this if knowledge about the Kingdoms of Kush

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


or Benin or the Empire of Ghana had been prevalent in his time. It would
be fascinating to see how his theories fit these civilizations. In his final,
one volume abridgement, Toynbee refers to “the philosophies of the
African Civilizations” p. 161; also p. 71.
163 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 96.
164 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 3, p. 192
165 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 2, p. 322 — 392.
166 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 2, p. 291.
167 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 132.
168 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 138.
169 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 137.
170 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 3, p. 192.
171 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 140.
172 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 12, p. 75.
173 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan 14, 2013.
174 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 12, p. 81.
175 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 328.
176 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 1, p. 249; Volume 1, p.
270; Volume 3, p. 125; emphasis added.
177 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 140.
178 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 166.
179 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 334.
180 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 326.
181 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 326.
182 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 326.
183 CF Volney, Les Ruins, in Oevres Completes, p. 12 — 13 in Arnold
Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 161.
184 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 4, p. 245.
185 Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, Volume 4, p. 261.
186 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 161.
187 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 162.
188 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 171.
189 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 180
190 Arnold Toynbee and Jane Caplan, A Study of History, p. 194.
191 Barry V. Johnston, “Pitirim A. Sorokin on Order, Change and the Recon-
struction of Society: An Integral Perspective” in Comparative Civilization
Review, ojs.lib.byu.edu/spc/index.php/CCR/article/view/12695

Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings

192 Richard L Simpson, “Pitirim Sorokin and His Sociology” in Social Forces,
(Oxford University Press) www.suz.uzh.ch/dam/jcr:00000000-36d7-41d4-
0000-000064b51e55/simpson_sorokin.pdf
193 Barry V. Johnston, “Pitirim A. Sorokin on Order, Change and the Recon-
struction of Society: An Integral Perspective” in Comparative Civilization
Review, ojs.lib.byu.edu/spc/index.php/CCR/article/view/12695
194 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 15;
emphasis added.
195 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 682.
196 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 284.
197 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, II, p. 9.
198 Pitirim Sorokin, The Basic Trends of Our Time, p. 29.
199 Pitirim Sorokin, The Basic Trends of Our Time, p. 30.
200 Pitirim Sorokin, The Reconstruction of Humanity, p. 38.
201 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 111.
202 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 27.
203 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 27.
204 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 143.
205 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 28.
206 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 34.
207 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 33.
208 Pitirim Sorokin, The Basic Trends of Our Times, p. 18; also Social and
Cultural Dynamics, p. 14.
209 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 35.
210 Oscar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray, Chp. IV,
www.gutenberg.org/files/174/174-h/174-h.htm
211 Claiming that each is valid from its point of view does not actually
reconcile them but simply compartmentalizes them in separate boxes
without solving the contradictions as required by genuine reconciliation.
Separating two antagonists does not actually remedy their differences.
212 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights of Irfan 14 (2013)
or www.bahaiphilosophy.com
213 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 68.
214 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 690 — 691.
215 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 18; emphasis added.
216 The assumed premise is that God is heavy, i.e. is material. That reduces
God to a physical object among others which is obviously not God as
being discussed.
217 Pitirim Sorokin, The Basic Trends of Our Time, p. 38.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


218 Pitirim Sorokin in John Ubeursax, “Culture in Crisis: The Visionary
Theories of Pitirim Sorokin,” in Satayagraha, Dec. 10, 2010.
satyagraha.wordpress.com, emphasis added.
219 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 682.
220 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 652.
221 Barry V. Johnston, “Pitirim A. Sorokin on Order, Change and the Recon-
struction of Society: An Integral Perspective” in Comparative Civil-
ization Review, ojs.lib.byu.edu/spc/index.php/CCR/article/view/12695
222 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 94.
223 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 94.
224 Pitirim Sorokin, The Crisis of Our Age, p. 94.
225 R.F. Braun, “Sorokin, Popper and the Philosophy of History” in
Intercollegiate Review, Winter-Spring 1972.
226 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 18.
227 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 631;
emphasis added.
228 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 641.
229 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 631
230 Pitirim Sorokin, Social and Cultural Dynamics, (abridged), p. 631

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings:
A First Look
Ian Kluge
Introduction
The purpose of this paper is to identify and evaluate
correlations between the Bahá’í Writings and the philosophy of
Friedrich Nietzsche. Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í
Faith, calls on Bahá’ís “to investigate and analyse the principles
of the Faith and to correlate them with the modern aspects of
philosophy and science.”1 He also says
The Cause needs more Bahá’í scholars, people who not
only are devoted to it and believe in it and are anxious
to tell others about it, but also who have a deep grasp of
the Teachings and their significance, and who can
correlate its beliefs with the current thoughts and
problems of the people of the world.2
The Guardian adds,
If the Bahá’ís want to be really effective in teaching the
Cause they need to be much better informed and able to
discuss intelligently, intellectually, the present condition
of the world and its problems. We need Bahá’í scholars,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

not only people far, far more deeply aware of what our
teachings really are, but also well-read and well-educated
people, capable of correlating our teachings to the
current thoughts of the leaders of society.3
It is worth noting that the Guardian associates effective
Bahá’í teaching with the ability to “correlate” current issues in
society with the Bahá’í Teachings. Given the enormous
influence of Nietzsche’s thought and especially vis-à-vis the
“new atheism,” finding correlations and correspondences with
the Writings is an effective way of introducing the Writings to
new audiences. The Universal House of Justice echoes the
Guardian’s guideline.
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís (who
asked his advice, and in general also) to study history,
economics, sociology, etc., in order to be au courant
with all the progressive movements and thoughts being
put forth today, and so that they could correlate these
to the Bahá’í teachings.4
In our understanding, the guidance of the Guardian and the
Universal House of Justice, to “correlate” means to identify
connections between different things.5 It can also refer to
finding correspondences and various degrees of similarity.
Finding correspondences or similarities is useful in dialoguing
with other beliefs.
While correlations will be our primary focus, we shall, of
course, identify and discuss major differences and the Writings
and Nietzsche in order to forestall over-identification of the
two. After all, the Writings come from Bahá’u’lláh, Who is the
Manifestation of God for this age, and, therefore, set the
standard for the truth by which to evaluate Nietzsche’s work.
This difference remains no matter how many correlations we
find between the Writings and Nietzsche. Among the most
important stumbling blocks contradictions and problems are
the master-slave morality, the transvaluation of values, and the

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
often nasty manner of expression and demeaning tone of
Nietzsche’s writings. None of these disagreements can be swept
away and they will always stand as impediments to an over-
identification of the Writings and Nietzsche. However, as we
shall explain below, there are different ways of understanding
or interpreting these conflicts and how they relate to the
correlations.
One of the perennial questions in Nietzsche studies is, ‘How
can we evaluate and interpret what Nietzsche says?’ How can
we know, as Robert C Solomon and Kathleen M Higgins put it,
“what “Nietzsche really said”?6 Reading him presents a knot of
intertwined challenges that are not encountered to nearly the
same degree with most other philosophers. The major sources
of this problem are, in our view, three-fold. First, as we shall
see throughout this paper, are Nietzsche’s intellectual self-
contradictions, as, for example, the existence or non-existence
of a metaphysical substratum to reality. Furthermore, some-
times the subtext undermines or flatly contradicts the apparent
meaning of the text. Second, the foregoing problem is
exacerbated by Nietzsche’s highly rhetorical and metaphorical
style which makes interpretation difficult and easily leads to
conflicting views. In addition, Nietzsche’s use of exaggeration
and bombast which makes it difficult to identify his ‘real’
position because of the resulting ambiguity.7 Third, he writes in
a mixture of styles and genres, i.e. he does not consistently
present his arguments by step-by-step inferences from premises
to conclusions. Styles and genre can include serious extended
discussions; shorter ‘notebook’ entries that are often modified
or
contradicted
by
later
entries;
clever
aphorisms,
provocations, insults, and ad hominem attacks; quasi-biblical
works like Thus Spake Zarathustra and philosophical myths
such as the master-slave morality.
Obviously, reading Nietzsche is a very complicated business.
What is central and essential? What is peripheral and accidental?
Is there a ‘litmus test’ for testing his ideas? One well-known
group of philosophers and scholars denies that such a test exists

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

and that we can find ‘meaning’ or coherent philosophy in
Nietzsche’s texts. Among these are Jacques Derrida,8 Sarah
Kofman,9 Karl Jaspers10, Alexander Nehamas11 and Ruediger
Safranski.12 These scholars agree that there is no single
‘meaning’ in Nietzsche waiting to be discovered. Nietzsche’s
texts are essentially an on-going process of discovery in which
ideas are suggested and then explored in different contexts and
with different issues. Often, they are varied and undermined to
lead us to new ideas. Of course, other philosophers and scholars
disagree, asserting that to one extent or another, and varying
from subject to subject, Nietzsche does, in fact, have a positive
philosophy to promulgate. Notable among these are Walter
Kaufmann, with his foundational Nietzsche: Philosopher,
Psychologist, Antichrist; Robert C Solomon and Kathleen M
Higgins, whose book title sums up their position, What
Nietzsche Really Said; John Richardson who wrote Nietzsche’s
System;13 and Arthur C. Danto whose Nietzsche as Philosopher
is an early but enduring text.14 As we can see, the range of
Nietzsche interpretation is considerable.
Our study of the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche is based on
Kaufmann’s Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist
(1950). We do so for three main reasons. First, this is the book
that re-introduced Nietzsche to the English-speaking world by
studying him as a philosopher with a coherent foundational idea
applied to a large number of issues. Second, Kaufmann’s work
has withstood almost seventy years of debate and critique and
still remains essential in contemporary Nietzsche studies.
Kaufmann’s approach to Nietzsche as a serious philosopher
with important ideas has left its indelible mark on Nietzsche
studies. Kaufmann’s key idea is that “the will to power is the
core of Nietzsche’s thought but inseparable from his idea of
sublimation.”15 Nietzsche’s concept of “sublimation” entails the
necessity for self-overcoming to which Nietzsche returns so
frequently. In his book, Kaufmann explores the various
applications of Nietzsche’s central insight. Sixty years later, the
Blackwell Dictionary of Western Philosophy (2009) shows the

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
endurance and pervasive influence of Kaufmann’s belief,
stating that “the will to power is characterized by self-
overcoming and is life-affirming.”16 Third, using the will to
power and its concomitant concepts of sublimation and self-
overcoming allows Kaufmann to include almost all of
Nietzsche’s ideas into a reasonably coherent whole. In our view,
his book provides unity or at least more unity than other
interpretations.
Are the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche compatible in regards
to their final end, goal or ultimate purpose?’ There is no simple
answer to this question. Shoghi Effendi says that “the supreme
and distinguishing function of His Revelation, which is none
other than the calling into being of a new race of men” [ADJ 16,
emphasis added]. Certainly Nietzsche’s work can agree with this. A
“new race of men” is Zarathustra’s goal, and his means, i.e.
sublimation and self-overcoming correspond — up to a point —
with the Writings. However, whether or not Nietzsche can
endorse the concept of spiritual development, depends very
much on if we accept Nietzsche’s atheism at face value. Our
interpretation does not for reasons to be seen below.
The major, unbridgeable difference vis-à-vis ultimate goals
appears in the Bahá’í goal of establishing a unified, federal
world commonwealth united by “one common faith” [SAQ 65].
In other words, the current world-order needs to be replaced
and the means to this end is the transformation or increased
spiritualization
of
human
character
and
the
resulting
establishment of new institutions. This contrasts with
“Nietzsche’s lack of a political philosophy.”17 Certainly, he had
political opinions but opinions by themselves do not necessarily
make a coherent political philosophy. Even his support for rule
by a neo-aristocracy does not deal with the issues a genuine
political philosophy must deal with — power and power
transfers, hierarchies of responsibility, law and so on — thereby
leaving his political thought unformed and largely a matter of
speculation. In other words, insofar as Nietzsche has a coherent
vision of an institutional order, it is completely incompatible

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

with the Bahá’í goal of a new world order for all of humankind.
This topic will be discussed in more detail below.
As so often with Nietzsche, we require a word about Nazism.
The idea that Nietzsche was a precursor or proto-Nazi has few
if any supporters in modern Nietzsche scholarship. Tracy B
Strong in The Cambridge Companion to Nietzsche states,
“perhaps no opinion in Nietzsche scholarship is more widely
accepted than that the Nazis were wrong and/or ignorant in
their appropriation of Nietzsche.”18 Logically, just because the
Nazis thought they understood Nietzsche and (mis)used him,
does not mean Nietzsche himself was truly a Nazi or proto-
Nazi. A parallel error would be to (mis)use Christ’s statement
“Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not
to send peace, but a sword” [Matthew 10:34] to ‘prove’ that He
was a warmonger. The Oxford Companion to Philosophy says
Nietzsche has received “considerable attention in the English-
speaking world as the shadow cast by the travesty of his
appropriation by the Nazis and Fascists has receded.”19 The
Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy amplifies this
point, stating that Nietzsche
gives a large role to the will to power and he proposes to
replace the values he attacks with new values and a new
idea of the human person (the Uebermensch meaning
‘overhuman’
or
‘superhuman’).
Although
Nazi
theoreticians attempted to associate these ideas with
their own cause, responsible interpreters agree that
Nietzsche despised and unambiguously rejected both
German nationalism and anti-Semitism.20
This last point deserves commentary. Extreme German
nationalism, imperialism and anti-semitism are three signature
doctrines of Nazi theory and rejection of them is absolutely
incompatible with being a Nazi or even proto-Nazi. Further
evidence for this comes from Nietzsche’s advocacy of
cosmopolitanism and interracial intermarriage,21 and, as we
shall see below, his rejection of party politics, socialism and

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
mass movements of any kind because they destroy individual
independence. The idea that Nietzsche (who died in 1900) was a
pre-Nazi or proto-Nazi begins with his sister Elizabeth who was
also the literary executor of his work. Unlike Nietzsche, she was
a staunch German nationalist and imperialist who funded copies
of Thus Spake Zarathustra for German soldiers heading to the
front in 1914. She was also a fanatic anti-semite married to a
prominent anti-semite, which is why Nietzsche refused to
attend her wedding. She was enthralled with National Socialism
and Hitler and encouraged the belief that Nietzsche would have
been a follower of the ‘new superman.’ It is difficult to
suppress a smile imagining Nietzsche as a follower of anyone.
As Robert C Solomon and Kathleen Higgins note, it makes
no sense to blame any thinker for the abuse of his ideas by
others after his death. Among other things, that is a dangerous
and infeasible practice that would hold all authors responsible
for the misapplication of their ideas. For example, we could
blame Darwin for significant portions of Nazi ideology vis-à-
vis the survival of the fittest and its applications to individuals
and societies. The term ‘superman’ may have come from
Nietzsche but the concept of the ‘fittest’ animal dominating the
others has a distinctly Darwinian ring. In fact, Richard
Weikart’s22 Hitler's Ethic: The Nazi Pursuit of Evolutionary
Progress relates Nazism to Darwin. In the case of Nietzsche and
Darwin, the Nazis misused other people’s ideas but this tells us
more about the Nazis than it does about these two thinkers. We
do not believe that it is fair to taint the work of an author
because others mishandled his or her ideas.
Nonetheless, the fact remains that even without the Nazis, a
number of Nietzsche’s ideas that can be read as advocating rule
by and for the violent. His theory of master-slave morality and
the transvaluation of values are clearly of this kind. However,
three points should give us pause before reacting against
passing judgment on his work as a whole. First, we must not
throw out the baby with the bathwater: it is hard to see why our
antipathy to some of his ideas should prejudice us against his

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

other ideas. Second, we should recognize that Nietzsche was not
always a consistent thinker and these parts of his philosophy are
inconsistencies in his thought at least from vis-à-vis the “core,”
i.e. the will to power, sublimation and self-overcoming. Third,
because they are not compatible with the “core” of Nietzsche’s
thought, these inconsistencies cannot logically undermine those
parts that are compatible. They do not work from the same
premise, i.e. the “core.”
Finally, as a Bahá’í, I am convinced that as a result of
Bahá’u’lláh’s mysterious influence, Nietzsche was one of those
individuals who felt — albeit unconsciously or “through a glass
darkly” [1 Corinthians 13:12] — the necessity of transforming
ourselves to prepare for the coming end of European
civilization and a new world. Shoghi Effendi refers to “those
hidden and transforming influences which, from the source of
Bahá’u’lláh's mystic strength, continue to flow with ever-
increasing vitality into the heart of this troubled world” [BA
113]. This, of course, is a matter of personal faith, but even for
those who do not share my belief, the fact that there are
significant correlations between the widely separated Bahá’í
Writings from the Middle East and the European bourgeois
Nietzsche is, at the very least, of interest in the history of ideas.
2. The Common Foundation Between the
Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche
First appearances notwithstanding, there are at least three
major general foundational elements which the Bahá’í Writings
and Nietzsche share: (1) the radical critique of modern society
as suffering from irreversible social, intellectual, ethical and
spiritual degeneration; (2) the absolute necessity for the
establishment of a new kind of society and a re-constitution of
humankind, and (3) at the most fundamental level, the
Aristotelian substratum of their thought.23

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
2.1 The World in Decline
Both Bahá’u’lláh and Nietzsche viewed the modern world as
being in a degenerating condition, marked by “selfish disorders,
intellectual maladies, spiritual sicknesses, imperfections and
vices” [PUP 204-205]. Not surprisingly, such conditions lead to
mass despair, i.e. an overwhelming conviction of the loss of all
values, the loss of all hope for the future and the loss of all
confidence in ourselves or anything else, including God.
Bahá’u’lláh writes, “The winds of despair are, alas, blowing
from every direction” [GWB 216], and
The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by
day. Its face is turned towards waywardness and
unbelief. Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now
would not be meet and seemly. Its perversity will long
continue. [GWB 118, emphasis added; see also KI 12]
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, provides the
most comprehensive description of the decaying world order of
our time.
No wonder, therefore, that when, as a result of human
perversity, the light of religion is quenched in men’s
hearts, and the divinely appointed Robe, designed to
adorn the human temple, is deliberately discarded, a
deplorable decline in the fortunes of humanity
immediately sets in, bringing in its wake all the evils
which a wayward soul is capable of revealing. The
perversion of human nature, the degradation of human
conduct, the corruption and dissolution of human
institutions,
reveal
themselves,
under
such
circumstances, in their worst and most revolting
aspects. Human character is debased, confidence is
shaken, the nerves of discipline are relaxed, the voice of
human conscience is stilled, the sense of decency and
shame is obscured, conceptions of duty, of solidarity, of
reciprocity and loyalty are distorted, and the very

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

feeling of peacefulness, of joy and of hope is gradually
extinguished. [WOB 187, emphasis added]
The ultimate cause of this universal decay and loss of direction
is the failure of spirituality and religion in the lives modern men
and women. The first sign of this inner collapse is the rejection
of God’s Manifestation for this age, the denial of the “divine
physician” [SWAB 23] Whose task is to renew and revitalize
humankind and to help it advance towards its next stage of its
psycho-spiritual and social evolution. Another sign of this
“perversity” is the inability of humans to recognize their
desperate
and
spiritually
impoverished
condition.
As
Bahá’u’lláh says, “The Hour hath come upon them, while they
are disporting themselves. They have been seized by their
forelock, and yet know it not” [GWB 43]. The third sign is
inability to understand that
material progress alone does not tend to uplift man. On
the contrary, the more he becomes immersed in material
progress, the more does his spirituality become
obscured. [PT 108]
We cannot find materialist solutions to spiritual problems.
This impossible quest only increases despair — and fuels still
more desperate efforts to fill the ‘hole in the soul’ with more
‘stuff.’ Similarly, Nietzsche realizes that the “Ultimate Man”
cannot find happiness in the quest for more psycho-spiritual
comfort because the only way to true well-being is the quest for
self — overcoming. It is important to note that for both the
Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche, the origin of the modern crisis is
not technological, scientific or political but rather spiritual. In
The Gay Science, Nietzsche writes that Europe faces
[t]he peasant rebellion of the spirit. — We Europeans
confront a world of tremendous ruins ... The church is
this city of destruction: We see ... Christianity shaken to
its lowest foundations; the faith in ... God has
collapsed…24

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Nietzsche identifies nihilism with destruction of values and
purpose25 brought on by the end of the Christian church and
Christianity itself. The collapse of religion and spirituality leads
to what Nietzsche calls “European nihilism.”26 In The Will to
Power, he defines nihilism:
Nihilism as a psychological state will have to be reached,
first, when we have sought a “meaning” in all events that
is not there: so the seeker eventually becomes
discouraged. Nihilism, then, is the recognition of the
long waste of strength, the agony of the “in vain,”
insecurity, the lack of any opportunity to recover and
to regain composure — being ashamed in front of
oneself, as if one had deceived oneself all too long.27
In words reminiscent of the opening of The Communist
Manifesto, he announces, “Nihilism stands at the door: whence
comes this uncanniest of all guests?”28 This “guest” is
characterized by
Skepticism regarding morality ... Buddhistic, yearning
for Nothing ... the air of mediocrity, wretchedness,
dishonesty,
etc.
Nationalism,
Anarchism,
etc.
Punishment. The redeeming class and human being are
lacking — the justifiers.29 He adds that moral skepticism
is decisive because it “leads to nihilism.”30
Noteworthy among these deficiencies is the lack of a
“redeeming class and human being” i.e. an inspirational figure
who can re-invigorate and mobilize mankind’s flagging
energies. None of these deficiencies can be cured by material
possessions comfort or progress. Providing that required
spiritual remedy is the major aim of Nietzsche’s philosophy, as
seen in Zarathustra’s valiant efforts to regenerate and re-
energize the “Ultimate Men,”31 i.e. the comfort-loving denizens
of the valley. In vain, he offers to cure them of their self-
contented and materialistic sloth by inner, personal or spiritual
transformation won through painful self-overcoming. This is a

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

significant part of the unavoidable cure for the illnesses of
modernity that Bahá’u’lláh offers by “calling into being of a
new race of men” [ADJ 16]. Of course, in the Bahá’í context this
self-overcoming requires recognition of God whereas in
Nietzsche, this is, as will be shown below, a matter of
interpretation.
For Nietzsche, nihilism has two aspects, a “passive nihilism”32
and an “active nihilism.”33 “Passive” nihilism is a sign of
decreased power, despair, “the weary nihilism that no longer
attacks.”34 By contrast “active” nihilism is a sign of increased
power and is a “violent force of destruction,”35 i.e. a nihilism
that clears away all the traditional beliefs and ideas — all the
thoughtless and comforting imitations — that prevent us from
actualizing our full potentials as conscious beings. “Active”
nihilism corresponds to the Bahá’í concept of destroying not
the world but rather of “[T]ear[ing] aside the veils that have
grievously blinded your vision and ... scatter the idols of vain
imitation” [GWB 142]. In the words of Bahá’u’lláh, “None have
believed in Him except them who ... have shattered the idols of
their vain imaginings and corrupt desires and entered the city of
certitude” [GWB 12]. In both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche
we must choose to make a radical break with the past. It is
important to notice the strong language used in the Writings —
tearing, scattering shattering — to show that spiritual evolution
requires great energy and is not always a comfortable process.
Nietzsche, of course, uses similar language in this regard.
2.2 The Need for Revolutionary Change
Note: In order to frame the following discussion, it is
imperative to point out that the ultimate aim of the Bahá’í
dispensation is the establishment of a new world order, i.e. the
unification of humankind in a world-wide federal state united
by “one common faith” [GWB 255] in which the “spiritual
susceptibilities” [PUP 7] of humankind are more awake than they
are now. Nietzsche, however, has no clear ultimate goal in mind

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
— although some have inferred such — as we shall discuss below.
Therefore, the correspondences between the Writings and
Nietzsche are similarities regarding means in contrast to
differences regarding the ultimate ends. It is also important to
note that although Bahá’u’lláh’s goal is revolutionary change in
humankind, His method is evolutionary, i.e. spiritual,
psychological,
social
development
of
our
“spiritual
susceptibilities which are merciful and heavenly characteristics”
[PUP 244].
In our view, Bahá’u’lláh does not see Himself as yet another
reformer whose purpose is to prolong the existence of the old
world order by a patchwork of ‘fixes.’ Rather, His goal is to
establish a new world order: “Soon will the present-day order be
rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead” [GWB 7]. He
takes full responsibility for and makes no secret of the
momentous changes destabilizing the world as a prelude to
establishing a new world order.
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the
vibrating influence of this most great, this new World
Order. Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized
through the agency of this unique, this wondrous System
— the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.
[GWB 136, emphasis added]
In The Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, He describes the Manifestation
as “fully capable of revolutionizing the world through the
power of a single Word” [TB 259] and calls on humanity to
[c]ast away that which ye possess, and, on the wings of
detachment, soar beyond all created things. Thus biddeth
you the Lord of creation, the movement of Whose Pen
hath revolutionized the soul of mankind. [PB 117]
Here we see the radical — and spiritual — nature of this
Revelation, demanding nothing less than a radical break with
the past and a total commitment by divesting ourselves of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

whatever attaches us to the old world. Bahá’u’lláh even draws
attention to the radical or even traumatic nature of His
revelation.
the whole creation was revolutionized and all that are in
the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the
depths. Through that Word the realities of all created
things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered,
combined and reunited, disclosing entities of a new
creation… [GWB 295; ADJ 46-47]
It must be remembered that the focal point of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revolution is spiritual. Unlike revolutionaries in the past, He
begins the process of revolution and transformation from
within, so that His new world order begins with “a new race of
men” who do not simply repeat the errors of the past. Of
course the primarily spiritual focus of His revelation does not
preclude the daily tasks of mitigating the suffering of
individuals or striving for justice in our society. However,
these activities are most valuable and reach their fullest
potential in the framework of serving the Bahá’í Cause.
One consequence of these tumultuous times is an inevitable
struggle with opposing forces. Shoghi Effendi writes,
We have only to refer to the warnings uttered by
'Abdu'l-Bahá in order to realize the extent and character
of the forces that are destined to contest with God's
holy Faith peoples, nations, adherents of divers faiths,
will jointly and successively arise to shatter its unity, to
sap its force, and to degrade its holy name. They will
assail not only the spirit which it inculcates, but the
administration which is the channel, the instrument, the
embodiment of that spirit. [WOB 17, emphasis added; cf. CC2
142, ADJ 41, TDH 123, GPB 411]
Shoghi Effendi also writes of

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
the burden of the impending contest that must be
waged, sooner or later ... between the rising institutions
of Bahá’u’lláh's embryonic divinely appointed Order,
and the exponents of obsolescent doctrines and the
defenders, both secular and religious, of a corrupt and
fast-declining society. [CF 155]
Shoghi Effendi even assigns responsibility for the start of the
inexorable conflict on the way to a new world order:
Our adversaries in the East have initiated the struggle.
Our future opponents in the West will, in their turn,
arise and carry it a stage further. Ours is the duty, in
anticipation of this inevitable contest, to uphold
unequivocally and with undivided loyalty the integrity
of our Faith. [CF 155, emphasis added]
Given human nature, revolution without contest and
conflict is not possible — but the key issue is by what means
and towards what end the contest is waged. In the case of the
Bahá’í Faith, this “agonistic engagement”36 is waged not by
coups, political opposition, subversion or extra-parliamentary
movements but by means of new ideas, revitalized values, good
personal examples, energized hope, and appeals to the spiritual
elements in human nature. The underlying principle is that by
the power of example these transformational activities will
gradually encourage people to turn their loyalties and activities
away from the old world order and turn towards Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. It is only in this way– a shift of loyalties — that the
Bahá’í Faith can be said to be impact negatively on the old
world order. In other words, the Bahá’í Faith will not actively
work to weaken or bring down the old world order but rather
emphasizes
spiritual
renewal
and
personal
and
social
transformation that will allow people to build a new world.
Nietzsche appears to suggest somewhat similar action.
Through his fictional character Zarathustra as an ideal example
and by means of attacking the West’s foundational concepts in

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

metaphysics, ethics, logic, religion, science and social
organization, he aims at clearing away the out-dated and/or un
supportable concepts that prop up the old world order and
hinder the arrival of the Superman. Zarathustra says,
O my brothers, am I then cruel? But I say: That which is
falling should also be pushed!
Everything of today — it is falling. It is decaying: who
would support it? But I — want to push it too!
... I am a prologue to better players, O my brothers! ...
Follow my example!
And him you do not teach to fly, teach — to fall faster!37
The essential message here — the dramatic flare and hyperbole
aside — converges with the Bahá’í Writings in rejecting reform
and desiring revolution and a future that is not merely a
repetition of the past in a different disguise. Their method is
similar — up to a point. The shift of loyalties suggested in the
Writings is dedicated to building a positive new order, but does
not mandate action against the old order as Zarathustra does by
encouraging us to push it down.
2.3: The Rejection of Politics
Both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche reject partisan
political activity as a viable way of changing the world. Shoghi
Effendi says,
Bahá’ís should remember that we stand above politics.
That that field does not interest us; that we attribute
importance to things of the spirit, that we await
salvation to come from the Faith that burns in our
hearts. [LDG 47-48]
Of course, non-participation in partisan politics does not
mean Bahá’ís should not engaged in positive works to help
individuals or striving for justice but we must be sure that

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
neither we nor the Faith are being co-opted for partisan
purposes. Moreover, non-participation in partisan politics does
not mean that the Bahá’í Writings do not have certain
principles vis-à-vis governance. They make it clear, among
other things, that free, open and democratic government is
better for human progress than autocratic government [PUP 197];
that elected parliaments are good — if conducted properly [PUP
73; SDC 17]; and that undue centralization is a source of ill [PUP
167]. However, partisanship is to be avoided because it is
‘partial’ by nature whereas the Bahá’í focus is on the good of
the whole. As 'Abdu'l-Bahá says,
universality is of God, Bahá’ís in every land are ready,
nay anxious, to associate themselves by word and deed
with any association of men which, after careful
scrutiny, they feel satisfied is free from every tinge of
partisanship and politics and is wholly devoted to the
interests of all mankind. [BA 125, emphasis added]
In the words of Shoghi Effendi, “[t]he bonds which hold
together the body-politic are not sufficient” [JWTA 43] to unify
a nation — or the world. They hold mankind back from its
destiny as a global commonwealth.
R. Kevin Hill notes that “Nietzsche rejects all the political
ideologies on offer, from left to right as delusions,
‘convictions’ with no foundation.”38 Politics as practiced in
Europe during his time no longer serve any useful purpose: “the
time for small politics is gone,”39 a point also emphasized in his
disparaging reference to “the wretched gabble of politics and
nationalism and nationalism.”40 Indeed, his contempt for
politics is expressed even more strongly: he describes it as a
“prostitution of the spirit.”41 Nietzsche scholar Ted Sadler
states,
For Nietzsche as for Heraclitus, politics is one of the
most overestimated things in the world, mainly because
it
caters
for
the
instincts
of
the
common,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

unphilosophical natures who are always in the majority.
Politics
stands
in
opposition
to
the
radically
individualizing character of philosophy expressed in
Heraclitus’ statement [Diels-Kranz: Fragment 246] ‘I searched
out myself.’42
Like Bahá’u’lláh, Nietzsche is no mere reformer; he has no
confidence in contemporary partisan politics or in political
revolutions to solve the problems of nihilism and societal
decay. Both insist that we must not confuse and conflate the
desire to make revolutionary changes in society by means of
individual transformation in goals and values, with the work of
political parties, programs and partisan conflicts. In fact, these
two will often work at cross purposes. If people are not
inwardly transformed, they will inevitably repeat the very
behaviors the revolution was supposed to eliminate.
Like Bahá’u’lláh, Nietzsche rejects the partisan politics but
most of his political principles not only contradict the Bahá’í
Writings but also contradict other aspects of Nietzsche’s
philosophy as we shall see below. Unlike the Writings,
Nietzsche despised democracy as “not only a deterioration, that
is to say, the depreciation of a human type, a mediocratizing
and lowering of values.”43 Instead, he appears to advocate what
Mark Warren calls a “neoaristocratic conservatism ... [that
looks] forward to a time when similar cultural aristocracies
might be established.44 Bruce Detwiler calls Nietzsche’s political
views
“the
politics
of
aristocratic
radicalism”45
which
establishes rule by the most powerful and ruthless. It is not
hard to find evidence for such beliefs in Nietzsche who writes,
Every heightening of the type “man” hitherto has been
the work of an aristocratic society — and thus it will
always be; a society which believes in a long ladder of
rank order and value differences in men, which needs
slavery in some sense ... To be sure, we must not yield to
humanitarian self-deception ... Men whose nature was
still natural, barbarians in every frightful sense of the

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
word, men of prey ... such men threw themselves upon
weaker, better-behaved, more peaceable races ... The
distinguished caste in the beginning was always the
barbarian caste; their superiority lay not primarily in
their physical but in their psychic power; they were more
whole human beings (which on every level also means
“more whole as beasts).46
Nietzsche approves of the aristocrats for their leadership
because they “heighten[ed] “the type of ‘man.’” In other words,
the human race as a whole benefits by their rule. Even if
violence is only instrumental at the start of their ascent and
their real superiority lay in “their psychic power” the fact
remains that they seize and keep power by violence for such is
the nature of life itself. Nietzsche writes,
Life is essential assimilation, injury, violation of the
foreign and the weaker, suppression, hardness, the
forcing of one’s own form upon something else,
ingestion and — at least in its mildest form — exploit-
tation ... life is simply will to power ... “Exploitation” is
not a part of a vicious or imperfect or primitive society;
it belongs to the nature of living things.47
In other words, Nietzsche justifies the aristocrats as realists
who accept the conditions of natural life and take advantage of
them.48 This is simply incompatible with the Bahá’í vision of a
new world order.
For Nietzsche, the struggle for domination is based on the
universally present will to power which is ontologically integral
to life. Being ontologically integral to life, it cannot be
removed without eliminating life itself. Consequently, for
Nietzsche “exploitation” “suppression” or domination i.e. “the
forcing of one’s own form upon something else” does not
necessarily mean a society is “primitive” or “vicious” as most
ethical systems would assert. These are natural and necessary
activities. In Nietzsche’s view, the aristocrats ought to rule

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

precisely because they have attributes listed above and they
accept the nature of reality without any shame and/or guilt,
and therefore the aristocrat
feels himself the value-determining; he does not need to
be ratified; he judges that “which is harmful to me is
harmful as such; he knows that he is the something
which gives honor to objects; he creates values ... his
morality is self-glorification.49
In our view, Nietzsche’s ideas on the will to power in regards
to politics have at least two inherent problems which not only
conflict with his other teachings but also conflict with the
Bahá’í Writings. First, his neo-aristocratic views contradict his
doctrine of continuous self-overcoming.50 A ruling class
without interest in self-critique and self-evaluation, i.e. a ruling
class which sincerely experiences itself and whatever it does as
“the good” is unlikely to engage in self-overcoming since the
necessary ‘good’ has already been achieved. The problem is that
for Nietzsche the ethics of self-overcoming “distinguish[ ] the
moral from the nonmoral [person].”51 Furthermore, as
Kaufmann notes, “self-criticism, i.e. man’s critical reflection
on his own intentions and actions — is the core of morality.”52
The inescapable conclusion is that Nietzsche’s aristocrats are
inherently immoral not by Christian standards but the standards
set by Zarathustra who is — supposedly — the prime
embodiment of Nietzsche’s ethics. The same conclusion follows
from Bahá’í ethics in which self-overcoming is also essential to
creating “new race of men” [ADJ 16].
2.3.1 Loyalty to the Earth
The second problem concerns the relationship between
morality and nature, a subject on which Nietzsche is deeply
conflicted. On one hand, he justifies the cruelties of his
aristocracy by appealing to nature, thereby falling into the
Humean fallacy of confusing ‘what is’ with ‘what ought to be,’

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
i.e. of confusing ‘description’ with ‘prescription’ and ‘knowing
what is the case’ with ‘endorsing what is the case.’ Describing
and prescribing (endorsing, obligating) are not logically
equivalent. Just because Alexis always cooks supper at our
house does not mean that Alexis should always cook supper at
our house. Just because mother rabbits sometimes eat their
young in times of danger does not mean that we can justify
human mothers doing the same. In other words, Nietzsche
wants to base his ethics on nature, on what is ‘natural’ as part
of his philosophy of loyalty to the earth. Nietzsche admonishes
us to
remain true to the earth and do not believe those who
speak to you of superterrestrial hopes! They are
poisoners whether they know it or not ... To blaspheme
the earth is now the dreadful offence, and to esteem the
bowels of the Inscrutable more highly than the meaning
of the earth.53
There are two problems here. First, self-overcoming is not part
of the natural order of things; a crocodile is what it is and does
what it does and shows no sign of trying to be ‘better’ in some
way. This loyalty to earth also conflicts with the ‘transcendental
impulse’ we see in his work. Second, it is not necessarily true
that belief in the existence of a “superterrestrial” world
devalues and degrades the earth and our earthly existence. Why
would any believer in God denigrate the Creator’s work? That
would, in effect, be an attack on the Creator Himself.
Nietzsche fails to recognize that there is an essential difference
between being excessively attached to the Creator’s work and
being attached to the Creator. Condemning the undue
attachment to nature, i.e. God’s work, condemns a faulty
response to nature but does not devalue creation itself.
Nietzsche’s claim that belief in a “superterrestrial” world is in
itself a devaluation of the natural world is contradicted by the
Bahá’í Writings: “How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge
that shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

surge within a drop!” [GWB 177] Furthermore, there is
Bahá’u’lláh’s condemnation of asceticism and monasticism:
they impede the full celebration of earthly life and the divine
gifts it offers:
Living in seclusion or practising asceticism is not
acceptable in the presence of God. It behoveth them
that are endued with insight and understanding to
observe that which will cause joy and radiance. [TB 71]
It is worth noting that Bahá’u’lláh emphasises the “joy and
radiance” of earthly life just as Nietzsche does. Moreover, He
clearly condemns such practices as originating in “idle fancy”
and “superstition” [TB 71] and, thereby, unmasking them as
distortions of human existence. Moreover, since the Bahá’í
view of human life is a process view, i.e. a character-building54
journey from earth to the endless spiritual evolution of the
Abhá Kingdom, there is no rationale for devaluing the
necessary first step of pilgrimage. Without the first step, the
others are impossible; indeed, in a process view past steps are
implicitly included and even raised to a higher level. Nietzsche’s
reasoning on this matter does not hold.
However, there is another, in effect, opposing line of
thought about nature in Nietzsche. Zarathustra’s demand for
self-overcoming i.e. self-transcending requires us to tame and
transform our natural, animal impulses into something higher.
That is why Nietzsche says,
The spiritualization of sensuality is called love: it is a
great triumph over Christianity. A further triumph is
our spiritualization of enmity. It consists in profoundly
grasping the value of having enemies: in brief, in acting
and thinking in the reverse of the way in which one
formerly acted and thought.55
We must transform, or sublimate56 animal lust into love and
spiritualize our conflicts. As Kaufmann notes, Nietzsche “used

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
another word side by side with sublimation: Vergeisterung,
spiritualization.”57 We should not view our enemies in the
natural way and rise above our impulses to find value in our
foes. We must go beyond nature — as is already obvious in
Nietzsche’s advocacy of self-overcoming to be better humans,
not better animals. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The Prophets come
into the world to guide and educate humanity so that the animal
nature of man may disappear and the divinity of his powers
become awakened” [PUP 41]. It is also noteworthy that
Nietzsche’s statement about enemies converges with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s admonition:
Let them see no one as their enemy, or as wishing them
ill, but think of all humankind as their friends; regarding
the alien as an intimate, the stranger as a companion,
staying free of prejudice, drawing no lines. [SWAB 1]
4: Master and Slave Morality
The issue of Nietzsche’s “aristocratic radicalism” brings us
to one of the most challenging, controversial and thought-
provoking aspects of Nietzsche’s philosophy — master and slave
morality as presented in On the Genealogy of Morals and
Beyond Good and Evil. This is one of the places where the
Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche can only be reconciled to a
limited degree.
In outline, Nietzsche’s theory is simple enough. There exist
two kinds of morality, i.e. on one hand, the morality of the
ruling aristocrats, nobility and masters, and, on the other hand,
the morality of the slaves i.e. the subservient classes of people.
Nietzsche’s description of the masters is provocative: they are
hard, proud, intolerant of weakness, self-confident, challenge-
seeking, war-like, active and energetic, strong, bluntly truthful
about themselves and the world, and focused on law and what is
right. In direct contrast, slave morality values the useful i.e. the
comfortable and advantageous over the right; it values

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

weakness, kindness and compassion, humility, patience, equality
of all things as well denigrating earthly life in favor of a
heavenly life after death.
According to Nietzsche, these two moralities clash —
although one of them, i.e. slave morality, is the victor in the
modern world. Nietzsche links this historical downfall with the
rise of the priestly class in Judaism and Christianity which he
identifies with slave morality. However, it is essential to
remember that to one degree or another, the struggle between
the two kinds of morality continues within us today.58
Nietzsche’s views on this subject are summarised in the
following passage from On the Genealogy of Morals:
All the world's efforts against the “aristocrats,” the
“mighty,” the “masters,” the “holders of power,” are
negligible
by
comparison
with
what
has
been
accomplished against those classes by the Jews — the
Jews, that priestly nation which eventually realised that
the one method of effecting satisfaction on its enemies
and tyrants was by means of a radical transvaluation of
values, which was at the same time an act of the
cleverest revenge. Yet the method was only appropriate
to a nation of priests, to a nation of the most jealously
nursed priestly revengefulness. It was the Jews who, in
opposition to the aristocratic equation (good =
aristocratic = beautiful = happy = loved by the gods),
dared with a terrifying logic to suggest the contrary
equation, and indeed to maintain with the teeth of the
most profound hatred (the hatred of weakness) this
contrary equation, namely, “the wretched are alone the
good; the poor, the weak, the lowly, are alone the good;
the suffering, the needy, the sick, the loathsome, are the
only ones who are pious, the only ones who are blessed,
for them alone is salvation — but you, on the other
hand, you aristocrats, you men of power, you are to all
eternity the evil, the horrible, the covetous, the

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
insatiate, the godless; eternally also shall you be the
unblessed, the cursed, the damned!”59
Before proceeding, we hasten to add that this passage is not an
anti-Semitic outburst — Nietzsche openly despised anti-
semitism especially in his sister and brother-in-law; rather, it is
an observation of a historical turn of events, i.e. the Edict of
Thessalonica in 380 CE by which Christianity and its slave
morality became the only authorized religion in the Roman
Empire. This event marks the success of the slave revolt and the
“transvaluation of values.”
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche’s master and slave
morality are incompatible for at least one reason: the Writings
identify the “slave morality” with the ethical teachings of the
Manifestations of God and the “master morality” with the
proud and corrupt rulers and leaders of the world to whom
Bahá’u’lláh wrote admonitory epistles. In other words, the
Bahá’í Writings favor what Nietzsche calls “slave morality”: the
morality of the weak, the oppressed, the humble, the
compassionate, and the long-suffering as well as the values of
dedication to God, unselfishness and service to others.
Conversely, the Manifestations have sought to overcome the
unself-critical, unreflective self-satisfaction of our animal
natures that marks the cruelty and ruthlessness of beasts — and
Nietzsche’s master class.
Unlike Nietzsche, the Manifestations understood the
superiority of the ‘slave’ morals insofar as they maintained the
ethics of self-overcoming which “distinguishes the moral
[person] from the nonmoral [person].”60 Kaufmann notes that
“self-criticism, i.e. man’s critical reflection on his own
intentions and actions — is the core of morality.”61 In contrast,
of master morality shows it to be painfully smug, self-satisfied
and arrogant even about inflicting violence and, therefore,
highly unlikely to lead to the kind of self-critical awareness
required for self-overcoming. Ironically, Nietzsche’s own
standard of self-overcoming means that the aristocracy fails

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Nietzsche’s test for being moral. In sharp contrast, the slave
morality with its intense awareness of its own weakness and
other deficiencies is far more likely to be open to the process of
self-overcoming and, thereby, according to Nietzsche’s own
standards, becomes more fit to rule.
Once again, we face a division in Nietzsche’s philosophy. On
one hand we have the “master-and-slave” morality justified by a
ruthless vision of life:
What is life? — Life — that is: continually shedding
something that wants to die. Life — that is; being cruel
and inexorable against everything about us that is
growing old and weak — and not only about us. Life —
that is, then: being without reverence for those who are
dying, who are wretched, who are ancient? Constantly
being a murderer? — And yet old Moses said: “Thou shalt
not kill.”62
The mocking tone of “old Moses” — far more derisive in
German than in English — makes clear his contempt for the
attributes of slaved morality. On the other hand we have On
one hand, there is Zarathustra, the exemplar of what humankind
should become, i.e. a bridge to the Superman, who engages in
constant self-overcoming, who preaches to the “last men” in
hopes of awakening the adventure of self-overcoming, who is
hard on himself and does not always sing his own praises, who
uses the power of words to attain his goals, not violence and
who has no real interest in dominating others by force.
Walter Kaufmann tries to avoid this dilemma by suggesting
that Nietzsche “would like us to conform to neither [master nor
slave morality] and become autonomous,63 i.e. grow beyond
both. However, it is difficult to see how being “autonomous”
prevents us from having to make choices that either agree more
with the stark differences between master and slave morality
and their respective consequences. Moreover, it is also difficult
to see how one can — or would want to — grow beyond self-

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
overcoming (to what?) and compassion. As soon as we adopt
these in any way, we are forced to abandon the master morality.
In our view, there is a genuine conflict in Nietzsche’s thought
on this matter and there is no choice but to recognize one or
the other as being consistent with the whole body of
Nietzsche’s philosophy.
Can the Bahá’í Writings be brought into alignment with
Nietzsche’s master-slave-morality? In our view, no direct
agreements or convergences are evident. However, we find
some tenuous parallelism between certain ideas, i.e. we can find
ideas that are different in content but fulfill some of the same
functions. We might also think of mirror images in which one
is the reverse of the other. As we understand the Writings,
Nietzsche’s concept of ‘domination’ must be replaced by the
concept of ‘service,’ i.e. the ‘leaders’ or ‘aristocrats’ serve
humankind. They are ‘masters’ in the art of promoting spiritual
evolution. Thus, both the Writings and Nietzsche have a
concept of rank i.e. ways of distinguishing ourselves by special
attributes and/or actions but these work in antithetical ways.
One obvious difference is that for Nietzsche there is a
relationship of enmity and forceful, even violent domination
between the masters and slaves. In contrast, in the Bahá’í
Writings the ‘leaders’ neither rule nor dominate nor regard
others as foes and inferiors nor are they part of a permanent
class. They lead by force of good example and exemplary
behavior, by obedience to Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation, by constant
striving to develop their “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] and
in service to others. Among Bahá’ís case, the ‘masters’
themselves are ‘slaves’ insofar as they ultimately seek to serve
God and not themselves. It is, so to speak, a quest to be part of
an ‘aristocracy of slaves’!
The Bahá’í Writings themselves encourage this sense of
spiritual competition to serve.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Happy the soul that shall forget his own
good, and like the chosen ones of God, vie with his fellows in

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

service to the good of all” [SDC 115]. Bahá’u’lláh says, “Vie ye
with each other in the service of God” [MOTC 123]. The
Universal House of Justice tells us that Bahá’u’lláh “encouraged
a competitive spirit in its noblest form.”64 In short, the
Writings and the guidance from the Universal House of Justice
recognize the value of spiritual competition in service.
To the objection that this sounds too combative, we point
out that there is an agonistic aspect in the Writings as already
seen in Shoghi Effendi’s warnings about future “contests” with
opposition to the Faith. Furthermore, lower animal traits can
be transformed and transvalued into higher, more spiritual
traits. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, reminds us that greed — an
animal trait — can become a prized spiritual characteristic.
greed, which is to ask for something more, is a
praiseworthy quality provided that it is used suitably. So
if a man is greedy to acquire science and knowledge, or
to become compassionate, generous and just, it is most
praiseworthy. [SAQ 214, emphasis added]
The same principle underlies the use of military imagery in the
Writings. For example, in one of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prayers we
read:
These souls are Thy heavenly army. Assist them and,
with the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse, make them
victorious, so that each one of them may become like
unto a regiment and conquer these countries through the
love of God and the illumination of divine teachings.
[TDP 35, emphasis added]
In another prayer he says,
Confirm me in Thy service, assist me with the cohorts of
Thy angels, make me victorious in the promotion of Thy
Word and suffer me to speak out Thy wisdom amongst
Thy creatures. [BP 187, emphasis added]

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
In the world-view presented in the Writings — and Thus Spake
Zarathustra — the many of the qualities of the ‘masters’ can be
spiritualized i.e. transformed and transvalued to achieve higher
goals than mere earthly dominion. They continue the never-
ending process of self-overcoming by being cruel and relentless
to themselves in defeating heir stubborn weaknesses and self-
deceptions.
Unlike Nietzsche’s masters, his exemplary hero Zarathustra
could agree with much of what the Writings say on the issue of
service as well as with the following by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
O people! Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of
one branch. At most it is this, that some souls are
ignorant, they must be educated; some are sick, they
must be healed; some are still of tender age, they must
be helped to attain maturity, and the utmost kindness
must be shown to them. This is the conduct of the
people of Bahá. [SWAB 28]
At the beginning of his journey down the mountain,
Zarathustra, tells the old man in the forest, “I love mankind”65
and answers the old man’s objections by saying, “I am bringing
mankind a gift.”66 His mission is to educate, to heal, to mature
and to show his insights with a sincere heart and kindness. In
effect, he comes down to serve in agreement with the words of
Bahá’u’lláh that “The people are ignorant, and they stand in
need of those who will expound the truth” [TB 170]. If there is
an ‘aristocracy’ in the Bahá’í Writings, it is an ‘aristocracy’ of
service — certainly not an aristocracy of power, domination
and harshness.
To conclude: the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche are reversed
mirror images of each other in regards to ‘masters’ and slaves.’
Both embody the concepts of ‘rank,’ ‘contest’ and ‘leadership
but one does so in the service of self and the other in the
service of humankind and God. Furthermore, Nietzsche’s
aristocrats dominate by force and live in a state of enmity with

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

others. They are also part of a permanent class structure and are
centered on themselves as highest form of human existence.
Their actions are justified in and of themselves. This stands in
sharp contrast to the Bahá’í understanding of leadership in
terms of service to humankind with the purpose of helping all
develop their highest “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] both as
individuals and as members of society. There is no permanent
ruling class.
5: The Bahá’í Writings, Nietzsche and
Aristotle
The pervasive presence of Aristotelian metaphysics and
ontology in both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche identifies
another important area of agreement and convergence between
the two. Because of this common foundation, the correlations
between the Writings and Nietzsche are not serendipitous
coincidences but — for the most part — the outcome of
working with the same philosophical concepts in analyzing and
explaining reality. At this point it must be said that Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have affirmed the validity of certain
Aristotelian concepts — especially in metaphysics and ontology
— by using them extensively throughout the Bahá’í Writings.67
Similarly, in the case of Nietzsche, numerous authors have
detected
Aristotle’s
influence,
among
them
Kaufmann,
Richardson, Solomon, Hough, Silk and Stern, Emden and
Williams.68
Since
Nietzsche
was
a
trained
philologist
specializing in Greek and Latin supports the belief that he was
at least passingly familiar with Aristotle’s major principles.
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche use Aristotle’s ontology
of potentials to analyze, understand and explain reality. Of
course, this ontology implicitly includes all the major elements
of Aristotelian metaphysics. Let us see how. For Aristotle,
potentials are (a) the ability or power of a thing to initiate or
stop change in oneself or others69 or (b) the ability to change
into or be changed into something else or be acted upon.70

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Moreover, every single thing or kind of thing is identified and
limited by its particular combination of potentials. That is why
we cannot make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. It lacks the
potentials for such a transformation. Furthermore, the essence
of a thing is the collection of potentials that distinguish a
particular kind and/or individual from other kinds and/or
individuals.
Little reflection is needed to see that the ontology of
potentials also implies the concept of ‘actuality’ or what a thing
is at a specific moment as distinct from what it can/will be in
the future. This, in turn, implies the distinction between
appearance — what a thing is at any particular moment — and
its reality, i.e. its full albeit ‘bundle’ of potentials both
actualized and unactualized. Anything that has its own unique
‘bundle’ of potentials is a ‘substance’ i.e. something that stands
by itself and is not an attribute of something else. “Silver” the
Lone Ranger’s horse, is a substance because he is not a quality
of some other thing. The ontology of potentials also implies the
existence of ‘force’ or ‘power’ — or ‘will’ in Nietzsche’s
language — to actualize a potential, i.e. cause change within
oneself or in others. Finally, the ontology of potentials requires
that all things have a goal, a ‘telos’ i.e. a certain preferred
direction or goal towards which things develop. Maple trees
never grow into lobsters. The potentials a thing has limit what
it can become, i.e. set it towards certain goals. Nietzsche, of
course, claims to have rejected these concepts as part of a now
irrelevant philosophical past, but numerous passages show that
in fact, he consistently made use of them either explicitly or
implicitly.
Aristotle’s ontology of potentials — including teleology — is
most dramatically illustrated in Zarathustra’s command,
“Become what you are!”71 This command only makes sense on
the assumption that we have an essence made up of certain
potentials unique to us as members of the human race and as
human individuals. It requires the distinction between
appearance, i.e. what we are now, and reality, i.e. our

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

unactualized potentials. Furthermore, this command requires
free will in order to struggle for a goal within our range of
potentials. In addition, this command only makes sense if we
have an essence that is stable, i.e. is continuous enough to be
given instructions that can be meaningfully followed over a
period of time, i.e. has continuity through change. In short, it
must have identity or ‘being’ or be a ‘substance.’ Thus it
appears that Nietzsche did, albeit implicitly — or perhaps
inadvertently — accept the concepts of potential, essence,
goals, free will, cause-and-effect, the distinction between
appearance and reality and substance since without them, a
significant portion of his philosophy of self-overcoming would
lose its logical and ontological foundations.
Another appeal to essences — and implicit to potentials and
the ontology of potentials — is what Nietzsche says at the end
of The Will to Power. He tacitly assumes the reality of essences
— and by implication potentials — by saying, “This world is the
will to power — and nothing besides! And you yourselves are
also this will to power and nothing besides!72 This statement
plainly asserts that in their essential natures, the world, all
beings in it and all human beings are the will to power.
However, the matter does not end here. In Beyond Good and
Evil, Nietzsche writes,
The world seen from within, the world defined and
designated according to its “intelligible character” — it
would simply be “Will to Power,” and nothing else.73
This claim, identifies the ‘inner’ essence of the world and its
“intelligible character” as the will to power even though it does
not appear as the will to power. In other words, it establishes
the distinction between appearance and reality. The same
Aristotelian ontology of potentials and essence is present in the
following:
The victorious concept of “force,” by means of which
our physicists have created God and the world, still

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
needs to be completed: an inner will must be ascribed to
it, which I designate the “will to power,” i.e. an insatiable
desire to manifest power, or as the employment and
exercise of power as a creative drive, etc.74
Nietzsche’s
objections
to
the
concept
of
‘essence’
notwithstanding, this is essentialism, i.e. the view that all things
have an inner nature which, in Nietzsche’s view is “will.”
Consequently, we can always look ‘though’ the outward
appearance of a thing and deduce the reality, the “intelligible
character” of a particular thing while observing the will to
power in one of its particular modes. We may see this will to
power in a stone or a pike or a baby but in each case the essence
operates under the same mandate, to ‘become what it is.’ In
light of the foregoing discussion, it is difficult to avoid the
conclusion that Nietzsche’s overt denial of concepts like
essence,75 free will, teleology and the ontology of potentials is
cannot be taken at face value because he implicitly re-
introduces them in the course of his major teachings.76
The Bahá’í Writings harmonize with those aspects of
Nietzsche that make use of the ontology of potentials, essence
and the appearance/reality distinction. The ontology of
potentials is one of the foundational philosophical ideas in the
Bahá’í Writings as seen in the following:
Man is the microcosm; and the infinite universe, the
macrocosm. The mysteries of the greater world, or
macrocosm, are expressed or revealed in the lesser
world, the microcosm. The tree, so to speak, is the
greater world, and the seed in its relation to the tree is
the lesser world. But the whole of the great tree is
potentially latent and hidden in the little seed. When this
seed is planted and cultivated, the tree is revealed.
Likewise, the greater world, the macrocosm, is latent
and miniatured in the lesser world, or microcosm, of
man. This constitutes the universality or perfection of
virtues potential in mankind. [PUP 69]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In this passage, mankind’s relationship to the universe is
explained in terms of hidden potentials and actualization or
revealing of the hidden. There is the present actuality or
appearance and the future actuality after latent potentials have
been actualized. Bahá’u’lláh states,
Consider, moreover, how the fruit, ere it is formed,
lieth potentially within the tree. Were the tree to be cut
into pieces, no sign nor any part of the fruit, however
small, could be detected. When it appeareth, however, it
manifesteth itself, as thou hast observed, in its
wondrous beauty and glorious perfection. [GWB 155]
Once again we observe the appearance/reality distinction: the
actual appearance is the tree but the tree’s reservoir of
potentials or essence remains hidden until actualized in the
fruit. Of course, the Writings apply these ideas to the role of
the Manifestations in human history:
The holy Manifestations of God come into the world to
dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of
man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that
his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened,
his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his
potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the
world of humanity latent within him may come to life.
[PUP 465]
From this it follows that the doctrine of progressive revelation
also fits into the ontology of potentials. As seen above,
humankind contains latent attributes or potentials and as these
are actualized under the guidance of various Manifestations,
humankind makes spiritual and material progress.
Nietzsche also agrees with the Writings insofar as we should
“become what [we] are” — indeed, one might well argue that
enabling us to do so is the whole point of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation. Unless we humans become what we really are,

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
instead of living hypocritically by professing one thing and
doing another, we hinder our growth personally and
collectively. This raises the question, ‘Who, really, are we?’ and
to that, the Bahá’í answer is clear:
As for the spiritual perfections they are man's birthright
and belong to him alone of all creation. Man is, in
reality, a spiritual being, and only when he lives in the
spirit is he truly happy. This spiritual longing and
perception belongs to all men alike, and it is my firm
conviction that the Western people possess great
spiritual aspiration. [PT 73, emphasis added]
Because of our essentially spiritual nature, human beings have a
spiritual destiny or vocation in this world (and beyond) and our
true happiness is fulfilling this nature no matter how hard this
may be. How could we be happy if we are, so to speak, living
against ourselves by forgetting that our residence in nature,
while a necessary part of our development, is only temporary?
The task of being a Bahá’í is the task of becoming our spiritual
selves.
There is no question that the Bahá’í Writings see all things
endowed with an essence (as described by Aristotle as a
reservoir of potentials) and, therefore, connect with the
implicit recognition of essences in Nietzsche’s work. In The
Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh tells us that “the light of divine
knowledge and heavenly grace hath illumined and inspired the
essence of all created things, in such wise that in each and every
thing [is] a door of knowledge” [KI 29-30, emphasis added; cf. SAQ
195]. Here is a partial list of things which the Writings identify
as having an essence: God [GWB 187; PUP 326]; the human soul
[GWB 160]; humankind [GWB 164]; justice [GWB 167]; “all created
things” [GWB 302]; beauty [GWB 321]; species of living things
[GWB 300; cf. SAQ 184]; truth [GWB 328]; religion [PUP 344]; “this
new age” [PUP 326]; and the spirit [SWAB 167]. Indeed, references
to ‘essence’ are even more wide-spread once we realize that
such phrases as “inmost reality” [GWB 65]; “the realities of” [GWB

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

63; PUP 39]; “reality of” [GWB 64; cf. PUP 39]; “inner reality” [SVFV
55]; and “inner realities” [SWAB 57]; also refer to the essence of
things.
It should be noted that the concept of ‘essence’ does not
deny the relational or — as we shall see below — the process
nature of things and bestow them with “an intrinsic non-
relational character.”77 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to
the properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings. [SAQ 178]
In general terms, things, including their essences, are relational,
i.e. they exist as part of a complex of relations. However, this
does not preclude essences. The essence of a particular thing is
made up of a certain set of relations — and not a different set
of relations. The relations that make up a human being are not
the same relations as those that make up a horseshoe crab with
its blue blood. In short, there is no logical contradiction
between relationality and essence.
Aristotle’s ontology of potentials — and by extension the
Bahá’í Writings’ and Nietzsche’s — implicitly embodies other
Aristotelian concepts such as substance. For Aristotle, a
substance is a thing that exists independently of other things,
or, a thing that is not an attribute of something else and a thing
that continues through change, i.e. a continuant. For example, a
horse exists independently — it does not die if the farmer dies —
and it is not a quality that something else has nor is it a
different horse tomorrow than it is today. Some of its non-
essential attributes may have changed but a slight graying of the
mane or a thinner belly does not make it a different horse
because there is an observable — or filmable — continuity from
birth until today. We shall explain the false contradiction
between being and becoming below. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses this
definition of substance to prove the immortality of the soul:

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon
the substance of the body, although, on the contrary,
the rational soul is the substance, and the body depends
upon it. If the accident — that is to say, the body — be
destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains. [SAQ 239]
Because the soul is a ‘substance’ in the Aristotelian sense, it
exists independently of the body or, conversely, the body is an
accidental attribute of the soul and needs the soul to actually be
a body and live. Obviously, the soul-substance is a continuant
and because it is not an attribute of the body, can exist without
it.
Nietzsche’s views on ‘substance’ are ambiguous, i.e. overtly
denying the validity of this concept and covertly using it. He
writes,
Insofar, however, as all metaphysics has had principally
to do with substance and freedom of will, one may
designate it the science that treats of the fundamental
errors of mankind — but does so as though they were
fundamental truths.78
His words notwithstanding, the problem is obvious: without
the Aristotelian concept of substance, Nietzsche’s philosophy
encounters fatal obstacles. For example, Nietzsche describes the
will to power as the essence of all things,79 manifesting in
everything in the phenomenal world — and, thereby, the will to
power that persists through all kinds and all changes is a
continuant, i.e. a ‘substance’ in the Aristotelian sense. Nor is
the will to power as such an attribute of anything else, nor does
it depend on anything else for its existence. Therefore, one of
Nietzsche’s key concepts is an example of what he explicitly
denies. The same argument can be applied to Zarathustra and
the Superman. Once again, we find that the implicit content of
his work is in full agreement with the Bahá’í Writings while his
explicit statements are not.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

6: Process Philosophy80
Aristotle’s ontology of potentials solves the ancient
philosophical problem, of the apparent conflict between ‘being’
and ‘becoming’ and, thereby creates one of the connecting
points between the Writings and Nietzsche who seems to deny
that the concept of ‘being’ has any validity: “Heraclitus will
always be right in this, that being is an empty fiction.”81 ‘Being’
refers to the continuity of a thing, to the retention of identity82
according to Aristotle. In contrast ‘becoming’ refers to the
changes a thing undergoes, i.e. a process of actualizing its
potentials and changing from one state or condition to another.
Thus, Aristotle’s ontology of potential tells us that the
traditional absolute dualism between ‘being’ and ‘becoming’ is
false. Nothing is ever in just one condition or the other: a
sprouting sunflower seed actualizes its particular sunflower
potentials and, by doing so, is being or be-ing a sunflower seed.
Or, we could say a plant is being a sunflower by becoming more
of a sunflower as more of its various potentials are manifested.
In regards to Nietzsche, this means there is no basis to the
argument that Aristotle’s alleged philosophy of being is
intrinsically incompatible with Nietzsche’s philosophy of
becoming. In more general terms, process philosophies are not
necessarily irreconcilable with philosophies of being.83
Both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche are based on a
process metaphysics, i.e. a philosophy that is based on the
principle that reality is fundamentally constituted by change.
The Writings explicitly state:
Know that nothing which exists remains in a state of
repose — that is to say, all things are in motion.
Everything is either growing or declining; all things are
either coming from nonexistence into being, or going
from existence into nonexistence . .. This state of
motion is said to be essential — that is, natural; it
cannot be separated from beings because it is their

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
essential requirement, as it is the essential requirement
of fire to burn ... ?
Thus it is established that this movement is necessary to
existence, which is either growing or declining. [SAQ 239]
According to the Bahá’í Writings, motion, i.e. change, i.e.
the actualization of potentials is an essential attribute of all
existing things. Indeed, a dialectical process between the
present actual form of something and the potentials that are
trying to actualize and to develop new forms is always
underway. In fact, these dialectical ‘battles’ constitute all things
as what they are. The moment this process stops, a thing stops
existing. According to Kaufmann, in Nietzsche’s “dialectical
monism” “will to power ... is always at war with itself.”84 In
humankind this might appear as a dialectic between “reason and
impulse”85 or between the drive for self-overcoming and the
fear of suffering. Here, too, the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche
are similar insofar as Nietzsche sees an inner conflict as we have
already seen in the doctrine of self-overcoming. He rejects
“being” which he identifies with stasis. The “opposition and
war” refers to this inward struggle of self-overcoming.
I retained some doubt in the case of Heraclitus in whose
proximity I feel altogether warmer and better than
anywhere else. The affirmation of passing away and
destroying, which is the decisive feature of Dionysian
philosophy; saying yes to opposition and war; becoming
along with a radical repudiation of the very concept of
being — all this is clearly more closely related to me than
anything else ...86
6.1: Agreement on Teleology
Nietzsche’s overt denials of teleology notwithstanding,
teleology plays an essential role in his thought. Indeed, because
the teleological strain in Nietzsche’s philosophy is so clearly
evident, Nietzsche scholar R. Kevin Hill says that Nietzsche’s

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

work shows “in nature a teleological tendency towards the
production of higher human beings: artists, philosophers and
saints.”87 John Richardson adds,
I take it to be evident from the expression itself that
‘will to power’ is a potency for something, a
directedness towards an end ... Nietzsche, despite his
repeated attacks on (what he calls) teleology really has
such a theory himself: the beings or units in the world
are crucially end-directed and to understand them
properly is to grasp how they’re directed or aimed.
Above all, it’s to grasp how they’re aimed at power, an
end essential to them.88
For his part, Nietzsche states:
But all expansion, incorporation, growth means striving
against something that resists; motion is essentially ties
up with states of displeasure; that which is here the
driving force must in any event desire something else ...
For what do the trees in the jungle fight each other? For
“happiness” — For power!89
In his view, whatever we do is motivated — consciously or not
— by the purpose of increasing power. In Thus Spake
Zarathustra, we can see the implicit teleological influence at
work when he says:
I teach you the Superman. Man is something that should
be overcome. What have you done to overcome him?
All creatures hitherto have created something beyond
themselves: and do you want to be the ebb of this great
tide, and return to the animals rather than overcome
man?90
“Creating something beyond themselves” is the goal towards
which all beings are naturally oriented. Humans are encouraged
to mobilize, i.e. actualize their capacities or potentials in order

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
to “overcome” themselves as they presently are to become
something better or to clear the way for something better. That
is what “all creatures hitherto” have done, and is, by
implication, the natural destiny of humankind. Failing in this
regard, means we are no longer acting as ‘natural’ beings and
have become something ‘unnatural’ by missing our natural
teleological destiny.
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche agree on the teleological
nature of all things, which is to say, all thing are goal-oriented.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “All beings, whether large or small,
were created perfect and complete from the first, but their
perfections appear in them by degrees” [SAQ 199]. This process
of actualizing their potentials is, in fact, their being or be-ing
(the process remains constant) and shows that they are
teleological in nature, i.e. there is a natural progression from
potential or latency to actualization. The difference between
humans and a seed is that we must strive for our goal
consciously whereas the seed does so unconsciously or
automatically. Not only are individual lives teleological but so
is the collective life of humankind:
All men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization. The Almighty beareth Me
witness: To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy
of man. Those virtues that befit his dignity are forbearance,
mercy, compassion and loving-kindness towards all the
peoples and kindreds of the earth. [GWB 215]
Here Bahá’u’lláh lists some of the moral potentials humanity
should actualize as it fulfills its goal achieving progress.
Humans must not “act like the beasts of the field” because
doing so conflicts with our spiritual nature and is, in effect, a
betrayal of ourselves because our essential spiritual nature
remains unactualized [PT 72]. Humans — indeed, all beings — can
only be happy when they actualize their appropriate potentials
— which is precisely their goal. Indeed, actualizing our higher,
specifically spiritual potentials is, in effect, the Bahá’í

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

‘definition’ of happiness. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “True
happiness depends on spiritual good and having the heart ever
open to receive the Divine Bounty” [PT 108]. Opening our hearts
to God or awakening our “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] is, of
course, our chief spiritual potential.
7: Nietzsche’s “Alleged Atheism91 — The Death
of God
Although Nietzsche is probably the world’s most famous
atheist, we shall demonstrate that his atheism is highly
ambiguous. In fact, Roy Jackson aptly characterizes Nietzsche
as “a ‘sort’ of atheist.”92 What he destroys with one hand he
restores with the other. We should add that Nietzsche’s
ambiguity about religion and the transcendent is no surprise. It
is already evident in his first major work, The Birth of Tragedy
in which he uses two Greek gods, Apollo and especially
Dionysus, as concrete symbols of transcendental powers of
order and exuberance.
Metaphysically speaking, Nietzsche is not an atheist. It is
true that he overtly rejects the personal God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob but in The Will to Power, he offers a metaphysical
description of the will to power in language that effectively re-
creates the ‘God of the philosophers,’ i.e. something with all the
ontological attributes of God. The will to power underlies and
is present in everything; it is unlimited power; it has no
beginning or end; it is mysterious and unknowable; and it is
beyond space and time. Moreover, it is absolutely independent
of each of the forms in which it manifests itself, i.e. it depends
on nothing and, therefore, cannot be constrained by anything.
It is super-natural because nothing in nature has any of these
attributes. We need not belabor the point that in the Bahá’í
Writings, God possess all of these ontological attributes.
At the end of The Will to Power, Nietzsche writes,

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
And do you know what “the world” is to me? Shall I
show it to you in my mirror? This world: a monster of
energy, without beginning, without end; a firm, iron
magnitude of force that does not grow bigger or
smaller, that does not expend itself but only transforms
itself ... as a becoming that knows no satiety, no disgust,
no weariness: this, my Dionysian world of the eternally
self -creating, the eternally self-destroying, this mystery
world of the twofold voluptuous delight, my “beyond
good and evil,” without goal, unless the joy of the circle
is itself a goal; without will, unless a ring feels good will
toward itself — do you want a name for this world? A
solution for all its riddles? A light for you, too, you
best-concealed,
strongest,
most
intrepid,
most
midnightly men? — This world is the will to power — and
nothing besides! And you yourselves are also this will to
power — and nothing besides!93
In Nietzsche’s view, this ground of being is amoral, i.e. beyond
good and evil. However, the Bahá’í Writings reveal a
convergent idea — namely that God “doeth what He willeth, and
ordaineth that which He pleaseth” [GWB 116]. In other words,
God — or the will to power — determines what is good or not
and thereby shows Himself to be “beyond good and evil.” This
idea is illustrated by Bahá’u’lláh’s statement “Shouldst Thou
regard him who hath broken the fast as one who hath observed
it, such a man would be reckoned among them who from
eternity had been keeping the fast” [PM 67]. The disagreement
between the Writings and Nietzsche arises as a result of giving
mere humans, i.e. the aristocrats and nobles, the same power of
deciding their own morality on their own intrinsically limited
human terms. This is logically unjustifiable because they lack
the qualifications i.e. God’s absolute independence from all
external influence and constraint and His complete knowledge
of human nature that entitles them to make decisions for all.
Without these qualifications, their moral choices are, in the
end, self-serving and arbitrary and will inevitably have to be

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

maintained by force. Moreover, Nietzsche’s description of the
will to power cannot hide one obvious implication: its
creativity and the gift of existence to all things as well as the
fact that existence is freely given since we are not there to earn
it. This creativity and ontological generosity can easily be the
basis of positive moral principles insofar as this super-natural
munificence provides a model for human behavior.
Nietzsche’s atheism is very tentative. For example, in The
Gay Science, the Madman says, “God is dead. God remains dead.
And we have killed him” — and then suggests that we must
become gods to be worthy of this great act.94 Even in such a
forthright declaration, we can detect signs of what we call the
‘transcendental impulse’ in Nietzsche’s work, an inclination
expressed in both ideas and word choice to re-introduce the
divine or transcendental into our consciousness and our
understanding of life. There is nothing about the death of God,
i.e. atheism, which logically demands that we should take God’s
place by becoming gods.
Here is an example of Nietzsche’s ambiguous language from
Thus Spake Zarathustra, written in the ‘chapter and verse’ style
of the Bible and showing the ‘transcendental impulse’ in his
word choice. Speaking of the “Sublime Men,”95 Zarathustra
says,
To be sure, I love in him the neck of the ox; but now I
want to see the eye of an angel, too.
He must unlearn his heroic will, too: he should be an
exalted man and not only a sublime itself should raise
him up, the will-less one!
He has tamed his monsters, he has solved riddles: but he
should also redeem his monsters and riddles, he should
transform them into heavenly children ...
Then your soul will shudder with divine desires; and
there will be worship in your vanity!

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
This indeed is the secret of the soul: only when the hero
has deserted his soul does there approach it in dreams —
the superhero.96
The religious tenor of his word choice is supported by the
narrative of the entire Thus Spake Zarathustra itself:
Zarathustra, a Moses-like prophetic figure descends from his
mountain retreat — like Moses bringing His gifts of new
commandments and wisdom — by which humans may continue
their evolution to make way for a higher being called the
Superman. In the idea of becoming gods, he invokes Genesis in
which the Serpent promises Eve, “Ye shall be as gods” [Genesis
7:1-5]. In short, the Serpent promises to help Adam and Eve to
transcend their human condition. Throughout his work, there
are constant references to words such as ‘spirit,’ ‘holy’ and
‘soul’
words
whose
ambiguous
scared
and
non-sacred
connotations display Nietzsche’s ambiguity in regards to the
transcendent. The following statement also his use of religious
language even when repudiating Christian morality:
Every act of contempt for sex, every impurification of
it by means of the concept of ‘impure’ is the crime par
excellence against life — is the real sin against the holy
spirit of life.97
However, the convergences between the Bahá’í Writings and
Nietzsche about God go even further than a common belief in a
transcendental entity. In our view, Nietzsche missed and loved
religion so much he struggled to create, if not a new religion of
his own, then at least an adequate substitute world-view. For
example, he sees the collapse of religion as the basis of the
modern crisis. Nietzsche refers to “the end of Christianity”98
and the Writings state “as a result of human perversity, the
light of religion is quenched in men's hearts” [WOB 187]. This
belief logically implies that religion provides something
necessary for the well-being of human beings and without
religion (for whatever reason) humankind suffers and

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

degenerates. Paradoxically, Nietzsche seeks a Christ-like
‘redeemer.’ He says of the Superman — whose name alone
carries transcendent connotations — “Behold! I teach you the
Superman: he is the sea, in him your great contempt can go
under.” In this description, the Superman is truly super-human,
i.e. the sea into which we can save ourselves from
overwhelming self-contempt. Like Christ, he can take our sins
on Himself [1 Peter 2:24]; the Superman can take into himself our
contempt for ourselves and thereby offer us new opportunities
for growth. This, too, points to transcendence for no natural
human being can do such a thing. This suggests that the
Superman is not entirely natural and somehow beyond nature.
Ironically, this implication of the Superman violates Zarathustra’s
own injunction to be loyal to the earth and to deny the super-
natural. Moreover, the need for a ‘redeemer’ converges with the
Bahá’í teaching that Manifestations of God are necessary for
humankind to progress. The pervasive presence of this
‘transcendent impulse’ helps give a religious dimension to a
thinker who is — superficially perhaps — anti-religious.
Nor should we overlook that the “eternal return” is itself
strongly tinged with religious and transcendental colors. Seen in
a religious light, it seems much like a non-Christian version of
heaven and hell. R. Kevin Hill states
the doctrine of eternal recurrence is best understood as
a replacement for the Christian doctrine of an afterlife
of rewards and punishments. Recurrence is like a reward
for those who live well and are strong and a punishment
for those who live badly and are weak.99
Seen as a metaphysical doctrine,100 i.e. a doctrine about the
basic nature of the universe, the eternal return reveals its
transcendental nature by imposing on the universe the super-
natural attribute of lasting forever. No empirical observation
has ever encountered such an object in nature. So much for
remaining loyal to the earth! In effect, the eternal return claims
that the universe is beyond time since the same results occur

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
again and again. Such timelessness is precisely one of the
attributes of God in the Writings. Furthermore, the absolute
repetition inherent in the eternal return also means there is no
essential change — an attribute which converges with the Bahá’í
belief that God is not subject to change. On a strictly empirical
basis, Nietzsche was bound to reject these attributes — and the
fact that he did not, highlights his ambiguity about religious
beliefs. But this ambiguity deepens. On the basis of scientific
knowledge of his time, Nietzsche would have known that the
random collision of atoms, i.e. collisions that were causally
unconnected to each other, would not necessarily have brought
about the eternal return. If the collisions are truly random, i.e.
not determined by any preceding event or object, then there is
no necessity whatsoever that today’s world will ever return in
its exact present form. In fact, in a world of genuinely random
actions, there is no necessity of any kind at all: things just
happen without being conditioned, i.e. limited by foregoing
events or other objects. The concept of the “eternal return”
only works if we tacitly assume that atoms have been bestowed
with suitable nature and that laws of nature exist — which
inevitably leads to the issue of how these attributes and laws
originated.
In
other
words,
Nietzsche
slipped
into
transcendental thinking, i.e. thinking that implicitly includes
God. There is nothing in our empirical, earthly experience on
which such concepts can be based for which reason we may say
the “eternal return’ itself is an example of the ‘transcendental
impulse’ in Nietzsche.
Of course, it may be argued that Nietzsche does not mean
‘transcendent’ in any non-physical way, especially in light of his
command to “remain true to the earth.”101 But that is exactly
the point; as we have shown above by examining Nietzsche’s
language and thought, he cannot live up to his own ideal — he is
fundamentally conflicted and the Transcendent as Jaspers calls
it, is present throughout much of his work. This presence is
exactly where the Bahá’í Writings make contact with Nietzsche.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In light of Nietzsche’s ‘transcendental impulse’ it is highly
improbable that he was an ‘atheist’ as usually understood: a
person who denies any transcendent powers. It is far more
likely that “Nietzsche means the god of transcendental
monotheism and Christian morality ... it is the ‘God’ of Judeo-
Christianity who is dead, but the divine is something totally
different.”102 From a Bahá’í perspective, this idea poses no
difficulties as long as we understand that Nietzsche is not
making an ontological claim about the existence or non-
existence of God or a ground of being but rather is making a
sociological claim about the role of God in the lives of
individuals and societies. In other words, he is saying — among
other things — that the concept of God no longer plays any
significant role in the modern world, that people have more
confidence in themselves, in government and in science and
technology than they do in God or in their own faith in God.
He is also pointing out that organized religion, its institutions,
its hierarchies and theologies have become corrupt and feeble.
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche agree on the ‘death of
God’ if taken as the recognition that genuine religion — as
distinct from its superficial outward appearances — is no longer
a major force among modern individuals and societies in the
modern world. Free thought, i.e. the independent investigation
of truth, is imprisoned by the clergy. As already noted,
Bahá’u’lláh recognizes that “The vitality of men's belief in God
is dying out in every land” [GWB 199]. Speaking of Islam and
Christianity, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that only the “form has
remained in the hands of the clergy” [SAQ 47].
For both the Writings and Nietzsche, the renewal of
humankind involves an unavoidable struggle against clergy who
seek to retain their power. Both seek to overcome the clergy,
but even as Nietzsche clearly aims at the destruction of
priesthood, he still feels a certain kinship and pity with them,
admitting, “There are heroes even among them; many of them
have suffered too much: so they want to make others suffer ... I
want to know my blood honoured even in theirs.”103 In a similar

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
attitude of reconciliation, the Writings invite the clergy to join
the Bahá’í dispensation.
Wherefore flee ye? The Incomparable Friend is manifest.
He speaketh that wherein lieth salvation. Were ye, O
high priests, to discover the perfume of the rose garden
of understanding, ye would seek none other but Him,
and would recognize, in His new vesture, the All-Wise
and Peerless One. [TU 6]
8: Self-overcoming
One of the central concepts of ethical practice in the Bahá’í
Writings and Nietzsche is ‘self-overcoming,’ i.e. taking an
active part in actualizing one’s own potentials, removing
undesirable traits and increasing their powers and capacities.
Self-overcoming is Nietzsche’s strategy for defeating nihilism
which, in his view, is corrupting and destroying modern culture.
This converges with the Bahá’í Writings belief that “Man must
now become imbued with new virtues and powers, new
moralities, new capacities” [PUP 536]. Obviously, when we gain
“new virtues and powers” our powers will be expanded.
Both in the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche we see what may
be called “ethics of power,104 i.e. an ethics of the growth of
power in the sense of ‘capacity.’ The ultimate purpose of
Bahá’u’lláh’s guidance is allow us to expand our power, i.e. to
“awaken [our] spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] and make
possible both spiritual and material progress. This requires
conscious self-overcoming and transformation inspired by
Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation; in the case of Nietzsche, this is
achieved by conformity with the will to power. In both cases,
humans have to submit to a Power greater than themselves and
greater than anything in the natural world. What Zarathustra
wants from the people in the valley, does not contradict what
Bahá’u’lláh wants from us.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Self-overcoming is crucial for two reasons. First, it is the
only way to become a bridge to the Superman because by
overcoming ourselves, we remove an obstacle — the present
selves we cling to — so that the Superman may advance. Second,
self-overcoming is the only way to free ourselves from our
weak and cowardly aspects and, thereby, to grow in our pursuit
of the will to power and to become one with our essential
selves. In short, self-overcoming is necessary to end our
alienation from our true identity and, thereby, come into
possession of our selves. Like the Bahá’í Writings, Nietzsche
endorses the paradox that to become our best selves, we must
surrender our current identities. In addition, this “true self”
becomes “a shining and wonderful reality” because, in
Nietzsche’s terms, it has done what is good, i.e. that which
“heightens the feeling of power in man, the will to power,
power itself.”105
The importance of self-overcoming to Nietzsche is evident
in his belief that self-overcoming “distinguishes the moral
[person] from the nonmoral [person].”106 This is more evidence
that Nietzsche does, in fact, have a moral code including an
objective standard by which to evaluate our actions: the
willingness and effort to surpass ourselves, the willingness to
suffer the inevitable discomfort and pain of simultaneously
actualizing our potentials for the future and leaving behind our
presently achieved actuality. Zarathustra says that he loves
those who “will [their] own downfall,”107 i.e. he loves those who
are willing to sacrifice themselves for something greater than
themselves. Later, Zarathustra says,
And life itself told me this secret: ‘Behold,’ it said, ‘I am
that which must overcome itself again and again ... ‘I
would rather perish than renounce this one thing; and
truly where there is perishing and the falling of leaves,
behold, there life sacrifices itself — for the sake of
power.108
Nietzsche carries on this theme in On the Genealogy of Morals:

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
All great things bring about their own destruction
through an act of self-overcoming: thus the law of life
will have it, the law of the necessity of ‘self-
overcoming’ in the nature of life.109
Here we observe the ‘pruning’ or ‘self-pruning’ mentioned in
the Writings [PT 51]. For his part, Zarathustra informs us that
“only if he [man] turns away from himself will he jump over his
own shadow — and jump into truth, into his own sunlight.”110
In other words, the current self must be rejected for our better
or higher selves which can only be done by embracing
transformational change.
Unlikely as it may seem at first, Nietzsche’s statements
converge strongly with the Bahá’í Writings. In the first place,
there is strong convergence if not outright agreement in regards
to self-overcoming as a necessary aspect of living ethically and
making true progress in self-actualization and living as moral
beings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
For I have supplicated and beseeched before the
Threshold of the Almighty that thy wish may be realized,
so thou mayest overcome the self and perform
charitable deeds and that human perfections may appear
from thee. [TAB3 545]
In other words, self-overcoming is needed to “to awaken
spiritual susceptibilities in the hearts of mankind” [PUP 7]. The
theme of ‘self-overcoming’ is also presented in the Writings as
‘sacrifice’ and ‘service’ since, in the Bahá’í view, these lead to
the kind of self-overcoming we need to make. Speaking of the
higher and lower self, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The other self is the ego, the dark, animalistic heritage
each one of us has, the lower nature that can develop
into a monster of selfishness, brutality, lust and so on.
It is this self we must struggle against, or this side of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

our natures, in order to strengthen and free the spirit
within us and help it to attain perfection.
Self-sacrifice means to subordinate this lower nature
and its desires to the more godly and noble side of
ourselves. Ultimately, in its highest sense, self-sacrifice
means to give our will and our all to God to do with as
He pleases. Then He purifies and glorifies our true self
until it becomes a shining and wonderful reality.111
This, too, converges with Nietzsche in significant ways. We
must “give our will and our all to God” in the same way as
Nietzsche expects us to obey the imperative will to power that
functions as ‘God’ in his philosophy.
Self-overcoming also requires us to overcome the traditional
beliefs — especially ethical beliefs — that we have passively
accepted. To the extent that we do not, our self-overcoming is
incomplete and, thereby, less effective and gives us less power
or capacity. Nietzsche believes that we must create our own
ethics and norms112 — a task that he held as impossible for
religious believers. However, the Bahá’í Writings find no
difficulty with Nietzsche’s requirements insofar as they
unequivocally reject “ancestral imitations” [PUP 144] and insist
on our obligation to the independent investigation of truth
[SWAB 248]. The independent investigation of truth in ethics
does not mean we have to reject the moral guidance of the
Manifestations — but rather that we must to the best of our
ability consciously understand such guidance since otherwise
our acts become blind imitation instead of a rational choice.
Investigating and understanding a given moral law, in effect,
makes that law ours even if it is a re-discovery. As Goethe says,
“What you have inherited from your forefathers, it takes work
to make it your own.”113 In this way, the principle of the
independent investigation of truth absolves the acceptance of
revealed truth from being a mere “ancestral imitation.” In other
words, those who are willing to make the sacrifices of self-

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
overcoming will be blessed with “the quickening of mental
capacity and the increase of spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 340].
It may be objected that the Writings proclaim that humans
were meant for happiness — which indeed, they are [SDC 60; cf.
SDC 98] — but happiness for the Writings and Nietzsche consists
in the expansion of our powers not in mere ease and comfort
be it psycho-spiritual and/or physical. Athletic training
illustrates this point: the training itself is inevitably
uncomfortable, painful and gruelling — yet the athlete who this
pain in light of his goals, is happy because s/he because s/he can
feel the growth of his/her capacity. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “The
mind and spirit of man advance when he is tried by suffering”
[PT 178, emphasis added]. In short, the suffering required by self-
overcoming is necessary for the happiness that is to come both
in this world and the next. As seen in Thus Spake Zarathustra,
Nietzsche also recognizes the need to be willing to suffer on the
way to becoming a bridge for the Superman or even a Superman
himself.
9: Perspectivism and Truth
One of the most controversial and influential aspects of
Nietzsche’s philosophy is perspectivism according to which we
can only have perspectives on things but have no true
knowledge of anything.114
Against positivism, which halts at phenomena — “There
are only facts” — I would say: No, facts is precisely what
there is not, only interpretations. We cannot establish
any fact “in itself”: perhaps it is folly to want to do
such a thing.
“Everything is subjective,” you say; but even this is
interpretation. The “subject” is not something given, it
is something added and invented and projected behind
what there is — Finally, is it necessary to posit an

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

interpreter behind the interpretation? Even this is
invention, hypothesis ...
It is our needs that interpret the world; our drives and
their For and Against. Every drive is a kind of lust to
rule; each one has its perspective that it would like to
compel all the other drives to accept as a norm.115
In short, Nietzsche denies the existence of ‘facts’ or ‘truths’
and replaces them with “interpretations” or perspectives or,
more colloquially, opinions. This is the view described by
Steven D Hales and Rex Welshon as “strong perspectivism
[which] is what many think Nietzsche offers ... [and which] is
self-refuting.”116 This claim that there are no ‘facts’ is self-
refuting because it cannot itself be taken as factual. We find
“strong perspectivism” exemplified in the following statement
by Nietzsche:
The apparent world, i.e., a world viewed according to
values; ordered, selected according to values, i.e., in this
case according to the viewpoint of utility in regard to
the preservation and enhancement of the power of a
certain species of animal.
The perspective therefore decides the character of the
“appearance”! As if a world would still remain over
after one deducted the perspective! By doing that one
would deduct relativity!
Every center of force adopts a perspective toward the
entire remainder, i. e., its own particular valuation,
mode of action, and mode of resistance. The “apparent
world,” therefore, is reduced to a specific mode of
action on the world, emanating from a center. 117
In other words, all we have is appearances determined by the
perspectives we adopt. There is no “noumenal” or underlying
reality or ‘real’ truth existing independently of some
perspectives. Moreover, Nietzsche states that all truth-claims

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
are relative since all are the subjective products of a particular
perspective. Since all truth-claims or perspectives are relative,
we cannot judge between contradictory truth-claims because
there is no privileged perspective or viewpoint to function as a
standard by which to judge. This leads to the startling
conclusion that either there is no truth at all or even if there is
a truth, it cannot be known by humankind. Nietzsche writes,
‘Truth’ is therefore not something there, that might be
found or discovered — but something that must be
created and that gives a name to a process, or rather to a
will to overcome that has in itself no end — introducing
truth, as a processus in infinitum, an active determining
— not a becoming conscious of something that is in
itself firm and determined. It is a word for the “will to
power.118
Struggles about truth are ultimately struggles about authority
and power. The concept of ‘truth’ depends on the will to power
insofar as all human activities are shaped by each person’s will
to power. He states,
‘The “will to truth’ would then have to be investigated
psychologically: it is not a moral force, but a form of
the will to power. This would have to be proved by
showing that it employs every immoral means:
metaphysicians above all.119
In short, there is no such thing as even attempting to seek the
truth objectively.
“Strong perspectivism” has at least five major weak points.
The first results from self-reference: logical self-refutation
(encountered in many postmodern thinkers120). If all truth-
claims are perspectival, then this view itself is perspectival —
and therefore, the opposite view that truth is absolute may well
be true at least from some perspectives. But that is exactly what
“strong perspectivism” denies. It says that all truth-claims are

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

perspectival, thereby including itself. In short, if strong
perspectivism is true, then it may also be false. This is a
logically untenable foundation for any attempt at a coherent
philosophy because it undermines every additional argument
built on this principle.
Second, since perspective determines ‘truth’ there can be no
non-perspectival or extra-perspectival standpoint point from
which to judge among different or competing ‘truths-claims.’
Consequently, there can be no such things as errors. In effect,
all perspectives are true even though we may personally prefer
some to others — but preferences do not constitute truth.
Nietzsche’s view effectively says that there can be no errors
since all perspectives must be accepted as equally valid. This is
not only improbable but also impractical: nature is not so
malleable and accommodating to our perspectives as to let us
think that pencils are genuinely broken in a glass of water — or
that the traffic light is green just because we think so. At some
point we often discover one perspective or the other is false,
i.e. that there is a real, ‘noumenal’ truth underneath our
perceptions that may, in some cases, quite rudely correct our
mistaken views. Furthermore, the Bahá’í the Writings plainly
contradict such ego-inflating ‘infallibilist’ views and clearly
acknowledge the existence of “error” [SAQ 149], “idle fancies
and
vain
imagining”
[ESW
15],
“ignorance,”
[SAQ
6],
“heedlessness and superstition” [PB 95], and ideas that are
“absurd” [TAF 18].121 Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh even recognizes that
some religions “are the outcome of human perversity” [GWB
217]. The existence of error harmonizes, as we shall see below,
with “weak perspectivism” i.e. the viewpoint that not all
perspectives are necessarily true.
Third, there is a category mistake insofar as Nietzsche’s
conflation of the will to power with the will to truth mistakes
God with man. In the case of God, the two are the same:
whatever God wills is the truth since God’s will determines the
nature of reality and all parts of reality. “He doeth whatsoever
He willeth, and ordaineth that which He pleaseth” [GWB 290].

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
However, this is not the case for humans. Who has not had the
experience of interpreting a shadow on a forest walk as a
ferocious animal? Obviously, our interpretations do not ‘make’
facts or reality. Nature will quickly correct us if our
perspective lets us mistake a crocodile for a convenient log.
Fourth, if perspectives or standpoints determine the truth,
then, there can be no absolute truth that is true in the same way
in all perspectives. This is incompatible with the Writings
because if the statement ‘Bahá’u’lláh is the Manifestation of
God for this age’ is not objectively true across all perspectives
(though not necessarily recognized as true), then the
universality and potency of His revelation is negated.
The problem with Nietzsche, of course, is that on this issue
as on so many others, he is conflicted, making it difficult to
know which view is really his. After all, there is significant
evidence from his work that he is convinced that there are no
absolute truths of any kind.122 Yet, he blatantly violates his own
principle. The entire doctrine of the will to power would be
negated if its existence were dependent on perspective.
Moreover, there would be an easy escape from Nietzsche’s
philosophy by adopting a different perspective in which the will
to power is not true! If truth is strongly or purely perspectival,
all of Nietzsche’s critiques of European culture, of Christianity
(which he loves to hate) and of spirituality are moot. They have
no validity for other perspectives. How can he purport to
‘unmask’ morality in The Genealogy of Morals if there is
nothing to unmask from Christian morality — except a
perspective whose morals are as valid as the morality that
emerges from Nietzsche’s own perspective? If truth is
perspectival, how can Zarathustra condemn the morals of the
common man — which are true in their perspective? We need
not
multiply
examples
of
Nietzsche’s
obvious
logical
entanglements caused by the conflict between his overt
statements that appear to accept “strong perspectivism” and his
actual practice.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Clearly, the Bahá’í Writings reject “strong perspectivism.”
Nowhere do they suggest that truth is entirely subjective, i.e.
wholly dependent on our outlook and perspective. If this were
true, there would be no point in teaching the independent
investigation of truth. There could only be an exploration of
our own perspectives/opinions which are often likely to be
mere “vain imaginings.” Would God really cease to exist if no
one’s perspective included Him? Is Bahá’u’lláh’s station as the
Manifestation for this age or God’s existence really dependent
on human perspective and subjective opinion? If that were the
case, why would Bahá’u’lláh declare,
Their belief or disbelief in My Cause can neither profit
nor harm Me. We summon them wholly for the sake of
God. He, verily, can afford to dispense with all
creatures. [GWB 85]
In other words, God and the Cause of God any independent of
any human perspective or interpretation. Their truths are not
relative.
This passage, and others like it, leave no doubt that all
perspectives are not equally true or valid, and that at least on
some issues, truth is not relative. In other words, our own
perspectives, which may be based on the false imaginations may
lead us to deny the existence of the Manifestation — but this
perspective is false even if it is sincerely held. Sincerity itself is
not a guarantor of truth or logical validity; sincerely held
beliefs can be wrong. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh advises us to
“meditate profoundly ... so that light may be distinguished
from darkness, truth from falsehood, right from wrong,
guidance from error, happiness from misery, and roses from
thorns” [KI 8]. These distinctions demonstrate there is no
attempt made to salvage all possible views by attributing them
to differing standpoints or perspectives and by declaring them
all to be relatively true. At least some perspectives are able to
provide truth while others are not.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
There is a fifth problem with “strong perspectivism,” viz. it
also leads to problems vis-à-vis understanding the Bahá’í
Writings. For example, after explaining that the four methods
of acquiring truth are flawed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, “there is no
standard in the hands of people upon which we can rely” [SAQ
298]. This sounds like “strong perspectivism.” However, if we
accept this interpretation non-reflectively, i.e. without analysis,
a serious problem rapidly arises: ‘Shall we understand ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s declaration to mean that we cannot know with certainty
even the most ‘elemental facts’ such as (1) human beings need
food or they will starve to death; (2) the seasons progress in a
specific and orderly manner; (3) lobsters do not grow up to be
maple trees and (4) the sun appears to move from east to west
across the sky? Do the Writings really mean to suggest that
there is no certain human knowledge about anything at all
including Napoleon’s defeat at Moscow, yesterday’s sunrise,
and the law of gravity? If we take the “strong” view at face
value, needless entanglements arise from one of Bahá’u’lláh’s
statements:
In pursuance, however, of the principle that for every
thing a time hath been fixed, and for every fruit a season
hath been ordained, the latent energies of such a bounty
can best be released, and the vernal glory of such a gift
can only be manifested, in the Days of God. [GWB 262]
The message here would be undermined or even negated if
seasonal change were disputed or even disputable. The moment
we deny the certainty of our knowledge of seasonal change, the
whole point Bahá’u’lláh is trying to make becomes moot. It
would cause needless confusion because we would not really
‘know’ that “for every fruit a season hath been ordained.”
Bahá’u’lláh knows — but could we know that our knowledge of
the seasons is what He is actually referring to? The same
problem would arise if Bahá’u’lláh used other examples, such as
the tides or the moon’s course around the earth. It is difficult

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

not to conclude that the Writings are not intended to cause
such difficulties.
While there is no agreement about “strong perspectivism” in
the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche, there is far-reaching
agreement in regards to “weak perspectivism” which Rex
Welshon attributes to Nietzsche. He explains it as follows:
Suppose weak perspectivism is true for every other
statement except itself. It then turns out that for the
thesis of weak perspectivism, absolutism is true. Why?
Because truth absolutism claims there is at least one
statement that is true in all perspectives. Perhaps the
only such statement is the thesis of weak perspectivism.
Here, then is a way to rescue Nietzsche’s truth
perspectivism without abandoning the spirit behind it ...
Perhaps there are other statements in addition to the
thesis of weak perspectivism that are true across all
perspectives.123
The possibility of some absolute truths, i.e. truths from all
perspectives means that, in effect, some truths are not
dependent on perspective, and even opens up the possibility of
“extra-perspectival” truths which is how the Bahá’í Writings
characterize God’s revelations. Furthermore, this also revives
the possibility that there exist some objective standards by
which to judge various perspectives. Finally, error is possible;
not all perspectives necessarily give us the truth.
A significant agreement between “weak perspectivism” and
the Bahá’í Writings emerges when he examine Shoghi Effendi’s
statements about progressive revelation. He writes,
The mission of the Founder of their Faith, they conceive
it to be to proclaim that religious truth is not absolute
but relative, that Divine Revelation is continuous and
progressive, that the Founders of all past religions,
though different in the non-essential aspects of their

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
teachings, “abide in the same Tabernacle, soar in the
same heaven, are seated upon the same throne, utter the
same speech and proclaim the same Faith.”124
Further, he asserts that each Manifestation
restates the eternal verities they enshrine, coordinates
their functions, distinguishes the essential and the
authentic from the nonessential and spurious in their
teachings, separates the God-given truths from the
priest-prompted superstitions. [PDC 108, emphasis added]
To summarize in Hales’ and Welshon’s language about “weak
perspectivism,” the relative truths, i.e. those which were not
valid in all perspectives could be changed as historical
conditions alter. Among these were the “spurious” “priest
prompted superstitions” and the “non-essential” specific
adaptations to geographic and cultural circumstances. They are
completely dependent on perspective i.e. the standpoint of a
particular culture at a particular time under particular
circumstances. However, there are also “eternal verities” and
“God-given truths” that are valid in all perspectives, i.e. they
are absolute. Such “verities” are “restat[ed]” in every
dispensation — across multiple perspectives — and while they
may be expanded or given new form, the essential truths they
convey remain true. In other words, the Bahá’í Writings can
accept the doctrine that all statements come from a particular
perspective — but in “weak perspectivism” that does not mean
that some statements cannot be true across all perspectives.
“Weak perspectivism” also allows a robust commitment to
the unity of truth. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms, “No one truth can
contradict another truth” [PT 136]. He supports this by stating,
that “truth or reality is not multiple; it is not divisible” [PUP
106]. and “truth is one, although its manifestations may be very
different” [PT 128]. Differences in the “manifestations” of truth
do not necessarily imply logical contradictions which ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá seeks to avoid. Shoghi Effendi re-affirms this theme,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

saying, “Truth may, in covering different subjects, appear to be
contradictory, and yet it is all one if you carry the thought
through to the end.”125 He adds, “Truth is one when it is
independently investigated, it does not accept division” [JWTA
35]. “Weak perspectivism” easily accommodates the Writings
on this issue and so does Nietzsche if read in this way.
Our conclusion is clear: if Nietzsche’s perspectivism is
understood in Hales’ and Werlshons’ sense as “weak
perspectivism” and as implicitly practiced by Nietzsche, there is
agreement with the Bahá’í Writings. “Weak perspectivism,”
provides a more flexible outlook because it recognizes relative,
perspectival truths such as seen in the cultural adaptations of
the divine teachings and, it recognizes absolute cross-
perspectival truths as seen in the “eternal verities” restated by
the Manifestations. It also recognizes that at least some of
Nietzsche’s teachings must be accepted as absolutely true, viz.
self-overcoming, the will to power and the eternal return. If
Nietzsche’s
perspectivism
is
understood
as
“strong
perspectivism,” as overtly stated by Nietzsche — though
implicitly contradicted in much of what he writes — then there
is no agreement between him and the Writings.
“Weak perspectivism” avoids outlandish consequences that
needlessly complicate and impede the quest for knowledge and
truth. After all, it is indisputable that Beethoven is physically
dead; that tides come in and go out and a broken leg is really
broken. What is to be gained by understanding the Bahá’í
Writings in a way that opens them to such critiques as have seen
above?
“Weak perspectivism” as in the following example from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is immune from the critiques that undermine
“strong perspectivism.”
He has bestowed upon [man] the power of intellect so
that through the attribute of reason, when fortified by
the Holy Spirit, he may penetrate and discover ideal

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
realities and become informed of the mysteries of the
world of significances. [PUP 303, emphasis added]
This statement embodies “weak perspectivism” insofar as under
some circumstances — the inspiration of the Holy Spirit —
reliably true knowledge about the “ideal realities” and the
super-natural “world of significances” can be attained. There is
no suggestion here that we need to doubt elemental facts such
as difference between apples and horse shoe crabs. We should
also remember that the inspiration of the Holy Spirit may
impart such intellectual virtues as true independence in the
investigation of truth; justice in the quest for fair and accurate
presentation; humility to accept the truths we find even though
they may not be what we hoped or expected; and wisdom in
applying what we find in a positive way. There is no reason to
limit the Holy Spirit’s inspiration to such theological virtues as
faith, hope and charity. When we understand this, we can also
see how and why we have true knowledge of the ‘elemental
facts’ because nothing prevents the Holy Spirit from acting in
our lives on a continuous basis at least vis-à-vis the basic
intellectual virtues.
Elsewhere, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes,
the bounty of the Holy Spirit gives the true method of
comprehension which is infallible and indubitable. This
is through the help of the Holy Spirit which comes to
man, and this is the condition in which certainty can
alone be attained. [SAQ 298]
Under the right circumstances — receiving the bounty of the
Holy Spirit — we can know spiritual truths with certainty. The
argument that ‘truth’ is not the same as ‘certainty’ is weak since
that implies the Holy Spirit can give us certainty about
untruths. That defeats the purpose of trusting in the Holy
Spirit. Speaking about love, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá concludes,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

This is a proof perceptible to the senses, acceptable to
reason, in accord with traditions and teachings of the
Holy Books and verified by the promptings of human
hearts themselves. It is a proof upon which we can
absolutely rely and declare to be complete. [PUP 255]
Here, too, we observe the possibility of attaining reliable
knowledge from some perspectives and, thereby, the agreement
with “weak perspectivism” not just vis-à-vis elemental facts but
also spiritual truths such as the existence of God, which,
according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá can be logically proven: “The
existence of the Divine Being hath been clearly established, on
the basis of logical poofs.” [SWAB 14]
“Weak perspectivism” also allows us to accommodate such
statements as “Numerous and conclusive proofs exist that go to
show that this infinite world cannot end with this human life”
[TAF 14]. Elsewhere, he adds,
It is my hope that from day to day your gatherings will
grow and flourish, and that those who are seeking after
truth will hearken therein to reasoned arguments and
conclusive proofs. [SWAB 269]
And,
Day and night must you think, strive and investigate,
that you may attain to the mysteries of the Kingdom;
that you may attain certainty in knowledge; that you
may know this world has a Creator, has a Maker, has a
Resuscitator, has a Provider, has an Architect — but
know this through proofs and evidences, not through
susceptibilities; nay rather through decisive proofs,
evident arguments and real vision — that is to say,
visualizing it just as you visualize the sun. May you with
complete certainty behold the signs of God and attain to
the knowledge of the holy divine Manifestations. [BS 326]

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Each one of these passages — and there are others to choose
from — makes use of the idea of “conclusive” knowledge, or
“certainty” or “proofs” and, thereby, show that the Writings
are in harmony with “weak perspectivism” and the possibility
of at least some statements being true across all perspectives.
10: Conclusion
In the foregoing exploration, we have shown that, despite
first appearances to the contrary, there are a surprisingly large
number of correlations between the Bahá’í Writings and
Nietzsche’s philosophy. Among them we find such issues as
1. teleology;
2. perspectivism in Hale’s and Welshon’s sense of “weak
perspectivism;”
3. the process nature of reality;
4. Aristotle’s ontology of potentials,
5. the existence of a transcendent power or force
manifesting in all things;
6. the importance of the transcendent aspects of existence;
the religious impulse in man;
7. the unavoidable agonistic aspects of life, not by political
means but by means of new ideas, revitalized values, good
personal examples, energized hope, and appeals to the
spiritual elements in human nature;
8. the decline of the present world order;
9. the need for revolutionary change (though not change by
political revolution);
10. the rejection of partisan politics, nationalism and
imperialism;
11. the universal will to power as the self-overcoming and
actualization of potentials;

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

12. the central role of sublimation and self-overcoming;
13. the call for “a new race of men” transcending the current
state of human development;
14. life as a agonistic process in various ways;
15. loyalty to the earth;
16. will as present in all things.126
Of course, there are also areas of difference and irresolvable
disagreement:
1. the master and slave morality;
2. the transvaluation of values and the slave revolt;
3. “violent aristocratic radicalism” (see Detwiler);
4. the often nasty manner of expression and demeaning tone
of his writings;
5. the eternal return (unless understood in Hill’s way);
6. perspectivism, if interpreted as “strong perspectivism”;
7. atheism, if taken at face value;
8. the principle of beyond good and evil.
9. lack of an ultimate vision of a future world order;
At this point a question arises: ‘To what degree do the
differences undermine the correlations between the Bahá’í
Writings and Nietzsche?’ The answer depends on how we
choose to read Nietzsche. If we read him in light of Kaufmann’s
claim that the will to power and sublimation (which includes
self-overcoming) are the “core”127 of Nietzsche’s philosophy,
then the undermining capacity of these differences is limited.
As we have shown, the master-slave morality, the transvaluation
of values, “the violent aristocratic radicalism,” the atheism if
taken at face value and the “strong” interpretation of
perspectivism and living beyond good and evil are not
compatible with Kaufmann’s understanding of the “core” of

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Nietzsche’s philosophy. In one way or another, they conflict
with the ethic of sublimation and self-overcoming in order to
actualize our potentials both individually and socially. Thereby,
they frustrate human development which requires us to be more
than we are. If we think we are beyond good and evil; that we
are aristocrats and masters with a right to rule over ‘slaves’;
that there is no truth to know or that can be known; that there
is no progress and everything stays as it is or that the material
world is all there is, then there will be little or no incentive to
pursue a life of self-overcoming and sublimation of our animal
natures. In all likelihood, we will find ourselves among the self-
satisfied and comfortable. In our view, neither the Writings
nor Nietzsche advocate such a life.
From our Kaufmannian perspective, because these points
negate or at least avoid the principle of self-overcoming and
sublimation, they do not really undermine the correlations we
have identified. That is because the differences are based on
premises incompatible with Kaufmann’s view. Consequently,
we must conclude that Nietzsche’s work is divided by
inconsistencies. This fact weakens his philosophy and
encourages us to turn to the Bahá’í Writings instead.
SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
Acampora, Christa. Contesting Nietzsche. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 2013.
Allison, David, B. editor. The New Nietzsche: Contemporary Styles
of Interpretation. New York: Dell Publishing, 1977.
Aristotle Metaphysics. Trans by W.D. Ross. Chicago. Encyclopedia
Britannica 1971.
Chamberlain, Leslie. Nietzsche in Turin. New York: Picador, 1996.
Clark, Maudemarie, Dudrick, David. The Soul of Nietzsche’s ‘Beyond
Good and Evil’. New York: Cambridge University press, 2012.
Danto, Arthur C. Nietzsche as Philosopher. New York: Macmillan, 1965.
Hales, Steven D. and Welshon, Rex. Nietzsche’s Perspectivism.
Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 2000.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Hill, R Kevin Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed. New York:
Continuum, 2007.
Hollingdale, R.J. Nietzsche: The Man and His Philosophy.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.
Hovey, Craig. Nietzsche and Theology. New York: Y & T Clark, 2008.
Jaspers, Karl. Nietzsche: An Introduction to the Understanding of
His Philosophical Activity. (Walraff, Schmitz) South Bend,
Indiana: Regnery, 1965.
Kaufmann, Walter. Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist.
New York: Meridian Books, 1959.
Leiter, Brian, Sinhababu, Neil, editors. Nietzsche and Morality.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007.
Nehamas, Alexander. Nietzsche: Life as Literature. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press, 1985.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. Beyond Good and Evil, (Marianne Cowan).
Chicago: Regnery, 1955.
———. The Birth of Tragedy, (Francis Golffing). New York:
Doubleday, 1956.
———. Ecce Homo, (R.J. Hollingdale). Harmondsworth: Penguin
Books, 1979.
———. The Gay Science (Walter Kaufmann). New York: Vintage
Books, 1974.
———. The Gay Science, (Thomas Common). New York: Dover
Publications, 2006.
———. Human, All Too Human, (Helen Zimmern, Paul Cohen). New
York: Dover Publications, 2006.
———. On the Genealogy of Morals, Ecce Homo. (Walter
Kaufmann), New York: Vintage Books, 1969.
———. The Will to Power, (Kaufmann, Hollingdale). New York:
Vintage Books, 1968.
———. Thus Spake Zarathustra, (R.J. Hollingdale). Harmondsworth:
Penguin Books, 1961.
———. Twilight of the Gods, The Antichrist, (R.J. Hollingdale),
Harmondsworth: Penguin Books, 1968.
Magnus, Bernd, Kathleen M. Higgins. The Cambridge Companion to
Nietzsche. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1996.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Mueller-Lauter, Wolfgang. Nietzsche: His Philosophy of
Contradictions and the Contradictions of His Philosophy. (David
Parent). Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1999.
Reginster, Bernard. The Affirmation of Life. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press, 2006.
Richardson, John. Nietzsche’s System. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1996.
Safranski, Ruediger. Nietzsche: A Philosophical Biography. (Frisch)
New York: W.W. Norton, 2000.
Schacht, Richard. Making Sense of Nietzsche. Chicago: University of
Illinois Press, 1995.
Stern, J.P. Nietzsche. Glasgow: Fontana, 1978.
Solomon, Robert and Kathleen M Higgins, What Nietzsche Really
Said. New York: Schocken Books, 2000.
Taha, Abir. Nietzsche’s Coming God. United Kingdom: Arktos
Media, 2013.
Warren, Mark. Nietzsche and Political Thought. Cambridge, Mass.:
The MIT Press, 1991.
Woodward, Ashley. Interpreting Nietzsche, New York: Continuum, 2011.

NOTES
1 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, in Scholarship, p. 17;
emphasis added;
2 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, 21, October, 1943 in
Scholarship, p. 4’ emphasis added.
3 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, 5 July, 1949, in
Scholarship, p. 11; emphasis added.
4 The Universal House of Justice, 1998 Mar 19, Compilation on Scholarship.
5 Miriam-Webster Dictionary, http://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/correlate ; also MacMillan Dictionary,
http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/british/correlate_1
6 Robert C Solomon and Kathleen M Higgins, What Nietzsche Really Said?
7 The Concise Routledge Enyclopedia of Philosophy, p. 631.
8 Ashley Woodward, Interpreting Nietzsche, p. 1. See also, Derrida, Of
Grammatology, p. 50.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


9 Paul E Kirkland, Nietzsche’s Noble Aims: Affirming Life, Contesting
Modernity, p. 6.
10 Karl Jaspers, Nietzsche: An Introduction to the Understanding of His
Philosophical Activity, p. 9.
11 Alexander Nehamas, Nietzsche: Life as Literature, p. 15–16.
12 Ruediger Safranski, Nietzsche: A Philosophical Biography, p. 350.
13 John Richardson, Nietzsche’s System.
14 Arthur C Danto, Nietzsche as Philosopher.
15 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 10;
original emphasis.
16 Nicholas Bunnin, Jiyuan Yu, The Blackwell Dictionary of Western
Philosophy, p. 472.
17 Brian Leiter, Nietzsche’s Moral and Political Philosophy, in Stanford
Encyclopedia of Philosophy, http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/nietzsche-
moral-political/#4
18 Tracy B Strong, “Nietzsche’s Political Misappropriation” in Bernd Magnus
and Kathleen M Higins, eds., Cambridge Companion to Nietzsche, p. 131.
19 Ted Honderich, editor, The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 619.
20 The Concise Routledge Enyclopedia of Philosophy, p. 630.
21 Robert C Solomon, Kathleen M Higgins, What Nietzsche Really Said, p. 9.
22 Richard Weikart, Hitler's Ethic: The Nazi Pursuit of Evolutionary Progress
23 Ian Kluge, The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings, in Lights
of Irfan, Volume 4, 2003 or #13 at bahai-library.com/series/Irfan . Also
Ian Kluge, Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective, in
Lights of Irfan 10, 2009
24 Nietzsche, The Gay Science, (Common) in “The Peasant Revolt of the
Spirit,” #358, p. 174; emphasis added.
25 See Nietzsche, The Will to Power, (Kaufmann/Hollingdale) in “Towards
an Outline”, #2, p. 9.
26 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #1, p. 7.
27 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #12, p. 12.
28 Nietzsche, The Will to Power #1, p. 7; emphasis added.
29 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #1, p. 7; emphasis added.
30 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #1, p. 7.
31 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, (Hollingdale), in “Zarathustra’s
Prologue”, #5, p. 45.
32 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #22, p.15,
33 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #23, p. 15–16.
34 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #23, p. 16.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings

35 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #23, p. 16.
36 Christa Davis Acampora, Contesting Nietzsche, p. 201,
37 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra (Hollingdale), III, #20, p. 227.
38 R. Kevin Hill, Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed, p. 44.
39 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, (Cowan), “We Scholars,” #208.
40 Nietzsche, The Anti-Christ, (Mencken), Foreword.
41 Nietzsche, The Gay Science (Kaufmann), I, #31.
42 Ted Sadler, “The Postmodernist Politicization of Nietzsche” in Paul
Patton, Nietzsche, Feminism and Political Theory, p. 225; emphasis added.
43 Nietzsche, (Cowan) Beyond Good and Evil, #203.
44 Mark Warren, Nietzsche and Political Thought, p. 213.
45 Bruce Detwiler, Nietzsche and the Politics of Aristocratic Radicalism.
46 Nietzsche, (Cowan) Beyond Good and Evil, IX, #257.
47 Nietzsche, (Cowan) Beyond Good and Evil, IX, #259; emphasis added.
47 Nietzsche, (Cowan) Beyond Good and Evil, IX, #259,
48 There is no question that passages such as this — and there are others — made
it easy for Nietzsche’s sister Elizabeth to portray him as a forerunner of
National Socialism. From our perspective this is not the case if for no other
reason than that Nietzsche despised nationalism (especially German nation-
alism) and socialism. (See The Will to Power, #125) National Socialism was
too much of a mass i.e. “herd” — or Volk — movement to merit Nietzsche’s
approval. In Nietzsche and Political Thought, Mark Warren sees certain
aspects of Nietzsche’s beliefs as “distinctively fascist” (p. 211) but these
elements cannot be taken in isolation without distorting his thought.
49 Nietzsche, (Cowan) Beyond Good and Evil, IX, #260.
50 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, (Hollingdale), “Of the Chairs of
Virtue,” p. 36.
51 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 183.
52 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 184.
53 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Zarathustra’s Prologue,” #3, p. 42.
54 The poet John Keats called this world “the vale of soul making” in a letter
to his brother (Feb. 14, 1819). http://www.mrbauld.com/keatsva.html
The term strikes me as appropriate to the Bahá’í teachings on the purpose
of earthly life.
55 Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols, (Hollingdale), V, #3, p. 43.
56 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 197; cf. p 10.
57 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 197.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


58 Michael Lacewing, “Nietzsche on Master and Slave Morality,”
http://documents.routledge-interactive.s3.amazonaws.com/
9781138793934/A2/Nietzsche/NietzscheMasterSlave.pdf
59 Nietzsche, Genealogy of Morals, (Samuel), First Essay, #7. See also,
Beyond Good and Evil, #195.
60 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 183.
61 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 184.
62 Nietzsche, The Gay Science, Book I, #26, p. 100; emphasis added.
63 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, Princeton
University Press, 4th edition, 1974, p. 297.
64 The Universal House of Justice, 1987 June 03, Compilation on Vying in
Service; emphasis added.
65 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Zarathustra’s Prologue” #2, p. 40.
66 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Zarathustra’s Prologue” #2, p. 40.
67 Ian Kluge, The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings, in Lights
of Irfan IV, 2003, p. 17–78. See also Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Recon-
naissance, in Lights of Irfan VI, 2005, p. 121–160; and Bahá’í Ontology,
Part Two: Further Explorations, in Lights of Irfan VII, 2006, p. 163–200.
68 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist; John
Richardson, Nietzsche’s System; Robert Solomon, in “Nietzsche ad
hominem: Perspectivism, Personality and Ressentiment” in The Cambridge
Companion to Nietzsche; Sheridan Hough, Nietzsche's Noontide Friend:
The Self as Metaphoric Double; M. Silk and J.P. Stern, Nietzsche on
Tragedy; Christian Emden, Nietzsche on Language, Consciousness, and
the Body; Robert Williams, Tragedy, Recognition, and the Death of God:
Studies in Hegel and Nietzsche.
69 Aristotle, Metaphysics, V,12, 1019a,b.
70 Aristotle, Metaphysics, V,12, 1019a,b.
71 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra (Hollingdale), Part 4, “The Honey
Offering”, p. 252. See the teleological subtitle of Ecce Homo is “How to
become what one is.”
72 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #1067, p. 550
73 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, (Zimmern) #36,
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/4363/pg4363.txt
74 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #619, p. 332–333; emphasis added
75 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #556, p. 301–302.
76 John Richardson, Nietzsche’s System, p. 4.
77 R Kevin Hill, Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed, p. 105.
78 Nietzsche, Human, All Too Human, (Hollingdale), #18.
79 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #1067, p. 550.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings

80 See Ian Kluge, “Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial
Exploration,” in Lights of Irfan V (2004), p. 109–162.
81 Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols, (Hollingdale, p. 37)
82 W.D. Ross, Aristotle, p. 154.
83 Ian Kluge, Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial
Exploration, in Lights of Irfan 5 (2004).
84 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 209.
85 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 209.
86 Nietzsche, Ecce Homo, (Kuafmann), “The Birth of Tragedy” #3, p. 273.
87 R. Kevin Hill, Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed, p. 28.
88 John Richardson, Nietzsche’s System, p. 21; emphasis added.
89 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #704, p. 374–375.
90 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, in “Zarathustra’s Prologue,” p. 41–42.
91 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 83.
92 Roy Jackson, Nietzsche: A Complete Introduction, p. 161.
93 Nietzsche, (Kaufman) The Will to Power, #1067, p. 549.
94 Nietzsche, The Gay Science, Book 3, #125, “The Madman,” p. 181.
95 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Of the Sublime Men,” p.140–141.
96 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Of the Sublime Men,” p.140–141;
emphasis added.
97 Nietzsche (Kaufmann) Ecce Homo, “Why I Write Such Good Books,” #5,
p. 368; emphasis added.
98 Nietzsche (Kaufmann), The Will to Power, #2, p. 7.
99 R. Kevin Hill, Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed, p. 95.
100 Karl Loewth in Bernard Reginster, The Affirmation of Life, p. 206.
101 Nietzsche, (Hollingdale) Thus Spake Zarathustra in “Zarathustra’s
Prologue” #3, p. 42.
102 Abir Taha, Nietzsche’s Coming God, p. 10–11.
103 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, in “Of the Priests”, p. 114–115.
104 Bernard Reginster, The Affirmation of Life: Nietzsche on Overcoming
Nihilism, p. 194.
105 Nietzsche, The Anti-Christ, (Hollingdale) #2, p. 115.
106 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 183.
107 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, in “Zarathustra’s Prologue,” p. 44.
108 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, (Hollingdale), in “Of Self-
Overcoming,” p. 138.
109 Nietzsche, On the Genealogy of Morals (Kaufmann), III, #27, p. 161;
emphasis added.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


110 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, in “Of the Sublime Men,” p. 141.
111 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual
believer, Dec. 10, 1947, in Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 113.
112 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 217.
113 Goethe, Faust I, Scene I, l. 683-684.
114 Postmodern philosophy is built on the denial of truth-claims. See Kluge,
“Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights of Irfan, Vol. 9, 2008.
115 Nietzsche (Kaufmann/Hollingdale), The Will to Power, #481, p. 267;
emphasis added.
116 Steven D Hales and Rex Welshon, Nietzsche’s Perspectivism, p. 18;
emphasis added.
117 Nietzsche, The Will to Power (Kaufmann / Hollingdale). #567. P. 305
118 Nietzsche, The Will to Power (Kaufmann/Hollingdale), #442, p. 298.
119 Nietzsche (Kaufmann/Hollongdale), The Will to Power, #583, p. 315.
120 Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings” published in Lights
of Irfan, Volume 9, 2008. Also, Ian Kluge, “Relativism and the Bahá’í
Writings “ in Lights of Irfan, Volume 9, 2008.
121 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá rejects the concept of a real infinite regress as “absurd.”
122 Steven D Hales and Rex Welshon, Nietzsche’s Perspectivism, p. 35.
123 Rex Welshon, The Philosophy of Nietzsche, p. 110–111; emphasis added.
124 Shoghi Effendi, Appreciations of the Bahá’í Faith, p. 5.
125 Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Feb. 24, 1947 in Lights of
Guidance, p. 476, emphasis added.
126 Bahá’u’lláh: “the Divine Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and
all that is on the earth” [GWB 5]. Also, “Through His world-pervading
Will He hath brought into being all created things” [GWB 318].
127 Kaufmann: Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p. 10.

“Some Answered Questions”
and Its Compiler
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani
A young American living in Paris at the turn of the twentieth
century had a life-changing experience. As a result, she was
steered in a direction utterly different from anything she and
her parents had in mind. Laura Clifford Barney was born in
1879 to Alice Pike and Albert Barney. At a very young age her
parents took her to Paris, where she studied at a prestigious
school for about nine years. In 1892 she returned to the United
States and entered Visitation, a Catholic Convent School in
Georgetown. She later returned to Paris, and studied philosophy
and religion. She was a bright and serious student with an active
and enquiring mind, keenly interested in discovering the
frontiers of knowledge. Her mother had established a salon in
Paris where artists and writers gathered. Laura “often attended
her mother’s circle of friends in the French Salon” and
“participated in the intellectual discussions among influential
writers and artists…” Her “serious questions often led to
insightful observations on the part of those present.”1
During her stay in Paris in early 1900, Laura heard of the
Bahá’í Faith and studied its tenets with May Eliss Bolles
(Maxwell), the renowned Bahá’í teacher. Heeding the voice of
her conscience, Laura embraced the nascent Faith and pursued a
lifelong career of service to humanity, which made her world

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

renown. This paper is about one of her most remarkable
achievements that have immortalized her name in the annals of
religion. Some Answered Questions is the descriptive title of
the book she has compiled of answers to the questions she
presented to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the eldest Son and Successor of
Bahá’u’lláh and the authorized Interpreter of His Writings. In a
cable sent to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
France on the occasion of her passing in August 1974, the
Universal House of Justice, the Supreme governing body of the
Bahá’í Faith, said: “She achieved immortal fame through
compilation Some Answered Questions unique entire field
religious history.”
Asking Questions A Potent Means to Expand
the Horizon of Knowledge
Human beings have ever used the means of inquiry to unlock
the doors of understanding matters initially appearing beyond
their ability to comprehend. Thought-provoking questions
emanating from the minds of sincere seekers expand the
horizon of knowledge; enlightened answers widen the scope of
understanding abstruse concepts. The most opportune time for
asking questions is when God’s Mouthpiece and the authorized
interpreter of the revealed Word live among humankind. Many
of the Báb’s Writings have been revealed in response to
petitions. The declaration of His Mission to Mullá Óusayn
followed an exchange of questions and answers leading to the
revelation of commentary on the Súrih of Joseph, in response
to a question he considered to be the proof of the truth of His
Mission, if it were revealed unasked, which came to pass as he
had expected.
The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh revealed in response to petitions
are numerous. The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, the Book that “occupies a
position unequalled by any work in the entire range of Bahá’í
literature, except the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Holy
Book” [GPB 139], has been revealed in response to questions He

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
received from one of the Báb’s uncles. The process of the
revelation of the laws did likewise begin with enquiries received
from the believers early in Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry. It was during
the years of exile in Adrianople (Edirne of today), almost
immediately after His Declaration in Baghdad in 1863 that
Bahá’u’lláh permitted all to ask whatever questions they had
concerning laws and ordinances needed by humankind. The
responses were initially revealed in Persian. Later in ‘Akká, in
response to further requests, He revealed the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.2
Had the early believers not asked questions, the inexhaustible
reservoir of divine knowledge, although unsealed, would
probably not have been revealed in such pronounced measure.
Although the Báb had forbidden His followers “to ask
questions of Him Whom God will make manifest (Bahá’u’lláh)
unless their questions were submitted in writing and pertained
to subjects worthy of His lofty station” [KA note 146],
Bahá’u’lláh relieved them of the prohibition:
In the Bayán it had been forbidden you to ask Us
questions. The Lord hath relieved you of this
prohibition, that ye may be free to ask what you need to
ask, but not such idle questions as those on which the
men of former times were wont to dwell. Ask ye that
which shall be of profit to you in the Cause of God and
His dominion, for the portals of His tender compassion
have been opened before all who dwell in heaven and on
earth. [KA π126]
Bahá’u’lláh continued to encourage the believers to ask
questions. In a Tablet revealed in honor of a believer titled
Vafá, He says:
We have noted the Questions thou hast asked and will
readily answer thee. It behoveth everyone in this Day to
ask God that which he desireth, and thy Lord will heed
his petition with wondrous and undeniable verses. [TB 183]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Some of Bahá’u’lláh’s major works published in English have
been revealed in response to questions. In addition to The
Kitáb-i-ˆqán (The Book of Certitude), they include: The Seven
Valleys and the Four Valleys, Javáhiru’l-Asrár (The Gems of
Divine Mysteries); Law˙-i-Óikmat (Tablet of Wisdom); Súriy-i-
Vafá (Tablet to Vafá); Law˙-i-Siyyid-i-Mihdíy-i-Dahají (Tablet
to Siyyid Mihdíy-i-Dahají); Law˙-i-Mánikchí Íá˙ib (Tablet to
Mánikchí Íá˙ib); Responses to questions of Mánikchí Íá˙ib
from a Tablet to Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l; Tablet of the Seven
Questions. In addition to these titles, Shoghi Effendi has
included in Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh some
Tablets or excerpts thereof revealed in response to questions.
Some of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets have been published as
provisional translations, such as Law˙-i-Kullu’†-ˇa`ám (Tablet
of All Foods), Law˙-i-ˇibb (Tablet to the Physician), and
others. These Tablets can be found in some Bahá’í journals.
Numerous other Tablets revealed in Persian and Arabic, as
yet un-translated, have also been revealed in response to
questions. Bahá’u’lláh particularly encouraged the friends to ask
questions about the laws of the new dispensation almost
immediately after His declaration in April 1863. In Adrianople
(Edirne) He revealed some laws in response to a number of
questions. Later in ‘Akká the Kitáb-i-Aqdas was revealed, which
incorporates the laws revealed in Adrianople. After the
revelation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Jináb-i-Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín
was authorized to submit questions concerning the laws. The
treatise, titled Questions & Answers, an appendix to the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas, is a compilation he made of Bahá’u’lláh’s answers to
questions concerning the laws of the Most Holy Book.
The practice of responding to questions continued during
the ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. When the light of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation moved westward and illumined North America, the
new adherents’ access to the vast ocean of Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings was confined to drops, because material translated to
English was scarce, indeed. The scarcity caused them to turn to

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
‘Abdu’l-Bahá for answers to questions occupying their minds.
One of the newly enrolled believers, a young woman of twenty-
one with an active and enquiring mind was Laura Clifford
Barney, who after marriage with Hippolyte Dreyfus, became
known as Madam Laura Dreyfus-Barney. The answers she
received to her numerous questions were of such inestimable
value that with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s approval, she compiled them
into a book, titled Some Answered Questions.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the infallible Interpreter of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings and His Successor, received and answered countless
questions concerning various aspects of His Father’s revelation.
The responses to these questions are contained in many volumes
of His Writings; in Farsi they usually bear the title Makatíb, in
English they were originally known as Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Those retranslated have been published in Selections from the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions is a
compilation devoted in its entirety to the questions presented
to Him by Laura Clifford Barney and of answers He revealed in
response.
The process of asking questions and being enlightened by
answers from infallible sources of guidance has been ongoing
since the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Shoghi Effendi, the
Guardian of the Cause of God (1921-1957) received and
answered questions from individual Bahá’ís and institutions
throughout the world. Some National Assemblies have compiled
and published the answers to questions from their respective
communities. The Universal House of Justice, the supreme
governing body of the Bahá’í Faith, has likewise received and
answered questions ever since its inception in April 1963. Many
volumes containing its messages have been published in Persian
and English; many of the messages are in response to questions.
A good source of reference for messages issued by Shoghi
Effendi and the Universal House of Justice in response to
questions is Lights of Guidance.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

A more detailed survey of Bahá’í writings in response to
questions is a theme worthy of further exploration. The
purpose of this brief explanation is to highlight the importance
of asking intelligent questions, the answers to which expand the
horizon of knowledge.
Questions & Answers and Some Answered
Questions — Similarities and Differences
Among a multitude of titles containing Bahá’í Sacred
Writings two are devoted entirely to authoritative answers to
questions: The first is titled Questions & Answers, the second
Some Answered Questions. The first is a document comprising
exclusively of answers Bahá’u’lláh revealed in response to
questions about the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. It is by nature
of small size and regarded an appendix to the Most Holy Book.
Its compiler is Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, one of the erudite, devoted
and trusted followers of Bahá’u’lláh. He was a mujtahid
(specialized in Islamic jurisprudence) before embracing the Bábí
and Bahá’í Faiths. Bahá’u’lláh authorized him not only to ask
questions about the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, but also to
compile Risálih-i-Su’ál va Javáb (Questions & Answers).
The second, Some Answered Questions consists entirely of
answers ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave to scores of questions on a variety
of subjects from Laura Clifford Barney. The circumstances
surrounding the compilation of Some Answered Questions
were very different from those leading to Questions &
Answers: Unlike Questions & Answers, which was compiled
before the Bahá’í Faith had spread to the western hemisphere,
Some Answered Questions took shape when the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh had reached the shores of North America and spread
to parts of Europe. Many westerners, who had embraced the
Bahá’í Faith made their way to the Holy Land, to attain the
presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant
and the authorized Interpreter of His Writings. Laura Clifford
Barney was one of them.

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
Meeting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá shortly after she had embraced the
Bahá’í Faith in Paris confirmed Laura Barney in the belief that
He was the living embodiment of divine wisdom and the
inexhaustible source of true knowledge, the Person to Whom
she could turn for convincing answers to her unanswered
questions. To gain a deeper understanding of the subjects that
fascinated her mind, she wasted no time in presenting questions
to Him, begging for answers. Recognizing her insatiable quest
for knowledge and understanding, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá patiently
nurtured her inquiring mind and responded to her questions
with supreme compassion. However, His tasks were many and
time for answering questions was extremely tight.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s decision to respond to Laura Barney’s
questions when she was present in ‘Akká seems to have been
prompted by other considerations: Laura initially had no
knowledge of Persian or Arabic; she spoke English and French.
It was of crucial importance to the success of the undertaking
for the interpreter to understand and translate her questions
accurately. The interpreter had to also convey precisely
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s response. Any difficulty in understanding the
question or conveying the answer could be rectified speedily
when it was done in person. Another major concern was the
slowness and unreliability of the postal service during those
difficult times in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry, when His internal
and external enemies liked nothing better than seeing Him
completely annihilated. They colluded to ensure the success of
their schemes, which appeared successful when He was
incarcerated in the early years of the twentieth century. He was
under surveillance, His communications were censored and His
life threatened. It was at a time like this, so fraught with danger
that Laura Barney’s quest for deeper knowledge was addressed.
However, every precaution had to be taken to avoid placing in
the hand of the enemy pretexts for adding to the stringent
restrictions in force. In person communication proved
invaluable; it avoided the pitfalls of communication by mail, at
the same time it made clear that no earthly force could hamper

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s will to move the Cause of God forward. With
His permission, she presented her questions to Him in person
and arranged for His answers to be recorded.
One major difference between Questions & Answers and
Some Answered Questions is that in the case of Questions &
Answers, questions were submitted in writing, answers were
likewise revealed in writing. Some Answered Questions
comprises responses to questions presented in person but
recorded as they were uttered. To ensure authenticity, before
Some Answered Questions was published, the responses were
reviewed and approved by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Laura Barney outlines
how the process began and moved forward: “While I desired
from the very beginning that the Master’s utterances be
recorded in Persian, it was only when the Master mentioned
that at some time these transcripts would have to be reviewed
and corrected, that He made the decision that His utterances be
also recorded in Persian.” She adds: “... the Master not only
corrected Mírzá Munír’s first draft,3 but after the corrections
were incorporated ‘Abdu’l-Bahá again reviewed the corrected
version and signed each corrected subject.”4
Unlike Some Answered Questions, which was published
immediately after it was approved by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the text of
Questions & Answers, though compiled during Bahá’u’lláh’s
ministry, remained unpublished until 1910. Its English
translation was published together with the authorized English
translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in 1992. The reason for the
delay in the publication of Questions & Answers was the
necessity for Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of Laws to be translated and
annotated under the aegis of the Universal House of Justice.
Without the Book, the appendix would have had no source of
reference.
Although Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín and Laura Clifford Barney
enjoy the honor of being the compilers of Questions &
Answers and Some Answered Questions respectively, some
differences set them apart: Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín was a man from

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
Iran, the state religion of which has been Islam for centuries.
He was well versed in Islamic jurisprudence. Laura Barney did
not belong to a religious class. She was an emancipated young
woman raised in the cradle of liberation. As stated earlier,
Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín was authorized to present questions in
writing to Bahá’u’lláh exclusively about the laws of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, Laura Barney enjoyed the opportunity to present
questions to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on subjects of her choice. She also
enjoyed the permission to arrange for the publication and
dissemination of Some Answered Questions in two languages
almost immediately after it was compiled, while Questions &
Answers took more than two decades to be published in Persian
and much longer to be published in English and other languages.
Unlike Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, Laura Barney had no familiarity
with Persian and/or Arabic when she set foot on the path of
search, yet her “imperishable service”, as Shoghi Effendi, the
Guardian of the Cause of God, says,
was to collect and transmit to posterity in the form of
“Some Answered Questions,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s priceless
explanations, covering a wide variety of subjects, given
to her in the course of an extended pilgrimage to the
Holy Land, and undertook the complex task of
compiling the book. [GPB 260]
The Compiler of Some Answered Questions
From among the early western believers Laura Clifford
Barney was most qualified to undertake the compilation of
Some Answered Questions. Not only did she have scholastic
qualifications and intellectual maturity for undertaking the
task, but also possessed the inherent qualities needed to
successfully accomplish the goal. Additionally, she had the
means to have the compilation published in a befitting manner
in Persian and English, and disseminated internationally. To
accomplish her objective, she made repeated visits to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and persevered until the daunting task was complete.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Learning was her lifelong objective. When a question occupied
her mind she enthusiastically pursued the path of search until
she found the answer. She was both meticulous and methodic in
her work. Above all she was a dedicated believer and utterly
devoted to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, she had complete faith in Him as the
Centre
of
Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant
and
the
authorized
Interpreter of His Writings. When she was unsure about the
accuracy of a piece of information, she sought clarification.
Before publishing the book, she did her utmost to ensure that
every detail was checked carefully and highest standards were
observed.
The process of asking questions probably started with Laura
Barney submitting them in writing. Soon it became clear that
the scope of her endeavor and the complexities involved made
it most difficult, if not impossible, to carry out the work
through correspondence. Also, with the heavy responsibilities
‘Abdu’l-Bahá shouldered and the little time He had available to
achieve so much, expounding on Laura Barney’s complex
questions could be achieved efficiently and with speed if she
were present in ‘Akká. Therefore, she received permission to
present her questions in person. Being in the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá while He responded to her questions proved of
crucial importance, because it provided her with the
opportunity to pay careful attention to the answers as they
were uttered, and could seek clarification if the interpreters did
not convey the response clearly, or if she had difficulty
understanding the concept.
To reach the Holy Land, which was part of the Ottoman
Empire at the time, the western pilgrims travelled to France,
whence to Egypt and the Holy Land, where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
his family continued to live as exiles after Bahá’u’lláh ascended
to the Celestial Realm. The pilgrims waited in Egypt until called
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Since restrictions were in place, only a few
could visit Him at a time. As a result, the pilgrims were
afforded the opportunity to get to know the Bahá’ís residing in
Egypt, the most prominent of whom was Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l. The

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
opportunity was priceless: The pilgrims not only recovered
from the rigors of travel but also used the time to prepare
themselves spiritually for the realization of their long-awaited
dream; their visit to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Center of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant. Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l was available to answer their
questions and help them prepare for the sanctity of the
experience they were about to witness. The person who made
the most of her stay in Egypt and gathered many a priceless gem
from Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l’s treasury of knowledge was Laura
Barney. Encouraged by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, she never failed to
consult him when she needed sound advice. Seeing her vast
capacity
for
acquiring
knowledge,
Mírzá
Abu’l-Fa∂l
unhesitatingly tutored and deepened her understanding of
Bahá’í history and teachings. He was her beloved teacher, the
person she appreciated for his rare qualities of knowledge,
wisdom, humility and generosity of heart and mind. To show
her appreciation for his assistance, while he was alive,5 she
never failed to help him in spreading the light of the knowledge
of the Faith among humankind. She financed the publication of
some of his writings in English. She also paid for his trip to and
sojourn in Paris for about three and a half months, she likewise
financed his trip to and stay in the United States lasting over
three years.
Never before in a religious dispensation had a woman the
opportunity to submit a wide range of questions to an infallible
Centre of Authority and receive His detailed and authoritative
answers. In addition to the questions Laura Barney asked in
person, she submitted questions in the missives she sent to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. A few Tablets revealed in her honor, which have
been published, confirm this. One case in point is the Tablet
revealed in response to her question about the institution of
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, another is about the wisdom of burying the
dead.
Laura Barney gave careful consideration to the nature of
questions she asked, also to the organization of the material she
compiled. According to Stockman, “The book explored eighty-

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

four questions covering such subjects as “The Resurrection of
Christ’, ‘The Holy Spirit’, ‘The trinity’, ‘Predestination’,
Modification of Species’, ‘The Progress of Man in the Other
World’, Healing by Spiritual Means’, ‘The Influence of the
Stars’ and Strikes’. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was also asked to comment on
specific verses in Revelation and Isaiah and to describe the
missions of Abraham, Moses and Jesus.”6 In her preface to the
book, Laura Barney explains how the book came about:
During my several visits to ‘Akká, these answers were
written down in Persian while ‘Abdul-Bahá spoke, not
with a view to publication, but simply that I might have
them for future study ... In these lessons He is the
teacher adapting Himself to His pupil, and not the
orator or poet.
This book presents only certain aspects of the Bahá’í
Faith, which is universal in its message and has for each
questioner the answer suited to his special development
and needs.
In my case the teachings were made simple, to correspond
to my rudimentary knowledge, and are therefore in no
way complete and exhaustive ... [SAQ 2014, xix]
Describing the organization of the contents of Some
Answered Questions, Laura Barney says: “Originally they were
not given in any special order, but have now been roughly
classified for the convenience of the reader.” She confirms the
addition of a Table of Contents “merely to indicate the subjects
treated of”, adds that the Persian text has been closely followed
and that “many of the Persian and Arabic names have been
written in their simplest form without strictly adhering to a
scientific system which would be confusing to the average
reader” [SAQ xx].
Living in Paris, a city far closer to the Holy Land
geographically than any part of the United States, was a great
advantage. It afforded Laura Barney repeated trips to and from

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
Egypt with relative ease and speed. She then traversed the
distance between Port Sa`id and Holy Land in a relatively short
time. The means of transport were in those days by sea. Her
flexibility made it possible for her to go at short notice and
stay for as long as it was possible and prudent. She was ecstatic
and truly grateful for whatever time she was allowed to spend
close to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His family. When she was not busy
formulating questions, presenting them, listening and recording
the answers, organizing her work and studying the Faith with
the holy family, she was able to learn Persian, which ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá encouraged her to do.
Learning Persian proved helpful in enhancing Laura Barney’s
understanding of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s utterances. She also taught
English and French to the daughters of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
particularly Rú˙á Khánum and Munavar Khánum, the youngest
two.
Laura Barney’s visits were of varying duration, at times
extended to many months. Between 1900 and 1908 she visited
‘Abdu’l-Bahá several times. According to H.M. Balyuzi, it was
during her “repeated and extended visits to the Holy Land …
during those months, stretched over several years, that a book
unique in the entire range of the Writings of the Founders of
the Faith took shape. The book was Some Answered Questions.
Questions came from Laura Barney and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá answered
them.”7 Laura Barney presented her questions when ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá had time to spare, invariably at mealtime. His response
was translated on the spot by a resident Bahá’í proficient in
both English and Persian.
To record the answers in English, initially Laura Barney made
notes. Later she was allowed to bring with her a stenographer.
On her visit to ‘Akká in 1904 she was accompanied by Ms.
Ethel Rosenberg, an English Bahá’í, who recorded on the spot
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s translated explanations. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answers
were also recorded in Persian for the benefit of the members of
the family who were not present at the table.8 Afrukhtih, one of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the interpreters, explains that Mírzá Munír, the son of Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-Qulí, the faithful half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh, was
assigned the task.9 The Foreword to the latest revised edition of
Some Answered Questions prepared at the Bahá’í World Centre
states:
Arrangements were made for one of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
sons-in-law, or for one of His three secretaries of that
time, to take down in Persian the text of His replies.
From the resulting collection of notes a selection was
made; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then corrected these notes twice in
His own hand, sometimes substantially revising them in
the process as well as carefully reviewing the final
wording. [SAQ 2014, xii]
Laure Barney herself prepared the English translation of
Some Answered Questions on the basis of the approved Persian
text. The descriptive title was carefully selected and approved
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In the preface to the first English edition,
published in 1908 she explains the conditions under which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded to her questions:
“I HAVE GIVEN TO you my tired moments,” were the
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as He rose from table after
answering one of my questions.
As it was on this day, so it continued; between the hours
of work, His fatigue would find relief in renewed
activity; occasionally He was able to speak at length;
but often, even though subject might require more time,
He would be called away after a few moments; again,
days and even weeks would pass, in which He had no
opportunity of instructing me. But I could well be
patient, for I had always before me the greater lesson —
the lesson of His personal life. [SAQ xix]
The 1904 visit of Laura Barney and Ethel Rosenberg
coincided with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s re-incarceration. The strict

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
conditions imposed on Bahá’u’lláh and His family after their
arrival in ‘Akká in 1868 had eased over the years affording them
some freedom of movement. The relaxation of the stringent
restrictions had made it possible for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to meet with
western pilgrims in small groups and to initiate the
construction of the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel. After
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, Mírzá Mu˙ammad ‘Alí, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
half-brother, unhappy with the provisions of his Father’s Book
of the Covenant, which bestowed upon him a station beneath
that of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, started a campaign to discredit Him.
Mírzá Mu˙ammad ‘Alí’s constant agitation and baseless
accusations against ‘Abdu’l-Bahá resulted in the dispatch of a
commission of enquiry by the central government, which
resulted in the re-imposition of restrictions on Him. One of the
affected areas was the number of visitors He could receive, not
more than a few at a time. That Laura Barney and Ms.
Rosenberg visited Him at that time was in itself an
extraordinary event. The purpose of the visit was for Laura to
present her questions to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in person and for Ms.
Rosenberg to have His translated responses recorded in English.
During their prolonged stay, they lived in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
House,10 and enjoyed the incomparable blessing that living with
the members of His family, particularly the Greatest Holy Leaf,
afforded them. The visit extended over many months.
Living in the rarefied atmosphere of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s House
accentuated the spiritual susceptibilities of the person who had
come with a mind surging with questions. In His presence, her
power of absorption and reflection were most intense.
Deprived of these blessings, it would have been most difficult
for Laura Barney to accomplish what she did. During her 1904
visit, she was inspired to make available to others, who did not
have the priceless opportunity of hearing from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
lips answers to the questions she was privileged to put before
Him. It was at that time that arrangements were made for
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s responses in Persian to be recorded for the
benefit of those who could not be there in person. This text

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

was later corrected and signed by Him, as stated earlier in this
account.
Laura’s knowledge of history and scripture, also her
familiarity with topics of interest to intellectuals of the time
made her an ideal person to formulate questions for
presentation to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Her organizational ability and
meticulous pursuance of tasks at hand were assets she employed
with great success. Never did she lose sight of what she wanted
to ask, ever was she ready for the opportunity to present her
questions and imbibe His answers. Fully aware of the unique
honor ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had graciously bestowed on her and of the
preciousness of the moments He spared to answer her questions
made Laura Barney all the more attentive and committed to her
work. In the process she also learned the value of patience, not
one of her intrinsic characteristics. In addition to the many
questions her active mind formulated, a few probably came
from other believers who submitted their questions through
her.
Laura Barney loved life near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and preferred a
place like ‘Akká, a penal colony with its harsh environment to a
life of luxury and comfort, to which she was used. During her
visits, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded with loving kindness to the
questions she presented to Him at the dining table, the only
time He could spare to respond to her questions. At the table,
in addition to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the interpreter, Laura Barney and
Ms. Rosenberg, were usually seated several pilgrims and
resident believers. In consideration of traditional Middle-
Eastern practices, female members of the holy family did not
eat with the men if they were not close relatives. Therefore, one
of the resident Bahá’ís versed in English, often Youness Khán
Afroukhteh, served as interpreter. But when the family gathered
at breakfast and only female western pilgrims were present,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s youngest daughters, Rouha Khánum and
Munavar Khánum served as interpreters. It seems that they
helped also with interpretation at the table when male pilgrims
and resident Bahá’ís were not present.

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
Afroukhteh says the members of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s family
“realized that if Miss Barney had not immersed herself in the
depths of this divine Ocean, those precious gems would have
remained undiscovered forever; those heavenly jewels would
have been left concealed in the depths of the storehouse of
meanings. And now that these hidden gems had come to light,
what could be better than to record them in the Persian
language so that they might remain intact and inviolate for
posterity in the annals of the Faith. So they asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
to assign an amanuensis to attend the meetings and take down
in Persian each and every gem-like word.” He adds that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá approved the request and “Mírzá Munír, son of the
departed Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Qulí was assigned the task...”11
Afroukhteh says later in his book: “I was not aware that Miss
Barney had desired a Persian compilation of the book from the
outset.”12
When in ‘Akká, Laura Barney lived in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s House
and spent considerable time associating with the ladies of the
Holy Family and deepening her understanding of the verities of
the Faith. Afroukhteh says: “During her one year stay, she not
only became familiar with the fundamental principles and
mysteries of the Cause of God but also emerged as a source for
the diffusion of these divine blessings among the people.”13
Laura Barney’s recognition of the One Whose innate
knowledge provided infallible answers to whatever puzzled her
mind was key to her success in seeing to completion the task she
had undertaken. Many were the pilgrims who attained ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s presence. Some asked questions, many did not. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá was most generous in giving of His time to meet them and
respond to their entreaties. Even non-Bahá’ís who sought His
presence were not turned away; they were accommodated with
utmost kindness. Myron Phelps is an example. But none
achieved what Laura Barney accomplished. She sought and
received permission to ask numerous questions, hear the
answers and arrange for them to be recorded. “As a result of
Laura Barney’s probings, answers to many questions of eternal

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

significance, as well as those reflecting a Western or Christian
orientation, became a part of the Bahá’í sacred writings. The
book has always been one of the most popular Bahá’í texts.”14
Speaking of the manner the book came to be, Stockman says:
… Laura Barney, a Persian-speaking American Bahá’í,
frequently visited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in ‘Akká and asked Him
questions about the Faith, often over the dinner table —
much to the exasperation of the Persians present, who
were not used to anyone, let alone a woman, closely
questioning ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Barney took extensive notes
which were informally circulated. Eventually ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá read, modified and approved her notes of His
replies and gave her permission to publish them. Because
He had approved the exact wording in the original
Persian, the book became a part of Bahá’í scripture.15
Were one to enumerate outstanding attributes in a person
singled out to be the recipient of the bounty bestowed on Laura
Barney, top on the list would be: Utter dedication to the Centre
of the Covenant, an inquisitive mind, sound knowledge of
scripture and history, familiarity with issues current in early
twentieth century, perseverance, meticulousness, keen interest,
mature understanding, flexibility, patience and gratitude. Laura
appreciated the value of the honor vouchsafed to her and did
her utmost to accomplish the task to the best of her ability.
Nonetheless,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
gracious
approval
of
her
undertaking to turn the outcome of her incessant probing, at a
time when He was beset by incalculable difficulties, into a book
for future generations to benefit from is the single most
important element in eternalizing her name in the annals of the
Bahá’í Faith. Concerning the circumstances surrounding
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s life when He answered Laura Barney’s questions,
Balyuzi says:
Weighed down with the oppression of the times; facing
hostile officials resolved to destroy Him — officials

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
dispatched under the guise of a ‘Commission of
Enquiry’ from the seat of Ottoman autocracy, ‘the
Enquiry’ set afoot by the treachery of His own kith and
kin; baulked momentarily in the greatest enterprise He
had undertaken — raising the mausoleum of the Báb on
Mount Carmel; every minute of the life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
was filled with sorrow demanding vigilant action and
unflinching fortitude. Such were the moments that He
gave to Laura Clifford Barney as she sought knowledge
and understanding.16
Laura Barney initially had no intention of publishing the text
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answers to her questions. However, realizing
the value of the answers to others, she sought His permission to
publish the material:
... these answers were written down in Persian while
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke, not with a view to publication, but
simply that I might have them for future study .... But I
believe that what has been so valuable to me may be of
use to others, since all men, notwithstanding their
differences, are united in their search for reality; and I
have therefore asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s permission to
publish these talks. [SAQ xix]
When permission was granted, Laura Barney carefully
checked the contents against the original words spoken by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “The Persian text has been closely followed, at
times even to the detriment of the English, a few alterations
being made in the translation merely where the literal rendering
seemed too involved and obscure …” [SAQ xx]
To make the collected material accessible to all, Laura Barney
herself arranged for its publication in English. The choice of a
befitting and descriptive title for the book was important.
Laura Barney received ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s approval for it to be
called Some Answered Questions. The original Persian was
titled Al-Núru’l-Abhá fi Mufavi∂áti-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. While

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

arrangements were being made for the publication of the book
in Persian and English, Hippolyte Dreyfus, a distinguished
French lawyer, who had become a Bahá’í in Paris in early 1901
and later married Laura Barney, translated it to French. The
French translation under the title Les Leçons de Saint Jean-
d’Acre was published about the time the English translation and
Persian original were published.
Laura Barney was an active promoter of the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh, especially among the elite class in whose circle she
moved and with whom she had close contact. She travelled
widely to spread the teachings of the Blessed Beauty,
particularly the principles of the oneness of humankind and
international peace. Her international travels began with a trip
to Russian Turkistan, the Turkmenistan of today, and Iran in
the summer of 1906. She was on that trip accompanied by
Marianne Jerard and Hippolyte Dreyfus. While in Iran, she
witnessed the disturbances associated with the constitutional
revolution, which had reached its climax that summer. After
marriage with Hippolyte Dreyfus in April 1911, together they
made a trip to the Far East in 1914. It coincided with World
War I, forcing them to cut short their trip and return to
France, where Hippolyte served in the army and Laura rendered
invaluable service to the wounded soldiers. The War made her
all the more conscious of the pivotal need of international
peace. According to Dr. Giachery,
At the end of that global conflict she placed her faith in
the League of Nations and represented the International
Council of Women in that body, playing an important
role in cultural exchange. She was the only woman
named by the League Council to sit on the Sub-
Committee of experts on Education, a post which she
held for many years, beginning in 1926. On 23 July 1925
she was appointed Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur. In
that same year she formed under the aegis of the League
of
Nations
the
‘Liaison
Committee
of
Major

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
International
Organizations
to
promote
through
Education better Understanding between Peoples and
Classes’ and became a permanent member of the
committee as well as its liaison officer. In 1934 she
became a member of the Advisory Committee of the
League of Nations on Teaching; she was also a member
of the French Committee on Intellectual Co-operation.17
Laura and Hippolyte made another trip to the Far East and
Southeast Asia in 1921. It lasted several months and culminated
in the spread of Bahá’u’lláh’s redeeming message to places never
reached before. They were in Burma when the news of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s ascension reached them. They were among the individual
believers Shoghi Effendi invited to gather in Haifa for
consultation.18
Laura Barney carried out successfully the assignments
‘Abdu’l-Bahá entrusted to her. One can imagine there were
many. She travelled extensively and lectured eloquently “on the
impelling necessity of a united world. She was a true pioneer in
this field of activity at a time when the world was still
geographically and politically divided and quite insensible to the
call of spiritual unity. Her enthusiasm for this ideal never
lessened”, says Dr. Giachery.19 Her devoted services won her the
unique title of Amatu’l-Bahá (Handmaid of Bahá). She is the
only western female believer so designated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.20
Vast and illuminating as her Bahá’í services, international
travels, undertakings and generous contributions to various
projects have been, what has made her a unique personality
among the Bahá’ís of renown is her probing mind, a crucial
element in the successful completion of Some Answered
Questions.
Laura Barney made many trips to ‘Akká before Some
Answered Questions was published. In her letter to Youness
Khán, she provides first-hand information about her trips to
the Holy Land during ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry and about the
manner Some Answered Questions was compiled and published.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

In it she clarifies that “[t]he English and French editions were
translated directly from the final Persian text corrected by the
Master himself.” She also indicates that “the Master not only
corrected the first draft made at a certain period by Mírzá
Monir (Munír), but afterwards it was copied out and re-read by
Abdu’l Bahá who corrected and signed each one of these Talks.”
She also says:
… it was on my third visit to Akká that I arrived with
Miss Rosenberg. I spent the winter of 1904 there. I
visited Egypt briefly and in the spring of 1905 paid a
visit to my mother, after which we both returned to the
Holy Land. I left again in the midsummer of 1905,
returning to ‘Akká in the fall of that year. I spent a part
of the winter in Cairo and returned to ‘Akká and Haifa
by the end of spring. After that summer, I journeyed to
Iran and then came back to Europe, and in the fall
returned to ‘Akká. On my return, Some Answered
Questions had been corrected and permission had been
granted for its publication.
The following year, the Persian version as well as the
English and French versions of the book were published
and distributed. In the second edition of the book two
additional subjects were added.21
Laura Barney supervised the preparation of the text in
English and Persian. She personally selected publishers for both
editions, which came out in 1908. The French translation of the
book was also published the same year.
The publication of Some Answered Questions coincided
with the year the Young Turks revolution forced the Ottoman
authorities to free political prisoners. As a result, the strict
restrictions on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s life were lifted. Laura Barney
returned to Haifa in 1908. This visit was different from her
previous trips to the Holy Land. Not only did she celebrate the

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
accomplishment of the formidable task, but also the freedom
that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had been denied for so long.
Dissemination of Some Answered Questions
In the early years of the twentieth century when Some
Answered Questions was published, marketing techniques were
as yet undeveloped compared with what they are today. To
disseminate the book widely, Laura Barney had copies mailed to
major newspapers and to places where the light of the Faith had
spread. This step was crucial if the book was to help the
teaching work. The popularity of the book can be measured by
the number of times it has been republished. After its
publication in 1908, a US edition was published in 1918,
republished in 1930, 1954, 1964 and 1981. The first pocketsize
edition was published in 1984, reprinted in 2011. The book has
undergone revisions authorized by the Universal House of
Justice. The last revision was by a Committee at the Bahá’í
World Centre in 2014.
The publication of Some Answered Questions in Persian and
two popular languages of the time, as well as its wide
dissemination among the believers, notabilities familiar with
the Faith, and through important newspapers in America,
England, France and India was the first large scale publicity of
its kind that the Bahá’í Faith enjoyed early in its history. The
book informed a significant segment of the world’s population
of the views of the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant and the
authorized interpreter of His writings on subjects that
occupied their minds. It also enlightened and enthused the
Bahá’ís at a time when available Bahá’í writings in English and
French were scarce, providing those unfamiliar with the Faith
with authentic information on a variety of topics.
A prominent Persian figure, to whom Laura had sent a copy
of Some Answered Questions was Mu˙ammad-Valí Khán,
Sipahdar-i-A‘zam. When Mu˙ammad-‘Alí Sháh was deposed and
his eldest son Sultan A˙mad Mírzá installed on the Iranian

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

throne, Sipahdar-i-A‘zam “became the first prime minister of
the restored constitutional regime.”22 He was forced to resign
in 1911, when the abortive attempt of Mu˙ammad-‘Alí Sháh to
win back the throne took place. According to Balyuzi,
[H]e was in Paris in March, at the time when ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá was still visiting the French capital. Either then, or
possibly sometime earlier, Mme Laura Dreyfus-Barney
had presented to him a copy of the Persian version of
Some Answered Questions by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. One day
Sipahdar-i-A‘zam opened the book to read the story of
Badí`, and as he read he recalled an incident of his early
youth, and wrote his recollections in the margin.23
The notes written in Persian describe how Badí` delivered the
Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh to Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh and how
brutally he was put to death in the summer resort of Lar in
Mazandaran, where the Sháh was on a hunting expedition. The
Sipahdar explains how he heard the account and gives the name
of the man in charge of torturing Badí`, to force him disclose
information about the Bahá’ís he knew in Tihran. When
nothing worked, including the use of bastinado and beating,
even branding, his head was smashed with a pounder. The
Sipahdar’s note of 2 March 1913 in the margin of page 39 of
the Persian version of Some Answered Questions reads:
Tonight I could not sleep. Mme Dreyfus had sent me
this book and I had not yet read it. It is early morning. I
opened the book and read on till I reached the theme of
Letters to the Kings, and to Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh. Because
I had been there on that journey and had heard this
account personally from Kázim Khán-i-Farrásh-Báshí, I
wrote it down.
A year and a half later, on the journey to Karbila, this
Kázim Khán went mad. The Sháh had him chained and
he died miserably. The year I went to Tabriz, as the
Governor-General of Adharbayjan, I found a grandson

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
of his, begging. ‘Take heed, O people of insight and
understanding.”24
In a Tablet revealed in honor of Laura Dreyfus-Barney over a
decade after Some Answered Questions had been first
published, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that He always awaited receiving
her joyous news indicating that she was holding in her hand
Some Answered Questions and using its proofs and arguments
to stir and enthuse the friends and handmaids of the Merciful
and generating fervor among them, for she had been singled out
for the honor, He said.25
Laura Barney continued to ask questions after the
publication of Some Answered Questions. Some of her
questions were in writing, in response to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
revealed Tablets. One case in point is her question about
strikes, the response to which was included in the second
edition of Some Answered Questions. Another is her question
about the institution of Mashriqu’l-Adhkár.
The Fate of the Persian Original of Some
Answered Questions
Fully cognizant of the inestimable value of the Persian
original of Some Answered Questions, corrected and signed by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Laura made a conscious decision to send it to
Shoghi Effendi. In her letter of Aug. 7th, 1937 to Youness Khán
Afroukhteh, she conveys this crucial piece of information:
“Last winter I had Mrs. Angiz Khánum Tabrizi deliver to
Shoghi Effendi the final draft of the book as corrected and
signed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”26 She had in her possession a treasure
trove of precious items. She had been in the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá during the difficult early years of the twentieth
century, had compiled Some Answered Questions during those
perilous years and kept with her the documentation. She had
other papers of historical value. About three years before
World War II broke out, she felt moved to send the items to

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Shoghi Effendi rather than keeping them in Paris. As a result of
her timely action before the onset of World War II, the
precious documents and the items she sent to the Bahá’í World
Centre were spared, but her other papers and belongings were
confiscated, probably destroyed during the Nazi occupation of
Paris.
Selected Tributes to Some Answered
Questions and Its Compiler
Among the many tributes to the compiler of Some Answered
Questions, one stands out as a powerful testimony to Laura
Barney’s sound understanding of the responses she received to
her questions. Afroukhteh says: “One day as He rose from the
table, while expressing a bit of weariness, He happily remarked,
‘It is encouraging that after all this labour, at least she
understands the concepts. This is refreshing. What would I have
done if after all this effort she still failed to comprehend the
issues?’”27
Praising the book and its compiler, Horace Holley says: “In
Some Answered Questions, Laura Barney accurately recorded
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answers to questions related to the Prophets, to
man’s destiny, his attributes and powers, to immortality and the
life hereafter, which have long been cherished as an ideal
introduction to this new age of universal religion.” [SDC viii]
H. M. Balyuzi describes the book in more detail and praises
its compiler:
... in this book, Some Answered Questions, the supreme
genius of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is overwhelmingly manifest. Men
who have devoted precious years of their lives to study
and research — to the building of arguments, the laying
of premise, and the marshalling of facts — have never
presented the fundamentals of life and belief, the basic
truths of the universe around them, and the mainsprings
of action, with such lucidity and coherence as are here

Some Answered Questions and Its Compiler
apparent. Nor can they hope to rival, much less to
match ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s all-encompassing wisdom. And
these were words spoken without previous intimation of
the nature and purport of the query. Not only do His
answers arrest attention and compel thought, the
strength wedded to the crystal clarity of the language
enchants the mind. His statements are unencumbered,
His similes most apt. His reasoning is flawless. His
conclusions are unhedged and emphatic, informed with
authority. Some Answered Questions has no equal, and
the service rendered by its compiler has been
characterized by the Guardian of the Faith as
‘imperishable.’28
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Muntakhabátí az Makátíb-i Óa∂rat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Cairo: Ma†bá‘ah-yi Kurdistán al-‘Ilmíyyah, 1330 ah /1912 ce.
Afrúkhtah, Yúnus, trans. Riaz Masrour. Memories of Nine Years in
ʿAkká. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003.
Bahá’í World, The, vol. XV (1968-1973). Haifa, Israel: Baha'i World
Centre, 1976.
Balyuzi, H.M. Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of
Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George Ronald, 1971.
———. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald, 1980.
Kling, Jean L. Alice Pike Barney, Her Life and Art. Washington D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 2004.
Mázandarání, Fá∂il. Amr va Khalq. Tehran: Mu’assasih-yi Millí-i
Ma†bú‘át-i Amrí, 122 be/1966.
Rabbání, Rú˙iyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1969.
Stockman, Robert. The Bahá’í Faith in America, vol. 2. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1995.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


NOTES
1 Alice Pike Barney, Her Life and Art, p. 133
2 Amr va Khalq, vol. 1, p. 10, also vol. 3, p. 352.
3 Mírzá Munír, the son of Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Qulí, Bahá’u’lláh’s faithful
half-brother, was assigned the task of recording ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s utterances.
4 Memories of Nine Years in ‘Akká, pp. 342-343
5 Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l passed away in 1914, when the Dreyfus-Barneys were in
the Far East.
6 The Bahá’í Faith in America, vol. 2, p. 238
7 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 82
8 Memories of Nine Years in ‘Akká, pp. 318-319
9 ibid.
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His family then lived in the House of ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá
in ‘Akká.
11 Memories of Nine Years in ‘Akká, pp. 318-319
12 Ibid, p 344
13 Ibid, p 315
14 The Bahá’í Faith in America, vol. 2, p. 238
15 Ibid.
16 Abdu’l-Bahá: the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 82-83
17 The Bahá’í World, Vol. XV, p. 537
18 The Priceless Pearl, p. 55
19 The Bahá’í World, vol XV, p. 535
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bestowed the same title on ‘Alaviyih Khánum, the widow of
the martyred ‘Alíján Máhfurúzakí. She was a fearless woman, very
successful in teaching the Cause of God in Mazandaran, Iran.
21 From Laura Dreyfus-Barney’s letter of Aug. 7th, 1937 to Dr. Youness Khán
(Memories, p. 343-344)
22 Bahá’u’lláh, the King of Glory, p. 303
23 Ibid.
24 Ibid, pp. 307-309
25 Gist of part of a Tablet revealed in Laura Barney’s honor, Makatíb-i-
’Abdu’l-Bahá, volume 3, p. 316
26 Laura Dreyfus-Barney’s letter to Youness Khán dated 7 August 1937.
27 Memories of Nine Years in ‘Akká, p. 316
28 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 83

A Comparison between the Commentary
and Interpretation of an Islamic
Tradition by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
Ayatu’llah Khomeini
Moojan Momen
Abstract
This
article
concerns
the
two
very
different
interpretations of a single Islamic Tradition as given, on
the one hand, by the Islamic Shi`i clerics exemplified by
Ayatu’llah Khomeini and, on the other hand by the
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the successor of Bahá’u’lláh, the founder
of the Bahá’í Faith.
The Marja` al-Taqlid in Shi`i Jurisprudence
The Shi`i Islam practiced by the majority of Shi`is in the
world today is that of the Usuli school of Twelver (Ithna-
`Ashari) Shi`ism. According to this school, all believers are
divided into two groups. Those who have gone through a
lengthy course at a religious college (madrasah), have striven to
acquire the required learning, and have proven to the
satisfaction of an established mujtahid that they have the
reasoning power and knowledge needed to make their own

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

sound independent judgments on points of religious law (the
Shari`ah) are called mujtahids (literally, those who have strived).
Everyone who has not achieved this status and does not have a
certificate from an established mujtahid is called a muqallid
(literally those who follow the pattern or example set by
another); they are obliged to seek out a mujtahid and ask that
person regarding all points of the Sharí`ah. This mujtahid then
becomes that muqallid’s marj`a at-taqlíd (reference point to be
followed [in all matters of religious law]). This means that they
are the person to whom the muqallid turns for judgments on
such
matters
as
religious
obligations
(prayer,
fasting,
pilgrimage, etc.), business and social transactions and personal
law (marriage, death, inheritance, etc.). Indeed over the last 200
years, there are few areas of individual and social life that the
Shi`i mujtahids have not felt that they should enter. With
Khomeini's coming to power in 1979, even the field of political
power and national governance came under their orbit. At any
one time, the general consensus among the Shi`i religious
leadership raises a number of individuals to the rank of marj`a
at-taqlíd and the rest of the Shi`i world is expected to choose
one of them and to follow that person. Such persons are now
called
Ayatu’llah
al-`Uzma
(often
translated
as
Grand
Ayatollah).
The word taqlíd and muqallid both derive from the second
form of the root Q-L-D. According to Lane's Lexicon, this
form of the word means, in the first place, the hanging or
attiring of ornaments or signs upon the neck of an animal or a
person. From that it came to mean the investing or conferment
of an office upon someone. In religious matters, it came to
mean “investing with authority in matters of religion.” Thus the
verbal noun from this form of the verb, taqlíd came to mean “a
man's following another in that which he says or does, firmly
believing him to be right therein, without regard or
consideration of the proof, or evidence.”1
Since it is necessary for a devout believer to turn to a marja`
al-taqlíd for advice and guidance even in the ordinary actions of

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
everyday life, it has become the practice among mujtahids who
want to become a marja` al-taqlíd to write manuals covering
most common aspects of everyday life (risálih-ye `amaliyyih).
Ever since the founding of the Usuli school by ‘Allamah al-
Hilli and even before that, this question of following (taqlíd) of
a mujtahid has always been somewhat tricky for the Shi`i
religious class. This is because there are several verses in the
Qur’an which forbid following the rulings of others in matters
of religion (Qur’an 33:67-8; 2:170, 5:104-5; 17:36; 21:52-4; 43:22-4). In
deriving its teaching on the matter of mujtahids and muqallids,
the clerics of the Usuli school have interpreted this prohibition
on following another person to refer only to the fundamental
tenets or doctrines of religion (ußúl al-dín). And so belief in
these fundamental doctrines must be the result of each
individual’s own independent investigation and must not be the
result of merely following one’s parents or religious leaders.
With regard to the practices of the religion (furú` al-dín,
subsidiary elements of the religion), the position of the Usuli
school of Twelver Shi`ism is that anyone who is not qualified to
be a mujtahid must follow the rulings of a mujtahid.
In arriving at this position that anyone who is not qualified
to be a mujtahid must follow the rulings of a mujtahid, Shi`i
scholars have used both reason and the Traditions of the
Imams. There is one ˙adíth (Tradition) in particular that the
Shi`i clerics have pointed to in putting forward evidence for
their position that anyone who is not qualified to be a mujtahid
must follow the rulings of a mujtahid. In the following, this
˙adíth is examined in some detail.
The Hadíth concerning Taqlid recorded by the
Eleventh Imam from the Sixth Imam
This important ˙adíth is recorded and commented upon by
almost every important Usuli Shi`i scholar of the last six
hundred years that has written about ijtihád and the concept
that the mujtahids are collectively are the general vicegerent (al-

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

ná'ib al-`amm) of the Hidden Imam and that all other Shi`is
must practice taqlíd of one of them.
This ˙adíth is cited in a controversial work, the commentary
attributed to the eleventh Imam Hasan al-‘Askari. Shi`i scholars
have been divided in their opinions as to whether this book is
genuine or a forgery. Among those prominent scholars who
have considered the work to be genuine are: Ibn Sháhrashub,
Mu˙aqqiq
Karaki,
al-Sháhid
al-Thani,
Fayd-i
Kashani,
Mu˙ammad Baqir Majlisi, Vahid Bihbihani, Shaykh Murtada
Ansari and Ayatu’llah Burujirdi. Among those who have
doubted the authenticity of this book are: ‘Allamah al-Hilli and
Ayatu’llah Khu’i.
Apart from this commentary attributed to the eleventh
Imam, probably the earliest and most authoritative citing of the
˙adíth that we are considering here is in al-Ihtijáj of Ahmad ibn
‘Alí ibn Abí ˇálib al-ˇabarsí (or Tabrisi, of the late fifth/early
sixth Islamic century, late eleventh/early twelfth Gregorian
century). This may be the same individual who is buried in the
shrine of Shaykh ˇabarsí made famous by the siege of the Bábís
there in 1848-1849.2 It appears that the correct pronunciation
is Tabrisi, which is derived from Tabris, the Arabic form of
Tafrish, a small town south-west of Tehran. The Tradition is
from the Eleventh Imam Hasan al-`Askari and he is commenting
on a verse of the Qur'an in which it is written of the Jews:
And some there are of them that are common folk not
knowing the Book, but only fancies and mere
conjectures. [Qur'an 2:77, Arberry translation]
In the text of this ˙adíth as recorded by al-ˇabarsí, Imam
Hasan al-`Askari cites a Tradition from the sixth Imam, Ja`far
aß-Íádiq:
A man said to aß-Íádiq (AS): And if these Jews cannot
understand the Book, they have no alternative except by
means of what they hear from their scholars. So how can

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
they be blamed for their following and accepting what
their scholars tell them. And are the ordinary [illiterate]
Jews any different from our ordinary [illiterate] people
who follow their scholars?
He [Imam aß-Íádiq] (AS) said: Between our ordinary
people and our scholars and the ordinary people of the
Jews and their scholars there is one difference and one
similarity. With regard to the similarity, God blames our
ordinary people for their following (taqlíd) of their
scholars just as He blames their ordinary people. With
regard to the difference He does not.
He [the man] said]: Explain this to us, O descendant of
the Apostle of God.
He [Imam aß-Íádiq said] (AS): The ordinary Jews have
realized that their scholars were quite obviously lying,
they were eating what was forbidden and taking bribes,
they
altered
their
judgments
on
the
basis
of
intercessions, bribes and patronage, they knew them to
be partial in their judgments allowing their personal
likes and prejudices to enter into their rulings and
giving what rightfully belongs to one person to another.
They knew in their hearts that a person who acts in this
manner is corrupt and it is not permissible to follow
them or to accept as being from God or from an
intermediary of God what comes from their mouths.
And their blameworthiness is on account of their
following one whom they knew and understood that it
was not permissible to accept what he said or to act on
his advice. It is obligatory for them to guard themselves
in the cause of the Apostle of God (SAWA) when the
evidence is so clear that it cannot be concealed and so
obvious that it does not need to be explained.
Thus the ordinary Muslims when they know that their
religious leaders are guilty of open corruption,
prejudice, involvement with the dross of this world,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

favoritism towards their own however much they may
be unrighteous, and turning a blind eye towards those
who oppose them however much they may be in the
right. If any ordinary Muslims follow such religious
leaders, then they are like the Jews whom God has
blamed for their following (taqlíd) of the corruption of
their religious leaders. And as for whoever among the
religious legal scholars (fuqahá) guards himself, defends
his faith, opposes his passions and obeys the
commandments of his Lord, it is then the duty of the
ordinary people to follow [or pattern themselves upon
or emulate] him, and this applies to only some of the
Shi`i religious legal scholars not all of them ...3
This Tradition is very long and goes on for another page
after this point, but what we have given is enough for our
purposes. The full Tradition is also given in a few other reliable
sources, such Wasa’il al-Shi`ah4 by al-Hurr al-`Amili, as well as
the Tafsir al-Burhan by Sayyid Hashim Muhaddith al-Bahrani (d.
1107AH)5 and the Bihar al-Anwar of Mu˙ammad Baqir Majlisi.6
However, when this Tradition is being cited by Usuli Shi`i
scholars discussing ijtihad, the division of the believers into
mujtahids and muqallids and the position of marj` at-taqlíd, it
is only one sentence of the long Tradition that interests them
and usually this is all they cite. That sentence is:
whoever among the religious legal scholars guards
himself, defends his faith, opposes his passions and
obeys the commandments of his Lord, it is then
incumbent upon the ordinary people to follow [or
pattern themselves upon or emulate] him.
ًﻓﺄﻣﺎ ﻣﻦ ﻛﺎن ﻣﻦ اﻟﻔﻘﮭﺎء ﺻﺎﺋﻨﺎ ﻟﻨﻔﺴﮫ
ًﺣﺎﻓﻈﺎ ﻟﺪﯾﻨﮫ
ًﻣﺨﺎﻟﻔﺎ ﻋﻠﻰ ھﻮاه
ًﻣﻄﯿﻌﺎ
ﻷﻣﺮ
ﻣﻮﻻه
ّﻓﻠﻠﻌﻮام أن ﯾﻘﻠ
ﺪوه
The reason this sentence is so interesting for these scholars is
the last word that that sentence. The last phrase in the sentence

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
reads: fa li 'l-awwám an yaqalladunúhu. The importance of this
Tradition for the Usuli Shi`i scholars is in the word
yaqalladunúhu, which comes from the same second form of the
same root Q-L-D as the word taqlíd and muqallid as used
above. Thus the Usuli scholars argue that this Tradition is
imposing upon the ordinary Shi`is the obligation to practice
taqlíd of the mujtahids.
The importance of this ˙adíth is that, according to
Ayatu’llah al-Uzma Shaykh Ja`far Subhani, who is an important
contemporary teacher at Qumm, it is the only ˙adíth in which a
word from this root is used with a meaning that instructs the
Shi`is to emulate one of the `ulamá:
If you were to say: “Is the term “taqlíd” mentioned as a
subject [in any texts that can be used as an evidential
source] for legal rulings, so that we should — before all
else — exert an effort to determine its meaning?
I would say: The term “taqlíd” only occurs in the text of
the ˙adíth narrated in the tafsír attributed to Imam al-
’Askari where he relates on the authority of him [Imam
Ja`far al-Sadiq] after some words concerning corrupt
`ulamá: “And as for the religious legal scholars
(fuqahá)….7
However, Subhani goes on to point out that Shaykh
Mu˙ammad al-Hurr al-`Amili, whose narration of this Tradition
he has used and who is a member of the opposing Akhbari
school of jurisprudence, states that this Tradition should not be
relied upon as it is “weak”, being a “khabar wáhid mursil” (a
tradition with only one chain of transmission), and he further
comments that in any case it does not give any authority to
ijtihad (exerting oneself to come to a legal ruling), ray’ (legal
opinion) and zann (legal conjecture) — these being elements of
the methodology of the Usuli school.8
Many other Usuli scholars have used this ˙adíth in their
discussion of taqlíd. For example, Shaykh Murtada al-Ansari,

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

the most prominent Shi`i cleric in the time of Bahá’u’lláh, uses
in it writing of the permissibility and necessity of following
(taqlíd) of a faqíh.9 It is also in connection with this question of
the permissibility of taqlíd that Khomeini uses this ˙adíth in
Tahdhib al-Usul, a record of his discussions with his senior
students (see below).
This ˙adíth has also been pulled into the discussions over the
doctrine of Viláyat-i Faqíh (Rule by the Religious Legal Scholar)
propounded by Ayatu’llah Khomeini. Sayyid ‘Abdu’l-Óusayn
Lari, who was a fiercely conservative cleric who came to power
in the region south of Shiraz during the turbulent period after
the Constitutional Revolution and instituted a persecution of
the Bahá’ís that resulted in the Third Nayriz Upheaval in 1909
with the death of 18 Bahá’ís, cites this ˙adíth as evidence for
the role of the cleric in political affairs. Recent publications
have even credited him with using the term “viláyát-i faqíh” in
his interpretation of this ˙adíth. In an article in the 14th volume
(2011-2012) of the periodical Political Sciences published by the
Office of Islamic Propagation of the Qumm Seminary, there is
an article by Akhtar Shahr ‘Alí with the title “Viláyát-i Faqíh
from the viewpoint of Sayyid ‘Abdu’l-Óusayn Lari,” in which
the author writes:
Ayatu’llah Lari considers the “Viláyát-i Faqíh” to be the
regulator of all affairs and for all laws, parliaments and
consultative councils to be conditional upon it. For the
removal of the obstacles to the implementation of the
Divine laws that occurred during the Constitutional
Revolution and as a counter to the deviation of the
Constitutional Movement towards the West, he asserts
that this principle [the viláyát-i-faqíh) is the guarantor
overall for all intellectual and practical matters. He has
said:
The overall guarantor and what brings together the
intellectual and practical aspects of national affairs
and removes active obstacles is the Vilayat-i Faqih,

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
the weightiness of which we can understand from
the valuable commentary of Imam Hasan ‘Askari:
“And as for the religious legal scholars (fuqahá), he
must guard himself ...”10
The author gives the reference for this quotation from Lari
as
being
the
latter’s
treatise:
“Qanún-i
Mashrutah-yi
Mashru`ah.” However, if one looks at this treatise as published
in 1374/1995 in a compilation of treatises about the
Constitutional Revolution, sixteen years before Akhtar Sháhr
‘Alí’s article, one finds this quotation but without any use of
the term “viláyát-i faqíh”:
The overall guarantor and what brings together the
intellectual and practical aspects of national affairs and
removes (faqd) active obstacles are the words in the
commentary of al-`Askari: “And as for the religious legal
scholars (fuqahá), he must guard himself ...”11
That this should be case is no surprise to those who have
observed 35 years of forgery and deceit regarding the Bahá’í
Faith that appears to be the standard for scholarship in Iran
since the Islamic Revolution.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Interpretation of the Tradition
of the Sixth and Eleventh Imams
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also noted and took a great interest in this
same Tradition of the Sixth Imam recorded by the Eleventh
Imam. And furthermore he was interested in exactly the same
sentence in this long ˙adíth as the one that the Shi`i clerics
focused on.
In Secret of Divine Civilization, after writing about the
learned (`ulamá) who “walk the straight pathway and are versed
in the secrets of divine wisdom and informed of the inner
realities of the sacred Books; who wear in their hearts the jewel
of the fear of God, and whose luminous faces shine with the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

lights of salvation” and stating that these are “lamps of
guidance among the nations, and stars of good fortune shining
from the horizons of humankind … [the] fountains of life for
such as lie in the death of ignorance and unawareness, and clear
springs of perfections for those who thirst and wander in the
wasteland of their defects and errors … [t]hey are skilled
physicians for the ailing body of the world, they are the sure
antidote to the poison that has corrupted human society” [SDC
32-33], ‘Abdu’l-Bahá goes on to state “For everything, however,
God has created a sign and symbol, and established standards
and tests by which it may be known.” He then says that the
learned (`ulamá) must:
be
characterized
by
both
inward
and
outward
perfections; they must possess a good character, an
enlightened nature, a pure intent, as well as intellectual
power, brilliance and discernment, intuition, discretion
and foresight, temperance, reverence, and a heartfelt
fear of God. [SDC 33-34]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then seeks to define who can truly be regarded
as being one of these learned that he has described in such
glowing terms. It is in doing this that quotes the ˙adíth that we
are considering in this paper:
An authoritative Tradition states: “As for him who is
one of the learned: he must guard himself, defend his
faith, oppose his passions and obey the commandments
of his Lord; it is then the duty of the people to pattern
themselves after him.” [SDC 34]
و ًاﻣّﺎ ﻣﻦ ﮐﺎن ﻣﻦ اﻟﻌﻠﻤﺂء ﺻﺎﺋﻨﺎً ﻟﻨﻔﺴﮫ و ﺣﺎﻓﻈﺎً ﻟﺪﯾﻨﮫ و ﻣﺨﺎﻟﻔﺎً ﻟﮭﻮاه و ﻣﻄﯿﻌﺎ
ﻷﻣﺮ ﻣﻮﻻه ﻓﻠﻠﻌﻮام ان ﯾﻘﻠّﺪوه
The only substantive difference between the form of this
˙adíth as quoted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the form quoted by most
of the Shi`i scholars is that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes: “As for him
who is one of the learned (al-`ulamá) …,” while the form of the

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
˙adíth used by most Shi`i scholars states: “As for him who is
one of the religious legal scholars (al-fuqahá).” However the
form cited by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is not unknown in Shi`i books.
Shaykh Murtada al-Ansari, who as noted above quotes this
˙adíth with al-fuqahá, elsewhere in the book quotes a shortened
form of this ˙adíth using al-`ulamá: “As for him who is one of
the learned (al-`ulamá) and defends his faith, it is then the duty
of the people to pattern themselves after him.”12
So important does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá consider this ˙adíth that he
then devotes the next 65 pages (in the English translation of the
book) to a detailed consideration and interpretation of this
˙adíth. In other words, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spends over one half (65
of the 116 pages of the English translation) of one of only a
few books that he wrote examining this ˙adíth. He analyzes the
˙adíth phrase by phrase in great detail:
o pp. 34-40: “guard himself” — which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá takes to
mean “to acquire spiritual and material perfections.” He
then enumerates what he means by “perfections.” The first
of these perfections is “learning.” In expanding on the
learning that should be acquired, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá goes beyond
the learning traditionally acquired by the Islamic scholars.
To the usual branches of Islamic learning such as “a
thorough knowledge of those complex and transcendental
realities pertaining to God, of the fundamental truths of
Qur’ánic political and religious law,” he adds: “the contents
of the sacred Scriptures of other faiths, and of those
regulations and procedures which would contribute to the
progress and civilization of this distinguished country” as
well as “the laws and principles, the customs, conditions and
manners, and the material and moral virtues characterizing
the statecraft of other nations, and should be well versed in
all the useful branches of learning of the day, and study the
historical records of bygone governments and peoples” [SDC
35]. He then makes a diversion in a matter of pressing
concern: the need to establish a uniform code of law (the
Islamic scholars were used to giving varying judgements

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

according to their own understanding and this caused a
chaotic situation within the country as litigants sought out a
scholar who would rule in their favour). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then
goes on to list a large number of other “perfections, such as
justice and impartiality, sincerity and purity of purpose, to
fear God, to love God by loving His servants, to exercise
mildness and forbearance” [SDC 39-40].
o pp. 41-59: “defend his faith” — which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá takes to
mean that rather than just observing the outward forms,
observances and laws of the religion, every effort should be
made to promote and advance the Word of God. However,
the Word of God should be spread not by the sword, but by
words and in particular by deeds, living a life that attracts
others to your faith.
o pp. 59-71: “opposes his passions” — which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
regards as the “the very foundation of every laudable human
quality; indeed, these few words embody the light of the
world, the impregnable basis of all the spiritual attributes of
human beings. This is the balance wheel of all behavior, the
means of keeping all man's good qualities in equilibrium
[SDC 59]. This is the reason that he condemns the peoples of
Europe as drowning “in this terrifying sea of passion and
desire” and “morally uncivilized” [SDC 60, 63]. He calls for a
general peace conference at which binding treaties will be
made and mutual security established.
o pp. 71-99: “ obedience to the commandments of his Lord” —
here ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes that “that man's highest distinction
is to be lowly before and obedient to his God; that his
greatest glory, his most exalted rank and honor, depend on
his close observance of the Divine commands and
prohibitions. Religion is the light of the world, and the
progress, achievement, and happiness of man result from
obedience to the laws set down in the holy Books. Briefly, it
is demonstrable that in this life, both outwardly and
inwardly the mightiest of structures, the most solidly

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
established, the most enduring, standing guard over the
world, assuring both the spiritual and the material
perfections of mankind, and protecting the happiness and
the civilization of society — is religion” [SDC 71-72]. In this
section he refutes the opinions of writers like Voltaire who
repudiated religion and by a brief historical survey seeks to
establish that religion is the cause of the honour and
elevation of humanity and when religion is cast aside,
disunity and degradation follows.
Contested Interpretations
It is interesting then that the Shi`i Islamic scholars and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá both attach great importance to this ˙adíth and
that furthermore they single out the same sentence in that
˙adíth for their special consideration. What is even more
remarkable is that their interpretations of this one sentence are
so completely different that one would think they were
examining two completely different ˙adíth.
The Shi`i scholars look at the sentence and see only the
beginning and they end: “And as for whoever among the
religious legal scholars (fuqahá) ... it is then the duty of the
ordinary people to pattern themselves upon him.” They take for
granted and without discussion that the Shi`i scholars will fulfill
the requirements of the middle of the sentence: “guards himself,
defends his faith, opposes his passions and obeys the
commandments of his Lord.” All of their concern is to argue
that this ˙adíth makes it incumbent upon the ordinary Shi`is to
follow or pattern themselves upon the religious legal scholars —
the mujtahids. It gives authority for the doctrine of taqlíd and
for the division of the Shi`is into mujtahids and muqallids.
Incidentally, the only one of the Shi`i clerics that pays any
attention to the middle part of this sentence and to the context
of the Tradition as a whole is Ayatu’llah Khomeini, and this he
does for a political purpose. In Tahdhib al-Usul, a collection of
the debates that he had with his senior students, he refers to the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

middle section of this ˙adíth in making the point that the
purpose of the central part of this passage is that the fuqahá
that a person should refer to should not be one of the corrupt
fuqahá, by which he means those clerics who surrounded and
supported the Pahlavi court.13
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the other hand more or less ignores the
beginning and end of this sentence which the Shi`i scholars find
so important. His focus is on the middle of the sentence the
four phrases: “he must guard himself, defend his faith, oppose
his passions and obey the commandments of his Lord.” He uses
this ˙adíth as a framework within which to expound upon the
necessary spiritual qualities that the individuals must attain in
order to allow their society and indeed civilization to progress.
The emphasis is therefore on ethics and spiritual development
rather than religious law. Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, once he has
launched his theme in the first page or so, entirely overlooks
any idea that this sentence is about religious scholars and
addresses it to all humanity, and to statesmen and rulers in
particular. The examples he uses and the stories he tells in these
65 pages are almost all about ordinary people rather than
religious scholars. He is of course helped in this by the fact that
he is using the version of this ˙adíth that has the word “`ulamá”
rather than “fuqahá.” The word “`ulamá” means someone who
has knowledge — the learned. Although in present-day usage it
relates almost exclusively to Islamic religious scholars, in
former times, it was used more widely of philosophers,
scientists, physicians and learned statesmen. Indeed in the
Safavid period, there was a cadre of people who had undergone
religious training and who then went on to take up important
position in the government, whom Said Amir Arjomand calls
the “clerical estate.”14
One could argue that if one takes the contested sentence in
its context, then probably ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s interpretation is
closer to the original meaning. For the ˙adíth taken as a whole
is not about establishing a station for religious scholars. It is
about ethics. It criticizes the Jewish people for following their

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini
religious leaders despite knowing full well how corrupt they
were and states that the Islamic community should be different
and its religious leaders should maintain high ethical standards.
Thus ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s detailed analysis of the ethics of the four
central phrases of the sentence is probably more in line with the
intent of the ˙adíth taken as a whole than the Shi`i scholars use
of the ˙adíth to justify taqlíd. Where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá departs even
more significantly from the religion of the Islamic scholars and
establishes a new pattern for the Bahá’í community is in the
manner in which the learning of the Islamic scholars is set aside
as a criterion for someone to be “referred to as learned” and
“worthy to serve as a model for the believers” but rather the
“divine qualifications” outlined in the four central phrases of
this Tradition are to be the criteria for the Bahá’í community
and these criteria are open to all believers not a religious
professional class. [SDC 34]
It should be noted that Bahá’u’lláh also quotes and comments
on this same Islamic Tradition in the Law˙-i Sul†án, the Tablet
to Náßiru’d-Dín Sháh, in the course of writing about the
accusations made against Him by the religious leaders of Iran:
Concerning the prerequisites of the learned, He saith:
“Whoso among the learned guardeth his self, defendeth
his faith, opposeth his desires, and obeyeth his Lord's
command, it is incumbent upon the generality of the
people to pattern themselves after him....” Should the
King of the Age reflect upon this utterance which hath
streamed from the tongue of Him Who is the Dayspring
of the Revelation of the All-Merciful, he would perceive
that those who have been adorned with the attributes
enumerated in this holy Tradition are scarcer than the
philosopher's stone; wherefore not every man that layeth
claim to knowledge deserveth to be believed. [SLH 118]

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Ahmad al-ˇabarsí, ed. Sayyid Mu˙ammad Baqir al-Kharsan. al-Ihtijaj,
vol. 2. Najaf: Dar al-Nu`man (1386/1966).
Ar-Rasá’il al-Arba`ah, vol. 3. Online at lib.eshia.ir/26502/3/122.
Arjomand, Said. The Shadow of God and the Hidden Imam. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press (1984).
Browne, E.G. Year Amongst the Persians, A. London: A. & C. Black,
3rd edn. (1950).
Khomeini, ed. Shaykh Ja‘far Subhani. Tahdhib al-Usul: taqrir bahth
Sayyid Ruhu’llah Khumayni, vol. 2. Qum: Mu’assisah al-Nashr al-
Islami (1405 AHQ/1363 AHS/1985).
Lane, Edward William. Lane's Lexicon. London: Williams and
Northgate (1863).
Lari, ed. Ghulam-Óusayn Zargari-nizhad. “Qanún-i Mashrutah-yi
Mashru`ah,” in Rasa’il Mashrutiyyat. Tehran: Kavir (1377).
Ma†ari˙ al-Anz.ár fiʼl-Ußúl. lithograph edition, Tehran: n.p. (1308).
Online at dlib.ical.ir/site/catalogue/556787 and
lib.eshia.ir/13108/1/2/290
Markaz al-Tabá`ah wa l-Nashr fi Mu’assasah al-Ba`thah. al-Burhan fi
Tafsir al-Qur’an, vol. 1 (1410 A.H./1989-90).
Mu'assasah al-Wafa. Bihar al-Anwar, Book 2, 2nd printing. Beirut (1304).
‘Ulum Siyasi, vol. 14 (1390/2011).
Wasa’il al-Shi`ah, vol. 27. Qumm: Mu’assasah Ál-al-Bayt.

NOTES
1 Lane's Lexicon, Book 1, London: Williams and Northgate, 1863, p. 2557,
middle column.
2 E.G. Browne during his visit to the shrine records the name as inscribed in
the shrine as Ahmad ibn Abi ˇálib ˇabarsí, Year among the Persians
(London: A. And C. Black, 3rd edn. 1950), p. 617.
3 Ahmad al-ˇabarsí, al-Ihtijaj (ed. Sayyid Mu˙ammad Baqir al-Kharsan), vol.
2, Najaf: Dar al-Nu`man, 1386/1966, p. 263-4
4 Wasa’il al-Shi`ah, Qumm: Mu’assasah Ál-al-Bayt, vol. 27, p. 131-2

Commentary by Ayatu’llah Khomeini

5 al-Burhan fi Tafsir al-Qur’an, Markaz al-Tabá`ah wa l-Nashr fi Mu’assasah
al-Ba`thah, 1410 A.H./1989-90, vol. 1, pp. 256-8.
6 Bihar al-Anwar, Book 2, 2nd printing, Beirut: Mu'assasah al-Wafa, 1304,
pp. 87-88. Other sources for much of this long Tradition are: Sayyid Taqi
Tabataba'i Qummi, Mabání Minháj al-Salihin. Vol. 1, p. 32
7 Ar-Rasá’il al-Arba`ah, vol. 3, p. 122, available at lib.eshia.ir/26502/3/122.
8 Wasa’il al-Shi`ah, Qumm: Mu’assasah Ál-al-Bayt, vol. 27, pp. 131-2
9 Ma†ari˙ al-Anz.ár fi ʼl-Ußúl, (lithograph edition, Tehran: n.p., 1308) p. 290;
online at: dlib.ical.ir/site/catalogue/556787 and
lib.eshia.ir/13108/1/2/290
10 `Ulum Siyasi, vol. 14 (1390/2011), p. 7
11 Lari, “Qanún-i Mashrutah-yi Mashru`ah” in Rasa’il Mashrutiyyat (ed.
Ghulam-Óusayn Zargari-nizhad), Tehran: Kavir, 2nd printing 1377, p. 396
12 Ma†ari˙ al-Anz.ár fi  l-Usul, (lithograph edition, Tehran: n.p., 1308) p. 275;
online at: dlib.ical.ir/site/catalogue/556787 and
lib.eshia.ir/13108/1/275/
13 Khomeini, Tahdhib al-Usul: taqrir bahth Sayyid Ruhu’llah Khumayni (ed.
Shaykh Ja‘far Subhani), Qum: Mu’assisah al-Nashr al-Islami, 1405
AHQ/1363 AHS/1985, vol. 2, p. 556
14 Arjomand, The Shadow of God and the Hidden Imam, Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 1984, passim, see in index under “sayyids”.

In the Presence of the Beloved:
Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
A Revised Provisional Translation and Notes
Nima Rafiei
One of the central tenets of previous religions is the promise
of attainment unto the presence of the Lord on the Day of
Judgment for the faithful believers. Within the Islamic
dispensation in the Arabic text of the Qur’án, the term liqá’
and its various derivatives indicates the promise of attainment
unto the presence and meeting with the Lord. There is
indication in some of the sacred scriptures of the past that
attainment unto the presence and meeting the chosen prophets
and messengers of God is considered the same as that of God.
How significant, therefore, that during the lifetime of
Bahá’u’lláh so many of His devoted and ardent followers
tarried and journeyed long distances to see only a glimpse of
Him from afar. Bahá’u’lláh has fundamentally transformed the
concept of attainment unto the divine presence in His
Revelation. He has written a fascinating and lucid epistle,
referred to in this paper as the Law˙-i-Liqá’, in which He
unequivocally states that reading it is equivalent to being in His
presence. In this paper, we will briefly introduce the Islamic

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

background
of
liqá’,
compare
Shí‘ih
and
Bábí-Bahá’í
interpretations of attaining the liqá, and we will demonstrate
that the writings of Bahá’u’lláh infuse and transform the
concept of attaining the divine presence to manifold events
including being in the presence of God’s prophets, messengers
and manifestations, reading the divinely revealed scriptures,
and undertaking service to mankind with detachment and pure,
spiritual motivation.
The title Law˙-i-Liqá’ or “Tablet of the Divine Presence” has
been supplied by the renowned Bahá’í author and scholar,
‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-Khávarí (1902-1972) in his extensive
compilation on the writings of the Central Figures, Má’idiy-i
Ásmání (vol. 8).1 For the purposes of this study, the same title
will continue to be used. Additionally, the opening of the same
tablet is quoted and reproduced by Fá∂il Mázandarání (1882-
1957) in the fifth volume of his book, Asráru’l-Áthár.2 The text
of the tablet has been published in the first volume of the
Áthár-i-Qalam-i A’lá series, also known as the Kitáb-i-Mubín,3
and is based on a copy in the handwriting of the renowned
scribe
and
devoted
follower
of
Bahá’u’lláh,
Zaynu’l-
Muqarrabín.4 Although there is a minor typographical error in
the latter version, the Research Department at the Bahá’í World
Centre has provided the authentic text of this tablet for the
purposes of this translation and study.5 Additionally, the
Research Department at the Bahá’í World Centre has reported
that neither the biographical information on the date and
location of the revelation of the Law˙-i-Liqá’ or the identity of
its intended recipients is not known at this time.6 Before
exploring the text of the tablet in question, we will discuss the
Islamic background of the term and phenomenon of liqá’.
Liqá’ in Islamic sources
While this is not intended to be a thoroughly comprehensive
survey, it will serve the purpose of this study well to provide
some brief context on the liqá’ from Islamic sources. The word

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
liqá’ occurs in more than twenty passages in the text of the
Qur’án. In most of these instances, it is translated as “meeting”
in English to indicate the anticipated meeting with the Lord on
the day of Resurrection. In a comprehensive encyclopedia on
the Qur’án written by Bahá’u’d-Dín Khurramsháhí, he has
provided a thorough and detailed list of the various verb forms
and definitions of the word liqá’; most occurrences of the word
liqá’ and its various derivations indicate a physical meeting
between two persons. He identifies several instances where liqá’
is used, such as “Lost are they who deny the meeting with God
until ‘the Hour’ cometh suddenly upon them! …” [Qur’án 6:31],
and “But as for those who shall not have believed, but treated
our signs and the meeting of the next life as lies, they shall be
given over to the torment” [Qur’án 30:16], and also in this passage
“Taste then the recompense of your having forgotten the
meeting with this your day. We, too, we have forgotten you:
taste then an eternal punishment for that which ye have
wrought…” [Qur’án 32:14].7 Dr. Khurramsháhí has also mentioned
that various interpretations of the liqá’ may occur in a
figurative sense in referring to inspiration experienced by
individuals.8 Ishráq Khávarí has also quoted from and supplied
various passages of the Qur’án and Shí‘ih ˙adíth sources
regarding the liqá’ in his Qámús-i-ˆqán.9 He demonstrates that
throughout history, the various commentators on the Qur’án
have had various interpretations of the meaning of liqá’, with
some quoting verses such as 7:143, in which God tells Moses
that He will never see Him to mean that the liqá’ is likely
figurative and not literal, whereas verses from the Súrih of
Qíyámah have been quoted to suggest that it is a literal event:
“On that day shall faces beam with light, Out looking towards
their Lord…” [Qur’án 75: 22-23].10

It would be beneficial and perhaps better serving the interest
of the reader to briefly present a contemporary Shí‘ih
viewpoint and understanding of the liqá’u’lláh in order to
compare and contrast with statements in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh. In this space we can refer to one of the writings of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Áyat’ulláh Khumayní, the leader of the Islamic revolution of
1979. In one of his books, Áyat’ulláh Khumayní compiled and
interpreted forty ˙adíths of the Imáms and the Prophet
Mu˙ammad.
The
twenty-eighth
quotation
supplied
by
Khumayní is attributed to the sixth Imám, Ja‘far aß-Íádiq,
whereupon when Imám Ja‘far was asked if God loves to meet
those souls who are longing to meet Him, he replied that God
too is longing to meet them. The tradition goes on to report
that should one dislike the meeting with God, He in turn
dislikes having to meet such a soul at the time of his or her
death. Khumayní provides his discourse on various aspects of
the tradition, not all of which are directly relevant here, but he
does make some comments reflecting his attitude and
understanding of the liqá’ and meeting God. He carries out his
interpretation as an indirect criticism of Ṣúfí and mystical
thought.

Khumayní mentions in one instance “some” of the ‘ulamá
have blocked the path of the liqá’u’lláh and deny the possibility
to directly experience the “revelations of the Divine Names and
Essence.”11 He begins by saying that although it is not far-
fetched to conceive such a viewpoint, it is hard to maintain and
becomes implausible when it is compared with other Qur’ánic
verses and texts. He then later turns his attention to
highlighting the position of “those who have kept open the path
of liqá’u’lláh” (possibly a reference to mainstream ‘Ußúlí Shí‘ih
‘ulamá); that this path has been kept open by “…the
impossibility of fathoming the Divine mystery through
universal knowledge (‘ilm al-kulli) and by the means of rational
thought and the impossibility of encompassing It in mystic
experience (‘Irfán al-shuhúdi) and by the means of esoteric
insight.”12 From this point on, Khumayní directs his criticism at
those who claim “the luminous veil of the Names and the
Attributes” can also be removed, whereupon they attain and
imagine themselves close to the Essence of God. Khumayní
argues that since humanity, in its natural state, is “entrapped in
the dark veils of corporeal nature and entangled in the chains of

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
petty hopes and expectations…and should we come across a man
of vision and someone with a heart who attempts to lift the
curtain from these veils, we consider it an error and affront…”13
it is therefore unimaginable for human beings to be capable of
such spiritual transcendence from what he terms the realm of
“mulk” or “earthly possession.” He later clearly states, “Hence,
the way to God-seeking is that one should at the outset devote
his time to the remembrance of God and acquire the knowledge
of God and the Names and Attributes of that Sacred Essence,
the usual way from the adept (masháyikh [shaykhs]) of that
science.”14 Khumayní further writes that if one does not learn
the “theoretical and practical exercises and austerities” or is
“not familiar with learned jargon” then he cannot occupy
himself with remembrance of the Beloved.15 It appears,
therefore, that Khumayní’s interpretation of attainment unto
the divine presence is multi-fold and restrictive to specific
criteria; namely, that individuals are only able, upon both
seeking and acting upon the knowledge of God through well-
learned clergy, and acquiring a working knowledge and
understanding of theological practices and highly-specific
terminology and concepts, to properly carry out the
remembrance (dhikr) of God. With this in mind, we see that the
Bahá’í writings and Khumayní’s interpretations of attaining
unto and understanding the divine presence are clearly
different, as Bahá’u’lláh has ordained that the individual should
engage in the search for spiritual truth, detached and un-
influenced by old sciences and methods and standards of
religious learning acquired from men.16
Liqá’ in the writings of The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh
The Báb gives an interpretation and discourse on attaining
the divine presence within the text of His weightiest book, the
Persian Bayán. In the seventh chapter of the third unit of the
Persian Bayán, The Báb makes some fundamental statements:
first with the opening Arabic verse of the chapter in which He
states that the intended meaning of liqá’u’lláh is the attainment

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

of the presence of Him Whom God shall make manifest (Man
Yuẓhirihu’lláh) as none can ever see God in His essence,
secondly that the whole of creation hath naught been brought
into being save for the attainment unto the presence or meeting
with God, and lastly that all who have sought and attained the
presence of Him Whom God shall make manifest, have attained
unto the divine presence of the Lord.17 With this interpretive
framework in mind, it is important to note that the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán written by Bahá’u’lláh is considered by Bahá’ís as the
completion of The Báb’s Persian Bayán. Within the text of the
ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh also interprets and defines the meaning of
liqá’. He brings forward some of the main verses of the Qur’án
which mention liqá’ and gives commentary on their true
meaning in Persian within a few pages. The passages include:
“They who bear in mind that they shall attain unto the Presence
of their Lord, and that unto Him they shall return,”18 and “Let
him then who hopeth to attain the presence of his Lord work a
righteous work.”19 He writes in summary:
The knowledge of Him, Who is the Origin of all things,
and attainment unto Him, are impossible save through
knowledge of, and attainment unto, these luminous
Beings who proceed from the Sun of Truth. By
attaining, therefore, to the presence of these holy
Luminaries, the ‘Presence of God’ Himself is attained.
From their knowledge, the knowledge of God is
revealed, and from the light of their countenance, the
splendour of the Face of God is made manifest. [KI 131]
In the following passage, He also states:
Therefore, whosoever, and in whatever Dispensation,
hath recognized and attained unto the presence of these
glorious,
these
resplendent
and
most
excellent
Luminaries, hath verily attained unto the ‘Presence of
God’ Himself, and entered the city of eternal and
immortal life. Attainment unto such presence is possible

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
only in the Day of Resurrection, which is the Day of the
rise of God Himself through His all-embracing
Revelation. [KI 131-132]
Elsewhere, Bahá’u’lláh affirms this same definition in His
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf:
In all the Divine Books the promise of the Divine
Presence hath been explicitly recorded. By this Presence
is meant the Presence of Him Who is the Dayspring of
the signs, and the Dawning-Place of the clear tokens,
and the Manifestation of the Excellent Names, and the
Source of the attributes, of the true God, exalted be His
glory. God in His Essence and in His own Self hath ever
been unseen, inaccessible, and unknowable. By Presence,
therefore, is meant the Presence of the One Who is His
Vicegerent amongst men… [ESW 118]
The same passage has been quoted by Fá∂il Mázandarání in the
second volume of his compilation, Amr va Khalq, although it is
attributed to the ˆqán.20 In another instance, the Tablet of
Visitation recited at the Shrines of Bahá’u’lláh and The Báb
refer to the divine presence: “I bear witness that he who hath
known Thee hath known God, and he who hath attained unto
Thy presence hath attained unto the presence of God” [BP 231].
Here we see clearly that Bahá’u’lláh confirms and expands upon
what The Báb has written in the Bayán.
It is important to note that beyond the Kitáb-i-ˆqán,
however, Bahá’u’lláh has created additional definitions or
realizations of the liqá’ in some of His other writings. They
indicate the necessity to be a sincere seeker of truth and
highlight the relationship between the individual believer and
the divinely revealed text. Please note that the following
selections of Bahá’u’lláh’s other writings do not have matching
authoritative or authorized translations at this time and are
purely provisional in nature. Bahá’u’lláh has written in a tablet
revealed in both Arabic and Persian: “…This is an epistle from

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Us unto whomsoever among mankind offereth up worship, that
it may enchant and draw him nigh unto the sanctified Seat of
reunion and Our presence…”21 It is important to note the
similarity and closeness between the opening verse of this tablet
and the Law˙-i-Liqá’. Both here and in the Law˙-i-Liqá’,
Bahá’u’lláh has made it possible for the reader to attain unto
the divine presence by reading and interacting with the sacred
verses with faith and sincerity. Thus, the recitation and reading
of the words of Bahá’u’lláh becomes a means by which we
attain the presence of God. Beyond reading of the text,
Bahá’u’lláh has provided another means for humanity to attain
the liqá’.
In a Persian tablet, Bahá’u’lláh affirms almost verbatim what
The Báb has written in the Persian Bayán regarding the
liqá’u’lláh: that humanity and the larger creation have not been
brought into existence save for the purpose of attaining the
presence of the Lord. What is significant about this particular
Tablet is that near its conclusion Bahá’u’lláh states that
whosoever abides by and clings unto the laws and ordinances of
God and the Kitáb-i-Aqdas will be reckoned as those who have
attained His presence.22 One may conclude, in conjunction with
this and other writings, that Bahá’u’lláh has defined the
liqá’u’lláh in the light of faithful adherence to both the sacred
text and the ordinances contained therein. Furthermore, Fá∂il
Mázandarání has quoted a brief excerpt in Persian from the
fourth volume of his Amr va Khalq where Bahá’u’lláh states
that one who is engaged in devoted service to the Faith in the
days of God will be considered as one who has attained His
presence.23 In addition to these previous passages, there is a
tablet addressed to Samandar24 where Bahá’u’lláh also speaks of
the death of the physical body and the passing away from this
earthly existence as the “gate” before attaining the presence of
God and the means by which re-union with Him is achieved.25

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
Additional Passages from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh
The selections previously quoted from the Kitáb-i-ˆqán and
the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf indicates the spiritual
authority and sovereignty inherent in each of the divine
manifestations of God. With this same spiritual, immaterial
sovereignty, the Manifestations of God may also determine and
judge if an individual human being has fulfilled and attained the
liqá’. In other tablets and writings to individual believers,
Bahá’u’lláh exercises the authority to confirm the recipients as
having fulfilled and attained unto the divine presence. For
example, in a tablet addressed to an individual named Zayn,
Bahá’u’lláh addresses him as such: “O Zayn! The friends seek the
divine presence and so doth God, magnified be His glory!…We
beseech God that He aid His chosen ones with the bounty of
forbearance, or perchance He may vouchsafe for them the
recompense of attaining His presence, He verily is the All-
Powerful, the Almighty!”26 Note the first part of this quote,
that both the believers and God desire that they should meet
Him and attain His presence; this reads very closely to the
˙adíth attributed to the sixth Imám, Ja‘far aß-Ṣádiq, quoted
earlier in this paper, that if one desires and longs for the
meeting with God, God also desires for that individual to attain
His presence.
In a tablet addressed to Aba’l-Óasan, Bahá’u’lláh lauds and
praises him for having heard and read the divine verses and
further counsels him not to be saddened by his separation from
His presence, as the Pen of the Most-Ancient has recorded
Aba’l-Óasan as having been granted the recompense of
attaining His presence.27 Likewise, in a tablet addressed to an
individual named Ra˙ím, Bahá’u’lláh offers praise and blessings
to Ra˙ím for his desire to attain the presence of “the Almighty,
the Best-Beloved,” and further counsels him to not be saddened
by his remoteness from Bahá’u’lláh, as power rests and has
rested with and will always remain in the hand of God, and that

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

should God will or desire; He will bestow the recompense of the
liqá’.28 Further to the above mentioned tablets to Zayn and
Aba’l-Óasan, there are two additional fascinating passages,
both very similar to each other, in which Bahá’u’lláh creates a
meaningful imagery of the divinely revealed verses of God as
the means by which the individual may see God, thus implying
one’s attainment to God’s presence and beholding His
appearance. In referring to the revelation of divine verses,
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Say: ‘O people of the earth! Equate ye not the creation
of the verses of God with the creation of any given
thing, nor its appearance with the appearance of other
things, if ye understand. Verily it is, in its essence, the
mirror of God among all of the worlds, and verily it
recounteth God and His excellent names, and by it ye
are verily guided unto the Straight Path. Through it, God
hath created all that hath been and all that is to be.’29
Passages from the writings and talks of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
The following statements from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá may be
understood as further elucidation on the liqá’, and in some
instances, confirmation or clarification of what Bahá’u’lláh has
written. The following three passages are currently published
and available in Persian, these translations are also purely
provisional.
Recall that Bahá’u’lláh defines both earnest service and
sincere investigation and belief in the sacred texts as instances
wherein human beings may attain the presence of God. The
following
passages
clearly
re-iterate
and
affirm
what
Bahá’u’lláh has written. Ishráq-Khávarí has published a small
excerpt in Persian from a Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, wherein He
states, “O thou who art certain of God! By liqá’ is meant belief
in the signs of God…as bodily nearness is of no import, drawing

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
near [unto God’s presence] is in faith and certitude….”30
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has also written in a similar passage, “…by
nearness (qurbíyyat) [to the divine presence] is meant that of
the spirit, not the body…in light of this it is hoped that you may
draw nigh [unto God’s presence] in every way.”31 Furthermore,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also affirms Bahá’u’lláh’s statements about
service to the Cause of God as having fulfilled attainment unto
His presence, “…the reality of ‘drawing near’ [unto God] is
steadfastness in the religion of God, service to His Cause, and
offering worship to the divine court of oneness…”32
Elsewhere, we read in Foundations of World Unity:
Praise be to God! you have heard the call of the
Kingdom. Your eyes are opened; you have turned to
God. Your purpose is the good-pleasure of God, the
understanding of the mysteries of the heart and
investigation of the realities. Day and night you must
strive that you may attain to the significances of the
heavenly kingdom, perceive the signs of divinity,
acquire certainty of knowledge and realize that this
world has a creator, a vivifier, a provider, an
architect…In this way may you behold the presence of
God and attain to the knowledge of the holy, divine
Manifestations. [FWU 65]
In one of His talks delivered in New York in 1912, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá refers to the members of Mr. Kinney’s Bible class as those
who desire to approach the presence of God and subsequently
counsels them in words similar to those found in Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings: “It is my hope that you may put forth your most
earnest endeavor to accomplish this end, that you may
investigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that
you may attain knowledge of the mysteries hidden therein. Be
not satisfied with words, but seek to understand the spiritual
meanings hidden in the heart of the words…” [PUP 459]. It is
evident from the above passages that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

confirms and in some instances offers some clarification on the
meaning behind the liqá’.
Kawthar and Liqá’
A similar interpretative mechanism has been applied to other
concepts and constructs in the Bahá’í writings. We will provide
one example of an Islamic metaphysical construct employed in
the writings of The Báb. In one of the major works of The Báb,
the Commentary on the Súrih of Kawthar (Tafsír Súriyih
Kawthar), written for Siyyid Ya˙yá Dárábí (later designated as
the Letter of the Living, Va˙íd), He identifies the revelation of
divine verses from His pen, just as Bahá’u’lláh identifies the
divine verses of His pen as a means to attain the presence of
God, as the flowing waters from the fountain of kawthar in
paradise. In one of the passages of this work provisionally
translated and quoted by Dr. Nader Saiedi we read:
The waters of that river [from the Kawthar fountain in
paradise] flow forth from my tongue and pen with that
which God willeth, imperishable and everlasting…33
The Báb, as the Manifestation of God invested with divine
authority and sovereignty (in this case, to reveal divine verses),
has defined this concept of Kawthar, rather than being an
abstract physical location attainable only in the realms of
Paradise, instead being found and attained in reading the
divinely revealed word of God.
Notes on the content of the Law˙-i-Liqá’
Although, as previously mentioned, the recipients of the
Law˙-i-Liqá’ are not known at this time, Bahá’u’lláh uses
specific language to qualify and describe them. They are called
“the birds of the most exalted paradise” (a†yáru’l Firdaws).
“Firdaws” is a term found in the Qur’án, the highest attainable
realm of paradise where the Prophet Mu˙ammad and other

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
prophets and messengers of God, martyrs, saints, and the pious
dwell. One may infer that Bahá’u’lláh’s intent in using this
phrase is to indicate that because the recipients have attained a
stage in their spiritual growth and search for divine truth, they
are symbolically dwelling in such a lofty station. This is further
indicated in the same passage when Bahá’u’lláh acknowledges
them for their acceptance of His Cause and that the
“Concourse on high” has rejoiced because of their belief. It is
therefore possible that they may have been recent or new
believers to the faith of Bahá’u’lláh who desired to meet Him
and be in His presence. Afterwards, Bahá’u’lláh mentions that
simultaneously, the denizens of the cities of eternity have raised
their cries of grief and lamentation owing to their “burning
thirst” despite their nearness to the ocean of His presence.
Although it is not explicitly stated, it is possible that
Bahá’u’lláh is referring to a recent exile [perhaps to ‘Akká]
because these recipients did not get to see Him beforehand. He
has therefore written this Tablet as a means of attaining His
presence. When reading this passage, it seems that Bahá’u’lláh
has eliminated this dichotomy between joy and anguish. After
mentioning these two phenomena, Bahá’u’lláh writes that they
have become one or entwined in the Day of God.
We read near the middle section of the Tablet that
Bahá’u’lláh offers blessings and praise for these recipients for
having entered “the city.” The language itself is at once both
simple to follow, yet, also ambiguous. The word for “city” in
Arabic is “madínah,” and this term has a diverse meaning in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh. In one instance, it can refer to a literal
town, city, or place where the Manifestation of God is
dwelling, and in the other, it is highly figurative by referring to
stages of spiritual progress of the individual. In this particular
connection, it is interesting that Bahá’u’lláh makes reference to
the “city of eternal and immortal life” in His discourse and
interpretation of the liqá’ in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, as well as in in
this Tablet, where He writes that the recipients of the Law˙-i-

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Liqá’ are blessed for having entered “the city.” Perhaps
Bahá’u’lláh is invoking the same city He mentioned in the ˆqán.
Conclusion

The Law˙-i-Liqá’ and other passages from the writings
of Bahá’u’lláh bring about a figurative and meaningful under-
standing of what it means for humanity to attain the divine
presence. Whereas in previous religious dispensations this idea
and others were and still are understood to be literal and
physical events that have yet to occur, Bahá’u’lláh confirms
that the presence of God will be attained and realized in
multiple instances including being in the physical presence of
His manifestations, reading the divinely revealed texts with
sincerity, and carrying out acts of service with utmost
detachment and purity of motive.
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Law˙-i-Liqá’,” or “The Tablet
of the Divine Presence”
1. First translation, published in 1928
For the reference and use of the reader, the text of the first
published translation of the Law˙-i-Liqá’ will be provided
below. It is not known who carried out this translation; it is
included in the Bahá’í Scriptures compilation published in 1928,
within the chapter entitled, “The Degrees of Devotion.” The
text is as follows:
276. He is the Everlasting Being!
This is a message which We have appointed as Our
meeting for those who advance toward God in this Day
in which all countries are changed.
The one who reads that which is revealed in this Tablet
from the direction of the Throne and doubts the reality

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
of meeting his Lord; verily, he is of those who deny
God, who causeth the mornings to break forth!
O birds of Paradise! Hear the voice of the Beloved in
these days wherein the feet of the people deviate.
On account of your advancement the Supreme
Concourse hath rejoiced; but because of your not
having attained the meeting, and being thirsty while near
the ocean, the cry of mourning and weeping has been
raised by the inhabitants of the cities of eternity.
This is indeed good; that this rejoicing and sorrow seem
to unite and to embrace one another in the Day of God,
the Omnipresent, the Dear, the Chosen!
The bellies of the polytheists are burned by that which
We have uttered aforetime, and for this reason they
dissemble day and night against My soul.
Blessed are you, since ye have entered the city and
attained that which your Lord, the Dear, the Giver,
desireth.
It is incumbent upon you that gladness and exultation
shall be manifest in your faces; so that every soul may
find you in submission and forbearance. Thus it is
preordained from the Pen of El-Abha. Verily, your Lord
the Merciful is the knower of that which is secret and
manifest!
Ye are in the shadow of My providence and under the
Dome of My mercy. Verily, the sight of God is directed
toward you, O ye possessors of clear insight.
Blessed are ye; those who love you and those who
advance toward you sincerely, for the sake of God, the
Dear, the Almighty!
God beareth witness, and those who are encircling the
Throne, that ye have victoriously attained His meeting,
and have circulated around the Holy of Holies of His

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Cause, and were present before His Face. Verily, He is
the powerful over all that He wisheth! There is no God
but He, the Dear, the Bestower!
By Myself! We have accepted from you that which ye
desired, and We will be with you in all times. El-Bahá be
upon you on the part of the Dear, the Helper! [BS 188-
189]
2. New provisional translation
He is the Eternal!
Lo, We made this epistle to be the attainment of Our
presence for such as have turned unto God in these days,
wherein the nations have been made to tremble.
Whosoever gazeth upon that which hath been sent down
from the Throne of glory in this Tablet and findeth
himself in doubt as to whether he hath attained the
presence of his Lord, he is of them who have turned
away from God, the One Who causeth the dawn to
break. O ye birds of the most exalted paradise! Give ear
unto the call of the Beloved in these days wherein the
feet of men have slipped. The Concourse on high have
rejoiced by reason of your acceptance of this Cause, and
the voice of the denizens of the cities of eternity hath
been raised aloud in grief and lamentation by virtue of
your remoteness from Him and your burning thirst,
notwithstanding your nearness to the Ocean of His
presence!
O how glorious is this blissful joy, this bitter anguish!
Methinks both have embraced in the Day of God, the
Powerful, the Almighty, and the Omnipotent! The hearts
of the infidels have been set ablaze by that which We
have revealed aforetime, and still they plot against Me
day and night!

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’
Blessed are ye for having entered the city and attained
unto that which hath been ordained by your Lord, the
Mighty, and the Bestower. It behooveth you to show
forth from your countenances utmost joy and bliss that
all may discern in you the tokens of resignation and
submission. Thus hath it been decreed by the pen of
Glory; verily, your Lord is the Most Merciful, the
Knower of the unseen and the seen. O men of insight!
Ye are beneath the shadow of My loving kindness and
the canopy of My mercy, thus is the gaze of God fixed
upon you. Blessed are ye and whosoever loveth you and
turneth unto you wholly for the sake of God, the
Almighty, the All-Compelling. God and such as have
circled round the Throne bear witness that ye have
attained unto His presence, circumambulated the
Kaaba34 of His command, and beheld His countenance.
Potent is He over whatsoever He willeth. No God is
there but Him, the Mighty, the Munificent! By My life!
We have granted that which ye have desired, and We are
with you at all times. The glory of Him Who is the
Almighty and the Helper rest upon you!
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makátíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 2. Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i
Ma†bú’át-i Amrí.
Báb, ʻAlí Mu˙ammad Shírází. Inna al-Bayán: Mízán Min ʻinda Alláh
Ilá Yawn Man Yuẓhirihu Alláh, Man Ittabaʻahu Núr Va man Yanḥarifu
ʻanhu Nár. Tihrán?: Publisher Not Identified, 1946.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Mubín. Vol. 1. Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i
Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 120 B.E. Áthár-i-Qalam-i A’lá.
———. La’álíyu’l-Óikmat. 2nd ed. Vol. 2. Rio De Janeiro: Editora
Bahá’í, 1996.
———. La’álíyu’l-Óikmat. 1st ed. Vol. 3. Rio De Janeiro: Editora
Bahá’í, 1991.
———. Áthár-i-Qalam-i A’lá. Vol. 1. Dundas, Ontario: Mu’asassiy-i
Ma’árif-i Bahá’í, 153 B.E.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Eshraghian, Hamed. Majmú’iy-i Lughát-i Muntakhabih Az Áthár-i
Amrí. Dundas, Ontario: Mu’asassiy-i Ma’árif-i Bahá’í, 153 B.E.
Fáḍil Mázandarání, Asadu’lláh. Amr Va Khalq. Vol. 2. Hofheim-
Langenhain: Baha'í-Verlag, 1985.
———. Amr Va Khalq. Vol. 4. Hofheim-Langenhain: Baha’i-Verlag,
1986.
———. Asráru’l-Áthár. Vol. 5. Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i Ma†bú’át-i
Amrí, 129 B.E.
Ishráq-Khávarí, ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd. Má’idiy-i Ásmání. Vol. 8. Tihrán:
Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 129 B.E.
———. Má’idiy-i Ásmání. Vol. 9. Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i
Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 122 B.E.
———. Qámús-i-ˆqán. Vol. 3. Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i Ma†bú’át-i
Amrí, 128 B.E.
Khumayní, Áyat’ulláh Rú˙’u’lláh. An Exposition on Forty A˙ádíth
Narrated through the Prophet and His Ahl al-Bayt, may peace be
upon them. Qum: Ansariyan Publications, www.al-
islam.org/printpdf/book/export/html/40802
Khurramsháhí, Bahá’u’d-Dín. Dánishnámiy-i Qur’án Va Qur’án
Pazhúhí. 1st ed. Vol. 2. N.p.: Intishárát-i Dústán, 1998.
Manuchehri, Parichehr. Farid Dictionary. Bundoora: Century, 2005.
Raʼfatí, Vaḥíd. Yádnámiy-i Miṣbáḥ-i Munír. Hofheim: Bahá’í-Verlag,
2006.
Saiedi, Nader. Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the
Báb. Waterloo, Ont.: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2008.
* The Rodwell English translation of the Qur’án was referred to in
this paper.

NOTES
1‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idiy-i Ásmání (Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-
i Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 129 B.E.), vol. 8:167-68.
2 Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il Mázandarání, Asráru’l Áthár (Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i
Millíy-i Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 128 B.E.), vol. 5: 68-69.
3 Áthár-i-Qalam-i A’lá vol. 1 (Dundas, Ontario: Mu’asassiyih Ma’árif-i
Bahá’í, 153 B.E.), 390.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Liqá’

4 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Mubín (Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i Ma†bú’át-i Amrí,
120 B.E.), 355.
5 On page 390 of Áthár-i-Qalam-i A’lá vol., p. 390, the text of the Law˙-i-
Liqá’ reads in the second to last sentence,
“
...

اﻧّﮫ ﻟﮭﻮ اﻟﻤﻘﺘﺪر ﻋﻠﯽ ﻣﺎ
ﺗﺸﺂء ﻻ اﻟﮫ اﻻّ ھﻮ اﻟﻌﺰﯾﺰ اﻟﻤﻨّﺎن.”
The boldened term “tashá’” (ﺗﺸﺂء) should instead be read as “yashá’” (ﯾﺸﺂء)
as is reflected in the authentic type-script of this tablet.
6 I am very grateful for the efforts exerted by the friends serving in the
Research Department at the Bahá’í World Centre for providing me with a
type-script of the authentic text of this tablet and for also providing me
with a copy of an early English translation that was published in 1928.
This earlier English translation was helpful in ensuring a proper reading of
the Arabic text. It will be included at the end of this paper for the
reference of interested readers; it should be noted that the current
provisional translation was completed before receiving a copy of the
earlier translation.
7 Bahá’u’d-Dín Khurramsháhí, Dánishnámiy-i Qur’án Va Qur’án Pazhúhí
(Tihrán?: Intishárát-i Dústán, 1998), vol. 2: 1937-38.
8 Khurramsháhí, Dánishnámiy-i Qur’án Va Qur’án Pazhúhí, vol. 2: 1938.
9 ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-Khávarí, Qámús-i-ˆqán (Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i
Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 128 B.E.), vol. 3: 1343-48.
10 Ishráq-Khávarí, Qámús-i-ˆqán, vol. 3: 1344.
11 Áyat’ulláh Rú˙’u’lláh Khumayní, An Exposition on Forty A˙adíth
Narrated through the Prophet and His Ahl al-Bayt, may peace be upon
them. (Qum: Ansariyan Publications?) e-book edition, p. 390.
12 Khumayní, Ibid, p. 390.
13 Khumayní, Ibid, p.392.
14 Khumayní, Ibid, p.394.
15 Khumayní, Ibid, p. 394-95.
16 For instance, refer the first page of Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-ˆqán.
17 Báb, ʻAlí Mu˙ammad Shírází, Bayán-i-Fársí (Tihrán?: n.p.), 81-82.
18 Qur’án 2:46 Rodwell.
19 Qur’án 18:111 Rodwell.
20 Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il Mázandarání, Amr va Khalq (Hofheim: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1986), vol. 2: 166-67.
21 Bahá’u’lláh, La’álíyu’l-Óikmat (Rio De Janeiro: Editora Bahá’í, 1996),
vol.2: 108. (Provisional translation by author.)
22 Va˙íd Ra‘fatí, Yádnámiy-i Mißbá˙-i Munír (Hofheim: Bahá’í-Verlag,
2006), 390-91.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18


23 Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il Mázandarání, Amr va Khalq (Hofheim: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1985), vol. 4:160.
24 It is likely that the recipient was the Apostle of Bahá’u’lláh, Shaykh Káẓim
Samandar.
25 Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idiy-i Ásmání, vol. 8:95.
26 Bahá’u’lláh, La’álíyu’l-Óikmat, vol. 2: 206-7. (Provisional translation by
author.)
27 Bahá’u’lláh, La’álíyu’l-Óikmat, vol. 2: 174-75.
28 Bahá’u’lláh, La’álíyu’l-Óikmat (Rio De Janeiro: Editora Bahá’í, 1991), vol.
3: 153-54.
29 Áthár-i-Qalam-i A‘lá vol. 1, p. 286. (Provisional translation by author.)
The other passage is found in La’álíyu’l-Óikmat, vol. 2, p. 40. Due to the
close similarity of the two passages, the first citation is sufficient to
reproduce here.
30 ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idiy-i Ásmání (Tihrán: Mu’asassiy-i
Millíy-i Ma†bú’át-i Amrí, 122 B.E.), vol. 9: 13. (Provisional translation by
author.)
31 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Makátíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (n.p.: Mu’asassiy-i Millíy-i
Ma†bú’át-i Amrí), vol. 2: 270. (Provisional translation by author.)
32 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makátíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 2: 149. (Provisional translation
by author.)
33 Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Báb
(Waterloo, Ontario: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2008), 72.
34 Kaaba (ﻛﻌﺒﺔ) is a reference to the point of adoration, where worship is
directed. In Islám, the Kaaba is identified as the city of Mecca, the spot
constructed by the prophet Abraham, which had later been used to house
pagan idols.

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Writings and Utterances
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Abstract
As Shoghi Effendi pointed out, “the Prophets of God do
not teach the arts,” which are “an expression of the
people.” However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who Himself wrote a
few poems in Persian and in Turkish, has left good
guidance on the issue of poetry, and any aspiring poet
or reader of poetry would benefit from becoming
familiar with His words. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions at least
seven aspects of poetry: inspiration, beauty, eloquence,
a versified language, novelty, expressivity, depth and
loftiness of meanings. He moreover sets forth clear
concepts on the purposes of poetry. The authors
examine ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words in the light of verses
from His poems in Persian language.
Introduction
As Shoghi Effendi pointed out in a letter written on his
behalf to an individual on 3 February 1952, “the Prophets of
God do not teach the arts,” which are “an expression of the
people” [qtd. in CC3:31, no.63]. However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Himself wrote a number of poems in Persian and in Turkish,
has left good guidance on the issue of poetry, and any aspiring
poet or reader of poetry would benefit from becoming familiar
with His words. An early study of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poems has
been published in Persian, under the title of “The poems by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Ash‘ár-i-Óa∂rát-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá),” by Behrouz
Jabbari, an Iranian Bahá’í scholar residing in Canada, in
Khúshihá’íy-i-az
kharman-i-adab
va
khwanar
14:281-300.
Jabbari quotes nine poems in Persian as well as three in Turkish,
while mentioning that the number of Turkish poems ascribed to
the Master is a little higher. He writes that a letter from the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, whose
date and addressee he does not mention, lists only 8 poems by
the Master. The present authors also found a tenth poem, which
is part of a Tablet, published in Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:141-3
and in Makátíb 1:414. Jabbari’s paper gives the sources of the
poems, except for one of them, but does not mention the
circumstances of their composition. For most poems, he gives a
short commentary on its formal features. He translates into
Persian two of the three Turkish poems and four verses of the
third one. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Persian poems that we have found in
the available Persian literature are as follows, listed in the order
adopted by Jabbari:
1. Sínáy-i-Óaqq pur núr shud (12 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “The Sinai of God was filled with light”
[Jabbárí 289-90];
2. Ay Gul-rukh-i-Abháy-i-man! (18 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “O my Abhá rose-cheek” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb
55:340-2; Muntakhabátí az Makatíb 2:17, Jabbarí 290-1];
3. Ay Khudáy-i-Pur-‘A†áy-i-Dhu’l-Manán (8 verses), which
may paraphrased as “O God of all graces and Lord of all
bounties” [SWAB 202, sec. 174] [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:411-2;
Majmú‘iy-i-Munájáthá 135-7; Munájáthá 51-2; Adhkáru’l-Muqarrabín
2:135; Jabbari 291-2]; Jabbari describes this poem as a prayer
and a mathnaví (see below);

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
4. ˆn ˙alq-i-Bahá dar ˙alqih fitád (9 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “This flock of Bahá was ensnared”
[Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 21:234; Munájáthá 19-20; Rafati, Ma’ákhidh 2:239,
Jabbari 292]; this poem is sometimes considered a prayer;
Jabbari describes it as a ghazal (see below);
5. Dast-i-karam bi-gushá (12 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “Draw forth the hand of generosity”
[Majmú‘iy-i-Munáját 18-9, Jabbari 292-3];
6. Núr-i-hudá tábán shudih (8 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “The light of guidance shines” [Majmú‘iy-i-
Makátíb 13:205-6; Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 88:312; Muntakhabátí az
Makátíb 2:18, Jabbari 293];
7. Sham‘-i-shabistán-i-Óaqq (9 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “O torch in the Divine chapel” [Majmú‘iy-i-
Makátíb 13:203-4; Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:237-9; Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb
88:55-6;
Majmú‘iy-i-Munáját
49-50;
Jabbari
293-4]; Jabbari
describes it as a ghazal (see below);
8. Anvár-i-Óaqq rukhshán shudih (17 verses), that may be
paraphrased as “The lights of God glisten” [Majmú‘iy-i-
Makátíb 13:207-8; Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:132-5; Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb
88:313; Jabbari 294];
9. Ay murdiy-i-bí-ján-u dil (9 verses), which may be
paraphrased as “O thou who art lifeless in your heart and
soul” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:206; Muntakhabátí az Makátíb 4:139,
Jabbari 295]; Jabbari writes that this poem is not mentioned
in the above mentioned letter by the Research Department
of the Universal House of Justice;
10. ˆn ‘Ahd-i-Alast ast ín (3 verses, in a short Tablet), which
may be paraphrased as “This is the Day of the Eternal
Covenant” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:142-3, Makátíb 1:414; this poem
is not recorded in Jabbárí’s paper].
As far as we know, only the second verse of poem no. 7 has
been authoritatively translated into English [see SWAB 270, sec.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

218]. In this paper we propose our own paraphrases of a few of
the verses authored by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions in His Writings and utterances at
least seven aspects of poetry: inspiration, beauty, eloquence, a
versified language, novelty, expressivity, depth and loftiness of
meanings. He moreover sets forth clear concepts on the
purposes of poetry. We will now examine these aspects of
poetry in the light of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poems.
Inspiration
Inspiration has been described as: “A special immediate
action or influence of the Spirit of God ... upon the human
mind or soul” [OED 7:1036]. It also has been defined as:
A sudden enlightenment of the spirit, which appears as a
guidance for one’s behavior emerging from unknown
depths of one’s personality and coordinating past and
future experience through intuitive ways ... Influence
exerted by God upon a person, who is enlightened in his
mind, spurred in his will, directed and sustained in his
action, for the attainment of a supernatural goal ... an
impulsion (considered of divine origin or arising from a
mysterious force or an inner wealth) which ... leads a
person, in a sort of enrapture or creative ecstasy, to
translate circumstances, impressions, feelings, etc. into
works of art. [Battaglia 8:593]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained that “inspiration” is the “influx” [PUP
22] or “the promptings or susceptibilities of the human heart”
[PUP 254]. He added that the human heart may be influenced
both by “satanic” and “divine promptings” [PUP 251] The former
ones, which He also calls “imagination” [ibid.], come from our
lower self. The latter ones are a “prompting of the heart
through the merciful assistance” [PUP 254]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also
says that imagination “can only picture that which it is able to
create” [PT 11, 5.6], that it is “accidental (or non-essential)” [TAB

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
3:562], limited and often at odds with reality. Therefore He
seemingly uses the term “imagination” in these contexts as “a
creative power of the mind that conceives dreams, illusions,
abstractions, fictitious and bizarre forms, activities of idle
thinking, of conjecturing” [Battaglia 7:342]. He wrote that we can
differentiate between “inspiration” and “imagination,” because
“inspiration is in conformity with the Divine Texts, but
imaginations do not conform therewith” [TAB 1:195]. Another
difference is that the ideas “which owe their source to the Light
of Truth will be realized in the outward world; while others of a
different origin vanish, come and go like waves on the sea of
imagination and find no realization in the world of existence”
[TAB 2:301]. In this context, we could say that poems written
under the impulse of imagination do not give fruits, that is,
they are not able to raise noble feelings and thoughts in the
souls of their readers.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that inspiration may be received “during
meditation” [PT 187, sec. 54, para. 11]. He also wrote: “when the
heart becometh confident, the imagination of Satan and evil
vanisheth away. If the heart becometh absolutely tranquil,
suspicion and imagination will entirely pass away” [TAB 1:104].
He explained this concept in detail:
if thy mind becomes empty and pure from every
mention and thought and thy heart attracted wholly to
the Kingdom of God, forgets all else besides God and
comes in communion with the Spirit of God, then the
Holy Spirit will assist thee with a power which will
enable thee to penetrate all things, and a Dazzling Spark
which enlightens all sides, a Brilliant Flame in the zenith
of the heavens, will teach thee that which thou dost not
know of the facts of the universe and of the divine
doctrine. [TAB 3:706]
And finally He described the condition of a person who
receives inspiration from the Holy Spirit:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

A real, spiritual connection between the True One and
the servant is a luminous bounty which causeth an
ecstatic ... flame, passion and attraction. When this
connection is secured ... such an ecstasy and happiness
become manifest in the heart that man doth fly away
(with joy) and uttereth melody and song. Just as the soul
bringeth the body in motion, so that spiritual bounty
and real connection likewise moveth (or cheereth) the
human soul. [TAB 1:195]
Shoghi Effendi explained, in a letter written on his behalf to
two believers on 25 January 1943, that inspiration “can be
received through meditation” and that “God can inspire into
our minds things that we had no previous knowledge of, if He
desires to do so” [qtd. in CC2:241, no.1771]. He also made clear, in a
letter written on his behalf to an individual believer on 19
November 1945, that “we cannot say that any inspiration which
a person, not knowing Bahá’u’lláh, or not believing in God,
receives is merely from his own ego” [qtd. in CC2:241, no.1774].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá repeatedly described art as the fruit of
inspiration. Sara Lady Blomfield (1859–1939), one of the
earliest Bahá’ís in the British Isles, writes that He said that “All
Art is a gift of the Holy Spirit. When this light shines through
the mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful
harmonies. Again, shining through the mind of a poet, it is seen
in fine poetry and poetic prose. When the Light of the Sun of
Truth inspires the mind of a painter, he produces marvelous
pictures” [qtd. in CH 167]. Moreover ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reportedly
said: “when you breathe forth the breath of the Holy Spirit
from your hearts into the world ... [a]ll arts and sciences will
become revealed and the knowledge of God will be manifested.
It is not your work but that of the Holy Spirit which you
breathe forth through the Word” [qtd. in Rabb 103].1 A key to a
better understanding of the guidance given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as
to poetical inspiration may be found in the following Tablet
addressed by Him to a hesitant poet:

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances

O thou who art uttering the mention of God!

Know, that the pure hearts upon which the mysteries
of the Kingdom of God are printed and pictured, are
reflections one upon another and thus the one can
discover the secrets of the other, because such hearts are
only mirrors confronting each other on which the
secrets of unity, affinity and concord are printed and
reflected. Accordingly, it would be possible that a
certain servant of the servants of the Merciful might
discover a treasured mystery or a preserved sign,
whatever his shortcomings or defects might be; yet we
do indeed rely upon God the Forgiver. I supplicate Him
to deliver us from the pangs of lust and its dangers and
from the destructive conditions of passion.

Verily, I do testify that thine heart is moved by the
fragrance of the love of God, that thy memory is a
fountain overflowing with the water of the knowledge
of God. Therefore, finish the poem which thou art
composing and send it here, that through reading it the
breast of the believers may be refreshed and dilated with
joy. [TAB 3:669]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses in this Tablet the versatile metaphor of
light and mirrors. He describes pure hearts as mirrors capable
of reflecting “the mysteries of the Kingdom of God” [ibid.]. And
thus both poets and readers, if they are pure-hearted, may be
described as mirrors, and light may be reflected from the poets
to the readers and vice-versa. Abdu’l-Bahá writes that “it would
be possible that a certain servant of the servants of the
Merciful might discover a treasured mystery or a preserved
sign, whatever his shortcomings or defects might be” [ibid.].
However, as Bahá’u’lláh writes, the light’s “appearance in every
mirror is conditioned by the colour of that mirror” [qtd. in
CC3:19, no.22]. And thus the poet should try to be delivered
“from the pangs of lust and its dangers and from the

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

destructive conditions of passion” [TAB 3:669], so that his heart
may be purified. Then his heart will be “moved by the fragrance
of the love of God,” and his “memory” will be “a fountain
overflowing with the water of the knowledge of God,” and he
will be able to write poems whereby “the breast of the believers
may be refreshed and dilated with joy” [ibid.]. In other words,
the poet’s earnest struggle toward spiritual perfection is the
soundest guarantee that his poems may be inspired and thus
capable of inspiring their readers with noble ideas and feelings.
As to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poems, He has been described by
Shoghi Effendi in the following exalted terms:
Bahá’u’lláh’s ... most exalted handiwork, the stainless
Mirror of His light, the perfect Exemplar of His
teachings, ... the embodiment of every Bahá’í ideal, the
incarnation of every Bahá’í virtue ... the Being “round
Whom all names revolve,” ... the “Mystery of God” —
an expression by which Bahá’u’lláh Himself has chosen
to designate Him, and which, while it does not by any
means justify us to assign to Him the station of
Prophethood, indicates how in the person of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá the incompatible characteristics of a human nature
and superhuman knowledge and perfection have been
blended and are completely harmonized. [WOB 133]
And thus His poems may also be expected to convey “the
incompatible characteristics of a human nature and superhuman
knowledge and perfection ... blended and ... completely
harmonized” [WOB 133].
Beauty
Guidance as to what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá meant by “beautiful
words” [TAB 1:58] may be found in several passages of His
works. The following words are an example:

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
Verily, I chanted thy poem. Its significance was
beautiful, its composition eloquent and its words
excellent….
…thou hast uttered the praise of thy Lord and expressed
significant meanings in eulogy of thy Lord, the
Merciful, the Clement….
Verily, I read thy poem, which contained new
significances and beautiful words. My heart was dilated
by its eloquent sense. I prayed God to make thee utter
more beautiful compositions than this….
Chant the verses of guidance among the people and
commence [the composition of] melodies of great
beauty and effect in praise and glorification of the
Generous Lord…
Thy little book of poems, which were very sweet, was
read. It was a source of joy, for it was a spiritual
anthem and a melody of the love of God.
Continue as long as thou canst this melody in the
gatherings of the beloved; thus may the minds find rest
and joy and become in tune with the love of God. When
eloquence of expression, beauty of sense and sweetness
of composition unite with new melodies the effect is
ever great, especially if it be the anthem of the verses of
oneness and the songs of praise to the Lord of Glory.
Endeavor your utmost to compose beautiful poems to
be chanted with heavenly music; thus may their beauty
affect the minds and impress the hearts of those who
listen. (TAB 1:57-9]
He wrote to a poet: “Endeavor, so far as it is possible for
thee, that day by day thou mayest string the pearls of poesy
with sweeter rhythm and more eloquent contents, in order that
it may become conducive to the perpetuity of thy name in the
spiritual meetings” [TAB 3:546]. He is reported to have said
moreover: “What is poetry? It is a symmetrical collection of

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

words,” and “it is natural for the heart and spirit to take
pleasure and enjoyment in all things that show forth symmetry,
harmony, and perfection” [qtd. in Lucas 12]. He also referred to
the “elegant ... context” [TAB 3:546] of a poem. He finally
mentioned “sweetness of composition” [TAB 1:59] as well as, in
His Tablet to Marie Watson,2 “delicacy” [qtd. in “Tablets to Bahá’ís”
307].
Therefore
rhythm,
symmetry,
harmony,
elegance,
sweetness, delicacy and perfection are among the prerequisites
of the beauty of a poem that have been mentioned by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. It may be useful transcribing a few definitions of these
words from the most renowned English dictionaries and reflect
on their meanings.
Rhythm is defined as
The measured flow of words or phrases ... Due
correlation and interdependence of parts, producing a
harmonious whole ... The measured recurrence of arsis
and thesis determined by vowel-quantity or stress, or
both combined; kind of metrical movement, as
determined by the relation of long and short, or stressed
and unstressed, syllables in a foot or a line. [OED 13:874]
Symmetry is defined as
Due or just proportion; harmony of parts with each
other and the whole; fitting, regular, or balanced
arrangement and relation of parts or elements; the
condition or quality of being well-proportioned or well-
balanced. [OED 17:456]
Harmony is defined as
Combination or adaptation of parts, elements, or
related things, so as to form a consistent and orderly
whole; agreement, accord, congruity ... Combination of
parts or details in accord with each other, so as to

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
produce an æsthetically pleasing effect; agreeable aspect
arising from apt arrangement of parts ... Pleasing
combination or arrangement of sounds, as in poetry or
in speaking; sweet or melodious sound. [OED 6:1125]
Elegance is defined as
Tasteful correctness, harmonious simplicity, in the
choice and arrangement of words. [OED 5:129]
Whereas
rhythm
and
symmetry
are
mainly
outward
connotations, related to the verbal expressions of poetry,
harmony and elegance are a kind of inner rhythm and symmetry
between ideas, sentences, and words.
Sweetness is defined as “the quality of being sweet,” and the
word sweet has many connotations, such as:
Marked by or arising from graciousness, kindness or
sympathy ... not intemperate or extreme ... pleasing to
the mind or the feeling: arousing agreeable or delightful
emotions ... pleasing to the ear: gently armonious: not
... disturbing ... much loved. [Webster 2309]
The idea of an identity between beauty and sweetness in
regard to poetry is at odds with the ideas of a number of
Western modern poets and literary critics. And yet it was
perfectly normal in the past. Dolce stil novo (sweet new style)
was the name of the poetical School which flourished in
Florence in the second half of the twelfth century, and which
marks the beginning of Italian literature. And Dante Alighieri,
who was among the poets of that School, wrote in one of his
most famous sonnets describing Beatrice as his inspiring muse:
“her sweetness through the eyes reaches the heart” (Vita Nuova
57), which perhaps may be better rendered as “and through your
eyes she gives such a sweetness to your heart.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Delicacy is defined as
Exquisite fineness of texture, substance, finish, etc.;
graceful slightness, slenderness, or softness; soft or
tender beauty ... Exquisite fineness of feeling,
observation, etc.; nicety of perception; sensitiveness of
appreciation ... Exquisite fineness or nicety of skill,
expression, touch, etc ... A refined sense of what is
becoming, modest or proper; sensitiveness to the
feelings of modesty, shame, etc.; delicate regard for the
feelings of others. [Webster 596]
This connotation of beauty as sweetness and delicacy is
reminiscent of other qualities recommended by the Bahá’í
teachings, that is, “refinement,” “reverence,” “respect for that
which is sacred,” “purity” and “good taste.”
As to refinement, it is prescribed by Bahá’u’lláh in the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas [36, para.46]: “Hold ye fast unto refinement under
all conditions.” The Arabic word li†áfat, here translated as
“refinement,” “has a wide range of meanings with both spiritual
and physical implications, such as elegance, gracefulness,
cleanliness, civility, politeness, gentleness, delicacy and
graciousness, as well as being subtle, refined, sanctified and
pure” [“Notes” 199].
As to reverence, it is listed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá among the
“inward ... perfections” that should characterize “the spiritually
learned” [SDC 34]. He moreover recommended it when visiting
the holy places. He wrote in this regard in a Tablet addressed to
Ethel Rosenberg: “You have asked about visiting holy places
and the observance of marked reverence toward these
resplendent spots. Holy places are undoubtedly centers of the
outpouring of Divine grace, because on entering the illumined
sites associated with martyrs and holy souls, and by observing
reverence, both physical and spiritual, one’s heart is moved
with great tenderness” [qtd. in Synopsis 61, no.26].

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
As to respect for that which is sacred, it is mentioned in a
letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an
individual on 24 September 1987 [qtd. in CC3:40, no.82] as “one of
the distinctive virtues given emphasis in the Bahá’í Writings”
and as a consequence of the Bahá’í “view of the world” whereby
“we perceive creation to encompass spiritual as well as physical
entities, and we regard the purpose of the world in which we
now find ourselves to be a vehicle for our spiritual progress.”
As to purity, it is described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a famous
Tablet, in which He explained:
To be pure and holy in all things is an attribute of the
consecrated soul and a necessary characteristic of the
unenslaved mind. The best of perfections is immaculacy
and the freeing of oneself from every defect. Once the
individual is, in every respect, cleansed and purified,
then will he become a focal centre reflecting the
Manifest Light. [SWAB 146, no.129]
As to good taste, it is mentioned in a letter written on behalf
of the Universal House of Justice to an individual on 23
February 1987 [qtd. in CC3:39, no.81]. The letter says: “the House
of Justice feels artists should not be inhibited by Bahá’í
institutions from creating a variety of calligraphic renderings
of the Holy Writings or of the Greatest Name. However, such
efforts should be in good taste and not assume forms that lend
themselves to ridicule.” These words may be easily extrapolated
into the context of poetry.
Beauty as sweetness and delicacy is also an important bridge
between the mainly physical and intellectual prerequisites of
rhythm, symmetry, harmony, and elegance and the declared
spiritual purpose of poetry of inspiring the heart with lofty
ideas and feelings, which will be mentioned later on.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Perfection is defined as
The condition, state, or quality of being perfect or free
from all defect; supreme excellence; flawlessness,
faultlessness. [OED 11:538]
And also:
... correspondence with or approximation to an ideal
concept ... an unsurpassable degree of accuracy or
excellence ... complete mastery of technique ... [Websters’
1677]
“Excellence in all things” is such an important goal for the
Bahá’ís that the Universal House of Justice issued on 23
November 1981 a specific compilation under the same title [see
CC1:367-84], exhorting the Bahá’ís to “follow Bahá’u’lláh’s
exhortation to distinguish themselves from others through
deeds” [MUHJ 510, no.303.1]. But in the arts ‘Abdu’l-Bahá suggests
nothing less than perfection. As He is reported to have said to
Mary L. Lucas: “It is natural for the heart and spirit to take
pleasure and enjoyment in all things that show forth symmetry,
harmony, and perfection ...” [12, bold added].
All these prerequisites of beauty — rhythm, symmetry,
harmony, elegance, sweetness, delicacy, and perfection — are
evident in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poems. Unfortunately no translation
can convey the qualities of the rhythm, symmetry, harmony,
and elegance of the original, especially the rhythm, strictly
associated as it is to the sound of the original words.
As to symmetry, it is especially evident in the following
three-couplets poem, which is part of a short Tablet in prose,
on the issue of “the banquet of the eternal Covenant (bazm-i-
alast)” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:142]. This short poem is introduced
by the following words: “The divine Minstrel took up his lute
and begun to intone Persian melodies, giving voice to his
harmonious song (Mu†rib-i-iláhí awtár-i-mathálith va mathání

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
bi-dast girift va bi-ahang-i-parsí naghmih va sáz numúd va bi-
shahnáz ín taránih ágház kard)” [ibid. 142]. The poem says:
1.1. ˆn ‘Ahd-i-Alast ast ín / Paymánih bi-dast ast ín
Bázar shikast ast ín / Az Yúsuf-i-ra˙mání.
This is the Day of the Eternal Covenant. The Cup is at
hand.
This is a market crash, because of the Divine Joseph.
1.2. Mítháq-i-vifáq ast ín / Paymán-i-†aláq ast ín
Áfát-i-nu‘áq ast ín / Az ra˙mat-i-Yazdání.
This is the Covenant of concord. This is the Covenant of
repudiation.
This is a calamity for the foreboders of evil, because of
the mercy of God.
1.3. ˆn ‘Ahd-i-qadím ast ín / ˆn Sirr-i-qavím ast ín
ˆn Ramz-i-‘aẓím ast ín / Az Ṭal‘at-i-Abhá’í.
This is the Ancient Covenant. This is the irrefutable Secret
[GPB 39].
This is the great Mystery, because of the Most Glorious
Countenance. [Provisional translation by the authors]
The symmetry of these three verses is evident in the Persian
text, in the repetition of the locution “ast ín,” which means
“this is.” In the English translation we see the symmetry of
three short consecutive sentences in each verse, very similar to
one another, preceding a final locution, introduced by the
preposition “because of.”
As to harmony, a translation cannot convey the harmony of
the original Persian words. But it can convey the harmony of
the images used by the Poet. An example are the following
successive hemistiches:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Vajh-i-hudá tábán shudih.
The Divine guidance shines brightly.
Khuffásh-há pinhán shudih.
Bats hide themselves in their holes. (Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:132;
provisional translation by the authors)
In the first hemistich the lights of guidance shine brightly; in
the second one, the bats, creatures of the night, hide themselves
in their holes.
As to elegance, a notable poem is the above mentioned ˆn
‘Ahd-i-Alast ast ín [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:142]. The elegance of this
poem is especially due to its recurrent use of the word
Covenant and of a number of related images: “the cup
(paymánih)” [verse 1], the Day of Judgment, “A calamity for the
foreboders of evil (áfát-i-nu‘áq)” [verse 2], “the irrefutable
Secret (Sirr-i-qavím)” and “the great Mystery (Ramz-i-‘aẓím),”
and their appearance as the “Most Glorious Countenance
(Ṭal‘at-i-Abhá’í)” [verse 3]. In this poem the English word
Covenant corresponds to three Persian words, Mítháq, Paymán,
and Ahd. According to the ancient Sufis these three words have
slightly different connotations. The word Mítháq is the
preeternal covenant mentioned in the so called verse of the
Covenant in the Koran: “And when thy Lord brought forth
their descendants from the reins of the sons of Adam and took
them to witness against themselves, ‘Am I not,’ said He, ‘your
Lord?’ They said, ‘Yes, we witness it’” [7:172, Rodwell]. Khwajih
Shamsu’d-Dín Óáfiẓ (1315–1390) writes about this Covenant:
From the dawn of the morn of eternity without beginning to
the end of the evening of eternity without end,
In respect to one covenant and to one agreement (mítháq),
friendship with love was. [Divan 343, no. 178, v. 6]
As to the word Paymán, the Italian orientalist Alessandro
Bausani (1921–1988) writes: “A number of times ... the

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
concepts of Cup and Pact are linked (and this is something
more than a pun between paymân and paymâneh!): a sip from
the cup seals a Primeval Pact between man and God” [Religion in
Iran 262-3]. Óáfiẓ uses the two words Paymán and Paymánih in
the following verses:
Last night, to the wine-house (the Ārif, the comprehender of
truths), Óáfiẓ, sitting in khilwat, went:
From the head of his covenant (Paymán), he departed; and to the
head of the cup (paymánih), went. [Divan 460, no. 257, v. 1]
In this poem ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions “the Covenant of
repudiation
(Paymán-i-†aláq).”
This
may
allude
to
the
distinction between the good and the evil ones that will be
made on the Day of Judgment as described in the Koran: “Then
the people of the right hand — Oh! how happy shall be the
people of the right hand! And the people of the left hand — Oh!
how wretched shall be the people of the left hand!” [56:8-9,
Rodwell]. As to the meaning of the Day of Judgment, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá wrote: “This period of time is the Promised Age, the
assembling of the human race to the ‘Resurrection Day’ and
now is the great ‘Day of Judgment’” [TAB 2:318]. As to the word
Ahd, the Sufís considered it as a station of the sincere. Óafiẓ
writes about this Covenant:
Although grief for Thee gave to the wind the harvest of my
life,
(Falling) in the dust of Thy precious foot, (I displayed
fidelity); for the covenant (ahd) (that I had made), I
broke not. (Divan 645, no. 373, v. 2]
However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá seemingly uses this word as a synonym
of Mítháq, since He writes “This is the ancient Covenant (ˆn
Ahd-i-qadím ast ín),” and the word qadím means in the Sufi
usage “without beginning or end” [Steingass 959].

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

As to sweetness, a significant strophe composed by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá reads as follows:
Áfáq ‘anbar bár shud.
Mushk-i-Khu†á íthár shud.
Chún nukhat-i-gulzár shud.
Yik shimmih’í az búy-i-Tú.
The universe smells with amber.
Perfumes of musk exhale from Cathay.
Sweet aromas blow from the rose-gardens.
A breath of Thy fragrance. [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:341;
provisional translation by the authors]
The sweetness of this strophe stems from the delicate scents
that caress our inner senses.
As to delicacy, in His poem Anvár-i-Óaqq rukhshán shudih
[Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:132-5], He describes Bahá’u’lláh with a very
delicate and refined expression:, “the rose-queen of the green
expanses (sul†án-i-gul dar sa˙n-i-chaman)” [verse 13]. Moreover,
the Master’s poems are hymns to Bahá’u’lláh. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
laments His “remoteness (hijrán)” from Him [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb
55:131, verses 15 and 17]; “is thirsty (lab-tishnih)” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb
21:234, verse 7] for Him; and proclaims His love for Him.
However, He never mentions the fact that He is His son.
Rather He declares Himself “an humble servant (sag, literally,
dog)” on His “way (kúy)” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 21:234, verse 9], “dust
(kháq)” on His “threshold (dargáh)” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:342, verse
17]. The delicacy of these words is the result of the deep
humility of a wholly self-effaced Man, Who has been defined
by His Father the “Mystery of God” [qtd. in WOB 133], and yet
does not show towards His Father a human love, but the love
tinged
with
awe,
reverence
and
respect
due
to
the
Manifestation of God.

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
As to perfection, an example are the following verses by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Án jilviy-i-Rabbu’l-junúd
Rukh dar kuh-i-Íahyún numúd
Karmil nidá-há mí-numúd.
This revealed Lord of Hosts
Turned His face toward Sion
And the Carmel resounded
Bá chang-u tár-u náy-u ‘úd
Núr az rukh-i-a˙báb bín.
With harps and flutes, rebecs and lutes.
Which light from the lovers’ faces! (Jabbari 290, verses 7, 8;
provisional translation by the authors)
It is the sound of “harps and flutes, rebecs and lutes” rising
from Mount Carmel that touches our hearts, as we remember a
special time we may have had on that blessed Mount, when our
faces too may have glowed with inner light.
Eloquence is defined as
The action, practice, or art of expressing thought with
fluency, force, and appropriateness, so as to appeal to
the reason or move the feelings. [OED 5:148]
The prerequisite of eloquence requires for poets to be able
to say fluently, forcibly, and properly the things they want to
say, while at the same time being able to respect the above
mentioned prerequisites of beauty.
As to eloquence the following words reported as uttered by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá have been recorded by Isabel Fraser Chamberlain:

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

I hope that you will all become eloquent. The greatest
gifts of man are reason and eloquence of expression.
The perfect man is both intelligent and eloquent. He has
knowledge and knows how to express it. Unless man
express himself in this day he will remain like a closed
casket and one cannot know whether it contains jewels
or glass. I desire that all of you may speak on the
material and divine sciences with clear and convincing
words. [ADP 98]
These words are reminiscent of an explanation of the
importance of words given by Bahá’u’lláh Himself, which any
poet should assimilate so as to make them a part of his own
being. He wrote in His Law˙-i-Maqßúd that
Human utterance is an essence which aspireth to exert
its influence and needeth moderation. As to its
influence, this is conditional upon refinement which in
turn is dependent upon hearts which are detached and
pure. As to its moderation, this hath to be combined
with tact and wisdom as prescribed in the Holy
Scriptures and Tablets ... It behoveth a prudent man of
wisdom to speak with utmost leniency and forbearance
so that the sweetness of his words may induce everyone
to attain that which befitteth man’s station. [TB 172-3]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s eloquence stems from His capacity of
exalting this most exalted Day of God through words which are
at the same time lofty and plain, refined and simple. A
fascinating example is the first part of the poem Anvár-i-Óaqq
rukhshán shudih [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:132-3], which describes the
Day of God, in uncomplicated but enticing words:
1.  Anvár-i-Óaqq rukhshán shudih.
Daryáy-i-Óaqq júshán shudih.
Vajh-i-hudá tábán shudih.

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
The lights of God glisten.
The sea of God surges.
His guidance shines brightly.
2.  Khuffásh-há pinhán shudih.
Abr-i-Karam giryán shudih.
Barq-i-Qidam Khándán shudih.
Bats hide themselves in their holes.
Clouds rain down their mercy. (SWAB 192, sec. 160; Muntakh
187)
The Eternal’s lightening flashes.
3.  Gulshan fa∂áy-i-ján shudih.
Pur az gul-u ray˙án shudih.
Bulbul bi-ṣad al˙án shudih.
A paradise for spirits, gardens
Are covered with flowers and shrubs.
Dazzled by the face of the rose.
4.  Bar rúy-i-gul ˙ayrán shudih.
Madhúsh-u sar-gardán shudih,
Mast-i-rukh-i-jánán shudih.
The nightingale sings a hundred songs.
Astonished and confounded,
It gets drunk with the cheek of the Beloved.
5.  Makhmúr-u ham sakrán shudih,
Pur áh-u pur afghán shudih.
Súy-i-Khudá nálán shudih.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Seized by its giddiness,
It raises groans and moans,
Lifting this plea unto God. [Provisional translation by the
authors]
These verses eloquently describe the Day of God as a
springtime, with its clouds, its rains, its lightenings, its flowers
and a nightingale which, drunken with the beauty of the rose,
raises its prayer unto God. The verses are short, the words are
few, there are few learned references, but the description is
graphic and lively.
A versified language
‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote in His Tablet to Mr. and Mrs. Deuth
that “eloquent and significant words are compared to pearls.
But these pearls are of two kinds, one is the versified language
and that is called poetry and the other is the ordinary language
called prose” [“Tablets to Baháis” 259]. Of course, since as Shoghi
Effendi explained in a letter written on his behalf to an
individual on 3 February 1952, “the Prophets of God do not
teach the arts; but the tremendous cultural impetus which
religion gives to society gradually produces new and wonderful
forms of art” [qtd. in CC3:31, no.63], the Bahá’ís cannot think that
by verses only the ancient form of verses, based on rhyme or on
other rhetorical devices, should be intended. As a matter of
fact, the Modern age introduced the so called “free verse” into
practically all languages, including Fársí. Free verse, a “loan
translation of French Vers Libre,” may be defined as
“unmetered and often irregularly lined out unrhymed verse that
depends upon extensive variation in rhythm, balanced phrasing,
syntactical repetition, and typographical and grammatical
oddness to achieve its effects” [Myers and Simms 123]. And thus
Bahá’í poets may feel certainly free to use it. In this vein the
Bahá’í Canadian poet and writer Jack A. McLean writes:

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
I’ve always wanted to write
a poem in plain speaking,
without artifice,
before a critic tells me
I belong more to the nineteenth
than to the twentieth century. [54]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote His poems more or less in the years when
the modern Iranian literature was born, that is, the years of the
constitutionalist movement preceding the bourgeois revolution
of 1905–1911. Those poets produced a “neoclassic poetry” that
“without breaking the old forms,” became “filled with
moralistic and social contents” [Bausani, “Letteratura neopersiana”
540]. He sometimes follows the ancient rules of Persian metrics,
which had remained unchanged for several centuries. In this
vein He authored a traditional mathnaví, defined by Edward G.
Browne (1862–1926), the renowned British Orientalist, as a
“poem in ‘doublets,’ which is generally narrative, and where the
rhyme changes in each couplet” [1:473], Ay Khudáy-i-Pur-‘A†áy-
i-Dhu’l-Manán [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:208]. He also wrote three
unconventional ghazals, the typical Persian, refined “elegy of
love” [Blachère, “Ghazal”], ˆn ˙alq-i-Bahá dar ˙alqih fitád (Majmú‘iy-
i-Makátíb 21:234], the only poem that He signs in the last line,
Sham‘-i-shabistán-i-˙aqq [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:203-4] and Núr-i-
hudá tábán shudih [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:205-6]. He did not write
any qaṣídih, defined by Brown “purpose-poem” [2:22]. Many of
His poetical works are characterized by short verses, a number
of them are not monorhymed, as the classical Persian metrics
prescribe. And when He uses the classical radíf, that is “a word
or a whole phrase that follows the rhyme letter (rawiyy) and
recurs in every line of the poem” [Heinrichs, “Radīf”], He
sometimes uses it in a very loose way. For example, in His
above mentioned 17 verses poem Anvár-i-Óaqq rukhshán
shudih [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:132], He uses the rhyme in –án and
the radíf shudih only in the first five verses. Then He changes
both the rhyme and the radíf. His poetical style is so original

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

that sometimes it is difficult to write down His poems in a
specific classical graphic form.
Novelty
‘Abdu’l-Bahá adds a further quality of poetry: “new
significances” [TAB 1:58]. In this regard, a Bahá’í poet should
consider a number of important points. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said
about the twentieth century that “this is a century of life and
renewal” [PUP 140]. However, not every renewal introduced
during that century either conforms with the Bahá’í teachings
or may be considered as contributing to the advancement of
human civilization. The Universal House of Justice wrote, in its
message addressed to the Iranian Bahá’ís throughout the world
on 10 February 1980:
Even music, art, and literature, which are to represent
and inspire the noblest sentiments and highest
aspirations and should be a source of comfort and
tranquillity for troubled souls, have strayed from the
straight path and are now the mirrors of the soiled
hearts of this confused, unprincipled, and disordered
age. [MUHJ 435, no.246.4]
In these circumstances Bahá’í poets should remember ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s invitation to “leave imitation and seek reality” [PUP 169]
and His statement on 17 November 1912 that
reformation and renewal of the fundamental reality of
religion constitute the true and outworking spirit of
modernism, the unmistakable light of the world, the
manifest effulgence of the Word of God, the divine
remedy for all human ailment and the bounty of eternal
life to all mankind. [PUP 439]
Thus they will more likely feel free from the worst “new”
aspects of some contemporary poetical Western trends, and

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
closer to the true modernism, that is the “renewal of the
fundamental reality of religion” [ibid.].
The idea of novelty and renewal is often explained in the
Bahá’í writings through the metaphor of springtime, a
metaphor which also perfectly suits poetry. On 19 May 1912
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said in this vein: “though the calendar changes and
the years move forward, each springtime that comes is the
return of the springtime that has gone; this spring is the renewal
of the former spring. Springtime is springtime, no matter when
or how often it comes” [PUP 126-7]. This is not a stale repetition
of the ancient pessimistic formula: “Nullum est iam dictum
quod non sit dictum prius (There is nothing said which has not
been said before)” [Terence, Eunuchus 41]. Each spring has its novel
and its repetitious aspects. The novelty comes from the eternal
change characterizing the physical world: ‘All things move and
nothing remains still’ [Heraclitus, qtd. in Plato, ‘Cratylus’ 401, section d,
line 5]. The repetition comes, in the vegetable world, from the
roots of the trees. We may then assume that if a poet wants to
be innovative, he needs to be free from imitations either of
past or present poets, and understand the above mentioned real
great novelty of this age, the renewal of the reality of religion.
He will thus be able to be innovative, while at the same time
preserving the roots of his civilization, like a tree in the newly
arrived springtime. He will contribute to “guarantee the
transmittal to the future of those skills which will preserve the
marvellous, indispensable achievements of the past” as the
Universal House of Justice recommended the Bahá’í youth of
the world in a message addressed to them on 8 May 1985 [MUHJ
637, no.428.8].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Bahá’u’lláh’s ... most exalted handiwork, the
stainless Mirror of His light, the perfect Exemplar of His
teachings, the unerring Interpreter of His Word, the
embodiment of every Bahá’í ideal, the incarnation of every
Bahá’í virtue” [WOB 133], has given an incomparable example of
what is suggested by these words. His poems have deep roots in
the glorious lyrical past of Iran, but they also present, as has

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

been said, many innovative elements in prosody, contents and
especially in spirit. Besides, in conformity with His idea that the
true modernism is the “renewal of the fundamental reality of
religion”
[PUP 439], most of His poems are a joyous
announcement of the new spiritual springtime which dawned
over the whole world in 1844.
Expressivity
‘Abdu’l-Bahá praised poems which “expressed significant
meanings in eulogy of ... [the] Lord, the Merciful, the Clement”
[TAB 1:58]. Expressivity has been defined in a celebrated
dictionary of the Italian language as the capacity
to communicate ... through words orally or in a written
form ... a thought, an idea, a feeling, a mood, an
emotion, a sensation ... to represent ... in an artistic
form, through a given matter or language and in a
definite and particular form (feelings, emotions, ideas,
conceptions, etc., or one’s spirituality, one’s way of
perceiving and conceiving reality). [Battaglia 5:403]
This is a very important aspect of poetry. Whereas a piece of
prose may describe an object in a rational way, poetry is
supposed to directly convey its meaning. For instance, prose
may accurately describe the qualities of a flower, but poetry
should be able to create the idea of its beauty and flavour in its
readers. And usually poetry fulfils this task through a
metaphoric language. In this respect poetry resembles
Scripture, which usually explain spiritual truth through images.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá often associated the idea of expressivity with the
expression of “the beauty of ... characters and the merit of ...
virtues” [TAB 2:400] and “of all the bounties of life to mankind”
[PUP 16]. These words may well be also referred to poetry.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poems perfectly express the joy raised in the
hearts of the sincere seekers by the advent of the new Day of

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
God. One of the most expressive among ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poems
is Núr-i-hudá tábán shudih [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:205-6]:
8.1. Núr-i-hudá tábán shudih. Ṭúr-i-tuqá rakhshán shudih.
Músá bi-ján púyán shudih. Kuhsár Síná ámadih.
The light of guidance shineth. The mountain of virtue
gloweth.
Moses hasteneth with heart and soul. Each mount
becometh a Sinai.
2.  Ṣub˙-i-jabín, núr-i-mubín ván ‘ári∂-i-gulgún bín.
Bá la‘l-i-rangíní chun-ín án gharrih gharrá’ ámadih.
Look at the gleaming forehead, at the manifest light, at
the rosy cheek.
With vermillion lips, that snow-white moon hath come.
3.  Hardam nasímí mí-vazad búy-i-‘abíri mí-risad.
Ṣub˙-i-umídí mí-damad, ghabrá’ núrá ámadih.
An uninterrupted breeze bloweth, an amber scent wafteth.
The morn of hope ariseth and the world is enlightened.
4.  Daryáy-i-Óaqq pur-mawj shud. Har mawj az án yik fawj
shud.
Ván fawj-há bar awj shud: har past bálá ámadih.
The Ocean of Truth swelleth. Its waves grow into billows.
The billows surge. Whatever’s below riseth above.
5.  Ṣawt-i-ana’l-Óaqq har zamán áyad zi-awj-i-ásmán.
Mí-na-shnavad juz gúsh-i-ján ádhán ṣammá ámadih.
The call “I am God” resoundeth from on high.
Only the inner ear heareth, the outer one is deaf.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

6.  Abr-i-gawhar-bár ast ín, fay∂-i-durar-bár ast ín.
Núr-i-sharar-bár ast ín, anvár bahrá’ ámadih.
It is a cloud raining pearls. It is a grace spreading jewels.
It is a light emanating sparks, a dazzling splendor.
7. Áfáq ‘anbar bár shud. Imkán pur az anvár shud.
Bas khuftih-há bídár shud. Ta‘bír-i-ruyá’ ámadih.
Covered with amber, the world. Illumined by lights, the
universe.
Sleepers wake up. The vision is fulfilled.
8. ‘Ishq-i-Khudá khúnríz shud. ‘Álam sharar angíz shud.
Jám-i-‘a†á labríz shud, chún dawr-i-ßahbá ámadih.
It is the season of wine: the love of God sheddeth blood,
The world sprayeth sparks, the cup of favor
overfloweth. (Provisional translation by the authors)
The metrics of this eight couplet poem is classical, almost a
ghazal. Its rhyme is -á, its radíf is ámadih, which means “has
come.” Its expressivity is the result of a number of classical
topoi: Moses and the Sinai, and His glowing forehead; the
beautiful face of the Beloved; the blowing breeze which wafts a
scent of amber; the billowing Ocean of Truth; the call “I am
God,” which only the inner ear perceives; the bountiful cloud;
the glowing light; the waking up sleepers; the season of wine;
the cruelty of love.
Depth and loftiness of meanings
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says very clearly what He means as depth and
loftiness of meanings. When He praises a poem for its meaning,
it is because that poem is “like the melody of the birds of
holiness in the paradise of El-Abha” [TAB 1:57], “a spiritual
anthem and a melody of the love of God” [TAB 1:59], because it

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
utters “the praise of ... [the] Lord and ... [expresses] significant
meanings in eulogy of ... [the] Lord, the Merciful, the Clement”
[TAB 1:58], and because its “theme, [is] the Manifest Light” [TAB
3:546].
Beside exalting the Day of God, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses His verses
to call on the lovers to rise above their human limitations; to be
willing to sacrifice their lives; to announce the glad-tiding; to
serve their fellow-men. In His poem Ay murdiy-i-bi-ján-u-dil
[Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:206] He repeats three urgent calls to His
readers: “rise, rise (jándár shú, jándár shú)” [verse 1], “wake up,
wake up (bídar shú, bídar shú)” [verse 2], and “bestir thyself,
bestir thyself (húshyár shú, húshyár shú)” [verse 3]. In His poem
Dast-i-karam bi-gushá [Majmú‘iy-i-Munáját 18-9] He repeats six
times, “Wake up, wake up (bídár shú, bídár shú), almost a
modern radíf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s call is especially evident in the
following poem [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 13:203-4], written “one year
after the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh” [SWAB 270, sec. 218]:
1.  Sham‘-i-shabistán-i-˙aqq, núr bi-áfáq bakhsh.
Muqtabis az shams shú, shu‘lih-u ishráq bakhsh.
O torch in the divine chapel, illumine the world.
Take light from the sun and spread out luster and
flames.
2.  Sharq munavvar numá gharb mu‘a††ar numá,
Rú˙ bi-ßiqláb dih núr bi-afláq bakhsh.
In the Orient scatter perfumes, and shed splendours on
the West.
Carry light unto the Bulgar, and the Slav with life
invest. [SWAB 270, sec. 218]
3.  Jism-i-‘alíl-jahán khastih shudih ná-tuván
Marham-i-har zakhm shú. Dárúy-i-diryáq bakhsh.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The afflicted body of the world is exhausted and spent.
Be a balm for each wound. Offer the infallible remedy.
4.  Fitniy-i-‘álam ma-jú. Dar rah-i-ádam ma-pú.
Khálí az ín guftgú. Núr bi-akhláq bakhsh.
Don’t follow the mischiefs of the world. Don’t tread the
ways of the humans.
Get rid of any dispute. Have a luminous temper.
5.  Gáh chú barq-i-si˙áb, gáh chú abr-i-bahár,
Khándih bi-lab-há bi-dih, giryih bi-áfáq bakhsh.
As a flashing thunderbolt, bring smiles to the lips.
Like a vernal cloud, give tears of joy to the world.
6.  Yúsif-i-Kan‘án-i-man, Mißr-i-malá˙at khush ast.
Jilvih bi-bázár kun. Bahrih bi-a˙dáq bakhsh.
O my Canaanean Joseph, the Egypt of beauty is sweet.
Show up in the bazars. Bring mirth to the eyes.
7.  Fayḍ-i-Bahá’í siráj. ‘Awn-i-Bahá’í zujáj.
Khák-i-dar-ash bar tú táj. Muzhdih bi mushtáq bakhsh.
The grace of Bahá is a beacon. The aid of Bahá is a globe.
Let your crown be the dust on His threshold. To the
yearning hearts announce the god-spell.
8.  Ján bi-chunín Dil-barí áfat-i-ins-u parí,
Gar bi-dahí. Bar parí. Furßat-i-‘ushsháq bakhsh.
To this handsome Sweetheart, a calamity for angels and
men,
Offer your soul. Take your flight. To each lover
proffer a chance.

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
9.  Bul-bul-i-gúyá byá! Naghmih bi-gulshan sará!
Ṣí˙ih bi-zan yá Bahá! Rajfih bi-a†báq bakhsh!
O ye chirping nightingale! Come! Sing to the rose-bush!
Raise the cry, “O Bahá!” Shake the depths of the world!
[Provisional translation by the authors]
The purposes of poetry
As to the purposes of poetry, Bahá’u’lláh Himself wrote a
‘Tablet to a Poet’ from which we may infer some of them:
Blessed the poet who hath been filled with the spirit of
the Day of God and from whose words hath wafted the
sweet-smelling savour of the love of his Lord, the All-
Merciful, over all created things. Such a one is, in truth,
among the blissful. Woe betide the poet who hath drawn
spears of sarcasm toward people and turned away from
this wondrous Remembrance. Keep in mind the grace of
God for having made your tongues the keys to His
treasures and the revealers of His wisdom and
mysteries. Walk ye in the fear of God and be not of the
heedless. This is the day to celebrate His praise, the day
in which the Creator of the heavens hath appeared with
the kingdom of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Praised.
[qtd. in Rafati, Yādnāmih 296, personal translation by Omid
Ghaemmaghami]3
Four main objectives are specified in this short Tablet: being
“filled with the spirit of the Day of God”; wafting “the sweet-
smelling savour of the love of ... (one’s) Lord, the All-Merciful,
over all created things”; unlocking “treasures” and revealing
“wisdom and mysteries”; and celebrating “His praise.” No
“spears of sarcasm” seem in this day acceptable from poets.
Similar objectives of poetry can also be inferred from words
written or uttered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. As has been said, ‘Abdu’l-

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Bahá encouraged a number of poets to write poems so that they
may be “like the melody of the birds of holiness in the paradise
of El-Abha” [TAB 1:57], “the cause of the gladness of their
hearers” [Tablet to Mr. Edgar Waite, “Recent Tablets” 318], and of the
delight of “the ears of the children of the Kingdom” [Tablet to
Mrs. Sháhnaz Waite, “Tablets to Baháis” 276], or so that their beauty
may “affect the minds and impress the hearts of those who
listen,” and their listeners may “find rest and joy and become in
tune with the love of God” [TAB 1:59], and “through reading it
the breast of the believers may be refreshed and dilated with
joy” [TAB 3:669]. Commotion, a feeling of rest and sweetness,
the “tune with the love of God” and the joy aroused by its
beauty are thus some of the feelings which poetry should raise
in the hearts of its readers. And, it is well known, “Joy gives us
wings! In times of joy our strength is more vital, our intellect
keener, and our understanding less clouded. We seem better
able to cope with the world and to find our sphere of
usefulness” [PT 110, sec. 35, para. 2]. This is one of the reasons why,
as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reportedly said, “poetry is much more effective
and complete than prose. It stirs more deeply, for it is of a
finer composition!” [qtd. in Lucas 12], and, as Shoghi Effendi
pointed out in a letter written on his behalf to an individual on
10 October 1932, “art [comprising poetry] can better awaken
... nobler sentiments than cold rationalizing, especially among
the mass of the people” [qtd. in CC3:28, no.52]. If these vital
prerequisites are met, then a poem will accomplish its purpose,
that is a specific aspect of the general purpose of words
described by Bahá’u’lláh in His Law˙-i-Óikmat, exerting an
“influence” [TB 143]. In this specific case the purpose is to
inspire love for God and, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote in His Tablet
to Mr. James Simpson, “to render a distinguished service to the
divine Kingdom and to be the cause of the promulgation of the
oneness of mankind” [“Tablets received” 166]. And thus ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá seems to confirm the following words by the Latin poet
Quintus Horatius Flaccus (65 BC–8 BC), known in the English-
speaking world as Horace: “Omne tulit punctum qui miscuit
utile dulci, / lectorem delectando pariterque monendo” (Ars

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
Poetica 343-344), the one who mixes the useful with the
pleasing carries every vote, both teaching and delighting his
readers.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not exclude however that poetry may aim
at material goals and be equally excellent. But to this kind of
poetry He ascribes a lesser importance. He wrote in this regard
to Louise R. Waite:
How many poets have come to this world who have
written elegies and eulogies in the utmost of eloquence
and excellence, but because the meanings were the
realities of the world of nature, the effect was produced
in the material world and the material world is limited,
hence the effects of those meanings are limited. But
thou art a composer of poetry which touches Divine
Realities and Significances, therefore they are of the
mysteries of the Kingdom and the meanings of the
Kingdom are unlimited. The poetry of the renowned is
perused in the material meetings, but thy poetry will
forever be read in the Spiritual Meetings. [qtd. in Hatch
662]
As to the purpose of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá poems, the authors feel
that they are quite different in this regard from those of
Bahá’u’lláh. We could suppose that Bahá’u’lláh also wrote His
poems because He intended to leave to posterity a small
window opened on the depth of His human emotions. His
intimist verses, that is, His verses that deal “chiefly with
intimate and private especially psychological experiences”
[Webster 1184], are many indeed. Some of His verses reinforce in
us the impression that He really wanted to show glimmers of
His hidden human thoughts. This feature makes those
compositions especially precious for all people who are eager to
become more familiar with the Figure of Bahá’u’lláh and with
the human aspects of a Personage Who is known especially
through Works that He wrote with the majesty and the
authority of the “divine teacher” [SAQ 12, sec.3, para.15].4 This

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

aspect seems totally absent in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s poem. The poet is
mostly absent in these verses, except for proclaiming His love
for the Beloved, His submission to Him, His utter dependence
on Him. It seems that His main purposes are glorifying
Bahá’u’lláh, announcing His Revelation, calling people to
surrender to and to abide by His will. In this vein He describes
Himself as a “nightingale (bul-bul)” [Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:132, verse
3], “astonished and confounded (madhúsh-u sar-gardán)” [ibid.
verse 4], drunken “with the cheek of the Beloved (rukh-i-Jánán)”
[ibid.], uttering “groans and moans (Pur áh-u pur afghán
shudih)” [ibid. 5], and raising a plea unto God. But this prayer is
offered in the name of all human beings, that He may assist
them to find their life in Him [see ibid. verse 12]. Intimist verses
may be found in Ay Khudáy-i-Pur-‘A†áy-i-Dhu’l-Manán
[Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb
13:208]
and
Ay
Gul-rukh-i-Abháy-i-man!
[Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb 55:340-2]. But in these poems as well, the
narrating subject that comes on the forefront in the first verses
becomes merged into the selves of all human beings, as early as
after verse 2 and verse 3, respectively.
Conclusion
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s writings and utterance, as well as His few
poems, can be an important source of inspiration for anyone
who wants either to write poems or to obtain a deeper
understanding of the poetic language. Hopefully in a not
distant future talented pens will come out, who will offer
skillful translations of these writings, utterances, and especially
poems by the blessed Pen of the Master.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 13.
The Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA), 132 BE. http://www.h-
net.org/bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA013.pdf (accessed on 26
November 2015).

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 21. The Iran
National Bahá’í Archives (INBA), 133 BE (http://www.h-
net.org/bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA021.pdf (accessed on 26
November 2015).
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 55. The Iran
National Bahá’í Archives (INBA), 133 BE (http://www.h-
net.org/bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA055.pdf (accessed on 26
November 2015).
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 88. The Iran
National Bahá’í Archives (INBA), 133 BE (http://www.h-
net.org/bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA088.pdf (accessed on 26
November 2015).
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Munáját-háy-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag,1992.
———. Makátíb-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol.1. Cairo: Ma†ba‘a Kurdistán al
‘Ilmíyya, 1328 (1910).
———. Munájátháy-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Adbu’l-Bahá — cháp-i-Hind. rpt. New
Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Committee of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of India and Burma, 1946.
———. Muntakhabátí az Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Adbu’l-Bahá. Vol. 2,
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1984; vol. 4, Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahá’í-Verlag, nd.
———. “Tablets received by American Bahais in 1919,” Star of the
West 11.10 (8 September 1920): 159, 163-8.
———. “Tablets to Baháis in America received in 1919 and 1920,” Star
of the West 11.18 (7 February 1921): 306-8.
Adhkáru’l-Muqarrabín. Teheran: Mu’assisiy-i-Ma†bu‘at-i-Amrí, 116
EB, 1947.
Alighieri, Dante. Vita nuova; English translation: Vita Nuova. Trans.
Mark Musa. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992.
The Bahá’í World 1938-1940: An International Record. Volume 8.
Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1942, reprint 1981.
Battaglia, Salvatore. Grande dizionario della lingua italiana. Vol. 5.
Turin: UTET, 1968.
———. Grande dizionario della lingua italiana. Vol. 7. Turin: UTET,
1972.
———. Grande dizionario della lingua italiana. Vol. 8. Turin: UTET,
1973.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Bausani, Alessandro. “La letteratura neopersiana,” in Pagliaro and
Bausani: La letteratura Persiana, pp.133-563.
———. Religion in Iran. Translated by J.M. Marchesi. New York:
Bibliotheca Persica Press, 2000.
Blachère, Régis. “Ghazal. i. The Ghazal in Arabic poetry.” Encyclo-
pedia of Islam.
Blomfield, Lady. The Chosen Highway. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1950.
Browne, Edward G. A Literary History of Persia. 4 vols. Bethesda,
Maryland: Iranbooks, 1997.
Compilation of Compilations: Prepared by the Research Department
of The Universal House of Justice. Vol. 3. Ingleside, NSW
Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 2000.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Óáfiẓ, Shams ad-Dín. The Dīvān-i-Hāfiz. Translated by H.
Wilberforce Clarke. Bethesda, MD: Ibex Publishers, 1997.
Available at http://archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/
thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt (accessed 19 August 2011).
Hatch, Willard P. ‘Sháhnaz Khánum (Mrs. Louise R. Waite)’, The
Bahá’í World 1938-1940 661-4.
Heinrichs, Wolfhart P. “Radīf.” Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Horace (Q. Horatius Flaccus). Ars Poetica. Available at
http://www.thelatinlibrary.com/horace/arspoet.shtml (accessed
31 December 2010).
Jabbari, Behrouz. “The poems by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Ash‘ár-i-Óa∂rát-i-
’Abdu’l-Bahá).” Khúshihá’í 14:281-300.
Khúshihá’íy-i-az kharman-i-adab va hwanar: Proceedings of a Seminar
on Mítháq. Vol. 14. Darmstadt: ‘Aṣr-i-Jadíd Publisher, 2003 (160
BE). A publication of the Society for Persian Arts and Letters.
Lucas, Mary L. A Brief Account of My Visit to Acca. Chicago: Bahá’í
Publishing Society, 1905.
McLean, Jack A. “A Poem in Plain Speaking,” World Order 26.3
(Spring 1995): 54.
Myers, Jack and Michael Simms. The Longman Dictionary of Poetic
Terms. New York: Longman 1989.
“Notes to The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. The Most Holy Book. By Bahá’u’lláh.”
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992.

Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
The Oxford English Dictionary, Second Edition Prepared by J.A.
Simpson and E.S.C. Weiner. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989.
Pagliaro, Antonino and Alessandro Bausani. La letteratura persiana.
Florence: Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
Plato. Platonis Opera, ed. John Burnet. Oxford University Press,
1903. Available at perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/collection?
collection=Perseus%3Acorpus%3Aperseus%2Cauthor%2CPlato
(accessed 6 February 2011).
Rabb, Mary M. “The Divine Art of Living. A Compilation,” Star of
the West 8.8 (1 August 1917): 86-8, 96-104.
Rafati, Vahid. Mákhed-i-Ashár dar Ásár-i-Bahá’í (Má’akhiz-i-ash‘ár
dar Áthár-i-Bahá’í). Dundas, Ontario: Persian Institute for Bahá’í
Studies, 1990.
———. (ed.) Yádnámiy-i-Baydá’-i-Núrá’ [Remembrance of a Shining
Light. Selections from the Works of Abu’l-Qásim Bayḍá’].
Hofheim: Bahá’í-Verlag, 163 BE — 2011..
Savi, Julio. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written Before 1863,” in
Lights of ‘Irfán, Vol. 13 (2012), pp. 317-61.
Star of the West. The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world,
published from 1910 to 1935. Issues 1910 to 1924, RP 8 vols.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1978.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English
Dictionary Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met
with in Persian Literature. London and New York: Routledge,
1998.
Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Center, 1973.
Terence (P. Terentius Afer). Eunuchus. Ed. Edward St. John Parry.
Available at perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=
Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.02.0088 (accessed 18 August 2011).
The Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Universal House
of Justice: 1963-1986, The Third Epoch of the Formative Age.
Comp. Geoffry W. Marks. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1996.
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the English
Language Unabridged. Ed. Philip Bábcock Gove, Ph.D. and the
Merriam-Webster Editorial Staff. 3d ed. Springfield,
Massachusetts: Merriam-Webster Inc., 1986.

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

World Order (new series). A Bahá’í magazine published quarterly by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States. Wilmette, IL: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
the United States, 1966-2008.

NOTES
1 These words appear in “Waite–Harrison Notes; Acca, October 12, 1909.”
2 An early American Bahá’í, author of the book entitled The Two Paths
(Chicago: A.C. Clark, 1897).
3 We thank professor Omid Ghaemmaghami for having given his permission
to the publication of this translation.
4 For a deeper analysis of this issue see Julio Savi, “Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian
Poems Written Before 1863,” in Lights of ‘Irfán 13 (2012), pp. 317-361.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice
ADP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy
BA
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration
BK
Compilation, Bahíyyih Khánum
BP
Compilation, Bahá’í Prayers
BS
Compilation, Bahá’í Scriptures
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
CC1-2
Compilation of Compilations, volumes 1 and 2
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith
DG
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries
GPB
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
JWTA
Shoghi Effendi, Japan Will Turn Ablaze
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
LG
Compilation, Lights of Guidance
MBW
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957
MOTC
Compilation, Ministry of the Custodians

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

MUHJ63
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986
MUJH68
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1968-1973
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PDC
Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of The Báb
TAB1-3
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TDH
Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour
TDP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan
TU
Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity
UD
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament

Appendices
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-17
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Faríd ud-Dín A††ár
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-
i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg

Appendices
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet
of Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan ‘Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
(Súriy-i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn

Appendices
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafá Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manuchehr Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Babe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Appendices
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Alí Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will
and Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
‘Alí Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat
Amín Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge

Appendices
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Alí Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a
Letter from Shoghi Effendi
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-
Óaqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of ’Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amín Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Alí Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about
God
Moojan Momen
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge
The New Atheism — A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani

Appendices
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Alí Nakhjavani
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the
Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Alí Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen, © 2013
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing
Celestial Fire: Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine
Fire (átar, á∂ar, átash) in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy — Theology — Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-
Ruz ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt.
Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of
Humanity During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910 — 5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fifteen, © 2014
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend: Reflection on Bahá’í
Scholarship as a Journey in the Valley of Search
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings
Part II: Deeper into the Writings
Ian Kluge
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious History
and the Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Bahárieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Origins of Creation
Farjam Majd
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society
Moojan Momen
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call: (mast-and bulbulán)
Julio Savi
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics
Foad Seddigh
Non-Involvement in Politics
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam:
Hushmand Fatheazam (1924-2013)

Appendices
Amín Banani (1926-2013)
Mahboubeh Arjmand (d. 2013)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Sixteen, © 2015
The Ten Plagues of the Exodus in Light of the Bahá’í Writings
JoAnn M. Borovicka
Freud’s Transference and the Four States of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Procrustes’ Bed: The Insufficiency of Secular Humanism
Ian Kluge
Women and Wisdom in Scripture
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani
On Existence and Qualities of the Human Soul
Farjam Majd
Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related to Law in Bahá’í
Scripture
Moojan Momen
Shared Prosperity: How Does That Work?
Wendi Momen
A Hymn to Love (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí)
Julio Savi
“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”: An early fruit of the Supreme
Pen
Julio Savi
Intellectual Life and the Future of Bahá’í Studies
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam
Kamran Ekbal (1946-2014)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seventeen, © 2016
Addressing the Rising Tide of Globalization and Amorality in the Present
World Order and Its Implications on Extremes of Wealth and Poverty
Rama Ayman
Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
JoAnn M. Borovicka

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

The Language of the Heart: From Dream Language towards
Understanding the Language of the Heart
Wolfgang Klebel
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge
Memorials of the Faithful: Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
Marlene Koswan
Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of Sainthood
Moojan Momen
The Concept of ‘Faithfulness’ in the Bahá’í Texts in English Translation
Wendi Momen
An Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Julio Savi
Significance of Some Sites Mentioned in Memorials of the Faithful
Foad Seddigh
Hagiography: The Art of Setting Inspirational Examples for a Religious
Community
Iscander Micael Tinto
Translation of Key Bahá’í Terms
Universal House of Justice
Suggestions about Changes in the Administrative Order
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam:
Houshang Arjmand (1930-2015)

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions
(Oxford: George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to
Eighteen (2000–2017)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safíni-yi ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in Persian), Books One to Twenty
(1998–2017)
Farah
Dustdar
(ed.),
Beiträge
des
‘Irfán–Kolloquiums:
Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in
German), Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í
Verlag, 2004–2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalíl-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun
is the Sun) (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy-i‘-i-Ma‘ání va Tafsír (The Wonders of
Inner Meanings and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic Verses and Islamic Traditions
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)
Sháhbaz Fatheazam, The Last Refuge: Fifty Years of the
Universal House of Justice (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani
Verlag, 2015)

Lights of Irfán vol. 18

Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950 Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921 Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170 Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Appendices
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
The ‘Irfán Colloquium aims at promoting and supporting
systematic studies of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í
beliefs, the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith,
the interface of the Bahá’í Faith with intellectual schools of
thought and religious traditions, and looking at current
challenges in human society from the Bahá’í perspective. ‘Irfán
is a Persian word referring to mystical, theological and spiritual
knowledge. The ‘Irfán Colloquium and its publications are
sponsored by Haj Mehdi Memorial Fund and supported by
Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarships grant.
The Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund was established by
Houshang Arjmand (1930–2015) in 1992 to honor his grand-
father, Haj Mehdi Arjmand, and is dedicated to promoting the
scholarly study of the Bahá’í Faith. Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-
1941) was a Persian scholar and teacher of the Bahá’í Faith who
became well known in Iran for his profound knowledge of the
Bible, Qur’an, and Bahá’í scriptures. The primary activity of
the Fund is sponsoring annual sessions of ‘Irfán Colloquium
and ‘Irfán publications.
In 2012, benefiting from the guidance received from the
Universal House of Justice, a management board was appointed
for this fund to function as a Bahá’í agency under the direction
of the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States.
Organizing and holding ‘Irfán Colloquia started in 1993 and are
presently held seven times every year in North America and
Western Europe in English, Persian and German languages
under the auspices of the National Spiritual Assembly of the host
country.
As of June 2017 one hundred and forty-four sessions of
colloquia have been held. Papers in English presented or
received at the ‘Irfán Colloquia are annually published in a
series of volumes of the Lights of ‘Irfán.