THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1977-03-03

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

188.1 The cornerstone of the foundation of all Bahá’í activity is teaching the Cause.  As ‘Abdu’l- Bahá has categorically proclaimed in His Will and Testament, “the guidance of the nations and peoples of the world” is “the most important of all things,” and “Of all the gifts of God the greatest is the gift of Teaching.”

188.2  The friends likewise are in varying degrees aware of the repeated exhortations found in the Writings of our Faith that divine confirmations are dependent upon the active pursuit of the teaching work.  In the words of the beloved Master, “confirmations from the unseen world are encompassing all those who deliver the divine Message.”  He further states, “should the work of teaching lapse, these confirmations would be entirely cut off, since it is impossible for the loved ones of God to receive assistance unless they teach.”

188.3  While the friends are generally conscious of the vital importance of teaching, yet, because of their frailties, many for the most part lack confidence, and feel they do not know what course of action to follow, or how to bring their efforts to a conclusion.  Since guidance on such fundamental issues comes from the Writings of the Faith, we asked the Research Department to prepare a compilation of texts on the subject.  This is now ready and a copy is enclosed. 188.4   A study of the compilation will provide the friends with stimulating information on general guidelines to be followed by them when engaged in the teaching work.  While many will be inspired, after reading the compilation, to cast aside their fears and misgivings and their sense of inadequacy, and will arise to speak forth announcing the glad-tidings of the Kingdom to their fellowmen, many more will still be in need of loving education and more detailed guidance on the part of the institutions of the Faith, and patient and wise prodding before they are aroused to action.  And since the primary purpose for which Local Spiritual Assemblies are established is to 277promote the teaching work, it is clear that every National Spiritual Assembly must give careful consideration to ways and means to encourage each Local Assembly under its jurisdiction to fulfill its principal obligation.  For instance, Local Assemblies could be urged to organize special meetings when texts, such as those included in the compilation, would be studied.  Furthermore, it is important that Local Assemblies share with the local friends stories of successes achieved by some of them, descriptions of effective presentations found useful by them, examples of various ways that a Bahá’í subject could be introduced to inquirers, or illustrations of methods which would enable the believer to relate the needs of society to our teachings.  Such information and suggestions could be offered to the friends at Nineteen Day Feasts, through a local newsletter, or by any other means open to each Local Assembly.  In all these contacts with the believers, each Local Spiritual Assembly should impress upon the friends the unique and irreplaceable role the individual plays in the prosecution of any Bahá’í undertaking.  Quotations from the writings on this point, such as the following passage from one of the letters of Shoghi Effendi, should be repeatedly presented and explained to the friends:

188.4a He [the individual believer] it is who constitutes the warp and woof on which the quality and pattern of the whole fabric must depend.  He it is who acts as one of the countless links in the mighty chain that now girdles the globe.  He it is who serves as one of the multitude of bricks which support the structure and insure the stability of the administrative edifice now being raised in every part of the world.  Without his support, at once wholehearted, continuous and generous, every measure adopted, and every plan formulated, by the body which acts as the national representative of the community to which he belongs is foredoomed to failure.  The World Center of the Faith itself is paralyzed if such a support on the part of the rank and file of the community is denied it.  The Author of the Divine Plan Himself is impeded in His purpose if the proper instruments for the execution of His design are lacking.  The sustaining strength of Bahá’u’lláh Himself, the Founder of the  Faith, will be withheld from every and each individual who fails in the long run to arise and play his part.

188.5 When the friends realize that the hosts of the Kingdom are waiting to rush forth and assist them, that others from their own ranks have arisen and have been successful, that everyone can find some effective method of teaching according to his own particular capacities and talents, they will then no doubt arise with greater confidence to take the first step, and this, we know, will be aided and guided from on high, for the very act of striving to respond to God's call will bring in its wake countless divine blessings.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]