The New Garden
Bahá’í Poems
Julio Savi
Casa Editrice Bahá’í
A versaƟle writer, author, translator, and poet,
Julio Savi, “Asmarino” by birth and of Italian
origins and culture, is mainly interested in the
mysƟcal and philosophical aspects of the
sacred Scriptures. He has published three
anthologies of Italian poems Lontananza
(2001), also published in English, Remoteness
(2002), Lontananza – 2001-2016 (2016), and
Chiaroscuro (2019). His poems in Italian and
English have appeared in Italian, American,
Canadian and French magazines. In 2016 he
edited, in collaboraƟon with Faezeh Mardani,
the Italian translaƟon from the Persian of
Prison Poems by the Iranian poetess Mahvash
Sabet, published by Verri Edizioni. Also in
collaboraƟon with Faezeh Mardani he is
preparing a signiﬁcant Italian anthology of
poems by Ṭáhirih, a Persian poet who lived in
Iran in the ﬁrst half of the nineteenth century.
The desire pervading this anthology to invite,
through art, its readers to leave their “humble
mark” on this Earth… and to summon them,
through poetic contemplation, to be active, makes
it a very precious and original gift. Far from being
a life manual, a conduct guideline, a catechism, it
is a collection of poems written and inspired by
the life of every believer who struggles with
sincerity to perfect herself and to offer the
essence of the good fruits she has reaped to her
neighbors. It is an experience of darkness and
light and a gradual transition from night to dawn.
Other publicaƟons of the AssociaƟon for Bahá'í
Studies  “Alessandro Bausani”:
Invito all'apprendimento: perché si studia, come si
studia, come si scrive [InvitaƟon to Learning: Why
Study, How to Study, How to Write] (2019)
Il Maestro e la Parola: Riﬂessioni sulla vita e sulle
opere di 'Abdu'l-Bahá nel centenario del trapasso
[The Master and the Word: ReﬂecƟons on the Life
and Works of 'Abdu'l-Bahá on the Centenary of His
Passing] (2021)
On the front-cover: Gustav Klimt (1862-1918),
Italian Garden Landscape (1913), Austrian
painter Kunsthaus
(ArtHouse), Zug, Switzerland.