THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

8 February 2014

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

One year ago, the Universal House of Justice called for the convening of conferences across the globe to give an opportunity to Bahá’í youth and their friends “to reflect, to commit, to steel themselves for a life of service”. The effect of the deliberations of the over 80,000 young people participating in those auspicious gatherings was profound and far reaching. The impressive scope and depth of the conversations greatly enhanced the commitment of these youth to bearing the responsibility of contributing to the betterment of the world and led them to identify specific ways in which they would lend their share. If the participants in the conferences are to continue to feel the impact of “earnest discussions that lift the heart and awaken the mind to the possibilities of what could be” and extend their dynamic influence to others, they must sustain their “inclusive and ever-expanding” conversations within the particular contexts of their own communities, concurrent with their continued endeavours to serve society.

To assist the youth in this process, the House of Justice commissioned the production of a series of short films collectively entitled To Serve Humanity. Utilizing, in part, footage showing highlights from the conferences, the films capture the insights of participants and illustrate the unfoldment of their efforts following those gatherings. The friends may make use of To Serve Humanity in a variety of ways. Groups of youth working together could choose to view it in whole or in part, consult on the central themes presented, and discuss how they themselves are applying the concepts in their efforts to serve society. They may invite friends who were not present at the conferences, but who, like them, have the desire to contribute to the development of their communities, to join them on such occasions, which could also involve the study of selected conference materials. The institutions of the Faith may wish to organize similar gatherings as a means of supporting the youth. Of course, viewings of the films should not be limited to a certain age range, but may include members of institutions in general and those adults who continue to play a significant role in fostering an environment in which younger generations can flourish. Indeed, institute campaigns and reflection meetings would be opportune times at which the films can be shown and their content discussed in the context of current developments within a cluster.

The DVD copies of this production are being sent to every National Spiritual Assembly, including one for each member of your institution. You may wish to distribute copies to Regional Bahá’í Councils, Local Spiritual Assemblies, and smaller communities; Auxiliary Board members will receive their copies through the Continental Boards of Counsellors. The films will also be available to download or view online at www.bahai.org/toserve….

This series of films complements other endeavours to support the youth, foremost among which are assisting them to advance in their study of the sequence of courses of the training institute and building their capacity to offer acts of service to their community. The House of Justice hopes that the efforts initiated before the conferences to strengthen the training institute and the means for accompanying the younger generations may continue to progress with the required vitality.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]