THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1989-11-20

dear b ahá’í f riends,

1989 raising the question of your National Spiritual Assembly’s relations with the government of guyana, and it has requested us to convey the

following.

in general, the manner in which the principle of noninterference in

political affairs should be applied in guyana depends upon your ap-78.3

78.4

78.5

79.1

79.2

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

17praisal of the situation. The subject should be discussed with the friends

in such a manner that they will not only understand its import for them-

selves, but will also see how they can positively and confidently explain

it to non-b ahá’ís. The adherents of this cause uphold the principles

of loyalty and obedience to government, do not become involved in subversive activities, refrain from partisanship and do not join political

parties. At the same time, as responsible citizens, they strive to promote

the best interests of their respective nations and governments by making themselves productive, helpful members of society wholly committed to serving humanity for the love of god. Such considerations, while orient-

ing the bahá’ís to the attitudes they must adopt, should also allay the

fears and suspicions of their non-b ahá’í fellow citizens, regardless of their

political persuasions, concerning the outlook and intentions of the faith.

These attitudes should be neither offensive nor threatening to anyone. As the friends are seen increasingly to reflect them in their daily lives, they should gradually earn the respect and trust of all ranks and segments of society.

it is up to the National Spiritual Assembly to determine which posts and

functions are “diplomatic or political” and which are “purely administrative in character” and “under no circumstances are affected by the changes and chances that political activities and party government, in every land, must

necessarily involve.” while the former represent activities the friends must

avoid, the latter functions are open to bahá’ís. indeed, such functions are to

be welcomed by the friends as they constitute opportunities which enable them “to serve, in an unselfish, unostentatious and patriotic fashion, the

highest interests of the country” to which they belong. (The World Order of  Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, rev. ed. p. 65)

To throw oneself into the maelstrom of political struggles or to withdraw

utterly from any interest in the affairs of men outside the bahá’í community

are two extremes that must be avoided by every loyal bahá’í. The true course

is more difficult to follow, and requires wisdom and mature judgment. The general guidelines are given with great clarity by the beloved guardian in

“The g olden Age of the cause of b ahá’u’lláh,” and can be found on pages

64 to 67 of The World Order of  Bahá’u’lláh. . . .

The house of justice will offer its prayers at the holy Shrines for your

guidance and for the reinforcement of your devoted endeavors.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat79.3

79.4

79.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

1880

Message to the International Teaching Conference

Dedicated to the Hand of the Cause of God

Dr. Muhájir

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]