THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-04-15

you have already been informed, through our email letter of 24 march

1999, of the disturbing news of the prison sentences received by four

bahá’ís in i¦fahán, dr. Sina hakiman, mr. farzad khajeh Sharifabadi,

mr. h abibullah ferdosian Najafabadi and mr. ziaullah mirzapanah. The

condemned men did not receive a written copy of the court verdict giving

details of their alleged crimes and their sentences, this information being

conveyed to them orally. A transcript of the text of the verdict, number 2/791/77, has now been received, and a provisional translation of it is en-

closed for your reference.

The four bahá’ís were convicted in connection with their participation

in the activities of the institute for higher bahá’í Studies, which is a similar

kind of organization to bihe, although the latter focuses mainly on aca-

demic subjects, whereas the institute for higher bahá’í Studies is essentially

concerned with the study of matters related directly to the faith. you will

recall that the many teachers, administrators and office workers of bihe,

who were arrested all over iran in the raids on more than 530 bahá’í homes

in the fall of 1998, were all released some time ago, with the exception of

the four in i¦fahán who have now been sentenced.

it is significant to note that the verdict is based on an article of the crimi-

nal law of iran pertaining to the security of the country, although it has

no relevance to the charges mentioned in the text of the court report. The membership of the four men in the institute for higher bahá’í Studies is

cited as their major crime. The institute is referred to as “secret,” and its

crime was to attract youth to undertake study of their own faith, an activity

branded by the text of the verdict as “teaching against islám and the regime

of the islamic republic.” bahá’í studies are, of course, not only not against

islám, but they do not relate in any way whatsoever to the politics of the

islamic republic. The bahá’í community in iran has the right to study the

tenets of its faith, which is universal and all-embracing, acknowledging the

validity of i slám and of all the revealed religions of the past.297 .1

297 .2

297 .3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

665dr. hakiman was sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment, and the only

offenses that the court verdict specifies are that he was “one of the active

members of the [ bahá’í] sect” and was “responsible for the formation of

classes for bahá’í Studies.” mr. Sharifabadi was sentenced to seven years,

and the verdict states that he was “another active member of the misled

bahá’í sect, Secretary of the institute for [ higher] bahá’í Studies, affiliated

with the house of justice of the bahá’ís and israel” and that he was “also

in charge of the educational books of the bahá’ís.” The verdict states that

mr. Najafabadi (also seven years), was a “follower of the bahá’í ideology,

member of the illegal institute for [ higher bahá’í] Studies” and “administra-

tor, supporter and distributor of books amongst the members and students affiliated to the misled [ bahá’í] sect.” The verdict finds mr. mirzapanah,

who was given a three-year sentence, to have been “the intermediary be-

tween øihrán and i¦fahán and the institute for [ higher] bahá’í Studies, and

[engaged in] activity against the regime of the i slamic r epublic.”

Not only are the astonishing sentences by the court wholly unjustified

and beyond all reason, but its verdict also has nothing to do with the article of the penal code which it cites in justification of its decisions. The text of

this article is:

Article 498—Anyone, of whatever belief, who forms or organizes an

association, group or branch of a group with two or more people,

under any name or title, in or outside the country, whose aim is the disruption of the security of the country, shall be sentenced to be-

tween two and ten years’ imprisonment, provided that he does not

fall into the category of “mu¥árib” [one who wages war against god].

it is clear that this article has no relationship to individuals engaged in teach-

ing the tenets of their peace-loving f aith to its young followers. . . .

Department  of tHe secretariat297 .4

297 .5

297 .5a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

666298

Postponement of Formation of

National Spiritual Assembly of Macedonia

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]