MEN ON
THE
HORIZON
With Many Illustrations
by the Author
BY GUY MURCHIE, JR.
BOSTON AND NEW YORK
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
1tbel&ibmile tit'" £atnltibg<

COPYRIGHT, I9J2, BY GUY MURCHIE, JR.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED INCLUDING THE RICHT TO REf>ROD\JCit
THIS BOOK OR PARTS THEREOF IS AHY FORM
CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS
PRINTED IN THE 1.-".S.A.

---.:....-=.
--, ... --.rrr:-:LJ:.p

FOREWORD
THis is why I have written this Foreword:
I first became interested in Murchie; I liked his clean
manhood and his ideals, none of which he seems to have lost
in spite of his many experiences and hardships. When he
showed me his manuscript, I began to read it because of my
interest in the author, but, after the first page, I read it be­
cause of my interest in the book; and I must confess I lost
hours of sleep before I finished it.
This Foreword does not signify approval or disapproval
of his conclusions concerning the governments of the people
he has come in contact with, but l\lurchie has given me in­
formation concerning the citizens of nations he has visited
which was of absorbing interest. He seems to have a gift for.
observing human nature.
Murchie came in close contact with the people of many
countries, and he saw that, however the governments
may differ, the citizens themselves were not very different
from us
RICHARD E. BYRD
Rear-Admiral U.S.I\'., Retired

I. THE Foc'sLE
II. ALASKA
Ill. HAWAII
CONTENTS
IV. THE ENGINE-ROOM
V. jAPAN
\'I. CmNA
\'JJ. THE PHILIPPINES
VIII. NoRTH CHINA
IX. KoREA
X. RussiA
I
!08
'53
!78
2!8

MEN ON THE HORIZON
CHAPTER ONE
THE FOC'SLE
T
HIS is an army transport ship. It is full of recruits,
and officers with their wives, and fat old sergeants who
wander about in twos and threes telling army stories. We
are bound for the Canal Zone, and from there for 'Frisco
and Honolulu.
I am rated as an A.B. seaman, and am writing this in the
foc'sle, where I sleep along with a terrific assortment of gobs
from different parts of the United States, l\1exico, South
America, Scandinavia, Italy, and Palestine.
They called me ' Slim' at first, but now it's ' Big Boy,' be­
cause I have such a desperate time getting into my skimpy
bunk. It is in a corner and about four inches from the floor,
and to get into it, I have to climb through the overripe
union suit of Pinhead which always hangs airing from his
bunk, a scant foot and a half over mine.
I've finished this year an education supposed to prepare
me for life, in a world of which I know, definitely, almost
nothing. By experience in my small segment of it, I've
learned that it is a world of work, and of conflicting ideas.

2.
.A1en on the Horizyn..,
About the rest of it I know only that it is made up of vast
masses of men grouped in races and classes, unknown to
each other, uninformed about each other, doubting and dis­
liking each other - and yet, all of them made in the same
image and of the same material, and all human.
This information, remote and theoretical, is not enough
for me. I must prove to myself, through actual experience,
the truth about these things. 1 must find out for myself
whether it is not ignorance, and ignorance alone, that pre­
vents friendship and understanding between these masses of
human beings. I cannot commit myself to doubt or dis­
trust of other men on hearsay. I want to come to some
workable conclusions about this variegated world of men,
and I can't do it until I have encountered it at first hand,
and in the raw.
So, against innumerable and highly respectable reasons
for staying at home, I've determined to go around and
through the northern half of the globe where, I think, I shall
meet with all the elements of man's immediate drama. The
southern hemisphere may be the future - but the northern
seems certainly to be the seething present of the world.
I intend to lay my course as close as I can to the life of
the men within my changing horizons, irrespective of race,
class, or condition - not so much to see, as to share, that
life as deeply as I can, with my limitations of time and
equipment.
I have started. It is June. The towers of New York have
sunk behind us, and we've kicked the dirty harbor water
from beneath our keel for the long, clean surge of the At­
lantic. We are pointing southward toward Panama - the
portal to the western seas and to the eastern world.
The first thing I had to do on this ship, and while she was
still in dock, was to help lash the lifeboats in place and lace
down their canvas covers. Then --

CJ'he Foe' sle.;
'Hey, you, Slim,' shouted the bosun, with gimlet eye
upon me, 'go get up steam on winch number two! '
He seemed to take for granted that I had been getting up
steam on winches since birth, and although I had never met
in person this bunch of handles, valves, and steam pipes, I
sprang wildly to do his bidding.
By beginner's luck, I hit upon the correct valve. But
there was still time to kick me ashore if the bosun found out
how little I knew - so I assumed a superior air and toyed,
casually, with winch number two.
\Vhen, to my great relief, we cast off, there was an in­
terval of rest, and it was at this point that I met Soapy, a
sailor with a mug like the front end of a freight locomotive.
'This,' says Soapy, ' is a hellova time ter be on a boat.
Keriste! Just the woist time o' year. Think what we could
be doin' this summer - if we was back in New Yoik! '
The men gathered around the foc'sle-head hatch to get
acquainted with each other. There is Soapy, the Wop,
Stuffy, Chup, Pinhead, and so on. Their opening remarks
were uniformly pessimistic, their attitude disdainful. This
is a social convention with sailors.

./Men on the Horiz.ptL
' God, that's a lousy stink-hole they give us to sleep in.'
' Vat vor zey sheep us to zat hot Panama --'
' I'm thinkin' wot I'd be doin' if I was back wit' that little
dame I met on Sout' Street las' night! Th' bes' gail I ever
laid me hands on ! '
'Who th' hell wants ter ship on this scow, anyhow
--'
I've been assigned to lookout duty, which to me seems
quite a responsibility. My watch is from eight to twelve,
day and night. By day, the lookout job is nominal, as the
mate is always on the bridge and the world is plain to see, so
my time is spent shining bright work and scrubbing paint.
But on night watch, I must report every light or ship
sighted to Edwards, the mate, stating its direction in num·
her of points off port or starboard bow; I must report
' lights burning bright ' on our own ship - masthead, range,
and both side lights - at every bell ; and I must sec that we
keep on our proper course, reporting all deviation. Except
when Pete, the Danish quartermaster, ventures over to my
wing of the bridge, to tell me of his eventful ten years at sea,
I stand alone on this lofty station and just gaze and gaze
into the wind, searching for a speck of light on the hazy
dividing line between sea and sky. This lookout duty is a
lonely job.
But the foc'sle, with its layers of grimy tattooed human­
ity, is certainly not afflicted with loneliness. And it has in­
habitants other than humans. Last night the bedbugs were
bad, and I still itch from their bites. I suppose bugs are in­
evitable - these, at any rate, are inexorable in their devo­
tion to me.
Soapy does most of the talking in the foc'sle, and whether
anyone wants to sleep or not. He is about as hard-boiled as
the Rock of Gibraltar, and looks it. There is a special set of
wrinkles on his face, developed by scowling, and all of his
face not occupied by wrinkles is covered with scars of vari­
ous colors and sizes. Like many sailors, he doesn't know

'I he Foe' slu
why he goes to sea - in fact, he spends most of his time in
cursing the sea and the ship in most corrupt and biological
language. And yet, here he is, as usual - and he'll proba­
bly keep on coming until his dying day.
The painter is something of a philosopher. This morning,
reading the paper, he observed, ' Now here's a proist, leaves
the choich ter go off wit' a goil. Then he shoots th' broad
an' shoots himself - '  pause - '  Now I wonder why them
people does them kinder things --'
Before my watch last night, I found myself sitting beside
the bosun on one of the foc'sle-head hatches. As I listened
respectfully to this sandy-haired fellow with sharp blue
eyes, he told me of his Scotch mother and his Irish father,
and how he went off to sea at the age of sixteen.
' I  sailed from England in 1912,' he said, ' an' I've seen
plenty of the world since then - China, Australia, Cape
Town, all around.
' Say, don't you think this is a fine ship? After you've
been on a lot of different ships, you'll look back to this as
one of the very best. It's few boats in the world has food
like this one. If a fellow on this ship wants more pay, he
can eat it.'
We began to talk about the other men in the deck gang.
'Say, yer know that feller Soapy?' he asked. 'Well, yer
don't want to get in with him. I've seen his kind on every
ship I ever been on, an' I know that them kind is no good ­
no good fer workin' or fer anythin' else. All night that feller
smokes the weed - it's a kind of dope from Mexico - an'
his eyes is all squinted up in th' mornin' an' he ain't worth
half the food he eats.
'Bein' at sea gets 'most all of us after a while. I've never
seen a man it didn't get. But if yer any good of a man yer
can keep away from them dope-smokers.'
Practically all of the crew are foreigners- the Swede,
the Wop, the J ugoslav, and others who are mixtures.

oAien on the Hori'A,fltL
They are pretty good men, and although I doubt that
they are all strictly honest, they have a certain pride in
being considered so by the rest. As long as there are two or
three of them in the foc'sle, I figure my stuff is safe.
Somewhat to my surprise, my outfit is far less elegant
than those of my companions. The younger sailors espe­
cially are quite vain about their appearance when ashore,
and spend much time while at sea in nursing a well-pressed,
though shiny and rather frayed, suit of clothes resernd for
social occasions.
My own possessions, which I keep in an old red laundry
bag, consist of a veteran brown suit, two spare shirts, two
spare pairs of socks, toothbrush, toothpaste, razor, small
camera, a needle and thread, an emergency supply of
money, a couple of notebooks, patent pencil, and four hun­
dred and eighty pencil leads. The rest - overalls, shoes,
flannel shirt, and pocket knife - I have on my person.
The other sailors have all been at sea for some years, and
spend most of their time in relating their shore experiences
in strange parts of the world, putting special emphasis on
the relative qualities of certain exclusive houses of ill-fame.
Money doesn't last long on shore, it seems. One good
drunk, and the women have it all - all not previously lost
in gambling.
The sailors gamble most of the time when off duty. Any
game is a gambling game for them, from Old Maid to check­
ers, but they have special rules in many of these games. In
port, for example, when in the company of girls, the man
who wins at Old i\Iaid gets his pick of the girls.
About fifteen or twenty poker-players are always busily
engaged at a long table set out in the foc'sle passageway.
The game continues night and day without intermission.
Like a corporation, its own life continues beyond that of its
individual members, who must leave now and then for their
various watches, sleep, and food. Once a day, Chup, the

CJ'he Foe' stu
master-at-arms, himself one of the most confirmed gam­
blers, collects a substantial bribe from the rest for allowing
them to play. It is his job to report all disobedience of
ship's rules - and ' No Gambling ' is one of them.
June 10. Received $12.50 pay to date. Passed Haiti and
l\'avassa Island this morning. Haiti is very mountainous
and wild in appearance from the sea.
I've been trying to decoy the bedbugs with a piece of raw
meat. But apparently they prefer me to any other entice­
ment, and are getting worse all the time.
:\lost of my daytime off duty, I spend lying in the sun on
the hatch-cover of the foc'sle-head. A cord is generally
stretched across from the derrick-boom or winch, with flut­
tering shirts, dungarees, and union suits, drying in the sun.
Soapy, this hot morning, is explaining where and how he
got his scars, of which he is very vain.
'This one,' he says, pointing to a nasty welt on his cheek,
' I  got when I was fool in' 'round wit' a little dame in Ran­
goon. Hot meat, she was, I'm tellin' you - but her hus­
band was too much on the job fer anybody's good, an' he
always carried 'round wit' him one of them long Malay
knives. Keriste, it had a wicked hook to it an' sharp's a
razor --
'\Vell, one night he come home kinder unexpected an' he
got one slash at me in the dark an' cut me face open ter me
teeth. Sorter hot-blooded little burg - Rangoon.'
I love to sit on the foc'sle-head hatch and look aft at the
ship in the night-time. This is a wonderful ship we've got.
It is a sort of being to me, with power, tireless strength, and
relentless steadfastness of purpose. I cannot help but feel
awed by its endurance and reverent of its struggle. !\Iighty
as are these seas, our ship drives on her course, uncomplain­
ing of the shattering blows against her hull, unmindful of
the furious wind, straining toward some distant, unseen

.5lien on the Hori'{PtL
point which all on board have faith she will reach. I can see
her unwavering form now, as it presses onward through this
long night, while above, the wisps of cloud float backward
past the stars and, on either side, the black waters hiss and
disappear.
June r 1. I saw the Southern Cross in the sky ahead of us
last night - my first time.
I had to do errands for the captain this morning. After
moving his safe, I had to get some things for him from the
carpenter. The captain is a fussy old guy who growls, and
shows the effects of sea life. Twenty per cent of the pictures
in his cabin are of ships which he has served on, and the other
eighty per cent are of young girls in a high state of nudity.
Later in the morning, I was assigned the job of polishing
the whistle. It is a brass cylinder about four feet long lo­
cated high up on the smokestack. I'm glad they didn't
blow it while I was up there - it would certainly have been
the end of me.
June 12. When I woke up this morning, I found that we
had reached the Canal. It was my first sight of tropical
country. As we entered the lagoon which leads to the three­
step Gatun locks, we passed close to a shore covered with a
vegetation of a color and composition such as I had never
seen.
It is bright, dazzling green, and consists of low, closely
crowded trees- of vine-like branches - which are inter­
woven with adjoining trees and with the underbrush below.
The soil along the shore is of a reddish hue. These two ­
the green jungle and the red soil - being in sharp contrast
to the rich blue of water and sky, make a most brilliant
landscape. Everything seems strange and clear and daz­
zling under the blistering tropical sun.
As we mounted through the neat concrete locks, our bulk

CJ'he Foe' sle.;
lifted by the rising waters of each narrow tank, as we
drifted stealthily on through deep cuts in the hills and
across irregular lakes, I watched the flocks of parakeets
flying across our path, and black buzzards which circled
majestically at great heights. Below and beside us on the
banks were occasional little square huts with tin roofs,
about which sombreroed black families gazed boredly at our
boisterous passengers.
Needless to say, as we approached the dock in Balboa,
the sailors, and those soldiers who were allowed shore leave,
were in a high state of excitement.
\Ve were to be in port
only overnight, so they were prepared to raise hell without a
moment's loss of time and as far as their money would per­
mit. It was just as well for most of them that they had
only five days' pay.
We put on our civilian clothes - it was so hot that few of
us wore more than shirt, pants, and shoes - and came
ashore.
One of the chief sources of wealth to the natives of
Panama immediately became evident, for there, lined up at
the dock, were some hundred black chauffeurs with their
open taxis. And their enterprise was justified. As fast as
they could climb in, the soldiers and sailors piled into the
luxurious cars and drove off toward Panama, the adjoining
town to Balboa, a bigger place with better opportunities for
debauchery.
I climbed up a steep hill near by, hoping to get a good
view. It was a hot climb through the long tropical grass,
but the sight from the summit was more than worth it.
Far to the northeast and to the southwest stretched the
jungled mountains of the Isthmus, covered with a harsh
green tangle, while to the southeast lay the calm Pacific,
fringed along the coast with little blue islands, mysterious
above the white strip of their beaches in the distant
haze.
Less than a week ago I had sailed out of New York and

:lien on the Horiz.ptL
here-already- I was in a strange tropical land. It
seemed to me that I was discovering an entirely unknown
fact - something I had dreamed about, but of the actual
existence of which I had never been fully convinced.
It soon was dark, so I started down and toward the gayly
lighted town of Panama. There, when I arrived, I found
debauchery galore. The natives were very dark-brown­
skinned and very numerous.
Practically everyone was
busily engaged, somehow, in getting the sailors' and sol­
diers' money away from them. Some had taxis, some had
lunch-counters and beer-bars, some ran dancehalls or sold
hats and souvenirs, while almost all the women worked in
their own way to great and deadly advantage.
In some places the houses of prostitution flanked both
sides of the street, as many as thirty or forty in a bunch,
one after another. They were really just booths, about ten
by fifteen feet -with large doors that could be closed when
in use - and a girl sitting outside.
Soapy, and other of my shipmates who are long ac­
quainted with these places, all agree that nowhere on earth
are the entertaining ladies dirtier than right here. And I
think the ladies' casualness is sometimes quite irritating
even to these hard sons of the Brooklyn water-front. I've
heard Soapy complaining, in no tender language, about
how, during a whole entertainment, his hostess had been
preoccupied with a large bag of peanuts.
I had to be back for gangplank lookout duty at eight
o'clock, and I spent the rest of the evening helping aboard
the staggering drunken sailors and soldiers, as they re­
turned to the ship. They needed help in more ways than
one, and we took care of them as best we and the doctors
could, and put them to bed. They ought to thank their
stars that this is an army transport rather than just a
tramp ship, where no one would care what happened to
them.

CJ'he Foc'slu
II
June 13. This morning the poor fellows had to do regular
work, although they were hardly able to stand on their feet.
They exhibited every degree of what is poetically known as
languor.
'Keriste,' said the painter to me in the foc'sle, 'my throat
feels like a smokestack-I can't get up wit' th' rest o' the
gang this mornin' .' Spitting dismally over the edge of his
bunk, 'Will yer tell th' doc that I got yaller fever or some­
thin'?'
We took aboard some :\Iarines to be dropped off in Nica­
ragua on our way north, ami left the dock to the music of
a brass band.
It seems absurd to go within seven degrees of the equa­
tor to get to Alaska- but it is to Alaska that I am going,
and this is the shortest route by sea.
All I know about Alaska is that it is a young and raw and
untamed country - the youngest in the northern hemi­
sphere, geologically as well as in exploitation - and that
its area, which is one fifth that of the United States, sup­
ports a population of less than one hundredth of the number
of people in New York City.
I want to get an idea of this young and undeveloped
country, before I go on to the old, old civilizations of the
densely populated East.
June 15. It sure is hard to sleep in our foc'slc, with those
hugs. Most of the old sailors use dope, and I don't entirely
blame them. No human being could sleep soundly in that
place without it. But the trouble with dope-users is that
they try to make everybody else smoke it, too. They ap­
parently feel better if their doping is supported by public
opinion.
The soldiers and the crew have boxing and wrestling
matches almost every evening, in a ring which is set up on

12.
.Men on the Hori'{Pn...
a tarpaulin on the after well-deck hatch. As someone sug­
gested, I put in a challenge to wrestle anyone weighing over
a hundred and ninety pounds, but, so far, I have had no
acceptance - probably because there is no one of my
weight on board who is not fat and soggy- like Ed, the
fourth assistant engineer.
Ed is a great, tall bird with a saggy, sloppy build and a
perpetual smile. He observed to me yesterday: ' Yessir ­
I've gained fifteen pounds last trip, an' I 'm gonna gain
fifteen pounds more this trip, an' then - when I get back
to New York - I'm gonna see rna baby!'
We stopped off Corinto, Nicaragua, this morning while
the Marines went ashore in a launch. The coast is very
high and mountainous, and some of the higher peaks seem
to have volcano craters. It is wild country.

CJ'he Foe' slu
Today when I reported the bearing of a certain island to
the ' old man ' - as captains are commonly called -he re­
torted, without looking up from his magazine - 'Well, let
the bloomin' thing stay there! '
He appears to be sour all the time, but I am beginning to
think it is just a manner he has acquired during many lonely
years at sea.
June 18. Well, my wrestling challenge has been accepted.
My opponent is a big, burly fellow from Texas, a soldier­
and he isn't fat, either. He weighs about two hundred and
five, is six feet, four inches tall, and looks as if he had spent
most of his life roping steers.
This bout is to decide the wrestling championship of the
ship, and the ship's paper says that it is ' the army versus
the ship's crew,' which I represent. The fight comes off
tomorrow evening, in the ring on the after well-deck hatch.
June 19. Every day I get more used to this life. Even the
bedbugs don't bother me much now. It may be because
I've become immune, or because they aren't hungry any
more, or because they have given up hunting new places to
bite. Or perhaps some have been killed off by the deadly
fumes of dope smoked by my good friends Whitey the
Swede, Soapy, and the Greek, who inhabit the next bunk
tier.
I'm getting to know the sailors better all the time.
When you get right down to it, they are a fine lot of men.
Though they gamble a lot, they are for the most part ab­
solutely honest about it, and take their losses philosoph­
Ically, even when their entire pay for a week or two of hard
work has gone because of a few untimely sevens on the dice.
And most of them are loyal to their friends when the oc­
casional scraps occur.
They have a pretty hard life according to the standards

o/Men on the Hori'{!JIL
of the average citizen, but for them it is the easiest way to
live. They feel absolutely free, even to gamble away their
last cent, for they can always cat and live on the ship,
though they be denied a few days' high-pressure whoopee
in port . .-\nd then there is always the next shore Iea,·e to
look forward to, perhaps in some new and strange place -
always the glamour of possible success at gambling, to
further extend the range of their debauchery.
Most of them have no family or friends to worry about,
as far as I can make out. Other than to their more or less
temporary gob acquaintances, they seem to feel no ties. I
guess the chief requisite for a sailor is to be lonely-proof.
This evening I was standing on the bow watching the
day sink out of the sky into the western ocean. Gray-blue
clouds drifted like ships against a background of pink
and gold clouds at a tremendous distance, which in turn
were profiled against a field of soft purple, infinitely re­
mote. It gave such a sense of depth in the sky that the dis­
tant clouds seemed farther away than the stars. For a few
minutes I had an inkling of the depths of space - of the
appalling distances of the sky.
And then all changed to a dull gray as night came down
- and I forgot about the stars and the sky and space, for
at seven-fifteen my wrestling bout was to begin. I felt
rather shocked at the nearness of it, and not being at all an
expert wrestler, I felt utterly unprepared. But I knew I
couldn't back out now, as it was already seven and there
had been heavy betting all over the ship.
At first, it bad seemed just a friendly little match with
one of the soldier boys, but, as I began to realize how
heavily my sailor friends were betting on me, to overhear
discussions as to the comparative strength of my opponent
and myself, to read predictions in the ship's paper, and to
feel the curious eyes of the soldiers as I crossed the well-

CJ'he Foc'slu
decks, the tight had grown in my mind until now I won­
dered why I had ever shouldered such a responsibility. I
was still wondering, when it was suddenly scnn o'clock.
So I got ready, by emptying my pockets and fixing my
belt securely, and made my way aft to the well-deck where
the ring was set up. The whole three companies of recruits
were sitting waiting to witness the battle, with the officers
and passengers crowding the rail of the saloon deck, and
my sailor supporters cheering from the boat- and sun-decks.
Such conspicuous moments arc awful to me, and it took
all my nerve to walk in among the soldiers to the ring,
where sat the heavy Texan - looking deplorably efficient
and resolute.
The excitement steadied me somewhat, and I needed it ­
I had no real friends or adherents within a thousand miles,
and here were three hundred bloodthirsty young soldiers
jeering and yelling and crazy to see me licked. Even the
ship's crew, which rooted for me now, as a matter of form,
would probably sour on me if I began to lose their money
for them. I felt anything but comfortable.
Temporarily my mind was occupied in taking off my
shirt and shoes, and there was another period of sickening
waiting while an officer announced our names and weights
and introduced us. Then the referee appeared and stated
the rules.
' Everything goes, boys.' he said, 'except a strangle-hold.
It's the best two out of three falls, and the time limit ts
twenty minutes.'
More waiting while the time-keeper was summoned. I
saw my Texan enemy across the ring from me, eyeing me
and looking more than ever tough and powerful. I tried
to look the same at him.
And then a whistle blew, our chairs were removed from
the ring, and everybody but the referee got outside the
ropes. The gong struck.

oAien on the Horiz,pn..
'Go to it, kid!' shouted somebody. A roar went up from
all sides, cheers and encouragements to the Texan. We
came together, and I felt terrific power against me - more
than I had expected.
Nothing happened at first, and my enemy seemed to be
fighting a defensive battle. He resisted my efforts, but
didn't attack.
We kept separating and coming together again, and I
felt rather worried that he was so calm, and that I couldn't
do anything with him. Then I tried a Sonnenberg tackle -
and the fight really began.
We hit the canvas tarpaulin - the only covering over
the wooden hatch-cover - with a tremendous bang, and
rolled, struggling frantically.
Everything went well at first, and I felt that I could get
him, but soon I realized that I was weakening fast, and that
I couldn't hold him where I wanted him. His strength was
terrific and I felt horribly out of wind. We kept on grap-

CJ'he Foe' slu
piing and rolling around, and the minutes went by, and the
soldiers yelled directions at him, and I did less and less what
I wanted and struggled more and more defensively.
I felt more discouraged and tired all the time, and oc­
casionally I heard the referee, who was a soldier, yelling
encouragement to the Texan. It was pretty horrible to feel
my strength fading that way, and with everyone yelling
against me and crazy to see me helpless on my back. I
prayed that the twenty minutes would go fast, but the end
never seemed to come. And then I heard, far off it seemed
- beyond the blinding lights of the ring - the shouts of
the excited soldiers:
' Get a scissors on him! Get a scissors on him!'
I felt that I didn't much care what happened, except that
it was sickening to think of being beaten and to fail all
those who had bet their money on me so confidently. The
next thing I knew, my opponent had a scissors hold around
my stomach and began to squeeze.
I thought I could stand it at first, but his legs were
enormously powerful, and soon the pain of it was terrific.
We were tangled up just outside the ropes at this point, and
I could hear a voice yelling: ' Get 'em in the ring! Drag
'em inside the ropes!' - and protests from the distant
galleries where my sailor friends were.
But nothing happened, and I was very weak and began
to cough up blood, and had to give up because the pressure
on my stomach hurt so.
Well, it was awful. I felt absolutely licked and all in,
though I managed to get on to my feet. And then, amid the
deafening cheers of the soldiers, the referee told us we had a
minute before the next round.
I didn't see how I could possibly go on. Everything was
swimming before my eyes, and I could feel somebody
vainly pouring water on my head. Already the taunts of
the sailors were in my ears. The gong struck again.

Jlien on the HorizytL
We were at it once more. I fought blindly and with little
hope, praying that the twenty minutes would soon be up.
I knew that the first round had been fourteen minutes, and
that there were only about five minut<·s left.
We struck the ropes of the seemingly diminutive ring
often as we lurched recklessly about - and then with a
cruel force we struck the floor, I underneath. But soon we
were rolling again, and tangled among the ropes.
Suddenly I realized that there was an extra lot of yelling,
and that I was, for the moment, on top - a faint burst of
hope - and then I saw that his shoulders were both touch­
ing the canvas as he lay on his back.
My round! But the referee says nothing, and we keep on
rolling around, and I feel as desperate and weak as before.
Then, before I know it, my stomach is again enclosed in
that crushing scissors - I know that it is almost over.
In a few seconds the referee has separated us, and the
Texan is declared the winner, and given the prize - a small
wad of money.
I shook hands with him, clutched my shoes and shirt
which someone handed to me, and struggled through the
crowd to the forward part of the ship.
It is futile to try to explain how you feel when you are
licked. It was just utter disgust with myself and a need to
get away from everybody. I felt that I couldn't possibly
face the sailors after failing them so- and that I didn't
have a friend in the world. I was sick, body and soul.
During the next two hours, I was alone on the bridge, and
it was then that my strength began to pick up. The mate,
Edwards, made me feel considerably better when he told me
how the sailors had razzed the referee for not counting the
time I had the Texas boy on his back, and for counting the
scissors hold as a fall. That meant that my sailor friends
were still back of me, anyhow.
He told me, also, that the boxing championship fight,

CJ'he Foe' slu
which came just after my bout, had been won by a young
potato-peeler from the galley. The kid won by a knock-out
in forty-five seconds. Which goes to show, I think, the con­
dition of mind a fellow gets into after peeling potatoes for
two weeks.
June 20. Feeling rather stiff and sore this morning, I spent
my time off watch lying on a hatch-cover in the sun. The
old painter, seated a few feet away, was explaining to the
Jugoslav about the United States Government.
'Yes, py cheeminy,' he said, ' anybody born in the
Yewnited States can be president. Yessir - anybody.'
' Good thod man yar be pyezidend>' asked the Jugoslav,
pointing to a man who was sweeping off the well-deck tar­
paulins.
' Well - er- no,' said the painter, ' not that feller.'
'Vy nod? Vazend he bown in der Onided Zdades>'
'Oh, yes - I guess so,' went on the old sailor, ' but that
feller could never be president - 'e's sweepin' against th'
wind.'
Other sailors began to gather around, and the conversa­
tion turned to a discussion of who knew the captain best.
' The old man asked me into his cabin fer a little drink
this morn',' said Soapy, obviously lying, ' but I say, "Naw,
don't t'ink I'll have anyt'ing this mornin', Cap."'
'Veil,' countered Whitey the Swede, 'cia ol' man an' I ,  ve
play chess Iars' night,' hoping that someone might believe
him.
Rarely do the sailors waste an opportunity to bluff high
social prestige - not that they really value it, but because
they think others do. And they spend considerable time
also in describing what they would be doing if they knew
certain of the female passengers who roam the saloon decks,
and bluffing vivid accounts of past adventures with these
same buxom females.

2.0
.A1en on the Horiz.tJ1L
June 21. The coast of California was in sight when we
awoke this morning - warm, bare, brown hills and cool,
smooth beaches in the sunshine. At noon we were outside
the Golden Gate, ready to pick up our pilot. The coast still
looked bare and wild. One would never suspect that, behind
those bleak mountains lay, scattered about the shores of a
beautiful bay, one of the greatest cities of the world.
On board S.S. Admiral Peary, Pacific Steamship Company,
freighter. Bound for Seattle from San Francisco.
June 27. This ship is much smaller than the transport,
much more rickety, less efficient, and more informal. The
crew is small - only seven sailors - a nice bunch, capable
and hard-boiled. Aside from a couple of Hollanders, we
have no foreigners on board.
I am sitting in the foc'sle, which is empty except for one
bunk, where one of the Dutchmen is snoozing peacefully,
making an intermittent buzzing noise, like a poorly oiled
electric fan going at slow speed.
On the walls are various pictures of the absent sex. Es­
pecially prominent is one of a young trained nurse in a very
thin and revealing costume. It is labeled, ' Good for what
ails you.' And I think it would be good for most of us here.
\Vhen men have been alone in rough circumstances for
any length of time, even the cheapest reminder of things
feminine is very comforting.
We are two days out of port, pitching and rolling with
most annoying persistence. This squat ship, with absurdly
blunt bows, seems to remain stationary - writhing about
with a slow, tireless energy through the heavy seas.
Just before we put out from 'Frisco, the bosun gave me
the task of clamping the derrick-booms in place on the
mast-head. This meant going aloft three times, up the rotten
swaying shrouds. I felt exceedingly shaky on the way up

'The Foc'slu
2.1
the first time. I didn't dare look down, but kept on doing it
in spite of myself, until I didn't care whether I fell or not,
and my hands felt numb.
But I had to keep on climbing or I would lose my job.
Soon the shroud cables, all of which converge to a single
point on the mast, had become so close together that the
ratlins weren't wide enough to put my feet through, and I
had to climb up the almost single cable with my hands,
until I could reach the bolts just below the cross-trees, and
pull myself up.
My head swam as I saw above me, on the naked mast,
nothing to hold on to but these chance little bolt ends.
Desperately I climbed, gripping to each precious bit of pro-

2.2.
JWen on the Horizyn...
trusion with the last sinews of my soul -- reaching to get up
to that feeble, skimpy disk, the ' cross-trees.' At last my
fingers are touching it. Everything is fearfully small and
rickety. The ship looks almost like a rowboat down below.
I pull myself out over a hundred feet of empty air, around
the forlorn rim above me, and stand at last on this eighteen­
inch refuge, hugging to the mast.
This is heavenly security for a moment, but the thought
·of having to go down again freezes in my mind-and my
nerves are rigid as I reach out to clamp the booms and
hammer the wedges tight.
It was only after two similar ascents that I was able to
dilute that doomed feeling as I left the deck, because, no
matter what struggles for courage my mind made, my body
was utterly and horribly afraid.
This ship is steered with an electric device that is very
tricky. You ha,·e to concentrate every second while at the
helm. If you slip up for even a moment, the ship will slide
five or six points off her course, and then the mate comes
charging down from the ' roof' with a fiery harangue. I
know, because it happened to me this morning. The mate
doesn't like me much, because he sees that I'm green, and
last night, when I brought him up his coffee, it had some
grounds in the bottom of the cup.
There is one thing that you learn when you steer a ship at
night, and that is, that to be sleepy can become an actual
physical agony. You stand alone, and stare and stare - for
two long, silent hours - into the brightly lighted binnacle
which, although you must keep full attention upon it,
merely reiterates to your sleepy brain, with hypnotic monot­
ony, the numbers of the course you must steer. You can't
divert yourself with other thoughts, because as soon as your
attention slips into them, away from the binnacle, you sud­
denly come to with a start and have to pull the spokes
frantically to get back where you belong, before the mate

CJ'he Foe' sle..;
notices that the Big Dipper is in the east instead of the
north. Last night it was my wheel from two o'clock till
four, and I spent the last hour in nothing less than physical
torture.
:\lost of the crew are quiet old-timers, and are not very
sociable except at cards and occasional inane talk in the
foc'sle. As an example of their conversation, they spent
close to two hours this afternoon discussing whether the
bosun's shore hat - a light-colored Stetson - was the
dukiest possible style to wear in port. Then, for another
hour, they discussed shoes.
The best time of the day is just after my night watch,
when Racetrack Harry, who used to ride at the Danbury
Fair, Connecticut, makes toast with me in the galley, un­
disturbed by the big Negro cook who by day holds supreme
power over that part of the ship.
Last night, in our midnight chat with the oilers, the con­
versation turned to the reason why men go to sea. Race­
track Harry, with his sly blue eyes twinkling, sipping away
at a cup of thick black coffee, took a keen interest in the
discussion, but couldn't decide whether you went to sea
because you weren't married, or you weren't married be­
cause you went to sea. One of the oilers, a short, stubby
fellow covered with all sorts of obscene tattooing, answered
the question with a gruesome story of his own married life,
and how it lasted two weeks. The moral of it was that you
went to sea because you were married.
July I. 1.00 A.)!. I 've finished my watch, and it is good to
be through with that damned electric wheel.
We have just passed the mouth of the Columbia River,
and the coast looks cold and rugged in the moonlight. The
air is clear and cool and feels good to the lungs.
As I stand at the foc'sle-head rail, the stars seem near
enough to touch, and it is thrilling to be riding, riding, rid-

..Jlien on the Hori'l,[lrL
ing, through the wind, above the black swirling waves which
boil backwards into the darkness. Black hills of forest be­
neath a silver-edged strip of clouds lie to the eastward, with
bits of ghostly fog dozing in the valleys, while a great,
veiled, salmon-pink moon slips up to a clear space to flood
the inky sea with light. The dim cabin lights, from behind
the complicated tangle of rigging and idle black spars, come
pressing toward me through the bulk of blackness, with the
faint warm hum of throbbing engines.
This is a wonderful feeling of security and progress and
peace. This, it must be, that keeps men at sea, but yet­
on a night like this-the sailors sit inside and worry their
lonely brains over a bench-top of dirty cards. They are
strange men indeed. I don't see why they go to sea.
July 2. We docked at Seattle early this morning, and I
received my discharge and eleven dollars pay, and went
ashore.

CHAPTER TWO
ALASKA
S.S. Admiral Rogers. \Ve are now three days out from
Seattle, already .in Alaskan waters, and our ship is steaming
northwest among the islands and inland channels of the
Panhandle. We are bound for Skagway, from where I am
going over the mountains into the interior. Every few hours
we stop to unload at small cannery villages, and we of the
crew do all the stevedoring.
Lying in my bookshelf bunk in the foc'sle, I have just
finished nine hours of working cargo in the hold. Near me,
old Pete, the winch-driver, is uttering obscene expressions
of Dutch rage at the individual who has anonymously taken
his last piece of soap. He is clad in a pair of the peculiarly
unattractive long yellow union suits much affected by
sailors. Although, now, he is too mad to speak to anyone,
yesterday he was confidential with me.
' Say, big boy - you wanner look out fer that Paul,' he
said. ' He's stationman down in th' hold, and between you
an' me, he's crazy as a June bug. Nothin' real dangerous
about him - but just don't get him goin'.'
I observed Paul with caution; he seemed extraordinarily
meek. Today he spoke to me confidentially.

2.6
:l1en on the Horiz.[JrL
'Just take it from me, Slim,' he said, ' the winch-driver's
a good guy if yer treat him right. But I'm gonner tell you
sumpthin, Slim- that winch-driver's crazy.
He's puf­
fectly harmless, but he's nuts all right. So don't mind him.'
I came to the conclusion that they were both right.
July g. As we advance along this broken coast, the cargo
we unload is getting heavier and of greater bulk. Most
of our empty salmon cans are gone, and now we handle
machinery, cement, coal, and salt bags.
In Juneau where
there is a gold mine, we spent hours loading on ore in two­
hundred-pound sacks.
\Ve dock about every forty miles.
I am at work on the cargo more than half the time.
Yesterday, stopping two hours at a little cannery, it
seemed hard to go below and leave the sunshine, the snowy
mountains and untainted air, to sweat in an iron dungeon,
stifling with the cargo dust of years, to lug heavy salt bags,
which melt and sting the raw spots on the arms, or massive
packing-boxes, raising putrid fumes with every jar.
But now and then, out of a porthole or for a moment on
deck, I get a glimpse of the wild shores and the occasional
isolated canneries, while, over it all - above the steaming
folds of morning fog or the misty midday slopes of forest,
above the deep blue arms of the sea - I see the mountains
hurling themselves recklessly into the sky.
White Ilorse, Yukon Territory, July 13. ' Yer jcs' the boy
I been lookin' for,' said the old steamboat captain when I
came to him at \\'hite Horse, hoping to sign on as a deck­
hand on the next boat for Dawson. ' I  can't put yer on a
boat down-river directly, but yer'll be fireman on this
freighter we're huildin' here when she pushes off next week
- pervidin' yer do your job good in th' meantime. Come
on, now - here's yer paint-brush. \Ve're gon'ta give her
upper decks a coat.'

.Alaska.
That is how I got my present job of putting finishing
touches on the Yukon Navigation Company's new freighter,
which will add one more to the little fleet of three stern­
wheelers which ply up and down this great, rushing Yukon
River.
I arrived here at White Horse last night, and this
job will give me four dollars a day.
Cp through these ragged coastal mountains there runs a
narrow-gauge railroad, from the rotting shacks and wharves
on the beach at Skagway up over the ranges to the Yukon
Valley and this little town of White Horse.
It was along this route- the 'Trail of '98' - that the
prospectors filed by on their long pull to the Klondike in
the wild days of the gold rush. On the single track of the
railroad which now follows the line of their desperate plod­
ding, I have been working a couple of days at laying new
ties and pounding spikes- to earn my way into the in­
terior and White Horse, this bleak hamlet of about three
hundred people, the junction between the railroad and the
river traffic.
All along the river's edge, hauled up on the bank, beside
the houses of logs and mud, lie the worn-out hulls of old
scows and steamboats- left-overs from the rush days.
From this ragged graveyard of a wild past, I intend to go
northward, down the river into the heart of Alaska, ac­
cording to present prospects, as a Yukon fireman - throw­
ing wood into a boiler furnace and helping to 'wood up'
at intervals along the river where
Indian woodcutters
work.
In the meantime, I am doing everything on this freighter
from adjusting the boiler mechanism to painting the
thirty-foot smokestack, by far the biggest thing on the boat.
Today when I was hoisted up in a bosun's chair for the latter
activity, I was disconcerted by the strong wind which was
shaking the stack and tackle so unrestrainedly that it blew
the paint out of my can down upon the old captain. He was

..Men on the Hori7,[JtL
holding on to my hoisting line with one Billy, an Indian
boy assistant.
.
.
.

'
' •
l
•
•
'
I•
-W-
::::..·--
' .
For a while I was in doubt as to whether the old man and
the boy would keep hanging on to my supporting rope when
subjected to a shower of buff-colored paint. But men of the
North appear to be used to unfavorable conditions.
' Never mind the paint, boy,' the captain shouted up to
me, ' it's good for me. Jes' remember this here's a steam­
boat - not a sailing vessel - an' slap the stuff on good ! '
I did so - for hours in that wild wind - while the creak­
ing stack and swaying tackle reminded me that my two
hundred pounds of well-being depended, at the moment,
upon four pulleys, two blocks, seven rope sections, three
hooks, and various connecting links; not to speak of the
integrity of the bosun's chair, the strength of the captain,

.Alaska.
the unselfishness of the Indian attendant, and exceptions
to the law of probability. It was a perfect day.
With a fellow named Leskosek, after supper, I took a
short hike to the top of the bluffs, where they have a small
two-seater biplane stationed at the new aviation field over­
looking White Horse. The air was as warm as California,
as we looked down upon the clustered cabins of the town,
but the small sturdily built log houses, the sledges in the
backyards with sledge-dogs lying about, and the enormous
woodpiles, all bespoke of the long Arctic winter which
waits behind this summer warmth to grip the land in merci­
less cold.
The mosquitoes were pursuing us so we descended to
town again, where Leskosek, somewhat to my astonish­
ment, suggested that we get up a dance.
'There hasn't been any excitement around here,' he said,
'for weeks - and something's got to be done about it.
In Alberta, where I came from, there are about five women
to every man, but it's just the other way around here ­
no girls at all.
But I know where a couple of pretty good
ones live-they ain't so bad-lookin' either- and they like
a good time. Let's go.'
The girls were at home. They seemed rather lacking in
lure to me, but he, being used to unfavorable conditions,
thought they were superb. This in spite of the fact that they
were, in reality, only a sallow, skinny bartender's daughter
with hair like dried spinach, and a sickly, flat-breasted
waitress with goldfish eyes and a burlap skirt.
With a rickety phonograph wheezing out some tunes of
1906, a few guys in dusty clothes pump-handling around
with the two horrible ladies, and no conversation for the
simple reason that no one had anything to say, it was a most
unappetizing party.
July 14. After another day's work in the boatyard, myself

o.!Wen on the Hori'{P1L
and my overalls having become almost completely covered
with buff-colored paint, I decided, as the whistle blew, to
go down-river immediately. I repaired, at speed, to a
boiler-maker friend of mine who knew a photographer who
had a boat for sale.
It was a small flat rowboat, t\\·eh·e feet long, with square
bow and stern.
' Yust der t'ing,' said the boiler-maker, ' for goin' down
der river.'
He was a huge, fat fellow with one car - the other just
wasn't there
--
' Y er wanna be careful in the rapids, though,' he con­
tinued ; ' it's wery few that escapes if they gets dumped over
in this river. \Very fast river and wery cold river - but
you'll get along all right, I guess. You'll haw a long row
gettin' 'crost der lake down dere - it's forty mile long ­
but after dat you get a strong current ter help--'
Having achieved a boat, I procured some grub for the
journey - beans, raisins, bacon, and hardtack - and got
a fishline, mosquito net, and map. I had a last large meal
of moose steak and soup, loaded everything onto my tiny
craft, and was about to depart, when Leskosek, who had
come down to see me off, asked me if I had a blanket. As I
had none, he offered to give me an extra one of his, and,
although it was full of holes and rather smelly, I accepted it
with a gratitude that was to increase through each cold
night. He wished me luck - and I pushed out into the
streatn.
In two minutes the current had carried me three hundred
yards down the river, around a bend and out of sight. The
little town of log cabins, the boatyard with its rotting
scows- its plethora of buff-colored paint - the river-bank,
the boiler-maker, the photographer, and Leskosek, had
all disappeared into memory. There was no sign of habita­
tion within my horizon. Nothing but the vast spruce

.Alaska.
forests stretching from the top of high clay river-banks back
into the mountains. All about me the rippling, swirling
river, making a soft swishing sound like a steaming kettle.
The next town that I shall see is Dawson - four hundred
and eighty miles through the mountain ranges to the
north.
Soon it would be the brief twilight night of this country
and cold. As the sun sank ahead of me - about eleven
P.)l. - I got my equipment arranged, put on my extra
shirts, and rolled up in my blanket in the bottom of the boat
for a good sleep.
I drifted quietly along past the shadows of spruce trees,
under steep yellow cliffs of clay, winding among the hills
from which rose a cold mist - my little boat drifting al­
ways onward, toward the sun's dull glow behind the
tumbled mountains to the north.
July 15. I awoke sometime in the very early morning at the
southern end of Lake La Barge. Ahead, as far as I could
sec, it extended like a mirror of deep blue, spreading its
narrow arms in among the spruce-clad mountains. Pictur­
esque all right - but a tremendous obstacle to me, all
alone in a little boat in dead water at the upper end. There
seemed nothing to do but row, so I headed north, and
started off at a steady easy stroke, calculated to last a long
time. But the outlook was not pleasant.
Four miles in a shell with seven other men to help you is
bad enough, but forty miles in a rowboat all alone seems
like something worth writing home about. However, after
I had been going for an hour or so, and the shore seemed to
be in exactly the same position as it had for the last forty
minutes, I noticed a slight ripple on the previously smooth
surface - a following breeze! Perhaps I could sail !
I hastily made for shore, cut two strong driftwood poles
for masts, and rigged up a sail with a piece of canvas with

..Men on the Horiz,pn..
which I had kept my blanket dry. Having no hammer or
nails, I managed, by the liberal use of twine, to lash my two
masts erect, one on the starboard and one on the port side
of the bow, with the sail stretched taut in between.
It worked beautifully, and to my great joy the breeze
strengthened, coming still from the south. I took my place
in the stern, steering with an oar, and soon was skimming
across the huge expanse of water at the rate of four or five
miles an hour, in the warm sunshine. The bubbles slipped
by on either side, and the waves slapped against my square
prow. I fed myself raisins with my free hand. Jehovah
was with me.
Once the wind got so strong that the waves became a
danger to my small craft, and began to slop over the side
with alarming frequency. I bailed with my cooking-pot and
made over toward the nearest shore. It wouldn't do to
swamp in that icy water so far from land. But in time the
wind lessened, and, as the sun finally swung below the
northern horizon, I had crossed the lake and reached the
river at its farther end. I felt happy to relax my steering
arm, and go ashore to cook a few beans before starting once
more on my downstream drift.
July 17. This is a great life - to be totally alone, drifting,
drifting through this endless wilderness, never knowing quite
where you are, and always in doubt as to what to expect
around the next bend, perhaps a lake, perhaps an Indian
camp, perhaps a woodchopper's shack, or a swift rapid to
be navigated.
My map is not drawn in sufficient detail to locate ac­
curately my position except occasionally, when I come to
an unusual landmark. Sometimes I have to pole my way
out of the numerous sloughs and blind lagoons which are
a waiting trap for any drifting body; sometimes I slip
quietly up to a flock of feeding duck or geese, or I fish

.Alaska.,
for the abundant grayling which splash playfully after
water-bugs in the twilight.
The river winds aimlessly, cutting great arcs through the
soft clay lands which support the forest. This country is
obviously in the early stages of erosion, full of bare jagged
peaks and rushing streams and swift-flowing rivers; a
country which is just beginning to feel the power of wind
and rain and snow, swirling sand and sliding pebbles, and
all the tireless, persistent wearing-down and leveling-off
processes; a country which is young in the geological sense
as well as from the point of view of human settlement.
On all sides I can see the excited streams rushing down­
ward, each with its store of sand and pebbles as a continual
offering to the mighty cargo of the river, and I hear in­
cessantly the rumble and sizzle of this burden of rock,
pebbles, and voluminous sediment as it sweeps along the
bottom beneath me. The high clay banks constantly re­
lease showers of earth and stones and boulders - bits of
the mountain's bulk - which avalanche to the water's
edge. Day by day this hungry stream eats its way into the
forest. There is a never-ending file of uprooted trees and
torn branches floating down with the current, to pile up on
a flat somewhere miles below and become seasoned drift­
wood for Indian camp-fires.
Everywhere, always, a continual rushing, rushing, rush­
ing - down with the Yukon current to the sea. It never
ends. In places the stream widens to drift lazily through a
broad level valley, among little islands, or beside intricate
lagoons; sometimes it winds in a series of tremendous
loops through hills of clay, and again it is constricted to
rocky canons, and forced to increased speed until it assumes
the form of rapids. All around loom rugged mountains,
sometimes bare, again heavily wooded.
The forest - that mysterious army of birch and spruce
- extends almost beyond belief, climbing to the summits,

o/Men on the Hori'{PtL
fringing the banks of rivers and lakes, reaching beyond the
ranges for thousands upon thousands of miles in every
direction, west to the sea, north to the Arctic ice, to the
vast central plains in the east, and far south to the arid
deserts of California. It is a horde of dark-green, delicately

oAlasktL
pointed spires, each struggling to hold its head above its
neighbors and into the pure winds. Along the clifftops and
above the river-banks I can see the great trees, and hear
their faint, deep whisper.
The vitality of this country is enormous. Life is crowding
in the rivers and woods - salmon so multitudinous they
can scarcely force their way up the shallower streams,
grayling in every lagoon, ducks and geese flying low with
the noise of a squadron of airplanes. Out from the cliffs,
eagles - preying upon fish, snipe, gophers, and this morn­
ing I saw one kill a duckling .
. '1. big splash, loud squawking
by the fleeing mother duck and terrorized brood, and the
great hoary eagle rose into the sky clutching the unfortunate
one in his talons.
i\Iyriads of cliff swallows inhabit little holes beneath the
overhanging banks; there arc noisy gulls and kingfishers,
and dainty sandpipers skip up and down the flats.
In my boat is a represcntati,·c delegation of Yukon bug­
dam, quiwring moths, and crawling things which have
escaped the jaws of fish and the darting swallows. With so
much and varied companionship, I can scarcely feel lonely,
although I am paid as little attention as are the rocks and
the clouds and the sky.
Everything is busy, rushing back and forth for food,
dodging the enemy, building a home, raising a family; each
individual is deeply involved in its own little struggle, so
intent that it takes no notice of anything outside. All the
time I pick up small squirming insects that come swirling
down on the flood and need to be dried out in the sunshine
before making a fresh start in the strife.
This morning I rescued a bumble bee, feebly twitching
his drenched furry limbs, and rather hopelessly clone in.
After straightening out his crumpled wings and legs, I laid
him out on my canvas in the sun. In two hours he was dry
and well. He crawled up and clown, exploring his new

./Hen on the Hori-zyn..
habitat, periodically stopping to comb his tangled coat with
his little hind feet. Soon he was trying to fly, making short
hops up and down the bottom of the boat, until I had to
corral him in mosquito netting along with one or two other
convalescing comrades, to be freed when I went ashore for
supper.
It is never really dark. vVhen night comes down upon
this endless wilderness there falls a grayish, purple veil over
everything, with the trees standing black-green, and a low
pink glow always to be seen in the north. It grows colder,
and I have to put on all my clothes.
I make sure that my small craft is in order, well bailed
out, and as near the center of the current as possible. Then
I wrap myself in my well-worn blanket, lie down among the
spruce boughs which serve as a mattress, and soon am dead
to the world. Through the eerie night of Arctic summer, I
sleep soundly, waking only when the boat strikes a pro­
truding heap of driftwood, or a graveled bar, and is whirled
back into the torrent.
At dawn it is very cold. Up here the sun doesn't come
up vertically like a balloon, but rises like an airplane on a
long slant along the horizon. It is still too early to feel it'
warmth, and the clammy night's dew lies thick on my
blanket and on objects about me. Cold mist hangs along
the river's edge and marshy deltas, and I feel stiff and
hungry.
Mustering all my dormant energy, I reach for the oan
and pull shoreward. With chattering teeth I scramble ou1
and kindle a fire of dried spruce poles to thaw my joints
As I watch a pot of beans stewing among its embers, anc'
smell the frying bacon, I appreciate the addition of fire tc
man's group of domestic servants.
After breakfast I drift on again, wondering where th'
night has brought me, and try to locate myself on my map
calculating time by the sun, figuring my average speed o

.Alaskt:L
four or five miles an hour, and guessing as to which of the
multiple bends of the river I am on.
I doze awhile. In this two thousand-foot altitude the sun
has heated the air so quickly that I can take off my last and
innermost shirt and marvel, as I feel the warmth on my
shoulders, how - only two hours ago - I could have been
shivering in one flannel and two cotton shirts, a wool vest,
and an oilskin slicker, woolen trousers, overalls, heavy
boots, and my smelly blanket.
Then, perhaps, I will hear the roar of rapids. I hastily
cover my chattels with canvas in preparation for the spray,
and stand by the oars. It is over in a minute; a sudden
boiling sea, hard holding on the oars to keep the boat from
being swirled out of control, a flash of chilling spray - then
calm again, drifting on and on. The rapids never amount to
much of anything. The only reason they give a thrill is be­
cause my boat doesn't amount to much of anything either.
On I go, always rather lonely, rarely seeing anyone, and
yet constantly busy - keeping in the swiftest current,
trying to beat floating trees which race along beside me,
studying the map, caring for the despairing bugs, arranging
my paraphernalia.
They say that the caribou herds cross the Yukon in this
district in their hundred thousands, during the early days
of August, swarming so compactly that steamboats have
stopped to avoid running them down. It being the middle
of July, I have seen only one young caribou, which galloped
fearlessly toward me down the beach of an islet. All brown,
with the general aspect of a thin little horned pony, he stood
still, not thirty yards away, and gazed until I landed down­
stream of him and started up the beach. Then - with a
terrific clatter of hoofs he was off, scampering over the
gravel with a noise like a couple of ice-wagon horses charg­
ing down a cobblestone alley. Strange little creature, gal­
loping about all alone that way!

..Men on the H()Yi'Z[JǬ
Last night I reached the hamlet of Selkirk, two or three
cabins grouped about a trading-post store, and ghostly in
the half light of midnight. Long before I got there, the
presence of the town was heralded by that never-forgettable
sound - the unearthly night cry of the sledge-dogs. Arriv­
ing, I beached my boat anrl entered the store to find an old
man reading by candlelight at a table. I got one or two cans
of provisions from him, a spoon and a can-opener, reloaded
my camera in the rare darkness of his cellar, and returned
to my boat to shove off under the suspicious gaze of three
Indian children who had turned out to witness an unusual
nocturnal event.
Another day, the fifth now, I drifted among numerous
islets and lagoons, past bare hilltops, passing in the morning
a steamboat struggling up-river, to be waved at by thrilled
tourists. At sundown, around a bend, I came upon the
once-famous town of Dawson, a tawdry accumulation of
frame houses, and my immediate destination.
Dawson. July 19. _\fter landing beside the cable ferry, I
walked slowly along the main street before an array of
restaurants and heavily advertised ' hotels.' with gaudy
fronts of fake magnificence, but constructed in the hinder
parts of logs, tin, and scrap materials.
The first human I saw was a friendly-looking old man in
a straw hat, sitting in front of a grocery store and obviously
very much under the influence of liquor.
' Shay there, young feller.' he addressed me in a fluid
whisper, ' have a chair. Stranger around here, eh? . . .  Oh,
so you're from the outside? '
' I'm just an old sourdough.' he answered to my questions
as to his occupation. ' Came here in ninety-et wit' the rest
o' the boys. Been here ever since. Sometimes I think l
wanter go back - but it takes a lot o' money ter get outer
this country. An' I don' han'le much of th' stuff nowadays.
Not like th' old times in these parts - no, sirree.'

.Alaska.
He lapsed into memories of the turgid youth of himself
and Dawson.
According to him, the real gold-diggers of the early days
were the dancehall girls, who flocked into the new settle­
ments close in the wake of the male stampeders.
'Why, Keriste, man,' he said, his opaque eyes brimming
with reminiscent bleariness, ' them dames got every dollar
we ever took outen the creeks. But, hell, in them days we
didn't give a damn for money anyhow. Why, I know that,
t' show yer how we flung the stuff around, I gave up the
creeks myself, an' took a job sweeping out the dancehall
floors. Every night you could sec the boys spillin' the dust
when they paid fer their drinks an' the girls, an' sure, I
jes' panned the dirt I swept offen th' floors, and got ten
times as much gold as them poor suckers got outen th'
sluices.
' The smallest coin we knowed was two bits - an', by
Gar, it still is. Why, when I fust come up in ninety-et, one
day I give a dime to one er them girls fer somethin' er other,
an' she jes throwed it inter th' stove. " Aw, that's no good,"
she says, "we don't use them things in this country," an'
that girl was talkin' true. We didn't use 'em then - an'
we don't use 'em now, by Gar.'
This ancient and cock-eyed sourdough went on to describe
the life and wild adventures of those high old times, with
stories far too wild and far too high to repeat. Dawson then
had more than eight times its present population. People
lived in tents and shacks and in the scows that had brought
them down-river, but no one had time to sleep, for saloons,
gambling-houses, and dancehalls were running and packed
the full twenty-four hours.
I asked this dilapidated relic where all the girls came
from and how they got here.
'Oh, they came from all over the Pacific Coast,' he re­
plied - ' from Seattle, Victoria, Vancouver, an' all around.

½en on the Horin..
They came by the hundreds, on the ships with men, workin'
as waitresses an' such, an' then over the mount'ns an' down
the river wit' the crowd. They always came in bunches ­
an' they would always be sayin', "When yer go down back
home, don't tell mother where I am, will yer. She thinks
I'm workin' in Vancouver. Whatever yer do, don't tell her
I'm here ! " '
He paused to sigh hoarsely before continuing, punctuat­
ing his remarks with languid spitting of tobacco juice.
' Aw, but man, them days is long gone. The Mounted
Police, yer know, chased 'em all out. Hell, yer have ter be
acquainted ter go out with 'em now.'
Sadly he turned his maudlin attention to the relatively
drab details of present conditions; people in Dawson, he
said, had become very particular about appearances.
'Them pants o' yourn now,' he said, ' don't look none too
good. I got a pair that's got more style by a darn sight, an'
if you'll come around ter my shack I'll give 'em ter yer.
What about a little drink afore we drift?'
I took the pants.
Then on through the town again, among its many de­
serted houses and cabins, with marshy rutted streets flanked
by sidewalks of rotting planks. Some of the windows, be­
cause of the scarcity of glass at the time of their construc­
tion, are made of rows of empty beer bottles chinked with
homemade plaster.
The whole atmosphere and life of Dawson is permeated
with the past. All the older people remember the days of
the great stampede, and the influence of this memory has
signally affected more recent settlers. The dancehall girls
have disappeared, and gambling at the rate of one thousand
dollars a pass is extinct, but that frontier valuation of gay­
ety above comfort, and even above safety, still exists.
Drink still flows in considerable volume, gambling in a
moderate form is far from absent, while men continue to

.AlasktL
live in cramped log huts, dining on stale crackers and stews
of suspicious odor and composition.
I ate my dinner at a species of Arctic hash-house, where
the standard of feminine charm among the waitresses was
lower than anywhere on the Yukon, which is pretty low.
I went early to bed, already for the job in the mines which,
through the activities of my sourdough souse, I had ar­
ranged to start in the morning.
July 20. At six-thirty there was a great roar in the street.
' Brains.' as the boss of the mines is called, had started his
car. With his vast hat shading a corncob pipe, which pro­
truded from his shaggy mustache, he bounced along over
the ruts to the ' hotel ' where I had spent the night. Grasp­
ing my bag of belongings, I climbed aboard his car, which
had a lantern · hanging out from either end, and an old
window frame, with six panes of glass, for a windshield.
Br-r-r-r-r-r-r rattle, rattle, chug - boom - rattle - off
we went to the mines.
Some ten miles up the Klondike River Valley we stopped
beneath a huge wooden flume, a sort of aqueduct exhaust
of the hydraulic placer mines, where I was to work.
This is the heart of the very country where the Klondike
gold-seekers extracted twenty million dollars' worth of gold
in the single season of 1898. All the gold has been taken
from the creek beds and wherever there was water to pan
or sluice it. It must now be sought with dredges in the
valleys and with high-pressure hosing systems on the
heights. In the latter, since water is essential in the washing­
out of the gold, the problem of getting gold is principally
the problem of getting water.
Extensive piping systems stretch through the valley for
forty miles, to feed the great hydraulic hose nozzles which
hurl tons of water a minute upon the mountain-sides. The
debris of rock and sand washed away under this impact is

o.Men on the Horiz,p1L
funneled into a narrow wooden sluice. My job - to repair
parts of this flume which had worn away- gave me a good
opportunity to see its corrugated lining, coated on the bot­
tom with quicksilver, and designed to catch the elusive gold
dust away from the enveloping sediment.
I worked all day, doing various jobs along the ditches,
surrounded by other overalled miners. Many of my com­
panions were old men, over sixty or seventy years of age,
working side by side with young half-breed Indians, Swedes,
Russians, and other laborers such as can be seen anywhere
in the United States. To see the tottering old fellows strug­
gling ineffectually with their shovels, and for high wages,
showed me what a scarcity of labor there is up here. They
are getting from four to eight dollars a day, plus board and
lodging, worth about three dollars, for work which in the
States would hardly pay them enough for food. Fine for
them ; but tough on the industry which employs them.
The next day I decided that I would give up my job on
the flume and investigate other gold-getting methods. To
get to one of the monster dredges, I walked for miles, strug­
gling up the \"alley through swamp land and quick mud
which all but kept me for good. The thermometer stood at
ninety-eight, and it is no joke to cross the Klondike Valley
in that heat.
The dredges are almost two hundred feet in length ; great
four-story structures which dig their way back and forth, up
and down the marshy \"alley, sifting the gold dust out of
their diggings as they go, and discarding the barren residue
upon the vast heap of tailings in the rear. A digestive sys­
tem on a grand scale and probably much like that of a
dinosaur - but without his sanitary responsibilities.
I made my way back toward Dawson through a sudden
thunderstorm which broke overhead, letting loose the heavy
cargo of the clouds. The noise was like a strong wind tear­
ing through a forest. Marshes became lakes, and brooks,

.Alaska.
nvers. My clothes hung on me like so many bags of
water.
When I reached the road, a lightness appeared in the inky
heavens and soon the storm ceased, leaving a mysterious
stillness in the air, and, on the earth, a sound of water as it
sought the muddy channels to lower ground. On I trudged
in the new fresh air, making spongy noises with each
step and a splash with each movement of my saturated
attire.
Arriving in town, I saw standing by a doorway a thin,
elderly man dressed in a black suit with a black string
tie.
' Hi, there! '  he said, as I went by, ' have yer been out in
the rain?'
' I'll give you .three guesses,' I replied, and stopped with
a swish.
A toothless smile oozed over his face.
'Well,' he said, ' come on in and get dry anyhow, while
I'm thinkin' it over.'
I accepted his invitation and entered - and that is how
I came to meet ' Undie' Andrews.
We had supper together in his little kitchen in the rear
of the store, and partook of delicious Mulligan stew, while
my clothes were drying out over the stove. Such is North­
ern hospitality.
Undie told me his story. He was born in Australia, and
came to Dawson in 1910, where he has been ever since.
He was in the midst of an explanation of why he couldn't
get away when in came a robust old woman wrapped in a
shawl. Undismayed by the presence of a stranger, most of
whose clothes were hanging up to dry, she went up to Undie
and said in a queer, hushed voice, ' Is it all right, Mr.
Andrews, for me to see Mrs. Bundy? - er - do you
mind? '
Undie's manner changed instantly. Most lugubriously he

.Aien on the HoriZ[JrL
nodded, and led the woman through a doorway into another
room which I had not seen. In a few moments they re­
turned, Undie still very solemn, and the woman pale and
quivering as if she had undergone some terrible shock. I
was very curious to see this Mrs. Bundy, who seemed to
make such an impression on people, and, after the visitor
had gone, I asked Undie about her.
'Well, it's a long story,' he replied, resuming his former
ease of manner. ' It's all part of what I was tellin' yer.' And
he continued his interesting tale Ȋ until finally it developed
that he was an undertaker. Yes, and, as we ate our stew,
the corpse of Mrs. Bundy, who had died that morning, was
lying in state on an ancient square piano in the next
room.
' She drank herself to death,' he revealed. ' A  good
woman in her way, but she Ϊ well, she was kinda wild at
times.'
When Undie had finished eating and had put away his
false teeth V which he kept on the window-sill between
meals Ȋ he showed me around his place. In addition to
being an undertaker and storekeeper, Undie is a boat­
builder, grave-digger, trapper, cook, and dog-breeder. Of
course this wide range of occupation is prevalent through­
out the frontier country, but Undie's case is an exceptional
one. The versatility, resourcefulness, and broad under­
standing which his diversified activities have given him are
nothing short of phenomenal. He can do anything from
cooking apple tarts to trimming a coffin.
He exhibited to me his undertaking equipment and flesh­
preserving fluids, explaining them with unconcealed pride.
His 'dead wagon,' a rickety homemade bier, a ride in which
makes doubly certain that the corpse is dead, stood in his
back yard.
Having sufficiently impressed me with his more solemn
activities, he went on to explain the difficulties and problems

.Alaska.
of an Arctic storekeeper. ' Yer can't succeed in this coun·
try,' he said, ' unless yer cut yer overhead right down to the
very minimum. Yer see, electric power, an' heat, an' food,
an' all yer equipment costs so bloomin' much here. If yer
buy wood ter keep yer stove goin', ye're jest on the road to
failure, that's all. It's jest too damned extravagant. If
ye're goin' to succeed in this damn country, yer got to cut
yer own wood.
' Some o' the other fcllers in town here hain't larnt that
yet, so I'm still goin' while they're gettin' run outa business,
an'll soon prob'ly be out thar in the mines diggin' their
arms off ter make a livin' .'
In the spring Undie builds long, narrow, flat-bottomed
skiffs, with outboard motors in them, to sell to anyone who
wants to go up-river when the ice breaks up at the end of
April.
All summer he keeps store for long hours, especially when
steamboats are in, in order to catch the tourist trade. His
prices are not what is known as reasonable. He also spends
a good part of summer training his dogs, fine young Mala­
mutes with perhaps a trace of Husky. They are the ideal
breed for this country, and can live on fish tails and haul the
sledge thirty miles a day, for weeks on end. Their fur is
thicker and finer than on any animal I have ever seen. Even
their toes are well furred, which is very important as a pro­
tection against sharp ice fragments.
In the fall Undie digs his graves for the winter. He has
to thaw the ground with a succession of fires as he goes
down, but it is better than to hack through eight feet of
snow and ice, which he would have to do if he waited until
winter.
When the snow comes, he starts his trapping. Every day
he goes over the trap line to collect the day's catch : mink,
marten, beaver, ermine, muskrat, wolverine, bear, lynx, or
wolf. Undie says it is one of the most remunerative of his

./Wen on the Horizon..
jobs, in spite of the short hours of light - from ten-thirty
in the morning till half-past one in the afternoon - and the
bitter cold and the driving blizzards.
During the long winter the people here have a great deal
of leisure. They get in the wood while daylight lasts, and
look at their traps, but for the rest of the time they have
nothing to do but sit, or go to the movies. The movie-house,
in winter, is always packed to the doors.
Apparently those who can survive the long hardship of
cold, darkness, and isolation become philosophical in a
typical Alaskan fashion, and have quite a merry time.
In summing up Undie's occupations, I think it is clear
that the one in which his heart is most firmly ensconced is
his undertaking.
' There was a lot o' business last winter,' he says. 'A lot
of Indians died off an' they like fancy burials. There was
big profits. I got twenty-five dollars for caskets that I made
in one day an' cost only four dollars to make. Yeh, an'
trimmin's an' fancy carvin' is all extra - I sure made a
Jot o' money.'
Then, pausing to take a deep breath, a wistful light
flows into his eyes, and he remarks as an afterthought: ' I
don't think it will be so good this winter, though. There
ain't many old Indians left. But I did hear o' one bein'
drowned the other day' - sigh - ' I  hope they find his
body.'
Undie is also a justice of the peace, and sometimes, when
there are murders along the lonely river, Undie, as coroner,
gives important testimony, cooperating with the Royal Ca­
nadian Mounted Police. The Mounted Police - formerly
the ' Royal North-West' - are very active in this British
territory, keeping track of all who pass through and helping
travelers in difficulties. There is always one of them strut­
ting about town, in his dazzling scarlet uniform, purple
pants with yellow stripes, polished puttees, dangling sword,

.Alaska..
and brass buttons. If there were any girls here worthy of
the name, these vivid boys would have a big advantage.
July 22. Today, feeling I'd seen enough of Dawson, I gath­
ered my stuff together, up in Undie's attic where I had been
sleeping on an old rug, said good-bye to this hospitable
heart, and started once more down the river.
In spite of the loneliness, it is good to be on my way
again, among the familiar bubbles and wandering currents.
The water is getting muddier all the time.
I tried to fish in water so full of silt that the fish cannot
see the fly, and I achieved only a deeper realization of the
difficult life of a Yukon salmon. He is driven by a repro­
ductive urge - more a matter of domestic duty than of any
apparent diversion for himself - to swim up this river, the
mud of which must blind him to the scenery or, in fact, to
anything more than an inch from his nose, and in which he
has to buck a four-mile-an-hour current for two thousand
miles. I don't see why, for such a drab objective, he should
make such an effort. Fish, in some aspects, are very un­
selfish.
Every time I take a drink of the Yukon River I sympa­
thize more deeply with the salmon, for, as the mud thickens,
I have to drink more and more of it to quench the same
amount of thirst.
Drifting on at the same steady speed, I speculate as to
where I shall be two days hence. My provisions will last
only as far as a town called Circle, on the Yukon Flats,
where the river widens out several miles among innumerable
islands, and near to the Arctic Circle from which it derives
its name.
The town, however, may be hard to find. Many of these
posts, which, on the map, look as important as New York,
turn out to be nothing but a couple of shacks hiding under
a bush away off on a mountain-side.

Jlien on the Hori'{?rL
Twice last night I was awakened by the sound of falling
gravel - caribou running along the flats. Again, at dawn,
as the mists were moving mysteriously among the hills,
slowly rising with the new warmth, suddenly came a great
splashing from up the river. A huge bull moose was at his
morning bath. Slashing around, tossing his massive head
in wild glee, the commotion he made was terrific. With
excited snorts, he kicked and bucked, sending water flying
in every direction and making a noise that could be heard
for miles. It was a wild sight - that great creature, so free
and so thrilled with himself. Finally he dove into deep
water and headed across the stream.
In the heat of noon - to add still another event to this
most eventful day - sitting on the bank, about a hundred
yards distant, appeared a large brown bear. He was a lazy­
looking beast and lolled about, licking himself and trying
to scratch his back on a log; but his scent and hearing were
very acute, for, when I landed and tried to creep close
to him, he ambled away, never allowing me to get any
nearer.
Back in the boat again, drifting - drifting northward
through the endless wilderness. I pass occasional fishwheels
along the banks now, slowly turning with the current, to
scoop up their portion of the struggling salmon hordes.
Near two of these wheels I came upon their owner's farm.
The racks of drying red salmon, under canvas awnings,
looked like so many red socks on a clothesline. Dogs were
all about, making a wild racket - a pen for the puppies ­
a vegetable garden - a woodpile - and everything rosy.
The man and his wife came out of the cabin to quiet the
dogs. ' Takin' life easy, ain't you! '  he shouted to me as I
drifted by.
' Sure, and how about yourself? '
'Well, I catch just about enough to live on. How are they
up-river? '

.Alaska.
But there ended our conversation, for the dogs set up
such a baying that all other sound was lost.
As the sun went down about half-past eleven, in a flood
of strong red beyond a strangely darkly blue forest, I was
treated to another acquaintance - a timber wolf - run­
ning along the bank, stopping to sniff the air suspiciously
every few steps, always restless, watchful.
July 25. I went to sleep last night - almost a thousand
miles from my start at White Horse - in broad daylight,
for there is no darkness in this Arctic Circle country. l\Iy
calculations would bring me to Circle about half-past
twelve, and I dared only a series of brief snoozes, keeping
a sharp lookout at each interim. At last, sticking up out
of the low hills, I saw a tower - a steel wireless tower.
Circle!
But it was still miles away. There was time enough for
a final short snooze.
Suddenly I was awake. It seemed as if I had slept not
more than fifteen minutes - but the tower was nowhere to
be seen ! This was serious, for, if I missed Circle, I would
have to go all the long five hundred miles around to Tanana,
in order to get to Fairbanks.
I hustled to shore and climbed a tree, peering anxiously
around for my tower. \Vhat a relief! There it was, not a
mile away. I was directly opposite the town, but on the
wrong side of a large island that intervened. I must go
upstream to get around it.
The next hour was not pleasant. The current gave me
still another taste of the troubles of a Yukon salmon. Keep·
ing as far as possible out of the swifter channel, I rowed
hard and steadily against the tide, gaining inch by inch,
and close to the steep j ungled bank from which descended
armies of fierce mosquitoes, taking cruel advantage of the
fact that my hands were full. Wherever my head net

o/Hen on the HorizytL
touched the skin, there was a platoon of the scoundrels all
ready with set beaks.
At last I rounded the point at the head of the island, and
came into view of my destination. But trouble is still with
me. I must drag my loaded craft across two mud flats
where sea-gulls circle squawking overhead, laughing piti­
lessly as I sink deep in the mire. Finally, however, I arrive
and beach beside a weirdly creaking fishwhC'el. It is dawn.
This collection of log cabins, called Circle, is still asleep ­
except for the unearthly squeaking of the wheel. Even the
dogs are quiet.
Having pulled up my boat, I walked through the little
village, among its cabins with sod roofs. The grass, which
grew longer on the roofs than on the ground, gave one the
impression that the town needed a haircut. I climbed the
huge wireless mast to view the surrounding country - but
there was nothing to be seen except a great deal of Alaska,
and thousands of cliff swallows which sat on the guy cables,
twittering in the morning sunshine.
When I descended, I made the acquaintance of a little
old man with a long beard, who was hunting in the weeds
of his potato garden for pieces of a stove which he said he
had left there.
' Mornin', young feller,' he began hoarsely, 'just come
down-river? \\'al . . .  ' and he soon became very communica­
tive. I couldn't stay near him because he smelt so badly,
but he was very kindly and, as he showed me around his
workshop and told me his story, we were friends in no time.
' Yeh, my boy,' he said, ' I'm a mechanic by trade. I was
a locomotive enguneer in Floruda once. Yeh, 'n' I've been
all over South America as a hobo mechanic.'
After an hour's recital of his seventy years of adventure,
each year of which was wilder than the preceding one, my
unsavory friend came across with a real project - a plan
for the future - a proposition which bade fair to make us

.Alaska.
both millionaires in three years. His eyes fairly burst out
of their withered sockets as he poured forth his great plan.
' 1\1' boy.' he began, ' you are a strong-lookin' young
feller. You arc goin' ter be my partner. This is th' idea.
I'll put yer up here fer th' winter, an' in the spring we're
goin' ter set out fer Miami, Floruda. \Ve're goin' in my
tractor. Yeh, an' I got wonderful equipment - th' most
up-tcr-date outfit thet's ter be got in th' world. We're
goin' ter tow three wagons with our stuff in 'em. Come on
here, let me show yer.'
He was old and fat and tottery - and horribly fragrant.
Out behind the shack, sure enough, was his equipment,
the tractor, the three wagons, and everything. \Vith raven­
ous enthusiasm he showed me each minute detail. On one
wagon was a wood-sawing machine with which we could
prepare our fuel, as well as earn a great deal of money selling
cord wood along the way. The second wagon was a machine
shop, in which all the tools and repairing equipment could
be kept, and the third was a house, with double walls to
keep it warm in winter, and a stove, and all sorts of luxury.
How the old fellow got hold of all this stuff, the Lord only
knows.

52·
..Afen on the Hori'l,fltL
' Yeh, my boy,' he went on, his little eyes glittering as he
stuffed into his mouth another wad of Copenhagen snuff,
' an' if we get stuck in the snow in them yar mountains, it
don't make no difference. We'll just spend the rest o' the
winter there. We got double-thick walls an' everythin', an'
we can trap plenty of stuff to eat.
' An' when it thaws out we can go on
-- ' and he con­
tinued to describe our progress to the Alaskan coast and,
after shipping to Seattle, how we would travel eastward to
Idaho and \Vyoming, working our way as hobo mechanics,
woodchoppers, and all sorts of things. Then, at last, after
' two or three yar, I reckon,' how we would finally pull into
Miami with our well-equipped train.
As he drawled on, and continued to be as smelly as ever,
I made up my mind then and there that, if I accepted the
proposition, I should drive the tractor myself and keep
him to leeward on the last wagon - and head for the first
' Mum ' dispensary I could find.
By now the town was up and having breakfast, so I lost
no time in selling my boat, and making preparations for
a three or four days' hike over the mountains to Fairbanks,
a hundred and seventy-five miles on what was cheerfully
alluded to as ' the new road.' I arranged to have my sack
of stuff sent on the stage, a rickety automobile which navi­
gates this rugged route once a week all summer. Into my
knapsack went only the barest necessities: a map, four cans
of beans and spaghetti, mosquito netting, sweater, and
raincoat - my plan was to travel light and fast. I didn't
take my blanket because I had decided to sleep in the day­
time when the sun was shining hottest and keep warm at
night by hiking.
How all this would have worked out, I never had a chance
to discover, for once more I became the recipient of a superb
phase of Northern hospitality. No sooner had I started on
the new road to Fair banks than along came a car and in it

.Alaska.
5 3
a small family, and I was offered a ride. They were migrat­
ing from Circle to Valdez for the winter, and they said that
there was plenty of room for one more. So I climbed in
among the bundles, tools, and oddments on their back
seat.
Papa drove most of the time, but Uncle John took his
turn at the throttle occasionally. Whenever we had a blow­
out or got stuck in quicksand, the whole family pitched in
to help. Papa was very wise to carry among his tools three
shovels, two large jacks, a crowbar, heavy rope, and seven
spare tires. Without all of them, we would never have
arrived in Fairbanks.
If this is a new road, I should hate to see it when it gets
old. There are several tractors and some men working on
it, but the ruts, two and three feet deep, are almost con­
tinuous; and once, when we had our third blow-out, we had
to go two miles to find ground hard enough to support a
jack.
The greatest weakness of our equipment was the lack of
defense against mosquitoes. By millions they pounced on
us as we plied our tools, and raked us to the bone like a pack
of vultures. The mosquitoes here are quite a different tribe

o/lien on the Horiz.?rL
from the ordinary variety. Instead of buzzing daintily
about to choose a good landing-place, and making a cau­
tious approach, as is the practice at home, these brutes
form in a solid phalanx and, growling formidably, charge
upon you at top speed. With their eyes shut and their
beaks fixed, like bayonets, they drive into your flesh in
overwhelming numbers.
You slap them desperately, leaving the imprint of your
hand in their dead bodies where you strike. But it makes
no impression on the others. They are wild savages, and
continue the onslaught more frantically than ever. It is
said that sometimes dogs are killed by them and men driven
insane. I can easily believe it.
We drove through beautiful mountains, naked land
spotted with snow, and where bleached caribou antlers lay
about, and eagles soared over the valleys. Sometimes we
passed forests of stunted spruce and birch, and patches of
purple fireweed.
For lunch we stopped at a cabin belonging to a road
worker named Si. He had electric lights, with power from
a tiny trickling stream near by, its volume so small that his
wife said she could tell by watching the bulbs ih the kitchen
how big a drink of water Si was taking outside.
Rattling into Fairbanks at sundown - in the middle of
the chronological night- we went to sleep in the Pioneer
Hotel, in an inexpensive room above a lobby where two
tables full of Russians, Chinese, and Irishmen were playing
blackjack. Behind the counter sat a pretty girl with yellow
curls and roving blue eyes. She was quite gaudy, and when
she smiled you could see a diamond set in one of her front
teeth. She must be a great help to the hotel business. They
call her ' Diamond Tooth Ann,' and the old miners are wile!
about her.
Many of the houses here are built of logs, and there art>
gardens everywhere, although beneath the top two feet of

.Alaska.
5 5
soil lies the eternal ice. The shortness of the season is made
up for by the long hours of sunshine.
I've decided I must somehow go down to the coast,
because soon the fall stampede of people leaving the country
will make it very hard for me to get a place on a ship. To
my great joy, I've learned that a freight train with 'many
empties' is leaving early tomorrow morning for Seward,
and the sea.
After selling my surplus baggage I've made careful ar­
rangements for departure. In my equipment is food to last
three days and an emergency beer bottle full of water.
Though very optimistic about this adventure, I realize I
may have some trouble getting aboard the train unobserved,
with my bulging laundry bag, of Czecho-Slovakian design
in bright red, blue, and green.
July 27. Early this morning I left my stuffy little room
for the freight yard. The rooms are always rather stuffy
here because the windows won't open : too many mosquitoes
in summer and too cold in winter. When I got to the yard
I concealed my sack behind a bush, and wandered about
seeking information. After half an hour I had made friends
with the car inspector and, on seeing an empty gondola coal
car which I thought would be going south, I asked him if
it was to be part of the morning freight.
'Sure,' he replied. ' Thet battleship's goin' all right. I'll
see ter thet, but don't you hang aroun' here or you'll be
caught sure. The boss is right over thar in the roundhouse.'
I dumped my sack into the gondola and, taking the in­
spector's advice, retired into the brush to await further de­
velopments. The mosquitoes howled like woh·es. I put on
my head net and smeared it with mosquito oil, and waited
and watched. After a time one of the engines began to puff
about, making up a train. It jockeyed around for two hours
picking up a car here and a couple more there until, finally,

JWen on the Hori'{P1L
it hooked on to my gondola and put it next to the tender.
To get aboard undetected did not look easy, but I had
to attempt it immediately, as the train might start at any
minute with all my earthly possessions hidden within the
high walls of gondola number 28. I wondered if I had any
chance - the engineer was looking out of his cab within
thirty feet of my car and there were several brakemen
farther toward the rear of the train.
I walked along beside the track as the train approached,
and managed to meet it on a curve and on the outside,
which position limited their view of me to a minimum. I
swung aboard and soon lay beside my bag at the bottom
of the car. Everything had worked well so far.
All I could see was the sky and the bare coal-crusted
walls of my rattling conveyance. We stopped and reversed
our direction, and I could feel and hear more cars being
added to the train. This alternate going ahead and backing
up and hitching and unhitching continued for about an
hour, while I lay and waited and hoped we w,ould get under
way.
After a while I heard many voices and the sound of bag­
gage trucks on the freight platform - and then a voice,
' All right ! '  followed by two short blasts on the engine
whistle. \Ve were starting.
Chuff ! - - Chuff ! - Chuff! We jerked, moved, slowly
gathered speed, and were off for the south. \\'hen we were well
out of town I ventured a look over the edge of my surging
craft. There were about thirty cars, ending with a red
caboose. I was glad it was so far off - the less chance of
being seen - although I surely would be found if anyone
tried to get to the engine along the train.
Mosquitoes swarmed upon me in large forces. I killed
hundreds, but never could eliminate them, as every time
we stopped - which was often - reinforcements appeared.
As time went on, I began to feel more daring, and moved

.Alaska.,
5 7
two cars aft where there was a coal car with a flat bottom -
better for sleeping than my chute-bottomed gondola.
Rattle . . .  rattle . . .  on we went, and all was well until we
stopped at a water-tank in the midst of a vast tundra near
the Tanana River. I heard somebody climbing up the side
of my car. My heart thumped audibly. Then the head and
shoulders of a brakeman rose into view - a weather-beaten
man with a kindly boyish face. He saw me almost immedi­
ately and his blue eyes widened at the sight of me and my
gay laundry bag.
' Hello, there,' I said, smiling hopefully.
He grinned. 'Hey, why don't yer come back to one o'
the box cars? They're much more comfortable an' yer
won't need to worry about the rain.'
What a pleasant surprise - I had expected to be kicked
off the train. · But Northern hospitality extends even to
railroad men, thank God.
'Where're yer goin'? '  he asked.
' I'm tryin' to get to Seward,' I answered. 'Are the box
cars going there? '
We talked for a couple of minutes while the engine took
on water, and soon I knew that I had at least one friend on
the train. In the course of our conversation, I learned that
' prob'bly nobody' II say nuthin' to yer s'long's yer keep out
o' the way - s'far as Curry, anyhow. Only yer wanna keep
low in stations so's the officials don't see yer.'
I relaxed considerably at these words, for they meant the
probable success of this venture.
When we started again, no longer feeling any great need
to keep out of sight, I began to explore. Aft, over a dozen
or so empty flats and coal cars, there were two water-tank
cars. I would have plenty to drink, and wouldn't have to
live on the contents of my beer bottle. Farther on were
more flats, carrying lumber, various sorts of pipe, and wire.
One looked inviting - it contained a hand-car, tools, and

Jlien on the Hori'{(Jn..
planks - so taking my blanket out of my bag, I lay down
and went to sleep, rattling steadily southward across the
flat tundra country with here and there rising a grove of
stunted spruce.
When I woke up we were still in the marshy, mushy,
mossy tundra, which breeds mosquitoes by the billion.
They were bad, even on the moving, wind-swept train.
July 28. I am now riding in a box car and no longer
alone. With me is a fellow who has been prospecting in the
mountains. He is bound for Anchorage, one hundred and
fifteen miles this side of Seward, and says that, as he has to
travel often in the course of his prospecting, he finds this
the most economical way of making a journey.
This part of the country, he says, is chiefly a coal­
producing area, all locally consumed, and has a little placer
gold. We rumble slowly up into the mountains, past where
the highest peak in North America rises into a curtain of
thick clouds.
Sometimes, out of our sliding door, we can see caribou
grazing on the bare mountain-sides. 1\Iy friend says there
are also large herds of mountain sheep roaming about this
high tundra country. In Curry, a coaling station, where we
stopped for the night near a small brook, we saw trout
actually so big that they could hardly find room to swim.
\Vhile my companion was arranging his fishline, I stealth­
ily crept out of our refuge. All day I had felt the presence
of that chill ghost of the sky, Mount McKinley, although it
had been hidden from us by the fog. Now, hoping to get
a glimpse of it, I started to climb a ncar-by mountain. I
soon found that the going was hard. The grass, eight feet
high, was alive with mosquitoes.
It was full of dead
branches and great logs, and weeds which looked like wild
rhubarb, ten feet high, and all sorts of things to stumble
over and get tangled up in.

.Alaska.
5 9
Finally, after hours - the top. But the clouds still hid
McKinley. And the mosquitoes roared, and mosquito oil
and sweat blinded my eyes, so I came down in a hurry ­
tripping over logs, sliding, rolling, tumbling through the
giant swamp grass.
Gaining at last my box-car refuge, I found my fishless
partner resting quietly. He didn't have, he said, ' th' right
kind of flies fer them foxy bastards.'
Food here at Curry costs a dollar and a half a meal at the
cheapest, and three dollars a night for a lodging-house room.
So we stay in our car and live on the remainder of my
Swedish bread and raisins. I don't know why my com­
panion has no food with him ; with his experience of freight­
car travel he should be better supplied.
Morning. With a great jerk and rattling roar, we were off ­
already the sun was shining through the window crack, and
my partner was describing the nice breakfast which he
wished he was having. Very conversational this empty
morning, he asked me about my trip down the Yukon, and
seemed to think me very hardy. But he couldn't under­
stand why I had no squaw along in the little boat, compar­
ing me unfavorably to his father.
' \Vhen Pa was up here prospectin',' he said, ' he was
drunk th' whole time. Yeh, he was drunk for six years.
An' he had four squaws, Pa did. I never have more'n one
m'self - but, Keriste, I'm not rich like Pa was.'
It developed that my partner wanted me to go prospect­
ing with him in the mountains north of Anchorage. It
seemed to him perfectly absurd that I should return to the
'outside' while there was still gold in the mountains. He
had the true Alaskan spirit.
The train continued slowly, stopping frequently for
scrap iron which was loaded upon flat cars for Seward. \Ve
wondered what so much iron was for, anyhow.

6o
c:A1en on the Horizyn..
Finally, crossing seven switches in a row we came to a
stop in Anchorage, informally emerged through our window,
and shortly afterwards were partaking of a hearty repast
in the Main Street Restaurant. It seemed like being out
of jail.
In the evening, I went to a movie accompanied by prac­
tically the whole town - coal miners, fishermen, cannery
workers, restaurant keepers, Indians, women, and children.
Some of them look pretty hard up by day, but they cer­
tainly seem to enjoy themselves after supper.
I talked to a shabby old man who was sweeping out the
theater. He was lazily swishing his old broom back and
forth, and appeared one of the very humblest of the humble.
But, in the course of conversation, he remarked that he had
just sold a hundred and fifty shares of Du Pont stock in
order to invest more heavily in aviation. This was stagger­
ing, from such a lowly bum, but it is characteristic of
Alaska. Wealth and adventure are things to play with ­
the old gold-digging spirit.
Slowly I wandered down Main Street, past the lighted
restaurants and bakeries, each with its serving girl at
the counter surrounded by three or four hiingry swains.
Girls are at a premium here, and even when, to the im­
partial eye, they are of somewhat meager seductiveness,
they seem to lead very active, and probably interesting,
lives.
I purchased a few groceries and returned to the car,
where I feel more at home all the time. Once you get used
to it, there's nothing in the world more comfortable to sleep
on than a good wooden floor.
It was the middle of the following night when we arrived,
in pitch blackness and fog, at Seward. This was the first
full-fledged night I had seen in a month. We were on a
long, lighted dock where many men were at work. A freight

.AlasktL
steamer lay alongside: I could hear the rumble of her
winches, for she was loading scrap iron.
All day and all night the men work at this task, in twelve­
hour shifts, some on the dock and others in the hold. I have
arranged to begin work among them tomorrow at one A.M.
They need men to finish the job by next week, and I must
earn my living while I wait for a ship.
August I. In the morning, I proposed to myself to use this
day of grace in climbing one of the neighboring snowy
mountains, to get a good look at the surrounding coastline.
Up a gushing brook to the wind-worn upper shoulders I
followed, to where the air was so clean and clear and the
snow so white that I seemed living in a new world and
breathing a new element. Sometimes the loose rocks and
shale made the· going hard, but to reach that intense white­
ness just above and ahead was so exciting that it made
struggle negligible. I gained the crest by way of a thousand­
foot chute of smooth snow set almost like a wall straight
into the sky against the side of the mountain.
Seward, from my heights, looked a pitiable collection of
huts, cramped, as it was, on a small flat far beneath the
contempt of the peaks, at the head of a narrow fjord.
When I stood, ankle deep in snow, at the top, it seemed
as if I had never been in that other world below, of stuffy
freight cars and cheap restaurants, but had always known
and been known by these wild companions, the immutable
pinnacles around me. I had a momentary idea of how it
must feel to actually be a mountain-top; a sense of complete
detachment and independence, in which condition of elation
I started to explore the ice-clothed precipices on the other
side. But a human and uneasy feeling at the pit of my
stomach brought me to the realization of my enormous
isolation on these frozen heights, and that the sun was
swinging low.

..l:fen on the Horiz.prL
When I returned to the head of the pass, and looked
down, it seemed steeper and much more slippery than when
I had come up. If I lost my footing on that icy glissade,
I should be swirled down over it for a thousand feet to the
rocks at the bottom. I no longer had the sensation of im­
mune detachment, and it is well that I lost it, for that
almost hysterical feeling, I think, is probably responsible
for the deaths of many lone mountaineers.
I had to go down backwards, feeling my toes into the
holes I had made on my way up, because the snow had
frozen, with the advancing cold of twilight, into a solid icy
slide.
It was no joke.
August 3· Yesterday, when I started work as a longshore­
man again, they told us we could stay on the job at ninety
cents an hour as long as we liked. So I liked - and worked
from one o'clock in the morning until five the following
afternoon, earning almost fourteen dollars - a good day's
wages.
We are unloading sections of dredging machinery from a
coastwise freighter, hurrying to get this precious cargo off
to Fairbanks as soon as possible. I am in the hold under
hatch number 3, starboard side, working with a Swede and
an Indian.
This job is not very hard, because the pieces we handle
are so large that the winch does almost all the work. Great
naked pieces of steel machinery - girders, plates, boilers,
and derrick arms - in riveted sections sometimes eighty
feet long, must be dragged out from the corners of the hold,
and slung up through the hatchway.
All the Swede, the Indian, and I do is attach shackles and
slings to these pieces where they lie in the darkness, then,
when the hook is made fast, we shout to the winch-driver far
above. The cable tightens; with crowbars and wedges we
guide the huge mass to the light under the opening; the

'TV here yer been all this time wit' thet water-can?'

..Men on the Horizyn.,
winch-driver holds it poised, while we turn its bulk so as to
clear the hatch - and then it is whisked up and up out of
darkness, to vanish into the tiny spot of sky.
You have to keep your eyes open when these great hunks
of steel are whirling about on the end of a thin fallible cable,
writhing in their unmanageable strength. But as soon as
the load is once clear of the hatch, we have time for a brief
nap while it is being loaded onto a flat car on the dock. Our
whole life in the hold centers around the hook. The hook
is our only connection with the outside world. When the
hook goes up, we are left marooned in a dungeon. When
the hook comes down, we must spring to life, to get the load
on as quickly as possible. When we need water, it comes
down on the hook. Everything we do - everything we
either give or receive - depends on the hook.
During the night the work is rather slow and uneventful,
but after breakfast, along around nine o'clock, the winch­
driver begins to really 'get hot.' He swishes playfully about
with his hook and, before lifting away a load, he jerks it up
and down once or twice to tighten the slings - incidentally
nearly breaking his cable and threatening all our lives.
Once the cable actually did break. It happened just as a
gigantic steel section, seventy-five feet long and weighing
many tons, had cleared the hatchway, so that fortunately
the load did not fall back on us. But a passing Filipino
steward tried to dodge it as it crashed upon the deck, and
fell forty feet down the adjoining hatch upon the steel cargo.
One of his arms was mangled to almost nothing, poor fellow.
August 6. \Vc are at work on a large Japanese ship now,
loading scrap iron, and it is another ticklish job. A huge
magnet at the end of a cable is dipped into a flat car full of
nuts, bolts, springs, wheels, axles, grubhoe-heads, old tools,
and all the worn-out multitudinous odds and ends of a
mechanistic era.

.Alaska.
It rises and swings to a position above the hatchway, the
current is switched off, and the magnet releases its clustered
store of ironmongery, which falls through the opening, and,
with a deafening explosion, strikes the cargo surface to be
hurled like shrapnel in every direction. Down in the hold
you feel as if you were under shell-fire - sparks fly, dense
clouds of dust rise up, and, to all appearances, a high­
explosive bomb has gone off.
As the magnet swings overhead, we all scramble to the
farthest corners and hide behind posts, but no place is per­
fectly safe. This morning, during an unusually ferocious
period of shelling, a twenty-five-pound anvil struck the wall
a foot or two from my head. It is none too comfortable
down here at such times.
Every few minutes the barrage is called off so that we can
throw the stuff back into the wings of the hold. Our mixed
gang crawls out of its various places of retirement and bois­
terously falls to work. Everyone has a different idea as to
what and which should be done, and what all this junk is for,
anyhow. There being no bosun around, we voice our opin­
ions vehemently. A little Swede, when confronted with the
task of dragging back some tangled sheet iron explains in
disgust : 'Olie Yeesus, each o' dese plates could make two
tin Lizzies. \ly do dey ship 'em to der Yaps for battleships
ven Henry Ford vould make pleasure crafts outen 'em ? '
I t  is always rank with dust in the hold and we have to
spit frequently. Some of the men must have developed
special salivary glands, for I have timed them, and find that
they get in three good spits a minute regularly, during a
whole eight-hour shift.
One of my confreres is a burly Scotch-Irishman, closely
resembling Premier Ramsay MacDonald except for an
undue bleariness of the eye. His possessive instinct being
highly developed, he is sorely tempted by some of the useful
bits of our cargo. I think he would make off with the whole

..l1en on the Hori'l,!J1L
shipload if given a chance, for even as it is, at every meal­
time, he smuggles out all his pockets can hold. Yesterday
his acquisitive tendency got him into trouble. As he
climbed out of the hatch, bearing an extra heavy load of
flatirons and axe-heads secreted under his coat, he assumed
a nonchalant air calculated to deceive the mate, who was
regarding his humpy outline suspiciously from the sun­
deck. Unfortunately, as he sauntered casually toward the
gangplank with his gaze high in the heavens, his foot be­
came entangled in a coil of loose rope and he went sprawling.
BooM ! rang out his trophies as they struck the iron deck,
with an impact audible from stem to stern.
The poor man tried to get up, but the load of his illicit
acquisitions was too much, and he could only grunt and
strain. With the veins standing out on his neck, he was
anchored fast, till we had to unpack him and set him on his
feet, amid the jeers of the gang.
August 7. At last a ship bound for Seattle is in, and per­
haps with good luck I can get a job on her. Jobs are very
scarce and in huge demand. I have already inquired exten­
sively into each of the three departments - de.ck, steward,
and engine-room - without success; also there is not even
passage to be bought, either first-class or steerage, nor on
any of the next four boats south. If someone does not quit
soon and give me a place, I shall have to take desperate
measures.
Hundreds of Filipino cannery workers are returning to
the States for the winter. They form part of Alaska's large
migratory population which, like me, is now trying to go
south - with the sun.
Aboard S.S. Yukon - August 9· There was no way out
of it. I had to stow away on this ship - or winter in
Alaska. A waiter in the steerage said that he would provide

oAlaska.
me with food, so I bundled up my belongings in preparation
to go aboard. I waited until low tide, when the deck was on
a level with the wharf, and under the cover of darkness, I
sneaked onto the fore well-deck and down a companionway
- as far as I know, unobserved.
I soon found, way down in the hold, a secluded space in
the overflow cargo, which is stacked near the steerage quar­
ters. This, my lair, is up on top of the salmon cases, just
under the hot steam pipes along the ceiling. I think I am
pretty safe and I know I am very warm. I am below water
level so that there is no fresh air nor light - but to be
aboard at all is enough to keep me contented under any
conditions.
The situation is more hazardous from the fact that I
went to every officer on the ship with my story of being un­
able to get passage, and they all know me by sight.
I have one piece of chocolate to eat from time to time, but
otherwise remain unnourished. This has been my lot for the
last thirty-eight hours, ever since we sailed. The steward
knows me well, so I can't risk approaching the steerage
dining-room region, and have been unable to notify my
waiter friend as to my whereabouts.
Until we get across the Gulf to Juneau, I must take no
chances. Once there, I shall feel much safer, because at
Juneau, if I get kicked off the ship, I can still go south on a

ǫen on the Horiz,pn..
fish boat, or one of the small steamers which are compara­
tively plentiful along that part of the coast.
August 12. The night before last, I got my first real food. I
was looking around in one of the forward holds when I
found two bear cubs which were being shipped in crates
among the rest of the cargo. There was a large supply of
raw meat there for them, but they were already stuffed, and
it made a regal feast for me, much to their grunted disap­
proval.
Returning to my place, near the crowded steerage bunk
tiers, I continued my solitary retreat. I could hear the
noisy chattering of the two hundred Oriental steerage pas­
sengers - Filipinos, J aps, and Chinese. They were gam­
bling in small congested groups, along the dirty floor of the
bunk aisles, jabbering incessantly and having a merry time.
Above me a large rat scurried down the steam pipes, kicking
off the heavy dust as he went. I know him well, and often
encounter him as he scuttles by on his extensive beat. Time
goes slowly, and it seems we shall never get to the end of our
string of cannery stops and reach the Gulf.
Last night, however, I had an hour's diversion, which
helped tremendously. I crawled out and attended the ' Fire­
men's Ball ' with a fireman friend named Sullivan. He was
thoroughly primed and kept telling me that he was a Nor­
wegian fisherman from India.
We clambered up to the firemen's mess, where there was a
wild party staged by Sullivan's cock-eyed confreres of the
boiler-room. Sullivan had a huge bottle of whiskey in his
hip pocket, and swayed to and fro, reciting to his unheeding
companions the astounding adventures of one ' Cast-Iron
Fred.' At each reel Sullivan's hip came in contact with the
table behind him, and smashed still another section off the
bottle in his pocket. Eventually he became aware of this
tragedy in his pants, and called upon us to drink the re-

.Alaska.
maining whiskey before it should be lost. This we did, and I
was also making good use of opportunity to satisfy my
howling appetite and to fill my pockets with provisions for
the future.
Sullivan's recital about Cast-Iron Fred was characteristic
of most sailormen's stories. \Vhether Cast-Iron Fred actu­
ally existed, or whether he was Sullivan's invention, it is
impossible to say, but Sullivan gave his tale all the vivid­
ness of actual fact. And considering the recklessness and
hardihood of this type of man, it might well have been true.
Cast-Iron Fred had been fishing with two companions
near a peninsula called Rock Point, when his boat capsized
in a storm, forcing the three to swim for their lives.
After a half-hour in the raging sea, two of the men had
practically succumbed. Cast-Iron Fred, however, still as
strong as ever; towed them several miles to shore, swim­
ming with his legs and a man on each arm. \Vhen he reached
the beach, his two burdens were completely unconscious
and he was somewhat weary himself, so he sat down beside
them on the sand for a rest. They failed to come to, and he
decided to take them to a doctor, who lived in the nearest
town, some twenty-four miles away over the mountains.
Cast-Iron Fred was in the habit of eating canned heat as a
delicacy on his bread, and happened to have four tins of it
in his pockets. He needed a stimulant, and so, Sullivan ex­
plained, instead of reserving his canned heat for its usual
supplementary rOle in his menu, he ate the whole four tins
at a sitting. He then set out, a man on each shoulder ­
headed for the hills. On and on he trudged, all night, now
and then shifting his load, but without rest. He reached his
destination at dawn.
Having saved two lives, he then took sick himself. Pos­
sibly he had gone too strong on the canned heat so soon
after swimming. Sullivan described his dying day. It was
horrible. His face got green and blue, and his blood vessels

Jlien on the Hori'{P
burst one after another. It was too gruesome to relate here.
While such a tale as this sounds fantastic, knowing these
men, their enormous vitality and their reckless expenditure
of it, it seems possible to me that Sullivan's story was abso­
lutely true. Cast-Iron Fred's unthinking sacrifice of his life
for his friends is another element of the tale which seems
en tire! y characteristic.
August 13. This morning I feel safer. I have made numer­
ous friends and soon we shall be in the Gulf. Even the
Filipinos and J aps are friendly with me, and emit cheerful
gibberish for my benefit. I am saving three big hash sand­
wiches which I got at the party, to eat in time of dire need
- if my rat friend doesn't steal them first.
The rats are extremely large, and fast, and bold. They
are the most extraordinarily agile creatures I have ever
seen. One of their most skillful maneuvers is in running
along a steam pipe when they come to another pipe resting
across the top of it at right angles and against the ceiling.
As there is no room, in this case, to jump over the crossing
pipe, friend rat must go under this obstruction, swinging out
sideways, down underneath it, and then up and back to his
slippery course again - all with but four tiny clawed feet to
grip the smooth round surface. This feat is performed like
lightning, and with a grace and nonchalance that has been
my only real thrill in this long cramped week of waiting.
August q. At last I need worry no longer. We are in the
Gulf. \Ve left Cordova late last night and, my cubby-hole
having been absorbed by additional cargo, and the danger
of being forced to winter in Alaska over, I decided to risk
confiding in one of the stewards, hoping to get food from
him.
He is a kindly and completely sympathetic fellow, fixed
me up a bunk, and sold me a ticket for five dollars which he

.Alaska.,
says will get me by all right. He went so far as to invite me
to visit him at his home in the States, and I find he loves to
talk about classic literature, despising all modern authors.
Protected by my ticket, I can now go out upon the open
foc'sle-head. The wind, as we plough eastward across the
Gulf, feels delicious beyond expression after the cramped
murk of the hold. It rushes through you, binding the
windward side of your clothes to you with a fierce adhesion,
and tugging desperately to rip them loose to leeward.
Then back to my narrow canvas bunk at the bottom of a
lively tier of Chinamen. Four or five pairs of bare, brown,
Oriental legs dangle from the bunks above, and many slit­
eyed, high-cheek-boned faces bend over a game of blackjack
beside me as I write.
August I 5· Times have changed. My situation is very differ­
ent from what it was yesterday. This morning the mate,
who was naturally suspicious of me, asked for my ticket,
and, upon examining it, pronounced it ' no good.' It was
careless of me to have neglected making certain that my
ticket was O.K.
I was taken before the captain, a salty, grizzled old
scoundrel, to be arraigned and sentenced for my crime.
'Well, what're you here for? '  he bellowed, trying to look
as terrible as possible.
' I'm a stowaway, sir,' I answered.
' A  stowaway! Hah ! And where did you get this fake
ticket yer tried to pass off on us?'
'A feller sold it to me.' I said.
At this the blood showed red in his leathery face. He was
getting mad.
' Come on!' he roared. 'Who sold it to yer?'
I hesitated. My steward friend would be in dire trouble if
I weren't careful. He had tried to help me, and perhaps had
made a mistake about the validity of the ticket. At any

72.
½en on the Horiz,ptL
cost I must remain true to our collusion, however illegal it
had been.
I tried to explain this to the glaring skipper - but it was
like spraying gasoline on a forest fire. His rage grew almost
unmanageable. Holding it barely under control by an
effort, he settled slowly back in his chair, glanced briefly at
the mate and chief purser, who were looking on, and then,
turning to me, grinned from ear to ear. There was no love in
that face, however. It was a cold dental smile - about as
friendly as the scooper on a steam shovel.
' So  yer are standin' in wit' th' rest o' th' bums, eh?' he
muttered, in a voice tense with suppressed wrath, ' an' yer
don't give a damn about us, eh?' He paused, and his rage
seemed to grow till he could control it no longer.
Whirling toward the mate he said viciously: ' Put him in
irons, and lock him up in the brig! Give him water, but I'll
fire any man caught givin' him anything to eat!' - and, to
me, ' Yas, yer goddamned --! I'll find out from yer yet
who gave yer the ticket. Y er -- ! '
Well, it's a grim outlook for a while. It was best to sub·
mit peaceably to the handcuffs, so here I am. This is the
ship's storeroom, but acts as the brig on occasions, as I see
by writing on the wall. One inscription reads, ' H.S.S. kept
prisoner here on bread and water - May 18th, 1928 -
caught two hours out of Seattle.'
Apparently the captain intends to keep me here until we
reach Seattle, which will be about four days. He hopes to
starve me into squealing on the steward. The nights will be
hard, because I am shackleJ to a short cable leash, the other
end of which is fastened to a steel stanchion, and they don't
give me a blanket or anything to keep me warm. I don't
mind the iron floor, but the cold is weakening, and it is
drafty. A little open hatch in the ceiling lets in a chilling
wind all night. All this seems rather unnecessary.
I am much comforted to hear the swish of the waves out-

.Alaska.
side our hull as we continue to plough southward. At least I
am leaving Alaska. The storeroom door is locked and it is
very dull here, but I can keep occupied, as my handcuffs are
far enough apart to let me write in this little notebook.
There is much to learn in this room full of piles of rope,
tools, various sorts of soap, and ship necessities. On the
labels of the packages I can read engaging descriptions of
the compositions and uses of lye, lime, and other products.
August 16. Things are much more comfortable. I was
rather cramped during the night, but solved the problem of
keeping warm by wrapping up in a piece of sail which I
found behind some nail kegs, luckily just within reach.
The sailors and my friends, in spite of strict orders to the
contrary, come and talk with me through the door cracks
and through the little hatch. I don't like to ask them for
food, and haven't, but several have brought me candy and
raisins, so I am having a good time.
The mate came in just after we left Wrangell last night,
and let me out for a drink before leading me back to be
shackled to my post for the night. It was hard to sleep be­
cause of the tight handcuffs, which cut my wrists, but I had
rope for a pillow and, with my sail blanket, did quite nicely.
In the morning, the mate appeared again.
' How do you feel now?' he said.
' All right, sir,' I answered truthfully.
He was looking more sympathetic than he did yesterday
and, as he unlocked my handcuffs for my morning drink, he
said : ' It's too bad you have to stay this way. I don't believe
in this sort of stuff, myself, but I have to obey the old man's
orders.'
One of the ship's officers, a little later, crawled down
through the narrow hatch into my prison - I can't say who
he was, as it might lose him his job - with a napkin full of
buns and sausages from the galley.

../Men on the Hori'Z,Jln..
' Here,' he said, in a low voice, ' take this, and don't let
anyone know you've had it. And if, by any chance, the old
man hears of it, for God's sake don't let him know who gave
it to you - or I'll lose my job.'
' Thanks very much, sir,' I said, and he oozed quietly out
through the hatch.
The food tasted good and made me feel better, especially
as I now knew that I have friends on the ship who are even
risking their jobs to help me out.
Later. Yesterday I was quite hungry; but today the pre­
sents of sandwiches, candy, apples, oranges, cookies, eggs,
meats, and other goods are coming in through the hatch so
fast that I have a big supply stocked secretly under various
piles of rope. Each donor thinks that he is my sole bene­
factor, and faithfully contributes his little offering after each
meal, entreating me not to tell a soul. I don't, and conse­
quently my food supply is continuously augmented and

.AlasktL
more people take pity on me every day. I don't know
where I shall put all the food.
The Orientals are not as generous as the whites, but have,
nevertheless, contributed an orange and two apples to date.
Most of them sneak up to the little hatchway opening, and
gaze morbidly at me in silence. I am getting more publicity
all the time, in fact too much, as it is very unpleasant to be
stared at all day as if I were in a zoo - especially as I can­
not avoid their scrutiny. This experience gives me a much
better understanding of the feelings of circus animals.
August 1 7. My friends are getting very bold now - even
the Chinese take pictures of me through the hatch, and ask
all sorts of questions. Apparently there are rumors around
that I have murdered a woman back in Seward and done
various other horrible deeds of one sort or another. A
friend called Gus went so far as to offer a blow-torch cutter
from the engine-room, to cut the cable between my hand­
cuffs and the stanchion.
Gus courageously climbed down the ladder from the
hatch into the room here, with a platter full of lettuce,
meat, and jam sandwiches - a regular feast - while a
Russian friend stood watch at the top. I stowed it all under
my rope piles, and Gus was about to leave when the Rus­
sian gave the danger signal - so he had to stay down.
Then we heard a footstep at the door and a key turning in
the lock. The mate! Gus scrambled desperately up the
ladder while I tucked the platter out of sight. By that time
the mate had entered, and, seeing and hearing Gus as his
feet disappeared through the hatch, immediately gave
chase. Up the ladder he went, after the culprit - but
fortunately Gus got away all right. Gus always was pretty
spry.
I am afraid that this incident will not help my relations
with the mate. Anyway, starvation is very remote at pre-

..l1en on the Horizyn...
sent. The captain will be much disappointed when he sees
me in such robust health when I emerge at Seattle. I wish I
knew what he means to do with me.
Finally, after a hearty feed of chicken, cold lamb, salmon
croquettes, lettuce, buns and jam, with dessert of apples,
oranges, and chocolate cake, I rolled up in my sail for
the night. I dreamed of a sandy island somewhere in the
South Seas. The beach was coral, the air was balmy, the
ladies were broad-minded.
I woke, to find myself in irons in a ship's brig. We were at
Ketchikan. In a few minutes the mate came in and un­
locked my cuffs. I thought it was for my usual morning
drink - but no.
' Follow me,' said the mate.
He led me to the gangplank, and told me I was to be
taken ashore. At the foot of the plank, on the wharf, I saw
the marshal of Ketchikan and his lieutenant, waiting to
meet me. All about were the mountains - spruce forests,
bleak cliffs, and the ragged town upon a blue strait.
I didn't like the idea of going to jail in this little town, but
realized that it could not be for long, and went peaceably
to the marshal's office, where I was put behind the bars in
a small, three-cell jail out in the marshal's back yard.
Here, after a few hours' waiting, my Russian jailer gave
me a breakfast of hot cakes and syrup, while the marshal, a
fat, goggle-eyed party, investigated my baggage and read
this notebook. At ten o'clock my case was taken up. It
was all very informal. They could prove nothing on me
except that I had stowed away, and seemed satisfied
that I was neither a pauper nor an habitual criminal.
Things got brighter. I paid my fare all the way down from
Seward, to put things right with the steamship company
- which I had offered to do all along - and they turned
me loose.
I stuck around awhile to talk with the marshal, and he

.Alaska.
conducted me about the town and introduced me to various
fish men with whom I might get passage to Seattle.
Ketchikan - which name struck me as being peculiarly
appropriate, both to its circumstances and to my own - is
a fish and cannery town - salmon, halibut, and herring.
Everybody talks fish. Owners talk of the various species of
salmon - kings, pinks, reds, and sock-eyes. Workers talk
of salmon - sock-eyes, reds, pinks, and kings. Men who
are not working sit around on the fish wharves, talk fish ­
pinks, sock-eyes, kings, and reds - and clean their finger­
nails with scaling knives.
I got a room for the night and a much-needed bath - also
a date with a deputy clerk girl whom I had met at the
marshal's office. But I couldn't keep it, as a little freight
and passenger steamer, loaded with salt herring, was sailing
at once for Seattle. In the morning sunshine, we chugged
out of the dock, limping along on three propeller blades,
the fourth having been broken off on a log on the way north.
I watched the fish wharves gradually fade into the distance,
with the men still sitting - still talking fish - of kings,
pinks, reds, and sock-eyes - and cleaning their fingernails
with scaling knives.

CHAPTER THREE
HAWAII
Aboard S.S. Manulani, docked at Crockett, California. Be­
tween me and Asia there is now but one obstacle - the
Pacific Ocean. Midway across its monotony lies Hawaii,
peopled by field laborers from every corner of the globe and
by every race of the Orient that works - black, brown, and
yellow.
Such a collection of different races must afford contrasts
that I could find in no other place. It seems· well worth
while to stop off a week or two in Hawaii, to see how Chi­
nese and Swedes, Filipinos and New-Englanders get along
together.
So Honolulu is my next port of call.
When I came aboard last Saturday at the northern end of
San Francisco Bay, where this ship was unloading sugar
from Hawaii, the first thing I did - as all sailors do - was
to find out what kind of a fellow the bosun was. I learned
that he is an Italian, that the skipper is Irish, the chief mate
German, the second mate Norwegian, the steward Jewish,
the carpenter Scotch, and most of the crew Hawaiian. This
polyglot outfit get along together in more perfect harmony
than on any ship I've seen.

Hawaii
The Hawaiian boys hang on to the revolving windlass as
if it were an amusement-park wheel, and dance about, and
play beautiful chords on their guitars. Everybody seems in
good spirits and very expressive. I saw two Swede sailors
kissing each other a fond good-bye on the dock yester­
day.
Next to me sleeps a young fellow from Kentucky on his
first voyage, and whom we call Blue Grass. He knows
nothing about the sea except what he has culled from ro­
mantic books, and he is possessed of a certain wistfulness
which disarms everyone.
This morning the mate told him to get a broom and
sweep off the bridge. He looked a little surprised at the
order, and I wondered why he started down the gangplank.
Our dock happened to be beside the huge suspension
bridge which spans the Carquinez Straits at this point.
Part of Blue Grass's code is to do his duty without asking
any questions - no matter how difficult or unreasonable it
may appear. Behold Blue Grass - hundreds of feet above
our heads on the great steel structure, dutifully working
away amid the traffic - sweeping off the bridge !
On Friday we steamed out of the Golden Gate. We had
anchored out in the bay to load on some dynamite. Upon
weighing anchor, Kane, a Hawaiian boy, and I were sent
to the chain locker to stow the great links of anchor chain
as they rumbled in from above. It is a gruesome job.
You climb down a hole, just big enough to squeeze
through, into a tiny iron box, and stand on the loose chain,
struggling to keep your fingers from being knocked off or
your legs mangled, as the massive weight descends steadily
upon you from the ceiling. You fight and sweat to pack it
in the hollow places, and relentlessly the floor rises up
beneath you till you have to stoop over and work with the
ceiling pressing upon your shoulders. By this time you are
exhausted, and wonder how soon you will be swallowed up

8o
..Men on the Hori'Z[JtL
under this thundering stream of iron. Then, at last, it
ceases. You get a little breath, climb thankfully up to the
light again, and return to the deck, gouging the rust dust
out of your ears.
There are few jobs on shipboard that do not quickly get
us filthy, and were it not for the simplicity of taking show­
ers, our skins would never feel the air. But sailors keep
themselves surprisingly clean at sea. \Vashing clothes is
made easy by the abundance of buckets, soap, and steaming
water in the washroom.
In our cargo we have several hundred chickens which are
stacked in crates on deck - and officially presided over by
Blue Grass. A fresh egg is a great delicacy to the salty pal­
ates of sailors, who, day after day, are fed on insipid stew
and uninteresting chunks of meat. \Ve envy Blue Grass,
who, privileged with the job of feeding the hens, is in a most
advantageous position in regard to eggs.
Bowed with responsibility about hens though he be, Blue
Grass is still full of romance about the sea. Whenever he is
on deck, he stays on the starboard side and gazes wistfully
at the blue vastness before him.
' I  much prefer this side of th' ocean,' he says. ' It don't
seem nearly so good over on th' other side.'
The old man is trying to learn the principles of calculus,
and seeks assistance from everyone from the chief engineer
to Blue Grass, who contributes the most interesting solu­
tions to his problems. Blue Grass, who never got beyond
algebra in school and doesn't know that this is calculus, has
a grand time figuring.
The skipper, a thin, wiry man, has a nervous step, and
whistles ' Lilac Time ' as he ambles about on the bridge.
The third mate, being very lazy, always walks downhill,
waiting at each turn for the ship's roll to tilt the bridge to
a favorable angle.
Sometimes, on lookout duty, I hear the skipper convers-

Hawaii
ing with Jantzen, the German chief mate. They discuss all
sorts of problems and, no matter how little each knows of
the particular subject under discussion, they always come
to some profound scientific conclusion. The other day they
gave a solid hour to the question of how Arabs earn a living.
At first, it seemed that the Arabs maintained themselves
by stealing from one another, but finally, after lengthy
debate, they decided that the Arabs were farmers, and
lived on ' herbs and vegetables' grown on ' the fertile Ara­
bian prairies.'
It is getting so hot now that you nearly burn your pants
off sitting on the iron hatch. Blue Grass seems to be
strangely affected by it, becoming more romantic every
day. As we spend the long hot hours hammering rust, he
pauses every now and then to burst out with some senten­
tious remark about 'Water, water ev'rywhere an' not a
drop ter drink' ;  or, 'There'll be no moanin' on ther bar when
I put out ter sea.'
September 19. I had the four to six wheel this morning, and
as the sun rose, toward five-thirty, there before us lay the
beautiful island of Oahu.
Japanese, Portuguese, Chinese, ease, and disease, with
modern American improvements and tropical surroundings,
make up the city of Honolulu.
It is a relaxed and crowded city set among green volcanic
hills and translucent waters -- a city where everyone seems
sufficiently prosperous without undue effort ; where electric
lights break the warm seduction of tropic nights, and trolley
cars clang through e\-ery shining hour.
The population is made up of sample groups, large and
small, of every race upon earth that dares to set forth upon
the sea. The tourist element is largely composed of men who
are following the bait of a visionary grass-skirted and lenient

,5lien on the Horiz.p1L
brown temptress, and of women who wish to investigate or
exploit the well-known laxity of a tropic clime.
It being Sunday, we sailors had the day off, and a gang
of us set out toward Diamond Head and the famous long
running surf. \V aikiki Beach, crowded with tourists and
predatory commercialism, seemed rather disappointing and
tawdry, except for the surf. The breakers are said to keep
their form for a greater distance than anywhere else in the
world - about a quarter of a mile - and rows of brown
figures could be seen riding shoreward on the crests. It is
an art, surfboard riding, and requires, I soon found, long
experience and much exasperating failure before your
technique enables you to get any thrill from it. Few except
natives are at all accomplished in the sport.
You swim out to where the huge combers are formed and
are charging in upon you. You jump upon your heavy ten­
foot surfboard, trying to work up enough speed not to be
left behind as the frothy mountain strikes and bears you
toward the beach. You must keep your balance so that the
board is continuously coasting down the forward slope of a
breaker. Although, to the eye, it appeared simple, I tried all
day and never rode more than thirty yards. Nevertheless,
even from that, I got a measure of satisfaction, as the other
boys, thoroughly disgusted, had given up long before, and
returned to the beach to gaze deliriously upon its colorful
padding of prostrate society girls.
At sunset we dressed and trolleyed back to town for the
evening. It was the last I saw of the crew of the Manu/ani.
She sailed the next day, and I repaired with my bulging
luggage to an Oriental rooming flat.
September 20. This domicile is run by a deep-voiced Ha­
waiian of middle age, assisted by a couple of wrinkled
Chinamen who talk with their hands, and smile eerily in
the presence of strangers. There are also several small

Hawaii
black-eyed Hawaiian entertainers, females whose company,
I understand, involves an extra expense of three dollars.
On inspection, I decided to remain unentertained, but, not
wishing to hurt anyone's feelings, I evaded the issue by
explaining that, to my capricious taste, these girls were too
little. Having disposed of this problem, I went ' proprie­
tously' to sleep.
Sometime in the middle of the night, I was awakened by
a stealthy someone entering my room. I thought at first it
was a thief, and was acutely aware of the disadvantages, in
any possible altercation, of my being so extremely lightly
.. clothed. It was no thief, however, but a Hawaiian enter­
tainer, dark-skinned and very, very, very fat. My obliging
host, wishing to please, had scoured the neighborhood for
hours for an entertainer who was not ' too little.' This lady,
hopefully provided according to specifications, and who
closely resembled a stout baboon, was about five feet tall
and must have weighed well over two hundred pounds.

oAien on the Horiz,pn..,
She was pertinacious in her intention to entertain, but with­
out unduly hurting her already lacerated feelings, I finally
persuaded her to retire, on the ground that I was too sleepy
to receive callers.
Since then I have dwelt uneventfully in this crude alxle,
though not without hearing much of interest through the
thin partitions.
By day I explore this balmy isle. Traversing N uuano
Pali, a pass in the mountains, I reach the northern coast and
wander among the native banana plantations and see the
brown surf fishermen who harpoon squid, a small species of
octopus, for food. Though reticent until you get to know
them, they are very friendly. They seem to take pride in
avoiding as far as possible the ways of civilized progress,
and play and sing much of the time, seeking food only when
there is none left in the hut.
'Aloha, Aloha,' one greets me, asking in childish glee if I
will come and have a little dried fish or some poi, a native
food made by mashing the doughy taro root. They all speak
some English, but their simple life is still virgin to the edu­
cation rapidly spreading outward from Honolulu. They
never wear shoes, and keep on the same scant clothes all the
time, in the water and out.
' Maikai maanei - plenty nice here,' the Kanaka says,
and tells me of the comforts of never having to worry about
hunger, and how delightful it is to make mele - music ­
all day, or sleep on his soft gras floor. Prying further into
his life, I hear that once the men who were the best poi­
pounders got the most beautiful girls, but that now ' you
mus' go halekula - school - mus' got money.' ' Ev'thing
go fish,' he says - ' Everything has gone to the dogs.'
'Wahine no come - The girls don't come across,' he adds
sadly.
Hawaiians such as these are the last vestiges of a lost
Paradise. Most of the native population is of an Oriental

Hawaii
mixture, educated along modern lines, and living much as
does the Oriental element in California.
Sugar is by far the most important industry in these
islands, and its cultivation requires a squatting position
for the worker. Orientals squat much more successfully
than Nordic races, and the labor problem here has been to
induce races with squatting proclivities to come to Hawaii.
A century or so ago, Chinese were imported as field
workers. Then came Japanese and a sprinkling of Portu­
guese and Russians, as the industry grew following the
reciprocity treaty of 1876, when the United States extended
tariff aid in exchange for the Pearl Harbor naval base. But
after 18g8, when the islands were annexed as a Territory of
the United States and received the full benefits of a pro­
tective sugar tariff, the industry assumed such proportions
that a tremendous labor problem arose, especially after the
immigration restriction on Orientals. Labor was sought all
over the world ; they tried everybody from Swedes to
Cubans; but a solution was reached only with the com­
paratively recent importation of Filipinos, who are now
squatting all over the place. All this explains the weird
mix-up of races in these islands.
Filipinos seem more turbulent than either J aps or Chi­
nese. You should see one of them drive a trolley car. A
trolley is usually an unemotional conveyance, but Filipinos
put a lot of expression into their driving. Sometimes when
you hear a trolley coming down one of these hills, you can
tell from the noise that the dusky driver suspects his wife of
perfidy.
My exploring continues day by day. On my way up a
mountain, I pass a gigantic drooling banyan tree, under
which native women weave mats of lahola leaves, and soon
I am enveloped in the mist which lies along the heights.
The windward sides of the mountains are dense with heavy
jungle, massed with fern and vines. The leeward slopes are

./Men on the Hari7,pn..
often arid desert, yielding only sparse grass. The reason of
this is that the clouds, borne on the trade winds eternally
from the northeast, drop all their moisture in rain upon the
northern side of the mountain barrier, and leave the south­
ern slopes unwatered.
Climate here is therefore distinctly local. I know of an
aged lady who has moved, upon doctor's advice, to a new
house, hoping to benefit by a change of climate. Her new
home is scarcely half a mile from the old. The rainfall on
Hawaii varies locally from fifteen to two hundred and
seventy-seven inches a year.
Yesterday, while walking along the road near Koko
Head, I was picked up by two Hawaiian boys who gave me
a ride in their flivver. In this easy-going country hiking is
apparently unheard of, and they couldn't believe that I had
come on foot from Honolulu. They were going fishing, so I
went along too. \Ve wound our way on and on through a sort
of desert, greatly resembling the more arid parts of Arizona,
where there was nothing but red dust and gray, bony alga­
mba trees, until we finally reached the sea.
From the cliffs, we threw our weighted lines far out into
the thundering surf and hauled in all sorts of gaudily
painted creatures. My companions, who, I think, were not
pure Hawaiian, but part Portuguese and Chinese, seemed
well educated, and they volunteered much information
about Honolulu. They were workers in the great Dole
Pineapple Cannery, and today being the legal holiday
when the inter-island rowing regatta takes place, they had
time off in which to go fishing.
September 24. I have made great social progress lately, and
now reside in a hospitable household far removed, both
physically and spiritually, from my former ignominious
abode. I dine with Honolulu's best and, between meals,
continue my private explorations.

Hawaii
Today I visited the fish market, which purveys every­
thing fishy from goldfish to octopi - its customers all the
races of the East. I saw a Chinese fish dealer trying to sell
a large eel to an old Japanese lady who didn't want it. He
kept poking it at her, with his eyes bulging and emitting a
stream of Chinese fish-sales-talk. She had good Japanese
sales-resistance, and backed away, but he pursued her for
some distance, holding the slimy carcass into her face and
explaining passionately the good points of the eel.
My host's cook is a Japanese woman, and tells me much
of how to prepare tropical fruits, from roasted breadfruit
to papaia in rum. She is stocky and nervous and, like most
of the ignorant population, very superstitious.
There have been many violent earthquakes on Hawaii
Island in the last day or two, and a few slight shocks here,
and it all has a very portentous significance for her. The
Hawaiians are greatly excited about it and hope for a violent
eruption. Far from fearing a flow of lava, they regard it as
an omen of good will from Pele, the fire goddess, who is the
outstanding power in the Hawaiian religion. Apparently
no native Hawaiian has ever been harmed by a volcano,
except in 1790, when an entire division of an army, march­
ing against Kamehameha the Great, was wiped out by a
sudden eruption ; but that incident is justified, as Pele was
defending the future king, Kamehameha, the Napoleon of
the Pacific.
The Hawaiians are thoroughly used to volcanic dis­
turbances, and have good reason to be. This whole coun­
try has been piled up by volcanoes, until now the heights
of l\1auna Kea rise fourteen thousand feet above sea-level,
and over thirty-two thousand feet above the ocean floor,
which profound abyss completely surrounds the islands.
September 27. There are girls here of all shades from pale yel­
low to chocolate. Some of them are really lovely, but their

..Men on the Hori'Z,!JtL
lure in many instances is materially deadened by the fact .
that a tot or two is trotting along behind, and, with some,
there is an attendant flabbiness which is a very poor stim­
ulus to romance. The competition for the good ones is far
too keen for a man of my sartorial squalor, and the ones not
so good - are not so good.
The climax of my recent social ascent has been reached.
Yesterday I had tea with the Governor of the Islands, from
whom I learned much concerning Hawaiian political ma­
chinery, which is similar to that of Alaska, these two being
the only Territories of the United States.
The Governor showed me around his house, which is
something of a museum. In one room is the bed of Queen
Liliuokalani, the last monarch of the Hawaiian dynasty.
This piece of furniture is built of the strongest koa wood,
and covers about six square yards of floor space. Judging
from this and from her violent political record, Queen Lil
must have been quite a girl.
September 29. Football seems to be the most popular sport
among the brown boys, with the possible exception of swim­
ming.
It is played from the moment they can walk, and
barefoot - which bothers them not at all. They punt and
drop-kick as well as any boys with shoes.
Yesterday morning I watched a game played by a bunch
of Chinese, Japanese, Portuguese, Filipino, Irish, and what­
not kids, ranging from the ages of four to ten, and of all
sizes. The individual star of the game was a Chink kid by
the name of T. Fat. He would call out the signals, ' Fort-i­
eight, nine-ti-t'ree, a hundert-'n-six, bananal '
Then the ball would be snapped, and, catching it and
poking it under his arm, off he would go around the end as
fast as his little legs could flutter. When his Portuguese and
Irish interference had been left behind, he would resort to a
wild straight-arm accompanied by a savage glare from little

Hawaii
black eyes and a formidable showing of teeth. Down the
field he would dodge his way - like a chipmunk on a wall.
This continued all morning, and when the game ended,
our hero was whisked ignobly home to dinner by his pig­
tailed big sister, K. Fat, aged eight.
By good luck, I have become persona grata with a J apa­
nese family in Kaimuki. The first I saw of them was a tiny
black-haired baby sitting under a giant monkeypod tree,
sucking his fist, and an old brown horse grazing in the long
grass a few feet away. There was no one else in sight ­
just the horse and the baby, each completely absorbed in
his own gustatory endeavors. After I had made friends
with them both, which I did shortly, along came the
mamma, a sturdy Japanese lady with bare brown feet, all
muddy from weeding in her vegetable garden.
She smiled, and we all sat down under the tree - the
baby, the Japanese lady, and I ,  with the horse - to talk
things over. Later, I met papa - a man of political ambi­
tions. He sometimes delivers fiery stump speeches to large
brown crowds in the city park, propounding the favorite
code of • Down with the big industries! Give the common
people a hand in managing the sugar plantations! Down
with the rich business men who do none of the work, but
reap all the rewards! '
October 3· This town is a hell of a place to get a job on a

..Men on the Hori'{pn...
ship, especially going west to the Orient. The foreign
ships have Oriental crews entirely, and the American ships
are completely filled up by the time they get here.
Evi­
dently my only chance is that one of the sailors off a west­
bound ship may get pickled on shore and fail to get back
aboard on time, and that I can get his place. Of course this
is unlikely - not the pickled part, but that I could get his
place. There are hundreds of sailors on the beach here,
hounding every mate in the port for a job.
Last Thursday, by good luck, I met a fellow who knew
the chief mate on the Dollar Liner, President Madison, and
finally we got the chief to promise me a job should any of
the crew fail to turn up.
As I waited drearily on the dock, hoping hour after hour
to hear of somebody's quitting the ship, I watched de­
jectedly the first-class passengers trooping to and from
their floating palace. Occasionally I conversed with loiter­
ers like myself who were, also, probably waiting for their
break. One was a curly-haired fellow of about thirty-five,
dressed in a blue shirt and black pants.
' Tryin' to get a ship out of this place?' he asked, with a
cultivated accent.
' Yes,' I replied, ' and you? '
'The same,' he said. ' I'm aimin' for Asia, and it's slow
goin'. I've plenty of money to buy my passage, but I like to
save money when I can. This ocean's such a long way
across, it's worth waitin' a few weeks to get a job, instead of
payin' a hundred and fifty bucks for a ticket.'
Hank, as he called himself, seemed to think that the
quickest and surest way to get to the Orient from Honolulu
was to ship back to 'Frisco and to sign on for the Orient in
that port, where the crews are originally made up.
'There's very seldom any vacancies for the East out
here,' he said, and advised me to return to 'Frisco at the
first opportunity. He seemed a well-meaning fellow, and I

Hawaii
thanked him for his advice, but, for myself, decided to re­
main in Honolulu till I could go East direct.
When it came time for the Madison to sail, as Fate would
have it, every man jack was on board. I had been under
terrific temptation to give a little party on shore for the
sailors, and get them sufficiently fried so that one of them,
at least, could not walk up the gangplank. But such a
course would be most unsportsmanlike.
I shall have to wait for a break. Anyhow, I know the
brother of the second mate on the next week's Dollar
steamer. To anyone on the beach in Hawaii, this offers a
glittering possibility.
I met a barber the other day who advised me, as a solu­
tion to my problem, to state that I was shipping for the
whole voyage - Kobe, Singapore, Suez, New York - and
then desert the ship wherever I wanted to get off. This idea
semed to me the depth of nautical perfidy, and, besides, I
didn't like the haircut he gave me. He got his job, he told
me, by saying, although he knew nothing of the tonsorial
art, that he had been a skilled barber for years.
October 7. I have just returned from a most horrible experi­
ence, which I was extremely lucky to get out of at all. It
has taught me a lesson - you should never go mountain­
climbing with submarine men's daughters.
Today I set out for a peaceful walk with two girls who
are daughters of a submarine commander. Suddenly they
said they wanted to go up a mountain. Unwittingly, and
to my undying regret, I took them to the base of a steep
ridge and started to lead them upwards.
All went well for the first thirty seconds, and then they
began to give out. To make matters worse, they had with
them their dog, Dan, who, being extremely old, did nothing
to aid our progress. In fact, I was forced to boost his
woolly frame up many a rocky knoll.

oMen on the Hori'Z,ptL
The girls were even worse. I gave them fight talks every
few feet, telling them how much nicer it was higher up, and
what a wonderful view they would have at the top, but to
no avail. They persisted in flopping every time I let go of
their arms. The higher we went, the more hopeless the
situation became. Finally, one of the daughters refused to
go another inch, and flopped into a pink heap on a little
ledge of rock. I continued with the other daughter, leaving

Hawaii
the tottering hound and his gasping mistress to be picked
up on the way down.
Resolutely, I pushed and dragged
the surviving daughter on and up, till finally we could see
the top, a few feet above us. Notwithstanding the fact that
we were only eight hundred feet above sea-level, she gave,
at this juncture, vivid symptoms of exhaustion and col­
lapsed in her thirty-seventh swoon, complaining in mortal
terror that she couldn't breathe because of the rarity of the
atmosphere.
I dragged and dragged, and after another hour got her to
the top. She then positively refused to go down again.
She wouldn't budge, and I certainly would not carry her
down through all that jungle, single-handed. It was getting
dark, and here I was, on a mountain-top with two passed­
out submarine man's daughters lying in heaps and a con­
siderable distance apart. What should I do? Personally, I
think few men living have faced such a problem.
Finally, I persuaded the highest-up daughter to be led
down the other side of the mountain, where I was fortunate
to find a fairly smooth path ; and at length I got her down to
a town where there was a trolley line. She said she could get
home all right from there, so I rushed back over the moun­
tain to rescue the other daughter and the hound before it
was pitch-dark. By seven o'clock I got the dog and the
daughter from the ledge and safely home - but the other
daughter, whom I had left to come home by herself in a
trolley, had not appeared.
The submarine father began to get panicky at this point,
so I set out once more on a search. I went over the whole
blooming mountain again, to be sure she had not changed
her mind and tried to come home that way - you never
can tell about submarine men's daughters. Not a trace;
so I ransacked most of the suburbs of Honolulu for her ­
all in pitch-darkness and in vain. I got back just before
midnight, to find the submarine family in a state of uproar

.Afen on the Hori'{?tL
over possible perils to the absent daughter. As they ap­
proached the verge of summoning the militia, in comes the
daughter, somewhat bedraggled and looking utterly irre­
sponsible. I never was more delighted to see a dame in my
life. I vowed then and there never again to go near a
mountain with a submarine man's daughter.
October IO, still in Honolulu. This job situation is getting
serious. I am certainly on the beach. I have missed my
chance again. It was a close call - I was aboard and in my
work clothes with my stuff all stowed in the foc'sle, but the
reveling sailors appeared, and I had to go ashore just as the
gangplank came up. Nothing could be more exasperating.
Hank, of the cultivated accent, was there on the dock at
the time.
' Yes,' he said, ' I'm sure the only sensible thing to do is to
ship back to 'Frisco. There's a boat goin' tomorrow morn­
in'. I think I'll go on her. What d'you say?'
Talking further with this smooth-shaven loiterer, I
learned that he is an aviator, human fly, and professional
dare-devil. He gave proof of his statements by producing
hair-raising photographs of himself in action. He further
admitted that he has five wives in various parts of the
world - whom he always tries to keep from knowing about
one another - and that he is at present on his way to the
Orient in order to escape from a concubine who wants to do
him in.
Again I am in a rooming-house, a different one, which is
presided over by a gaunt, bushy-haired white woman, who
drinks beer all day and, whispering to herself, scuffs down
the hall with jangling keys to open the mop closet. She is
stone deaf and can talk only in a faint murmur which, to­
gether with the effects of drinking, renders her almost
totally inane.
Between swigs of beer, she gnaws con­
stantly at a handful of lettuce, and as constantly enter-

Hawaii
tains favored lodgers in her room. She is obviously the ruin
of something - of just what, the Lord only knows.
Going along the street last night, I heard, from a vine­
covered bungalow, a group of Hawaiians singing some of
their old, old songs. In these islands of many pleasures,
nothing has been such a joy to me as the native music.
The deep and mellow voices are accompanied by the
steely twanging of the Hawaiian guitars. Each chord is a
somnolent harmony, with a vital insistence in it - a call,
that must be answered in the chord following. You antici­
pate this answer, agonized by the realization that nothing
in the world but one particular chord can satisfy your
starving ears. It comes. You feel the utter hopelessness of
trying to appease your hunger for it during its fleeting con­
tact with your senses, and even in its answering harmony
is another asking that must be answered again. At last
comes the tonal fulfillment of all these insistent askings,
and you feel that you cannot hear it enough - you can't
absorb all there is of answer in its harmony. Even hard­
boiled sailors on the loose arc reduced from noisy jeering
to humble silence under the spell of this music, that works
like a strong opiate, at the same time arousing and obliterat­
ing - utterly primitive, and completely sad.
October 17. Yesterday I had a job on the President Jackson,
but today I haven't any job on the President Jackson. As
soon as they found out that I would go only as far as the
Orient, they gave it to another fellow. Very discouraging­
! shall have to concentrate on freight steamers. Freighters
are far less exacting in making up a crew.
To my surprise, Hank was still there on the dock.
' I've just missed that last boat for 'Frisco,' he said, ' but
I'm all set for one the day after tomorrow. Yes, that's the
only thing for us to do. We'll be waitin' till Christmas if
we stay here.'

.Men on the Hori'Z,p11..,
October 19. Since my latest failure to make a ship, on Thurs­
day, I have been staying at the Seamen's Institute with
other unemployed sailors. It is a dreary place. The men
hang around all day, playing cards in the common room, or
lie on the grass plot out in front and beg nickels and dimes
off passers-by to keep fed or, if possible, boozed.
I can lie on my bed and put each foot and hand on a
different one of the four walls of my cage-like room. The
partitions are made of chicken-wire except for a strip of
beaver-board at a height above the floor most conducive to
modesty. Sleeping is difficult because of proximity to other
caged inmates and the inevitable sounds and smells.
The man next to me is a burly cook with long red hair
which hangs before his face in a carroty streamer as he leans
over to prune his feet, just beyond my feeble chicken-wire
barricade. Every night at about ten he starts, and chokes
steadily until morning. With an explosive sound ending in
a convulsive gulp, he clears his throat and then gags des-.
perately for several minutes, when, after a brief respite, he
repeats the process. I feel quite concerned about him - the
lining of his throat must be in a hideous condition- and yet
he seems not in the least ruffled by his experiences, and in
fact maintains an attitude of the most phenomenal serenity
and endurance.
Fortunately for me, I am a high-powered sleeper. It
takes more than an average ability in that line to become
or to remain unconscious, with a red-haired cook choking
apparently to death only three or four feet away and with
nothing between save chicken-wire. As sailors, we are all
inured to snoring, which rolls like a great chorus from every
foc'sle on the seven seas. But here, in this nautical refuge,
where every known type of marine nasality reverberates
through the dark halls of chicken-wire, accompanied by an
overtone of esophical spasms from my culinary neighbor ­
it is almost too much.

Hawaii
On the street today I encountered Hank again.
'Oh, hello, so you're still here?' I said.
'Oh, yes - but I shall be goin' on the next boat for
'Frisco. I've decided that there's nothin' in waitin' here,
and I've just come from Pier IJ, seein' about a freighter
that sails tomorrow. Perhaps you can get a place on her if
you hustle - how about it?'

CHAPTER FOUR
THE ENGINE-ROOM
Aboard Dollar Liner - Japan bound -- October 28. At sea
again! My chance came at last, yesterday, when this scow
docked at six A.M. It is known as the worst ship in the
fleet, and there were seven vacancies, three on deck, four
below.
I signed on in the ' black gang' as a wiper, it being an
unskilled job in which they care little where you quit. The
two wiper vacancies were caused by the first assistant engi­
neer, who sent the boys diving in the bilge for his pet
monkey wrench. They dived - and deserted. The oiler
who quit was lovesick and wanted to get back to 'Frisco.
A fireman had to be taken ashore because Bunny, the
junior engineer, accidentally broke four of his ribs with a
sledgehammer. This engme-room seems full of human
interest.
Oddly enough, the wounded fireman's place has been
taϭen by Hank, who is now in the boiler-room watching the
steam gauges - and probably wondering, as he paces up
and down, whether his five wives are still in the dark as to
his whereabouts.
Heat and sweat and oil. That's all we see, feel, hear,

CJ'he Engine-1{oor!L
smell, and taste in the engine-room. Everything, even the
railing, is too hot to touch. Gloves are a necessity, and our
pockets are stuffed with dozens of rags to supplement the
gloves in handling hot machinery. We glisten all over from
oil and sweat; we drip and trickle all day long, and drink
water constantly - four of us emptying a two-quart
pitcher every fifteen minutes. Even so, our mouths are so
dry we can't spit. The water pours through us like a brook,
and our sweat is almost as pure as the water. The heat is so
terrific that we must stand one minute under the ventilator
to about every three minutes of work.
All today we wipers worked in the boiler-room, blowing
tubes, taking turns in holding the steam blower against the
hot-air pipe ends till all the soot was gone. The boiler-room
is a narrow passageway between eighteen boilers - the hot­
test place on earth. Before my eight hours were up, I was
sick from the fierce heat, the smell of oil, and a belly full of
water. Gulping such floods is not good for anyone, but it is

o.Men on the Hori'Z,pTL
ecstasy to feel it trickle down your gullet, and we all do it
anyhow.
October 3 I .  In an engine-room force - the black gang ­
there is more individual responsibility than among men
employed on deck. There is the independence of mechanics
rather than the subservience of gang workers. We have
a certain amount of polishing up gadgets and so on, but
none of the squeegeeing and rust-chipping of the ' top
side.'
Down in this dark, hot jungle of machinery we must tend
every minute the enormous arms of steel, bathed in oil, that
surge in and out of blackness. We serve the leaping piston
rods through their untiring labor; the propeller shafts of
three hundred feet of steel, eight feet around ; the journals,
bearings, cross-heads, crank-pins, guides, and joints. Night
and day - day and night - in and out - up and down,
we tend this ordered violence with sweat and toil and oil.
The propeller shafts - the core of the ship's movement
- turn in their journals without variance of a thousandth
of an inch - a glistening mass of power so smooth that you
can inadvertently lean against it, so terrible in its strength
that it can drive a ship of twenty thousand tons across the
Pacific Ocean at fifteen knots an hour.
The firemen must always be on watch to keep the fires
and oil pumps right, and the steam at 230°; the water
tenders can never let up their vigilance in watching the
gauges. The oilers must be ever on the job to keep the
bearings lubricated ; and we wipers must help with all man­
ner of undertakings, and do odd jobs for the engineers.
I like being a wiper because I do so many different things
and learn more than if I were specializing. You must be
alert down below. The massive lengths of steel are gesticu·
lating on every side of the narrow passageways, the floor is
hot and slippery with oil. I have to stoop almost every-

CJ'he Engine-'1{oom..
I O I
where, and where I can stand upright it is most uncomfort­
able, as the heat rises, and the higher you are, the hotter.
Nothing is large enough for me around here-doors, ladders,
and passageways are built for shrimps like Freezer, the
refrigerator engineer.
Bunny, the junior engineer, is another victim of size.
Half Hawaiian, half Indian, he is built like a cave man and
weighs about two hundred and forty pounds. His extreme
absent-mindedness makes him a thoroughly dangerous asso­
ciate in this engine-room region of ruthless forces. Yester­
day he wrecked Red, the Jewish wiper with a mouth like
a tapir, who was holding a bar wrench which Bunny was
turning by great strokes from a sledgehammer.
In an
absent-minded moment Bunny hit Red instead of the
wrench, and when that unfortunate had been removed to
the sick bay, I warily took his place.
' Say, big boy,' says Bunny, between terrific swats at the
wrench I was steadying, ' you're just the right size for a
cop' - whang!
'How about yourself?' I reply, my eye on the swinging
sledge that had ruined two of my predecessors.
' Aw, Kerize, I'm not big enuv,' he goes on, wielding the
sledge with strength like a steam hammer.
' But say' -
whang! - ' you ought ter be a cop in Los Angeles. Ever
been there? It's a great town if yer got a job' - whang! ­
' but no good if ye're broke. Too many jugs. When they
get enuv guys workin' they put the rest in the jug. Kerize
- what a town ' - whang!
I was still alive and uninjured when we got the dynamo
plate loose, and he then asked me if I would help him find
something that he had been working on the day before,
and had absent-mindedly mislaid. It was a piston head -
a cylinder of steel four feet long and weighing two hundred
pounds - and he said he simply couldn't remember where
he had left it.

102.
Jlien on the Hori'{PrL
In our black gang also is Fatty, the oiler, an Irish socialist
who tells me how to get by with the shaft-alley station.
Being the coolest place in the engine-room, the job of wiping
in the shaft alley is a wiper's idea of heaven.
' Ya wanna get th' shaft-alley station and keep it.' advises
Fatty. "Tis th' only good job in th' whole stinkin' place.
'Tis a job ya can do in fife minutes - but take yer time ­
take yer time. Shure, take th' whole eight hours to it ivery
day, an' yer'll keep th' job. 'Tis easy, shure, to get by, wit'
brains.'
But I would rather work with Bunny, in spite of the
incidental risk of being crippled for life ; his knowledge of
mechanics is extraordinary - he is a cave man with first
assistant engineer's papers and an active mind that works
with the exact logic of his machinery.
His character is a constant interest to me. About food,
women, and other human necessities his psychology is that
of his Indian and Kanaka forebears - these things must be
obtained by measures fair or foul. This is just as logical
to Bunny as that too much steam pressure will burst a
boiler.
But about things beyond his experience Ӣ beyond the
engine-room and the simple needs of man - he has no sense
of relative values, and his keen and restless brain wanders
away from this well-understood job before him into an
abyss of speculation. No wonder he is absent-minded.
Yesterday we collaborated on a job of plumbing, which
is difficult work for Bunny - he's a bit too vague to be a
successful plumber.
Undaunted when he bores a hole
askew, he says, ' Aw, Kerize, look what I done. But, hell,
it don't make no difference - I don't hafta bore straight
'cause I can bend pipe with m' hands ' - which is true.
Yet, during the moments when his mind is on his work,
he will file and fit cylinder rings with the most amazing
skill and precision - until, as always, he turns, in dis-

connected musings, to the troubles of his lonely, unsatisfied
soul.
It is in books that poor Bunny seeks things outside his
own sordid experience, explanations of the life that he sees
around him and that he neither shares nor understands.
Last evening, up on hatch number four, he was reading a
book called ' Silken Sin,' and suddenly threw it on the deck.
' Kerize,' he said, ' that book's too ord'nary fer me - I
know all that stuff already. It don't tell me nothin' I
wanter know.' Then his attention drifted upward to the
saloon deck where the passengers were having their evening
dance. His deep-set black eyes changed as he beheld the
young female forms whirling to the bleating saxophones.
' Cheesus - I could do with some of them,' he said.
November r .  We have an Eskimo fireman in the boiler-room.
His name is Pooph. It seems a strange place for an Eskimo,
but, as a matter of fact, he stands the heat better than
anyone. Pooph informs me that, contrary to the common
belief, Eskimos live in quite a high temperature and are
used to a stuffy atmosphere. According to him, they spend
almost all of their lives indoors. He says that the ther­
mometer in a well-run igloo seldom stands below 80° and is
generally about <}0°. A fire is always going, and the family,
usually fat, and wearing caribou underclothes, fills up most
of the igloo. Eskimos also are used to grease and oil, so
Pooph gets along finely in the engine-room - he even
chuckles with little grunts as he trudges sweating up and
down.
After we finish work we have our daily grease-removing
session in the firemen's can. At lunch we wipe only around
our mouths, but at five o'clock we try to clean the whole of
our faces and as much of our arms and bodies as we have
soap or strength for. It takes hours, even with the aid of
coal-oil, and we never completely cease to be greasy. Every-

,/Hen on the Horiz,pn..
thing is greasy where we live, the walls, the bunks, our
clothes, our blankets, our food - even the air we breathe.
The only relief is at night after work, when we can sit on
deck and feel the cool winds of the mid-Pacific. The waves
have steadily increased in size since we left port, and now
assume proportions such as I have rarely seen. They zoom
past us in great frothy ridges some two hundred feet apart,
over which our hulk levels and dives in compliant solemnity,
surrounded by a border of foam, rebellious that we should
interrupt its wild spree with the northeast trade.
These are more than mere waves. They arc part of the
ocean's body, and seem the surface gestures of some spirit
in the black depths reaching for miles below us - its power
moving in their compacted ranges as they sweep over this
desert of water.
November 2. In this little world that is a ship, the Chinese
mess boys are at the bottom of the social ladder. The
sailors make the poor creatures' lives even more miserable
than they already are, worrying them like a pack of hounds,
and sending them on all sorts of fool errands, just for the
satisfaction of giving an order and seeing them cringe and
quail. Spoons are thrown - curses yelled by these firemen
covered with grease except around their mouths, and howl­
ing for more food.
' For God's sake, Charlie, snap out of it wit' that pic!
Hand it over or I'll kick yer in ycr bloomin' Chincc tail! '
The ultimate brotherhood of man is hardly helped along
by our meals.
And yet I talked this evening with a bunch of the older
sailors about the oppression of the working classes, as I
have on other ships, for it is a favorite subject. Most of the
younger men are making a temporary expedient of the sea­
faring life. They have hopes and ambitions to advance
themselves - to become engineers, aviators, or business

At Sea- Off the Coast of Japan

I06
./Wen on the Hori'{PtL
men. But among the old salts who find that they are still
in the foc'sle after years of sailoring, there is great dis­
content.
They have very primitive and radical ideas. To ' capital­
ism' - an utterly vague term to most of them - they
generally attribute their failures, disappointments, and de­
ficiencies. They are convinced that ' capitalism ' is respon­
sible for all the present-day ills, and that things were better
in the past. Progress, with its context of higher prices, pro­
hibition, laws restricting personal freedom, unemployment,
and world wars, compares unfavorably with the ' good old
days.'
' Sure,' says Fatty the oiler, whose eyes always bulge
under the strain of mental effort, ' sure, capitulism is th'
roun of us all.'
He is the staunchest socialist in the entire force of engine­
room radicals.
' 'Tis true. Once I had near fife hundert dollars wot I got
in business wit' a feller from Pago Pago. But hell ! Cana­
paltism! 'Tis why I am only a stinkin' oiler tiday. Thim
rich loafin' canipalists is gyppin' all the hard-wirkin' guys
in th' wirrld - th' wirkin' men wot keeps th' country goin'
while thim loafers sits on their fat tails. Cheesus! I wisht
it was still th' good old days whin an honist man had a
chanst. Sure,' he continues, ' canibulism's what caused th'
war, yer know. Ivery body says so - iverybody wot wirks.
Whin I was in France that's wot they all said. Th' rich
loafin' canibalists !ended money to th' allies an' thin they
made all us wirkin' men fight so's they wouldn't lose it.
Cannibalism ! '  Then, virulently, as his eyes bulge even larger,
'Muthero' Cheesus! I'd like ter git me hands on 'em.'
It seems tragic that so many of these men are discour­
aged, and filled with rebellion and complaint. They have
given up trying to cooperate with employers or to better
themselves, and have fallen to a life of animal gratification,

Cf'he Engine-?.{oom..
tormented by unfulfilled ambitions which they feel have
been balked by a vague thing they call ' capitalism.' It
becomes a sort of delusion of persecution.
Perhaps if public schools taught the principles of eco­
nomics in place of the date of the Spanish Annada or the
names of the African rivers, these men would be less un­
happy in their point of view.
November 6. It is hard to write on this ship. The only
available place is here in the messroom, where a lot of the
old-timers arc always talking. They pester me with ques­
tions as to why I am writing - why do l want to get off
at Kobe, and don't I think it's a shame that steak costs so
much these days?
Meanwhile, I struggle to record that, being considered
more powerful than the other men, I was yesterday given
the job of lifting the steam-pump pistons out of their cyl­
inders, and carting them back and forth up the three flights
of engine-room ladders to be reconditioned in the machine
shop. To carry a hundred-and-seventy-five-pound piston in
that heat, and with the steps oily and slippery, was a
ticklish business. If I had lost my grip, it would have fallen
down about eighty feet to the engine-room floor.
At night we sleep on deck on the hatch-covers, as no one
could rest in our quarters, which are directly over the
engine-room and as hot as a foundry. Sometimes, during
the night, we hit a squall. We wake up to find ourselves
marooned on a little tarpaulin island and the decks awash,
as great obsidian mountains of water jar the ship, and
plunge, and sweep sizzling around us. We can't sleep then
- we can only look on in awe, and feel the overwhelming
power of the sea.

CHAPTER FIVE
JAPAN
November 7. Last night was stormy - high waves, wind,
and black rain. But this morning, as the fog thinned, we
could see to port a rugged, mountainous coast - the first
land for twelve days. Japan! Soon ships appeared near us;
passenger ships, freight steamers, battleships, and lateen­
rigged fishing-boats. \\'e were in Kobe Harbor.
I had to work below till two o'clock, overhauling the
main crank-pins, then got my pay of twenty-four yen, said
good-bye to my oily friends, and went ashore.
At first, everything appeared just as in any port in the
United States - except for the sampans with square-ribbed
sails. At the foot of the wharf, I climbed into a rickshaw.
My sack of possessions, added to my weight, almost lifted
the wrinkled little rickshaw man off the ground, but away

JaparL
we trotted, silently and swiftly through the streets. It was
still foggy and, although the rows of sooty office buildings
and automobiles which occasionally glided past us seemed
familiar enough, I became aware of an intangible alien
presence in the atmosphere. Then pretty soon the Orient
began to define itself.
As we penetrated deeper into the misty city, things grew
smaller and smaller and J apanesier. There was an end to
the brick warehouses and banks, and we passed only frail
little shops of teapots and strange vegetables. The streets
grew narrower. The people were tiny - little men with
brown shaved heads, doll-like women in delicate silks scuffing
along in their wooden sandals and carrying babies on their
backs, and children in black uniforms playing on the side­
walks. There were no more automobiles- the streets were
too narrow for them. Instead, we were surrounded by hun­
dreds of bicycles, pushcarts, wheelbarrows, and other hand
conveyances - all moving rapidly, rattling and zipping
hither and thither in complete confusion. Some held tre­
mendous cargoes of vegetables, or lumber, or clinging hu­
man forms.
We came to some railroad tracks where, down the line
a way, were several Japanese freight cars on a siding. They
were each about fifteen feet long, and two men were pushing
one up the track toward us. On we went among the swarm­
ing crowds and clattering sandals and whizzing wheels, till
we came to a certain alley, where we stopped. It was a
Japanese hotel.
I alighted with my bag, and walked through the garden
to the door, as the rickshaw man trotted off into the traffic.
There was an old bald-headed J ap there, and, as I mounted
the steps, six little Japanese ladies appeared, with their high
black hair and dainty silk. I took off my shoes at the
threshold, according to the Japanese custom, but the Japa­
nese ladies couldn't find anything to fit me among all their

I IO
.5Wen on the Hori'{PIL
slipper supply. There was much laughter and tittering as
I entered barefoot and followed the old man upstairs to my
room.
This was a very small enclosure, quite empty except for
a little square table about ten inches high, and a screen
standing in a corner. The room was oddly beautiful, be­
cause of its simplicity, the irregular mural design and the
position of the screen. But what on earth to do with my
lamentable six-feet-five of person I couldn't imagine.
It seemed queer to be in such a bare room - with no
chair, bed, or anything to sit on but the floor, and I was
considering the situation when in trooped the six little
Japanese ladies. They had a teapot, teacup, and various
other things with them, including a huge glazed pot full of
ashes which it took three of them to carry. They set this
down on a cushion, then gave me another cushion, and pro­
ceeded to pour out some green tea. So I sat down on the
floor, and while I was quaffing tea, they continued to
shuffle about with short steps, arranging more cushions and
crockery and muttering mirthfully in Japanese. I offered
them some tea too, but they only tittered the more.
What was it all about? I had not the slightest clue as to
the purpose of the pot of ashes, and didn't know whether to
use it as a spittoon, as an ash tray, or whether it was some
sort of toilet arrangement. I later knew it as a hibachi or fire­
pot, with which the Japanese warm their houses in winter.
The girls looked to me like rosy little babies about four
years old, and, as I couldn't understand their language, or
make out what they were up to, I anxiously waited to see
what would happen. Presently they produced some soap
and a scrub brush, and took me into a tiny place which
seemed to be a sort of bathroom. I thought that they now
would leave, but no - the six of them insisted on taking
off my clothes and giving me a thorough bath, during which
they scrubbed my back with their little brush and chattered

Japan..,
I I I
gleefully the while. I t  all was, apparently, a Japanese
custom, so I submitted, although slightly disconcerted at
first.
The cleaning done, they rinsed me by pouring warm
water over me in insignificant pitcherfuls, and I got dressed
again and returned to my room. It was now time for dinner.
I sat down on my cushion in hopeful anticipation as a large
tray appeared, laden with manifold pots and containers.
This was promising, but when the tray came near enough
to smell, the repast seemed less and less inviting.
There was something decidedly unhealthy in the odors
that came from those mysterious little covered pots, but I
uncovered them one by one and looked in, and in some cases
even tasted the contents. A bowl of rice was quite good
and so was a small saucer of fish - but the rest of the dishes
were too horrible for words. They consisted, I found, of
various dark-colored liquids of unappetizing smell, in which
floated minute specimens of nasty-tasting Oriental vege­
table which looked like bits of toadstool and decaying arti­
choke. I stuck to rice and fish, though the latter, being full
of bones, presented something of a problem to my two
slippery chopsticks.
Having conquered the fish, and washed my mouth out
with the 'gobboon' brought for that purpose, I decided to
do some exploring. Recovering my shoes at the doorstep,
I returned to the crowded street and headed toward the

I l l.
o.Men on the Hori'J,PtL
forested hills to the west, barely outlined m the fading
daylight.
The passers-by and loitering shopkeepers stared at me as
if hypnotized, and burst into boisterous chattering and
laughter after I had passed. They seemed never to have
anticipated the possibility that any human creature could
be so much larger than they, and the grotesqueness of it
apparently erased their last veneer of reserve. Even the
busy silk merchants rushed into the street to see what the
commotion was about- and stared and stared with the rest.
At the upper extremity of a muddy lane I came to a
forest. It was dark there, and high above the jumbled gray
tile roofs, among which threads of colored light, from street
lanterns, wound among the houses. It was cold, and great
knotty pine trees stirred in the chill air - such a contrast
from the excessive minuteness and delicateness of the city,
from paper-covered latticework, silk flags, lanterns, screens,
teapots, and baby's wooden sandals. Being in a substantial
world again was restful - a world where you could move
about and wave your arms without knocking over crockery
or partitions.
An hour later I was back in the town. Above, the sky was
black as ink; on either side, the narrow bustling lanes of
dangling paper lanterns and little shops of countless teapots,
and persimmons, apples, and tangerines, the soft colored
lights from passing loaded carts, and gliding shadows of
bicycle cargoes - all flowing past me, beautiful, delicate,
and fantastic as a dream.
Along the wide and brightly illuminated theater street,
sauntering crowds wandered and gazed and bargained at
little fruitstands, and then scuffed onward again. Some of
the many signs and placards were written in English -­
' Blue Funnel Bar,' and ' Yebisu Beer - Y, Yen,' for the
benefit of foreign sailors.
All foreigners not elegantly
dressed are assumed to have a sailor's reactions.

Japan..
Every few steps I am confronted by smooth-domed old
J aps in brown haori coats, who bow appealingly before me
with the words, ' Want p'itty girl? P'itty young girl ­
short time?' - pointing toward some alley or other where
the harem presumably is kept. ' Come in - se p'itty girl?
No costee see all same.'
Finally I come to an exceptionally mysterious-looking
alley. As I turn to go down it, the aged promoter at its
entrance seems to lose all self-control in his excitement.
' P'itty girl, p'itty girl,' he murmurs with popping eyes and
a senile smile. Then, trotting eagerly ahead of me in a
springy jog, he turns frequently to grin and lure me for­
ward with pantomime suggestive of the ' p'itty girls' I am
to behold.
At last appears a screened doorway, over which is written
' Boston Bar.' . The usual old fat mamma sits on the steps,
beaming at the lucrative prospects. I go in. It is a small
low-ceilinged room with a bar counter at the far end. Sev­
eral men are standing in front of this, and to my surprise,
one of them is Bunny. Red, the convalescent tapir-mouthed
wiper, and Hank, the fugitive aviator, are there also, and
considerably cock-eyed.
After cordial greetings, I sat down and immediately one
of the little ' p'itty girls,' in her wide obi sash, trotted over
to me from where she had been talking to a sailor, and
hopped into my lap, clinging to me with all her strength.
She was only about four feet high, but extraordinarily ag­
gressive and talked very appealingly in pidgin English and
Japanese. I had a hell of a time negotiating her, until Bunny
and I got about ten feet apart and tossed her back and
forth between us till she was absolutely all in.
\Ve then set her down on the bar, and she gave us no
further trouble. ' Fer Kerize' sake, be good now,' says
Bunny to her limp remains, ' or we'll hafta give yer some
punishment.'

./l1en on the HoriZ[JrL
I wandered off with the gang, who seemed intent on
visiting the very filthiest and lowest dives that their sev­
eral bleary memories could conjure back to mind. One
after another, we invaded these retreats of itinerant de­
bauchery.
These narrow alleys of Kobe are certainly a region of hun­
dred per cent licentiousness. But these sailors have, in their
casual animalism, a sort of youthful, skylarking attitude
which minimizes their degradation. And, anyhow, a man
cannot degrade an ideal which he has never possessed.
Finally, in the most secluded retreat of all, Hank, the
stunt man, proposed, if financially assisted, an extension of
his exhibitionary powers in a realm into which the pub­
lishers do not wish me to accompany him.
It was nearly dawn when I headed for home again, walk­
ing past the shops, past a few of the old men, still murmur­
ing, ' P'itty girl? Short time?' past the long rows of display
stands to the little alley and upstairs to my room. I found
my bed arranged. It was a five-foot piece of padding spread
upon the matted floor, with a blanket, six inches thick,
which reached only to my knees. The pillow also was rather
strange, being almost square, filled with compressed tea
leaves, and as hard as a sandbag.
November S. In the morning-after a horrible breakfast- I
took the train for Kyoto, on my way north through this long,
narrow, crooked, mountainous island of Hondo, the main­
land of Japan. As the little train pulled out of the crowded
station, I looked out of the window and wondered at the
incongruities about me. On the one hand there were nar­
row, muddy streets full of tiny pushcarts, flanked by deli­
cate cardboard houses with gardens and paper latticework,
and little shops selling knick-knacks and pottery - while,
on the other hand, all around were great towers to hold up
the network of high-tension electric lines, and here and

]apa1L
there a gigantic transformer - as complicated a piece of
construction as I 've ever seen.
There seemed to be all stages of industrial evolution going
on at the same time. Here the Osaka silk mill with all its
ultra-modern machinery; there, next door, in a paper shack,
a little old man working away, moulding crude bowls for his
family table, shaping them with his fingers, and baking
them in his little hibachi.
According to Western standards, the Japanese, though
hard-working, seem a very inefficient people. Most of their
industrial effectiveness comes from foreign influence ­
American automobiles, cement and brick buildings, electric
locomotives, and factory machinery - while all the things
of exquisite and fragile beauty, the paper houses and minute
gardens, the porcelain and silks and lanterns and little shops
- are what has remained essentially Japanese.
I have never before seen such crowded living conditions
with so little ugliness. Almost nothing Japanese is ugly.
Everything is minutely delicate, irregular, and full of color.
Even the advertisements in the latticelike Japanese script,
and painted on screens or flags or lanterns, seem to blend
into their surroundings and are never harsh and grating as
in America.
Ko two houses are alike, although they are all made in
the same general style and of the same materials. You
seldom see a perfectly even row of windows; ornaments are
never placed in the exact center of a table nor the table in
the exact center of the room. All gardens, al! designs, even
all architecture, is completely and refreshingly irregular ­
just as is Nature itself.
This explains -- this Japanese love of irregularity - why
the old man making rice bowls for the family table will
never consent to give up his painstaking labor. It would be
distasteful to him and to his family to eat out of stereo­
typed, machine-made bowls. When the Japanese cease to

I I6
..Men on the Hori'l,fltL
feel this way, there will be an end to the native J apanesc art.
We were now among the paddy-fields - patches of vary­
ing color, down the long valleys, some flooded with water,
some with thick growths of rice, and others where straw was
piled on racks to dry. But today the rain was coming down
in a steady drizzle upon the men, women, and children, clad
in bulky ponchos of rice straw and wide hats, stooping,
hoeing, and carrying the great bundles to the racks. They
seemed very cheerful about having to spend all day knee­
deep in mud, and I could see whole squatting families chat­
tering with animation, making a social occasion of this
wallowing labor. Perhaps their smiles mean that there is a
clean little house of sliding screens in a garden with ever­
green trees, where, at the end of the day, they come home
to warm themselves 'round the hibachi.
Every square inch of the valleys is crammed with rice and
vegetables, and the hills are terraced upward to add still
more to the area of cultivation. Above are the cliffs, and
great pine forests and mountain lakes - a rough contrast,
in their natural ruggedness, to the flimsiness of the man­
made houses and gardens of the valleys.
November 10. This is Kyoto, which for ages was the capital
of old Japan. I spent last night in a Japanese hotel, made
almost entirely of sliding lattice partitions, and this morning
I started off toward a Shinto temple which I could see rising
above the gray tiled roofs to the westward.
As usual, my height caused a commotion among the
crowds, and many people followed me, gazing as if they
couldn't believe their eyes. One old shopkeeper turned over
a whole table of teapots and crockery in his reckless haste
to see me, and didn't stop to consider his loss till he had
pursued me for several blocks.
It was like being Gulliver among the Lilliputians. Most
of the houses were so low that I could look right over the

]apatL
roofs, and few of the many people who filled the narrow
streets were over five feet tall. The largest vehicles were
little two-wheeled carts, and the shops were but cubbyholes
filled with microscopic knick-knacks.
At length I reached the shrine gardens, full of shrubs and
flowers, with little convex bridges here and there, and the
tall temples with wide roofs, delicately carved, and hun­
dreds of years old. Mellow and red and gold, and set in the
soft gray-green of rock and tree, these temples were built
by men who loved the thing they made, and spent them­
selves and time in an ecstasy of detail and of color.
Through a great Shinto torii arch, I passed into the busy
traffic of the streets again, among shops where workmen
were carving bamboo, making copper pottery, hammering
bronze, cloisonne and damascene ware; selling silk kimonos,
handkerchiefs, brocades, haori coats, obis; making lacquer,
fans, lanterns, umbrellas ;carving' geta' shoes; weaving mats,
baskets, and screens. Some of the workers would ask me
to come in, and so I did, bending low to get my head under
the roof, and there I would see such delicate creations of
little carvings and hammerings and mouldings and paint­
ings and weavings as cannot be surpassed.
Yesterday in a tramcar, I paid seven sen for fare, as I
had seen someone else do so, and had no other way to find
out what was due. Today on the same car line I paid but
one sen - which seemed equally satisfactory to the con­
ductor. Later on, a third conductor, who got off the car and
pointed out my way to me, refused to take any fare at all.
There is far more politeness than business efficiency on a
Japanese tramcar.
On the way back to my hotel, I saw an example of high­
powered Japanese solicitation. It was Tojo, the proprietor's
son, trying to persuade a Japanese couple to take rooms in
our hotel. He walked backward before them, bowing very
low and pointing invitingly to this humble assemblage of

II8
.Aien on the Horiz.pn..
bamboo screens. The more they tried to evade him, the
lower he bowed, and the more enthusiastic his gestures.
Finally they acquiesced - whether from pity or exhaustion
I couldn't tell. Bowing in Japan is the real thing. The head
is sometimes bowed down below the knees as an indication
of respect between friends.
Babies rule Japan. Babies get the best of everything,
they go everywhere, they see the world, and they ride. The
women - and old men and children - fasten the babies on
their backs with their obis or with straps, and take them
along wherever they go, to the market, to the movies, to
funerals, to the baths. The babies solemnly listen in on all
the conversations, observe with unprejudiced eye all that
goes on, and keep their opinions to themselves. The baby­
carriers, on the other hand, seem to regard their burdens as
merely a part of their clothing - which is interesting and
educative, though highly dangerous, for the baby.
I have seen a little girl about ten years old, with a tiny
infant strapped inside her kimono to her shoulders, playing
in the street with other children and apparently completely
oblivious of the baby's existence - running about, chasing
a ball, and dodging traffic, without a care in the world.
The babies maintain a very observant and philosophical
attitude as they ride around. Occasionally, however, they are
careless and slip too far down on their mother's back, which

Japan..
is very bad. A baby should never let this occur, as he soon
pays the penalty - very frequently I have seen it happen.
The baby slips down. The mother, then, in order to get her
load back in place, puts her head down between her knees
and gives a sudden and violent jerk upward with her hind
quarters. She literally bucks the baby into position again,
but nearly snaps its neck off in the process, which is very
disconcerting to the baby, but never seems to remedy its
total lack of cooperation with the mother.
Only once have I seen any cooperation. It was in a
crowded tramcar, and the baby was holding his mother up
by keeping a firm grip on the hanging straps, while she,
below, conversed unmindfully with a companion. This was
an unusual baby.
On the train to Yokohama. Right opposite me here, in this
cheap, scrupulously clean, and comfortably upholstered car,
is traveling a Japanese family. They are enjoying the ride.
The pa sits in a compartment separate from the rest, as is
customary, leaving rna to look after the brood. The little
boy spends his time with his nose to the window-pane,
while his two sisters take turns trooping back and forth in
the aisle with the baby on their backs, just like rna. Now
and then they mop the baby's face and blow its nose with
little paper handkerchiefs which they keep handy in a big
supply pile.
Bright-looking and intelligent, with clean black hair and
little shiny black eyes, they seem very healthy and full of
pep as they eat lunch together out of small bowls with chop­
sticks, and have fun feeding tidbits to the baby from time
to time. At first they regarded me as quite a curiosity, but
after an hour or so of considerable reserve, they became
convinced of my harmlessness and are now very friendly.
They climb all over rna, but pay not the slightest attention
to pa, which seems to be a custom of the country. A man

12.0
./Men on the HorizorL
must appear aloof from his wife in public, and consequently
to ignore her attendant brood. Any show of feeling between
men and women is considered a sign of weakness, and kiss­
ing in public is unheard of in Japan. :\ man is severely
criticized if he makes any demonstrations of affection for
his wife outside of his own home.
This is but one manifestation of a great code of non­
expression - which we Occidentals find very difficult to
understand, and which we almost invariably misinterpret.
Here, in Japan, the social system is based upon the sub­
ordination of the individual to the interests of the family.
Individual fulfillment must never come at the expense of
the unity of the family, or of the great family, the nation,
with the Emperor at its head. The family, not the indi­
vidual, is the social unit -- the nation is an aggregation of
these units. At the head of each unit, as at the head of the
nation, is the patriarch - the chief. To him, and to his
will, is bound, by the inexorable traditions of filial piety,
every individual man, woman, and child. Thus it has been
for thousands of years, and thus it is today.
No one can understand the Orient who does not under­
stand this basic idea and its endless effect upon human be­
havior. For thirty centuries it has ruled the minds and
hearts of these people of the East until it has all but elimi­
nated the individual as a unit, as we of the West understand
an individual.
It is behind the impassive, almost expressionless, face of
the Orient. It is behind every social custom, every national
trait, every characteristic mode of thought or speech or
action of these people.
As I meditated upon these things, and watched my J ap­
anese companions, and traveled northward toward Yoko­
hama, I came to the conclusion that the gap between East
and \Vest lies mainly in the limitations of mutual under­
standing. Like the hungry youngster across the aisle, I too

]apatL
1 2 1
have guzzled my bowl of rice in three mouthfuls so as not
to miss out on seconds; the reactions of that fellow down
the car, gazing longingly at a sleek bit of Japanese feminin­
ity, are no enigma to me.
But we are disguised from each other by the deposit upon
our humanness of fifty centuries of differing social, religious,
and political experience. That same fellow is subject to a
whole world of circumstances and considerations that I will
never encounter, checks and rules and customs that disguise
the fellowship of our feelings. His choice of a bride is always
decided by the older members of the family. Several dozen
uncles, aunts, and cousins, with great and grand pas - to
say nothing of parents - must discuss the advantages of
having such and such a daughter-in-law, and give only a
secondary consideration to the desires of the groom-elect.
He escapes a lot of responsibility. Not only is he not respon­
sible for the choice of his wife, but the onus of her support
is shared by the entire family connection who has chosen
her for him. If he goes broke, they must rally to his assist­
ance, and it is easy to see how he can so blithely accumulate
the usual large family. While this dense unity of the family
must sometimes be irksome to flaming youth, it has its
advantages as the years roll on and the little ones need
shoes.
Once in a while, Romance intrudes her irresponsible pre­
sence into this incubative atmosphere. A man falls deeply
in love with a woman whom the family council will not
tolerate. Elopement is out of the question in Japan - the
whole force of patriarchy and a ruthless public opinion is
against it. A tragedy ensues. The man and the woman kill ·
themselves - it is ' shinju,' the suicide of frustrated lovers.
It is characteristic of such an ordered psychology that a
measure so desperate should have a name and a definite
pigeonhole in the social schedule.
When a rigid patriarchal system is reenforced by the

12.2.
o/lien on the Hori-z.pn.,
worship of ancestors, enshrined in a religion, and isolated
on an island, the result is a conservatism, of strength in­
credible to Western minds. What we call our conservatism
is a mere beginning compared to the Japanese article, and
our social conventions are vague suggestions in comparison
to the time-honored mandates of Japanese custom.
Yokohama, November 15. Things are comparatively expen­
sive here in Yokohama, so I am living at the Merchant Marine
Y.M.C.A. at one yen a day. I would like to live in another
Japanese hotel, but I stay here, where a certain amount of
English is spoken, until I can speak Japanese better.
The manager is Japanese, and his son, Maki, who works
here in the evenings after school, has become a close friend
of mine. Like all Japanese schoolboys, Maki wears a black
uniform with brass buttons, and keeps his hair shaved quite
close to his little round head. Last night he came up to the
dormitory where I sleep and sat down on a bed to talk. I am
the only occupant of the dormitory at present, so we were
completely alone. Maki's natural sociableness was aug­
mented, I think, by a desire to practice his English on me,
and his narrow dark eyes glittered with eagerness to tell
all about his life at school, or, in fact, to converse on any
subject.
' All we schoolboys mus' learn English,' he said. ' It iss
required. We like to do it even if it iss very, very difficult.
\Ve want learn all about America. \Ve want un'erstan'
American moving pictures an' books, an' all about machine
things in America. It iss very, very different in America.
\Ve mus' learn. Japan wondiful country, but not so rich
like America.'
It was the study by the Japanese of applied sciences and
of military and industrial organization that first made neces­
sary a knowledge of the Occidental languages. This know­
ledge unwittingly opened up a world of Western ideas to

]aparL
young Japan, which awakened to the possibilities of life
outside of old Japan's traditions. There was a revolt led
by the plastic minds of young students against the exclu­
siveness of Japanese doctrines. The revolt is still going on.
'We have strikes in school,' says my black-eyed friend.
' If we do not like the teacher, we all agree we will not come
to school. An' if we do not like our studies, we have strike
also. That way we get good teachers and good schools.'
This is an example of the subservience of the individual
to the active force that public opinion is in Japan. So solidly
do people think alike in this country that practically no­
thing may be accomplished without the sanction of public
opinion, which, being the will of the great mass of the peo­
ple, ensures a practical democracy.
There arc some German sailors here in the Marine
Y.M.C.A., who are a very cheerful bunch, and hang around
all day playing chess, reading magazines, and conversing,
with frequent guttural ejaculations. \\"ith the Japanese
they don't get along well - being too blunt and harsh of
speech. Dodi, our Japanese waitress, doesn't like them at
all.
It is easy to be too frank with Japanese people, for they
are not accustomed to frankness and are easily hurt by it.
What would be for us a friendly bit of advice or a trifling
criticism is apt to be taken by them as a cruel insult. They
are used to extreme tact and politeness, which are necessary
in such a closely knit society; skillful in compromise, and
very sensitive to any friction or interruption in the
smoothness of their social relations, they register disap­
proval only by the most delicate suggestions and obscure
hints, never by blunt declaration of annoyance, as is com­
monly the practice in the West.
Japanese people always appear pleasant, hiding their
true feelings with perfect self-control, and thus are often
very puzzling to foreigners from the Occident. When you

I2.4
Jlien on the Horiz.prL
speak to them, they smile agreeably, nod, and try to con­
vince you that they understand you completely, although
it frequently turns out that they haven't the vaguest idea of
what you were talking about. Friction, to them, is some­
thing to be avoided, at all costs.
One should never say to the waitress, as the Germans do
to Dodi at the breakfast table when their eggs are not soft
enough for their liking, ' Ach ! diss arggs iss us hard us a
rochk. Kunt cha gif us some leetle sorfta, eh?'
It hurts her feelings very greatly to be addressed thus.
It is much better, if you want to express dissatisfaction,
merely to smile and hesitate a little before starting to eat.
Just that slight suggestion, even if you have thanked her
profusely for bringing the eggs, is sufficient to tell her ex­
actly how you feel, and she will do her very best to set the
matter right as soon as possible.
This Oriental politeness and roundabout way of express­
ing themselves is, I think, frequently the cause of Japanese
people being considered dishonest, or unreliable. It is true
that they are inaccurate, perhaps due to their racial irre­
sponsibility as individuals.
But, allowing for this inaccuracy, my experience gives
me the impression of their being extraordinarily honest.
Conductors of the trolley cars leave it to the passengers to
pay their fares - and the fares are invariably paid. Fre­
quently you hear of the loss of a gold watch, a piece of
jewelry or money in some public place, and of the finder's
returning it to its rightful owner by advertising it in the
paper.
My schoolboy friend told me of a little boy who, last
year, found a five-yen bill in the park. He secretly kept it
for eight months. At the end of that time, his conscience
troubled him so much that he confessed all, and turned the
money in to the police. Such things happen often among
the Japanese. Their multiple and minute business transac-

JaparL
tions are so vague that there would be chaos without per­
sonal honesty. VIle, on the contrary, with our wholesale
scale and more accurate system of checks and contracts,
do not depend as much upon individual honesty as do the
Japanese, who make it the basis of their commercial and
social intercourse.
November 17 -- Yokohama. I never knew what patriotism
could mean to a people until I realized the patriotism of
Japan - which is a religion. It explains a great many of
their apparently egotistical and insular ideas.
The steamship captain whom I met in the Y.M.C.A.,
who loved to dress up in his uniform and have his picture
taken, and was always bragging about his ship, was most
obnoxious. But when I got to know him, I realized that he
did not so much want to add to his personal prestige as to
promote public recognition of the steamship line that he
represents, and which, in turn, represents Japan.
I remember how devoted the Japanese in Honolulu were
to the interests of their native country, though some of
them had been away from it for twenty years; how, amid
the widespread intermarriage of races in the islands, they
kept strictly to their own blood ; how they almost worked
their children to death by making them go to a Japanese
school in the afternoon, when they had been to an American
school all morning; and how they would invest their savings
in the industries of Japan, rather than in the often more re­
munerative industries of Hawaii.
This almost maniacal patriotism seems inconsistent with
the extensive adoption of foreign ideas and institutions by
Japanese industry and government, until one becomes
familiar with the Japanese philosophy of jiujitsu, which
means, literally, ' conquer by yielding,' and which is so
evident in Japan's national and foreign policies.
Just as jiujitsu is a system of physical defense perfected

!2.6
.A1en on the Horizy'fL
by a people of small physique, so the jiujitsu principle is
logically applied in the national policy of this race lacking
individual initiative. It seems almost inevitable that the
Japanese, small, and weak as individuals, should adopt this
philosophy that the best way to conquer is, not by opposing
force with force, but by a deft and subtle compliance; by
using the strength of the enemy, to bring about his downfall.
This, to my mind, is typically Oriental thinking; thinking
in smooth curves rather than direct, as we do in the West;
leadinϮ your enemy's strength in a curve to your objective,
rather than opposing his strength with your own strength,
in a straight line. The J apanesc wisely use the strength
of alien nations to further their own ends.
The public baths here in Yokohama certainly are good
for an evening's entertainment. I went to one last night
with two of the German sailors. This was a very public
bath, where men and women were separated only by a cur­
tain which divides the tank in half. It is a sort of huge
wooden bathtub, full of water so hot that you can hardly
stand it.
You are supposed to wash yourself spotless before enter­
ing, by successive soapings and rinsings with wooden dip­
pers provided. · And the rules also state that you are not
supposed to go or to look on the other side of the curtain.
It was for the infraction of this rule that we were attending
the public bath.
The tank was already full of people and, after rather
perfunctory rinsings with the dippers, we lost no time in
piling in with the crowd. Our enthusiasm was only tem­
porarily affected by the terrifically high temperature of the
water, for, after we became acclimated, my snorting Teu­
tonic associates and I set excitedly about grabbing at the
pink limbs which intermittently revealed themselves be­
neath the curtain. This activity was observed with scandal-

]apatL
ized amusement by our Oriental companions, looking on
through the veil of rising steam.
At length one of the German boys made a catch - ·
which was announced by desperate splashing and squeaking
sounds from behind the barrier. Though dismayed to some
extent by the commotion he was causing, ·the boy pulled
vigorously, gradually drawing a girl into view, feet first.
Friends of the unfortunate were evidently rallying to her
rescue, for our sailor began to lose ground and called us to
his assistance. The tension increased as our side gained
once more, till it was apparent that there was danger of the
Yictim's drowning unless she was released. \Vith victory in
sight, however, the Germans entertained little thought of
abandoning their sport - and the struggle grew more and
more desperate.
But all at once a new factor had to be reckoned with. A
husky Jap - one of our own bath mates - had apparently
recognized the object of our efforts as his wife or daughter.
Splashing through the steam, with fierce ejaculations, this
new adversary reached the center of action and, with a
ferocity which only filial piety could instigate, wrenched
the startled Germans from their catch.
Thus came an end to this good solid Teutonic fun, and we
returned to the Y.M.C.A.
November 20. I 've said that the Japanese are a courteous
race; that they carry it to the point of deception, and that
they are mentally inexact.
Today I wished to go to the Russian Consulate to see
about my passport.
'Where is the Russian Consulate?' I asked a native offi­
cial in the Japan Tourist Bureau at the railroad station.
He beamed upon me from behind the counter. The
whereabouts of the Russian Consulate were apparently a
mere detail in the vast store of his knowledge.

12.8
..Wen on the Horizon..
' You go, sir, a leetle ways down thees way, and son you
go a leetle more ways down thees way, sir' - he waved his
hand zigzagging imaginatively through the city of Tokio
outside the windows. He smiled benignly, and talked on
and on, and became enormously informative and with in­
creasing benevolence. I went forth and followed his di­
rections carefully, but they brought me to no Russian Con­
sulate. Evidently I would have to inquire of someone
else.
Along the street came toddling a professorish-looking
J ap in large spectacles.
'Where is the Russian Consulate?' I asked him, hoping
that he was the fount of wisdom implied by the specs.
He looked at me distractedly, so I made signs that I
wanted to know in which direction to go, and repeated the
words ' Russian Consulate.' Without hesitation, he pointed
north, down the street. In order to make sure that he un­
derstood me, I then showed him a card on which the
Y.M.C.A. proprietor had written ' Russian Consulate,' in
Japanese. He perused it a moment with a countenance
more profound than ever and then turned and pointed up
the street, in exactly the opposite direction from that which
he had previously indicated. I thanked him, and he bowed
politely and passed on.
Rather dubiously, I started south, up the street, when,
hustling along through the crowd, came a young fellow in
uniform who appeared to be just out of school. He must
be very well-informed on all subjects, so I stopped him.
'Where is the Russian Consulate?' I asked.
' Russian Consul-' He thought a moment, deeply.
'Oh ! '  he said, suddenly, ' down there! It ees down there! '
And he pointed north, down the street along which I had
just come, and, bowing graciously, continued on his way.
Either the professor or the schoolboy must be mistaken,
if not a liar, so I sought a solution of the problem in

Japan.
an intelligent-looking J ap, dressed in European clothes,
who was standing among a crowd of people waiting for a
trolley.
To my 'Where is the Russian Consulate?' he first im­
pulsively pointed to an approaching trolley. Then, seeming
to have grown doubtful, he began to consult his neighbors,
who had sociably collected about us to look on and offer
their various morsels of wisdom to the mystery. They all
seemed to agree in the end - that I should board the trolley
with them, so I complied and, one and all, we scrambled into
the thing and buzzed away, winding intricately on some
new and entirely inscrutable course. My guides were ex­
tremely polite - and equally as extremely vague.
' You mus' go a leetle thees way, and then a leetle more
over thees way, and then you mus' --' and so on they
jabbered most convincingly and with great interest.
But as we bumped along, I grew discouraged, and forsook
the trolley-load of discussion, and found myself on the
street again -- Buddha only knows where - pleased by the
friendliness of my late companions, who had even offered to
pay my tram fare, but still completely in the dark as to how
to get to the Russian Consulate.
In my desperation, I resorted to the gentler sex.
' Where is the Russian Consulate?' I asked an old lady.
Her purple kimono was of heavy silk and her high hair was
gray in streaks. She smiled understandingly, and, without
the slightest uncertainty, indicated a new direction for me
to follow. Superlatively polite, she even insisted upon ac­
companying me for several blocks, to make sure that I did
not go astray. Then she left me, as had the others, bowing
graciously and apparently completely happy in the thought
that she had done her duty and done it to perfection. I pro­
ceeded exactly as she had indicated - and kept on pro­
ceeding - but nothing either Russian or consular could I
find.

Jlien on the Hori-zorL
Although a little despondent, and a trifle dubious about
Japanese integrity, I persisted.
'Where is the Russian Consulate? '
Stopping every likely person, I grilled them to their in­
nermost marrow in my effort to unearth an answer to the
deepening problem. As before, all were most unctuous in
their courtesy and all were most profound in their inac­
curacy. Few made any sign to show that they didn't under­
stand English - and none ever admitted not knowing the
exact locality of the Russian Consulate.
At last I met an intelligent-looking boy on a bicycle who
could really speak good English. He said that he was going
'right by the Russian Consulate,' so I decided to run along
beside him. This I did, and we went for miles and miles,
zigzagging discursively through all sorts of streets. I re­
alized that it was no wonder that nobody had known the
way to the Russian Consulate - the strange thing was that
nobody had been willing to admit it. A perfect example of
the Oriental desire for superficial compliance.
After about twenty minutes at a pretty healthy pace, I
began to think that this was another wild-goose chase, but
my companion kept assuring me that it was ' only a little
ways more,' so I kept on. He seemed to be untroubled by
my having to run miles beside his bicycle. Perhaps he
thought me an ex-rickshaw man.
At last - I could see my destination ! I had really found
a somewhat accurate Japanese! Arriving, I bowed low to
this prodigy on the bicycle, and proceeded up the drive to
the Russian Consulate office.
I found afterwards that this building was scarcely half a
mile from the railroad station from which I had started on
my search - three hours before.
When I finally got back to the Y.l\LC.A., it had become
as cold as Greenland. Sleet was coming down in dense
splurges before a gusty gale. Our stove had not yet been

Japan..
13 1
assembled for the winter, and our frail domicile didn't pro­
vide much of a refuge from the icy blast outside. We shiver­
ingly engulfed our supper, and amid Teutonic grumblings
we made an early hibernation under the covers in our little
dormitory.
Among us is a lanky darky from Abyssinia. He has a face
like a tarsier, with huge bulging eyes and woolly hair, and
he appears frightened to death all day long. Before going to
bed, he writes mysterious messages on a piece of paper in
the weirdest of hieroglyphics, and he sleeps kneeling down
on all fours, with his head completely buried under the
blankets.
Tokyo - November 22. Here, in the home of an old friend
with whom I"m staying in Tokyo, the most interesting feature
of our house is the bathtub. Previously, I have known only
the method of the six Japanese ladies at my hotel and the
community tubs. But this is the most usual private home
method, and the apparatus consists of a small oval-shaped
wooden tub about four feet long and as many high, made
like a barrel. It is kept full of terrifically hot water, which
is heated by a fire-box or stove enclosed in one end, and
has a smokestack out of the top. A cover is kept over the
water to preserve heat when the tub is not in use. It looks
like an early model Stanley steamer, without wheels.
As in all Japanese bath procedure, you are supposed to
make yourself immaculate with the help of a tiny tin basin,
before mounting the vehicle. Then you are at liberty to get
in and reap your reward ; a nice hot soak. Of course this
is all designed for the Japanese, and so, with me, there are
certain attendant difficulties. In the first place, I have a
terrible time getting into the thing - what with the scald­
ing heat and all. Then, with my knees doubled up tight un­
der my chin, and my eyes getting blearier and blearier with
the dizzy temperature, I stay wedged, and gaze ahead at

132.
o/Wen on the Horiz.pn..
the smokestack rising up before my blistering nose. I listen
to the crackle of the fire, the soft purr of escaping steam, and
the gentle chug-chug of the heating machinery - and won­
der how long it takes to be boiled alive. There is absolutely
no way of cooling the water - you just have to grit your
teeth and bear it.
Everyone tries to get the first bath, before the water ­
which does for the whole family each night - has become
too hot. The lack of central boilers and the difficulty in
heating water has preserved this primitive bathing custom
in Japan, even in the homes of the best people. Like all
communal benefits, it exacts a high sense of public spirit in
the individual. It is a point of honor to make yourself spot­
less with the tin basin before you climb aboard.
Last night I felt a real earthquake. I was brushing my
teeth when I became conscious of a tremendous shudder
coming up from the depths of the earth. Doors slammed,

]aparL
windows rattled violently, and things fell off shelves. I could
hear the heavy supporting beams of the house crunching
and twisting under the strain, and got an unpleasant impres­
sion of the roof quivering in its struggle to balance itself on
the tops of the walls.
I held on to the tub until things
were quiet again. The disturbance didn't amount to much,
really, but at such times you never know what it is going to
amount to.
The Ginza is the big shopping street of Tokyo, the busiest
place in town, and is densely lined with hundreds of little
shops, very cozy and full of fragile goods, with families in­
dustriously arranging them, and selling them and shouting
out their merits. It is crowded with a seething stew of
Japanese life - rickshaw men in their leggings and strange,
thumbed sneakers; newsboys on the corners jingling their
little bells - Japanese newsboys are not allowed to shout;
old women with their strings of little children out shopping
for peanuts; gaunt coolies carrying huge loads suspended
from a pole across their shoulders; hundreds of different
kinds of shopkeepers; and every variety of bicycle, cart,
wheelbarrow, wagon, or other small conveyance that was
ever invented, all loaded to the skies and whizzing like red
ants on their several and innumerable ways. Everybody is
talking and singing, and bustling and making a racket, and
having a good time.
I saw some laborers repairing a sidewalk with their little
pickaxes, singing a chant together and swinging their tools
exactly in unison : a method very practicable with Orientals,
who in every way seem so disposed to cooperation and har­
mony.
Little shops in tents along the curb with small ovens
where oysters, fish, and frogs' legs are cooked and sold.
Some merchants, not to be bothered with tents, spreading
out their wares - teacups, toys, silks, fruits, lacquer boxes
- right on the open sidewalk, to be viewed and handled by

oAien on the Horiz..on...
all. This is Japan - and the goods, fingered by a hundr.ed
people at the edge of the street, are as safe as if they were
in the vault of a bank.
Here is a man carrying two bulky glass display stands sus­
pended from each end of a pole across his shoulders, weaving
with uncanny skill and alacrity through the saunterers.
There are sixteen chairs loaded on that flimsy bicycle which
a young coolie is merrily peddling through the traffic of a
narrow side street. The chairs are dangling around his ears,
hanging from his handlebars, clustered on his mudguards ­
and they are full-fledged chairs with four legs and a back.
Believe it or not.
Evening. This is the Ginza by night-a brilliant mass of
Japanese lanterns and more colorful than by day. The lights
are soft blues and pinks and greens, glowing from behind
skeins of Oriental hieroglyphics and designs. Even the traffic
cops wave only delicate paper lanterns.
Going down a side street, as you pass the little houses and
look in through the frail latticed windows, you will see farni-

Japa
1 35
lies, sometimes shivering with the cold, yet busily engaged in
carving more intricate pieces of dainty furniture, arranging
their thin woven screens, sewing minute representations of
Japanese life upon silken kimonos, and weaving microscopic
designs into tiny baskets of straw - all without a thought
of the howling cold outside their flimsy walls, with only
a small glazed pot of glowing charcoal for warmth, and a
bowlful of rice and fish to feed their empty bellies. Beauty
comes first - comfort last, always. They would rather
freeze than submit to insensitive brick masonry. They
would starve before they would give up their frail teacups
and decorations of painted silk and carved bamboo. It is
hard to believe, but it is true. It is proved here under your
eyes.
Yokohama again, November 24. I have been leading a very
unhinged life of late, rampaging around Yokohama with
two fellows named Will and James, whom I found here at
the Y.l\I.C.A. when I got back from my visit in Tokyo.
We had a rickshaw race yesterday, which no doubt
brightened the lives of those privileged to observe it. The
most difficult part of the performance was to persuade the
rickshaw men to let us have their rickshaws. We had to
bribe them heavily and fill them up with red wine from a
neighboring beer joint before they finally consented, and
retired to warm themselves over their hibachi on the street
corner.
The course was two blocks - down to the edge of the
canal, and back again. The rules were that you had to
choose a coolie whom you would pull down to the canal, and
who, in turn, must pull you back to the finish line. Jim, be­
ing undersized, insisted on this, because he said he needed
something to counteract the disadvantage of his shorter
legs; also it was supposed to make the contest one of skill
rather than mere brawn, for if you picked a light coolie, you

c:5lien on the Hori'X.[JrL
would be handicapped when it came to his pulling you,
whereas if you chose a heavy one, you would have a hard
time at first.
We started off by picking our coolies, which we did very
carefully, each of us giving his candidates several time­
trials up and down the street. This was very difficult, as
the coolies all wanted pay for it, and also every minute
would add another hundred to the steadily growing crowd
of spectators.
At last all was ready and our coolies chosen, who, accord­
ing to the rules, got into the rickshaws, though reluctantly.
We lined up and started. At first I got the lead a little, but
my coolie, being somewhat alarmed by my pace at the start,
tried twice to jump overboard, so I was delayed, and
reached the canal far in the wake of my dashing opponents.
Here all was confusion, with each coolie dismounting from
his rickshaw, and each of us trying hurriedly to explain to
them what they were to do next, and promising large sums
on arrival at the finish line.
We all hopped into the rickshaws and got away on the
back stretch in a bunch, and, with vehement encourage­
ments to our coolies, drew steadily nearer the finish, where
the whole street was jammed with excited spectators. I
could feel my coolie pulling gamely forward, but Will,
strange to say, surged by us with a wild burst of speed from
his desperate-looking coolie and outdistanced us by a wide
margin. James, however, fell to my rear, and I could hear
him pleading frantically with his coolie to keep going, that
he hadn't earned his yen yet, and similar urgings.
We finished amid wild cheers from the mob. The race was
over, and Will had won. We paid off our exhausted men,
and, struggling through the crowd, set out homeward to the
Y.M.C.A. We couldn't figure out - James and I - how
Will had gone away from us so easily on the home stretch.
His coolie was only a little bit of a thing, too.

Japan..
The mystery cleared up only late in the evening when
Will admitted having secretly given his unsuspecting coolie
a long drink of Pluto water just before the start.
The next night we went again to the beer joint where we
had bought the red wine for the coolies. There we met three
nifty Japanese girls, daughters of California Frank, the pro­
prietor. Their names were Mary, Frances, and Haruko, which
last, strangely enough, means ' fresh peas.' Perhaps Cali­
fornia Frank had an eye to future business with American
sailors when he named his two older daughters.
We had a good meal, followed by dancing with the girls
to a phonograph. They said that Haruko, who was only
fourteen, did not know how to dance. She was extremely
bashful, but I finally cornered her behind the kitchen stove,
and found her entirely satisfactory as a dancing partner.
What her feet did made no difference - as they never came
within a foot of the floor.
November 26. Will, James, and I are now staying at an inn on
the shore of a lake near Mount Fujiyama. We arrived yes­
terday afternoon, having decided to explore this region on
our way south, and we are living in a rural edition of Ori­
ental luxury. We wear only Japanese clothes, which, al­
though they are not very commodious - my kimono falling
a considerable distance short of my knees, and my geta
about size two - are the most comfortable draperies we
have ever known. We find, after experimenting, that one
can robe oneself in complete Japanese dress inside of five
seconds, there being only the three-foot-long padded kimono
with string around the waist, and the two diminutive san­
dals, with not a button, hook, lace, or buckle in the outfit.
The Japanese food here is more humane than that perni­
cious stuff I got in Kobe. They even have meat with it, and
sometimes good skiako stew, and curry. Although the
weather is chilly, our quilted kimonos keep very warm the

.5Wen on the Horizyn..
small part of us that they conceal. For further warmth, we
must repair to the community tub downstairs, and sub­
merge in its steaming water with the other inhabitants of
the place, who are so diverting that we emerge only when
our skins have become as white and flaccid as boiled cabbage
leaves.
Taking baths seems to be the great indoor social event
of Japanese country life. The tub is a common meeting­
ground for the whole neighborhood, and tends to stimulate
man's interest in and understanding of his fellows. You are
apt to be on intimate terms with your townsmen, and their
wives and children, after a few years of spending an hour or
so in the tub with them every night.
Will, James, and I have adopted certain conventions
which bring us into closer relations with our native ac­
quaintances. One of them is our vow never to sit down to a
meal without first shaking hands with the cook. This, while
it at first bewilders the cook involved, gains us ultimately
many friends, and also - we have found - improves both
the quality and quantity of our food.
I have also discovered that there is great social value in
the way the Japanese keep from freezing to death in winter
in their rickety houses of sliding paper panels. Last night,
in a very cold room downstairs, I saw a lot of Japanese
crowded around their hibachi, which was sunk in a depres­
sion in the floor. Squatting on their thick mat with their
toes nearly in the fire, they held out their kimono skirts over
the rising heat in such a way as to divert it directly to their
bodies. They seemed entirely comfortable and warm. Al­
though their freedom of movement was necessarily limited,
and the situation lacking in certain elements of Occidental
propriety, it was unquestionably cozy.
Today, during our hike through the countryside, we were
close to the dazzling cone of Fujiyama, which we could see

JapatL
now and then looming between the clouds. We climbed,
through long grass and bamboo, along its lower slopes. The
going was hazardous, as we would come suddenly upon
earthquake cracks, sometimes ten feet deep, hidden in the
long grass.
At sundown, turning from the presence of the great white
monster, we pulled into a near-by town on the railroad, to
have a soak in the public bath before continuing our journey
south. This proved to be a bath of high-test sociability,
being exceptionally crowded. As we got undressed, we were
looked at, as usual, rather wonderingly by our native as­
sociates, and I think they realized that such intimacy was
not the rule with us, for the girls all cheered when we pulled
off our pants. We rinsed ourselves with practiced skill with
the little wooden dippers, and I made for the steaming tub,
already full of soaking yellow forms. Will and James
couldn't stand such hot water, and lingered on the brink,
so I submerged without them - and it was just as well.
The tub was four feet wide by six long, and about four feet
deep. I counted eleven other occupants besides myself -­
six old men, two kids, one old lady, and two young ladies.
Believe it or not.

c:.l1en on the HoriztJn..
November 28. I left Will and James at Kyoto, back-trailing
alone, southward, in third-class cars, on my way to Nagasaki
and southern Japan. It costs next to nothing to travel this
way, but it is very crowded and the sleeping is difficult.
Anyone can use any means he is capable of to get his sleep­
even to lying all over his neighbors, or putting his bare feet
against the cheek of the old man across the aisle. I am the
only passenger, apparently, who cannot repose in perfect
comfort on a plush seat, four feet by two.
I have met some soldiers on this train, who are very
friendly and intensely interested in the photographs I
showed them. I explained each picture as well as I could by
sign-language, the few words of Japanese I know, and by
pantomime. They liked the pictures of the submarine
man's daughters especially, and soon over half the car­
load was crowding around, trying to look on, and all
very politely asking to be shown the pictures they had
missed.
I tried to satisfy them all, explaining more and more
elaborately as I went on, until I was giving a regular public
illustrated lecture a la sign-language. When it was over,
there was a great and most polite show of enthusiasm by
my soldier audience, much bowing, cries of 'arigato' and
'sayonara,' and even presents of tangerines and peanuts.
It is very touching - this generous capacity for showing
appreciation.
I was struck also by how much better fed and healthier
these soldiers looked than the average man on the street.
In a population increasing one million a year, with nowhere
to go, there is none too much to eat in Japan.
Contrary to the general impression, Japan has a smaller
army in proportion to its population than many nations
that escape the stigma of militarism. The proportion of men
trained to arms being but 2.27 per cent, while that of
France is 15.4 and Italy 14.3 per cent. My impression is

JapatL
that Japan is an over-uniformed, rather than a naturally
militaristic, nation.
All schoolboys, and the large majority of young men in
the country, are in a uniform of some kind or other which
has nothing to do with the army. I know from my school­
boy acquaintances that, in spite of the intense patriotism,
military training is not popular, and I notice that soldiers
have to fight for trolley car seats just like anyone else.
They are not deferred to in any way by the general
public.
At about midnight we reached Shimonoseki. This is the
southeastern point of Japan's main island of Hondo, sep­
arated by a strait from the southern island of Kiushu, on
whose broken western coast is the great port of Nagasaki,
and the China Sea.
On a ferry, and through harbors that were, even at that
late hour, full of lights and motion, I crossed to Moji on the
other island, where I boarded at midnight a train that was
still more crowded than the last.
At first I could find no room anywhere to sit down, but I
finally discovered a few empty square inches among some
slumbering schoolgirls near the end of the train. One little
girl about sixteen was seated beside me, and the others were
sleeping soundly on the seat opposite.
They were all dressed in dark uniform dresses, and all
were completely dead to the world. Every now and then
the little girl directly opposite would be waked as the train
started with a jerk, for her head lay right against the hard,
wooden seat arm. I gave her my sweater for a pillow, which
she accepted without even opening her eyes.
At sunrise, everybody woke up, and I soon became good
friends with my schoolgirl bunk-mates. They spoke a little
English and I mustered my few words of Japanese, and to­
gether we proceeded to improve our respective vocabularies.
They also insisted that I take breakfast with them, which

o./Wen on the Hori'{otL
repast they produced from several little bundles. During
the meal they diligently undertook to teach me a well­
known Japanese song beginning, ' Poa, poa, poa.' I did my
best with Poa, and they then insisted on my singing the
' American national song' as a return courtesy. Unhappily
did I try to render ' The Star-Spangled Banner,' of the words
of which - to their horror and to my own - I could re­
member only the first two lines.
My little friends were very kind to me, and twittered with
enthusiasm and understanding. Their sensitiveness was
extraordinary. Japanese, as children, are given much con­
sideration, and protected from criticism and slight, such as
Occidental youngsters are inured to, so they never need to
build in themselves a shelter of hardness against the world.
Nagasaki. It was from Nagasaki that I had planned to take
ship immediately for China, and I arrived here this morn­
ing.
This beautiful harbor, surrounded by mountains, is
full of lateen-rigged junks and sampans and liners - and,
on arriving, I set out to see the town.
Later. I have been obliged to postpone taking ship for
China, and I am writing this in the police station. Enter­
prisingly, I took several pictures of a part of the harbor
which turned out to be in the fortified zone, and, having
committed this crime right in front of police headquarters, I
was arrested by the water police.
The Japanese method of arrest, being replete with Ori­
ental subtlety and tact, is extremely interesting. Nothing
could be more frictionless - one almost glides into arrest.
For a long time I didn't realize I was being arrested.
First, a very unpretentious little fellow strolled quietly
over to where I stood on the wharf, and, after looking casu­
ally about for a minute, asked me in an innocent sort of way
what I was carrying on my belt.

Japan_,
' A  camera,' I replied, and, seeing his obvious interest, I
pulled it out and showed it to him.
As he was examining it, a second passing stroller noticed
it and came up to see what it was. He, too, seemed in­
tensely interested and asked me if I had been taking any
pictures lately.
Then there appeared still more passers-by, all of whom,
in the customary Japanese manner, exhibited excessive
curiosity and made multitudinous inquiries; what kind of
camera was it - how much did it cost - where had I taken
the pictures - what was I going to do with them?
Finally, when some dozen craning spectators had gath­
ered around, one of them asked me if I would go out in a
boat with him ; he wanted to take me down the harbor a
way to where his office was. Trustingly I complied, and we
boarded the chunky craft, accompanied by the larger pro­
portion of the onlooking crowd, and chugged off among the
fishing-boats.
I marveled at the hospitality of my guide, but thought
little of the fact that most of my companions were in uni­
form, until, on questioning one as to the nature of our de­
stination, he told me we were going to the office of the
Nagasaki water police.
'We just want to find out why you take pictures of Naga­
saki Harbor,' he said ; 'we must be careful, you know; there
are Reds in Japan.'
Thus was I placed under arrest.
On arriving at the police landing, I was escorted before a
very pretentious-looking little inspector, who lost no time in
investigating my case, amid politely interested spectators.
He searched me scrupulously for communistic papers, un­
packed my baggage, read my letters, and even as much of
this diary as I had written at the time. He was worried, at
first, about some notes on Bolshevism I had collected, but,
after reading the diary with the help of an interpreter, he
decided I was all right.

.5tlen on the Horiz,_otL
The canny little fellows are very merry and polite all the
time, though most thorough in their investigations, and all
day they have questioned me about my past and future,
trying their best to detect inconsistencies in my replies.
It is really very entertaining here in the police station.
After my trial, which exacted nothing from me but pa­
tience, the police chief, a stubby little Jap, took me solemnly
aside and said to me, ' \Vee! you, sir, now go out, please, for
walk weeth me? I want show you beautiful gardens an'
beautiful temple on Nagasaki mountains. You weel like, I
am sure.'
I was surprised, used to Japanese courtesy as I am, at
this extreme expression of amenity on the part of a high
disciplinary officer. But I accepted without hesitation, and
we started off.
My comrade, clad in a black cape and the neat black­
striped trousers of the police uniform, was very dignified
and at first not disposed to informality. He frequently
noticed people he knew among the passers-by, and to each
he bowed, graciously and very low. For a few especially
favored ones, he stopped and repeated his low bow several
times, smiling paternally the while, and audibly drawing in
his breath through his teeth. This sound is believed by the
Japanese to express great pleasure. It occasionally gave
way to short, energetic grunts, which in Japanese indicate,
I am told, that a thrill has just been received.
As we progressed side by side, these brief human con­
tacts seemed insufficient to satisfy his social appetite, and
he began to drop into little shops on the way, to gossip
awhile with shopkeeper acquaintances. Talking more and
more, and descriptively waving his short arms in an ec­
stasy of solemn twaddle, he kept introducing me to his ef­
fusive friends, who knew not a word of English.
Having waited philosophically at some half a dozen stores

Japa1L
and booths while he chattered on, the chief and I at length
reached a height above the city, where, passing under a
high torii, we entered the shrine gardens.
As we strolled beneath the great carved roofs, he was very
silent, and I wondered what my distinguished companion
was thinking about. Presently, leading the way with his
stately five-feet-two toward the edge of the slope, he said,
' Let us now, sir, seet down,' and he indicated a terrace
where some girls were selling peanuts and candy. He had
evidently been longing for further social activity. We took
our places at a small table, and the girls approached us with
their wares.
'We wee! have some peanuts, sir,' he said to me, ' you like
them ' ;  and smiling affably to the fair venders, he bought a
large bowl of the nuts, and set to work shelling them and
graciously handing the kernels over to me. Now and then
he would converse in dignified tones with a stocky elderly
woman, who seemed to be in charge of the establishment.
I also shelled peanuts and, as the chief was politely giving
all his shelled nuts to me, I, in return, gave all mine to him,
which he accepted with solemn gestures of gratitude.
The situation seemed to grow more and more ridiculous
as we continued our peanut party, and we kept up the con­
stant exchange of nuts, for never once did my friend relax
his expression of grave majesty. As I shelled faster than he
did, he of course got the most to eat - so, perhaps, after
all, there was method in his courtesy.
Our return at twilight was punctuated by the same fre­
quent visits to small shops, finally culminating in a tea­
party with a very pretty little lady in a phonograph store.
Here we were treated to a weird concert of Oriental ortho­
phoneticism, while we warmed our fingers over a hibachi
and sipped green tea.
We returned to the street an hour later. It was night,
and, as we started down through the fantastic lantern-

My Peanut Party with the Chief of Police in the
Nagasaki Shrine Gardens

]apa
lighted ways, among the moving crowds, my black-caped
companion looked up at me.
'You wee! come weeth me, please, sir,' he said ; ' I  show
you good place where you can live. It is house of friend of
mine. You wee! like very much.'
A rambling house, of cheap and rather mongrel appear­
ance, situated on the Bund, was the abode alluded to. At
the door sat a very wrinkled and kindly looking old woman,
to whom I was presented with extensive bowing and gesticu­
lation. Whereupon, to my astonishment, my friend of the
police suddenly bade me farewell, and vanished into the
darkness with a last spectacular flourish. I was left stranded
in front of this benevolent old dame, who assumed, ap­
parently, that I was her guest, and immediately ushered me
into her house.
We entered a sizable living-room, which, although J apa­
nese in general structure, seemed to suggest an influence
from the West in its solid old walls of smooth paneling.
Some half a dozen girls ranging from two to four-and-a-half
feet high, a young boy with a baseball bat in his hand, and
an old man, stood and sat about the room, gazing at me in a
wondering, though not inhospitable, manner.
The old woman, undoubtedly the mamma of the house­
hold, smiled at me and, with gracious bowings, indicated
her large brood, introducing them : Fudiko, Hotso, Pupeki,
Kaneko, Immoto, little Mimi - sisters - and Papa, and
N eesan, the brother.
Not knowing what to expect next, I bowed in greeting to
this stocky assemblage, receiving in return friendly smiles
and gentle murmurings in Japanese. Then, before I had
time to think, I was led by mamma out into a sort of back
yard, and told I was to have a bath.
'Allai nasai. Y oroshi?' she said as she helped me off with
my clothes and bent me over beside a steaming hot home
bathtub.

o.!Wen on the Hori-zon..,
' Anata K'rega s'ki des' - you wee! like thees. You wee!
not min'e old mamma to wash you,' she said, picking up a
scrub brush and soap and dousing me with steaming water.
' You no min'e old mamma.'
I didn't feel entirely sympathetic with this cleansing
treatment, but there seemed to be no way out of it without
seriously hurting somebody's feelings or violating the fam­
ily traditions.
Just as if I were a baby, mamma set to work, scouring my
ears, back, stomach, and everything else, and nearly scald­
ing my eyes out with the red-hot water. I don't think she
had ever before in her long career cleaned quite so great an
area all in one job, for I heard plenty of grunts and panting
before she was through.
When she had done and I had safely wedged myself, as
far as I could get, into the barrel-like tub, Hotso was sum­
moned to stoke the fire which I could already hear crackling,
just beyond my toes, in the small end of this ovate contrap­
tion. Of course I yelled at Hotso to please have mercy - as
I already was beginning to feel warm sympathy for broiled
live lobsters - but through the steam, I could see her
chubby form ruthlessly performing what she considered her
duty. She apparently took my protest for a gesture of po­
lite concern over her efforts, and totally disregarded me ex­
cept for a coy smile between throwing sticks into the fur­
nace.
At supper, which immediately followed my evening pur­
gation, we had skiako, rice, and fish. I was now clothed in
kimono and slippers - thoroughly comfortable as far as
they went - and we ate in the kitchen under the most in­
formal and Oriental circumstances. The conversation was
entirely in Japanese, while everyone squatted on the floor
and prodded the food into their mouths with chopsticks as
fast as mamma dished it out. Papa and Neesan were not
with us. The men of a Japanese family always seem to

Japan..
absent themselves from the women when outsiders are
present.
November 30. There are two beds in my little room upstairs,
and this morning, when I awoke, I discovered that Fudiko
had slept all night right beside me in the other bed. No one
seemed to think anything of our being alone together all
night, so I guess this is perfectly customary - and I agree
that it is a most delightful idea.
I am getting to feel more and more at home in this atmo­
sphere of hospitality. Everyone treats me like a prince.
Mimi is frightfully cute and wants me to have a peanut
feast with her on the mat floor of mamma's room, which is,
incidentally, the family bed. Fudiko insists that she is my
big sister, and Hotso the same, and they all laugh a lot
about it because they are so little.
Fudi is really an attractive girl - smooth, clear skin,
even features, and, as compared to her sisters, a fairly slen­
der figure. She apparently has also a number of intimate
men friends.
The outstanding one is a very intellectual Hindu gentle­
man who abides at Singapore. He speaks no Japanese, and
she no Hindustani, so they communicate in English, the
diplomatic and international language of the Orient. But,
knowing only eight words in English, Fudi is not much
helped by it, and I suspect her bond of affection for the
Sikh is based more on spiritual and physical kinship than on
any kinship of the mind. This morning she asked me to
write a letter in English to this gentleman for her, and ex­
plained to me in Japanese what I must say. To make her
ideas clearer, she showed me her last letter from him, which
was indeed intimate and most revealing as to their personal
affairs. In it he pathetically beseeches her to come to
Singapore, to ' forget her native land ' ;  but Fudi, possessing
the traditional Japanese patriotism, will not go. She sends

o/lien on the Hori-zon..
him lots of love, but is firm in her patriotism, and makes an
ultimatum by telling him he may have her in Japan, or not
at all.
I have also discovered another factor which does little to
simplify Fudi's espousal problem. I was playfully lifting
her up by the elbows this morning when she suddenly asked
me to go easy, saying, ' Noh, noh ! ' and, patting her stomach
significantly, ' Baby-san. Noh, noh! '
I didn't like to inquire more deeply into the matter, but,
as Fudi is unmarried and obviously in no way embarrassed
by her state of affairs, it is apparent that Japanese girls ­
as long as they are not defiant of theirfamily'swishes, nor dis­
loyal to their country - are extremely free in their actions.
Although there are powerful conventions and traditions
and checks on the conduct of a Japanese, these ha,·e to do,
almost entirely, with his external relations with the world ­
his filial piety, his worship of ancestors and family tradition,
his patriotism, his social courtesy. Public opinion in Japan
is very tolerant in all personal matters - religion, sex rela­
tions, eating and drinking, style of clothes, etc. ; in fact, as
long as a Japanese gets along all right with his family, is not
unpatriotic, and is polite in public, nothing but his innate
lack of individuality stands between him and a wide range
of personal freedom. He never need worry about the
scandalous gossip which so inhibits personal liberty in the
West. Look at Fudi.
Hotso, on the other hand, is not nearly so popular among
the boys - in spite of her untiring efforts. With the face
and features of an embryo hippopotamus, she is on my
heels from dawn till dark. I think mamma is responsible for
Hotso's apparent devotion. All the other eligible daugh­
ters seem to be taken care of as far as their love-lives are
concerned. And mamma, being considerably worried over
Hotso's single existence, I have reason to suspect deliber­
ately sets this creature on my trail. Mamma desperately

]aparL
hopes that she may - with the aid of Buddha - find
somewhere in me a spark of romance that may be fanned
into a conflagration of desire for Hotso.
I am getting into the family life deeper and deeper
every day, it seems - and, believe me, it is interesting.
Never would I have suspected that a foreigner could be on
such intimate terms with an Oriental family. But here I
am, and getting along even better than I usually do at home.
Kipling's dictum that ' never the twain shall meet' makes
me less and less impressed with his wisdom the longer I re­
main in this house.
I won't be here long, though, as I'm leaving this afternoon
for Shanghai. Already mamma is filling a great bag full of
peanuts and fruit for me to consume on the way. She is very
sweet.
Last night after my bath - mine always comes last, be­
cause it has been found that I displace the most water ­
we all had a huge peanut party in mamma's bed, the soft
matted floor covered with blankets. Papa was there also,
and now and then Hotso would be detailed to fetch some
cider for us. Neither mamma nor the girls ever took any,
but the old man and I drank heartily and enjoyed ourselves
to the full. Little Mimi was very enthusiastic about sing­
ing, and she and I sang ' Poa, poa, poa' over and over again
to show our good will.
It finally ended up by my spending the whole night there,
surrounded by mamma, papa, and the daughters, all in
mamma's bed. It was really very nice, and we slept snugly
and soundly in our thick kimonos till daybreak.
I realize, of course, that a certain amount of this apparent
affection is politeness: remarks such as, ' We like you ­
We'll all be very lonely tomorrow' ;  but it can't all be.
When I left for my steamer, embarrassed at being their
guest for so long, I insisted on giving mamma a small pre-

dlien on the Hori'Z.(JIL
sent of money. This she accepted with a friendly smile, and
a perhaps not entirely disinterested request that I come
again, and bring friends.
She casually assigned to Hotso the job of carrying my
baggage to the dock. It didn't appeal to me that Hotso,
who, besides being a woman, was four-feet-three and quite
fat, should bear my burdens, and, as the steamer was wait­
ing and as Hotso's strides were six inches long, my sacks and
I made the dock far in advance of our small escort. I found
a half-dozen ranking police officers, including my friend the
chief, on board the ship to say good-bye to me. They were
there, I think, partly out of politeness, and also, perhaps, to
make sure I had departed.
After a sad parting from the tearful Hotso, who had
faithfully toddled along after me all the way to the dock,
the Shanghai Maru glided out of the crowded harbor among
swarms of fish-sampans and other small craft. Even until
the very last, I could see the tiny specks of mamma, Fudi,
and the rest waving white towels from the roof for ' sayo­
nara.' It was touching, and I climbed up a little way into the
rigging to wave in return, much to the disapproval of my
clustering fellow passengers of the third class, and the
tawny, rope-coiling sailors.
At last the sunny green mounds of land were fading to the
northeast, and the molten sun had sunk into the Yellow Sea.

CHAPTER SIX
CHINA
NIGHT was upon us in our cavernous, teeming hold - a
long night of undulating disorder and crying of sloe-eyed
babies. In the morning I got up early and went on deck
to get the air. It was cold and blowing a gale. For the
first time, then, I knew why they call this the Yellow Sea.
The great seething waves were yellow, as if in a shallow
muddy river, and yet we were out of sight of land.
By afternoon, however, we were steaming into an estuary
through wide, flat lowlands, where hundreds of heavily
loaded junks and sampans lay anchored along the banks,
awaiting the arrival of cargo steamers. We pushed our way
through a cold wind and past bleak farmlands, seeing
numerous mud huts not far back from the banks, which, I
am told, are Chinese ice-houses.
After an hour or so there appeared large power plants,
with groups of Standard Oil tanks squatting on the flat
shores, and then the busy jetties and anchored ships and
warehouses behind which lay a great city along the river.
We are in the port of Shanghai. Huge steamers are all
about us - from Liverpool, New York, Batavia, Cape
Town, Rio. Hundreds of little Chinese boats, in spite of the

./lien on the Hori7.[JrL
bitter cold, are out trying to catch garbage from the big
ships or earning a few cents in ferrying someone across the
stream.
The water traffic is unbelievably dense - every sort of
craft, from the foreign freighters and British battleships and
bulky sailing barges to tiny rafts crowded with poor, shiver­
ing Chinese and laden with absurdly large cargoes of fire­
wood or cabbages. They are almost sinking, while gaunt
Chinamen try, with crude poles and oars, to balance them
in the raw wind. This great harbor scenes a pathetic strug­
gle on its waters, but the Chinese are well-used to the cold, I
guess, for they are clothed only in rags, with bare feet and
heads and hands - yet are chattering and cheerful, even
laughing among themselves, as they swarm to the scuppers
on their scavengerous errands.
Other Chinese boatmen, more fortunate, fly past on the
sterns of brightly painted cargo junks, jauntily clinging as
their picturesque red sails bend and dip to the squalls.
There are no sea-gulls to be seen anywhere. I suppose they
all starved to death centuries ago, under the desperate com­
petition of the Chinese.
The Shanghai rickshaw men are ragged and squalid be­
yond description, and as frantic as starving rats. I tried to
walk away from the dock, but they hounded me so, and
grabbed my arms, and so begged and howled, that I could
hardly move, so I succumbed and hopped aboard one of the
frail vehicles, with my baggage, and started for the Sailors'
Home.
The man in the shafts was a thin figure in ragged blue
cotton pajamas. He was barefoot, and the only covering on
his scarred shaved head was the tattered skeleton of a skull­
cap. But he didn't seem to mind the cold a bit, and dashed
onward over the hard pavement quite merrily, not even
bothering to sidestep icy puddles which lay across our
path.

China.,
Like all Orientals, he insisted that he knew just where I
wanted to go.
' My speakee Eenglish - sa vee all same,' he would say
whenever I tried to direct him. ' My takee you all same.'
He seemed terribly afraid of me, yet even more afraid
that I would think he didn't understand, and would abandon
him for another, and that he would lose his chance to earn
the ten cents Chinese money- four cents American- that
was the fare. He fairly cringed whenever I opened my
mouth to speak, and took me all over the water-front in cir­
cles before I could make him listen at all. Not a hair did he
turn at the biting gale. All the wretched creature thought
of was the four cents he would get when we reached our
destination.
We finally arrived, and I gave him twenty Chinese cents
- twice what he expected - for I thought he sorely needed
it. The rapacious soul, supposing me to be ignorant as to
the usual fare, then cannily tried to make me believe that I
owed him fifty cents. That, I am told, is the way of Chinese
rickshaw men. If you show them the slightest kindness,
they regard it as a sign of weakness and, far from being
grateful, they try to exploit you.
Shanghai is an international city. In the heart of this
great China port is a strip owned by the French, a British
and International section, and a walled Chinese reservation.
The predominating language seems to be English - at
least most of the signs are written in English; but the popu­
lation includes every race and nation'}lity on the face of the
earth. White Russians and British are in great abundance,
there is a good supply of Frenchmen, Americans, and
Hindus, and not a few Germans, Italians, Turks, Japanese,
and Australians, beside many other nationalities.
The cops are burly hirsute Hindus, who must look formid­
able to the obsequious Chinese.
Everyone you see on the
street seems to be of a different race, all speaking their

JHen on the Horiz..o1L
vanous languages and wearing their various styles of
clothes.
Just before I reached the Sailors' Home, there was an ac­
cident in the traffic, in which a White Russian, being pulled
by a Chinaman in a rickshaw, was run into by one of the
dodging, rubber-tired, Shanghai trolley cars driven by a
J ap. A Sikh cop was called to the scene, but could not settle
the dispute until two Australian bystanders pinned the
blame on a bus-driver, who turned out to be a Swede.
Sailors' Home. Almost the first thing I saw on entering this
ancient dwelling was a familiar face. It belonged to Gus,
the fellow who brought me sandwiches when I was in the
brig on the ship coming down from Alaska. He had much
to tell, and it seemed great to see him again. Later, I ran
across another friend - this one from Cambridge, Mas­
sachusetts. It isn't hard to believe what they say about
this place : that you will see everyone you've ever known if
you stay long enough in Shanghai.
December 6. After a rather itchy night at the hands of some
sociable bed- and other bugs, I started in a rickshaw to
catch a train to Hangchow, a hundred per cent Chinese city
which is about four hours' ride away. To direct my coolie to
the station, I made vivid imitation of the noise of a train,
and was none too sure of its effectiveness as the cringing in­
dividual, like all his kind, said only, ' My savvy, my savvy,'
and trotted onward in a manner utterly desperate and ir­
responsible.
In the station at last, the crowds were tremendous ­
ragged, chattering Chinese by the hundred, all with great
bundles. Some of the bundles would become separated
from their less bulky owners, and much hysterical jabbering
and scrambling would ensue. Everything was turmoil and
confusion - and bundles. The law, I think, limits the size

China.
of hand luggage at eighty cubic feet, or four hundred
pounds in weight, but the law apparently cannot be en­
forced.
The temperature of third-class cars in China in winter is
nothing to make a song about. A raw wind blows through
them like a blizzard, and you have to rely on animal heat
from your ragamuffin buddies to keep from freezing. We all
huddled on four parallel benches which ran the length of the
car - and were a merry bunch considering the circum­
stances - not bashful about snuggling in each other's laps.
Once in a while a man would come around selling crackers
and green tea in thimble-cupfuls. It was almost a necessity,
and cost next to nothing, so we all indulged heavily, making
the usual Chinese sucking and blowing noises as we guzzled.
Some of my comrades were frightfully accomplished in the
art of spitting, and some did things that made me less un­
happy about the fresh breeze, however cold.
A Chinese woman with a baby seemed to think nothing of
merely holding it out over the aisle on certain occasions,
and, on more serious occasions, she held it out of the win­
dow. All in all, we were an informal party.
Outside the open window we could see, drifting by, a flat

o.Men on the Horiz..on..,
country with little mud farmhouses and fields of frosted
cabbages and rice straw. There were strips of woods here
and there, and meandering stream-beds, but for the most
p&rt it was an open lowland, a great flat valley and delta,
which the centuries of rain and wind from the rough moun­
tains to the west have carried through the gorges to pile
here inch by inch. The ground was frosty in the crisp morn­
ing light ȉ this ground that is so fertile that it is called the
'Garden of China.'
On all sides were evidences of ancient civilization, irriga­
tion canals, old paved paths, and wide expanses of grave
mounds. As we went further, gently sloping hills appeared,
and these were veritable forests of graves. The cemeteries
extended frequently over many square miles of good farm­
land, becoming, I should think, no meager liability to the
neighboring landowners. But a grave is sacred above all
else to those ancestor-worshipers, and they will never trans­
gress its sanctity.
This characteristic U this blind adherence to tradition in
various forms, this superlative conservatism Ū is, I believe,
responsible for most of the poverty and backwardness of
these Asiatic peoples.
It is so in Japan T in the extreme
suspicion which the humbler laborers, especially farmers,
hold toward any new or more efficient tool or machine Ū
and it seems even more so here.
There is no national consciousness here Ω no national
ambition strong enough to counteract the Chinese peasant's
religious mania to follow exactly in the footsteps of his dei­
fied great-grandfather. This religion frustrates all efforts
at progress, abhors everything new, binds the vision of a
people essentially to a past which, no matter how bad,
they consider perfection.
Hangchow was at one time the seat of government under
the emperors. It affords a realization of the religious ex-

ChintL
travagance of these people. No matter what you want to
see, they show you a temple; and you can't turn your eyes
without confronting another temple. These are not cheap,
hastily built structures, but as gorgeous as they are ubiqui­
tous, and their fa<;ades are dazzling with red, purple, and
gold.
In one place I saw a gigantic temple in process of con­
struction. It was of reenforced concrete and its cost must be
comparable to that of any great cathedral of Europe.
I also witnessed, within a vast shrine garden, an elaborate
service for the repose of a departed soul. This pre-burial
ceremony was on its sixth day, and due for many more, the
exact number being decided by a special high priest who
names the burial date. He is considered an expert on the art
of interpreting the moods of the gods. Daily - until the
day he makes his decision - he is consulted as to whether it
is yet the politic time for the burial. Considering the large
fee received by this pontiff each time his invaluable advice
is given, it is easy to understand why Chinese corpses re­
main so long above the ground.
A long procession of priests in silken robes marched about
the garden, occasionally halting to set fire to baskets of
paper money intended to finance the deceased on his jaunt
to kingdom come. They also ignited paper knights on
horses, paper models of cattle, food, of junks - in fact, of
everything that might be of service to a lonely traveler in
the Chinese hereafter.
As the priests trooped on and on in serpentine arcs, set­
ting fire to all sorts of paper absurdities, waving their mys­
terious charms and performing other ceremonies, they
seemed to be a bit absent-minded. Poor fellows - after six
days of it, they must be pretty thoroughly fed up.
Chinese gods are not accredited with very acute powers of
observation. Paper models can be passed off on them for
the real thing with no trouble at all, and the most superficial

..lien on the Hori'{orz...
of solemn appearances is tendered confidently as genuine
reverence.
Beyond the garden was a mighty hall containing statues
of revered dead. These were meticulously sculptured, and
all coated in real gold leaf. There must have been two or
three hundred of them, and they were life-size.
After all these squanderous displays, how can one wonder
at the poverty of the Chinese? The only people who appear
to be well off here are the priests, and a few of the less hide­
bound merchants. I went through the private garden of one
of these last, and saw its bridges and fish pools and chiseled
masonry. It was but a part of his luxurious circumstances
and was open to the public at a certain hour each day - to
add, I suppose, to the owner's prestige.
Then, walking along the lakeside, I saw numbers of raw­
boned farmers out on their rafts, grubbing in the icy muck
and water for a little fertilizing water-weed. They were al­
most naked, and gaunt with famine.
Such are the contrasts of China.
Farmers constitute about ninety per cent of the popula­
tion. They are, as a class, wholly illiterate, and densely ig­
norant of all but the most primary principles ofagricultural
science. To make matters worse, they marry early and
raise the large families necessary to filial piety. And then,
for the coveted honor of having five generations living
within the same walls, they restrain their boys from going
out to earn a living, and make them struggle along on the
local resources.
When droughts or floods come, they make no attempt to
prevent or to prepare for their recurrence, but, with cheerful
piety and in great numbers, they dry up or drown. The
patriarchal system was deified to preserve Chinese civiliza­
tion - not to advance individual well-being. It is tough on
the Chinese farmer.
In the heart of bustling Hangchow again, I visited an old

China.,
Chinese pharmacy, where gruesome drugs and lotions are
for sale. They sell mud pills, and, out in back, keep a pen
for deer, from the antlers of which they make a very popu­
lar powder for prolonging life. l\Iud is a very important ele­
ment in this pharmacy. Besides the pills, the building,
floor, and counters are all made of mud - as are most of
the houses in rural China. It is an excellent building ma­
terial, easily got at, cheap, warm in winter, and cool in
summer.
Also of mud, and twenty feet high, is the wall around the
missionary's home where I went to tea. ' To keep out the
rebels, who sometimes rampage through these parts,' he
said casually.
Walking back to the station, through alleys, narrow and
winding and pitch-dark, I would come to a dim, lighted
window, and could see the huddled Chinese within. In their
bare, dirty, mud-floored room, their squalor revealed by the
light of a feeble candle, grouped darkly on the floor, eating
or working, they are apparently most cheerful and merry
together, and always chattering sociably.
I can't help but admire their spirit. They are well­
mannered though low-born, they have poise and even a
certain dignity in spite of their squalor, and they can smile
in the most overwhelming adversity.
On returning to Shanghai, I arrived in the middle of a
riot-not a bad riot, but the Chinese kind, full of vitupera­
tion and jabbering. Soldiers were trying to disperse a mob
of laborers from around the railroad station. As it was after
midnight, and the riot in a dull stage of its development, I
went home to bed. Next morning, I read in the papers that
it had been a communistic uprising, awl that, after I had
gone home, the jabbering had given way to some excited
shooting in the safe and insane Chinese manner.
Shanghai, December 7. Yesterday I met, through a friend,

..lfen on the Horizon..
Loy Chang, a thin, neatly dressed, modest individual, who
is the right-hand man of the Nationalistic finance minister.
We had tiffin together, with several other Chinese politi­
cians of the Nationalist administration. I found Mr. Chang
had been educated at Harvard University, and that many
of the men present - and others in the Nationalist govern­
ment - had been to Harvard or Yale. We sat around a big
circular table of Chinese food, and listened to stories about
the rebels.
The food consisted of curries and suey salad mixtures,
which appeared in a continuous stream until we were
stuffed. They then passed around hot towels, to wipe off the
guzzle splash, which is inevitable when one eats as we do in
China.
Chinese table etiquette seems kind of exotic on first
acquaintance. It involves a great deal of gurgling and a
frank exuberance of mastication. Appreciation of the hosfs
food must be expressed beyond shadow of doubt. With this
in mind the guests submerge all restraint in a demonstration
of gastronomic lust. Lest the host feel slighted, they take
pains to maintain a high standard of recklessness in their
gobbling and gulping, which sounds, the while, like a herd
of cows getting out of a swamp. Resulting indigestion •s
indicated by formal belchings and polite regurgitations.

China.
The man I sat next to, a Chinese labor administrator,
besides being no slouch with chopsticks, was a most garru­
lous personage - and keen. His eyes, which have developed
great flexibility, due to the spasmodic pressure upon them
from within as he raves, seem to be a sort of thermometer of
his brain. By watching closely the dilations of his bulbous
eyeballs, you can read between the lines of what he is say­
ing, even when it is in singsongy Chinese.
Although not excessively fat, he is round in every possible
sense - shoulders, arms, legs, head, nose, ears, eyes - and
how he loves to talk! His attitude is distinctly paternal.
He has been connected with various rebel war lords at one
time and another before he became affiliated with the Nan­
king outfit, and of these past acquaintances he seems
violently proud. For Feng, the present outstanding rebel
general, he feels particular admiration.
' General Feng - he good fren' of mine,' says the labor
administrator. ' I  on his staff - long time. Way up in
Taiyuen two years ago. We very poor then - famine.
Feng, he had hard time to get food for the soldiers. Some­
time caravans of camels with provisions come across Mon­
golia from Russia to help, but only in long, long time. Feng,
he say, "We mus' grow opium, and sell to get provisions."
Feng never let soldiers have opium for themselves, but he
grow it to exchange to get provisions. Feng very wise.
Feng good man. But sometime Feng very fierce.'
None of these Nationalist government officials seem
antagonistic to the rebels, but are inclined to take them as
a joke. Although these men are, of course, back of their own
government, it is mainly for the sake of stability, as they
all admit that the Nan king regime has many weaknesses,
and that Feng could probably do just as well.
In spite of their casualness, however, they are extremely
shrewd in their methods of promoting in China a democratic
and centralized form of government. They realize that it is

Ulien on the HorizotL
a long way from the rule of village great-grandfathers over·
illiterate and tradition-bound descendants, to the admin­
istration of a president, chosen by popular vote, over
four hundred million people of growing education and
individuality. In order to tide the people over this gap, an
opportunity is offered them to transfer their jolted filial
piety and ancestor worship to the Nanking government.
Dr. Sun Yat-sen, father of the Chinese Republic, is be­
coming a god. His vast but simple tomb is a temple, one of
the most beautiful, most sacred in the world. His widow, of
the Soong family, is the sister of Mrs. Chiang Kai-shek,
wife of the president, and also of T. V. Soong, the finance
minister, and is related to other members of the cabinet,
most of whom are of one blood. It is to this privileged
administrative family of Soongs that the Chinese people
are encouraged to transfer their filial allegiance until they
reach a condition of mind in which they can listen to teach­
ings that 'exaltation of the past is superstition ' without
going completely berserk.
As far as I can make out, the political upheavals and in­
terminable civil wars in China have, to date, .affected the
mass of the people not at all. The only effective govern­
ment that the Chinese have ever been generally conscious
of is the local rule of the patriarchs in each community,
which rule is not changed in the least by the campaigns and
varying fortunes of the war lords. The central government
is not, and never has been, more than a remote, impersonal
symbol. The Chinese emperors gesticulated and exploited,
rather than governed. When the emperor's tax collectors
came around, the people submitted, as they would submit to
a flood or a famine - as they always submit to every im­
personal form of oppression.
Except through indirect
taxes, the people had practically no contact with a central
power.
When an army takes possession of a province and de-

China..
poses its governor, the people are only passively interested ;
this happens often and matters not the slightest to them or
to their real sovereigns, the village great-grandfathers.
Once in a long while the soldiers do a bit of ravaging here
and there, but everybody is used to bandits, who are always
lurking in the open country, and the ravaging is hardly
noticed. It is always necessary to travel in force when
going from town to town, as a protection from bandits, so
a few rebel soldiers as an added menace are immaterial.
All in all, China is not nearly so unstable politically as it
seems if you judge by reports of revolutionary activities.
Official bulletins, and especially newspaper reports, in
China are absurdly exaggerated. After a skirmish, each
army delights in fabulous accounts of the desperation of the
struggle, the destruction wrought, and the numbers of slain.
This is natural enough, for self-respect, ' face,' the posses­
sion of reputation and public esteem, is an inordinately
important thing in Chinese psychology.
\Vithout it, neither an army nor a man can succeed, so
it is as important to the armies as to their leaders that the
battles should be represented as terrific - the slaughter
immense - and the results vital to the cause.
Newspapers cooperate, for obvious journalistic reasons,
in these extravaganzas; so it is no wonder that a few military
scrimmages are heralded as an Armageddon, or then some.
The truth means little here; the great virtue in this super­
social country is ' face.'
' Face ' is the possession of reputation and public esteem.
It is the standing, the approbation a man commands in the
minds of his associates. ' Face ' is a Chinaman's self-respect,
and self-respect is as precious to him as is ours to us. It
depends, however, not, as does ours, on a man's knowledge
of himself, but on the estimation of him by his neighbors.
If he loses their regard - if he loses ' face' - he is
utterly undone. This is a logical development in a civiliza-

x66
..Hen on the Horizon..
tion based, not on the individual, but on the subversion of
the individual to public opinion and mass convention.
As ' face' is essentially a false standard of worth, it has
developed along the lines of superficial appearances. ' Face'
has come to mean, not what his fellow-men think of a man,
but what they appear to think of him.
It is on this insecure basis that the Chinaman builds his
dignity - his self-respect. One must not forget this im­
portant fact, for Chinese life and Chinese psychology seem
alien and inexplicable unless you understand this concep­
tion of what a man values most in himself. If you have
realized this racial idea of ' face,' you will see it working
through all things Chinese - in private and public life, in
domestic and foreign policy, in social and commercial stand­
ing.
To lose ' face' is so serious a matter that, when a Chinese
has been caught at some nefarious undertaking, and has
ducked behind a screen of bluster and transparent lies, his
friends, always, and sometimes even his enemies, will
politely accept this fabrication - although the discredit­
able facts be as obvious as the neck on a giraffe.
From rickshaw coolies and house boys, right up through
all grades of the social structure to China's national attitude
toward foreign powers, this idea of ' face' is the basis of
Chinese psychology. To lose ' face ' - to admit individual
inferiority or to accept the idea that you have failed in
Chinese standards of personal dignity- is what Chinamen
- or China herself - hates and fears more than anything
in life.
To accept a gift, for instance, to the Chinese way of
thinking, is a concession, and carries with it a dangerous
implication of inferiority for him who accepts it. To main­
tain sure self-respect, he must take the offering disdain­
fully, gloating haughtily over the submissiveness of the
giVer.

China.,
The rickshaw man, accordingly, if you give him in pity
more than his fare, immediately makes further and exorbi­
tant demands upon you - to save his ' face.'
Even the central government, in dealing with foreign
powers, conforms to this tradition. \Vith great condescen­
sion does China accept the surrendering by the powers of
their extra-territoriality rights on Chinese soil. The more
these treaty rights are generously relinquished, the more
China demands and the more haughty becomes her
manner.
She regards any renunciation of extraterritoriality as a
sign of weakness in the foreign powers, and believes that soon
China will be ruling the world. When the United States
tells her that it wants ' not a foot of Chinese land but only
China's good will.' the Chinese pretend that we realize
their ' great power' and desire their favor as protection for
ourselves.
It is absolutely necessary for them to pretend this - to
save their ' face.'
Very late at night, on my way home through the dark
labyrinth of streets, I saw hundreds of scrawny rickshaw
coolies wandering about in the darkness, looking for fares.
It was after one o'clock and the streets practically empty,
yet there they were, gliding like vulture ghosts through the
shadows, hunting for a crumb.
Outside a little bar into which an English sailor had gone
for a drink of beer, I counted nineteen of them, waiting,
pacing tirelessly back and forth in the cold, in the forlorn
hope that he would use them when he came out. He might
stay in the bar for hours, and the chances of any given one
of them getting him as a fare - if he used a rickshaw at all,
which is not likely - were about one in a thousand ; yet
even that faint possibility kept them there, hovering up
and down, up and down, straining their ghastly skeletons

..Men on the Hori-zotL
hour after hour through the bitter night - on this most
barren hope of a Chinese ten-cent piece.
It was pathetic - and terrible.
On the Sado Maru - bound for Hong-Kong - third class. I
am now in the bowels of this small Japanese ship, steaming
down the coast toward the South China that I must see. I
have a tiny compartment with a Chinaman and a Hindu.
The Chinaman is very mysterious. He spends all day play­
ing a sort of solitaire on our table with weirdly marked
disks of red and white bone.
The Hindu, with dark eyes and the customary long black
beard, is a very agreeable fellow. He says little except his
prayers, and them very regularly and often. But he smiles
a lot, and hunts for bedbugs with the highest standards of
sportsmanship. I like him very much, but neither of us can
make the Chinaman out at all.
The Chinaman, when he first gets up in the morning, looks
fierce and dominating, but, as the day wears on, he looks
meeker and weaker till, in the evening, his vitality is so
low that he seems scarcely to breathe at all - as he slowly,
slowly shifts around his disks of bone.
I wonder about him - this strange being. What is he ­
what can be his part in life? I wish he spoke English.
At the entrance of Hong-Kong tall islands rise before you
- brown grassy mounds, bulging above Gothic cliffs of
black rock. Here and there are Chinese sailing junks, heel­
ing to the northeast breeze as they tack through the canyon
channels. Built for vast cargoes, they are wedge-shaped
with wide, high sterns and a tiny platform at the top where
a sailor stands at his long rudder or tightens the sheets of
the broad bamboo-ribbed sail above him.
The cliffs become pink and light gray - the sun has
come out, and we are in a big arena of bare mountainous

i"HE PRI N C I PLES
OF
CHINESE
CtiAilACT£R
WRITING-
S V N
MOON
MOUNTAIN
TREE
GOD
MAN
WOMAN
C H I L D
HAND
MOUTti
ROOF
F I S H
D O O R
W E L L
-s-
·
-
.

,.g

.i
j_
et
*
-f
-
.... ...
..f2_ SLINRISE t=u:'.J
·:0:·
9)/
SRI GHT ['vO:j
_.tr
FOREST [,::;,j
j
A FRIENDSHIPP] ""'
0 FACE [;:;-:::., -:.J n
WORDS r;:=.:;J
SPEECH['y.'.:-]
\
Goo 1> [:wxzAid]
t'
PEACE '-'"":A:'_)
"9.J> JEALOUSm":':,)
:9-t TRfACHEROUS{.':.:.J !(p
q_k
VNCANNYt=:;j Ql
M
FI&HT{:;:.:-:;.J fir
t o CLOTHES * J
.Fe
CORPSE JfT
J:. ,rm, TO GET ON A HORSE L
tli a. N O  PARL IAMENT J:rl a f!:j K
- c-Ó ..... w.N -
r .. - _ _  ... _ -- _ -.. ·TJ
Chinf.&f: Wl'ittng h £11togrf:p)l(c., 100t ph•Mti:c..
Therefore., &ltho .. g'-. tt (Ñ U$d '"
.l•p•" 41\Ò •/J pvtF of Ch.i.l\1.0 i.h f>"'I\11.1\ciatGol\ V<ilr{u wi.U. the ""'"fi;>'OtU <lialteh.
h thcl't t&" "• llO llph•l>lti.u.l iruitx ·OI"' d'(r.UIIn&r)' tn tll(.a; wr£tinJ1 t.:h:r-&cy '"'o".S
orC:eÕo,tals l!. s)o .. in 5pl"u.Oi.I\J.

cAien on the Hori-zon..
islands, at which all manner of ships, large and small, are
docked. And on one especially lofty island, against its
mountain-side, lies the crowded city of Hong-Kong.
It is warm here, being south of the Tropic of Cancer, and
the mountain-side gullies are filled with a mixture of palms,
vines, and evergreen trees, sultry in aspect, but cooled by
the strong sea breeze.
In the main part of the city, near the quays, are tall
modern buildings, but where the precipices rise, in the
background of the city, the streets become steep, winding
trails, and only the most tenacious little houses can cling
to them.
Hong-Kong, being an English settlement, is garnished
extensively with sporty-looking old Britishers in sun hel­
mets, being carried about in stretcher chairs by two husky
coolies, one in front and one behind, who walk along with
measured step. The spasms of the supple bamboo poles
across each shoulder keep the dignified passenger in a con­
stant state of rising and falling, while the primitive vehicle
croaks out a hoarse ' oomph - oomph - oomph ' with every
stride.
Hindus here, as in Shanghai, seem to be given the jobs
where physical power is requisite. They are cops, ticket­
takers, watchmen, doormen, bouncers - anything which
will capitalize their burliness. And very impressive they
are - as they stand with arms folded, gazing at you out of
somber, deep-set eyes.
i\lany things are different here from North China. Not
only is the climate warmer, but the people are of a slightly
different race and speak a different language. They are as
Chinese as around Shanghai, but the foreign component in
their blood is Malay rather than Tartar. Their eyes seem
less narrow, and they look more shrewd.
I have been watching a great gang of coolies engaged in
constructing a big building in the middle of the city. Their

China.,
working methods are characteristically Chinese.
Unlike
Occidental laborers, who are comparatively business-like
and serious when at work, these Chinese are always chatting
and joking in a highly sociable manner.
They never hurry and are never anxious to be effective.
Their chief aim seems to be companionship. Needless to
say, they don't do much work, and you need ten of them
to fill the place of two or three \Vestern laborers, but their
pay is so low that they are well worth while to the em­
ployer - and so, everybody is satisfied.
I marvel at the amount of joy they seem to get out of life.
It is very hard to understand at first, but I think they win
to it through the elements of leisure and sociability. Never
do they get worn out, or nervous and irritable, because they
do nothing according to schedule or under pressure. Their
pace and path are their own, and they are surrounded by
their friends.
When, for instance, a coolie has the job of wheeling
bricks from one place to another, he does not set to work
and steadily and mechanically plod back and forth with his
wheelbarrow, more or less unconscious of the rest of the
world, as we do in America. No; he keeps in close touch
with his fellow workmen - he is always joking and con­
versing with them.
If he feels a little tired of pushing his wheelbarrow, he
sets it down and talks for a while, and perhaps gets some­
body else to take it until he is rested. He changes his task
often, relaxes often, and is always chatting. This, I think,
is why he can work for such long hours, and is content with
such meager compensation. As long as his Chinese self­
respect is shielded from any rude impact, like a driving
foreman or a rigid time schedule, all he asks is to be among
comrades. It is very simple - and he is happy.
In the world there seem to be three main forms of what is
considered necessary to happiness. One, as in America, is

o.Men fJn the Horiz..on..
material possessions; the second, as in the tropics, is leisure ;
and the third, as here in the Orient, is companionship.
Hong-Kong-December I I. Today, as I was on my way to the
dock with some luggage in a rickshaw, a Chinese boy on a
bicycle ran into my coolie, cutting the latter's foot. The
bawling-out that resulted was stupendous - such ferocity
of expression, such waving of arms, such language ! The
coolie's resentment was that of a man crippled for life, and
in a fury he kicked the frightened little boy, and wouldn't
let him have his bicycle.
Humiliation to personal pride
could apparently be redeemed in no other way.
The boy, for his part, saved his ' face ' by blaming some­
one else who, he claimed, had pushed him into us- and so the
squabble continued.
Finally, my coolie, to bulwark further his threatened
' face' in the eyes of the onlookers, pulled a piece of paper
out of his pocket, sat down right where he was in the middle
of the street, borrowed a match from a bystander, and set
fire to the paper. I wondered what in the world the fellow
was up to, but he let it go out again straightway, and then,
while all the crowd were offering their jabberous versions
of the causes and cures of the difficulty, he rubbed the ashes
carefully and thoroughly into his wounds.
Having thus
indicated the seriousness of his injuries, and being further
sustained by another long and fierce harangue at the de­
pravity of the little boy, his ' face' was saved. We then
went on our way.
They tell me that of all the cities of China, Canton is the
most utterly Chinese.
It is admittedly one of the most
densely populated places on earth. To make things more
interesting, there is a war going on a few miles north of it,
and I am very anxious to se what a Chinese war looks like.
So last night, after dark, I set forth for Canton, an over-

China.
night journey by boat up the river from Hong-Kong. The
wharf where I embarked was strewn with the ragged bodies
of sleeping coolies, whom I had to step over before reaching
the gangplank of the Fatchan.
Soon we were off and weaving among little shadowy
islands in the blackness, while the lookouts chattered on
the bridge, perhaps discussing the prospects of meeting
pirates - not unknown in these waters.
The Chinese lookout system seems strange after the one
I've been used to. Instead of having one man pacing
drearily back and forth by himself, they, as would be ex­
pected, have three or four who stand in a little group and
jabber about things of interest seen ahead. This is another
example of how Orientals can change a dull and lonely duty
into a cheerful social event.
With the morning appeared Canton, and never have I
seen such a crowded place. There is more of a vortex of
minor industry here than even in Shanghai. Canals are
jammed with sampans, loading, unloading; people are living
in them and eating their breakfasts of fish and cabbage,
tossing the scraps to their little brown chow dogs.
I boarded an empty sampan to look it over. They are
wonderfully made crafts. The roof, cylindrical as on a
covered wagon, is made of woven straw and bamboo in
sliding sections which telescope within each other, and the
small space in the stern not reserved for cargo is full of
intricate shelves with pots, pans, tools, food, and cordage.
Although the canals and street gutters in Canton are in­
tensely septic, most of the people, especially the girls, have on
clean clothes and seem to be healthy.
Certainly everyone gets plenty of exercise. I have never
seen busier people anywhere. Every soul is doing something
intensely, either carrying a load, often two or three times
his own size, on his back, or selling something, or building
something. Even the women, when not carrying babies,

.Men on the Hori'{?rL
have great bales on their shoulders. I saw one with a load
which must easily have weighed two hundred pounds ȉ a
tremendous bundle of bamboo.
The whole street seems a congested mass of motion and
cheerful chattering and singing. And there are a lot of
jingling and humming and clanging and tinkling noises.
Each kind of sound means something. The barber makes
a twang on a certain kind of spiral-shaped wire, the book­
seller rings a little bell, the meat man blows a horn, and so
on ; so, if you want anything, it is very simple to find it.
All you have to do is to remember what kind of noise it is
advertised by, and your ears will lead the way.
In addition to all the mechanical noises, there is a great
deal of singing by the laborers who carry loads and who
sing Ū to gain coordination in their work Ū simple chants
of a monotonous rhythm.
As everywhere in China, there is a local coinage here. The
only way, as far as I can see, to tell what a piece of money is
worth, is to hold it up in front of a coolie. His eyes will,
of course, begin to bulge, but you will notice that they
bulge more at the sight of higher denominations than of
lower. So, after a little experience of relative bulging, you
can tell pretty accurately what each piece is worth.
In spite of its squalor, Canton is beautiful. It is full of
vegetation of many kinds, winding canals, old stone arches,
and temple ruins; and the people themselves are picturesque
in their graceful boats and crude ox carts.
Walking through the quaint, busy streets, I set out to the
northward toward the open country, to see something of
the Nationalist army which is said to be engaged in a fierce
war with the rebels a few miles from here. The narrow,
muddy alleys presently led to broad roads, the squalid by­
standers dwindled in numbers, the plastered houses be­
came more scattered, as I approached the outer limits of the
city.

China.
There were many soldiers wandering about, most of them
very ragged and clad in uniforms which would scarcely
pass, at home, for an imitation of a Boy Scout's outfit.
Their caps were made principally of cardboard - a very
poor quality of cardboard at that - and their coats of a
cloth resembling cotton gauze smeared with brown paint.
It is no mystery to me that Chinese soldiers are in rags after
the first rain.
As I came at length to a large crossroad, I saw several
dozen soldiers waiting beside a supply store. They glanced
at me suspiciously and I could hear them jabbering with
one another, speculating as to my purpose and intentions.
In a few seconds they all started in my direction, trotting
in huddled formation, and with their bayonets held out be­
fore them. I was apparently about to be taken by storm,
for, having no weapons but a pocket knife and an innocent
expression, and not knowing whether the raiders were rebels,
bandits, or Nationalist soldiers, or what to do about it
whatever they were, I was in no position to make a stand.
Surrounded, I was ordered to put up my hands, while four
of my captors went through my pockets, and the others, in
a most distrustful manner, kept their guns trained on me.
My little camera seemed to cause the searchers great
worry. None of them could diagnose it, and all displayed
great caution in handling it. At last, however, one old
fellow, who seemed extraordinarily versed in worldly wis­
dom, convinced them that it did not contain high explo­
sives - and so I was allowed to go on my way.
Except for the groups of soldiers who were wandering
about in the outskirts of the city, I could see no signs of war
anywhere. The alleged ' great battle' against the rebels,
now in process half a dozen miles distant, was apparently
functioning without either aircraft or artillery.
Utter
silence was broken only by an occasional squad of be­
draggled Chinese soldiers, young boys in faded cheap uni-

.Afen on the Hori-zotL
forms, trudging drearily home from the ' battle.' All looked
tired and irresponsible, but I saw no wounded anywhere.
A missionary acquaintance of mine who has actually
witnessed a Chinese ' battle' says that the opposing armies
remain a mile apart and excitedly blaze away at each other.
' Their guns,' he says, ' have an effective range of about half
a mile.'
The country around Canton impresses me with its vast
emptiness.
I've always heard that this was one of the
most thickly settled spots in the world, but it is surpris­
ingly wild and barren.
The hills, being no good for rice or
cabbages, seem to go to waste and remain a wilderness of
dry grass, ideal for grazing land.
But conservatism and
tradition prevent what would be, here, a novel enterprise.
In the evening, I went to a Chinese theater: a long room
full of people, with a slightly raised stage at one end, with­
out scenery or curtain. The acting was practically all pan­
tomime, and plenty was left to the imagination of the audi­
ence.
The orchestra looked like a bunch of carpenters,
sawing, chopping, and hammering away on most primitive
instruments, but the music was strangely soothing, with a
sort of monotonous Oriental fascination.
Between the acts they passed around steaming towels to
wipe our faces with.
Very refreshing after breathing that
stuffy atmosphere the whole evening.
Some of the acts lasted for hours - so long that the
actors seemed to be in need of recess. I noticed especially
two young Chinamen who were supposed to be prisoners
chained to a post. Having arrived at a rather fidgety state,
they began to edge slowly toward the side of the stage,
dragging the post with them. Gradually, in short wriggles,
calculated to avoid being conspicuous, they made over to
the end of the platform, where each in turn, with the utmost
solemnity, and entirely without furtiveness, leaned over
the edge and relieved himself. Then they wriggled back, as

China.
dignified as ever, to their position in the center of the stage
and continued with being prisoners chained to a post.
None of the animal exigencies common to mankind seem
to embarrass the Chinese at all. Calling as little attention
to them as possible, the poised Chinaman ignores, without
attempting to conceal, these unlovely occurrences.
A fat man in the front row of the balcony thought
nothing of spitting intermittently over the rail upon the
audience.
Too gripped by the intense excitement of the
play was he to consider the effect of his casual indulgence
upon the unfortunates below.
No one in the theater had
a greater air of dignity and refinement.
Next morning as I boarded the train for Kowloon where
I could take ship for Manila, I noticed a Chinese family,
an old mamma and three boys, who had been carrying
baggage into the train for a Hindu Gentleman. They had
evidently succeeded in bulldozing him into giving them
more than he should, for I saw them gloating in predatory
glee over the handful of coins they had received.
It is
queer the way Chinese go almost wild with the joys of
overcharging.

CHAPTER SEVEN
THE PHILIPPINES
Manila, P.I. After one day of steaming across the vast,
sultry, millpond of the China Sea, I awoke early this morn­
ing in Manila Bay. It is hot. The country seems very
similar to the Hawaiian Islands except that it is flatter and
there is more of it.
Manila is still a Spanish city in appearance and atmo­
sphere, with old buildings of smooth plastered masonry,
with courtyards and balconies. The people, while obviously
Orientals, show unmistakable traces of Spanish blood, and
the women wear bright shawls and dresses of Spanish lace.
Much here besides language and religion has come from
far-off Spain.
I drove from the dock in a little top-buggy, like a black
sunbonnet on wheels, drawn by a diminutive horse. There
were hundreds of buggies like it in the streets, and many
automobiles, and occasional big carts pulled by water buf­
falo. These animals are driven by a rope tied to each horn
and waddle complacently along flapping a hairy ear on
either side. It must be a dry life for a water buffalo - this
hauling loads of bamboo through hot, dusty streets.
Finally my buggy went through a tunnel piercing the

CJ'he Philippines
staunch old Spanish wall, and my little brown driver
pulled up to a crumbling plastered gateway. He said that
this was the cheapest lodging-place in town.
I found myself in a patio full of clotheslines, chickens,
monkeys, and flower-pots. Up the stone stairs on the broad
balcony sat the landlady, a fat, dusky old dame, fanning
herself in a rocking-chair, surrounded by an assortment of
timid-looking children. The house inside is made of white­
washed old boards, and is one big, high-ceilinged room with
six-foot partitions to form little compartments for sleeping.
The proprietor's family make rattan and bamboo furni­
ture in their ' factory' on the other side of the patio. The
kids don't take their work very seriously and wander about
playing with monkeys. Sometimes I hear the landlady
teaching a boy of six to say 'Gimme money' whenever he
sees a stranger. This innocent tot, being dressed in the
height of pathos, must add much to the family income.
This old Spanish house is charming. Last night I took
a bath, with two big buckets of water, out in a little alcove
off the moonlit balcony while, across the patio, the family
made music and the little girls danced on the wide piazza
at the head of the stairs. The abundant vines, flower-pots,
old mossy stone posts in the balustrade, and beyond, the
Filipino girls dancing, made a picturesque setting for my
prosaic activities. This family must have Spanish blood in
their veins, so well do they fit into these beautiful Spanish
surroundings.
Although they are exceedingly thoughtful and hospitable
to me, I cannot get on nearly as intimate terms with these
people as I enjoyed with my Nagasaki friends. Compared
to the Japanese I've known, these Filipinos are cautious
and unconfiding. This is due, I think, to the innate in­
feriority complex that is so prevalent among Filipinos that
it can be considered a dominant racial characteristic. It

x8o
..Men on the Horiz.on..
is an inheritance from the long subjugation of their
proud race.
Like other Orientals, they are not individualistic, and
their touchy pride is not that of an individual, but a mass
feeling. Denied normal expression, this pride of theirs takes
odd forms. They incline to aristocratic appearances, and
love to wear silk shirts, and will ' high-hat' foreigners if
they can, though perfectly polite if you are careful of their
feelings.
They are like the Japanese in that they have a strong
national consciousness and a patriotic desire to see their
people politically free - not because they feel badly gov­
erned, but from national egotism.
It is the implication in
foreign domination that they are an inferior race that
rankles, more than any sense of actual injustice. Except for
this inferiority complex, they are very like their cousins the
Japanese - patriotic, clean and neat, idealistic, sensitive,
and honest.
Very susceptible to suggestion, they are easily led. They
love crowded living conditions and will bunch together in
the most cramping proximity, even when there is plenty of
room.
As far as I can see, they have a very optimistic
philosophy, and feel that it is only a question of time before
they attain their national aims.
In the mean time, they
take their fun where they find it. Very fond of music, gam­
bling, and revelling, they make the best of things - while
watching with satisfaction their increasing self-government.
In the Manila Public Library today, I read some books
and articles by Filipinos, full of their native idealism, and
in which they discuss with frankness and intelligence their
own national traits. They ascribe their touchiness and pride
and their weakness of suggestibility to the fact that long
domination has denied them a chance to evolve and form a
stable character of their own.
In speaking of their adaptability, one of these writers
says:

'The Philippines
' What may appear to other Orientals as a weakness may
really be our strength, if we can preserve the good that is
our own - the valuable and useful practices and ideals
which our people have learned to cherish - and at the same
time gradually absorb from the civilization of the whole
world those things which, through experience, have been
found either useful or beautiful. It may be our good fortune
that our people, as well as their character, are the product
of the influences of both East and West, for they may thus
contribute a world outlook and point of view which will help
mankind to attain those conditions of good understanding,
good will, and justice, for which it has been struggling from
the beginning.'
Yesterday morning I set out to see something of Filipino
country life. On the train for Bauan, one hundred and
twenty-eight miles south of Manila, I joggled along over a
soft, low, rolling meadow land interspersed with frequent
groves of tall bamboo and occasional herds of long-faced
water buffalo wallowing in the swamps.
We passed through spacious rice-fields, and sometimes
vast stretches of sugar-cane. Much of this country could
be taken for Hawaii, with occasional little sugar mills, and
always, not far to the eastward, that irregular mountainous
horizon, barely seen over the feathery tops of bamboo
clumps, and silhouetted in hazy purple against the empty,
torrid sky.
The station platforms are lively with long-haired Filipino
girls selling eggs and fruit from wide baskets on their heads.
In the cab of an engine on a siding, the Filipino engineer
and fireman are singing gleefully together as if they hadn't
a care in the world. Even the responsibilities attending a
modern locomotive can't repress the Filipino spirit of child­
like merry-making.
Sometimes we come to great hilly palm jungles, where

.A1en on the Hori\(J1L
copra comes from, and sometimes rubber trees and coffee
bushes, until finally we draw near to the coast again. The
Filipinos in this train seem to be farmers and poultry men.
Judging by the noise, there must be at least fifty hens and
other fowls in the car.
As an example of the Filipino's love of being crowded,
on the seat opposite me sits a man with two roosters in his
lap. Wedged in on either side of him are two old women,
one holding a hen and one a baby. The next seat back of
this Oriental congestion is entirely empty.
I have made friends with a fellow who sits beside me.
He has the usual Filipino black eyes, dark, straight hair
slicked back, smooth cocoa-colored skin, and says he is a
law student. He is highly unoriginal in being interested in
the question of the independence of the Philippine Islands.
All educated Filipinos, when not thinking about food,
money, or the cosmic urge, are thinking about independence.
' It isn't fair,' he says, ' for the United States to deny
Filipinos their independence and, at the same time, to refuse
to grant them representation in Congress' - this being a
popular plea for independence broadcast by Filipino politi­
cians. In this and in all he subsequently said, my legal
friend voiced the ideas held generally by the intelligent
Filipino.
'The islands,' he said, ' have now a good, stable govern­
ment administered almost entirely by native Filipinos, and
I am positive that the Filipinos are able to govern them­
selves, entirely unaided by the U.S.A.' He admitted that
they had nothing to complain of in the present government
other than their lack of representation, and the injury to
their pride imposed by dependency. This last was so great
as to make happiness impossible to them as a nation.
There are Americans living here who say that the Fili­
pinos are hopelessly irresponsible, and incapable of govern­
ing themselves. But I am not so sure.

Cf'he Philippines
My diminutive friend asked me, as we swayed and rat­
tled into Bauan, his home town, to take lunch at his house,
and I accepted.
Bauan is a small village by the sea, made up of the usual
thatched huts on bamboo poles, and swarms of brown
people. In the streets wander, I suppose, every sort of
domestic animal known to man - except elephants. \Vhen
the drenching May-to-November monsoon hits these settle­
ments, it must be fine for the water buffalo - and I suppose
the turkeys and pigs go upstairs.
\\'alking up a narrow lane of flimsy huts, we came to a
house on a side hill, surrounded by tattered green banana
trees. Several small brown children, their loose white cloth­
ing barely covering their dusky torsos, leaned, gazing at me,
over the straw-woven window-sill. A little dog was playing
with a goat at the foot of the door-ladder, and we had to
push a couple of hens off the rungs as we ascended. Animals
were everywhere.
On reaching the top, I find myself in a sizable room and
surrounded by the stumpy relatives of my attorney friend,
all gazing suspiciously and intently upon me. My friend,
in his neat European dress, contrasts strongly with his
wrinkled mother in her loose-hanging drapery, and with the
multitude of scantily clad children of all sizes.
Introducing me briefly to his mother, whom he treats
rather disdainfully, he asks me to sit down at the table for
lunch, while the old woman nods, timidly receding into a far
corner. My host has an attitude toward his family which
plainly says, and with pride, ' Look at this guest I have
brought home. Note what a man of the world I am.' He
hardly deigns to look at these cowering spectators at all.
But to me he maintains a most gracious hospitality. I am
probably the only foreigner who has ever been in this hut,
and it is obviously an occasion.
As we seat ourselves, a couple of black pigs - the kind

::.Men on the Horin..
known as ' razor-backs' at home - come wandering in from
the uphill door and sit down under the table. Neighbors'
children appear and join the swarm of onlookers till there
are at least twenty kids standing around, watching my
every move. The meal is very good - mostly fruit and nuts
- but you have to be careful not to let things get too near
to the edge of the table on account of the pigs. Every time
you drop a crumb there is a wild rush for it, and the brutes
are very careless and clumsy in their movements. More
than once I think the table is going.
Afterwards I thanked my host for his very real hospi­
tality, and set out on a hike cross-country. I followed a
winding muddy lane in which wandered herds of hairy,
black swine, and sometimes Filipino farmers in huge som­
breros returning from the fields. Everyone I saw seemed
excessively timid and afraid of me. I would smile and make
signs of friendliness, but only the very boldest dared smile
in return. Most of them stared open-mouthed and edged
suspiciously away.
I crossed a corn-field lined with scraggly hedges of castor-

Cihe Philippines
oil bushes and long grass. There were beautiful sparsely
wooded hilltops about, and valleys patched and dotted with
bamboo groves and densely leaved trees. All the foliage was
glaring with the most vivid greenness, and full of the
tangled vines and creepers of the jungle. The heat was
fierce, a luxury of living warmth that deadened thought.
Sleepily, I sat down in the grass on a knoll, while crickets
chirped and trilled about me, bees hummed faintly, and
tiny, brightly colored birds cocked their heads from near-by
bushes, pausing in their sweet ecstasy of song.
I could see the deep blue ocean far down to the west­
ward, and, way-way off, a great mountain range on another
island, Mindoro, in the Sulu Sea. Miles away in the little
village could be heard the mellow tolling of the schoolhouse
bell in the old Spanish belfry --
I awoke, and ambled into the midst of a great bamboo
jungle. With the breeze, the thousands of slender yellow­
green poles moved weirdly with a sound li"ke creaking cord­
age. Farther on, I came to a hut where two dogs slept in the
sun and a woman washed clothes in a tiny pool. Within six
feet of them I passed - unnoticed.
Back in the village, I finally persuaded, by a long and
delicate process of friendly gestures, some little school kids
to toss their ball with me. After we once got going, their
suspicions disappeared altogether, and, before I knew it,
practically the whole population was on the scene, cheering
and clapping their hands.
One little boy wanted me to play pingpong. These chil­
dren all know some English, so conversation is not diffi­
cult.
' I  would like very much to play,' said I, whereupon my
diminutive and dusky companions led me to a hut over on
one side of the street, where, under the great matted eaves,
stood a pingpong table, complete in equipment, but about
one third the usual size. The whole swarm gathered about,

1 86
o.Men on the Hori'Z,prL
steadily increasing in numbers, and pressed so close that we
could not make side shots; but there was tremendous en­
thusiasm from the spectators, and laughter and applause
when the ball bounced off one of their little brown heads.
This friendly merriment over a childish game is sincere.
But don't think, for a moment, that it is more than one
facet of the character of these people, which includes every
complication of Oriental psychology.
The ancestors of these laughing villagers were Malays, a
fierce, ungovernable race of pirates, conquerors, and traders
along the equatorial shores of Asia, whose swift praus were
the terror of these uncharted waterways.
Mohammedan in religion, fatalistic in philosophy, they
swarmed upon these sultry coasts - human embodiments
of the fierce vitality and swift destruction of the environ·
ment that bred them.
They overran the entire Philippine archipelago, driving
the Negri to aborigines into the mountains - but not before
they had received an element of Negrito blood into their
inheritance. Later, a steady infiltration from China further
modified their 1\lalay characteristics, and gave an agricul­
tural permanence to their occupation.
Spain's conquest of these islands was as ruthless as any­
thing in their remote piratical past, but it varied with local­
ity, and she never entirely subdued the southern group. To
this day, they remain Mohammedans, living in small war­
like tribes.
But for centuries, upon the bulk of these primitive little
brown people her hand lay heavy, while her religion and
social mould closed down over their primitive customs.
Here, then, was a nicely complicated little racial, reli­
gious, and political problem ; and it was into this that the
United States, in 1898, most innocently and unintentionally
barged. For a generation since, we - as devoid of conquer-

CJ'he Philippines
ing ambition as any great nation has ever been, we with
democratic ideals and good intentions - have struggled to
negotiate a people of Oriental psychology and tropical tem­
perament, mixed in blood, primitive in development, utterly
alien to us in thought, and warped by centuries of sub­
jugation.
In our bewilderment at being here at all, we automati­
cally applied the process we were accustomed to use in
frontier lands: eliminated opposition to our intrusion, and
then proceeded to institute American ideas, in spite of the
fact that no Americans lived here or wanted to do so.
During this long period of unwelcome benefaction, of in­
stituting schools and sanitation and roads and parliamen­
tary ideas, we have constantly questioned our right to be
here, and our Filipino beneficiaries, stimulated by improved
conditions and more general education, have joined us
enthusiastically in that doubt.
In the mean time, here we are - seeking an objective too
much a part of erratic national idealism to be understood
by other nations - in a long task which could have been
negotiated consistently only by a subtlety we do not possess
or a ruthlessness we are not willing to employ.
We uncomfortably realize that our government here is
unsupported by our basic national principle that ' Govern­
ments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers
from the consent of the governed.'
But the authorities tolerate this discrepancy. They as­
sume that a future Filipino nation will award to our present
government a posthumous consent of the governed - in the
light of a prosperity and independence made possible and
secure by this period of American tutelage.
So here we stay - somewhat self-conscious and apolo­
getic - and looking forward, along with our Filipino
friends, to the happy day when we will go home whece we
belong.

.5Hen on the HorizorL
My pingpong game came to a satisfactory conclusion. In
every color of the prism, the sun was sinking into the Sulu
Sea. Dusk was stealing from under the banana trees, along
the ragged street of thatched houses, when I took my leave
of Bauan. Mothers called to their children, chickens flapped
up to roost, the sultry dark closed down upon the warm,
rich earth.
Sharing the innocent excitements of a game with merry
children is ended. Bauan, with the tropic night, withdraws
itself from me into its own remote life - which I cannot
share for long - which perhaps no white man can fully
understand.

CHAPTER EIGHT
NORTH CHINA
On board S.S. Tjikembang. At Hong-Kong, on my way
north to Peking, I boarded this Dutch ship Tjikembang,
bound from Java to Shanghai. Her name, when properly
pronounced, sounds like stumbling over a milk bottle in a
concrete entry, and means ' Flower River.'
There is one missionary aboard, and the other passengers
are Dutch, ] avanese, Hindu, and Chinese. Only Asiatics
are allowed to go steerage or second-class, which rule forces
me in with the first-class passengers, and for a remarkably
low fare.
I sit at the captain's table with three Dutchmen
and the missionary.
The first meal was very somber - the mammoth Hol­
landers gazed ominously into space, chewing steadily the
while and saying nothing. At the second meal, however, we
had beer, and a few gruff observations, mostly meteoro­
logical and gastronomic.
This afternoon, driving through a raw, frothy sea - the
kind where the wind has come up too suddenly for the
waves to rise and the water is all swept with spume - we
approached Amoy, one of our ports of call. The sky was
black, and the sea almost white with foam under an ill-

..Men on the Horiz,ptL
boding light, while pale cliffs stood out like teeth before the
murky hills.
Amoy is a medley of motion and traffic - as are all
Chinese ports - gliding sampans, dense throngs in the
streets, frenzied rickshaw men, coolies straining under gi­
gantic loads; everywhere the antlike industry of the Orient.
Soon we weighed anchor, and we are now at sea again,
ploughing steadily northward into the cold. Night has
come. Still continues that mysterious light on the surface
of the ocean. The foaming crests, like a million ghosts, are
gliding hissing past, filled with a strange green fire. They
shine - even to the horizon. Phosphorus I have seen many
times, but never the like of this. Even the phlegmatic
Dutch skipper is stirred about it.
' Nefer haf I seen such stuff like dot,' he grunts, 'nefer
een mine life.'
December 23. We are at the full mercy of the monsoon
this morning. The Tjikembang is prancing about like a wild
horse. The sea has become tremendous, and now roars past
us in staggering mountains and valleys. \Vhen we have
plunged into the depths of a vast watery crater, our whole
horizon is but one wave - a wild avalanche bearing down
on us- terrifying, overwhelming; a towering mass of water
with ruffles of white foam laced across its green immensity.
I lean on the poop rail, gazing at this dappled flood surg­
ing just beneath my nose, when suddenly there is a rever­
beration in the depths - a thunderous shudder, as if the
whole ocean were collecting its forces for attack. Then, as
if shot out of a volcano, our gigantic hulk is hurled with
terrifying force into the sky. There is a cruel sound of
stretching, rending iron. The entire foaming world drops
dizzily out of sight - I cling to the quivering rail - and in
an instant we are among the clouds. Our mighty hull is
standing on end. There is a shrill whir of propellers raised

1\f.,orth Chintt.,
momentarily out of water, and our stem seems to whip back
and forth in the empty air like a bamboo pole. Hatches
crash, heavy chains grind and clang; everywhere is a great
straining and creaking, as if our very keel would snap.
Then, with a twisting, writhing, sideways motion, we are
dropped hurtling into the abysmal hollows. The wind whis­
tles upward through my hair, salty spray sweeps stinging
past, and, with the stupendous splash of sixteen thousand
tons of iron, we are all but buried again in the hissing moun­
tains of spume. There is nothing in the world more beauti­
ful, nothing in the world more terrible than the sea.
A Chinaman in a skullcap sleeps in my room. Not once
has he been out of bed since we left Amoy, and he isn't sick
either. He just lies and smokes cigarettes and gazes at the
ceiling, and once in a while he reads a little. Peace is much
more to a Chinaman's liking than any kind of exhilaration,
which is why opium is preferred to alcohol. The Chinese
labor or exert themselves only for tangible reward or to
satisfy some powerful tradition - never for the pure pleas­
ure of exercise. A Chinese official in Hong-Kong, who was
witnessing for the first time a tennis match between two of
his foreign friends, remarked, ' Great game. But why not
pay coolies to do it, and sit at ease and enjoy it yourselves?'
Christmas Day. S.S. Roten Maru - outbound northward
from Shanghai for Tsingtao. When I landed at Shanghai, I
learned that the railroad from there to Peking was being
bombed by the rebels, so I have to go north by sea as far
as Tsingtao and from there, by a relatively unbombed
railroad, to Peking.
As I had a humble, third-class ticket on this boat, I
sought out the most squalid group of humans I could find
on the dock, thinking that they must be my companions in
destitution. But it appears that my eye for squalor is a bit
too keen. These wretches were bound for the fourth-class

o5Wen on the Hori7,JrL
quarters in which only Asiatics are allowed, and I was
shortly summoned upward to the third-class.
It was just as well. The fourth-class quarters consisted
of an excessively crowded portion of the well-deck, and
were occupied by Chinese, on their migratory way to Man­
churia, and who were not in a condition conducive to
snuggling.
Vaccination for smallpox, having been recently intro­
duced into China on a large scale, has prevented the dying­
off of countless millions of children.
Formerly sixty per
cent of all Chinese children died of it. In the old days, when
a census-taker came to a Chinese hut to count the members
of the household, he would perhaps see eight or ten children
playing about the floor. On inquiring of the mother as to
the number of children she had, he would be informed ' two '
or ' three.'
' How about all those there? '  says the census-taker.
' Oh, those!' from mamma. 'They haven't had smallpox
yet.'
Children, in those days, didn't count until they had sur­
vived this inevitable disease.
Vaccination, with other modern sanitary measures, has
thus increased the terrific pressure of population in Central
China, resulting in starvation, cannibalism, and all sorts of
appalling things. This crowd of destitute people are fleeing
from these conditions to the wide lands of Manchuria.
Before I left the fourth-class well-deck and its utterly
pathetic collection of human beings, I saw a Chinaman with
a f"ce that was pure horror. It has been eaten away by
syphilis. He has no nose at all ; his mouth is a tiny round
hole that he can neither open nor close; and his eyes are
mere dimples. His whole head is like a formless mass of
dough. And there are others --
One old man, when I first saw him, was evidently in
agonizing need of cocaine. By means of a safety-pin he was

1\f.,orth China.,
trying to inject the dope into his leg, but he shook so via­
len tly that he could hardly make a scratch. It was a ghastly
spectacle. When he finally got the stuff in, after what
seemed an age, he calmed down immediately. Then, as I
left him, an indescribably serene smile - like a shaft of sun­
light - formed across his ashen face. He was relieved ­
but I cannot forget that monstrous struggle.
I am now in the more bourgeois third-class, but at tiffin­
time there appeared little of interest to an Occidental stom­
ach. A couple of stout Chinese stewards were ladling out a
fetid vegetable substance resembling spinach mixed with
coleslaw. Neither the sight nor the odor of this delicacy
was stimulating, but if I wanted any Christmas dinner, I
must take it as it came. Wading through a mass of clamor­
ing Chinese, I secured a portion of the stuff and was pushing
my way out of the crowd when one of the Chinese stewards
advanced upon me, jabbering hysterically and brandishing
his dripping ladle.
He grabbed hold of my bowl. From the crescendo in his
harangue and the glare in his eye, it was obvious that I must
fight for my recently acquired Yuletide feast. Mine not to
reason why - so I took a firmer grip on the greasy con­
tainer while the other stewards rallied to the support of my

Jl.ien on the Horiz,p1L
assailant. Just as I was contemplating immediate engulf­
ment of my repast ere it be too late - from the deck
above, came a voice.
lHi zairl '
I glanced up the companionway to see a young man
beckoning to me with - a piece of ham !
' You, down zair, plees to come up - ve gif you good
deenir.'
Instantly I decided that ham was the better part of valor,
relinquished my hold of the Chinese idea of nourishment,
and hopped up to the deck above. There I found a group
of people who turned out to be White Russians, Eugene
Kirkor, his wife Tamara, and some others.
They were in the midst of a meal of ham, bread, and hot
dogs - to which they generously invited me. To this provi­
dential Christmas dinner, I added some of mamma's left­
over peanuts, and discovered that my friends were returning
to Tsingtao, where they lived, that they had not been in
Russia since the revolution, and that they did not regret
it at all.
' Arr you going to trry to go zroo Roosia? '  they asked,
astonished. 'Oh, no ! you must not do zat - you viii nefer
get out alife. Ve haf been zair - you must take our advice.
Ze commoonists arr cannibals - zey murdair you - zey
shoot you wenefer zey feel like ! You must not go !'
These White Russians were very intelligent, and quite sane
on all other subjects - but mention the communists, and
they became even wilder than they said the communists were.
With a fat, bald, bullet-headed man, one of Eugene's
friends, I played some chess during the evening. He was a
shrewd player, but he had a bad habit of taking back moves
when subsequent events revealed weakness in his position.
In self-defense, I adopted a similar policy.
' I  mus' take back zat las' move,' announces Humpty
Dumpty, 'eet was ver' stoopid.'

1\{,orth China.,
'Oh, yes,' I reply, ' and I'll take back that fool one of
mine.'
'Of courze, yes,' says he, 'and you won't mind, I am sure,
eef I take over again my move before zat, also. I made zair
a most zerious mistake.'
The game went backward faster than it went forward
and became practically interminable.
Never were people more kind to a traveler than Eugene
Kirkor and his wife while I waited at Tsingtao for my night
train to Peking. Poverty-stricken musicians and exiles as
they are, they gave me a big ham and egg dinner, a warm
room and their company. Like all the exiled and unhappy
of the world, they hope some day to get to America. Such
generous hearts would enrich any land.
Among other kindnesses, they show a grave concern about
the dangers of my trip north from here.
' You mus' have warm coat,' said Eugene. ' I  get you
one.'
With that he summons a Chinese house boy and details
him to haggle me an overcoat among the innumerable
pawnshops which line the street outside.
In and out of the shops we wander - the boy and I -
pricing, examining, expressing horror at the high price of
dusty old Chinese overcoats. The boy is very young, but,
being Chinese, is an expert haggler. \Ve walk out of shop
after shop, gradually getting the prices down : three hun­
dred, one hundred, sixty, twenty, ten, five dollars - con­
centrating only on the most humble coats.
At last we've found a coat, first priced at one hundred
dollars, which we've haggled down to three. When we have
walked out of the shop four times at this price, we realize
that it will go no lower. We buy the coat. Of fairly heavy
wool, with short loose sleeves in Chinese style, it is to be
my closest friend for many months to come.

./Wen on the Horiz.on..
Two hours of stampeding around with a lot of frowsy
third-class passengers in the station, and being corraled by
ragged gold-braided soldiers with daggers, I finally, in the
middle of the night, boarded my train - the most dilapi­
dated so far, and icy cold. The lights would not go on, the
benches were mere splintery boards, a few inches wide, that
momentarily threatened to fall apart, and everyone, of
course, had his maximum cubic footage of bundles. With
my Chinese overcoat, my baggage was further swollen by
the possession of a cotton comforter - price, a dollar and
a half, and brightly, beautifully pink. These two are to
defend me from the northern blizzards.
Nowhere was there space to lie down, but, feeling my way
along in the darkness, I came at length to an especially
corpulent old Chinaman - a veritable fountain of animal
heat. I snuggled up to him as close as I could, and was quite
warm and comfortable, though the smells and sounds and
squalor would have been tough on one who had not long
since become accustomed to them. My bunkie proved po­
tent as a central heating plant. When chilled, I merely
turned my cool side toward him.
It was so dark that I could see very little, but I could hear
plenty, and smell even more. Every now and then there
would be a thud as something gave way and deposited one
of our number on the floor; then boisterous laughter all
down the car - good evidence that cheerfulness was with
us. It is marvelous how these people can thrive and be
merry under such wretched conditions. And it must be a
great advantage to have not the slightest feeling of repulsion
about an old lady in filthy rags leaning against you and
spitting opium juice on the floor, or a greasy gent of Moby
Dick proportions, such as was with me, sliding into your
lap from the other flank and emitting shrill snores in an
unearthly soprano. You have to hand it to the Chinese; and
with it all, they have dignity and poise, and great self-respect_

1\[,orth China..
I could not sleep. The night was a long, dreary nightmare,
though somewhat illuminating at intervals. Dawn found
us in a flat country covered with snow. Peering through
the frosted panes, we could see grave mounds scattered over
the bleak landscape, and mud huts, few of which - even
among the humblest - were without 'pailou ' arches over
the doorways and other evidences of a cultured heritage.
While changing trains at Tsinan, a picturesque, windy
town whose people, with red, windburnt faces, are larger
and healthier than the Southern Chinese, I fared forth to
find something to eat. This town is pure Northern Chinese.
With the exception of a bank and one or two legation build­
ings, there is no sign of any foreign element in this primitive
place, and no restaurant to be found.
Rawboned women, so tall and strong that they are almost
indistinguishable from their husbands, haul heavy wheel­
barrow loads across the windswept causeways. The bleak
rolling country is of grayish-brown earth, the low houses are
built of it, the people are dusty with it, the streets are
rutted deep with its mud.

.5lien on the Horiz(Jl_,
At last I found, on the outskirts of town, a little shop of
earthenware jugs where the proprietor, in sign-language,
said he would sell me some eggs and green tea. Meanwhile,
he regaled me with talk about extra-territoriality - all in
elaborate sign-language - and the latest news about the
rebels, who have just completed a good ravage in these parts.
Some communist propaganda posters in town are attrib­
uted to them, and have caused great excitement. Such
things as these posters are bad for the Chinese. They stimu­
late in them no desire for constructive effort, but merely the
contagious idea that extortion from those who have achieved
prosperity is the poor man's only - and therefore justified
- means of salvation.
The railroad again - this train for Peking. More scram­
bling. More squalor, and of a colder variety. There is no
stove or heating arrangement of any kind whatever in the
cars, and the windows are seldom shut. The passive Chi­
nese, too bundled in rags to feel anything beyond the four­
teenth layer, counting outward, like to have the windows
open so that they can reach out and buy fritters and tea at
the stations without having to leave their seats. As a result
of this, the temperature in the car is well below zero.
Peking - December 28. Today at noon we came to a stone
wall forty feet high and twenty feet thick. The train
passed through it by a tunnel; a minute later we pierced
another and similar wall. We were entering Peking, the
ancient city for whose defense these stupendous barricades
were built.
Here in Northern China everything is different from the
South - language, coinage; the people are a different race.
Walking out of the Peking railroad station, I found myself
in a wide square, full of the usual swarms of jabbering rick­
shaw men and cab men, who have small closed cabs drawn
by a woolly horse. Each rushes at you with both hands and

1\[,orth China..
both feet, explaining to you in passionate desperation that
he will take you to any place you name, and much more
cheaply and quickly than you ever dreamed possible.
Eight miles over the bleak plains outside the city, there
is a little town called Haitien, at the foot of the Western
Hills. Toward it, in a skimpy rickshaw with my baggage in
my lap and my pink comforter around me, I started on an
icy jaunt. I was to visit some English friends of mine who
are teachers in the great Yenching University of Peking.
It being a long trip, my rickshaw coolie had a relief man
who trotted behind while awaiting his tum in the shafts.
Streets full of traffic, trolley cars, rickshaws. Jogging stead­
ily onward we turned off the thoroughfare, and began to
wind through narrow alleys, sometimes barely five feet wide,
rounding sharp corners, when we would come suddenly upon
an old woman carrying fagots, or a barber, knife in hand,
leaning in the cold over his fat, squatting patron. On either
side are high mud walls, hiding squalid dwellings from
which come the sounds of children laughing, dogs barking,
old men jabbering, and all manner of strange Oriental odors.
On we go, winding, dodging through the alleys of Peking.
I was about frozen by the time we had passed through the
great pailou arches of the city gates. These are always
double, and arranged so that you make a right-angle tum
in them, thus excluding evil spirits which; according to the
Chinese theory, always travel in straight lines.
Five long miles more across a bleak, windy, flat country,
getting colder every minute, till, shivering in every vertebra,
I would have given anything to have changed places with
the coolie, but couldn't because I was too cold to move.
At last we reached the house of my friends, a beautiful old
place, once the home of a mandarin prince, and surrounded
by tile-topped walls and double pailous according to custom.
Here is the highest society I've experienced since the
Governor of Hawaii - charming, cultivated people who are

2.00
..Wen on the Hori'{pn...
professors or missionaries, often the same thing out here.
Among them I am spending a nomadic week and, as their
wide hospitality involves a superabundance of guests, I find
myself at times in my old place - sleeping on the floor with
the pink comforter. This possession is becoming more valu­
able to me all the time, though it isn't as pink as it once
was, and I can still smell my fat Chinaman at one comer
and the opium lady at another. My friends look somewhat
askance at it, not realizing its true worth.
December 30. You should see the way a Chinese traffic cop
settles a dispute. When an accident occurs, instead of tak­
ing down license numbers and handing out a summons in a
righteous rage, as American cops do, the Chinese policeman
asks each party to express his views on the situation then
and there, and listens patiently to the ensuing session of jab­
ber and frenzied debate. The flocking spectators must have
their say, too - in fact, there is much to be said by all. At
last, after an hour or two, when everyone's ' face' l.as been
well saved and public opinion has been defined, and it is
clearly understood that no one was to blame, the cop works
around very diplomatically until he can bring about a com­
promise satisfactory to all involved. This may require all
day, or all night, as the case may be; but he is a poor cop
who does not effect it eventually, when the affair is settled
for good.
Subservience to the law is easier for people devoid of
individuality than for those, like us, who have so much of it.
A Chinaman subscribes to public opinion, where we submit
to it.
December 31. I met Will and James again yesterday, and
they are now staying with me here in Haitien. It is great
to see them, and to exchange stories of our recent adven­
tures. The English girls here are very, very conservative,

1\[,orth China.
and are shocked when we tell our adventures in too vivid
detail - but we make a great effort to broaden their toler­
ance.
The Chinese girls in Haitien are the most beautiful in all
this country. They even have sex appeal to foreigners, which
is practically unknown in the rest of China. Jim says he
thinks our presence here for the last few days, which no
doubt has had a stimulating effect on the girls, is largely
responsible for their unprecedented comeliness.
Last night, Will, James, and I went into town on what
purported to be a party - and spent the evening singing
hymns amid a large assortment of missionaries. Foreign
society in Peking is very high, and is famous throughout the
world for making you wear boiled shirts to tea. But it is di­
vided into two groups: the legation and business group, and
the missionaries. I find myself- God knows why - among
the missionaries.
Missionaries are pioneers of the many influences from the
West that are seeping into China and undermining the
traditions that have bound her for so long. I wonder how
much the Chinese are helped by this occidental reformation
movement which seeks to supersede the great moral force
of Patriarchism. A man who has lived almost a. lifetime in
China says, 'The hopeless feature of the present situation
is that the growth of wholesome new ideas is infinitesimal
as compared with the collapse of old moral standards.'
\Vhen Chinese tradition and its discipline are removed,
the people go wild. One Chinese boy here, heir to thirty
centuries of tradition, and who has recently been taught
that its constraint is an evil, wrote home the other day to
his father in the country, recommending him to 'get rid of
that woman you are living with. She has bound feet, and
is old, and no good anyhow. Why don't you come here to
the city and get yourself a nice young one and enjoy life for
a change?' This certainly seems a heartless way for a

2.02.
o/Men on the Hori'{PtL
Chinese boy of patriarchal heritage to be speaking about
his own mother.
January 1 .  Why does Manchuria draw northward almost a
million Chinese every year from their ancient homes in the
South? I am curious to see this promised land, this so-old
country that, under modem methods of exploitation, offers
hope and opportunity to the wretched Chinese. On my way
into Siberia, I shall go through as much of Manchuria as
I can.
With that purpose in mind, I am now on the train for
Tientsin, on the first short leg of my journey, and I am
sitting beside the very prettiest Chinese girl that you can
imagine. She has the color, and somewhat the contour, of a
ripe peach. But she is sensitive-looking, with big, soft brown
eyes, and she can speak a little English and a lot of sign­
language.
Soon after the train started, she pulled out of her bundle
a huge bag of chestnuts and we had a feast, to which I sup­
plied a few raisins, bought in Seward, Alaska. Then the
neighbors joined in, donating more chestnuts and a few
rather haggard oranges, and we were all very gay.
We
called it the New Year's dinner.
It's wonderful how friendly Chinese will become in a short
time. These people, who have never seen each other before,
and who, a minute ago, were buffeting each other for seats,
now are as companionable as roommates in a girls' boarding­
school. They ask me all sorts of questions: my age, nation­
ality, destination, and purpose in life; and are very inter­
ested in my answers.
One of the old men, by finger sign-language, tells me he
is seventy-three - they are very proud of old age in China,
for the older you are here the more divine you are. I kid
this old man about his great age, making motions of digging
a grave and of putting a corpse into it. He retaliates by

N.,orth China.,
waving his arms, dancing, and punching his fat benchmate
to show his virility.
Everything is done in a spirit of good fun, and there is
constant hilarity and smiles on all sides. This, by the way,
gives me a clue to the reason why Chinese have such slit
eyes. I think it is because for ages they have smiled so
much. They are always in good spirits, and as they beam,
their eyes wrinkle at the outside comers a little and get
narrow.
On train, two hours out of Tientsin. On and on again toward
Mukden. This is cold ! I don't know whether I can live
through tonight or not. There are twenty hours of it ahead,
and it is worse than camping on the open steppe. The icy
wind made by the train is terrific. I find that my Chinese
companions wear fur-lined pajamas and fur haori over­
coats; so they have advantages over me. They persist in
opening all the windows at every station, as well as often
between, and never think of closing the door. I don't be­
lieve the word 'stove' has even been introduced into their
language as yet. Their hardihood is phenomenal - fur or
no fur.
I have my pink comforter wrapped around me. It is
something - but leaky in spots. What there is of my Chi­
nese overcoat is all right, but the sleeves are very short
and open-the Chinese use them for muffs- and all the
buttons have by this time snapped off. I see some shivering
ahead.
The severe cold also causes great trouble with the toilet
arrangements, which are none too good anyway, and results
in the most obnoxious smells as the drains get frozen up.
All provisions for privacy have long since fallen apart and
the accumulating emanation is in plain view of everyone in
the car. The scene is hardly fit for more detailed de­
scription.

..Men on the H(JT'iz.on..
We are now in the country of the great China Wall. The
ground is bare and windswept, with thin, clinging splotches
of snow here and there, and grave mounds and bleak plains
punctuated with frequent ranges of steep brown mountains,
all very bare and immensely cold.
In each little station, the peddlers still flock to our open
windows, and shove their wares upon the sills, hollering
hysterically, ' Yao booyao! '  while emitting from their
cracked mouths dense clouds of steaming breath. They spe­
cialize in little roasted chickens covered with some sort of
brilliant red varnish, which they sell to us in quantities,
very cheaply. And, of course, there are the usual cherries
and fritters. On trying fritters, I found them stone cold
and full of grime and cinders from being lugged around the
dusty station - probably for months.
It was dark by half-past four in the afternoon, as we
rattled slowly northward over the rickety track. A long
grisly nightmare was beginning. There seemed nothing to
do but just sit and try to keep from shivering, but my icy
joints soon grew pretty numb.
As the night wore on, we stopped frequently at small
stations, and the number of my fellow passengers decreased
rapidly, bringing animal heat to a huge premium. The car
now was occupied mostly by bundles - and it is a tough
job to get any animal heat out of an icy hamper of tea­
kettles or a tattered sack of bamboo and cabbages.
I was seated beside a Chinese doctor who could speak
a little English, but he was scrawny and, though extremely
nice between spits, he was no solution to the heating pro­
blem. You might as well snuggle up to a wire fence. And
so the minutes crawled along, now slipping two or three at
a time, now stopping altogether with a cruel pitilessness,
and the hours loomed ahead like Arctic winters, always,
always ahead - a grisly, intangible mirage. Horrible!

1\{,orth China.
2.05
Mukden. Was it good to see Mukden ! It was morning and
clear as a bell, and I don't know how cold, but we were here
- Mukden ! I walked out of the big open station, desperate
for a place to get warm. The tattered rickshaw men clam­
ored, as usual, like famished wolves, and a long row of
frosty cabs stood behind as many little furry horses with
icicles hanging from their steaming noses.
I hated to discriminate among the poor devils with their
rickshaws, and I needed exercise to get warm anyhow, so I
ignored their clamoring and trudged stiffly into the bleak
street with my baggage, to look for a hotel. I was wild to
see a stove, but the houses at the street sides looked about
as cozy and hospitable as icebergs. Today is one of the
New Year holidays, and all shops are closed. Being unusu­
ally cold and windy, almost no one was on the streets.
I had troubles. My hands began to give out on me. My
baggage, containing all my earthly possessions, which have
been accumulating steadily since I left New York, is by no
means light and my mittens are full of holes. Soon my
fingers were so numb that they felt like iron hooks. Know­
ing, after my Peking experience, that a rickshaw is the cold­
est, most exposed, and most cramped mode of winter travel
in the world, there was nothing to do but trudge onward,
hoping for a sign of human habitation in that bleak expanse
of frozen front doors and polar faӡades.
Trudge . . .  trudge . . . .  At last I see a signboard - written
in Russian, Chinese, and English. It is a Japanese restaur­
ant, and it is open ! With my fingers almost dropping off, I
fight my frigid way across the street. I reach the door and
swing inside. Warmth! After almost twenty-four full hours
of sitting in temperature well below zero and with very in­
adequate clothes and practically nothing to eat, I was so
exhausted by cold that the warmth of the restaurant was
actually refreshing to me, not merely soothing or vitalizing,
but refreshing as a cool drink in summer is refreshing. I

Jl.1en on the Horiz.pn...
never before knew that one could be actually refreshed by
heat.
' Konnichiwa, plees wee! you haf something to eat,' says
the stocky, black-eyed proprietor. 'You haf jus' come to
town, stranger, yes?'
'Yes, I'm on my way to Harbin,' I reply. ' Kudasai, may
I sit beside your stove?'
When thawed out, I had quite a conversation with my
Japanese host - until it was time to take the train for
Harbin. It is useful to know a few words of Japanese in this
part of Manchuria. There are many Japanese, with large
economic interests here.
On train to Harbin. What a contrast to the Chinese cars
are these Japanese third-class coaches in which I'm going
on to Harbin ! These have double windows, plush scats,
heat, toilets, spittoons, and even porters who come around
to clean up the floor once in a while. They are better, I
should say, than the average day coach at home. The only
drawback is in the habits of the Chinese who fill them.
It's strange about these Chinese. They seem more broad­
minded and unprejudiced than the Japanese, and are very
clever about many things - and you'd think they could
spit straight with all the practice they get, but I haven't
seen one hit the bucket yet. People who are wise on Chinese
trains pull their feet under them when they hear a throat
being cleared.
This must be a flourishing country in summer-time, this
Manchuria. Though the fields are now all bare and crusty
in the icy winter wind, you can see, from the soya bean
stalks bristling to the horizon, from the frozen withered
poppy stalks stretching endlessly over the hills, what an
exuberant crop must grow here in warm weather. It is said
to be the richest opium and soya bean country in the world,
and it yields many vegetables besides beans too. This fer-

1\[.orth China..
tility, it must be, that is appealing so strongly to the famine­
stricken Chinese in the South; that is drawing them north­
ward till every ship and every train is crowded with them -
crowded with their families, and their children and their
grandchildren, and their bundles.
There is still plenty of unoccupied land here. The settle­
ments are little more than isolated farmhouses or tiny rail­
road stations - but very picturesque. They look like cas­
tles, with high turreted walls around them for protection
against the roving bandits. There is real feudalism in this
country. The central government doesn't amount to a
beanhill here, and bandit armies roam unmolested across
the countryside, plundering what and wherever they can.
Harbin - January 3· This morning at nine o'clock, and
with the temperature at twenty-five below zero, we arrived
in Harbin. The snow was dazzling in the early sunshine,
and the town seemed cozy and friendly after the monoto­
nous rolling hills and the vast bandit-infested bleakness of
the open country. But this air is certainly the coldest thing
I ever felt. I wondered why all the horses were so white, but
found they were coated with frost outside their fur - frozen
sweat. Their nostrils are like steam valves in this biting air.
The hardy creatures are left standing out all night, and
aren't bothered by it in the least.
Leaving my baggage in the station, I pulled my woolen
cap down over my ears and set out to find a place to live.
Along the street, past restaurants and cabarets and banks,
everybody's breath rising up in little puffs like a donkey
engine, to be blown away by the wind.
Harbin seems like a hundred per cent Russian town at
first. Signboards are all in Russian, and everybody speaks
Russian. Little droshky cabs, piloted by heavily bundled
and bewhiskered old men, rumble through the streets, and
dainty cabaret girls with brightly painted faces step snap-

2.08
.Men on the Hori'l,{JrL
pily down the sidewalks. They seem to take this in tense
cold as a matter of course.
Not knowing a word of Russian, nor a soul within a thou·
sand miles, I feel very much alone in this lively atmosphere.
January 4· Today I am feeling less lonely, as I've just been
calling on a White Russian girl, named Bellia Korsakov,
whom Will told me about. He must like her pretty well, too,
because the last thing he said on the subject was, 'Go easy
now, go! dum ya.'
When I finally found her house, 36 Pekamaya Street,
entered the double outside doors, scraped the frost off my
coat, and rang the bell, a little girl, about twelve years old,
came to the door, and murmuring something in Russian,
ushered me within. Then there appeared from down the
dark hall, another older girl, also very small and wearing a
shawl and Russian high felt boots. She was blonde, with a
rather squirrel-like face, and a bleak, windswept look, but
was as pretty as anything I've ever seen. This was Bellia
Korsakov.
' Plees come een. Plees seet down.' She showed me into
her sitting-room, a rather humble little place, where, on a
table, were two typewriters, numerous books, papers, draw­
ings, and other evidences of intellectual and artistic activity.
The room obviously served also as a bedroom and dining­
room, and in the comer on a shelf I could see the shiny
chasuble of a small ikon, standing beside a candle burning
in a red tumbler. I was just beginning to get acquainted
with Bellia, who was telling me how glad she was to have
escaped out of Soviet Russia two years ago, following a
dozen years' terrific hardship and persecution, when in came
her parents: the mother, a squatty lady with a very kindly
face, and a father of bushy red mustache, aristocratic
goatee, and fiery blue eyes. Neither of them spoke English,
so I made as Russian a bow as I could, and kissed the lady's

7\f.,orth ChintL
hand, while Bellia, as interpreter, explained to them who
she thought I was.
' Sadeetis pazsholista - Vui kooshete? Please sit down
- Have you eaten yet?' said the old man with a wistful
twitch of his bushy red mustache.
' Marousa! Marousa! '  cried Bellia, calling the little girl
who had opened the door for me. Marousa appeared - she
was evidently the servant - and began industriously and
timidly to set the table for dinner.
Meanwhile Bellia, with the help of her mother who speaks
French, continued to tell me of their experiences in escaping
from Vladivostok, and of how they had worked as peasants
in the fields in order to watch their chance to get across the
border into Manchuria. On learning that I am on my way
into Soviet Russia, all three broke out with vivid descrip­
tions of the horrible experiences I would have. I would very
likely have all my baggage stolen, I might be arrested, this
and that calamity would befall me - all this coming at me
in three languages, Bellia speaking in English, her mother
in French, and father in Russian.
The meal was delicious - deep dishes of soup with meat
at the bottom, and ham, Russian bread, and tea. It never
seemed to end. ' Plees, plees, some more ham, chi peet,
pazsholista, plees,' they kept saying. And as I accepted,
they kept reaching over to the samovar for another glass of
tea, or sending Marousa to the kitchen for more bread.
Everything in the house was offered to me before they
would let me arise from the table.
Afterwards Bellia showed me some articles and poems she
has written in English for the Associated Press, of which
she is a correspondent. She certainly has brains. The edu­
cation she has given herself, when you consider the ob­
stacles she has been up against, is almost unbelievable. Not
being a communist, she had no peace while in Russia ­
what with blackmailers, tax-collectors, government officials,

2.10
oMen rm the Horizon..
and others - and her schooling was of the very scantiest ­
and most irregular. And yet, in spite of everything, she can
now speak at least five languages fluently, including Eng­
lish, which, although she has never lived anywhere where it
was spoken, she knows well enough to hold down her steady
job as Associated Press correspondent. That in itself is re­
markable enough, I should think, but she is also a civil engi­
neer, and intimate with every science from calculus to geo­
logy. In addition, she is an accomplished dancer, can draw
and paint, and plays both the piano and chess with con­
summate skill.
This little house where Bellia lives is a boarding-house.
In the next room are some cousins of hers, a family of
Georgians, very dark, black-haired, smooth-skinned, brown­
eyed. In order to help me to get a lodging, Bellia introduced
me to one of these cousins, a young boy named Maxim
Byadula who is studying engineering. Maxim, thin, dark,
keen-eyed, artistic-looking, said he could find me a cheap
hotel - so together we set forth into the night.
After trying several places, finding them too expensive,
haggling unsuccessfully, and nearly freezing our ears off in
the wind, we decided on a little hovel run by a scrawny
Chinaman, who lives in a closet under his stairs.
January 6. This is a very nice hotel in some few ways, and the
best we could find for a reasonable price. Its chief favorable
feature is that it has sealed windows, 'to keep out the cold.'
But it is not without limitations, namely: I .  Very little
heat, the source being two stoves, one about four feet in
diameter situated in the lower hall, and the other, an in­
significant contraption located in the Chinaman's closet.
2. Not a drop of water in the house - the toilet-room, be­
ing designed for water, is now a perfect horror, not having
been cleaned out since the freeze-up in October. Inciden­
tally, people carry their own toilet seats in this country for

7\l,orth China.,
2. 1 1
obvious sanitary reasons. These portable seats are usually
made of beaver-board or cardboard. You also, of course,
always have to supply your own toilet paper, which is
unknown here. 3· No mattresses on the beds, nothing but
rusty coiled springs to lie on. 4· No blankets, pillow, nor
any sort of bedclothes. S· Very stuffy atmosphere, due to
the sealed windows and the fetid toilet which contaminates
the whole building. 6. Excessively inquisitive neighbors
who come around and ask questions in sign-language and
Russian, and try to get me to give them passports to Amer­
ica. Outside of these details it's a charming hotel.
The Chinaman is the only reasonable person in the house,
but even he is a bit eccentric. His closet under the stairs is
six feet by two, and contains, besides himself, one stove, one
old mattress, one bookshelf full of Chinese papers to be con­
sulted when ·lonesome, two hooks from which hang dark­
colored woolen rags - probably apparel belonging to the
Chinaman - and one cracker box, employed by day as
a chair. This cozy location of the Chinaman is strategic, as
it is his duty to know at all times who is in and who is out of
his hotel. Those who go either irr· or out must tread the
stairs which form his private roof. All he has to do is to
rush quickly out whenever he hears footsteps, note what is
going on, and then, returning, stir up the fire and doze off
again till the next occurrence of thunder overhead.
Almost no one in Harbin speaks English, so I am learning
Russian fast. This is very important, for I must know how
to haggle. Here, as in all China, haggling is an advanced
science and in wide practice. \Vhen you buy apples, for
instance, the salesman starts at sixty cents an apple and you
must bid him clown and walk out on him a few times, till you
get him down to the proper price of three for ten cents.
Everybody is very friendly, but they all follow this tradi­
tion - the numerous unsqueamish Chinese jabbering away
in their best pidgin Russian.

2.12.
.A1en on the Hori'{(Jn..
There are lots of soldiers about the town, and sometimes
wagon trains of provisions go creaking by. Refugees, who
have come in from the country on account of recent war­
fare, have to live anywhere and be thankful for a roof.
Some of the places they are forced into by the extreme cold
are horrible beyond words.
Down near the end of my street, there is an old boarding­
house where several dozen have taken refuge. But it can
scarcely be called a refuge now, because a terrible epidemic
of typhus has broken out among the inmates. They are
dying like flies, and yet more are driven by the ghastly cold
to enter the gruesome dwelling every day.
Some few prefer to take their chances on camping out in
the street, but that is little more enticing. Today's paper
here says: ' Harbin's Morgue contains no less than thirty­
two corpses, collected during the three Russian Christmas
days on the streets and in refugees' asylums, frozen to death
or with relapsing fever . .  . '
January 7· Today I took a walk down the Sungari River,
a vast prairie of rough ice. There seemed to be no limit to
the ice's depth. Sometimes I looked down cracks that were
easily twelve feet deep and the ice seemed to go on down
even beyond that. The wind was stinging. I could feel my
nostrils crisp with frost inside, my lips with icy varnish,
and the intense cold of air when it plunged into my lungs.
There were some dozen heavily bundled Chinese coolies
at the river's edge with sleds, earning a meager living push­
ing people across to the small settlement on the opposite
bank. When they saw me, they became much excited and
began to holler, ' Tolka! Tolka! ' - pidgin Russian for
' Push! Push ! '
Partly because of the cold and partly because of stories
I've heard as to the fate of other wanderers, I did not go far
from town. There are numerous bandits lurking on the out-

7\[,orth China.
2.13
skirts of the city. One fellow, a few days ago, inadvisedly
ventured a few hundred yards from the railroad track just
out of town, and was seized by bandits who immediately
hurried off with him, one at each arm. Very luckily for this
fellow, two Japanese sharpshooters happened to be walking
along the railroad, and they neatly picked off the bandits
who had hold of his arms, causing the rest to flee. And so he
was saved. Others who have strayed have not, however,
been so fortunate.
Coming home, along the busy droshky-crowded streets,
every minute added to the whiteness of my coat, which
came from the freezing of my breath.
January 8. The only human being at my hotel with whom
I have any language in common is a large, wall-eyed Jewish
lady, who claims to have once lived in Chicago, and who
speaks a sort of pidgin English flavored with German, Rus­
sian, and Jewish. She seems dedicated to woe. and her
conversation is confined to the lugubrious details of her
mother's recent death and the deplorable lack of luxury at
our hostelry.
What her privations may be I know not, but I am sleeping

2.14
o.A1en on the Horiz..orL
in my overcoat and the pink comforter. The other night
I had a bad dream and woke up about four A.M. with a
smarting bruise in the stomach, as if I'd been jabbed with
a spike. At the same time I heard a queer sort of twanging
sound. I was very startled at first, but soon realized that
evidently as I lay sleeping on my latent couch, suddenly
one of the bed springs sprang!
January 1 2. The Russians here seem very serious-minded,
and no wonder, after what most of them have been through.
From Bellia and her family, Maxim, and other of their con­
nections, I hear every day more horrible and gruesome tales
about the Russian Revolution - about the famine of 1920,
when whole towns were subsisting on dry grass for months
at a time; when cannibalism spread till parents were eating
their own children to hold off starvation another week or
two.
The Korsakovs were among those seriously affected by
the famine, though their worst troubles came later when the
blackmailers and grafters got after them. Many times Bel·
lia, in her wanderings, had to ride freight trains, sometimes
in fifty below zero weather, and once, when Bolsheviki came
to search the house for her father whom they intended to
shoot, Mr. Korsakov was forced to conceal himself on the
roof.
Finding nothing, the communists assumed that
Korsakov was out, and decided to wait until he came home.
They remained over a week. Meanwhile, the unfortunate
Korsakov lay on the roof, without food or water, and not
knowing what had become of his family that they did not
give him the signal to come down.
Having escaped that time, months later he learned that
Bolsheviki were again after him. He sold all his valuables
to buy a single diamond which he cemented into a hole in
one of his back teeth. Thus equipped, he succeeded in
crossing the Manchurian border and arrived in Harbin,

1\[,orth China.,
where he sold the diamond for enough money to establish
himself in business. Be Ilia and her mother, left alone in
Russia to face the blackmailers and secret communist
police, eventually got here to Harbin, and the family was
reunited.
It is fortunate for escaping Russians that Manchuria is
a relatively undeveloped country. Once they cross the
frontier, they find themselves in a land more progressive and
full of opportunity than any in the East. Their problems
are difficult enough, God knows, but far different would be
their fate if they emerged into the crowded and famine­
stricken provinces of the rest of China.
The Soviet Russian Consul is back in Harbin today after
a year's absence. I am trying to get a visa from him in
order to enter Russia, but he is now so busy with important
matters that I must wait a few days until he has more time.
Last night the Korsakovs invited me to go with them to
dinner at the house of some friends of theirs who, it turned
out, are comparatively prosperous and who gave quite
a regal party. The conversation was in Russian - except
for a little boy who could say 'Thank you verry much,'
and kept repeating this for my benefit. Almost all the men
present had aristocratic bushy red mustaches and talked on
deep subjects with occasional hearty chuckles.
:VIost of these White Russians are excellent linguists, but
they don't like the sound of English words, especially th's.
Bellia's mother says the word ' health ' has a most unhealthy
sound to it.
Often I talk with Bellia in the evening. She is so intel­
ligent and charming that it is the hardest thing in the world
to go back to my drab hovel. She wants very much to come
to America some day. She says, ' if I can get to America I'll
be so happy I can take th' earth by its axis and turn it round .
. . . Tree quarters of the Americans I've seen all have beeg

2.16
.A1en on the Hori'{9rL
round spectacles. Maybe I'll have 'em too when I get
to America.'
January 15. Venus is a laughing goddess. Men, no matter
how bleak and starving they may be, must have her and her
laughter with them. Last night I took in a Harbin cabaret.
It was a very shabby building on the outside, but warm and
hospitable within, bright scarfs draped about the walls,
wool caps and heavy fur overcoats hung on hooks here
and there. There was spirited music from a small bushy­
whiskered orchestra, and young fellows in tuxedos and with
bleary eyes talked seriously with red-lipped girls at little
tables. Everyone was drinking vodka or dancing in the
meager bit of open space between the tables.
One of the girls, in a black and white dress with a red
shawl, danced solo. Delicate of physique, thin, but thor­
oughly feminine and well-rounded, she was one of the most
beautiful women I've ever seen. Her beauty wasn't of the
doll variety as in Japan, nor was it the least wishy-washy.
She was strong. She had endured her share of hardship in
life, and her jaw was firm, her steel-blue eye keen and
steady. Her cheeks and lips glowed with the red blood
streaming within them. Her whole being seemed exuberant
with vitality. She was all there.
The reckless hardship of this country gives to many of
these Russian girls a beauty which seems to emanate from
the backbone out, different from the ordinary surface
prettiness which covers a flabby interior. Theirs is real
beauty.
January 16. I rejoice in my Chinese overcoat. It helps con­
siderably in my dealings with the Chinese. Not that I can
ever hope to deceive anyone into thinking I am a Chinaman,
but my coat gives me a certain kinship with these people by
virtue of its raggedness. And it is a wonderful help in evad-

1\[,orth China.
ing the beggars. Some of them, after observing my costume,
seem to be in doubt as to whether to ask me for money or to
gtve me some.
This Soviet Consul in Harbin is so interminable in his de­
lays about my visa for entering the U.S.S.R. that I've de­
cided to go down to Seoul in Korea and get a visa from the
Soviet Consul there, who may not be as busy as this Harbin
fellow.
From Seoul I can go north up the Korean coast, and enter
Siberia at Vladivostok.

CHAPTER NINE
KOREA
January 17. On the train for Seoul, Korea. I am now rat­
tling southward toward Seoul, among little valleys of bean­
and paddy-fields, walled by steep wooded hills. Korea, in
its rugged topography, is very like Japan.
The train stops frequently, and Koreans, a queer-looking
lot, in the white robes and Happy Hooligan hats of their
topknotted ancestors, troop in and out of the car.
Long ago, the Tartars who used to roam the Siberian
steppes wandered eastward, and, in the manner of traveling
men the world over, they mated with Chinese, Mongols,
Malays, Tibetans, Siamese, or anybody they could per­
suade to be Tartar-conscious.
These Koreans are one of the queer results of the Tartar's
indiscretions. The men look absurd. They all have weak­
hearted, straggling beards and drooping mustaches, and
their preposterous little black hats are of varnished horse­
hair, tied on the tops of their round domes by a string
under the chin. These hats originated as coverings for top­
knots. Most Koreans have discarded the topknots, but
hold on to the hats, which they consider a sign of aristocracy.
My glee owr the get-up of the Korean beau is suddenly

Korect..
dampened by a thought - after all, is he much more ridicu­
lous than an American in a derby hat, or a British guards­
man in a bearskin shako? To the eyes of an ancient Greek,
would he appear any more absurd than the average Ameri­
can commuter - I wonder --
It was about midnight when the train arrived at Seoul.
As I came out of the lighted station with my luggage the
usual swarm of natives scrambled for the passengers' bag­
gage, and I observed among the rickshaw men that ultra­
Korean mode of transportation known as a 'jiggie.'
To the uninitiated eye, a jiggie looks like a chair without
front legs and with straps on its back, through which, when
he has loaded its scat with baggage, the jiggie man may slip
his arms and raise it upon his shoulders. This done, off he
trots - no doubt believing, in his simple, topknotted brain,
that his jiggie is the last word in transportation.
At any rate, a jiggie man, unhampered by the compara­
tively bulky rickshaw, can grab and pester to great advan­
tage, and I was set upon by a mob of them when, carrying my
luggage, I fared forth from the station to find a cheap hotel.
Jiggie men, like their rickshaw brothers, are always solici­
tors for various hotels, and apparently, from their wild

2.2.0
.,/Men on the Horiz.orL
hospitality, receive a commission for every guest they are
able to seduce. Each of my retinue of clamoring jiggie men
has his hotel to which he wants to lure me, and each holds
up fingers to indicate how many yen I must pay for a night's
lodging. They are all desperate. At last I have auctioned
one of them down to one yen. Too tired to haggle further,
I accept his offer, give him my stuff, and go with him up a
dark winding street to his hotel. The other jiggie men still
follow, pathetically trying to lure me away.
The hotel, constructed of bamboo, is built in Japanese
fashion and, after a hot soak in the common tub, I retire
behind my sliding partition to sleep on the matted floor.
In the morning I climb a steep hill from which I can see
the whole city of Seoul - miles of low bamboo buildings
with here and there a modern stone or brick structure rising
above the sea of gray tile, and all surrounded by a circle of
baby mountain peaks lifting into the haze.
The schoolboys of Seoul have just staged a big strike.
There is general hatred here of the Japanese, who govern
these people in an atmosphere of almost constant friction.
The Koreans are of quite a different blood from the J apa­
nese, and resent the rule of the proud, stocky little men
from across the channel.
The striking schoolboys, wishing to make a greater com­
motion than would be caused by a mere student protest
against Japanese oppression, proclaimed themselves com­
munists backed by the Soviet Government, and carried red
banners which said, ' Hurrah for the Proletariat !'
None of these demonstrating school kids come from
proletarian families. On the contrary, the fact that they
are going to school testifies that they are more well-to-do
than other children. Like many communist sympathizers,
they have no conception of what communism means, but
use its name to promote any rebellious campaign they may
have undertaken.

Korea.
2.2.1
I had arrived in Seoul in midnight darkness, and it was
appropriately dark when I again took the train for Gensan,
northward on the coast, from where I was to take ship for
Vladivostok.
This Korea, the ' Hermit Kingdom,' and its life seem to
be held in a dark isolation. Even from the rest of the
Orient, Korea is withdrawn, aloof; in its remote esoteric
culture, and its suspicion of the world outside.
There is something very remote about these people in
their voiceless but obstinate antagonism to everything new
and everything not Korean. Undoubtedly, if you lived here,
you would break or wear through to contact with their
thinking and feeling. But just what is going on under these
topknots and Happy Hooligan hats is certainly a dark
mystery to an itinerant Western understanding.
So it was appropriate that I should leave Seoul in the
same darkness in which I arrived. And I was far on my way
northward when, the next morning, I looked out of my
third-class window at the sunrise.
\Ve were already among the Diamond Mountains, their
delicate massed peaks dazzling in snow, with folds of dark
pine forest rolling down to disappear in the sea to the east­
ward. It was still hours before we would get to Gensan,
where I was to take the boat to Vladivostok, and my sleepy
eyes ached under the cold and brittle glare of this wild
country. So I told the little conductor to call me when we
got to Gensan, and clambered back up on my shelf to sleep.
When I next woke, we were already eighty miles beyond
Gensan - the conductor had either forgotten me or had
not understood my sign-language, and I felt quite peeved
with the black-eyed, wistful little fellow. But I find that I
can still catch my boat for Vladivostok at a small fishing
town called Seishin farther along the line, which the train
will reach some time tonight.
We are running through little valleys along the beaches,

2.2.2.
o/Hen on the Horiz,pn_,
our progress punctuated by a series of tunnels piercing the
intervening cliffs. Fishing villages - little clusters of mud
huts, each with its reed-fence enclosure and usually a rack
of drying mackerel - come several to the mile. There are
many paddy-fields, too, and little brown cattle bearing
towering loads of reeds and straw along the slanting hill
trails. \Vhite-clothed villagers gaze at the train ; women
with huge trays of fish on their heads, men building sam­
pans for the spring. At every station, crowds of passengers
fill the car aisle, all talking and gesticulating, and lugging
trays and bundles of fish. l\Iany get off and many get on,
and so it is always crowded.
Seishin - January 21. Last night I had a tough time get­
ting a place to sleep. At ten o'clock and not many miles
from the Russian border, we pulled into Seishin where I am
to catch my boat. Little or no railroad station was visible
in inky black Seishin, and as the lights of the train faded,
with rumbling diminuendo, into the distance, I was left,
with my impedimenta, in utter darkness beside the track.
I could see only the vague outline of the inevitable squad of
jiggie men as they surrounded me with their expectant
jabbering.
None of them could understand either my Russian or my
Japanese, and my sign-language in such darkness was of
very doubtful effect. But, after a desperate attempt to
indicate ' hotel ' in every way I could conceive of, the jiggie
men seemed suddenly to understand.
In the blackness, some two hundred yards down a
shadowy street, could be seen a dim light. Pointing to it
excitedly, the jiggie men started in that direction, urging
me to accompany them.
As we drew near the glimmer, it proved to come from a
tiny building and I wondered what sort of lodging-house it
might be. Entering, I found three uniformed, black-eyed

Korea.,
Korean cops seated around a stove and deeply engrossed
in conversation. There were a few bookshelves, files, and
desks in the room, all stacked with papers. I was in the
police station.
On trying to converse with these gentlemen, I found that
they spoke nothing but Korean, and knew even less J apa­
nese than I do. They were too bewildered by my unexpected
appearance out of the night to be able to understand sign­
language, and they gazed, incredulous, muttering to one
another until, having perceived that I was a foreigner, one
of them called up a number on the telephone. In a minute,
having made connection with his party, he beckoned to me
to speak with this person.
' Hello.'
' Dobri vecher,' came the reply in a woman's voice. I was
evidently speaking to a Russian lady who had just been
roused from a sound sleep. Her tone was anything but
hospitable. Knowing but a dozen words of Russian, which
did not include the words for ' hotel,' ' night's lodging,'
' bed,' nor even ' sleep,' I began to rack my brains for the
best method of procedure. My problem cannot be appre­
ciated by anyone who has not been called upon to talk sign­
language over a Korean telephone, in the middle of the
night, to an angry Russian lady he has never seen, while
surrounded by a crowd of staring, jabbering jiggie men in a
police station.
Although I gave the irate lady a vivid imitation of snoring,
in hopes she would understand that I needed sleep, I don't
think our conversation was, on the whole, very enlightening
to either party. Evidently she thought I was insinuating
that she snored for after another half-minute of rapid Rus­
sian which didn't sound like compliments, she hung up.
Amid the crowd of jiggie spectators in the police station
I somehow found a pencil and paper and drew a picture of
a hotel, making signs to show my ignorance as to how to get

::.Men on the Hori-zotL
to such a place. But the wary Korean cops, who had grown
suspicious during all this fracas, now refused to answer my
questions until I had first satisfied all of their prying curi­
osity. I drew extensive maps and diagrams to show where
I came from, where I was going, and why; diagrams de­
scriptive of how much money I had, and pictures illustrat­
ing my noble character.
In the end I was placed under the care of the oldest of the
jiggie men, who loaded my sacks upon his jiggie and scam­
pered off into the darkness. Watching the dim outline of
his black topknot against the snow, I followed closely until,
after several minutes of mysterious wending, we came to a
lighted doorway of bamboo latticework. A hotel. Paying
my ancient companion of topknot and jiggie, I pulled off
my shoes, entered, and was received with the customary
amazement. But my troubles were at an end for the night.
This morning, along the street of crude wooden fish ware­
houses where ragged Korean fishermen jabbered in the door­
ways, one of the first things I saw was a Ford Sales building,
tin and modern among its archaic Oriental neighbors. Look­
ing for somebody who spoke my native tongue, I went in.
' Good morning.'
' Goud morrneng,' responded the Russian sales manager,
tall, thin, dark, of aristocratic features. Talking further, I
learn that his name is Viktor Yankovsky and that his family
and connections are Russian refugees out of Siberia - the
only Russians living in Seishin.
' Then the lady I spoke with over the telephone last night
must be a relative of yours?' I ventured.
' Ah,' says Viktor, 'vas zat you?' Of course the lady had
told the whole family of her adventure.
Hearing my side of the story and realizing that I am not
the communistic menace feared by his kinswoman, Viktor
invited me home for lunch.

Korea.
The Y ankovsky house stands among the Korean fisher­
men's huts on the top of a hill. It is scarcely distinguishable
from other houses around it, except for its size and its
slightly more exotic appearance. It looks like fifty back
houses huddled and jumbled close to one another, tacked or
tied together with string or wire as the case may be, and
thoroughly patched all over. Apparently as each additional
cousin turns up after escaping from Russia, or as more
children are produced by those already escaped, old man
Yankovsky just orders more back houses.
Some of the houses, I find, are bins of salt in which fish
are packed ; some contain firewood, old boar hides, or tools
and supplies. The Yankovskys, to support themselves,
have become a family of fishermen and hunters. Every­
where about the rambling collection of mongrel back houses
wander the family hunting dogs - wolfish brutes with
heavy fur for combating the mountain blizzards, great long­
toothed hounds with hanging ears, every description of
large-size fighting dog known to man - all lounging about,
asleep against a barrel of salted herring, lolling about on
the parlor rug with feet in air like a kitten, or drooling great
jowls on the rough floor under the piano.
The walls of the living-room are covered with magnifi­
cent skins and furs - tigers, leopards, boars, and other
animals. Siberian tigers and leopards are larger than their
cousins in India, and have much heavier and more brightly
marked coats. One of Yankovsky's tiger pelts, over ten
feet long, is the most magnificent skin I have ever seen in
my life.
Lunch-time. We all sit down to one long table, thirty of
us, and drink venison soup. This is followed by boar meat,
roast pheasant, caviar, and one's choice of a multitude of
vegetables cooked to the czar's taste.
I sit beside the lady I last encountered on the other end
of a Korean telephone in the middle of the night. Mrs.

2.2.6
o/lien on the Horiz.ptL
Arbatov is her name, and though she speaks no English and
is a bit suspicious, she appears pleasant and unrevengeful.
On the other side, Anna Yankovsky, who speaks good
English, has been to Shanghai, is aged twenty-two, blonde,
artistic, intelligent, attractive.
At the head sits the old man himself, manfully straddling
his chair, stocky and solid of build, gruff, proud. He once
owned a domain of thousands of acres near Vladivostok.
The blood of nobility is in his veins, he is still the head of
his family, and even exile and this rickety, rambling shack
cannot humble him.
During the meal we listened to band music from a radio,
but the music frequently gave way to violent oratory. We
were getting the broadcasting station at Harbarovsk. The
speeches were taking place at a Bolshevist mass-meeting in
anniversary commemoration of Lenin's death. The chief
plea of the orators, some of whom were women, was to live
up to the promises made to Lenin before he died, and to
carry on his spirit. It was in Russian, of course, and we
could hear the wild cheering of the communist audience ;
but later the main points of the propaganda were repeated
in Japanese, Korean, Chinese, Mongolian, English, and
Esperanto.
January 22. Today I broke up a fight. There was a big
crowd around two furious jabbering Koreans on the street
who, in the Oriental manner, were being mutually smoth­
ered with vituperation without once laying a finger on each
other. Although they were almost down one another's
throats when I joined the group, everybody-even the com­
batants- instantly forgot about the dispute and turned
open-mouthed to gaze at me.
I am getting used to this
now, but it is still rather disconcerting.
January 23 - Pusan Maru. Last night my little freight

Korea.,
steamer, bound for Vladivostok, weighed anchor in Seishin
Harbor. Viktor Yankovsky having rowed me out to her by
moonlight, I was escorted into the hold by an old Japanese
steward carrying a lantern.
Third-class gets the hold apparently, a vast dirty expanse
lined with vaguely shaped bales, sacks, and crates. Some
two dozen drunken Chinese and Koreans were camped,
huddling close to one another in a corner. You don't often
see Orientals drunk, but they're pretty lousy when they are.
Nearly as bad as some of the boys back home. One of the
old Chinamen is reading to himself aloud, as they always do,
in a weird, singsongy voice varying from a hum to violent
high-pitched jabberings. It lasts for hours and sounds like
an old priest singing a long series of chants.
I choose a large bale of straw on the other side and, pull­
ing out my comforter, roll up in it for the night. A cool draft
seeps between the folds. There is a rustling in the hay be­
side me. Two large rats scamper boldly forth. Reaching
the middle of the cleared space, they stop to gaze about,
sniff, and prune their whiskers. I am used to rats by now
and don't mind them much, as they generally keep out of
my way, but these creatures are quite annoying - they
have too much self-confidence. Although I douse my com­
forter in camphor oil, which is supposed to be bad medicine
for all vermin, I can hear and feel the creatures scuttling
about my legs all night.
Today we anchored off a little fishing town - a long
crescent-shaped beach lined with hauled-up fishing boats,
at the very northernmost point on the Korean coast. All
the Koreans and Chinese with whom I spent the night have
gone ashore and I am now the only passenger on the ship.
This boat is a freighter and passengers are a minor consider­
ation.
They are excessively slow about unloading here. It has

2.2.8
..Men on the Horizon..
taken these people fourteen hours to unload sixty tons of
cargo into some scows which pulled up alongside, a job
which the same number of American sailors could have done
in an hour and a half. The Orientals are too leisurely and
sociable, and have too little initiative, to be efficient. When
the hook gets caught on a strongback, instead of just kick­
ing it loose, they begin to hold a convention about the best
way to fix it, and the winch-driver comes down into the hold
and consults, and the debate is long and furious. Finally
they reach a compromise and, fastening a rope around the
hook, they all get together and pull it free. Then the winch­
driver has a good laugh about how Wei Leng nearly fell over
backwards when the rope slackened and, his witticisms
being well received by all, he leisurely climbs back to his
winch. What is time to these heirs of the ages!
I am solitary now, in my quarters in the empty, freezing
hold of this little ship. At meal-times, the wizened and
dignified old steward appears at hatch number one, and
clambers down the ladder to leave a bowl of sticky rice and
cold, oily Oriental vegetables on my table, a bale of straw.
As I negotiate the sticky rice, all is silence save the faint
swish of water outside our iron hull and an occasional
scurrying rat. The rice gone, I contemplate the cold, oily
vegetables with a.sigh, and speculate upon the destiny of
the unfortunate Japanese crew who exist exclusively on
this diet. No wonder they never grow up to the size of
normal human beings.
January 25. Last night, on our northward course again, it
was very rough, and cold as the devil. When I could stand
it no longer in the drafty hold, I sneaked up to the warm
officer's messroom, and spent the rest of the night on a com­
fortable upholstered bench, unbeknownst to all.

CHAPTER TEN
RUSSIA
THis morning the whole ship is coated with frozen spray,
and, at dawn, when our winches started up, the air was so
cold that the steam enveloped the ship in a dense white
cloud. At ten o'clock, drawing nearer to shore, the floating
ice-cakes became so thick that the sound of our hull's cut­
ting through them resembled a bunch of workmen scraping
a city sidewalk, and now and then could be heard the deep
concussion of an extra large piece being forced beneath the
surface.
Then suddenly a mighty impact shook the ship. We had
struck something solid ! The pack-ice of Vladivostok Har­
bor. With a grinding shudder we slowed down - but con­
tinued slowly to plough our way onward through the
crunching, writhing debris of ice. Bare bleak hills could be
seen to the north and west forming, ahead of us, a small
harbor. Vladivostok. Soviet Russia.
A fat little pilot boat draws near us, ferociously bucking
the big white chunks. As she comes alongside, we can see
flying, the communist flag - all red except for a white
crossed-hammer-and-sickle in the corner. The ' Gay-Pay­
Oo' - Soviet Police - come aboard to inspect my visa,

o/Men on the Horiz,p1L
money, and baggage. Husky, raw-faced men, they all wear
warm sheepskin coats and wool boots, and are very polite.
It takes us nearly two hours more to get to the dock,
about a quarter of a mile away, in spite of an icebreaker's
frantic struggle to remove the jam which keeps accumulat­
ing between us and the wharf.
As I finally go down the gangplank, thinking principally
of where I can most quickly find some food, I notice long­
shoremen carrying loads into a ncar-by Chinese freighter.
Women and girls can be seen standing about here and there,
bundled up with drab-colored woolly shawls over their
heads, and high boots. But I miss that atmosphere of light­
hearted bustle so prevalent throughout the rest of the Ori­
ent. There is no joking or laughter. The air is full of grim­
ness. The attitude of the women and of the longshoremen is
deeply serious.
Walking up one of the rough cobblestone streets of the
quaint city, which is formed of tiers of brittle little wooden
houses sprouting out of the bare steep hills, I pass many
people, almost all blond, dressed in black, gray, or brown,
and trudging along with no noticeable 'joie de vivrc.'
I am quite inconspicuous among these bleak people, as
my costume is even less elegant than theirs. Beneath my
Chinese overcoat, my once white flannel pants are fresh
from being slept in for forty-four nights in succession. And
my shoes, which I have worn constantly for two years, have
an expression of grim fatigue.
January 26. I am staying for three and a half rubles a
day at a little place called The Third Communal Hotel,
on the corner of Lenin Street and '25th of October ' Street.
A ruble is worth about fifty cents.
The lobby is twelve feet by six, of old dust-stained plank
paneling, and as dark and gloomy as a dungeon. In the
creaky hall at the head of the stairs roams a decrepit hag

1{ussia..
with a red rag around her head, who makes beds and
sweeps. My room is distinctly proletarian, although the old
iron bed has a mattress and bedclothes. Its nearest ap­
proach to bourgeois luxury is a very warm but unresthetic
comforter made of dishrags sewn together with grocery­
store string, and stuffed with wornout stockings, mittens,
neckties, and underwear - the buttons left on.
I had learned from Will that there is living in Vladivostok
a plumber, one Ivan Ratovsky, who has twice been to
America, and who now owns a shop on Lenin Street. I
visited his place this morning. When I opened the rusty
door, I saw three young men in high boots and leather
breeches apparently taking an inventory of the stock of
pipes, tools, and hardware which were piled in dusty con­
fusion on the shelves and benches.
'Where is Ratovsky? '  I asked.
They did not know, and did not seem to care. Going into
the shop next door, I met an old man, who got Ratovsky on
the telephone and persuaded him to come down and see me.
In a few minutes a tall man of about forty, dark, un­
shaven, grim, very hardy and intelligent-looking, came
striding down the street. He entered, unwinding an old
black scarf from his thin neck, and shook my hand.
' Hello,' he said, with a smile that took some effort. ' It
iss pleasure to meet an American once more. I was in
America, the last time, two years ago. I wish I was there
now.' He went on to tell me that only yesterday his shop
and stock, worth six thousand rubles (about three thousand
dollars), had been confiscated by the Soviet Government.
' The communists arr in there now,' he said bitterly,
pointing next door. ' They are counting up my goods.'
He seemed too discouraged and sick at heart to talk
further on the subject, so I asked him no questions.
' Let us eat,' he suggested. 'The best restaurant in town
is just around the corner.'

..Men on the Hori'zy1L
' Isn't it rather expensive for you now?' I ask, thinking of
his recent loss.
'Oh, yes, very extravagant,' replies Ratovsky, with an
ironic smile, ' but I might as well eat in the best restaurant
because the communists will soon take all the money I
have, anyhow, and the more I spend now, the less they will
get.'
Ten minutes later, with a little aristocratic soup in his
stomach, Ratovsky is feeling well enough to talk more about
his troubles.
'The government,' he says, with acid eye, ' has no right to
take my shop. Do you know what they did? They taxed
me ten thousand rubles. Now, how can I pay ten thousand
rubles when my store and stock - all I have - is worth
only six thousand rubles?
'They know that. They know I can't pay the tax. That
is why they impcsed it - so they could take my shop for
not paying taxes. If I had sixty thousand rubles, they
would tax me a hundred thousand. This is the way they do
with everybody.' He gave numerous instances of his shop­
keeping friends having all of their goods confiscated which
in most cases led to their imprisonment through inability
to pay subsequent taxes . . .
' I  have been in prison twice myself,' he continues. ' It iss
no joke. We get only one kilogram of bread a day. Some­
times a little soup also, and the quarters are terrible - cold,
and filthy. It was before my second trip to America. I had
to spend four months in jail. The communists suspected me
of something - I don't know what - and it took them four
months to find out I was innocent. Then they let me go. I
come back to my shop, and find I have lost all my trade.
' If you are not a communist, they treat you like a dog.
Nobody can save up any goods or money now. It is all
taken by the communists. Nobody is doing work seriously.
The only work you can do which the government approves

7{ussitL
is to work in factories or other places under government
management. No matter how hard you work, you will be
given only the barest necessities of life; one pair of shoes,
two kilograms of bread a day, and just so much of this and
that. Everything is measured - even the amount of floor
space you can take for living quarters. Nobody has am­
bition any more, because what is the use? That is why
Russia is poor. That is why everything is so scarce - food,
clothes, merchandise, everything. It is that way all over
Russia. I am a storekeeper, so I know. I used to order
merchandise from Moscow, Leningrad, Odessa, Harbarovsk.
Now they have none. There is a shortage of necessary goods
all over Russia.
'The only people,' he continues drearily, 'who enjoy life
at all are the Communist Party members. Anyone who has
ever owned private property is automatically barred from
the party, and even those who join must go through a hard
test lasting three years. Everything is against those who
have, in the past, been leaders of economic affairs - the
private traders, manufacturers, and merchants who had
enterprise enough to build up their business. Now this
enterprise is suppressed and little or nothing is brought to
fill its place. All ambition is drowned in government dis­
cipline and government laws.
' The laws are so rigid that they are very hurtful, even to
the Bolshevik's own interests. The government fishermen
here in Vladivostok, for instance, often waste a great part
of their catch because there is no salt for preserving the
fish. The big salt merchants have been taxed out of business.
'And there are many other cases. The workmen who take
the places of the suppressed experienced producers, are
never as well fitted for their jobs, and never have as much
real interest in their work. How can they, when it means
just a way of passing an eight-hour working day, instead of
a road to prosperity? '

Jlien on the Horiz.ptL
Such is the stuff I got from Ratovsky. The communist
ideal, according to him, disregards some of the funda­
mental laws of nature, such as ' that the fittest shall sur­
vive,' ' the Lord helps those who help themselves.'
' Who,' he asks, ' can enforce the communist principle:
" From each according to his means, to each according to
his needs? " Who is able to measure means and needs?
And who, also, will agree to another's measurements of his
means and needs, even if they could be measured ac­
curately?'
There seems to be no halfway about a man's position in
Russia. He must be either Red or White, and whichever he
is, he soon becomes violently bitter against the opposing
side. In this fundamental issue, the Whites consist princi­
pally of older men - conservative, weary, bewildered by
radicalism and change; the Reds are young people - ideal­
istic, hopeful, exalted. Ratovsky's talk fairly illustrates the
usual \Vhite Russian state of mind.
January 27. When I next called on Ratovsky at his house,
he was very despondent. He told me he had just received a
tip from a friend warning him that he was going to be ar­
rested within two or three days.
' I  can't stand the idea of going to that horrible prison
again,' he said, with the look of a doomed man. ' I'll go
crazy in there. Nothing can stop those communists. I'm
done for now.'
He pointed to his humble cot in the corner. 'That is not
my bed,' he said.
Indicating his little table on which lay three books --­
'Those are not mine. Nothing in this house is mine. All
these things and many more I have bought with money
earned in plumbing - but yesterday the communists came.
They said all my goods are taken over by the government,
but that I may continue to use the most necessary of my

1{,ussitL
furniture. Then they took my pictures, my clock, my arm­
chair - everything of value.' With a sigh - 'They have
everythins but my life. Soon they will have that.'
The poor fellow, tough and strong as he was, looked sickly
pale. He had apparently resigned himself to a communist
prison to the end of his days. His jaw rested limply upon
his heavy collar. His eyes were as dead as glass.
' If I could only get away,' he said hopelessly.
Suddenly he looked up.
' How far is it,' he asked, ' to the Manchurian border? '
I got out my map. ' .\bout thirty-five miles,' I said.
' I  could walk that distance almost overnight,' said
Ratovsky. He was thinking deeply now. His eyes grew less
glassy. ' Yes, I am strong. If I left here at sunset, I could be
far away by morning.' His fingers were nervously ploughing
his hair. 'Of course,' he said, ' if I was seen by the com­
munists, they would be hard on me - they would probably
call me a counter-revolutionary, and shoot me.'
• But,' said I, ' there must be plenty of room for hiding in
this country.'
Ratovsky's eyes brightened. ' Yes, yes,' he said ; ' I could
rest in the forest during the day, and walk at night. I'd
keep away from people and roads - I'd work toward
Harbin or Seishin - I could get employment in Harbin . . .  '
It was beautiful to see hope come to life in this crushed
and woebegone man. ' Yes - yes,' he kept saying to him­
self. ' Yes - I can do that - yes, I will do that.'
We talked for a long time. He seemed to know almost
nothing about the country west of Vladivostok, but dis­
missed the question of bandits by saying, ' I  have nothing to
fear from them - I don't think my appearance will tempt
them to hold me for ransom.'
Returning toward the Third Communal Hotel, I saw a
platoon of young communists marching along the street,

..Men on the Hori-zon..
bayonets fixed, and singing lustily. No one paid the slight­
est attention to them. I guess it is an everyday occurrence.
I've spoken a few words with various communists in res­
taurants, and all have been very pleasant, though very
serious, and rather suspicious of me. They seem sym­
pathetic about individual store-owners and people like
Ratovsky who are being sent to jail. They admit that such
people are being wronged, but they say that these are
merely the unfortunate victims of laws which were made
for 'the good of the majority.'
Almost everybody seems poor, however, even more so
than the average Russian refugee in Harbin, who isn't any
too prosperous.
And food must be very scarce, for I often
see kids steal the leavings off of restaurant tables.
Everywhere in Vladivostok I notice lack of interest in
jobs and much inefficiency. There are not enough trolley
cars to carry all the people who want to ride; restaurant
waitresses take hours in bringing the food; I had to wait in
line an hour and a half to get railroad tickets. No one is
quite all there in his work.
At four o'clock I stopped in to see Ratovsky, who was in
a state of great excitement. Realizing the danger of delay,
he had made plans to depart at sundown. He was studying
his map. His equipment was spread out on his cot: two
sweaters, a woolen scarf, cap, mittens, matches, a small
loaf of bread, three packages of raisins, two cans of beef,
compass, map, pocket knife, and all the money he had left
- twenty-two rubles.
It was now quite dark. No time must be lost. Stowing
his supplies in his pockets and on his belt, he donned his
sweaters. We shook hands.
' Good luck, Ratovsky,' I said.
We went out into the cold night. The stars twinkled
through millions of miles of black emptiness overhead. To
the west the pale, frozen bay stretched inland to the hills.

"l{ussia.
Far beyond lay Manchuria. With a smile and a wave of
good-bye, down the little street strode Ratovsky, provi­
sions on his belt, and clothed for a dozen nights unsheltered
in the desolate mountains. He is undertaking a reckless
adventure. He must go alone, totally unfamiliar with his
dangers, in mid-winter, facing cold, starvation, bandits,
wild animals, communist police who would bring him back
to be executed, and his own fatigue which might leave him
to die a horrible death in the wilderness.
I watched him to the foot of the hill, where I could but
dimly see him making for the edge of the ice in the dark­
ness. Then he was gone.
On train for Habarovsk. They don't like to speak of different
classes of anything in this country, as it is contrary to com­
munist ideals, so they call the various kinds of railroad cars
' hard ' or 'soft.' This is a third-class, or ' hard ' car. We
sleep on shelves of smooth boards arranged in tiers of three.
They provide no mattress, blankets, or pillow, and I sleep in
my overcoat and the pink comforter.
At Vladivostok, I boarded this Trans-Siberian local train
for Moscow, six thousand miles away through the heart of
communist territory. I expect to stop off at one or two way­
stations to see what is to be seen, and my immediate desti­
nation is Harbarovsk, one day's journey north from Vladi­
vostok. It costs ninety-nine rubles, or fifty dollars, to get to
Moscow this way.
My traveling companions are a very unkempt and serious
lot. The only one of them who seems at all cheerful is the
unshaven, bullet-headed conductor who tends the car stove
and keeps our tickets under his coat.
There is a big Russian, sitting on the bunk opposite me,
who must weigh two hundred and eighty pounds. He
certainly is a brute - the kind that is baptized by having a
bottle of vodka smashed over his head. He wears the usual

.A1en on the Horiz..orL
cylindrical cap of thick black wool and sports a huge, bushy
red mustache. On his hand I see tattooed the crossed-axe­
and-anchor of the Soviet Transportation Service.
He is always munching at a large loaf of bread, which he
keeps wrapped in an old newspaper beside him - and, as
he chews, his whole face seems to go around in circles. On
the up-stroke his chin ascends, taking with it his fat lower
lip and nose, while the right wing of his mustache describes
a wide circle to the right, and then; on the down-stroke, his
jaw drops sharply, releasing his nose, and with a violent
twitch at both ends the mustache sinks quickly back to the
starting position. And then over and over again, like a
cement-mixing machine, hour after hour.
Two young communists are sitting on the shelf directly
beneath me. At first they looked at me blankly and rather
disapprovingly, but after an hour or two, I got them talking
and, even in spite of my limited vocabulary, we got along
quite well. One is blond, and has the strangest eyes I ever
saw - of an insipid yellowish-green color - and the other
is dark with thick, curly hair. Both wear striped jerseys
under their coats, for they are sailors in the employ of the
Soviet Government.
Following a month's vacation in
Vladivostok, they are going to Harbarovsk to work on a
gunboat on the Amur River.
Also, near by, is a peasant lady who seems to hate me.
Her name is Sufeena, or something like that, and all day
long she sits and scowls.
The windows are frosted with ice curtains, but occasion­
ally through the door I get glimpses of an open rolling
country. At almost every station we all rush out to get a
drink of water and perhaps fill our kettles and pots, if we
have such, or buy a little black bread or ham.
My sleeping-shelf is really a baggage-rack. I couldn't use
any of the lower bunks because my feet, which protrude
some distance into the aisle when I'm asleep, get in the way

1{ussia..
of passers-by. But here on top, they are high aboye every­
one's head, so it is all right, and I slumber in peace among
the bundles. EYcrything in the train is cramped. Not only
are the shelYes much too short to stretch out on, but if you
sit, you have to keep your head bent over, to avoid the shelf
above. If you sit on the shelf above, you still have to keep
your head bent on account of the baggage-shelf above that.
And even if you sit on the baggage-shelf as I do, the roof of
the car will keep your head bent. The only place to sit up­
right would be on top of the roof of the car, and there, if you
were not immediately frozen, you'd be either arrested or
knocked off by a tunnel.
If all communists are like these sailors, I would not mind
being a communist myself. I told them that I ,  too, had been
a sailor, and we arc becoming fast friends. I have a little
English-Russian dictionary, and it is doing hard service as
we converse ever more eagerly. These boys certainly have
the communist spirit. They are always offering me bread,
meat, sausages, and all they have. I've never yet seen an
inhospitable Russian except Sufeena - and I think even she

2.40
./Wen on the Hori1.,pn..
might be friendly in time. I took her picture this morning
when she was asleep. Considering her appearance, it was a
dastardly trick to play on any woman.
January 28. I am writing this in the Matross Dom, or
Sailors' Home, of Habarovsk, where my two communist
sailor friends of the train have invited me to stay as their
guest as long as I like. This is fortunate for me, for other­
wise I would have to spend at least six rubles a day at a
hotel. Hotels in Russia, being rare, are correspondingly
expensive.
The Sailors' Home is a gaunt, rambling hovel, away off at
one end of the town. Except for the kitchen, each room
contains a large stove and some beds, and nothing else.
There is no bathroom, and the toilet, a ramshackle frame­
work the size of a telephone booth, stands in a snowdrift
about forty yards behind the house.
This is a good-sized town, spread loosely upon the bleak,
gently waving plain. Here and there on the vastness is a
sketchy strip of woods, but, for the most part, the wind has
a free sweep, and in the distance you can see the glistening
crust of the Amur, winding ever northeastward - to the
Sea of Okhotsk and the North Pacific. The streets are wide.
The roof-tops all exhale white veils of steam which fly, in­
termingled with each other, like racing whippets down the
wind. Everywhere in the streets are sauntering young blue­
eyed men, dressed in various government uniforms, with
black wool caps and leather knee-boots; everywhere are
girls bundled in knitted shawls, and old bearded men driv­
ing little sleighs of bread and firewood.
Everybody wears caps; never hats. If you should wear a
hat, you would be considered either very bourgeois or a
foreigner, and would be a marked man wherever you went.
It is really wonderful - the raggediest clothes are perfect
attire for any occasion. You never need think of shaving,

"l{ussia.
brushing your hair, wearing a clean shirt, or any other
bothersome conventions. It's superb.
My two sailor hosts are kind indeed to me.
Their hos­
pitality extends, beyond mere lodging, to giving me food
and showing me the sights. In addition to taking me all
over town and answering my inexhaustible supply of ques­
tions, they have even offered me money. All this they con­
sider a part of living up to their principle, ' From each ac­
cording to his means, to each according to his needs.' They
are true communists.
Their attitude substantiates my theory, which I've al­
ready proved to my own satisfaction, that one can learn
more by going about the world alone than with any com­
panion, however pleasant or congenial. If, for instance, I
had a traveling companion, I doubt whether these boys would
have taken me in as they have. They wouldn't have gone
so far out of their way to be friendly and to make me feel
at home, because they would have considered me already
befriended and in no danger of being lonely.
As it is, however, everything is grand in the Matross
Dom. There are girls employed here to keep the place in
order. Their clothes are terribly ragged, and their thick
black stockings are full of holes - but, boy! They come
around early in the morning and build fires in our dormitory
stoves, and sweep the floor, and cook soup for us, and wash
dishes - they are nice to have around. My sailor friends
have a guitar which they play very soothingly, and when
they sing their songs, the girls sit around on our beds and
listen, and keep us company.
Such an arrangement could hardly exist in any country
other than Russia. If girls inhabited any sailors' home of
the type I am used to, they could not survive a week. Here,
however, the passions of these sailors seem to be intellectual
quite as much as physical, and they seem to have deep re­
spect for women. Instead of treating these girls in the

o.Men on the HoriztJ1L
usual predatory and irresponsible manner, the sailors seem
to prefer to play chess or talk seriously with them. There is
practically free love in this country, but you seldom hear of
the privilege being abused by these serious-minded people.
This morning I had an economic discussion with the boys,
which, though necessarily very crude owing to the narrow
limits of my Russian, showed me that none of them had a
very accurate idea of conditions in the outside world.
They stated, among other things, that the workingmen
of America are so much under the power of ' imperialism '
and the 'capitalists ' that they have no liberty left, and that
it is just a question of time before they will be strong enough
to succeed in their revolutionary hopes. Also that the
' Chinese imperialists' are trying to extend their dominion
into Siberia, but have been frustrated by the powerful Red
Army which defends the workers and peasants of the Soviet
Union.
All the boys offer reckless sums for my camera. It is a
thrilling luxury to them - any camera is - anything not
strictly necessary is. Only necessities are tolerated in Rus­
sia according to Communist Party policy. Everything un­
necessary, from silk stockings to nail files, must be boot­
legged over the border.
I had a ten-cent tube of shaving-cream which has been
the envy of all who have either seen it or sniffed it. ]\'!any
offers were made for this coveted prize. There are other
shaving-soaps fully as good and for sale cheaply here, but
foreign luxury lends a satisfaction and social prestige that
the best local products cannot satisfy. I got three rubles for
my tube : about fifteen times what it cost me.
I had lunch today in the ' Rabochi ' - workingmen's ­
Dining-Room with two of my seamen friends. We filled
up on soup and ' zraza' and drank much of a syrupy
bellywash known as ' kvass.' It was a wonderful meal con­
sidering the seventy-five kopeks - thirty-five cents - we

'1{ussia.,
paid for it, and everybody in town seemed to be there.
Most of them were in the uniform of the Red Army and the
rest in dark woolly clothes or heavy furs, lined up in a long
file to get their meal tickets. The busy waitresses, wearing
red handkerchiefs around their heads, scurried to and fro
with bread and bottles and steaming bowls of gruel. It was
a great bunch of people . . .  No one too proud to finish up the
fish on another fellow's plate after he had gone.
Afterwards we went to a movie, which was intensely
communistic in sentiment. First they showed pictures of
Stalin, Rykoff, and the other high administrative officers
of the Soviet Government. These bushy-haired fellows are
a battle-scarred lot. Stalin, dark-eyed, stout, stiffly mus­
tached, his face dotted with smallpox pits, is about as hard­
boiled-looking an individual as could be imagined. He has
a sort of ruthless look, like Captain John Silver, and glares
craftily from side to side out of half-opened eyes.
Having read a little about his past life, I can understand
why his face is not as sleek and balmy as it might be. For
twelve years before the Revolution, Stalin worked for
Lenin as a Bolshevist bandit in the Caucasus. He was ar­
rested again and again, and sent to prison in Siberia - and
eleven times, while other prisoners died of starvation, ex­
posure, and disease, Stalin escaped. Each time they would
guard him more carefully, but, surviving all hardships, he
invariably escaped again.
He has developed an astounding genius for political
strategy. On Lenin's death, while the great Trotsky, Zin­
oviev, and Kamenev were fighting it out for the position of
power left by Lenin, Stalin, the humble secretary of the
Communist Party, let them fight, while quietly, mysteri­
ously, by roundabout methods, he established, as provincial
and district secretaries, men whose loyalty he could rely on.
It is one of the most miraculous machinations in history.
Dealing with ruthless, suspicious, jealous men, who could

Jlien on the Horiz.pn..
have exiled him in a minute if they knew what he was about,
Stalin has gradually ' cleansed ' the party of his enemies till
now practically no opposition remains.
Although these peasant people regard him as merely one
of many leaders, and he himself assumes to he nothing
greater than the equal of the other administrative officers,
all presumably humble ' disciples' of Lenin, Stalin is ac­
tually as absolute an autocrat as any existing in the world
today. The masses under him do not begin to know his
power. For that reason it is all the more secure.
Next came a half-hour of pictures showing the greatest
fields of industrial development, the new farming com­
munities in function; and then a magnificent view of some
of the Soviet battle cruisers on the Amur, the Red Army in
action, and similar incitement of enthusiasm.
It is really a most beautiful thing, this ideal of the com­
munists. No wonder they are so thrilled about it. It is so
simple in principle, so uplifting to the long down-trodden
masses, and, at the same time, proclaims as its purpose the
establishment of a society worthy of the highest aims of the
entire world : 'A society in which no man shall have the
power to exploit another, in which all men shall work and
as workers jointly control their product, and in which hu­
manity, united to the ends of the earth in peaceful pro­
ductive relationships, shall by science and cooperation sub­
due all nature to the needs and development of Man.'
It is a marvelous conception. And in these pictures were
brought to reality, in the minds of these struggling people,
the actual beginnings and great foundations of this tre­
mendous movement. Here was shown ' the largest republic
in the world, the largest stretch of territory under one flag
in the world, the largest sown area, the largest forests, the
largest iron deposits' - all already working in cooperation
and sympathy to develop themselves toward an enlightened
end.

1.{ us si a.
Lumbermen in the great northern forests, fishermen in
the Baltic, peasants on the wide plains of Siberia, miners in
Ukraine, factory workers, soldiers, men of the proletariat
everywhere, all with one purpose, working, sacrificing,
gaining . . .  gaining . . .
To a vast nation of simple people, it is an exalted ideal.
As such, it justifies the colossal effort expended by them. If
only their government will hold true to this people's
idealism --
If only its leadership and its methods will be worthy of
this people's purpose
--
\Vhen the movie was over, we went around to a Soviet
supply store, where the boys got me some provisions for
my projected journey across the continent. Knowing the
commissioner, and the food being for the consumption of a
'rabochi' - workingman - they got it at a huge discount:
for less than forty per cent of the regular price.
As we were leaving, we saw the daily meat line at the
counter, each man awaiting drearily his turn. This is one of
the many still existing inefficiencies of the Soviet system.
Everyone must spend an appreciable portion of his day just
standing in line. After taking me around and answering my
plentiful questions till dark, the boys took me home to have
some delicious 'shi,' a cabbage soup, which our fair house­
keepers were brewing for us.
I don't know whether my friends act as they do because
they are trying to advertise the good qualities of com­
munism, or out of pure friendship. There is no way of know­
ing. Probably it is a mixture. At any rate, whichever it is,
they are far from selfish, whether they are working for
Bolshevism or to help me. It occurs to me that communism,
when it is applied in good will and liberty like this, is about
the same thing as the Golden Rule. But it seems a mistake
to attempt to enforce any such code. If the Golden Rule
were forced, it would be golden no longer.

Jlien on the HorizytL
On the train again. What I had to go through to get my
ticket for this leg of the journey is alone enough to fill two
or three efficiency experts' notebooks.
First, I spent half an hour in the waiting line in the town
ticket-office, only to learn that my particular kind of ticket
was not sold there, and that I would have to get it in the
station. So to the station I went and there joined a still
longer line of ticket-seekers.
\Ve never seemed to make the slightest progress, and each
man who reached the window would stay there talking and
waiting a long time before he got his ticket. There was al·
ways someone, who had a pull with the soldier in charge,
cutting in near the head of the line, so that we at the tail
were counting our progress in millimeters. At length, at
half-past two, after an hour and a quarter, the ticket-agent
went off for lunch, locking the window with a heartless
finality.
I hoped the line would break up then, but no, the mem­
bers all gritted their teeth a little harder and held firm.
Seconds ticked slowly by. Minutes. Quarter hours. Hours.
We dozed and dreamed, shifting wearily from one foot to
another. No ticket-man.
Once in a while a haggard form would drop despairingly
out of line and trudge limply away; others would get rela­
tives and friends from the vast crowds around us to relieve
them for a while. Some sat patiently down on the floor
among their bundles, to blink and snore away the long
hours. It was not a cheerful outlook. The ticket-man had
apparently closed up for the day. But if some of the others
were still waiting, I figured there must be some hope. They
spoke Russian. This was their country: what they were
used to. They ought to know what was best.
So we waited. And waited - and waited. Four o'clock
came. Five o'clock. Six o'clock. The line had now dwindled
down to a meager twenty or twenty-five people leaning,

'l{ussia.,
dozing, groaning, relieving each other in half-hour shifts.
I was beginning to contemplate giving it up as a bad job.
I had no friends to relieve me, and had already been
leaning against the same dirty brick wall for over four hours.
Nobody seemed to know whether the ticket-man was com­
ing back or not. Most of them seemed to have forgotten
him entirely - and were waiting blindly, through long
habit, as if it were an accustomed part of their daily lives ­
rather dazed, hopeless.
At last, all of a sudden, here was the ticket-man again.
It seemed like a new day. In a minute the line had doubled,
trebled. Everyone was on his feet, hopeful. But, alas, the
man was gone again in five minutes: all he did was to get
one ticket for an old lady who had toddled up behind him,
probably some relative or family friend to whom was due
special attention.
Once more, hope sank in the waiting line. People began
to come and go. Some seemed to be ringing in very brazenly
ahead of those who had been waiting many hours. Two
women wormed in just in front of me. Then a man, tall and
bony, tried to do the same, as if this had been proved the
weak spot where ringers would be assured success.
I decided that this sort of stuff had gone far enough, so
I put up a stout defense and kept him off. He tried some
more and set up a heavy barrage of jabber, but finally con­
tented himself with the place next behind. He kept growl­
ing at me in guttural Russian for some time, but I paid no
attention and started making conversation with some of the
people in front of me. They asked me a lot of questions:
was I a rabochi? - where did I live? did I belong to the
Revolution? In an hour or two more we were pretty thor­
ough acquaintances.
It was really getting pretty much of a hardship to stick
in our places. The pressure and heat of weary bodies were
oppressive. I'm sure there weren't many of our backs that

o./11en on the Horh,pn..
didn't ache from standing in the same position for so long.
We had had many ups and downs in hope, but here it was
half-past six - night - and we hadn't moved an inch in
five hours. What the hell was the matter with this ticket­
man anyway? It seemed he might at least have the decency
to let us know his plans.
I finally resolved I would stay till the last man had left.
I had to get a ticket sometime, and I couldn't bear to let all
this effort go to waste. It would probably be just as bad
tomorrow. From the way my companions were acting, it
looked as if these were little more than average condi­
tions.
Well, we waited some more and some more, and shifted,
and ached, and dozed. We were certainly paying for our
tickets. When I finally got so hardened in despair that
I didn't care whether the man came back or not, he sud­
denly appeared on the scene and busily set about selling
tickets.
At last I reached the window. It seemed like being face to
face with Saint Peter at the end of a sad life. I asked him
about my ticket. He didn't seem to understand my Russian
very well, but a soldier to whom I had previously told my
story came to my assistance. Then I learned that there
were ' no more tickets to be sold for tomorrow's train.'
Cheerful news!
However, with the characteristic inconsistency of Russian
affairs, I finally got a ticket on a train which was to leave in
' half an hour.' With a light heart I rushed back to the bar­
racks for my baggage and then I had to wait four hours
more for that train.
The frosted locomotive finally panted up to the station in
a white cloud of steam, and the bundled passengers rushed
out with their bulky baggage. I joined some twenty others
beside car number six, where we stood on the freezing plat­
form until the old conductor had seen each of our tickets, and

1-{ussia.
until three sacks of coal for the stove had been shoveled back
from the passageway - while the train waited.
At last - ah - we got to our shelves. Golly, was I ready
for a good sleep! The man with whom I'd had the fight in
the ticket-line was right opposite me, but we both felt so
glad to be where we were that we were friends in two
minutes. And then, sleep - sleep - good - deep, refresh­
ing sleep.
Morning. There is a peasant with his wife near me with
whom I've made rapid friends. They are quite poor and
therefore very thorough communists. Vashilii, the man,
a wiry little fellow with a dangling wisp of mustache, loves
to discourse on the virtues of communism, for apparently
he has benefited considerably by it and is exempt from the
heavy taxes which the ' kulaks,' the more prosperous peas­
ants, have to pay.
He gave me a long lecture on farm life, religion, and other
interesting things affected by communism. He points, in my
dictionary, to the words for 'God ' and 'gentleman ' and says
that there are no such things as 'God ' or 'gentlemen ' in the
U.S.S.R., and 'we are glad to be rid of them, and their
imperialism.' I tell him that perhaps ' God ' and 'gentle­
man' mean something different in other countries from
what they mean here. But he doesn't believe that can be
so : none of the magazines or papers give the slightest indica­
tion of it.
Ennokenti Gorbchnov, another of my companions, is
a journalist illustrator, or political cartoonist for the Soviet
Government. Young, fiery, scrub-brush-haired, stocky of
build, extraordinarily energetic of mind, nothing can dis­
courage his ardor to do good work for the party. Lecturing
didactically on the horrors of 'capitalism, imperialism, and
religion,' drawing violent illustrations to emphasize his
main points, he is my most ardent converter.

lltvol ... t<•"\

P--
C A.KAO
13 A H 3 E. i'TI'
 ĕ
>- Jffl
l ž C, 1
--
_. Rellgi•l'l.
@' Ii R
O
Gon l
:r-v u	  ··-
"
I ,.\. 
P y ( (  I I'\
4?%3 '\.')   -A·''" .. '>
')G J ) < F4,9
,"-) . \'- ]
.&;:;Ė
.= - •.. ,.,,.,.,
J.Y ):"0)"'":'-1:.. T A P I PIT
THrt--· - AtH I¡_EA
'"t"'e
PHI--u \
--=-
-·
\
C • P' 1>1 "t
opQ,.,R._S
,n A"'Ï"<Ð
Some of the Drawings of Ennokenti Gorbchnoo

1{ussitL
2.5 1
In spite of my feeble knowledge of Russian, my compan­
ions at first failed to identify me as a foreigner. My limita­
tions in pronunciation and vocabulary were perhaps no
more noticeable to them than would be those of a Tajik, an
Azerbaijan Turk, a Talish, a Kurd, an Abkhage, a Tat, or
some other of the speakers of weird tongues that are in­
cluded in the Soviet Union.
\Vhen my car mates found out that I am not a com­
munist, most of them being rather inexperienced in dealing
with capitalists and rather awestruck at finding a foreigner
in their midst, they did nothing but gaze at me suspiciously.
But when Vashilii and Ennokenti started converting me, the
others overcame their timidity and all gathered around to
participate in the glories of the adventure. More came
from farther up in the car, and raved, and drew pictures, and
fingered my dictionary frantically, and asked sarcastic ques·
tions - and the situation got hotter and hotter.
Finally, after repeated efforts at relieving the tension by
vain smiles, I was forced in self-defense to pass around my
great loaf of bread and suffocate their ardor in food until
they realized for the time being that, after all, I have the
communist spirit, and am in sympathy with the ' rabochi.'
These are very pleasant and natural people except when
in debate on the subject of communism. Then they become
demons; their eyes begin to bulge, and, uttering strong
declarations as to the horrors of the capitalists, accompanied
by wild and absolutely fictitious stories about the terrible
conditions of workmen in America, they go, to all intents
and purposes, violently insane.
Their idea, in general, is that America is like Russia as it
was in the days of the Czar, the only difference being that
the American aristocrats, aggressive and enormously rich,
have developed extraordinary machines and systems of
manufacture by which they maintain their power over
the vast masses of humble laborers. These oppressed and

2.p .
..Men on the Horiz.ptL
worthy workmen make up about nine tenths of the popula­
tion of the United States, but, under the iron dictatorship
of the capitalists, who build tremendous skyscrapers, run
the government, the press, and control all resources, they
are kept in a condition bordering on starvation. They are
too ignorant, disorganized, and too much under the in­
fluence of capitalist and papal propaganda to actively resist
their oppressors. They can only wait and pray for that
happy day when their greedy, exploiting, capitalist govern­
ment shall be overthrown.
This misinformation seems inevitable when you consider
the vast gap in heritage, culture, and environment between
these people and the people in America. The reading public
of Russia, newly literate and receptive, has even less chance
to discriminate than have Americans. From reprints of
sensational American news, the Russians are told of exten­
sive crime and corruption in America; and from their own
Soviet press, which seeks to avoid dangerous suggestions,
they are told nothing of crime in Russia. With this contrast
for their only guide, Russians are certainly as justified in
their fantastic conception of America as are Americans in
their usual wild idea of Russia.
February 1. This is a long, long journey, and very cold. Our
locomotive and forward cars are all white from the frozen
steam which flows back toward us in dense wings of soggy
whiteness - as on and on we go with a grind and rattle
and crunch of wheels. Always, from sunrise at nine-thirty
to sunset at two-thirty we can see our shadow to the north
of us waving along on the white snow, a black silhouette of
our car, the steam, and the many little stovepipe chimneys
sticking up out of the roof.
We have been going through a sort of wavy plateau
country, fairly well wooded with pine and wispy birch, for
three days - ever since we left Habarovsk. We see logging

'J.{ussia.
camps and miners' huts occasionally. Now and then we go
through tunnels, but not often, and the country seems to be
gradually leveling out and getting barer and bleaker. The
boys tell me we have been going through the Klondike
region of Asia.
Vukol, our conductor, long.faced, watery-eyed, wearing
a limp, stringy scarf around his neck, is a great social referee.
He has to get along with every type of human that lives in
Russia, and for weeks at a time. Emerging from his base,
the coal closet at the end of the car, he sees life in many
forms, and both in peace and under stress and strain. With
broad outlook and malice toward none, he is always smooth­
ing out difficulties among us passengers.
When the boys get too hot in their efforts to convert me
to communism, he comes around and cools them off. Find­
ing that I have no tea-kettle in which to get water, he lends
me a pot of his own. He even undertakes the difficult task
of teaching me Russian, to put me more nearly on an equal
footing with my fellow passengers .
. When we make our three-minute stops at the small sta­
tions, there is never time for all to get water out of the one
dinky faucet, so it is a question of the survival of the fittest.
There's not much communist spirit then, I notice. The
water is boiling hot when we get it and we often get scalded
in the scramble. They never have any cold water anywhere,
because, unless it's kept hot, it freezes at once.
We seldom get a chance to buy food, and when we do, it is
nothing to write home about. I made an awful mistake this
morning as we were making a brief stop at a little shack in
the woods. I was eating a nice dish of ' zraza' in the crowded
little buffet when the gong rang for the train to start.
Foolishly I picked up my remaining meat and dashed out
with the crowd - not realizing my mistake till I got into
the open air and smelt the meat. It was horrible, and smelt
so that I couldn't get it into my mouth. You don't notice

./Men on the Horiz,pn..,
such things when you are indoors in these little stations
because it is very crowded, and almost everybody takes off
his shoes . . .
The only food we eat in any quantity is black bread. In­
stead of a crust, this extraordinary bread has bark, like
a tree. It is much cheaper than other foods and a couple of
good twelve-pound loaves which are live inches thick and
four and a half feet in circumference, are enough to last
a week. It is wonderful, only ninety kopeks a loaf, and full
of whole wheat after you've gnawed through the hark.
I eat pounds of it every day. I cat it so much that some­
times I get tired of eating it. Then I eat cake, which I make
by sprinkling a little sugar on the bread.
February 2. My latest acquaintance is a burly communist
naval commander, returning from Habarovsk to Moscow.
This morning he sat beside me on our bench in his simple
but impressive uniform, with four gold stripes at each sleeve
and brass buttons and red stars, and lectured on the virtues
of communism. He told me he was a locksmith, besides
being a naval commander, and that he often did a me­
chanic's job on his ship, as well as commanding it.
'That is one of the fine things about government of the
proletariat,' he said. ' l\o task can be too humble for any
man.' I agreed with him.
He went on to tell me about how he had had a hand in
overthrowing the Czar, how he had battled thus and so, and
killed such and such aristocrats - with much glaring and
waving of arms. He got wilder and wilder, and finally even
pulled out his automatic when, after brandishing it about
a few times, he pressed its muzzle to my head in illustration
of what he would do were I an ' imperialist.' Indeed, a
soothing companion.
The force of this idea of communism is almost unbeliev­
able. It is much the greatest thing in these people's lives;

'1{ussia.
virtually a religion. Not otherwise could it possibly have
the appeal and power that it has.
Krupskaia, the wife of Lenin, has written a statement on
'What a Communist Should be Like.' It is typical of the
high aims they have set before themsc!Yes. She says:
First of all, a communist is a social person, with strongly de­
veloped social instincts, who desires that all people should live
well and be happy. He may be a member of any class in society,
but is more apt to be a member of the working-class, because
life trains workers in knowing their common needs.
Second, a communist must understand what is happening
about him in the world. He must understand the mechanism of
the existing regime, must know the history of the growth of
human society, the history of economic development, of the
growth of property, the division of classes, the growth of state
forms.
He must clearly picture whither society is developing.
Communism must appear to him, not only a desirable regime,
but exactly that regime to which humanity is going, where the
happiness of some will not be based on the slavery of others, and
where there will be no compulsion except strongly developed
social instincts. And the communists must clear the road, as you
clear a path in the wilderness, to hasten its coming.

o.Men on the Hori'Z,fltL
Third, a communist must know how to organize creatively.
Suppose he is a medical worker, for instance. He must first know
medicine, then the history of medicine in Russia and in other
lands, then the communist approach to the problem of medicine,
which means: how to organize and agitate wide masses of the
population to create from the ranks of the toilers a powerful
sanitary organization in the cause of health. He must know not
only what communism is, and what is coming, but what his own
job in it may be, and his own approach to the masses.
Fourthly, his personal life must be submitted to and guided by
the interests of communism. No matter how much he regrets
giving up the comforts and ties of home, he must, if necessary,
cast all aside and go into danger wherever assigned. No matter
how difficult the problem, he must try to carry it out. He fights
against everything that harms the cause of communism. 1'\othing
can leave him indifferent. Body and soul he must be devoted to
the interests of the toiling masses of communism.
And so, inspired by this most beautiful ideal, my com­
rades rant on for hours. They never leave me in peace till
I agree in the minutest detail, which I always am forced to
do in the end in order to get air to breathe. These boys
would certainly have a wonderful time with Fatty the oiler.
I can see his eyes bulge as he drank in their hair-raising
harangue.
Being in Russia is a sort of challenge to one's powers of
reason. !\'o matter how hard you try to avoid being fickle,
you cannot help but see each point of view - the White or
the Red - in a rosier light when you are among the very
ardent sympathizers with that point of view.
It is certainly a difficult question to think out clearly, be­
cause it involves so many and complicated conceptions:
such as Liberty, which means a different thing to the Whites
than to the Reds, and Imperialism, and Democracy, which
are equally poly-definable.
I try to find the answer by thinking how I would feel if
I had been a grovelling ' rabochi ' under the czars-and then,
on the other hand, how I would feel if I had had the ac-

1{ussitL
cumulations of ten or twenty years of my struggle to get
ahead in the world suddenly and ruthlessly confiscated by
a new and dictatorial government.
In each case I feel I have been wronged, and in each case
I think I can see how the system which inflicted the wrong
could be greatly improved. In fact, if I think it over care­
fully, I can see how the two cases are peculiarly alike in
most respects. Each rebels because he is deprived of a thing
which he holds of great value in life. Each calls that thing
liberty.
To the Red, liberty means freedom from things undesired
- from exploitation by a class visibly superior in wealth and
education, from arbitrary bossing. To the White, liberty
means freedom for things desired - for individual oppor­
tunity, individual expression, a chance to rise.
To the Red, liberty is passive - it is freedom from -.
To the White, liberty is active - it is freedom for -.
The law of the Red is the Golden Rule.
He is one of
a mass, and to him it is selfish to try to rise above one's
neighbors. The law of the White is the Rule of Survival of
the Fittest. He is an individual, and to him it is weak to
remain on the level of one's neighbors.
Each assumes that the realization of his desires is ab­
solutely incompatible with the realization of the other's
desires. Each calls his desires liberty.
As I think it over, it seems to me that both of these ideals
are just ones, and not incompatible, and that an ideal form
of government, never yet attained by man, would be that
form of government which assured to every man these two
freedoms. Perhaps these two blood-drenched ideals are the
same. Perhaps some future day will see them merged in
peace. Certainly it is in Russia today that these two tides of
civilization meet in storm.
I keep reminding myself that Russia has been far away
from many of the developments of Western civilization -

o/Wen on the Horizon...
Chivalry, the Renaissance, the Reformation, Puritanism,
the French Revolution, and modern Industrialism. These
great individualistic movements of the West have left her
relatively untouched in her Oriental and patriarchal subver­
sion of the individual to the mass. The struggle between the
Reds and the Whites may be a struggle between the East
and the West; between the psychology of the mass and that
of the individual.
Between Cheeta and Irkutsk - February 3· The country is
leveling out, and sometimes the valleys widen till they are
tremendous plains stretching to the horizon - and we go on
and on across empty wheat land.
But always, to the north, is that eternal forest lurking in
the distance. \Ve may lose it for a while, but it comes back
every time - sometimes gradually, sometimes suddenly as
we come to a roving range of hills. I don't think we have
been really out of sight of it once. The stations are in small
farming communities, with scattered houses and barns, cows
lounging about, a few horses, and many haystacks. Between
lie the yast expanses of wheat. Sometimes the stations are
surrounded by gigantic piles of flour and grain sacks waiting
to be shipped to the cities.
The station-houses are usually colored red or yellow,
and include, in addition to a sizable waiting-room, some sort
of a restaurant, a supply counter or store, water faucets,
and sometimes a barber shop.
When we are buying bread at the larger stations where
we are not hurried, I am much touched by the friendship
of my acquaintances. They arc so generous - often risking
going hungry themseh-es in order to make sure I do not lose
out through my handicap of language. Someone is always
making an explanation, or putting in a plea in my behalf
at the supply counter, so that I will get special attention.
I get greatest sympathy from the old peasant women, who

"'{us sia.,
evidently are convinced that my past life has been but one
long tragedy - that after twenty-two years of starvation
and persecution in America, I have come to Russia for
relief from oppression. They take it upon themselves to see
that I am spared any continuance of my former hardship,
and try hopefully to impress me with communistic effi­
ciency and prosperity, and encourage me to have faith in the
future.
There is surely no lack of kindness among the Russian
peasant people. A traveler who has recently lived in this
country writes:
A great many of the former titled nobility and landed gentry
have withdrawn into the country, where they owned great es­
tates, and are being provided generously with everything they
need by the peasants who expropriated their lands and wealth.
The Soviet authorities know about it and pretend not to see what
is going on. Time is purging the Russian Revolution of one of its
most powerful but degrading motives: revenge. The fact that a
peasant can divide his crumb of bread with his former landlord,
and the district commissar knows about it and does nothing to
stop it, is a healthy sign for Russia.
These itinerant peasants Joye to look at their maps. One
reason, I think, is that the particular map which most of
them use is very sympathetic with a communistic point of
view. It is a Mercatoria! projection map in which Russia
and Siberia, being relatively far north, look, of course, much
bigger, in reference to the rest of creation, than they should.
My car mates gaze fondly at these maps over long periods
of time, murmuring contentedly about the progress of the
Revolution, sometimes becoming wildly excited in their
harangue on this subject. Pointing to the gigantic area
which the U.S.S.R. occupies on a Euro-Asiatic Mercatoria!
map, they dilate on the great strength of this colossal move­
ment which, in a single decade, has swept ' almost half the
world.' They expound on how it is reaching out, out, all the

.Aien on the Horiz.pn..
time - across the Indian border, by means of prOVISIOn
trains, and teachers who have dedicated their lives to reliev­
ing the poor oppressed of India; into China, by the same
method ; into Korea; into Turkey; Bulgaria; Poland ; Fin­
land ; Germany.
Convinced are these companions of mine that the
U.S.S.R. is steadily spreading over the whole earth - that
there are only a few small countries left: a tiny negligible bit
of Western Europe, a few minor considerations like Africa,
America, and Australia, which will soon succumb. Then
communism will live in peace and prosperity throughout
the length and breadth of the world !
You can have no idea how these peasants feel about the
world till you look at one of these projection maps. The
peasants judge the importance of a country by its area, not
by its population or anything else. They overlook the fact
that China, comparatively small in area, contains nearly
three times as many people as all the Soviet republics and
Siberia combined. They forget that the entire U.S.S.R. has
a population of only about rso,ooo,oo, which is less than
one thirteenth of the total 2,oo,oo,oo souls who live on
the earth. That, in the whole world, only one man in a
thousand actually belongs to the Communist Party.
I am amazed that these untaught peasants are so vitally
interested in academic questions of government, religion,
philosophy, evolution, and science. Where a group of
American workmen would be discussing the latest movie or
the batting average of Babe Ruth, these bushy-haired fel­
lows are speculating deeply as to the steps in the develop­
ment of China toward ultimate communism, arguing as to
how best to reform the capitalistic tendency of Henry Ford
- desiring and thinking out for themselves, within the
limits of data at their command, a broad, idealistic view of
life.

"l{ussia.
2.61
This seems strange until you remember that there have
been other simple farmers to whom the theories of social
justice were just as vital a workaday concern.
The communist principles that ' The happiness of some
people be not based on the exploitation of others,' and that
' There be no compulsion except strongly developed social
instincts,' appeal to the communist farmer's sense of justice
much as appealed to the simple farmers of America the
principles set forth in our own Declaration of Independ­
ence Ô-
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed . . .  with certain inalienable rights . .  .
among these . . .  Life, Liberty and the pursuit of happiness . .  .
That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive
of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or abolish it,
and to institute new Government.
I think all communists would endorse the substance of
these principles, retaining, of course, their own passive
definition of Liberty.
Subscribing to a doctrine in which the interests of individ­
uals are subordinated to the interests of the mass, they ap­
parently do not feel the absence of a Bill of Rights in their
own Federal Constitution. Their Constitution does, how­
ever, subscribe to the principle of government with ' the
consent of the governed,' for they safeguard against oppres­
sive centralization by provisions such as that ' Each feder­
ated Republic has the right of freely withdrawing from the
.
.
uniOn.
Of course, between the high principles of communism and
some of the doings of communists, there lies an obvious
gulf. But human principles and human performance are
seldom bunkies for very long, and I should like to see
George Washington's expression when perusing today's
New York papers.

2.62.
..l:fen on the Horiz._orL
I'm glad I'm on a local train instead of the express, be­
cause, as it is, passengers are getting on and off all the time,
and I meet new people every day, and learn more Russian.
Now I know how to tell my whole story, always demanded
by an endless series of questions and accusations, and I can
understand, also, the stories of my scraped acquaintances.
We are always on very intimate terms, sitting and sleep­
ing on each other's bunks, borrowing each other's teapots,
and eating each other's food. We are getting to have team­
work in doing our errands in the small stations. One refills
all the kettles, one rushes to the ' lavka' to buy bread for the
bunch, one heads for the buffet for meat. These are some of
the virtues of communism.
Here we are at the Yast Lake Baikal - the lake a tre­
mendous expanse of whiteness walled on the remote horiwn
by hazy, bluish cliffs of snow, and streaked ridges of black
forest. Sometimes we can see, perhaps a mile or two out
from shore, the speck of a lonely slcigher trekking home­
ward into the dreary distance.
All afternoon we nosed and tunneled our way among the
crags and cliffs which dam the southern end of the great
frozen sea, till at sundown we turned westward to follow a
beautiful river Yalley toward Irkutsk. There were many
snowy ridges about, and it looked Yery much like the Upper
Yukon, except that the forest consisted more of birch than
of evergreen trees. The snow was deep, and hewn into gro­
tesque drifts by saYage winds - and the air was cold as
bloody hell !
Up till today I haven't noticed the cold particularly, al­
though sometimes ten minutes in the kettle line tingled my
ears a bit ; but now - just stick your head out of the door
for a second or two. \Vow !
I t  feels as if the wind would rip your skin off. And if you
touch your bare fingers to metal, they hold like glue, and it
is painful as the devil to pull them off again. The tiny

'l{ussia.
station-houses are fairly buried in the spume-swept dunes of
snow, and our fuming engine is frosted even to the rods as it
sizzles on before us in the night. At stations where we re­
arrange our cars, the brakemen have to thaw the ice off the
couplings with torches, so that they can unfold the links.
To the north, in the darkness, stretch pale fields of snow,
and beyond, the ink of space, and the twinkling friendly
Dipper balanced on its handle - looking just as it always
did at home.
There's a very peculiar-looking man aboard now, with a
head like a lampshade - absolutely smooth and round on
top and with a lot of dangling tassels and stuff below. He
hasn't a single blade of clown on his whole upper hemi­
sphere ; but I never saw such a complicated outfit of whisk­
ers in my life. It looks like the roots of a banyan tree.
A little while ago he called me over to his bench and se­
cretly offered me a drink out of his bottle of vodka. He was
obviously trying to keep anyone else from knowing he had
the bottle. Drinking - though not illegal - is disapproved
of by the communists, but knowing me to be from ' aristo­
cratic America,' perhaps he figured I would appreciate it. I
took a few swallows to please him, but vodka is really too
powerful for me. It is practically pure alcohol and burns
your throat.
February 5· There are some very pretty girls aboard now ­
but they arc all busy taking care of their many toddling
children.
Zmitrok Galun, a machinist with hair like steel wool, nose
like a doorknob, leathery skin, and transparent eyes, bunks
in a section near me with his pretty wife, or best girl, Irma
Elimov. The distinction between wife and best girl is not
always clear here, and matters very little. At any rate,
Zmitrok has lived with Irma for three years and seems to
love her very much.

..lien on the Horizyn..
I sat on his bunk talking with him this morning. I
showed him my camera, which, of course, aroused his keen
interest, resulting in his offering me twenty rubles for it. I
wanted to take Irma's picture, as she is a typical peasant
girl and quite charming- but Zmitrok grew jealous at the
idea and would have none of it. He later consented, how­
ever, to let me take a picture of both Irma and himself
together.
The Soviet marriage custom is very simple and seems to
work well with these cool-blooded people. As neither puri­
tanism nor chivalry has ever penetrated the vastness of
Russia, the people have never had a sense of taboo or curios­
ity about sex. Instead, they have always been free and
natural. It is an ancient custom for peasant boys to woo
their girls by sleeping beside them in the hay.
This race has little of the Latin sensuousness in its
blood. Here, the people's minds rule their hearts. Every­
thing in Russia is more the product of mind than heart.
This seems appropriate to a flat, dry, vast, cold country. It
seems to go with communism, suppressed individuality,
a race of chess-players, mental theorizers, and political
dreamers.
I am getting off at Novosibirsk, our next stop, because
I've heard that a farming-tool factory is being built there by
American engineers, and that it is a progressive communist
city - a boom town of which the population has increased
thirty-eight per cent in three years.
Situated in the middle of this interminable, wavy plain,
Novosibirsk is said to be about the coldest place in the
world. The North Pole rarely gets more than fifty below
zero, as the water under the ice, being at least thirty-two
above, acts as a stove when brought in contact with things
eighty degrees colder. But here in Novosibirsk the ocean is
nearly three thousand miles away; the air is dry and very

1{ussitL
susceptible to changes in temperature.
It sometimes
reaches eighty below zero.
At one o'clock in the morning, we pulled into a big, dimly
lighted station.
' Novo - sibeersk! '  howled Vukol.
Across the icy platform stood a dozen little droshky
sleighs, which, from the horses' appearance, might have
been waiting there, frosted into immobility, all winter.
Gasping as the bitter air hit my lungs, I woke up one of
the nebulously bundled drivers, and hopped into his droshky
with Abu Kasparovitch, a Red soldier whom I had met on
the train. He had generously offered to help me find a
lodging.
With a jerk, the furry little horse lunged forward in the
shafts . . .
It was snowing whizzing flakes that stung our faces, and
the cold was terrible. The tiny sleigh offered no protection
to our combined bulk and our bundles, which we clutched
, with freezing fingers. Five minutes in the wind made my
ears feel as if they would drop off - but the snow whirled
on, lights drifted by, and occasionally other sleighs - oh,
for a warm room !
Finally we stopped before a wide low building with a
lighted doorway. ' Hotel,' says Abu. We entered a low­
ceilinged hall with no decoration other than a photograph of
Lenin on the dusty wooden paneling, and an old man sitting
dejectedly on the stairs. On consultation with this cheerless
individual, Abu informs me that the place is filled up, and
that all the other hotels in Novosibirsk are filled, too.
The prospect of camping out on such a night is not pleas­
ant - we return to the droshky. ' Perhaps I know a place,'
says Abu, and consults with the driver as the furry horse
runs nimbly on through the flying snow. Neither Abu, the
driver, nor the horse seems uncomfortable in this blizzard
which makes my skin feel as if it were peeling off my bones.

2.66
.A1en on the Horizon..
I suddenly can understand why Russian sleigh-dri \'ers
take such good care of their whiskers.
At last we stop again. Down some steps to a dark little
cellar door - heavy knocking, lengthy pleading with the
frowsy proprietress who answers, and finally we are ad­
mitted into what is apparently a bunk-house, for the night.
Through passageways we are led toward a room from
whence comes the sound of revelry - clinking of glass and
guttural guffaws. Entering, baggage in hand, we find our­
selves in the midst of what appears to be a carousal in its
late stages. A half-dozen men are lolling about in stocking
feet, some seated on their plank cots, others leaning uncer­
tainly against the table-load of bottles. Most of the cots,
ranged around the sides of the room, are already occupied
with soundly snoring comrades. Suddenly there is a terrific
explosion over by the stove. One of the bleary brothers has
tried out his shotgun against it, just to see if the trigger is in
good order. Two of the sleepers sit up startled ; the remain­
ing snore steadfastly on.
Although a couple of the men make perfunctory signs of
greeting to us, Abu and I go comparatively unnoticed to our
cots and retire. Abu has soon dropped off - but I remain
long awake, it being difficult for me to lose consciousness of
such ribald companions.
In the morning, things seemed more cheerful, as they gen­
erally do when you arrive anywhere late at night. My com­
rades generously gave me of their breakfast, cheese and
bread, and offered to escort me to the \Vorkman's Palace,
where I hoped to find out about the new tool factory. It was
still snowing, but much warmer, almost up to ten below zero.
The streets are full of bundled forms moving along the
sidewalks, and sleighs streaming along in an almost unbroken
file with their cargoes of grain sacks, hay, and lumber from
the country. Many of them are driverless, the little panting
horses following each other mechanically, as from long

l{ussia.
trammg. Amid these hundreds of little droshky sleighs ap­
pears an automobile - property of the government - and
occasionally a sleigh drawn by a camel, a great sauntering
beast, very woolly, blowing dense clouds from his sagging,
rubbery lips. These, I am told, come from Russian Turke­
stan, a few hundred miles southwest of here, where they are
more numerous than horses.
The houses, mostly of wood, are never more than three or
four stories high. New buildings are going up, wide and
squatty like the rest.
A report that there are American engineers in Novosi­
birsk turns out to be a piece of that enterprising optimism
that colors so much of communistic information. But at
any rate, in the Workman's Palace I find a Russian engineer
who tells me he is engaged in the construction of the huge
new factory where modern farming machinery is to be
manufactured. He says it is part of the ' five-year develop­
ment program,' and one of several factories intended to
facilitate the growth of state and collective farms, which the
government is trying to encourage, in order to put all peas­
ants on the same social and economic plane. Engineers and
specialists are being offered huge salaries to come from
America and other foreign countries, to ensure the highest
standards of efficiency.
From feudalism the communists are trying to jump
straight into large-scale production, following the example
of Japan. Now receiving the first benefits of their division
of labor, they talk excitedly about the amazing advance
they have made within a dozen years; about the great pro­
gressiveness and efficiency of the U.S.S.R.; about how it
will soon outstrip America and lead the world in production
and system of every kind. Though it is quite true that their
progress is remarkable, one must bear in mind that the
great efficiency communists claim is efficiency in comparison
to the way things were done in the Czar's days.

2.68
Ulien on the Hori-zorL
Where there was a small, isolated village, out of all com­
munication with the world, now is a village with a post­
office, a shack converted into a meeting-house for discus­
sions, perhaps even a telegraph-office. Where the people
used only wooden ploughs, now they use ploughs with
metal tips, and perhaps have a tractor, which no one knows
how to take care of or has spare parts for, to serve the entire
village.
The Russian peasants are by heritage one of the most
backward and inefficient people on earth. No wonder they
are in difficulties when they try to surpass America in a
couple of decades of effort. Of all the great wandering
tribes that roamed across Central Asia, the ancestors of
these people were the most easy-going, least-persevering, of
all, for they were the tribes who straggled and got left be­
hind ; who were too listless to push forward and fight for a
place in Europe.
They were content to stagnate on the fertile black earth
of these plains and forest waterways, their minds becoming
as dull as the easy, uneventful land around them, retaining
all of the dark superstitions that Europe outgrew through
her centuries of struggle. From the Orient, these people had
received a patriarchal system which thwarted all invasion of
new ideas.
Not until 1917, when at last came the great explosion of
communism, was their stagnation shaken into life.
Now their archaic customs and beliefs are being wiped
away. Tradition no longer guides these peasants, and so,
being unable to think as individuals from lack of practice,
they readily accept the doctrine of Communism with its re­
lease from exploitation. Like Orientals, for ages subservient
to the rule of the local old man, they have not only no capac­
ity, but also no desire, for individuality. They are en­
tranced with the idea of remaining, all their lives, equal
members of a society in which no individual may rise

'J{,ussitL
above the common level of prosperity and social stand­
mg.
This afternoon I went to the house of Mrs. Serbov, Bellia
Korsakov's aunt, whose address Bellia had given me in
Harbin.
It was an apartment house, more prosperous than the
average in appearance. Having made sure I was not being
followed, as I did not want to risk putting these people un­
der suspicion, I entered and climbed the winding staircase
to the third floor, where I saw the door number I was look­
ing for.
In answer to my ring, a young girl, perhaps a maid, cau­
tiously opened the door and peered suspiciously out at me.
Then, nodding and murmuring the conventional ' Dobri
dyen,' led me within - a long dark hall lined with rickety
bookcases, old pieces of furniture, household supplies, and
doors leading to rooms on either side - the smell of stew
being prepared for lunch.
An old lady, probably Mrs. Serbov, rather gaunt and
with white hair, but keen, intelligent eyes, toddled toward
me, wonderingly.
' Kak vui pazshivyiete? '  I began, politely. ' I  am a friend
of Bellia Korsakov - your niece?'
' Oh, a friend of Bellia Korsakov? Sit down - you are in
time for dinner.'
A pretty woman of about thirty-five, blonde, blue-eyed,
pink-cheeked, well-rounded of form, appeared in a door­
way. In her hand was a violin. Three neatly dressed chil­
dren could be seen behind her, playing with blocks on the
floor. The old lady ushered me within the room, introduced
me to the young woman - Mrs. Barchevsky - and then
toddled off to stir the stew and arrange dinner.
Mrs. Barchevsky very thoughtfully gave me a few bis­
cuits, meanwhile telling me about her children. The oldest,

o/Men on the Horiz,ptL
Francisk, about eight, was rather whimpering and de­
pressed ; I learned he had just been fed a spoonful of castor
oil to cure his indigestion, and that he had put up consider­
able resistance.
Dinner ready, doors in the hall began to open and other
members of this White Russian refuge ambled wearily into
view - rickety old men, children, sisters-in-law, uncles ­
they all trudged into the dining-room and arranged them­
selves about the large round table for the meal. The old
white-haired Mrs. Serbov presided, dishing out generous
helpings of stew while a couple of children were sent on
errands to the kitchen.
Among other things they brought out a box of butter
upon which all eyes were fastened most reverently. The old
lady buttered a few biscuits which she handed over to me.
She offered none to anyone else and no one seemed to expect
any.
I accepted these and, after unsuccessfully trying them
on everybody else, ate them and found them delicious. She
continued to prepare more for me, but her hospitality was
somewhat diluted by her remark that this was the first time
they had had butter for two weeks because of the terrific
expense of this luxury. The others all joined her in a de­
scription of how terrible it was to be confined to a half­
pound of butter a month. And then they offered me more
butter, as if it meant nothing whatever to them, and were
offended when I, of course, couldn't accept.
After the meal, I went into the room of one of the old men
and talked with him for a while. His prize possession was an
old flute which he manipulated gingerly, blowing intricate
classical tunes with rather more alacrity than precision. He
said he had never had a lesson - which I believed - and
kept blowing tune after tune for me, becoming more and
more pleased with himself with each successive puff.
Mrs. Serbov's son-in-law, Mr. Barchevsky, a tall, thin,

1{ussitL
swarthy, aquiline man, is an administrative official for the
Soviet Government. Knowing how 'White' his true sympa­
thies are - as 1\!rs. Serbov cautiously confided to me - I
am amazed at the responsibility he accepts in a govern­
ment of principles alien to his own, and how calmly he
performs the dangerous treason of wearing a Soviet uni­
form, for which he might easily be punished by death.
How many other Soviet officers are far from communistic
in their hearts the Lord only knows.
When I was about to leave, old Mrs. Serbov said, 'We
wish you would give a message from us to our relative in
Chicago, Klementi Ignatovsky.' She had already told me
about this brother whom she had not seen since before the
Revolution, and with whom she had not communicated for
some years. Her message, hardly calculated to bring back
tender memories of a long separated sister, reads:
Mr. K. lgnatovsky, 488 Melrose Street, Chicago. Send im­
mediately:
5 kilograms of butter in tin box.
10 kilograms of pork.
2 cans of condensed milk.
And all other canned goods you can afford.
Your sister, l\1 rs. Serbov,
203 Malaya Nikitskaya, Novosibirsk.
\Vhen I got back to our dormitory, the evening's carousal
was already under way. There was almost continual rollick­
ing and laughter, gorging of cheese and bread, many vodka
bottles on the table, and heavy drinking ' to the Revolu­
tion.' The comrades taunted me with being from ' bour­
geois America,' and insisted that I demonstrate my true
allegiance by drinking to the Revolution.
I tried hard to show them that the only revolution that
drinking would promote would be in my insides, and I
kidded them for out-dissipating the czars, but nothing could
stop their boozing. The only ones who abstained were two

./l1en on the Horiz,pn..
soldiers, to whom liquor is forbidden. The rest gorged and
imbibed boisterously far into the night.
When I lay down to sleep, they playfully poured water on
my head, and got to be quite a nuisance. Finally all went
to sleep except two, who remained sitting on their beds ar- .
guing noisily about a pencil factory, which they seemed to
think should be built in Novosibirsk. They kept on for
hours, rattling their bed planks and leaving the light burn­
ing so I couldn't get to sleep. Some of the others, however,
their senses deadened by vodka, at length dropped off and
commenced a truly communistic chorus of snoring . . .
Two hours passed, and still the light burned and the de­
bate continued. I pleaded with them at least to turn the
light off even if they wouldn't stop talking, but they were so
engrossed that they paid no attention.
Another hour passed and still they continued with no sign
of slackening. Once more I besought them to be reasonable,
to no avail, and then, seeing that more forceful measures
must be undertaken in order to be understood, I got up and

1{ussitL
turned out the light myself. They instantly made a howl
about this and turned it on again.
As I didn't want to antagonize them, I promptly said, in
my most convincing Russian, ' I  am sorry to disturb you.
I am trying to go to sleep.' But, like the Chinese, they
seemed to regard an apology as an admission of fear, and,
after a session of muffled growling between themselves,
broke out in a loud verbal assault, hauled out their guns,
and made it known that from then on they were my deadly
enemtes.
Furthermore, one produced papers proving he was a
member of the ' Gay-Pay-Oo,' Secret Police, and, savagely
denouncing me as an aristocrat and imperialist, said that in
the morning he would have me arrested. I knew how
sweeping are the G.P.U.'s powers of arrest, so I was some­
what perturbed by this announcement which was obviously
made very much in earnest.
It was also very unpleasant to have two wild men point­
ing their guns at me, each working the other into more and
more of a rage till the very house seemed to shake.
But I didn't let them know how I felt, and with as ex­
pressionless a face as possible, went quietly back to bed.
They continued their diatribe for some time, however, and
at last, villainously filling their magazines full of fresh car­
tridges, dragged their cots over in front of _the door to pre­
vent any possible escape and, with the ligjlt still on, went,
muttering, to bed, automatics cocked and .still in hand.
I slept rather lightly: it doesn't contribute to placid slum­
ber to have two enraged and drunken communists waving
automatics around in a casual way about ten feet from your
pillow. But eventually their excitement died down from
exhaustion and they drowsed of!. All was still, save for the
orchestral reverberations of sleeping throats and noses,
which had accompanied the whole disturbance, no doubt
immunized by a long experience of brawls in the past. I,

oAien on the HorizoJL
however, took very little relaxation, for I had plenty to
think over before morning. This was a situation which re­
quired careful figuring. I thought and thought. Escape out
of the room was virtually impossible : the windows were
double and both thicknesses tightly sealed, the door was
locked and thoroughly guarded by my savage buddies, and
it probably wouldn't do me any good to get out of the bunk­
house anyway, as it was more than thirty below outside,
and there was no other place in town I could go except the
railroad station. That could scarcely be called a hiding­
place - as it would take half a dozen hours waiting in an
open ticket-line, and many more waiting for the train, to
get away. I must do something else. I must somehow get
these people friendly again.
I knew by experience that Russian peasants are not very
individual and are usually extremely sensitive to public
opinion - so I decided the thing to do was, by some means
or other, to get all those who had been asleep, easily the big
majority, on my side. If I could do that, the two who were
so mad would perhaps hesitate to go against me. At any
rate, it would be worth trying. I planned carefully just how
I was going to go about things, and then took a little sleep.
I woke in the morning early, before the others, and cau­
tiously roused an old farmer, merely jiggling his bed gently
so that he wouldn't think he had been waked. I jocosely
told him the story of what had happened to me, making it as
humorous as possible. While entertaining the old farmer,
and taking care not to disturb the sleep of my two would-be
captors, I succeeded in gently bringing to consciousness, one
by one, all the other men.
Quite desperately amusing, I told my story to all, making
up for my lack of fluency in Russian by vivid imitation of
the facial expressions of my prospective ' executioners.' I
was fortunate in soon getting everyone thoroughly diverted
at this humorous aspect of their threats.

1{ussia.
Then, judging the time to be ripe, I aroused said execu­
tioners, to confront them with the joke that was being made
of their hostile intentions. It was an exciting moment for
me. Would they accept this jocose rendering of their inten­
tions or would they be further enraged at my impertinence?
They opened their eyes. Their first expression was clearly
one of surprise that it should be I that was awakening them.
Then, when they heard the ludicrous account of their last
night's behavior, and were shown my drawings of the inci­
dent, the"y registered considerable annoyance, mixed with
embarrassment. I saw instantly that they didn't have it in
them to carry out their vengeful intentions in the face of this
waggishness. They wouldn't risk being ridiculous. So my
stratagem was going to work, after all. What relief! They
looked at me rather awry, but, when they heard the laughs
over their doings and facial expressions as depicted by me,
they forced a smile.
As I hoped, they immediately pretended that they had
been joking the whole time - making out that I was the
butt of a pretended anger. It was the only thing they could
do, I having thoroughly established as ridiculous any real
antagonism they might show. As I knew they hadn't the
slightest intention of joking with me this cold morning, I
enjoyed seeing them smiling, though somewhat acidly, with
the others.
Anyhow, the situation had been saved. It was a strange
adventure, and revealing as to some of the dark corners of
the Russian character.
In the afternoon, I set out to get a ticket to Moscow, and
I was prepared for the worst. I brought my baggage along,
so as to avoid having to go back to the bunk-house for it ­
though I knew it would be a handicap in the prospective
scramble.
It was a tough outlook when I got to the station. The

./lien on the Horiz..on..
ticket-office had closed for the day and wasn't to open till
five in the morning - one hour before train-time. But al­
ready, here at six in the evening, there were hundreds in the
waiting line. It was a tremendous station, yet packed so
full of people and bundles that you could hardly move.
The ticket-line wound vaguely off into the distance till it
was lost in the packed hordes at the far end of the great
waiting-room. I didn't see how anybody could possibly find
the end of it, if it had any end. It would be impossible to
prove where its end was, anyway, because it became like the
roots of a tree, branching into innumerable subdivisions till
it was dissolved beyond recognition in the solid soil of the
mob.
I won't again go into all the anxiety and grim waiting and
ups and downs of despair inevitable to buying a railroad
ticket in Russia. Suffice it to say that this night was worse
than was the waiting in Habarovsk. And when dawn came,
I was just as far from having a ticket as ever. I might just
as well have remained in the bunk-house, instead of having
to witness all the terrible hardships of these people, the
whining of babies without enough blankets, the pathetic
struggles of their mothers to keep them warm, the shivering
and pacing up and down among clouds of breath rising from
dazed, bundled forms heaped on the great floor, and the
terrific icy wind that swept in through the busy doors, all
but freezing those unfortunate enough to be camped near it.
It got colder and colder till, at half-past four in the morn­
ing, the thermometer outside the main door said forty-five
below zero, Reaumur, which is sixty-nine below, Fahren­
heit, and incidentally no temperature to sniff at.
I spent the night sitting on my sacks of baggage on which
also sat an old peasant woman with a baby. We both leaned
against a large bale of some sort of grain, beside which I had
deposited my belongings. The lady, before long, also leaned
on me, as did a couple of very ragged fellows who had

1{ussia.,
pitched camp on the cold stone floor where my left foot
would have been. I dozed a bit from time to time, but the·
poor lady had such trouble with her baby that I didn't have
a very restful night.
As morning neared, it grew colder and colder. The baby
began to cry. The small piece of fur with which the woman
frantically tried to keep the baby covered was not enough,
and as soon as she began to doze, it slipped off. I helped tie
it in place around the baby and the mother was thankful,
but the baby made further trouble and of varieties in which
I could be of little assistance.
At dawn, instead of opening his window, the ticket-man
announced that the train was twenty-one hours late, instead
of only thirteen, as previously announced, and that tickets
would not be sold until afternoon. Something like a deep sigh
stirred through the big room, but no one moved; no one pro­
tested ; all held solid. l\lere time was no longer any hard­
ship.
At about ten in the morning a girl with thick, dark, curly
hair introduced herself and her five companions to me. All
six, which included two other girls and three young men,
were students, bound for a college in Moscow. Each man
had his own girl and all were obviously very much in love.
They seemed to be much thrilled at the idea of traveling,
and asked me every conceivable question concerning my
purpose and destination. They soon made me feel at home,
and said that, through a porter, who had influence with the
ticket-man, they could get tickets when the office opened
without waiting in line, and would I, in the mean time, come
to their house?
It sounded like the best news I'd heard in years, so away
we went, off through the streets and the wind. That air was
cold, I can tell you. It turned overcoats into mosquito net­
ting, furs into cheesecloth. It made my bones ache, and my
nose turned instantly red as a radish.

c.IMen on the Horiz.ptL
One of the girls, Najeda, wearing a red scarf, began to
throw snowballs at me as we left the station. I think she has
French or Italian blood in her because she is much more
energetic and vivacious than most Russians.
It being
around fifty-five below zero at the time, I didn't fully ap­
preciate the snowballs, but N ajeda, warmly dressed and
accustomed to this temperature, enjoyed herself to the full.
Suddenly she picked up a handful of powdery snow and
rushed at me, crying, ' Bellui! Bellui! Buistro !'
All I could think of was that ' bella' meant war in Latin,
and then I remembered that ' bellui' was the Russian word
for 'white.' Apparently my nose had suddenly turned
white, and I must rub it with snow. It was freezing, swollen
to twice its normal size, and had become hard as a rock, but so
numb that I would never of myself have noticed its desper­
ate situation.
We rubbed it with snow and took it into the nearest store
until it got red again, and, on continuing on to Najeda's
home, I kept the precious object wrapped up in a mitten. A
nose, though its vicissitudes are always ridiculous, is some­
thing one hates to lose.
Najeda lives in a student dormitory, much like a bar­
racks, in which about fifty cots are lined up in rows. The

l{ussitt.
men sleep in one room, the women in another adjoining, and
each have a small washroom. To eat, they go out to res­
taurants.
None of these students have any real family life. They
seldom see their parents and brothers, as they travel about
from place to place in the course of their education, and they
do not seem to miss them. The government encourages
youth to leave the home and to seek its particular place in
the mass movement of communist progress. Its purpose is
to rid the people of the constraint of patriarchism.
\Vhen we returned to the station, we learned that the
train was now twenty-five hours late. As the reports of its
progress were announced, it seemed as if the darned train
must be going away instead of toward us. But there seemed
to be absolutely no limit to the fatalistic endurance of these
hordes of would-be passengers.
It is almost unbelievable that so many Russians want to
travel. \Vhere they are trying to go is a mystery. None of
them are rich, and it is extremely difficult to get a railroad
ticket anyway, yet here they are, sitting.
Najeda says: 'We earn more money than we need. We
must buy something with it. There are no luxuries - no
silks, no dress clothes, automobiles, jewelry, nor any other
such diversion. So we travel. In this way we get our diver­
sion, and learn about our country as well.'
Although this is one explanation of Russian vagrancy, I
think another cause of these people's urge to travel is in
their nomadic Tartar blood, handed down from the roving
horsemen of the steppes.
But fatalism has its limits, and even when traveling in
Russia, a human being has certain inalienable rights. All
too evidently, the Russian word for ' toilet,' as given in my
dictionary, means also ' barber shop.' With what delicacy I
could command, and carefully consulting my dictionary, I
asked Najeda to direct me. With discouraging monotony,

2.80
..Wen on the Hori'fL
again and again, she took me to the barber shop. At such
times it is embarrassing to use sign-language.
Everyone with whom I became acquainted, during the
dreary hours that we waited on that cold, dirty floor, said,
' Beware of pickpockets- they are here by the hundreds.'
It must be confessed that this doubt of the honesty of the
Russian peasant is not unfounded. He has lied habitually to
evade oppressive injustice and extortion. The habit in­
evitably extended into his family and business relations.
From all accounts he was a pretty steady liar. Patriarchism
deprived him of individual responsibility, and he knew no
form of personal pride - such as patriotism in Japan, or
' face' as in China - to hold him above dishonesty.
One of the fundamental changes wrought by communism
is in its effort to overcome this petty dishonesty in the peas­
ant. It is instilling into him the pride of a ruler. Before
him, as an ideal, is set Lenin, the pattern of integrity.
Still, however, I heeded the warning about pickpockets,
for I noticed that I was never without a group of disciples
who seemed especially intent on gazing steadfastly into
space. Perhaps they were entirely innocent, but I gave
them no opportunity to be otherwise, and at.last - at last
- came the train.
It took five more days to get to Moscow - days of the
same rattling and swaying along across wavy plains, past
forests of fir and birch, with always our shadow dancing on
the snow to the north ; days of monotony broken only by the
rush for water and the coming and going of peasants, sol­
diers and workmen at station after station. I met many
people, discussed the same questions, and found both the
people and the answers almost all alike.
As we stop in a station to load fuel wood into the tender,
my companions point with pride to the recent electrification
of a part of the road. One, who bunks next to me, is a young

'{,ussitL
2.81
farmer named Boris Nicholovitch. He has large wide-open
blue eyes, intelligent red face, straight hair, brushed pompa­
dour, and a genuine smile - in the moments when he is not
serious. Though not a party member, he is enthusiastic for
communism, and feels great pride in the achievements of the
Soviet regime. Ever since Novosibirsk he has taken pains to
show me each little bit of modern machinery or construc­
tion we encounter in this long journey. He is thrilled by
them.
In the details of his own personal appearance he also has
unusual pride and is very dressy. He even has some spats,
to put on for special occasions, and he is so fond of his neck­
tie that he wears it outside his collar instead of underneath.
The generator in our car is out of commission, so at night
we use candles. The whole train is in a pretty dilapidated
condition. We must stop often to give our engine a rest ­
it was built in 1910 and is now getting a bit tottery.
It acts very much like an old horse, except that, instead of
hay, it is fed birch logs, which are loaded into the tender at
every station while we wait in line for bread and water.
And between stations, especially now when we are bucking a
head wind, the old engine frequently has to stop to get its
breath. The puffing of steam seems to give it a sore throat,
and it is getting hoarser all the time. I only hope it doesn't
finally turn up its toes far from the nearest town. My com­
panions tell me that this happens sometimes - and every­
body has to get out and walk.
Najeda and her five companions are riding five cars back
of me. There is no such thing as a chaperon in Russia, and,
as they have never heard of puritanism, these people no
doubt enjoy themselves to the full. When I asked her
whether or not she is married, Najeda, who knows a few
words of English, replied, laughing, ' No, no- I am still girl.'
Boris usually comes back to get me when I stay more than
a few minutes with this erotic gang. I don't know his pur-

o5lien on the Horiz.p1L
pose in so doing, but he just waits around without speaking
to any of them, until, not wishing to detain him longer, I
comply with his wishes and return home to car four.
I don't believe many of the women in this train waste
much time in making themselves up. There is nothing
veiled or subtle in their efforts to be attractive. They rely
entirely on their natural ruddy complexions and vigorous
health. Not only is this type of beauty idealized by com·
munist leaders, but, in this land of no chivalry, no puritan·
ism, no sex taboos, it is the most popular and successful type
of beauty - and very satisfactory to the men. There is,
however, a Western influence creeping in, and which, I am
told, is spreading more and more rapidly. Every now and
then I see evidences of lipstick.
Western ideas, of course, lead to the spread of individual­
ism - the antithesis of communism.
The communists
naturally make every effort to control this influence ­
through bans on imports, etc.; but it seeps in more and
more, and is slowly, steadily making headway. I am told
that, a few years ago, wearing a white collar was a sign of
being bourgeois, and that no one wore white collars for this
reason. But now, white collars may be seen frequently, even
among the staunchest communists, and a few women have
somehow smuggled themselves clothes which savor suspi­
ciously of Paris.
The communist leaders at first disregarded this individ­
ualism, but as it awakened more and more in spite of their
suppressive measures, they have had to consider it - and
seriously. By 192 1 ,  the peasants had not cooperated as part
of the communistic mass, and Lenin then made the first
great concession to individualism. He said, ' I  regret it, be·
cause our experience, which is not very long, proves to us
that our conception was wrong.' And he adopted the ' New
Economic Policy' which allowed the peasants some individ­
ual profit in marketing their produce.

'l{ussitL
At present, in the ' collective farm' campaign, the fail­
ure of coercive methods has necessitated an appeal to the
individual's desire for self-advancement. Through free
moving-picture shows, circulating from village to village,
the government represents the collectivist peasant prosper­
ing with his tractors and modern farm machines, with his
reduced taxes, his scientific management, his cooperative
marketing system. This is the only method of enrollment
that works. The peasants, taken in by the personal ad­
vantages in collectivism, readily accept the new system.
Until recently, the government prohibited the private
saving of funds, but it has now abandoned this inhuman
idea, and actually encourages saving by paying out eight
per cent interest on personal investments.
\Vhere all workmen were formerly treated indiscrimi­
nately as members of a common proletariat, they are now
classified as ' skilled ' and ' unskilled,' and the privileges of
the skilled workman over his unskilled brother are increas­
ing day by day. He gets higher pay, larger living quarters,
and better clothes.
In numerous ways the government is rewarding individ­
ual effort, for it has learned that the Golden Rule is like
the Volstead Law. Some people may obey it - others may
not. But it cannot be enforced.
Of course, in spite of this gradually awakening individ­
ualism, Russians are still, in the main, an Oriental, patri­
archal people. They still call relief from private enterprise
' liberty.' They still consider themselves ' free ' because they
have removed the possibility of any man's rising appreci­
ably above his neighbors in wealth or social status.
At night, by our blinking candle light, I play chess with
the soldiers, and learn more Russian, and make more
friends. Chess, by the way, seems to be a universal game.
On every ship I've been on, I have found at least one chess-

..Men on the Horizyn..,
player in the crew. In its almost purely mental diversion, it
seems to appeal to a certain type of mind all over the world,
and, among this mental race of Russians, it has reached a
high state of development. If, in a car full of illiterate peas­
ants, anyone pulls out a chess-board, he is immediately
swamped by challenging opponents.
It may seem inconsistent that these people are so ineffi­
cient and at the same time such ardent students of chess.
Their minds, however, as I analyze them, are restless, bril­
liant, and theoretical rather than methodical or exact.
They are not a naturally dynamic people, in spite of the
fact that the recent upheaval and a few brilliant leaders
have succeeded in temporarily stimulating them into action.
They are excitable, but about ideas, not about action.
My young farmer friend with the pompadour, Boris, has
taken me very much under his wing. Today we were talking
about his hopes and plans for his farm in the Ural Moun­
tains. It appears that he has received instruction in the lat­
est farming methods at the farmers' instruction center in
Moscow, and is looking forward with enthusiasm to putting
into practice what he has learned, to the benefit of his be­
loved acres.
' First,' he says, ' I  must go to Odessa. It is in Odessa,' he
adds solemnly, ' that my mother is now living - my
mother.' I was suitably impressed with the privilege ac­
corded Odessa. ' But,' he continued, ' I  must first stop for a
few weeks in l\Ioscow.' He gazed at me with the now famil­
iar bulge of the eyes which accompanies communist men­
tion of that city. ' Moscow ! A city so great - so full of in­
terest! You must sec everything in Moscow!'
' I  intend to see everything I can,' I said. ' I 'm going
there for that purpose.'
Boris became very thoughtful. Suddenly he leaned for­
ward.
' Listen - '  he said. ' It is I who will show you Moscow!

Ǫussia.
Why not - you are my friend. I am a farmer and I can get
permission for you to stay as a guest at the Farmers' Home
- where I stay - where all the farmers from all over Rus­
sia live while they learn the new farming. You will stay
there with me - with me will you see Moscow - and all
that Moscow is to the world - I insist!'
' You are very good,' I said.
' I  am your friend,' said Boris. And so it was arranged.
We have passed great rivers - the Amur, the Lena, the
Yenisei, the Ob-which are slowly winding ever north­
ward across this vast bleakness, on and on into the mighty
forests of the North, and, a thousand miles beyond, still on
and on, even into the endless whiteness of the Arctic.
Now the towns are getting closer together. :t\o longer
are the great plains and forest patches absolutely devoid
of civilization. We are approaching Moscow.
Now, as we rumble along with that frenzied acceleration
of trains about to arrive at a terminal, we can see crowded
suburbs, rows of brick houses, streets, loaded sleighs, trolley
cars. The passengers are all on their feet, putting away their
loaves of bread, tying up their bundles of blankets and food,
in preparation to leave the train. We are all lined up in the
passageway - waiting, waiting. Boris says, ' Moskva ­
bolshoi gorod - big city - three million people -- •
A long platform. A big station. Having arrived, the first
thing to do was to get permission to stay in Moscow. It was
accomplished after a half-hour's hunting, and a wait in line
at the office of an administrative station official. Then, at
last, with our baggage, Boris and I boarded a tiny sleigh
and swished off through the winding streets.
Long rows of low, warped buildings of old brick drift past
on either side, clinging desperately together at the corners.
The street-paving is of solid ice sculped into insidious
troughs and ribs in the general form of an arch, so that the

2.86
eAien on the Hori'l,ptL
droshkies are continually sliding sideways down off the
road, pulling around the rear end of the exasperated horse,
who has to struggle along in the gutter until a tree or lamp­
post bats the droshky out to the center of the street again,
to be caromed off other loaded sleighs.
All of this, of course, makes the riding quite exciting, as
you frequently come near being catapulted out of the Yehi­
cle - especially when you have a high center of gravity as
did I with all my earthly possessions in my lap, plus Boris
and his possessions.
At length, with raw hands and red faces, we arrived at a
huge wide yellowish building, known as ' Doma Krestya­
nena' - the Farmers' Home - where we were to stay. \\'e
left our baggage there, and after a two-mile walk and a long
wait in line in the Soviet Administration Building to get
permission to stay in Doma Krestyanena, we returned and
entered the old lodging.
The thick double doors of the building are very hard to
open. Sometimes you see a man struggle with the knobs for
three full minutes before catching just the right twist and
jerk that will combine to undo the latch, and yet no one
ever thinks of stopping to fix the lock. The doors will likely
remain unrepaired until they fall apart of their own accord.
Inside, one confronts a wide staircase, with peasants
standing about chatting or sitting on the steps fingering
their whiskers and wondering if they will ever feel at ease
again after this invasion of tractors and harvesting rna·
chines. In a side room - a man with white rubbery lips and
gaunt face assigns beds to the inmates, and collects lodging
fares. On the other side - a large hall in which farmers
sleep by the hundred. Upstairs - more dormitories, some
for men, some for women. Down the corridor - common
rooms supplied with radio, piano, and magazines, and in
which groups of peasants discuss their problems; a restau­
rant room ; library; a museum, full of pictures and models

"'{ussia.
of new farming machines, samples of farm products, and
other educational material ; a store; and even an auditorium
where nightly movies are shown and speeches delivered.
The exquisite cornices and chandeliers of this building are
left over from the pre-revolutionary days when it was one of
Moscow's most aristocratic restaurants.
It is very interesting to see the farmers having their dis­
cussions in the common room. Everyone takes part, the
women being fully as active and interested as the men.
They are all politicians at heart, really, and are familiar
with many details of the processes of government. It is no
wonder, when almost every magazine or paper they ever get
their hands on is full of the stuff.
They are friendly and pleasant in debate, and always ad­
dress one another as ' tovarish ' - comrade. It is beautiful
to hear a discussion carried on in that spirit. They are, at
the same time, barbarically unreserved, and apparently
cover a great deal of argumentative ground.
When Boris introduces me into one of these gatherings, I
am first greeted by a phalanx of stares - some curious,
some sympathetic, some suspicious, some resentful. Having
viewed my friendly countenance, the comrades ask me a
few questions to feel their way into this mysterious Ameri­
can; then, becoming bolder, they cordially launch an abu­
sive harangue against all capitalistic institutions, which
they assume I have come here to escape.
Reciting wild statistics about the American press, the
government, the church in America, and many other things
of which they know nothing, they indulge themselves in a
feast of communistic gloatings. They then return to the
burning question of tractors.
One of the principles of the Soviet legislative system is
that every political problem be talked over in meetings by
the people, until public opinion is formed and defined, so
that, when a proposed solution of the problem comes up to

2.88
o.lien on the Hori'ZJltL
the Central Congress, as a bill, the ensuing legislative action
may conform to and represent the will of the people.
Describing this system, one authority of Russia states
that, ' finding a strong minority opposition, the framers of a
bill withdraw it and send it " to the country" in factory and
village meetings. This discussion will pass no majority
votes and call no rolls; it will merely keep on discussing till
the matter becomes so clear that a new bill can be drawn
which will meet with practically no opposition. This form
of law-making is something new in the history of govern­
ments, and illustrates the soviet theory of its own govern­
ment, as not a " parliament " or debating organization, but
an " executiYe committee" carrying out the joint and com­
mon will of the toiling masses, which is assumed to be, after
education and discussion, reasonably unanimous.'
The communist leaders are very shrewd in adopting this
policy, for, as Lenin once said : ' Among the masses of the
people, we communists are but drops in the ocean, and we
cannot rule unless we give accurate expression to the folk­
consciousness. Otherwise the Communist Party will not be
able to lead the proletariat, the proletariat will not be able
to lead the masses, and the whole machine will fall to pieces.'
It may be added that, to avoid its falling to pieces, the
leaders of the above machine take darn good care of the
above folk-consciousness. The power of the press here is
almost unbelievable. The communist press is teacher and
leader, unchallenged, of the people, who read with absolute
credulity. They have nothing to read that duplicates the
purposeless diversion of our detective story, true story, or
romance magazines. Everything they get is flavored with
politics. Much of their information comes from two papers
called, respectively, the 'Truth,' and the ' News.' The
White Russians have, with what justification I know not, a
saying that ' there is no news in the "Truth " and no truth
in the '' News ! ' ' '

1{ussia.,
1\ly Russian, undependable though it be for the higher
flights of bunk-house eloquence, is quite sufficient to take
me around when, daily, I escape from Boris and his whisker­
laden friends, and prowl about in this magnificent city, built
of despotism and cruelty - and staging now such an epic
incident in man's struggle.
To find your way through these streets is a topographical
nightmare. Moscow is laid out like a spider web. The
Kremlin is in the middle. Out from it stretch streets in
every direction, and hopelessly irregular. Circular streets
surround the center of the web in circles getting larger and
larger as they are farther from the Kremlin. If you follow
one of these streets long enough, you will find yourself back
where you started, and if you go off on the haphazard side
streets which connect the circles, you will never be heard of
again.
But Moscow is a thrilling city to be in - beautiful ­
tragic. Everywhere arc Greek church domes, looking like
clusters of inverted turnips, and many exquisitely designed
buildings, remnants of the Czar's magnificence, now used as
administration halls, meeting-houses, hospitals, barracks, or
schools. The church domes stand against the clear blue of
the sky with faded gilt, and the remains of pre-war scarlets,
yellows, and purples.
Between puffs of the horses' breath I can see the bundled
pedestrians trudging along irregular sidewalks, with perhaps
a round loaf of black bread or a package of tea under the
arm. All are warmly clad, in black or other drab colors,
with scarfs around their necks, wool caps, and shawls on the
women. Some walk in twos and threes talking seriously to­
gether; some trudge alone in an attitude of deep reflection.
Some few are gay, but their smiles seem masks to hide the
somber souls that wear them.
The Kremlin at night is one of the most beautiful sights
on earth. I saw it last night during my evening's explora-

o/Hen on the Horiz.pn..,
tion. Tremendous walls about one hundred feet high and
five hundred years old - great turrets and towers and
moats and gateways, and over all flying the Red flag,
streaming out to its full length among the whizzing snow­
flakes in the icy night wind . .
\nd, near by, the huddled
spires of great cathedrals
--
It seems strongly inconsistent with the communists' re­
lentless opposition to czarism and religion, that, at the
highest point on the capitol of communism, on the tower of
the Kremlin, even above the Red flag, still soars the double
eagle of the Czar and the cross of the Greek Church. The
vast inertia of Holy Russia cannot be ignored, and this
blatant inconsistency typifies the patient tolerance of the
Soviet leaders in their indomitable program of revolution.
Though many of the churches have been transformed
into clubs and schools, these monuments to God still exist,
and a few continue their daily services, witness to the com­
munists' aim to reform, as far as they think possible, by
education rather than by force.
There is still solace for a few sad old men and women in
the dim and empty churches - still, for broken and bewil­
dered age, a beatitude in the ikons above their flickering
lamps. But I never hear of any young people going to
church - they all want to get rid of ' religion.'
Just as the communist's idea of a capitalist nation is
based on his memory of Russia under the Czar, so the com­
munist's conception of religion is based on the Greek Ortho­
dox Church, the only religion with which he has ever come
in contact.
He has denounced religion along with capitalism. He has
abolished gods of all descriptions. But it must be remem­
bered that he knows but one meaning of these things. He
knows only that they were all part of czarism, and that
everything connected with czarism is an evil to be ruth­
lessly exterminated.

'J{ussia..
It is inconceivable that a thing so vital as religion could be
taken from these peasants and nothing put in its place.
Something had to take its place - something vital - and,
in order to take its place, the new thing had to be a religion
itself, in the broader meaning of the word. That religion is
Communism.
Though the communists understand by the word ' reli­
gion ' a superstitious worship of a god who is represented by
temple bells, ikons, candles, and old priests in fancy robes ­
all of which they denounce - they do recognize the larger
meaning of religion - a superhuman, guiding, vital force.
This force, they call ' naouka,' which means ' science ' or
'nature.' They believe that naouka is the great force behind
communism, which makes communism not only possible
but inevitable.
The Sovietlcaders, having learned the folly in being only
destructive about religion, are turned constructive. Science
they set up in its stead. Faith in God is being changed to
faith in science. They realize also the appeal of beauty, and
they set before the people the beautiful ideal that ' no man
shall exploit another.' They recognize the power of person­
ality - and they distribute pictures of Lenin, the great
scientist, who gave his life to lead the world to a truer scien­
tific development - toward cooperation, harmony, com­
munism. His picture hangs in every communist home, in
every public gathering-place, the symbol, the personality
from whom the people receive their inspiration of morality.
I know a communist girl here whose grandmother still
attends church regularly. The old lady has followed the
Greek Orthodox creed all her life and, like the few other
aged people who still hold true to their old faith, she can find
no solace in atheism. The girl's mother, on the other hand,
though she admits there may be something of value in the
Church, has long since given up attendance. \Vhile the girl
herself, an outright atheist, agrees neither with her mother

JWen on the Horizyn_,
nor with her grandmother, but gallantly defends the theory
that science alone can explain the mysteries of life.
This shifting of spiritual allegiance is very common in
Russia, and seems but an extreme example of the drift of
youth away from the Church all over the world. The young
people here are taught that the old idea, that the gold ikon
holds all the secrets of creation, is a superstition. They
are getting rid of ikons, and as the ikons go, so does the
Church.
'Why,' I asked an old lady, 'can't they still use some of
the cathedrals which are now schools during weekdays, for
Sunday services, as before?'
' Oh, impossible,' she replied. 'They have taken away all
the ikons.'
The vital importance of these graven images is part of the
evidence of benighted superstition and fathomless ignorance
which convicts this Church of unworthiness. No wonder
the young communists, beginning to think for themselves,
are glad to get rid of it. The churches here are empty, not
because young people aren't allowed to go to worship - but
because they don't want to.
But, while they have no Church, these young people have
a religion. I know, from what I have seen here in Russia,
that Communism has as much inspiring force as-any religion,
and that its essential principles are fully as high. In princi­
ple it is remarkably similar to Christianity - as Christian­
ity was in its pristine simplicity. And there is the same gulf
between the principles and their application that there is
between the teachings of Christ and the enforcement by
the Church of its interpretation of those teachings.
Communist missionaries go out, inspired by their ideal
and give their whole energy and risk their lives to spread
their doctrine. Communists raise money and bring relief to
needy workmen and to the oppressed all over the world.
Sometimes, in performing what they consider a service to

1{ussia.,
humanity, they are doing great harm : as has often been the
case with Christians and others.
When they believe that nine tenths of the people of a
great nation like the United States are workmen ' in a condi­
tion bordering on starvation ' and oppressed by an imperial­
istic class of capitalists who take all the money for them­
selves, it is a natural impulse to communists to try to free
these masses from the class that is their oppressor.
If harm is done by communist interference based on their
false assumptions, the evil of their action is due to misin­
formation and misinterpretation rather than to any funda­
mental immorality. In timetheyarealmostcertain to seethe
error in their assumptions, and then the great force of their
faith may be turned to a useful end, so that the astounding
sacrifices in its behalf may not be made in vain.
Boris is active in his role of mentor. It is he who trans­
lates for me the endless argufying that goes on here in the
common room and at meals, who takes me sight-seeing,
who explains the confluent interests and excitements of this
vast city. Without him I would miss much of what I now
see and hear.
I can't make out why Boris is taking so much trouble
about me. He may be actuated by a desire to impress me, as
a foreigner, with the glories of communism, or he may be
just a friendly soul who likes me and wants to be kind.
With the barrier of language between us - I have about
fifty words of Russian to every million square miles of its
territory, of which there are eight - it isn't easy for me to
define his motives.
One thing about him is certain - and that is his well­
developed acquisitive faculty. Today, in a letter, I received
a dollar bill. The usual crowd of peasants quickly gathered
to see this piece of real capitalist money.
'Will you give it to me? '  questioned Boris expectantly.
'To you? What good would it be to you? '  I ask.

oiWen on the Hori'{OtL
' For my collection.
I am collecting American money,'
says Boris.
I cannot help smiling. 'So am I,' I reply.
Russian restaurants are very revealing, I should say, of
the poverty and the resulting condition of mind of these
people. Few order anything more than bread and tea, and
perhaps a little soup. They never waste a crumb. As you
finish your meal, if you happen to have left a tiny crust
of bread or a sliver of fish on your plate, you will notice
your neighbors eyeing this morsel most lustfully. As you
start to get up from your seat, they slide to the edge of their
chairs, alert, and the instant you rise and walk away, they
spring to grab the leavings.
I too am living, these days, on practically nothing but tea
and bread. Everything else is comparatively expensive, and
no one eats much more than the barest fundamentalsof nour­
ishment. Bread such as this is extremely nourishing and
costs almost nothing, so things aren't as bad as they seem.
I've spent but eleven rubles - about five dollars - on food
since I left Vladivostok, almost a month ago, and I've been
in perfectly good health the whole time.
The only thing that bothers me is some bugs which, I
have discovered, are inhabiting my person. I've never seen
them, but frequently feel their bites, and washing doesn't
seem to do any good. Apparently they know how to swim,
though I'm damned if I can see how they learned in Russia.
Perhaps they survive because I never get a chance to wash
all over at once, and, while I am inundating part of my
anatomy, they beat it for the dry places.
While we were in the common room today, one of the
peasants was playing on the piano - something somber and
classical. As the man finished his piece, suddenly Boris's
eyes lit up. ' You must play us a fox-trot,' he said to me.
' You have fox-trot in America, yes? '

1{ussia..
'All right,' said I ,  whereupon all the peasants crowded
around to hear this offering. After listening for a while,
however, they seemed unmistakably disappointed in my
performance - though I was doing the best I knew how.
The explanation of this was later revealed. The Soviet
Government, it appears, has condemned the ' fox-trot' as a
dissipated, capitalistic form of music. This taboo has cre­
ated a popular idea among Russians that the fox-trot casts a
mysterious, voluptuous spell over all within earshot. No
wonder there was disappointment on the Muscovite faces
when they heard my innocent tinklings.
I told Boris about my bugs today and asked his advice as
to what was best to do. To my surprise, he suggested taking
a bath, and said he would go with me to a public bath­
house around the corner from the Farmers' Home.
Having stood in line to get our tickets, though not as long
as for more popular Russian privileges, we went to the
dressing-room, a vast hall full of benches, hooks, and lock­
ers, noticeably uncrowded and orderly. Undressed, we filed
in among the herd of scrawny, hairy Muscovites who were
calling one another ' comrade' and scrambling after the
relatively few tin pails available for bathing. Though they
were quite tough-looking, such a bony, underfed, ill-shaped
lot of humans I have seldom seen.
Boris and I finally secured our pails and fell to work
scrubbing each other in the customary Russian fashion ­
apparently Russians take baths so seldom that they haven't
had enough practice to scrub themselves: so they scrub one
another. It took me almost an hour to get clean, as this was
my first bath since Seishin, Korea. It ended with standing
in a long queue to use the solitary cold shower.
Today I got my first letters from home in three months.
It made me feel very homesick, but as I sat on my bed in the
Dom reading my letters, the farmers would wait around
bidding high for the strange postage stamps which they saw

./Wen on the HorizotL
on the envelopes. Stamp collecting seems to be the rage in
Russia.
There is likewise great enthusiasm among my comrades
in regard to my camera. Boris, particularly, admires it.
His acquisitive tendency seems stimulated by its novel
appearance. Also he has tried to make me give him my
shaving outfit.
It was at the Moscow race-track this afternoon that I
saw a man working out a race-horse, a stallion and pure
white. He was galloping just as tight as he could go. It was
thrilling to see his great muscles bulging, his snowy mane
flying, his beautiful head outstretched, sensitive and keen ­
and to hear those sledgehammering hoofs go thundering
into the distance, every ounce of energy in his superb body
and spirit bent to that single purpose - speed.
In a large pre-revolutionary building back of the grand­
stand, in the trophy-room, full of cups, blue ribbons, photo­
graphs, and other horsey souvenirs, I met the high-class
Soviet sportsmen. These smooth boys of the race-track
were dressed in anything but proletarian attire, and swag­
gered about like race-track fans in any other country.
There are thirty million horses in this great land, and the
competitive element in racing is utilized in the communist
eugenic campaign to improve the Russian horse. This track
is run in connection with a large breeding farm, but the ap­
pearance of these sporty race-track boys does not impress
me with their solemn interest in eugenics.
Apply communism, if you like, to every other human in­
terest, but sport will remain - of its very nature - a glit­
tering denial of communist principles. Here is something
that is based on individual competition; in which inherited
attributes make rigid class distinctions; and in which the
strong survives and eliminates the weak without mercy.
Communistic sport is a contradiction in terms - and the
Moscow race-track shows it up.

1{ussia..
Never before have I seen such crowded trolley cars.
There are over three thousand of them in the city, but every
one is so overloaded that it is almost impossible to get
aboard. Perhaps, it occurs to me, they have a trolley sys­
tem such as this as part of their effort to keep all the people
in one class. Everybody must fight to get a ride. The weak
ones have to walk, and thus get exercise until they are
strong enough to beat those who have been weakened by
excessive riding. And so, by a circulation, all are kept at the
same average strength, Q.E.D.
There are thousands of soldiers here, just as everywhere
else in Russia. They seem to do very little drilling, but a lot
I .
.
.

'
··. · ·
.·.Ĕ
.
. ' .
. .
.
.
' żŽ . .

o.Men on the Horiz.prL
of studying, which is a good thing for them. All young men,
unless they have some special exemption, must join the Red
Army for two years or so, and thus illiteracy is being done
away with. I see them when they aren't at their books, out
for skiing practice. Skiing is not a sport here - there are
practically no hills in this part of the country - but is just a
means of getting over the ground.
Sometimes I go around to see spinning mills and other
factories. They are going busily all the time, day and night
and Sundays. It is the Soviet method of increasing produc­
tion and decreasing unemployment. Each man takes one
day off in five, but not the same day as his fellow workmen.
There are always four fifths of the total number on the job.
And I visited a prison the other day, an old one which has
been modernized. Most of the ' criminals' were kulaks ­
prosperous and recalcitrant peasants - and private land­
owners who had resisted the communist taxation system.
They seemed very well cared for - but, judging by the
stories of Ratovsky and others, I suspect that all Russian
prisons are not as nice.
These communists are not totally unaware of the diffi­
culties they are up against in their campaign to overthrow
all capitalistic governments in the world. They have some
conception of the immense wealth and strength of these
capitalistic powers, but they expect, with time, to attain
even greater strength themselves, when they will be in a
position to serve the united 'workers of the world ' in com­
pleting the inevitable world revolution.
Realizing the odds against them, they have adopted the
policy in regard to treason, that it is better to convict sev­
eral innocent men than to risk letting a single traitor go free.
The vital cause of the Revolution demands this extreme
policy, the communists believe.
Some of the girls in this town are of unsurpassed beauty.

1.{ussia.,
2.99
The best, I think, are the Georgians. They have skin as
smooth as a plum, and their eyes glow with a deep, rich
brown. Their features are perfect.
Personally, I have had no hand-to-hand encounters with
them as yet. But according to my farmer friends, they are
seldom as good as they look, and the warmth and softness of
their appearance is not borne out by their behavior. A fel­
low I talked with in the prison even said that he was glad to
be where he was, to get away from them.
At night I return to Doma Krestyanena and sit around on
the beds to talk with the farmers about their problems. In
such an atmosphere, anyone who is the least bit alive ought
not to remain long ignorant as to the affairs of the country.
And we always have a teapot, so things are very sociable.
One night we even had some Russian applesauce. It has
prunes in it, among other things, and is good, but not in the
class of United States applesauce.
At last when the men begin to doze off to sleep, the
dormitory becomes a horror such as one could not possibly
imagine till he had lived under its spell as I have. The snor­
ing is perfectly astounding, not only in volume, but also in
quality.
There are one hundred and eighty farmers in our room,
sleeping in beds lined up side by side - I have bed number
one hundred and seventy-six - and I don't think there is a
single man here who fails to join in the mighty chorus. It
sounds like ten riveting machines and twenty-five roaring
lions accompanied by a trombone quartet and five hun­
dred woodpeckers. There is an unearthly rattling rever­
beration in the sound which nearly drives me wild, accus­
tomed as I am to public snoring.
Most of the men keep all their possessions under their
pillows - that being considered the safest place - and
consequently, since one needs a considerable number of
posessions in this cold climate, many have their pillows

.A1en on the Hori'Z,p1L
raised so high by what is underneath that their necks are
about twisted off. And, of course, having beards and whisk­
ers, said whiskers are very apt, under these circumstances,
to get tangled up in their mouths and noses, and add a cer­
tain weirdness to the deep trills emitting therefrom. The
Russian peasantry have not yet lost any of their tonsils or
adenoids, which, being in full bloom, lend a spirited wood­
wind development to the nightly theme.
The general tone in this institution makes me think that
this may be where the expression 'sound sleeping' origi­
nated.
Boris is very mysterious about his start for Odessa. He
has postponed it several times, and is hanging around in a
sort of aimless condition, saying that he must do some er­
rands in Moscow for his mother. He is very solemn about
that mother. But he doesn't do any errands, and I can't
imagine what he is waiting around for.
Tonight, after supper of tea and a ham sandwich, as
Boris and I were waiting in the auditorium for the evening's

1{ussia..
moving pictures to begin, we met a young girl named Vera,
a chubby, buxom, red-cheeked little thing who was very
cheerful and bright. She sells magazines in Doma Krestya­
nena and she seems to enjoy her job, which, I must say, is
soft and also provides much social contact.
' Ha-ha,' she says to me in Russian. ' You must go back to
America. That is too bad. You have very hard times in
America. You have five million unemployed there, yes?'
' You would be surprised how well off we are in America,'
I reply. 'Workmen go to work in automobiles there. We
have twenty-five million automobiles in America. They are
not a luxury. Every family has one, just as you have horses
in Russia.'
'Ah, no, my friend,' says she with a tolerant smile, ' you
are mistaken. Your newspapers lie to you in America.
They are not free like ours. Here, anyone can write and
publish what he pleases. You can see that the papers are
full of criticism and suggestions for improvement of Soviet
methods. There is freedom of the press in the U.S.S.R.
But in America everybody is trying to get money. The
editors want money. They will write what pays them the
best - they will write lies to advertise for people who pay
them much money. They are very prejudiced politically
and will give only one side of a question. They are deeply
involved in lobbyism, graft, and bribery of every kind.
' Here,' she went on, beaming with enthusiasm, 'the edi­
tor gets practically no more pay than the reporters, and the
success of the paper or the effect of what he puts into it has
no influence whatever on the editor's salary. He writes
all the news and everything anybody will say - with, of
course, the one exception that he cannot put in capitalistic,
imperialistic propaganda, for that is dangerous, and we have
all proved to ourselves that communism is right and capital­
ism wrong.'

.5l1en on the Hori-zotL
February 20. One of the first things I noticed this morning,
on waking up in the great room of frowsy, sprawled sons of
the soil, was that my camera had disappeared. I had care­
fully concealed it under the casual heap of my clothes which
lay between my bunk and bunk number one hundred and
seventy-five, occupied by Boris. He alone knew where I had
hidden it. The clothes remained as before, but no camera.
Boris had arisen before me and had gone out, ostensibly for
breakfast.
Returning soon, he seemed greatly disturbed to learn of
my camera's disappearance. He hunted around and tried to
console me about my loss. Seeing that I looked at him a
little distrustfully, he said, with an offended air, ' You do
not suspect me?'
' No, Boris,' said I, thinking how loyal he had always
been.
But my camera was never found.
At lunch-time Boris informed me of his intention to de­
part for his home in Odessa. He expressed regret that he
had to leave, and gave me a photograph of himself in order
that I should better remember him. Thereupon, looking at
me hopefully, he again told me how well my dollar bill
would fit into his collection.
I could not refuse him this time, and handed it over. He
thanked me, we shook hands good-bye, and he left for his
train.
In getting a fresh shirt out of my suitcase, which still re­
mained in the checkroom, I noticed a slight disarrangement
of its contents. Investigating, I found that my film package
had been opened and that all the films I had exposed since
Seishin, Korea, were gone.
Though temporarily overwhelmed by this irreplaceable
loss of many rare, and perhaps valuable, pictures, which I
had taken with great pains, I did what I could to discover

1{ussia.,
the identity of the thief. It was likely that the same person
who had stolen my camera had taken the films, as that in­
strument would be valueless without films, and vice versa.
After considering all available clues, the circumstantial
evidence pointed very definitely to Boris as the guilty
party. Boris had often expressed a great longing for my
camera, which he considered would be of much greater
value to him than it was to me, who, he reasoned, could
soon replace it in America. He evidently concluded that the
camera was but a fair reward for his generous services in
ushering me through Soviet officialdom.
Through the
checks left in his care, he had easy access to my baggage, in
which he evidently mistook my exposed films for unused
ones. The poor fellow will ruin all his own pictures as well as
mine, through double exposure.
I went, last night, to the big theater, and saw a very
extraordinary pantomime which depicted the epic of the
Red Revolution. Tickets were very expensive, and, after
the customary tribulation in getting one, I found my way
up to a balcony full of bloused and keen-eyed workmen,
peasants, and soldiers. Some were with their girls, some
with their workshop buddies - all evidently very thrilled
by the performance, which was executed with extraordi­
nary grace and feeling.
All these humble workmen were spending many days' pay
and a long evening to witness a thing they love - an ex­
pression of emotion in art. They love it - without a trace
of affectation, with a spontaneous enthusiasm that is touch­
ing. To enjoy it, they have sacrificed material things that
they need - but not more than they need this.
Since Boris's departure, my status as a guest in Doma
Krestyanena has been less secure. Several times lately they
have refused to issue me my ticket for the bunkroom. On

.5Men on the Horizon..
these occasions I have slept just as soundly in my usual
place without one, as there was no check as to whether I
had a ticket or not.
But last night, the Soviet officer in charge tried to kick
me out. I don't know what his grounds were, exactly.
When the Russian language begins to boil with passion, a
good deal of it goes over my head. As far as I could make
out, it was because the Gay-Pay-Oo had informed him that
signs of bourgeois influence had been detected in my mail,
and he had decided that Doma Krestyanena, at fifty kopeks
a day, was no place for a capitalist.
'Why don't you stay at the Grand Hotel? '  he said.
I remembered that, there being no waste-baskets about, I
had merely torn some of my letters across once, and thrown
them into a corner. These, apparently, had been salvaged
and read, and had provided evidence of capitalistic influ­
ence in my past.
Some of my bewhiskered farmer friends came to my res­
cue. There ensued a hot debate with the official - a
strange, gaunt creature, with skin like a white rubber sheet
stretched tight over his bones, and drooping, watery eye­
lids. But he was immovable. It looked bad for me.
I finally got them to call in another, and luckily a higher,
official whom I had seen about, and who had authority over
the white rubber man. I pressed him with my creden­
tials.
I gave him a lot of discharges, and certificates proving I
had worked in various places and ways as a rabochi -
workingman - and which proved that I really belong to
the proletariat. He surveyed them thoughtfully.
On the {;hance that he couldn't read English, I handed
him a gaudy, pink, San Francisco cafeteria card. He re­
garded it solemnly. So I gave him everything I possessed ­
all sorts of Japanese tea advertisements, Filipino baggage
checks, various calling cards, some laundry tickets, and a

1{ussia..
pass to the Hollis Street Theater, Boston. He was tremen­
dously impressed.
He gazed at me with renewed respect - obviously a man
so extensively documented was not to be precipitately given
the gate. The day was saved - or the night, rather - and
I stayed unmolested among the snoring farmers.
It is a terrible job to get out of this country. I am not
allowed to stay after April 5, but it appears next to
impossible to get the necessary visa before that date. I've
been waiting in line for hours every day now, fighting
through a dense jungle of red tape - but I haven't yet a
visa. I'm therefore in the awkward position of being forbid­
den to stay in a country which I cannot get permission to
leave. I think this standing in line, which has become al­
most a prc>fession with me, is a vital indication of the psy­
chology, not only of these people, but of communism itself.
The people spend a large part of each day, month after
month, in these long lines of dreary waiting, which reduce a
man's personal initiative and ambition and energy to the
dead level of impersonal routine. No matter how quick a
thinker he may be, or how expeditious in his own habits, a
man standing in line can accomplish his objective only at
the rate and in the manner of all the other men standing
with him. The energetic fellow chafing at delay can get up
to the window no faster than the lazy dullard leaning
against the wall next to him in line.
This, to the mass of these people, is communism. They
stand in line to get what they want. By so standing they
are assured of getting it - in turn, and in exactly the
amount and quality apportioned. By no individual effort or
ability can they get it any sooner or in any more desirable
form or quantity.
Think of the abusive impatience that would attend an
hour of such tedium in an American crowd. If you can

.A1en on the Hori\[JrL
analyze the psychology of the long lines of patient Russians
that stretch across the days and nights through Soviet Rus­
sia, you can understand why Russia is communistic and
why America is not.
There is no parallel on earth to Russia today. But no
less true is it that Russia, before the Revolution, was just
as unique among nations in circumstance, heritage, and
psychology as she is now.
What has happened to her
could only happen to Russia.
Her exploited masses of ignorance lay fallow to any liber­
ating idea that Fate might bring. Enormous, submissive,
ignorant, she lay virgin to hope. What she is now is built on
what she was. And what she will be, no man can say.
She is both East and West as is no other country. What
their marriage will bring forth under communism is unpre­
dictable. Standing in line in Soviet Russia, shuffling along
foot by foot and hour by hour, I pondered on the matters of
heredity and environment, and thought now and then of the
corner of Fifth Avenue and Forty-Second Street, of the sur­
vival of the fittest, of the Golden Rule, and of my aching
feet.
Here is a list of the lines in which I have stood in Mos­
cow. This compilation includes only lines of over five min­
utes' wait, and does not take into consideration all the
' Red ' tape involved.
1 .  Line in station to get permission to stay in 1\'loscow - stood
twenty minutes.
2. Line in Administration Building to get permission to stay in
Farmers' Home - stood one hour, fifteen minutes.
3· Line in Farmers' Home to get bed assignment - stood from
ten to thirty minutes each day.
4· Lines to get meals in restaurants - stood five to thirty min­
utes, twice a day.
5· Line to get ticket into the opera house - stood thirty min­
utes.
6. Line to get mail in the post-office - stood fifteen minutes.

'l{ussia..
7. Line to get pails in public bath - stood twenty minutes.
8. Line to get shower in public bath - stood thirty-five min­
utes.
9· Line to get permission to leave Russia - stood thirty hours,
spread over four days.
10. Line to get Polish visa - stood two hours, thirty minutes.
I I .  Line to get German visa - stood twenty-five minutes.
I2. Line to get railroad tickets out of Russia - stood one hour,
ten minutes.
Total : fifty hours, forty minutes - a new world's non-refueling
standing-in-line record.
I am now on the train heading into Poland. Around me
lies snoozing a mixed assortment of Europeans, mostly
Germans. In the dim light, curtains and coats swing in uni­
son with the lurching car. Far ahead, the engine squeals
as we tear across the switch-points.
With every clack of the wheels I am drawing nearer to
the life I know, and farther and farther back into memory
is sinking this past year of wandering, with its pageant of
lands and seas, its heat and cold, its suns and storms.
I was a poor man when I set out, and I am returning rich
in things I can never lose.
Never shall I forget the smell of morning bacon on a
Yukon sand-bar. Nothing can ever erase the awe I felt be­
fore the disciplined fury of a three-hundred-foot propeller
shaft, its hideous power driven true to a thousandth of an
inch. Never shall I entirely lose the sense of immemorial
peace that lives under the trees of Japanese temple gardens.
These things are wealth, and, with a thousand others like
them, will live for always in my memory. But, in something
nearer to my heart than memory, will live, for me, my
friends of this long journey - they whose warm human
flesh and blood was, by a whimsy of their Maker, encased
sometimes in yellow skin, or brown, or black, or white.
We have eaten and slept, sweated and shivered, hungered

./Wen on the Horizon..
and angered and laughed - together. And I am bringing
home with me, from forty thousand miles of men, the sure
knowledge that under their skins - be they yellow, brown,
black, or white - they are prisoners, just as I am, of their
lives and heritage, of hopes and lusts, of fears and loves and
dreams, like mine. They are different - on the skin ­
but, beneath, there is no alien mystery in any race of man.
Though eyes be slant, they crinkle with fun, and change
when they look at children; they cloud with pain, and shift
with fear, just as do eyes set straight. The sweat that
streams out of a brown skin is salt like mine.
And I know that, in the shared orange held out to my
hunger by a dirty yellow hand in a Chinese way-train, is the
world's hope.
New York - standing like a roaring dream out of the fog
of a cold morning, as we come slowly up the bay.
Beside me, later, in the steerage gangway, stands a be­
wildered little Hindu, clutching his pasteboard suitcase, and
gazing with terror down into the cavernous gloom of the
wharf shed, with its bustling officialdom and its piles of
waiting freight.
Busy with the deck-lashings of the gangplank is a huge
young sailor, whistling through his teeth as he makes it fast
and shipshape.
' Hey, there,' I say to him, indicating my petrified Hindu
associate, ' do you know of any good boarding house where
this guy can get a bed? '
Out of the corner of his eye he takes i n  the Hindu and is
evidently not interested.
'Shure, Sout' Street's full of 'em,' he says, still coiling
down the line.
' He's sort of up against it,' I continue. ' He's got to get
to Chicago, where his wife is sick. He doesn't speak much
English, and I think he's pretty near broke.'

c_f{ussia.,
At that he straightens, and regards the Hindu from his
six feet of healthy brawn.
'The hell you say! '  he observes. 'Well, now, that's a
tough break. Why, shure I kin fix him up in me time off ­
I know just the place --'
Together we three move down the slanting gangplank.
The Hindu fairly shudders as he finds himself upon the
dock.
'This man,' I say to him carefully - ' this man will show
you place to sleep - place to eat --'
He glances up fearfully at the giant beside him.
'Shure,' says the big sailor. 'There's a good place just
acrost th' street from here, an' I know th' ol' woman w'ot
runs it. Here, you - le' me give yer a hand on that bag, an'
watch yer step - come on, buddy.'
THE EēD

....
•••
.4 0