LIGHTS OF
‘IRFÁN
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán
Colloquia and Seminars
Book Twelve
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs

Copyright ©2010, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their authors. Reproduc-
tions from this compilation are permitted provided that the sources and authors are
clearly indicated, with the exception of provisional translations, which are not to be
further distributed.
Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Twelve
‘Irfán Colloquia

Bahá’í National Center 1233 Central Street, Evanston, IL 60201

Phone: (847) 733-3501 · Fax: (847) 733-3527

E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org · www.irfancolloquia.org
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Manuscript Editors Omid Nolley and Jonah Winters
167 B.E. 2010 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-08-4
Design & Layout:
Majid C. Nolley
majidnolley.com

O My Name! The Day-Star of utterance,
shining resplendent from the dayspring of divine
Revelation, hath so illumined the Scrolls and
Tablets that the kingdom of utterance and the
exalted dominion of understanding vibrate
with joy and ecstasy and shine forth with the
splendour of His light, yet the generality of
mankind comprehend not.
That which is conducive to the regeneration
of the world and the salvation of the peoples
and kindreds of the earth hath been sent down
from the heaven of the utterance of Him Who
is the Desire of the world. Give ye a hearing
ear to the counsels of the Pen of Glory. Better
is this for you than all that is on the earth.
Unto this beareth witness My glorious and
wondrous Book.
—Baha'u'llah
Tablets Revealed After the
Kitab-i-Aqdas pp. 199, 222

Table of Contents
Preface .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact
Amin Egea.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A.  Klebel .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  27
Neo-Platonism and the Baha'i Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   105
Preparing Baha’i Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rohani Ma'ani .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 195
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Bab
Moojan Momen .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   221
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   245
May flowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 281
The indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   309
The Mystery of Divinity
James B.  Thomas .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 329
Elucidations
Speaking on Socio-Political Issues .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . 353
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Ali Nakhjavani   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   359
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
Moojan Momen .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   367
Appendices
Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations .  .   .   .  401
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Eleven .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  . 402
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  413

i
Preface
Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may unravel
its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its
depths. Take heed that ye do not vacillate in your determination to
embrace the truth of this Cause—a Cause through which the poten-
tialities of the might of God have been revealed, and His sovereignty
established. With faces beaming with joy, hasten ye unto Him. This is
the changeless Faith of God, eternal  in the past, eternal in the future.
(Kitáb-i-Aqdas ‘ 182)
Bahá’u’lláh, in the above verses of the Most Holy Book, urges the
believers to not only gladly embrace what has been revealed but to
hasten to do so. The `Irfán Colloquium and its publications are
aimed at responding to this call by promoting and supporting deeper
and more systematic studies in the Bahá’í texts and principal beliefs,
as well as comparative studies of the religious traditions, schools
of thought, scientific discoveries, and challenges facing humanity
from the perspective of the Bahá’í Faith.  A selection of the research
papers presented and discussed at the annual sessions of the `Irfán
Colloquia convened in Europe and North America in English are
published in the annual editions of the Lights of `Irfán.
In 2008 on the occasion of the centenary celebration of the publication
of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Some Answered Questions, scholars were invited
to prepare and present  research papers on the topics and concepts
that are elucidated  in that book. So far, about seventy such presen-
tations have been made at the `Irfán Colloquia in English, Persian
and German. Some of those papers written in English are gradually
being published in the Lights of `Irfán. In this volume the following
articles belong to this category. “The Essence of Man: Towards a
Bahá’í Understanding of Human Nature and Psychology”; and “The

ii
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Mystery of Divinity: A comparison of traditional views of Divinity to
those in Some Answered Questions.”
“The Essence of Man: Towards a Bahá’í Understanding of Human
Nature and Psychology” is a commentary on a quotation taken
from “Gleanings of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,” about “the essence of
man.” It attempts to provide an understanding of what is expressed by
Bahá’u’lláh’s announcement, in these few verses, that may change our
understanding of the question “Who is Man?”.  Another paper in this
category is “The Mystery of Divinity: A comparison of traditional
views of Divinity to those in Some Answered Questions,” which is a
comparative study on traditional views of Divinity and the elucidation
found in Some Answered Questions by `Abdu’l-Bahá’. It attempts to
infer a new paradigm of spiritual evolution, and suggests a possible
platform for philosophical dissertation regarding the influence of
religion on secular matters in the modern world
In 2010 The `Irfán Colloquium initiated a four-year program com-
memorating the centenary of  `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels to the West
(1910-1913) by inviting presentations  on the significance and
impact of His visits in Egypt, Europe, and North America, as well
as the themes and concepts elucidated by Him in His talks and
press interviews. The papers presented in English on the occasion of
this commemoration will be published in the Lights of `Irfán. In this
volume, the  following articles are related to the travels and talks of
`Abdu’l-Bahá: “The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on
the Press: A Survey” and “Preparing Bahá’í Communities in the
East and West to Embrace Gender Equality.”
The presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá in western countries aroused great
interest in the general public and in the media. Leading newspapers,
journals, magazines and specialized periodicals paid considerable
attention to the personality of `Abdu’l-Bahá and the Bahá’í teach-
ings that He was proclaiming. “The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and

iii
Preface
their Impact on the Press: A Survey” is a preliminary survey of
the news reports of the events related to His visit, and references to
`Abdu’l-Bahá published in the Western press at that time. This sur-
vey also includes the impressions gained by His audiences, as well as
the published accounts of private interviews and reports of His talks.
The abandonment of racial, religious and nationalistic prejudices  is
one of the central issues in the talks delivered by `Abdu’l-Bahá in
Paris. “The duty of kindness and sympathy towards strangers
and foreigners” is an interesting comparative study of those talks as
reflected in the recent Italian “Charter on the Values and Significance
of Citizenship and Integration,” which upholds many of the concepts
expounded by `Abdu’l-Bahá almost a century ago. “Preparing Bahá’í
Communities in the East and West to Embrace Gender Equality”
deals with one of the aspects of the impact of `Abdul-Bahá’s visits
and talks in Europe and North America, i.e. equality of the rights of
men and women. It attempts to describe the intricacies involved in,
and the remarkable way He dealt with, this matter.  It also examines
some of His writings issued in honor of the Bahá’í women in Iran
and North America, and the methods He used to utilize their energy
and capabilities for the furtherance of the Cause of God.  It further
looks at the practical ways He educated the Bahá’í men of the time to
accept women as their equals.  Finally, it discusses the glowing results
He achieved in a relatively short time.
The publication of studies on the comparison of various schools of
philosophical thought and the Bahá’í teachings continues in this
volume, in the second section of the paper on  “Neo-Platonism and
the Bahá’í Faith.” It summarizes and expands the ideas presented
in “Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Writings” published in Book
Eleven of the Lights of `Irfán in order to demonstrate how the work
of Plotinus and his successors complements and offers new insights
into the philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í Revelation. It aims at
presenting the convergences and congruencies that improve our phil-
osophical understanding of the Writings and concludes that in terms

iv
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of philosophical affinities, the philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í
Writings is a unique type of objective idealism.
Publication of papers on the studies in the Writings of the Báb
related to fine arts started in Book Eight of Safini-yi `Irfán (in Per-
sian). Now, we are happy that the same topic is dealt with in English
in “Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb.”
it begins by describing what the author calls “composing arts,” that
which artists produce in their mind and then transfer to paper, such
as literature, both poetry and prose, and the composition of music.
It describes how a rather large number of the Writings of the Báb
were produced in a rapid and fluent manner which amazed those who
witnessed it. The Báb as a performance artist, and the nature of some
of His writings as pieces that are intended to be performed as much
as read, as well as the concept of refinement that comes across very
strong in both the person and the writings of the Báb, are delineated.
“May flowers in the Ville Lumière: The dawning of Bahá’í his-
tory in the European continent” is the account of the start of the
Bahá’í community in Paris, which prepared the ground for `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s visits to that city. It is written in a beautiful literary style
and describes how a young American lady becomes the catalyst for
the spiritual awakening of a group of early receptive believers. The
paper emphasizes the mysterious ways through which they came to
recognize the dawn of the new era on the European continent and
in the whole world.
“The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human
Affairs” explains the unique features of Bahá’í Consultation. It was
published in Book Eleven of the Lights of `Irfán but in the process of
forwarding it digitally certain sections were omitted in the text that
was published. The complete text of the article is now included in
this volume.

v
Preface
The section entitled ELUCIDATIONS includes several items
clarifying and elucidating issues and topics of interest to Bahá’í stud-
ies. The letter of the Bahá’í World Centre provides guidance regarding
speaking on socio-political issues. The article by Mr. Ali Nakhjavani
on “Teaching the Cause of God -- A Double-Edged Sword” is
an enlightening explanation of one of the distinctive features of
the Bahá’í Faith, that we cannot separate the spiritual life of the
individual from the spiritual life of the community. “A Commentary
on Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings” is further clarification on
an article on the same subject, which was published in Book Nine
of the Lights of `Irfán. In comparing the two articles it is explained
that in this debate we have two different conceptual worlds each
perfectly self-consistent and understandable within itself but coming to
different conclusions, using different criteria for what will count as
evidence and what will count as decisive proof. In other worlds we
have two universes of discourse, two paradigms, two realities or two
different language games. Each side is looking at the subject from a
different viewpoint and drawing different conclusions.
Appendix II presents a list of the topics of the papers published in
previous volumes of the Lights of `Irfán. It provides a preliminary
familiarity with the range, types, methodological approaches and
scope of the papers that are welcome to be presented at the `Irfán
Colloquia and be considered for publication in The Lights of `Irfán.
In addition to the papers presented at the `Irfán Colloquia, research
papers related to the main goals of the `Irfán Colloquium are wel-
come to be directly submitted.
Starting with Book Six we have made two changes in the `Irfán Col-
loquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications are cited by an
abbreviation; see Appendix I, “Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings
and Their Abbreviations Used in This Book.” Words of Prophets/

vi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Manifestations, i.e. quotations from Sacred Writings, (not includ-
ing statements by Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House of Justice),
are italicized.
All papers in this volume present the views and understandings of
their authors. The texts of the papers are published as provided by
the authors. The writing styles and scholarly approaches are, there-
fore, different. Articles are published in this volume according to the
alphabetical order of the author’s surnames.

Iraj Ayman

Chicago May 2010

The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
A Survey
Amin Egea
The travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá in the West generated a great interest,
not only among His followers but also in public opinion. Hundreds
of personalities sought an opportunity to meet the Master in person
and tens of thousands attained His presence at any of His many
public addresses or read about Him in the press.
As part of an investigation of the first references to the Bábí and
Bahá’í religions in the Western press, particular research has been
carried out during the last decade on the attention that European
and American journals dispensed to `Abdu’l-Bahá and to the Bahá’í
Faith during the period of His travels throughout the West.
So far, this research has brought to light nearly eleven hundred refer-
ences made in journals, magazines and bulletins of the time. These
documents offer indispensable insights into the impact of the figure
of `Abdu’l-Bahá on public opinion at the time, while comprising an
important historical record of this momentous episode in the history
of the Bahá’í Faith.1
It would be impossible, in the span of this article, to offer a complete
review of all the references and accounts that have been gathered
about `Abdu’l-Bahá. Nevertheless, a few examples will be offered in
the following pages.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Before proceeding, it is necessary to give a word of caution about
the statements attributed to `Abdu’l-Bahá in these accounts. It is
impossible, except in a very few cases, to be certain that the words
reproduced by the press were the actual ones expressed by the
Master. On the one hand, it is impossible to know whether the words
of `Abdu’l-Bahá were always translated with accuracy and precision;
on the other, it is equally impossible to ascertain whether the notes
taken by the journalists were a faithful transcription of what they
had heard. Therefore, these documents, despite their interest and
their coincidence, in many cases, with the general tone of the teach-
ings of `Abdu’l-Bahá and of His communications, cannot, under any
circumstance, be regarded as authoritative.
The references made in the press about `Abdu’l-Bahá can be divided
in the following categories, ordered from lowest to highest impor-
tance in terms of the information they can offer about the travels and
their impact on public opinion.
1: General Reports on the Bahá’í Faith
The presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá in the West generated many reports
and articles devoted exclusively to describing and summarizing the
teachings of the Bahá’í Faith and its history. These articles often
included biographical notes about Him and were accompanied by
His portrait. This category of references to `Abdu’l-Bahá does not
provide many insights into His travels but is very useful to estimate
the volume of information about the Faith that the public received
during His travels.
The length of these articles varies from full-page reports to brief
texts such as this short article, sent through agencies under the title
“Leader of Bahaism Here”, which offered a very brief description of

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
the lives of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá, beginning with
the following comments:
Abbas Effendi, known to his mil­lions of followers as Abdul
Baha, the leader of “Bahaism,” is now on a visit to America.
Never before in recorded history has one of the founders
of an Oriental religious movement—since become world-
wide—visited America. The personality and life history
of one who has spent sixty years of his life in banishment,
imprisonment and exile from his native land, makes a story
of fascinating interest, vividly impressing upon the mind of
the investigator the fact that the days of religious persecu-
tion are not ended, and that even in this modern age a drama
has been, enacted which for human interest equals or sur-
passes Biblical history…2
2: Announcements and Advertisements
Some of the talks given by `Abdu’l-Bahá were previously announced
in the press. For instance, many of the talks that `Abdu’l-Bahá was
invited to give in churches were previously announced in the religious
sections of local newspapers. At times, when a public meeting with
`Abdu’l-Bahá had been arranged by the Bahá’ís or by other organiza-
tions, paid advertisements were also inserted in local journals.
These kinds of references to `Abdu’l-Bahá are of a very short exten-
sion. However, they contain important information such as the
precise dates and times of some of His talks, the addresses of the
places where He spoke, the title by which some of His talks were
announced, the name of the pastor of the church or the chairman of
the meeting that introduced the Master, and other details such as the
names of others who may have shared the table with `Abdu’l-Bahá.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
For instance, on 5 May 1912, the New York Times published the fol-
lowing announcement of a talk that `Abdu’l-Bahá was to deliver a
week later to a meeting of the Peace Forum, in which Senator Towne
appears as a co-speaker:
METHODIST EPISCOPAL
…
Grace 104th, near Columbus. 11- J. Campbell White speaks.
8-Abdul Baha, Senator C. A. Towne, &c., speak.
3: General Accounts about `Abdu’l-Bahá
Many were those who had the privilege of meeting the Master. Some
of them later wrote vivid descriptions of their impressions about Him
and, in some cases, reproduced parts of their conversations with Him.
Of course, the accuracy and length of this kind of press references
vary greatly.
This category comprises those accounts about the Master that do not
focus on a particular event or episode during His travels but offer
general descriptions about Him or about His impact on people.
For instance, the following notice published in the Chicago Defender
about His first visit to Washington and His work for racial unity
stands as an outstanding testimony of the extent of the transforma-
tion that `Abdu’l-Bahá exerted on others:
TO BREAK THE COLOR LINE.
Abdul Baha, the Great Persian Philosopher and Teacher,
Aims to Unite the Peoples of All Races and Creeds In One
Great Bond of Brotherhood.

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Washington, D. C. May—Abdul Baha (the servant of God),
the great Persian philosopher and teacher, head of the
Bahaists, will reach Chicago next Monday. He comes to
bring hope to the colored people.
His visit to Washington has been a triumphal march. He has
met and conquered Southern prejudices. He made addresses
at Metropolitan A. M. E. church, at Howard University and
at many of the white churches and halls and was listened to
by many thousands of people of both races, who applauded
his propaganda of the fatherhood of God and the brother-
hood of man.
He was the guest of one of Washington’s wealthiest women,
one who moves in the most exclusive social circles at the
capital, and yet her house has been thrown open to rich and
poor and black and white. Southern people whose hearts
were once filled with the most bitter prejudices against their
brothers in black, have publicly acknowledged their change
of heart and now they treat the colored people as brother
indeed.3
4: Accounts on Talks and Activities of the Master
Many of the articles published at the time offer us unique stories and
accounts about some of the activities of the Master during His travels
and particularly about His public addresses.
Newspaper representatives attended many of the public meetings at
which `Abdu’l-Bahá was invited, writing afterwards their chronicles
for their journals. These chronicles offer interesting details about
some of His talks, such as the number of participants at the meetings,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the reactions of the public, or the remarks made by the chairman to
introduce the Master.
In some of the public meetings in which `Abdu’l-Bahá took part, He
shared the table with other lecturers, the names of whom are pro-
vided in some journals, along with a summary of their speeches, and
sometimes their comments on the Master’s words.
The accounts of the talks given by `Abdu’l-Bahá range from reports
of just a few lines summarizing what was said by the Master, to
detailed articles quoting at length from His words or paraphrasing
the entirety of His talk.
The following account published in the Washington Bee, for instance,
gives us a vivid description about the reaction of the audience after
His talk at Howard University:
ABDUL BAHA
Revolution in Religious Worship.
On Tuesday, April 23d, Abdul Baha, the venerable Persian,
leader of the Baha movement, which has several millions of
followers throughout the world, and is attracting considerable
attention in Washington, addressed the student and faculty
of Howard University. The occasion was impressive and
most interesting, as in flowing Oriental robes this speaker
gave his message. He was received with such fervor that the
breathless silence during his address was followed by pro-
longed applause, causing him to bow his acknowledgments
and give a second greeting.4
This account of the talk delivered at the Church of the Ascension
on 14 April 1912, besides describing the general environment of the

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
moment, quoted from the words pronounced by Rev. Percy S. Grant
in his introduction of the Master and paraphrased some of the words
of `Abdu’l-Bahá:
ABDUL BAHA PRAYS IN ASCENSION CHURCH
Leader of Bahai Movement, Speaking in Persian, Pleads for
the Oneness of Humanity.
HIS APPEARANCE STRIKING
Congregation Lingers After Service to See Him, In Oriental
Robes, Enter a Modern Limousine.
In the Church of the Ascension, toward the close of the
services, yesterday morning the big congregation knelt in
the pews or stood in the aisle spaces with heads reverently
bowed, and before the altar Dr. Percy Stickney Grant and
his assistant, Mr. Underhill, knelt, while a venerable white-
bearded Persian, clothed in his linen gaba and wearing
his fez and his patriarch’s tabouch, stood and offered up
a prayer in his native tongue. This was Abbas Effendi, or,
as his followers call him, Abdul Baha Abbas, the Persian
phi­losopher and interpreter of the Bahai revelation, who has
come to this country to speak at the Lake Mohonk Peace
Conference the latter part of this month and to spread his
gospel of the fundamental unity of all religions.
Dr. Grant was not the first clergyman to invite the Per-
sian teacher, but his was the first invitation that Abdul
Baha accepted, and there was little room left in Ascension
Church when the 11 o’clock services began yesterday. As
they progressed the venerable Persian took his place in the
high-backed seat to the right of the altar, with Dr. Ameen
Fareed, his nephew, standing by, ready to act as interpreter.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
“It is to be our privilege this morning,” said Dr. Grant, “to
hear one who has come out of the East, a new and great her-
ald of good-will, one bearing a message of love to all mankind.
Abdul Baha Abbas is a master of the things of the spirit. He
comes from that part of the world where men meditate,
where contemplation was born. He teaches the fundamental
unity of all religions—a truth in which this congregation
believes profoundly—and we welcome here one who may
help the material fervor of the Occident to gain a new peace
by the infiltration of the harmonies of the Orient.”
Abdul Baha spoke in Persian, with Dr. Fareed interpreting
a phrase at a time. Our material civilization, the Persian
teacher said, has progressed greatly with the perfection of
the crafts and the forward steps of material science, but our
spiritual civilization, that which is based on divine morals,
has declined and become degraded. We should strive, he
said, to make our material civilization the purest possible
medium, the most unclouded glass, through which the light
of our spiritual civilization must shine.
One of the things that supports a spiritual civilization is
peace, he said, and the body politic is in need of universal
peace, but the oneness of humanity, the human solidar-
ity, which has been the message of all the prophets, will be
achieved only through the spiritual power, for neither racial
distinctions nor patriotism can further it. The oneness of
humanity will come with the supremacy of the spiritual
civilization, and not while, as now, we are submerged in a
sea of materialism. The cause is progressing in the Orient,
he concluded, and the heavenly civilization is daily making
itself more manifest.

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
These things Abdul Baha said in the few moments that he
spoke, before he returned to his seat beside the altar. While
the offering was being taken those seated near the front
could see him delv­ing amid his robes, and finally his hand
emerged with a bill that found its way to the plate. During
the prayer he stood with his forearms extended, the palms
of his hands turned upward, and as he finished he passed
these over his eyes in a gesture that ended with the strok-
ing of the patriarchal beard. A sense of the strangeness of
the scene seemed to be with many in the congregation, and
not a few lingered afterward to see the Persian philosopher,
in his costume of the Orient, as he stepped into a modern
Occidental limousine, to be whizzed uptown to his apart-
ment at the Ansonia.5
There are also many descriptions of the impression that `Abdu’l-Bahá
left during His public appearances. A journalist who was present at
the talk at the Ascension Church stated that “The venerable Oriental
made a striking figure against the dark background of the chancel at
the Church of the Ascension.” A similar statement was made by a
reporter present during the address that `Abdu’l-Bahá delivered at
the Church of Our Father in Washington on 21 April 1912: “The
venerable Persian, with flowing white beard, his slender form envel-
oped in a long tail garment reaching to the floor; and his snow-white
hair surmounted with a white turban-like head covering, made an
impressive picture.”6 Introducing an article about the participation of
`Abdu’l-Bahá at the American Unitarian Conference held in Boston
on 22 May 1912, the Post commented: “Attired in the flowing robes
of his native land, the apostle of the Bahai movement made a great
impression on his listeners, many of whom were clergymen from all
over the United States and Canada. His remarkable face, long white
beard and his expression of thought was in keeping with the univer-
sal principles of peace which the new religion stands for.”7

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Particularly important are those articles that give information
about talks that were not transcribed by Bahá’ís and were there-
fore not included in any of the later volumes that compiled some of
the talks delivered by `Abdu’l-Bahá in the West. Thus for instance,
thanks to an article published in the Minneapolis Morning Tribune
on 23 September 1912, it is possible to conclude that the subjects
touched by the Master in His talk at the Temple Shaari Tov were
very similar to those expounded days later in the Temple Emanu-El
in San Francisco.
It is important to note that sometimes more than one reporter wrote
about a talk and thus sometimes different reports of the same event
were published afterwards. This circumstance allows in some cases
for a more complete and accurate perspective about what was said
and what transpired during a certain meeting.
5: Talks of the Master.
In addition to offering accounts about the talks of the Master, some
newspapers published complete transcripts of His lectures. For
instance, the text of His address at the City Temple in London—the
first public talk of `Abdu’l-Bahá in the West—was soon afterwards
published in the Christian Commonwealth (London)8 and then sent to
America where it was published at least in the Los Angeles Times,9 the
Buffalo Express10 and the American (Baltimore).11 Anoth9er example
of this is the talk given at the Emanu-El Temple in San Francisco, the
transcript of which was published days later in a special number of
the Palo Altan12—which also included the texts of other talks—and
then sent to London where it was published in the Christian Com-
monwealth. 13

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Many other talks delivered in America, England, Scotland and
France were published by the press, some of which remain unpub-
lished in Bahá’í literature.
6: Interviews
The interviews granted by `Abdu’l-Bahá to some journals and maga-
zines are also an important repository of information about His travels.
It would be very difficult to estimate the total number of interviews
that `Abdu’l-Bahá gave to the press, but it can be stated that He was
asked to give interviews in almost every city He visited. In some cases,
`Abdu’l-Bahá would receive a group of journalists in a single meeting,
answering all their questions at the same time. Thus, in the ensuing
days, different journals would publish accounts of the same meeting
and produce enough material to ascertain the reliability and accuracy
of the accounts.
Some of those journalists who had the privilege of personally seeing
`Abdu’l-Bahá have left for posterity a broad range of descriptions of
His appearance and personality, as well as the impression He left
on them.
For instance, a reporter of the Sun of New York, who met `Abdu’l-
Bahá at Hotel Ansonia soon after His arrival in the city, described
the Master in this way: “Abdul Baha is now nearly 68 years of age, but
forty years in a Turkish prison have made him appear of greater age.
He is of middle height, but has the appearance of a tall man because
of his great carriage. His long gray hair flows over his shoulders. His
broad beard and mustache are as gray as his hair. His forehead is
broad, full and high and his nose is large and aquiline. Abdul Baha’s
eyes are blue and large, his glance is penetrating.”14

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
A similar statement about His stature was made by Kake Carew
(Mary Chambers)15 in an article for the New York Tribune: “He is
scarcely above medium height, but so extraordinary is the dignity of
his majestic carriage that he seemed more than the average stature...”.
Carew’s article was very sarcastic, as was her style. Besides a writer,
Carew was best known for her caricatures and drawings of the per-
sonages she interviewed. As a matter of fact, the sarcastic and acid
tone she employed in her articles made them also caricaturesque.
The first portions of her article about `Abdu’l-Bahá were a mockery
of some of the people she met at the Ansonia, who were waiting to
see `Abdu’l-Bahá. But in describing the moment she saw the Master
and her meeting with Him, the tone of the articles changed radically.
Her interview with the Master and her visit with Him to the Bowery
Mission impressed her so highly that she concluded her article with
the following statement: “as I went out into the starlight night I mur-
mured the phrase of an Oriental admirer who had described him as
The Breeze of God.”16
Another New York reporter, a representative of the Times, described
the moment she entered `Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence in this manner:
The reception room in his apartment was filled with flowers.
There was not long to wait, for Abdul Baha is prompt and
business like. In two minutes a young Persian opened a door
and asked the reporter to enter.
A rather small man with a white beard and the kindest and
gentlest face in the world held out a hand. In his brown habit
he was extraordinarily picturesque, but one did not think
long of that, for he smiled a charming smile and, walking
before and holding his visitor’s hand, he led her to a chair.
Then he seated himself in another chair, facing her, and
spoke in Persian to the younger man, who interpreted.

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
And after reproducing some of the comments of the Master, she added:
The words delivered in this fashion, in short epigrams, took
one miles and miles away from New York. Outside the win-
dow was Broadway; under the building the subway; down-
stairs was all the para­phernalia of a big hotel, but all these
things were far less real than the picture the old teacher
called up. The only things that seemed near were the moun-
tains of Carmel, so near the Village of Nazareth, and the
fields where the lilies grow more beautiful than Solomon in
his glory.
The strangeness of it all, the manner of speaking, the curious
language, the unfamiliar dress might well have made the lis-
tener awkward and ill at ease; but one does not feel awkward
with Abdul Baha. The reporter had wondered just how to
address him, but that seemed a foolish matter now. It really
made no difference what you did or what you said, this kind
old teacher would know that you meant well. 17
A Washington reporter who was present at a reception held at the
house of Mrs. Parsons described the Master as follows: “His features
are finely cut, and as he talks he peers into the faces of his listeners to
see if they comprehend his words. He chuckles to himself frequently,
when he makes a good point. His brow is high, and he has every
appearance of a deep thinker.”18
A Chicago reporter describing His appearance stated: “His eyes,
deep sunken beneath his shaggy eyebrows, flashed the vigor of a man
who, despite his seventy years, might be said to have no age.”19
Marion Brunot Haymaker, a columnist for the Chronicle-Telegraph,
who met `Abdu’l-Bahá at Pittsburgh stated: “And as you sit and
watch him as he speaks, noting his sad, kind eyes, his body, old before

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
its time, his nervous hands, so full of sympathy, you cannot help but
feel the personality of the teacher, and you believe, that truly he does
represent hospitality, and truth, and that to be humble, to be reverent,
to love all mankind are parts of him.”20
A reporter of the Evening Standard (London) also stated: “I was
astonished that Abdul Baha Abbas notwithstanding the fact that he
has passed the greater portion of his life in a prison, was able to show
interest and sympathy about the details of the life of Englishmen. He
asked me questions about my own life, and I described to him a jour-
ney which I had lately made to Russia. I found myself talking to him
as to one who had been a friend always.”21
To some of journalists `Abdu’l-Bahá offered His advice on journalism
and the role of the media and its professionals. An article appeared in
the Chicago Daily News describes in the following way the meeting
of a group of journalists with the Master and His comments about
the press:
Without the door of the Plaza hotel suite a dish of radishes
and celery, sprinkled with water, was discovered. This was
part of the breakfast of Abdul Baha, who has in company a
Persian cook. On the door was a sign, which read:
“Don’t ring the bell. Knock softly.”
One of the delegation knocked softly. Ameen Fareed opened
the door and down a long corridor ushered the visitors to the
room of “the master.”
“Marhaba!” said a voice from the sunshiny room, speaking
the Persian word of welcome.

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Abdul Baha looked at each of his visitors intently from under
white, bushy eyebrows. His dark skin was interlaced with
numberless fine wrinkles. He wore a gray-white beard. His
forehead was high and surmounted by a fez turban of fawn
and cream color. His rather long hair hung in a single curl
over the nape of his neck and to his shoulder blades. He wore
a fawn colored robe with a cream sash, striped with a simple
delicate pink and blue stripe, over which was a black gar-
ment. On his feet were congress galters.
He motioned his visitors to a seat and sat himself in a rock-
ing chair near the bed. He allowed his glance to roam over
the flower decorated room before he spoke through his
interpreter…
“A reporter must be a purveyor of truth,” he said in Persian
and Ameen Fareed translated. “The newspapers are leaders
of the people and the people must be able to rely on what
they read…”22
A representative of the Public Ledger (Philadelphia) described a
conversation with the Master in which the subject of journalism
was touched:
“Abdul Baha asks how many newspapers you have in this city?”
“Nine or ten, I think.” The information was transmitted.
The philosopher nodded and made a comment.
“Abdul Baha says that is very good,” volunteered the interpreter.
And there and then Abdul Baha, who is only a few months
free from 40 long years imprisonment for the expression of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
his progressive teachings in the fever-racked penal settle-
ment at Akka, in Syria, delivered himself, of a series of
maxims for American journals and journalists. They were
punctuated by impressive pauses, and this is how interpreter
Ahmed Sohrab passed them across from the vernacular:
“Newspapers are the mirrors that reflect the progression or
the retrogression of the community.
“We may ascertain the progress or the retrogression of a
nation by its journalism.
“If journalists should abide by their duties, they would be the
promoters of many virtues, among the community. Truth
and the virtues would be foster­ed. This would be so if they
carried out the duties incumbent upon them.
“Journalists must serve truth.
“Newspapers must investigate the means for the progress of
humanity, and publish them.
“Journalists must write significant articles, articles that shall
foster the public welfare. If they so do they will be the first
agents for the development of the community.
“From the days when newspapers were first published they
have been the cause of progress; if they abide by their duties
great will be the benefit forthcoming.
“Journalists must endeavor to make their organ a trustwor-
thy agent, in order that their articles, may be effective in the
hearts of the people and that the read­ers of these articles
may be edified.”23

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
To the above mentioned Kate Carew `Abdu’l-Bahá commented:
“Remember, you press people are the servants of the public. You
interpret our words and act to them. With you is a great respon-
sibility. Please remember and please treat us seriously.”24 And to
a Christian Science Monitor correspondent in London He said:
“Those papers… which strive to speak only that which is truth, which
hold the mirror up to truth, are like the sun, they light the world
everywhere with truth, and their work is imperishable. Those who
play for their own little selfish ends give no true light to the world
and perish on their own futility. In carrying out the aims of your
paper you are adding to the light. Go on, and let nothing stop you.”25
Many times `Abdu’l-Bahá was asked about His position on woman
suffrage and His attitude towards the feminist movement. To a
reporter of the New York City News Agency `Abdu’l-Bahá said:
“The modern suffragette is fighting for what must be, and
many of these are willing martyrs to imprisonment for their
cause. One might not approve of the ways of some of the
more militant suffragettes, but in the end it will adjust itself.
If women were given the same advantages as men, their
capacity being the same, the result would be the same. In
fact, women have a superior disposition to men; they are
more receptive, more sensitive, and their intuition is more
intense. The only reason of their present backwardness in
some directions is because they have not had the same edu-
cational advantages as men.
“All children should be educated, but if parents cannot educate
both the boys and the girls, then it would be better to educate
the girls, for they will be the mothers of the coming genera-
tion. This is a radical idea for the East, where I come from,
but it is already taking effect there, for the Bahai women of
Persia are being educated along with the men.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
“We have only to look about us in nature,” `Abdul-Baha
continued, “to see the truth of this. Is it not a fact that the
females of many species of animals are stronger and more
powerful than the male? The chief cause of the mental and
physical inequalities of the sexes is due to custom and train-
ing, which for ages past have molded woman into the ideal of
the weaker vessel.
“The world in the past has been ruled by force, and man has
dominated over woman by reason of his more forceful and
aggressive qualities both of body and mind. But the scales
are already shifting—force is losing its weight and mental
alertness, intuition, and the spiritual qualities of love and
service, in which woman is strong, are gaining ascendency.
Hence the new age will be an ageless masculine, and more
permeated with the feminine ideals—or, to speak more
exactly, will be an age in which the masculine and feminine
elements of civilization will be more properly balanced.”26
These comments were reproduced afterwards in many journals. To a
representative of the New York Tribune `Abdu’l-Bahá said:
“If a mother is well educated, her children will also be well
taught. If the mother is wise, the children will be wise; if the
mother is religious, the children will also be religious. If the
mother is a good woman, then the children will also be good.
The future generation depends then on the mothers of to-
day. Is not this a vital position of responsibility for women?
“Surely, God does not wish such an important instrument as
woman to be less perfect than she is able to become! Divine
Justice demands that men and women should have equal
rights. There is no difference between them; neither sex is
superior to the other in the sight of God.”27

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
In an interview for the American (New York), `Abdu’l-Bahá was
again questioned about the same subject:
Do you find men or women the more religious—quicker to
accept the truths expounded by you?”
“Those who have intelligence and understanding accept our
teachings no matter whether they are men or women. For
they are all intellectual and logical principles, and they are
for the good of all humanity.
“For instance, we say that the people of the world should love
each other, should serve each other; they should become as
members of one family; they should throw into the corner of
oblivion national, religious, patriotic and commercial preju-
dices. They must put aside these narrow prejudices. They
must become united, men and women; all.
“What do you think of the woman suffrage movement?”
Today women, on account of certain reasons, have not yet
attained to the vigor of men. But these differences are only
accounted for on lines of education. In reality there is no dif-
ference between men and women so far as their rights are
concerned. They are all the children of one God. Both of
them have capacities for progress.
“When we look upon the mineral, vegetable and animal king-
doms we see there both sexes. There is no difference between
them in the animal and vegetable kingdom. Therefore, when
the women are highly educated and cultivated, you will see
that there will be no difference whatever in rights between
the two sexes.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
“Truly, America is facing toward progress. There is no ques-
tion of this. America is also advancing wonderfully in spiri-
tual and ethical principles.”28
Charlotte Despard, editor of the suffragist magazine The Vote
(London), speaking about an address by `Abdu’l-Bahá delivered at a
meeting organized on London by the Women’s Freedom League on
2 January 1913, stated:
It was a memorable occasion, which will leave its impress on
all those who were present. Here we are not so much con-
cerned with what was said then, or at other times, during the
visit to London of this strange and beautiful human being
who is called by his disciples “the Servant of God,” as with
the spirit that, wherever he goes, seems to radiate from him.29
7: Articles and Letters by `Abdu’l-Bahá
One aspect about the travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá that is not fully known
is the fact that, at the request of editors, `Abdu’l-Bahá sometimes
contributed to a publication with a letter or a tablet.
There are several instances of this in the Christian Commonwealth
(London) but we can also find “articles” by `Abdu’l-Bahá in the
Independent (New York), the Asiatic Quarterly Review (London), or
the International Psychic Gazette (London) among others. Some of
these texts were published along with photographs of the original
Persian text.
Just before `Abdu’l-Bahá’s departure from America, Albert Dawson,
the editor of Christian Commonwealth (London), requested from
Him a contribution to be included in an special issue of the magazine

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
that contained several communications from religious leaders. The
following was printed as a communication from `Abdu’l-Bahá:
Convey my greetings to all your readers. I am extremely
pleased and grateful for the attitude of The Christian
Commonwealth, for its editor is indeed the servant of the
world of humanity and the lover of universal peace. This
noble editor is free from prejudice. Praise be to God that in
America I established spiritual affinity between the hearts of
various religions. It is my hope that through the favours of
Baha’o’llah contention and strife may be abandoned entirely
by the followers of various religions. All of them may be
welded together. In the Synagogue of the Jews I established
the validity of his holiness Jesus Christ, and demonstrated
the prophethood of his holiness Mohammed. The all lis-
tened most attentively. In brief, I said that the Christians did
believe in Moses. They believe that Moses was the prophet
of God. They believe that the Torah is the Book of God, and
they all believe in the Prophets of Israel. Why should you not
believe in Christ, acknowledging that Christ was the Word of
God? What harm will come to you thereby? The result of this
confession will be the entire disappearance of the prejudice
which has been existing between the Christians and the Jews
for the last two thousand years. When this address, delivered
in the synagogue, is read, the reader will be most pleased and
most enlightened.30
In addition to this, the press also reproduced or quoted from the text
of the papers sent by `Abdu’l-Bahá to international congresses to
which He was invited—such as the Universal Races Congress held
in London in 1911—or the texts of tablets sent to individuals like, for
instance, the two letters sent to the businessman and philanthropist
Andrew Carnegie.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
* * *
The references to `Abdu’l-Bahá quoted previously are only a token of
the type of references to the Master that were published during His
travels. More than half of the known references were published in
the United States. Many other references were published in Canada,
France and the United Kingdom, totalling over three hundred. The
references published in Germany and Hungary, although fewer in
number, are also very interesting and illustrate other less known
episodes of His travels.
However, it was not only the press of the countries blessed by the
presence of the Master that echoed His travels. In practically all
countries in Europe, from Spain to Russia, news were published
about Him. In Latin America, articles were published in Argentina,
Brazil and Mexico. Some journals in Australia and New Zealand
reported on His visits to England. Even in Japan and South Africa
mention was made of the Master in some publications.

The Travels of Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
NOTES
This research has been conducted in various public libraries like the
British Library, the Bibliothèque Nationale of France or the Biblioteca
Nacional of Spain as well as with documents received from the Library
of Congress, the New York Public Library or the National Library of
Canada, among others.  It has also benefited from documents held in
various private or institutional libraries like the Bahá’í Archives of the
National Spiritual Assemblies of the United States, France, Canada
and Germany and the Bahá’í World Centre International Library, as
well as various Esperanto and Theosophical archives located in Spain
and the United Kingdom.  Different digitization projects and digital
archives have also provided with an important number of documents
related with this period in Bahá’í history.
The article was part of a section entitled “In the Limelight” and was
published at least in the following journals: National Democrat (Des
Moines, IA), 2 May 1912; La Estrella (Las Cruces, NM), 4 May 1912;
The Palo Alto Tribune (Palo Alto, CA), 8 May 1912; Marble Rock Jour-
nal (Marble Rock, IA), 9 May 1912; Gran Valley Times (Moab, CO),
10 May 1912; The Press (Sheboygan, UT), 15 May 1912; Cloverdale
Reveille (Cloverdale, CA), 15 June 1912; The News (Van Nuys, CA), 5
July 1912; The Agitator (Wellsboro, PA), 5 July 1912.
The Chicago Defender, 4 May 1912, p.  5, col.  1.
Bee (Washington, DC), 25 May 1912.
The New York Times (New York, NY), 15 April 1912, p.  9, col.  5.
Washington Herald (Washington, DC), 22 April 1912, Abdul
Expounds Bahai Doctrine. ’
Boston Post (Boston, MA), 23 May 1912.
The Christian Commonwealth, 13 September 1911, p.  850 (2)
Los Angeles Times, 1 October 1911, p.  21, col.  3, ‘Persian Prophet
Society Cult. ’
Buffalo Express, 8 October 1911, p.  5, col.  4, Abdul Baha the Prophet. ’
American (Baltimore, MD), 8 October 1911, p.  16, col.  2, ‘London
Bows at the Feet of a New Prophet. ’
Palo Altan (Palo Alto, CA), 1 November 1912, p.  3, col.  1, ‘Message to
the Jews. ’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The Christian Commonwealth, 1 January 1913, pp.  263–264, col.  2,
‘The Fundamental Unity of All Religions. ’
The Sun (New York, NY), 12 April 1912, p.  5, col.  1, ‘Disciples Hail
Abdul Baha. ’ The article included a portrait of the Master in Paris.
Mary Chambers (1869–1960) is known for being one of the first female
caricaturists in America.  Her permanent section in the New York
World and later in the Tribune and other newspapers became famous
for her interviews with the personalities of the time.  She used an
incisive and sarcastic language and her texts were decorated with her
drawings and caricatures of the personages interviewed.
New York Tribune, 5 May 1912, 1b.
New York Times, 21 April 1912, p.  14, “A Message from Abdul Baha,
Head of the Bahais. ”
Amerika Esperantisto (Washington, DC), June 1912 (11:5), A Message
from Abdul Baha,’ pp.  19–20.  The text was published years later in
Star of the West, 7 February 1921 (11:18), p.  304, and later published in
Promulgation of Universal Peace.
The Chicago Examiner (Chicago, IL), 1 May 1912.
The Chronicle-Telegraph (Pittsburgh, PA), 8 May 1912.
The Evening Standard and St. James Gazette (London, England), 8
September 1911.
Daily News (Chicago), 30 April 1912, ‘Baha is Peace Herald. ’
Public Ledger (Philadelphia), 10 June 1912, ‘Persian Sage Pays Visit to
this City. ’
New York Tribune, 5 May 1912, 1b.
The Christian Science Monitor (Boston) 21 October 1911, p.  6, ‘Leader
of Bahaism Talks about its Ethics. ”
Star of the West, 28 April 1912 (3:3), p.  1
The Woman Voter (New York), June 1912 (3:5), Abdul Baha and
Woman’s Suffrage. ’
American (New York), 14 April 1912.  The interview was reproduced in
the Examiner (San Francisco, CA), 20 April 1912.
The Vote (London), 10 January 1913 (7:168), ‘Towards Unity,’ p.  180.
The Christian Commonwealth, 11 December 1912, p.  206.

The Essence of Man
Towards a Bahá’í Understanding of Human Nature and Psychology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Towards Understanding Human Nature
This paper explores the new understanding of human nature promul-
gated by Bahá’u’lláh in the Tablet to Mírzá Hádí,1 as translated by
Shoghi Effendi in the Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. In
this passage, Bahá’u’lláh provides us with seminal insights into “the
essence of man.” It begins with the following statement:
Consider the rational faculty with which God hath endowed
the essence of man. Examine thine own self, and behold how
thy motion and stillness, thy will and purpose, thy sight and
hearing, thy sense of smell and power of speech, and what-
ever else is related to, or transcendeth, thy physical senses
or spiritual perceptions, all proceed from, and owe their
existence to, this same faculty. (GWB 163)
This paper will explore the philosophical and psychological conse-
quences and implications of these verses.
It should be noted at the outset that towards the end of this
passage, Bahá’u’lláh warns us that the soul, “this divinely ordained and
subtle Reality”, which is endowed with the “rational faculty” cannot be
understood at all and that “thou wilt fail to comprehend its mystery or
to appraise its virtue.” (GWB 165) How, then, are we to examine the
philosophical and psychological implications of Bahá’u’lláh’s state-
ments? The specific methodology used in this commentary follows

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the principle of the hermeneutic circle, where the part is seen in
the context of the whole and the whole seen in the context of the
parts. This circular process of interpretation makes possible a tan-
gential approach to the meaning of a certain passage and a fusion
of the horizon of the text with the horizon of the interpreter.2 The
hermeneutic circle can be compared with putting together a jigsaw
puzzle without ever having a final picture available and without
ever finding a final solution. There is no final, definitive ‘picture’ or
understanding of the soul, as is explained by Bahá’u’lláh when He
said: No understanding can grasp the nature of His Revelation, nor
can any knowledge comprehend the full measure of His Faith (KI 243).
Therefore, our conclusions can only be temporary and provisional,
even though they are able to shed light on the psychoanalytic and
behaviorist understanding of man.
The Essence of Man
The passage that we shall examine in detail starts with a statement
about the essence of man:
Consider the rational faculty with which God hath endowed the
essence of man.
This statement implies that the rational faculty is not the essence of
man, but that the essence of man is endowed with the rational faculty.
The rational faculty is one of the endowments or attributes of the
essence of man. In philosophy, ‘essence’ refers to:
The basic or primary element in the being of a thing; the
thing’s nature, or that without which it could not be what it is.3
We will use the last of these definitions here. Essence is “that without
which a thing could not be what it is.” The word ‘thing’ does not only

The Essence of Man
refer to material things; it can also refer to non-material “intellectual
realities” (SAQ 83) like ideas or love. The definition of essence as
“that without which a thing cannot be what it is” underlies `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s statement that
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by itself,
and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon the substance
of the body, although, on the contrary, the rational soul is the
substance, and the body depends upon it. If the accident—that
is to say, the body—be destroyed, the substance, the spirit,
remains. (SAQ 239)
`Abdu’l-Bahá shows the essential nature as well as the accidental—
non-essential—nature of the body, making the soul the substance,
i.e. that on which the body depends for its existence. It is clear that
soul constitutes the body; without the soul, the body would not be
human. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement also implies a dualism between the
physical and spiritual in man—and this is exactly what `Abdu’l-Bahá
asserts elsewhere:
The human body is, like animals, subject to nature’s laws. But
man is endowed with a second reality, the rational or intellec-
tual reality; and the intellectual reality of man predominates
over nature. (FWU 51)
Because the soul is not “subject to nature’s laws” but “predominates
over nature,” the soul or essence of man cannot be defined or explained
in material or bodily terms.
Elsewhere, `Abdu’l-Bahá clearly distinguishes the rational faculty
from the essence of man by describing the three realities in man,
describing first the outer or physical reality of the human body
which we have in common with animals (FWU, 50). Then He
describes the second reality, “the rational or intellectual reality; this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
intellectual reality of man predominates over nature (FWU 51).
Finally, in this passage, He adds a “third reality which Bahá’u’lláh
has called the essence of man:
Yet there is a third reality in man, the spiritual reality. Through
its medium, one discovers spiritual revelations, a celestial
faculty which is infinite as regards the intellectual as well as
physical realms. That power is conferred upon man through the
breath of the Holy Spirit. (FWU 50)
In the following statement, `Abdu’l-Bahá does give us an interpreta-
tion explaining the philosophical relationship between these different
realities in man. What is called instrument of the essence or soul is
seen as quality visible in the external side of man.
The inner essence of man is unknown and not evident, but by
its qualities it is characterized and known. Thus, everything
is known by its qualities and not by its essence. Although the
mind encompasses all things, and the outward beings are com-
prehended by it, nevertheless these beings with regard to their
essence are unknown; they are only known with regard to their
qualities. (SAQ 220)
According to this statement, the soul or essence of man is unknowable
in itself, but is characterized and known by its qualities. This allows
us to know the soul through its attributes or qualities yet guards its
essential nature by preventing us from knowing the soul-in-itself.
It is important to note that Bahá’u’lláh uses various names for this
essence, such as spirit, mind or soul:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing are
but one single reality which hath manifold expressions owing to
the diversity of its instruments. (SLH 154)

The Essence of Man
In other words, spirit, mind or soul are words that refer to the essence
of man. However, indirectly, so do other concepts such as the pow-
ers of hearing and sight, which means that the power essential to
the senses and the rational faculty belong to the same single reality,
which can also be called, mind, soul or human spirit. It is clear that
Bahá’u’lláh means the “rational faculty” in the same sense as He uses
the terms “Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing,” since
later in our text He declares that “thy sight and hearing … owe their
existence to this same faculty.”
Our next step in understanding what the Writings say about the
rational soul requires us to recall that Bahá’u’lláh explains that the
rational faculty belongs to the essence of man which is “one single real-
ity.” The necessity of a single reality underlying the human body is
demonstrated by `Abdu’l-Bahá in the following passage:
For example, interaction and co-operation between the con-
stituent parts of the human body are evident and indisputable,
yet this does not suffice; an all-unifying agency is necessary
that shall direct and control the component parts, so that these
through interaction and co-operation may discharge in perfect
order their necessary and respective functions. (TAF 21)
From this, we may conclude that the essence of man is one single
reality. All what we know about it are its qualities or the bodily
instruments this essence uses. On the other hand, the essence’s quali-
ties and their names very often stand for the essence of man itself.
Therefore, when we say mind, or the rational faculty or soul or spirit,
we try to indicate with these words the essence of man, for which we
have no real name, as it is unknowable. Spirit and soul seem to be
the most appropriate terms for this essence as they do not indicate a
very specific understanding, while the power of the senses, the mind,
or the rational faculty are one step further away from the essence of
man and closer to what `Abdu’l-Bahá calls the qualities by which we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
know the essence of man. It is important to keep this understanding
in mind, and to apply it to all further statements about the essence
of man. Of course, we must not confuse the plurality of instruments
this single reality uses to express itself with the single reality-in-itself,
nor must we forget that what Bahá’u’lláh calls “instruments” are
called “qualities” by `Abdu’l-Bahá.
Bahá’u’lláh describes the relationships between soul and spirit when
He says, “Know, furthermore, that the life of man proceedeth from the
spirit, and the spirit turneth to wheresoever the soul directeth it.” (SLH
153) In this passage, spirit as well as soul are different names for the
essence of man, which is one single reality. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh
describes the functioning of this one single reality and uses the words
soul and spirit in describing what this reality does, or, in other words,
how it “inspires” and uses the instruments of the body by using the
spirit. The spirit is the aspect of this reality that gives life to man, the
soul is that aspect of this one single reality that directs this reality to
different instruments and activities.
`Abdu’l-Bahá talks about the spirit more extensively: He refers to
“five divisions of the spirit.” The first is the “vegetable spirit which results
from the combination of elements”; the second is the “animal spirit which
also results from the mingling and combination of elements” but is more
complete; the third is the “spirit of man” which “has two aspects: one
divine, on satanic” and may either acquire virtues or vices. The fourth
division of spirit is the “heavenly spirit” which is the spirit of faith and
the bounty of God; it comes “from the breath of the Holy Spirit,” and
leads to acquiring perfections. Finally, there is the “Holy Spirit” which
is the mediator between God and His creatures. (SAQ 153)
Note that the vegetable spirit and the animal spirit are a combination
of elements; consequently, they are contingent and not lasting. Man
in his body has the same animal spirit (SAQ 143). Therefore, the
body is mortal, while the one single reality, the human soul and spirit,

The Essence of Man
is not. Of course, we must remember that Bahá’u’lláh clearly states
that the body, in its senses, and mind, in its receptive and expressive
functions, is inspired by the soul or human spirit.
Additionally, Abdu’l-Bahá makes clear that the rational faculty, the
mind, the soul or the human spirit is not a material thing and cannot
be physically located in the body.
The rational soul, meaning the human spirit, does not descend
into the body—that is to say, it does not enter it, for descent and
entrance are characteristics of bodies, and the rational soul is
exempt from this. (SAQ 239)
Since the soul does not enter or leave the body, i.e. is exempt from
the physical processes, it cannot be material. This undermines any
concepts which portray the soul as entering or leaving the body in a
‘materialistic’ manner.
Based on the foregoing materials, we can draw five conclusions about
the soul or spirit. First, all created reality is spiritual and material
in different combinations. Atoms are held to together by the power
of attraction, which, according to `Abdu’l-Bahá, is a spiritual qual-
ity.4 On the vegetative and animal level of reality, the combination of
elements is caused by the vegetable or animal spirit; in humans, the
spiritual substance is primary and its physical aspect is an accidental
emanation of this spiritual essence.
Second, in any higher organized spiritual reality there are the lower
spiritual levels present, so that `Abdu’l-Bahá can say that the human
body is a result of the animal spirit. The unique distinction of the
human reality is that it is substantially spiritual.
Third, the essence of man is unknowable; it is known by its qualities
only and in its use of the bodily instruments.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Fourth, because the essence of man is unknowable we use the dif-
ferent qualities in a metaphorical sense to speak about this essence,
using terms like mind, soul, spirit, rational faculty, power of the
senses, power of speech and others.
Fifth, reality is primarily spiritual; physical reality is an emanation
from spiritual reality.

Examine Thine Own Self
After informing us that the essence of man is “endowed” with the
rational faculty, Bahá’u’lláh invites the reader to discover more about
the essence of man by self-examination. This self-examination is not
conducted by studying modern psychology or philosophy; we are
invited to look into ourselves by following Bahá’u’lláh’s guidance:
Examine thine own self, and behold how thy motion and still-
ness, thy will and purpose, thy sight and hearing, thy sense of
smell and power of speech, and whatever else is related to, or
transcendeth, thy physical senses or spiritual perceptions, all
proceed from, and owe the existence to, this same faculty.
Bahá’u’lláh here talks not about the essence of the self, but about
its qualities which He enumerates as the qualities of the self. These
qualities of the self are known by the instruments used by the essence
of man or of that which is here called the rational faculty. The fol-
lowing qualities are what can be seen and observed: (a) motion and
stillness; (b) will and purpose; (c) sight and hearing, the sense of smell;
(d) the power of speech; and (e) whatever else is related to or transcended,
your physical sense or spiritual perception.
This enumeration is representative and not exhaustive; the senses
of touch and taste, for example, are omitted here but mentioned

The Essence of Man
elsewhere (GWB, 194). Note further that the faculties mentioned are
of a different order. Sight, hearing, smell are receptive/passive senses
while will and purpose are active. What could be the reasons for this?
In the following, we will first discuss the different opposites and their
meaning and then try to relate them to each other.
Motion and Stillness
The phrase “thy motion and stillness” deliberately uses a polarity in
which words with opposite meanings are placed together to suggest
a deeper meaning. While contradictory, these two concepts point
towards unification in wholeness in a “Unity in Diversity.” The theme
of “motion and stillness” occupies an important place in the Writings.
In the following quote, for example, the active force is opposed to the
recipient element, but both work together to generate reality, i.e. “the
world of existence.”
The world of existence came into being through the heat gener-
ated from the interaction between the active force and that
which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they are
different. (TB 140)
In this passage, the basic oppositional forces of the cosmos are differ-
ent and the same, in other words, opposite yet integrated. Moreover,
their difference and integration are constitutional principles of the
world of existence.5 If something is the same and different at the same
time, that can only mean it appears as different from one viewpoint,
yet is integrated from a different point of view, therefore, it can be
called the same. The word integration indicates that both sides of
the oppositional realities are preserved and thus still opposed to one
another: they are integrated, not in spite of, but because they are the
same, yet they are different.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Elsewhere, Bahá’u’lláh explains motion and stillness of all things in
its relation to the Divine Unity, which is the Object of Adoration. Here
the hearts of the righteous find rest and composure, in other words,
their life’s movement results in stillness of the heart.
It is by virtue of their movement that all things are set in motion,
and by reason of their stillness all things are brought to rest,
would that ye might be assured thereof! Through them the
believers in the Divine Unity have turned towards Him Who is
the Object of the adoration of the entire creation, and by them
the hearts of the righteous have found rest and composure, could
ye but know it! (SLH 9)
“The hearts of the righteous have found rest and composure” could mean
that in all the motions of this world and in all the changes and
chances of this life, stillness and motion are integrated in the heart.
It is important to note that motion and stillness are both and equally
signs of creation through the Word or the Divine Logos, and that
both motion and stillness are endowments from the Creator.
Generally, only motion, the ability to move, to live, to work and to
produce is regarded as a gift. This raises the question of what is
meant when both the active and the passive side of man, i.e., the
motion and stillness, are valued equally and come to rest in the heart
of the believer. Further, what does it mean that the same motion and
stillness are attributed by Bahá’u’lláh to the Manifestations or the
Divine Messengers of God as Their “twofold nature?”
Why remain despondent when the Pure and Hidden One hath
appeared unveiled amongst you? He Who is both the Begin-
ning and the End, He Who is both Stillness and Motion, is
now manifest before your eyes. Behold how, in this Day, the
Beginning is reflected in the End, how out of Stillness Motion
hath been engendered. (GWB 168)

The Essence of Man
Unto this subtle, this mysterious and ethereal Being He hath
assigned a twofold nature; the physical, pertaining to the world
of matter, and the spiritual, which is born of the substance of
God Himself. (GWB 66)
The polarity of motion and stillness is not only a sign of creation, it is
also a gift, which all created beings receive from the Manifestations,
Who participate in the same dynamic, and Who bestow it on the
world of creation:
Know thou moreover that all else besides Him have been created
through the potency of a word from His presence, while of themselves
they have no motion nor stillness, except at His bidding and by His
leave. (TB 109)
This dynamically integrated structure of motion and stillness is
additionally a gift that enables us to participate in the Divine Plea-
sure whenever we accept the belief in the Manifestation and let our
human motion and stillness be wholly directed by God.
While the integrated opposition of motion and stillness applies to
all human beings, its quality changes drastically and substantially
whenever the Light of the Manifestation is reflected—through faith
in the Manifestation—in the mirror of the human heart. Bahá’u’lláh
in a mystical description compares this event with a Master appear-
ing in His home:
For thus, the Master of the house hath appeared within His
home, and all the pillars of the dwelling are ashine with His light.
And the action and effect of the light are from the Light-Giver; so
it is that all move through Him and arise by His will. (SVFV 22)
This could be understood as indicating that the motion and stillness
of men is elevated, or resurrected, i.e., they move, they arise when

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
touched by the Divine Light, by the Divine Spirit of the Revelation.
This is caused when God’s Revelation descends into the human heart,
seen as the center of the rational faculty or soul of man.
Let us now examine these ideas in the light of modern psychology
to see if we can find vestiges of these ideas. The fact that the human
life is accentuated by its beginning motion and ending stillness, i.e.,
by life and death, was noted by Sigmund Freud as well. In Beyond
the Pleasure Principle Sigmund Freud discusses two principles fun-
damental to human nature: the “pleasure principle based on the
life-drive (Lebenstrieb), or Eros, and the death-drive (Todestrieb),
later called Thanatos after the Greek word for death. Obviously the
life-drive is analogous to motion and the death-drive analogous to
stillness. It is interesting to note that Freud could see these drives at
work by analyzing his patients, but could not integrate them into his
analytic psychology in any systematic fashion, so he called it a specu-
lative assumption. The same failure recurs when Freud discusses the
will and purpose. His scientific, i.e. materialistic, understanding of
what he observed would not allow him to unite Eros and Thanatos
into an integrated whole.
A similar interesting parallel has been found by the Institute of
HeartMath,6 where positive thoughts result in coherence of the
body, and especially of the heart. During states of coherence the
opposing systems – the sympathetic and parasympathetic branches
of the Autonomous Nervous System – are united and this state
can be measured by harmonious heartbeat variations. Coherence in
these functions causes a strong and healing influence on the whole
body. Such positive states of the heart can be induced deliberately
by feelings and imaginations of love and acceptance. These findings,
while scientific and experimental, correspond well with the above
mentioned statements of Bahá’u’lláh:

The Essence of Man
It is by virtue of their movement that all things are set in motion,
and by reason of their stillness all things are brought to rest,
would that ye might be assured thereof! Through them the
believers in the Divine Unity have turned towards Him Who is
the Object of the adoration of the entire creation, and by them
the hearts of the righteous have found rest and composure, could
ye but know it! (SLH 9)
The opposing dynamic of motion and stillness comes to rest through
the belief in the Divine Unity, just like in the experiential practice of
positive emotions the heart comes to rest in coherence of the Auto-
nomic Nervous System, which influences the whole body.
Will and Purpose.
Will and purpose are not basic structures of created beings like
motion and stillness; rather they address another essential aspect
of man, i.e. the purpose driven and will directed aspects of our
progressive nature. This personal aspect has to be understood as a
universal principle, in the sense that the whole universe has a pur-
pose, is created and sustained by the Will of God. Contrary to the
Darwinian vision of nature, the universe is not accidental and has
meaning and purposes, despite superficial appearances. In short,
Divine Providence is the basis of nature:
Say: Nature in its essence is the embodiment of My Name,
the Maker, the Creator. Its manifestations are diversified by
varying causes, and in this diversity there are signs for men of
discernment.…
Nature is God’s Will and is its expression in and through the
contingent world. It is a dispensation of Providence ordained by
the Ordainer, the All-Wise. Were anyone to affirm that it is the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Will of God as manifested in the world of being, no one should
question this assertion.7 (TB 142)
This statement fully describes the essence of nature as being created
by God’s Will, and being diversified by “varying causes.” It refers to
both the overall meaning of the world as Creation as well as the devel-
opment of creation, including all the diverse causes that promote
progress and purpose of the universe. These causes include not only
the efficient cause, which is the sole region in which science operates,
but also Aristotle’s formal, material and final causes; the last of these
is the most important because it provides the goal and purpose of
creation. Without knowing the final cause of things, we cannot really
understand them or their meaning.
In Some Answered Questions, `Abdu’l-Bahá refers to Aristotle’s
theory of four-fold causality: “the existence of everything depends upon
four causes—the efficient cause, the matter, the form and the final cause”
(SAQ 280); see also Aristotle (Metaphysics 1013a). These are also
found in Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings, albeit using different terminology.
The material cause and the formal cause are described by Bahá’u’lláh
when He talks about the world of existence and its origin:
The world of existence came into being through the heat generated
from the interaction between the active force and that which is its
recipient. These two are the same, yet they are different. (TB 140)
The active force can be compared to Aristotle’s formal cause and its
recipient would be the material cause. The interaction of these causes
of existence creates heat, or energy, and this may well indicate that
energy is part of the origin of being, as modern physics certainly
would confirm. These two causes are as well described in our text
when movement and stillness are mentioned; it is another way to
describe this fundamental polarity of the world of existence.

The Essence of Man
In contemporary science only the efficient cause is recognized since
that is what we study in the experiments and use in technology.
Bahá’u’lláh was well aware of the role of the efficient cause in the
material world:
Every thing must needs have an origin and every building a
builder. Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which hath pre-
ceded the contingent world—a world which is adorned with the
splendours of the Ancient of Days, yet is being renewed and
regenerated at all times. (TB 141)
Here we observe that the Word of God is the efficient cause affecting
the material world and that this efficient cause acts in continuously
regenerating the world. The latter idea calls to mind quantum phys-
ics, which holds that particles constituting the atom are constantly
flashing into and out of existence.
However, this process is not without purpose, or, as Aristotle called
it, the final cause, which is what moves all things, including man,
towards certain goals. This is the foundation for man’s consciously
deliberative nature, i.e. free will. In a deterministic and reductionistic
worldview, of course, free will and purpose do not exist even for man.
For example, in the Darwinian worldview, evolution has no purpose
but is a product of accidental changes and the survival of the fittest.
This mechanistic and deterministic understanding of man and his
world has been the prevalent philosophical substructure, not only of
science but also of the movements of the last century like Psychoanal-
ysis and Behaviorism in psychology, materialism in philosophy, and
Racism and Communism in politics. These latter two have amply
demonstrated their destructive effects on all of humankind.
To the present writer it seems that Bahá’u’lláh teaches that human
life is dominated by four principles: motion and stillness as the static
underlying structure, and will and purpose as the dynamic element

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
in the contingent world of creation. An analogy could be made to
space and time, in which all material things seem to be placed,
even though in quantum mechanics space and time are a function
of materiality, not the place where matter is. In this analogy, space
would correspond to motion and stillness, almost like in scholastic
philosophy form and matter, and will and purpose would correspond
with time as the two dimensions of reality. Man is constituted and
dominated by these two dimensions. Motion and stillness are the
ever present and ultimately defining constituents of a created being,
while will and purpose are the driving factors in this structure, giving
life meaning and direction, from the beginning to the end.
It could be said that these four human states are qualities structuring
the human soul; they are signs of creation and explain the essence of
being human. In short, they are that “without which man could not
be man.” One might even surmise that the biblical statement that
man is created in the image of God has to do with this fourfold struc-
ture of the human soul, as will be shown below.
When comparing Bahá’u’lláh’s understanding of man to Freud’s, we
find that Freud was deterministic and, therefore, excluded any con-
cept of purpose. On the other hand, his actual experience in treating
humans contradicted his world-view. This is evident in that freedom
and sublimation are important concepts of psychoanalysis as the
goal of treatment, and yet these concepts did not get any theoretical
discussion in the Freudian system, as was described in this author’s
dissertation. 8
It is important to recognize that according to Freud human freedom
needs to be elicited during therapy so that “where id was ego shall
be,” or in other words, the deterministic, instinctual and animalistic
aspect of man has to be ordered and sublimated by the rational fac-
ulty of man, which in Freudian terminology is the ego. One could say
that analytic therapy becomes a purpose-driven activity in which the

The Essence of Man
analyst helps the patient to replace the primitive instincts and their
repressions and neurotic symptoms by a rational process to find a
sublimation of the instincts on a higher and more spiritual level.
In behaviorist psychology, as presented by Skinner, the situation is
even more radical. The existence of free will is totally denied and
human action is described in the strict “scientific” sense of cause
and effect. Aristotle’s concept of efficient cause was accepted as the
only kind of cause existing in reality. Furthermore, Skinner claimed
that there is nothing like mind or soul. These he swept aside into the
“black box” of the brain of which nothing can be known. Man becomes
a creature of his senses and strictly follows stimuli impinging on him.
Re-organizing these stimuli is the only task of therapy. The paradigm
for this process is the pigeon in the “Skinner box”. The question of
why Skinner developed this theory and what stimulated him to this
arduous process remains ignored by him, since there is no purpose or
freedom in his system. While it is true that man is often determined
by external stimuli and can be manipulated by them, is that really the
whole reality of man, or even the highest of his faculties?
This question leads us to another: how can Freud’s and Skinner’s
theories be understood from a Bahá’í perspective? In the words of
Bahá’u’lláh, the tension between movement and stillness needs to
be overcome by will and purpose; moreover, the higher level of sub-
limation is the Divine Spirit, or the gift of Revelation through the
Manifestation as the Best Beloved of the human soul. What follows
is an attempt to re-frame some of the ideas of the Freudian and of
other therapeutic schools and to place them into the context of the
Bahá’í Scriptures.
Below is a diagram, which unites the two opposites of stillness and
motion in a whole, and a dynamic figure, which provides a possible
solution to the problem of “What is the Self?” In this figure the four
aspects of the self—Motion and Stillness, Will and Purpose—present

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the organizing frame and determine the four quadrants into which
four human attributes are placed, that is Deeds and Spirit on the
side of Motion and Detachment
and Acceptance on the side of
Stillness. Along with these four
themes, some brief text from the
Bahá’í Writings will explain them.
The four lines from the Báb’s
“Remover of Difficulty Prayer”
round out the picture. A similar
picture has been presented in the
previous papers of this author, for
example based on the four states
of man, as found in the Seven Val-
leys of Bahá’u’lláh. (SVFV 27)9
Sight and Hearing, Sense of Smell
After having determined the four-fold structure of the self, we turn our
attention to the senses. The traditional five senses are sight, hearing,
touch, smell, taste: a classification attributed to Aristotle. Humans
are considered to have at least five additional senses that include:
nociception (pain), equilibrioception (balance), proprioception &
kinesthesia (joint motion and acceleration), sense of time, thermo-
ception (temperature differences), with possibly an additional weak
magnetoception (direction), and six more if interoceptive senses are
also considered.10 Most recently, the heart has been counted among
the sensory organs as well; it certainly is the center of the interocep-
tive senses monitoring the whole body, but seems to have additionally
a perceptive function connecting the heart with much more than the
body, being the seat of intuition.11 All of this is presently in the state
of exploration.
Will—First
Purpose—Last
E T O S
Motion—Active Force
Stillness—Passive Recipient
Deeds
Creature to
True One
Suﬃcient
Testimony
Spirit
True One to
True One
Complete Unity
Detachment
True One to
Creature
Leaven of
the World
Acceptance
Creature to
Creature
Hearts ﬁnd Rest

The Essence of Man
Bahá’u’lláh mentions only three of the senses here, but in His and
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings the other of the five senses are mentioned
as well, such as touch or taste.12 We can conclude that this enumera-
tion is not exhaustive but exemplary and includes all the senses of
the human being, may they be counted as five, ten or even more.
Bahá’u’lláh in his frequent references to the heart in His Writings
does not describe the heart as a sensory organ directly, but speaks of
the eye of the heart and the ear of the heart in a metaphorical sense.
Yet, the possibility that some of these metaphorical statements are
really related to some biological and sensory functions of the heart
cannot be avoided.
Senses are the physiological instruments of perception of the outside
environment and inside world of the human body. We could add
to these perceptive instruments the expressive instruments of the
body, such as movement, odors, electromagnetic field of the human
heart,13 and other ways through which the human body communicates
actively with the environment. At this point, the physical or physiologi-
cal modes of perceptive and expressive communication are indicated.
Bahá’u’lláh in other places includes expressive communication
movement such as man’s power to comprehend, move, speak, hear and
see, in the following words:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing are
but one single reality which hath manifold expressions owing
to the diversity of its instruments. As thou dost observe, man’s
power to comprehend, move, speak, hear, and see all derive
from this sign of his Lord within him. (SLH 154)
This human ability to move is not only used to communicate with
other humans, but it also changes and restructures completely
the human physical environment, and actively creates human cul-
ture and civilization. Through this ability, the human mind has
totally changed the world in which we live through construction,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
agriculture and other more subtle ways, at least as far as the civilized
portions of the world are concerned. The other result of this activity
is usually called the cultural realm, through which the inter-human
relations are developed. This mainly happens through verbal and
non-verbal communication.
Today all of these non-verbal communications are subsumed under
the word “body language.” This, together with speech, is mentioned
by Bahá’u’lláh next when talking about “the power of speech,” which can
be described as the highest form of communication between humans.

Power of Speech
The last of the enumerated instruments of the rational faculty is the
power of speech or the Word. Not only does the word go from man
to man, but the Word also goes from God into the world as stated in
John 1:1: In the beginning was the Word. Bahá’u’lláh uses this quote
from the Gospel in many places, as has the Báb and the interpreters
of the Writings `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi.
The reason why the power of speech is mentioned seems to be in
order to describe not only the highest function of the rational faculty
in this physical world, but also to indicate where the connection of
the human word with the Divine Word has to be placed. It is a func-
tion of the soul, but is expressed in man’s power of speech, prayer and
the praise of God.
This connection between the hearts of men and heaven is created by
the Word, which unlocks the world of humanity to the revelation
from heaven, as expressed in the following Word of Bahá’u’lláh:

The Essence of Man
The Word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch as
through its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in real-
ity are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. (TB 173)14
Bahá’u’lláh follows this enumeration with an all-inclusive statement
that everything which relates to physical senses or spiritual perception
originates from the rational faculty or soul of man.
Whatever else is related to, or transcendeth
Returning to the quotation from Bahá’u’lláh at the beginning of
this paper, (GWB 163–166) and its recommendation to examine
ourselves, we read:
Whatever else is related to, or transcendeth, thy physical senses
or spiritual perceptions, all proceed from, and owe their exis-
tence to, this same [rational] faculty.
The main point in this rather difficult sentence is that all, not only
the previously mentioned instruments and structures, proceeds from
this rational faculty and owes their existence to it. This statement
does not refer to the physical senses only, but also to what transcends
these senses and perceptions.
In this passage, Bahá’u’lláh describes the importance of the human
soul in a far-reaching way. The soul, the mind, the spirit or the rational
faculty of man is the origin and the power creating, sustaining and
animating all that is human. All senses, all powers of action and com-
munication of man, all spiritual perception and all striving towards
transcendence come from this rational faculty. Nothing, absolutely

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
nothing, in the human person is just physical, just material, just
organic, or just biological. Consequently, everything human, even
the human body, is much more than just material. The whole human
person is animated by the soul and, as we will see in the next section,
could not exist or function even for a moment without this animation.
We can only present some of the conclusions that may be drawn
from Bahá’u’lláh’s statement. For example, all that the Holistic
movement strives to understand has already been expressed in the
Bahá’í Revelation. Once again, we realize that it will take a total
overhaul of philosophy, psychology, medicine, anthropology and a
true revolution in science to incorporate these insights into a new
understanding of ourselves.
Unique Features of Human Nature and Soul
The next section of our initial quote from Bahá’u’lláh describes closer
the connection of the soul with its bodily instruments.
So closely are they related unto it, that if in less than the twin-
kling of an eye its relationship to the human body be severed,
each and every one of these senses will cease immediately to
exercise its function, and will be deprived of the power to
manifest the evidences of its activity.
At first view, it appears the various bodily instruments are closely
connected with the soul. Closer examination, however, reveals some-
thing diametrically different from our initial impressions.
Usually, we regard the human senses as identical in nature to the
senses of higher animals. In fact, biologically and physically, they
are equal; no physical differences can be detected. They function the

The Essence of Man
same way, get sick the same way and research cannot find a substan-
tial difference, even in the connection of the sense organs to the brain.
Consequently, animal research can be used to understand human
sensual functioning even though the animal sense organs are more
capable than their human counterparts are. Sight in eagles and smell
in dogs far surpasses human capacity.
But what does Bahá’u’lláh mean when He says that each and every
one of these senses will cease immediately to exercise its function when
the senses lose their relationship with their rational faculty? Does
that not mean that when the soul, the human mind, or the rational
faculty no longer animates these senses, they will immediately stop
functioning? According to `Abdu’l-Bahá, This human body is purely
animal in type and, like the animal… (PUP 417) consequently this
body dies when the animation ends. This fact suggests that the body,
even though animal in nature in itself, is different from other animal
bodies by virtue of being animated by the rational soul, which is the
power behind all of the bodily senses and abilities of man.
Does it mean that the senses of man, while often inferior to the
animal senses, have a property that distinguishes them essentially
from the animal senses? Moreover, if so, what is this special qual-
ity that differentiates the senses of animals from the senses of man?
Obviously, the difference is not in that part of the senses which is
physical. This power of the senses must be a single, spiritual reality,
which can be referred to by various terms depending on the bodily
function this reality uses as instruments to express itself.
If this single reality uses, for example, the ear, the person hears; if
the eye is used the person sees. Obviously, this power of the senses
is not in the sense organ itself, neither is it in the brain, so it must be
in the mind or, alternatively, we could say it must be in the soul. The
difference between the eye or the ear of an animal and of a human
person is in the activity of the human mind or in the rational faculty;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
consequently it is not in the body at all. We might also say that the
same instrument—the eye of the animal or human—is used by a
different faculty, in the case of man by the rational faculty or human
soul, and in the case of an animal by its sensual faculty or animal
spirit. In both cases the instrument is the same, the users are differ-
ent. This is comparable to the identical gun being used by a hunter,
by a soldier, a murderer, or by a target shooter. The user’s purpose,
intention and the outcome are different even though the instrument
used is the same.
For example, what is different when an animal or a human sees
something? A simple household example illustrates the difference.
One of the desert plates was chipped. Were I to use this plate to
present food to my wife or to a guest they would immediately notice
it and feel offended. If I use the same plate for my cat, the animal
will not be able to notice the difference between a whole plate and a
chipped plate at all.
In other words, animals see the same thing as man, but they see
it only sensually. They do not see it as a whole or a part of a whole,
placing it rationally in the different relationships of things and of
their use in space and time. It would be interesting to follow this
difference into other actions and perceptions of animals compared
with humans; usually they are described by the difference of instinc-
tual and reactive action of the animal compared with the intellectual
and creative function of the same sense in a human person.
This difference could be described by the fact that the animal’s senses
are limited by their function and usefulness, while the human use
of the senses includes this animal functions, but goes much farther,
including relationships of many kinds, from the simple usefulness to
the beauty and value of a thing. This can be further expanded into
the intellectual use of the seen object, and even into philosophical
considerations, as a being of a certain kind and as having meaning for

The Essence of Man
man in many different ways. The difficulty in this consideration is
the fact that the human use of the sensual experience includes most
of the animal uses as well, though most of the time we are not aware
of the difference at all. Thus, it is difficult to point out this difference
and explain it.
The difference between the animal body and its senses and the human
body lies in this spiritual aspect of man, which `Abdu’l-Bahá in the
following passage describes with the words intellection or ideation and
the process of reason.
It is an evident fact that the body does not conduct the process of
intellection or thought radiation.15 It is only the medium of the
grossest sensations. This human body is purely animal in type
and, like the animal; it is subject only to the grosser sensibilities.
It is utterly bereft of ideation or intellection, utterly incapable of
the processes of reason. (PUP 417)
A very similar thought is expressed in the following quote of `Abdu’l-
Bahá, where this single reality, called the all-unifying agency or soul,
makes the continuation of life possible. The human body is described
as being unconscious of this agency, but is subject to its influence,
or in other words, is the instrument this reality uses, discharging its
functions according to its will.
For instance, the various organs and members, the parts and
elements, that constitute the body of man, though at variance,
are yet all connected one with the other by that all-unifying
agency known as the human soul, that causeth them to function
in perfect harmony and with absolute regularity, thus making
the continuation of life possible. The human body, however, is
utterly unconscious of that all-unifying agency, and yet acteth
with regularity and dischargeth its functions according to its
will. (TAF 13)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
We note that `Abdu’l-Bahá describes the human soul as all-unifying;
the difference between the animal and the human spirit or soul is
the quality of unity. Animals are unified on a biological and sensual
level, while man is unified on the physical level but also on a superior
or spiritual level.
In the Tablet to August Forel `Abdu’l-Bahá adds another important
element, stating that the human body discharges the function of this
spiritual reality according to its will. The human will is therefore
described by `Abdu’l-Bahá as part of the soul, or part of this single
unified reality and all-unifying reality. According to this statement we
can logically attribute the human will to the human soul, which is
also called rational faculty, intellection, ideation or process of reason.
Even more concepts are unified in this inner, the soul as a single
all-unifying reality. In the following statement the human mind
and imagination are added to its powers in addition of those of the
senses. The perceptive senses, such as the ear and eye, are mentioned
along with the expressive senses which execute the human will, as for
example the hand and foot. Our initial quote from Bahá’u’lláh men-
tions speech (GWB 166) as well.
For instance, the hand, the foot, the eye, the ear, the mind, the
imagination all help the various parts and members of the human
body, but all these interactions are linked by an unseen, all-
embracing power, that causeth these interactions to be produced
with perfect regularity. This is the inner faculty of man, that is his
spirit and his mind, both of which are invisible. (TAF 22)
`Abdu’l-Bahá also tells us that the human spirit is independent from
the body and its functioning. However, the body is unaware of this
spiritual reality, as stated above by `Abdu’l-Bahá where He says: The
human body, however, is utterly unconscious of that all-unifying agency.
Body and soul have to be differentiated:

The Essence of Man
This great power must evidently be differentiated from the
physical body or temple in which it is manifested. Observe and
understand how this human body changes; nevertheless, the
spirit of man remains ever in the same condition. For instance,
the body sometimes grows weak, it becomes strong or stout,
sometimes it grows smaller or may be dismembered, but there
is no effect upon the spirit. The eye may become blind, the foot
may be amputated, but no imperfection afflicts the spirit. This is
proof that the spirit of man is distinct from his body. (PUP 259)
Several important conclusions can be drawn from these statements:
Biologically, the human body does not differ from the animal body.
Since science only deals with and accepts physical and biological evi-
dence, it cannot find any difference between the human and the animal
body. Medical research on animals is applied to the human body.
All the physical laws governing the physical body apply equally to the
human and animal body. Any difference between man and animal
cannot be demonstrated by physical means.
Nevertheless, the difference between human and animal is not only
accidental, but also substantial. Without the spirit or soul, which is
responsible for these differences, the human body cannot exist.
In order to explain this situation we have to postulate that the spiri-
tual realm is different from the physical realm. However, this does
not negate or change the physical realm, but rather elevates it or
sublimates it into a different sphere.
This fact can be compared with the situation of an atom in a molecule.
The atom is not negated or even changed, but by being connected
with other atoms and molecules it expresses different properties.
Hydrogen and oxygen behave differently when they combine to form

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
H2O. When the combination is dissolved, the original atoms appear
unchanged. This is true for every different area of life.
Science only explores the physical aspects of man. Medicine only
deals with our biological aspects, as does psychology, which presents
itself as dealing with behavioral health and not mental health. The
mind is excluded. Indeed, the whole area of the spiritual, of the mind,
the soul or the spirit of man is not only excluded from consideration
but is flatly denied. One could apply `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that
human science “is utterly unconscious of that all-unifying agency.”
In conclusion, we may say that the unity of man essentially and meta-
physically differs from the unity in the animal, vegetative or mineral
world. The human unity, however, is more inclusive and includes the
lower unities of the vegetable and animal.16
Soul, Psyche, Psychology and the Human Body
In further discussion about the relationship between body and soul,
the Bahá’í Writings assure us that the defects of the body do not
affect the soul. Bahá’u’lláh explains what happens to consciousness
and personality when the body is not functioning, as in fainting, or
suffering severe illness. He relates these situations to death, where the
body is permanently disintegrating into its physical parts. Answering
a question, He first presents this rhetorical question:
…how is it, thou hast observed, that whereas such slight injuries
to his mental faculties as fainting and severe illness deprive
him of his understanding and consciousness, his death, which
must involve the decomposition of his body and the dissolution
of its elements, is powerless to destroy that understanding and
extinguish that consciousness? How can any one imagine that
man’s consciousness and personality will be maintained, when

The Essence of Man
the very instruments necessary to their existence and function
will have completely disintegrated? (GWB 153)
The answer to this question is given in the next paragraph, where
it is clearly stated that the fate of the body does not at all affect the
soul or the spiritual part of man, i.e., the essence of man. Illness and
dysfunction of the body is a hindrance interposed between soul and
body, but does in no way affect the soul.
Know thou that the soul of man is exalted above, and is inde-
pendent of all infirmities of body or mind. That a sick person
showeth signs of weakness is due to the hindrances that inter-
pose themselves between his soul and his body, for the soul itself
remaineth unaffected by any bodily ailments. (GWB 153)
Here Bahá’u’lláh states that the soul is above and independent of all
infirmities of body or mind. This raises the question of what is the
mind. Mind can be understood here as memory and awareness, as
expressed by Bahá’u’lláh in the following statement: It behoveth every
soul to consider and call to mind (SLH 126). Psychologically, mind is
used as that function of the soul that uses the mind as an instrument
for memory and awareness. Therefore, the infirmities of the mind
affect memory and awareness. Applying these ideas to psychology we
need to ask what that means concerning mental illness. Does this
statement of the soul not being affected by the infirmities of the body
apply to the infirmities of the mind as well, especially infirmities
which can be observed in mental illness?
According to a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi about psy-
chiatry (which can be understood to include psychology and other
mental health therapies) we read the following:
Psychiatric treatment in general is no doubt an important con-
tribution to medicine, but we must believe it is still a growing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
rather than a perfected science. (UD 248)
Reflection on the Guardian’s statement leads us to ask, ‘What is mental
illness?’ Is it physical, a biological dysfunction or something spiritual
or mental? Different schools of psychology give different answers to
this question, some even saying the question makes no sense. Another
question concerns the moral or ethical dimension of mental illness.
When this issue is examined it calls into question our understand-
ing of human nature, of who we are essentially. Furthermore, we will
inevitably have to reflect on the development of man and the function
of learning and education during his development. Finally, we must
also consider the issue of free will and moral responsibility. However,
in the scope of this article, we can only present the issues concerned
with free will, human development and learning.
`Abdu’l-Bahá dedicated significant portions of His writings to proper
child-rearing and education and its influence on our lives. He dif-
ferentiates between civilized and uncivilized people by the standard
of knowledge and science, i.e., by education; He introduces divine
civilization in this context:
It has been ascertained that among civilized peoples crime is
less frequent than among uncivilized—that is to say, among
those who have acquired the true civilization, which is divine
civilization—the civilization of those who unite all the spiritual
and material perfections. As ignorance is the cause of crimes,
the more knowledge and science increases, the more crimes will
diminish. (SAQ 272)
The reason for this difference is the level of education and virtue: “The
reason is evident: it is because education and virtues prevent them”. In the
following quote, `Abdu’l-Bahá goes further, comparing the soul and
its powers with light coming from a lamp:

The Essence of Man
Consider the light of the lamp. Though an external object may
interfere with its radiance, the light itself continueth to shine
with undiminished power. In like manner, every malady afflict-
ing the body of man is an impediment that preventeth the soul
from manifesting its inherent might and power. When it leaveth
the body, however, it will evince such ascendancy, and reveal
such influence as no force on earth can equal. Every pure, every
refined and sanctified soul will be endowed with tremendous
power, and shall rejoice with exceeding gladness. (GWB 153)
Two very important issues are mentioned. First, when there is an
impediment between the lamp and the eye, the light itself is not
affected. The soul is in the same position as the lamp; it is not affected
by what happens to the body, and functions independently of the
instrument it uses. `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Defects in the body or its members do not imply defects in the
spirit. This leads to the accurate conclusion that if the whole
body should be subjected to a radical change, the spirit will
survive that change; that even if the body of man is destroyed
and becomes nonexistent, the spirit of man remains unaffected.
(PUP 259)
The soul’s independence from the body is clearly established in
these words.
The question remains, what does this mean practically in everyday
life? First, it means that every human life is to be respected and val-
ued, no matter if there is mental or physical illness. Furthermore,
we should always respect everybody for the value of his or her soul,
and not necessarily for his or her acts. This understanding of our
essential spiritual identity is the basis of Christ’s injunction to love
our enemies. It equally sheds light on the behavior of Bahá’u’lláh

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
and `Abdu’l-Bahá in relating to the enemies of the faith and Their
extensive tolerance and forbearance towards them.
We shall next describe how this new understanding of the soul can
be applied to findings in psychology and in the treatment of mental
disorders, at least in the treatment of a specific disorder.
Towards Understanding Bahá’í Psychology
In this section a clinical case history of Dissociative Identity Disorder
will be presented first, and then this understanding will be integrated
into the Bahá’í understanding of the soul.
About psychology, the Universal House of Justice of the Bahá’í Faith
states,
Psychology is still a very young and inexact science, and as the
years go by Bahá’í psychologists, who know from the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh the true pattern of human life, will be able to make
great strides in the development of this science, and will help
profoundly in the alleviation of human suffering. (MUHJ63)
This paper attempts to make some cautious and preliminary steps
towards the development of psychology, which, according to the Uni-
versal House of Justice, will make great strides in the future.
Before this writer presents a case from his practice—and this is done
with permission of the patient and in appropriate disguise—some of
the findings of this paper are recalled. According to Bahá’u’lláh, the
rational faculty is an endowment of the essence of man. This essence
can be called soul or spirit and is manifest only in the bodily instru-
ments it uses or, as `Abdu’l-Bahá states, in its qualities. This essence
of man is a single reality and is “the splendour of God’s Most Great Sign

The Essence of Man
in their heart.” (KA 176) Bahá’u’lláh reveals it is “a mystery among His
mysteries,” (GWB 160) which is to say, it is unknowable.
Wert thou to ponder in thine heart, from now until the end
that hath no end, and with all the concentrated intelligence
and understanding which the greatest minds have attained in
the past or will attain in the future, this divinely ordained and
subtle Reality, this sign of the revelation of the All-Abiding, All-
Glorious God, thou wilt fail to comprehend its mystery or to
appraise its virtue.
Having recognized thy powerlessness to attain to an adequate
understanding of that Reality which abideth within thee, thou
wilt readily admit the futility of such efforts as may be attempted
by thee, or by any of the created things, to fathom the mystery
of the Living God, the Day Star of unfading glory, the Ancient
of everlasting days.
This confession of helplessness which mature contemplation
must eventually impel every mind to make is in itself the acme
of human understanding, and marketh the culmination of
man’s development.7 (GWB 165)
In these passages, the soul is called a “divinely ordained and subtle
Reality” and further described as “this sign of the revelation of the
All-Abiding, All-Glorious God” which we will “fail to comprehend its
mystery or to appraise its virtue.” This failure to be able to comprehend
is called helplessness, yet it is described as the “acme of human under-
standing, and marketh the culmination of man’s development.”
We must always keep this understanding of the essence of man in
mind in psychology and especially in individual therapeutic cases.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
We cannot know the soul in itself; we only know about it from what
it manifests through the instruments of the body and in the qualities
it exhibits.
Psychological Identity or the Self
What does it mean to say that psychologically we consider a human
person as having a unique identity, which is often called her/his per-
sonality? Every sane human person knows who she or he is and keeps
that psychological identity throughout life.
The case material of a patient with Dissociate Identity disorder pre-
sented here will first be discussed according the presently available
understanding of this mental disorder. After that it will be examined
in light of the principles of the Bahá’í Faith, which, at least for this
author, shed light on this aspect of psychology.
From the moment a child says “I” and can talk to another person
as a “You,” this knowledge of identity will not change. Before that
age, the child is defined by others; he calls himself by the name he
is called. Therefore, he is John or she is Susie; they do not know
that they are a self; they are who they are called. Only when she
discovers the self does she come to herself. The self has no meaning
except when defined by and in contrast to others. Later in life, some
mental diseases seem to make a person forget his or her identity or
take on other identities, for example amnesia, where persons do not
remember anything about themselves, yet if the amnesia is lifted, or
the mental illness controlled through medication, the old identity
returns, so it was there all along.
This leads to the question, ‘What is it that gives a person his or her
identity?’ It is known that the human body changes over time, so

The Essence of Man
the atoms constituting the body are not the same after some years.
Consequently, the identity or personality of the human person can-
not be based on its physical constitution. If not the body, we have
to look for another basis for this identity. Could it be memory?
Alternatively, may it be its brain structure? Some have compared it
with the software in the computer, but that does not seem possible
since if the hardware changes, the software is usually lost. When
amnesia or severe mental illness affects the mind, the identity is not
destroyed—perhaps hidden or veiled—but it will come back as soon
as the mind returns to its earlier functioning.
We could postulate that the self is based on the structure of the body,
which can remain the same, even if the particles and cells constitut-
ing this structure change. Then the question remains, ‘What gives
the body this particular structure that we call human?’ There is no
solution to this question if we think in reductionist terms, which
reduce everything to its parts. Since this is the methodological
principle of science, science has not found a place for the self of
human beings, and cannot find it as long as science remains bound
to the reductionistic methodology, which works well in science but
cannot prove anything that is beyond the scientific discourse.
One mental disorder could shed some light on this question. It is
presently defined as Dissociative Identity Disorder, and was previ-
ously called Multiple Personality Disorder. This psychologist treated
many patients with this disorder over many years, at times with full
recovery. First, the psychiatric definition of this disorder will be
presented here; then a special case will be described more extensively.
This will assist in answering the question about the human nature
and identity, which is the focus of this study.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Wikipedia defines Dissociative Identity Disorder in this way:
Dissociative identity disorder (DID) is a psychiatric diagnosis
found in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Dis-
orders (DSM IV) that describes a condition in which a person
displays multiple distinct identities or Alters (known as Alter
Egos or Alters), each with its own pattern of perceiving and
interacting with the environment.
In the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and
Related Health Problems the name for this diagnosis is multiple
personality disorder. In both systems of terminology, the diagno-
sis requires that at least two personalities routinely take control of
the individual’s behavior with an associated memory loss that goes
beyond normal forgetfulness; in addition, symptoms cannot be the
temporary effects of drug use or a general medical condition. There
is a great deal of controversy surrounding the topic.
Case of Cathy
The case of Cathy (not her real name) will be presented here as an
example of Dissociative Identity Disorder. The case is presented with
her permission. It is selected because, during therapy, this patient
demonstrated an unusual level of self-awareness and her different
Alters (Alter egos) spoke freely about it. Other cases of this disorder
will be mentioned for explanation of specific points. After several
months of treatment of Cathy’s depression, suicidal tendencies, anger
and emotional instability, it was discovered that the young lady, who
was in the process of finishing high school, had periods of time she
could not remember, even though she continued to function.
Her family reported that during these times, which she could not
remember later on, she was behaving childishly and sometimes like

The Essence of Man
a young teenager, and at other times got unusually angry and unrea-
sonable. There was one suicide attempt reported and several times
she had cut herself. At that time the therapist had already established
a good working relationship with this patient and, suspecting disso-
ciative identity disorder, he could, with a simple hypnotic procedure,
elicit the different identities, Alter-Egos or Alters and talk with them.
The goal was to unite them permanently.
Four Alters came out over time and talked to the therapist. A child
of seven, whom we will call here Elsie, and the companion of Elsie,
who is described as a “Zombie,” who is eating herself up and this
is understood quite literally. Then there is a young teenager about
age thirteen, whom we will call Lucky, and her twin, whom we will
call Anger. In fact, this last Alter told the therapist that she has
no name. She is just the twin of Lucky, so the therapist called her
Anger according to her prevailing emotional state, which name was
accepted by all of them.
Cathy asked one of her parents to be present during the sessions and
they were very surprised when they listened to this strange personal-
ity panorama. There is no way that this patient was pretending; too
many incidents happened about which the different Alters spoke to
the therapist but Cathy did not.
For example, Elsie told the therapist the name of her elementary
school; later, after going back to the patient, she could not under-
stand how he could know the name of the school, since it had never
been mentioned in therapy. Another curious incident occurred:
when the father during the session asked his daughter when and how
she learned to swim, she had no memory and could not answer the
question. When little Elsie was asked the same question by the
therapist, she simply explained that her older brother had taught her
to swim. When this was later told to the patient, she broke out in
laughter and described how her older brother had thrown her into

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the deep end of the pool and told her to swim if she wanted to survive,
and she dog paddled to shore. Now she remembered the whole inci-
dent. Her surprise at this memory was obvious, the pleasure she got
out of the story was apparent, and her exuberance about this memory
was expressed in the style of a much younger child.
It needs to be noted here that, in approaching this case, the therapist
had several advantages. The therapeutic alliance was well estab-
lished with this patient, he had extensive experience in treating this
disorder and his understanding of the human psyche was inspired
by working on the issue of the soul in the Bahá’í Writings. When
the history of this case was taken, it was found that there was no
severe child abuse in this family, neither sexual nor physical; there
was some harsh punishment and there was severe domestic violence
between the parents.
Another important issue to be mentioned here is the fact that after
several sessions dealing with the different Alters, their different
personalities were more and more established; for example, it was
found out that Anger functioned differently than the other two
and that Zombie never talked but acted just like a zombie. When
Elsie and Lucky were out, the patient afterwards did not remember
anything that had happened. This changed during therapy where
the Alters became more and more knowledgeable of each other and
listened in on each other.
When Anger was active, Cathy was aware what she was doing in
acting out, but Cathy felt like somebody else had taken over her body
and acted, doing things like trying to throw herself bodily out of a
window, or cutting her body with a knife. Obviously, she had not told
anybody before about these feelings of some strange entity taking
over her actions.17 She did not want to be regarded as “crazy.” Once
she understood the situation better, she told the therapist and did not
mind one of her parents listening to it as well.

The Essence of Man
As therapy developed, Elsie eventually revealed what was the starting
point of her existence. At the age of seven at a big family gathering,
her parents were arguing in front of all the guests. Her father wanted
to her leave with him, but she wanted to stay with her mother and
she screamed, refusing to go into the car. In front of all the guests,
her father then forced her mother to leave with them, and sometime
later the argument escalated to physical violence including blood-
shed. Cathy had recurring nightmares about that event, which were
detailed and explicit, and she never realized that this had really
happened until Lucky told the therapist of the event. When Cathy
was told she remembered the dreams.
At that point, Elsie separated in order to allow Cathy to continue
functioning as “normal” in the family. The partner of Elsie, Zombie,
seemed to have started at the same time, taking over the guilt for
having caused this violent situation by her screaming, so Zombie is
eating herself—a good metaphor for guilt feelings.
Lucky and her twin Anger separated at the age of about 14, after the
husband of a cousin, who at that time lived with them, had made sex-
ual advances to the teenager, who eventually had to take a knife and
fight him off. The following are quotes from Lucky, who separated
together with Anger at that moment and told this to the therapist.
Her account is given almost verbatim.
“In 7th grade a husband of a cousin who lived with us always
tried to be close to me, sniffing in my ear and touching me.
One day he came closer, held me and I was afraid, so I bit
him and hit him and took a knife.”
“Anger and I (Lucky) were together. We did not know that
there was somebody else in the mind. Later we felt that there
was somebody else around. We looked for her and found
Elsie. So we started to build rooms in the mind, Elsie got

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the room with the window, so she can see the world. We
have different worlds in our mind—everything is different—
we walk around, only coming out in the dreams of Cathy,
we open doors, she can remember these things, which are
mostly bad things.”
“When we found Elsie she was with Zombie, her hair was
falling out; she was eating herself up and was beginning to
deteriorate. Anger does not allow her to know how she really
looks in the world we have created.”
“Anger feels if Zombie would know how she looks like inside
of the brain, it would ruin the process of getting us together
now. My job is to fix her up now.”
Actually, in the beginning, the therapist could convince Angry to
promise to stop her self-destructive actions such as suicidal attempts
and cutting. This promise was kept and no further intrusion in
Cathy’s life happened from that Alter. Cathy reported in the next
session that she had not gotten angry during the last week. Then the
following scene developed.
During this session, when little Elsie was called upon, she talked
about herself and when asked about Lucky, she stated that she cannot
contact her. When asked about Anger, she said she is outside, behind
the window and does not listen. She pointed at her head about the
right temple to indicate where the window was. A graduating high
school student would never say something like that, but a seven-year-
old child can say such things and nobody would be surprised.
When she was asked if Zombie is outside too, she said no, she is
in the room with me, but does not talk and behaves like a zombie.
Additionally, she stated that she was sick because she has touched
Cathy (meaning Zombie), who was sick also. Then Anger was

The Essence of Man
contacted and she did not open her eyes, because she could not see,
stating that Cathy has taken her sight away. While these descriptions
make no sense, they were similar to a dreamlike presentation, even
though Zombie was described as sleeping, and Elsie the Alter was
wide awake and telling this.
During the talk with Anger, something unusual happened. When
Anger was asked to look at her father, she said she cannot see any-
thing. Then Anger tried to explain what had happened to change the
relationship between the different Alters. It should be remembered
here that the therapist had in previous sessions explained to all of
them and to the patient that they should unite, and had explained
the benefits that they all would have, if the patient can use the
strength and personality of all of them in a positive way, and better
solve her problems in living. They all, especially the patient Cathy,
had declared that they would like to do that, but did not know how.
What Anger said was remarkable. She tried to explain what it means
that Cathy has taken from her the ability to see. She said:
“Cathy has broken up the soul and split the different parts, so
that I have less now.”
It needs to be noted that this statement expresses a very important
insight, namely, that Anger recognized that the Alters are parts of a
“broken” whole. Before that time, every Alter believed itself to have
a soul, or an independent identity. Here we have a change in the
self-perception of this Alter.
Before this time, the Alters believed they are unique and independent,
at least during the time they are out; they talk about the others as if
they were different persons. They regard the others as totally different
and not connected, or even as not existing. This was the situation
Cathy had before, when she did not know what happened during the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
time Elsie or Lucky were out, or who the identity was that made her
angry and suicidal.
This dissociation can go so far, as in another case of this therapist,
that all the Alters told the therapist that the prevailing Alter, which
was the one being out most of the time, should kill herself, so they
could get rid of her in order to get rid of her troubles. When the
therapist tried to convince these Alters not to do that, because when
one dies all would be dead, the Alters laughed at him and did not
believe this. In fact, after the session this person tried to kill herself
by running into oncoming traffic. Fortunately, this suicide could be
prevented by warning the secretary of the precarious inner state of
this patient.
This is mentioned to explain that the Alters perceive themselves as
not physically connected with each other, and the insight of Anger
in this case was a progress in the process of unification. They have a
different body image of themselves, no matter what their eyes can see,
and will not give up their self-perception as to age, looks and other
physical properties in spite of evident differences.
Another important conclusion can be drawn from this discussion.
The need for personal unity, for being one and having one identity, is
extremely strong in the developing human child and remains strong
throughout life. When the child cannot unify what happens to her,
as in our case, this strong propensity, this natural tendency, will lead
the child to develop more than one identity, and separate them from
each other to save this predisposition of oneness, in spite of the impos-
sibility to achieve this natural state. Our Alter, who talked about the
soul being broken up, actually expressed its sadness over losing the
identity she had before. She felt that now she was only a part, that
she has lost her identity in the same way she lost her vision. This is
especially true, because she does not know yet how to integrate with
the other parts into a real identity and unity of herself.

The Essence of Man
While trying to explain that, the therapist responded and applied the
newly gained understanding from the Words of Bahá’u’lláh, naturally
without mentioning religion. He explained first to Anger and then to
Cathy that the soul cannot be broken up, but the instruments, which
the soul uses, can be broken up. The understanding that there is a
unified and unifying principle on the basis of all the multiplicity of
identity was presented first to the Alters and then later to the patient.
In therapeutic terms, it became clear that this development was cru-
cial in the reunification of the different alters and the establishment of
a normal personality structure in this patient.
Some sessions later after talking with Elsie, Zombie came out. This
was a frightening experience as the patient, seemingly unconscious,
reclined as in a coma in her chair. When her mother tried to com-
fort her, she noticed that Cathy’s body was cold. She stroked her and
slowly woke her up, at which point Cathy came back out.
During the next session the patient reported her dreams and the
story of the original trauma; subsequently, Elsie and Lucky were
contacted and it was explained to them to convince Zombie that she
—Cathy—was not guilty. Her mother, who was present, assured her
of that also. During this session, Cathy (who was present also) was
very upset; she cried and moaned and her face expressed anguish and
guilt. After coming back, she calmed down. During the next week,
Cathy was very upset and angry and the whole family noted this and
experienced it as a big family problem.
After a family session, Cathy with her mother were seen in individual
therapy. Cathy was still very angry and frustrated, she felt everybody
was against her and could not help herself. When the therapist tried
to contact the Alters (first Lucky and then Elsie), nobody came out.
The conclusion could be made that the unification of all of the Alters
had been successful, as soon as Zombie realized that she need not
be guilty and can stop eating herself. It was explained to Cathy that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
now she has the difficult problem to live with all of them as a whole
person. No more dissociated Alters, only partial sub-personalities,
like everybody else has.
It will take her some time to learn to organize her new personal-
ity structure and learn to live with it and function as an adult. She
became unified soon after her 18th birthday after having spent many
years existing in different selves, a problem which created periods of
confusion, dissociation and problems not only for herself but also for
her family. Her parents had to deal with their guilt of having caused
such anguish and guilt in their child. One can easily understand
that in future therapy sessions, the whole family had to learn to deal
with these developments and find a more mature and healthy way of
dealing with each other and themselves.
A few weeks later—in a session with her father present—Cathy had
a dream in which all four Alters appeared, indicating the successful
conclusion of this episode in the young person’s life. All four Alters
were changed. Anger was not angry anymore, not wearing military
uniform. Zombie is described as the most beautiful of all of them;
obviously, the guilt that was eating her up had disappeared. All
four were wearing skirts, in a lady-like way, conforming to the new
person they were forming together. Cathy had invited her father to this
session and he was supportive and appreciative of his daughter.
Bahá’í Principle of ‘Unity in Diversity’ in Psychology
Here we would like to leave the case history and analyze it for its
meaning and for whatever else may become known. In his clinical
work, this therapist has struggled with this disorder for a long time.
The major question was always how these different identities function,
what was their relationship with each other, and if there is anything
unifying them in the face of apparent dissociation of the Alters.

The Essence of Man
Foremost in reflecting on these issues these words from Bahá’u’lláh
come to mind:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing are
but one single reality which hath manifold expressions owing to
the diversity of its instruments. (SLH 154)
In order to understand this, one must remember that self-awareness
is not the cause of the unity of a person; it is only the consequence
of it. In other words, humans are not one because they are aware of
themselves, but rather they are aware of themselves because they are
fundamentally one. As Bahá’u’lláh states, our spirit and our mind or
soul are one single reality. This principle could fundamentally change
the understanding of psychology as it is known today.
The originality of this principle becomes evident when analyzing
the Dissociative Identity Disorder discussed here and looking at the
clinical findings. Initially, in most cases, the self-awareness of the
different Alters has no awareness of the others; it is not that the
others are different persons, but it is as if they do not exist, and
when they come out, the other Alters do not exist in their awareness.
Therefore, the time one Alter is out is lost for most of the others. This
must be understood as a reaction to the original traumatic experience.
The child in the process of unifying her personality had to suppress
the existence of more than one self; had to forget the others. The
child needed to do this in order to pretend that the pain and anxiety
of the trauma did not exist, at least for the other functioning parts of
the person, who needed to carry on the business of living normally in
this abnormal situation.
In the process of reunification the therapist introduces the Alters to
each other, thereby helping them to see the underlying unity, which
is obvious to everyone but the patient. For the patient the unity of the
therapist becomes a substitute for the missing unity in the patient.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
This is just as in childhood, when the unity of the parenting people
around the child is the beacon, around which the child is supposed to
establish its own unity. Yet traumatic events have prevented this from
happening in children with Dissociate Identity Disorder.
In the therapeutic process, the Alters must first learn that the other
Alters are like different persons in the outside world. Usually, this is
not difficult; eventually they have to learn that the Alters are inside,
are really part of the whole person, which means that at that time the
trauma of childhood has to be dealt with by the adult, in a rational
manner. This is the real job of therapy. What the child could not do
for itself, can be done by an adult in therapy.
Obviously, if this process is understood, unification becomes easier.
In past treatment of different patients, this therapist had established
communication between the different Alters, had encouraged them
to unify and helped to remove obstacles and bad memories. This
process was helpful, but we now have a better understanding of why it
works, because we understand what is one and what is multiple in the
human person. The one single reality is the soul or the spirit, which is
endowed with the rational faculty. The multiple aspects of the person,
which is therefore capable of dissociation, is expressed in the instru-
ments this one spirit uses. This instrumentality includes all what
is usually described as the self, or consciousness, such as memory,
self-awareness, fantasy and imagination.
We also need to consider the fact that the relationship between the
different identities is different from case to case. This is to be expected
because this is not a normal developmental process, but a normal
process gone awry. In every case of this illness, we find, therefore,
a different way in which the normal unification of the personality
has gone wrong. Usually, in these patients there is one identity, who
claims that she or he is in charge of the whole system. However, it is
never clear if even that powerful Alter is capable of uniting them. The

The Essence of Man
answer to this question concerns the emotional energy, which keeps
these Alters separated: anxiety and guilt, with the need to suppress
these fearful events of childhood. Before the Alters can unify, they
have to recognize that they are only part and not the whole; they have
to recognize that their separate and individual “soul”, their dissoci-
ated unity, has to be broken up. This can be done by recognizing that
they are not a whole identity, but only part of a whole person. This
breaking up was described by Cathy when Anger said that the soul
was broken up. Another issue is the question of the etiology, or the
cause of the illness. This latter question is more clearly understood
by psychologists.
It appears that during the normal forming of personal identity during
childhood, certain traumatic events can create this multiple phenom-
enon, whereas ordinarily only one identity is present in one human
adult. The events causing this abnormal development are always of a
traumatic kind, like sexual or physical abuse or a severe disturbance
in the family situation of the child, such as domestic violence or catas-
trophes affecting the family. When the adults, who are responsible
for giving the child the ability to develop a unified personality, are
not united in themselves and with each other, how can the child do
her job in growing up as a unified person? Therefore, the child does
the next best thing, repressing the traumatic event and growing up as
several distinct, but in themselves unified, persons or personalities.
As the psychological literature clearly shows, what happens under
those traumatic events is not so much dissociation, but rather the
inability to associate. In other words, the child cannot bring together
(associate) the different events impinging on him and formulate his or
her own identity. In order to deal with the chaotic and violent events,
the child achieves that goal only incompletely, by putting the disturb-
ing events in one Alter and the good events into the other internal
personality and thereby disassociating her from the bad experiences
and achieving an imagined unity in each Alter. Consequently, we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
refer to different identities, or Alters, with different self-awareness,
memory and experience.
It needs to be stressed that the child cannot handle her problems
otherwise and remain sane, i.e. this procedure helps the child
to keep some sanity in her life by dealing with opposing family
members or with a family member who acts in contradictory ways.
Consider a loving father during daytime who is the sexual rapist at
night, or parents who love each other at one time and fight to the
death at other times, as it appears to the child in domestic violence
situations. Consequently, the child develops different personalities with
different internal awareness to deal with this chaotic environment.
Once this system is established, the child learns to use it and often
develops other different Alters as needed during other traumatic
situations later on.
We need to consider in this context that the child cannot deal with
these horrendous experiences rationally. It has not developed the level
of rationality needed for that task at that age, especially if these things
are done to her by the very family members, usually the parents or
one parent, who should have helped the child to formulate her own
identity under normal circumstances and develop adult rationality.
After the age of twelve, when reason has sufficiently developed, the
situation changes; the child’s personality is established as a unity and
dissociation cannot occur, except in extreme cases and for a short time.
This dissociative disorder has not been found to have started after the
age of twelve, no matter what the traumatic events were. For exam-
ple, no Vietnam veteran has developed this disorder; instead, they
developed other disorders under similar stressful circumstances, like
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
After describing this disorder and a clinical case of it, it remains to
understand what all of that means and what it can teach us about the
human nature and human psychology. Psychology accepts that we

The Essence of Man
can learn more about human nature from a mental disease than from
normal psychological functioning. Often, the process of illness sheds
light on the normally functioning psyche and personality structure.
In other words, when the mental apparatus falls apart, its parts and
functions become more visible. All therapists have learned this from
experience and all knowledge of psychopathology becomes real only
when seen in persons suffering from mental illness.
To understand these developments better, it is necessary to introduce
the principle of “Unity in Diversity.” It is postulated here that this
is not only a principle of the Bahá’í Revelation, where it is called a
“watchword” (WOB 41) for the Faith, but that it is an ontological and
psychological principle underlying being and consequently it applies
to all realities. This ontological principle will not further described
here, except in its role in human development.18
What does this principle mean and how can it explain the situation at
hand? Considering the early development of the child the following
can be said, when this principle is applied:
The child starts out as a physical and biological unity of a plurality of
molecules, complex organized cells, organs and different groupings
of these units, constituting the body. Therefore, the early develop-
ment of the fetus and newborn child is not significantly different
from an animal fetus. Nevertheless, some inborn capacities will
become activated during the child’s growing years. It is the ability
to communicate, to listen and speak, to think and eventually to be
aware and reflect on the self.
During this process, there is a development from multiplicity to an
increasing unity, from materiality and externality to an increasing
internality. Teilhard de Chardin describes this as hominization. The
different elements of the personality develop through this process and
they are unified in their diversity. This is the way the soul, a single

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
reality without multiplicity, acquires its instruments of expression
in this world of multiplicity. However, this only happens if the baby
is exposed to other human beings, mainly the mother at first, or the
mothering one, and then the father as well as sibling and relatives.
Eventually this circle of familiar people expands to include friends,
teachers and other loved figures. Studies have shown that this process
starts before birth and continues during infancy and childhood.
The concept of “subpersonality” needs to be introduced here. Ken Wil-
ber’s book “Integral Psychology”19 describes that during development
everybody develops multiple subpersonalities, which together form
the adult personality. We all experience that we have a repertoire of
behavior available in everyday life. When dealing with little children
we can behave childlike, when angry other personality traits appear;
these different structures make our adult personality complex and
interesting, but unfortunately, sometimes dangerous or sick as well. In
cases of mental illness, these illnesses may become a disturbing factor
in some people, and their origin in childhood can often be detected.
In all such cases the person presenting such subpersonalities is never
losing his or her identity and is aware of who he is and can remember
what happens. In the case of a patient with Identity Disorder, this
awareness is absent and the memory of the one subpersonality is not
available to the other personalities or Alters.
Historically this concept grows out of the Psychoanalysis, in Freud’s
description of the human structure in its three states of id, ego and
superego. Later, Transaction Analysis developed the ego states in
similar ways of “child”, “adult”, and “parent” in their system, and
most recently John G. Watkins developed the so-called “Ego State
Therapy,” which is a dynamic reformulation of psychoanalytic prin-
ciples and uses the “family in the self” to solve psychological problems.
A similar approach was taken by Transpersonal Psychology, which
attempts to include the spiritual dimension into psychology and
developed the concept of sub-personalities. In this paper, we will use

The Essence of Man
the concept of sub-personalities in the way it is used by Transpersonal
Psychology, especially by Ken Wilber, without agreeing with the basic
ideas of this branch of psychology.20
When the concept of sub-personality is used in this paper, it is
understood in the dynamic sense of the previously mentioned
schools of psychology, without necessarily including their systems as
a whole. A sub-personality is any structure of the mature personality
which is a remnant of the developmental history of a person. The
different sub-personalities of a person can be generalized into id, ego
or superego, into child, adult, and parent, but are here understood in
a general and non-specific way, as an internal personality panorama,
which has developed during the developmental period of the child
in its first years of life. The maturing process of the human person
will then develop further these sub-personalities, will organize them,
will give them different priorities and will improve them. This can
be described as the growing process of the human person during his/
her life. However, when a person suffers from Dissociative Identity
Disorder these different subpersonalities could not be combined in
the normal development. Seen dynamically, the energy which keeps
these subpersonalities separated is the anxiety and guilt developed in
the traumatized child.
During the process of developing a unified personality, the child
develops subpersonalities, which are a reflection of the different
relationships she developed in her early life. To the initial physical
multiplicity and diversity of the different organs of the body, a new
diversity is added in the sphere of the mind, a multiplicity of these
subpersonalities that will continue with minor or major changes
throughout life. The single reality of the soul uses these personalities
as instruments and tries to unify them as best as possible, given the
circumstances of its early social life.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Normally, this process of integration is completed around the age of
twelve. In our case, where the environment provides only conflicting
situations to the not yet fully rational child, the child is unable to
achieve unification or only achieve partial unification. Parts become
unified in themselves, but they remain disconnected from each other
in order to achieve the only possible unity in separate identities.
We could compare this situation with the situation of a modern
democracy, where the parties believe that they are independent and
not connected with each other and where they think and act as if
each of them is the whole of the state; none has to consider the others
and tries to eliminate them. When one party succeeds by eliminating
the others, we have a totalitarian state, which strangely enough still
uses the term ‘party’ for the single leftover part, which now assumes
to present the whole. This is the paradox of the one-party state; it
remains partial, loses the qualities of the other parts, becomes sterile,
and develops an ideology which tries to present itself as unified, when
it really has achieved only artificial and forced uniformity, lacking
true Unity in Diversity.
In the case of the multiple identities, the bad experiences which
created the irresolvable conflicts in the child will be unified in one
ego state or personality, the other in another ego state or personality,
which will be the “normal” personality of this child. After this split
of ego or of identity, more splits usually happen, because this splitting
or dissociating has become the way of solving irresolvable problems.
The child applies this coping mechanism to future experiences. It
needs to be noted that the different alters perceive themselves and act
age appropriately, i.e., act at the age level they were created. Only the
prevailing personality grows older, the others are only growing when
they are “out,” which is usually very little.
What needs to be noted here is that all respective memories, reac-
tions and coping mechanisms will be split as well. Self-awareness is

The Essence of Man
divided too, so that one identity is unaware of what the other identity
does. The inter-awareness among identities can change. It is used in
the process of unification by the therapeutic intervention.
Placing this observation into the description of the human nature
or essence as presented in the Bahá’í Writings, a new picture of the
human personality emerges, which is essentially different from all
previous views. We have the soul, however we refer to it, which is
unknowable and of which we are unaware. It is also described as spir-
itual, that is, not material yet being the essence of the human being.
This unique and single reality expresses itself by using the human
body and mind as instruments. Whatever is used as an instrument is
physical, bodily, or related to the body, including all activity and per-
ceptual ability as well as memory, in some ways the rational faculty,
and awareness of self, i.e., the perceived identity of the person.
All these ‘instruments’ or faculties, which are innate in man as
abilities to be activated during growing up, form the diversity of
a human being. The soul or single unifying reality is the unifying
principle in the human person. Seen this way, the unity in diversity
principle is not only an ontological principle of all created beings
but also a psychological and developmental principle that sheds
a new light on these scientific endeavors. When this principle is
accepted, these sciences will better explain the scientific facts found
in the study of psychology.
Furthermore, introducing this principle into the understanding of
man and of his development and psychological makeup will increase
our understanding of the principle of ‘unity in diversity’ and will help
to understand the essential role this principle plays in Bahá’í theology.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Thoughts about the Development of the Human Soul
As described above, the unity of the human person is expressed
by Bahá’u’lláh:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing are
but one single reality which hath manifold expressions owing to
the diversity of its instruments. (SLH 154)
Consider the rational faculty with which God hath endowed the
essence of man. (GWB 163)
Again, we ask the question what does this mean. Only one single
reality in man is typically called spirit, mind or soul and the power
behind the senses and expressions of a person. This soul or essence
of man is endowed with the rational faculty. Combining these two
sources of knowledge, the Divine Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and the
science of psychology, especially as applied in psychotherapy, the
following picture emerges about the nature of the human person.
In contrast to all other inanimate and animate beings, i.e., mineral,
vegetable and animal, the human person has a unique and specific
endowment, which is called soul—although it is called by different
names according to the bodily instruments it uses. This essence of
man or soul is present in every human being from the beginning to
the end of life, but is in need of other humans, usually the parents
and families, to develop and come to her/him-self, by developing
first the sensual capacity and eventually the human ability of reason.
This process is called human development and has been studied
extensively during the last centuries.21
The human capacity to speak and listen, to use reason, to plan future
action, to memorize and learn, to be aware of other humans and
reflect on herself are all functions of the essence of man. The different

The Essence of Man
functions of this essence in the mind or body of man are described as
the instrumentality of this essence. Starting as a hidden capacity in
the newborn child, this soul becomes functional during the develop-
ment period in the process of child rearing. Any illness or incapacity
to function only affects the instruments, but not the essence of man,
the soul.
In the beginning, the child passively accepts parental upbringing,
but with growing self-awareness he/she starts developing what we
call reasonable behavior and eventually she/he starts distinguishing
between good and evil and develops virtues or vices. This happens
first in following the parental environment, but eventually—in a
slow process—everybody becomes responsible for herself or himself.
Nobody knows exactly when this process starts, probably at different
times in different people.
First we learn from our parents, eventually we take our development
in our own hands and function independently, based on what we
learned. Then we must develop our own personality. Since the moral
behavior of the individual person is always a mixture of both, of what
one learns in childhood and how one decides to use these talents, as
given from family and society, nobody can make a true judgment of
the morality of anybody, even of oneself.
Even in the biblical parable of the talents, everyone starts at a different
level of what is given to him and he is only responsible for how he uses
the talent given, not how much he was given.
For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far coun-
try, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his
goods. And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to
another one; to every man according to his several ability; and
straightway took his journey. (Matthew 25:14–15)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
From this consideration, it follows that the development of the
human civilization or culture is of utmost importance. Every child
in a given culture will receive the values of that culture from his par-
ents and cultural environment. If the culture progresses, the child
will be given more and can therefore achieve a higher level of culture.
Hence the Bahá’í emphasis on not only developing one’s own life
by moral behavior, but to work on developing human civilization
through service to mankind as well.
Consequently, it is in our hands what kind of personality we will
develop and if we will enhance what we got from our parents, or if we
spoil and destroy the gift of being human. In the Bahá’í Writings this
is described as having a pure heart and opening our heart to God’s
Revelation or following our own imagination towards the lower and
animalistic part of our personality. In terms of ethics, following
Aristotle, we can say that we choose virtues or vices.
Culturally, it can be said that this individual process will influence
the society of man, human civilization as a whole, in many ways, in
service and moral uprightness of its members. The Bahá’í Writings
talk about that fact clearly, when stating that “All men have been created
to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization.” (GWB 214) This new
understanding of the human predicament is based on the conviction
that every life is meaningful, has a goal and purpose. It is up to every
human being to use his will and effort towards good or bad, towards
virtue or vice, towards fulfilling his God given destiny or towards
resisting God by selfishly pursuing goals and aims that betray his
own dignity and nobility. He may do this by selling out for material
pleasure and enjoyment, for transient power and for futile dominance.
During personality development, a person develops different sub-
personalities, which usually work together but may sometimes
become the source of illness. This illness is caused by the failure of
the parenting persons or events, by creating a trauma in the child

The Essence of Man
and disabling the child to bring these subpersonalities together. It is
the function of a therapist to bring these Alters together in the same
way, as the parenting persons would achieve this task in normal
development. Mature life gives the person the ability and obligation
to harmonize these subpersonalities and direct them towards the
good, which is presented in any Revelation of God.
From these considerations, it becomes clear that the therapist can
only succeed if he believes in the basic unity of the human soul and
brings his own personality and conviction into therapy. He is not
to direct or guide the patient, but to give her a model of a unified
personality and allow the freedom to become that way herself and to
achieve her highest aim, just as it is the job of the parents to set free
their child and make her morally a self.
Many other and groundbreaking conclusions could be drawn from the
ideas presented in this paper. It will take time to revisit these finding
in the light of the Bahá’í Scriptures and this process, if coordinated
with philosophical and psychological findings of Bahá’í psychologists
and other psychologists, will produce what the Universal House of
Justice expected, that psychology, when following the “teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh,” will explore “the true pattern of human life.”
Thoughts about dual and tetrarchic structures in the
Bahá’í Faith
In the following pages, the adjective tetrarchic22 is used from the Greek
meaning four (tetra = four) princes governing a single kingdom, in con-
trast to monarchy, where there is only one (monos = one) ruler. As used
here, tetrarchy refers to the four principles that constitute the whole;
they all are independent principles, yet they are integrated in the whole
and they contribute to the whole. In the Bahá’í Writings, these four
principles are translated into English as the four states of man.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and inwardness
are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself, that in these four
states conferred upon thee thou shouldst comprehend the four
divine states, and that the nightingale of thine heart on all the
branches of the rosetree of existence, whether visible or con-
cealed, should cry out: “He is the first and the last, the Seen and
the Hidden….” (SVFV 27)
With this passage in mind, we shall consider a Tetrarchic Develop-
mental Psychology, which deals with how the human psyche develops
and questions of a possible Tetrarchic Psychopathology. The latter
considers how mental illness affects the human psyche. We shall also
consider what this new approach may mean for a Tetrarchic approach
to Psychotherapy.
In the figure below the fourfold or tetrarchic structure is shown
to consist of a double tetrarchic paradigm: two opposite states are
opposed and integrated with two other opposite states. In this para-
digm, it is important to reconcile and integrate all the four or eight
opposites into a whole, as an example of Unity in Diversity:
Firstness/Lastness
(Individual/Collective)
versus Inwardness/
Outwardness
(Spiritual/Physical)
Motion/Stillness
(Eros/Thanatos)
versus
Will/Purpose
(Freedom/Restraint)
T  T P
Will—Freedom
Firstness—Individual
Last—Collective
Purpose—Restraint
Stillness—Tanatos
Inwardness—Spirit
Motion—Eros
Outwardness—Body
Self/Identity
Reason
Philosophy
Virtues
Body/Nature
Senses
Science
Service
Unity
Language
Education
Culture
Diversity
Discipline
Family/Society
Civilization
SOUL
Essence of
Man

The Essence of Man
Leaving aside other four-fold principles in the Writings, we shall
consider only these four, which depict the reality of life in this dou-
ble tetrarchic structure. In these four states of man, the tetrarchic
paradigm is applied to the different areas of psychology. Bahá’u’lláh
indicates that this tetrarchic paradigm is essential to all reality by
calling it to come from the “rosetree of existence” (SVFV 27). Another
aspect of this structure needs to be emphasized: the total spiritual
unity of the soul that is seen in our limited vision as a tetrarchic
structure. Bahá’u’lláh expresses that clearly when talking in the same
tablet about the different vision of reality:
For some there are who dwell upon the plane of oneness and
speak of that world, and some inhabit the realms of limitation,
and some the grades of self, while others are completely veiled.
(SVFV 20)
Three different planes of vision of reality are described: one is the
plane of oneness, the other the realm of limitation and grades of
self, and finally, the realm of those who see nothing at all. What is
described in this paper is the realm of “limitation and self,” which is
the area of psychological studies. Yet the plane of oneness, of unity,
and of the whole must never be overlooked and must be taken into
account whenever the world is seen as it presents itself to our vision.
Therefore Bahá’u’lláh reminds us at the end of the Valley of Unity of
this vision of oneness:
These statements are made in the sphere of that which is relative,
because of the limitations of men.
Otherwise, those personages who in a single step have passed
over the world of the relative and the limited, and dwelt on
the fair plane of the Absolute, and pitched their tent in the
worlds of authority and command—have burned away these

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
relativities with a single spark, and blotted out these words
with a drop of dew.
And they swim in the sea of the spirit, and soar in the holy air of
light. Then what life have words, on such a plane, that “first” and
“last” or other than these be seen or mentioned! In this realm, the
first is the last itself, and the last is but the first.7 (SVFV 27)
In the original the above quote and the quote below are one para-
graph, here the sentences are separated for easier analysis.
This vision of the spirit… in the holy air of light is what unifies the
tetrarchic structure and what allows the four principles described
above to be seen in their unity. Both of the contradictory aspects are
integrated, or they are the same, so that the first is the last, as noted
above. Both must always be in sight, which is why seekers must see
with the eye of God:
Then will the manifold favors and outpouring grace of the holy
and everlasting Spirit confer such new life upon the seeker that
he will find himself endowed with a new eye, a new ear, a new
heart, and a new mind.
He will contemplate the manifest signs of the universe, and will
penetrate the hidden mysteries of the soul.
Gazing with the eye of God, he will perceive within every atom
a door that leadeth him to the stations of absolute certitude.7
(GWB 267)
When analyzing this we find that the tetrarchic structure is based
on the integration of opposites, of a dual structure forming a whole.
This is basically a dual and paradoxically opposing and integrated

The Essence of Man
structure. The dual nature of man was already indicated in the fol-
lowing verse of the Bible (Book of Sirach23 24):
All things are double, one against another: and he hath made
nothing imperfect.
Here, too, we observe the basis of the fourfold structure described
above which embraces the opposites of first and last, inwardness and
outwardness. It needs to be noted that several of these tetrarchic
structures can be superimposed on each other, as seen in the diagram
given above which forms a panoramic picture of the human condition.
In this view of human nature, there are three levels of understanding.
The first, as indicated by Bahá’u’lláh, is held by people who do not see
any unity, who hold on to a materialistic, particularistic worldview
that tries to explain everything by its physical parts. The second view
is more open, seeing the whole in the parts and trying to find some
meaning in the world. With this view in mind, we can recognize the
paradigm presented here. This view leads to the third view, in which
the seeker sees the whole and the parts, sees the spiritual and the
material, and is in touch with the rosetree of existence.
Tetrarchic Developmental Psychology
Bahá’u’lláh’s description of the way children develop mainly focuses
on the value of education.
Man is the supreme Talisman. Lack of a proper education hath,
however, deprived him of that which he doth inherently possess.
Through a word proceeding out of the mouth of God he was
called into being; by one word more he was guided to recognize

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
H E
Day 1−Fertilisation
Day 2−Cleavage
Day 3−Compaction
Day 4−Diﬀerentiation
Day 5−Cavitation
Day 6−Zoa Hatching
Day 7−Implantation
Day 9−Cell Mass Diﬀerentiates
Day 12−Bilaminar
Disc Formation
Day 14−Mesoderm Formation
Day 18−Mesoderm Spreads
Day 23−Amniotic Sac Enlarges
H E
the Source of his education; by yet another word his station and
destiny were safeguarded.7 (TB 161)
His emphasis on education does not detract from the need of physical
development but puts it in the right perspective.
Th e illustration24 below depicts the fi rst few days of the developing
embryo. What is remarkable is that in a few days the cell diff erentiates
into an inner and outer structure and develops a physical inwardness
and outwardness. Th is biological process seems to anticipate the later
development of an inner and outer state, as described in the Bahá’í
Writings as the bodily and spiritual aspect of man:
Outwardness and inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true
of thyself… (SVFV 27)
Th is duality of inwardness and outwardness is preformed in the
duality of the human body, where in fi ve days the embryo develops

The Essence of Man
the inside from which the foetus and all the inner organs develop.
The development of the nerves and eventually the brain follows a
similar path. We need to get used to thinking in these terms and
see the spiritual, non-physical aspect of man being a development
of this inner and outer physical structure of all living beings and
cells. Because they are developed to the highest form in man, we are
capable of becoming the true Talisman and the noble creature
described by Bahá’u’lláh. It could be said that from the very first days
of human existence the basis for the later spiritual essence of man
is laid in the developmental process in which animals participate as
well, though without the development coming to the same acumen.
The outward or bodily aspects of human existence are studied in
the individual by medicine and in the collective by sociology. The
inward or spiritual aspects of the human development are studied
by psychology and philosophy. They form the unity in diversity of
the human nature. Contemporary psychology, with the exception of
depth-, dynamic- and existential or humanistic psychology, attempts
to be a natural science and therefore neglects this unity in diversity.
When we study human development, it is important to see it in this
tetrarchic sense, considering all four principles, and considering how
these four aspects form a unity in diversity in every individual person.
The development of a unified self-concept and self-image is one of
the most important achievements of healthy human development.
Considering the structure presented above, we can easily recognize
that in order for the child to develop this self-image, it is necessary
that all four quadrants are considered. There is natural bodily devel-
opment, which depends mainly on inheritance, on the right nutrition
and physical environment. If this aspect is neglected, developmental
problems occur. A fetus exposed to different drugs in the womb of
the mother, for example, will not develop properly and some of these
deficiencies can affect the mental health of the child.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The physical environment, and the society in which the child develops,
also has a direct influence into the future human being. The many
ways in which these aspects can influence the whole child is studied
in medicine and psychology. The difficulty in describing these situ-
ations is the fact that any deficiency in any of the four areas affects
all the other areas, so we always get a complex picture that cannot be
sorted out perfectly.
Through a word proceeding out of the mouth of God he was
called into being; by one word more he was guided to recognize
the Source of his education. (TB 161)
Bahá’u’lláh mentions two different Divine actions in the above quote.
Through the act of creation by the word of God, man was called into
being; by one word more he was guided to recognize the Source of his
education. This could mean that God is not only the creator giving
life to every single human at conception, but everyone needs further
education from the Word of God, Who is the true and ultimate
source of all education.
The source of all education is God. This source is mediated to the
growing child through the parents, especially if they believe in this
Divine Source. It could also be mediated by the culture around the
parents and the child, as far as this culture is influenced by the Word
of God, and finally by the nature of God’s creation itself. It needs to
be understood that humans initiate and mediate the process. This is
true for conception as well as in education. In each case, whatever the
people do is dependent on the creative influence of God. Without
this spiritual education, any human will be deprived… of that which he
doth inherently possess. How these three sources operate in a specific
time and country could be a rewarding study for future sociologists.
Approaching this process of education, it is evident that the devel-
opment of a healthy person is dependent on the spiritual unity of

The Essence of Man
the individual and collective environment the child lives in. Here
our society seems to be failing drastically and creating emotion-
ally handicapped children who have difficulties in growing up as
healthy adults. The case of Cathy is a good example of such faulty
development. Education is how the collective aspects of society try
to facilitate healthy development. The individual spiritual aspect of
a particular child needs to be developed to form a positive identity
and a virtuous life style so that the child can develop all the qualities
which he doth inherently possess.
There is a seamless transition in the developing child from following
the guidance of her parents to eventually constructing and developing
her own moral rules and virtues. If this process is deficient, we have
in extreme cases a person with a multiple personality structure or
even more destructive diseases like psychosis or personality disorders,
or in less destructive cases a person with a number of subpersonali-
ties that are poorly integrated, causing neurotic symptoms and social
problems for the adult. Another important issue to consider is the
fact that during childhood the moral sense of the child develops, first
in total dependency of the parenting figures, then this development
becomes more and more directed by the awakening sense of morality
in the growing child. Ken Wilber25 has summarized the different
stages of this development, showing a rather surprising conformity
between different researchers.
The fundamental question of developmental psychology is, how
does a human person come to be him/herself? When looking at the
tetrarchic structure of the universe, the becoming-a-self process can
be understood in this structure. What then is this self, this human
being that has become a self?
Talking about the experience of one’s self, Augustinus Karl Wuch-
erer Huldenfeld has summarized what the self is and how it relates
to the whole world (translation by this writer):

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The Self is not somehow a spiritual nucleus in the center of
the person, it is rather you, as you are present in your envi-
ronment; this environment belongs to you and you belong to
it. Your whole past belongs to this environment as well, not
only your past, but also the past of the whole world belongs
there. Moreover, all of your future, even the future of the
whole world belongs to this your environment. All of this, to
which you belong, is you, if you are yourself. The self of the
person is in a certain way the whole of everything that is.26
Not surprisingly, as we have seen, when the environment of the child
is severely disunited and disturbed, the child cannot develop herself;
in the case of Cathy, there were four different selves developed. In such
an environment, and in many other cases, the self that is developed
will be a truncated, a disturbed, an angry or worthless self.
On the other hand, `Abdu’l-Bahá stated that we are expressing and
representing all bounties of life.
Consider: We plant a seed. A complete and perfect tree appears
from it, and from each seed of this tree another tree can be pro-
duced. Therefore, the part is expressive of the whole, for this seed
was a part of the tree, but therein potentially was the whole tree.
So each one of us may become expressive or representative of all
the bounties of life to mankind. This is the unity of the world of
humanity. This is the bestowal of God. This is the felicity of the
human world, and this is the manifestation of the divine favor.7
(PUP 16)
This interprets the word of Bahá’u’lláh:
Ye are all the leaves of one tree and the drops of one ocean. (TB 27)

The Essence of Man
Tetrarchic Psychopathology
This is by far the most difficult area of application of this tetrarchic
understanding of psychology. How do the different mental illnesses
affect the four areas of a human person? The four principles constitut-
ing the whole person are affected in almost all mental disorders, to
different degrees and in different ways. The modern classification of
Mental Disorders in DSM IV is not made with any structure in mind;
the psychoanalytic structure of previous DSMs was totally abandoned
and a strictly behavioral structure was used, only looking at what is
measurable and not what is meaningful. Fortunately, a new classifica-
tion scheme for mental disorders has been developed recently, called
PDM, which seems to integrate the analytic or dynamic perspective
with the behavioral approach in DSM IV.
The Psychodynamic Diagnostic Manual (PDM) is a diagnostic
framework that attempts to characterize the whole person—the
depth as well as the surface of emotional, cognitive, and social
functioning. …
The PDM is based on current neuroscience, treatment outcome
research, and other empirical investigations. Research on brain
development and the maturation of mental processes suggests
that patterns of emotional, social, and behavioral functioning
involve many areas working together rather than in isolation.
Relying on oversimplification and favoring what is measurable over
what is meaningful do not operate in the service of good science.27
This manual better describes the full dimension of mental health
and illness.
The process of going from mental health to an exclusive behavioral
health has consequences; the human person is seen less as a living

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
organism and more as an accidental conglomerate of behaviors. Con-
sequently, any aberrant behavior can be classified as mental illness,
even misbehavior of a child. Taking the corrections of the PDM into
account allows the proposed tetrarchic structure to classify mental
illness in a more appropriate and realistic way.
All mental disorders are a combination of spiritual and physical
aspects. All are related to the individual and collective functioning
of a person. Since modern classification only looks at the behavior of
a mental ill patient, the classification becomes questionable. When
for example Attention-Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder is diagnosed,
only the behavior of the child is taken into account and often it is
assumed, without any scientific proof, that there is an underlying
physical problem present. Since a good behavioral program can cure
the majority of children with this disorder, one must assume the
problem starts in the social and spiritual environment of the child
and not in the biological structure. There might be some physical
propensity to act out in this way, but this acting out can be controlled
first by the parental environment and eventually by the child. There
are some few cases where the physical structure of the child is too
difficult to be controlled and, in such cases, medication might help to
assist the child to control his disorder. In most cases, medication only
covers up and does not cure.
When considering schizophrenia a similar but much more serious
situation seems to exist. Here the expression of the spiritual or
rational faculty is severely disturbed and the patient is unable to keep
contact with social and often physical reality and behaves in a bizarre
and irrational way, expressing his personal experiences in strange
words and behaviors. What happens in regards to the tetrarchic
structure of such a patient is the fact that the individual quadrant is
not functioning, and cannot relate properly with other humans and
society. It even affects the individual bodily structure of a person, as
it is perceived by the affected patient, and that seems to have even

The Essence of Man
physical consequences for the body. We draw this conclusion because
we cannot overlook the fact that all four quadrants are interconnected
and influencing each other.
In depression, something else seems to happen. The balance between
depression and mania seems to be located more in the tension
between will and purpose, rather than inwardness and outwardness,
so that the will is depressed in order to contain anger and hopeless-
ness. Only in its opposite, in mania, the will becomes so strong that
unusual feats are possible for such a person, such as living with little
sleep and incessant action and talk.
In what used to be called neurotic disorders, it appears that the uni-
fication of the different subpersonalities has not been successful, so
some of them, and often the most destructive, take over and induce
self-destructive action in the patient.
Tetrarchic Psychotherapy
It remains to be seen what might happen to psychotherapy if the
four aspects, the four tetrarchic principles, are considered and
therapy is structured in that way. The word ‘therapy’ in the Greek
language originally meant veneration or service to the gods, and was
then used for all service or care, especially care of the sick. If this is
taken seriously, we could define psychotherapy as the care for the
psyche, the spiritual essence of man, which is the Divine gift given to
man and which needs protection and service, education and therapy
to flourish, especially when ill and endangered. A new paradigm of
therapeutic intervention needs to be envisioned and it might look
something like this:
A good therapist, using the tools of his craft, might consider all four
aspects of man in unity. Neither the physical body nor the social

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
environment, neither the individual spirit nor the spiritual unity of
humankind, can be neglected in such a therapy. If these tetrarchic
principles are considered as the fundamental structure of the patient,
then all the different approaches can be used. Behavioral therapy
would work for the bodily structure, social intervention for the
problem the patient has with society. Insight therapy and dynamic
approaches are for dealing with will and identity, and spiritual con-
siderations will lead the therapist to consider the sense of unity and
higher levels of connection with humanity and God.
It is certainly true what the Universal House of Justice said about the
future of psychology and the contribution Bahá’í psychologists will
make.
Bahá’í psychologists, who know from the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
the true pattern of human life, will be able to make great strides
in the development of this science, and will help profoundly in
the alleviation of human suffering. (MUHJ63)
Conclusions
In conclusion, it needs to be said that this paper as presented is more
of a heuristic initial exploration and that the practical application of
its finding will take time. What we see today are only its first and
tentative results. Several basic conclusions can already be drawn
from the facts presented in this paper. These conclusions could be
the beginning of a psychology according to the Bahá’í Revelation and
need to be considered as a new paradigm of a psychology of the future.
1.	 The essence of man is in his spirituality, not in his body
or anything related to the body. Spirituality in man is one
single reality, non-local and non-material. Spirituality

The Essence of Man
develops in relationship with other humans during child-
hood and it is the basis of man’s moral and ethical behavior,
as expressed in virtues or vices.
2.	 This spirituality or soul of man is unknown and man is
not aware of it; it becomes noticed and observable in the
instruments it uses. These instruments are all the rational
powers of man, including the power of the senses and of
the action of man
3.	 During childhood, all relationships of the growing
human being result in different more or less unified
subpersonalities, which are the vestiges of all early rela-
tionships of an individual; together they form the mature
and maturing person.
4.	 It is up to the individual to develop these subpersonalities
through virtues into an ever-advancing level; otherwise they
will be functioning on a lower level of reduced spirituality,
which can be called vice or evil. If not developed throughout
life these spiritual ambitions of man are lacking and a failed
life results.
5.	 The way the unification of the different subpersonalities
can best be described is by using the concept of Unity
in Diversity, in which the different parts support and
express the whole and the whole supports the parts, and
any increase in diversity promotes an increase in unity and
vice versa.
6.	 The principle of Unity in Diversity can therefore be called
an ontological principle as well as a psychological principle.
Ontologically, all created realities are expressions of this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
principle; they consist of parts forming a whole and they
are equally parts to a higher whole, and the relationship
between them is always that of Unity in Diversity.
7.	 Psychologically, it is the challenge and task of being
human to integrate the original diversity into a higher
and more valuable spiritual whole, which will at the same
time improve the diverse parts of the individual. At the
same time, this individual process will promote the inte-
gration of the whole of humanity into a higher level of
Unity in Diversity.
8.	 This process of integration is inherent in the human predic-
ament and is usually called culture, which is understood as
a process that is happening in every individual human being
and in humanity as a whole. It is dependent ontologically
on the creative Word of God as presented in the Revelation
of God in the progressive Revelation of the Manifestations
of God throughout history.
9.	 The source of all education is God and the source of all
healing is God, which means that all education by parents,
teachers and even by nature is from God, that all healing
of physical and mental illness is from God, that there is
ultimately no Remover of difficulties save God. (SWB 216)
The history of psychology can be seen as demonstrating an increas-
ing and complex progress towards the understanding of the essence
of man, which is not without failures and regressions. This paper
attempted to increase the understanding of the soul or psyche of man
(i.e., of psychology) in the light of the Bahá’í Revelation, in order to
move toward a Bahá’í Psychology of the future.

The Essence of Man
Bahá’u’lláh has expressed this process in His Writings, especially in
the following verse (the sentence is broken down by this writer for
better understanding):
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and advance into
the ocean of acceptance, so that we may perceive, with an eye
purged from all conflicting elements, the worlds of unity and
diversity, of variation and oneness, of limitation and detach-
ment, and wing our flight unto the highest and innermost
sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of God.7 (KI 160)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
NOTES
Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation Of Bahá’u’lláh volume 2: Adrianople
1863–68, George Ronald, Oxford 1977, page 144) comments on this
passage of the Gleanings, which is taken from Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet to
Mírzá Hádí: “Mirza Hadiy-i-Qazvini, one of the Letters of the Living,
requested Bahá’u’lláh to explain among other things the meaning of
this tradition for him.  In a lengthy Tablet to Mírzá Hádí, Bahá’u’lláh
explains that the soul of man, which He refers to as the rational faculty,
is an emanation from the worlds of God.  Every faculty in man, whether
physical or spiritual, is a manifestation of the soul.  For instance, each of
the senses derives its power from the soul and every spiritual quality is
due to it.  Yet the sum total of all these faculties within a human being
does not make the soul.  So, we might ask, what is the soul? Bahá’u’lláh
affirms that the soul is unknowable.  Should one contemplate this
theme till eternity, he will never be able to understand the nature of his
soul, or fathom the mysteries enshrined in it.  …” p.  145: “Mírzá Hádí,
who as mentioned was one of the Letters of the Living, failed at the end
to remain loyal to the cause of Bahá’u’lláh.  He followed Mírzá Yahyá
and deprived himself of the bounties of God. ”
This concept of the hermeneutic circle was developed by Heidegger
and his followers Ricoeur in France and Gadamer in Germany,
although its beginnings are found in Aristotle’s De Interpretatione (On
Interpretation).
This definition is taken from Simon Blackburn, Oxford Dictionary of
Philosophy, Oxford University Press, Oxford, New York, 1996.
Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, p.  88: “As we look upon the
universe we observe that all composite beings or existing phenomena are
made up primarily of single elements bound together by a power of attrac-
tion. Through this power of attraction, cohesion has become manifest
between atoms of these composing elements.”
This passage from Bahá’u’lláh ‘s Tablet of Wisdom was discussed at
length in a previous paper of this author in Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Seven:
Wolfgang Klebel, “Lawh-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom:
Towards a Progressive Bahá’í Theology” pp.  127–138.
More about the power of the heart can be found in The Light of ‘Irfán,
ibid. , Book Ten, 2009, Wolfgang Klebel, pp.  107–131, “In the Heart
of all that Is: ‘Heart’ in Bahá’í Writings and Science” and pp.  131–149,
“In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: ‘Heart’ in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology”.

The Essence of Man
In the original this quote is in one paragraph, here the sentences are
separated for easier analysis.
The question of the Freudian lack of explanation for freedom,
sublimation and religion in general was a topic of the dissertation
of this writer, it even could be demonstrated that Freud avoided any
meaningful explanation of these terms he only used when describing
his analytic practice.  Why did he have to use these concepts, whenever
he was explaining what analysis can do for the patient? He could not
understand that his system of psychology artificially excluded these
very important human features because of his deterministic and mate-
rialistic prejudices.  See Wolfgang Klebel: “Transference and Culture,
Towards a New Understanding of this Concept of Depth-Psychology”,
Dissertation, Chapman College, Orange California, 1976.
Wolfgang Klebel: “True of Thyself, The Mystical Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber as System of Integral Philosophy”; in
Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Six, Bahá’í National Center, Evanston, Il, 2000.
Compare Wikipedia under “senses”.
See endnote 6.
“Consider the sense of touch.  Witness how its power hath spread
itself over the entire human body.  Whereas the faculties of sight and
of hearing are each localized in a particular center, the sense of touch
embraceth the whole human frame. ” (GWB 194) `Abdu’l-Bahá further
accounts of these five senses when He said:
“One is the knowledge of things perceptible to the senses — that is
to say, things which the eye, or ear, or smell, or taste, or touch can
perceive, which are called objective or sensible. ” (SAQ 83)
See endnote 6.
In a previous paper this understanding of the Word was compared
with the philosophy of the personal dialogical thinkers such as Martin
Buber and Ferdinand Ebner, presented in the paper “The Word is
the Master Key for the Whole World: The Bahá’í Revelation and the
‘Teaching and Spirit of the Cause’ in Dialogical and Personal Thinking”,
in Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Eight, 2007, pp.  53–125.
The concept of “thought radiation” cannot be found anywhere else in
the translated tablets of `Abdu’l-Bahá (as per Ocean); this indicates
that the translation of the speech may not have been authenticated.  It
is quoted here because the other part of the section is consonant with
other statements of `Abdu’l-Bahá and seems to interpret the words of
Bahá’u’lláh correctly.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Wolfgang Klebel in Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Five, Wilmette 2004, “Unity
and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin”, pp.  77–108, especially pp.
83–85 and note 28.
From this experience one could draw a connection with the biblical
description of possessions, which otherwise create a problem for the
psychologist.  This thought could be further developed and studied.
When this is considered, Jesus was functioning as a healer, a therapist,
albeit not with any procedure but by the power of His personality.
Throughout all the ‘Irfán papers of this author this word is quoted
about a hundred times, indicating its importance.
Ken Wilber, Integral Psychology. Consciousness, Spirit, Psychology,
Therapy; Shambala; Boston & London, 2000, chapter Subpersonalities
pages 100–102 and passim.
Ken Wilber’s system of psychology was described in Lights of ‘Irfán,
Book Six, Wolfgang Klebel ibid. , “True of Thyself: The Mystical
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s System of Integral Philoso-
phy. ” The Critique of this system was presented with the concept of
“Spiritual Materialism of Transpersonal Psychology and Ken Wilber,
following Johannes Toegel in Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Seven: Wolfgang
Klebel, “Lawh-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology. ”
See Ken Wilber, Integral Psychology, ibid. , especially the 23 Chart in
appendix.
Tetrarchy in the Roman Empire under Diocletian is described by Pliny
the Elder as follows: regnorum instar singulae et in regna contribuuntur.”
(see Wikipedia under tetrarchy) “Each tetrarch is the equivalent of a
singular ruler, and each is contributing to the rule of the whole. ” The
term tetrarch is known from the Bible where the different tetrarchs,
the sons of Herod the Great, who were ruling Israel are mentioned
in the history of John the Baptist (Luke 3:1, 3:19), Jesus (Luke 9:7,
Matt.  14:1) and then Paul (Acts 13:1).  Herod the Great was a monarch
(monos=single, arche=beginning, principle, prince, ruler), he divided
the kingdom among his sons into four tetrachies; the word tetrarch is
similar to monarch, instead of one ruler there are four rulers or princes
in one kingdom.

The book of Sirach or Ecclesiasticus forms part of the Greek Bible
though it does not appear in the Jewish Canon; it is therefore one of the
deuterocanonical books.  It was written in Hebrew.  St.  Jerome and the
rabbis (who quote from it) knew the book in its original language.  It is
accepted as part of the Christian biblical canon by Catholics, Eastern
Orthodox, and most Oriental Orthodox but not by most Protestants.
(Cf.  Wikipedia and the Introduction in “The Jerusalem Bible”; Double-
day and Company, Inc. ; Garden City, New York, 1966).
From Wikipedia under Human Embryogenesis.
Ken Wilber, Integral Psychology, ibid.
Augustinus Wucherer-Huldenfeld, Befreiung und Gotteserkenntnis
(Liberation and Knowing God), Böhlau Verlag Wien, Köln, Weimar,
2009, p.  270.
This description is taken from the website of the Psychodynamic
Diagnostic Manual.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Part 2
Ian Kluge
1: Introduction
In order to demonstrate how the work of Plotinus complements
and offers new insights into the philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í
Revelation, this paper expands and builds on some of the issues and
ideas presented in “Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings, Part 1.”1
A project like this immediately raises two issues. The first is, what
is meant by referring to a philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í Writ-
ings? Does not Shoghi Effendi write that Bahá’u’lláh “has not merely
enunciated certain universal principles, or propounded a particular
philosophy, however potent, sound and universal these may be.”2?
Does he not say that the Bahá’í Faith has “refus[ed] to be labeled a
mere philosophy of life?”3 Elsewhere he writes,
For the Cause is not a system of philosophy; it is essentially
a way of life, a religious faith that seeks to unite all people on
a common basis of mutual understanding and love, and in a
common devotion to God.4
In light of these statements, is not a project like this in danger of
reducing the Writings to a man-made philosophy? In our view, such is
not the case because this study recognizes that studying the philosoph-
ical aspects of the Writings does not exhaust Their contents; there is
obviously more to the Writings than philosophy. However, we must
clearly recognize that these philosophical aspects exist; there are pas-
sages referring to metaphysics and ontology, epistemology, ethics, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
philosophy of man, social and political philosophy and philosophy
of history. Furthermore, Shoghi Effendi indicates that philosophical
characteristics of the Teachings exist when he refers to the “philosophy
of progressive revelation”5 and the “Bahá’í philosophy of social and
political organization.”6 Indeed, he encourages a questioner to cor-
relate the Writings with contemporary developments in philosophy
and only warns him or her away from what he calls “metaphysical
hairsplitting.”
Philosophy, as you will study it and later teach it, is certainly
not one of the sciences that begins and ends in words. Fruit-
less excursions into metaphysical hair-splitting is meant, not
a sound branch of learning like philosophy.7
Correlation with other philosophical schools can only be done by
focusing on the philosophic aspects of the Writings which is pre-
cisely what Shoghi Effendi is encouraging us to do. In addition, we
have `Abdu’l-Bahá’s use of philosophical knowledge, principles and
arguments throughout His talks and letters, as, for example, in His
proofs for the existence of God. In one such He proves the necessity
of God by presenting the philosophical argument that the idea of
an actual infinite regress of causes is “absurd.”8 The impossibility of
actual infinite regresses is a highly philosophical issue and brings in
its train a variety of logical implications. Elsewhere `Abdu’l-Bahá
proves the immortality of the soul with the argument that simple,
i.e. noncomposite, things cannot decompose and die.9 Such passages
amply demonstrate that the Writings have well-developed philo-
sophic features that require study.
The second issue raised by this project is what do we mean by a philo-
sophical understanding of the Writings? In a nutshell, a philosophical
understanding seeks rational knowledge of three things: what the
Writings say explicitly or implicitly; the connections among various
statements, and how they are related to other philosophies.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
First, a philosophic understanding of the Writings seeks to discover
what the Writings say explicitly or implicitly about a certain subject,
and especially about subjects related to such branches of learning
as metaphysics and ontology, epistemology, ethics, philosophy of
man and philosophy of history and politics. Explicit statements on
these subjects are easy to find but their hidden implications are not
always readily apparent. For example, in regards to epistemology,
Abdu’l-Bahá says that “the essence of a thing is known through its
qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden.”10 He adds, “every-
thing is known by its qualities and not by its essence.”11 The explicit
epistemological meaning of these statements is clear but the implicit
implications are equally important. For example, they guarantee the
ontological integrity of all things, and especially of the human soul
which no one but God can know in and of itself. Our freedom and
spiritual independence and freedom from undue interference are
guarded in this way.
Second, a philosophical understanding seeks to identify and study
how the explicit and hidden connections among the teachings, so
that we can discern more of the underlying unity of the Writings, i.e.
their organic, interdependent structure. In other words, a philosophic
understanding can help us recognize the Writings as an integral
whole. This is important because the inability to see the organic inte-
gral structure of the teachings inevitably causes us to underestimate
the strength of their rational coherence. Difficulties on these matters
inevitably undercuts our ability to explicate and defend the Writings
and to carry on meaningful dialogue with other thought-traditions.
Third, a philosophical understanding of the Writings allows us to
discover the relationship of the ideas in the Writings to those in other
philosophical schools. For example, given the emanationist metaphys-
ics starting from a non-material source as the ultimately real, it seems
clear that the Writings have significant similarities to some forms
of idealism. But if so, what kind of idealism do they resemble—the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
subjective idealism of Berkeley or the objective idealism of Hegel or
Schopenhauer? And how do they relate to other great traditions,
such as Thomism, Transcendentalism, existentialism, phenomenology
and neo-Aristotelianism? Philosophic understanding can also help us
understand why the Writings are so difficult to harmonize rationally
with dialectical materialism, logical positivism or postmodernism.
Knowing which philosophic traditions the Writings resemble can help
us expand our understanding of the Writings by widening our intel-
lectual horizons, sharpening our thinking about important questions
and studying the Writings from new perspectives.
As an addendum, we should say that, paradoxically, a philosophical
understanding of the Writings also helps us to appreciate the inherent
limits of rational thought. The Writings do not just promote rational
understanding but also the “understanding heart.”12 Not everything
can be fully understood or comprehended by reason alone, such as
the deepest inner motives that cause us to accept Bahá’u’lláh as the
Manifestation for this Age or our fullest love for the Manifestation
and His plan for the world. As Pascal said, “The heart has reasons
which reason cannot know.”13
Finally, it should be explicitly noted that examinations of similari-
ties between the Writings and philosophies that pre-dated them are
emphatically not be read as ‘influence studies’ and no statement
made in this paper is intended in even the slightest degree to suggest
any such influence. Influence studies and similarity studies are two
different things. The mere notation and exploration of similarities
as presented in a work or works is not the same thing as a study that
traces the specific pathways by which one set of ideas affects another.
This latter is an historical study involving questions of how, when,
where, who, to what extent and even why, while the similarity study
only takes note of the materials presented directly to the reader and
explores whether they are alike or not. It should also be noted that
there is no logical way to infer historical influence from similarity per

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
se. Many things are similar but are not, therefore, causally related or
influenced either symmetrically or asymmetrically. Thus, it is clear
that this similarity study offers no grounds whatever for inferences
about influence.
2: The Theology of Aristotle
It is possible, of course, to study the agreements and convergences
between the Bahá’í Writings and Neoplatonism from a strictly non-
historical perspective, i.e. to study the two as separately developed
and independent but strikingly similar systems of thought. In biology
such a development is known as “convergent evolution.” However, in
the case of the Bahá’í Writings and Neoplatonism, there is strong
evidence that links the cultural world of late antiquity i.e. of Ploti-
nus and Proclus to the cultural world of Bahá’u’lláh. This concerns
the entry of Neoplatonic thought into the Muslim and, specifically,
Persian world.
The first entry to Neoplatonism into Persia came in 529 AD when
the Christian emperor Justinian I closed the School of Athens and
the philosophers, the vast majority of them Neoplatonists, fled for
protection to the Sassanid King Khosrau I. They brought with them
numerous philosophical manuscripts including those of their master
Plotinus. Their exile from Rome only lasted four years, but, at the
very least, contact between Neoplatonism and the Persian cultural
sphere had been established. Neoplatonist learning then continued
in the Academy of Gundishapur which was an important Sassanid
intellectual center.
However, there is a far more tangible link between Neoplatonism
and the Muslim world, namely a text called The Theology of Aristotle
which was “the most important direct source of Neoplatonic ideas
in the Islamic world.”14 This book, allegedly produced in Baghdad

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
in the Ninth Century CE, was actually a misattribution of Ploti-
nus’ Enneads to Aristotle. It was widely circulated and influenced
generations of great Muslim philosophers including such Persians
as al-Ghazzali, Ibn Sina (Avicenna), Suhrawardi and Mulla Sadra.
In other words, there is a clearly identifiable Neoplatonic influence
in the cultural world in which Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá lived.
Thus, it is understandable that Bahá’u’lláh sometimes expressed
His revelation in a language recognizable to those familiar with this
philosophical tradition.
In itself, the Theology was a paraphrase (it has even been called
a ‘forgery’) with some additions of Enneads IV to VI. Some of the
paraphrases are reasonably close to the original passages in the Enne-
ads, but some in some cases the Theology’s words stray far from the
meaning of the original.15 However, the Neoplatonic language used
in the Writings is consistent with Plotinus’ usages. The Theology was
augmented by other, though less influential, Neoplatonic works such
as the Book of Causes based on Proclus’ Elements of Theology, as well as
The Letter on Divine Science which also paraphrased portions of the
Enneads. However, these other books lacked wide influence because
they were not associated with Aristotle’s prestige.16
The pervasive influence of The Theology of Aristotle also sheds a cul-
tural and historical light on one of the interesting features of the
Bahá’í Writings, viz. the mixture of elements that from a historical
perspective can be called ‘Platonic’ and ‘Aristotelian.’ An idea which
is historically associated with Plato is that the “the earth is the mirror
of the Kingdom; the mental world corresponds to the spiritual world.”17
Plato, of course, taught that the material world was a reflection or
shadow of the ideal spiritual world. Elements that are historically
associated with Aristotle are four-fold causality18, actuality and
potentiality19 and arguments, such as the impossibility of an actual
(as distinct from theoretical) infinite regress to prove the existence
of a Prime Mover.20 The co-existence of Platonic and Aristotelian

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
elements is significant because one of the major goals of Neopla-
tonists from Plotinus onward was to reconcile the ideas of the two
Greek philosophical giants and fit them into a coherent whole. This
harmonious use of both Plato and Aristotle points to another simi-
larity between the Writings and Neoplatonism.
3. Discourse About God
In this section we shall examine Bahá’í and Neoplatonic discourse
about God or the One. Our discussion will start with an observa-
tion by Eugene F. Bales that the Enneads employ “three modes of
discourse”21 about God.
The first mode of discourse is employed when he speaks of
The One as though it transcends Being, Mind, Freedom,
Will, Consciousness and Form and is thus void of all act and
intelligible content. This mode of discourse I shall refer to
as meontological.22
In this mode God is spoken of as transcending all the phenomenal
attributes including not only the most fundamental one – being – but
also form, which all phenomenal things must have to be particular
things, as well as higher attributes such as mind and consciousness.
The Writings, of course, warn us against any reduction of God to the
level of a phenomenal being:
This appearance through manifestation [i.e. as a phenomenal
being] would be for God, the Most High, simple imperfec-
tion; and this is quite impossible, for the implication would
be that the Absolute Preexistent is qualified with phenom-
enal attributes. But if this were so, pure independence would
become mere poverty, and true existence would become non-
existence, and this is impossible.23

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
`Abdu’l-Bahá then goes on to say, “The preexistence of God is the
preexistence of essence, and also preexistence of time.”24 In other
words, God has “preexistence” and this “preexistence” is essentially
His, i.e. it constitutes Him. This can be understood to mean that
insofar as God is preexistent, He transcends ‘being’ or existence
itself; He is the pre-condition needed for the being of created things
to occur. For things to ‘be,’ they must be limited, i.e. have their own
particular or limited being. However, since God is not limited in any
way, He does not have being in this way. This is emphasized in the
following statement:
To every discerning and illuminated heart it is evident
that God, the unknowable Essence, the Divine Being25, is
immensely exalted beyond every human attribute, such as
corporeal existence, ascent and descent, egress and regress.
Far be it from His glory that human tongue should ade-
quately recount His praise, or that human heart comprehend
His fathomless mystery. He is, and hath ever been, veiled in
the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will remain in His
Reality everlastingly hidden from the sight of men.26
Here, too, we observe how God transcends, “is immensely exalted
beyond,” phenomenal attributes, and, therefore, beyond human
conception. Clearly, the word “Being” in the phrase “Divine Being”
is not used in the same way as when it refers to created beings since
it is qualified by the word “Divine.” This passage draws the obvious
conclusion that since God surpasses ordinary attributes of being, He
also surpasses human understanding:
It is evident that the human understanding is a quality of the
existence of man, and that man is a sign of God: how can the
quality of the sign surround the creator of the sign?—that is
to say, how can the understanding, which is a quality of the
existence of man, comprehend God? Therefore, the Reality

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
of the Divinity is hidden from all comprehension, and con-
cealed from the minds of all men. We see that everything
which is lower is powerless to comprehend the reality of
that which is higher…. Therefore, how can man, the created,
understand the reality of the pure Essence of the Creator?27
The “lower” and “higher” refer to ontological dependence. That which
is “lower” in the scale of being depends on that which is “higher,” and
God, being independent of all things, is the highest and therefore,
beyond comprehension by any created thing. Another way in which
the Writings emphasize God’s transcendence of the ordinary attri-
butes of being is by the use of such phrases as “the All-Bounteous, the
Most Generous,”28 “the Almighty, the All-Knowing.”29 Phrases like
this abound throughout the Writings. All of them indicate that God
possess these attributes pre-eminently, in a way that surpasses the
nature of all created things.
Perhaps the most dramatic statement of God’s transcendence vis-à-
vis the created, phenomenal world is the following quotation:
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind
the one true God with His creation, and no resemblance
whatever can exist between the transient and the Eternal,
the contingent and the Absolute, He hath ordained that
in every age and dispensation a pure and stainless Soul be
made manifest in the kingdoms of earth and heaven.30
A clearer and categorical statement of God’s transcendence is difficult
to imagine, since there is “no direct intercourse” and “no resemblance
whatever” between the Divine and creation. Implicit within this is
the conclusion that none of the attributes that apply to phenomenal
existence apply to God, i.e. that God’s mode of existence is utterly
different in kind from ours.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Plotinus pursues this same line of thought from a more philosophical
perspective. He writes,
The First must be without form, and if without form, then it
has no Being. Being must have some definition and therefore
be limited.; but The First cannot be thought of as having a
definition and limit, for thus it would not be the Source [of
form and limit] but the particular item indicated by the defi-
nition assigned to it.31
Here, too, we see the idea that the One transcends ‘being’ because
‘being’ implies existence as a particular thing and this, in turn, implies
having limitation, i.e. definition and form. However, God surpasses
definition and form and therefore exceeds the capacities of the human
mind: “No vision taketh in Him…”32 Because God exceeds form,
limit and definition He cannot be merely one more thing among all
the other thing. He is the pre-condition for their existence and con-
sequently, He must transcend these attributes.
Furthermore, strange as it may seem, for Plotinus God transcends
act or will in the ordinary human understanding of these terms
(which will have to be amended later), because both of these imply
deficiency or lack. We will something to be or to be done, we act in
order to achieve goals because we do not yet have the thing, situation
or condition for which we act. We are a subject acting to obtain a
goal of some kind. However, since God is “self-subsisting,”33 i.e. self-
sufficient and lacks nothing, He transcends the ordinary sense of
these terms. Another way of explaining this concept is to say that
the will of the One is not something which aims at an end,
but [is] the end itself. There is no distinction of any kind
between the will and its accomplishment.34

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
The logical basis for Rist’s view is the absolute unity of the One or
God which vitiates any distinction between intention (will) and act.
In God, they are one.
Of course, the Writings refer to “the Divine Will that pervadeth all
that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth”35 but from our
perspective, the qualifier “Divine” already indicates transcendence of
any mere human conception of ‘will.’ To claim otherwise would be
to posit deficiency in God. However, as Plotinus makes clear, in the
case of the One, willing need not be motivated by lack or need for
something; rather, the One wills and acts not out of need but from
completeness and super-abundance.
In our view, this concept of superabundance is the ontological signifi-
cance of some of the imagery in the Writings:
This is the Ocean out of which all seas have proceeded, and
with which every one of them will ultimately be united. From
Him all the Suns have been generated, and unto Him they
will all return. Through His potency the Trees of Divine
Revelation have yielded their fruits….36
We might characterize this as the ‘imagery of superabundance,’
emphasized by the capitalization of such words as “Ocean.” Other
examples are “Ocean of everlasting bounty,”37 “the Most Great
Ocean,”38 and “the ocean of My eternal wealth.”39 These suggestions
of super-abundance are also implicit in such epithets of God as “the
All-Possessing,”40 “the All-Bounteous, the Most Generous,”41 and
“the Great Giver.”42
The language and imagery we have examined in the Writings and the
Enneads suggests that God’s actions are the consequence of His super-
abundance and His transcendence of all merely phenomenal qualities.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
3.1 The Second Mode of Discourse About God
In his article on the modes of discourse about God, Bales identifies a
second mode of discourse [which] is employed when Plotinus speaks
of The Good [i.e. the One or God] as though it is within Being rather
than beyond it, the essence of Act, containing all things potentially,
as having some kind of Consciousness, Will, Mind and as being
the Transcendent Self. This mode of discourse I shall designate
ontological.43
In other words, the second mode of discourse treats the Good, the
One or God as having presence in the phenomenal world instead of
only transcending it. He quotes Plotinus:
Hence the Good is not to be sought outside [of the Good]; it
could not have fallen outside of what is; it cannot possibly be
found in non-Being; within Being the Good must lie, since
it is never a non-Being. If that Good has Being and is within
the realm of Being, then it is present, self-contained, in
everything: we, therefore, are not separated from Being; we
are in it; nor is Being separated from us; therefore all beings
are one.44
In Plotinus’ view, the Good cannot be entirely divorced from the
phenomenal world of being because it would be without presence
within creation, and this absence would effectively be equivalent to
“non-Being” within creation. This is impossible since the Good can-
not be “non-Being” anywhere: such an absence of the Good would
be a deficiency. In the language of the Writings, the Good would no
longer be “omnipresent”45 and, therefore, lacking an essential divine
attribute. Because the Good is also present (somehow) in the world
of being, we are not separated from the Good and are joined together
by its presence.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
However, we must not conclude that Plotinus means that the Good
literally incarnates itself in specific objects; rather the Good is present
pre-eminently, i.e. in a manner consistent with its own divine nature.
The Writings also reject the belief that God’s presence in creation
means that God is somehow divided or distributed in the particular
objects of the world. `Abdu’l-Bahá categorically denies the Sufi view
which requires that the Independent Wealth should descend to the
degree of poverty, that the Preexistent should confine itself to phe-
nomenal forms, and that Pure Power should be restricted to the state
of weakness, according to the limitations of contingent beings. And
this is an evident error.46
Although the Bahá’í Writings disallow incarnation as a mode of
God’s presence in creation, they explicitly recognize God’s pres-
ence in the phenomenal world. Bahá’u’lláh writes, “No thing have
I perceived, except that I perceived God within it, God before it, or
God after it.”47 Perceiving God “within” things is to see the presence
of the Divine in them, and by extension, in the phenomenal world.
Of course, the Divine is not present in the phenomenal world in the
same way we are as incarnated beings. (The phrases “God before
it” and, perhaps, “God after it” refer to the transcendence of God.)
God’s presence is also evident in the following quotation:
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the attri-
butes and names of God, inasmuch as within every atom
are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent testimony to the
revelation of that Most Great Light. Methinks, but for the
potency of that revelation, no being could ever exist. How
resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an
atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within
a drop! To a supreme degree is this true of man…. Again He
saith: “And also in your own selves: will ye not, then, behold
the signs of God?”48

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The concept of God’s presence through the revelation of the “attri-
butes and names of God” is clearly evident in this passage, which
also asserts that this revelation is necessary for phenomenal things to
exist. No kind of existence from the atoms to humankind is exempt
from revealing signs of God. Furthermore, it is worth noting that
humans have a privileged place for the divine presence to reveal itself:
“And also in your own selves: will ye not, then, behold the signs of
God?”49 Elsewhere, God reveals that “We are closer to man than his
life-vein.”50 A more dramatic way of emphasizing God’s presence in
humankind and in the phenomenal world is difficult to imagine.
The Neoplatonists recognize that God’s “attributes and names” are
present throughout creation. Proclus refines this insight into a uni-
versal principle of ontology:
Prop. 18. Everything which by its existence bestows a char-
acter on others itself primitively [originally] possess that
character which it communicates to its recipients.51
Any cause, therefore, “communicates” some of its nature or character
to what it causes and thus retains a presence in the effect. The opera-
tion of this principle is most readily evident in the creation of art, but
it is really a principle that describes action at all levels of reality.
The Writings also portray God’s presence in the phenomenal world
through His Will and His actions:
“He doeth whatsoever He willeth in the kingdom of creation,”
that thereby the sign of His sovereignty might be manifested
in all things.52
Here we observe how God acts “in the kingdom of creation” rather
than remaining transcendentally distant from it; moreover, He does

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
so to manifest signs of His presence in the phenomenal world. In a
similar vein, the Writings say,
…He doeth whatsoever He willeth and ordaineth whatso-
ever He pleaseth. Know thou moreover that all else besides
Him have been created through the potency of a word from
His presence, while of themselves they have no motion nor
stillness, except at His bidding and by His leave.53
God wills and ordains, i.e. issues commands that lead to the creation
of the phenomenal world among other things. Even more, nothing in
creation has “motion” or “stillness” except by God’s “leave” or permis-
sion, i.e. all things depend on God’s permission to act or not. This
emphasizes the extraordinary degree through which God’s power is
present through the actions of all things. He actively operates within
creation on an on-going basis in all our “motion … or stillness.”
God is also portrayed as acting in the phenomenal world by means
of progressive revelation according to which He takes part in human
history by sending Manifestations to guide us through the next phase
of our historical development. The Manifestation is the intermediary
through which this is accomplished.54 Furthermore, God establishes
a covenant with humankind and assists us in our troubles when He
listens to or answers our prayers. He is portrayed as a “beneficent
Father,”55 which is another image involving presence-in-the-world,
as is the image of God as the “compassionate physician,”56 and “the
Healer, the Preserver.”57 These and other quotations make it clear
that in addition to being utterly transcendent to the phenomenal
world, God is also portrayed as having presence within it.
If the One or God has a will to cause specific acts in the phenomenal
world, it seems logical to suppose that God, in some sense, has a self,
i.e. an identity, desires58 and a will. Otherwise, how, or why would it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
act in creation? In this way, the One may be portrayed as being within
the world. This is conclusion drawn by Bales, who claims that the
Enneads’ discourse about the Good proceeds “as though it is within
Being rather than beyond it:”59 the Good also is portrayed as having a
‘self’ which would, of course, make it the “Supreme Subject or Self.”60
Plotinus says, “He is what He is, the first self, transcendently The
Self.”61 The One, therefore, has, to that extent, an identity and the
will to express itself and its decrees, though to a greater degree than
any created thing.62 In the traditional language of theology, it has
these attributes pre-eminently.
The Bahá’í Writings also seem to suggest—albeit more tenuously
—that God has a self and refer to it in a number of passages. For
example, in His discussion about the four kinds of love `Abdu’l-Bahá
says that the third kind of love
is the love of God towards the Self or Identity of God. This is
the transfiguration of His Beauty, the reflection of Himself
in the mirror of His Creation. This is the reality of love, the
Ancient Love, the Eternal.63
Not only do we observe God’s presence “in the mirror of His creation”
but also we have an explicit reference to God’s “Self” and “identity.”
Indeed, in this case, we have a self-reflexive action by God, one in
which He is both subject-actor and object-recipient. Such internal
division is difficult to fathom vis-à-vis a transcendent God and is
conceivable only to an entity within the world of being. Further-
more, the Writings state that God “hath ordained the knowledge
of these sanctified Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His
own Self.”64 Moreover, some of God’s actions are portrayed as being
consistent with a being which has a sense of self:
He bestoweth His favor on whom He willeth, and from
whom He willeth He taketh it away. He doth whatsoever He

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
chooseth… He hath, however, caused you to be entangled
with its affairs, in return for what your hands have wrought
in His Cause.65
Elsewhere, God “willeth, and ordaineth that which He pleaseth.”66
Bestowing favor, willing, taking, causing and being pleased—these
are the kinds of actions consistent with a self that is involved with
creation. This raises the suggestion that God acts like a self or person
insofar as He has an identity, conscious knowledge (“the All-knowing,
the All-Wise”67), desires and will or intentionality. Of course, to say
this is only to say that He does not lack these attributes, not that He
is limited by them.68 Nonetheless, the possession of these attributes
allows us to conclude that God’s relationship to us involves a personal
aspect; that God is a ‘person’ in some pre-eminent way. Conversely,
we might say that it would mistaken to claim that the Bahá’í view
of God is impersonal or non-personal. He is not only a power or
ground-of-being, though He is these things as well. The personal
aspect of God’s relationship to us is also evident in the Manifestation
Who, as we shall see below, reflects the personhood of God into the
phenomenal world. It is through the Manifestation that we relate to
God personally.
3.2 The Third Mode of Discourse about God
Bales refers to the third mode of discourse about the One or God
as “paradoxical.”69 By this he means that it joins and “shows the
relationship between the first two modes of discourse,”70 it exhibits
traits of both the transcendent mode of discourse and the imminent
mode of discourse that indicates the One’s actions in the world. Bales’
paradigm case for the third mode in Plotinus is self-causation.71 The
One is said to be self-caused—but how can this be? For something to
cause itself it would have to exist in order to bring itself into existence.
But how can it do this before it exists? The cause and the caused are

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
identical: “his [the One’s] self-making is to be understood as simulta-
neous with Himself; the being is one and the same with the making.”72
This is logically untenable, or, to use Bales’ term, “paradoxical.” How-
ever, by means of this paradox, Plotinus unifies the discourse of God
as transcendent to being, i.e. transcendent to the phenomenal world
as we have seen in the first discussion and the discourse of God as
imminent or acting within being as we saw in the second.
Can such paradoxical concepts be found in the Bahá’í Writings? In
our view, they can, both implicitly and explicitly. For example, both
Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá refer to God as the “Self-Subsisting.”73
Self-subsistence means independence of anything outside itself,
i.e. absolute self-sufficiency, i.e. complete transcendence over the
conditions of phenomenal existence in which such uncompromised
self-sufficiency is impossible. In the phenomenal world of being self-
sufficiency means being one’s own final, formal, efficient and material
cause74—something that no phenomenal thing can be. Yet God is
exactly that from the phenomenal perspective. Thus, like the concept
of self-causation in Plotinus, the concept of self-subsistence paradoxi-
cally unifies two contradictory perspectives and modes of discourse.
Another example of such paradoxical concepts is found in the phrase
that God is “the most manifest of the manifest and the most hidden
of the hidden!”75 Unlike the previous example, the paradox is quite
explicit here. As absolutely transcendent, God is “the most hidden of
the hidden,” and yet as present throughout creation (God is seen in,
before and after things as explained above), God is plainly manifest
or visible if we have the desire to see. The transcendent and immanent
modes of discourse are joined in this description of God as they are in
the statement, “Nothing have I perceived except that I perceived God
before it, God after it, or God with it” which we have already exam-
ined.”76 Here, too, God’s transcendence and immanence are joined in
one paradoxical statement.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Perhaps the most important example of unifying the transcendent
and immanent perspectives is found in the discourse about the
Manifestation. It should be noted at this point that in the Enneads no
counterpart to the concept of a Manifestation exists. The knowledge
required to achieve freedom and salvation at the personal and social
levels needs only individual effort and does not require guidance
from someone through whom God speaks. Enlightenment comes to
the individual seeker through mystical union with the One, which
Plotinus describes as
the life of the gods and of the godlike and blessed among
men, liberation from the alien that besets us here, a life
taking no pleasure in the things of the earth, the passing of
the solitary to [the] solitary.77
The “solitary,” of course, refers in the first instance to the human
seeker who is alone in his quest for enlightenment, and in the second,
to the One who has no peer or likeness and is, therefore, alone.
Discourse about the Bahá’í concept of the Manifestation includes
and unifies transcendent and immanent elements. It may be objected
that this subject has little or no connection to the transcendence and
immanence of God; after all, the Manifestation is not God. While
this is patently true of the Manifestation in His earthly station, the
issue is more complex vis-à-vis His divine station. The following pas-
sage paradoxically joins both of these stations in the person of the
Manifestation Himself:
When I contemplate, O my God, the relationship that
bindeth me to Thee, I am moved to proclaim to all created
things “verily I am God”; and when I consider my own self, lo,
I find it coarser than clay!78

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The transcendent aspect is in the Manifestation’s statement, “I am
God.” As Baha’u’llah says,
Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to
declare: “I am God,” He, verily, speaketh the truth, and no
doubt attacheth thereto. For it hath been repeatedly demon-
strated that through their Revelation, their attributes and
names, the Revelation of God, His names and His attributes,
are made manifest in the world79
However, Baha’u’llah’s statement that when He considers Himself,
He finds Himself “coarser than clay!” includes the immanent aspect
of existence which His being also includes. Here is another example:
“Manifold and mysterious is My relationship with God. I am
He, Himself, and He is I, Myself, except that I am that I am,
and He is that He is.” And in like manner, the words: “Arise,
O Muhammad, for lo, the Lover and the Beloved are joined
together and made one in Thee.”80
The Manifestation embraces two contradictory identities, His own
identity as a creation and His identity as God the Creator, and this
duality-in-one necessarily requires paradoxical discourse as the
foregoing passage illustrates. The second part of this passage also
exemplifies the paradoxical discourse required by the Manifesta-
tion’s duality-in-one. The “Beloved,” of course, is God, “the Desire
of the world”81 and in this statement the lover and the “Beloved” are
paradoxically one. We may, therefore, conclude that the Manifestation
combines in one being both transcendent and immanent aspects and
any discourse about the nature of the Manifestation is inevitably
paradoxical. We observe this in the following selection:
Thus, viewed from the standpoint of their oneness and
sublime detachment, the attributes of Godhead, Divinity,

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Supreme Singleness, and Inmost Essence, have been, and are
applicable to those Essences of Being [Manifestations], inas-
much as they all abide on the throne of Divine Revelation,
and are established upon the seat of Divine Concealment.82
The Manifestation possess the “attributes of Godhead” and the
“Inmost Essence,” i.e. the attributes of transcendence. It is worth
noting that this passage contains another related paradox: the Mani-
festation is established both on the “throne of Divine Revelation”
and “Divine Concealment”; He is both hidden and revealed, with the
hidden referring to the transcendent aspect and the revealed to His
worldly, immanent aspect.
Here is more evidence of the Manifestation’s possession of attributes
of immanence in the world of being:
Viewed in the light of their second station—the station of dis-
tinction, differentiation, temporal limitations, characteristics
and standards—they manifest absolute servitude, utter desti-
tution, and complete self-effacement. Even as He saith: “I am
the servant of God. I am but a man like you.”83
The attributes listed here are those of ordinary, limited beings: they
are conditioned by time, have identifiable characteristics, have distinct
form and, like all other contingent beings are “nothingness”84 vis-à-vis
God. This stands in sharp contrast to their transcendent attributes.
The dual nature of the Manifestations, the possession of both tran-
scendent and immanent attributes, inevitably makes any discourse
about Their nature paradoxical insofar as it must combine these
inherently contradictory aspects. Efforts to avoid this paradox can
only end in developing a distorted understanding of the nature of
Manifestations. Hence, from a Bahá’í viewpoint, a purely humanistic
or secular understanding of Manifestations is inherently false.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
A clear concept of these three modes of discourse is useful in at
least three ways. First, it defuses misunderstanding and/or possible
critique of the Writings. The Baha’i Scriptures do not contradict
themselves in Their various ways of speaking about God, saying first
one thing and then the opposite. Rather, They discourse about God
in three distinct modes appropriate to three distinct viewpoints: the
viewpoint of absolute transcendence of the phenomenal world; the
viewpoint of immanence or presence within the phenomenal world;
and the viewpoint of the Manifestation Who exemplifies both tran-
scendence and presence. Because the three modes are based on three
different point of view, the Writings cannot be contradictory in their
discourse about the divine. Second, awareness of the three modes
of discourse and the viewpoints from which they originate helps us
think more precisely about any statements the Writings make about
God by relating the modes of discourse to particular points of view.
It enhances our understanding of God as presented in the Writings.
Third, the shared three modes of discourse about the Divine suggest
that the Writings and the Enneads share some commonalities in their
way of understanding God’s way of being and relating to the world.
Of course, these commonalities do not constitute an equivalence since
Neoplatonism has no exact counterpart to the concept of the Mani-
festation which is central to the Bahá’í concept of how God relates to
the world. Furthermore, this discourse can only reflect what human
capacity allows us to know and, therefore, reflects our understanding
of God’s way of being as related to us through the revelation of His
Manifestations.85 Nonetheless, we should not overlook the fact that
this mode of understanding, while limited, is still genuine understand-
ing that reflects the realities of our human situation. There are truths
available to us. Forgetting this all too easily leads to a relativism,
skepticism and, at its worst, nihilism.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
4: Human Being: Body and Soul
We shall begin our examination of human being in the Bahá’í Writ-
ings and the Enneads with a study of the relationship between the
soul and body. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá, the soul is not located
within the body:
the rational soul, meaning the human spirit, does not
descend into the body—that is to say, it does not enter it [the
body], for descent and entrance are characteristics of bodies,
and the rational soul is exempt from this. The spirit never
entered this body so in quitting it, it will not be need of an
abiding place.86
Time and space, ascent and descent and entrance and departure are
attributes of material things and soul or “the human spirit is an intel-
lectual, not sensible reality.”87 Therefore, it does not enter or leave
anything. This naturally raises the question of the soul’s relationship
to the body, about which `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon the
substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the ratio-
nal soul is the substance, and the body depends upon it. If
the accident—that is to say, the body—be destroyed, the
substance, the spirit, remains.88
Because this explanation is couched in Aristotelian philosophical
terminology, a few preparatory remarks are in order. A substance in
Aristotle’s philosophy is, primarily, anything that “exists by itself” as
a distinct and individual entity, be it a sensible or intellectual reality.89
Every substance has attributes which depend on it, just as `Abdu’l-
Bahá describes how, in one view, the soul “depends upon the substance
of the body.” Attributes are of two kinds: essential attributes are

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
those which a substance needs to have to be the thing it is, e.g. water-
tightness in a cup, and, accidental attributes are those which it may
have but does not need to be what it is, e.g. the color of the cup. In the
materialist view, in which the “body is the substance… [and]… the
spirit is accidental,” the non-essential soul need not be present for the
body to exist as a body.
`Abdu’l-Bahá takes a diametrically opposite position. In His view the
“rational soul is the substance,” i.e. exists independently and the body
is the accident, i.e. non-essential to the existence of the soul. There-
fore, the body may pass away but the soul will survive:
The rational soul—that is to say, the human spirit—has nei-
ther entered this body nor existed through it; so after the
disintegration of the composition of the body, how should it
be in need of a substance through which it may exist?90
This statement has at least three major consequences. First, it dem-
onstrates the soul’s independence from the body, and, thereby, its
immortality, a viewpoint Plotinus shares.91 Proclus elevates this idea
to a basic principle of Neoplatonism: “Prop. 186. Every soul is an
incorporeal substance and separable from body.”92 This is only possible
because the soul is the cause of the body, i.e. without the soul there
would be no body at all. As an attribute, body is dependent and can-
not exist without the soul, i.e. it takes a soul to make an actual body
as distinct from a conglomeration of elements or a mechanical device.
This relationship of dependence is not reciprocal.
Third, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s position is, in effect, a rejection of emergentism
and reductionism. Emergentism is a group of philosophies based on
the belief that new, irreducible and unpredictable attributes appear
or emerge as material structures become more complex; while the
‘emergents,’ such as mind, consciousness or soul, cannot be reduced
to their material substratum, they cannot exist without it either. This

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
is obviously not compatible with what `Abdu’l-Bahá has written here
since the soul is the independent substance and the body the depen-
dent accident. Emergentism should not be confused with the following
statement in Some Answered Questions:
Moreover, these members, these elements, this composition,
which are found in the organism of man, are an attraction
and magnet for the spirit; it is certain that the spirit will
appear in it. So a mirror which is clear will certainly attract
the rays of the sun.93
This differs from `Abdu’l-Bahá’s position insofar as in emergentism
the very existence of the soul depends on its material substratum. In
the foregoing quotation, the appearance or presence—but not the
existence—of the soul or spirit in the phenomenal world depends on
a certain level of physical complexity. Second, according to `Abdu’l-
Bahá, the soul is ‘external’ to the complex organism insofar as it is
attracted from a higher ontological level than matter, whereas emer-
gentism (and reductionism) views the soul as on par or dependent on
matter. Reductionism holds that only attributes present in the original
components of the material substratum of a complex structure are
real and that all phenomena such as life or mind can be explained
by or reduced to the qualities of the underlying matter. In effect, the
soul is a property of matter. Clearly, this, too, contradicts `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s statements. Both emergentism and reductionism make the
soul dependent on its material foundation and both reduce the soul
to the same ontological plane as matter.
Fourth, the distinction between soul and body is not a distinction
between two utterly different and independent substances, as in, for
example, the philosophy of Descartes. In fact, there is only one sub-
stance—soul; the body is an attribute of that soul-substance when it
appears in the material world. This, in effect, dissolves the mind-body
problem since we are not dealing with two separate and unrelated

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
substances but with one substance—soul—and an accidental attri-
bute—body. There is no ‘problem’ or ‘mystery’ about how a substance
can communicate with or is linked to its own attributes; no ‘commu-
nication’—as if between two separate things—is necessary because
attributes are essentially (permanently) or accidentally (temporarily)
part of the substance. From the Bahá’í perspective, the so-called
mind-body problem does not exist.
Let us now investigate the Neoplatonic view. According to Pauliina
Remes, “given the overall causal and explanatory directions [of Neo-
platonism], the body is not a separate substance but generated by the
soul.”94 Plotinus writes, “Soul on the contrary is that which engenders
the Form residing within the Matter and therefore is not the Form.”95
Leaving aside the philosophical technicalities regarding “Form,” this
statement means that ultimately the soul causes the existence of the
body, so the Enneads, like the Writings, reject emergentism and
reductionism. This conclusion echoes `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement about
the soul as substance and the body as accident produced by the soul.
Furthermore, Plotinus shares the view that the soul is not in the body:
Neither the Soul entire nor any part of it may be considered
to be within the body as in a space… the Soul is not a body
and is no more contained than containing.96
Plotinus then proceeds to refine what he means by explaining that
“the mode of the Soul’s presence to body is that of the presence of
light to the air...”97 He adds that this image is accurate because while
the air constantly shifts, the light is “stable” and that “the air is in the
light rather than the light in the air.”98 Later, he adds, “a living body is
illuminated by soul”99 just as air is illuminated by light. For Plotinus,
the body is ‘in’ the soul because the body is dependent on the soul
for its existence; in his system of emanations, the spiritual is always

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
higher than the material if for no other reason than that the material
is the lowest level of being. The physical depends on the spiritual to
exist.100 As William Inge puts it so aptly, “the Soul ‘is present’ with
the Body, but not within it.”101
The analogous soul-body relationship in the Writings and the Enne-
ads leads to some similar conclusions, the most obvious of which
is the immortality of the soul.102 Being spiritual makes the soul
non-composite, and, therefore, immune to destruction. Another
implication is that the soul is the active principle in its relationship
to the body and that the body is passive. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá,
“the soul as thou observest, whether it be in sleep or waking, is in
motion and ever active.”103 Soul, says Plotinus, is “act and creation”104
and “is the starting point of motion and becomes the leader and pro-
vider of motion to all else.”105 In other words, even physical motion
is a symptom of, or, perhaps material metaphor for, spiritual action.
This, in turn, suggests that the material derives its value from the
spiritual,106 illustrating, thereby, how intimately ontology and value
are related both in the Writings and in the Enneads. The value of
anything depends on its ontological position in the cosmic hierarchy
in which God or the One is the most valuable at the apex and matter
being the least valuable at the lowest level. Value in this instance is
determined by the degree of creativity something has or, conversely,
how many other things depend on it. Since everything depends on
God or the One, He has supreme value.
5: Psychology or Ontology?
At this point an objection may be raised. When Plotinus speaks of
the soul, he sometimes seems to be speaking about the World Soul
i.e. about ontology, and sometimes he seems to be speaking about the
souls of individual humans, i.e. about psychology. This brings us to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
one of the distinguishing features of Plotinus and Neoplatonism in
general, namely, that the ontological or metaphysical and the psycho-
logical reflect one another. Pauliina Remes refers to
the internalization of the Platonic metaphysical hierarchy.
In some manner, a human being encompasses, or is funda-
mentally related to, the metaphysical levels. She is not an
outside spectator.107
R.T. Wallis, for example, observes that in Neoplatonism, metaphys-
ics and psychology “cannot be sharply separated.”108
Viewed as a metaphysical reality each level is real in its own
right; viewed as states of consciousness, on the other hand,
the lower levels become imperfect ways of viewing the true
realities contemplated by the ‘higher’ ones.109
Emilsson agrees, writing that “at the intelligible level, being and
knowledge, ontology and epistemology, are unified.”110
These two viewpoints—the ontological and the psychological—are
not contradictory and exclusive, but rather they are complementary
because each promotes understanding of different aspects of real-
ity. We can adopt both understandings simultaneously since one is
reflected in the other. Of course, the higher is always paradigmatic
for the lower; the lower always reflects the higher to the limits of its
capacity. Proclus, the great systematizer of the Enneads, succinctly
sums up this idea when he writes, “For each principle participates
its superiors in the measure of its natural capacity and not in the
measure of their being.”111 In other words, to the limits of its ability,
all things, including the human soul reflect the nature and activities
of the World Soul. Bahá’u’lláh states,

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the attri-
butes and names of God, inasmuch as within every atom
are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent testimony to the
revelation of that Most Great Light… To a supreme degree
is this true of man… 112
Each thing reveals the “attributes and names of God” to the limit of
its capacity. In The Elements of Theology, Proclus writes, “All is in all
but in each appropriately to its nature”113 Every level of reality is pres-
ent in every other but in a manner that is appropriate to its capacities
and limitations. Because “all is in all” the psychological reflects or
participates in the ontological and, therefore, by looking inward, we
can learn a great deal about the ontological nature of reality. This
teaching of the “all in all” opens up far-reaching possibilities for a
‘subjective science,’ i.e. a ‘science’ of subjectivity which explores reality
by a rigorous study of subjective consciousness. Such a development
has obvious affinities to modern phenomenology.
6: Humankind as Microcosm
The idea of the “all in all” implicitly contains the notion that human-
kind is a microcosm. Pauliina Remes writes,
A basic feature that metaphysics reveals about Neoplatonic
anthropology is that to be human is to exist on and in a sense
encompass all metaphysics levels: the sensible realm of time
and matter, and the hypostases, that is, the Soul, the Intel-
lect and the One.114
In a manner appropriate to our nature, humankind ‘contains’ the
phenomenal realm and even the hypostases. Of course, the phrase

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
“in a sense” suggests that we cannot accept this claim literally. Rather,
it seems to mean that the phenomenal realm and the hypostases have
a presence as signs or images within us, or, as the principles operative
in the rest of reality also operate in us. One might also call this a
‘holographic likeness.’ In a holographic picture, every portion reflects
the whole to a degree proportional to its segment of the whole, i.e. to
its nature.
This view of humankind as a microcosm is explicitly adopted by
Plotinus:
For the Soul is many things, is all, is the Above and the
Beneath to the totality of life: and each of us is an Intel-
lectual Cosmos, linked to the world by what is lowest in us,
but, by what is the Highest, [linked] to the Divine Intellect:
by all that is intellective we are permanently in that higher
realm, but by the fringe of the Intellectual, we are fettered
to the lower.115
Metaphysically speaking, human beings live in various levels of
reality or, to put it psychologically, in various states of mind. We are
an “Intellectual Cosmos” because we reflect or ‘contain’ the principles
at work throughout created reality; we touch on both the “higher”
and “lower” realms although it must be emphasized again, we do so
in a manner proportionate to the capacities and limitations of our
essential nature.
The idea of humankind as a microcosm is also found in the Bahá’í
Writings:
Man is the microcosm; and the infinite universe, the macro-
cosm. The mysteries of the greater world, or macrocosm, are
expressed or revealed in the lesser world, the microcosm…
Likewise, the greater world, the macrocosm, is latent and

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
miniatured in the lesser world, or microcosm, of man. This
constitutes the universality or perfection of virtues potential
in mankind. Therefore, it is said that man has been created
in the image and likeness of God.116
Similarly, we read, “Man is said to be the greatest representative of
God, and he is the Book of Creation because all the mysteries of
beings exist in him.”117 This passage may be understood to mean
that humankind expresses or discloses all the principles operative
throughout the macrocosm. In us, these principles are “latent” which
is to say, hidden or concealed—like “mysteries”—presumably until
such time as human evolution allows us to become conscious of
and reveal them. Since the universe is “infinite,” this evolutionary
unconcealing process within humankind will endure infinitely. In
all likelihood, the reference to “virtues” here refers not so much to
virtues in an ethical sense, but virtues in the sense of powers or
capacities inherent in the rest of creation as well as in humankind.
Because God also possesses these capacities to a pre-eminent degree,
humankind is an image of God as stated above by `Abdu’l-Bahá.
Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh clearly tells us that even atoms contain signs of
the revelation of God and that
[t]o a supreme degree is this true of man, who, among all
created things, hath been invested with the robe of such gifts,
and hath been singled out for the glory of such distinction.
For in him are potentially revealed all the attributes and
names of God to a degree that no other created being hath
excelled or surpassed.118
Here, too, we observe that humankind is a microcosm or image of God
containing, at least potentially, “all the attributes and names of God.”
Of course, these attributes are present in us in a manner appropriate
to our particular and limited human nature. Proclus’ Proposition
103—“All things are in all things but in each according to its proper

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
nature”—appears to apply in the Bahá’í Writings as well not only vis-
à-vis creation but also vis-à-vis the signs of God within us.
One of the logical consequences of the doctrine of the microcosm
is that turning inward is one way for humankind to encounter the
Divine. In the Arabic Hidden Words Bahá’u’lláh says,
Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing
within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting.119
In our view, a literal reading of this passage presents so many logi-
cal obstacles as to make it untenable. At the very least, it violates
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement
It [the sun, i.e. God] does not appear in the substance of
things through the specification and individualization of
things; the Preexistent [God] does not become the phenome-
nal; independent wealth does not become enchained poverty;
pure perfection does not become absolute imperfection.120
If Bahá’u’lláh’s statement cannot be taken literally, then it is inevitable
that the phrase “Me standing within thee” refers to the signs of God
or of the Manifestation abiding within the human microcosm. This is
why it is so important to attain self-knowledge, not just of our ego and
conscious selves but of our spiritual human nature as microcosms:
In this connection, He Who is the eternal King—may the
souls of all that dwell within the mystic Tabernacle be a sacri-
fice unto Him—hath spoken: “He hath known God who hath
known himself.”121
Interpreting this passage literally instead of reading it as a reference to
an inward sign of God adapted to our human capacities could lead—at
its worst—to a potentially disastrous inflation of the human ego.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
7: The Lower and Higher Aspects of Humankind
One of the consequences of being a microcosm is that human beings
also have a higher and lower nature that corresponds to the general
cosmic order with its higher, i.e. divine, and lower, i.e. material,
aspects. This understanding of our dual or nature is evident in the
Writings. For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá states,
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature
and his material or lower nature. In one he approaches God,
in the other he lives for the world alone. Signs of both these
natures are to be found in men. In his material aspect he
expresses untruth, cruelty and injustice; all these are the
outcome of his lower nature. The attributes of his Divine
nature are shown forth in love, mercy, kindness, truth and
justice, one and all being expressions of his higher nature.122
We might say that humans are “amphibious,”123 i.e. they live in two
worlds, though, of course, they must ultimately choose which of these
worlds is to predominate and guide their development. This is made
clear by `Abdu’l-Bahá’s foregoing statement which associates all posi-
tive virtues with our higher nature and negative attributes with our
lower nature. Similar ideas are expressed in the following passage:
Man is in the highest degree of materiality, and at the begin-
ning of spirituality—that is to say, he is the end of imper-
fection and the beginning of perfection. He is at the last
degree of darkness, and at the beginning of light; that is why
it has been said that the condition of man is the end of the
night and the beginning of day, meaning that he is the sum
of all the degrees of imperfection, and that he possesses the
degrees of perfection. He has the animal side as well as the
angelic side.124

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
This declaration takes an ontological perspective of humankind’s
duality, pinpointing our location in the hierarchy of being at the
borderline between “materiality” and “spirituality.” This borderline
ontological location is reflected in our dual nature. It is noteworthy,
too, that `Abdu’l-Bahá associates “materiality” with imperfection
and “spirituality” with perfection—a connection clearly made in
the philosophy of Plotinus who not only associates the higher with
the divine and the lower with the body but also holds that the soul
occupies an intermediate position between higher and lower levels of
reality:
But in spite of it all [being in a body] it has, for ever, some-
thing transcendent; by a conversion towards the intellective
act, it [the soul] is loosed from the shackles and soars…
Souls that take this way have place in both spheres, living of
necessity the life there and the life here by turns, the upper
life reigning in those able to consort more continuously with
the divine intellect, the lower dominant where character or
circumstances are less favourable.125
Elsewhere He states that “every human Being is of two-fold charac-
ter.”126 Pierre Hadot sums up the situation succinctly:
The human soul occupies and intermediate position between
realities inferior to it—matter and the life of the body—and
realities superior to it: purely intellectual life characteristic
of divine intelligence and, higher still, the pure existence of
the Principle of all things.127
According to Remes, Plotinus holds that “human beings are ‘amphibi-
ous’’—they live two kinds of life, those of the intellect and those of the
composite.” 128 The “composite”129 refers to the view that the human
body is matter and a form which endows it with animal life. ‘Intellect,’
of course, refers to the higher spiritual life of the Nous (translated as

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
‘Spirit’ by Inge) which finds its image in the human soul; ‘intellect’
does not simply mean the ‘rational intellect.’
It is clear, therefore, that both the Writings and Plotinus position
humankind between two contradictory types of reality, matter
and intellect or spirit. This has some interesting philosophical con-
sequences. Because humanity has two different natures we may
conclude that humankind is inherently and constituitively self-
contradictory, divided, paradoxical, or even absurd. Existentialism is,
of course, the philosophy that has richly explored these aspects of
our existence from both an atheist and theist perspective.130 At the
same time, in terms of process or dynamics, humankind might well
be described as a dialectic since it would appear our entire lives are an
on-going interaction of these two sides of ourselves as we evolve. This
‘between’ situation in which we find ourselves is an interesting con-
nection point between the ancient philosopher Plotinus, the Writ-
ings and contemporary philosophy.
8: Actualizing Our Highest Potentials
The foregoing passages show that both the Writings and Plotinus
maintain that our challenge as human beings is to actualize our
higher potentials by cultivating that which is spiritual in us. `Abdu’l-
Bahá re-emphasizes this theme when He writes,
He has the animal side as well as the angelic side, and the
aim of an educator is to so train human souls that their
angelic aspect may overcome their animal side. Then if the
divine power in man, which is his essential perfection, over-
comes the satanic power, which is absolute imperfection, he
becomes the most excellent among the creatures; but if the
satanic power overcomes the divine power, he becomes the
lowest of the creatures.131

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
He also says, “If a man’s Divine nature dominates his human nature,
we have a saint”132 whose spiritual condition is contrasted to that of
a “mere animal.”133
Plotinus expresses similar views:
Our task, then, is to work for our liberation from this sphere
[the material world], severing Ourselves from all that has
gathered around us; the total man is to be something better
than a body ensouled—the bodily element dominant with
a trace of Soul running through it and resultant life-course
mainly of the body. There is another life, emancipated, whose
quality is progression towards the higher realm, towards the
good and divine… [so we may become]… the higher, the
beautiful, the Godlike… 134
Both passages emphasize the importance of overcoming our lower
nature so that human beings may free the full powers of their spe-
cifically human natures to become “saints”135 or “Godlike.” In other
words, both agree that human beings do not have a natural destiny
but rather a supernatural destiny—a view which follows logically
from the fundamentally spiritual nature of humankind.
However, we must not be deceived into thinking that Plotinus and the
Bahá’í Writings completely disparage the body, let alone recommend
ascetic practices. Our challenge is neither to over or underestimate the
body and to keep it in control. Plotinus writes,
He [the sage] will give to the body all that he sees to be
useful and possible, but he himself remains a member of
another order… [the body is] the thing which he tends and
bears with as a musician cares for his lyre, as long as it serves
him… 136

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
This is an eminently practical attitude; we must do our best to look
after our body properly but must not become obsessed about catering
to it. The Bahá’í view on this subject is perhaps best summarized by
Shoghi Effendi, who categorically states,
We are not ascetics in any sense of the word. On the contrary,
Bahá’u’lláh says God has created all the good things in the
world for us to enjoy and partake. But we must not become
attached to them and put them before the spiritual things.137
Quite clearly, both the Writings and Plotinus both adopt an attitude
of moderation in regards to the body.
9: Free Will
Both the Writings and Plotinus agree that human beings have free
will. Having accepted free will as a basic datum of human nature,
Plotinus proceeds to define what this freedom is:
We think of our free act as one which we execute of our own
choice, in no servitude to chance or necessity or overmaster-
ing passion nothing thwarting our will… everything will be
‘voluntary’ that is produced under no compulsion and with
knowledge.138
Elsewhere he adds, “Where act is performed neither because of
another nor at another’s will, surely there is freedom.”139 In many
respects his ideas are quite modern insofar as they present a ‘nega-
tive freedom,’ i.e. freedom from outside interference. Furthermore,
he requires knowledge for informed consent to an act. Interestingly
enough, he requires not being in the grip of an “overmastering passion”
as a criterion for a free act. That which hinders us from implementing
“our own choice” may well come from within yet nonetheless, it is not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
really ‘us’ and we could find ourselves as “slaves of passion.”140 This
concept of negative freedom is also evident when he writes,
Effort is free once it is towards a fully recognized good; the
involuntary [unfree] is, precisely, motion away from the good
and towards the enforced, towards something not recognized
as good; servitude lies in being powerless to move towards
one’s good, being debarred from the preferred path in menial
obedience. Hence the shame of slavedom is that… [is when]
the personal good must be yielded in favour of another’s.141
Freedom requires that we are not forced away or deterred by others
from our desired good and that we have the capacity or power to
achieve our good. Anything else is “servitude” or lack of freedom.
However, Plotinus’ view of free will is not limited to ‘negative free-
dom’ of non-interference. Absence of interference is a necessary
condition for exercising our free will but it is not, by itself, sufficient.
Plotinus writes,
Soul becomes free when it moves without hindrance, through
Intellectual Principle [Nous], towards The Good: what it
does in that spirit is its free act… That principle of Good
is the sole object of desire and the source of self-disposal to
the rest.142
According to Plotinus, full freedom requires a lack of external or
internal hindrance but also requires that our acts be towards the
Good. If they are not, then our so-called freedom is deficient or
incomplete and we, in effect, are not entirely free. However, Plotinus’
view goes further. Because he believes that all things naturally seek to
approach the good in a way befitting their nature, he also thinks that
anything which takes us away from the Good is, in effect, “enforced,”
“involuntary” and “servitude.” Hence, insofar as we move towards the
Good, we are fully free.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
At this point, an obvious question arises: ‘Does freedom not include the
ability to do wrong?’ Plotinus inclines to a negative answer because, in
his view, the ability to make negative choices is not necessarily a virtue.
But when our Soul holds to its Reason-Principle, to the
guide, pure and detached and native to itself, only then can
we speak of personal operations, of voluntary act. Things so
done may truly be described as our doing, for they have no
other source; they are the issue of the unmingled Soul.143
R.T. Wallis writes,
Freedom for Plotinus consists in tending spontaneously and
with full knowledge towards realization of one’s true good,
and thus contrasts with actions performed under compul-
sion or under constraint from man’s irrational nature.144
Pauliina Remes summarizes Plotinus’ position by saying,
Freedom is based on knowledge of universal good and intel-
ligible principles that govern the universe, and is thus not
primarily personal or subjective but tied strongly with the
intelligible order.145
This constitutes a significant difference from modern concepts which
closely associate freedom with personal, i.e. subjective, choice and
action no matter how arbitrary it might seem. On this issue, John
Rist writes, “in Plotinus’ view true freedom is a direction of the soul
to its source in the One.”146 Elsewhere, Rist points out,
Freedom then for Plotinus is not simply equivalent to the
power of choice. Rather it is freedom from that necessity of
choice which the passions impose. The soul that hesitates
between good and evil is not free, nor is such a choice godlike.147

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
R.T. Wallis explains Plotinus’ position like this:
Clearly, Plotinus does not accept the idea that freedom nec-
essarily requires the possibility of choice among opposites.
He writes, the “ability to produce opposites is inability to
hold by the perfect good; that self-making must be definite
once for all since it is the right.”148
He seems to be saying that having the ability to do the bad also means
being unable to hold to the good, i.e. being unable to achieve the per-
fection that is natural to us. Until we can hold to the good so closely
that the bad is not even an option for us we are still enslaved, to one
degree or another, to our passions. In this quest we are assisted by the
fact that the good is natural to us because “[t]he spring of freedom is
the activity of the Intellectual-Principle, the highest in our being; the
proposals emanating thence are freedom.”149 As humans, the highest
aspect of our being is our reflection of the Nous or “Intellectual-
Principle” and consequently, our real freedom lies there. It is what we
really want even though we may think we want something else. In the
words of Lloyd P. Gerson, “We are only in control and therefore free
when we identify ourselves as agents of rational desire.”150
In short, we humans may pursue the pseudo-freedoms of our own
desires or the genuine freedom offered by the quest for the One. The
former seems genuine but is really restrictive and the latter may feel
restrictive but is actually true freedom. This conclusion follows from
our human nature which, in Plotinus’s view, is an objectively real and
with which we can live in harmony, i.e. freedom, or in disharmony
i.e. slavery. Even though we choose to delude ourselves that slavery is
freedom, it is slavery nonetheless.
The Bahá’í Writings clearly support the belief that humankind has
free will. `Abdu’l-Bahá writes that

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
[s]ome things are subject to the free will of man, such as jus-
tice, equity, tyranny and injustice, in other words, good and
evil actions; it is evident and clear that these actions are, for
the most part, left to the will of man. But there are certain
things to which man is forced and compelled, such as sleep,
death, sickness, decline of power, injuries and misfortunes.151
Elsewhere, He writes, “But in the choice of good and bad actions he is
free, and he commits them according to his own will.”152 What these
passages make clear is that moral decisions are within human power
but a large number of physical necessities are not. Ethical freedom
exists, but freedom in other matters may be non-existent, such as
the need to sleep or eat, or severely circumscribed. According to the
Writings, we also have freedom of thought – which includes the free-
dom to think mistakenly, as indicated by Shoghi Effendi:
There is, unfortunately, no way that one can force his own
good upon a man. The element of free will is there and all
we believers—and even the Manifestation of God Himself—
can do is to offer the truth to mankind.153
Because of free will, belief cannot be compelled even if it is for our
own good. Shoghi Effendi also advises an inquirer that “The exer-
cise of our free will to choose to do the right things is much more
important [than speculation in astrology],”154 thereby again drawing
attention to free will in matters of morality. In the teaching of the
independent investigation of truth the Writings clearly advocate
freedom of thought for each individual, a freedom which is predi-
cated on our ability to think and to exercise free choice. On this issue
`Abdu’l-Bahá writes,
When freedom of conscience, liberty of thought and right
of speech prevail—that is to say, when every man according

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
to his own idealization may give expression to his beliefs—
development and growth are inevitable.155
From the foregoing discussion it is plainly evident that the Bahá’í
Writings value the importance of free will, free choice and free
thought.
9.1: The Limits of Liberty
Like Plotinus, the Bahá’í Writings do not embrace without quali-
fication the concept that humans are well served by unlimited
freedom or that everything which humans choose to call ‘freedom’
really is freedom in the truest sense of the word. The fact that we
have free will as individuals does not necessarily mean that we
should follow our inclinations in any direction or that the exercise
of free will can, by itself, justify almost anything. Our freedom in
the world—which is predicated on our free will—can easily be mis-
used. As Bahá’u’lláh writes,
Consider the pettiness of men’s minds. They ask for that
which injureth them, and cast away the thing that profiteth
them. They are, indeed, of those that are far astray. We find
some men desiring liberty, and priding themselves therein.
Such men are in the depths of ignorance.
Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition, whose flames none
can quench. Thus warneth you He Who is the Reckoner, the
All-Knowing. Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and
its symbol is the animal… Liberty causeth man to overstep
the bounds of propriety, and to infringe on the dignity of his
station. It debaseth him to the level of extreme depravity and
wickedness.156

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Bahá’u’lláh makes it clear that not everything we call “liberty” is
necessarily “true liberty”157—a position similar to that adopted by
Plotinus. False understanding of liberty may mislead us into forget-
ting “Noble have I created thee”158 and thereby lead to harm, or even to
“depravity and wickedness” that disgraces our higher nature. Certainly
Bahá’u’lláh rejects the notion that liberty for its own sake can justify
negative and self-destructive acts. That is why He says,
We approve of liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse to
sanction it in others. We, verily, are the All-Knowing.
Say: True liberty consisteth in man’s submission unto My
commandments, little as ye know it. Were men to observe
that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven
of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect
liberty.159
This passage reemphasizes that Bahá’u’lláh denies any purely subjective
concepts of freedom: an act is not necessarily free or not free because
we personally think it is. Subjectivity alone does not determine what is
or is not free. One of the other objective factors that must be taken into
consideration are the Manifestation’s commandments, which reflect
what is best for human nature and development whether we personally
like it or not. That is why Bahá’u’lláh says freedom is submission to
His commands, “little as ye know it,” meaning that although we may
not recognize a condition as being truly free, it may be free despite our
subjective disagreement.
Concrete examples help to clarify His concept. For example, if people
drive their cars on the basis of subjective freedom, the roads would be
a worse carnage than they are. Ultimately, this kind of purely subjec-
tive freedom is no freedom at all because everyone would be stalled
amidst the wreckage. The freest driving is made possible by everyone’s
submission to the rules of the road because there are objective laws

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of physics that must be obeyed. The same is true in other areas of life.
Are people who are compulsive shoplifters or eaters free even though
they inflict untold harm on themselves and others? Subjectively, they
might claim to make their decisions freely, but are they really? Ulti-
mately, would they not be more free if they submitted to the laws
forbidding shoplifting and the medical guidelines providing rules for
healthy eating? After all, the ‘laws’ of physiology are as rigorously
objective as the laws of physics as are the facts of our human nature.
To fully understand the second example, we must remember that
both Bahá’u’lláh and Plotinus agree that human nature includes
higher and lower aspects, and that our real or essential self is asso-
ciated with our higher nature. Consequently, our “true liberty” is
to do whatever strengthens our higher self, and ‘false liberty’ or
unfreedom advances our animal nature. We cannot violate our
essential nature and claim to be free in any but the most subjective
meaning of the word.
Of course, such a line of argument raises an obvious question: ‘What
are we free from in the kind of freedom advocated by Bahá’u’lláh?’
As with Plotinus, the answer is that we are free from slavery to
our passions, to our lower animal nature and to the vagaries of the
world. In other words, Bahá’u’lláh’s pronouncement is on a conver-
gent course with Plotinus’ insofar as both recognize the distinction
between true and false liberty and both advocate that submission to
divine commandments and to our noble human nature gives us more
genuine freedom than the arbitrary exercise of human preferences. It
is obvious, of course, that approaching the Good in Plotinus and
submitting to Bahá’u’lláh’s “commandments” are virtually the same
actions. After all, the divine commandments are intended to bring
us to the Good.
Both Bahá’u’lláh and Plotinus seem to agree that liberty is not an
end-in-itself and its own self-justification but rather is a means to

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
achieve the goals of developing the intellectual and spiritual nature of
humankind, of liberating our higher selves. Modern sensibilities are
likely to find this unsatisfactory because we think of subjective free-
dom of choice as the ultimate freedom. Appearances to the contrary,
these two concepts of freedom are not necessarily mutually exclusive
if we place them in a hierarchy. At the basic level there is freedom of
choice, at which people have to make all kinds of choices regarding
good and ill, their emotions, their values, purpose and goals and so
on. This is the level of freedom as generally discussed in our society.
However, at a higher level, we find what Emile Brehier calls “radi-
cal freedom,”160 the kind of freedom apparent in Plotinus and the
Writings, i.e. a freedom from the kind of choices that mark the first
level and where individuals are no longer slaves of “passion.” Such
freedom is greater than its predecessor because the individual “is
not a prisoner of any of the forms of reality.”161 This “true liberty”
is achieved by following the divine commandments or, in Plotinus’
terms, participating in our higher spiritual nature. `Abdu’l-Bahá
seems to be thinking of this kind of freedom when He says people
must be educated so
that they will avoid and shrink from perpetrating crimes, so
that the crime itself will appear to them as the greatest chas-
tisement, the utmost condemnation and torment.162
When this level of sensitivity and awareness has been attained, the
individual no longer experiences crimes or other human weak-
nesses as possible choices or temptations, and, thereby, no longer
a matter of choice. Such individuals have transcended freedom-as-
choice to a higher level where freedom finds its fullest expression in
likeness to God by recognizing the Manifestation and by obeying
His commands and, thereby, evolving to participating more fully in
His attributes.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
10: Who/What is the Self?
The issue of free will brings us directly to the subject of ‘self,’ i.e. the
individual who acts and experiences subjectivity. We know that we
share a universal human nature with other people, but what about
our specific ‘selves’ who make decisions, have feelings, take actions
and are particular, i.e. different from others? What about the “his-
torical personality,”163 the self-aware person whom I identify as ‘me’?
What is its origin? How is it related to our universal human nature?
To discuss this matter clearly vis-à-vis the Bahá’í Writings, it is first
necessary to review what is said about the soul. According to `Abdu’l-
Bahá, “the essence of man is the soul”164 which is to say, the soul is
our unique distinguishing feature as human beings; the essence of
a thing is precisely what gives it its identity as the kind of thing it
is, in this case man. This is confirmed when `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “the
human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal is the ratio-
nal soul, and these two names—the human spirit and the rational
soul—designate one thing.”165 Rationality is one of the divine gifts as
indicated when Bahá’u’lláh tells us to “Consider the rational faculty
with which God hath endowed the essence of man.”166 This, in turn,
suggests that the essence of man and rationality are strictly corre-
lated, i.e. rationality is an essential attribute. The human soul cannot
be human without it.
In Plotinus, the situation is similar. The rational soul is the human
essence, i.e. what makes us the kind of being we are.167 Plotinus states,
The true man is the other, going pure of the body, natively
endowed with the virtues which belong to the Intellectual
Activity… This Soul constitutes the human being.168
In Plotinus’ philosophy, the human soul is an emanation or projec-
tion of the Nous or Intellect and thus reflects its rational nature; John

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Deck calls it an “emissary from the Nous [Intellect].”169 A similar line
of reasoning is at work when Plotinus says “the soul is a rational soul
by the very same title by which the All-Soul is called rational.”170 The
All-Soul is that aspect of the third hypostasis, i.e. Soul from which the
human soul is emanated; since the hypostasis is rational by nature, so
is the human soul. According to Pauliina Remes, “For Plotinus, every
person has a single, rational and self-aware soul;171 Plotinus identifies
“the self primarily with the core self, the reasoning capacity.”172 Like
the Writings, he also associates the rational self with the ‘higher self’
that will “illuminate the life of the lower self.”173 This, by implication
makes the rational soul the higher self.174 In Plotinus’ words, “the
We (the authentic human principle) loftily presides[s] over the Ani-
mate,175 i.e. our animal nature.
At this point it is already clear that the Writings and Plotinus agree on
two issues: the identification of the soul as humankind’s essence and
the essential rationality of the soul. However, these are the universal
aspects of the soul that apply to all human beings, but this does not tell
us anything about our individual identity or ‘personality.’ How does
this arise? What are its foundations and what is its ultimate destiny?
10.1: The Descent in Plotinus
For Plotinus, the origin of our personal existence is the inevitable
result of the soul’s fall into the imperfect phenomenal world. The fol-
lowing passages from Pauliina Remes summarizes Plotinus’ position:
Our home and origin in the intelligible universe, gazing
closely at the One or God, yet becoming a human being with
a personality, individual characteristics and body, as well as
a place and a task in the universe, unrelentingly ties us to the
realm below perfection. Thus belonging to something high
and perfect, without any individualizing characteristics, is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
contrasted with being an individual with one’s particular
existence and personal features. Personality and individual-
ity are understood as essential to our nature, yet connected
to imperfection. 176
The “intelligible universe” is, of course, the Nous (sometimes trans-
lated as Intellect or Spirit) which contains all potentially existing
things: “the Intellectual-Principle [Nous] is the authentic existences
and contains them all – not as in a place but as possessing itself and
being one thing with this content.”177 The “intelligible objects” or the
“Authentic Beings” are, akin to Plato’s Ideas, i.e. models which nature,
a lower level of reality, aspires to and imitates in concrete individual
examples. This is “intelligible realm” from which the soul descends;
our personality is a consequence of this descent. From this, it is clear
that personality or individuality begins with the soul’s existence as a
separate entity.
According to Plotinus, the association of personality with the imper-
fection of material existence happens because
[t]he evil that has overtaken them has its source in self-will,
in the entry into the sphere of  process and in the primal
differentiation with the desire for self-ownership. They [the
potential souls] conceived a pleasure in this freedom and
largely indulged their own motion;… they came to lose even
the thought of their origin in the Divine.178
Once again, we observe the correlation of the descent into the phe-
nomenal world and the desire for “self-ownership” and “self-will,” both
of which are attributes of personality. The soul becomes so entranced
by these desires that it forgets its divine origin. Plotinus’ word for this
is tolma which means audacity with a suggestion of hubris. This casts
the descent of the soul in a decidedly negative light. He also believes
that the soul enters phenomenal reality to actualize its potentials “by

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
exhibiting those activities and productions, which remaining merely
potential… might as well have never been…179 While this is a more
positive reason for the descent, it is not the explanation emphasized
by Plotinus. Finally, Plotinus claims the soul descends partly to
“bring order to its next lower [level],”180 i.e. to act as a form for lower
levels of reality. This may be called the soul’s cosmic function. The
Bahá’í Writings share these views, though not this attitude towards
phenomenal existence.
10.2: The Descent in the Writings
How well Plotinus’ doctrine of tolma coincides with the Writings
depend on how it is understood. It we interpret tolma metaphysi-
cally, i.e. as an actual choice made by a pre-existing soul, then there is
no correspondence. In the Writings, the soul makes no such choice
before coming into existence on the “material plane.” However, if it is
interpreted psychologically, as a person’s self-assertion towards God,
i.e. as an exertion of self-will and hubris, then there is a correspon-
dence. This fall occurs not before birth but can happen at any time in
our lives whenever we over-value the blessings of the material world
and obey our physical instead of our spiritual impulses.
According to the Writings, self-actualization of potential capacities
is the reason for our appearance in the phenomenal world.
The wisdom of the appearance of the spirit in the body is
this: the human spirit is a Divine Trust, and it must traverse
all conditions, for its passage and movement through the
conditions of existence will be the means of its acquiring per-
fections. So when a man travels and passes through different
regions and numerous countries with system and method, it
is certainly a means of his acquiring perfection… It is the
same when the human spirit passes through the conditions

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of existence: it will become the possessor of each degree
and station. Even in the condition of the body it will surely
acquire perfections.181
As in the Enneads, the soul may use its life in the phenomenal world
to actualize potentials, or acquire “perfections.” However, unlike the
Enneads, the Bahá’í Writings view self-actualization as the major
cause for our appearance in the material world, and, thereby, retain
a more positive outlook on this event. It is not a result of audacity
(tolma) or any other defect as with Plotinus.
the journey of the soul is necessary. The pathway of life is
the road which leads to divine knowledge and attainment.
Without training and guidance the soul could never progress
beyond the conditions of its lower nature, which is ignorant
and defective.182
It is evident that the Writings and Plotinus have different emphases
in their explanations for the appearance of the soul in the phenom-
enal world. As we have already seen, for Plotinus, the appearance
in the world is a fall, the self’s desire to exert its own unique pow-
ers even though this will separate us from the higher realm of the
Nous. Although it is an issue of contention whether or not Plotinus
thinks that earthly existence degrades the soul, it is apparent that
his attitude is ambivalent, being neither whole-hearted embrace nor
complete rejection. The following quote illustrates this:
Under the stress of its powers and of its tendency to bring
order to its next lower, it penetrates to this sphere in a vol-
untary plunge; if it [the soul] turns back quickly all is well; it
will have taken no hurt by acquiring knowledge of evil and
coming to understand what sin is, by bringing its forces into
manifest play by exhibiting those activities and productions,

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
which remaining merely potential… might as well have
never been…183
We observe both positive and negative elements here. On one hand,
all will be well if the soul “turns back quickly” so it will “take no hurt
by acquiring knowledge of evil and… sin.” Clearly existence in the
phenomenal world is not an unalloyed gift nor a necessary phase in
the actualization of human capacities. On the positive side of the led-
ger, Plotinus thinks the soul also provides order to the lower levels of
reality, and also actualizes its latent abilities in the phenomenal world.
However, Plotinus’ belief that matter is the ontological foundation of
evil184 casts a lugubrious shadow over his view of the material world.
The Bahá’í Writings differ from the Enneads insofar as They are
not tinged with any ambivalence about the value of our bodily exis-
tence or about our exposure to sin and evil. In regards to the latter,
Bahá’u’lláh teaches us to pray, “O Thou Whose tests are a healing
medicine to such as are nigh unto Thee.”185 The exposure to worldly
evil is conceived as a positive challenge to stimulate the growth of the
soul. Only when the soul becomes too attached to the physical world
does material existence become “a prison for heavenly souls.”186 Simi-
lar statements can be found in Plotinus, but, as noted before, they are
overshadowed by his belief that matter is characterized by inherent
ontological evil, a belief not shared by the Bahá’í Writings which see
the ‘evil’ of matter as relative and not absolute.187
Plotinus also mentions that the soul descends partly to “bring order
to its next lower [level],”188 an idea that is similar to what the Bahá’í
Writings say about humankind’s cosmic role: “For the enlightenment
of the world dependeth upon the existence of man. If man did not
exist in this world, it would have been like a tree without fruit.189
Even more dramatically, `Abdu’l-Bahá says,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
This world is also in the condition of a fruit tree, and man is
like the fruit; without fruit the tree would be useless.190
Without humankind, the phenomenal world would lack its high-
est possible development or purpose, i.e. its final cause, and would,
thereby, remain incomplete. Of course, in the four-fold causality
accepted by `Abdu’l-Bahá,191 if the final cause is missing, there can
be no formal cause and, therefore, no order. This is virtually identical
to Plotinus’ idea that without man, the lower world would lack “order”
or form since man is the formal cause bringing order. In each case,
the human soul has a cosmic function.
According to Plotinus, the soul undertakes a “voluntary plunge.” As
Gerard O’Daly says, for Plotinus “Human existence is willed, it is a
decision;”192 “historical human existence is willed by a good soul – it
is a realization of essence on a lower level.”193 This view, which some-
what lightens the typically gloomy outlook Plotinus has on material
existence, has no counterpart in the Bahá’í Writings. According
to the Writings we do not choose our existence here, although we
do choose how to conduct ourselves once we have arrived. Plotinus
believes in this choice to re-enter the material world because he advo-
cates re-incarnation, in which souls have to decide when and how to
return. The Writings reject this option.194
11: Given Attributes Not a Blank Slate
What the Writings and the Enneads have to say about the
soul has relevance for a long-standing debate between those
who believe humans are a blank slate and those who think that
humans arrive with certain characteristics or structures pre-given.
In our view, there can be no question that for the Writings and
Plotinus, humans are not blank slates but rather pre-determined
in some essential ways. It is worth recalling here that both the

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Bahá’í Writings and Plotinus agree that it is the soul which
“generates” and individuates the body and not vice versa as is so
often assumed.195 In other words, the body cannot be “a part of
us in any essential way,”196 which implies that the personality
is original to the soul itself. Furthermore, the soul is the essen-
tial human being, not the body: “the authentic man will be as
Form to this Matter or as agent to this instrument, and thus,
whatever the relationship be, the Soul is the man.”197 A survey
of both the Writings and the Enneads makes it clear that both
reject the ‘blank slate’ theory of human nature.
In the case of Plotinus, this is evident from passages such as the
following:
One Reason-Principle cannot account for distinct and dif-
fering individuals: one human being does not suffice as the
exemplar for many distinct each from the other not merely
in material constituents but by innumerable variations of
ideal type: this is no question of various pictures or images
reproducing an original Socrates; the beings produced differ
so greatly as to demand distinct Reason-Principles.198
Every soul has its own reason-principle or forming-principle, i.e. it
is given its individuality from the very beginning. (The World Soul
or Soul of All Things contains—albeit not in any spatial sense—all
possible reason-principles.) No one individual can be the model
for all others of its type and account for all the diversity within
a type. This implies that, in the last analysis, our individuality is
not a product of the physical body or of historical and/or cultural
circumstances or choices. Our individuality has ontological foun-
dations and is given to us.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The same is clear when `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The personality of the rational soul is from its beginning; it is
not due to the instrumentality of the body, but the state and the
personality of the rational soul may be strengthened in this
world; it will make progress and will attain to the degrees of
perfection, or it will remain in the lowest abyss of ignorance,
veiled and deprived from beholding the signs of God.199
`Abdu’l-Bahá clearly rejects the idea that the personality or individu-
ality is caused by the “instrumentality of the body.” As with Plotinus,
our existence as persons is not dependent on the body or on our
physical condition. Instead, our “personality” or individuality is an
inherent aspect of the human soul; it is absolutely correlated with
our existence200 and, in that sense, is ‘given’ to us. Soul, not matter,
individuates. Thus we are individual, particular persons from the
very start of our journey through the phenomenal world. From our
very beginnings, we have a unique, given ‘self’ although it may take
a life-time of development to actualize even a portion of its infinite
potentials.
This inherent aspect of ourselves is also referred to as the “inmost true
self”, as, for example, in the following statement from Bahá’u’lláh:
Through the Teachings of this Day Star of Truth every man
will advance and develop until he attaineth the station at
which he can manifest all the potential forces with which his
inmost true self hath been endowed.201
Like the soul and “innate character,” the “inmost true self” is endowed
with divine bestowals which suggests that humans are not blank slates
but rather come into being with certain divinely given structures
and potentials or capacities. These form both our species-essence
as human beings and our individual-essence as particular persons.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
In addition, these various statements strongly imply that the terms
“inmost true self,” “rational soul,” and the “innate character” refer to
the divinely given essence of man.
Another feature of humankind’s given or pre-determined nature is
our location in the ontological scale of being. Plotinus tell us that
Humanity, in reality, is poised midway between gods and
beasts and inclines now to the one order, now to the other;
some men grow like to the divine, others to the brute and
the greater number stand neutral.202
One of the innate, essential, human attributes is that we “are revealed
as the medial and mediating tensions between conflicting and diverg-
ing opposites.”203 These words could also apply to the following state-
ment by `Abdu’l-Bahá:
Man is in the highest degree of materiality, and at the begin-
ning of spirituality—that is to say, he is the end of imperfec-
tion and the beginning of perfection. He is at the last degree
of darkness, and at the beginning of light.204
In both the Writings and Plotinus our ontological position as the
meeting point of “gods and beasts” and “materiality” and “spirituality”
determines an essential aspect of our nature as human beings. This
nature is given, i.e. it is not decided by personal will or culture, and
cannot be eradicated or amended by fiat or legislation; indeed, this
ontological position is pre-determined by the One or God as one of
the essential attributes of our being. It is the ontological pre-condition
for our existence as beings endowed with moral choice. All we can do
is choose which of these two aspects of our nature we shall develop.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In the Bahá’í Writings, the ambiguity concerning the soul’s ontologi-
cal position at the border between the material and the spiritual is, as
we have seen in a previous section, also reflected in our dual nature.
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature
and his material or lower nature. In one he approaches God,
in the other he lives for the world alone. Signs of both these
natures are to be found in men. In his material aspect he
expresses untruth, cruelty and injustice; all these are the
outcome of his lower nature. The attributes of his Divine
nature are shown forth in love, mercy, kindness, truth and
justice, one and all being expressions of his higher nature.205
We are constituted by two contradictory natures and this gives
us a certain ambiguity; Pauliina Remes describes humankind as
“amphibious.”206 Lest we disparage this ambiguous or amphibious
state, it should be noted again that this ambiguity is the ontological
pre-condition for our freedom of choice and is, thereby, one of the
pre-conditions of our existence as humans. In any case, our “higher
nature” is what we have inherited from God. This rational soul, our
original personality or “inmost true self,” always remains in us and is
always available if we turn our lives towards God or the One.
the state and the personality of the rational soul may be
strengthened in this world; it will make progress and will
attain to the degrees of perfection, or it will remain in the
lowest abyss of ignorance, veiled and deprived from behold-
ing the signs of God.207
The narrative that is constructed by the history of our choices may
be called our ‘historical self.’ When the rational soul chooses to turn
to God, we may become one of the “angels.”208 However, when the
rational soul chooses to turn towards phenomenal, material real-
ity, we develop an “ego.209 and give in to “the natural inclinations of

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
the lower nature”210 which “is symbolized as Satan—the evil ego
within us.”211 Shoghi Effendi says,
The ego is the animal in us, the heritage of the flesh which
is full of selfish desires. By obeying the laws of God, seeking
to live the life laid down in our teachings, and prayer and
struggle, we can subdue our egos. We call people “saints” who
have achieved the highest degree of mastery over their egos.212
It appears that the term ‘ego’ (as used here) describes the rational soul,
self or personality when it turns away from God and the Manifesta-
tion.213 Because it is a consequence of our turning away from God, we
might say that the ‘ego’ is a construct of the rational soul which has
become too attracted to and dependent on phenomenal reality. In
this condition, we confuse our “inmost true self” and our rational
soul with the ego, the “idol of self and vain imagination,”214 a confu-
sion which impedes spiritual progress. Blinded by this “idol” we no
longer are aware of our higher nature and our higher potentials.
12: The Hierarchical Self
The inherently ambiguous nature of the human soul complicates the
matter of personal identity insofar as the relationship between the
lower and higher self is concerned. In Plotinus, the lower aspects of
the soul are associated with its connection to the animal body and
the material world. However, the soul has not completely fallen into
physical existence. Plotinus writes,
Even our human Soul has not sunk entire; something of it is
continuously in the Intellectual Realm, though if that part,
which is in this sphere of sense hold mastery, or rather be
mastered here and troubled, it keeps us blind to what the
upper phase holds in contemplation.215

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In other words, even though the soul exists in the phenomenal world,
one aspect of the soul remains in the Nous (Intellect or Spirit). The
higher self never enters or falls into the phenomenal world where the
other, lower aspects of self are to be found. This leaves the self in an
ambiguous situation, divided or perhaps even torn between these two
aspects and, thereby, inevitably conflicted to one degree or another.
The conflict about which facet of self to favor or develop constitutes
the narrative of our lives as ethical beings.
Does Plotinus’ doctrine of the higher self remaining in the Nous (the
intelligible realm) have a counterpart in the Bahá’í Writings? Initially,
the answer appears to be negative, but further reflection suggests that
there may be a line of reasoning that could at least close the distance
between the two viewpoints. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá, “Know
thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place is only
its shadow stretching out.”216 This statement leads to a crucial ques-
tion: if the phenomenal world is a shadow of the Kingdom, do human
beings also have their ‘heavenly counterpart’? If such is the case – and
that remains to be proven – then one could, indeed, claim that there
is a higher version of ourselves in the Kingdom, i.e. a ‘higher self’ that
is has not fallen into phenomenality. This higher self could be inter-
preted as the ego with which we converse in inward consultation:
A man may converse with the ego within him saying: “May I
do this? Would it be advisable for me to do this work?” Such
as this is conversation with the higher self.217
If we interpret the “higher self” as the “higher nature”218 of the
rational soul, there is little agreement with Plotinus’ position. In
this case, our interpretation might be called psychological because
it concerns an aspect of our inner constitution. However, if we read
these passages ontologically, one could make a case that a ‘heavenly’
version of ourselves exists in the Kingdom even though we currently
dwell in the phenomenal world; this “higher self” is what we consult

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
in inner deliberations. This view would be closer to Plotinus’ position.
In the last analysis, however, the extremely abstract nature of this
issue makes it doubtful that any final resolution can be reached even
by further study.
There seems little doubt that in the Bahá’í Writings our true self is
our “higher nature” or the personalized “rational soul.” This is the
self that should be in control of our embodied lives. However, in the
phenomenal world, the given, personalized “rational soul” operates
in the phenomenal world through the instrumentality of the body,
i.e. the soul’s accidental physical attribute.219 Of course, our spiritual,
higher nature should be in control, allowing the soul’s physical nature
its due, but no more.
Consequently, the Bahá’í Writings seem to present our identity in
the phenomenal world as a two-fold hierarchical structure. The foun-
dation of this structure is the rational soul, or “inmost true self” with
its divinely bestowed personality. This foundation is given to us by
God. The second level consists of what the “rational soul” chooses
to make of itself through its powers such as the mind220 as well as its
other gifts and potencies. This might be called the ‘historical self’ or
acquired self. It is constituted by our decisions to move towards or
away from God by the way we live. If we have chosen to turn away
from our higher selves and God, we develop an ‘ego’ in (the negative
sense) which keeps us focused on the material world and keeps us
veiled from the Kingdom. With such an ‘ego’ we develop a false con-
sciousness which supports a false identity often based on being under
control of our “lower nature.” Finally, such a false identity inevitably
causes inner dissonance for individuals, an inherent and contradiction
between the higher potentials which are always available, and the
lower choices that betray these potentials in one way or another. This
conflict cannot be resolved without turning towards God. On the
other hand, if we choose to turn towards our higher selves and God,
our ‘historical’ self’ and our rational soul will be in harmony with

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
each other to one degree or another. We will be more like polished
mirrors and, we might say, we will also be ‘genuine’ because are one
with our highest self. In either case—genuine or false—the ‘histori-
cal self’ is the self we bring into the next world.
As to the soul of man after death, it remains in the degree of purity
to which it has evolved during life in the physical body, and after
it is freed from the body it remains plunged in the ocean of God’s
Mercy.221
A similar idea can be found in the Enneads:
the entire form, man, takes rank by the dominant [part of
ourselves which has ruled our lives], and when the Life-Prin-
ciple leaves the body it is what it is, what it most intensely
lived.222
In other words, the identity we take into the next life is the one we
have created on the “material plane.”
With Plotinus, the situation regarding identity is similar but not
identical. He holds that human existence has three degrees or levels:
first, there is the person as found in the Nous or intelligible realm;
second, this higher self illuminates the person who lives by sensa-
tion; third is the lowest part of the vegetative functions of growth and
reproduction. These three are unified under the form of the highest,
i.e. humanity.223 We take our identity from that aspect of ourselves
which we choose to develop: “each person is that by which he acts,
though he is all as well.”224 That is to say, even though we are human
beings, our acquired identity is shaped by the degree according to
which we habitually choose to act. Some people act mainly on the
vegetative, i.e. the lowest biological level; others live in the materialist
world of sensations and tangible realities; and still others actualize
their uniquely human potentials. It is important to remember that

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
each person contains all of these levels to the degree appropriate
to our nature but of these three, the real self, is the “higher soul…
[which]… constitutes the man,”225 i.e. the soul at its highest level
which faces the ethical task of freeing itself from entrapment in the
material world:
Our task then is to work for our liberation from this
sphere…the total man is to be something better than a body
ensouled…there is another life, emancipated, whose quality
is progression towards the higher realm towards the good
and divine… 226
These words, which harmonize well with the Writings, describe
the challenge confronting the real self of “Authentic Man.”227 The
history of meeting these challenges and making ethical decisions228
constitutes the ‘historical’ self. Here, too, we observe the two-part
hierarchy of self that we found in the Bahá’í Writings. At the founda-
tion is the ‘pure’ person as existing in the Nous or intelligible realm,
who must then choose and act in the material world, and through
choices and actions develop a ‘historical self.’ This ‘historical self’ is
the second stage of this hierarchy. Moreover, as with the Writings,
this historical self can be in harmony or disharmony with its higher
original; it can be an ego or false consciousness, or, to use a Bahá’í
metaphor, a polished mirror.
13: A Normative Ethical Telos
The Bahá’í Writings and the Enneads share another important attri-
bute: they both hold to
a normative telos: not just any kind of life, choices and actions
count as self-constitution. The normative ideal, the inner self
understood as the wholly actualized and integrated reason is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
supposed to regulate the process… unified by the active and
goal-directed self-constitution on the part of the agent. Nor
is the rationality in question just any kind of exercise of one’s
cognitive capacities. It involves understanding the essential
structures of the intelligibly ordered cosmos… 229
The “normative telos” referred to by Remes is a goal or end-state that
is appropriate for all humans since, in varying degrees, we share the
same basic nature and, therefore, the same ultimate good, i.e. resem-
blance to the One or God, and rational freedom from domination
by the material realm whether it be the external world or their own
bodies. Our actions must be in conformity with the nature of the
cosmos and our own human nature. Contrary to prevailing attitudes,
[w]hat is sought is not an individual identity with worldly
ties and personal experiences but something over and above
it, a free self-determination not bound by the restrictions of
the phenomenal realm.230
Not any action will do, no matter how sincerely motivated it may
be. To achieve the desired effects, it is imperative that our actions
accommodate themselves to the objective criteria and requirements
of cosmic and human nature. In the Bahá’í Writings, this “normative
telos” makes itself apparent in the virtues that we are expected to
strive for to the best of our ability. No consideration whatever is given
to our personal preferences or agreement:
O SON OF SPIRIT!
My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and radiant
heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient, imperishable
and everlasting.231
In this passage, Bahá’u’lláh informs us that if we wish certain
things—“sovereignty ancient, imperishable and everlasting”—we are

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
required to achieve certain virtues. Nothing in the content nor in the
tone of this categorical statement suggests that our preferences are
even slightly relevant. Because we have a certain nature as human
beings, certain virtues are objectively necessary for us to achieve our
goals; moreover, because these virtues are objectively necessary, there
is an imperative to achieve them.
A similar outlook prevails in Plotinus. The operation of a “normative
telos” is evident even in the First Ennead, which informs us that cer-
tain virtues are necessary in order to actualize our highest human
aspects. There is no choice about what these virtues are; they are
made necessary by the facts of our human nature. In particular,
Plotinus emphasizes sophrosyne, i.e. self-control and moderation
acquired through self-knowledge. If we wish to be fully human, then
we must know our own nature as human beings and as individuals.
This knowledge makes the actualization of these virtues possible.
(Bahá’u’lláh expresses a similar idea when He says that “man should
know his own self and recognize that which leadeth unto loftiness
or lowliness, glory or abasement.”232) For Plotinus, to be virtuous as
human beings and escape the evils of embodied existence we must
strive to resemble the One.233
it would be good, it [the soul] would be possessed of virtue
if it threw off the body’s moods and devoted itself to its
own Act—the state of Intellection and Wisdom—never
allowed the passions of the body to affect it—the virtue
of Sophrosnyny [moderation guided by self-knowledge]—
knew no fear at the parting from the body—the virtue of
Fortitude—in which state is Righteousness.234
We observe that Plotinus prescribes certain actions in order to acquire
certain virtues; both of these are normative for all human beings sim-
ply because we share a universal human nature. Our actions are not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
virtuous because they are sincere or express us but because they are
appropriate to the kind of beings we are.
14: Sculpting the Self
Plotinus uses the analogy of the sculptor to explain how we must
proceed to acquire the virtues we seek in order to be at our best:
Withdraw into yourself and look. And if you do not find
yourself beautiful yet, act as does the creator of a statue
that is to be made beautiful: he cuts away here, he smoothes
there… never cease chiseling your statue until there shall
shine out on you from it the godlike splendour of virtue…235
In other words, we must consciously undertake to reform ourselves
in such a way as to let our highest potentials appear. This, of course,
requires us to know not just ourselves and our human nature, but
also what beauty is. That beauty becomes apparent when “[we]
find yourself wholly true to [our] essential nature,”236 i.e. when our
acquired historical self harmonizes with our divinely given higher
self. Moreover, Plotinus believes that our philosophical knowledge
and insight depend on the kind of lives we live and the kind of people
we are: “first, let each become godlike and each beautiful who cares
to see God and Beauty.”237 Our understanding of God or the One
and the universe, our cognition of reality, depends on the virtues we
have acquired.
The Bahá’í Writings have much the same emphasis in associating per-
sonal virtue and cognitive knowledge. `Abdu’l-Bahá summarizes the
remarks of Galen, a non-Christian philosopher and medical scientist:
In our time there is a certain people called Christians, who,
though neither philosophers nor scholastically trained, are

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
superior to all others as regards their morality. They are per-
fect in morals. Each one of them is like a great philosopher
in morals, ethics and turning toward the Kingdom of God.238
The Christians’ cognitive knowledge of ethics depends on the moral
condition they have achieved. To appreciate the full significance of
this, we must recall that ‘ethics’ in this context means the objective
knowledge of what actions are objectively appropriate to human
nature and not merely rationalized preferences, acting in ‘good faith’
or sincere self-expression. We also see this more objective outlook
when Bahá’u’lláh says, “man should know his own self and recognize
that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement,
wealth or poverty.”239 This self-knowledge is a pre-condition for fol-
lowing the “straight path [which] is the one which guideth man to the
dayspring of perception and to the dawning-place of true understand-
ing.”240 This emphasis on the connection between attaining personal
virtue and cognitive philosophical knowledge is a typical feature of
classical Greco-Roman philosophy with its recognition of philosophy
as a way of life and not just a matter of theoretical knowledge.241
Furthermore, the Bahá’í Writings, albeit in different language, have
a concept parallel to Plotinus’ image of the sculptor of self. Just as the
sculptor chisels away and smoothes over unacceptable aspects of his
art work, Bahá’ís are told to sacrifice, i.e. give up those aspects of self
that impede making moral progress. `Abdu’l-Bahá states,
Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is
bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is
the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living
God may then shine forth. The martyr’s field is the place of
detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity may be
upraised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self… 242

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
It is through sacrifice that we ‘carve’ or ‘sculpt’ ourselves, removing
undesirable attributes as a sculptor removes unwanted marble from a
statue. Such removal is the “dying to self.” We also have to be practice
“detachment from self” by looking and judging ourselves objectively,
not by our personal preferences but by the criteria provided by the
divinely revealed Writings. Another statement by `Abdu’l-Bahá
emphasizes these points:
With reference to what is meant by an individual becoming
entirely forgetful of self: the intent is that he should rise
up and sacrifice himself in the true sense, that is, he should
obliterate the promptings of the human condition, and rid
himself of such characteristics as are worthy of blame and
constitute the gloomy darkness of this life on earth—not
that he should allow his physical health to deteriorate and
his body to become infirm.243
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s injunction tells us to “obliterate” the unwanted aspects
of ourselves, just as Plotinus’ sculptor chisels away unwanted marble.
(Of course, neither the Writings nor Plotinus approve of asceticism,
as we have already discussed above.) The underlying idea in both
cases is the same: we must exercise our free will and our power to
shape ourselves according to a standard that appropriately adapts
us to the ontological structure of reality and to the eternal spiritual
realm instead of merely to our temporary residence in material reality.
Pauliina Remes’ statement about the Enneads is equally true of the
Bahá’í Writings:
In contrast to modern accounts of selfhood as a process or a
story in time, for Plotinus the end is – or should be – fixed.
Only a process leading towards what is good and beautiful
counts as true self-constitution. The normative ideal acts
also as a regulative principle. Embodied selfhood is always a

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
process towards ideal unity, rationality and virtue, a lifelong
exercise in becoming what we are… What is sought is not an
individual identity with worldly ties and personal character-
istics but something over and above it.244
In other words, the Bahá’í Writings and the Enneads share a common
understanding of what constitutes true or genuine selfhood. We
should not give unqualified assent to the notion that ‘genuine’ self-
hood is merely any life-story whatever; every person inevitably has a
life-story but every life-story does not constitute a genuine, true self
according to the criteria laid down by the Writings or the Enneads.245
Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction to know ourselves clearly indicates that self-
deception about ourselves is possible,246 as do the countless passages
about being led “astray.” For the Writings and the Enneads the goal is
to seek an identity that does not exclude but transcends material and
worldly considerations. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “become yourselves
the saints of the Most High!”247 In this sense, both the Writings and
the Enneads share what may be called the ‘perennialist’ concept of self,
i.e. the concept that genuine selfhood requires trying to meet certain
ethical and spiritual standards in order to prepare us for a better lives
in the future. These standards are almost universal and re-appear in
all of the world’s major religions. The re-appearance of these generally
similar concepts of self in various forms are, of course, one of the
implications of the essential unity of religions.
15: Union with God
The ultimate human goal according to the Bahá’í Writings and the
Enneads is nearness to or unity with God, but what this actually
means must be carefully explored in each case. Both agree that the
closer we are to God or the One, the more truly we are ourselves, the
more authentic we become; in other words, we become more like our

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
essential, spiritual selves and achieve our higher destiny. The Bahá’í
Writings tell us that
The greatest attainment in the world of humanity is nearness
to God. Every lasting glory, honor, grace and beauty which
comes to man comes through nearness to God. Every lasting
glory, honor, grace and beauty which comes to man comes
through nearness to God. All the Prophets and apostles
longed and prayed for nearness to the Creator.248
The matter could not be stated more clearly; this “attainment” has
no equal in the phenomenal world, meaning that no amount of
knowledge, technological progress, creative cultural sophistication or
political wisdom can compensate for its lack. This goal is irreplace-
able. However, in the Bahá’í Writings, “nearness to God” does not
imply even the slightest suggestion that human beings can in any way
or from any perspective become ontologically one with God.249
there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind the one true
God with His creation, and no resemblance whatever can
exist between the transient and the Eternal, the contingent
and the Absolute.250
The ontological difference between an absolutely independent God
and an absolutely dependent human is unalterable. Proclus seems to
suggest the same idea when he writes,
Prop. 9. All that is self-sufficient either in its existence or in
its activity is superior to that which is not self-sufficient but
dependent upon another existence which is the cause of its
completeness.251
Things cannot be superior or even equal to that on which they depend
as long as the dependency relationship lasts. In the case of the One,

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
or God, this is bound to be eternal. It is, therefore, inconceivable
that humans and God could become ontologically one and any such
assertions must be rejected as mistaken understandings. To assume
such a union has taken place, is, in effect, to elevate ourselves to the
rank of the Manifestations.252 A mergence of self and God may be
experienced psychologically, but, as the foregoing passage shows, this
experience must not be interpreted ontologically. Consequently, for
Bahá’ís, “nearness to God” means, for example, something like a
mergence of our individual wills into the will of the Manifestation,
or a psychological loss of self-consciousness in a vision of the Divine
splendour, or our ecstasy of spiritual insight and knowledge of the
mysteries of creation,253 or our elation at escaping from the prison
of the ego. (This is not, of course, intended as a complete list of pos-
sibilities.) In each of these examples, there is a loss of self/ego, i.e. a
psychological state which is not to be confused with an actual, i.e.
ontological, union with God. On this matter, psychology—the expe-
rience of union with the Divine—does not reflect itself in ontology.
The mediator between God and humankind is the Manifestation
Whose “double station”254 enables Him to represent God as “One
Whose voice is the voice of God Himself” as well as the human sta-
tion. Given the impossibility of ontological union with God, the only
way to achieve “nearness to God” is through our relationship to the
Manifestation:
In all the Divine Books the promise of the Divine Presence
hath been explicitly recorded. By this Presence is meant the
Presence of Him Who is the Dayspring of the signs, and the
Dawning-Place of the clear tokens, and the Manifestation
of the Excellent Names, and the Source of the attributes, of
the true God, exalted be His glory. God in His Essence and
in His own Self hath ever been unseen, inaccessible, and
unknowable. By Presence, therefore, is meant the Presence
of the One Who is His Vicegerent amongst me.255

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The Báb states,
[t]here is no paradise more wondrous for any soul than to
be exposed to God’s Manifestation in His Day, to hear His
verses and believe in them, to attain His presence, which is
naught but the presence of God, to sail upon the sea of the
heavenly Kingdom of His good-pleasure, and to partake of
the choice fruits of the paradise of His divine Oneness.256
These passages leave no doubt that attaining the presence of the
Manifestation is what the Writings mean by attaining the presence
of or “nearness to God.” This concept obviously affects the Bahá’í
understanding or interpretation of concepts such as ‘union’ with God,
‘mystical’ experiences of God as well as cataphatic as well as apophatic
theology. For example, if attaining the “Divine Presence” means
attaining the presence of the Manifestation, what is involved in the
latter, especially for those Who never knew Bahá’u’lláh personally?
In what sense and to what extent is a Bahá’í cataphatic theology pos-
sible since the Manifestation can be known, at least to some extent?
Or, conversely, must Bahá’í theology necessarily be apophatic? These
and other questions await further exploration.
In Plotinus, the issue of “nearness to God” is less clear than in the
Bahá’í Writings. Whether or not the human soul merges with the
One ontologically or only psychologically by losing consciousness of
itself is not easily settled. For example, it is possible to argue that the
following passages show that there is complete ontological union.
In this seeing [of the One], we neither hold and object nor
trace distinction; there is no two. The man is changed, no
longer himself nor self-belonging; he is merged with the
Supreme, sunken into it, one with it… 257

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Even more dramatically, Plotinus writes,
she [the soul] has seen that presence [of the One] suddenly
manifesting within her, for there is nothing between; there
is no longer a duality but a two in one; for, so long as the
presence holds, all distinction fades; it is the lover and the
beloved here… the soul has now no further awareness of
being in a body and will give herself no foreign name, not
man, not living being not being… 258
When the soul becomes united with the One, it does not lose con-
sciousness of being a separate identity but rather it loses its separate
existence and thus become indistinguishable from the One. It has,
so to speak, been ontologically ‘up-graded’ from a dependent and
contingent to an independent and non-contingent. This situation
raises questions about how this identity can be regained after the
moment of union is over. If the self is lost ontologically, how can it be
regained without continuing to exist in some way? Questions of this
kind prompt scholars such as J.M. Rist reject the notion of the soul’s
‘obliteration’ in the One.
while the soul as a spiritual substance can be enveloped by
the One, enraptured, surrendered, wholly characterized so
as to become infinite and not finite, it is neither obliterated
nor revealed as the One itself… 259
In some way, the distinct soul continues to exist even while new
hitherto unimaginable potentials become actualized in this state
of union; however, the soul does not disappear or become the One.
This position is strengthened by its logical consistency with Plotinus’
characterization of the One. For example, Plotinus states that “the
Supreme as containing no otherness is ever present with us,”260 mean-
ing that even though the One is always with us, it does not, thereby,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
contain any “otherness,” i.e. other substances or individuals. “We are
ever before the Supreme”261 says Plotinus; we can contemplate it and
lose ourselves in the contemplation but we can never be it. If we could,
the One would contain ‘otherness.’ Pauliina Remes takes a similar
position.
The problem with the idea that the human soul could unite with
the One is the fact that the One is supposed to be complete
and self-sufficient. If it were possible to ‘add’ something to
it, its completeness and uniqueness might be compromised…
The One remains beyond substance and human soul.262
In other words, the concept that the union of self and the One is
ontological contradicts the essential, self-sufficient nature of the One
as well as its being beyond the category of “substance.” Indeed, if the
One is infinite in its self-sufficiency, how can anything be added to
that which is infinite? Remes also claims that “[t]there is no danger of
getting lost in the One”263 because the formless and limitless nature
of the One is inherently incompatible with the nature of the rational
soul which “grasps things through limits and definitions—through
rational or intellectual activity.”264 If the soul loses its inherent,
essential nature, it would no longer exist, and that, once again, raises
extremely difficult questions about how the limited rational soul
could return to existence after the end of its union with the One.
Plotinus himself recognizes this difficulty:
yet, there comes the moment of descent… and after that
sojourn in the divine, I ask myself how it happens that I can
now be descending, and how the Soul ever enter into my
body… 265
There are no obvious answers to the many questions surrounding the
question of union with the One. For example, is the body the ‘anchor’
during the time of union? How can the individual soul or higher self

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
re-constitute itself after it has lost its distinguishing essential and
personal attributes in the One? Re-constituting oneself after the
self has been ontologically eliminated seems contradictory since it
requires one to exist when one does not! Or is there a remnant of
self? But if the latter is the case, the union is not fully ontological but
at least partly psychological since a remnant remains even though it
may not be conscious of itself as different from the One.
While this difficult issue in Neoplatonic studies is one for special-
ists to solve, if, indeed, that is possible, we can say that the Bahá’í
Writings are only compatible with the psychological interpretation
of the union with the One. From the Bahá’í perspective, any sugges-
tion that the created can attain the ontological status of the Creator
is inadmissible because the absolutely dependent can never become
absolutely independent. Such an assertion would be equivalent to
claiming the same ontological status as God:
Beware, beware, lest thou be led to join partners with the Lord,
thy God. He is, and hath from everlasting been, one and
alone, without peer or equal, eternal in the past, eternal in
the future, detached from all things, ever-abiding, unchange-
able, and self-subsisting.266
In short, the Bahá’í Writings do not allow us to change our onto-
logical status. The claim that we can unite with God ontologically
violates the principle that God is “one and alone” since such a claim
makes it possible for us to ‘end’ God’s aloneness and His ‘one-ness.’
It also means that God is no longer “detached from all things” and
“unchangeable” since the mergence with the human soul suggests that
something has been ‘added’ to the Divine. This, in turn, undermines
the concept of God as “self-subsisting” since the very possibility of
‘adding’ anything to God means that God was in some way ‘defi-
cient’ before the addition was made, and, therefore, dependent on

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the addition to be complete. A similar point can be made for “ever-
abiding.” If it is possible to ‘add’ anything to God, He cannot be
“ever-abiding;” nor can He be “eternal” in the past and future because
there would a ‘before’ and ‘after’ the union. Finally, if a soul, i.e. a
dependent creation can raise its ontological status to ‘independent’
from ‘dependent,’ then obviously God is not “without peer or equal.”
16: Sympathy
One of the key principles of Plotinian thought is that of ‘sympathy,’ i.e.
“the view that since the world is a living organism, whatever happens
in one part of it must produce a sympathetic reaction in ever other
part.”267 In other words, creation is a unity made up of inter-active
parts none of which exist or can exist in isolation. The Stoics called
this view “cosmic sympathy;”268 it was a point of agreement among all
ancient philosophies except the materialists and atheists. According
to Plotinus, every created thing
while executing its own function, works in with every other
member of the All from which its distinct task has by no
means cut it off; each performs its act, each receives some-
thing from the others, each one at its own moment bringing
its touch of sweet or bitter.269
In short, directly or indirectly, everything influences everything else
in some way and thereby helps make the world what it is. `Abdu’l-
Bahá teaches the same idea:
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to the
properties of things are the causes of the existence, evelop-
ment and growth of created beings. It is confirmed through

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
evidences and proofs that every being universally acts upon
other beings, either absolutely or through association.270
The concept of a “chain” reminds us of the ancient concept of the
“great chain of being”271 which holds all elements of creation together
in a coherent order based on ontological levels. In `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement, reciprocal interactions are the “causes of existence” which
means that nothing can exist or come into existence in isolation. Such
interactions are also necessary for “development and growth,” sug-
gesting thereby that self-actualization of all latent potentials requires
the presence of a community of beings and is not something that can
be done alone – or for oneself alone. In one way or another, at least
some actions must be adapted to the community context in which
things find themselves.
However, `Abdu’l-Bahá does not think that the interactive process in
the phenomenal, material world is self-directed but rather requires
guidance:
a universal power inevitably existeth, which encompasseth all,
directing and regulating all the parts of this infinite creation;
and were it not for this Director, this Co-ordinator, the uni-
verse would be flawed and deficient. It would be even as a mad-
man… every separate par of it performing its own task with
complete reliability… Thus it is clear that a Universal Power
existeth, directing and regulating this infinite universe. Every
rational mind can grasp this fact.272
It is evident, therefore, that the powers of sympathy and influence in
the phenomenal, material world do not function randomly or capri-
ciously; their actions are necessary but are not sufficient to explain
the order we observe. To provide a complete, adequate explanation a
“Universal Power” is needed which cannot only provide cosmic order

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
by guiding the interactive processes through law, but can also help
explain the origin of physical laws, and the origin of the capacity to
influence and be influenced. Obviously, such a power must transcend
the phenomenal world.
Plotinus agrees. In the Enneads, he compares things of the universe
to members of a “dance-play”273 in which each dancer plays a part in
order that is “the coordinating All.”274
The Circuit does not go by chance but under the Reason-
Principle of the living whole; therefore, there must be a
harmony between cause and caused; there must be some
order ranging things to each other’s purpose or in due
relations to each other.275
Change and motion, the interactive process of things, (“the Circuit”)
creates a rational order through influence or sympathy, i.e. the “har-
mony between cause and caused.” Without that harmonized sympathy
or influence, the cosmic process would be random and capricious and
the Universe could not be a “living whole” let alone a rational order.
17. Conclusion
In the two parts this paper, we have focussed on major areas of
similarity between the Bahá’í Writings and the Enneads in regards
to ontology, epistemology, ethics and philosophical anthropology.
Naturally, this study is not complete, but it does provide an initial
foray into this hitherto largely unexplored field of studies. From this
investigation we are able to draw three conclusions.
First, the similarities between the Writings and the Enneads are
numerous and far-reaching on the foremost issues. In this sense, the
philosophy embedded in the Writings and the philosophy explicated

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
by the Enneads are ‘sister-philosophies,’ i.e. they bear a close family
resemblance to one another.
Second, these foundational similarities open new worlds to explore
in regards to the philosophy embedded in the Writings and classical
Neoplatonic and Greco-Roman philosophy, a field that is currently
subject to dramatically increased interest. The relevance is not lim-
ited to specific teachings but also includes such issues as the nature of
philosophy and how philosophy should be pursued.
Third, the similarities between the Writings and the Enneads form
a solid foundation for in-depth philosophical dialogue with three
major religious traditions whose philosophical expression over the
centuries has been heavily influenced by Neoplatonism: Christianity,
Islam and Judaism. Such dialogue is important because it concerns
the intellectual basis on which their teachings and attitudes are built.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá.

Paris Talks. London: The Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.

Some Answered Questions. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Second Edition.  Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1982.

Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá.  Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1957.
Adamson, Peter.  The Arabic Plotinus.  London: Gerald Duckworth and Co. ,
2002.
Bahá’u’lláh.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.

The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh (Arabic).  Kuala Lumpur: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1985.
Brehier, Emile.  The Philosophy of Plotinus.  Trans.  by Joseph Thomas.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1958.
Cole, Juan.  “The Concept of the Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.” http://
bahai-library. org/cole_	concept_manifestation
Deck, John.  N.  Nature, Contemplation and the One.  Burdett, NY: Larson
Publications, 1967.
Foster, Mark.  “Neo-Platonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Ontology,” http://
bahai-library. com/foster_neoplatonism_bahai_ontology
Gerson, Lloyd, P.  Plotinus.  New York: Routledge, 1994.
Gerson, Lloyd, P.  editor The Cambridge Companion to Plotinus.  Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1996.
Hadot, Pierre.  Plotinus or the Simplicity of Vision.  Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press, 1993.
Halfwassen, Jens.  Plotin und der Neuplatonismus.  Munich: C. H.  Beck, 2004.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Hazini, Nima.  “Neoplatonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Metaphysics.” http://
bahai-library. com/hazini_neoplatonism_framework_metaphysics
Hines, Brian.  Return to the One.  Salem, OR: Adrasteia Publishing, 2004.
Inge, William, Ralph.  The Philosophy of Plotinus, Vol. I and II.  New York:
Longmans, Green and Co. , 1918.
O’Daly, Gerard, J. P.  Plotinus’ Philosophy of Self.  New York: Harper and Row,
1973.
O’Meara, Dominic J.  Plotinus: An Introduction to the Enneads.  Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1993.
Plotinus.

The Enneads.  Trans.  by Stephen MacKenna.  Burdett NY: Larson
Publications.

The Enneads.  Trans.  by H Armstrong.  Cambridge, MA: Loeb Classic
Library, 1966.
Proclus.  The Elements of Theology. Trans.  by E. R.  Dodds.  Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1963.
Rappe, Sara.  Reading Neoplatonism. Cambridge, Cambridge University
Press, 2000.
Remes, Pauliina.  Neoplatonism.  Los Angeles: University of California Press,
2008.
Plotinus on Self.  Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007.
Rist, J. M.  Plotinus: The Road to Reality.  Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1967.
Wallis, R. T.  Neoplatonism.  New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
NOTES
Lights of ‘Irfán volume 11 (2010), pp.  149–202.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah, p.  19.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah, p.  196.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, #201.
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p.  432.
Shoghi Effendi, The Lights of Divine Guidance Vol.  1, p.  55.
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p.  445; emphasis added.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p.  18.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 91.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  220.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  220.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries, p.  52.
This is why I believe the Writings advocate a moderate rationalism,
as philosophically opposed to an extreme rationalism/positivism for
which only rational knowledge is true knowledge, or irrationalism in
which there is ultimately no real knowledge at all but only a plethora of
competing relative opinions.
Peter Adamson, The Arabic Plotinus, p.  1.
Peter Adamson, The Arabic Plotinus, p.
R. T.  Wallis, Neoplatonism, p.  163.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Question, p.  283.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  280.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  219.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p.  18.
Eugene F.  Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One” in The Structure of
Being: A Neoplatonic Approach, ed.  by R.  Baines Harris, p.  41.
Eugene F.  Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” p.  41.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  203.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  203.
The significance of this use of “Being” will be discussed below.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIX, p.  46–47; emphasis added.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  146–147; emphasis added.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p.  13.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIV, p.  35.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p.  66; emphasis added.
Enneads, V, 5, 6.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIX, p.  47.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, X, p.  13.
J M Rist, Plotinus: The Road to Reality, p.  78.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, II, p.  5.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LI, p.  104; emphasis added.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XII, p.  24.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXIX, p.  71.
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, From the Persian, #11.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p.  41.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p.  13.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p.  5.
Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The Structure of Being, p.  41.
Enneads, VI, 5, 1 in Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The
Structure of Being, p.  41.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  286.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  295.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p.  102; emphasis added.
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XC, p.  177; emphasis added.
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XC, p.  177; emphasis added.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XCIII, p.  185.
Proclus, The Elements of Theology, Prop.  18; see also Prop.  27.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CXXXVI, p.  295; empha-
sis added.
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p.  110; emphasis added.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p.  66.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  66.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  19; The Promulgation of Universal Peace,
p.  56.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CXLVIII, p.  237.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, L, p.  103; The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, p.  36; The Hidden Words, (Persian) #19.
Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The Structure of Being, p.  41.
Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The Structure of Being, p.  45.
Enneads, VI, 8, 14 in Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The
Structure of Being, p.  45.
Enneads, VI, 8.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  180.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXI, p.  50; Gleanings
from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXXVIII, p.  175.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CIII, p.  209.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CXXXIV, p.  291.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIV, p.  35.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  148.
Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The Structure of Being, p.  41.
Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The Structure of Being, p.  41.
Enneads, VI, 8, 20.
Enneads, VI, 8, 20 in Bales, “Plotinus’ Theory of the One,” in The
Structure of Being, p.  47.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, X, p.  13; The Promulgation
of Universal Peace, p.  192.
The Writings accept the four-fold analysis of causality; see Some
Answered Questions, p.  280.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p.  248.
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XC, p.  178.
Enneads, VI, 9, 11.
Baha’u’llah, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p.  234.
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XXII, p.  53.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p.  66–67; empha-
sis added.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LV, p.  109.
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XXII, p.  53.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXII, p.  53–54.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  281.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  148.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  239; emphasis added.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  84.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  239.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  84.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  239–240.
Enneads I, 1, 1.
Proclus, The Elements of Theology, Prop.  186.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  200.
Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  28; see also Remes, Neoplatonism,
p.  108.
Enneads, IV, 3, 20.
Enneads, IV, 3, 20.
Enneads, IV, 3, 22.
Enneads, IV, 3, 22; emphasis added.
Enneads, IV, 3, 23.
100	  John N.  Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p.  50.
101	 William Inge, The Philosophy of Plotinus, Vol.  I, p.  218.
102	 Enneads IV, 7, “The Immortality of the Soul. ”
103	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p.  8.
104	 Enneads, IV, 7, 8. 5.
105	 Enneads, IV, 7, 9.
106	 Dominic J.  O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p.  20.
107	 Pauliina Remes, Neoplatonism, p.  101.
108	 R. T.  Wallis, Neoplatonism, p.  5.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
109	 R. T.  Wallis, Neoplatonism, p.  5.
110	 Eyjolfur Kjalar Enilsson, Plotinus on Intellect, p.  2
111	 Proclus, The Elements of Theology, Prop.  172.
112	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p.  177; The Promulgation
of Universal Peace, p.  270.
113	 Proclus, Elements of Theology, Prop.  103; see also Prop.  195.
114	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  25.
115	 Enneads, III, 4, 3; emphasis added.
116	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  69; emphasis added.
117	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  236.
118	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p.  177; emphasis added.
119	 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words (Arabic) #13, p.  7.
120	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  295; see also p.  113.
121	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p.  101.
122	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  60.
123	 Pauliina Remes, Neoplatonism, p.  106.
124	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  235.
125	 Enneads, IV, 8, 4; see also III, 4, 2.
126	 Enneads, II, 3, 9.
127	 Pierre Hadot, Plotinus, or the Simplicity of Vision, p.  26.
128	 Pauliina Remes, Neoplatonism, p.  106.
129	 Enneads, IV, 7, 1.
130	 Sartre is the best known representative of atheist existentialism,
Kierkegaard of theist existentialism.  Heidegger has been interpreted as
being in both camps.
131	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  235; emphasis added.
132	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  60.
133	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  60.
134	 Enneads, II, 3, 9.
135	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  60.
136	 Enneads, I, 4, 16.
137	 Shoghi Effendi, The Lights of Divine Guidance, Vol.  2, p.  69.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
138	 Enneads, VI, 8, 1.
139	 Enneads, VI, 8, 4.
140	 Shakespeare, Hamlet, III, 2; also Lily Campbell, Shakespeare’s Tragic
Heroes, Slaves of Passion.
141	 Enneads, VI, 8, 4.
142	 Enneads, VI, 8, 7; emphasis added.
143	 Enneads, III, 1, 9.
144	 R. T.  Wallis, Neoplatonism, p.  65–66.
145	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus On Self, p.  183.
146	 J. M.  Rist, Plotinus: The Road to Reality, p.  80.
147	 J. M.  Rist, Plotinus: The Road to Reality, p.  137.
148	 Enneads, VI, 8, 10.
149	 Enneads, VI, 8, 3.
150	 Lloyd Per Gerson, Plotinus, p.  162.
151	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  248
152	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  248; see also p.  250.
153	 Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p.  447.
154	 Shoghi Effendi, Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p.  516.
155	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  197.
156	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CLIX, p.  335.
157	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CLIX, p.  336.
158	 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words (Arabic), #22.
159	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CLIX, p.  336.
160	 Emile Brehier, The Philosophy of Plotinus, p.  186.
161	 Emile Brehier, The Philosophy of Plotinus, p.  186.
162	 Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  268–269; see also
Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  136.
163	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus Philosophy of the Self, p.  27.
164	 Abdu’l-Baha, Divine Philosophy, p.  128.
165	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  208.
166	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXXIII, p.  164.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
167	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  208.
168	 Enneads, I, 1, 10; see also IV, 7, 1.
169	 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p.  50.
170	 Enneads, IV, 3, 3.
171	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  11.
172	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  207.
173	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  56.
174	 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p.  66.
175	 Enneads, I, 1, 7; emphasis added.
176	 Pauliina Remes, Neoplatonism, p.  113.
177	 Enneads, V, 9, 6; emphasis added.
178	 Enneads V, 1, 1.
179	 Enneads, IV, 8, 5; emphasis added.
180	 Enneads, IV, 8, 5.
181	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  200; emphasis added; see
also The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  295.
182	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  296.
183	 Enneads, IV, 8, 5; emphasis added.
184	 See Ian Kluge, “Neoplatonism and the Baha’i Writings,” Part 1, Lights
of Irfan Vol.  10, 2010.
185	 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, CXXXIII, p.  220.
186	 Abdu’l-Baha, Tablets of Abdu’l-Baha v1, p.  109.
187	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  263.
188	 Enneads, IV, 8, 5.
189	 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  120; see also Some
Answered Questions, p.  201.
190	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  201.
191	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  280.
192	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus’ Philosophy of the Self, p.  38.
193	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus’ Philosophy of the Self, p.  39.
194	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, Chapter 81, p.  282.
195	 Enneads, IV, 3, 9.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
196	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus’ Philosophy of Self, p.  29.
197	 Enneads, IV, 7, 1.
198	 Enneads, V, 7, 1.
199	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  240; emphasis added.
200	 This cannot help but have obvious and far-reaching effects on the way
we think about such topics as abortion or human genetic research.
201	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p.  67; emphasis
added.
202	 Enneads, III, 2, 8.
203	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus’ Philosophy of Self, p.  31.
204	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  235.
205	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  60.
206	 Pauliina Remes, Neoplatonism, p.  106.
207	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  240.
208	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of `Abdu’l-Bahá, v 1, p.  145.
209	 This use of the word ‘ego’ should not be confused with other usages
such as the “intelligent ego,” i. e.  “your spirit” with which we consult
during reflection.  See The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  242.
210	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  287.
211	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  287.
212	 Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny p.  453.
213	 See Ian Kluge, “Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings Part 1” for “The
Principles of ‘Turning Towards God’” in Lights of Irfan, Vol.  11 for a
detailed explication.
214	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CXXXV, p.  291.
215	 Enneads, IV, 8, 8.
216	 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  178; see also Some
Answered Questions, p.  283.
217	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  179; emphasis added.
218	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  60.
219	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  239.
220	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  209.
221	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.  66.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
222	 Enneads, III, 4, 2.
223	 Enneads, III, 4, 2.
224	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus’ Philosophy of the Self, p.  37.
225	 Gerard J. P.  O’Daly, Plotinus’ Philosophy of the Self, p.  40.
226	 Enneads, II, 3, 9.
227	 Enneads, II, 3, 9.
228	 Enneads, VI, 7, 6.
229	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  209.
230	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  210–212,
231	 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words (Arabic), p.  3.
232	 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p.  35.
233	 Enneads, I, 2, 1.
234	 Enneads, I, 2, 3.
235	 Enneads, I, 6, 9.
236	 Enneads, I, 6, 9.
237	 Enneads I, 6, 9.
238	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  331.
239	 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p.  35
240	 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p.  35.
241	 Pierre Hadot, What is Ancient Philosophy?; see also Pierre Hadot,
Philosophy as a Way of Life.
242	 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  76; emphasis added.
243	 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  180; emphasis added.
244	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  211.
245	 This is not to say that individuals have the insight or right to make
these judgments about others.
246	 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p.  35.
247	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 61.
248	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.  147; emphasis added.
249	 See Ian Kluge, “Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan,
Vol.  9, 2008, for a detailed exploration of this topic.
250	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p.  66.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings: Part 2
251	 Proclus, The Elements of Theology, Prop.  9; see also Prop.  40; Prop.  75.
252	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXII, p.  54.
253	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdu’l-Baha, p.  57.
254	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p.  66.
255	 Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p.  118; emphasis added.
256	 The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p.  77.
257	 Enneads, VI, 9, 10.
258	 Enneads, VI, 7, 34.
259	 J. M.  Rist, Plotinus: The Road to Reality, p.  227.
260	 Enneads, VI, 9, 8.
261	 Enneads, VI, 9, 8.
262	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  249.
263	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  253.
264	 Pauliina Remes, Plotinus on Self, p.  253.
265	 Enneads IV, 8, 1.
266	 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XCIV, p.  192. ; emphasis
added.
267	 R. T.  Wallis, Neoplatonism, p.  70.
268	 This concept is often associated with Stoic philosopher Posidonius (135
BCE to 51 BCE).
269	 Enneads, II, 3, 7.
270	 Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  178–179.
271	 Most famously explicated on A. O.  Lovejoy’s The Great Chain of Being
(1936).
272	 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  48–49
273	 Enneads, IV, 4, 33.
274	 Enneads, IV, 4, 33.
275	 Enneads, IV, 4, 33.

Preparing Bahá’í Communities in the East and West
to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Introduction
The oneness of humankind is the pivotal principle of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation. Its realization is impossible without restoring to women
the human rights denied them since time immemorial. Gender equal-
ity, a principle revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, is an essential prerequisite
of the unity of humankind and one of the most difficult to achieve
worldwide. Inequality goes back many centuries. Its practice is rooted
in time-honored traditions and condoned in almost all past religions.
Eradicating a practice so long upheld and accepted by both men and
women as the way God had intended it to be requires patience, pains-
taking effort and supreme wisdom. The principle of gender equality
was revealed by Bahá’u’lláh; the ground for its meaningful achievement
was laid by `Abdu’l-Bahá during His ministry. This paper deals with
the intricacies involved and the remarkable way He dealt with the
matter. It examines some of His writings revealed in honor of the
Bahá’í women in Iran and North America, and the methods He
used to utilize their energy and capabilities for the furtherance of
the Cause of God. The paper also looks at the practical ways He
educated Bahá’í men to accept women as their equal. Finally, it
discusses the glowing result He achieved in a relatively short time.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The Establishment of Bahá’í Communities:
Historical Background
1. The Establishment of Bahá’í Communities in the East
The arenas of Bábí activities, which began with the declaration of the
Báb in Shiraz, Iran in May 1844, were Iran and Iraq. The Báb was
born in Shiraz in 1819 and executed in Tabriz in 1850. During His
ministry, many embraced His Cause and Bábí communities were
established in numerous centers in the two countries where His
Faith spread.
Bahá’u’lláh, for Whose Advent The Báb had come to prepare the
people, was also a native of Iran. He was born in Tihran in 1817 and
embraced the Bábí Faith shortly after The Báb declared His Mission.
Bahá’u’lláh’s active involvement in promoting the Bábí Faith and
His leadership of the community, after the martyrdom of The Báb,
made Him a target for severe persecution leading to His banishment
from Iran. He left for Baghdad in January 1853. Ten years later, as
He was leaving Baghdad for Constantinople (Istanbul) in spring
1863, Bahá’u’lláh declared that He was the One promised by all
past religions, Whose advent the Báb had heralded, and for Whom
He had sacrificed His life. Those who embraced Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause
became known as Bahá’ís. Bahá’u’lláh was further exiled to Adri-
anople (Edirne) and `Akká, where He passed away in 1892. During
His ministry (1863–1892), His Cause spread to more than a dozen
countries where Bahá’í communities were established.
2. The Establishment of Bahá’í Communities in the West
Shortly after Bahá’u’lláh’s Ascension, Ebrahim Kheirallah, the first
Bahá’í of Syrian origin who had embraced the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh
in Cairo, Egypt around 1890, set foot on American soil.1 His settle-
ment in Chicago in February 1894 marked the beginning of the
establishment of a Bahá'í community in that city. Gradually the

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
teachings of the nascent Faith spread and Bahá'í communities were
established in different parts of North America, whence it spread to
Europe and other parts of the western hemisphere.
The Principle of Gender Equality and Its Impact on
the Evolution of Bahá’í Institutions in the West
As the number of new adherents in the United States swelled and their
thirst for receiving more elaborate and clear guidance regarding the
Bahá’í Faith intensified, it became clear that they needed assistance
from seasoned and knowledgeable Bahá’ís to deepen their under-
standing of the tenets of the Bahá’í Faith. To provide for this need,
`Abdu’l-Bahá sent emissaries consisting of Bahá’í men of recognized
ability from the Middle East to visit North America. Among them
was Mírzá Asadu’lláh-i-Isfahání.2 During his visit to the United
States at the turn of the twentieth century, elected consultative
bodies comprising of adult male Bahá'ís were elected. Whether this
was a coincidence or happened by design, Mírzá Asadu’lláh has been
credited with helping to organize the Bahá'í communities admin-
istratively. Although renowned and knowledgeable, he was not free
from the influences of time-honored traditions and gender-based
biases of the Middle Eastern countries. When preparations were
being made for consultative bodies to be elected, he supported the
view that women were not allowed to serve on them. It is interesting
to note that at that time American women had not yet gained the
right to vote and gender equality still remained a distant dream.
Therefore, Mírzá Asadu’lláh’s understanding of the law must have
seemed reasonable and in accord with what was the norm. That
development, however, set in motion a long process of education by
`Abdu'l-Bahá, the aim of which was to prepare Bahá'í communities
in the west to embrace the principle of gender equality. Although
He did not interfere with what had happened and did not annul the
body which excluded women from its membership, He steered the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
affairs in a manner that led to the Bahá'í women gaining the right to
be elected and the men to accept them as their equal in every respect.
As an authorized translation of the text of the Most Holy Book was
unavailable, the western believers initially depended for their knowl-
edge of the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas on the understanding of male
Bahá'ís from the Middle East.3 One of the laws of the Most Holy
Book says: “The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of
Justice be established wherein shall gather counselors to the number
of Bahá…”4 This verse refers to the establishment of Local Houses of
Justice and makes no reference to the gender of the members. In the
same Book, Bahá'u'lláh speaks of the “Seat of Justice”, admonishes
“its men to observe pure justice…”, and also addresses the “Men of
Justice!”5 In the early stages of the development of the Faith and until
`Abdu'l-Bahá made the intent of the law clear, although Bahá'ís in
the east and the west were aware of the principle of gender equality,
they generally believed that all Houses of Justice excluded women
from their membership. Considering the heightened level of gen-
der bias, which had traditionally kept women outside the arena of
decision-making institutions, this was not surprising. The erroneous
understanding of the Bahá'í law was, however, challenged by some
western women believers during the ministry of `Abdu'l-Bahá. With
supreme wisdom He gradually disclosed the intent of the law which
made it possible for women to serve on all the institutions of the
Faith save that of the Universal House of Justice.
The first “House of Justice”, later named the “House of Spirituality”,
was elected in Chicago in early 1900. The election took place during
the prolonged visit of Mírzá Asadu’lláh. This institution as well as
the Council Board formed in New York later that year excluded
women from their membership.6
According to Nathan Rutstein, author of Corinne True, “They had
seen a copy of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, which mentions the development of

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Houses of Justice. So, even though the Master didn’t request the believers
to organize administratively, some prominent Chicago Bahá’ís felt they
should. After all, He hadn’t said they couldn’t… people like Thornton
Chase believed that organizing the Faith would protect it from confusion
and schism.”7 For reasons of prudence, `Abdu'l-Bahá advised that it be
not called the House of Justice, therefore it was called the ‘House of
Spirituality.’ As already stated, women were initially excluded from
its membership. Some women, prominent among them Corinne
True, felt uneasy about the exclusion of women. Rutstein writes:
Corinne True followed the development of the House of
Spirituality keenly. It bothered her that women weren’t
allowed to serve on the body. She didn’t protest, but instead
made a commitment to try to change the membership to
include women…she was sure that Bahá'u'lláh had inaugu-
rated a new era, in which women would realize equal status
with men. But many of the early Bahá'ís … didn’t subscribe
to Corinne True’s beliefs.8
Corinne True referred the matter to `Abdu'l-Bahá', the Successor of
Bahá'u'lláh and the authorized Interpreter of His Writings.9 Her
missive is unavailable, but it is not difficult to surmise from the
response she received what the contents of her letter were. A part of
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s response reads:
… in the sight of Bahá, women are accounted the same as men,
and God hath created all humankind in His own image, and
after His own likeness. That is, men and women alike are the
revealers of His names and attributes, and from the spiritual
viewpoint there is no difference between them. Whoso-
ever draweth nearer to God, that one is the most favoured,
whether man or woman. How many handmaids, ardent and
devoted, hath, within the sheltering shade of Bahá, proved
superior to the men, and surpassed the famous of the earth.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In the same Tablet, He says
The House of Justice, however, according to the explicit text
of the Law of God, is confined to men; this for a wisdom
of the Lord God’s, which will ere long be made manifest as
clearly as the sun at high noon.10
The contents of this Tablet praising the ardent and devoted women
believers who, He says, had proved superior to the men and surpassed
the famous of the earth came to them as a real surprise. How do we
know this? A Tablet revealed by `Abdu'l-Bahá in honor of Thornton
Chase makes this clear. The Tablet reads:
It may be that letters addressed to the women believers do
indeed contain certain passages written by way of encour-
agement, but the purpose of such passages is to show that,
in this new age, some of the women have outshone some of
the men – not that all women have excelled all men! The
members of the Spiritual Assembly should do all they can
to provide encouragement to the women believers. In this
dispensation one should not think in terms of “men” and
“women”[,] all are under the shadow of the Word of God and,
as they strive the more diligently, so shall their reward be the
greater – be they men or women or the frailest of people.11
The second part of the Tablet to Corinne True refers to the “explicit
text of the Law of God”12 according to which, `Abdu'l-Bahá says,
“[t]he House of Justice … is confined to men.” He also speaks of “a
wisdom of the Lord God’s, which will ere long be made manifest as
clearly as the sun at high noon.” It is most significant that `Abdu’l-
Bahá speaks not of a reason, but a “wisdom” for the exclusion of
women from membership on the House of Justice. Had He spoken
of “a reason”, men would have been confirmed in their belief that
something inherent in women makes them unfit to serve on the

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
House of Justice. `Abdu'l-Bahá speaks of a “wisdom”, but provides
no clue to help humanity to unravel it. He actually defers its mani-
festation to a future date. He also speaks of the “explicit text of the
Law” without identifying it. Moreover, He does not make the intent
of the Law clear.
Wisdom, Its Role and Significance in Scripture
Wisdom is a word repeatedly used in Bahá’í Writings. To understand
its different meanings to the best degree possible, we need to examine
the concept as it has been used in the Writings, which is outside the
scope of this discussion. Suffice it to say here that one kind of wisdom
is inscrutable to all but God. Another is the kind that only appointed
interpreters comprehend. A third is the kind that is within the realm
of possibility for human beings to understand, but requires time.
The wisdom of which `Abdu’l-Bahá speaks in His Tablet to Corinne
True does not fall under the first two categories, for He says erelong it
will be made manifest very clearly, like the sun at high noon. Corinne
True was eager to know the reason for women’s exclusion from mem-
bership on the House of Justice. `Abdu’l-Bahá did not provide a reason.
Instead, He spoke of a wisdom. Why? One may observe:
Reason requires a premise. A premise is “a statement of fact or a suppo-
sition made or implied as a basis of argument.” Reason is “a statement
offered in explanation or justification.” It requires “due exercise of the
faculty of logical thought.”13
By contrast, wisdom does not require a premise. It is defined as “(pos-
session of) experience and knowledge together with the power of
applying them critically or practically.”14
As stated earlier, had `Abdu’l-Bahá used the word “reason”, it would
have caused everyone to look for something inherently wrong with

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
women to justify their exclusion from membership on the elective
arm of the Administrative Order. Were there a reason, `Abdu'l-Bahá
would have pronounced it when the world was ready and eager to
hear and accept it. In His Writings and discourses `Abdu'l-Bahá says
that lack of education had kept women backward and in the back-
ground. Women had not chosen to be uneducated; this injustice, like
many others, had been imposed upon them by a patriarchal society.
Moreover, the removal of the cause should remove the effect, which
is not the case here.
The term “wisdom” shifted the believers’ attention from centering
focus and dwelling on women’s inferiority, which they thought had
made women unsuitable to serve on decision-making institutions,
to something they were incapable of comprehending. The focus on
“reason” had traditionally led to the degradation of women’s status in
religion. The focus on “wisdom” was the first step in implementing the
principle of gender equality. Bahá'u'lláh had already dealt with men’s
perceived superiority when He revealed: “[T]he Pen of the Most
High hath lifted distinctions from between His servants and hand-
maidens … hath broken the back of vain imaginings with the sword
of utterance and hath obliterated the perils of idle fancies through
the pervasive power of His might.”15
Fully aware of the social requirements of the time and the incapacity
of a society utterly unprepared for grasping the significance of the
principle of gender equality, `Abdu'l-Bahá dealt with a persistent
question in a way that did not disrupt the progress of the Faith at that
early stage of its development. He focused on educating the commu-
nity by encouraging women to forge ahead in the teaching field. He
guided them to found Spiritual Assemblies. Addressing the women
believers, He said:
…O ye…handmaids who are enamored of the heavenly fra-
grances, arrange ye holy gatherings, and found ye Spiritual

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Assemblies, for these are the basis for spreading the sweet
savors of God, exalting His Word, promulgating His religion
and promoting His Teachings, and what bounty is there
greater than this…16
At the same time, He made it known to all that male superiority was
caused by physical force and the exigency of the primitive age of the
human race, that distinction based on gender was not in God’s plan
for creation, that the injustices women had suffered as a result of
their unequal status with men had to be rectified. He emphasized
that women, too, were made in the image of God, affirmed that in
the sight of God men and women are the same, and prepared the
men to accept women as their equal. Had He explained at the outset
what the intent of the Law was, had He overruled the men whose
misunderstanding of the intent of the Law had caused the confu-
sion, those men and their supporters would have been startled, nay
dismayed, and chaos would have ensued. Divine wisdom dictated that
the intent of the Law be gradually disclosed, and that the believers be
given ample time to be educated to accept the outcome. This conjec-
ture is confirmed by the contents of a Tablet revealed in honor of one
or more female believers in Tihran, which will be discussed later in
this paper.
The events that took place following the revelation of the Tablet to
Corinne True unravel how `Abdu'l-Bahá prepared the community
for women’s membership on National and Local Houses of Justice
in a way that when the time came, the transition was smooth and
the outcome was accepted by all. The key to the smooth transition
was the women’s obedience to `Abdu'l-Bahá’s directives. They did as
He had advised and focused their energies more than ever before on
teaching the nascent Faith and spreading the Cause of God in the
United States and abroad. They founded an “Assembly of Teach-
ing” and outdid the men in the arena of promoting the Cause of
Bahá'u'lláh. For a while the House of Spirituality and the Assembly

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of Teaching operated as parallel institutions. This anomaly, which
was causing confusion, was dealt with successfully with the coopera-
tion of the women. However, the question of the exclusion of women
from membership on the House of Spirituality did not go away. In
response to further questions, `Abdu'l-Bahá confirmed the eligibility
of women for membership on local and national Bahá'í institutions.
This was contrary to the understanding of those who had initially
thought otherwise. By this time, the process of educating the believers
to understand the implications of gender equality had taken root; the
believers understood and accepted the intent of the Law, as explained
by `Abdu'l-Bahá':
According to the ordinances of the Faith of God, women are
the equals of men in all rights save only that of membership
on the Universal House of Justice, for as hath been stated in
the text of the Book, both the head and the members of the
House of Justice are men.
He further stated:
in all other bodies, such as the Temple Construction Com-
mittee, the Teaching Committee, the Spiritual Assembly,
and in charitable and scientific associations, women share
equally in all rights with men.17
In this Tablet `Abdu'l-Bahá not only reveals the intent of the Law
by confirming women’s eligibility for membership on all institutions
“save only that of membership on the Universal House of Justice”, but
He also identifies “the text of the Book,” according to which, He says,
“both the head and the members of the House of Justice are men.”
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh alludes to the institution of
Guardianship.18 In His Will and Testament `Abdu'l-Bahá delin-
eates the manner of the election of the Universal House of Justice

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
and designates the Guardian of the Cause of God as “its sacred head
and the distinguished member for life of that body.”19 The text of the
Book mentioned in this context may, therefore, be a reference to His
Will and Testament.
In the initial Tablet to Corinne True, the ineligibility of women for
membership on the “House of Justice”, which was understood to
include all Houses of Justice, was linked to a wisdom of Lord God’s.
For that wisdom to be made manifest in a way that everyone would
see it clearly, time was needed to prepare the ground for women’s
membership on all the institutions of the Faith, save that of the
Universal House of Justice. To prove to the men that women had the
ability to enter all fields of service and excel in what they did, and also
to prove to the women that they were up to the task, `Abdu'l-Bahá
encouraged some capable women to undertake responsibilities that
until then had been reserved for men. For example, it was through
His encouragement that Corinne True became involved with looking
for land and with the finances of the Mother Temple of the West.
Her active involvement and success was instrumental in her mem-
bership on the Temple Unity Board, a prelude to the election of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States and
Canada. Her dedicated services to the Faith, which were demon-
strated most ably, were widely recognized and revealed to skeptics
among the believers that, as `Abdu'l-Bahá had stated, when women
and men are given equal opportunities, they prove equal to the task.
At the first National Bahá'í Convention of North America, two
women were elected to the National Spiritual Assembly, Corinne
True being one of them. Everyone accepted the outcome without
hesitation. Women’s eligibility for election on decision-making bodies
had by then become an established fact.
The question of the ineligibility of women for membership on the
Universal House of Justice, however, persisted. It was raised again
during the ministry of Shoghi Effendi and has been raised since the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
establishment of the Universal House of Justice. The responses have
been invariably based on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets on the subject, espe-
cially the one quoted above. In a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, dated 28 July 1930, it is stated:
…[T]here is a Tablet from `Abdu'l-Bahá in which He defi-
nitely states that the membership of the Universal House
is confined to men, and that the wisdom of it will be fully
revealed and appreciated in the future. In the local as well
as the national Houses of Justice, however, women have the
full right of membership. It is, therefore, only to the Interna-
tional House that they cannot be elected.”
In the same letter, the Bahá'ís are advised to “accept this statement
of the Master in a spirit of deep faith, confident that there is a divine
guidance and wisdom behind it which will be gradually unfolded to
the eyes of the world.20
The Response of the Bahá’ís of Iran to the
Principle of Gender Equality
The genesis of organized Bahá’í activity in Iran is not as clearly described
and documented as that in the West. Once a general history of the
Faith in the land of its birth becomes available, it will explain how it
all started. For the time being what is known is this: the first group
of believers who, in their rudimentary understanding of Bahá’u’lláh’s
commandment in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas “that in every city a House of
Justice be established”21 came together and formed an Assembly for
the purpose of looking after the affairs of the community, were all
men and initially self-appointed. The membership continued to be
all-male long after it became an elected institution.

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
The women’s exclusion from membership on elected Bahá'í insti-
tutions was not initially an issue in Iran. Based on traditional
practices, everyone accepted the notion that women were excluded
from decision-making institutions, as though it was the intent of the
Law revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. As a result of social conditioning,
also because of the prejudices that had kept women in a degraded state,
women’s exclusion from membership on elected Bahá'í institutions in
Iran continued for several decades. In his Ten Year global Plan (1953-
1963) Shoghi Effendi made the eligibility for election of the Iranian
Bahá'í women a goal of that Plan for Iran to achieve. At the end of
the first year of that Plan, i.e. during Ridván 1954, women, who until
then had the right to elect, for the first time enjoyed the right to be
elected as well. Even then the mental block, which considered Iranian
women unworthy of serving on elected Bahá'í institutions, made it
most difficult for women to be elected. The first woman elected to
the National Spiritual Assembly of Iran was Adelaide Sharpe, an
American Bahá'í woman serving in Iran. Many Local Assemblies
had only one, or no female member, for quite a while after 1954.
Therefore, the process of educating the masses about gender equality
had to continue much longer. For those who wonder why no Iranian
Bahá'í woman was ever appointed a Hand of the Cause of God, or
why none has served as a Counselor in the land of Bahá'u'lláh’s birth,
this should provide at least a partial answer.
While `Abdu'l-Bahá was preparing the friends in the West for the
implementation of the principle of gender equality, He was also lay-
ing the ground for its realization in the East. In numerous Tablets,
He encouraged the women to emulate the example of the Bahá'í
women in America and Europe, and even outdo them in the arena of
service. In one of His Tablets we read:
O ye leaves who have attained certitude! In the countries of
Europe and America the maidservants of the Merciful have
won the prize of excellence and advancement from the arena

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of men, and in the fields of teaching and spreading the divine
fragrances they have shown a brilliant hand. Soon they will
soar like the birds of the Concourse on high in the far corners
of the world and will guide the people and reveal to them
the divine mysteries. Ye, who are the blessed leaves from the
East, should burn more brightly, and engage in spreading the
sweet savors of the Lord and in reciting the verses of God.
Arise, therefore, and exert yourselves to fulfill the exhorta-
tions and counsels of the Blessed Beauty, that all hopes may
be realized and that the plain of streams and orchards may
become the garden of oneness.22
When the initial stirrings of collective consciousness moved the women
believers in Tihran to action, their initiative showed promise when
some men of goodwill offered their wholehearted support. At that
crucial juncture, `Abdu'l-Bahá encouraged some western women to go
to Iran and extend to the women and their supporters a helping hand.
Although the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh had sparked in the hearts
of the women believers the fire of hope and although they knew that
one day they would achieve equality of status with men, that glorious
future seemed to them very distant. With Tahirih (Qurratu’l-`Ayn)
the process of gender equality had begun, but the road to its real-
ization seemed thorny and filled with hazards. The Iranian women
needed concrete examples and living role models to turn their
dreams into reality; they needed all the support they could get. They
had seen the glimmerings of organized Bahá'í community life and
activities in Tihran where men had spontaneously formed institu-
tions that looked after the affairs of the community. They had also
witnessed the establishment of a Bahá'í Boys School in 1900 that was
successfully educating the boys. They wished to establish a school
for the girls. Some even initiated private enterprises with the help of
some men of goodwill, but the progress was painfully slow because
resources were scarce and community support negligible.

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
The first to respond to `Abdu'l-Bahá’s call was Dr. Susan Moody.
She settled in Tihran in early 1909, and began working in earnest
to improve the health condition of women. She also provided crucial
help in establishing a Bahá'í girls school, similar to that of the Tar-
bíyat Boys School, albeit on a much smaller scale. About a year after
her arrival in Tehran, she wrote to the American Bahá'ís in February
1910 and conveyed this joyous news:
…The girls’ school is assured. They will start with accommo-
dations for fifty pupils… Please tell any who want to help
that it will take only $1.50 per month to educate a girl. There
are many here too poor to pay and this is the way to help lift
Persia from her otherwise hopeless condition.23
Dr. Moody was instrumental in seeking `Abdu'l-Bahá’s approval for
recruiting the services of Ms. Lillian Kappes, an American Bahá'í
educator, to teach in the Girls School.
Before going to Iran, Lillian Kappes was aware of the plight of
women in that country. She knew that men dominated over the
affairs of women and did not think much of their education. She was
aware of the challenges that she was going to face in carrying out her
work. What she did not know was that her male colleagues would
stand in the way of her effectiveness in providing for the education of
girls. Fortunately, on her way to Iran, she had met `Abdu'l-Bahá in
Switzerland and had been to some degree prepared for the challenges
ahead. Nonetheless, at times she found the situation unbearable.
For example, she had to administer the girls’ school almost single-
handedly yet without any autonomy. The school had been initially
established as a department of the boys’ school and the education
committee, composed of male Bahá'ís, was principally concerned
with the needs of the boys’ school. Miss Kappes was circumscribed in
her efforts and could not make much progress. The prolongation of
this difficult situation affected her health. In 1916 Dr. Sarah Clock,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
another American Bahá'í who had gone to Iran to help Dr. Moody’s
work, sent a letter to some Bahá'í women in the United States, and
disclosed the reality of the situation:
Yesterday Miss K [Kappes] was simply abused by the meet-
ing of 5 men, came home in perfect nervous collapse & was
awake all night from sheer nervousness & worry…., Not
long ago a tablet came to a Persian here praising Miss K &
her work in the school … she has the moral support of many
of the best men, all the women who in an excited meeting
all stood y her. ….if Miss Kappes were not a Bahai or not
less than a saint she would not have put up with all she has,
for five years her hands have been tied, that is they have not
allowed her to use her own advanced ideas as to a school. …
some of the good men are entirely with her. They offer to
open another school for her & several of the nicest of the
girls will teach for nothing.24
In a country tightly held in the grip of male domination, where women
could not and did not actively participate in any decision-making
process, the presence of a few women, who posed a challenge to the
traditional way of life, was a mighty tool in exposing the prejudices
that had led to women’s degraded status. Unlike an early emissary
to the west who had informed the nascent Bahá'í community of the
United States to exclude women from membership on elected insti-
tutions, the American Bahá'í women taught the women in Iran how
to achieve equal status with men and prepare to serve with them on
Bahá'í institutions. They taught by example that, given opportunities
for advancement, women could do as well as their male counterparts.
Encouraged by the achievements of their Bahá'í sisters, some Iranian
female believers learned to become assertive and to claim their God-
given rights. By doing so, they became entangled in a controversial
issue for which the generality of men in Iran had no sympathy, even
tolerance. When their petitions for equal treatment met resistance, a

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
group of women wrote to `Abdu'l-Bahá and complained.25 And they
were not the only ones whose petitioning letters reached `Abdu'l-
Bahá. Some men wrote and complained as well, but the nature of
the complaints differed. Women sought equality. Men regarded
their perceived superiority a birthright and could not understand the
women’s demand. Although the texts of the petitioning letters are
unavailable, the contents of one of `Abdu'l-Bahá’s responses provide
enlightening insights. They also show the way that `Abdu'l-Bahá,
through a process of education, prepared both men and women to
embrace the principle of gender equality in Iran. While approving
“the establishment of a women’s assemblage for the promotion of
knowledge,” He said, “discussions must be confined to educational
matters.”26 He further explained: “It should be done in such a way
that differences will, day by day, be entirely wiped out, not that, God
forbid, it will end in argumentation between men and women.”27 He
then provided an example, something that had been done contrary
to the dictates of wisdom and it had to do with the veil. He said:
“As in the question of the veil, nothing should be done contrary to
wisdom.”28 He then exhorted the women:
The individual women should, today, follow a course of action
which will be the cause of eternal glory to all womankind, so
that all women will be illumined. And that lieth in gather-
ing to learn how to teach, in holding meetings to recite the
verses, to offer supplications to the kingdom of the Lord of
evident signs, and to institute education for the girls. Ponder
the manner in which Jináb-i-Táhirih used to teach. She was
free from every concern, and for this reason she was resplen-
dent. Now the world of women should be a spiritual world,
not a political one, so that it will be radiant. The women of
other nations are all immersed in political matters. Of what
benefit is this, and what fruit doth it yield? To the extent
that ye can, ye should busy yourselves with spiritual mat-
ters which will be conducive to the exaltation of the Word of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
God and of the diffusion of His fragrances. Your demeanour
should lead to harmony amongst all and to coalescence and
the good-pleasure of all….29
That the atmosphere between the men and women in Tihran was
tense causing concern, and that `Abdu'l-Bahá was trying with His
loving counsels to calm the situation, in order to hasten the imple-
mentation of the principle of gender equality, is evident from what
He said next:
I am endeavouring, with Bahá'u'lláh’s confirmations and
assistance, so to improve the world of the handmaidens
that all will be astonished. This progress is intended to
be in spirituality, in virtues, in human perfections and in
divine knowledge.
To make the women conscious of a unbecoming behaviour, `Abdu'l-
Bahá refers to the situation of the women in America and remarks:
In America, the cradle of women’s liberation, women are
still debarred from political institutions because they
squabble. They are yet to have a member in the House of
Representatives.30
It must be stated here that `Abdu’l-Bahá did not spare men from
engaging in unbecoming behavior either. During His visit to North
America, He related what He had experienced in France, which
exposed a similar or worse characteristic in men. He said: “In France
I was present at a session of the senate, but the experience was not
impressive.” After explaining the object of true consultation, He says:
“In the parliamentary meeting mentioned, altercation and useless
quibbling were frequent; the result, mostly confusion and turmoil;
even in one instance a physical encounter took place between two
members. It was not consultation but comedy.”31

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
In His Tablet to the Bahá’í women in Tihran, `Abdu’l-Bahá makes
reference to Bahá’u’lláh addressing the “men of the House of Justice”
which suggests that membership of Bahá’í institutions was one of
the points covered in the communications He had received. He
says: “Also Bahá’u’lláh hath proclaimed: ‘O ye men of the House of
Justice.’” It is interesting to note that in this Tablet, He does not
explain the intent of the Law. Could it be that the process of educa-
tion in Iran was incomplete and the ground was not yet ready for
making the intent of the Law clear? What comes next seems to con-
firm this conjecture:
Ye need to be calm and composed, so that the work will pro-
ceed with wisdom, otherwise there will be such chaos that
ye will leave everything and run away. “This newly born babe
is traversing in one night the path that needeth a hundred
years to tread.” In brief, ye should now32 engage in matters
of pure spirituality and not contend with men. `Abdu'l-Bahá
will tactfully take appropriate steps. Be assured. In the end
thou wilt thyself exclaim, “This was indeed supreme wis-
dom!” I appeal to you to obliterate this contention between
men and women ….33
He ends the Tablet thus:
No one can on his own achieve anything. `Abdu'l-Bahá must
be well pleased and assist.34
The theme of gender equality was time and again addressed by
`Abdu'l-Bahá during His travels in North America and Europe. His
utterances have been compiled and published in “The Promulgation
of Universal Peace,” “Paris Talks,” “Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philoso-
phy”, and so forth. His statements on the subject have been included
in the Compilation on Women. I quote here one statement, which

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
describes vividly the status of women at the time of Bahá'u'lláh’s Rev-
elation, and the progress made thereafter:
The woman of the East has progressed. Formerly in India,
Persia and throughout the Orient, she was not considered
a human being. Certain Arab tribes counted their women
in with the livestock. In their language the noun for woman
also meant donkey; that is, the same name applied to both
and a man’s wealth was accounted by the number of these
beasts of burden he possessed. The worst insult one could
hurl at a man was to cry out, “Thou woman!”
From the moment Bahá'u'lláh appeared, this changed. He
did away with the idea of distinction between the sexes, pro-
claiming them equal in every capacity.
In former times it was considered wiser that woman should
not know how to read or write; she should occupy herself
only with drudgery. She was very ignorant. Bahá'u'lláh
declares the education of woman to be of more importance
than that of man. If the mother be ignorant, even if the father
have great knowledge, the child’s education will be at fault,
for education begins with the milk. A child at the breast is
like a tender branch that the gardener can train as he wills.
The East has begun to educate its women. Some there are in
Persia who have become liberated through this cause, whose
cleverness and eloquence the ‘ulamá cannot refute. Many of
them are poets. They are absolutely fearless….
I hope for a like degree of progress among the women of
Europe – that each may shine like unto a lamp; that they
may cry out the proclamation of the kingdom; that they may
truly assist the men; nay, that they may be even superior to

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
the men, versed in sciences and yet detached, so that the
whole world may bear witness to the fact that men and
women have absolutely the same rights. It would be a cause
of great joy for me to see such women. This is useful work;
by it woman will enter into the kingdom. Otherwise, there
will be no results.35
When `Abdu'l-Bahá was in the United States, many newspaper
reporters and journalists interviewed Him. In some interviews He
responded to questions about gender equality and woman suffrage.
Almost a century ago, a newspaper in San Francisco published an
interview titled “Abdul Baha Suffrage Advocate – Sex Equality Need
for Progress.” One of the questions the interviewer asked was “How
about woman suffrage?” `Abdu'l-Bahá responded:
The world of humanity is possessed of two wings, one rep-
resented by the male, the other by the female. Both must be
strong in order that the world of humanity may fly. Equality
of rights and prerogatives of men and women is finding foot-
hold in America faster than in other parts. Until suffrage
is established, the body-politic will not achieve its progress.
Women are the first educators of men. Hence womankind
must be educated until they reach the level of man.36
Conclusion
The principle of gender equality revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in the mid-
Nineteenth Century is an essential prerequisite for the realization of
the unity of humankind, which is the ultimate goal of His revelation.
The principle was revealed when the world was steeped in prejudices
that had subjugated women and kept them under the thumb of the
authority of men. To restore to women the rights denied them for
many centuries, it was crucial to educate Bahá’í communities and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
allow them sufficient time to gradually embrace the principle of gen-
der equality. This process began on a wide scale during the ministry
of `Abdu’l-Bahá and gained momentum when some awaked women
questioned the validity of the status quo which the generality of the
male believers wished to maintain. The strides taken to overcome
traditional barriers and gender biases which began during `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s ministry have been more successful in countries where women
have had the freedom to exercise their rights and prove their worth.
The process is destined to continue until full equality is achieved on
a worldwide scale.

Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
NOTES
Ibrahim Kheirallah arrived in New York City on 20 December 1892.
(The Bahá’í Faith in America, Vol.  1, p.  26. )
Mírzá  Asadu’llah, a seasoned believer from Isfahan, was related to
`Abdu’l-Baha through marriage.   He was married to a younger sister
of Minirih Khanum, `Abdu’l-Baha’s wife.   Mírzá  Asadu’llah lived in
the Holy Land with his family.  His son, Dr.  Ameen Farid, served as
`Abdu’l-Bahá’’s translator during His travels in the west.  He later broke
the Covenant and caused the spiritual demise of His parents and sister.
At the turn of the twentieth century, Mr.  Anton Haddad, an Arabic-
speaking believer living in the United States began work on translating
to English the text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas.  His translation was informal
and never published.
Kitab-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, K 30
Ibid, K 52
For further information, see the initial chapters of The Bahá’íBahá’í


Faith in America, Vol.  2.
Corinne True, Faithful Handmaid of `Abdu’l-Baha, pp.  30–31
Ibid, p.  31
Ibid, p.  32
Women.  Comp.  UK Bahá’íBahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990 edition, #14.
Ibid, #19
In the Compilation on Women a footnote appears after above Tablet
which reads:

“From other extracts it is evident that the limitation of membership
to men applies only to the Universal House of Justice, and not to the
National and Local Houses of Justice. ”
The Concise Oxford Dictionary.
Ibid.
Women, #2
Corinne True, p.  32
Women,  #15
Kitab-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, K 42.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The Will and Testament of `Abdu’l-Baha.  US Bahá’íBahá’í Publishing
Trust 1971 edition, p.  14
Women, # 31.
Kitab-i-Aqdas, K 30.
Women, #100
Start of the West 1:2:11, quoted in “The Interdependence of
Bahá’íBahá’í Communities, Services of North American Bahá’íBahá’í
Women to Iran”, The Journal of Bahá’íBahá’í Studies, 4:1:25.
In Iran.  Studies in Bábi and Bahá’í History series, Vol.  3,  p.  190,
quoted in “The Interdependence of Bahá’íBahá’í Communities”, The
Journal of Bahá’íBahá’í Studies, 4:1:31.
Compared with the number of men who wrote to `Abdu’l-Baha, the
number of women was negligible.  For that reason, the number of
Tablets revealed in honour of Iranian Bahá’íBahá’í women is far less
than those revealed in honour of the men.
Women, #13.
Ibid
Ibid.  ]Bahá’í men and women did not meet together in one place.   To
enable everyone to enjoy the program, women sat in an adjacent
room separated from the men’s room by a curtain, or a wall.  To break
away with the tradition of segregation based on gender, at a meeting
attended by visitors from the west, the curtain was drawn back.
Startled by this action, some men took offense and reported the event
to `Abdu’l-Baha.
Women, # 13.
Ibid.  When `Abdu’l-Baha was in the United States, women did not yet
have the right of vote.   They gained the right in 1920.
Consultation.  Comp.  #20.
Emphasis added.
Women, #13.
Ibid.
Abdu’l-Baha on Divine Philosophy, pages 81–3
San Francisco Examiner, Friday 4 October 1912


Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Bab

by Moojan Momen



The Bab was the title taken by Sayyid `Ali Muhammad Shirazi (1819-1850) when he began a
religious movement in Iran in 1844. Over the next 6 years, this movement was to convulse
Iran. In the first place, the movement spread rapidly throughout Iran with the formation of
Babi groups in most major Iranian cities and many villages too. It met, however, hostility
from the religious leaders of Shi`i Islam, the predominant form of Islam in Iran. Within eight
months of the start of the movement, senior Shi`i and Sunni clerics were calling for the death
of the founder of the movement and anyone who was spreading it.1 For the first four years,
the opposition to the movement was confined to religious debate and denunciations from the
pulpit. In 1848, however, with the accession to the throne of a new shah, Nasiru’d-Din Shah,
and the installation of a new Prime Minister, the religious leaders succeeded in getting the
state involved in the conflict on a military level. There ensued three major armed conflicts in
which militia and the national army surrounded groups of Babis. After besieging them for
months, the Babis were finally, in one case, defeated militarily and, in two cases, given false
assurances of amnesty and then massacred. The Bab himself, after three years of
imprisonment, was executed by firing squad in 1850 at the height of these upheavals.2

As a result of these three conflicts and a further severe round of persecution that erupted in
1852 after a failed attempt on the life of the shah by a small group of Babis, the Babi
movement was driven underground. It was to re-emerge years later in the 1870s as the Baha'i
movement. The Bab had prophesied the coming of another even greater religious figure
called "He whom God would make manifest". In 1863, privately to a small group of Babis
and, from 1866, more publically, Mirza Husayn `Ali Nuri, who took the title Baha'u'llah
(1817-1892), claimed to be this figure and his followers were known as Baha'is. An estimated
95% of Babis became Baha'is and, although a small number of Babis have survived to the
present day and some of them have had a significant impact on Iranian society, the movement
as a functioning community effectively ended in the 1870s.

The Babi movement may seem a very unpromising place to look for inspiration for the arts or
a system of aesthetics. It was after all a community that was severely persecuted during the
short course of its existence. It never succeeded in establishing a stable community that could
operate freely; it therefore never had the opportunity to promote and patronize the arts in the
way that other religions have done. There was certainly never a Babi-inspired school of art
and one would be hard pressed even to name any Babi artists.

What I hope to show is that despite the apparently unpromising circumstances there is

1 See Moojan Momen, "The Trial of Mulla `Ali Bastami: a combined Sunni-Shi`i fatwa
against the Bab." Iran: Journal of the British Institute of Persian Studies vol. 20 (1982) pp. 113-43.
2 Nabíl [Zarandí]. The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl's Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá'í
Revelation. Wilmette, IL: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1970; Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal:
The Making of the Babi Movement in Iran 1844-1850, Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1989.

potential material for inspiring the artist in both the life and writings of the Bab. This
potential has not thus far been actualized but since the Bab is considered a co-founder of the
Baha'i Faith, it is probable that Baha'i artists in the future may gain inspiration from this
material. In this paper, I divide the arts into three major divisions: the plastic arts, those arts
produced by using materials that can be moulded or changed in some way, such as painting,
sculpture, architecture, wood- and metal- working, pottery, etc.; the performing arts, those
arts where artists use their own body to express themselves, such as dance, theatre, and the
performance of music; and the composing arts, that which artists produces in their mind and
then transfer to paper, such as literature, both poetry and prose, and the composition of music.

I will deal a little with the literary qualities below but, although it is obviously of great
importance in considering the Bab as an artist, I will not be dealing at length with the Bab as
a composing artist in this paper, partly because it has already been dealt with in a masterly
fashion by Todd Lawson.3 Rather I will concentrate on the other two areas, the plastic arts
and the performing arts. In this paper I will concentrate on three main points: some of the
writings of the Bab have implications about the nature of the material with which those who
are in the plastic arts work. The second area that I want to explore concerns the performing
arts: the Bab himself as a performance artist and the nature of some of his writings as pieces
that are intended to be performed as much as read. The third area that appears to me to have
relevance to artists whether engaged in the plastic arts or the performance arts is the concept
of refinement that comes across very strongly in both the person and the writings of the Bab.


1. The Bab and the Composing Arts

The Bab produces a vast mass of this category of the arts in the form of a large number of
writings, most of which have not even been properly examined and catalogued as yet. He was
known to produce his writings in a rapid, fluent manner which amazed those who witnessed
it. For example on one occasion in the presence of the Governor of Isfahan, he wrote a work
of 2,000 verses (about a third of the length of the Qur'an, which had taken Muhammad forty
years to reveal) in a single evening (see below). It was not just the rapidity and quantity of
what the Bab produced that attracted people, it was also the literary qualities and the content.
The rhymes and rhythm of the text, the vivid imagery evoked, and the rich intertextuality all
combined to produce a range of works which inspired a large number of his contemporaries.
In this literary output, the Bab did what every great creative artist does – he took what was
known and familiar and he presented it to us in a new way that made us see in it what we had
never seen before – what he created was both familiar and radically new. For example, in his
his first book after the declaration of his mission, the Qayyum al-Asma, he took the two most
central and sacred elements of the Islamic world, the Qur’an and the Arabic language, and he
moulded these into a new creation,. It was both familiar in that it was recognizably the Arabic
language that he used and the whole book has the literary structure of the Qur’an and uses
innumerable passages of the Qur’an. And yet it is radically different in that the Bab feels free
to break the rules of Arabic grammar and to create new words and he weaves his own words
in between those of the Qur’an so as reveal a radically new meaning to the words of the

3 See Todd Lawson, Gnostic Apocalypse and Islam:  Qur'an, exegesis, messianism, and the
literary origins of the Babi Religion, London and New York: Routledge, 2011; Todd Lawson,
“Interpretation as Revelation: The Qur'án Commentary of Sayyid ‘Ali Muhammad Shirazi, the Bab,”
in Approaches to the History of the Interpretation of the Qur'án (ed. A. Rippin), Oxford University
Press: Oxford, 1988, pp. 223-253.

Qur’an – in all it was a new creation. He was in effect saying to Muslims that although they
had been reading the Qur’an for a thousand years, they had never really understood the
deeper meanings of that book. The composing artistry of the Bab is well brought out by Todd
Lawson:

For the Bab it seems that the sacred text represents a kind of musical score or even a
scale (maqam) which in good eastern style is meant to be improvised upon. It is the
stunning quality of his improvisation that impressed his audience. The Bab’s minute
attention to the text, the desire to encounter the charisma of the holy word by literally
deconstructing it, is remarkably intense.4

Muslims believe, based on a verse of the Qur’an, that the Qur’an, since it was the Word of
God, is inimitable. By producing a book that is so obviously in imitation of the Qur’an, he
was sending a clear message to Muslims; no mere human being could produce such a work.
Both by implication and explicitly in the text, he was asserting that this was Divine
revelation,  in effect claiming to be of the same station as the prophet Muhammad (for in the
Islamic worldview, only prophets can reveal the words of God); while at the same time his
apparent claim was to be only the agent of the Hidden Imam. Thus his work could be read at
a number of different levels according to the receptivity of the reader.

Incidentally, the reaction to this work of the Bab was not dissimilar to the reaction that occurs
when any artist produces a radically new work, the reaction is initially mostly hostile: most
decry it and say it is not art at all, some say that even my child can produce better art than
this, while others adduce base motives to the production of such a work; only a few recognize
the true genius of the work at first. The Bab received exactly the same reaction to his
writings: most decried them, they were scandalized, some said even my child can write better
Arabic than this, while others attributed base motives to the Bab. Only a few recognized and
appreciated it; only a few could look beyond the scandalous impact of the work and
understand what lay behind this; only a few had a vision broad enough to put their
understanding of reality aside and appreciate the new reality that was being presented to
them.5



2. The Writings of the Bab and the Plastic Arts

The writings of the Bab contain some statements about inanimate material objects that appear
to accord with the way that artists in many native and primal traditions view the world. For
the Bab (and Baha'u'llah) everything in the physical world manifests one or more of the
names and attributes of God and it is through this that the gift of existence has been bestowed
upon it by God. This manifesting of the names and attributes of God is not all at the same

4 Todd Lawson “Qur’an Commentary as Sacred Performance,” in Iran im 19 Jahrhundert und
die Enstehung der Baha'i Religion (ed. by Johann-Christoph Burgel and Isabel Schayani),
Hildesheim: Georg Olms Verlag, 1998, pp.145-58, see p. 152.
5 This section of the paper owes a great deal to the work of Todd Lawson who has not only
brought out some of the meaning of the Bab’s Qayuum al-Asma, but he has also helped us to
understand the poetics of the Bab; see Lawson, Gnostic Apocalypse and Islam and  Lawson,
“Interpretation as Revelation”.

level, however. The Bab describes how there is an ascent of matter from earth to stone to
crystal; and when the stone turns into crystal, it manifests the name of God "the Eternal":

The fruit of this command is that when the return of All [Things] is approaching its
manifestation, it glorifies God inasmuch as the element earth is mentioned therein;
and the highest point of the ascent of 'earth' is the lowest point of 'stone' - till that
terminates in the highest degree of purity, which is crystal, whereupon the name 'the
Eternal (samad)' is manifest in it.6

The Bab, in several places in the Persian Bayan, states that perfection in anything is when it
manifests the names and attributes of God most perfectly. And the Bab gives examples of this
B for example the perfection of a stone is when it is polished and becomes a crystal. He calls
this state of perfection of the stone the "paradise of the stone":

No created thing shall ever attain its paradise unless it appeareth in its highest
prescribed degree of perfection. For instance, this crystal representeth the paradise of
the stone whereof its substance is composed.  Likewise there are various stages in
paradise for the crystal itself . . . So long as it was stone it was worthless, but if it
attaineth the excellence of ruby B a potentiality which is latent in it B how much a
carat will it be worth?  Consider likewise every created thing.7

In many places in the writings of the Bab “paradise” is defined as being near to God or in the
Presence of God. And so, the Bab states that there is a yearning in all matter to achieve its
state of perfection, which is its paradise B because it is in the state of perfection that 'All
Things' can attain to the Divine Presence:

. . .there is no doubt that All Things attain to the Presence of God in whatever is the
highest state of perfection that it is possible for them to achieve.8

As well as the example of a stone yearning to be a crystal, the Bab gives the example of a
piece of paper upon which some words have been inscribed. The paradise of that paper is to
be adorned with gold illumination and patterns, as was the custom with calligraphy in Iran.
And it is in relation to this point that the Bab lays a weighty responsibility on owners of such
a text and on artists. He says that any person who has the ability to bring a thing to its state of
perfection and fails to do so is to held accountable for their failure:

[W]hoever possesseth power over anything must elevate it to its uttermost perfection
that it not be deprived of its own paradise. For example, the paradise of a sheet of
paper on which a few excellent lines are inscribed is that it be refined with patterns of
gold illumination, adornment, and excellence that are customary for the most exalted
parchment scrolls. Then the possessor of that paper hath elevated it to its utmost

6  Persian Bayan, vahid 5, chapter 12. Adapted from the translation of E.G. Browne in Moojan
Momen (ed.), Selections from the Writings of E.G. Browne (Oxford: George Ronald, 1987), pp. 369-
70.
7 Persian Bayan, vahid 5, chapter 4. Translated in Selections from the Writings of the Bab, pp.
88-9; cf. E.G. Browne in Momen (ed.), Selections from the Writings of E.G. Browne, p. 89.
8 Persian Bayan, Exordium, p. 3. Provisional translation by the author.

degree of glory.9

The task of the artist is thus to elevate the materials that he or she works with to the highest
state of their perfection. The Bab himself was an artist in that he produced calligraphy of
great beauty and technically of the highest standard. He also liked to design his calligraphy so
that it was often produced in the form of a five-pointed star, which was call "The Temple"
(haykal) or in a circular pattern (dá’irih); prayers for men were written in the form of the
haykal and those for women in the form of the dá’irih. The Bab also produced talismanic
forms of calligraphy that were designed for symmetry and beauty and he gives the
instructions for the creation of such forms in his writings. In the society in which the Bab
lived, calligraphy was considered the highest of the arts. The Bab therefore calls upon his
followers to make copies of his writings in as beautiful a manner as possible and gives
detailed instructions about this, as in the following example:

That which remains amongst the people from the Tree of Truth [i.e. the Bab] is His
words, and the spirits attached to them. Therefore the more they strive to preserve,
honour, and exalt His Words, the more will these words be manifest in their spirits.
Even small epistles must be bound . . . for [the Bayan] must not become like the
Qur'an, fragments of which are sold in every corner of the mosques in an unseemly
manner10 . . .  And to whatever extent an effort is made in elevating the production of
this [copy of the Bayan], in making its weight as light as possible, in the grandeur of
the calligraphy and the illumination of its leaves, the more loved by God it is than
something that is produced to a lower standard. It is not appropriate that notes be
made in the margins of it . . . The summary of what has been said in this chapter is
this that the Bayan belonging to each person should, in his own domain, be
incomparable . . . and it is not permissible that it be in anything other than the most
beautiful of calligraphy.11

This exalted task given to artists to produce work of the highest quality carries with it a heavy
responsibility that if they fail to live up to, they are held accountable. For example, the
passage above that calls upon a person having some lines of calligraphy to beautify this to the
best of his ability continues thus:

Should he know of a higher degree of refinement and fail to manifest it upon that
paper, he would deprive it of its paradise, and he would be held accountable, for why
hast thou, despite the possession of the means, withheld the effusion of grace and
favour?12


9 Persian Bayan, Vahid 4, Chapter 11. Translated in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart
([Waterloo, ONT]: Wilfred Laurier University Press, 2008, p. 255.
10 The Qur'an is divided into 30 parts, call juz' (plural, ajzá), which are often sold separately
for the use of students and devout.
11 Persian Bayan, Vahid 3, chapter 14, pp. 97-8; provisional translation by the author, using
part of the translation of this by  E.G. Browne in Momen (ed.), Selections from the Writings of E.G.
Browne, p. 347.
12 Persian Bayan, Vahid 4, Chapter 11. Translated in Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 255.

This is a very interesting statement of the Bab and I think it is of the utmost significance for
artists (especially those that work with materials), craftsmen (or should that now be
craftspeople?) or artisans and even labourers. For the Persian Bayan lays upon everyone who
produces anything the responsibility to produce that thing in the most perfect way possible or
to be held accountable for failing to do so:

It is forbidden to people to cause anything that is defective to appear if they have the
power to perfect that thing. For example if someone were to build a house and not
bring it to whatever perfection it is capable of achieving, then there will not be an
instant that the angels will not calling out to God for his punishment, even the atoms
of that building will also do this. For every thing within its own limits desires to attain
to the highest point of its limits. And if a person has the ability to do this for it but
does not, then he will be held responsible by it.13

Thus the Bab conceives of every thing in creation as having a spirit and being a manifestation
of one or more of the names of God. The spirit of each thing yearns for the perfection that it
is capable of within its due limitations because perfection is the paradise of each thing, and
paradise is being in the Presence of God. And so each thing yearns for its paradise. Human
beings are capable of helping each thing towards its paradise by perfecting its qualities. This
idea obviously has wide implications but artists can perfect each type of material that they
work with by rendering it to be as beautiful as they can possibly make them. Artisans and
labourers can work with materials to bring the things they create to the perfection that those
things crave. If they fail to do this and create things that are less perfect than they could make
them, then they are held responsible.

The Bab's book, Kitab al-Asma, the Book of Names, carries this line of thought one stage
further when, in discussing the name of God "the most perfect" (al-atqan), he points out that
in trying to bring all things to a state of perfection, an artist or craftsman or any other human
being is replicating the work of God, who brought into being the whole of creation in a state
of perfection. The work of the human being becomes then a work of God:

Say! We verily have perfected Our handiwork in the creation of the heavens, earth,
whatever lieth between them, and in all things; will ye not then behold?. . . Perfect ye
then your own handiwork in all that ye produce with your hands working through the
handiwork of God. Then would this indeed be a handiwork of God, the Help in Peril,
the Self-Subsisting. Waste ye not that which God createth with your hands through
your handiwork; rather, make manifest in them the perfection of industry or craft, be
it a large and mass product or a small and retail one. For verily one who perfecteth his
handiwork indeed attaineth certitude in the perfection of the handiwork of God within
his own being.14

However, in all this, the Bab does not lay a burden on the artist and artisan that is beyond
their capacity. In copying the writings of the Bab for example, he states:

It is not permitted to anyone to write a single letter of the Bayan except in the most
beautiful of handwritings. 'Most beautiful' here means the best that each individual is

13 Persian Bayan, Vahid 6, chapter 3, p. 192 (provisional translation by the author).
14 Kitab al-Asma, INBA 29:621-25; translated in Saeidi, Gate of the Heart, p. 316.

capable of; not beyond that, but not less than that either. This is so that the spirit that
is attached to every letter of the Bayan may be raised to the highest level that is
possible in this contingent world within its limitations such that nothing may be seen
among the believers in the Bayan except that that thing be in the highest state of
perfection possible for it.15

While we should strive towards producing things in the most perfect state that we are capable
of achieving, we should also recognize our limits and not be anxious if we fail to achieve
complete perfection nor should we put ourselves into distress while striving in this path. The
Bab continues the above passage by limiting his injunctions that we should seek to produce
perfection in our handiwork:

However, all this is on the condition that one keeps within one's capacity, not that one
should put oneself in hardship on account of anything. For God desires not to look
upon a believer in grief or distress. No! Rather everyone should carry out these
obligations according to their ability.16

Thus the Bab clearly has a great deal to say to those engaged in the plastic arts, challenging
them to regard their work as a sacred act of bring material things to a state of their perfection.


3. The Bab and the Performing Arts

The writings of the Bab are composed in such a manner that they invite one to recite them
aloud rather than just to read them to oneself. Much of his writings, especially his Arabic, is
written in the literary style known as saj`, which is usually translated as rhyming prose. This
translation does not fully reflect this literary form as some may imagine that this means that
there is rhyme but no rhythm in the verses. In fact there is both rhyme and rhythm present.
The only reason that it is not possible to call it poetry, in the classical literary meaning of this
word, is the fact that the rhyme and rhythm do not follow any uniform or regular pattern and
there are short passages of prose linking parts of the text. The writings of the Bab also contain
other literary devices. There is much alliteration in the text. Most of the Qayyum ul-Asma,
the first work composed by the Bab after he declared his mission, for example rhymes with
the ending "-an". Both rhyme and alliteration can be discerned in the following verse from
the last chapter of this book. The translation of this verse is as follows:

O People of the Realm of the Unseen! Listen to my call from this illumined moon, the
face of which I did not wish to be eclipsed by the countenance of this Youth who is of
both the East and the West, whom you will find in every tablet as a concealed secret
recorded upon a line, written in red, which has, in truth, been hidden around the Fire.

The last part of the verse "in every tablet . . ." can be transliterated thus in order to pick up the
rhyme ending in "-an" and the alliteration of "s" and "t":


15 Persian Bayan, Vahid 3, chapter 17, p. 103, provisional translation by the author.
16 Persian Bayan, Vahid 3, chapter 17, p. 103, provisional translation by the author. Cf
translations of part of this passage by E.G. Browne in Momen (ed.), Selections from the Writings of
E.G. Browne, p. 349 and by Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 317-8.

fi kulli l-alwáh sirran mustasirran
`ala ’s-satr musattaran
`ala 's-satr al-muhammir
qad kána bi'l-haqq hawl an-nár mastúran.17

Passages of this book go even beyond this and appear to be purely for performative effect. In
Chapter 108 of the book, the Surat adh-Dhikr (the Surah of the Remembrance), there is a
passage that is introduced with the following words:

O people of the Lights! Listen to my call from this bird that is singing, raised in the
atmosphere of heaven in accordance with the melody (`ala al-lahn) of David the
prophet.

What follows is almost untranslatable and it is difficult to make sense of it. The following is
an attempt to translate it:

To me, to me is the judgement of the two waters (al-má'ayn).
And to me, to me is the judgement of the two airs (al-hawá'ayn) in the two worlds.
And to me, to me are four of the two letters in the two names.
And to me, to me are four of the two airs in the two lines from the two secrets.
And to me, to me is the bearer of the Throne of seven and one (sab`í wáhidí or wa ahadí).
And to me, to me are the eight heavens, narrated and concealed.
And to me, to me is the judgement of the two first lights upon the two mountains.
And to me, to is the judgement of the two shining lights (al-nayyirayn, sun and moon) on the
two last lines from those two inner depths (al-batnayn).
And to me, to me is the judgement of the two heavens concerning the eight of the Bab, in this
Báb there are two Bábs.
And to me, to me is the judgement of the two earths concerning the seven of the Báb by the
two letters.
And to me, to me is the command and the judgement and there is no God but He, our Lord
alone. He has no partner and He is God the Exalted, the Great.18

If we read the passage in the original Arabic, however, we form the impression that the Bab
is trying to convey something of the actual melody of the "this bird that is singing, raised in
the atmosphere of heaven in accordance with the melody of David the prophet"; he is
imitating the sound of the bird in the Arabic words. Here is the transliteration of the first four
lines:

illayya illaya hukm al-má'ayn
wa illaya illaya hukm al-hawá'ayn fi'l-ardayn
wa illaya illaya arba` al-harfayn fi'l-ismayn

17 Qayyum al-Asma, Surah 111, vv. 25-26. Photocopy of manuscript completed 28 Jamádí I,
1261 (4 June 1845) written in a neat naskh hand by Muhammad Mahdi ibn Karbalá'í Sháh Karam for
Mulla Husayn Bushru'i and sent by him through Mirza Habibu'llah Cháhí to "Sarkár Amír" (possibly
the Amir of Qá'inát). Entered Iranian National Baha'i Archives, Rabí` al-Awwal 1298, INBA vol. 3, f.
447.
18 Qayyum al-Asma, Surah 111, vv. 39-40. Same manuscript as previous note, ff. 224-5.
Provisional translation by the author.

wa illaya illaya arba` al-hawá'ayn fi's-satrayn min sirrayn

If this assumption is correct, then we can say that this text may have been intended as much
for recitation as study, in that several elements of it are clearly intended to be heard rather
than read. It is thus a performative text as much as a cognitive one. It is as much meant to be
experienced as understood. The same can be said for many other passages of the writings of
the Bab. Many of them are clearly intended to be chanted in a mantra-like fashion.

In studying the life of the Bab, one cannot escape the conclusion that the Bab was himself a
composing artist (in that he produced literary works as noted above), a plastic artist (in that
he produced calligraphy as noted above) and a performing artist.19 There are many stories
recorded about the Bab that testify to his artistic temperament. He is recorded as composing
his writings at great speed and as he was writing, he would chant what he was composing in
an enchanting and melodious voice. On occasions he did this in the presence of others and the
effect is said to have been mesmerizing, leading some to declare their belief in the Bab
simply from having witnessed the speed of composition and the beauty of what was
composed as well as the performance of the Bab in composing it. One of the most important
occasions on which the Bab composed in public was at the home of the Imam-Jum`ih of
Isfahan, the highest Muslim religious leader in the most important seat of religious learning
in Iran, and with a crowd of learned scholars and religious leaders looking on:

One night, after supper, the Imam-Jum`ih, whose curiosity had been excited by the
extraordinary traits of character which his youthful Guest had revealed, ventured to
request Him to reveal a commentary on the Surih of Va'l-`Asr [a chapter of the
Qur'an]. His request was readily granted.  Calling for pen and paper, the Bab, with
astonishing rapidity and without the least premeditation, began to reveal, in the
presence of His host, a most illuminating interpretation of the aforementioned Surih.
It was nearing midnight when the Bab found Himself engaged in the exposition of the
manifold implications involved in the first letter of that Surih . . . The Bab soon after
began to chant, in the presence of His host and his companions, the homily with
which He had prefaced His commentary on the Surih. Those words of power
confounded His hearers with wonder. They seemed as if bewitched by the magic of
His voice. Instinctively they started to their feet and, together with the Imam-Jum`ih,
reverently kissed the hem of His garment. Mulla Muhammad-Taqiy-i-Harati, an
eminent mujtahid, broke out into a sudden expression of exultation and praise.
"Peerless and unique," he exclaimed, "as are the words which have streamed from this
pen, to be able to reveal, within so short a time and in so legible a writing, so great a
number of verses as to equal a fourth, nay a third, of the Qur'an, is in itself an
achievement such as no mortal, without the intervention of God, could hope to
perform.  Neither the cleaving of the moon nor the quickening of the pebbles of the
sea can compare with so mighty an act."20

There are many similar accounts of the effect that the Bab had on other occasions on which

19  On the Bab as a performance artist, see Todd Lawson “Qur’an Commentary as Sacred
Performance”.
20 Nabil [Zarandi], The Dawn-Breakers: Nabil's Narrative (trans. and ed. Shoghi Effendi,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1970) pp. 201-2.

he composed his writings.21 The net effect of the poetics of his writings, their contents and
the performance of them by the Bab produced a remarkable effect on many who experienced
it. As Todd Lawson has commented:

The scriptural tradition to which the Bab belonged heard not only the Prophet
[Muhammad] in the words of the Holy Book [the Qur’an], but also the chorus of the
remaining thirteen members of the Family of God, the Infallible Immaculates
[Fatimah and the twelve Imams]. . . It is suggested that this chorus was made present
during the Bab’s improvisation upon the Quranic score before an initially sceptical
but eventually receptive audience. The charismatic content of the text was released in
the musical explosion as an affective charge. The sensibility was one in which beauty
of expression and other aesthetic considerations were seen to supplement the actual or
discursive meaning being expressed – the one was a vehicle for the other. 22

Perhaps also revealing of the artistic temperament of the Bab was an episode that occurred in
Urumiyyih. The Bab was being taken from his prison in Chihriq in north-west Iran to Tabriz
the provincial capital, in order to be interrogated. Although he was a prisoner of the
government, no-one could restrain the enthusiasm of the crowds that pressed to see him as he
entered the city. He was taken to the governor's court. Among those in the audience at the
court was an artist Aqa Bala-Big Naqqash-bashi (the chief painter). The following is an
account of what then happened as recounted by Aqa-Bala Big himself years later:

The people of Urúmiyyih . . . flocked, day after day, to the governor's residence to see
the Báb. One of them was Aqá-Bálá, the Chief Painter. He told Varqá, all those years
later, that on his first visit, as soon as the Báb noticed him, He gathered His `aba
[cloak] round Him, as if sitting for His portrait. The next day He did the same. It was
then that Aqá-Bálá Bag understood it to be a signal to him to draw His portrait. On his
third visit, he went to the residence of Malik-Qasim Mirzá [the governor] with the
equipment of his art. He made a rough sketch or two at the time, from which he later
composed a full-scale portrait in black and white.23

The Bab as a performing artist was restricted by the social conventions of his environment to
chanting as he composed his writings, but even this limited performance had a great effect on
those who witnessed this.


4. The Concept of Refinement

The word “refinement” is used in English to mean fineness of taste, or thought or elegant and
cultured manners; it has connotations of upper class life. However, here in this next section, I
am using it with a somewhat different meaning. The Arabic and Persian adjective la†íf is
given a wide range of dictionary definitions including, thin, delicate, gentle, light, polite,
refined, graceful and witty. The associated noun  la†áfat has a parallel set of meanings. In

21 See for example, [Zarandi], Nabil's Narrative, pp. 174-6, 202-3.
22 Todd Lawson “Qur’an Commentary as Sacred Performance,” p. 158.
23 Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá'ís in the Time of Bahá'u'lláh: with some Historical
Background (Oxford: George Ronald, 1985), p. 87.

Islamic mysticism, however, it has been used to denote that point at which the physical
becomes so refined and delicate that it becomes spiritual. For this reason, Shoghi Effendi
translates the word in various contexts translates it as light and untrammelled, subtile, subtle,
pure, discriminating, and ethereal. It is this word that I will translated as “refinement” in this
section.

Perhaps no other word is more distinctive of the Bab than this word. He himself embodied it.
Those who met the Bab commented upon his delicate and dignified appearance and character.
Dr Cormick, an Anglo-Irish doctor who met him described him thus: "He was a very mild
and delicate looking man, rather small in stature and very fair for a Persian, with a melodious
soft voice, which struck me much . . . In fact his whole look and deportment went far to
dispose one in his favour."24 Lady Sheil, the wife of the British minister resident in Tehran in
the time of the Bab wrote: "Bab possessed a mild and benignant countenance, his manners
were composed and dignified, his eloquence was impressive, and he wrote rapidly and
well."25

The Bab, in line with the above-mentioned use of the word in Islamic mysticism, seems to
have regarded this word as signifying the closest that physical reality can come to spiritual
reality. As physical reality ascends and becomes closer to spiritual reality, it loses its qualities
of thickness, denseness and impurity B all signified by the word katháfat (adjective kathíf) B
and acquires the qualities of delicacy, purity and refinement B all signified by the word
la†áfat. Thus the two concept of katháfat (kathíf) and la†áfat (la†íf) are contrasted and
opposed to one another. Human beings should in their spiritual progress lose the qualities of
the former and acquire the qualities of the latter.  The word la†áfat is from the same root in
Arabic as lutf which means "grace". And so the Bab says that the appearance of refinement in
the world is out of the Grace of God

For whatever refinement (la†afat) appears in the world is from the bounty of a drop
from the ocean of his Grace (lu†f).26

The Bab therefore calls upon his followers to acquire this characteristic. He says for example
that: "Nothing in the Bayan is more loved by God than purity, refinement and cleanliness."27
And in another place that: "In this religion, no other command is as firmly enjoined as that of
refinement."28

There are laws regarding purity in most religions. Islam had a large number of things that

24 Edward G. Browne, Materials for the Study of the Babi Religion (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1918), pp. 260-62, quoted in Moojan Momen, The Babi and Baha'i Religions
1844-1944: some contemporary western accounts (Oxford: George Ronald, 1981), p. 75.
25 Lady Sheil, Life and Manners in Persia, p. 178, quoted in Momen, Babi and Baha'i
Religions, p. 75.
26 Persian Bayan vahid 5, chapter 7, p. 162. Provisional translation by the author.
27 Persian Bayan, vahid  5, chapter 14. Provisional translation by the author. Cf translation in
Selections from the Writings of the Bab, p. 80.
28 Persian Bayan, Vahid 6, chapter 3, p. 192. Provisional translation by the author.

were regarded as making a person ritually impure (blood, animal hair and bone, silk clothing,
gold and silver vessels, dogs, anything touched by infidels, etc.), such that if one were to
come into contact with them, one would  not be fit to say the prayers, until a ritual ablution
had been performed. The Bab cancelled most of these ritual causes of impurity29 and instead
substituted a number of laws that are more in line with modern concepts of purity and
impurity, such as requiring a person to bath every four days, that soiled and sweaty clothes
should be changed, that tobacco not be used and so forth.30 He says moreover that "it is
desirable that the believer should use pleasant scents and perfume."31

Most of the laws of the Bayan are related in some way to the coming of He whom God shall
make manifest, the figure prophesied by the Bab. The law regarding purity and refinement is
no exception in this regard:

This command [of purity and refinement] is only so that on the Day of the
Manifestation of God, no-one should present themselves before God is a state other
than that of refinement such that that which is displeasing to God should not appear
from them. Therefore in the Bayan whatever veils one from refinement has been
forbidden.32

But the Bab did not just mean physical purity and refinement. He also indicated the necessity
of the qualities in the spiritual sense. For example he calls upon his followers not to be like
Muslims and maintain an outward purity. Indeed, if it were just physical cleanliness that were
meant, then Christians would be superior to Muslims in this respect:

O people of the Bayan! Be not like the people of the Qur'an who purify their outward
bodies so carefully with water, but do not purify their Essential [inner] Bodies with
the water of Unity, for no heart in which there is love of aught other than God is pure.
Were it otherwise no nation is externally more clean than Christians. Similarly at the
time of the appearance of He whom God shall make manifest, you should purify
yourself through belief in him, for otherwise, even if you immerse yourselves a
thousand times in water each day, it would not fulfill the obligation of purity. You
should take the utmost care neither to be veiled from the outer, nor from the inner
reality, you should hold to both to the utmost perfection. So also with the believer,
naught can render him impure. The command to purity is solely so that people should
be so trained as to the state of refinement and purity that no soul should detect
anything repulsive within themselves let alone that others should detect it . . .33

In the last chapter of the Persian Bayan, the Bab summarises all of his injunctions on purity
and cleanliness, saying that all things have a purification in the knowledge of God and all are

29 See, for example, the cancellation of the prohibition on silk clothing, gold and silver in the
Persian Bayan vahid 6, chapter 9.
30 Persian Bayan vahid 8, chapter 6; vahid 9, chapter 7.
31 Persian Bayan vahid 6, chapter 2. Provisional translation by the author.
32 Persian Bayan vahid 8, chapter 6. Provisional translation by the author.
33 Persian Bayan vahid 6, chapter 2. Provisional translation by the author.

purified by the mention of God if they become believers in Him whom God shall make
manifest. This purification must encompass in turn the heart, the spirit, the soul and body,
such that:

. . . cleanse thine ear from hearing aught but the mention of God, and thine eye from
seeing, thy breast from witnessing, thy tongue from speaking, thy hand from writing,
thy knowledge from understanding and thy heart from settling upon, and similarly all
of your faculties so that you may be nourished in the pure paradise of love. Haply you
may recognize He whom God shall make manifest with a purity loved by Him.34

The connection between art and the concept of refinement becomes clearer as we move from
Western art, to Middle Eastern art and on to Chinese and Japanese art where this quality
become paramount. To what extent does the Bab's desire to bring purity and refinement to the
world find resonance with art?


Conclusion

Of course everything that has been mentioned above that the Bab writes about the arts can be
related to the arts of Iran. The striving for perfection and refinement can be seen in many of
the arts such as the drawing of Persian miniatures and the crafts that produce cloths, tiles,
bronzeware and copperware and many other finely made objects. Rhyme and rhythm are
seen, of course, in Persian poetry, that plays a much larger role in Iranian culture compared to
many other cultures. Nevertheless, the concerns that the Bab highlights in relation to the arts
seem to relate to artists of other cultures also.

It seems to me that in what he writes about the spirit within material things yearning for
perfection and the work of the artist and craftsperson being to enable a thing to reach its
perfection, its paradise, the Bab approaches the ideas in many native or primal religions, such
as that of the Aboriginal peoples of Australia and the native peoples of the Americas, that
also consider that all objects have a spirit or soul and that human beings must enter in a
correct relationship with all the things that surround them. And so I would ask: to what extent
does the injunction of the Bab to work with materials in order to bring these to the highest
level of perfection that these things are capable of achieving accord with the way that native
artists and craftspeople engage in their work?

Similarly in relation to the performing arts, the concept that I have put forward in this paper
that the Bab was concerned with both content and form in his writings; the idea that his
works are intended to be both cognitive and affective, to appeal to both the heart and the
mind, to be both for reading and performance opens up a discourse with most of those in the
performing arts. In particular, although some may consider it a trivialization and diminution
of the works of the Bab, I would like to put forward that the suggestion that the Bab’s
concern with the rhyme and rhythm and even the musicality of his writing seems to approach
the patterns and musicality of much African speech and song, as manifested for example in
rap music.

The third area that I have written about in this paper is that of the concept of refinement.

34 Persian Bayan vahid 9, chapter 10, p. 327. Provisional translation by the author.

While it is true that this concern reflects much of the history of Iranian art, I think it also
opens up a discourse with the arts of the Far East, China and Japan, which are also very much
concerned with this same area of refinement and attempt to approach the boundary where the
physical becomes so refined as to merge into the spiritual.

There are many ramifications of these concepts deriving from the person and writings of the
Bab. One could look for example at the concept of the desire of the Bab for everything to be
clean and pure in relation to the present problems with environmental pollution. Also to a
great extent, this ethos of bringing things to their perfection and of refinement has been taken
forward by the Baha'i Faith. It seems to me that when Baha'is build buildings and gardens at
the Baha'i World Centre and the Houses of Worship, that are the utmost state of beauty, they
can be said to be helping the stones and the plants on those sites to achieve their paradise - for
they are then manifesting the name of God "the Beauteous".

While spiritual communion with God and with each other is very good, the Baha'i teachings
are asking us to take this one step further and build a paradise on earth (the "Kingdom of God
on earth") and that is something that certainly involves a transformation of the relationship of
human beings with one another but it also involves a transformation of their relationship with
the rest of the created world B it involves them in trying to bring beauty and perfection to all
of the world, the human world and the world of nature.

In the same section of the Kitab al-Asma as the one quoted previously, discussing the name
of God "the most perfect", the Bab composes a prayer in which he reiterates the point that in
producing handiwork that is as perfect as possible, the action of a human being is a reflection
of the action of God. He then goes on to ask God to educate the people of the Bayan that they
may produce only what manifests the utmost perfection – it may be said to be a prayer for
artists. He says that in this way, human beings can build the earth anew:

O my God! Thy handiwork hath always been complete, all-encompassing, perfect,
and unfailing, and it will always continue to be perfect, unfailing, complete, and
all-encompassing. . . . Thou hast commanded Thy servants, from the beginning that
hath no beginning, till the end that hath no end, to produce handiwork with the utmost
perfection, for this is verily the reflection of the perfection of Thy handiwork
Educate then, O my God, the people of the Bayan in such wise that no product may be
found amongst them but that the very utmost perfection of industry shall be manifest
therein. . . . For verily Thou hast desired, by this law, to build the earth anew by virtue
of Thy glorious handiwork through the hands of Thy servants.35

Furthermore, the Bab states that this endeavour to bring all things to a state of perfection and
refinement is a way of attracting people to the Babi religion:

Thus, just as today the letters of the Gospel are distinguished amongst other
communities in the art of ornament, the believers in the Bayan should likewise reflect
in their handiwork naught but perfection within the limits of each endeavour, in such
wise that a faithful believer in the Bayan in the East of the earth should be beloved in
his station on account of his beauty and the beauty of all that he possesseth. And this
is the most mighty path for attracting the people of other religions to the true Cause of

35 Kitab al-Asma, INBA 29:626; translated in Saeidi, Gate of the Heart, p. 316.

the all-merciful God.36

Thus artists and artisans are encouraged to perfect their handiwork and so to become well-
known on account of this, thereby attracting people to the Babi religion.


36 Persian Bayan vahid 3, chapter 17; translated in Saeidi, Gate of the Heart, p. 317.

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards
Strangers and Foreigners
as recommended by `Abdu’l-Bahá and as reflected in the recent Italian
“Charter on the Values and Significance of Citizenship and Integration.”
Julio Savi
The abandonment of racial, religious and nationalistic prejudice is one of
the central issues in the talks `Abdu’l-Bahá delivered during His travels
in the West. A ground-breaking concept in those days when the Western
world was still “heaving with the explosive forces of a blind and trium-
phant nationalism,” the idea of integrating immigrants into the culture
of the country where they have moved is slowing becoming a part of the
policy of a number of Western states. In 2007 the Italian government
issued a “Charter on the Values and Significance of Citizenship and Inte-
gration,” which upholds many of the concepts expounded by `Abdu’l-Bahá
almost a century ago.
The abandonment of racial, religious and nationalistic
prejudice in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s talks
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s first speech in Paris, on the 16th and 17th of October
1911, recorded in Paris Talks, was entirely devoted to the subject of
“The duty of kindness and sympathy towards strangers and foreigners.”
He asked His audience:
Let not conventionality cause you to seem cold and unsym-
pathetic when you meet strange people from other countries.
Do not look at them as though you suspected them of being

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
evil-doers, thieves and boors… be kind to the strangers…
help to make them feel at home… Put into practice the
Teaching of Bahá’u’lláh, that of kindness to all nations.(PT
1–2, sec. 1, para. 2, 3, 7)
This recommendation was a first step towards the explanation of one
of the central issues of His Western talks: the abandonment of racial,
religious and nationalistic prejudice.1 A few weeks later, in a speech
to Paris’ Theosophical Society, He explained that “All the divisions
in the world, hatred, war and bloodshed, are caused by one or other
of these prejudices”(PT 134, sec. 40, para. 20). On other occasions
He said that prejudice is “the destroyer of the body politic”(PUP 124,
13 May 1912)2 and “an obstacle to realization”(PUP 115, 12 May
1912).3 And on the 13th of November 1911, He devoted a whole
speech to “the abolition of prejudices… whether of religion, race,
politics or nation,” presented as “the fifth principle” of “the Teaching
of Bahá’u’lláh”(PT 151–6, sec. 45).4 In that circumstance He pre-
sented prejudice as “a grave malady which, unless arrested, is capable
of causing the destruction of the whole human race”(ibid. 151, sec.
45, para. 1). In North America He repeatedly mentioned this prin-
ciple, sometimes as “the fifth principle or teaching of Bahá’u’lláh…
the abandoning of religious, racial, patriotic and political prejudices,
which destroy the foundations of human society”(PUP 107, 7 May
1912, see 316).5 On the 1st of September 1912, at the Church of the
Messiah, in Montreal, Canada, He delivered another whole talk on
this subject(PUP 297–302).6 He said that all prejudices are “opposed
to reality… [and] against the will and plan of God”(ibid. 299), that
they are “nothing but superstition… as they are against the plan and
purpose of reality, they are false and imaginary”(ibid.), “falsehoods
and violations of the will of God”(ibid. 300).
As to religious prejudice, which He described in a talk wholly devoted
to this issue and delivered in Paris on the 27th of October 1911 as

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
the consequence of “the misrepresentation of religion by the religious
leaders and teachers”(PT 37, sec. 13, para. 2),7 He said:
The Prophets of God have been inspired with the message
of love and unity. The Books of God have been revealed for
the upbuilding of fellowship and union. The Prophets of God
have been the servants of reality; Their teachings constitute
the science of reality. Reality is one; it does not admit plurality.
We conclude, therefore, that the foundation of the religions of
God is one foundation.(PUP 295, 29 August 1912)
All the wars and enmities that have ravaged the world throughout
the centuries among the followers of the various religions are also
the consequence of the ignorance and waywardness of human beings,
who have turned a deaf ear to the teachings of God. `Abdu’l-Bahá
explained on that occasion:
All the Prophets have promulgated the law of love. Man
has opposed the will of God and acted in opposition to the
plan of God. Therefore, from the beginning of history to the
present time the world of humanity has had no lasting rest;
warfare and strife have continuously prevailed, and hearts
have manifested hatred toward each other.(PUP 297–8, 1
September 1912)
As to racial prejudice, “the worst of all” prejudices(ABL 55), it is a
denial of the principle of the oneness of humankind, “created… from
the dust of earth… fashioned… from the same elements… descended
from the same race”(PUP 297). This principle is an undeniable truth:
“There can be no multiplicity of races, since all are the descendants
of Adam. This signifies that racial assumption and distinction are
nothing but superstition”(PUP 298).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
As to “patriotic prejudices”(PUP 12),8 that He also described as
“political prejudice”(PT 154, sec. 45, para. 15), He said:
This is one globe, one land, one country. God did not divide it
into national boundaries. He created all the continents with-
out national divisions. Why should we make such division
ourselves? These are but imaginary lines and boundaries.
Europe is a continent; it is not naturally divided; man has
drawn the lines and established the limits of kingdoms and
empires. Man declares a river to be a boundary line between
two countries, calling this side French and the other side
German, whereas the river was created for both and is a
natural artery for all.(PUP 299–300)
The only division among human beings that `Abdu’l-Bahá recognizes
as “real” is that “there are heavenly men and earthly men”(PT 154,
sec. 45, para. 15). Then He adds: “If these are God’s divisions, why
should we invent others?”(ibid.).
`Abdu’l-Bahá’ said : “It is evident that prejudices… have hindered the
progress of humanity thousands of years”(PUP 39, 21 April 1912).9
And in another occasion He added: “until national and international
prejudices are effaced in the reality of this spiritual brotherhood, true
progress, prosperity and lasting happiness will not be attained by
man”(PUP 142–3, 24 May 1912). It is time to forsake all prejudices,
“our own small trivial notions”(PT 139, sec. 41, para. 7). He suggested
several remedies against prejudice. The first remedy is search after
truth. He said in this regard:
Man must cut himself free from all prejudice and from
the result of his own imagination, so that he may be able
to search for truth unhindered… Being one, truth cannot
be divided, and the differences that appear to exist among
the nations only result from their attachment to prejudice.

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
If only men would search out truth, they would find them-
selves united.(PT 131, sec. 40, paras. 8, 9)
Other remedies are “training and instruction”(PUP 300, 1 September
1912) and sowing “the seed of love and universal brotherhood in the
heart of man”(PT 10, sec. 5, para. 2). However, the greatest remedy
is the assistance “of a superior power to overcome human prejudices,
a power which nothing in the world of mankind can withstand and
which will overshadow the effect of all other forces at work in human
conditions. That irresistible power is the love of God”(PUP 68, 30
April 1912).10
These were ground-breaking concepts in those days when the West-
ern world was still “heaving with the explosive forces of a blind and
triumphant nationalism,”(ADJ 47). As to racism, in those years,
Tommaso Carletti, the Italian governor of Benadir(the old name
of Italian Somaliland), wrote to the Italian Ministry of Exterior:
“There are races(I am sorry for not agreeing with the old Aristotle)
that, either for an inborn intellectual inferiority, or for their historical
development, seem destined to be slaves or at least to be unable of
enjoying an unconditioned freedom”(19 July 1907, qtd. in Del Boca,
Italiani 805). As to religious prejudice, Christianity was still steeped
in the atmosphere of an age-long, intransigent exclusivism. The Cat-
echism of Saint Pius X, issued in 1905, said: “Can one be saved outside
the Catholic, Apostolic and Roman Church?… No, no one can be
saved outside the Catholic, Apostolic Roman Church, just as no one
could be saved from the flood outside the Ark of Noah, which was
a figure of the Church”(ninth article, 27 Q). As to nationalism, on
the 8th of October 1911, a few weeks before `Abdu’l-Bahá lamented
“the sad picture of Italy carrying war into Tripoli”(PUP 6, 12 April
1912) and the fact that people remained “cold and indifferent to the
fact that thousands of Italians, Turks, and Arabs… [were] killed in
Tripoli!”(PT 116, sec. 37, para. 1, 24 November 1911),11 the Italian
poet Gabriele D’Annunzio(1863–1938), considered “the leading

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
writer of Italy in the late 19th and early 20th centuries”(Encyclopædia
Britannica), published in the most important Italian newspaper “Cor-
riere della sera” a poem entitled “La canzone d’oltre mare [Song from
overseas].” In this poem he sang the praises of that war that, in his
opinion, was opening a “wonderful season” and a “holy springtime,”
in which a song was raised for a renewed and glorious Italy “from the
round muzzle of the gun.” On the 30th of June 1952 Shoghi  Effendi
still described the inhabitants of towns and cities of the Western
world as “either immersed in crass materialism,” or breathing “the
fetid air of an aggressive racialism,” or finding themselves “bound by
the chains and fetters of a haughty intellectualism,” or having “fallen a
prey to the forces of a blind and militant nationalism or…  steeped in
the atmosphere of a narrow and intolerant ecclesiasticism”(MBW 36).
The second half of the twentieth century has seen the gradual decline
of nationalism and racism in many parts of the world. As to religious
exclusivism, Christianity is slowly moving towards inclusivism and
interreligious dialogue. At the beginning of the new century, the
mounting tide of immigration is obliging a sometimes reluctant
European population to take people of different color, religion and
culture into account. Globalization has forced their governments to
issue special laws for previously unknown minorities. In the wake of
these events, the Italian government has recently issued a Charter on
the Values and Significance of Citizenship and Integration.
What is the Charter on the Values and Significance of
Citizenship and Integration?
The website of the Ministry of the Interior presents this Charter12
as a document “essentially of a programmatic nature setting out
guidelines for the Ministry of the Interior” aiming at expounding
“the values and principles for all those wishing to have permanent
residence in Italy irrespective of whatever religious, ethnic and/or

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
cultural group or community they may belong to”(Charter, “Intro-
duction”) and “also intended as a useful instrument for immigrants,
religious communities, and Italian citizens, especially the young, in
order to spread a better understanding of the problems concerning
immigration and religious freedom”(ibid.). Giuliano Amato, who as
the Minister of the Interior has set in motion, in the second half of
2006, the process from which the Charter was born in a frame-
work of initiatives aiming at integration and social cohesion, writes
that the document shows the foundations of the rights and duties
of immigrants in the Italian identity and in the Constitution of
the Italian Republic; establishes a relation between the history of
the Italian nation and the principles upon which its Republic has
today its foundations; assists new and old immigrants and Italian
citizens to find a practical relation between the Constitution of
the Republic and the Italian legislation in force, on the one hand,
and their daily life as to the issues of integration. Therefore, the
Charter illustrates the rights and duties of the immigrants, opens
a discussion and a dialogue “between old and new Italians on the
issue about which they are called sometimes simply to understand
one other, sometimes to accept each other, sometimes to change
their reciprocal attitudes” and, last but not least, points to the road
towards practical integration(Amato, “Prefazione” 2–3).
When and by whom was it written?
Approved by a decree issued on the 23rd of April 2007, the Charter
on the Values is the second document of this type issued in Europe
after the Contrat d’accueil et d’intégration, Welcome and Integration
Contract, passed in France on July 2003. It was written by a scientific
committee, formed by Carlo Cardia, professor of Philosophy of Law
of the Jurisprudence Faculty of the Roma Tre University, who was
its president, Roberta Aluffi Beck Peccoz, lecturer of Muslim Law at
the University of Turin, Khaled Fouad Allam, lecturer of Sociology

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of the Muslim World and History and Institutions of the Islamic
Countries at the University of Urbino and a member of the Italian
Parliament, Adnane Mokrani, Muslim theologian and lecturer of
Islamic Studies at the Gregorian University of Rome and Francesco
Tannini, lecturer of Arabic Studies at the Pontifical Institute for
Arabic and Islamic Studies(PISAI) in Rome. The work of the scien-
tific committee has been also followed by Mr. Franco Testa and Ms.
Maria Patrizia Paba, prefect and prefect deputy respectively at the
Ministry of the Interior. The committee has also consulted several
religious, social, trade-unions, and civil society associations and orga-
nizations of the world of immigration. Specifically it has consulted the
Council of Italian Islam, an exclusively consultative body formed by 16
members, among which are some of the most significant voices of the
many-sided Italian Islamic world, and the Youth Council for Cultural
and Religious Pluralism Issues, a body created by the Ministry of the
Interior together with the Ministry for Juvenile Politics to promote
dialogue among youth of different faiths and cultures.
Which are its themes?
The Charter on the Values comprises seven sections. The first and
the last ones describe the identity of the Italian nation on the ground
of its ancient and more recent history and of its geographical posi-
tion and mention the seminal values of Italian society as expounded
in its Constitution and its present international commitment. The
other five sections deal with very important issues described in
their respective titles: “Dignity of the Individual, Rights and Duties,
Social Rights,” “Employment and Health, Social Rights,” “School,
Education and Information,” “Family, New Generations and Laicity”
and “Religious Freedom.”

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
By which documents was it inspired?
The Charter on the Values is inspired in the first place by the Con-
stitution of the Italian Republic of 1947, which the Charter defines
as “the great divide from the totalitarianism and anti-Semitism trend
which poisoned twentieth century Europe with the persecution of
the Jews and their culture”(Charter, sec. 1). It also refers to other
contemporary international documents, mentioned by Cardia in his
commentary on the Charter(see Table 1). Finally, it also reflects other
Italian laws, like for example the Legislative Decree 25 July 1998, no.
286, Consolidated text of the law on immigration and provisions
governing the status of foreigners(Charter, art. 1 n5).
The Charter on the Values, “firmly anchored in the Constitution
and European and international charters”(Cardia, “Introduzione” 6)
as it is, reflects the best human rights culture of the contemporary
world. It also is founded upon the four pillars upon which, according
to René Cassin(1887–1976), the French jurist who was one of the
leading drafters of the Universal Declaration of 1948, the “temple”
of human rights is founded:(1) personal rights and liberties,(2) indi-
vidual rights in one’s relations with his social groups and the affairs of
the outer world(3), spiritual faculties, public liberties and fundamen-
tal political rights and(4) economic, social and cultural rights(Agi,
René Cassin 232). Its 31 articles also reflect the “three main ideas that,”
according to the Norwegian Johan Galtung, the father of peace stud-
ies, “are a gift by the West to humankind”: “the sacredness of the
body,” “the sacredness of the human spirit” and “the equality in front
of the law”(“Lo stato nazionale” 300). It complies with all the most
important principles mentioned in the International Bill of Human
Rights(see Table 2). Finally, the Charter runs again through the road
of the three generations of human rights, civil and political rights,
economic and social rights and cultural rights, in which Karel Vasak,
the French[Czech] jurist, former director of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization(UNESCO)’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Division of Human Rights and Peace, saw in 1979 an achievement of
the three great watchwords of the French Revolution: Liberté, Égalité,
Fraternité [Liberty, Equality, Fraternity](see Table 3).
Table 1
International documents to which the Charter refers
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, signed in Paris on the 10th of December
1948, whose writing was promoted by the United Nations so that it may be
applied by all Member States(Charter on the Values, art. 12 n15, art. 16 n22, art.
17 n24, art. 23 n35, art. 28 n41),
Declaration of the Rights of the Child, adopted by the UN General Assembly on
the 20th of November 1959(ibid., art. 13 n18, art. 16 n23),
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimina-
tion, adopted by the UN General Assembly on the 21st of December 1965(ibid.,
art. 14 n20),
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted by the UN General
Assembly on the 16th of December 1966 and entered into force on the 23rd of
March 1976(ibid., art. 16 n22, art. 16 n23, art. 17 n24, art. 31 n44),
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,
adopted by the UN General Assembly on the 18th of December 1979(ibid., art. 4
n7, art. 16 n23),
International Covenant against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment, adopted by the UN General Assembly on the 10 of
December 1984 and entered into force on the 27th of June 1987(ibid., art. 28 n41),
Convention on of the Rights of the Child, adopted by the UN General Assembly
on the 20th of November 1989(ibid., art. 12 n16, art. 15 n21, art. 16 n23, art. 19
n28, art. 25 n38, art. 28 n41).
European documents to which the Charter refers
Framework Convention of the Protection of National Minorities, signed by the
Council of Europe on the 1st of February 1995 and entered into force on the 1st of
February 1998(Charter on the Values, art. 25 n38),
Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, signed and proclaimed
by the Presidents of the European Parliament in the occasion of the European
Council in Nice on the 7th of December 2000(ibid., art. 12 n17),
A Common Agenda for Integration, Framework for the Integration of Third-
Country Nationals into the European Union, written by the European Commis-
sion on the 1st of September 2005(ibid., art. 5 n8),
European Parliament Resolution of the 24th of October 2006 on equality
between women and men(ibid., art. 4 n7, art. 17 n25, art. 18 n26, art. 19 n29).

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Table 2
Principles mentioned in the Bill of Human Rights and reflected in the
Charter on Values
1.
the principle of the “dignity of the human person”(Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, article 1)
2.
“the principle of equal rights… universal respect for, and observance of,
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to
race, sex, language or religion”(Declaration on the Granting of Indepen-
dence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 14 December 1960)
3.
“the principle of the dignity and equality of all human beings”(Declaration on
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 20 November 1963)
4.
the “principle of freedom of expression”(Declaration on race and racial preju-
dices adopted by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural Organization(UNESCO), 27 November 1978)
5.
“the principle of non-discrimination”(Convention against Discrimination in
Education, 14 December 1960)
6.
the “principle of equality of men and women”(Convention on the Elimina-
tion of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 18 December 1979)
7.
“the principle of equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of
equal value”(Equal Remuneration Convention, 29 June 1951)
8.
the principle of “compulsory primary education, free of charge” for
all(International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights)
9.
the “Social and Legal Principles relating to the Protection and Welfare of
Children”(Convention on the Rights of the Child, 20 November 1989)
10.	 the “principle of self-determination of peoples,”(United Nation Charter,
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights)
11.
the “Basic Principles on the Independence of the Judiciary”(UN General
Assembly, 13 December 1985)
Table 3
Three Generations of Human Rights(Vasak)
Civil and political rights
Liberty
Rights to liberty

Freedom from the state
Liberties within the state
Liberties through the State
Economic and social rights
Equality
Rights to work
Rights to education
Rights to health
Cultural rights
Fraternity

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
A Bahá’í point of view on the Charter on the Values and
Significance of Citizenship and Integration
The Bahá’ís are particularly sensitive to this document whose text is
reminiscent of many of the teachings that Bahá’u’lláh has set forth
throughout the years of His Mission(1853–1892). The Bahá’í Faith,
born in the second half of the nineteenth century when the modern
idea of human rights had already begun to flourish at the national
level in some parts of the world, not only offers principles of inter-
personal morality central to human rights, as the other religions(see
Henkin, Age of Rights 183–4), but has a straightforward relation
with human rights. Its copious Writings13 explicitly and repeatedly
mention them, explain and uphold virtually all the principles upon
which the modern human rights system is built, and expound other
principles wherefrom that system could get good ideas for future
agendas. The Bahá’í Writings illustrate human rights in at least four
different perspectives: as “an element of the soul’s search for God,” as
“a divine obligation imposed on the rulers of society,” as “foundational
elements of the ordering of the ‘divine’ society,” and as “aspirations
for the future,” for “the healing of society’s ills and the redemption of
humanity”(Curtotti, ‘Human Rights’ 67–8). These are some of the
reasons why a document that takes constantly into account the great
European and international Charters on Human Rights as the Ital-
ian  Charter on the Values cannot but meet the full approval of the
Bahá’ís. A few considerations on this modern document will now be
offered in the light of the Bahá’í teachings.
The Charter on Values and its laicity
The first section of the Charter on values, “Italy, a community of
peoples and values,” immediately clarifies that Italy is a lay coun-
try. The issue is then resumed in Section 6, “Laicity and religious
freedom,” in which the Charter on Values states that “the lay
state recognizes the positive contribution that religions bring to

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
the community and intends to emphasize the moral and spiritual
patrimony of each one of them”(art. 21). Cardia comments upon
Section 6, art. 21, as follows:
The principles stated in this article describe the positive and
friendly character of the Italian laicity, which thus distin-
guishes itself from the laicity prevailing in the nineteenth cen-
tury that considered religion as a “private affair” and refused
to acknowledge its public and social role. The friendly and
positive aspect of the Italian laicity has several applications.
The Constitutional Court, for example, stated that the lay
character of the State is one of the supreme principles of the
constitutional order, but has also added that our order rec-
ognizes the role that religion plays in the society and in the
community. In harmony with this approach, the Charter on
the Values states that Italy founds its laicity on two essential
points: the recognition of the moral and spiritual patrimony
of each religion, as a positive factor in community life, and
the promotion of interreligious and intercultural dialogue to
support the respect for human dignity and the exhaustion
of any form of prejudice and intolerance. Therefore, religion
is an active component of society and can converse with the
state in several ways.(Cardia, “Note” 22–3, art 21 n32)
This position places the Italian legislative order, in its laicity, that is
in its total autonomy from the various religious confessions existing
in Italy, in the van on the international theatre because of its high
consideration of religion and makes its laicity a guarantor of equal
rights and opportunities for all its citizens and a form of respect for all
religious conceptions, since it does not favor anyone above the others.
The Bahá’í teachings totally agree with the two above mentioned
points: “the recognition of the moral and spiritual patrimony of each

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
religion, as a positive factor in community life, and the promotion
of interreligious and intercultural dialogue to support the respect
for human dignity and the exhaustion of any form of prejudice and
intolerance”. The Bahá’í International Community(bic),14 is working
with the United Nations so that they may recognize the role religions
deserve, at least in the promotion of the human rights culture(see
bic 97–0401), on the ground of a number of important observations.
All religions teach “people who they are and why they are here and
call them to transcendence and service”(bic 97–0401). They “teach
love, and… are intended to promote the well-being of the human
family”(bic 93–0612) and this teaching “could be viewed as a goal
common to them all”(bic 95–0110). They educate “individuals to
confront their own character defects”(bic 97–0401), to “root out
undesirable behavior”(bic 97–0401), “to discipline their baser
propensities”(bic 99–0112), “to cultivate such virtues as truthful-
ness, compassion, trustworthiness, and generosity”(bic 97–0401),
“courage, and willingness to sacrifice for the common good”(bic
99–0112), guiding them to respect such “universal spiritual principles”
as “tolerance… love, justice, humility… dedication to the well–being
of others, and unity”(bic 97–0401). All these virtues and principles,
inculcated by all religions are “conducive to nobility and to respect for
the rights of others”(bic 97–0401) and imply “social order and cul-
tural advancement”(bic 99–0112). Since these virtues and principles
are the core of all religions, every religion has a vital role in promoting
“unity among all the peoples of the world” and in outlawing “war and
violence in human affairs”(bic 87–0303).
The numerous religious conflicts that obscure the world seem to dis-
qualify the world’s religions for this delicate task, however the Bahá’í
International Community invites us “to look to the remarkable
development of interfaith relations and the expansion of interfaith
initiatives,” and points out the many initiatives undertaken by the
various religious and spiritual traditions, with the intention of foster-
ing “friendliness, fellowship and understanding among their diverse

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
communities,” and of “working together on policies, programs and
initiatives with secular bodies ranging from private enterprises
and organizations of civil society, to governments and interna-
tional institutions”(bic 01–0430). In the theoretic field, this shared
commitment of religions has produced “numerous joint declarations
and agreements in which the religions have articulated a common
vision of humanity’s future based on such universal principles as love,
justice, compassion, moderation, humility, sharing, service, peace
and the oneness of the human family”(bic 01–0430). In practice, “the
recent trend towards interfaith dialogue around the globe offers a
positive example of how disparate communities can work together
to broaden vision and shape public discourse in a unifying way”(bic
01–1123). An undoubtedly “increasing interchange among spiritual
leaders and their followers, especially children, will no doubt lead to
new understandings of what is possible for human beings and how
peaceful patterns of collective life can be nurtured”(bic 01–1123).
These results, beside the previously mentioned virtues and principles
inculcated by religions, denote that religions can provide a “values-
centered education” that is indispensable in view of the promotion of
human rights(bic 96–0315).
Although the Charter on Values recognizes the Italian lay legacy from
“the cultures of Ancient Greece and Rome”(Charter 1), from which
Italy has drawn “its enunciation of the principle of liberty”(Cardia,
“Note” 10 n1), it does not forget “Italy grew and developed within
a Christian framework which dominated its history and together
with Judaism prepared the way for its opening towards modernity
and the principles of freedom and justice”(ibid.). Rich in this twin
legacy, the Charter on the Values states that Italy undertakes, in the
noblest spirit of modernity, to realize “an international order based
on human rights, equality and solidarity among peoples”(Charter 11)
and offers “all that which makes up the patrimony of Italy, its artis-
tic and natural beauty, its economic and cultural resources, and its
democratic institutions… to serve the men, women and the young

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
not only of this but also of future generations,” safeguarding and pro-
moting “inalienable human rights so as to sustain the weak, and to
guarantee the development of every individual not only with regard
to work possibilities and aptitude but also with regard to the moral
and spiritual disposition of each one”(ibid.).
The Charter on the Values meets, also in this respect, the prereq-
uisites of the Bahá’í teachings that suggest their own concept of
the relation between the state and its citizens. On the one hand,
Bahá’u’lláh enjoins “obedience unto them that are in authority”(GWB
206, sec. cii) and denies “the right to act in any manner that would run
counter to the considered views of them who are in authority”(Lawh.-i-
Dhabíh. 241, para. 3), because , He explains, “The instruments which
are essential to the immediate protection, the security and assurance of
the human race have been entrusted to the hands, and lie in the grasp,
of the governors of human society”(GWB 206, sec. cii). On the other,
He writes to the rulers of the world: “your subjects are God’s trust
amongst you. Watch ye, therefore, over them as ye watch over your own
selves”(Súriy-i-Haykal 75, para. 143). They “that are in authority” are
expected to be as loyal as all their subjects. The good governance is
born from this reciprocal loyalty. The ideal rulers should be “protec-
tors of the people and dispensers of Divine justice… powerful champions
of the people’s rights,” they should “give no thought to amassing enormous
fortunes for themselves,” they should rather be eager to enrich “their
subjects” and “take no pride in gold and silver, but rather in their enlight-
enment and their determination to achieve the universal good”(SDC
20). Both rulers and ruled ones should aim at becoming “a source of
social good” and consider this as their most cherished honor and highest
distinction”(ibid. 2).
The seven sections of the Charter
The first section of the Charter also refers to concept of “service,”
when it states that “All that which makes up the patrimony of Italy,
its artistic and natural beauty, its economic and cultural resources,

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
and its democratic institutions are there to serve the men, women
and the young not only of this but also of future generations”(Charter
2). The concept of service occupies a central place in the Bahá’í
conception of life. Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Man’s merit lieth in service
and virtue and not in the pageantry of wealth and riches”(Lawh.-i-
H. ikmat 138).
The contents of the second section, “Dignity of the Individual,
Rights and Duties,” confirms the Bahá’í persuasion that the princi-
ple of the oneness of humankind, according to which “all men are the
sheep of God, and God is their loving Shepherd, caring most tenderly
for all without favouring one or another”(SWAB 248, sec. 202), the
central principle of their Faith, is gradually becoming established
in the world, because of the intrinsic force deriving from its being a
fundamental part of human sociality. The principle of the oneness
of humankind implies at least four important corollaries, that may
be summarized as follows: first, all human beings have the same
spiritual origin, and thus are equal; secondly, the human person has
a priceless value; thirdly, the highest moral imperative is service to
humanity; and fourthly, all human beings are united to one another
by close bonds(see Curtotti 66–7). In the light of these implica-
tions, “each member of the human race is born into the world as a
trust of the whole” and this relationship between the individual and
the collective, on the one hand “constitutes the moral foundation
of most of the human rights,” on the other, defines “an overriding
purpose for the international order in establishing and preserving
the rights of the individual”(bic 95–1001, Turning 247; see bic
95–0303, Prosperity 281).
The contents of the third section, “Social Rights. Employment and
Health,” is reminiscent for the Bahá’ís of a talk delivered by Abdu’l-
Bahá in 1911 in Paris:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Every human being has the right to live; they have a right to
rest, and to a certain amount of well-being. As a rich man
is able to live in his palace surrounded by luxury and the
greatest comfort, so should a poor man be able to have the
necessaries of life. Nobody should die of hunger; everybody
should have sufficient clothing; one man should not live in
excess while another has no possible means of existence.(PT
134, sec. 40, para. 23)
The fourth section, “Social Rights. School, Education and Infor-
mation,” is related to one of the main principles of the Bahá’í Faith,
“Universal education is a universal law”(PUP 300, 1 September 1912).
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the book of Bahá’í laws, explains this principle in
details. For example:
Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of his son
and daughter in the art of reading and writing and in all that
hath been laid down in the Holy Tablet. He that putteth away
that which is commanded unto him, the Trustees are then to
take from him that which is required for their instruction if he
be wealthy and, if not, the matter devolveth upon the House of
Justice. Verily have We made it a shelter for the poor and needy.
He that bringeth up his son or the son of another, it is as though
he hath brought up a son of Mine; upon him rest My glory, My
loving-kindness, My mercy, that have compassed the world.(37,
para. 48)
The fifth section, “Family, New Generations,” is a source of encour-
agement and assurance for the Bahá’ís. We certainly cannot say
that the health condition of the institution of the family is good in
the West. A document that “considers family education a necessary
tool for the upbringing of new generations”(Charter art. 16) inspires
great confidence. This confidence is strengthened by the emphasis
placed by the Charter on the Values “on the equality of duties and

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
obligations between husband and wife”(Charter art. 17) and on “the
freedom of minors in developing their own personality”(Charter art.
19). The Bahá’í family is founded on bonds of love and loyalty among
all its components. `Abdu’l-Bahá said about the family on the 2nd of
June 1912 while He was in the United States:15
According to the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh the family, being a
human unit, must be educated according to the rules of sanc-
tity. All the virtues must be taught the family. The integrity
of the family bond must be constantly considered, and the
rights of the individual members must not be transgressed.
The rights of the son, the father, the mother—none of them
must be transgressed, none of them must be arbitrary. Just
as the son has certain obligations to his father, the father,
likewise, has certain obligations to his son. The mother, the
sister and other members of the household have their cer-
tain prerogatives. All these rights and prerogatives must be
conserved, yet the unity of the family must be sustained. The
injury of one shall be considered the injury of all; the com-
fort of each, the comfort of all; the honor of one, the honor
of all.(PUP 168, 2 June 1912)16
The sixth section, “Laicity and Religious Freedom,” has been previ-
ously analyzed.
The seventh section, “Italy’s International Commitment,” confirms
Italy’s commitment to carry out “a policy of peace and respect
towards all people in the world to promote the peaceful coexistence
between nations and defeat war and terrorism” and to safeguard “the
environment and wealth of life on the planet”(Charter art. 27), to
reject “war as a means for resolving international disputes, weapons
of mass destruction, as well as any form of torture and punishment
that degrades human dignity”(Charter art. 28), to reject “any form
of xenophobia”(ibid.), with a view to finding “a peaceful resolution

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
to the main international crises”(Charter art. 30), to promoting
“respect for human rights and the dignity of man throughout the
world” and to encouraging “the success of political democracy as the
form of State government that allows citizens to take part in matters
of public interest and the ever-increasing respect for the rights of the
person”(Charter art. 31).
In this commitment Italy is catching the best of Western civilization
and modernity. Among the merits ascribed by the Bahá’í writings
to Western civilization the most important is that it gave birth to “a
philosophical culture,” which has liberated “the energies of its popu-
lations,” produced “a revolutionary impact throughout the entire
world,” nurtured “constitutional government,” and prized “the rule
of law and respect for the rights of all of society’s members”(Century
of Light 5, cf. 72–3). The Bahá’ís therefore ascribe to the West the
merit of having established for the first time in human history
“the minimum standards for conduct by a government towards its
people”(bic 95–1001, Turning 255) and promoted an international
debate that is gradually producing a “new culture conducive to the
universal enjoyment of human rights”(bic 96–0315). The positive
aspects of the Western civilization are thus summarized by the
Universal House of Justice, the supreme governing body of the Bahá’í
Community, in a message “To the Believers in the Craddle of the
Faith [Iran]” of the 26th of November 2003: “ constitutional and
democratic government, the rule of law, universal education, the pro-
tection of human rights, economic development, religious tolerance,
the promotion of useful sciences and technologies and programmes
of public welfare”(2). All these features are reflected in the last section
of the Charter on the Values and the Bahá’ís wholeheartedly agree.
The Charter on the Values speaks about peace and respect towards
all people and the Bahá’ís remember `Abdu’l-Bahá’s encouragement:
“Consort with all the peoples, kindreds and religions of the world with the

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
utmost truthfulness, uprightness, faithfulness, kindliness, good-will and
friendliness”(WT 14).
The Charter speaks of “safeguarding the environment and
wealth of life on the planet”(art. 27) and the Bahá’ís think
of the call by the Universal House of Justice in its message
“To the Bahá’ís of the World, Rid.ván 1989” to assist “in
endeavors to conserve the environment in ways which blend
with the rhythm of life of our community”(para. 12), in the
name of the strong ties between human beings and the envi-
ronment, described in a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi(1897–1957), the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, in
1933, as follows:We cannot segregate the human heart from
the environment outside us and say that once one of these is
reformed everything will be improved. Man is organic with
the world. His inner life moulds the environment and is
itself deeply affected by it. The one acts upon the other and
every abiding change in the life of man is the result of these
mutual reactions.(qtd. in Valuing 249, bic 98–0218)
And with a view to its improvement, as recommended by `Abdu’l-Bahá:
The Lord of all mankind hath fashioned this human realm to be
a Garden of Eden, an earthly paradise. If, as it must, it findeth
the way to harmony and peace, to love and mutual trust, it will
become a true abode of bliss, a place of manifold blessings and
unending delights. Therein shall be revealed the excellence of
humankind, therein shall the rays of the Sun of Truth shine
forth on every hand.(SWAB 275, sec. 220)
The Charter speaks of rejecting war and weapons of mass destruc-
tion. And the Bahá’ís remember the hope voiced by Bahá’u’lláh “that
through the earnest endeavours of such as are the exponents of the power
of God…  the weapons of war throughout the world may be converted into

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
instruments of reconstruction and that strife and conflict may be removed
from the midst of men”(Bishárát 23).
The Charter speaks of rjecting any form of torture and punishment
that degrades human dignity. And this rejection echoes the following
words written by `Abdu’l-Bahá:
material civilization, through the power of punitive and
retaliatory laws, restraineth the people from criminal acts;
and notwithstanding this, while laws to retaliate against
and punish a man are continually proliferating, as ye can see,
no laws exist to reward him. In all the cities of Europe and
America, vast buildings have been erected to serve as jails for
the criminals.
Divine civilization, however, so traineth every member of
society that no one, with the exception of a negligible few, will
undertake to commit a crime.(SWAB 132, sec. 105)
Italy is determined to defeat xenophobia. And the Bahá’ís agree,
according to the guidance received by `Abdu’l-Bahá Who wrote:
do all in your power to be as one, to live in peace, each with the
others: for ye are all the drops from but one ocean, the foliage
of one tree, the pearls from a single shell, the flowers and sweet
herbs from the same one garden… Call none a stranger; think
none to be your foe.(SWAB 279, sec. 221)
A similar guidance is given in a Talk He delivered in Paris on the
16th and the 17th of October 1911:
I ask you not to think only of yourselves. Be kind to the
strangers, whether come they from Turkey, Japan, Persia,
Russia, China or any other country in the world.

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Help to make them feel at home; find out where they are
staying, ask if you may render them any service; try to make
their lives a little happier.
In this way, even if, sometimes, what you at first suspected
should be true, still go out of your way to be kind to them—
this kindness will help them to become better.(PT 1, sec. 1,
paras. 1–4)
Italy “is committed to seeing a peaceful resolution to the main inter-
national crises”(art. 30). And the Bahá’ís think that Italy also, like
other countries, is beginning to fulfill the following auspice expressed
by `Abdu’l-Bahá in 1875:
True civilization will unfurl its banner in the midmost heart
of the world whenever a certain number of its distinguished
and high-minded sovereigns—the shining exemplars of devo-
tion and determination—shall, for the good and happiness of
all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and clear vision, to estab-
lish the Cause of Universal Peace. They must make the Cause
of Peace the object of general consultation, and seek by every
means in their power to establish a Union of the nations of the
world.(SDC 64)
The Charter states that Italy works “to encourage the success of politi-
cal democracy as the form of State government that allows citizens to
take part in matters of public interest and the ever-increasing respect
for the rights of the person”(art. 31). And the Bahá’ís applaud, because
they themselves believe in democracy. Bahá’u’lláh emphasized the
importance of the participation of people to the management of the
government when, at the end of the years 1860, He exalted Victoria,
Queen of England, for having “entrusted the reins of counsel into the
hands of the representatives of the people”(Súriy-i-Haykal 90, para. 173)
and praised, in another Writing, “the system of government which the
British people have adopted in London appeareth… for it is adorned with

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
the light of both kingship and of the consultation of the people”(Lawh.-
i-Dunyá 93). `Abdu’l-Bahá exalted “unity in freedom”(SWAB 32,
sec. 15) for all the people of the world and on the 2nd of June 1912,
when He was asked: “Is it not a fact that universal peace cannot be
accomplished until there is political democracy in all the countries of
the world?”, He answered that “Under an autocratic government the
opinions of men are not free, and development is stifled, whereas in
democracy, because thought and speech are not restricted, the great-
est progress is witnessed”(PUP 167). He also said that “To cast aside
centralization which promotes despotism is the exigency of the time.
This will be productive of international peace”(PUP 167). Shoghi
Effendi wrote that the Bahá’í Administrative Order is inclined “to
democratic methods in the administration of its affairs”(World Order
153). Century of Light, commissioned by the Universal House of
Justice, recognizes that “the process leading [in 1963] to the election
of the Universal House of Justice… very likely constituted history’s
first global democratic election”(92, sec. 8, para. 15). The Bahá’í
International Community remarks that “in many parts of the world,
the first exercises in democratic activity have occurred within the
Bahá’í community”(bic 01–0528).
As to democracy, the Bahá’ís suggest it to be perfected, through a
change in a number of features that in their opinion weaken modern
democracy. A first aspect is “the political theater of nominations, can-
didature, electioneering, and solicitation,” which should be replaced,
as people “become progressively educated,” by “electoral procedures
that will gradually refine the selection of their decision-making
bodies”(bic 95–0303, Prosperity 294). Other reprehensible aspects are
“the culture of protest… debate, propaganda, the adversarial method,
the entire apparatus of partisanship that have long been such familiar
features of collective action,” which “are all fundamentally harmful to
its purpose: that is, arriving at a consensus about the truth of a given
situation and the wisest choice of action among the options open at
any given moment”(ibid. 283) and last but not least “the adversarial

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
structure of civil government, the advocacy principle informing most
of civil law”(ibid. 287). All these aspects of modern democracy show
that in the West “conflict is accepted as the mainspring of human
interaction”(bic 95–0303, Prosperity 277), and even mistakenly
“dignified… by institutionalizing such concepts as the ‘loyal oppo-
sition’ which attach to one or another of the various categories of
political opinion—conservative, liberal, progressive, reactionary,
and so forth”(The Universal House of Justice, ‘Individual Rights
and Freedoms’ 515).
A “unitary concept of citizenship”
While presenting all these noble concept to citizens and immigrants,
the Charter on the Values offers, in Cardia’s words,
a unitary concept of citizenship and coexistence among the
different national, ethnic and religious communities, that
took root in the latest years in the Italian territory, and can
be considered as a covenant between Italian citizens and
immigrants in view of an integration determined to recon-
cile respect of legitimate and positive differences of culture
and behavior and respect of shared values.(“Introduzione” 4)
This concept of citizenship is a reality for the Bahá’ís throughout the
world, who are committed everywhere to create this new citizen of
the world, a citizen heedful of the following words of Bahá’u’lláh:
All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization. The Almighty beareth Me witness: To act like the
beasts of the field is unworthy of man. Those virtues that befit
his dignity are forbearance, mercy, compassion and loving-kind-
ness towards all the peoples and kindreds of the earth.(GWB
214, sec. cix, para. 2)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
The Bahá’ís and the cultural diversity of the world
Bahá’u’lláh describes cultural diversity as a great wealth. He wrote:
“Ye are all the leaves of one tree”(Bishárát 26), “Ye are the fruits of one tree,
and the leaves of one branch”(Lawh.-i-Maqs.úd 163), “regard ye not one
another as strangers”(Lawh.-i-Maqs.úd 163), “Deal ye one with another
with the utmost love and harmony, with friendliness and fellowship… So
powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the whole earth”(ESW
14). `Abdu’l-Bahá interpreted this metaphor offered by Bahá’u’lláh
in three different perspectives. The first is that of the oneness of
humankind. When Bahá’u’lláh says “Ye are all the fruits of one tree,
the leaves of one branch” He likens “this world of being to a single tree,
and all its peoples to the leaves thereof, and the blossoms and fruits. It is
needful for the bough to blossom, and leaf and fruit to flourish, and upon
the interconnection of all parts of the world-tree, dependeth the flourish-
ing of leaf and blossom, and the sweetness of the fruit”(‘SWAB 1, sec. 1).
The second aspect is that of the beauty of diversity:
Consider the flowers of a garden. Though differing in kind, color,
form, and shape, yet, inasmuch as they are refreshed by the waters
of one spring, revived by the breath of one wind, invigorated by
the rays of one sun, this diversity increaseth their charm, and
addeth unto their beauty… Diversity of hues, form and shape,
enricheth and adorneth the garden, and heighteneth the effect
thereof. In like manner, when divers shades of thought, tempera-
ment and character, are brought together under the power and
influence of one central agency, the beauty and glory of human
perfection will be revealed and made manifest.(TDP 103)
The third aspect is that of harmony among the followers of the
different religions. In the past, because of the different conditions
of the world, certain systems of religious belief have “boasted of…
[their] superiority and excellence, abasing and scorning the validity
of all the others”(PUP 230, 14 July 192), and have expressed this

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
concept stating that humankind is divided into “two trees: one divine
and merciful, the other satanic”(ibid.).17 But Bahá’u’lláh says: “‘Ye
are all the leaves of one tree’. He does not say, ‘Ye are the leaves of
two trees, one divine, the other satanic’”(ibid.). Therefore, “all are
the children of God, fruit upon the one tree of His love… all are
growing upon the tree of His mercy, servants of His omnipotent
will and manifestations of His good pleasure”(ibid.). The division of
humankind into two trees has implied in the past that certain sys-
tems of belief heaped “execration and abuse upon each other”(ibid.
266, 17 August 1912).18 But Bahá’u’lláh, explaining that there is but
one “Adamic tree,” and that “there is no satanic tree whatever – Satan
being a product of human minds and of instinctive human tenden-
cies towards error’(ibid. 230), teaches that ‘we have no right to look
upon any of our fellow-mortals as evil’(PT 153, ch.45, para.10, 10
November 1911), and that
it is not becoming in man to curse another… it is not meet
that one human being should consider another human being
as bad… There are no people of Satan; all belong to the Mer-
ciful. There is no darkness; all is light. All are the servants of
God, and man must love humanity from his heart. He must,
verily, behold humanity as submerged in the divine mercy.
(PUP 266, 17 August 1912)
The Bahá’í International Community mentions “the right of every
person to expect that those cultural conditions essential to his or her
identity enjoy the protection of national and international law.” This
right is specifically explained as follows:
Much like the role played by the gene pool in the biologi-
cal life of humankind and its environment, the immense
wealth of cultural diversity achieved over thousands of years
is vital to the social and economic development of a human
race experiencing its collective coming-of-age. It represents

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
a heritage that must be permitted to bear its fruit in a global
civilization. On the one hand, cultural expressions need to
be protected from suffocation by the materialistic influences
currently holding sway. On the other, cultures must be ena-
bled to interact with one another in ever-changing patterns
of civilization, free of manipulation for partisan political
ends.(bic 95–0303, Prosperity 281–2)
In the light of these statements, it is evident that all cultures are entitled
to their own identity, but also have the responsibility of re-examining
those aspects of their beliefs and customs that are in conflict with the
above mentioned unifying vision, which is confirmed by the system of
human rights and by reason itself.
Integration and interreligious dialogue have a long way to go to fully
achieve the oneness of humankind. However, such documents as the
Charter on the Values and Citizenship denote that this goal will be
gradually attained.

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá.
`Abdu’l-Bahá in London: Addresses and Notes of Conversations.  London:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

Abdul-Baha on Divine Philosophy: At the suggestion of Abdul Baha these
notes on Divine Philosophy, together with a short introductory history,
have been compiled and published by Isabel Fraser Chamberlain.  The
Tudor Press, Boston, ma, 1918.

Majmú‘iy-i-Khat.ábát-i-H. ad.rat-i-`Abdu’l-Bahá. Langenhain: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1984.

Paris Talks: Addresses Given by `Abdu’l-Bahá in 1911.  London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1995.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by `Abdu’l-Bahá
During His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912.  Compiled by
Howard MacNutt.  2a ed.  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL, 1982.

The Secret of Divine Civilization.  Translated by Marzieh Gail.  Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.

Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá.  Translated by Marzieh
Gail.  Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.

Tablets of the Divine Plan.  Rev.  edn.  Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1977.

The Will and Testament of `Abdu’l-Bahá.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1971.

Agi, Marc.  René Cassin(1887–1976) Prix Nobel de la Paix: père de
la déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme.  Librairie académique
Perrin, Parigi, 1998.
Amato, Giuliano.  “Prefazione,” Carta dei valori(www. interno. it) 2–3.
Bahá’í International Community.
BIC 87–0303.  “Eliminating Religious Intolerance.  to the forty-third
session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.  Agenda
item 23: Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of
All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or
Belief. ” Geneva, Switzerland, February/March 1987.
BIC 93–0612.  “Promoting Religious Tolerance.  Joint statement
presented by the Bahá’í International Community to the World

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Conference on Human Rights on behalf of the following non-
governmental organizations: Anglican Observer Office at the United
Nations, Bahá’í International Community, Dayemi Complex, Gray
Panthers, International Association for the Defense of Religious
Liberty, International Council of Jewish Women, International
Mahavir Jain Mission, International Organization for World Peace,
Disarmament, and Human Rights, Pax Romana, Planetary Citizens,
Temple of Understanding,
Unitarian Universalist, Voice of the World’s Citizens, and World
Spiritual Assembly. ” Vienna, Austria, 14–25 June 1993.

BIC 95–0110.  “Promoting Religious Tolerance.  United Nations Com-
mission on Human Rights. ” Geneva, Switzerland, 10 January 1995.

BIC 95–0303.  “The Prosperity of Humankind. ” The Bahá’í World
1994–95, pp. 273–96.

BIC 95–1001.  “Turning Point For All Nations. ” The Bahá’í World
1995–96, pp. 241–81.

BIC 96–0315.  “The United Nations Decade for Human Rights Educa-
tion.  Written statement on the United Nations Decade for Human
Rights Education, submitted to the UN Commission on Human
Rights. ” Geneva, Switzerland, March 1996.

BIC 97–0401.  “United Nations Decade on Human Rights Education.
Written statement to the 53rd session of the UN Commission on
Human rights(Agenda Item 9). ” Geneva, Switzerland, March 1997.

BIC 98–0218.  “Valuing Spirituality in Development.  Initial Consid-
erations Regarding the Creation of Spiritually Based Indicators for
Development. ” The Bahá’í World 1997–98, pp. 233–59.

BIC 99–0112.  “Religious Values and the Measurement of Poverty and
Prosperity.  A paper prepared by the Bahá’í International Community
for ‘Values, Norms and Poverty: A Consultation on the World Devel-
opment Report 2000’.  This workshop was co-sponsored by the World
Bank, the World Faiths Development Dialogue, Cornell University,
the MacArthur Foundation, the Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency, and the Swiss Development Corporation. ” Johan-
nesburg, South Africa, 12–14 January 1999.

BIC 01–0430.  “Sustainable Development: the Spiritual Dimension.  A
statement by the Bahá’í International Community to the First Session
of the Preparatory Committee of the World Summit on Sustainable
Development. ” New York, U. S. A. , 30 April –2 May, 200.

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers

BIC 01–0528.  “Overcoming Corruption and Safeguarding Integrity
in Public Institutions: A Bahá’í Perspective.  Prepared by the Bahá’í
International Community and presented at the intergovernmental
Global Forum on Fighting Corruption II. ” The Hague, Netherlands,
28–31 May 2001.

BIC 01–1123.  “Belief and Tolerance: ‘Lights Amidst the Darkness’.
Statement of the Bahá’í International Community to the International
Consultative Conference on School Education in relation with Freedom
of Religion and Belief, Tolerance and Non-discrimination. ” Madrid,
Spain, 23–25 November 2001.
Bahá’u’lláh.
Bishárát(Glad Tidings), in Tablets, pp.  21–9.

Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.  Translated by Shoghi Effendi.  Wilmette,
il: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1953.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi.  Rev. edn.  Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.

Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book.  Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992.
Arabic edition: Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1995.

Lawh.-i-Dhabíh.(Tavola a Dhabíh.), in Gleanings, pp.  240–6, sec.  cxv.

Lawh.-i-Dunyá(Tavola del Mondo), in Tablets, pp.  83–97.

Lawh.-i-H.ikmat(Tavola della Saggezza), in Tablets, pp.  137–52.

Lawh.-i-Maqs.úd(Tavola a Maqs. úd), in Tablet, pp.  161–78.

The Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh.  Bundoora,
Victoria: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 2002.

Súriy-i-Haykal(Sura of the Temple), in Summons, pp.  3–137.
Cardia, Carlo.
“Introduzione,” Carta dei valori(www. interno. it) 4–8.

[“Note”], Carta dei valori(www. interno. it).
Carta dei valori della cittadinanza e dell’integrazione, Edizione plurilingue
a cura di Studio immigrazione sas, Distribuita da ImmigrazioneOggi/
videoweb in <www. immigrazioneoggi. it>.
Carta dei valori della cittadinanza e dell’integrazione, < www. interno. it/
mininterno/export/sites/default/it/assets/files/14/0839_2007_07_10_
Breve_commento_alla_Carta_dei_valori_def. pdf >.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Charter on the Values and Significance of Citizenship and Integration <
webcache. googleusercontent. com/search?q=cache%3ALXLa5VUZ3H
wJ%3Awww. interno. it%2Fmininterno%2Fexport%2Fsites%2Fdefault%
2Fit%2Fassets%2Ffiles%2F14%2F0919_charter_of_values_of_citizen-
ship_and_integration. pdf+The+Charter+on+the+Values+and+Signifi
cance+of+Citizenship+and+Integration&hl=it&gl=it >.
Catechism of Saint Pius X.  < www. ewtn. com/library/CATECHSM/PIUSX-
CAT. htm >.
Century of Light.  Commissioned by The Universal House of Justice.  Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 2001.
Curtotti, Michael.  “Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint. ”
Human Rights, Faith and Culture, pp. 65–84.
Del Boca, Angelo.  Gli italiani in Africa Orientale. I: Dall’unità alla marcia su
Roma.  Milano: Mondadori, 1992
Educare alla pace.  I diritti umani nel mondo contemporaneo.  Esperia,
Milano, 1998.  at www. onuitalia. it/scuola/insegnaredduu/inse08. htm.
Galtung, Johan.  “Lo stato nazionale e la cittadinanza: e la cittadinanza
globale? Lo sfondo culturale, politico, istituzionale. ” Educare alla pace,
pp. 279–306.
Encyclopædia Britannica. On line.  < www. britannica. com/EBchecked/
topic/151126/Gabriele-DAnnunzio >.
Henkin, Louis.  The Age of Rights. Columbia University Press, New York,
1990.
Human Rights, Faith and Culture. 50th anniversary of the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights. Proceedings of the Australian Bahá’í Studies
Conference, 7–8 November 1998, Canberra, Australia.  Juxta Publishing
Limited, Hong-Kong, 2001.
“Presentazione,” in Carta dei valori della cittadinanza e dell’integrazione, <
www. immigrazioneoggi. it >.
Shoghi Effendi.
The Advent of Divine Justice.  Wilmette, il: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1984.

Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950–1957.  Wilmette, Illinois, USA:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.

The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters.  Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938, 1955.

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers

Star of the West.  The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world,
published from 1910 to 1935.  Issues 1910 to 1924, RP 8 vols.  Oxford:
George Ronald, 1978.
The Universal House of Justice.
26 November 2003, “To the Believers in  the Craddle of the Faith
[Iran]. ” < http://bahai-library. com/?file=uhj_day_covenant_2003 >.

Rid. ván 1988, “To the Bahá’ís of the World. ” < bahai-library. com/file.
php?file=uhj_ridvan_1988 >.

Rid. ván 1989, “To the Bahá’ís of the World. ” < bahai-library. com/file.
php?file=uhj_ridvan_1989 >.

“Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. ”
The Bahá’í World 1986–1992, pp. 508–18.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
NOTES
See for example `Abdu’l-Bahá, PT 36; 134, 40:19-21; 151-6, 45:121;
PUP 107, 287, 316, 455; ADP 24, 25, 82; ABL 28, 55, 59-60; Isabel
Fraser.  “Abdul-Baha at Clifton, England,” in Star of the West 4. 1(21
March 1913): 4-6.
See also “Reception to Abdul-Baha by the New York Peace Society at
Hotel Astor, May 13 1912.  Dr.  Stephen S.  Wise, Rabbi.  Mrs.  Anna
Garland Spencer, Ethical Society.  Rev.  Percy Stickney Grant, Church
of Ascension.  Mr.  Topakyan, Persian Consul General.  Prof.  William
Jackson, Columbia University.  Mr.  W.  H.  Short, Sec’y.  New York Peace
Society.  Stenographic Notes by E.  Foster,” in Star of the West 3. 8(1
August 1912): 10-5:
See also “Abdul-Baha at Unity Church, Montclair New Jersey(Rev.
Edgar S.  Wiers, Pastor).  Sunday, May 12, 1912, 11 A.  M.  Stenographic
Notes by E.  Foster,” in Star of the West 3. 7(13 July 1912): 12-14.
The Persian notes taken during His speech are recorded in Majmú‘ih
164-9.
See also “Address by Abdul’Baha at Hotel Schenley, Pittsburgh, Pa. ,” in
Star of the West 3.  6(24 June 1912): 2-4, 8.
The Persian notes taken during His speech are recorded in Star of the
West 5. 5(5 June 1914): 80(Persian section 1) and Majmú‘ih 224-33.
The Persian notes taken during His speech are recorded in Majmú‘ih
85-93.
See also “Address by Abdul-Baha at Church of the Ascension, Fifth
Avenue and Tenth Street, New York City.  Rev.  Percy Stickney Grant,
Rector, April 14, 1912.  Compiled from the Persian Notes by Mirza
Ahmad Sohab(sic) and Mr.  Howard MacNutt,” Star of the West 4. 1(21
March 1913): 7-8.
See also “Report of Meeting at Universalist Church, 4 P.  M.  Sunday,
April 21, 1912,”in Star of the West 3. 3(28 April 1910): 10-2.
See also “Address of Abdul-Baha at Hull House, Chicago, April 30,
1912.  Translated by Dr.  Ameen U.  Fareed and taken stenographically
by Joseph H.  Hannen,” in Star of the West 3. 3(28 April 1910): 29-30.
See also “Talk by Abdul-Baha given in Paris, France, November 23,
1911, during the war between Italy and Tripoli.  Translated by Dr.  Zia
Bagdadi, June, 19 1916, Chicago, Ill. ” Star of the West 7.  11(27

The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers

September 1916): 106-7.  The Persian notes taken during His speech are
recorded in Majmú‘ih 210-3.
An English text has been published by the Italian Ministry of Interior.
Its text will be used in this paper and denoted as Charter.  The numbers
in() refer to its paragraphs.
In this paper the author has adopted the Bahá’í habit of writing what-
ever pertains God or His Manifestations, i. e.  the Founders of revealed
religions, with the capital letter as a sign of reverence and respect.
The acronym BIC is used to indicate a document by the Bahá’í Inter-
national Community(BIC).  The first group of two numbers indicates
the year in which the document was published and the second group
of four numbers indicates the order number of the document.  The text
of all the documents by the Bahá’í International Community may be
retrieved on the Internet in the “Bahá’í International Community State-
ment Library” at < www. bic-un. bahai. org/list. cfm >.
Se also “Address of Abdul-Baha at Protestant Episcopal  Church of the
Ascension, Fifth Ave.  and 10St. , New York City, Sunday, June 2, 1912,
8 P. M. , Rev.  Doc.  Percey Strickney Grant, Rector,” Star of the West
3. 10(8 September 1912): 24-9.
See also “Address of Abdul-Baha at Protestant Episcopal Church of
the Ascension, Fifth Ave.  and 10th St.  New York City, Sunday, June
2, 1912, 8 P. M. , Stickney Grant, Rector,” in Star of the West 3. 10(8
September 1912): 24-9.
See also “Address of Abdul Baha at All Souls Unitarian  Church,
Fourth Ave.  and Twentieth St. , New York City, Rev.  Leon Harvey, Pas-
tor, Sunday, July 14, 1912.  Translated by Dr.  Ameen U.  Fareed; notes
by Messrs.  John G.  Grundy and Howard MacNutt,” Star of the West
3. 11(4 November 1912): 12-6.
See also “‘Baha’u’llah has proclaimed the promise of the Oneness of
Humanity. ’ Address by Abdul-Baha at Green Acre, Maine, August 17,
1912,” Star of the West 8. 7(13July 1917): 76-80.

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière:
the Dawning of Bahá’í History in the European Continent1
Julio Savi
Against the background of the Paris of the fin de siècle and of the Belle
Époque, with its magnificent intellectual and artistic efflorescence, a young
American lady becomes the catalyst for the spiritual awakening of a group
of early God-intoxicated believers. The paper emphasizes their human
characters and the mysterious ways through which they, lovingly steered
by a subtle, omnipresent and all-guiding Will, came to recognize the dawn
of the new era on the European continent and on the whole world.
The nineteenth century of the Christian era was drawing to a close
when a young woman from the town of Englewood, New Jersey,
on the outskirts of New York City, arrived in Paris, on the banks
of the Seine. Her family name was Bolles and her name was Mary
Ellis(1870–1940), but she was known as May, a name evoking the
thought of advanced springtime, multicolored roses, mild breezes,
refreshing showers.
Randolph, her brother, had decided to study architecture and his
family had chosen for him the École des Beaux Arts in Paris. There-
fore in 1892–93, May, Randolph and their mother Mary Martha
moved to the French capital. A subtle, omnipresent and all-guiding
Will had decreed that their choice would open to the young woman
a road, which would lead her to a great destiny, comprising “the
priceless honor of a martyr’s death” in Argentina in 1940(Shoghí
Effendí, qtd. in Holley, “May Ellis Maxwell” 642), if only she would
understand the true meaning of events and seize her God-given

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
opportunities. And through her Paris, that ancient town of material
and intellectual glories, would witness the earliest dawning of a new
age of light—whose fruits only the future will reveal—for the old
European continent.
Paris: a magical name that—in the people of Europe, so proud
of their heritage of culture and history—still evokes mixed feel-
ings of confident admiration and consuming longing. In the Belle
Époque(1871–1914)— an echo of whose sounds may still be enjoyed
in Jacques Offenbach’s(1819–1880) most renowned melodies, like
his galop infernal known as Cancan—the French capital well deserved
to be called la Ville Lumière, the City of Lights, for the blaze of its
nocturnal lamps and shining minds in a continent just entering a
modern age, seemingly filled with infinite promises. After 1889 the
Tour Eiffel, with its futuristic profile of iron pillars and girders stood
above the Seine with its 320 meters, a promise of future achieve-
ments, unimaginable only a few decades before. With its two and half
million people, renowned boulevards, quays and places, intense city
traffic, industrious economic and commercial activities, brilliant
society life and intellectual audacity, Paris was indeed the capital
of an Europe, which was in those days more than ever convinced of
its invincible supremacy over the world, a supremacy which no one
would ever expect to be so soon undermined.
The meaning of those days is as yet not fully grasped, possibly
because the extraordinary Power that, after 1844, is mysteriously
shaping the course of human history is not yet sufficiently known
and understood. Unknown is the real source of the Romantic ideas
of a century that, after the cloying doltishness of Arcadia and Rococo,
was obscurely craving after a perfect Ideal, a century that was eager
to break with a recent past, perceived as narrow and empty, and was
yearning after the Infinite with impetuous thrust and adolescent
blindness. The greatest minds of those years felt an irrepressible

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
longing for a greatness that they themselves could not define. Their
intense longing brought them to an outburst of passions, whose pulse
can be perceived in their sculptures, paintings, novels, poems, melo-
dies, sometimes in their ideals of life and in their open rebellion to a
widespread, dull acquiescence to the dictates of a venerable tradition
by that time divested of any meaning and truth.
This enthusiastic search, which had manifold expressions in the
course of the nineteenth century, was manifest in the Paris of the
fin de siècle more than anywhere else in the Western world. In
that city, Claude Debussy(1862–1918), “le gamin de Paris [the
Paris urchin],” as Nadejda von Meck(1831–1894), Pyotr Ilyich
Tchaikovsky’s Egeria called him(qtd. in Brockway and Weinstock,
Men of music 529), was expressing unusual sounds and harmonies,
disregarding most of the canons of European musical tradition
after Bach. Edouard Manet(1832–1883) had already completed
his pictorial work under the banner of “a spontaneous and lively
transcription of the first glance”(Daydí, “Éduard Manet” 218),
openly defying the rhetoric triumphalism of the academic official
painting style upheld by the powerful Académie de Beaux Arts and
represented by such artists as Jean-Leon Gérôme(1824–1903)
and Alexandre Cabanel(1823–1889). The Impressionists—Edgar
Degas(1834–1917), Claude Monet(1840–1926) and Pierre Auguste
Renoir(1841–1919)—had already finished their aesthetical revolu-
tion based upon the primacy of light. They had already transfigured
physical beauty into a symbol which, as earthly as it was, spoke of a
spiritual dimension, which nevertheless most of them ignored in their
lives. Stéphane Mallarmé(1842–1898), Paul Verlaine(1844–1896),
and Arthur Rimbaud(1854–1891) had already depicted, through
their verses, a world wherefrom a remote scent of Eternity is wafting.
It was the Eternity that they, atheistic and immersed in a sensuous,
sometimes perverted, life as they were—described in the numerous
Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec’s(1864–1901) canvases, watercolors,
prints, posters and drawings—were unconsciously seeking. Their

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
sensuousness was aspiring to impossible heights of material perfec-
tion and beauty. And in every height a man is struggling to scale, he
fancies that he will at long last discover his real self, i.e., that same
Eternity he so often wants to deny. As a nineteen-year-old Rimbaud
wrote in 1873 in his Une Saison en Enfer(A Season in Hell):
Finally, O reason, O happiness, I cleared from the sky the blue which
is darkness, and I lived as a golden spark of this light Nature. In my
delight, I made my face look as comic and as wild as I could:
It is recovered.
What?—Eternity.
In the whirling light
Of the sun in the sea.
O my eternal soul,
Hold fast to desire
In spite of the night
And the day on fire.
You must set yourself free
From the striving of Man
And the applause of the World
You must fly as you can...
—No hope forever
No orietur.
Science and patience,
The torment is sure.
The fire within you,
Soft silken embers,
Is our whole duty
But no one remembers.
It is recovered.
What? Eternity.
In the whirling light
Of the sun in the sea.(< www.mag4.net/Rimbaud/poesies/
Alchemy.htm >)
In this town, where peaks of knowledge, refinement, beauty and art
arose above abysses of moral and spiritual decay, our young Ameri-
can lady was waiting for an answer to many questions stirring her
heart. What was that light which, a long time before in her home in
Englewood, had shined so luminous in her dream as to leave her, an

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
eleven years old child, blinded for a whole day? And moreover, why
had those angels brought her so far through space, showing, from
those remote distances, the earth overflowing with light, and upon
the earth an inscription, only two letters of which—B and H—she
could read? What was the meaning of those letters, which—she was
absolutely certain—had a world-transforming power? And, last but
not least, who was the Man—clad in a loose Oriental robe, His face
framed by flowing silvery hair and a long white beard, deep blue eyes,
a kind, fatherly smile—Who was calling her to Himself beyond the
shores of a cerulean sea? May could not explain those strange visions,
which had left a mysterious feeling in her heart. Her life could not be
described as wholly happy. She was surrounded by love. Her mother
and brother were fond of her. But when she was about 20 years-old
she fell ill of a strange ailment that no doctor could ever diagnose and
that made her body very weak. And thus she was often bedridden,
her days spent in rest were long, and at the same time her spirit was
thirsty, she felt an incomprehensible, unappeased yearning within
her heart.
But the subtle Will—Whose Love and Loving Kindness cradle each
human being even before his human parents become the joyous
instruments of his entry into this privileged level of creation—was
mysteriously weaving the threads of her life, so that at the right
time she could change from a chrysalis into a moth through her
efforts blessed by the divine confirmations. Mrs. Phoebe Apperson
Hearst(1842–1919), the affluent American philanthropist, offered
to Mrs. Mary Martha Bolles her apartment on the Quay d’Orsay in
Paris, “in exchange for the minor inconvenience of assisting with the
management of the suite when its mistress was absent”(Hogenson,
Lighting 58).
It was the beginning of October 1898 when one fine day Mrs. Phoebe
Hearst came to Paris, with a group of friends. They were bound—
she said—for Egypt, where they intended to go up the Nile. But May

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
was so sensitive and so keen were the instruments of her insight, that
she could not fail to perceive the reflection of a mysterious fire, hid-
den in those hearts, especially in that of the beautiful, brown-haired,
blue-eyed, ivory-skinned Lua Moore Getsinger(1871–1916), later
appointed by `Abdu’l-Bahá’ Himself as “the Herald of the Covenant.”2
The details of their conversations are unknown. We only know that,
through the words uttered by Lua, May could at long last understand
the meaning of her visions. The longing that induced others—more
renowned then her today in the world—to scale the heights of art
and, in their ignorance of their real Moving Power, to lose themselves
in alluring meanders of sensuous and intellectual dreams, that same
longing led her to the one Object of her love and to the real self-real-
ization. She discovered the path towards the Infinite in her service to
the Glory of God that had just revealed Itself to the world.
The magnanimous Phoebe Hearst could not depart and leave May
on the Seine. Her longing well deserved to be satisfied. Beyond the
shores of the azure Mediterranean Sea the One Who could disclose
the essence of that precious soul in all its beauty was waiting for her.
And Phoebe, who intended to visit Him, brought May with her.
It was the 17th of February 1899 when, at long last appeased, May
met her Master and understood, because she herself experienced
them, the words of Christ: “Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the
Kingdom of God”(Bolles, An Early Pilgrimage 22).
Many years later, `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote about her: “that maidservant of
God is ablaze with the fire of the love of God. Whosoever meets her
feels from her association the susceptibilities of the Kingdom. Her
company uplifts and develops the soul”(“Recent Tablets” 247).3

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Edith MacKay
A middle-aged widow, Marie-Louise MacKay, and her young
daughter, Edith(1878–1959) had been living in Paris for a few years.
Edith who had a beautiful voice frequented Paris’s Conservatoire,
where she “began her singing career with Madame Marie Roge of
the Opera”(de Bons, “Edith de Bons” 878) and was also instructed
by the French Jules Massenet(1842–1912) and the Italian Rug-
gero Leoncavallo(1858–1919), the composer of the opera “Pagliacci
[Players, or Clowns]”.
The same subtle omnipresent Will that had lovingly guided the
young May kindly watched over this brown-haired, sweetly singing,
girl. This Will chose a solemn day, the day that Christian tradition
has associated throughout the centuries with the birth of their Sav-
ior, Christmas Day, to guide her to her predestined goal. She was 21
years-old.
That day in the house of Edith’s godfather there was a party, as in all
other houses. She had been invited. She had meticulously prepared
herself—we can well imagine—for that happy event. She had chosen
an elegant and decent dress. She had carefully fixed her hair. The
roads were busy. There was a great coming and going of happy people.
The air was cold and pungent. There was a Christmas smell. Edith
was captured by that sweet, merry atmosphere.
As she entered the elegant hall, brightened by Christmas
decorations and enlivened by a small crowd of merry guests,
a glimpse was enough for her to identify, among all, a pres-
ence that immediately took on a special meaning in her
eyes. That presence was a young lady, with soft brown hair,
delicate features, clear blue eyes, and a mysterious inner
flame, hidden from any other eye but Edith’s. “She comes
from the United States,” they told her. “She is here with her
mother and brother, a student at the School of Architecture.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Her name is May Ellis Bolles.” A mysterious power guided
Edith to the presence of the young woman. Almost unaware,
Edith looked for a long time at May’s crystal-clear eyes that
revealed unknown depths of feelings and inner awareness,
and whispered: “I believe that you have something to tell
me!” “Yes,” May answered in a breath. And slowly, over the
course of three days, she revealed to Edith, with measured
wisdom, the extraordinary secret enshrined in her heart.
Edith soon believed—the second one in Paris, after May. She did
not take a long time to offer that priceless gift to her mother as well,
and, together, in 1901 they themselves went to the Holy Land and
sat at the feet of their newly discovered Master(see de Bons, “Edith
de Bons” 878–81).
Laura Clifford Barney
Laura Clifford Barney(1879–1974) was among those children of
American “good families” who came from the United States to Paris
to refine their culture, attending the renowned Sorbonne University,
the École des Beaux Arts or the Conservatoire, listening to concerts,
visiting museums and, last but not least, frequenting the Parisian
high society. Thus she and her sister Natalie(1876–1972) moved
from the United States to live in a college at Fontainebleau, aux
Ruches. Natalie later became playwright, novelist, poet, memoirist
and epigrammatist, as well as a muse and inspiration of other writers,
like her good friend, the famous French novelist Colette(1873–1954).
Laura came from a family of scholars and artists—her mother
was Alice Pike Barney(1857–1931), the famous American painter,
poet, writer and architect, some of whose paintings are hanging in
the National Museum of Washington D.C. Gifted with a “keen

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
intelligence, [a] logical mind and [an] investigating nature”(Giachery,
“Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney” 535), she was barely in her twenties
when, about 1900, she also met the young May Ellis Bolles. Unfor-
tunately her precious, detailed diaries, which she jealously guarded
“in a mahogany secretaire” in her home in 74, rue Raynouard in
Paris, were confiscated by the Gestapo during the Nazi occupation
of Paris(Giachery, “Laura Dreyfus-Barney” 12). And thus we do
not know her intimate experiences of those days. We can, however,
imagine that her ideals of world peace, the brotherhood of man and
the oneness of humankind that she—“a true pioneer in this field… at
a time when the world was still geographically and politically divided
and quite insensible to the call of spiritual unity”(Giachery, “Laura
Clifford Dreyfus-Barney” 535)—strongly felt in her mind and heart
even as a teen-ager, had found at last a clear expression. And after an
early visit to the Master she enrolled in the new Faith. Her repeated
visits to the Master “became the centre of… [her] life and inspiration”
and, whenever she related their many details, “an expression of rap-
ture and wonderment”(Giachery, “Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney”
535) appeared on her face.
We owe to her spiritual and intellectual curiosity the famous col-
lection of utterances by `Abdu’l-Bahá known as Some Answered
Questions. Between 1904 and 1906, during repeated visits to ‘Akká,
at table, in the dining room of `Abdu’lláh Páshá’s House, where
`Abdu’l-Bahá had transferred His residence in October 1896, the
Master kindly and thoughtfully answered, in His “tired moments,”
as He Himself told her(quoted in Dreyfus Barney, “Introduction”
v),the manifold questions which the young American lady asked
on such deep topics as the origin and nature of man, his material,
intellectual and spiritual powers, the origin of creation, its relation-
ship with its Creator and many others. She carefully recorded His
answers. And since she believed that what had been “so valuable”
to her might “be of use to others, since all men, notwithstanding
their difference, are united in their search for reality”(Dreyfus

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Barney, “Introduction” vi), she later presented her notes to Him
for His approval. She finally had them published in London in 1908,
leaving to posterity a book “unique” in the “entire field” of “religious
history”(MUH J63 282). Humankind will never be grateful enough
to her for this gift, which Shoghí Effendí defined as her “imperishable
service”(GPB 260). In that book the fundamental tenets of the divine
philosophy of `Abdu’l-Bahá are expounded, a philosophy which will
be the basis of any future philosophy in the entire world(see Giachery,
“Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney” 536–7).
However, her accomplishments also included a focus on “humanitar-
ian and social activities in her work for world peace”, that she pursued
with “undaunted zeal”(Giachery, “Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney”
535). As early as 23 July 1925, she was appointed Chevalier de la
Légion d’Honneur and in 1937 she was elevated to the rank of Officier
de la Légion d’Honneur. Mona Khademi comments upon the life of
this precious lady as follows:
proper recognition has eluded Laura Dreyfus Barney both
within the Bahá’í community as well as the world. One reason
may be the lack of her diaries or memoirs. Another factor may
be that she still stands in the shadow of her prominent and
accomplished spouse, Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney. Yet another
might be that she divided her time between two countries,
which was uncommon in those days. Therefore her heroism
has been lost in unexamined history.(“Glimpse” 73–4)
Thomas Breakwell
Having a lucrative job in a cotton mill in the south of the United
States, Thomas Breakwell(1872–1902), a cultured, refined English-
born man, could afford to visit every summer his country and to
take long vacations in the old Europe(see Lakshiman-Lepain, Life of

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Thomas Breakwell). That year, 1901, he had come to Europe for other
reasons, as well:
His conscience tormented him because his employment
afforded numerous opportunities to witness at first hand
abuse of workers—especially the child labourers… Troubled,
he had taken a leave of absence from his work and headed for
Europe hoping to forget the injustices that gnawed him, by
visiting his British family and touring that continent. Per-
haps another more ominous reason for the journey was to
seek treatment for his recurring tuberculosis.(Hogenson,
Lighting 185)
While crossing the Channel on a boat bound to France, he met a
certain Mrs. Milner. Mrs. Milner, so clever, passionate and charming
for her interest in the most unusual aspects of human life, was con-
sidered by the young Thomas as a most pleasant interlocutor. Among
many other things, they also discussed theosophy, the new spiritual
science which for many people was only fashion, while for others it
was a way of nourishing a longing for the Infinite that they could not
otherwise express. The more familiar Mrs. Milner became with the
young man, the more convinced she was that she should arrange a
meeting for him with that young Bahá’í American lady, who lived in
Paris and was so deep in her knowledge of spiritual topics, Miss May
Ellis Bolles. Yes, in Paris she would arrange a meeting for them. And
the unaware Thomas did not yet realize that in the French capital
that young American lady would clarify certain precious feelings he
had been concealing in his heart. Not so long ago, for three consecu-
tive months, he had felt as though he was soaring through a rarefied
atmosphere of love and harmony, while his heart was burning in its
love for an unknown and mysterious Supreme Beauty, in peace, in
perfect unity with all humankind.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In Paris May was waiting for him, albeit she was not aware. At the
beginning of that summer, when Mary Martha Bolles was going
to leave for the French coast of Brittany, as she did every year, for
a vacation with her children, `Abdu’l-Bahá Himself had suggested
that May should not follow her, that she should not leave Paris until
a word came from Him. Mary Martha was so disappointed, maybe
even disturbed: May was so frail, she needed sunshine and sea-air.
Paris was too warm and muggy in the summer for her health. Mírzá
Abu’l-Fad.l, the Persian believer later designated by the Guardian of
the Bahá’í Faith as one of the nineteen “Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh,” sent
by `Abdu’l-Bahá to Europe so that he may deepen that early handful
of believers, wrote to the Master about Mrs. Bolles’s apprehensions
for her daughter. But He did not change His mind. And May was
inflexible in her determination to comply with His wish. Mary Mar-
tha had to give up. And Mrs. Edith Tewksbury Jackson, a wealthy
American lady that had known and accepted the Faith through May,
gave May hospitality in a flat connected to her luxurious residence, so
that she should not remain alone. The apartment in 100 Rue du Bac,
not far from the Bon Marché department store, where the Bolles had
moved in June of 1899, was closed.
It was a bright summer’s day. When May welcomed her newly arri-
ved guests, she was pleasantly surprised to see Mrs. Milner, who
“knew nothing of the Bahá’í teaching and had closed her ears to its
message”(Maxwell, “A Brief Account” 707), accompanied by a young
man, “of medium height, slender, erect and graceful, with intense
eyes and an indescribable charm”(Maxwell, “A Brief Account” 707).
His deep dark eyes reminded her of a “veiled light”(Maxwell, “Letter”
298). That ardent and thirsty soul was still enfolded in “the veil which
is over every soul until it is rent asunder by the power of God in this
day,” the veils of its ignorance of God(Maxwell, “Letter” 298). They
talked for a long time, touching many topics of common interest, the-
osophy, spirituality. And during their conversation, she studied him

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
with great attention, coming to consider him “a very rare person of
standing and culture, simple, natural, intensely real in his attitude
toward life and his fellowmen”(Maxwell, “A Brief Account” 707).
May was not surprised when, saying goodbye, he asked permission
to meet her again.
The day after, when Thomas came to her, his face was glowing, his
voice was vibrant. His radiant soul was now unveiled, a new light
shone from him. May made him comfortable. And immediately
he told her of the mysterious experience he had the evening before.
When he had left May’s house, he had gone to the Champs Élysées.
“The air was warm and heavy, not a leaf was stirring.” And yet all of a
sudden he had been invested by a gust of wind, which for a long time
had continued to whirl around his body. A very sweet voice emerged
from that whirl: “Christ has come again! Christ has come again!”
Then the wind had died down. And a sweet peace had pervaded his
heart as well. He stared at her, “with wide startled eyes”(Maxwell,
“A Brief Account” 707), and asked her whether she thought he was
crazy. No, it was not craziness; it was the beginning of a new wisdom.
And May kindly and patiently disclosed to him the doors through
which he could at long last reach that Truth that had always been in
wait for him. In three days the young Thomas got rid of all previous
shackles. His soul, at long last freed, dived into the boundless ocean
of the Faith of God. His “veiled light” shone now in its meridian
splendor. Although his life was very short, he passed away in June
1902 at the age of 30, Shoghí Effendí mentioned him, with George
Townshend and John Ebenezer Esslemont, as one of “three luminar-
ies shedding brilliant luster on annals of Irish, English and Scottish
Bahá’í communities”(MBW 173). Soon a cable arrived from the
Master, “You may leave Paris at any time”(Maxwell, “A Brief Account”
709). The following morning May joined her anxious mother in her
vacation in Brittany(see Maxwell, “A Brief Account” 707–11).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Edith Sanderson
Edith Sanderson(1870–1955) too had come to Paris by the end of
the nineteenth century. She had arrived in the French capital soon
after the death of her father, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of California, together with her mother and three sisters. One of her
sisters, Sybil(1864–1903), a girl of unusual beauty, was endowed
with a voice of an extraordinary range(from low G to contre sol) and
thus the family wanted her to study at the Paris’ Conservatoire. In
1887 Sybil met Massenet and became his favored soprano and one of
the most famous operatic sopranos during the Parisian Belle Époque.
She debuted in Massenet’s Manon and had enormous success in his
Thaïs in 1894. Massenet had written for her the title role. The French
composer also dedicated to her two of his celebrated Mélodies [Songs],
“Pensée d’automne [Autumn Thought]” after a poem by Armand Sil-
vestre(1887) and “Beaux yeux que j’aime [Beautiful eyes which I love]”
after a poem by Thérèse Maquet(1891).
Edith met May in 1901 and soon accepted the Faith. From that
moment on she devoted all her qualities to the diffusion of the
Bahá’í message. The Master used to call her “My daughter.”
Although “fragile in appearance,” she had an exceptional will-
power. She studied the Writings in depth and, in her love for
the holy Word, she became conversant in Persian. Her spiritual
sensitivity, her love for nature—flowers, trees, the sea, the beauty
of the clouds—the “rarified atmosphere” that surrounded her
made of her a point of attraction for many seekers of truth. She
was in touch with famous personalities of her time, like the French
scholar Louis Alphonse Daniel Nicolas(1864–1939), an authority
on the Bábí movement, the Jesuit philosopher Pierre Teilhard de
Chardin(1881–1955) and Simone Weil(1909–1943), the French
philosopher and mystic, and “groups who were interested in social
and spiritual questions”(Dreyfus Barney, “Edith Sanderson” 889).

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney
The Sandersons were the instruments through which that same
Will, Who was lovingly taking care of those early Bahá’í lights in
the old European continent, presented Hippolyte Isidore Drey-
fus(1873–1928) with the opportunity of fulfilling his high spiritual
destiny: “kindling the torch which is destined to shed eternal illu-
mination upon his native land and its people”(Shoghí Effendí, “Hip-
polyte Dreyfus-Barney” 210). They were women of great charm:
beautiful, clever, cultured, refined and gifted with a rare spirituality.
Hippolyte Dreyfus was “strong in appreciation of life and all that
it has to offer… a well balanced and independent person”(Dreyfus-
Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”), who “combined a rare
sweetness of nature with great firmness and strength”(Maxwell,
“Hippolyte Dreyfus Barney” 27) and inspired “confidence with his
frankness”(Natalie Clifford Barney, qtd. in Hippolyte Dreyfus, sec. 7).
An “agnostic”(Maxwell, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney” 26) in those
days, when he was still preparing himself for his future life, he was
gifted with a “questing mind” that “led him onward to ever-vaster
horizons,” with a “generous heart” that enabled him to “understand
the difficulties of human life and to be close to people”(Dreyfus-
Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”) and with the “rare quality
of being more interested in others than in himself”(ibid.). Thus he
also felt in the depth of his heart that something else exists beyond
material life. And, like many others of his generation, this feeling
initially drew him towards occult sciences; however, occult sciences
disappointed him.4
Hippolyte met the Sandersons in the summer of 1900 in the salon
of his mother, Lea Marie Sophie Inés Cardozo Meyer(1848–1913),
who “used to give musicales frequented by people of taste, including
many artists”(Dreyfus-Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”). At that
time Sybil Sanderson was a well-known singer of Paris’ Opera. The
Sandersons and Hippolyte, we can well imagine, felt an immediate
and reciprocal attraction. Thus the American ladies could not refrain

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
from introducing him to the person whom they, like the entire group of
their “Parisian” friends in love with the new Faith, considered as their
“spiritual guide, who started the Baha’i group in France”(Dreyfus-
Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”), May Ellis Bolles.
Born into a well-known French Jewish family—his father Georges
Arthur Lucien(1840–1911) was a wealthy stock-broker—Hippolyte
“had all the advantages that could be obtained from a happy home
and from an intellectual and artistic center such as Paris at the height
of its culture”(Dreyfus-Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”). He
“liked both thought and action. He could sit at his desk and translate
and read all day and late into the night. Or he could go for a swim or
horseback ride with friends or alone”(ibid.). His sister-in-law Natalie
Clifford Barney said about him: “He loved good eating… He liked
riding through the woods of St. Cloud or St. Cucupha. He could
make tractable, even gentle, the worst horse. He was a marvelous
swimmer”(qtd. in Hippolyte Dreyfus, sec. 7). Surrounded by “the
whirl of a Parisian life” as he was, his sincere altruism and love for
his fellow-human beings lead him to found, together with a friend, “a
welfare society for home visiting,” the Société des Visiteurs, and to be
“untiring in his support of those who had so little of that of which he
had so much”(Dreyfus-Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”). Thus,
the words which the ardent May told him could but immediately
attract him. Hippolyte used to speak little of himself and of the past.
Therefore we do not know the details of their conversation. The only
thing we know is that very soon he accepted that Faith, which he
had already met through the writings of such distinguished French
scholars, as Huart Clément, Count Joseph Arture de Gobineau,
Louis Alphonse Daniel Nicolas and Joseph Ernest Renan(see Drey-
fus-Barney, “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”). Now he finally also met,
on the one hand, its soul-transforming power and, on the other, its
revolutionizing principles, first among them oneness in its threefold
expression: “There is one God; mankind is one; the foundations of
religion are one”(ABL 19). The young Hippolyte took at once the

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
opportunity that a generous Destiny was offering to him. And in
that group of American expatriates he became the first French Bahá’í.
As May Bolles wrote about him: “Although he had never believed in
any force transcending nature, nor had he received intimations of the
possible existence of a Supreme Being, yet after hearing of the advent
of Baha’u’llah his inner susceptibilities became unfolded”(“Hippolyte
Dreyfus Barney” 26). About ten years later, in London, at the end of
“a remarkable cosmopolitan gathering… [that ] filled the large ball
at the Westminster Palace Hotel, Friday evening, December 20th
[1912], to listen to an address by Abdul Baha”(Fraser, “Abdul Baha in
London” 5) on the topic of peace, he himself said as part of his concise
closing remarks:
everything in the world manifests God to a greater or less
degree. We can find the divine in the beautiful melodies
that are sung by the birds in the forests, the divine in
nature, but we find it specially in man, who is at the sum-
mit of creation, and especially in those supreme beings
who are called the prophets. It is in understanding their
teaching that we can reach the knowledge of God.(qtd. in
Fraser, “Abdul Baha in London” 10)
After May had acquainted him with the Bahá’í message, he straight
away addressed a letter to `Abdu’l-Bahá: he was determined to devote
his whole life and his talents to the achievement of the ideal his newly-
found Faith had revealed to him. Soon after, in 1902, he left together
with his friend Sydney Sprague(1875–1943) for Haifa to meet the
Master. And after a second visit to `Abdu’l-Bahá in 1903 he “gave
up his legal career”(Bilani, “Hippolyte Dreyfus”), as “the secretary
of one of the most prominent barristers in France”(Dreyfus-Barney,
“Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”), and decided “to devote himself to
oriental studies, enrolling in the religious-studies section of the
École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris, where he studied Arabic
and Persian with Hartwig Derenbourg and Clément Huart”(Bilani,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
“Hippolyte Dreyfus”). It was thus that he became “the only Western
Bahai of his generation who received such formal training”(ibid.).
Very soon Hippolyte’s father and mother, his sister, Yvonne Mayer-
May, and his brother-in-law, Paul Meyer-May, also joined the Cause.
Laura Dreyfus-Barney writes that “their gracious home was a center
for inquirers and followers. Their summer house, ‘Daru’l-Salam’ on
Mont Pelèrin, Switzerland, was also open wide to people of many
lands and many beliefs”(“Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”).
Thus began the unique spiritual adventure of the first French Bahá’í,
who, in Shoghí Effendí’s words, “by his brilliant gifts of mind and heart
as well as by the divers achievements of his life, has truly enriched the
annals of God’s immortal Faith”(“Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney” 210).
Active in the defense of the Faith in its earliest days—in 1902 he met,
together with Lua Getsinger, the Shah of Persia to plead the cause of
the persecuted Bahá’ís in Iran—a travel teacher in Burma and India
with his friend Sidney Sprague as early as 1904(see Sprague, Year), he
was among the first translators in a Western language of the Bahá’í
Writings, such as the Aqdas, the Íqán, the Súrih of the Temple, the
Súratu’l-Bayán(not yet wholly authoritatively translated), the Will
and Testament of `Abdu’l-Bahá, and the celebrated Leçons de St Jean
d’Acre(known in English as Some Answered Questions). It was while
translating this latter book into French together with Laura Clifford
Barney that the two, who had been close friends for several years, dis-
covered their reciprocal love. In 1910 they married and he added her
surname to his own, changing it into “Dreyfus-Barney.”
As early as 26 October 1903, just at the beginning of Hippolyte’s
Bahá’í career, `Abdu’l-Bahá had written about him:
As to Dreyfus, in truth he is a bird among the birds of Para-
dise. Very soon such melodies shall appear from him as the

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
souls will be amazed and God will make him a propagator of
His breezes in those regions.(qtd. in Hippolyte Dreyfus, sec. 12)
And on 21 December 1928, shortly after his passing Shoghí Effendí
penned the following words in a private letter to Laura Dreyfus-
Barney, Hippolyte’s his widow:
None, I can confidently assert, among the Bahá’ís of the
East and of the West, combined to the extent that he did
the qualities of genial and enlivening fellowship, of intimate
acquaintance with the manifold aspects of the Cause, of
sound judgment and distinctive ability, of close familiarity
with the problems and conditions of the world—all of which
made him such a lovable, esteemed and useful collaborator
and friend.(21 December 1928, to Laura Khanum)
On the same day Shoghí Effendí wrote to the Bahá’í world:
His gifts of unfailing sympathy and penetrating insight,
his wide knowledge and mature experience, all of which
he utilized for the glory and propagation of the Message
of Bahá’u’lláh, will be gratefully remembered by future
generations who, as the days go by, will better estimate the
abiding value of the responsibilities he shouldered for the
introduction and consolidation of the Bahá’í Faith in the
Western world.(“Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney” 210)
Agnes Baldwin Alexander
Although this spring flower of the Faith did not bloom in Paris, she
deserves to be mentioned here because of the close friendship that
bound her to that Parisian group of God-intoxicated believers. Agnes

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Baldwin Alexander(1875–1971) was born in the Hawaii Islands on
the 21st of July 1875, from a family of deep faith who in 1831 went
to those remote Pacific islands as Christian missionaries and was
25 years old when she left the country where she was born bound
for the old European continent. In autumn 1900, in Rome, where
she had gone to visit an aunt who had married an Italian gentleman,
the benign, omnipresent Will had prepared for her an opportunity,
which, if but she would seize it, as she did, would completely change
the course of her earthly and spiritual life.
When she arrived in Rome, she settled in a pensione at 57 Via Sistina,
just a stone’s throw from Trinità dei Monti, where she met an Ameri-
can lady, with her two daughters. She immediately felt a strange
fascination for that unknown lady. Grown up as she had on a remote
island, very far from the European continent, Agnes was very shy.
However, so strong was the attraction she felt toward that lady, that
she managed to overcome her own bashfulness and to approach her,
so that she may come to know her better. She herself said about that
meeting with that American lady and her two daughters:
Across the long table in the dining-room I saw them. They
seemed to have a radiance and happiness different from
others and I could hardly take my eyes from them. A few
days later as I sat in the parlor I overheard the mother in
conversation with a lady who had heard in Paris of the Baha’i
Message from Mr. Mason Remey. Little did I comprehend
what it was they were talking about, but my heart was stirred
and the realization came to me that it was the Truth.(Linard,
Autobiographical Materials, see also Alexander, “Comment je
devins baha’i”)
The opportunity to talk to her arose when Agnes met them in the
elevator. Agnes took the hand of the unknown lady in hers and
told her: “You hide a secret, share it with me.” The lady, not at all

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
surprised by her words, answered that they could meet after dinner,
in the back parlor.
She told Agnes that her name was Charlotte Emily Brittingham
Dixon(1852–1920 c.). She did not mention that she was a descendant
from one of the oldest families of European settlers in New England
and had accepted the Bahá’í Faith in 1897. For the whole evening she
pleasantly entertained Agnes, touching on several arguments. While
saying goodbye, Mrs. Dixon gave her a small sheet of paper, with a
short hand-written prayer. When Agnes was alone in her room, she
eagerly read it. “It answered all the longings of my heart,” she said
later, speaking of that script. They had arranged to meet the evening
of the day after. Agnes went to the meeting-place in great expecta-
tion. But the secret was not yet revealed. Nothing happened for three
subsequent evenings. Every night, Agnes retired to her room, a prey
of such emotions that made her sleepless. It was the night of the 26th
of November 1900, when, unable to rest in her anxiety, she suddenly
felt within herself the certitude that Mrs. Dixon’s mystery was that
Christ had returned to earth.
Next morning, as soon as she got up, she immediately went to Mrs.
Dixon to share her new insight with her. Mrs. Dixon then felt finally
free to speak openly of Bahá’u’lláh, of `Abdu’l-Bahá, of the Bahá’í
Faith—she had just arrived from the Holy Land where she had met
the Master. And Agnes immediately promised her enduring alle-
giance to that Faith.
When Mrs. Dixon left Rome, Agnes remained alone. No one was
willing to share her enthusiasm for the Faith she had just discovered.
She often met indifference, sometimes indignation and even hostility.
Mrs. Dixon had given her the address of an American believer who
lived in Paris. Agnes wrote to this person. The letter she received
in answer said among other things: “Please God we may soon wel-
come you in our midst in Paris and that you may then receive the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
full Revelation, and much help and instruction”(quoted in Linard,
Autobiographical Materials, see also Alexander, “Comment je devins
baha’i”). In March 1901 Agnes went to the French capital, where in
100 Rue du Bac she finally met that long-awaited friend, May Ellis
Bolles, who appeared to her as an angel of light “filled with a consum-
ing love which the Master said was divine”(ibid.)
May introduced her into the hall where the Bahá’í friends in Paris—
Laura Barney, Thomas Breakwell, Hippolyte Dreyfus, Emogene
Hoagg, Herbert Hopper, Marion Jack, Edith MacKay, Edith Sand-
erson, Sidney Sprague and others, most of them expatriates—gath-
ered for their meetings. She saw faces beaming with peace and light
and light was everywhere in that blessed hall. She said: “Such an
atmosphere of pure light pervaded… that one was transported, as
it were, from the world of man to that of God”(Personal Recollections
8). Later on `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote about those friends: “All men are
asleep; you are awake. All eyes are blind; yours are seeing. All ears are
deaf; your hearing is clear. All tongues are mute; you are eloquent. All
humanity is dead; and you are full of life, vigor and force through the
benefits of the Holy Spirit”(qtd. in de Bons, “Edith de Bons” 878–79,
see Marsella, “Agnes Baldwin Alexander” 423–30).
In June 1901 she received in Paris a Tablet from `Abdu’l-Bahá. It
said:
Be… a divine bird, proceed to thy native country, spread the
wings of sanctity over those spots and sing and chant and
celebrate the Name of thy Lord, that thou mayest gladden
the Supreme Concourse and make the seeking souls hasten
unto thee as the moths hasten to the lamp, and thus illumine
that distant country by the Light of God.(quoted in Linard,
Autobiographical Materials, see also Alexander, “Comment je
devins baha’i”)

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Responsive to His call, on the 26th of December 1901 she returned
home to Hawaii. Her life had been completely changed. That shy girl
had already become a great teacher of this modern message of one-
ness and peace, a person whom the Guardian would choose, on the
27th of March 1957, as one of the Hands of the Cause of God.
***
It was late 1902 when May, married now to the Canadian architect
William Sutherland Maxwell(1874–1951)—who later was honored
with seeing his project for the marble superstructure of the Shrine
of the Báb on Mount Carmel realized—left Paris and moved to
Montreal, Canada.5
Today—as to its spiritual life—Paris is still as the Master described it,
“silent… exceedingly dispirited and is in a state of torpor”(SWAB 102–3).
As `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote, “although the French nation is an active and
lively one… the world of nature hath fully stretched its pavilion over Paris
and hath done away with religious sentiments”(SWAB 102–3). And yet,
as He wrote, a day will come when the “power of the Covenant shall
heat every freezing soul, shall bestow light upon everything that is dark
and shall secure for the captive in the hand of nature the true freedom of
the Kingdom”(SWAB 102–3). On that day the deep meaning of these
short stories will become manifest. And the European continent—
which has been the cradle of a civilization to some of whose
beneficent features the pen of Bahá’u’lláh has paid signifi-
cant tribute; on whose soil both the Greek and Roman civi-
lizations were born and flourished; which has contributed so
richly to the unfoldment of American civilization; the foun-
tainhead of American culture; the mother of Christendom,
and the scene of the greatest exploits of the followers of Jesus

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Christ; in some of whose outlying territories have been won
some of the most resplendent victories which ushered in the
Golden Age of Islam; which sustained, in its very heart, the
violent impact of the onrushing hosts of that Faith, intent on
the subjugation of its cities, but which refused to bend the
knee to its invaders, and succeeded in the end in repulsing
their assault(CF 26)
—this continent will be able to bequest the most precious legacy of his
ancient civilization to the whole world. It is not the materialistic and
unspiritual civilization, that seems today on the point of invading the
whole world, but the fruit of the spiritual vivification of its unquench-
able and fearless spirit of search that has always characterized it from
the time when the legendary Ulysses crossed the Pillars of Hercules.
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá.

`Abdu’l-Bahá in London. Addresses and notes of Conversations. Rpt.
London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

“Recent Tablets from Abdul Baha to American Bahais,” Star of the West
10. 13 [4 November 1919]:247).

Selections from the Writings(Roma: Casa Editrice Bahá’í, 1985)

Some Answered Questions. Collected and Translated from the Persian
of `Abdu’l-Bahá by Laura Clifford Barney.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 4th ed.  1954.

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
The Bahá’í World. An International Record(Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust).
Alexander Baldwin, Agnes.

“Comment je devins baha’i.  Mes séjour à Paris.  Exposé rédigé par Main
de La Cause Agnes-Baldwin Alexander à la requête de Madame L.
Dreyfus-Barney.  1958,” in Journal Bahá’í  2. 17(April 1959): 9–10 and
Journal Bahá’í 2. 18(April 1959): 8–9.

Personal Recollections of a Baha’i Life in the Hawaiian Islands.  Honolulu:
The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the Hawaiian
Islands, 1974.
Bilani, Ravian.  “Hippolyte Dreyfus. ” In Iranian.Com, < http://www. iranian.
com/main/blog/ravian-bilani/hippolyte-dreyfus >.
Brockway, Wallace & Herbert Weinstock.  Men of music; their lives, times,
and achievements.  New York: Simon and Schuster, 1950.  Ninth print-
ing revised and enlarged edition, Haddon Craftsmen, Inc.
Daydí, Marçal Olivar.  “Éduard Manet,” in Storia dell’arte 8: 205–225.
de Bons, Mona Haenni.  “Edith de Bons, 1878–1959, and Joseph de Bons,
1871–1959,” in Bahá’í World 13 [1954–1963]:878.
Dreyfus Barney, Laura.

“Edith Sanderson,” in Bahá’í World 13 [1954–1963]:889.

“Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney.  Article for The Baha’i World. ” Unpub-
lished.  < http://bahai-library. com/essays/barney. html >.

“Introduction to first edition,” in `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Ques-
tions v–vi.
Fraser, Isabel.  “Abdul Baha in London. ” Star of the West 3. 17(19 January
1913): 5–10.
Giachery, Ugo R.

“Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney,” in Bahá’í World 16 [1973–1976]:535.

“Laura Dreyfus-Barney. ” Unpublished.  National Archives of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of France.
Hippolyte Dreyfus, apôtre d`Abdu’l-Bahá. Premier bahá’í français. Sa vie, son
oeuvre.  Publié par l’Assemblée Spirituelle Nationale des Bahá’ís de
France.  Rédigé par le comité pour l’histoire de la foi bahá’íe en France.
Armindo PEDRO, Pascale et Eric Louvet.  < http://www. bahai-biblio.
org/centre-doc/ouvrage/dreyfus/dreyfus_sommaire. htm >.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Hogeson, Kathryn Jewett.  Lighting the Western Sky.  The Hearst Pilgri-
mage and the Establishment of the Bahá’í Faith in the West.  Oxford:
George Ronald, 2010.
Holley, Marion.  “May Ellis Maxwell,” in Bahá’í World 8
[1938–1940]:631–42.
Journal Bahá’í.  Publié par l’Assemblée Spirituelle Nationale des Bahá’ís de
France.  Destiné uniquement aux Bahais.  Paris: The National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of France, 1958–.
Khademi, Mona.  “A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney,” in
Lights of ‘’Irfán 10(2009): 72–105.
Maxwell, May(Bolles).

An Early Pilgrimage.  Oxford: George Ronald, 1953.

“A Brief Account of Thomas Breakwell,” in Bahá’í World 7
[1936–1938]:707–11.

“Hippolyte Dreyfus Barney.  The Passing of a Baha’i Scholar and
Lecturer” Star of the West 20. 1(29 April 1929): 26–7.

“Letter from Mrs.  May Maxwell to Mr.  Charles Mason Remey,” in Star
of the West 5. 19 [2 March 1915]: 298.
Lakshiman-Lepain, Rajwantee.  The Life of Thomas Breakwell.  London:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1998.
Linard, Thomas.  Ed.  Autobiographical Materials of Agnes Alexander(http://
www. h-net. org/~bahai/notes/alexand. htm).
Marsella, Elena Maria.  “Agnes Baldwin Alexander: 1875–1971,” in Bahá’í
World 15 [1968–1973]:423–30 [BWC 1976].
Rimbaud, Arthur.  “Finally, O reason, O happiness.  .  .  ,” as translated by
Paul Schmidt, and published in 1976 by Harper Colophon Books,
Harper & Row(Arthur Rimbaud.  Complete Works.  Translated by Paul
Schmidt.  Scranton, Pennsylvania: Harper Colophon Books, Harper &
Row, 1976).  Document resulting from the site Arthur Rimbaud-Mag4.
net: Biography and Poetry, at < www.  mag4. net/Rimbaud >.
Shoghí Effendí.

Bahá’í Administration.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publihing Committe,
1953.

Citadel of Faith.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.

God Passes By.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing  Trust, 1957.

Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière


“Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney.  An Appreciation. ” The Bahá’í World
1928–1830.  Vol.  3(Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1930)
210, 214.  See also Bahá’í Administration 157–9.

Messages to America. Selected Letters and Cablegrams Addressed to the
Bahá’ís of North America 1932–1946.  Wilmette, Illinois, USA, Bahá’í
Publishing Committee, 1947.

Messages to the Bahá’í World: 1950–1957.  Wilmette, Illinois, USA,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.

21 December 1928, to Laura Khanum.  Unpublished.  French National
Archives.
Sprague, Sidney.  A Year with the Bahais in India and Burma.  London: The
Priory Press, 1908.
Star of the West.  An early Bahá’í magazine.  Oxford: George Ronald, 1978,
reprint.
Storia dell’arte.  Novara: Istituto Geografico De Agostini, 1978.
Thompson, Juliet.  The Diary of Juliet Thompson.  Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
1983.
Universal House of Justice, The. Messages from the Universal House of Justice
1963–1986: the Third Epoch of the Formative Age.  Compiled by Geoffry
W.  Marks.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
NOTES
The author thanks Ms.  Leïla Mesbah Sabéran and Ms.  Parivash Ardei-
Amini, archivist of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
France, for their precious assistance in finding documents relating to
Hippolyte and Laura Dreyfus Barney and Agnes Baldwin Alexander.
See Shoghí Effendí, Messages to America 58 and Thompson, Diary 313.
See Holley, “May Ellis Maxwell” 631–42.
See Jean Lefranc, “Le Temps” 3 November 1911, qtd.  in Hippolyte
Dreyfus, sec.  3
See Holley “May Ellis Maxwell” 631–42.

The Indispensibility of Consultation for
Ordering Human Affairs1
Ian Semple
It is sometimes difficult for the world at large to understand
why we Bahá’ís place so much emphasis on the subject of
consultation, because at first glimpse, it may seem to be just
another word for discussion, with which all people think they
are very familiar. The same illusion can also affect Bahá’ís and
prevent them from using consultation as it should be used. We
must realize that consultation is not just a technique to be
learned, but requires a development of the character of the
individuals who are involved in it. This is a striking metaphor
used by C.S. Lewis. He says that it may seem very difficult for
an egg to change into a bird, but it would be still more
difficult for it to learn to fly while remaining an egg!
If one considers what Bahá’u’lláh says about consultation,
one can see that it is infinitely more far–reaching than just an
up-to-date method of discussion. He says:
No welfare and no well–being can be attained except
through consultation. (HDW p. 3)
This series of lectures and discussions is centered on the
Universal House of Justice’s statement “The Promise of World
Peace”, from which the title of this talk is a quotation. But in
considering consultation I feel it will be helpful to proceed
from the more familiar aspect to the less familiar ones. I
proposed, therefore, to refer to three uses:
1. In Bahá’í Administration
2. In the individual life
3. In the non–Bahá’í world.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
In Bahá’í Administration
The use of consultation in Bahá’í administrative work is the
one with which we are all most familiar, but I believe we think
we are more familiar with true consultation that we really are.
Let us read that well-known passage from the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the requisites of true consultation. (You can
find it in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, #45)
The first condition is absolute love and harmony
amongst the members of the assembly. They must be
wholly free from estrangement and must manifest in
themselves the Unity of God, for they are the waves of
one sea, the drops of one river, the stars of one heaven,
the rays of one sun, the trees of one orchard, the
flowers of one garden. Should harmony of thought and
absolute unity be nonexistent, that gathering shall be
dispersed and that assembly be brought to naught. The
second condition is that the members of the assembly
should unitedly elect a chairman and lay down guide-
lines and by-laws for their meetings and discussions.
The chairman should have charge of such rules and
regulations and protect and enforce them; the other
members should be submissive, and refrain from
conversing on superfluous and extraneous matters.
They must, when coming together, turn their faces to
the Kingdom on high and ask aid from the Realm of
Glory. They must then proceed with the utmost
devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and moderation to
express their views. They must in every matter search
out the truth and not insist upon their own opinion,
for stubbornness and persistence in one’s views will
lead ultimately to discord and wrangling and the truth
will remain hidden. The honoured members must with
all freedom express their own thoughts, and it is in no
wise permissible for one to belittle the thought of
another, nay, he must with moderation set forth the
truth, and should differences of opinion arise a
majority of voices must prevail, and all must obey and
submit to the majority.

Indispensibility of Consultation
It is salutary, I think, to extract from that passage certain
qualities that the individual consultants must evince:
o purity of motive
o radiance of spirit
o detachment from all save God
o attraction to His Divine Fragrance
o humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones
o patience and long-suffering in difficulties
o servitude to His exalted Threshold
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that the members of an Assembly must
consult in such a way that “no occasion for ill-feeling or
discord may arise” and that this can be attained if:
o every member expresses his opinion and sets forth his
argument with “absolute freedom” and
o does not allow himself to feel hurt if anyone opposes.
He also says that each member should express his views with the
utmost:
o devotion
o courtesy
o dignity
o care and
o moderation
o In every matter the members must search out the truth
and not insist on their own opinions,
o and it is forbidden to belittle the thought of another.
In every case where an Assembly or group of Bahá’ís is facing
problems of disunity or unfruitful consultation one can point
to one or more of the above requisites which are not being
followed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The essence of consultation is that it is a key to the
reconciliation of opposites, and this is a characteristic of the
Cause of God. In the words of the beloved Guardian:
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause
of God is not dictatorial authority but humble
fellowship, nor arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank
and loving consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of
a true Bahá’í can hope to reconcile the principles of
mercy and justice, of freedom and submission, of the
sanctity of the right of the individual and of self-
surrender, of vigilance, discretion and prudence on the
one hand, and fellowship, candour, and courage on the
other. (PBA, p. 43)
This passage reads like a catalogue of the problems that have
beset human philosophy throughout the ages, and it gives us the
key to answering those opponents of the Faith who accuse us of
aiming to set-up a world-wide totalitarian state with the
Universal House of Justice at its head. There are, of course,
many other elements which should go into the answer to this
challenge, but that is not our subject at the moment. It is,
however, important for us to remember the degree to which the
beloved Guardian stressed the function of consultation
outside the ranks of Assembly members. For example:
Their function is not to dictate, but to consult, and
consult not only among themselves, but as much as
possible with the Friends whom they represent. (PBA, p.
43)
and the following very familiar passage:
They must, at all times, avoid the spirit of
exclusiveness,
the
atmosphere
of
secrecy,
free
themselves from a domineering attitude, and banish all
forms
of
prejudice
and
passion
from
their
deliberations. They should, within the limits of wise
discretion, take the Friends into their confidence,
acquaint them with their plans, share with them their
problems and anxieties, and seek their advice and
counsel. (PBA, p. 44)

Indispensibility of Consultation
We should continually read and re-read these passages
because sometimes one finds that an Assembly is reluctant to
share its real problems with the friends for fear of losing face
or undermining the believers' confidence in the Assembly. And
yet we can see that it is the very Assemblies who follow the
Guardian's advice which most earn the love and respect of their
communities.
In the Individual Life
The impact of consultation on the lives of individual Bahá’ís
is manifold. It involves them intimately in the functioning of
the Bahá’í Administrative Order, whether or not they are
members of institutions. It is also, as Bahá’u’lláh makes
absolutely clear, a method to which they should continually
resort in the conduct of their private lives, consulting, as need
be, with members of their families, with friends, with people
for whose opinions they have regard. Together with study of
the Writings, meditation and prayer it is the primary means
for solving problems and for smoothing the interrelationships
between people.
It is, however, more even than this. It has a direct effect on
the development of the individual's soul. It is shot through and
through with the development of individual characteristics
which should suffuse one's whole life and behaviour. It is a
school of personal development as, in a similar way, is the
institution of marriage and of the family, in which
consultation plays a special part.
Let us consider again the qualities which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls
for. Which one of these would we not apply in every aspect of
our individual lives? If the members of Spiritual Assemblies,
whom Bahá’u’lláh has referred to as the “Trustees of the
Merciful” and even as the “Deputies of God” must evince these
characteristics in the performance of their duties as “rulers” of
mankind, how should they not characterise the daily life of
every believer:
o purity of motive
o radiance of spirit

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
o detachment from all save God
o attractive to His Divine Fragrance
o humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones
o patience and long-suffering in difficulties
o servitude to His exalted Threshold
o absolute freedom in expressing one's opinion
o not feeling hurt if one's views are opposed
o devotion
o courtesy
o dignity
o care and moderation in expressing one's ideas
o refraining from belittling the views of others
There is an age-old controversy as to whether one needs a
perfect society in order to breed perfect individuals or whether
one must first train perfect individuals before one can have a
perfect society. This is resolved in the Bahá’í Faith by the
proposition that the fostering of the spiritual growth of
individuals and that of society must go hand in hand and are
mutually supportive processes. This is specially apparent in the
area of consultation, since it promotes harmony and
moderation.
It is a great problem in individual spiritual growth for the
aspiring follower of the Way to distinguish between
moderation and mediocrity. We are called to heights of
perfection higher than we can comprehend, but are exhorted to
moderation in all things. How can this be?
It is, I believe, but one aspect of the need for the individual
to promote in himself the growth of all virtues and capacities,
but in due balance one with another. When they get out of
balance, a distortion of character is produced.
The problems caused by inadequacy are obvious to us all:
carelessness in carrying out important work; lack of attention

Indispensibility of Consultation
to detail; laziness or excessive diffidence that allow golden
opportunities to pass us by; lack of dignity in the presentation
of the Faith; permitting a Bahá’í centre to fall into a state of
disrepair and dirtiness which shames the Faith in the eyes of the
public. Sometimes such problems arise because the believers
concerned are just not conscious of the standards that they
should uphold; they may have had in their upbringing no
training in good taste, cleanliness or hard work. Consultation
can draw out these aspects and help the community as a whole
to overcome them. Consultation, in other words, can bring
home to the individual the importance of excellence in all things
and the need for continued improvement. To return to C.S.
Lewis's egg metaphor; he points out that the whole purpose of
an egg is for it to become a bird. It cannot just remain for ever
a nice, decent, wholesome egg — it must either hatch, or go bad!
The problems caused by inordinately high standards are not
easy to see. Sometimes the cause of disunity is simply the
position of pride and lack of forbearance on the part of a
believer whose skills and accomplishments have turned his head;
if so, the situation may be a painful one but it is comparatively
easy to detect and to cope with, for every Bahá’í knows that
pride is a sin and forbearance a virtue.
We all know from experience, however, that it is sometimes a
devoted, self-sacrificing pioneer, or one of the most active
believers with the highest standards, who becomes the centre of
disunity and disruption in a community, without any element
of pride distorting his nature. The reason may simply be the
ardour of the believer for nothing less than the best to be
accomplished for the Cause of God. Having such high
standards himself he finds it excruciatingly difficult to submit
to consultative decisions which thinks are less than the best, or
to leave the newer believers to fumblingly carrying out actions
that he himself can execute with far greater despatch and
efficiency.
I think one of the most salutory teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is
that, for the creature, perfection is an unattainable goal. This,
properly understood, should not cause us to despair, but
should give us the enthralling prospect that, however far we
develop our capacities, there is still greater progress ahead;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
however great the joy we attain, greater joy is in store. There is
no stagnation in the Bahá’í concept of heaven. It should also
cause us to accept the imperfection of our own characters and
understanding. We must recognize that what we may see as the
perfect answer to a problem must, by definition, be imperfect,
because it is we who see it. It can, at most, be a step on the way
towards perfection and, if we could see the whole of the
journey, we might see that it would be the wrong step at that
time, even if correct in itself.
This recognition of permanent imperfection should have
two results. It should prevent us from ever being satisfied with
our progress. it should also free us from the crippling effects of
that “perfectionism” which has been a blight on many
puritanical societies. By this I don't mean a person's
determination to do the very best he can in every task — which
is admirable — but the extreme condition wherein a person
comes to believe that he must perform every task with 100%
perfection or be disgraced in his own eyes and the eyes of
others. This is a far from uncommon disability in western
society and produces the very opposite of what the individual
aims at. It is, I think, a condition against which all Bahá’ís
must be alert, because the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh hold before
us such high standards. It is a largely subconscious condition
and not at all easy to overcome.
Firstly, since it is absolutely impossible for any person to do
everything perfectly all the time, or even most of the time, this
compulsion is doomed to failure from the outset. Such a
person, therefore, subconsciously knows this, avoids failure by
refusing to undertake tasks or, if he does undertake them, often
unconsciously programs himself to fail, so that he will have a
good excuse for not succeeding. Remember that in this context
“failure” is anything less than 100%, so that such a person may,
in the eyes of his friends, be achieving all sorts of excellent
work, but in his own eyes each one is a failure. Encouragement
helps little, because it is just not believed. Since it is intolerable
for a soul to accept that he is so much of a failure, this
compulsion also causes him subconsciously to seek for reasons
for his failures in the actions of other people, and breeds in him
a tendency to criticize all around for everything they do. This,
alas, produces the reaction that they then get back at him by

Indispensibility of Consultation
criticizing him undulyu, which feeds his original fear that he is
an utter failure and exacerbated the paralysis and depression
that he feels.
Bahá’u’lláh's teachings enable us to strive for the highest
goals, confident in His confirming help, but being uncrushed
by our frequent fallings-short, because we know that it is in the
nature of the creature to fall short. We can, I think, apply to
the whole of our life the encouraging words that the beloved
Guardian wrote for the members of Spiritual Assemblies:
If we turn our gaze to the high qualifications of the
members of Bahá’í Assemblies … we are filled with
feelings of unworthiness and dismay, and would feel
truly disheartened but for the comforting thought that
if we rise to play nobly our part every deficiency in our
lives will be more than compensated by the all-
conquering spirit of His grace and power. (BA, p. 88)
This is where consultation comes in, not merely in helping us
to make a balanced decision in a particular instance, but in
daily demonstrating to a perceptive person the limitations of
his or her own understanding, the fallibility of his or her own
opinions. If approached in the proper spirit, consultation can
be a liberating and educating process for the individual in his
own life, apart altogether from being a guide to conduct.
If I may inject a personal note, I should say that one of the
most enriching experiences I have enjoyed as a member of the
Universal House of Justice has been in relation to those
decisions of which, at the time I could see neither the reason
nor the sense. I have known instances where, to my mind, a
certain course of action seemed to be both obvious and
essential, but the House of Justice has decided differently. In
every instance, of course, it has become apparent in time how
right the decision of the House of Justice was; and coming to
see this as events unfold is a thrilling and illuminating process.
Of course, one can understand this happening in relation to
a body which is divinely guided in its decisions, but, one may
ask, can one be sure that the consultative decisions of spiritual
Assemblies and committees will, likewise, produce true
moderation and balanced wisdom, and not merely that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
mediocrity which is the lowest common denominator of a
collection of private opinions. You are no doubt aware of the
crack that a camel is a horse designed by a committee.
There is in the Faith, of course, ample scope for private
initiative and thought and action. It is a vital element not only
in the life of the individual but in the administration of the
community and must never be underestimated. In itself it
could be the subject for a lecture, but today we are concerned
not with individual action but with consultation and its
indispensability. History is full of evidence of both the
benefits and drawbacks of individual action; our experience
with truly consultative action on a worldwide scale is only just
beginning; it is a characteristic of the stage of human
development which we have now reached. Bahá’u’lláh has
brought mankind to a new leap forward in its evolution, and
consultation is an integral part of this advance. It can help us
sometimes, I think, if we look at such matters from the point
of view and in the words of a non-Bahá’í philosopher who has
perceived the same truth. I want to read to you two extracts
from the writings of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. The first is
from pages 243 to 244 of The Phenomenon of Man:
But why should there be unification in the world and what
purpose does it serve?
To see the answer to this ultimate question, we have only to
put side by side the two equations which have been gradually
formulating themselves from the moment we began trying to
situate the phenomenon of man in the world.
Evolution = Rise of consciousness
Rise of consciousness = Effect of union.
The general gathering together in which, by correlated
actions of the without and the within of the earth, the totality
of thinking units and thinking forces are engaged — the
aggregation in a single block of a mankind whose fragments
weld together and interpenetrate before our eyes in spite of
((indeed in proportion to) their efforts to separate — all this
becomes intelligible from top to bottom as soon as we perceive
the natural culmination of a cosmic processus of organisation

Indispensibility of Consultation
which has never varied since those remote ages when our planet
was young.
First the molecules of carbon compounds with their
thousands of atoms symmetrically grouped; next the cell which,
at the very smallest, contains thousands of molecules linked in
a complicated system; then the metazoa in which the cell is no
more than an almost infinitesimal element; and later the
manifold attempts made by the metazoa to enter into
symbiosis and raise themselves to a higher biological condition.
And now, as a germination of planetary dimensions, comes
the thinking layer which to its full extent develops and
intertwines its fibres, not to confuse and neutralise them but
to reinforce them in the living unity of a single tissue.
Really I can see no coherent, and therefore scientific , way of
grouping this immense succession of facts but as a gigantic
psycho-biological operation, a sort of mega-synthesis, the
'super-arrangement' to which all the thinking elements of the
earth find themselves today individually and collective subject.
You see what he is saying: that the theme of evolution is the
rise of consciousness, and that this is produced as a result of
ever more complex unions of elements. At the present stage in
evolution it is we individual human beings who are the
elements, and by our combination into one united mankind,
we produce, the next level of evolved complexity which gives
birth to a higher level of consciousness. He develops this point
on page 251 of the same book:
We are faced with a harmonised collectivity of
consciousness
equivalent
to
a
sort
of
super-
consciousness. The idea is that of the earth not only
becoming covered by myriads of grains of thought, but
becoming enclosed in a single thinking envelope so as
to form, functionally, no more than a single vast grain
of thought on the sidereal scale, the plurality of
individual reflections grouping themselves together and
reinforcing one another in the act of a single
unanimous reflection.
Does this not give us new insights into Bahá’u’lláh's
tremendous statement: “For everything there is and will

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
continue to be a station of perfection and maturity. The
maturity of the gift of understanding is made manifest
through consultation.”
Far from being a process of obscuring understanding or
reducing individual insights to a level of mediocrity,
consultation makes manifest the “maturity of the gift of
understanding.” Through it the puny mind of each of us is
linked with the minds of our fellows and, through the
institutions of the Administrative Order with all Bahá’ís on
earth. Should we wonder that it is through the Assemblies, the
House of Justice, that Bahá’u’lláh has ordained the government
of the world?
Consultation is a tremendously exciting process. It links us
all to one-another and to God in one vast organism that enables
us to rise above ourselves while, at the same time, developing
our own individual natures to their fullest capacities.
In the non-Bahá’í World
This brings us to the third use of consultation, in the non-
Bahá’í world. Clearly, if it is a basic element of the next stage in
human evolution it should be a fundamental tool to assist all
human beings to resolve their problems. Even though, since
they do not accept Bahá’u’lláh, non-Bahá’ís will lack certain
vital elements of the spiritual attitudes which should
characterize true consultation, they can well accept and
practice most of its principles to great advantage. Indeed, by
what other method are they to resolve their disagreements and
find answers to the problems facing a disordered world?
There are many schemes for a perfect world around, and have
been for centuries. There are many people nowadays who see
essential goals that mankind must achieve. The stumbling block
is what we are to do to attain them.
I recall in this connection a story that may be familiar to
many of you, but it's rather striking here.
A man on a hiking holiday one day found himself lost in a
country lane, and coming upon a countryman asked him how
to get to Gloucester. The man thought for a while and then

Indispensibility of Consultation
said: “Well, you could go down this lane, turn left by the pub
and then right — no, that wouldn't do it. I tell you, go across
this field by the footpath through yon wood until you come to
Baker's farm — no, that wouldn't help either. No, you have to
go back the way you came to the main road and catch the next
bus to Plumpington — no, that wouldn't help you either. I tell
'ee, if I wanted to get to Gloucester I wouldn't start from
here!”
That's a bit like the problem of those who want world peace
now. It would be so much easier if we didn't have to start from
here!
This is where the twin principles of consultation and the
independent investigation of truth show us the way out.
Let us inflict upon you one more quotation from Teilhard de
Chardin. This time from pages 74-75 of The Future of Man:
Gloriously situated by life at this critical point in the
evolution of Mankind, what ought we to do? We hold
Earth's future in our hands. What shall we decide?
In my view, the road to be followed is clearly revealed by the
teaching of all the past.
We can progress only by uniting: this, as we have seen, is the
law of life. But unification, through coercion leads only to a
superficial pseudo-unity. It may establish a mechanism, but it
does not achieve any fundamental synthesis; and in
consequence it engenders no growth of consciousness. It
materializes, in short, instead of spiritualising. Only
unification through unanimity is biologically valid. This alone
can work the miracle of causing heightened personality to
emerge from the forces of collectivity. It alone represents a
genuine extension of the psychogenesis that gave us birth.
Therefore it is inwardly that we must come together, and in
entire freedom.
But this brings us to the last question of all. To create this
unanimity, we need the bond, as I said, the cement of a
favouring influence. Where shall we look for it; how shall we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
conceive of this principle of togetherness, this soul of the
Earth?
Is it to be in the development of a common vision, that is to
say, the establishment of a universally accepted body of
knowledge, in which all intelligences will join in knowing the
same facts interpreted the same way?
Or will it rather be in common action, in the determination
of an Objective universally recognised as being so desirable
that all activity will naturally converge towards it under the
impulse of a common fear and a common ambition?
These two kinds of unanimity are undoubtedly real, and will,
I believe, have their place in our future progress. But they need
to be complemented by something else if they are not to remain
precarious, insufficient, and incomplete. A common body of
knowledge brings together nothing but the geometrical point of
intelligences. A common aspiration, no matter how ardent,
can only touch individuals indirectly and in an impersonal way
that is depersonalising in itself.
It is not a tête-à-tête or corps-à-corps that we need; it is a
heart-to-heart.
This being so, the more I consider the fundamental question
of the future of the earth, the more it appears to me that the
generative principle of its unification is finally to be sought,
not in the sole contemplation of a single Truth or in the sole
desire for a single Thing, but in the common attraction
exercised by a single Being. For on the one hand, if the synthesis
of the Spirit is to be brought about in its entirety (and this is
the only possible definition of progress) it can only be done, in
the last resort, through the meeting, centre to centre, of human
units, such as can only be realised in a universal, mutual love.
And on the other hand there is but one possible way in which
human elements, innumerably diverse by nature, can love one
another; it is by knowing themselves all to be centered upon a
single 'super-centre' common to all, to which they can only
attain, each at the extreme of himself, through their unity.
I am sure that everyone of us can immediately see that in the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh we have the God-given requirements
of a common vision, a united course of action and, above all

Indispensibility of Consultation
that Being Who is the mainspring and central point of
attraction of all.
In our collaboration with our fellow human beings it is
above all in the fields of common action that we shall be able to
impart to them the common vision and thence to lead them to
the knowledge of the Being of Bahá’u’lláh.
We
cannot
just
say
that
Communism,
Racialism,
Nationalism and all the other manmade ideologies should go
away, any more than we can wish away the centuries-old
structures raised by mankind on the bases of the ancient
Revelations of God. But, in view of the great and terrible perils
which can no longer be ignored, we shall find more and more
people of all views and opinions who are willing to sit down
and consult upon specific actions to be taken to overcome
specific problems. As this process advances, as they learn
through experience the benefits of consultation, as they see the
Bahá’í teachings in operation, problem after problem will be
overcome and mankind will have started on the road to the
total restructuring of human society.
Consultation, therefore, is indispensable for the ordering of
human affairs in three areas.
It is the most vital technique that Bahá’ís must learn for the
efficient and Bahá’í-like running of Bahá’í communities , which
together form the nucleus and pattern of the new World Order;
it is one of the most potent means for the learning of those
virtues which are essential for the spiritual development of
individual human beings and their harmonious inter-
relationship; and it is one of the most strikingly beneficial of
the Bahá’í teachings to which we can introduce our non-Bahá’í
friends and fellow-workers in every field. It is a tool that they
can use to solve problems at every level, it is an avenue by which
they can come to appreciate the truth of the Bahá’í way of life,
and it is the only way by which minds raised in different
traditions can find a common meeting-place.
As we began with a quotation from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, I would like to finish by reading three, for in these
three short passages alone is inspiration for whole courses of
study:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The Great Being saith: The heaven of divine wisdom is
illumined with the two luminaries of consultation and
compassion. Take ye counsel together in all matters,
inasmuch as consultation is the lamp of guidance
which leadeth the way, and is the bestower of
understanding.
Say: no man can attain his true station except through
his justice. No power can exist except through unity.
No welfare and no well-being can be attained except
through consultation.
Consultation
bestoweth
greater
awareness
and
transmuteth conjecture into certitude. It is a shining
light which, in a dark world, leadeth the way and
guideth. For everything there is and will continue to be
a station of perfection and maturity. The maturity of
the gift of understanding is made manifest through
consultation.

NOTES
1 A talk given by Ian Semple on 1985.12.20 and 1986.01.03 at Seminars held
in the multipurpose room of the Seat of the Universal House of
Justice)

The Mystery of Divinity
a Comparison of Traditional Views of Divinity to Those
in Some Answered Questions
James B. Thomas
Introduction
In the normal course of events we share an endless chain of ideas with
the use of definitive terms in efforts to get our points across, whether
metaphorical or real. And we do this with great confidence in our own
understanding of such terms. Even the parameters of uncertainty can
be described with clarity in terms of probability when dealing with
a myriad of statistical information, ranging from human affairs to
nuclear physics. Yet in matters of the spirit we often do not have a clue
as to what words such as soul, God, heaven and others that we use so
frequently really mean. Generally they are described in a most super-
fluous manner in order to at least have some kind of transitory grasp
of their relationship. Such a term is Divinity, one that truly relates
to a realm of deep mystery. This paper approaches an understanding
of this subject in four stages: [1] Sources of knowledge relating to
divinity are reviewed with reference to the Greco-Roman, Medieval
and modern periods; [2] Applications of meanings provided by these
sources are evaluated in terms of current understanding; [3] Societal
impacts of such applications are examined; [4] New thoughts and
proofs are introduced in light of the writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Finally,
a conclusion is drawn that infers a new paradigm of spiritual evolu-
tion, and suggests a possible platform for philosophical dissertation
regarding religious influence on secular matters in the modern world.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
1: Sources of Knowledge
Choice sources for researching knowledge are the authentic experts
in various fields of expertise, but in most fields, such as astronomy,
physical sciences, mathematics, sociology, philosophy, political sci-
ence, economics, engineering, electronics or education, the notion of
divinity is utterly absent. Perhaps in the fields of advertising and of
music, a cursory accolade to a product or performer may be made
with use of the term ‘divine’ with little inference as to its true meaning.
Even in psychology and medicine the word is rarely if ever mentioned.
So, for one to understand divinity requires reflection on a different
level. For example, a quality of divinity is called providence where
benevolent intervention occurs based on faith. This infers that in the
field of theology the ramifications of divinity may be determined.
In one view the concept of Providence, divine care of man and
the universe, can be called the religious answer to man’s need
to know that he matters, that he is cared for, or even that he is
threatened, for in this view all religions are centered on man,
and man is individually and collectively in constant need of
reassurance that he is not an unimportant item in an indif-
ferent world; if he cannot be comforted, to be threatened is
better than to be alone in an empty void of nothingness.1
This comment from an overview article in the Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica on divinity with respect to Providence provides a general
understanding of ancient and current views of the subject; these will
be extolled in this section. Following is a summary in paraphrase of
the concepts and views from the article.
A second view of Providence involves a cosmic order wherein man-
kind has a proper place of a divine nature that is intended for its
wellbeing. But it is incumbent that man not pervert the order or
upset it by rebellion. However, the degree of firmness of this order, if

The Mystery of Divinity
too extreme, may invoke the possibility of degenerating into fatalism
such that man might then drift powerless on the path of an imper-
sonal destiny. Most religions combine both views.
Greco-Roman Times
The etymology of Providence as a special quality of divinity began
in the five or so centuries preceding the Common Era when
philosophers and statesmen exercised the terminology with respect
to what is now considered to be pagan religious notions. The first
Greek author to use the term was Herodotus, a fifth-century BCE
historian, who mentioned that Divine Providence was the source
of wisdom that keeps nature in balance. Others, like Xenophon
and Plutarch, referenced the word in connection with the watchful
care of the gods over mankind and the world. Cicero referred to the
“Providence of the gods” and the Stoics wrote treatises on the subject.
Around the Third Century BCE the Greek poet/philosopher Clean-
thes wrote a hymn in glorification of the god Zeus as a benevolent
and foreseeing ruler of the world and of man: “For thee this whole
vast cosmos, wheeling round the earth, obeys, and where thou leadest
it follows, ruled willingly by thee.”2
Seneca said man should believe “that Providence rules the world
and that God cares for us.” Further, the Stoic school to which he
belonged rejected blind fate and maintained that everything happens
according to a benevolent divine plan, which they preferred to call
Providence. It was this concept that influenced Christianity. In the
Latin world the word Providence was used as a designation of the
deity. In fact it was Seneca again who wrote that it is proper to apply
the term Providence to God.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Early Middle Ages
With the fall of Rome in 476 CE, the Christian Church in the west
continued its long ascendency to power. Philosophy was then influ-
enced by the late Roman thinkers Augustine and Boethus, among
others. Augustine’s philosophical ideas were shaped by Neoplatonism,
which helped him understand the realm of truth that lies beyond the
senses. It is a spiritual realm that becomes the goal of human striv-
ing that Augustine identified with the God of Christianity. Though
Divinity is not specifically mentioned, he maintained that truths
associated with mathematics and ethics are eternal and immutable
but cannot come from the contingent world nor even from the mind,
which is also contingent, but are due to the illuminating presence
in the mind of eternal Truth, or God.3 In modern terminology this
would appear to be an example of Divine Providence.
Boethius is considered to be an important channel through which
Greek Philosophy would later be made available in the middle ages.
His untimely death at the behest of the Ostrogoth king, Theodoric,
cut short his plan to translate Greek Philosophy into Latin, but he
was able to translate the logical writings of Porphyry and Aristotle.
The Aristotelian doctrine of universals (terms that can be applied to
more than one particular thing) are presented as innate ideas (from
Plato) that are remembered from a previous existence. “This book was
widely discussed in the Middle Ages. It contains not only a Platonic
view of knowledge and reality but also a lively treatment of provi-
dence, divine foreknowledge, chance, fate, and human happiness.”4
From the Eastern Church, the Greek Fathers provided another means
by which Greek Philosophy would be embraced in the Middle Ages.
Again it was Neoplatonic concepts that would provide a synthesis of
Christian thought. John Scotus, of Ireland, translated the writings of
some of the Greek theologians into Latin. In his own extensive trea-
tise On The Division Of Nature he developed an interesting concept
regarding divinity.

The Mystery of Divinity
God is the primal unity, unknowable and un-nameable in
Himself, from which the multiplicity of creatures flows. He
so far transcends his creatures that he is most appropriately
called super-real and super-good. Creation is the process of
division whereby the many derive from the One. The One
descends into the manifold of creation and reveals himself
in it. By the reverse process, the multiplicity of creatures will
return to their unitary source at the end of time, when every-
thing will be absorbed in God.5
With the writings of the great thinkers of the early Middle Ages, con-
cepts of divinity began to take on new meanings. As philosophers of
the period moved away from what was considered pagan beliefs, they
integrated secular logic of the early Greeks with a Judeo-Christian
stance such that the idea of Divine Providence became central to the
basic belief system of Christianity.
Medieval Period
Western philosophy was profoundly influenced by a cultural
revolution in the Twelfth Century. New approaches to education
emphasized logic, dialectic and early scientific discipline in place of
grammar and the reading of classics in Latin, as witnessed by the
scholar John of Salisbury (c. 1115–1180):
Behold, everything was being renovated: grammar was being
made over, logic was being remodeled, rhetoric was being
despised. Discarding the rules of their predecessors, [the
masters] were teaching the quadrivium (arithmetic, music,
geometry, astronomy) with new methods taken from the
very depths of philosophy.6

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Platonism was diminished while a renewed interest in Aristotle
emerged. His methods of disputation and science were embraced
especially by Thomas Aquinas and his mentor Albertus Magnus.
There was also great esteem for Arabic and Jewish thinkers, all of
whom contributed to a knowledge explosion in Western Europe.
Aquinas felt that the philosopher seeks the first cause of things
based on data supplied by the senses, whereas the theologian finds
truth about God as revealed in sacred scriptures. He thought Aris-
totelianism to be a useful tool for Christian thought, along with
Platonism to some extent. It was Aristotle’s proof of a primary
unmoved mover that Aquinas deepened or expanded to mean God
in the Judeo-Christian context.
The eminent Islamic philosopher Avicenna (Ibn Sina) had a profound
impact on these medieval Schoolmen whose theological and philo-
sophical teachings in the universities were referred to as Scholasticism.
“His analysis of many metaphysical terms, such as being, essence, and
existence, and his metaphysical proof of the existence of God were
often quoted, with approval or disapproval, in Christian circles. Also
influential were his psychology, logic, and natural philosophy.”7
Among Jewish scholars was Moses Maimonides, who helped the
Schoolmen to reconcile Greek Philosophy with revealed religion. He
felt that there could be no conflict between reason and faith because
both come from God. In deference to Aquinas’ view, he thought that
Aristotle’s arguments for a world eternal were not valid because they
disregarded the omnipotence of God.8
In sum, the primary philosophy in the Western world during the
Middle ages was Christian in the way that it complemented divine
revelation. It was the churchmen who developed the philosophical
arguments through the Fourteenth Century and who were also
theologians at the Universities of Oxford and Paris. But from this

The Mystery of Divinity
period forward, the importance of divinity and providence gave way
to profound changes in the arena of philosophy.
As secular authority replaced ecclesiastical authority and
as the dominant interest of the age shifted from religion to
politics, it was natural that the rivalries of the national states
and their persistent crises of internal order should raise
with renewed urgency philosophical problems, practically
dormant since pre-Christian times, about the nature and the
moral status of political power. This new preoccupation with
national unity, internal security, state power, and interna-
tional justice stimulated the growth of political philosophy in
Italy, France, England, and Holland.9
As the late middle ages deferred to the Renaissance there burst forth
a revival of interest in medicine, classic literature and mathematics.
Discoveries in mathematics impelled the scientific revolution in the
Sixteenth Century and the impetus of Classical literature provided a
philosophical foundation of humanism that emphasized the central-
ity of human beings in the universe with their supreme value. It was
Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) who put forth three propositions
that were so pertinent to the times:
Here are enunciated respectively (1) the principle of empiri-
cism, (2) the primacy of mechanistic science, and (3) faith in
mathematical explanation. It is upon these three doctrines,
as upon a rock, that Renaissance and early modern science
and philosophy were built. From each of Leonardo’s theses
descended one of the great streams of Renaissance and early
modern philosophy: from the empirical principle the work
of Bacon, from mechanism the work of Hobbes, and from
mathematical explanation the work of Descartes.10

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Modern Era
In approaching the Modern Era with its materialistic bent, it
becomes evident that we must depart philosophy in order to find
any further influence of Divinity on the modern mind. The remain-
ing track for study is religion for whatever it might reveal in those
changing times. Indeed the Protestant Reformation provided a “sea
change” in western civilization.
What was central to Protestantism throughout its history was the
belief that humans are justified before God by grace through faith. It
was this that separated the early Christian reformers from Roman
Catholicism and its concern with sin, atonement and good works.
Justification is concerned with the desire to find oneself on good
terms with God:
Aware of its shortcomings, its ignorance, its sin, and its guilt,
humankind saw itself standing before a bar of justice pre-
sided over by God. Without help, individuals could expect
nothing but God’s wrath and condemnation. This meant
that they would perish everlastingly, and their present
life would be full of torment. Yet the Bible also presented
humankind with a picture of a loving and gracious God, who
desires happiness for all.11
But the question remained as to how one could be sure that God
would not reveal His wrathful side instead of His graciousness. In
other words, “how could one be confident that they would be the
recipient of God’s positive loving action?”12
The answer to this lingering question must somehow depend upon
a deeper understanding of Divinity and the source of its Providence.
And, it is apparent that the understanding of divinity is inescapably
bound up with the Revelation or Enlightenment associated with any
religion under question. Some theologians reject revelation on the

The Mystery of Divinity
basis of mythological conceptions connected with it. With others
there have been moments of ecstatic experience that bring the sense
of internal revelation and with it some degree of wisdom. But how is
it confirmed?13 To understand this aspect we will need to know how
the meanings inherent to Divinity have historically been applied to
the life of human kind.
2: Applications of Meanings
Comments were made that further characterize the nature of divinity
with respect to the application of the qualities associated with Provi-
dence. For example, the belief in a concept of Providence as a quality
of divinity entails the existence of a powerful, wise and benevolent
deity. These three attributes are essential and the primary require-
ment is benevolence. This does not exclude the possibility however of
punishment when one transgresses. Yet the divine being is understood
to be well intentioned toward man. What’s more, Providence does
not have to be direct as it may operate through various intermediary
beings, such as ancestors or spirits in non literate religions or angels
in Christian and Muslim belief. Providence on the other hand can be
expressed by a world order that makes life possible and guarantees
future existence. Further, it may exist as a principle of cosmic order
that is maintained by a divine being. But if the connection between
that being and justice is lost, then Providence degenerates into a
concept of fate where divinity would be inconsequential.
This idea of cosmic order does have a profound effect on the general
picture of Providence as divine care for mankind but does not rule out
the introduction of intermediary beings in the process. However, if the
cosmic order is considered to be benevolent where man can feel safe, it
is markedly different from a personal relationship between man and
his god or gods. A personal god can be influenced by prayer and sacri-
fice to influence events whereas a fixed world can not be so influenced.14

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Although the introduction of intermediary beings brings
no essential change in the idea of Providence as the divine
watchful care for the benefit of mankind, the notion of a
cosmic order changes the picture profoundly. Even if the
cosmic order is conceived as a benevolent order in which
man is able to feel safe and whose very existence reassures
him, such an order is different from the personal relation-
ship between man and his god or gods. The concept of an
unchangeable world order requires a different reaction. A
personal god may, perhaps, be moved by prayer and sacrifice
to give or to prevent events; when the order of the world is
fixed, however, the course of events cannot be changed by
these or any other means.15
One can see that such a conflict in precepts opens the door to a con-
fusing array of ideas about providence, divinity and cosmic order
where on the one hand one may be attracted to a deity that would have
compassion for the individual and where on the other hand one may
lean in a rational fashion toward a cosmic order that is under the pur-
view of a distant impersonal Creator no longer involved in the order
itself. It could be said that the impact of philosophical arguments
on the daily course of human affairs are rarely acknowledged except
for those that are in agreement with religious notions of the day. In
other words, it does seem that mountains of words, however logical
they may be, do not really move people unless they somehow touch
the hearts, and for this to happen belief systems must be brought
into play, as for instance in the application of prayer in moments of
crisis or joy. Hence, when a concept of God is introduced through a
revelatory process, the idea of a cosmic order seems logical with its
foundation based on faith instead of words alone. That is perhaps
why the impact of ideas upon the society of man take hold in the
sweeping course of history. But this notion requires a deeper look
into the implications of faith in the life of man and of how civilization
is constantly tested.

The Mystery of Divinity
3: Social Impacts
Although the names of the founders of the world’s great religions are
mentioned in scholarly studies, a point that is generally overlooked
is the process associated with Divine Revelation. Simply put, the
process of revelation from a Divine Prophet introduces knowledge
and wisdom in an utterly different way than those derived by phi-
losophers in a material world. Such knowledge is from a divine
source and must be addressed on its own terms that might ultimately
require unequivocal faith. Therein lies a problem for many who
waffle between certitude and doubt in their pursuit of truth. This is
not easy to reconcile, often resulting in a fall-back to an earlier time
that might seem more safe and comfortable, as suggested by a phrase
in a favorite song “give me that old time religion, it’s good enough for
me…” Such imagery might produce a sense of solace and peace but
in reality a return to an earlier time would remind one of hardships
long forgotten. Nevertheless, ideas of the past do linger in various
forms as they weave through the cultural psyche. The concepts of the
ancients regarding divinity and providence mentioned in Section I
are still with us in fragmented forms and, though nameless, do influ-
ence our thinking today.
Mention is made of predestination as a possibility for com-
bining the idea of a personal divine will with a cosmic fixed
order that man is expected to work within as governed by a
set of rules. The Deists in the Seventeenth and Eighteenth
Centuries believed that “God created the world and the
cosmic order in such a manner that to a great extent the
course of the world is fixed from the first beginning and he
is no longer involved in it.”16 Even now, in the Twenty-first
Century, this thought is held by some very accomplished
scientists who question the existence of a God that would
create a universe and then leave it alone with no apparent
further involvement. On the other hand, opposing views

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
are made:The fact of creation helps man to believe in Provi-
dence because it would be inconsistent for the creator god
or gods not to care for the further existence of the created
world. Only persistent disobedience and open rebellion can
then furnish a reason for the Creator to abandon or destroy
the world. This situation is expressed in the myths of a great
flood or some other form of destruction sent as a punishment.
There is, however, never a total destruction of the world in
these myths, although this final solution may be threatened
for the eschatological (ultimate end) future. It may also be
promised, if the eschatological events are construed as the
definitive institution of a world order that is perfect for all
eternity and will never deteriorate.17
Additionally, in the Zoroastrian Faith there is among its concepts
one of determined order that is natural and ethical as well. Founded
around 650 BCE in Persia and later expanded into India, the religion
refers to Asha that is identified with the sacred element of fire. His
counterpart, Drug, represents evil and deceit, whereas the Indian
Rta fills the same role as Drug. Providence, on the other hand, has
particular objectives whereas the cosmic order in a general sense
embraces the world and, by extension, the universe and all it contains.
The benevolent aspect of Providence may be confined to a
special group of people or at least be specially related to that
group; or a number of patron gods or saints may watch over
some specific activity or smaller group. This accounts for
the idea of a chosen people watched over and led by a just
and loving God. The ancient people of Israel is, perhaps, the
best known example; the concept, however, is widespread.
Patron gods and patron saints who are particularly charged
with caring for some small group, craft, or activity or who
operate in special circumstances, such as during illness or
war, occur in most religions and are popular in many.18

The Mystery of Divinity
It was suggested that we are left with certain critical problems. “In
monotheistic religions, Providence is a quality of the one divinity;
in polytheistic religions it may be either a quality of one or more
gods or it may be conceived as an impersonal world order on which
the gods, too, more or less depend.”19 The consequence of the latter
may be chance instead of benevolence all of which reflects a sense of
ambivalence for fate and Providence. Lastly, the reconciliation of a
provident God with the existence of evil in the world may constitute
the most difficult problem associated with Providence and therefore
with divinity itself.
4: New Thoughts
`Abdu’l-Bahá puts a question: What connection has the Reality of
Divinity with the Lordly Rising-places and the Divine Dawning-
points? (SAQ 46) This question alone opens a whole new paradigm
for inquiry apart from what has been addressed so far. For instance
one might want to know what is meant by Lordly Rising-places. And
what are Divine Dawning-points? To answer these questions, certain
other considerations deserve attention.
To begin, He infers that the Reality of Divinity is the Essence of
Oneness, that it is absolute holiness, and further, it is exempt from all
praise because it is pure sanctity above all accessibility in the world of
man. He then offers a surprising clarification of supreme attributes
with reference to this human plane of existence. He points out that
they exist only in our imaginations. In other words, this pure essence
of sanctity that is beyond description, that is incomprehensible, that
is invisible, and that is inaccessible still surrounds all things. He
further makes a point of logic that whatever is being surrounded is
necessarily less than that which surrounds. Moreover, that which is
being surrounded is limited to its internal reference points but by
nature, remains oblivious to the outer reality that surrounds it. No

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
matter how far evolution may take us, the extent of knowledge that
man may acquire will always face the limitations of his own reality.
However far mind may progress, though it may reach to the
final degree of comprehension, the limit of understanding, it
beholds the divine signs and attributes in the world of cre-
ation and not in the world of God. For the essence and the
attributes of the Lord of Unity are in the heights of sanctity,
and for the minds and understandings there is no way to
approach that position. “The way is closed, and seeking is
forbidden.” (SAQ 146)
The beauty of this is that, though one might not be a part of that
sanctified essence, one may be made aware of spiritual reality through
the numerous examples of its effects in human interaction in spite
of such limitations. For instance, when people commit acts of kind-
ness without expectations of reward, they are exhibiting attributes
of a non material order, e.g. kindness, sharing, concern for others
and benevolence, to name a few. What’s more, these attributes are
learned through the study of revelation or by examples of others who
have so learned. Philosophical dissertations have their place but they
appear to be unable to escape the dichotomy of contending ideas in
a kingdom of words when describing divinity as shown in Section
I. The approach offered by `Abdu’l-Bahá goes far beyond any play
of words because His logic is unremitting in the pursuit of truth
regarding Divinity.
He observes that human understanding is a quality of man’s existence
and that man being so endowed is one of the signs of God. Then He
asks a provocative question: “How can the quality of the sign sur-
round the creator of the sign?” In other words, a quality of man such
as understanding is incapable of comprehending God. Thus Divinity
is hidden from all comprehension. Being concealed from the minds
of men, it is on a plane impossible to attain. The reasoning here is

The Mystery of Divinity
that everything of a lower reality is powerless to comprehend that of
a higher reality. He gives the example of a tree that, no matter how
evolved, cannot comprehend the functions of sight, of hearing and
of other functions, and yet “man and tree are alike in that they were
created. Therefore, how can man, the created, understand the reality
of the pure Essence of the Creator?”
`Abdu’l-Bahá elaborates further on the bewildering challenge facing
anyone who attempts to understand, much less explain, the unap-
proachable plane of God. There is simply no sufficient explanation
for its comprehension. Indeed, in the mind of man there is no way to
identify an indication of it.
Consequently, with reference to this plane of existence, every
statement and elucidation is defective, all praise and all
description are unworthy, every conception is vain, and every
meditation is futile. But for this Essence of the essences, this
Truth of truths, this Mystery of mysteries, there are reflec-
tions, auroras, appearances and resplendencies in the world
of existence. (SAQ 146)
This quote about auroras and appearances sequels the question
put earlier by  `Abdu’l-Bahá regarding Divine Dawning points. He
explains that these mysterious reflections related to the Essence of
essences are associated with the Holy Dawning-places for the ris-
ing of Divine Messengers of God. They are the true mirrors of the
sanctified Essence of God and appear to us in visible form. They are
like clear polished mirrors that reflect the splendor of the Sun but in
Their own essence reflect the splendor of God. He is quick to point
out that the sun is not the same as its image in the mirror and that
it never becomes part of it. Similarly, the “Unlimited Reality” is not
limited to the place of appearance. In other words it is not anthropo-
morphic. “No; all the praises, the descriptions and exaltations refer
to the Holy Manifestations…” He adds that all the attributes and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
qualities mentioned return to the Divine Manifestations although
they are beyond human description since no one has attained to the
Essence of Divinity. “Therefore, all that the human reality knows,
discovers and understands of the names, the attributes and the
perfections of God refer to these Holy Manifestations.” (SAQ 148)
Yet, concurrently we do voice the attributes and names of the Divine
Reality and while, in our praise, attribute to Him the familiar five
senses as well as knowledge, life and power. To do so affirms that He
is incapable of imperfections. In this light a contrast is drawn between
perfection and its opposite, imperfection. For example, ignorance is
imperfection whereas knowledge is perfection. Thus, the Essence of
God is wisdom. Weakness is imperfection but power is the opposite;
“consequently, we say that the sanctified Essence of God is the acme of
power.” (SAQ 148) But all these attributes, though they may have the
same names as our own, are beyond human comprehension for they
are identical with His Essence. `Abdu’l-Bahá logically maintains that
there would be multiple preexistences if the attributes are not identi-
cal with His Essence. And since Preexistence of God is necessary for
consideration of the reality of creation, this would mean that there
would be an infinite sequence of preexistences. Such a condition is
considered to be impossible in a universe of finite entities. That is, if
each had an infinite sequence of preexistences then they would no
longer be finite and Divine Messengers would be infinite in number
and for that matter, the same would apply to God, an obvious error.
Thus, His attributes must be identical with His Essence and there-
fore beyond our comprehension.
At this point `Abdu’l-Bahá reinforces an extraordinary concept that
lies at the root of spiritual belief with a quote from a Hadith. “All
that you have distinguished through the illusion of your imagina-
tion in your subtle mental images is but a creation like unto yourself,
and returns to you.” (SAQ 149) He makes it clear that all of these

The Mystery of Divinity
eulogies, praises, names and attributes really apply to the Places of
Manifestation. Further, it is pure imagination to think of anything
beside them because we are unable to comprehend the invisible or
the inaccessible.
It is clear that if we wish to imagine the Reality of Divinity,
this imagination is the surrounded, and we are the surround-
ing one; and it is sure that the one who surrounds is greater
than the surrounded. From this it is certain and evident
that if we imagine a Divine Reality outside of the Holy
Manifestations, it is pure imagination, for there is no way
to approach the Reality of Divinity which is not cut off to
us, and all that we imagine is mere supposition. (SAQ 149)
Though not aware of it, people everywhere are caught up in a myriad
of imaginations. They have become worshipers of the idols of conjec-
tures that are considered to be the ultimate Reality that, contrarily, is
actually purified from all descriptions. And they regard themselves
as unified with others being worshipers of idols. At least idols have a
material composition whereas the imaginations of man are nothing
more than fancies that do not even have a mineral content.
It is affirmed that all the Holy Manifestations of God have attributes
of perfection and divine bounties and that from Them lights of inspi-
ration emanate. It is emphasized further that Christ and Baha’u’llah
show evidence that is beyond human imagination. It is given that
They possess attributes of the former Manifestations but in addition
They possess some perfections that other Prophets depend upon. The
example is given regarding the Prophets of Israel who were, in them-
selves, centers of inspiration. Mentioned were Isaiah, Jeremiah and
Elijah to, name a few, but as profound and influential as their utter-
ances were, there remains a vast difference in them when compared

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
to the inspiration of the Word of God as spoken by Manifestations
of God such as Christ and Baha’u’llah.
We are asked to reflect upon the way light radiates and stimulates the
nerves in the eye to produce sight. The light emanating from a lamp
does so in a like manner as the sun but is vastly inferior in power. He
further comments that when the spirit of man appears, it does so in
the embryonic state. It then progresses to the state of childhood and
then to maturity. As such it does so in a condition of perfection. He
states the spirit is one, but that in the embryonic condition, hearing
and sight are undeveloped but in the state of maturity it appears in
splendor and brilliance.
In the same way the seed in the beginning becomes leaves
and is the place where the vegetable spirit appears; in the
condition of fruit it manifests the same spirit—that is to say,
the power of growth appears in the utmost perfection; but
what a difference between the condition of the leaves and that
of the fruit! For from the fruit a hundred thousand leaves
appear, though they all grow and develop through the same
vegetable spirit. Notice the difference between the virtues
and perfections of Christ, the splendors and brilliance of
Bahá’u’lláh, and the virtues of the Prophets of Israel, such as
Ezekiel or Samuel. All were the manifestations of inspiration,
but between them there is an infinite difference. (SAQ 150)
Conclusion
Philosophy notwithstanding, it was religion that ultimately promul-
gated a deeper appreciation of Providence with respect to divinity

The Mystery of Divinity
or, in other words, Divine Providence. In the early period of the
Hellenic world, fatalistic belief was strong, as expressed in astrology
where man is governed by the stars and planets, while the Talmud
of Jewish tradition taught that Israel is subject only to God, not to
any of the stars. Later the Christian sense of Providence was shown
in the Gospel according to Matthew: “Are not two sparrows sold for
a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground without your
Father’s will. But even the hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not,
therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.”20
This infers Divine intervention and possibly represents the most
meaningful concept of Divinity that remains with us in the Western
and Islamic civilizations today in spite of all the later developments.
As the ideas regarding Providence evolved from what are sometimes
called pagan beliefs, through the many rational arguments from
the early middle ages to the Medieval period, through the Renais-
sance with certain Islamic influences, and through the Reformation
regarding proofs of God, we find throughout a cross pollination of
religion and philosophy. After all these centuries the Protestant
world clings to fundamental concepts of an earlier time mixed with a
strong impulse toward individuality.
That is all well and good but a new age is upon us with a spiritual
reach heretofore undisclosed. Philosophers are challenged once
again to investigate a new vision as presented to us in the writings of
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Evidence and proofs in the context of His commentary
rise above previous assumptions by the ancients and modern thinkers
as well. For instance, He stated in so many words that the Reality of
Divinity is the Essence of Oneness, that it is pure sanctity above all
accessibility in the world of man. (SAQ 146) But He assures us that we,
even with our imperfections, are still capable of recognizing the attri-
butes of supreme felicity by the effects that they exhibit in the material
world. “Know that the attributes of perfection, the splendor of the
divine bounties, and the lights of inspiration are visible and evident

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
in all the Holy Manifestations;…” (SAQ 149) Finally, the mystery of
Divinity may be resolved with the very title of Section 37 in Some
Answered Questions, “Divinity can only be comprehended through the
Divine Manifestations.”
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá.  Some Answered Questions, Wilmette, Ill. : Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1984.

The Mystery of Divinity
NOTES
“Providence.” Encyclopædia Britannica.  Deluxe Edition.  Chicago: Ency-
clopædia Britannica, 2008.
Ibid
“Philosophy, Western.” Encyclopædia Britannica.  Deluxe Edition.
Chicago: Encyclopædia Britannica, 2008
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
“Revelation.” Encyclopædia Britannica.  Deluxe Edition.  Chicago:
Encyclopædia Britannica, 2008.
Ibid
Ibid
“Providence.” Encyclopædia Britannica.  Deluxe Edition.  Chicago:
Encyclopædia Britannica, 2008.
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid
Ibid

Speaking on Socio-Political Order
23 December 2008
Transmitted by email: …
Dr.…
U.S.A.
Dear Bahá’í Friend,
Your email letter dated 26 June 2008, in which you inquire about
the extent to which a Bahá’í, particularly one who is a social scientist
or academic, may speak publicly on sociopolitical issues, has been
received by the Universal House of Justice. We have been asked to
convey the following reply.
You are, of course, well aware of the principle of noninvolvement in
politics enunciated by Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’ís are to “refrain from
associating themselves, whether by word or by deed, with the political
pursuits of their respective nations, with the policies of their govern-
ments and the schemes and programs of parties and factions.” They
“assign no blame, take no side, further no design, and identify them-
selves with no system prejudicial to the best interests” of the Faith
and eschew “the entanglements and bickerings inseparable from the
pursuits of the politician”. They are to “rise above all particularism
and partisanship, above the vain disputes, the petty calculations, the
transient passions that agitate the face, and engage the attention, of
a changing world”. This principle, which demands strict avoidance of
any type of partisan political activity, must be scrupulously upheld.
However, as society and its political processes evolve and as the
Faith grows, the interaction between the two becomes increasingly

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
complex. The House of Justice will provide the necessary guidance
over time to apply this principle to existing circumstances.
The term “politics” can have a broad meaning, and therefore it is
important to distinguish between partisan political activity and the
discourse and action intended to bring about constructive social
change. While the former is proscribed, the latter is enjoined; indeed,
a central purpose of the Bahá’í community is social transforma-
tion. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s treatise The Secret of Divine Civilization amply
demonstrates the Faith’s commitment to promoting social change
without entering into the arena of partisan politics. So too, innu-
merable passages in the Bahá’í Writings encourage the believers to
contribute to the betterment of the world. “Be anxiously concerned
with the needs of the age ye live in,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “and center
your deliberations on its exigencies and requirements.” `Abdu’l-Bahá
urges the friends to “become distinguished in all the virtues of the
human world—for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice and fidelity,
for firmness and steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and service
to the human world, for love toward every human being, for unity
and accord with all people, for removing prejudices and promot-
ing international peace.” Further, in a letter written on his behalf,
Shoghi Effendi explains that “much as the friends must guard
against in any way seeming to identify themselves or the Cause with
any political party, they must also guard against the other extreme
of never taking part, with other progressive groups, in conferences
or committees designed to promote some activity in entire accord
with our teachings”. In another letter written on his behalf in 1948,
when racial inequality was enshrined in the laws of many states in
the United States, he indicates that there is “no objection at all to
the students taking part in something so obviously akin to the spirit
of our teachings as a campus demonstration against race prejudice.”
Bahá’ís must, therefore, be tireless in addressing, through word and
deed, a range of social issues.

Speaking on Socio-Political Order
When the Bahá’í community was small, its contribution to social
well-being was naturally limited. In 1983 the House of  Justice
announced that the growth of the Faith had given rise to the need for
a greater involvement in the life of society. Bahá’ís began to engage
more systematically in the work of social and economic develop-
ment through activities of varying degrees of complexity. Efforts to
contribute to social transformation also include participation in the
public discourse on issues of concern to humanity, such as peace, the
elimination of prejudices of all kinds, the spiritual and moral empow-
erment of youth, and the promotion of justice. These two types of
activity have steadily increased over the past twenty-five years and
will grow in scope and influence in the future.
The organized endeavors of the Bahá’í community in these areas
are reinforced by the diverse initiatives of individual believers work-
ing in various fields—as volunteers, professionals, and experts—to
contribute to social change. The distinctive nature of their approach
is to avoid conflict and the contest for power while striving to unite
people in the search for underlying moral and spiritual principles
and for practical measures that can lead to the just resolution of the
problems afflicting society. Bahá’ís perceive humanity as a single
body. All are inseparably bound to one another. A social order
structured to meet the needs of one group at the expense of another
results in injustice and oppression. Instead, the best interest of each
component part is achieved by considering its needs in the context of
the well-being of the whole.
Involvement in social discourse and action will at times require that
Bahá’ís become associated with the development of public policy.
In this regard, the term “policy,” like the term “politics,” has a broad
meaning. While refraining from discussion of policies pertaining
to  political relations between nations or partisan political affairs
within a country, Bahá’ís will no doubt contribute to the formulation
and implementation of policies that address certain social concerns.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Examples of such concerns are safeguarding the rights of women,
extending effective education to all children, curbing the spread of
infectious disease, protecting the environment, and eliminating the
extremes of wealth and poverty.
It is evident, then, that as a Bahá’í who is a political scientist you
have a great deal of latitude to comment on social issues. Yet it is also
possible to participate in the generation and application of knowledge
in your field by dealing with topics that are more directly political
in nature. You are no doubt aware of the general advice, written
on behalf of the Guardian, that one way to criticize the social and
political order of the day without siding with or opposing an existing
regime is to offer a deeper analysis on the level of political theory
rather than practical politics. Another approach would be to contrib-
ute to scientific inquiry and shed light on differing viewpoints to seek
common understanding and effective solutions without succumbing
to partisan advocacy and obfuscation. Bahá’u’lláh states that “every
matter related to state affairs which ye raise for discussion falls under
the shadow of one of the words sent down from the heaven of His
glorious and exalted utterance.” You have the opportunity to mine
the gems of His Revelation and to prepare and present them in a
manner that is attractive to those seeking new insights. You will have
to learn over time how to find a balance between the principles and
concepts you hold as true that come from the Teachings of the Faith
and from your discipline.
Challenges will inevitably arise. For example, you may find that an
issue pertaining to social action has been co-opted by the political
debate among competing factions, and wisdom will be required to
determine whether to adjust your approach or let the matter rest for
a time. In some cases it may be necessary to forgo opportunities that
would thrust you into political debate or criticism of partisan policies
of governments. In other instances there may be special sensitivities,
such as topics related to countries where the Bahá’í community faces

Speaking on Socio-Political Order
hardship or oppression, when comments could create the impression
that the friends are engaged in political activity against the interests
of a particular government. These same considerations arise when
evaluating invitations from the media to comment or engage in dis-
cussion on the political affairs of the day. Your National Spiritual
Assembly is available to assist you in clarifying particular questions
should the need arise.
Be assured of the prayers of the House of Justice at the Sacred Thresh-
old that your efforts to reflect the principles of the Faith in your pro-
fessional activities may attract the blessings and confirmations of the
Ancient Beauty.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

Baha'i World Center

Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Ali Nakhjavani
In one of his letters Shoghí Effendí has explained to us that one of
the distinctive features of our Faith is that we cannot separate the
spiritual life of the individual from the spiritual life of the commu-
nity. Mutual reactions exist between the two. Under the influence of
the divine teachings, the hearts of the individual believers bring into
being and shape the community. In turn, the community provides
an atmosphere where the individual believers develop and grow
spiritually. Our teachings are designed so that the spiritual life
of the individual Bahá’í, and the collective life of the community,
complement each other. Let us look at some examples:
•	Bahá’u’lláh calls on Bahá’ís to observe individual obligatory
prayers, but at the same time He ordains that Houses of
Worship for community prayers be established.
•	We see that Bahá’u’lláh calls on parents to be the first educa-
tors of their children, but at the same time He anticipates
that every local Bahá’í House of Worship will have a school,
and He praises the work of teachers.
•	He calls on the individual believer to teach His Cause and
protect Its interests, but simultaneously Bahá’í institutions
are given parallel assignments to provide for the teaching and
protection of His Faith.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In the messages of the Universal House of Justice we read that the
time has come for all Bahá’í communities to develop with greater
confidence and self-reliance a culture of thinking which is funda-
mentally different from the community activities of other religions.
Unlike other religions, there is no professional clergy in the Faith to
lead the community. Leadership and authority are vested in elected
institutions. Thus leadership is self-generated and home-grown
through democratic methods, and every individual member of the
community should be concerned with its welfare and healthy growth.
In 1996 when the Universal House of Justice was working on the
goals and objectives of its New Plan, which became the Four Year
Plan, it became clear that the percentage of individual Bahá’ís active
in the teaching field was very low; that teaching activities were almost
entirely the work of individuals, and very little resulted from group
collaboration among local Bahá’ís; that opportunities for collective
study of the teachings, apart from summer schools, were too few and
were randomly organized; and that by and large, because of these
facts on the ground, a methodical and workable system of training
and education, especially for collective action, was necessary in order
to meet these needs. Future Teaching Plans issuing from the World
Centre, therefore, had to address these problems progressively, thor-
oughly and effectively.
In other words, the Bahá’í world had to realize that while the two
duties of studying the Faith and teaching the Cause, as personal
responsibilities, will always remain vital concerns of individual
Bahá’ís, a simple and easy program had also to be adopted by Bahá’í
communities everywhere that would encourage group study of the
teachings as well as joint and collaborative efforts to teach the Cause.
Among the initial directives that the Universal House of Justice
issued was that every National Spiritual Assembly should endeavour,
in consultation with the Counsellors on each Continent, to create a

Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Training Institute, which it described as an “engine of growth.” This
was followed by the creation of a new institution, which was named
the Regional Bahá’í Council, to be established, as the Universal
House of Justice deemed it necessary, either as an appointed body or
an elected one, to be an intermediary administrative body between
the National Assembly and Local Assemblies and their communi-
ties. Detailed advice from the World Centre was then issued for the
initiation of core activities, such as study circles, devotional meetings,
home visits, children and junior youth activities, as well as the divi-
sion of each country into clusters, with the aim of raising up Bahá’í
communities soundly and evenly throughout each territory.
Today after over fourteen years what do we see? My purpose is not to
give you statistics. Any observer will testify that it is true that similar
needs continue to exist, but the world-wide community has made
a great deal of progress. A new culture has come into being in the
hearts and minds of the friends. We have become a stronger commu-
nity, the number of new believers has increased, our Nineteen Day
Feasts are better attended, and the activities of the Faith have become
more consolidated and united. Under the guidance of the Supreme
Body all these activities are being conducted with dignity and in a
spirit of moderation and friendliness.
Bahá’u’lláh makes a clear distinction between methods of teaching and
the obligation to teach. Methods of teaching change with conditions
and circumstances, and such changes are formulated and directed by
the institutions. While such methods are being implemented, the duty
of the individual to teach has not been ignored or under-rated. It has
been supplemented by group activities. The teaching work has been
designed like a two-edged sword. One edge is for individual activity,
and the other edge is for group and collaborative activity.
We need now to consider the guidance we find in the writings on how
we should approach our individual duty to teach the Cause. In one of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
his letters to the friends in the East, Shoghí Effendí likens the indi-
vidual isolated believer to a point, a group less than nine to a letter, a
local Spiritual Assembly to a word, a National Spiritual Assembly to
a sentence, and the Universal House of Justice to the Book.
Let us each consider ourselves to be a point. Bahá’u’lláh in one of
His Tablets has written that each devoted and sincere believer
should consider himself or herself to be the only and sole believer in
the world. In other words there is no one else, each one of us should
consider himself or herself to be a Mullá Husayn, the only believer
on the planet having embraced God’s Holy Faith for today. What
do we do? How can we become each an instrument in God’s hands?
Where do we find receptive souls and how do we introduce the Faith
to them? With what attitude should we teach the Cause? These are
the points that I will deal with briefly, based on the explicit teachings
of our Faith.
I have gleaned for you from Bahá’í Writings 18 major themes and
subjects which give us guidance in our independent efforts indi-
vidually to teach the Faith. Group teaching has its own dynamics;
individual teaching also has its own principles. If we allow these
personal guidelines to sink into our hearts and souls, they will
transform our spiritual lives under the shadow of the Covenant.
None of the points I will present to you are my own. They are all
based on exhortations found in the inspired Writings of our Faith.
1.	 We should teach with detachment and with a pure and radi-
ant heart, and when speak we should do so with tact and
wisdom. When we show our love to others we should do
so because we are true lovers of God and of humanity, not
because we are expecting others to accept the Faith through
us. Our love for others must be pure, true and selfless.

Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
2.	 We must remember that God has created all of us, He
loves all of us, and He would want all of humanity to accept
His Cause, but, alas, the inner eyes of a large majority are
at this time veiled and do not see the truth, nor are there
too many ready ears to appreciate His divine melody.
3.	 We should not deliver the message if we clearly see that
the hearer is uneasy, apprehensive or uncomfortable to
listen to us on the subject of the Faith.
4.	 When we speak about Bahá’u’lláh and His Cause we
should speak with confidence, courage, enthusiasm and
with a tone which conveys our own convictions.
5.	 We should associate with people in all walks of life
and mix and mingle with them with sincere love and in
a kindly manner, as such attitudes enable them to have
confidence in us. We should be willing to develop friendly
relationships with our associates, our neighbours, and
acquaintances.
6.	 We should try to associate with members of societies
which are non-political but are known to be social, cultural,
humanitarian, charitable, and educational associations and
organizations, in order to find among them receptive souls.
7.	 In our conversation we should encourage the hearer to
express his general thoughts and beliefs, and we should lis-
ten carefully and patiently to them before we start express-
ing gradually our own views and opinions. We should
speak with humility, without giving proudly the impres-
sion that the seeker is ignorant and we are the learned.
8.	 There is a difference between being blindly fanatical and
being faithful to principle. When speaking we should
never appear to be fanatical in any sense of the word. As
Bahá’ís we should be seen as liberal enough to listen to
and consider the other person’s point of view.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
9.	 We should remember that every Bahá’í is a potential
teacher. If we wait until we are fully qualified, the teach-
ing work will stop. We should forget ourselves, and put
our trust and reliance upon God. When we act in this
way, we will see how eloquence and the power to change
human hearts will come to us in a very natural way. We
become like an empty reed, and the Holy Spirit will use
us to quicken and confirm souls.
10.	Quoting sentences or brief extracts from the Words of
Bahá’u’lláh that would be useful in teaching has a tre-
mendous effect on the hearers. Therefore it will be very
helpful if we could memorize a few such sentences from
His Writings and use them in our teaching work.
11.	 There are very few souls who become Bahá’ís immedi-
ately, as soon as they hear of the Faith. There are other
precious souls, however, who are seeking after the truths
of our Faith, but for them it may take a little longer to
become Bahá’ís. And then in the majority of cases, we
must remember, conversion to a new Faith is a slow pro-
cess, and therefore we should not lose heart quickly, but
instead persevere in our efforts.
12.	We can of course show the inadequacy and inability
of existing religions in bringing about world unity and
peace, but we should not attack past religions, nor should
we be drawn into hair-splitting and unnecessary discus-
sions and arguments.
13.	Devotional meetings with Bahá’ís and their seekers are
important. At such meetings, appropriate extracts from
the Writings could also be shared.
14.	 We should pray that Bahá’u’lláh may assist and guide us
when teaching the Faith. In addition we should also pray
that God may send us the souls that are ready.

Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
15.	 Teaching in the atmosphere of our own homes and offer-
ing hospitality has a great effect. Living the Bahá’í way of
life greatly influences the minds and hearts of observers.
We should have such meetings in our homes once every
nineteen days.
16.	 We should never allow a day to pass without sharing some
aspect of the Faith with some soul. Nor should we allow
a year to pass without guiding at least one soul to accept
the Faith.
17.	 We should not only engage ourselves in teaching the
Faith, but we should wisely and lovingly be a source of
inspiration to our fellow believers, so that they too would
be encouraged by us radiantly to carry out their spiritual
obligation in the teaching work.
18.	Teaching the Cause should become the dominating pas-
sion of our lives. We must be aware that if we do not
teach, divine confirmations will be cut off, and we will
be depriving ourselves from seeing the signs of divine
assistance guiding us and enriching our spiritual lives.

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í
Ideas about God and the Spiritual World
Moojan Momen
The essence and the fundamentals of philosophy have emanated
from the Prophets. That the people differ concerning the inner
meanings and mysteries thereof is to be attributed to the diver-
gence of their views and minds.




The Tablet of Wisdom
In Lights of `Irfan, vol. 9 (2008), Ian Kluge has published a response
to my earlier paper “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.1 I
would like to thank him for a clear and informative description of
the background and the various elements that go towards relativism.
From the start of this response, I would like to make it clear that
I have never regarded my paper as a definitive exposition of Bahá’í
theology or philosophy. I recognize that future Bahá’í scholars will
develop understandings of the Bahá’í teachings that will make what I
have written seem naive, ill-judged or simply wrong. At such an early
stage in the development of the Bahá’í Faith, it would be foolish to
imagine that we can make definitive statements when so much of
the Bahá’í scriptures remain unpublished and inaccessible. Indeed
since the publication of that first paper, I have modified my position
as described below.
According to the Bahá’í view of where we are in humanity’s develop-
ment, Bahá’u’lláh has not come merely as a further Manifestation

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of God, he is a Universal Manifestation coming at the close of one
cycle and the start of another cycle. To me this means that what he
has brought is so revolutionary that the new world that will come
into being will be unrecognisable to the people of the past or pres-
ent generation. When people in several thousand years time look
at the process he has initiated, they will see it as the building of an
entirely new world psychologically, socially, economically and, yes,
even philosophically; in other words, that the cessation of war and
creation of a peaceful united world will just be the surface effect of
a much more radical change that has occurred in human minds and
souls; that he has not just come to bring about world unity but to
construct a new vision of reality itself.
I would maintain therefore that Bahá’u’lláh is not a proponent
of Enlightenment philosophy who wishes to extend the liberal
democratic values of the West to the rest of the world as some have
suggested; he has not come to tinker at the edges of philosophy; he is
not merely seeking to put right a few problems with the way the world
is organized economically and socially; he has not come just to add
a new international layer to the local and national institutions that
we already possess. His aim is a radical change much more radical
than any envisaged by any of the philosophies of the past. Unfortu-
nately the word “radical” has been used of such political movements as
communism and thus to call Bahá’u’lláh “radical” appears to put him
into a category with the likes of Marx, but what Bahá’u’lláh aims at is
something much deeper than anything that Marx wanted to achieve.
The only effect of the Communist revolution was to replace one hier-
archical oppressive social structure with another one (cf Orwell’s
Animal Farm). What Bahá’u’lláh is seeking to change is the very
structure of society that has been the norm for some 7,000 years. This
change can only be effected on the basis of changes in politics, econ-
omy, social structures and also in our conceptual and philosophical
models. This change, the Bahá’í teachings maintain cannot be brought
about by legislation and social policy. It also requires individuals who

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
are spiritually transformed so as to be less self-centred and more
other-centred; and it requires social processes at a community level
that can replace the present hierarchical social processes.
My critique of Kluge’s response has four main points, which I will
discuss in turn:
1. 	 Along with others who have criticised my article on rela-
tivism, I feel that Kluge has simply taken the word “rela-
tivism” and reproduced all of the usual criticisms of this
philosophical concept without taking into account that I
have in fact used the word in a very limited way and in
relation to a limited area of Bahá’í teachings. Thus most of
what he writes in his article may well be true but is simply
not relevant to my article.
2. 	 Kluge has not taken into account the fact that this article
was written some 30 years ago and published more than
20 years ago and that I have modified my position since
then. Following the publication of my original article,
Keven Brown pointed out to me an un-translated passage
in the writings of `Abdu’l-Baha which indicates that the
metaphysical relativism in the Bahá’í scriptures applies
at the level of the Prime Intellect (Primal Will or Primal
Manifestation) and that nothing at all can be said about
the level of the Absolute Reality of the Divinity Itself.
Subsequently I modified my view and published this in
my article “The God of Bahá’u’lláh”,2 a paper which Kluge
appears not to have read.
3. 	 In both articles, I have constructed an argument drawing
conclusions from three quotations of Bahá’u’lláh and a
quotation from `Abdu’l-Baha.  Kluge has not engaged with
the argument that I have presented nor addressed any of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
these quotations and has merely commented on a quota-
tion from Shoghi Effendi that I appended as supporting
evidence. It seems to me that if he is going to refute my
paper, he should at least point out where the interpretation
of the Bahá’í scripture that I have presented is faulty.
4. 	 Point 3 in fact highlights a much more fundamental
problem that I tackle at the end of this article—that
the debate itself is evidence of my point. Since this is in
many ways the crux of the matter, I would suggest that
those who do not want to get buried in the details of my
responses to the points that Kluge makes should just go
to this last section (“4. The Relativism of the Debate”).
1: Relativism and relativism
Kluge has given a very extensive description of relativism in its widest
scope of meaning. In my article, it may be that I was not sufficiently
clear or emphatic but I did state there that I have confined my argu-
ment to a specific area of relativism, cognitive relativism, and applied
it to a limited area of Bahá’í teaching, that of metaphysics. Thus much
of what Kluge writes about ontological relativism (p. 187), moral
relativism (p. 184), cultural relativism (p. 181, 186–7), legal relativ-
ism (p. 181, 187), etc., interesting as it may be, has no relevance to
my article. Of course I do not think that the Bahá’í Faith advocates
moral relativism. Bahá’u’lláh inculcates a moral code that by today’s
standards is even considered traditional or old-fashioned and is the very
antithesis of moral relativism. Of course I do not think that the Bahá’í
teachings advocate an ontological relativism (i.e. that the existence of
all entities is context-dependent and determined by individual and/or
cultural beliefs). Bahá’u’lláh clearly considers that there is an Absolute
Reality which exists independently of every human point of view.

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
Relativism does not apply to most areas of the Bahá’í teachings,only
to a limited area. In relation to ethics, Bahá’u’lláh restates the moral
laws of previous religions (although there are changes in social ethics
as these are part of the social teachings); in relation to social teachings,
the Bahá’í scriptures advocate the principle of progressive revelation
that the teachings brought by the Manifestations of God develop in
accordance with human social progress. Paul Lample in his excellent
treatment of the area of social action in the Bahá’í teachings, has
suggested that the nonfoundationalism of Richard Bernstein is the
best theoretical model for the Bahá’í teachings in the area of social
action.3 It is only in the narrowly-defined area of metaphysics that I
am suggesting that a cognitive relativism applies.
What I am suggesting is that the relativism that applies to the Bahá’í
teachings relates to metaphysics and is cognitive. I am defining meta-
physics as that which is beyond this physical world in other words,
God and the spiritual world. Cognitive means that it applies, not to
“what is” but to what we are capable of knowing about “what is”. Thus
my contention is that, although we believe that there is an Absolute
Reality (God) in the metaphysical realm (the spiritual world beyond
the physical), what we can know or comprehend about this entity
that we call God is relative and not absolute. It is relative to our
viewpoint, our psychological, spiritual, cultural and other limitations
that confine our viewpoint and prevent us from comprehending the
totality of God.
In explaining Shoghi Effendi’s statement that “religious truth is not
absolute but relative”, Kluge writes:
“From this we conclude that relativism does not apply to
the “eternal verities” (universal, objective and foundational)
but only to the way they may be expressed outwardly, or
historically.” (p. 209)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
But my contention is that we human beings do not know what these
“eternal verities” are in relation to metaphysics (and even in the area
of ethics for the most part), we only have access to “the way they may
be expressed outwardly, or historically”. Since we only have access to
the historical expression of the “eternal verities”, then our knowledge
of them is relative. This is true even in the area of ethics. Both the
Bible and the Qur’an appear to consider slavery and holy war to be
permissible yet Bahá’u’lláh now forbids these. Presumably the “eter-
nal verities” have not changed and yet there has been a profound
change in their historical expression. We however only have access
to that historical expression. The same degree of change has occurred
with many social structures and institutions such as the position of
women in society and the position of the clerical class. For all we
know there are aspects of our society that we regard as permissible
and normal and fondly consider to be “eternal verities” which future
Manifestations of God will change.
Of course when we are dealing with ethical relativism, we are tread-
ing on thin ice and it would be easy for some to take our words out
of context and apply to them a meaning we did not intend (which is
why I have not dwelt at any length on this aspect in my papers). The
concept of ethical or moral relativism enshrined in the Bahá’í teach-
ing is not one of “anything goes” in the present day which is what
this term connotes to most people. Rather it is one that states that,
over a long period of history, ethical ideals and values have changed
as human society has changed and some of what was considered
permissible in a past age is not considered permissible today.
Furthermore Kluge’s asserts that:
“Of course, it is evident that we do, in fact, have some knowl-
edge of these “eternal verities” or other absolute truths…
Thus, throughout history, we attain partial glimpses of the
essential truths, the “eternal verities”. (p. 210)

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
I would ask the question: how do we know what are the “eternal
verities” and what are those aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation that
are not eternal and which future Manifestations of God will change?
Perhaps if we had lived in the 12th century, we might have fondly
imagined that the institution of slavery or holy war and those ethical
values that underlie these practices were part of the “eternal verities”.
Even today there are many who think that war is an “eternal verity” of
the human condition. The teachings of future Manifestations of God
are hidden from us precisely because we cannot “bear them now” (cf
John 16:12). This in itself seems to me a convincing argument that
we cannot know what the “eternal verities” are in any exhaustive or
definitive sense in the area of ethics. We can only know them in the
more general sense of spiritual qualities such as love, justice etc.
In fact, the “partial glimpses” that Kluge refers to are precisely the
cognitive relativism imposed on human beings (and indeed on all
creatures) by the fact that they are incapable of comprehending the
levels of reality above their own level.
Kluge has a section “Relativism versus Relationalism” deals with
ontological questions whether things exist or do not - this again has
nothing to do with the cognitive relativism that my two relativism
papers are concerned with. However even in this section there are
suggestive sentences that point to the position that I am suggesting.
For example, Kluge states that:
Again we observe that in these statements the attributes
of existence and nonexistence are not simply matters of
opinion or viewpoint in the relativistic sense of our being
able to hold the opposite view with equal validity. There
is, for example, no standpoint from which creation is not
contingent and dependent upon God, nor is there a stand-
point from which God Himself depends on creation. (This
should not be confused with the claim that humans may

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
devise various concepts of God; the concepts, but not God
Himself are dependent on man.) (p. 214)
But as `Abdu’l-Baha states all of our concepts of God are creations
of our minds. He does not exclude the Bahá’ís from this statement:
Consider then, how all the peoples of the world are bowing
the knee to a fancy of their own contriving, how they have
created a creator within their own minds, and they call it the
Fashioner of all that is—whereas in truth it is but an illusion.
Thus are the people worshipping only an error of perception.4
All of us, whether Bahá’ís or not, cannot have any concepts of God
that are independently true that occupy an Archimedean point. So
the fact that God exists is an assertion that we affirm (i.e. a statement
of belief)as soon as we try to conceptualise what “God exists” means
(i.e. try to bring it to the level of cognition), we are in the realm of rela-
tive truths, each of us conceptualises that ontological truth in differ-
ent ways in accordance with our worldview, our culture, our previous
intellectual and social experiences.
But that Essence of Essences, that Invisible of Invisibles,
is sanctified above all human speculation, and never to be
overtaken by the mind of man.  Never shall that immemorial
Reality lodge within the compass of a contingent being. His
is another realm, and of that realm no understanding can be
won.  No access can be gained thereto; all entry is forbidden
there.  The utmost one can say is that Its existence can be
proved, but the conditions of Its existence are unknown.5
I cannot see that there is much difference between this concept of
relative truth and the concept of perspectivism that Kluge approves
of in his paper thus it may be that our difference in relation to this
part of his paper is merely that of terminology.

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
Kluge writes that as a result of relativism:
…there is no common reality or world for all people. As
seen immediately above, this leads to the impossibility of
developing an even minimally coherent metaphysic theory of
reality or general world-view (Weltanschauung). Even more,
it also makes the entire Bahá’í project impossible. The mis-
sion of the Bahá’í Faith is to provide a spiritual framework
in which all the religious dispensations can find their place
and be elevated to a new level,6 and in which the dream of a
unified world order can be achieved. Such unity requires that
to a considerable degree we share a common reality, that at
least a sufficient number of people agree about the nature of
reality, the nature of man and the world we live in. (p. 224)
I would disagree profoundly with what Kluge has written here. It
is the insistence on a single truth that has led the Western world
towards its intellectual, religious and cultural imperialism in which
it has insisted on its truth to the exclusion of all other perspectives.
In reaction to this other groups such as Islamic fundamentalists are
insisting that they have sole access to the truth. It is by allowing vari-
ous viewpoints of the truth to co-exist within the Bahá’í framework,
and thus giving dignity and value to these different frameworks, that
we can have truly have unity on an equal basis and lessen the appeal
of extremist positions.
2: At What Level Does Cognitive Relativism Apply?
Kluge takes up a great deal of his response in refuting the idea that the
Bahá’í Faith believes in any form of monism (pp. 219–222). Firstly, I
would like to say that everything that he writes is correct. He appears
to think, however, that by refuting monism, he has refuted my thesis.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
This shows a misunderstanding of my thesis. My articles are not say-
ing that monism is the Bahá’í understanding of metaphysics. The
position advanced in my articles is that both monism and theism are
equally correct if they are taken as an understanding of God but they
are equally incorrect if they are taken as the absolute understanding
of God. Each understanding is correct from its own standpoint but
wrong from the other standpoint. To be more specific, they are correct
when understood at the level of the manifestation of the names and
attributes of God but are incorrect as understandings of the Essence
of God. This is an important point as much blood has been spilt over
this difference in human history7 and resolving the conflict would
therefore be a significant element in Bahá’í attempts to bring unity.
Both monists and theists regard their understandings as the abso-
lute understanding of the Essence of God. By refuting this standard
understanding of monism from the Bahá’í viewpoint, Kluge has in
fact given half of the proof of my argument. To complete the proof of
my position, I need only to refute the standard understanding of the-
ism from a Bahá’í viewpoint and establish that these two positions
are in fact both correct as relative understandings of the manifesta-
tions of the names and attributes of God (but not of God Himself).
This I need to do in three stages:
A.	 to refute, from a Bahá’í perspective, the standard under-
standing of theism;
B. 	 secondly to demonstrate that both theism and monism
apply to the Manifestation of God only and not to the
Essence; and
C. 	 to demonstrate that the Bahá’í scriptures advocate a
cognitive relativism in order to explain how both theism
and monism can apply to the Manifestation of God.

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
A. Refutation of Theism. Theism posits a God that can be known and
described. Foremost among the statements made about God is that
He is the Creator of all that exists. Many other attributes and actions
are attributed to Him in the scriptures of Judaism, Christianity and
Islam. In the Bahá’í scriptures, we find however that God is unknow-
able: ‘”The way is barred, and all seeking rejected.’  The minds of the
favourites of heaven, however high they soar, can never attain this
station, how much less the understanding of obscured and limited
minds.”8 Even the attributes of God that we think we understand are,
in reality, beyond our comprehension.
It is not that we can comprehend His knowledge, His sight,
His power and life, for it is beyond our comprehension; for
the essential names and attributes of God are identical with
His Essence, and His Essence is above all comprehension.9
In the Bahá’í scriptures, however, we find evidence that these descrip-
tions of God and His attributes refer not to the Essence of God but
in fact all of them refer to the Manifestations of  God. Bahá’u’lláh
asserts that all pathways to the Ultimate Reality, whether that of
mystics (adh-dhákirún) or of the learned (al-`árifún) are in reality
pathways to the Manifestations of God—these two pathways can be
considered as allusions to the two pathways of monism (the mystics)
and theism (the learned). More specifically, Bahá’u’lláh denies that
either the pathway of the mystic (yadhkaraka) or that of learning and
esoteric knowledge (ya`raja ilá hawá’ `irfánika) yields knowledge of
Ultimate Reality; it yields knowledge only of the Manifestation:
The loftiest sentiments which the holiest of saints (adh-
dhákirún) can express in praise of Thee (yadhkaraka), and the
deepest wisdom which the most learned of men (al-`árifún)
can utter in their attempts to comprehend Thy nature (ya`raja
ilá hawá’ `irfánika), all revolve around that Centre Which is
wholly subjected to Thy sovereignty, Which adoreth Thy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Beauty, and is propelled through the movement of Thy Pen
[i.e. the Manifesation of God].10
Similarly, in his Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh-i Basit
al-Haqíqa), Bahá’u’lláh states that “whatever wondrous references
and powerful descriptions have appeared from the mouth and pen
refer to the sublime Word [of God], the most exalted Pen, the primal
Summit, the true Homeland, and the Dawning-place of the manifes-
tation of mercy [i.e. the Manifesation of God].”’11
Bahá’u’lláh states that he himself is the one whom in the Hebrew
Bible is called Jehovah (Yahweh, YHWH)12 and this is confirmed
by Shoghi Effendi.13 Bahá’u’lláh also claims to be the Speaker on
Sinai.14 Jehovah and the Speaker on Sinai are of course considered
to have been God Himself in Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
Similarly, Bahá’u’lláh refers to Himself as the “Word” and as the
“Father”,15 again being terms associated in the Christian Bible with
God Himself. And similarly, the crowning attribute of God as the
Creator is in fact, attributed in the Long Obligatory Prayer to the
Manifestation of God: “He Who hath been manifested is the Hid-
den Mystery, the Treasured Symbol, through Whom the letters B
and E (Be) have been joined and knit together.”
Bahá’u’lláh states that even such attributes as “Godhead, Divinity,
Supreme Singleness, and Inmost Essence”, which we would normally
think of only in relationship to the Ultimate Reality, are in fact
attributable to the Manifestations of God.
Viewed from the standpoint of their oneness and sublime
detachment, the attributes of Godhead, Divinity, Supreme
Singleness, and Inmost Essence, have been, and are appli-
cable to those Essences of Being, inasmuch as they all abide
on the throne of Divine Revelation, and are established upon
the seat of Divine Concealment. Through their appearance

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
the Revelation of God is made manifest, and by their coun-
tenance the Beauty of God is revealed. Thus it is that the
accents of God Himself have been heard uttered by these
Manifestations of the Divine Being.16
`Abdu’l-Bahá confirms this, asserting that everything that is attributed
to God in the scriptures is in reality attributed to the Manifestation of
God and that anything else that human beings may think they attri-
bute to God is pure imagination.
Accordingly all these attributes, names, praises and eulogies
apply to the Places of Manifestation; and all that we imagine
and suppose beside them is mere imagination, for we have no
means of comprehending that which is invisible and inacces-
sible… From this it is certain and evident that if we imagine
a Divine Reality outside of the Holy Manifestations, it is
pure imagination, for there is no way to approach the Reality
of Divinity which is not cut off to us, and all that we imagine
is mere supposition.17
Even when we talk of the Oneness of God (at-Tawhíd), we are in real-
ity, so Bahá’u’lláh asserts, talking of the Unity of the Manifestations:
Beware, O believers in the Unity of God, lest ye be tempted
to make any distinction between any of the Manifestations
of His Cause, or to discriminate against the signs that have
accompanied and proclaimed their Revelation.  This indeed
is the true meaning of Divine Unity, if ye be of them that
apprehend and believe this truth.18
So the Bahá’í Faith, as well as refuting classical monism as Kluge
demonstrates, also refutes classical theism, as laid out by the theolo-
gians of Judaism, Christianity and Islam.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
B. Both theism and monism apply to the Manifestation of God only
and not to the Essence of God. As demonstrated in the previous
section, all of these positions taken in the Bahá’í scriptures specifically
and categorically deny the traditional theism of Judaism, Christianity
and Islam. Since the Bahá’í scriptures also specifically and categori-
cally deny traditional monism, as Kluge has shown, what then are we
left with? I would suggest that what we are left with is affirmation
in the Bahá’í scriptures that both the theism and monism are true
if applied to the Manifestation of the names and attributes of God.
Thus for example, `Abdu’l-Baha in Some Answered Questions denies a
literal oneness of existence (wahdat al-wujúd) between the Creator and
the creation, wherein God becomes resolved into (munhall, dispersed
among) the forms of created things (as some Sufis and other monists
assert). But of course both Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Baha maintain
that all things manifest at least some of the names and attributes
of God. Thus names and attributes of God, the signs of God, are
dispersed among all created things:
…whatever I behold I readily discover that it maketh Thee
known unto me, and it remindeth me of Thy signs, and of
Thy tokens, and of Thy testimonies. By Thy glory! Every
time I lift up mine eyes unto Thy heaven, I call to mind Thy
highness and Thy loftiness, and Thine incomparable glory
and greatness; and every time I turn my gaze to Thine earth,
I am made to recognize the evidences of Thy power and the
tokens of Thy bounty. And when I behold the sea, I find
that it speaketh to me of Thy majesty, and of the potency of
Thy might, and of Thy sovereignty and Thy grandeur. And
at whatever time I contemplate the mountains, I am led to
discover the ensigns of Thy victory and the standards of
Thine omnipotence.19
Similarly, Bahá’u’lláh asserts, as the above quotations have demon-
strated, that theism is also true at the level of the Manifestation of God

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
and not at the level of the Essence of God. Indeed the Bahá’í scriptures
assert that we can say nothing about God. The only valid statement
that we can say about God is that He/She/It exists,nothing else:
But that Essence of Essences, that Invisible of Invisibles,
is sanctified above all human speculation, and never to be
overtaken by the mind of man.  Never shall that immemo-
rial Reality lodge within the compass of a contingent being…
The utmost one can say is that Its existence can be proved,
but the conditions of Its existence are unknown.20
We have seen above that the statements about God made in theistic
traditions are related in the Bahá’í scriptures to the manifestation
of God. The statements in Monism asserting unity between the
individual and Absolute reality are also related by `Abdu’l-Baha to
the Manifestation of God, or rather to the Primal Will which is
the Reality of the Manifestation of God. In describing the monist
position, `Abdu’l-Baha makes use of the analogy of the ocean as the
Absolute Reality and of the waves of that ocean as the individual
human beings. He asserts in Some Answered Questions that this
position that the individual is emerges from and is absorbed back
into the ocean of the Absolute Reality is wrong.21 `Abdu’l-Baha
explains however that between the World of the Absolute Reality
and the physical world, there is an intermediate world, the World of
Command (`álam al-amr), wherein the Primal Will emanates from
God. This is the world of the Manifestation of God. He explains that
“the Primal Will is the inner reality of all things and all existent
entities are the manifestations of the Primal Will”;22 and in another
passage that the above concept of the waves that resolve into the
ocean of Reality applies at this level of the Primal Will, the Mani-
festation of God.23
In this way, both the theistic concept of God (and humanity’s abso-
lute separation and distinction from God) and the monistic concept

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of the Absolute Reality (and humanity being resolved into and being
inseparable from this Reality) are related in the Bahá’í scriptures to
the concept of the Manifestation of God, who is in fact the Manifes-
tation of the Primal Will and exists at the intermediary level of the
World of Command.
C. The Bahá’í scriptures advocate a cognitive relativism in order to
explain how both theism and monism can apply to the Manifesta-
tion of God. In my paper “The God of Bahá’u’lláh”, I suggest that
Bahá’u’lláh has tackled this split between theism and monism in
five different ways, each of which is in its own right correct. This,
incidentally, is itself a response to Kluge’s contention (p.202) that
the statement that Relativism is a basis for Bahá’í metaphysics is
self-refuting, since it can only be relatively true. Yes, relativism is
itself only relatively true; there are four other ways of looking at this
question that are also relatively true. In this paper however, rather
than repeating what is said in my other paper about the other four, I
will just concentrate on relativism.
In the Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality, Bahá’u’lláh describes
the Manifestation of God thus: “even though outwardly He is given
a name and appears to be bound by limitations, He is, in His inner
reality, uncompounded (basít), sanctified from limitations. This
uncompounded state is relative and attributive (idáfí wa nisbí) and
not uncompounded in an absolute sense (min kull al-jihát).”24
The Manifestation of God is humanity’s contact or link with the
Absolute. He has a privileged, Archimedean standpoint and is thus
able to make pronouncements that are normative for all of human-
kind. But he is limited in what he can bring to us of Absolute Reality.
He is confined by the limitations of human understanding, of human
language and of the stage of development that humanity has reached.
Thus although in theory, he could bring us Absolute Truth and “eter-
nal verities”, in practice he only brings us a truth that is compatible

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
with and relative to human limitations and our stage of development.
The best that we as human beings can do is to study the scriptures that
the Manifestation brings and form our own understandings of God
and of the spiritual world. Of course this means that once one of the
Manifestations of God, such as Moses and Muhammad, had made a
strong statement against idolatry, it would no longer have been correct
for Jewish and Islamic theologians and philosophers to have viewed
spiritual reality in a way that included multiple gods. Similarly, since
in the Bahá’í scriptures, there is a strong statement that reincarnation
is not literally true, it would be wrong for Bahá’ís to construct theolo-
gies and philosophies that include this concept (although the Bahá’í
scriptures do give us hints that such concepts might have some relative
truth to them25).
Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Baha have removed God out of our arena of
discourse completely and assert that all references either to a theis-
tic God or a monistic Absolute Reality are in fact references to the
Manifestation of God. How then can we reconcile the idea that both
theism and monism are true at the level of the Manifestation of God?
The Bahá’í scriptures themselves indicate the way. Bahá’u’lláh asserts
that any conceptions that human beings have of God are in reality the
products of their own mind; that human beings are unable to:
…fathom the mystery of Him Who is the Day Star of Truth,
Who is the invisible and unknowable Essence. The concep-
tions of the devoutest of mystics, the attainments of the most
accomplished amongst men, the highest praise which human
tongue or pen can render are all the product of man’s finite
mind and are conditioned by its limitations.26
Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the strivings
of mortal man to unravel Thy mystery, to describe Thy glory,
or even to hint at the nature of Thine Essence. For whatever

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
such strivings may accomplish, they can never hope to tran-
scend the limitations imposed upon Thy creatures…27
Since human minds are incapable of transcending these limitations
and conceptualising the Absolute Reality, Bahá’u’lláh states that the
concepts that human beings have are thus necessarily a reflection of
the viewpoint of that person:
The meditations of the profoundest thinker, the devotions of
the holiest of saints, the highest expressions of praise from
either human pen or tongue, are but a reflection of that which
hath been created within themselves…28
Similarly as we have seen above, `Abdu’l-Baha says that:
All the people have formed a god in the world of thought,
and that form of their imagination they worship…
Therefore consider: All the sects and people worship their own
thought; they create a god in their own minds and acknowl-
edge him to be the creator of all things, when that form is
a superstition thus people adore and worship imagination.29
`Abdu’l-Baha explains this further in his Commentary on the
Islamic tradition “I was a Hidden Treasure… “. Here in explain-
ing the differences between those philosopher-mystics who incline
to monism and those who incline to theism, `Abdu’l-Baha asserts
that these differences in the viewpoints arise from differences in the
fundamental natures (i.e., the Divine attributes predominant within
the soul/psyche complex) of the observers. The fundamental nature
of one individual inclines him to see Reality in a dualist mode, while
another will see Reality in a monist modem (see below for a more
detailed explanation of this point).30

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
In summary then, both Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Baha are saying that
the differences that occur between those who see God in a theistic
mode and those who are inclined to seeing the Absolute Reality in a
monistic mode are due to the viewpoint of these different observers;
in other words that this is a matter of cognitive relativism. What they
understand of the Absolute is relative to their viewpoint.
To express all of this in the language of post-modernism and decon-
struction, we can say that the Bahá’í scriptures indicate that when
scripture (whether Bahá’í or those of other religions) refers to God,
the signifier “God cannot refer to an Absolute Entity, since there is
nothing that can be said about that Absolute Reality. Instead, what is
signified by the word “God” is that which is manifest of God in this
world. At the highest level this is of course the Manifestation of God
who is the perfect manifestation of all of the Names and Attributes of
God, but the Names and Attributes of God are also manifest in every
human being and even in Nature. In exactly the same way, the person
hearing or reading the word “God” in the scripture will impose upon
that a meaning drawn from a network of meanings in the person’s
mind and the culture in which the word is used. Thus ultimately the
meaning of the word “God” rests upon a network of texts that form
the background of the psyche and culture of the person using the
word. We as human beings are inescapably caught within this web
or net of meaning, to which the term “intertextuality” is applied. The
“signifier” (which is usually a word, but may be an image, sound or
action, invested with meaning) can truly represent the “signified” for
a given individual person, but not generically for all.31
3: What is to count as proof and evidence?
In the two articles that I have written on this subject, I have con-
structed my arguments drawing conclusions from three quotations
of Bahá’u’lláh and a quotation from `Abdu’l-Baha. Kluge has not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
engaged with the argument that I have presented nor addressed any
of these quotations and has merely commented on a quotation from
Shoghi Effendi that I appended as supporting evidence. It seems to
me that if he is going to refute my paper, he should at least point
out where the interpretation of the Bahá’í scripture that I have pre-
sented is faulty.
What Kluge has done in arguing against the conclusions of my paper
is to bring forward logical and philosophical arguments. He appeals
to the rational. He takes up much of his article with trying to prove
that the position of relativism is “self-undermining and self refuting”
and “logically incompatible” with the Bahá’í teachings (p. 180, 202;
see pp. 204–211).
This appeal to logic and to rationalism is where I must part company
with Kluge. Indeed in my first paper I made it clear that I realize
that the position that I am putting forward may appear contrary
to Aristotlean standards of logic. But I would contend that these
Aristotelean standards are themselves not tenable when we are
considering matters that relate to anything outside our every-day
physical world. Even in science, it has become clear that Aristotelean
logic and the construction of reality based on Newton’s laws applies
only to our every-day level of physical existence. As we move away
from this, either towards the very small, where quantum theory
appears to be the best explanation of reality, or towards the very
large, where relativity theory appears to be the best explanation of
reality, our common-sense and logical constructions (such as main-
taining that a proposition and its opposite expression cannot both
be true—Aristotle’s Law of the Excluded Middle) become less and
less “true”. Even Aristotle’s laws of causality are called into question
by 20th century science. The Newtonian construction of reality falls
down and is replaced by a reality in which propositions and their
opposites can both be true; in which a thing can be in two opposite
states at once. If this is true in the realm of science as we move away

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
from the every-day physical world towards the very large and the very
small in the physical world, I would maintain that it is also true as
we move away from our everyday level of physical reality towards
spiritual reality. Here too, as mystics have been saying for centuries,
the laws of logic and our common-sense construction of reality break
down. As Bahá’u’lláh writes in the Seven Valleys:
The story is told of a mystic knower, who went on a journey
with a learned grammarian as his companion.  They came to
the shore of the Sea of Grandeur.  The knower straightway
flung himself into the waves, but the grammarian stood lost
in his reasonings, which were as words that are written on
water.  The knower called out to him, “Why dost thou not
follow?”  The grammarian answered, “O Brother, I dare not
advance.  I must needs go back again.”  Then the knower
cried, “Forget what thou didst read in the books of Sibavayh
and Qawlavayh, of Ibn‑i‑Hajib and Ibn‑i‑Malik, and cross
the water.”
The death of self is needed here, not rhetoric:
Be nothing, then, and walk upon the waves.32
Kluge rejects the epistemological position of relativism that says “man,
not the object of knowledge, determines what is true or false about
what is perceived . . Ontologically, it is man who determines whether
something or some situation or state of affairs is or is not.” (p. 189)
But I would ask whether the following quotation from `Abdu’l-Baha
is not in fact an expression in relation to God of the position that
Kluge has rejected: “All the people have formed a god in the world
of thought, and that form of their imagination they worship.”33 As I
have commented above, `Abdu’l-Baha does not exclude Bahá’ís from
this. “All the people”, he says, determine for themselves what they
consider to be “true or false”.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Again Kluge rejects the relativist position that “you and I have dif-
ferent truths simply because we are different individuals with
different points of view.” (p. 190) But I would ask: is this not the clear
implication of `Abdu’l-Baha’s exposition of the Islamic Tradition “I
was a Hidden Treasure...”. In this exposition, `Abdu’l-Baha explains
that human beings do see reality differently because the various
names and attributes of God are manifested in each individual to
different degrees:
For the world of humanity is the world of the perfection
of the words. Thus it is that it has been said: “God created
Adam in His image”; that is to say in the form of His Names
and Attributes. However although he is the dawning-place
of the manifestation of all the Names and Attributes, one of
the Divine Names is manifested most strongly and appears
most intensely [in each person]. Thus his being originates
from this Name and returns to it. The summary of the mat-
ter is that some of the saints of God, since they have seen
the rays of the light of the Eternal Beauty with the eye of
perpetuity in the heights of transcendence [tanzih] and the
heaven of sanctity [taqdis] praise and sanctify the Essence
of Absolute Unity above all of the stages [shu’unat] that per-
tain to the world. For in the being of these heavenly figures,
the Names of “Sanctity” and “Transcendence” have shone
forth. And some of the knowers of the Hidden Secrets are
the manifestations of the names “Divinity” and “Lordship”.
Thus it is that in this station, they do not see the Lord of
Lords without His subject creatures, nor the Creator with-
out a Creation, nor the All-Knowing without an object of
knowledge.
And some of those who know the secrets of Primal Unity,
although in their reality and innermost being one of the
Divine Names is strongest yet in their being a reflection

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
exists and a light is apparent of every Name of the Absolute
and every Attribute of the Self-Sufficient One. For these, in
the station of absolute transcendence and complete sanctity
whereof it is said: “There was God and there was nothing
besides Him”, see that Essence of Primal Unity as being
pre-existent in both Essence and Attributes, free from the
existence of objects of knowledge and from the realities
of existent beings. In this station, they consider all except
God to be absolute non-existence and complete nothing-
ness. Thus it is that, in this station, they regard realities,
existent beings and contingent beings as originated and do
not consider anything as pre-existent except the Essence of
the Absolute. In another station which is the station of the
manifestation of the Name “All-Knowing” and the Names
of “Divinity” and “Lordship”, the realities of things are
considered to be pre-existent and knowledge dependent on
objects of knowledge.34
Thus each individual sees reality differently in accordance with how
strongly each of the names of God is manifested within him or her.
For human beings, there is no Archimedean point for seeing reality
correctly in any absolute way. All that is available are the individual
understandings that each human being has. These understand-
ings should of course be based on our reading of the scriptures but
ultimately even our understanding of what we read is shaped by the
factors which `Abdu’l-Baha describes as the relative balance of the
expression of the different Names of God in each individual.
Some in whom “the Names of ‘Sanctity’ and ‘Transcendence’ have
shone forth” are more inclined to separate God from His creation,
to separate truth from error; theirs is an analytic mind that seeks
to separate and define precisely, a mind that does not tolerate
ambiguity and contradiction. They favour reductive, empiricist,
determinist or positivist approaches to constructing reality. This

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
frame of mind is favoured in the world of Newtonian science and
Aristotlean philosophy.
Others whom `Abdu’l-Baha describes as “the manifestations of
the names ‘Divinity’ and ‘Lordship’” are more inclined to see God
in relation to His creation; they look to truths that encompass all
positions and are more comfortable with ambiguity and contradic-
tions, considering these to be an inherent, inescapable part of the
human condition. They prize inclusiveness and synthetic, integrative
or holistic constructions of reality. This frame of mind is favoured
among mystics and many modern scientists.
Since this relative balance in the expression of the different Names
of God in each individual affects how we see reality, it will also affect
how we assess and determine what proofs and what evidence we
accept in this debate. Those in whom `Abdu’l-Baha says “the Names
of ‘Sanctity’ and ‘Transcendence’ have shone forth” will be more
strongly inclined to accept logical proofs and rational argumenta-
tion. Others whom `Abdu’l-Baha says are “the manifestations of the
names ‘Divinity’ and ‘Lordship’” will prize argumentation that is
holistic and inclusive. Thus the fact that Kluge sees Absolute Reality
in a dualist form and I see it in a relativist mode indicates nothing at
all about the Absolute Reality but does indicate something about the
difference in our two psyches. Perhaps this then is the “knowledge”
of our “own selves” that Bahá’u’lláh is referring to in his statement:
Far, far from Thy glory be what mortal man can affirm of
Thee, or attribute unto Thee, or the praise with which he can
glorify Thee!  Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy
servants of extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is
but a token of Thy grace unto them, that they may be enabled
to ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost
being, the station of the knowledge of their own selves.35

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
4: The Relativism of the Debate
Finally, I would like to make a more general point about what is going
on in this debate, a point that is in many ways much more important
that any specific detailed comments. If we look at Kluge’s response we
find the following points within it:
It is philosophical, and deals with truth as defined within a
particular sphere of philosophy that favours logical, analytical
argument. It has not responded to any of the quotations that I
have given in my argument.
Similarly, if you examine my line of argument you will find that:
It is based on scripture and is principally theological in its
argument. It deals with truth in a holistic and synthetic man-
ner. Kluge will no doubt think that it has not dealt adequately
with the specifically philosophical points in his argument.
What we have here then are two different conceptual worlds each
perfectly self-consistent and understandable within itself but coming
to different conclusions, using different criteria for what will count
as evidence and what will count as decisive proof. In other worlds
we have two universes of discourse, two paradigms, two realities or,
to use a phrase from the philosopher Wittgenstein, two different
language games.
Each universe of discourse is complete within itself and each seems
consistent with reality and with the Bahá’í scriptures as long as one
remains within it. While reading Kluge’s paper all of his arguments
are perfectly consistent and convincing. I would hope that the reader
finds that my arguments are also consistent and convincing.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
This picture that I have drawn of what his happening in the debate
between myself and Kluge is in a way a much more powerful argu-
ment for the truth of the position of relativism that any of the
detailed arguments I have made above. It demonstrates the reality
of the human position. We are all trapped inside realities that we
human beings have created communally, in this case, one a reality
created within the world of philosophy and another created within a
more theological setting. Although these realities are created by us,
we lose sight of this fact and thin of them as reality itself. We think
that this is how things actually are whereas in fact they are just the
reality that we have constructed. As long as we remain within one
reality, the picture that it draws is consistent and believable. We, as
human beings, have no way of standing outside of these constructions
of reality and judging what is absolute truth. We only have access to
our visions of truth that are limited and contingent.
Conclusion
In brief then, the position that I think is closest to what the Bahá’í
scriptures say is one that is built up along the following lines:
1. 	 Human beings because of the limited nature of their
minds can have no knowledge of the Absolute Reality,
God (no “Archimedean point” for understanding). The
most we can say is an affirmation of belief that He/She/It
exists. This inability of human minds to have knowledge
of God extends to the rest of the metaphysical realm, since
Bahá’u’lláh asserts that we cannot even have knowledge of
that aspect of the metaphysical realm that is closest to us,
our own souls.
2.	 All that human beings have knowledge of are the Names
and Attributes of God.

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
3.	 These Names and Attributes are most perfectly mani-
fested in the Manifestations of God, the founders of the
world religions, They are humanity’s point of contact
with the Absolute. They have a privileged, Archimedean
standpoint, Therefore it is to the person and writings of
these Manifestations that we must turn to obtain the
best knowledge.
4.	 But we, as human beings are two stages away from being
able to understand that Archimedean point. The first stage
of remove is that, although the Manifestation has access to
the Absolute Truth, He is limited in what He can bring to
us of Absolute Reality. He is confined by the limitations of
human understanding, of human language and of the stage
of development that humanity has reached. Thus although
in theory, He could bring us Absolute Truth, in practice he
only brings us a truth that is compatible with and relative
to human limitations and our stage of development. And
so although He is able to make pronouncements that are
normative for all of humankind, these are not statements
of Absolute Truth but statements that are what we are able
to understand of that truth at our stage of development.
5.	 The second stage of remove from Absolute Truth is that we,
as human beings have no direct access to the mind of the
Manifestation; we can only study the scriptures that the
Manifestation brings and form our own understandings of
God and of the spiritual world. But these understandings
will be shaped by the limitations imposed upon us by our
individual cultural and educational background and our
own personal life history. They will be limited, partial or
relative truths. Others from a different culture and life
history will understand what they read in the same scrip-
tures differently and will form their own understandings

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
of God, His attributes and of the spiritual world. The
teachings of the Manifestation do give certain social and
moral teachings and laws. Humanity must act on these
as though they are absolutes until the coming of a future
Manifestation of God, but in fact even these are relative
truths and a future Manifestation may change these in
ways that we cannot anticipate. Only a Manifestation of
God, however, has the authority to change these social and
moral laws and teachings or to interpret them in anything
other than their obvious sense.
I would maintain that the pathway taken by Kluge is the one that
Western thought has always traditionally taken and which necessarily
results in one approach being triumphant over all other approaches. In
this line of thought, there can only be one correct exposition of truth
and only one understanding of reality. One result of this approach
historically has been the neo-colonialism that seeks to impose one
conceptual world (that of the West that is based on these philosophical
concepts) on the rest of the world. The approach that I am suggesting
in this paper enables Bahá’ís to explore the truths within the Bahá’í
Faith from many different perspectives without prejudging what is the
correct understanding of the Bahá’í scriptures. Humanity has a rich
history of spiritual traditions stretching back thousands of years. Over
time, these traditions have developed different ways of looking at the
world. The approach that I am putting forward here enables Bahá’ís
to explore this rich spiritual history and see what light these different
approaches throw on the Bahá’í scriptures and what is in them about
God and the spiritual world (the realm of metaphysics). The Bahá’í
scriptures are full of gems but, I would maintain, that we will not suc-
ceed in discovering all of those gems if we restrict ourselves to looking
with just the conceptual world of the Western philosophical tradi-
tion. We need to harness all of the world’s spiritual and philosophical
traditions if we are to succeed in finding all of these gems.

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
NOTES
In M.  Momen (ed. ), Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi,
(Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í religions, vol.  5, Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1988), pp.  185–217
In M.  Momen (ed. ) The Bahá’í Faith and World’s Religions (Oxford:
George Ronald, 2003) 1–38
Paul Lample, Revelation and Social Action (West Palm Beach, FL:
Palabra, 2009), pp.  170–74.  In this book, Lample broadly support the
concept of cognitive relativism for metaphysics, pp.  177–8.
`Abdu’l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá (Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1978), pp.  53–4.  Cf older translation at
`Abdu’l‑Baha, Japan Will Turn Ablaze (Japan: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1974), p.  15 and Bahá’í World Faith (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 2nd ed.  1976), pp.  381–2.
`Abdu’l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá (Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1978), p.  54.  An alternative translation of this
passage may be found in `Abdu’l-Baha, Japan Will Turn Ablaze, p.
15–16 and Bahá’í World Faith (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
2nd ed.  1976), pp.  381–2.
“Verily I say, in this most mighty Revelation, all the Dispensations of
the past have attained their highest, their final consummation. ” Glean-
ings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1983), no.  161, p.  340.
See Momen, Understanding Religion (Oxford: Oneworld, 2009), p.  41
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i Íqán (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1989), p.  141
`Abdu’l‑Baha, Some Answered Questions (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust, 1981), p.  148; see also Some Answered Questions, p. 221, and
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  1, pp.  3–4
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  1, pp.  4‑5
Provisional translation by the present author.  The original text for
these translated passages can found in Alváh-i Mubarakih Hadrat
Bahá’u’lláh: Iqtidárát wa chand lawh digár (reprint of Bombay 1310
AH. /1892‑3, no place of publication: no publisher, no date), pp.  108–9

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
See Translation of two passages from the writings of Baha’u’llah in
Lambden, Sinaitic Mysteries: Notes on Moses/Sinai Motifs in Bábí
and Bahá’í Scripture in M.  Momen (ed. ), Studies in Honor of the Late
Hasan M. Balyuzi, (Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’íreligions, vol.  5, Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988, pp.  65–183), p.  157–8.
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh(Wilmette:
Bahá’íPublishing Trust, 1955) p.  104
See for example Súriy-i Haykal, para 133, in Summons of the Lord of
Hosts (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002), p.  68
Súriy-i Haykal, para 112, 113, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p.  59.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb‑i‑Íqán, pp.  177‑8
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.  149.  There is also `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s statement: `no one hath any access to the Invisible Essence.  The
way is barred and the road is impassable.  In this world all men must
turn their faces toward “Him‑whom God‑shall‑Manifest. ” He is the
“Dawning‑place of Divinity” and the “Manifestation of Deity. ” He is the
“Ultimate Goal,” the “Adored One” of all and the “Worshipped One” of
all.  Otherwise, whatever flashes through the mind is not that Essence
of essences and the Reality of realities; nay, rather it is pure imagination
woven by man and is surrounded, not the surrounding.  Consequently,
it returns finally to the realm of suppositions and conjectures. ’ (Tablets
of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol.  3, New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1930, p.  485)
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, no.  24, p.  59.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1987), no.  176, pp.  271‑2
`Abdu’l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p.  54.  An
alternative translation of this passage may be found in `Abdu’l-Baha,
Japan Will Turn Ablaze, pp.  15–16 and Bahá’í World Faith, pp.  381–2.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp.  290, 295–6
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Makátíb-i`Abdu’l-Bahá, (vols.  1–3 Cairo, 1910–22), vol.
3, p.  356
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Makátíb, vol.  2, p.  141
Provisional translation by the present author.  The original text for
these translated passages can found in Alváh-i Mubarakih Hadrat
Bahá’u’lláh: Iqtidárát wa chand lawh digár, pp.  108–9

Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas
See `Abdu’l-Baha’s discussion of reincarnation in Some Answered Ques-
tions, pp.  282–89.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  83, pp.  165–6 (italics added).
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  1, pp.  3–5; cf.  No.  19, pp.  46–7 (italics
added).
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  148, pp.  317–8 (italics added).
I have preferred to use an older translation at `Abdu’l‑Baha, Japan Will
Turn Ablaze (Japan: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974), p.  15 and and
Bahá’í World Faith (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2nd ed.
1976), pp.  381–2, rather than the more recent translation at `Abdu’l-
Baha, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá (Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978), pp.  53–4, because the older translation better conveys
the sense that the opening phrase (ín khalq jamí`an) refers to all people.
The more recent translation reads: “This people, all of them, have
pictured a god in the realm of the mind, and worship that image which
they have made for themselves… Consider then, how all the peoples of
the world are bowing the knee to a fancy of their own contriving, how
they have created a creator within their own minds, and they call it the
Fashioner of all that is—whereas in truth it is but an illusion.   Thus are
the people worshipping only an error of perception.  “
On this work of `Abdu’l-Baha, see Moojan Momen, “`Abdu’l-Baha’s
Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was A Hidden Treasure ... (A
Provisional Translation),” Bulletin of Bahá’í Studies, vol.  3, no.  4 (Dec.
1985), pp.  4–64; also available at http://www. northill. demon. co. uk/
relstud/kkm. htm
For an analysis of a Bahá’í’or rather Babi, text from this viewpoint, see
Vahid Brown, Textual Resurrection: Book, Imam and Cosmos in the
Qur’an Commentary of the Bab, Baha’i Studies Review, vol.  12 (2005)
59–73
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and Four Valleys (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1991), pp.  51‑2
Bahá’í World Faith, p.  381.
See note 30
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  1, pp.  4–5

Appendices

Appendices
Abbreviations Used in this Book
dge
Hans Küng. Declaration Towards a Global Ethic
esw
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
fwu
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity
gpb
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
gwb
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
hw
Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words
ka
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas
ki
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Íqán
lq
Bahá’u’lláh. Lawh. -i qiná‘
pb
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
pba
Compilation, Principles of Bahá’í Administration
q
Qur’án
saq
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions
slh
Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts
sv
Bahá’u’lláh. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
swab `Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá
swb
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb
tab
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1–3
tb
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
wob
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
See a complete list of abbreviations at http://bahai-library.
com/?file=abbreviations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Contents of Previous Lights of ‘Irfán

Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi

Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar

Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization

Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation

Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith

Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án
and in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory:
A Summary of Glorious Revelation

William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind

Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology

Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh

Peter Terry
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and
Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)

Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb

Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity

William Barnes

Appendices
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)

Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude

Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective

Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God

Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith

LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-
i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three Versions of
Provisional English Translations

Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation

Moojan Momen
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul

Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language,
Revelation and Scholarship

Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys

Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology

Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart:
The Hidden Essence of God’s Word

LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God

Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve

Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn

William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order

Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community

Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation

Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method

Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East

Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices

Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh

James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China

Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid

Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-i-
Haykal)

Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism

Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg

Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh

Stephen Lambden

Appendices
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on
Human Nature and Leadership

Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion

Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation

Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select Persianate
and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey

Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)

James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III

Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living

Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá

Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women of
Ibn-i Asdaq’s household

Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án Commen-
taries of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1850-1853)

Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin

Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration

Ian Kluge

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne and
Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture

Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán

Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History

Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel

Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths

Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind

Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s
System of Integral Philosophy

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance

Ian Kluge
`Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity

Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education

Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship

Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith

Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism

Enoch Tanyi

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization

J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship

Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1854-1876)

Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources

Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings

B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology

Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity
of Humankind

Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective

Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
Excerpts from the Persian Bayán

James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)

Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials

Youli Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Mysticism East and West

Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement

Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist

Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi

Jack McLean
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice:
A Provisional Translation and Commentary

Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant

Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective

Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional
Translation and Commentary

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts from the
Writings of Shoghi Effendi

James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research Department;
Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos

Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”

Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One

Ian Kluge

Appendices
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two

Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the Word

Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies

Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison

Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains

Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif

trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice

Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An Exposition
on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice

James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat

Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science

Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

Mona Khademi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings
and Neurocardiology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective

Ian Kluge.
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of
Some Answered Questions

Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: `Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution

Ramin Neshati.
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures

Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice

'Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works

Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a Letter
from Shoghi Effendi

Gerald Keil
The Path of God

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)

Moojan Momen

Appendices
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation

Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná‘

Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensibility of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs

Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of `Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia (in English), Books One to Book Eleven, 2000 - 2010
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safini-yi Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Col-
loquia (in Persian). Books one to Book Thirteen, 1998 - 2010
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany:
Bahá’í Verlag, 2004 - 2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, 2004
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation (Darmsdat, Germany:
Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalil-i Áftáb, The proof of the Sun is the Sun (Darms-
dat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)

Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950
Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bosch Bahá’í School, Bookshop

500 Comstock Lane, Santa Cruz, CA 95060–9677
Tel.: (831) 423-3387
Fax: (831) 423-7564
E-mail: bosch@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921
Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293 Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170
Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Appendices

Appendices
Abbreviations Used in this Book
dge
Hans Küng. Declaration Towards a Global Ethic
esw
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
fwu
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity
gpb
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
gwb
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
hw
Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words
ka
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas
ki
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Íqán
lq
Bahá’u’lláh. Lawh. -i qiná‘
pb
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
pba
Compilation, Principles of Bahá’í Administration
q
Qur’án
saq
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions
slh
Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts
sv
Bahá’u’lláh. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
swab `Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá
swb
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb
tab
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1–3
tb
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
wob
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
See a complete list of abbreviations at http://bahai-library.
com/?file=abbreviations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Contents of Previous Lights of ‘Irfán

Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi

Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar

Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization

Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation

Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith

Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án
and in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory:
A Summary of Glorious Revelation

William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind

Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology

Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh

Peter Terry
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and
Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)

Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb

Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity

William Barnes

Appendices
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)

Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude

Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective

Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God

Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith

LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-
i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three Versions of
Provisional English Translations

Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation

Moojan Momen
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul

Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language,
Revelation and Scholarship

Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys

Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology

Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart:
The Hidden Essence of God’s Word

LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God

Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve

Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn

William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order

Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community

Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation

Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method

Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East

Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices

Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh

James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China

Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid

Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-i-
Haykal)

Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism

Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg

Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh

Stephen Lambden

Appendices
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on
Human Nature and Leadership

Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion

Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation

Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select Persianate
and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey

Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)

James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III

Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living

Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá

Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women of
Ibn-i Asdaq’s household

Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án Commen-
taries of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1850-1853)

Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin

Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration

Ian Kluge

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne and
Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture

Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán

Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History

Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel

Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths

Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind

Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s
System of Integral Philosophy

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance

Ian Kluge
`Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity

Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education

Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship

Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith

Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism

Enoch Tanyi

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization

J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship

Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1854-1876)

Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources

Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings

B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology

Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity
of Humankind

Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective

Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
Excerpts from the Persian Bayán

James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)

Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials

Youli Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Mysticism East and West

Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement

Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist

Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi

Jack McLean
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice:
A Provisional Translation and Commentary

Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant

Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective

Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional
Translation and Commentary

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts from the
Writings of Shoghi Effendi

James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research Department;
Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos

Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”

Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One

Ian Kluge

Appendices
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two

Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the Word

Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies

Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison

Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains

Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif

trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice

Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An Exposition
on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice

James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat

Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science

Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

Mona Khademi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings
and Neurocardiology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective

Ian Kluge.
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of
Some Answered Questions

Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: `Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution

Ramin Neshati.
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures

Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice

'Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works

Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a Letter
from Shoghi Effendi

Gerald Keil
The Path of God

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)

Moojan Momen

Appendices
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation

Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná‘

Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensibility of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs

Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of `Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia (in English), Books One to Book Eleven, 2000 - 2010
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safini-yi Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Col-
loquia (in Persian). Books one to Book Thirteen, 1998 - 2010
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany:
Bahá’í Verlag, 2004 - 2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, 2004
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation (Darmsdat, Germany:
Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalil-i Áftáb, The proof of the Sun is the Sun (Darms-
dat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)

Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950
Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bosch Bahá’í School, Bookshop

500 Comstock Lane, Santa Cruz, CA 95060–9677
Tel.: (831) 423-3387
Fax: (831) 423-7564
E-mail: bosch@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921
Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293 Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170
Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Appendices

Appendices
Abbreviations Used in this Book
dge
Hans Küng. Declaration Towards a Global Ethic
esw
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
fwu
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity
gpb
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
gwb
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
hw
Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words
ka
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas
ki
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Íqán
lq
Bahá’u’lláh. Lawh. -i qiná‘
pb
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
pba
Compilation, Principles of Bahá’í Administration
q
Qur’án
saq
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions
slh
Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts
sv
Bahá’u’lláh. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
swab `Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá
swb
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb
tab
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1–3
tb
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
wob
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
See a complete list of abbreviations at http://bahai-library.
com/?file=abbreviations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Contents of Previous Lights of ‘Irfán

Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi

Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar

Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization

Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation

Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith

Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án
and in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory:
A Summary of Glorious Revelation

William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind

Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology

Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh

Peter Terry
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and
Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)

Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb

Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity

William Barnes

Appendices
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)

Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude

Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective

Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God

Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith

LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-
i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three Versions of
Provisional English Translations

Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation

Moojan Momen
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul

Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language,
Revelation and Scholarship

Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys

Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology

Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart:
The Hidden Essence of God’s Word

LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God

Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve

Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn

William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order

Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community

Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation

Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method

Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East

Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices

Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh

James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China

Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid

Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-i-
Haykal)

Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism

Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg

Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh

Stephen Lambden

Appendices
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on
Human Nature and Leadership

Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion

Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation

Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select Persianate
and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey

Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)

James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III

Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living

Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá

Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women of
Ibn-i Asdaq’s household

Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án Commen-
taries of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1850-1853)

Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin

Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration

Ian Kluge

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne and
Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture

Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán

Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History

Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel

Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths

Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind

Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s
System of Integral Philosophy

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance

Ian Kluge
`Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity

Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education

Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship

Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith

Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism

Enoch Tanyi

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization

J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship

Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1854-1876)

Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources

Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings

B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology

Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity
of Humankind

Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective

Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
Excerpts from the Persian Bayán

James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)

Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials

Youli Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
Mysticism East and West

Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement

Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist

Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi

Jack McLean
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice:
A Provisional Translation and Commentary

Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant

Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective

Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional
Translation and Commentary

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts from the
Writings of Shoghi Effendi

James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research Department;
Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos

Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”

Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One

Ian Kluge

Appendices
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two

Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the Word

Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies

Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison

Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains

Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif

trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice

Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An Exposition
on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice

James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat

Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science

Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

Mona Khademi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings
and Neurocardiology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective

Ian Kluge.
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of
Some Answered Questions

Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: `Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution

Ramin Neshati.
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures

Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice

'Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works

Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a Letter
from Shoghi Effendi

Gerald Keil
The Path of God

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)

Moojan Momen

Appendices
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation

Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná‘

Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensibility of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs

Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of `Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia (in English), Books One to Book Eleven, 2000 - 2010
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safini-yi Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Col-
loquia (in Persian). Books one to Book Thirteen, 1998 - 2010
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany:
Bahá’í Verlag, 2004 - 2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, 2004
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation (Darmsdat, Germany:
Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalil-i Áftáb, The proof of the Sun is the Sun (Darms-
dat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)

Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950
Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bosch Bahá’í School, Bookshop

500 Comstock Lane, Santa Cruz, CA 95060–9677
Tel.: (831) 423-3387
Fax: (831) 423-7564
E-mail: bosch@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921
Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293 Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170
Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de