[page viii]

Saturday afternoon

Dr Todd Lawson, 'The Báb's Tafsir Suratu'l-Asr' Sunday morning, 5 December

Stephen Lambden, 'Prophecy in the Johannine Farewell Discourse: The Advents of the Paraclete, Ahmad and the Comforter (Mu'azzi)' Sunday afternoon

Dr Khazeh Fananapazir, 'The Day of God'

Dr Kamran Ekbal, 'The Pattern and Symbolism of Revelation from Zarathustra to Bahá'u'lláh'

In addition to the talks, the conference scheduled time for several discussions of biblical and quranic exegesis (interpretation) from a Bahá'í perspective. About 30 people attended the conference.

The second conference was held on 25-27 March 1994 at the National Bahá'í Center in Wilmette, Illinois, United States. The programme was as follows:

Friday night, 25 March 1994

Nikoo Mahboubian gave a talk about Háj Mihdí Arjmand Saturday morning, 26 March 1994

Dr John S. Hatcher, 'The Validity and Value of an Historical-Critical Approach to the Revealed Word of Bahá'u'lláh'

Frank Lewis, 'Scripture as Literature: The Writings of Bahá'u'lláh in their Literary Context'

Dr Ross Woodman, 'The Inner Dimensions of Revelation'

[page ix]

Saturday afternoon

Dr Susan Brill, 'Reading With or Against the Book, or the Avoidance of Interpretive Chaos'

Thomas May, 'Entombed in a Dead Language: the Saints Raising out of their Graves'

William Barnes, 'Mythoi: Stories of the Origin, Fall and Redemption of Man'

Craig Loehle, 'Bahá'í Parables' Saturday evening

An informal panel presentation allowing speakers and the audience time to discuss subjects raised during the day.

Sunday morning, 27 March 1994

Dr Kamran Ekbal, 'The Koranic Roots of Some Legal and Theological Terms in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas'

Dr Julio Savi, 'The Love Relationship Between God and Humanity: A Commentary on Bahá'u'lláh's Hidden Words'

Michael McCarron, 'The Resurrection of Divine Wisdom: A Study of the Ontology of Greek Philosophical Theology and Jewish Theology in the Context of Wisdom Revelation and its Realization in the Bahá'í Religion'

Aram Gomez, 'The Tree of Peace and the Coming of Bahá'u'lláh'

About 65 persons from Canada, Japan, four European countries, and eleven states attended the conference.

The present volume is a selection of the papers presented at these two conferences. It is prefaced by a biography of Háj Mihdí Arjmand in whose memory the Háj Mehdí Arjmand Memorial Trust was established. The essays in this volume vary widely in style. Some are written from

[page x]

the viewpoint of faith and in a language assuming a belief in the tenets of the Bahá'í Faith, while others adopt a more neutral academic style. In preparing this volume the editor has not attempted to achieve a uniformity of tone or style but rather has tried to allow each author to express himself in the style that best suits him. Only the style of annotation and transliteration has been rendered uniform.

Moojan Momen, Northill, England

March 1997