THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-05-16

dear b ahá’í f riends,

pose a number of questions related to r egional b ahá’í councils. . . .

in reference to your first question, the establishment of administrative

committees where local Spiritual Assemblies are not yet functioning con-

stitutes an important step in the development of local bahá’í communities.

Appointing such committees is a function of the National Spiritual Assem-

bly; however, it can certainly delegate this task to the regional councils, if

it so wishes.

your second question is whether or not a regional bahá’í council can

accept or dissolve a local Spiritual Assembly in its area of jurisdiction. Al-

though the prerogative of recognition of local Spiritual Assemblies rests

with the National Spiritual Assembly, procedures for accepting local As-

semblies are determined at the discretion of the National Assembly. The question of dissolving local Assemblies is another matter; it should not be

delegated by the National Assembly to the regional councils at this time.

The councils can, of course, make recommendations to the National As-

sembly in this respect.

As to your final query, you quote a passage concerning the need for newly

enrolled believers to understand that there is an administration in the faith

which must be obeyed and ask whether this applies to regional councils.

clearly for a regional council to carry out the range of responsibilities

with which it has been entrusted, it has to have the complete support of the

friends, and its decisions should carry due weight. each of these decisions is

made within the context of one of the functions delegated by the National

Assembly to the regional council. The response of the friends will be com-

mensurate with the nature of that function.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat335.1

335.2

335.3

335.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

7336

Release of Publication on

Obligatory Prayer and Fasting

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]