THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1973-02-06

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

126.1  The following is an excerpt from a letter written recently in response to questions from an individual believer.  As it is of general interest we are sending it to you so that you may share it with the friends within your jurisdiction in whatever manner you judge wise and necessary. 126.2 Just as there are laws governing our physical lives, requiring that we must supply our bodies with certain foods, maintain them within a certain range of temperatures, and so forth, if we wish to avoid physical disabilities, so also there are laws governing our spiritual lives. These laws are revealed to mankind in each age by the Manifestation of God, and obedience to them is of vital importance if each human being, and mankind in general, is to develop properly and harmoniously.  Moreover, these various aspects are interdependent.  If an 179individual violates the spiritual laws for his own development he  will cause injury not only to himself but to the society in which he lives.  Similarly, the condition of society has a direct effect on the individuals who must live within it.

126.3 As you point out, it is particularly difficult to follow the laws of Bahá’u’lláh in present- day society whose accepted practice is so at variance with the standards of the Faith. However, there are certain laws that are so fundamental to the healthy functioning of human society that they must be upheld whatever the circumstances.  Realizing the degree of human frailty, Bahá’u’lláh has provided that other laws are to be applied only gradually, but these too, once they are applied, must be followed, or else society will not be reformed but will sink into an ever worsening condition.  It is the challenging task of the Bahá’ís to obey the law of God in their own lives, and gradually to win the rest of mankind to its acceptance. The Effect of Obedience to the Laws of Bahá’u’lláh on Lne's life 126.4 In considering the effect of obedience to the laws on individual lives, one must remember that the purpose of this life is to prepare the soul for the next.  Here one must learn to control and direct one’s animal impulses, not to be a slave to them.  Life in this world is a succession of tests and achievements, of falling short and of making new spiritual advances.  Sometimes the course may seem very hard, but one can witness, again and again, that the soul who steadfastly obeys the law of Bahá’u’lláh, however hard it may seem, grows spiritually, while the one who compromises with the law for the sake of his own apparent happiness is seen to have been following a chimera:  he does not attain the happiness he sought, he retards his spiritual advance and often brings new problems upon himself .

126.5 To give one very obvious example:  the Bahá’í law requiring consent of parents to marriage.  All too often nowadays such consent is withheld by non-Bahá’í parents for reasons of bigotry or racial prejudice; yet we have seen again and again the profound effect on those very parents of the firmness of the children in the Bahá’í law, to the extent that not only is the consent ultimately given in many cases, but the character of the parents can be affected and their relationship with their child greatly strengthened.

126.6 Thus, by upholding Bahá’í law in the face of all difficulties we not only strengthen our own characters but influence those around us.

The Bahá’í Teachings on Sexual Intercourse 126.7 The Bahá’í teaching on sexual intercourse is very clear.  It is permissible only between a man and the woman who is his wife.  In this connection we share with you extracts from four letters written on behalf of the Guardian which throw light on various aspects of the matter.  One of them contains the paragraph that you quote in your letter.

126.7a With reference to the question you have asked concerning the Bahá’í attitude towards the problem of sex and its relation to marriage:

The Bahá’í Teachings on this matter, which is of such vital concern and about which there is such a wide divergency of views, are very clear and emphatic.  Briefly stated the Bahá’í conception of sex is based on the belief that chastity should be strictly practised by both sexes, not only because it is in itself highly commendable ethically, but also due to its being the only way to a happy and successful marital life.  Sex relationships of any form, outside marriage, are not permissible therefore, and whoso violates this rule will not only be responsible to God, but will incur the necessary punishment from society.

180 The Bahá’í Faith recognizes the value of the sex impulse, but condemns its illegitimate and improper expression such as free love, companionate marriage and others, all of which it considers positively harmful to man and to the society in which he lives.  The proper use of the sex instinct is the natural right of every individual, and it is precisely for this very purpose that the institution of marriage has been established.  The Bahá’ís do not believe in the suppression of the sex impulse but in its regulation and control.

(From a letter dated 5 September 1938, to an individual believer) 126.7b The question you raise as to the place in one’s life that a deep bond of love with someone we meet other than our husband or wife can have is easily defined in view of the teachings. Chastity implies both before and after marriage an unsullied, chaste sex life.  Before marriage absolutely chaste, after marriage absolutely faithful to one’s chosen companion.  Faithful in all sexual acts, faithful in word and in deed.

The world today is submerged, amongst other things, in an over-exaggeration of the importance of physical love, and a dearth of spiritual values.  In as far as possible the believers should try to realize this and rise above the level of their  fellowmen who are, typical of all decadent periods in history, placing so much overemphasis on the purely physical side of mating.  Outside of their normal, legitimate married life they should seek to establish bonds of comradeship and love which are eternal and founded on the spiritual life of man, not on his physical life.  This is one of the many fields in which it is incumbent on the Bahá’ís to set the example and lead the way to a true human standard of life, when the soul of man is exalted and his body but the tool for his enlightened spirit.  Needless to say this does not preclude the living of a perfectly normal sex life in its legitimate channel of marriage.

(From a letter dated 28 September 1941, to an individual believer) 126.7c Concerning your question whether there are any legitimate forms of expression of the sex instinct outside of marriage:  according to the Bahá’í Teachings no sexual act can be considered lawful unless performed between lawfully married persons.  Outside of marital life there can be no lawful or healthy use of the sex impulse.  The Bahá’í youth should, on the one hand, be taught the lesson of self-control which, when exercised, undoubtedly has a salutary effect on the development, of character and of personality in general, and on the other should be advised, nay even encouraged, to contract marriage while still young and in full possession of their physical vigor.  Economic factors, no doubt, are often a serious hindrance to early  marriage, but in most cases are only an excuse, and as such should not be overstressed.

(From a letter dated 13 December 1940, to an individual believer) 126.7d As regards your question whether it would be advisable and useful for you to marry again:  he feels unable to give you any definite answer on that point, as this is essentially a private affair about which you, and the friends around you or your Local Assembly, are in a much better position to judge.  Of course, under normal circumstances, every person should consider it his moral duty to marry.  And this is what Bahá’u’lláh has encouraged the believers to do.  But marriage is by no means an obligation.  In the last resort it is for the individual to decide whether he wishes to lead a family life or live in a state of celibacy. (From a letter dated 3 May 1936, to an individual believer) 181126.8  You express surprise at the Guardian’s reference to “the necessary punishment from society.” In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh prohibits sexual immorality and in the Annex to that Book states that the various degrees of sexual offences and the punishments for them are to be decided

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]