THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2008-08-11

To an individual Bahá'í

249 40 11 August 2008 To an individual Bahá’í Dear Bahá’í Friend, 40.1 . . . The Bahá’í world is engaged in a collective enterprise in

which new approaches and a capacity for learning have greatly contributed to its expansion and consolidation. The friends should welcome these developments, while understanding that new approaches invariably bring with them challenges as well as new opportunities. The guidance of the House of Justice and the learning derived from experience will gradually resolve the challenges and any misunderstandings that arise as the process unfolds. Each believer can find an active role to play in advanc-ing the program of growth in a cluster, while contributing to unity and to the cultivation of an attitude of learning. As time passes, and the capacity and understanding of the believers in a cluster grow, the activities of the Plan will result not only in quantitative growth but also in an improvement in the quality of Bahá’í community life. 40.2 As to the role of Local Spiritual Assemblies, you may be

aware that many Assemblies are already making a great con- tribution to the progress of their clusters in the United States.

This matter has been addressed in some detail by both your National Spiritual Assembly and Regional Bahá’í Council, and you may wish to contact them for additional information. It is true that the nature of the planning process in a cluster, even in those clusters that fall entirely under the jurisdiction of a single Assembly, has changed somewhat from the procedures followed in the past. Yet, it should be evident that the objective of the planning process, which is to mobilize an ever-greater number of individual believers to actively participate in the systematic prosecution of the teaching work, has been quite successful.

Members of Assemblies should therefore be patient and approach these new challenges with an open heart and mind 250 FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONand with a willingness to look beyond the transitory mistakes that may be made. Assemblies still shoulder a wide range of responsibilities beyond those that pertain to the teaching work, and as the number of believers in a cluster increases, additional responsibilities, including those deriving from a greater involve- ment in the life of society, will emerge. . . .

With loving Bahá’í greetings, Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]