THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-01-06

To an individual b ahá’í

dear b ahá’í f riend,

1997 and has asked us to provide you with the following reply.

The house of justice appreciates your turning to it with your concerns

about the absence of a guardian to succeed Shoghi effendi, and it stands

ready to provide the clarifications required to assist you in resolving the issues troubling you.

As a well-deepened believer with a distinguished record of service to the

cause over many decades, you have undoubtedly made a careful study of

the letters of 6 o ctober 1963, 9 m arch 1965, 27 m ay 1966, and 7 d e-

cember 1969, published in the volume Messages from the Universal House of

Justice—1963–1986, which pertain directly to several of the issues to which you have referred in your letter.

An issue not directly discussed in these messages is that of the members of

the family of Shoghi effendi who were expelled from the faith as covenant-

breakers, and their offspring. A detailed description of the faithlessness of this family has been provided in the book The Covenant of  Bahá’u’lláh by

Adib Taherzadeh, a perusal of which provides a deeper insight into the

events which prompted the following statement of Shoghi effendi in a cable 254.4b

254.4c

255.1

255.2

255.3

255.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

602of 5 April 1952: “time alone  reveal  extent  Havoc  wreakeD  tHis virUs

violation  inJecteD  fostereD  over two DecaDes  ‘abDU’l-baHá’s family .”

unless they manifest evidence to the contrary, the children of the

covenant-breaking members of Shoghi effendi’s immediate family must

necessarily be regarded as being infected with this spiritually contagious

disease through their intimate association with their parents. Shoghi effendi

warned the believers about the propagation of covenant-breaking attitudes

through close family relationships in the following passage from a letter

dated 18 August 1949 written on his behalf:

The friends are sometimes surprisingly naive and superficial in their

approach to the subject of covenant-breakers. They do not seem to

understand that the descendants of Azal, with their mother’s milk,

drank hatred of bahá’u’lláh, just as the descendants of mu¥ammad-

‘Alí and his relatives have imbibed from babyhood a false concept

of the master. it takes practically a miracle to overcome this lifelong

habit of wrong thought.

while this passage was written about the descendants of mírzá ya¥yá

and mírzá mu¥ammad-‘Alí, the insight it conveys is applicable also to the

descendants of the covenant-breakers in the family of Shoghi e ffendi.

in your letter, you have referred to the possibility of a member of Shoghi

effendi’s family expressing contrition and being admitted into the com-

munity. in principle, membership in the bahá’í community is open to all

such individuals who make application to the house of justice and who are

found, following investigation carried out with the assistance of the coun-

selors or their deputies, to be free of the spirit of covenant-breaking. Thus

the only barrier to the entry into the faith of the members of the family

of Shoghi effendi, or indeed any of the descendants of bahá’u’lláh, is their

own attitude to the provisions of the covenant.

Since the central element of your concern is that of the exercise of the

functions of guardian of the cause, you should note that a distinction

must be made between the possible reinstatement of members of Shoghi

effendi’s family and the designation of another guardian of the cause. you

are well familiar with the provisions in the will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-

bahá for the guardian’s appointment of a successor. The house of justice

pointed out in its letter of 9 m arch 1965 that:255.5

255.5a

255.6

255.7

255.8

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

60At the time of our beloved Shoghi effendi’s death it was evident, from

the circumstances and from the explicit requirements of the holy

Texts, that it had been impossible for him to appoint a successor in

accordance with the provisions of the will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-

bahá. This situation, in which the guardian died without being able

to appoint a successor, presented an obscure question not covered by

the explicit holy Text, and had to be referred to the universal house

of justice.255-1

The house of justice’s decision, which was announced on 6 o ctober

to appoint or to legislate to make it possible to appoint a second guardian

to succeed Shoghi effendi.”255-2 in addition, no believer, irrespective of his

lineage or accomplishments, can now legitimately advance a claim to be the

guardian of the cause, since ‘Abdu’l-b ahá has stated quite categorically:

. . . ere the expiration of a thousand years, no one has the right to

utter a single word, even to claim the station of guardianship. The

most holy book is the book to which all peoples shall refer, and in

it the laws of god have been revealed. laws not mentioned in the

book should be referred to the decision of the universal house of

justice. There will be no grounds for difference . . . beware, beware

lest anyone create a rift or stir up sedition. Should there be differences

of opinion, the Supreme house of justice would immediately resolve

the problems.255-

The house of justice understands your distress at the absence of a guard-

ian, and at the consequent adjustments which were necessitated in the

Administrative structure of the faith. however, there should be no doubt

about the ability of the cause of god to accomplish its world-redeeming

and world-transforming mission, despite the loss it suffered with the passing

of Shoghi effendi. your attention is directed to the statement of the house

of justice on 9 m arch 1965, that:

255-1. muhj, no. 23.3.

255-2. muhj, no. 5.1.255-3. muhj, no. 23.11.255.8a

255.9

255.9a

255.10

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

60Although not invested with the function of interpretation, the house

of justice is in a position to do everything necessary to establish

the world order of bahá’u’lláh on this earth. unity of doctrine is

maintained by the existence of the authentic texts of Scripture and

the voluminous interpretations of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá and Shoghi effendi,

together with the absolute prohibition against anyone propounding

“authoritative” or “inspired” interpretations or usurping the function

of guardian. unity of administration is assured by the authority of

the u niversal h ouse of j ustice.255-4

you may also obtain a deeper understanding of the prospects for the

development of the Administrative order by contemplating the guidance

provided in the following extract from a letter written on behalf of the

guardian in August 1936:

The faith of bahá’u’lláh constitutes, indeed, the stage of maturity

in the development of mankind. his appearance has released such

spiritual forces which will continue to animate, for many long years to come, the world in its development. whatever progress may be

achieved in later ages—after the unification of the whole human race

is achieved—will be but improvements in the machinery of the world.

for the machinery itself has been already created by bahá’u’lláh. The

task of continually improving and perfecting this machinery is one

which later prophets will be called upon to achieve. They will thus

move and work within the orbit of the b ahá’í c ycle.

255-5

The house of justice trusts that the clarifications set out in this letter will

be of assistance to you. Should you find that aspects of this matter remain troubling, you should not hesitate to turn to it again. you are assured of the

prayers of the h ouse of j ustice on your behalf in the h oly Shrines.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

255-4. muhj, no. 23.20.

255-5. dg, p. 61.255.10a

255.11

255.11a

255.12

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

605256

Message to the Latin American Youth Congress

in Chile

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]