THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1967-07-02

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

45.1 In just over three months the period of the worldwide proclamation of the Faith will be opened at the six Intercontinental Conferences called to celebrate the centenary of the revelation of the Súriy-i-Mulúk.  Those conferences will provide an opportunity for representatives of the National Spiritual Assemblies to exchange ideas and coordinate plans for the proclamation which will continue throughout the remaining four and a half years of the Plan.

45.2 The stimulating effect of this interchange of ideas will produce greatly increased momentum throughout the world, but inasmuch as many projects must be worked out before that date, we feel a few additional comments on the nature and purpose of proclamation will be helpful now. 45.3  Proclamation comprises a number of activities, of which publicity is only one.  The Universal House of Justice itself will be conveying the Message of Bahá’u’lláh to the heads of all states, but, in addition to this, one of the most important duties of each National Spiritual Assembly is to acquaint leaders of thought and prominent men and women in its country with the fundamental aims, the history and the present status and achievements of the Cause.  Such an 83activity must be carried out with the utmost wisdom, discretion and dignity.  Publicity connected with such approaches must be weighed very carefully, as it may be unwise or discourteous.  This is, of course, a long-range program, for such things cannot be rushed, but it must be given constant attention.

45.4 Another aspect of proclamation is a series of teaching programs designed to reach every stratum of human society—programs that should be pursued diligently and wisely, using every available resource.

45.5  Publicity itself should be well-conceived, dignified and reverent.  A flamboyant approach which may succeed in drawing much initial attention to the Cause, may ultimately prove to have produced a revulsion which would require great effort to overcome.  The standard of dignity and reverence set by the beloved Guardian should always be upheld, particularly in musical and dramatic items; and photographs of the Master should not be used indiscriminately.  This does not mean that activities of the youth, for example, should be stultified; one can be exuberant without being irreverent or undermining the dignity of the Cause.

45.6 Every land has its own conditions, thus the kind of proclamation activity to be followed in each country should be decided by its National Spiritual Assembly.  National Spiritual Assemblies need not follow or copy programs initiated in other countries.

45.7 In all proclamation activities, follow-up is of supreme importance.  Proclamation, expansion and consolidation are mutually helpful activities which must be carefully interrelated.  In some places it is desirable to open a teaching campaign with publicity—in others it is wiser to establish first a solid local community before publicizing the Faith or encouraging contacts with prominent people.  Here, again, wisdom is needed.

45.8 We have been elated by the enthusiasm with which the Bahá’í community is preparing for the  challenging months and years ahead, and we eagerly await those days but a few short months away which will open a period of such promise for the diffusion of God's Word. With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

46 Message to the Six Intercontinental Conferences

OCTOBER  1967

To the Six Intercontinental Conferences Dearly loved Friends, 46.1 On this, the hundredth anniversary of the sounding in Adrianople of the opening notes of Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamation to the rulers, leaders and peoples of the world, we recall with profound emotion the circumstances surrounding the Faith of God at that time.  In a land termed by Him the “Land of Mystery,” the Bearer of God's Revelation had arisen to carry that Faith a stage further in its divinely ordained destiny.

46.2  Internally, the infant Cause of God was convulsed by a crisis from whose shadows emerged the majestic figure of Bahá’u’lláh, the visible Center and Head of a newly established Faith.  The first pilgrimages were made to His Residence, a further stage in the transfer of the remains of the 84Báb was achieved, and above all the first intimations were given of the future station of ‘Abdu’l- Bahá as the Center of the Covenant and of the revelation of the new laws for the New Day. Externally, the full significance of the new Revelation was proclaimed by no one less than its Divine Bearer, His followers began openly to identify themselves with the Most Great Name, the independent character of the Faith became established and its fearless exponents took up their pens in defense of its fair name.

46.3  Now, a hundred years later, the friends gathered in the six Intercontinental Conferences to commemorate the events of the past, privileged to gaze upon the portrait of their Beloved, must consider the urgent needs of the Cause today.  As the Bahá’í world enters the third phase of the Nine Year Plan we are called upon to proclaim once again that Divine Message to the leaders and masses of the world, to aid the Faith of God to emerge from obscurity into the arena of public attention, to demonstrate through steadfast adherence to its laws the independent character of its mission and to brace ourselves in preparation for the attacks that are bound to be directed against its victorious onward march.  Upon our efforts depends in very large measure the fate of humanity.  The hundred years’ respite having ended, the struggle between the forces of darkness—man's lower nature—and the rising sun of the Divine teachings which draw him on to his true station, intensifies day by day.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]