“MOST GREAT RECONSTRUCTION”:
THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH IN JIM CROW SOUTH CAROLINA, 1898-1965

by


Louis E. Venters, III


Bachelor of Arts
Winthrop University, 1998

Master of Arts
University of South Carolina, 2004


______________________________________


Submitted in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements

For the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in

History

Colleges of Arts and Sciences

University of South Carolina


Accepted by:

Patricia Sullivan, Major Professor

Walter Conser, Committee Member

Bobby J. Donaldson, Committee Member

Robert Weyeneth, Committee Member

James Buggy, Dean of the Graduate School

UMI Number: 3402846






All rights reserved

INFORMATION TO ALL USERS
The quality of this reproduction is dependent upon the quality of the copy submitted.

In the unlikely event that the author did not send a complete manuscript
and there are missing pages, these will be noted. Also, if material had to be removed,
a note will indicate the deletion.






UMI 3402846
Copyright 2010 by ProQuest LLC.
All rights reserved. This edition of the work is protected against
unauthorized copying under Title 17, United States Code.





ProQuest LLC
789 East Eisenhower Parkway
P.O. Box 1346
Ann Arbor, MI 48106-1346

ii


















































© Copyright Louis E. Venters, III, 2010
All Rights Reserved.

iii






DEDICATION


To future generations of South Carolinians,

with love and confidence

iv






ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I could not have asked for a better constellation of professors and classmates from whom
to learn than those I found in the History Department of the University of South Carolina.
Special thanks to the members of my committee, whose thoughtful readings and probing
questions have improved this work beyond measure, and to Stephanie Mitchem in the
Department of Religious Studies, who did not step down before making decisive
contributions.  Likewise, the President and Provost and my colleagues in the History
Department of Francis Marion University have been unstinting in their support.  I am
indebted to a host of librarians and archivists—particularly at the National Bahá’í
Archives, the South Caroliniana Library at the University of South Carolina, and, during
the final stages of the project, Rogers Library at Francis Marion University—and to
Bahá’ís and friends in South Carolina and beyond who shared of their time and treasures.
Thanks as well to several mentors who either helped mould my thinking or
provided guidance and encouragement at critical moments (or both): Farzam and Sona
Arbab, Betty Fisher, Behrooz Sabet, Nader Saeidi, Gayle Morrison, and Michael Penn.

Finally, my deepest gratitude goes to my family, especially my parents, my sister,
my spiritual parents, my in-laws, and my paternal grandmother, Rebecca Glymph
Venters, who did not quite live to see the end of the project she did so much to nurture.
Oak Ritchie, Carlos Serrano, and Aaron Yates were each there at the right time.  Above
all, I thank my wife, Melissa Smith-Venters, who always had more confidence in me than
I did in myself.  Her love, encouragement, and example have made this work possible.

v




ABSTRACT
By the end of the twentieth century, the Bahá’í Faith was the largest non-Christian
religion in South Carolina, and it was well known for its longstanding commitment to
promoting racial harmony, interfaith dialogue, and the moral education of children and
youth.  Its message was simple and powerful: in the Orient in the middle of the
nineteenth century, Christ had returned.  His new name was Bahá’u’lláh, the “Glory of
the Father,” and the transforming power of his Word would excise the cancers of
prejudice and injustice from the broken body of humanity.
The religion owed much of its strength in the state to a series of campaigns from
the late 1960s to the mid-1980s, in which some twenty thousand people from all walks of
life—from young white college students to elderly black former sharecroppers—had
become Bahá’ís.  However, the origins of South Carolina’s robust Bahá’í movement lay
not in the social upheavals of the 1960s, but in painstaking efforts to build an interracial
faith community during the long decades of segregation and disfranchisement.  In
contrast to nearly every other religious organization in early-twentieth century South
Carolina, the Bahá’ís developed an explicit policy of promoting racial integration at the
local level.  Facing ostracism, slander, and violence, they succeeded in attracting an
astonishingly diverse membership.  Focusing on the period from South Carolinians’ first
contacts with the faith in the late 1890s to the formal dissolution of the Jim Crow regime
in the mid-1960s, this study posits the Bahá’í movement in South Carolina as a

vi

significant, sustained, and deceptively subtle attack on the oppressive racial ideologies of
the twentieth-century South and on the Protestant orthodoxy with which they were
inextricably linked.

vii

TABLE OF CONTENTS


DEDICATION …………………………………………………………………………….. iii

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS …………………………………………………………………... iv

ABSTRACT ……………………………………...………………………………………...  v

INTRODUCTION ………………………………………………………...……………….… 1

1.  FIRST CONTACTS, 1898-1916 …...…………….....……….….………….…………... 20

2.  THE DIVINE PLAN, THE GREAT WAR,

AND PROGRESSIVE-ERA RACIAL POLITICS, 1914-1921 ...……….………...………… 73

3.   BUILDING BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY IN THE AUGUSTA AREA, 1913-1917…………….…138

4.    THE GREAT DEPRESSION, THE SECOND WORLD WAR,

AND THE FIRST SEVEN YEAR PLAN, 1935-1945 …………………………........…… 200

5.   POST-WAR OPPORTUNITIES AND COLD WAR CHALLENGES, 1944-1953 ……...…… 268

6.   BROADENING THE BASE STATEWIDE, 1950-1965 …………..…..………………….. 312

EPILOGUE: THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH AS MASS MOVEMENT ……….……………….………... 374

Introduction




“Some movements appear, manifest a brief period of activity,
then discontinue.  Others show forth a greater measure of growth
and strength, but before attaining mature development, weaken,
disintegrate and are lost in oblivion….
“There is still another kind of movement or cause which
from a very small, inconspicuous beginning goes forward with
sure and steady progress, gradually broadening and widening
until it has assumed universal dimensions. The Bahá’í
Movement is of this nature.”

—‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Washington, D.C., April 22, 1912


I
I started to hear the stories shortly after I encountered the Bahá’í Faith.1  During a series
of growth campaigns from the late 1960s to the mid-1980s, thousands of my fellow South
Carolinians from all walks of life—from young white college students to elderly black
former sharecroppers, from the foothills to the coast—had become Bahá’ís.  Interracial
teams of Bahá’í youth had fanned out across the state, talking with people on street
corners and front porches, singing in folk and gospel styles, distributing literature, and
conducting evening mass meetings in tents and rented halls.  Their message was as
simple as it was radical, and it was the same one that had attracted me: in the Orient in
the middle of the nineteenth century, Christ had returned.  His new name was

1 Among general introductions to Bahá’í history, theology, and community, two of the best are William S.
Hatcher and J. Douglas Martin, The Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion, rev. ed. (Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2003) and Peter Smith, An Introduction to the Bahá’í Faith (New York:
Cambridge University Press, 2008).


Bahá’u’lláh, the “Glory of the Father,” and the transforming power of his Word would
excise the cancers of prejudice and injustice from the broken body of humanity.  They
had found ready listeners, with the largest number of new believers among African
Americans in rural areas.  Old people and young, I heard from those who had been there,
had dreamed dreams telling them that the Bahá’ís would come with a new message from
God.  Almost overnight, the South Carolina Bahá’í community had grown from some
two hundred members in a handful of cities and towns to some twenty thousand in
hundreds of localities.  It was a modern-day Pentecost, a phenomenon the Bahá’ís in my
Upstate city of Greenville called “entry by troops.”  I was fascinated.  As I met more
Bahá’ís, particularly at the Louis Gregory Institute, a retreat center near the Lowcountry
town of Hemingway, my father’s family home, I asked everyone I could about the heady
days of the 1970s.
The more I learned, the more I realized that the origins of South Carolina’s Bahá’í
community lay not in the 1960s or 1970s, or even in the 1950s, as some of the older
Bahá’ís told me, but far earlier, at the turn of the twentieth century.  The interracial
fellowship that I saw in every Bahá’í gathering was not simply a by-product of the civil
rights movement; it had been built, painstakingly, during the long decades of segregation
and disfranchisement.  Black and white South Carolina expatriates, I found, had first
encountered the Bahá’í Faith in urban areas of the Northeast, Midwest, and Upper South
in the late 1890s, shortly after the religion’s arrival in the United States.  The first Bahá’í
traveling teachers and settlers had come to South Carolina beginning in 1910, as the new
Jim Crow legal regime was tightening its grip on the social, economic, and political life
of cities and states throughout the region.  Over the course of more than half a century—


decades that witnessed two world wars, the Great Depression, the emergence of the Cold
War, and an intensification of the black freedom movement—the Bahá’ís in South
Carolina had struggled to create an interracial faith community within a racially
segregated and religiously orthodox society.  Decades before Martin Luther King, Jr.
articulated the ideal of the “beloved community,” the Bahá’ís in South Carolina had gone
farther than most of their Christian and Jewish fellows could contemplate towards
interracial fellowship and social action.  Here was a story, I thought, that needed to be
told.  Little did I know as a young high school student that I was not only exploring the
heritage of my native state and my newfound faith, but setting the course of my career as
an historian.
This dissertation is a first effort to reconstruct and analyze the early growth and
development of the Bahá’í Faith in South Carolina.  It offers an initial examination of
some of the internal and external factors that affected the development of the religion in
the state, from the first contacts in the 1890s to the formal dissolution of the Jim Crow
regime in the mid-1960s.   It suggests that the relatively speedy and robust growth of the
Bahá’í Faith in South Carolina after 1965—the first such large-scale growth of the
religion in the developed world—was the result of complex interactions inside and
outside the movement.  In one sense, the rapid expansion of a religion with a bold claim
to fulfill Christian prophecies, a spiritually-based program for addressing social
problems, and an optimistic vision of humanity’s peaceful and unified future—coming as
it did in the immediate wake of the civil rights revolution and as a welter of new religious
movements signaled an unprecedented restructuring of American spiritual life—was not
surprising.  At the same time, it was six difficult decades of interracial community


building, initiated by the Bahá’ís themselves in response to the fundamental teachings of
their faith and its international leadership, that prepared the South Carolina movement to
take advantage of dramatic changes in the wider society.
From its first arrival in the South in 1898 and in South Carolina in 1910, the
Bahá’í Faith represented a significant and sustained, spiritually-based and deceptively
subtle challenge to the ideology and structures of white supremacy and to the Protestant
orthodoxy with which they were inextricably linked.  With few exceptions, Protestant
churches in South Carolina during the first half of the twentieth century were strictly
segregated, if not at the level of the denomination, then at the level of the local
congregation.  Interracial religious activity, while not unheard of, was limited, occasional,
and usually structured so as not to upset regional mores of gender, class, and race.  The
state’s small Catholic and Jewish congregations followed suit.2  In contrast to nearly
every other religious organization in South Carolina, the Bahá’ís explicitly promoted
racial integration from the local level up.  Called by the scriptures of their faith to
“associate with all the peoples and kindreds of the earth with joy and radiance,” they
deliberately sought converts from diverse backgrounds, forging bonds of shared religious
identity across traditional social boundaries.3  In the emerging Bahá’í community, blacks
and whites, men and women, rich and poor, rural and urban dwellers, natives, migrants
from other states, and the foreign-born learned to worship, study, socialize, and manage
their collective affairs together as equals.  In particular, they sought to build grassroots

2 For a useful historical overview of various religious denominations in South Carolina and their specific
relations to issues of race, see Charles H. Lippy, ed., Religion in South Carolina (Columbia: University of
South Carolina Press, 1993).

3 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, trans. Habib Taherzadeh, 1st
pocket-sized ed. (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988), 21.


community institutions that were part of the faith’s “Administrative Order,” a worldwide
system intended gradually to reorganize social, economic, and political life—not just of
the South or of the United States, but of the entire planet—around the spiritual principles
of unity, justice, and collective decision-making.  Their local councils, Bahá’ís in South
Carolina believed, were among the foundation-stones of the emerging Kingdom of God
on earth.
Numerically insignificant and apparently powerless during the period under
review, the Bahá’ís’ rejection of the racial and religious status quo nevertheless made
them frequent targets of intimidation by neighbors, law enforcement agencies, and
conservative Christian clergymen.  They openly proclaimed their message through the
mass media, public programs, and personal contacts, but segregation law and practice
often forced them to conduct their community activities at night, in secret, or otherwise
far removed from the gaze of the white public.  They focused on building their own
model of interracial fellowship (eventually securing legal protection for their activities),
even as they sought to encourage or collaborate with other individuals and organizations,
both religious and secular, who were working for civil rights.  By the mid-1960s, as a
combination of federal legislation, judicial rulings, and ad hoc arrangements at the state
and local levels dismantled the Jim Crow regime, the tiny Bahá’í community already
represented a cross-section of the state’s population, and it extended its influence beyond
its members to their friends and family members and other spiritual seekers.  With the
major legal barriers to interracial association removed, the Bahá’ís—and thousands of
other South Carolinians—were ready for unprecedented growth of the religion.  (South
Carolina’s dual school system, the last and largest vestige of segregation, fell during the


1970-1971 school year, also the most dramatic year of Bahá’í expansion in the state
before or since.)  By the turn of the twenty-first century, the Bahá’í movement in South
Carolina boasted local organizations in some forty localities and members in more than a
hundred more, a regional training center and community-service radio station near
Hemingway, and a museum dedicated to its first traveling teacher and native son in the
heart of historic Charleston.4  Well known in South Carolina for its commitment to
promoting racial harmony, interfaith dialogue, and the moral education of children and
youth, as well as for the adherence of several prominent individuals, the Bahá’í Faith was
the state’s largest religious minority, and South Carolina’s Bahá’í community was among
the largest and strongest in the United States.5

II
The Bahá’í Faith is a worldwide religious movement whose wide-ranging teachings
relate to a variety of academic disciplines and contemporary concerns.  Since the 1970s, a

4 The training center was the Louis G. Gregory Bahá’í Institute, founded in 1972 as an agency of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States.  The radio station, Radio Bahá’í WLGI,
began broadcasting from the Institute’s campus in rural Georgetown County in 1985.  Covering
northeastern South Carolina and southeastern North Carolina, it was the only Bahá’í radio station in North
America.  Gustav Niebuhr, “Hemingway Journal: A Little Bit of a Change From Old-Time Religion,” New
York Times, 31 March 2000.  The museum was the Louis G. Gregory Bahá’í Museum, the boyhood home
of the state’s first Bahá’í teacher.  Renovated and opened to the public in 2003, it was the first museum in
the city of Charleston dedicated to a single individual.  Stephanie Harvin, “The Ripple Effect: Influencing
the Tide of History,” Charleston (SC) Post and Courier, 2 February 2003.

5 Kristina Lee Knaus, “One Region, Many Faiths,” The State (Columbia, SC), 5 September 2003, B8.   By
at least the early 1990s, South Carolina had fallen to second place in Bahá’í population, behind California,
but it remained the highest per capita.  The Bahá’í National Center listed 15,287 adult Bahá’ís living in
South Carolina for the 2000-2001 Bahá’í administrative year.  Steve Brisley, Operations Supervisor,
Information Services Office, Bahá’í National Center, Wilmette, IL, telephone interview by author, 20
December 2001.  Prominent South Carolinians to embrace the Bahá’í Faith included influential jazz
trumpeter and Cheraw native John Birks “Dizzy” Gillespie (1917-1993); physicist and astronaut Dr.
Ronald E. McNair (1950-1986), a Lake City native who was the second African-American in space and
died in the Challenger disaster; and award-winning Columbia television journalist and social activist Susan
Audé (b. 1952).  Likenesses of both Gillespie and McNair appear in the African-American Monument on
the grounds of the South Carolina State House, dedicated in 2001; Audé was awarded the Order of the
Palmetto, the state’s highest civilian honor, in 2006.


new field of Bahá’í Studies has begun to take shape, with an international network of
scholarly associations, annual conferences, and peer-reviewed journals; the publication of
numerous articles and monographs by other academic journals and presses; and the
creation of endowed chairs or Bahá’í Studies centers in a handful of universities around
the world.  In these venues, scholars of the Bahá’í Faith—members and non-members,
often with impressive academic credentials—have attempted to explore the faith’s
teachings, history, and practices in the context of a variety of disciplines and
methodologies.  However, many mainstream academic presses and journals seem to have
been most receptive to works treating the Bahá’í Faith as a subset of Middle Eastern
Studies.6  Authors that have assumed it as a social and religious phenomenon with its
own conceptual categories and worthy of study in its own right have often resorted to
publishing by official or independent Bahá’í presses and journals, where their work has
unfortunately received smaller circulation and remained on the periphery of academic
discourse.7
At least two facts seem to me to require new approaches to the academic study of
the Bahá’í Faith.  First, while they were born and reared as Muslims and pursued their
ministries within Islamic societies, Bahá’u’lláh (1817-1892) and his prophetic precursor,
the Báb (1819-1844) clearly envisioned their religious system as a universal movement,

6 Among the best-known such works by historians are Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal: The
Making of the Babi Movement in Iran, 1844-1850 (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1989) and Juan
Cole, Modernity and the Millennium: The Genesis of the Bahai Faith in the Nineteenth-Century Middle
East (New York: Columbia University Press, 1998).

7 Notable recent exceptions to this trend are three works by sociologists: Michael McMullen, The Bahá’í:
The Religious Construction of a Global Identity (New Brunswick, N.J. and London: Rutgers University
Press, 2000), which focuses on the Bahá’í communities of greater Atlanta, Georgia; and Nader Saeidi,
Logos and Civilization: Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh (Bethesda: University
Press of Maryland, 2000) and Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Báb (Waterloo, Ont.:
Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2008).  The latter work by Saeidi is first in a new Bahá’í Studies series
co-published with the Association for Bahá’í Studies—North America.


designed for the whole of humanity rather than for any particular cultural or religious
group.  On the first night of his mission, the Báb called the kings of the world to carry his
divinely-revealed verses “to the peoples of Turkey and of India, and beyond them … to
lands in both the East and the West.”8  “The summons and the message which We gave,”
Bahá’u’lláh pointedly affirmed, “were never intended to reach or to benefit one land or
one people only….  The whole earth is illuminated with the resplendent glory of God’s
Revelation.”9  The conceptual dialogue with its Islamic parent culture that runs
throughout the faith’s scriptures should not be allowed to obscure its consistent claim to
be a new and independent world religion quite apart from Islam or any other historic
religious system.  The second fact springs from the first.  A central theme of Bahá’í
history has been the strong tendency towards geographic diffusion and the consequent
enrollment of an ever-widening diversity of human beings as adherents of the faith,
processes that accelerated markedly with the introduction of systematic growth
campaigns in the mid-1930s.  Fifty years later, nearly ninety percent of the world’s
Bahá’ís lived in the “Third World,” with the highest concentrations in South Asia, sub-
Saharan Africa, and Latin America, while Bahá’ís in the faith’s Islamic heartland
constituted less than seven percent of the total.10  By the last quarter of the twentieth
century, then, the vast majority of the world’s Bahá’ís were not of Muslim background,
and few if any saw their faith primarily in culturally or historically exclusive terms.
Treating the Bahá’í Faith as a compartment of Middle Eastern Studies has, perhaps

8 The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb, trans. Habib Taherzadeh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978), 41-2.

9 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi, 1st pocket-sized ed.
(Wilmette, IL.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983), 96.

10 Smith, Introduction, 82-3.


inadvertently, overlooked essential aspects of the phenomenon, minimizing the creative
genius of its founders and marginalizing the lived experiences and worldviews of most of
its contemporary adherents.  I have attempted here to avoid such reductionist errors.

By focusing on the early development of the movement in South Carolina, a state
where it eventually gained among its largest and most influential followings in the
Western world, this dissertation seeks to claim the Bahá’í Faith as an integral element of
the modern history of the United States.  In this respect it follows other works that have
viewed the faith in the light of American religious and social history, particularly Gayle
Morrison’s pioneering biography of Louis Gregory, the son of South Carolina
freedpeople who became one of the foremost national and international leaders of the
Bahá’í Faith in the first half of the twentieth century, and Robert Stockman’s work
examining the development of the American Bahá’í movement from 1892 to 1921.11  In
particular, the dissertation attempts to relate the Bahá’í Faith to the historiography of
race, religion, and social change in the post-Civil War South.

In both American and international context, the Bahá’í Faith has addressed itself
to what W. E. B. Du Bois identified as the essential problem of the twentieth century,
“the problem of the color-line,—the relation of the darker to the lighter races of men in

11 Gayle Morrison, To Move the World: Louis G. Gregory and the Advancement of Racial Unity in America
(Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982); Robert H. Stockman, The Bahá’í Faith in America, vol. 1,
Origins, 1892-1900 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985) and The Bahá’í Faith in America, vol. 2,
Early Expansion, 1900-1912 (Oxford: George Ronald, 1995).  Stockman plans a third volume covering the
period from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s 1912 visit to North America until his passing in 1921.  The larger project also
includes Stockman’s doctoral dissertation in American religious history, which explores some social,
organizational, and theological aspects of the early development of a distinctly American Bahá’í
movement.  Robert H. Stockman, “The Bahá’í Faith and American Protestantism,” Th.D. diss., Harvard
University, 1990.  Also invaluable to the study of Bahá’í history, particularly that of North America, are
several volumes in the Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History series (1982- ) by Kalimát Press, an independent
Bahá’í publisher in Los Angeles.


Asia and Africa, in America and the islands of the sea.”12  At the heart of Bahá’í teaching
and practice is Bahá’u’lláh’s vision, articulated in the second half of the nineteenth
century and markedly different from any of the social and political philosophies of his
day, of human unity and solidarity in a just global commonwealth that will transcend
traditional barriers of race, class, nation, creed, and language.  As this dissertation seeks
to document, his followers in early twentieth-century America sought to eliminate the
color line, not primarily by joining in frontal assaults on any of a number of unjust social,
economic, and political institutions—which they believed were in advanced stages of
collapse already, without any need for an extra push from a group as small as their own—
but by pursuing the parallel but related and no less important path of erecting the
framework of what they saw as a new, divinely-ordained social system destined
ultimately to take the place of the tottering old one.

One would think that the boldness and intellectual innovation of Bahá’u’lláh’s
program alone would be enough to commend the American Bahá’ís to the attention of
contemporary historians, who have tended to be attracted to the radical (even if relatively
obscure) in the nation’s past.  Aside from its marginalization in Middle Eastern Studies,
several factors seem to have kept the Bahá’í Faith nearly invisible to historians of religion
and race in the United States.  In its origins neither a Christian sect, nor a faith primarily
of immigrants, nor a typical “new religious movement” that eschews contemporary social
concerns,
the
Bahá’í
Faith
defies
easy
categorization.

Ideologically
and
programmatically, as well, it does not fit neatly with the approaches of most other
organizations that are concerned with racial justice.  The social and theological

12 Du Bois, W. E. B., The Souls of Black Folk, with new intro. (New York: Dover Publications, 1994), 9.


radicalism of the Bahá’í program is tempered by scriptural injunctions (against
aggressive proselytizing, involvement in political controversy, disloyalty to the state,
membership in parties, and civil disobedience, for example) which sometimes limited the
ways Bahá’ís in the early twentieth century could engage with mainstream civil rights
groups and contributed to a relatively reserved public image, then and now.  The Bahá’ís’
relatively small numbers during most of the century, their refusal to engage in traditional
forms of protest, their manner of organization that militated against the emergence of
charismatic individual leaders, even their consistent preference for building social capital
rather than erecting local worship facilities—all may have helped further to disguise the
religion’s significance to many observers, including most historians.

This study is the beneficiary of a wealth of recent works in the history of race
relations and religious experience in the modern South.  By examining the social and
intellectual history of the Bahá’í community of South Carolina, it contributes to a
growing literature on the roles of interracial movements, of religious motivations and
identities, and of the appeal of different visions of America’s racial future, in the
profound social transformations of the twentieth century.  It follows important recent
works that explore the promises and limitations of moments of interracial cooperation in
the post-Reconstruction South.13  In contrast to several of these, the dissertation focuses
on an organization that sought to foster interracialism as a matter of spiritual principle
(rather than primarily of economic or political reasoning).  It thus joins other recent

13 For example, Robin D. G. Kelley, Hammer and Hoe: Alabama Communists during the Great Depression
(Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1990); Patricia Sullivan, Days of Hope: Race and
Democracy in the New Deal Era (Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 1996); and
Daniel Letwin, The Challenge of Interracial Unionism: Alabama Coal Miners, 1878-1921 (Chapel Hill and
London: University of North Carolina Press, 1998).


works that have argued that the religious worldviews of black and white Southerners, and
the various religious organizations through which many of them channeled their energies,
are of central importance to understanding the struggle for (and against) racial justice.14
In particular, the study examines the difficulties resulting from the Bahá’ís’
simultaneous transgression of regional racial, gender, and religious orthodoxies.15  Here I
particularly benefited from the insights of Daniel Letwin regarding interracial union
activity among early Alabama coal miners and of Tracy K’Meyer regarding the
interracial Christian communalism of Koinonia Farm in southwest Georgia.  Letwin
argues that what gave black and white Alabama miners of the late nineteenth and early
twentieth centuries the “breathing room” to collaborate across racial lines was their
adherence to key elements of white supremacy, including rejection of any charges of
promoting social equality.   Moreover, the single-gender nature of the job meant that
interracial union organizing was less viscerally threatening to white male supremacy than
if it had also crossed the gender line.  K’Meyer notes that the Koinonians—all of them
white Southern Baptists—won acceptance from local whites during the era of the New

14 Notable such works include Tracy K’Meyer, Interracialism and Christian Community in the Postwar
South: The Story of Koinonia Farm (Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 1997); David L.
Chappell, A Stone of Hope: Prophetic Religion and the Death of Jim Crow (Chapel Hill and London:
University of North Carolina Press, 2004); and Paul Harvey, Freedom’s Coming: Religious Culture and the
Shaping of the South from the Civil War through the Civil Rights Era (Chapel Hill and London: University
of North Carolina Press, 2005).  Among biographies of major lay activists, one that is notable for explicitly
placing religious motivation at the center of its analysis is Edward J. Blum, W. E. B. Du Bois: American
Prophet (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2007).
15 The Bahá’ís were certainly not the only such transgressors in the early-twentieth century South, but
among religious groups they were probably among the most consistently interracial in character while
being among the farthest from the Protestant mainstream.  A useful comparison may be with the
Pentecostal movement, which emerged, roughly contemporaneously with the Bahá’í Faith in the United
States, from a racially diverse, millennialist revival in Los Angeles in 1906.  As Pentecostalism spread in
the South, however, it separated into black and white congregations (and denominations), some of which
maintained occasional interracial contacts.  See Iain MacRobert, The Black Roots and White Racism of
Early Pentecostalism (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1988); Harvey Cox, Fire from Heaven: The Rise of
Pentecostal Spirituality and the Reshaping of Religion in the Twenty-first Century (Cambridge, MA: Da
Capo Press, 2001); and Grant Wacker, Heaven Below: Early Pentecostals and American Culture
(Cambridge and London: Harvard University Press, 2001).


Deal and the Second World War to the extent that they couched their activities in a
traditional language of Christian community and responsibility and restricted their
contact with blacks to agriculture extension services.  As they engaged in public displays
of social equality—including eating and worshipping together and sponsoring an
integrated summer camp—opposition by local whites grew.  The situation of early South
Carolina Bahá’ís was even more precarious than that of the Alabama miners and the
Koinonians.  By openly advocating not only complete racial and gender equality but also
what many regarded as religious heresy, they placed themselves entirely outside the pale
of white male supremacy and its Protestant trappings, exposing themselves to attack from
all sides.

The project also stands in dialogue with recent analyses that have emphasized the
“nationalist” or “separatist” stream of African-American social and political
consciousness at the expense of countervailing tendencies towards interracialism or
“Americanism.”16  One implication of Bahá’í social philosophy and American Bahá’í
experience is to call into question a conception of African-American cultural, political,
and economic nationalism or separatism as particularly “radical.”  While the realization
of black nationalist programs—through various emigrationist ventures, the establishment
of all-black communities or political entities within the United States, or the adoption of
African cultural and aesthetic models, for example—may well have entailed significant
upset in American society, the ideas behind them were hardly innovative.  Indeed, the
incommensurability of different nations and races was a staple of nineteenth-century

16 For example, Timothy Tyson, Radio Free Dixie: Robert F. Williams and the Roots of Black Power
(Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 2001); Steven Hahn, A Nation under Our
Feet: Black Political Struggles in the Rural South from Slavery to the Great Migration (Cambridge and
London: Harvard University Press, 2003); and Waldo Martin, No Coward Soldiers: Black Cultural Politics
and Postwar America (Cambridge and London: Harvard University Press, 2005).


social and political philosophy that cast a long shadow over African Americans and
others around the world in the twentieth century.  Requiring as it did a thorough
redefinition of human nature and of human relationships as well as of institutions, the
truly radical point of view, from the standpoint of prevailing thought in most of the
twentieth century, was an insistence on the creation of a just multiracial society.  In
particular, I posit that the emphasis placed in the Bahá’í sacred writings and in the
practice of the American Bahá’í community on social equality between blacks and whites
(as distinct from a predominantly political or economic agenda) struck to the very
ideological heart of the country’s racialized caste system.

My research suggests that when black South Carolinians became Bahá’ís during
the twentieth century, they were identifying themselves with precisely the radical notion
of the oneness of humanity at the core of the Bahá’í teachings, with its rather clear
implications in an American context of the social, economic, and political integration of
blacks and whites within a spiritually transformed country.  Perhaps even more
significantly, white South Carolinians who may have otherwise had little interest in
challenging the racial status quo often found themselves moved to do so, often at great
personal risk, through their association with the Bahá’í Faith (a fact not lost on black
believers, who took it as evidence of the religion’s transforming power).  Together, black
and white Bahá’ís in South Carolina worked to forge a vibrant and durable interracial
community that they held up as a model and pattern for the wider society.  Indeed, for
them the faith represented a worldwide revolution in human affairs.  Charleston-born
Louis Gregory, among the most prolific Bahá’í writers and traveling teachers in the first
half of the twentieth century, employed an evocative analogy from an earlier generation


of American history to describe the global impact of the Bahá’í movement: “This Most
Great Reconstruction which the majestic Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh brings to view, is not
black or white or yellow or brown or red, yet all of these.  It is the power of divine
outpouring and endless perfections for mankind.”  For Gregory and other South Carolina
Bahá’ís, the faith was destined not simply to remake the South in the image of the North
as in the wake of the Civil War, but to remake the whole planet in the image of
Paradise.17

III
Organized broadly chronologically, this study relies on local and national archival
collections, periodicals, and oral interviews from inside and outside the Bahá’í
community to produce a social, organizational, and intellectual history of the faith’s
initial development in South Carolina.  Geographically, the project concentrates on the
four urban areas—Augusta-North Augusta, Charleston, Columbia, and Greenville—
where the faith sought to establish itself early in the century, with additional treatment of
the rural areas around Florence and Beaufort that were to become critical to
developments after 1965.  For each area, I mine Bahá’í community membership lists,
newsletters, and other official documents; oral interviews and personal correspondence of
individual Bahá’ís and others; and U.S. Census data, city directories, newspaper
accounts, and local histories.  I uncover something of the social, economic, and religious
background of Bahá’í members; their relationships with each other and with the larger
society, especially the various phases of the civil rights movement; the methods by which

17 Louis G. Gregory, “A Gift to Race Enlightenment,” World Order 2, no. 1 (April 1936): 36-9, quoted in
Morrison, To Move the World, 28-9.


Bahá’ís taught their religion to others and the content of their message; the processes by
which Bahá’í institutions and community practices developed; and the motivations and
aspirations of those who took part.  As much as possible, I have attempted to let the
Bahá’ís speak for themselves and for the religious movement with which they were
associated.
Each chapter of the study seeks to situate South Carolina’s Bahá’í movement in
the context of simultaneous local, regional, national, and international developments both
inside and outside the religion.  Throughout I examine the interaction of South Carolina
Bahá’ís with their faith’s sacred scriptures and with the national and international
leadership of the religion, particularly regarding interracial fellowship and the
organization of the community, as well as with the changing social, economic, and
political realities of the world around them.  As Adam Fairclough has noted in reference
to study of the civil rights movement, a state-level analysis provides the scope both to
compare a collection of local movements with each other and to place them in regional
and national contexts.18  I have adopted a similar approach to the study of the Bahá’í
Faith, but with one significant addition: the global context.  Indeed, it is the addition of
this supra-national perspective—the axis of Bahá’í philosophy and practice and its
principal contribution to the spiritual and intellectual life of the world—that makes this
dissertation more than the story of an obscure religion and its relation to the black
freedom struggle in one small state of the Union.  Rather, I have conceived of it as a case
study, at a manageable scale of analysis, of what are arguably the most significant
conceptual and structural changes in recent world history: the wholly unprecedented

18 Adam Fairclough, Race and Democracy: The Civil Rights Struggle in Louisiana, 1915-1972 (Athens:
University of Georgia Press, 1995), xl-xlii.


transition to an ideology of human oneness and global citizenship, and to a framework for
global governance designed to reflect it in practice.







Chapter 1

First Contacts, 1898-1916


In early November 1910, a dignified but unassuming visitor returned to his native city of
Charleston, South Carolina.  The son of freed slaves, Louis G. Gregory had risen from a
childhood of poverty, misfortune, and social upheaval to achieve a measure of success that
few black men of his day could hope for.  Gregory made his home in Washington, DC, the
country’s leading center of black cultural, political, and economic life.19  In the prime of his
life at thirty-six, he was a member of the capital city’s black elite, with an undergraduate
degree from Fisk University in Nashville and a law degree from Howard University in
Washington.  Gregory held a comfortable position in the Treasury Department and served as
president of the Bethel Literary and Historical Society, among the oldest and most
prestigious black organizations in the city.  Until recently, he had considered himself a strong
supporter of the Niagara Movement, formed by W. E. B. Du Bois and other race leaders in
1905 to press for full civil and political rights for African Americans.  Quite unexpectedly,
however, events over the previous three years had profoundly altered the young activist’s
approach to addressing America’s social problems.  Louis Gregory was returning to the city
of his birth for neither business nor politics nor pleasure, but on a mission of a different order

19 For the importance of the “New Negro” movement in post-Reconstruction Washington, see the works of
Wilson Jeremiah Moses, especially “The Lost World of the New Negro, 1895-1919: Black Literary and
Intellectual Life before the ‘Renaissance,’” Black American Literature Forum 21, nos. 1-2 (Spring-Summer
1987): 61-84; Alexander Crummell: A Study of Civilization and Discontent (New York: Oxford University
Press, 1989); and Afrotopia: The Roots of African American Popular History (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press, 1998).


altogether.  He was on fire with the spirit of a new religion, and he had undertaken a journey
through the segregated South to spread its message among his own kith and kin.


Finding Fulfillment


Gregory first heard of the Bahá’í Faith in late 1907, when a coworker at the Treasury
Department, an elderly white Marylander of unreconstructed southern sympathies, insisted
that he attend a meeting about the obscure but fascinating new movement.20  Gregory was not
inclined to investigate, for after “seeking, but not finding Truth,” he had “given up” on
Christianity and religion in general as a means to solve the pressing issues of the day.  He
went to the meeting anyway to do his friend a favor.  What he found there challenged his
previous understanding of religion and ultimately changed his life’s course.
Gregory arrived one “cold, blustery, extremely unpleasant night” at the address his
friend had given him, a rented room in the Corcoran office building on 15th Street opposite
the Treasury Department building where Gregory worked.  Pauline Hannen, a white woman
born in Washington and raised in Wilmington, North Carolina, was the host for the evening.
She gave Gregory “an unusually cordial welcome” and proceeded to tell him that he “would
hear something wonderful, though difficult,” a message that would afford him an opportunity
similar to that which would have been his had he “lived on earth as a contemporary of Jesus
Christ.”  She also gave him three pieces of Bahá’í literature.  The next to arrive was Lua
Getsinger, a white Northerner and one of the first Americans to accept the new religion,
whom Hannen introduced as “our teacher” for the evening.  Just before the turn of the
century, Getsinger had learned about the faith from Ibrahim George Kheiralla, the first

20 Louis G. Gregory, “Some Recollections of the Early Days of the Bahai Faith in Washington, D.C.,” TS,
Louis G. Gregory Papers, National Bahá’í Archives of the United States, Wilmette, IL (hereafter cited as NBA),
1.


Bahá’í to reside in the United States.  A Lebanese of Christian background and himself a
recent Bahá’í convert, he had settled in Chicago, begun teaching the faith in a series of
classes, and attracted more than a thousand people, mostly of evangelical Protestant
backgrounds, to the faith in Chicago and other northern cities.21  The last to arrive were two
working-class African Americans, Nellie Gray and Millie York.  They were among more
than a dozen black Washingtonians who had recently joined the faith in meetings
spearheaded by Hannen and her husband, Joseph, also a Southerner.  Small as it was due to
the inclement weather, the gathering was unusual in a city largely bound by hierarchies of
race, class, and gender.
Getsinger gave a “brief but vivid” introduction to the Bahá’í Faith, with an account of
the “appearances of the Bab and Baha’u’llah and of the great persecutions and martyrdoms in
Persia.”  The new religion, Gregory learned, traced its origins to the early nineteenth century,
when religious revivals, millennial expectations, and reform movements stirred both
Christian and Islamic countries from the United States to India.  Emerging from the Bábí
movement, the epicenter of a religious and social upheaval in Iran, Bahá’u’lláh, a nobleman
by birth, had claimed to be the promised one of all the world’s great religions.22  In his
writings addressed to Christian audiences, he had identified himself as the return of Christ in

21 For accounts of Kheiralla’s career, see Peter Smith, “The American Bahá’í Community, 1894-1917: A
Preliminary Survey,” in Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 1, ed. Moojan Momen (Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1982), 85-99; and Stockman, Origins.

22 Mírzá Husayn-Alí Núrí (1817-1892), oldest son of a prominent official in the court of Muhammad Shah,
became known by the Arabic title Bahá’u’lláh (“Glory of God”).  He was the most prominent follower of the
Báb (“Gate”), Siyyid Alí-Muhammad of Shiraz (1819-1850) and leader of the Bábí community after the Báb’s
execution.  In 1863 he proclaimed to be the Promised One whose imminent advent the Báb had foretold.  The
classic popular Bahá’í treatment of Biblical prophecy is William Sears, Thief in the Night (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1961).  The best scholarly biographies of the twin founders of the Bahá’í Faith are H. M. Balyuzi, The
Báb, new ed. (Oxford: George Ronald, 1973) and Bahá’u’lláh: King of Glory (Oxford: George Ronald, 1980).
For more recent comprehensive analyses of their major writings, see Saeidi, Gate of the Heart and Logos and
Civilization.


the glory of the Father, come to establish the Kingdom of God on earth as prophesied in the
Bible.23    The central theme of his religion was the unification and pacification of the entire
human race, and he had prescribed both spiritual requisites and practical means to establish a
global commonwealth.  He had spent his forty-year ministry imprisoned and exiled from
place to place, persecuted for his radical teachings by the Sunni and Shiite Islamic clergy and
the governments of Iran and the Ottoman Empire.  His final exile was to the biblical Holy
Land, the penal colony of ‘Akká on the plain of Sharon in northern Palestine, where he had
passed away in 1892.24  His son and appointed successor, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the living head of
the faith, remained a prisoner there.25
Gregory was intrigued.  He read the three books that Pauline Hannen had given him:
an English translation of the Hidden Words, Bahá’u’lláh’s summary of the moral and
spiritual essence of religion, and two introductory works by American Bahá’ís.  He attended
another Bahá’í meeting “among poor people” at the home of Gray and York, where Pauline
Hannen was the teacher.  Then the Hannens invited him to their home.  For more than a year
Gregory visited the Hannens on Sunday evenings, sometimes bringing black friends, to learn
more about the Bahá’í Faith.  “The light they unfolded was so wonderful,” he later recalled,

23 Major works of Bahá’u’lláh addressed to Christian audiences include the Most Holy Tablet, likely written for
a Bahá’í from Syrian Christian background, and letters sent to Pope Pius IX, Queen Victoria, Emperor
Napoleon III, and Czar Alexander II.  See Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 7-17; and The
Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002), 54-96.

24 See Isaiah 35:1-2.

25 The best scholarly biography of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is H. M. Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of
Bahá’u’lláh (Oxford: George Ronald, 1971).


“that for about a year we sat in dumb amazement, listening to their patient, loving talks, not
knowing whether to advance or retreat, yet held by supernal power.”26
In the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, the frustrated young intellectual found a renewal of
his personal faith.  Gregory’s “mental veils were cleared away” as the Hannens taught him
the spiritual practices of the Bahá’í life, including obligatory prayer, meditation, study of the
Bahá’í scriptures and an annual fast.  “[T]he light of assurance mercifully appeared within,”
he recalled, “when they taught me … how to pray.”27  Through his encounter with the Bahá’í
Faith he developed “an entirely new conception of Christianity and of all religion, and with
it,” he said, “my whole nature seems changed for the better.”28
For Gregory, the Bahá’í message represented a fulfillment of the Christian
expectation of a reign of peace and justice on earth.  “The appearance of Baha’u’llah,”
Gregory testified,
is the direct fulfillment of the Lord’s Prayer in the establishment on earth of the
Kingdom of the Father.  The Manifestation of the Father, Baha’u’llah, heralded by all
the prophets, comes to unite the souls of His creatures.  His Divine utterances reveal
the means of harmony for all religions and all peoples.29

The coming of the Kingdom, however, would be different from the fantastic events described
in popular Christianity.30  Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation constituted the promised “new heavens,”

26 Louis G. Gregory, A Heavenly Vista: The Pilgrimage of Louis G. Gregory. (Washington, DC: R. L.
Pendleton, n.d., ca. 1912; Ferndale, MI: Alpha Services, 1997),
http://bahai-library.com/file.php?file=gregory_heavenly_vista.
27 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 2-3.

28 Ibid.

29 Gregory, Heavenly Vista.

30 The notion of the Kingdom of God on earth is both a persistent concern in American Protestantism and an
organizing principle of the Bahá’í Faith.  The classic treatment is H. Richard Neibuhr, The Kingdom of God in
America (New York: Harper & Row, 1937).  More recent works include Paul Boyer, When Time Shall Be No
More: Prophecy Belief in Modern American Culture (Cambridge, MA, and London: Harvard University Press,
1992); and James H. Moorhead, World without End: Mainstream American Protestant Visions of the Last
Things, 1880-1925 (Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1999).  In terms of Protestant


and the “new earth” would take shape as the peoples and governments of the world put his
teachings into practice:
Among the agencies He mentions as conducive to unity are cessation of war, a
universal language, to be taught in all the schools of the world, a universal calendar,
the education of all classes and of both sexes, religious tolerance and the reign of
love. Encouragement is also given to commerce, the arts, science, agriculture and
scientific discovery. The people are commanded to bring forth fruit upon the earth.31

As Pauline Hannen indicated at their first meeting, the Bahá’ís believed they were living at
the dawn of a new world-faith, similar in circumstance to the earliest followers of Jesus
Christ.  Theirs, they felt, was the opportunity and the responsibility to lay the foundations of
a new civilization that would take shape over the course of a thousand-year dispensation.  For
Louis Gregory the activist, here was a compelling vision for personal and societal
regeneration.  Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings made clear that there was no place for racial prejudice
or injustice in the Kingdom of God on earth, by implication putting America’s racial
problems in the perspective of profound spiritual and social changes destined to happen on a
global scale.  The impact of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings broadened and refined Gregory’s social
and political concerns and harmonized them with the deepest longings of his ancestral
faith—the prophetic promise of a reign of justice and righteousness in the world.
Equally important in Gregory’s conversion process, the Hannens introduced Gregory
to the figure of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the eldest son of Bahá’u’lláh appointed by him as “Center of

typologies, Bahá’í thought contains elements of both pre- and postmillennialism (that is, whether Christ returns
to himself inaugurate God’s Kingdom on earth, or the efforts of Christians to spread the Gospel and improve the
world prepare the Kingdom for his coming), but it differs radically from Protestant orthodoxy by placing the
return of Christ in the past.  In the Bahá’í conception, the realization of the Kingdom will result from the
operation of spiritual forces released by the return of Christ (the appearance of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh) on the
Bahá’í community, the world’s political and religious leaders, and the masses of humanity over a historical
period of at least one thousand years.  For American Protestants who became Bahá’ís, then, a powerful motif of
their religious heritage took on new, immediate, and revolutionary meaning.

31 Ibid.


the Covenant,” the head of the religion and authoritative interpreter of its sacred scriptures,
after his passing.32  Still a prisoner in Ottoman Palestine, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was the living focal
point for the faith of the Bahá’ís, who called him the “Master” or “Our Lord.”  He guided and
encouraged them through a steady stream of letters (called “tablets” from the Arabic alwáh)
and, as conditions permitted, by welcoming pilgrims to the Bahá’í holy places in ‘Akká and
its sister city of Haifa.  In the words of one early American pilgrim, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was “the
Example and Leader of all mankind in service, sacrifice, love and peace, fulfilling before all
the Law of the Kingdom as declared by the Great Manifestation Baha’u’llah.”33
Early in 1909 the Hannens made their own pilgrimage to Palestine, and they
mentioned Louis Gregory to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  He encouraged them to continue teaching
Gregory, predicting that he would become an enthusiastic believer.  When they returned
home in April, the Sunday evening visits resumed.  “At length,” Gregory remembered, “as
the lesson of humility took effect and every hope vanished save the Will of God, Abdu’l-
Baha … revealed himself.”34  In June, Gregory became a “confirmed believer” and, in
keeping with a practice among new American Bahá’ís begun by Ibrahim Kheiralla, he wrote
a personal confession of faith and sent it to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. 35

32 In this context, the “Covenant” refers to the system of institutional relationships by which Bahá’u’lláh
protected his religion from schism after his passing.  Bahá’u’lláh appointed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as Center of the
Covenant (Markaz-i mítháq-i iláhí) in passages in the Súriy-i-Ghusn (“Tablet of the Branch”), the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas (“Most Holy Book”), and the Kitáb-i-Ahd (“Book of the Covenant”).  See Bahá’u’lláh quoted in Shoghi
Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, 1st pocket-size ed. (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991), 135; The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, 1st pocket-size ed. (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1993), ¶ 121, 174; and Tablets Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 217-23.  For an historical overview of
the Covenant, see Adib Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh (Oxford: George Ronald, 2000).

33 Thornton Chase, In Galilee (1908; Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1985), 71, quoted in Smith, “American
Bahá’í Community,” 102.

34 Gregory, Heavenly Vista.

35 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 1.  For the practice of writing “supplications” to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, see Smith,
“American Bahá’í Community,” 105.


Washington Origins

When Louis Gregory became a Bahá’í, the religion had only been in the United States a little
more than a decade.  The Washington Bahá’í community of which he became a part, while
one of the largest and most successful such groups in the country, was still in a critical
formative phase.  Gregory came to play a decisive role in creating a fully integrated local
Bahá’í community in Washington, the first city with a significant black Bahá’í population,
setting a precedent that was crucial to the future of race relations in the American Bahá’í
movement and to the faith’s growth and development in the South in particular.
Washington was one of the early centers of Bahá’í activity in the United States.  The
first Bahá’í in the city was Charlotte Brittingham Dixon, a white, middle-class native of
Princess Anne on Maryland’s eastern shore.  Her family was Episcopalian, but with
evangelical leanings.  Her father and grandfather had attended the revivals of the Millerites,
who expected Christ’s second coming in 1843-1844, and Dixon herself was strongly
influenced by the Holiness movement in Methodism.  After a period of intense spiritual
search, she encountered the Bahá’í Faith in Chicago and attended Ibrahim Kheiralla’s
classes.  Convinced that Bahá’u’lláh had come “to establish the glorious reign of Peace, and
the Millennium,” she became a Bahá’í in September 1897.36  The next year, she returned to
the east coast, teaching members of her extended family before settling in Washington.  By
late September 1899, there were seven believers in the capital city.37  However, the faith
gained its first substantial following in Washington chiefly through the efforts of a handful of
new believers from the city’s white elite.  In 1900, Phoebe Apperson Hearst, one of the
leading women of California, hosted Bahá’í meetings while visiting her Washington home.

36 Stockman, Origins, 118.

37 Ibid., 130.


The wealthy widow of U.S. Senator George Hearst and mother of newspaper publisher
William Randolph Hearst, she had become a Bahá’í in California two years before and
financed the first party of American pilgrims to the Holy Land.  In 1901, Alice Pike Barney,
a successful painter whose husband was from a family of Ohio industrialists, and her
daughter, Laura Clifford Barney, returned to Washington from Paris, where they had both
become Bahá’ís.  In 1903, another Washington expatriate, Charles Mason Remey, wealthy
son of a U.S. Navy rear admiral, also came home from Paris as a Bahá’í.  To these prominent
believers was added Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl Gulpaygání, a professor of Islamic jurisprudence at
Cairo’s al-Azhar University.  The foremost scholar of the Bahá’í Faith at the time, he was the
most prominent in a series of Iranian teachers sent by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to consolidate the
fledgling community of American Bahá’ís.  From early 1902 to late 1904, he resided in
Washington and lectured and wrote extensively there, making the Washington Bahá’ís
perhaps the most knowledgeable in the country.38  The community began to grow as the
personal contacts of the believers drew hundreds of seekers to public meetings.  By 1904, the
Washington Bahá’ís were holding devotional gatherings every nineteen days, on the first day
of each month of the Bahá’í calendar, a pattern established by the Chicago believers
according to Bahá’u’lláh’s admonition in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the “Most Holy Book” of his
revelation.39  The Washington community also became an early center of communication for

38 Mírzá Abu’l-Fazl’s introductory work, The Bahá’í Proofs, was written and published during his stay in
Washington.  Containing biographies of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; a summary of the faith’s
sacred writings; a description of its social teachings; and a series of five essays relating it to other religions, the
book remains one of the most sophisticated expositions in Bahá’í secondary literature.  Abu’l-Fazl Gulpaygání,
The Bahá’í Proofs (1902; repr., Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983).  For a discussion of the work and
of the impact of Mírzá Abu’l-Fazl’s American sojourn, see Stockman, Early Expansion, 81-7.

39 Stockman, Early Expansion, 137.  Bahá’u’lláh enjoined his followers “to offer a feast, once in every month,
though only water be served; for God hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit through both earthly and
heavenly means.”  Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶ 57.  This provision is the origin of the Bahá’í institution of the Nineteen
Day Feast.


the American Bahá’ís, publishing introductory pamphlets and compilations of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s tablets in English translation and distributing them to believers in other cities.40
One of the new Washington believers was Pauline Knobloch Hannen.  The only
American-born child of Lutheran immigrants from Saxony, Hannen spent part of her
childhood and youth in Wilmington, North Carolina.  She became a Bahá’í in Washington in
1902, convinced that the new religion fulfilled the prophecies of the Bible, and was quickly
followed by her husband, Joseph Hannen; his mother, Mary Alexander, a Virginia native; her
mother, Amelia Knobloch; and her older sisters, Alma and Fanny Knobloch.41  Pauline
Hannen and her extended family were among the first white Americans to appreciate the
implications of Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching of the oneness of humanity on the race problem in the
United States and to translate that understanding into action.  While at least two African
Americans had become Bahá’ís in other cities before 1900, the Hannens and Knoblochs
made the first concerted efforts in the country to teach the faith to blacks.42  Pauline Hannen
recalled that pondering a passage in the Hidden Words caused her to reconsider her prejudice
against blacks, ingrained since her childhood in the racially divisive atmosphere of post-
Reconstruction North Carolina:
O children of men!  Know ye not why We created you all from the same dust?  That
no one should exalt himself over the other.  Ponder at all times in your hearts how ye
were created.  Since We have created you all from one same substance it is incumbent
on you to be even as one soul, to walk with the same feet, eat with the same mouth
and dwell in the same land, that from your inmost being, by your deeds and actions,
the signs of oneness and the essence of detachment may be made manifest.  Such is

40 Stockman, Early Expansion, 220.

41 Ibid., 137.

42 Ibid., 224.


My counsel to you, O concourse of light!  Heed ye this counsel that ye may obtain the
fruit of holiness from the tree of wondrous glory. 43

Hannen resolved to share her faith with blacks, and she started with the ones she knew best,
Carrie York, her washerwoman, and Pocahontas Pope, her sister’s seamstress.  Primarily
through word of mouth, other African Americans investigated the faith.  York and Pope both
became Bahá’ís, and they held meetings in their own homes where white and Iranian
Bahá’ís—including the Hannens and their family and occasional visitors from other cities—
could teach their friends and families.  By the middle of 1908, some fifteen black
Washingtonians had embraced the faith.44

Whether they were aware of it or not, the Hannens and their allies were developing
relationships with the largest and most influential urban black community in turn-of-the-
century America.  Of the American cities in which the Bahá’í Faith first spread, Washington
had the largest proportion of black inhabitants, some thirty percent during the first decade of
the twentieth century.45  Compared to most cities in the country, Washington had long been a
haven of security and opportunity for African Americans, with a large and relatively
prosperous free black community before the Civil War.46  In the 1880s and 1890s, a rising
tide of white violence and coercion radically curtailed blacks’ social, economic, and political
participation in the rest of the South, but the federal capital afforded protection from the
horrors of lynching and the worst of discriminatory practices.  A swelling population of black

43 Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words, trans. Shoghi Effendi (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), Arabic
no. 68.

44 Stockman, Early Expansion, 224-6.

45 Constance McLaughlin Green, The Secret City: A History of Race Relations in the Nation’s Capital
(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1967), 200.

46 Green, Secret City, 53.


newcomers, mostly from adjacent Virginia and Maryland, included skilled tradesmen and
artisans shut out of whites-only labor organizations and teachers and professionals seeking
more favorable working conditions.  As black politicians across the region were pushed out
of office, many fled to Washington in hopes of federal appointments or other employment.47
Even after Congress revoked home rule in the District of Columbia in 1878, black
Washingtonians maintained a voice in local politics, especially through the management of a
large system of black public schools.  Strong schools were mainly responsible for a large and
steady increase in black literacy in the city, from approximately sixty percent in 1890 to
eighty-three percent in 1910.48  While economic progress in general did not keep pace with
the rising black population, the school system, Howard University, and federal agencies
provided black professionals with unparalleled opportunities.49  Such a high concentration of
well-educated, politically-active African Americans made Washington the intellectual capital
of black America, with church-related organizations such as the Bethel Literary and
Historical Association and the American Negro Academy leading the way.50

Though Washington in the first decade of the twentieth century was still a haven for
blacks compared to the rest of the South, lines of racial segregation in the city were
hardening on every side.   Churches and schools were already separate, largely as a result of
black initiative during and after the Civil War.  A local civil rights act remained on the
books, yet restaurants, hotels, and barber shops served only one race or the other, and black

47 Wilson J. Moses, “The Lost World of the New Negro, 1895-1919: Black Literary and Intellectual Life before
the ‘Renaissance,’” Black American Literature Forum, 21, nos. 1-2 (Spring-Summer 1987): 65.

48 Green, Secret City, 136, 162.

49 Ibid., 154.

50 Moses, “Lost World,” 67-72.  For a treatment of the American Negro Academy, see Alfred A. Moss, The
American Negro Academy: Voice of the Talented Tenth (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1981).


theatergoers were segregated in balconies.51  In 1908, the local chapter of the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union forced black members to withdraw and form a separate group.52
For several years beginning in 1907, bills to segregate the streetcar system in the District of
Columbia came up in the House of Representatives.53  The number of black employees in
federal agencies and in city government declined, and segregated work spaces, washrooms,
and dining facilities emerged in several federal offices—including the Treasury Department
where Louis Gregory worked—between 1904 and 1909.54   In the private social life of the
city’s middle and upper classes, segregation was virtually total.  As one social worker
observed in 1908, in Washington “[t]he better class of white and colored people know
absolutely nothing of each other.”55
In the context of the city’s increasingly rigid social segregation, the fact that even a
few white Bahá’ís went out of their way to bring their faith to blacks is remarkable.  The
Hannens and a few other white Bahá’ís were willing to cross the increasingly rigid color line,
participating in interracial gatherings in black neighborhoods and rented halls and, at even
greater potential social cost to themselves, frequently entertaining black guests in their own
homes.  However, the initial growth of the Bahá’í Faith in black Washington was an
initiative of only a handful of white believers, not of the whole group.  The integrated
meetings constituted something of a community within a community, as most of the other
Bahá’ís remained unaware of or uninterested in the Hannens’ activities.

51 Green, Secret City, 166.

52 Ibid., 164.

53 Ibid., 166.

54 Ibid., 165-6.

55 Ibid., 155-160, 163.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá sought to make teaching African Americans the policy of all the
Washington believers, and explicitly requested that whites take the lead in establishing a
fully integrated Bahá’í community.   During Joseph and Pauline Hannen’s pilgrimage to
Palestine in 1909, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá encouraged them to continue teaching African Americans,
expressing the hope that it would be “the means of bringing about peace between the Blacks
and the Whites.”56  In Joseph Hannen’s words, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá directed that in order
to prove the validity of our Teachings and as a means of removing existing prejudices
between the races, a Spiritual Assembly or meeting be held, preferably at the home of
one of the white Bahais, in which both races should join.57

The Hannens apparently did not press the issue, however, until Louis Gregory began to share
the faith with his peers in Washington’s black elite.  Beginning in the fall of 1909, Gregory
organized a series of well-attended lectures on the Bahá’í Faith before the Bethel Literary
and Historical Association, and intimate weekly meetings for black inquirers continued in
several homes.  “As soon as I became a believer and began to teach . . .,” Gregory recalled,
my colored friends got on my back and began to press me with troublous questions.
If this were a New religion which stood for unity, why were its devotees divided?
Why did they not meet altogether in one place?  Were the Baha’is not full of
prejudice like other people? 58


At the same time, other African American friends and associates discouraged Gregory from
continuing his radical departure from religious tradition:
By far the majority of my friends thought I had become mentally unbalanced.  One of
my old teachers, a professor of international law and a very affectionate friend,
almost wept over my departure from orthodoxy and with others warned me that I was

56 Pauline Hannen to Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, May 1909, Ahmad Sohrab Papers, NBA, quoted in Christopher
Buck, Alain Locke: Faith and Philosophy, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 18 (Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 2005), 38.

57 Jos. H. Hannen, Bahai News 1, no. 1 (21 March 1910): 18-19, and Joseph H. Hannen, “Washington, D. C.,”
Bahai News 1, no. 3 (28 April 1910): 19, both quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 33.

58 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 5.


blasting all hopes of a career.  The Washington Bee, a well-known colored
newspaper, on one occasion gave me two columns of ridicule which remained
unanswered.  Others, knowing my controversial habits of the past said, ‘He must have
religion since he does not answer that!’59

The Hannens arranged for Gregory to consult with the “Working Group,” the community’s
fledgling executive committee of which Joseph Hannen was a member, about the integration
of the community.  No record remains of the meeting, but movement towards full inclusion
proved to be slow.  Many of the white Washington Bahá’ís had come into the faith with a
sincere love for Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or an attraction to one or more of their
progressive social teachings.  Few, however, had ever examined their inherited racial
prejudice in the light of the religion’s cardinal principle of the oneness of humanity, and few
appreciated the radical implications of that principle in the context of their own segregated
city and country.
If the attitudes of some of the Washington believers fell short of the faith’s teachings
on interracial unity, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left no doubt about Gregory’s own place in resolving the
situation.  His reply to Gregory’s declaration of faith arrived in November 1909, and it made
clear that Gregory should play a major role in promoting social equality and the full
integration of the community.  “I hope,” he wrote,
that thou mayest become … the means whereby the white and colored people shall
close their eyes to racial differences and behold the reality of humanity, that is the
universal unity which is the oneness of the kingdom of the human race ….  Rely as
much as thou canst on the True One, and be thou resigned to the Will of God, so that
like unto a candle thou mayest be enkindled in the world of humanity and like unto a
star thou mayest shine and gleam from the Horizon of Reality and become the cause
of the guidance of both races.60


59 Ibid.

60 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Louis Gregory, translated 17 November 1909, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, NBA, quoted in
Morrison, To Move the World, 7.


Early in 1910, buoyed by such guidance, Gregory and the Hannens initiated a large
integrated monthly gathering along the lines ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had earlier prescribed.  Joseph
Hannen reported for the first issue of the new national Bahá’í newsletter:
On the evening of March 6th, an important gathering assembled at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Hannen, representing the joining in one meeting of the white and the
colored Bahais and friends of this city….  This is the first [such] meeting …, and is to
be repeated monthly.  There were present about 35 persons, one-third of whom were
colored, and nearly all believers.61

He also announced the first partial step in integrating the Unity Feast, as the once-in-
nineteen-days devotional program was called:

It is also planned that every fourth Unity Feast, beginning April 9, should be held in
such manner that both races can join.  This is a radical step in this part of the country,
and is in reality making history.62

Such a compromise, however, fell short of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s expectations.  Through
correspondence and conversations with pilgrims, he continued to insist on complete
integration of the Washington community’s activities, while for several years some of the
white believers persistently misunderstood or ignored his instructions.  But even in a
partially-integrated state, the small Washington Bahá’í community already stood out from the
city’s other organizations as a potential spiritual home for many diverse elements of the
population—black and white; male and female; northern and southern; native-born and
immigrant; working-class, middle-class, and elite; conservative and activist.  For Louis
Gregory, the fact that a handful of white Bahá’ís, whose own backgrounds and social
positions would otherwise have made them unlikely radicals, had taken even a tentative lead
in creating an interracial fellowship was enough to demonstrate the potentially transformative

61 Bahai News 1, no. 1 (21 March 1910): 18-9, quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 33.

62 Ibid.


power of the faith.  In the fall of 1910, he set out to take its message to the southern heart of
segregated America.

When Louis Gregory left the District of Columbia for points south, he was coming
home to a region in dire need of transformation.  Still reeling from the political and economic
upheavals of the 1890s, the southern states were beset by an agricultural economy in
precipitous decline; rapid and uneven industrialization; the brutal oppression of one-third of
the region’s population through political disfranchisement and increasingly rigid racial
segregation; and a system of social control suffused with astonishing levels of legal and
extralegal violence.  The dominating ethos of the region was white male supremacy—hardly
compatible with Bahá’u’lláh’s concept of the oneness of humanity.  Since the rise and rapid
fall of the Populist movement of the 1890s, an alliance of conservative political and business
leaders, buttressed in large part by black and white clergymen, held virtually uncontested
sway in every state.  For concerned Bahá’ís like Gregory and the Hannens, such conditions
called out for application of Bahá’u’lláh’s moral and social teachings.  But they also meant
that bringing his religion to the South would be a difficult, lonely, and potentially dangerous
undertaking.  Beyond Washington and Baltimore, the South remained virtually untouched by
the faith.  In 1910, there were only half a dozen believers and one small and isolated group
south of the Potomac.  Louis Gregory’s journey was a major step forward in establishing the
Bahá’í Faith in an enormous region.  As a native Southerner and a member of the African-
American elite, he took advantage of his social and professional connections to speak to
hundreds of people in churches, schools, professional and fraternal organizations, and private
homes in eight cities and towns, including Richmond, Virginia; Durham, Enfield, and
Wilmington, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; and Macon, Georgia.  Gregory’s


trip was likely the first multi-state Bahá’í teaching trip in the region, and likely saw the
earliest introduction of the faith to the Carolinas and Georgia.


Charleston

In its heyday, Louis Gregory’s hometown was an important city.  As the main port of
debarkation for African slaves in America, the leading export hub in the country during much
of the antebellum period, the cultural capital of a Deep South cotton kingdom that spread as
far as Texas, and the hotbed of the political agitation that led to secession and civil war,
Charleston had been one of the major cities of the United States.  But prosperity proved
fleeting.  Even before the Civil War, Charleston had lost ground in a national economy
increasingly characterized by manufacturing, as the area’s ruling class, enthralled to lucrative
slave-grown export crops, eschewed diversification.  In the aftermath of the war the city’s
position continued to slip, as the Carolina Lowcountry’s agricultural system collapsed,
railroads in the interior siphoned off commerce from the port, and municipal leadership,
especially after the collapse of Reconstruction, proved ineffective.  By the first decade of the
twentieth century, Charleston was a city in manifest decline.63
For former slaves like Louis Gregory’s parents, however, Charleston meant hope for
a brighter future.  As soon as Union forces entered the city in March 1865, freedmen and
freedwomen from across the Lowcountry flocked to the city.  They came for multiple
reasons: to put distance between themselves and their formers masters; for the security of
numbers amid a rising tide of white violence; for opportunities for economic advancement,

63 Walter Edgar, South Carolina: A History (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1996) 425; Wilbert
L. Jenkins, Seizing the New Day: African Americans in Post-Civil War Charleston (Bloomington and
Indianapolis: University of Indiana Press, 1998), xi-xii.


education, and community life that were nearly impossible on the farms and plantations; to
seek loved ones separated through the vagaries of the internal slave trade; to feel the first
flush of freedom.  The city’s sizeable black minority became a decisive majority for the first
time in its history.  In the decades after the war, blacks remained essential to the city’s
economic life, working as skilled and unskilled laborers, longshoremen and stevedores,
businesspeople, and professionals.  They worked to establish independent churches that, free
from white control, served as indispensable hubs of social, economic, political, and
educational life—most of which endured after the end of South Carolina’s experiment with
Reconstruction in 1877.64
Louis Gregory’s parents, Ebenezer and Mary Elizabeth George, were among the
migrants.  They grew up as slaves in Darlington District, some 120 miles north of Charleston
in the Pee Dee section of the state.  Teenagers at Emancipation, they married and moved with
Mary Elizabeth’s mother, known in postwar records as Mary Bacot, to the city.  There they
were able to live and work in relative peace, Ebenezer as a blacksmith, and Mary Elizabeth
as a seamstress.  They had two children, Theodore and Louis, who became students in South
Carolina’s first system of free public education, set up under the new state constitution of
1868.65  Like many other families, it was as much the miserable conditions in the postwar
countryside as the opportunities of urban life that drew the Georges to Charleston.  White
insurgents, seeking to topple a Republican state government that rested on the votes of newly
enfranchised black men, wreaked havoc among rural freedpeople, including Mary
Elizabeth’s family.  Her natural father was her late former master, George Washington

64 Jenkins, Seizing the New Day, 160-1.

65 Morrison, To Move the World, 11-2, 15-6.


Dargan, a judge on South Carolina’s highest court, but her mother’s husband after
emancipation was a former slave who worked as a blacksmith.  When he achieved some
success in business by himself, white paramilitaries in Darlington marked him as a threat;
one night, a band of masked men called him out of his house and shot him dead.66
While the city offered protection from white violence, urban life was not easy for
black migrants, who tended to suffer most from the city’s economic woes.  During the late
1880s and 1890s, they experienced a decline in real wages and had a hard time achieving
economic security.67   With a burgeoning population, housing in the city was inadequate and
crowded, streets were unpaved and filled with garbage and animals, and drinking water was
unclean.68  Construction of a modern sewer system did not begin until 1909, and for decades
it bypassed the poorest black neighborhoods.69  In such an environment, contagious disease
was rampant.  One of the victims was Ebenezer George.  In 1879 he died of tuberculosis, the
leading killer of black Charlestonians, leaving his widow struggling to support two
children.70
Even the forces of nature seemed bent on compounding Charleston’s woes.  In
August 1885, when young Louis was eleven years old, a hurricane damaged or destroyed
ninety percent of the houses in the city.  Barely a year later, a major earthquake rocked the
area, destroying some two thousand buildings and killing more than a hundred people.  In

66 Ibid., 13.

67 Jenkins, Seizing the New Day, 160-1.

68 Walter J. Fraser, Charleston! Charleston!: The History of a Southern City (Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 1989), 304-5.

69 Fraser, Charleston! Charleston!, 351.

70 Morrison, To Move the World, 11; Fraser, Charleston! Charleston!, 331.


1893 another major hurricane struck the South Carolina coast, damaging Charleston and
devastating the Sea Islands south of the city.  Some 2000 mostly black residents were
drowned in the massive storm surge.  In the wake of the storm, phosphate mining and
processing, the area’s major industry and the city’s largest employer of African Americans,
could not fully recover.71  Natural disasters in part fueled a local building boom, and
construction companies, many employing black carpenters and laborers, benefited.  But
compared to other New South cities of the late nineteenth century, Charleston languished.
During the 1890s the city’s population grew by a mere 1,000, while the nearby ports of
Savannah and Jacksonville grew by some 10,000 each.72
The city’s racial climate, as well, became increasingly poisonous during the 1890s.
After the 1876 coup that brought down the state’s Reconstruction regime, conservative white
Democrats chipped away at black political rights.  Finally, a new constitution in 1895
included franchise restrictions that all but completed the removal of African American men
from the voting rolls, the jury box, and state and local elective offices.  During the 1890s and
1900s, Charleston whites repeatedly blocked the appointment of blacks to federal posts in the
city, the last chance for a few loyal Republicans to play a minor political role.73
Disfranchisement opened the door to systematic racial segregation.  In its 1896 Plessy v.
Ferguson decision, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld “separate but equal” accommodations in
Louisiana train coaches, and in its wake, cities and states across the South moved swiftly to
codify the principle.  The next year, when Charleston installed its first system of electric

71 Edgar, South Carolina, 425-7.

72 Fraser, Charleston! Charleston!, 309, 327.

73 Idus A. Newby, Black Carolinians: A History of Blacks in South Carolina from 1895 to 1968. (Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press, 1973), 160-1.


streetcars, they operated on a segregated basis.74  By the first decade of the twentieth century
black teachers had been eliminated from the city’s schools, and most public accommodations
in the city were segregated.75
Race prejudice limited the impact of efforts to rebuild the city’s economy.  White
Charlestonians with money routinely invested it in ventures that depended primarily on white
laborers, from Upstate textile mills to Birmingham iron and steel companies.76  Around the
turn of the century, two attempts to bring cotton textile manufacturing to the city, both
employing black workers, failed.77  In the late 1890s, fresh with enthusiasm for overseas
expansion after the Spanish-American War, a new group of young white businessmen
attempted to revive the city’s fortunes by holding a World’s Fair.  Held during the winter and
spring of 1901-1902, the Interstate and West Indian Exposition drew far fewer visitors than
planned.  Unseasonably cold weather kept many out-of-state and foreign visitors away, but
more than half the host city’s population refused to attend.  Charleston’s blacks were
incensed over the placement of a statue that depicted them only as menial laborers.  When
they requested it be moved from in front of the Negro Building, the white exposition officers
promptly moved it to an even more prominent position on the grounds, and blacks in turn
stayed away.78

74 Edgar, South Carolina, 448.

75 Fraser, Charleston! Charleston!, 336.

76 Don H. Doyle, New Men, New Cities, New South: Atlanta, Nashville, Charleston, Mobile, 1860-1910 (Chapel
Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1990), 160.

77 Doyle, New Men, New Cities, New South, 309.

78 Ibid., 310.


For young Louis Gregory, a major key to stability and prosperity in a largely hostile
world was his stepfather.  In 1881, after struggling for two years to support her children
alone, Mary Elizabeth George married George Gregory, who adopted the boys and raised
them as his own.  Young Louis George became Louis George Gregory.  His adopted father
was a literate, freeborn Charleston native who worked as a carpenter, and his family had
owned some property before the Civil War.79  He was also a veteran of the Union army.
When Confederate forces abandoned Charleston in mid-February 1865, the first Union
soldiers to enter and occupy the city were African Americans.  In their wake came Major
Martin R. Delaney, a black abolitionist from Pennsylvania, commissioned by President
Lincoln to raise two more regiments of black soldiers to augment Union forces in the city and
the neighboring Sea Islands.  George Gregory enlisted, serving for about a year in the 104th
Regiment U.S. Colored Infantry.80  Military service had its benefits: stimulating contact with
black and white men from other parts of the country; an informal political education;
increased pride and self-confidence for having helped put down the slaveholders’ rebellion;
and stature within the African American community.81  These qualities, along with literacy
and relative financial security, George Gregory was able to bring to his new family.  They
owned a modest house in Radcliffeborogh in the city’s lower peninsula, in an area mostly

79 Morrison, To Move the World, 13-4.

80 National Park Service, “George Gregory,” Civil War Soldiers and Sailors System,
http://www.civilwar.nps.gov/cwss/soldiers.cfm.

81 The classic accounts of blacks in the Union armed forces during the Civil War are James M. McPherson, The
Negro’s Civil War: How American Negroes Felt and Acted during the War for the Union (New York: Random
House, 1965) and Dudley Taylor Cornish, The Sable Arm: Negro Troops in the Union Army, 1861-1865 (New
York: W. W. Norton, 1966).  More recently, Steven Hahn has focused on military service as a critical school of
political education for freedmen. Hahn, A Nation under Our Feet, 89-102.


inhabited by freedpeople.82  The boys continued their education at the city’s only black
school with a college-preparatory program, the missionary-run Avery Normal Institute.83
Louis’s mother died in 1891, just as he was finishing high school, and George Gregory
remained a loving father.  He was able to pay for Louis’s first year of college at Fisk
University in Nashville, Tennessee, after which Louis paid his way by tailoring for other
students and working summer jobs in Charleston.  Between graduating from Fisk in 1896 and
entering the law program at Howard University in 1900, Louis Gregory returned to
Charleston and taught at Avery.84
When Gregory came home again in November 1910, it was to a community rich with
family ties and professional connections.  He was among his people, and he found plenty of
friends, associates, and family members who were receptive to the message he had come to
share.  “Am just having the time of my life!” he wrote to Joseph Hannen from a relative’s
house on Coming Street.  He had “numerous engagements to speak in churches, halls, and . .
. parties” and to the Colored Ministerial Union.  He reported a meeting with an Episcopal
priest who, it turned out, already knew something of the Bahá’í Faith.  The priest had
attended sessions at Green Acre, a summer colony on the southern coast of Maine that
attracted liberals and free-thinkers and was owned by a Bahá’í.  There he had met and been
favorably impressed with the Iranian Bahá’í scholar Mírzá ‘Abu’l-Fadl, who lectured
frequently at Green Acre during his American sojourn of 1901 to 1904.  On November 8,

82 U.S. Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census of the United States, 1910 (Washington, DC: National
Archives and Records Administration, 1910), http://www.ancestry.com.

83 Avery was essential to the education of generations of black Charlestonians from the 1860s to the 1950s.  A
thorough history of the school and its community context is Edmund L. Drago, Initiative, Paternalism, and
Race Relations: Charleston’s Avery Normal Institute (Athens and London: University of Georgia Press, 1990).

84 Morrison, To Move the World, 16-7.


Gregory was the featured speaker at a “Lecture and Musicale” at the Carpenters’ Hall.
Gregory’s stepfather, a carpenter, was probably responsible for his son’s appearance at the
local union’s meeting hall.  Gregory was to have shared the podium with three ministers, but
none of them showed up.  Instead, Gregory “had the attentive audience to face alone, yet not
alone, for the Spirit was powerful.” Altogether, he said, “[t]he whole city seems interested.”85
Gregory also shared the news of his meeting with some or all of Charleston’s six
black lawyers.86  Gregory was likely already well acquainted with his peers in the city.
According to Gregory, all of the lawyers “seem[ed] favorable” to the Bahá’í message.  One
of them, Alonzo Twine, quickly identified himself as a believer:
One of them has accepted it, saying that he was particularly impressed with the
explanation concerning “clouds.”  He added that if Christ were to come thru the
literal clouds, he certainly would be hidden from half the earth, in view of its
roundness.87

Gregory’s reference to Bahá’í interpretations of biblical prophecies indicates that his
discussion with the attorneys must have included not only the radical social teachings of the
faith, but also its unorthodox theological teachings, such as the belief in Bahá’u’lláh as the
return of Christ.

Gregory and Twine had remarkably similar backgrounds.  Born three years apart—
Gregory in 1874 and Twine in 1877—both men grew up after the fall of Reconstruction and

85 Louis G. Gregory to Joseph A. Hannen, 9 and 12 November 1910, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

86 Of the 61 attorneys or law firms in the 1910 Charleston city directory, only five—J. B. Edwards, John A.
Gaillard, Edward T. Smith, Daniel B. Summers, and Alonzo E. Twine—were listed as “colored.”  Walsh’s
Charleston, South Carolina, City Directory (Charleston: Walsh Directory Co., Inc., 1910), 642.  Another black
attorney, Thaddeus St. Mark Sasportas, lived in nearby Summerville in Dorchester County but handled cases in
Charleston.  W. Lewis Burke and William C. Hine, “The South Carolina State College School of Law,” in
Matthew J. Perry: The Man, His Times, and His Legacy, ed. W. Lewis Burke and Belinda F. Gergel (Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press, 2004), 22.

87 Gregory to Hannen, 12 November 1910.


came of age in a period of steadily worsening race relations.88  Alonzo Twine’s father,
Charles Twine, was probably born a slave in eastern North Carolina.  During the Civil War,
he served in the 21st Regiment U.S. Colored Infantry, which took part in operations against
Charleston during 1864 and was one of the regiments that occupied the city after the
Confederate surrender.89  After the war, he remained in Charleston and worked in a saw
mill.90  He married a South Carolina-born freedwoman named Phillipa, who worked as a
nurse and housemaid.91  The couple raised a family in a rented house on Montague Court, an
enclave of freedpeople in the Harleston Village neighborhood, and they sent their children to
school at Avery Institute, only a short walk down Bull Street.  Sometimes they took in
boarders for extra income.92  The Twine and Gregory families had likely crossed paths well
before Louis Gregory’s visit in 1910.  While Charles Twine and George Gregory had served
in different army regiments, they may have known each other after the war as members of
the carpenters’ union, one of the strongest locals in the city’s active labor movement.93  The
families lived only three blocks away from each other, and their children overlapped at

88 U.S. Bureau of the Census, Twelfth Census of the United States, 1900 (Washington, DC: National Archives
and Records Administration, 1900), http://www.ancestry.com.

89 National Park Service, “Charles Twine,” Civil War Soldiers and Sailors System,
http://www.civilwar.nps.gov/cwss/soldiers.cfm.

90 Thirteenth Census, 1910.

91 Twelfth Census, 1900; Thirteenth Census, 1910.

92 Thirteenth Census, 1910.

93 George Brown Tindall, South Carolina Negroes, 1877-1900, rev. ed. (1952; Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 2003), 137-40.


Avery Institute.  In 1900, when Louis Gregory returned to Avery to teach, he probably had
Joseph Twine, Alonzo’s younger brother, in his eighth grade class.94
While it is unclear whether Alonzo Twine attended a law school or read law in the
office of another attorney, he was certainly a part of black Charleston’s aspiring professional
class.95  Admitted to the bar by the South Carolina Supreme Court in May 1899, Twine
practiced law in Charleston from at least 1901.96  He partnered with Eugene R. Hayne,
another young black attorney who had attended law school at Allen University in Columbia,
until 1903, when Hayne moved to New Jersey to practice law there.97  For several years
Twine partnered with Robert C. Brown, a black attorney some thirty years his senior, and
from at least 1909 he practiced on his own, from an office on Church Street in a block of
mostly black businesses.98  He lost three minor criminal appeals before the state Supreme
Court in 1909 and 1910.99  Twine and his parents were members of Old Bethel Methodist
Church on Calhoun Street, one of the oldest and most prestigious black congregations in the

94 “Catalogue of the Teachers and Pupils of Avery Normal Institute, Charleston, S.C.,” June 1899, Avery
School Memorabilia Collection, Avery Research Center for African-American History and Culture, College of
Charleston, SC (hereafter cited as ARC).

95 Oldfield notes that perhaps 40 percent of black lawyers acquired their training individually rather than
through law schools.  In Charleston, Robert C. Brown, Twine’s partner, and Thaddeus St. Mark Sasportas both
read law in the office of Samuel J. Lee, former Reconstruction lawmaker and the leading black attorney in the
state prior to his death in 1895.  John Oldfield, “The African American Bar in South Carolina,” in At Freedom’s
Door: African American Founding Fathers and Lawyers in South Carolina, ed. James Lowell Underwood and
W. Lewis Burke (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2000), 117, 120-3.

96 Oldfield, “African American Bar,” 129; W. Lewis Burke and William C. Hine, “The South Carolina State
College School of Law,” in Matthew J. Perry: The Man, His Times, and His Legacy, ed. W. Lewis Burke and
Belinda F. Gergel (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2004), 22.

97 Burke and Hine, “School of Law,” 22.

98 Charleston City Directory, 1910, 118-9.

99 Burke and Hine, “School of Law,” 22.


city and part of the northern branch of the Methodist church.100  Twine served as one of the
congregation’s trustees.101  Like many black professionals in South Carolina in the early
twentieth century, Twine’s educational, professional, and religious leadership did not always
translate into financial success.  In 1910, unmarried at age thirty-three, he lived at home with
his parents, two younger adopted sisters, and a boarder.102


The Perils of Conversion

When Louis Gregory embraced the Bahá’í Faith in the intellectual capital of black America,
he experienced opposition and pity from his friends and associates and ridicule in the press.
Alonzo Twine’s circumstances were far worse: in the less cosmopolitan atmosphere of
Charleston, his conversion led him down a road of isolation, incarceration, and death.  In
October 1911, almost a year after Gregory’s visit, Twine was committed to the South
Carolina Hospital for the Insane in Columbia.  Shortly after his arrival, he was diagnosed
with manic-depressive disorder, but, like most black patients in the facility, he apparently
received little or no treatment for the disease.  Twine survived three years in the abominable
conditions of the asylum before succumbing to pellagra, a nutritional deficiency.  According
to the legal and medical record of Twine’s confinement as well as public statements by his
pastor, the cause of his illness was his becoming a Bahá’í.  Clearly, he experienced painful
opposition to his new religious beliefs and a profound sense of isolation that may well have

100 Begun in 1797 and completed in 1809, the Old Bethel building is the third oldest surviving church structure
in Charleston.  Originally home to a biracial congregation, the building was moved in 1852 and again 1880 to
accommodate a growing rift between black and white members.  SCDAH, “Old Bethel United Methodist
Church,” National Register Properties in South Carolina, http://www.nationalregister.sc.gov/charleston/
S10817710089/index.htm.

101 I. E. Lowery, “Rev. I. E. Lowery’s Column,” Southern Indicator (Columbia, SC), 19 February 1921, 3.

102 Thirteenth Census, 1910.


contributed to a mental breakdown.  At the same time, Twine lived in the heart of a society
with a long record of labeling troublesome blacks as insane.  It is unclear whether or not
Twine was actually mentally ill, but opposition by his former pastor and perhaps by his
immediate family seems to have contributed directly to his institutionalization and death.
It is unclear exactly what circumstances led to Twine’s confinement.  When white
doctors first examined him on October 2, 1911, he was being held at the city’s Roper
Hospital in a cell of the psychiatric ward, referred to locally as “the Black Hole of
Calcutta.”103  “Patient stands at window,” they reported, “and grips the iron bars and sings
continually [,] Shine on bright star, Shine on [,] and then turns and curses as we walk in the
room.”104  According to Phillipa Twine’s testimony to the local probate court, her son’s
attack had come on suddenly the week before.  Its cause, she indicated, was “religion.”
There had been “indications of [the] present attack of insanity” for some six months in the
form of “religious obscension [obsession?].”  She testified that the disease was exhibited as
“religious excitement,” that her son was suffering religious “delusions,” and that he was
“deranged” on the subject of “religion.”  In response to a series of questions, Phillipa Twine
testified that her son had remained regular in his work and was not destructive of himself or
others.  Asked if he were “irritable, quarrelsome, or noisy,” she indicated only that her son
was “noisy.”  Nevertheless, the probate judge found Alonzo Twine a danger to society.  He

103 Peter McCandless, Moonlight, Magnolias, and Madness: Insanity in South Carolina from the Colonial
Period to the Progressive Era (Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 1996), 179.

104 Twine may have been singing a Christmas carol, “Chime on, Shine on,” by George Frederick Root (1820-
1895), a popular New England composer.  The hymn includes the refrains, “Shine on, shine on, O Star!” and
“Shine on!  shine on!  bright star of his love!”  Charles W. Wendte, Heart and Voice: A Collection of Songs and
Services for the Sunday School and the Home (Boston: Geo. H. Ellis Co., 1909), 246, http://books.google.com.


signed a commitment order on October 5, and the next day Twine was transported by train to
the state capital and admitted to the Hospital for the Insane.105
Even if Twine was of perfectly sound mind when he entered the hospital, a short time
there certainly would have been enough to undo him.  When it was founded in the 1820s as
the South Carolina Lunatic Asylum, it was at the forefront of treatment for the mentally ill.106
By the turn of the twentieth century, however, it was a pesthole that did little more than
warehouse broken men and women.  A legislative investigation in 1909 documented
overflowing toilets and wards crawling with lice and bedbugs, an inadequate and poorly
trained staff that were quick to use violence and mechanical restraints to maintain order, and
unwashed patients often wearing little more than rags.107  Between 1890 and 1913, some
fourteen percent of patients in the facility died each year, a far higher rate than at other
institutions around the country.108  The two leading causes of death across the hospital were
tuberculosis and pellagra, a niacin deficiency resulting from overconsumption of corn.109  In
the South during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, diets high in grits and
bacon and almost devoid of vegetables or alternate protein sources led to widespread
incidence of pellagra, especially in rural areas as the agricultural economy crumbled.  In the
state hospital, where patients subsisted on grits, cornbread, fatback, and coffee, pellagra was

105 “Alonzo Twine,” South Carolina State Hospital Commitment Files, South Carolina Department of Archives
and History, Columbia (hereafter cited as SCDAH).

106 Edgar, South Carolina, 289.

107 McCandless, Moonlight, Magnolias, and Madness, 294-6.

108 Ibid., 283.

109 Ibid., 284; Record of Deaths 1893-1979, South Carolina State Hospital Records, SCDAH.


first diagnosed in 1907, but the cause of the disease was yet unknown.110  Untreated, the
victims of the disease developed painful skin lesions; swelling of the mouth and tongue;
abdominal swelling, vomiting, and diarrhea; mental deterioration and dementia; and, within
four or five years, death.
For black patients in particular, the state hospital was a living hell.  Alonzo Twine
lived in the Parker Building, which housed black men in the segregated facility.  Designed
for 200 patients, it held some 330 in 1909.  It was infested with vermin, and patients slept on
straw on the floor of their cells.  Between 1903 and 1908, more than a quarter of the patients
in Parker died each year.111  An assistant physician was appointed in 1905 specifically for
black patients, but he did not reside on campus and spent only one to four hours a day at the
hospital.112  Even white patients complained that they seldom saw doctors; surviving records
give no indication that black patients received psychological or medical treatment beyond a
perfunctory examination upon their arrival.113  The death rate for black patients was twice as
high as for whites.114  The labor of black patients kept the hospital running, at significant cost
savings to South Carolina’s taxpayers.  Some eighty percent of black inmates were healthy
enough to build new hospital buildings, maintain the extensive grounds, milk the cows, and
do the laundry.  Hospital administrators complained that with so many black patients

110 McCandless, Moonlight, Magnolias, and Madness, 284.

111 Ibid., 284.

112 James Lawrence Thompson, Of Shattered Minds, ed. Anita Warick Roof (Columbia: South Carolina
Department of Mental Health, 1989), 51.

113 McCandless, Moonlight, Magnolias, and Madness, 287.  The notes of Twine’s initial examination are copied
verbatim from the commitment papers with no additional observations.  There are notes of one or two
subsequent examinations for almost every white male patient; not a single black male appears to have had a
subsequent examination.  Personal History Book for Males, South Carolina State Hospital Records, SCDAH.

114 McCandless, Moonlight, Magnolias, and Madness, 283.


working at menial tasks, it was hard to get the whites to do the same.  Instead, white inmates
were provided with minimal recreational opportunities.115
Since antebellum times, the subject of blacks’ mental health had been intimately
connected to social control in South Carolina.  There was a long and well-documented
history, on the one hand, of slaves suffering mental illness, mostly in conditions of neglect
and isolation.  On the other, slaves who exhibited too much self-confidence or
independence—especially by running away—were often labeled as insane.  In the early
twentieth century, the Hospital for the Insane was one part of an ad hoc system of social
control that minimized the threat of troublesome blacks to the state’s white minority.  For
poor young men, the chief institutions of control were the state penitentiary and the county
chain gangs, which housed vastly disproportionate numbers of blacks and worked them to
death for public profit.  Perhaps in the case of Alonzo Twine, the Hospital for the Insane
functioned more like voluntary out-migration and forced exile, removing educated and self-
confident men who could not hold their tongues in the midst of galling injustice.116
White supremacists found a willing, if perhaps unwitting, accomplice in Twine’s
former pastor at Old Bethel, Rev. I. E. Lowery.  Driven to enforce religious orthodoxy,
Lowery took away what was likely Twine’s only solace in the oppressive and pestilential
surroundings of the state hospital, reinforcing his profound isolation.  When Lowery was
transferred to a church in Columbia, he came to visit Twine in the state hospital.  “The first
time we called to see him,” Lowery recalled,

115 Ibid., 274-5.

116 Newby, Black Carolinians, 67-79.


he held in his hand a little pamphlet, and we asked him for it.  He readily gave it to
us, and we found it to be a book on the Bahai religion.  We took it from him and
brought it home, knowing that it was this that caused him to lose his mind.117

Alonzo Twine died on October 26, 1914, probably alone and completely demented in the last
stages of pellagra.  At his parents’ request, Lowery brought the broken body back to
Charleston for a funeral at Old Bethel.118


Southern Diffusion of the Bahá’í Faith

The fate of Alonzo Twine, while particularly dramatic, was but one example of the
challenges Bahá’ís faced as they sought to propagate their faith in the South.  From the
earliest days of the Bahá’í Faith in the United States, many of the believers seemed to sense a
need for their new religion to spread geographically.  Indeed, for such a numerically small
community, they achieved a remarkable degree of dispersion in their first decade and a half.
However, they were heavily influenced by social and economic factors that severely limited
their penetration of the southern states, giving the faith a decidedly regional tilt.
In 1910, there were only about 1200 Bahá’ís in the country, but they lived in
localities stretching from Boston to San Francisco.119  As Thornton Chase, one of the first
Chicago converts and a prominent teacher of the faith, observed in 1905, mobility “seems to
be the way of this Cause.”120  Indeed, mobility was increasingly the way of America as a
whole.  In part, the successful dispersion of the faith was due to the fact that it arrived in the

117 Lowery, “Column,” The Southern Indicator, 3.

118 Ibid.

119 Arthur Hampson, “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith” (Ph.D. diss., University of Hawaii, 1980),
248.

120 Stockman, Early Expansion, 230.


United States at a time of rapid industrialization and urbanization, when a burgeoning
railroad network facilitated unprecedented movement of goods and people.  Bahá’ís from the
first community in Chicago, often prompted at least in part by family ties or employment
opportunities in the new national economy, were able to travel or settle in other areas and
teach.  They quickly established the faith in urban areas of the Northeast and Midwest, with
outposts on the West Coast beginning with a group in San Francisco.
In more than twenty larger towns or cities, the number of believers necessitated
renting spaces for worship, study, and teaching activities and hence some form of local
community organization.121  While Ibrahim Kheiralla had seemed to favor the creation of an
informal clerical class, by the turn of the twentieth century most local Bahá’í communities
had organized themselves along lines typical of other clubs or organizations, with elected
officers, a fund, and regular activities.  Through a stream of tablets, interactions with
pilgrims, and the dispatch of a series of knowledgeable Iranian teachers to the United States,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá introduced distinctive principles of Bahá’í governance, encouraging the
election of executive boards the members of which had corporate, but not individual,
authority and which operated through consultation and consensus.  While they differed from
city to city in number of members, operating procedures, and even name, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
indicated that each fledgling body was as a forerunner of the local House of Justice (baytu’l-
adl) that Bahá’u’lláh had ordained in his writings as the governing body in every city and
village.122  In addition to the large, organized groups, there were some 150 localities with

121 In 1906, Bahá’í groups in more than twenty localities reported to the U. S. Bureau of the Census that they
regularly rented public halls for activities, implying the existence at least of a community fund and a treasurer,
and probably also a secretary for handling correspondence.  Ibid., 229-31.

122 See Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶30.


only one or two believers each, “and all these scattered souls,” Chase opined, “are kindling
little fires all over the land.”123  These isolated believers accounted for perhaps a third of the
country’s Bahá’ís, and as there appeared to be no provision in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings for a
national organization, ensuring their full participation was an important question for the
movement.
If the industrial economy afforded the Bahá’ís opportunities to spread their religion,
in certain respects it also constrained their movement.  The faith remained a decisively urban
and mostly northern phenomenon.  It was largely confined to the densely populated, highly
interconnected urban core of the Midwest and the Northeast.  Even within these regions, the
small towns and farms had few believers.  One early experience illustrates the difficulty the
Bahá’ís had establishing their faith in such areas, especially far distant from one of the early
Bahá’í population centers.  In 1897, a woman in the tiny town of Enterprise, Kansas, heard
about the Bahá’í classes in Chicago and invited Ibrahim Kheiralla to come teach her family
and friends.  A dozen or more people became believers during and after Kheiralla’s visit,
making Enterprise the second locality in the United States where Bahá’ís resided.  Thornton
Chase and perhaps some of the other Chicago Bahá’ís attempted to keep up correspondence,
but no other teachers visited Enterprise.  The new group was essentially alone with only
beginners’ knowledge of the faith.  Initial reaction to Kheiralla’s visit in the local and
statewide press was negative and sarcastic, and the new converts, many of whom were from
the town’s upper class, likely experienced a painful social rift with their church-going
neighbors.124  They never organized regular activities, even though they were all related or

123 Stockman, Expansion, 230.

124 Duane L. Herrmann, “The Bahá’í Faith in Kansas,” in Community Histories, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions, vol. 6, ed. Richard Hollinger (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992), 70-6, 79-80.


knew each other well, and many apparently lost interest over the next several years.125  In
other localities as in Enterprise, isolated believers may have been “kindling little fires,” but
Chase knew that they were not having much success.  “It seems an impossibility,” he
admitted of such areas, “to establish an Assembly of any size.”126
If the Midwestern countryside was hard to consolidate, by 1910 the vast West and
South had been virtually impossible even to penetrate.  In the West, demography was largely
responsible for the faith’s slow growth.  Large areas of the region were still unsettled—
Arizona, New Mexico, and Oklahoma were still territories—and, reflecting patterns of the
region’s population at large, few Bahá’ís lived outside of California.  The South, too, was a
mostly rural region, but compared to the West it was heavily populated and thickly laced
with transportation and communication networks.  Bahá’í teachers leaving Chicago and its
daughter communities in the North would not have had problems of physical access to the
region and its people.  Rather, it was primarily social and cultural factors that inhibited the
growth of the faith in the South.  A comparative lack of employment opportunities; high rates
of poverty, illiteracy, and disease in both urban and rural areas; an atmosphere of cultural and
intellectual torpor; a widespread suspicion of outsiders; a dominant theology concerned more
with personal salvation than social transformation; a crippling racial divide; and a leadership
class that relied on violence and fear to maintain its hold on power—all made it difficult for
Bahá’ís from the Northeast and the Midwest to penetrate the region.
Among the first generation of American Bahá’ís were quite a few southern
expatriates.  They and their families formed a small part of a widespread trend of emigration


125 Stockman, Origins, 105-9; Herrmann, “Kansas,” 77-8.

126 Stockman, Expansion, 230.


from the South in the decades following the collapse of Reconstruction. Between 1880 and
1910, some 500,000 blacks and 1,200,000 whites left the troubled region.  Many sought
better farming opportunities.  Whites generally headed for the Southern Plains and, after
1900, when cheap land in Texas and Oklahoma became harder to find, the Far West; blacks
tended toward Kansas and Indiana.  Many southern emigrants set their sights not on farms
but on cities.  Substantial numbers moved to such Midwestern and Northern urban centers as
Chicago, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston—home to the country’s earliest Bahá’í
communities.127
Many of the southern-born believers became active promoters of the faith in their
adopted homes.  The early Chicago community included Corinne Knight True, eldest
daughter of an abolitionist minister and a Kentucky plantation heiress.  Her father invested in
Chicago real estate after the Civil War and moved the family there in the 1870s.  After
embracing the Bahá’í Faith in 1899, True became one of the early organizers of the Chicago
community and the driving force behind a major project, inaugurated in 1909, to build the
first Bahá’í temple in the western world.128  Another early Chicago believer was South
Carolina-born Julia Elizabeth Diggett, who became a Bahá’í in 1904.  With True, she was a
member of Chicago’s first “Women’s Assembly of Teaching,” and she traveled “from Coast
to Coast and from the Gulf to the Great Lakes” to teach the faith.129  Pearl Battee Doty, an

127 Edward L. Ayers, The Promise of the New South (New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992),
24; James N. Gregory, The Southern Diaspora: How the Great Migrations of Black and White Southerners
Transformed America (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2005), 12-13.

128 For a biography of True, see Nathan Rutstein, Corinne True: Faithful Handmaid of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1987).

129 Star of the West 10, no. 19 (2 March 1920): 346.  The obituary, written by her daughter, states: “She taught
from Coast to Coast and from the Gulf to the Great Lakes” and that she personally served ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on his
visit to Chicago in 1912.  She is likely the same person as Julia E. Diggett, who was elected to the Chicago
Bahá’í “Women’s Assembly” in 1909.  Stockman, Early Expansion, 322.


Ohio native with an alternative healing practice in Baltimore, became a Bahá’í in 1898,
probably after taking Ibrahim Kheiralla’s classes in New York City.  By 1901, she had
attracted some fifty Baltimoreans, mostly working-class and middle-class women, to the
faith.130  Charlotte Brittingham Dixon (b. 1852) became a Bahá’í in 1897 while visiting
Chicago.  Returning east, she taught the faith to family and friends in Princess Anne, her
family home on Maryland’s eastern shore, New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore before
settling in Washington.  There, at the southern extremity of the country’s urban-industrial
core, a steady stream of Southerners encountered the faith, including the Hannen and
Knobloch families and probably the majority of the blacks they taught.  Another was Claudia
Stuart Coles, who was born in Charleston, South Carolina, and moved to Washington, D. C.,
with her family during Reconstruction.  She became a Bahá’í there sometime before 1907,
the year she volunteered to serve on the “Working Committee,” the Washington group’s first
executive body.131  In the struggle over the inclusion of new black believers, Coles favored
social equality and integration; when fellow Charlestonian Louis Gregory was leaving for his
pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 1911, she attended his going-away party and spoke in his
honor.132  Later she followed her daughter to Great Britain, where she was an active member
of local and national executive bodies.133
All things being equal, such a talented pool of native Southerners could have
constituted the vanguard of Bahá’í teachers traveling to the region.  However, the same


130 Deb Clark, “The Bahá’ís of Baltimore, 1898-1990,” in Community Histories, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions, vol. 6, ed. Richard Hollinger (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992), 112-4.

131 Stockman, Early Expansion, 222.

132 Morrison, To Move the World, 42.

133 Star of the West 22, no. 4 (July 1931): 117.


factors that made it particularly difficult for Northeastern or Midwestern believers to venture
south were the reasons the families of the southern-born Bahá’ís had fled in the first place.
Outside of Baltimore and Washington, only a few Bahá’ís were able to make their homes in
the South.  Most of those who did certainly suffered geographic isolation from the
mainstream of the American Bahá’í movement, and given the realities of life in the region,
many likely faced a social isolation that made it difficult for them to teach.  The earliest
students of the faith in Chicago included two people from Virginia, one from Kentucky, and
one from Georgia, but it is not clear if they became believers or remained connected to the
faith after they returned to their homes.  Margaret B. Peeke became a Bahá’í in Sandusky,
Ohio, about 1899 and returned to her home in rural Cumberland County in eastern
Tennessee.  She died there in 1908, the only Bahá’í in the state.  By the time of Gregory’s
1910 trip, the faith had barely penetrated south of the Potomac.  The four Bahá’ís in
Virginia—one in Richmond and three in rural Fauquier County southeast of Washington—
were essentially extensions of the Washington community.  Two Bahá’ís lived in Florida,
Alice D. Seely in Jacksonville and Mrs. Marvin Q. Arnold in the nearby resort village of
Fernandina Beach.  Anna Reinke, a young seamstress living on family land outside Austin,
was the lone Bahá’í in Texas.  Child of a German immigrant father and a native Texan
mother, she had embraced the faith while visiting her sister in Washington, D. C.134
Other potential connections misfired.  In Baltimore, Pearle Doty’s husband, Henry
“Harry” Archer Doty (b. 1874) was perhaps the first South Carolinian to encounter the
Bahá’í Faith.  A native of Charleston, Harry Doty was the son of a former Confederate
cavalry officer and public school teacher.  At the age of twenty he moved to Baltimore to

134 Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Austin, Texas, “Anna Reinke and the Early Years of the Bahá'í Faith in
Austin,” Austin Bahá’í Website, http://www.austinbahai.org/?view=history.


work in a laboratory.  He met Pearle Battee at the boarding house where he was living,
married her, and became a business partner with her and her father, Elisha Battee.  In April
1896, the Dotys gave birth to a son, Henry Battee Doty.135  Two years later, Pearle Doty
accepted the Bahá’í Faith and began teaching it in Baltimore.  Her interest in the new
religion, however, coincided with the couple’s separation.  By 1900, Harry Doty was living
in Charleston with his widowed mother (just a few blocks from Louis Gregory’s family),
while young Henry remained with his mother and grandfather in Baltimore.136  Three years
later, responding to a letter from the Baltimore community informing him of Pearle Doty’s
death, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expressed the hope that her son, as well as the boy’s two living
grandparents, would become Bahá’ís:
I hope her noble son may seek the Path wherein his mother walked, and may become
better and more illustrious; nay, rather, the lights of his love may also take effect in
his grandparents.137


However, there is no evidence that any member of Pearle Doty’s extended family, whether in
Ohio, Maryland, or South Carolina, maintained a connection to the Bahá’í Faith.  Few of the
people she attracted to the faith appear to have remained active Bahá’ís after her death.138
In 1910, the only Bahá’í group in the Deep South was in Fairhope, Alabama, a
utopian community on Mobile Bay, where Paul Kingston Dealy, one of the early teachers of
the faith in Chicago, and his family had lived for more than a decade.  Born in New
Brunswick to Irish immigrants, Dealy worked in shipping and railroad building before
settling with his wife and children in Chicago.  Largely self-educated, an ardent student of

135 Clark, “Baltimore,” 112-4.

136 Twelfth Census, 1900.

137 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul Baha Abbas, vol. 2 (Chicago: Bahai Publishing Society, 1915), 444,
http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/tab-481.html#pg444.

138 Clark, “Baltimore,” 114.


the Bible and a Populist party activist, Dealy was a proponent of the single-tax philosophy of
American economic philosopher Henry George, whose magnum opus, Progress and Poverty
(1879) proposed to promote economic democracy and productivity by abolishing all taxes
except on the unimproved value of land.  Dealy and his wife, Adelaide Stewart Dealy,
attended Ibrahim Kheiralla’s classes and embraced the Bahá’í Faith in early 1897.139  He
quickly became Kheiralla’s chief assistant, teaching classes to new sets of seekers.140  In
1898, only a year after becoming a Bahá’í, Paul Dealy moved to Fairhope, a settlement on
the eastern shore of Mobile Bay, recently chartered by the single-tax club in Des Moines,
Iowa, to attempt to put George’s philosophy into practice.141  Dealy leased land and began to
farm, and the next year his wife and their four sons arrived.  They lost no time in teaching the
faith to dozens of residents, black and white, in Fairhope and the county seat of Bay Minette,
and for several years they maintained contact as best they could with the rest of the American
Bahá’í movement.142  Paul Dealy wrote a popular introduction to the Bahá’í Faith that went
through several editions from 1902 to 1908; it was among the three books Pauline Hannen
gave to Louis Gregory at his first Bahá’í meeting.143  Several of the Dealys attended the
landmark Bahá’í national convention in 1912 when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was the guest of honor,
and at least Adelaide had a profoundly moving and encouraging personal interaction with

139 Stockman, Origins, 86-8.

140 Ibid., 93-4.

141 For a history of the Fairhope colony, see Paul M. Gaston, Man and Mission: E. B. Gaston and the Origins of
the Fairhope Single Tax Colony (Montgomery, AL: Black Belt Press, 1993).

142 Ibid., Origins, 88.

143 Stockman, Early Expansion, 96-9; Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 2.


him.144  Even in Fairhope, however, where a relatively liberal social environment promoted
receptivity to the message of the faith and where Bahá’í settlers were exceptionally
knowledgeable and committed, poverty and isolation seem to have inhibited the development
of a strong local community.  The colony itself was located on land that was too poor for
farming, and for years the Dealys suffered financially along with their neighbors.  At the
same time, the Gulf Coast’s relative distance from Chicago and Washington, the closest
substantial Bahá’í communities, meant that it was hard for the Fairhope believers to travel,
and Bahá’í visitors, who could have lent support to a struggling group, were rare.  The
Fairhope group did not follow the national trend of forming a local executive board with
officers, a fund, and regular activities.  The younger Dealys apparently did not remain
believers, and most of the local converts appear to have drifted away from the faith.145
The experience of isolated believers from Fairhope to Charleston highlighted
important problems for the nascent American Bahá’í movement.  No matter the degree of
sincerity and enthusiasm of the new believers, it was not clear how to nurture the faith and
deepen the understanding of a few scattered individuals—perhaps only one or two in a city—
who were so far away from the existing Bahá’í population centers.  In a religion that
specifically banned both clergy and paid missionaries, who had the responsibility for
teaching and encouraging new believers and groups?  When the only organization was at the
local level, how could a regional or national consciousness be fostered and resources
coordinated?  Who would travel to teach the faith in new areas and strengthen new
communities?  Who would produce and distribute literature?  Who would direct such efforts?

144 Paul K. Dealy was a delegate to the 1912 convention.  Star of the West 3, no. 5 (5 June 1912): 2.  At the
same convention, “Mrs. Paul K. Dealy, of Fairhope, Ala., was called upon, after which a rising greeting to
Alabama was given.”  Star of the West 3, no. 4 (17 May 1912): 32.

145 Stockman, Early Expansion, 132-3.


Who would finance them?  Such questions had arisen almost immediately after Ibrahim
Kheiralla introduced the faith to Chicago in the mid-1890s.  By the first decade of the
twentieth century, the executive bodies in Chicago and Washington, and, to a lesser extent,
New York, were attempting to foster communication and collaboration among local
communities.  Their first efforts were to circulate letters of supplication and loyalty, signed
by every believer in the country, to be sent to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; these were followed by circular
letters with news and information.146  The Chicago community took the lead in publishing
Bahá’í literature, and in 1902 it incorporated the Bahai Publishing Society.147
The first national Bahá’í organization was an outgrowth of efforts to build a temple
(mashriqu’l-adhkár, “dawning-place of the mention of God”) in Chicago.148  Inspired by a
similar project in Russian Turkestan just outside the borders of Iran, a group of Chicago
women asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá if they, too, could build a temple.  He assented, but insisted that
all the believers in the country should work together for its construction.149  In March 1909,
delegates from most local groups attended the movement’s first national convention in

146 Ibid., 231.

147 Ibid., 74.

148 The institution of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár was ordained by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas: “O people of
the world!  Build ye houses of worship throughout all the lands in the name of Him Who is the Lord of all
religions.  Make them as perfect as possible in the world of being, and adorn them with that which befitteth
them, not with images and effigies.  Then, with radiance and joy, celebrate therein the praise of your Lord, the
Most Compassionate.  Verily, by His remembrance the eye is cheered and the heart is filled with light.”  Kitáb-
i-Aqdas, ¶31.  Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá specified the nature and scope of the institution, to be built in the
heart of every city, town, and village: the central edifice, a nine-sided house of worship, dedicated to individual
devotions and collective recitation of the sacred scriptures, surrounded by beautiful gardens and agencies of
social, scientific, and educational service for the entire community.

149 The temple initiative and its impact on the American Bahá’í community have been well documented.  See
Bruce Whitfield, The Dawning-Place: The Building of a Temple, the Forging of the North American Bahá’í
Community (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1984); R. Jackson Armstrong-Ingram, Music, Devotions,
and Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 4 (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1987),
especially chapters 5 and 6; and Stockman, Early Expansion, chapters 20, 22, and 23.


Chicago.  They decided to create a national organization, the Bahai Temple Unity, consisting
of representatives of each local community in North America, with an Executive Board
elected annually to oversee the organization’s affairs.150  In the first few years of its existence
the Executive Board was primarily occupied with raising funds for and beginning
construction of the temple, securing a large tract of land in Wilmette, a northern suburb of
Chicago on Lake Michigan, and a distinctive design from Montreal architect Louis
Bourgeois.  As the movement’s only national organization, the Executive Board grew in
authority beyond the temple project.  It quickly assumed responsibility for the Bahai
Publishing Society, and it gradually began to coordinate teaching efforts across the country.
But in late 1910, it was still a new and weak institution, with no experience and little
administrative capacity to assist traveling teachers or maintain correspondence with isolated
believers.151
In this context, Louis Gregory’s first southern tour was an important step forward.  As
an initial foray into a large and difficult region of the country, the trip was an unqualified
success.  Gregory spoke to hundreds of people about the Bahá’í Faith and generally found a
favorable response.  According to Gregory’s memoir, written decades later with the
experience of a seasoned traveler and speaker, individuals became believers everywhere he
went: “In every city, people were found who accepted the great Message, however crudely
and abruptly given, and the spirit was powerful.” 152  A summary of the trip in the national

150 Stockman, Early Expansion, 310-1.

151 Ibid., 312-4.

152 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 6.


newsletter included an assessment of the spiritual receptivity of African Americans and of
prospects for the growth of the faith in the South:
Eight cities or towns were visited, and in the form of free public lectures the glad-
tidings were heralded directly to about nine hundred souls.  Indications are that the
colored people of the south will be very deeply and vitally interested.  The oppression
of centuries having made many of them live very close to God, to them the Holy
Spirit is a reality, and if the Message is presented with fragrance, their hearts respond
and often yield.153


But the trip also highlighted the need for a more systematic approach to the expansion and
consolidation of the religion.  “Unfortunately,” Gregory noted in his memoir with poignant
hindsight, “the system of follow-up work was not then developed.”154  Indeed, without a
systematic approach to deepening new believers, those Gregory had taught were more or less
on their own, as the story of Alonzo Twine indicates.  If a young and relatively unorganized
Bahá’í movement failed to consolidate its foothold among the Midwestern radicals at
Fairhope, how could it have put forth the herculean effort to establish a new community in
Charleston—closer by rail to Washington but socially and culturally much farther from the
Bahá’í mainstream?  Gregory apparently left Twine with some Bahá’í literature and may
have kept up correspondence with him for a time, but no Bahá’í teacher would visit South
Carolina again for four years.  In the heart of a society prone to eliminating young black men
with new ideas, perhaps the existence of a group of Bahá’ís in Charleston would have
prompted even swifter reaction.  On the other hand, if even a few other members of Twine’s
family, church, or profession had become believers with him and begun to think and act as a
new community of faith, perhaps they could have afforded each other some measure of

153 “News Notes,” Bahá’í News 1, no. 18 (7 February 1911): 9.

154 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 6.


protection.  Given his extreme isolation, it appears all the more remarkable that Twine stayed
true to his new faith until the end.


Louis Gregory, Bahá’í Leader

For Louis Gregory, the four years between his first teaching trip and the outbreak of World
War One in Europe were a time of growth, change, and pain as he became more deeply
committed to the Bahá’í Faith.  Just months after returning from the Deep South, in February
1911, he was elected to fill a vacancy in the Washington community’s Working Committee,
marking the beginning of decades of leadership in the American Bahá’í movement.
Gregory’s election, by the believers in a local community that was still unsettled about how
to include black members, made him the first person of African descent to serve on a Bahá’í
administrative body in the United States.  Just a year later, at the national convention of the
Bahai Temple Unity in April 1912, he was elected to the organization’s Executive Board.
Although not reelected for several years, he was asked to serve in additional administrative
capacities, including as a member of a committee to audit the Board’s finances and a reporter
on the proceedings of the annual convention.155  Such tasks nurtured in him a strong regional
and national perspective on the progress of the Bahá’í movement, exposed him to all
segments of the community, and made him well-known to believers across the country—all
factors that he brought to bear in subsequent teaching efforts.

155 Gregory’s administrative duties were wide-ranging.  He served for two years (1912 and 1918) on the
Executive Board of the Bahai Temple Unity and for fourteen years (1922-1924, 1927-1932, and 1939-1946) on
its successor institution, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.  He
was elected recording secretary of the National Spiritual Assembly and helped write its by-laws, and was
appointed to the national Teaching Committee and the national Racial Amity Committee.  He was also a
frequent secretary, speaker, and reporter at the annual national convention.  In 1951, in recognition of his long
record of service and teaching, Shoghi Effendi posthumously appointed him a “Hand of the Cause of God,” one
of the special deputies of the Guardianship.


During 1911 and 1912, Gregory had a series of profound encounters with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá that strengthened his bond with the center of the faith and cemented him in his life’s
work of promoting interracial unity.  From March to May of 1911, Gregory made a
pilgrimage to the Bahá’í holy places in Palestine, stopping first to meet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
Alexandria, Egypt.  In the wake of the Young Turk revolution in 1908, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a
political prisoner for fifty-five of his sixty-four years, was finally released from confinement
and free to travel in the interests of his father’s faith.  He first visited Egypt, where he
recovered his health, introduced the faith to the liberal Arab press and to Muslim intellectuals
at al-Azhar University, and received Gregory and other Bahá’í pilgrims en route to Haifa and
‘Akká.  During several visits with Gregory, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired about the racial divide in
the United States and attitudes toward race among the Bahá’ís.  He insisted that full
acceptance of the Bahá’í teachings was the only real hope for unity between the races, and
that there could be no hint of segregation within the Bahá’í community.  He repeatedly
encouraged the black and white believers to intermarry as proof of their freedom from
prejudice.  To reinforce the interracial and international ties among the believers, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá sent Gregory to visit the tiny Bahá’í community in Germany on the return leg of his
trip.156
Within the year, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left Egypt for an extended journey to Europe and
North America.  From February to September 1912, he traveled by rail across the United
States, addressing an astonishing number and variety of audiences, large and small, public
and private.  Press coverage was extensive as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá warned that the world was on the
brink of war and presented his father’s teachings as the remedy.  His greatest impact,

156 See Morrison, To Move the World, ch. 5.


however, was on the Bahá’ís themselves.  He encouraged them, answered their questions,
and clarified their understanding of important concepts.  He particularly stressed the
importance of interracial unity and insisted that the Bahá’ís, who were as yet mostly white
and northern, should spread the religion among all segments of society and in all parts of the
country.157
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s public and private interactions during his visit both reinforced the
Bahá’ís’ commitment to building an interracial fellowship and significantly raised the profile
of the faith among African Americans.  Louis Gregory interacted closely with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
during his two separate visits to Washington, where he addressed large mixed audiences at
Rankin Chapel on the campus of Howard University, Gregory’s alma mater, the Bethel
Literary and Historical Society, of which Gregory was the president, at Metropolitan African
Methodist Episcopal Church, and several private homes.  In his talks on these occasions
‘Abdu’l-Bahá subverted contemporary American racial theory by boldly asserting the
oneness of the human species and predicting that reconciliation between black and white
Americans would have long-lasting international ramifications.  He also turned American
color imagery on its head, associating individual black believers with light and purity,
extolling the beauty of mixed-race gatherings, and emphasizing the common spiritual reality
of both blacks and whites: “In the clustered jewels of the races may the blacks be as

157 There are several published first-hand accounts of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s tour of North America: Mahmúd-i-
Zaraqání, Mahmúd’s Diary: The Story of Mírzá Mahmúd-i-Zaraqání Chronicling ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey in
America, trans. Mohi Sobhani with Shirley Macias (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997); Juliet Thompson, Juliet
Thompson’s Diary, with a preface by Marzieh Gail (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1995); Agnes Parsons,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in America: Agnes Parsons’ Diary, ed. Richard Hollinger (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1996).
For a compilation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s public addresses during the trip, see ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of
Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912,
comp. Howard MacNutt, 1921 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2007).  The most complete scholarly
analysis of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s discourses in North America is Allan L. Ward, 239 Days: ‘Abdul-Bahá’s Journey in
America (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979).


sapphires and rubies and the whites as diamonds and pearls.  The composite beauty of
humanity will be witnessed in their unity and blending.  How glorious the spectacle of real
unity among mankind!”158  As the guest of honor at a luncheon with some of Washington’s
white elite, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá brushed aside race and class conventions by rearranging the place
cards at the table and inviting Gregory to sit at his right hand.  One witness recalled: “He
stated He was very pleased to have Mr. Gregory there, and then, in the most natural way as if
nothing unusual had happened, proceeded to give a talk on the oneness of mankind.”159
Gregory was also present with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Chicago, where he was a featured speaker at
the fourth annual conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People.160
There were also profound changes in Louis Gregory’s personal and professional life.
To start with, Gregory found that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s advocacy of interracial marriage was more
than theoretical.  During Gregory’s pilgrimage, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had encouraged a friendship
between Gregory and English fellow-pilgrim Louisa Mathew, “a lady,” Gregory later
recalled, “whose long range of accomplishments and great devotion to the Faith claimed
admiration.”161   Mathew, called Louise by her friends, was among the small group of
Bahá’ís who accompanied ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to North America, where he gently suggested that
the two should marry.  In September 1912, while ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was visiting the West Coast,

158 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 57.

159 Harlan F. Ober, “Louis G. Gregory,” in The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 12, 1950-
1954, comp. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1956), 668.

160 “The Fourth Annual Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People,” The
Crisis 4 (June 1912): 80.  Louis Gregory attested that the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce invited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
to speak in the city (likely the result of efforts by a lone white Bahá’í living there), but that an already full
schedule prevented him from visiting the Deep South.  See McMullen, The Bahá’í, 159.

161 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 6.


Gregory and Mathew were joined in the first interracial marriage in the American Bahá’í
community.  They took up residence together in Washington.  Their marriage was legal
there, but it was not always welcome as patterns of racial segregation became even more
entrenched.  In 1913, under the new administration of Woodrow Wilson, federal offices in
Washington accelerated the workplace segregation of black and white employees, already
underway in some departments.  Large numbers of black employees resigned from the
Treasury Department in protest; Gregory left to pursue a private law practice and a real estate
business, neither of which proved particularly successful.162
It was not until November and December of 1915 that Gregory was able to make a
second teaching trip to the South, spending about two weeks in Nashville and Atlanta.  In
Nashville, where he had been a college student, he cultivated professional and personal
contacts, while in Atlanta, he worked closely with a young white believer who had moved
there from Minneapolis and begun teaching blacks and whites.163  By the time of this second
trip, Gregory was a far more experienced believer than he had been five years before.  Fresh
from trying experiences in the Treasury Department and within the Washington Bahá’í
community, he suffered no illusions about the difficulties of surmounting the racial divide.
But he also brought with him a deeper understanding of the teachings of his religion, a closer
relationship with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and a fulfilling new marriage that demonstrated the power of
the faith to unify humanity.
Within the city’s Bahá’í community, the Gregorys found themselves in the middle of
a renewed conflict over issues of race and class.  According to explicit instructions from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, every Unity Feast—not just every fourth one—was open to all the believers.

162 See Morrison, To Move the World, ch. 7.

163 Ibid., 83-4.


But meetings for inquirers, both public talks and home discussion groups, still presented a
challenge.  One group of black and white believers, encouraged by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s bold
demonstrations of social equality during his visits to the city, wanted all meetings to be open
to everyone.  A small group of whites, insisting that “mixed meetings were the one serious
obstacle to the growth of the Cause in this locality,” wanted to be able to have teaching
meetings for whites only.  A larger group of whites was unsure how to proceed.  As Louise
Gregory confided to another Washington believer, she and her husband often acted “the
difficult part of peacemaker, explaining the difficulties of the white people to the colored &
the point of view of the colored people to the white.”164  Louis Gregory recalled the
difficulties that arose within the young community:
Some of the friends, reading the command of Baha’u’llah which read: ‘Close your
eyes to racial differences and welcome all with the light of oneness,’ interpreted it to
mean that all barriers of race should be put aside in every meeting that was planned
for teaching the Faith.  Others knew the principle was wise and just, but felt that the
time was not yet ripe for its application.  One difficulty was finding places, either
private or public, that were willing to welcome all races.  In the same family, one or
more members being Baha’i and the others not believers, the mixing of races would
cause a family disturbance.  Even where all the believers were free from prejudices
some felt that it would upset inquirers after the truth if they were confronted too soon
with signs of racial equality.  One of the friends went so far as to state that some of
the Baha’i principles would not be operative for a full thousand years!  On the other
hand, others were [insistent] that such principles should be upheld and applied even
though the world should go to smash.165

In May 1914, one of the Washington Bahá’ís received a tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressing
the situation.  “I know about everything that is happening in Washington,” he wrote.  “The
sad, somber news is the difference between the white and the colored people.”  He suggested
the creation of three meetings for seekers, one for whites, one for blacks, and a mixed one for

164 Louise Gregory to Agnes Parsons, 21 December 1914, Agnes S. Parsons Papers, NBA, quoted in Morrison,
To Move the World, 173.

165 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 4-5.


those who do not wish to bind themselves either way.”  In the absence of unity among the
believers, he said, “I can see no better solution to this problem.”166
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s letter failed immediately to create a consensus, and several separate
meetings for inquirers threatened to degenerate into autonomous Bahá’í communities.  Late
in the year, when the Ottoman Empire entered the Great War on the side of the Central
Powers, communication with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Palestine was cut off.  Without further
intervention from the head of the faith, the believers were left to resolve the crisis
themselves.  The impasse persisted until the spring of 1916, when the community decided to
end the whites-only meeting and adopted a new policy.  As Louis Gregory put it:
The decision was reached that meetings for teaching which were publicly advertised
through the press should welcome and teach any who responded, regardless of race.
On the other hand those holding private meetings for contacting and teaching their
friends might use their own discretion about bringing the races together where such a
step seemed premature.167

While unresolved feelings likely persisted after implementation of the new policy, the
Washington Bahá’ís had passed through a severe test and come out firmly on the side of
social equality and a fully integrated community.  Their achievement, while seemingly
modest from the perspective of the post-civil rights era, should not be underestimated.  The
Washington community was struggling with the extent of its public support for social
equality between blacks and whites, at a time when public opinion and governmental policy
were both heading in the direction of rigid separation.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s vision, supported by
those of his followers who understood his instructions and were willing to act on them, was
to make the Washington community into an interracial fellowship without precedent in the

166 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Edna Belmont, received 1 May 1914, Agnes S. Parsons Papers, NBA, quoted in Morrison,
To Move the World, 75-6.

167 Gregory, “Some Recollections,” 6.


United States, where black and white members interacted on terms of complete equality in
study and teaching, worship, private social life, administration, and service to the wider
society.  Unlike other secular and religious organizations that maintained some interracial
character, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s idea was not to unite autonomous black and white groups around a
particular issue or project, but to create, in Bahá’u’lláh’s words, a “new race of men,” an all-
embracing faith community that would provide a new model or framework for building
social justice across lines of race, class, and gender.  In this respect, Washington proved to be
an important testing ground for the American Bahá’í movement.  As a diverse urban center
with a large black population, and as the seat of the federal government where Congressional
authority ensured greater freedom for blacks than elsewhere in the South, Washington was
perhaps an ideal location for the Bahá’ís’ first attempts at interracial community building.
The Washington community made the first concerted attempts to teach the faith to African
Americans, held the first integrated Feasts in the country, elected the first black man to a
Bahá’í executive body, was home to the faith’s first interracial marriage, and united blacks
and whites in the American Bahá’í movement’s first social and economic development
initiatives—a Sunday school for children, a summer school in Colonial Beach, Virginia, and
the Persian-American Educational Society, which sponsored health workers and teachers
among the Bahá’ís of Iran.168  Neither black nor white believers in Washington had any
direct material benefits to gain from integration; indeed, there could be much to lose.  They
were venturing into uncomfortable, uncharted territory essentially out of devotion to the head
of their religion, who insisted that interracial unity was a vital matter of spiritual principle.
While sometimes halting and incomplete, their responses to the demands of their faith

168 Stockman, Early Expansion, 224, 226, 355-8.


resulted in a collective understanding of essential Bahá’í teachings and practices that set
important precedents for the religion’s expansion in the South.







Chapter 2

The Divine Plan, the Great War &
Progressive-Era Racial Politics, 1914-1921


In Louis Gregory’s home state and across the South, Bahá’í teachers in the early twentieth
century faced a powerful regime of white supremacy that severely hampered the emergence
of an interracial religious community.  A patchwork of federal, state, and local laws and
unwritten codes of interpersonal behavior that had begun to crystallize in the 1890s, the
system of white supremacy incorporated class and gender hierarchies as well as persuasive
religious justifications.  In South Carolina, the system was largely complete by the mid-
1910s, when the domestic effects of a new European war began to strain many of its
practices and underlying assumptions.  Economic dislocation and migration, persistent
discrimination in the state’s wartime mobilization efforts, the participation of thousands of
young men in military service overseas, and the stirring rhetoric surrounding American
participation in a war “to make the world safe for democracy”—all contributed to a new
wave of protest by black Carolinians.  Buffeted by many of the same forces and fearful of the
stirrings among the state’s black majority, whites responded with increased violence, part of
a nationwide anti-black backlash in the immediate postwar years.  The rising tide of violence
in turn led white moderates in the state and region to spearhead the creation of a tentative
new southern interracial movement.169

169 For a recent treatment of how South Carolina’s politics of white supremacy thwarted efforts by both white
and black Progressives, see Janet Hudson, Entangled by White Supremacy: Reform in World War I-era South
Carolina (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2009).


For Bahá’ís, the tumult of the war years seemed to create a heightened receptivity to
their message.  With a fresh mandate from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for teaching throughout North
America, they worked with more urgency and better coordination than previously to spread
the faith in the South, to promote its vision of interracial unity to broad national audiences,
and to support the work of other emerging interracial organizations, in the South and across
the country.  In South Carolina, Louis Gregory and other teachers found many interested
listeners.  But some of the same factors that gave the incipient interracial movement a
conservative cast—racial prejudice and demagoguery, the omnipresent threat of violence,
and pervasive religious conservatism—hardened the state’s soil against the growth of an
indigenous Bahá’í movement.


Introducing the Divine Plan

In the years leading up to the outbreak of war in Europe, teaching the faith was one of the
dominant themes in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s relationship with the American Bahá’ís.  Louis Gregory
provides an example of the effects of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s encouragement and guidance in the life
of one individual: Gregory’s southern trips in 1910 and 1915, his visit to Germany in 1911,
and his unflagging efforts to attract African Americans in Washington even as the believers
there struggled over integration were all directly or indirectly the result of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
promptings.  More broadly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá repeatedly emphasized the subject of teaching in
countless tablets to individual believers, groups, and fledgling local executive bodies, and he
frequently discussed it with American pilgrims, whose notes were often circulated widely
upon their return.


In particular, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s 1912 tour provided a major impetus to the growth of the
faith in the United States.  In his public addresses, he articulated a compelling summary of
the social and spiritual teachings of the faith and accelerated the Bahá’ís’ contact with liberal
religious groups and progressive organizations.  Extensive press coverage of his visit brought
the faith to the attention of a much larger segment of the reading public.  By closely
observing their leader’s approach, many Bahá’ís gained greater proficiency in teaching, and
through his encouragement, many individuals were inspired to make greater efforts of their
own.170  Between 1906 and 1916, the number of Bahá’ís in the United States more than
doubled to nearly three thousand, with most of the increase occurring in the wake of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s visit.  There were also “large numbers,” the Bahá’ís reported to the Census Bureau,
“who attend Bahá’í meetings and are closely identified with the movement, but have not
discontinued their connection with the churches.”171
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s repeated warnings of a coming world conflict gave the American
Bahá’ís an even greater sense of urgency in spreading the faith.  During his visit to
California, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá described Europe as “a storehouse of explosives ready for
ignition,” with agitation in the Balkans the probable first spark.172  In a talk at Stanford
University, he associated the coming war with the apocalyptic vision of Christian scripture:
We are on the eve of the battle of Armageddon, referred to in the 16th chapter of
Revelation.  The time is two years hence, when only a spark will set aflame the whole
of Europe.  The social unrest in all countries, the growing religious skepticism,

170 For a fuller discussion of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s encouragement of teaching, see Smith, “American Bahá’í
Community,” 127-31.

171 U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of 1916, quoted in Smith, “American Bahá’í Community,” 117.

172 J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, 5th rev. ed. (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980),
243-4.


antecedent to the millennium, are already here.  Only a spark will set aflame the
whole of Europe as is prophesied in the verses of Daniel and in the Book of John.173

To a Montreal journalist he stated that war in Europe was a certainty:
All Europe is an armed camp.  These warlike preparations will necessarily culminate
in a great war.  The very armaments themselves are productive of war.  This great
arsenal must go ablaze.  There is nothing of the nature of prophecy about such a view
…. [I]t is based on reasoning solely.174


In March 1914, the editors of Star of the West, the national Bahá’í magazine, echoed
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s concern.  They associated 1914, “the seventieth year of the Millennium”
(i.e., since the Báb’s declaration of his mission in 1844), with the seventieth year of the
Christian era, when the Temple of Jerusalem was destroyed and the Jews scattered.  They
said it would be a significant year in the “culmination of the old order of things,” and
humanity would be “swept by conflicting emotions and tend to go to extremes.”   The
responsibility of the Bahá’ís, they held, was to teach:
In the midst of such crucial conditions the Bahais are called upon to proclaim the glad
tidings of the Kingdom come on earth, and to manifest the characteristics of the
people of the Most Great Peace.  The Center of the Covenant, Abdu’l Baha, is calling
souls to travel and spread the Message of the Kingdom far and wide.  It is the spirit of
the hour.175


Within months, Europe was engulfed in the Great War, and the dire predictions seemed to
have materialized.  The “spark” was the assassination of the heir to the Austro-Hungarian
throne in Sarajevo, which set in motion a complex system of military alliances.  By August,
the whole continent was “ablaze” with a conflict of awesome destructiveness that shocked
the world.

173 Jean Masson, “The Bahai Movement—Is It the Coming Universal Religion,” Helena Daily Independent,
Feb. 2, 1919, quoted in Star of the West 10, no. 3 (28 April 1919): 33.
174 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Canada (Forest, ON: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1962), 51,
quoted in [Universal House of Justice], Century of Light (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2001), 28.

175 Star of the West 5, no. 1 (21 March 1914): 8.


In the United States, the government of President Woodrow Wilson attempted to
maintain political neutrality, a difficult task as both the British and German navies began to
target American civilian vessels in the North Sea.  The outbreak of war initially dealt a blow
to American exports that brought fears of a depression, and the American Bahá’ís felt the
impact of the economic downturn.  In early 1915, the convention of the Bahai Temple Unity
approved a plan to finance part-time traveling teachers, but a lack of funds prevented its full
implementation.176  In the autumn, when Louis Gregory set out on his second teaching trip to
the South, it was, like the first, at his own expense.177  The economy recovered with the
beginning of wartime production, but a far more devastating effect of the war on the
American Bahá’ís was the virtual severing of communication with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  When the
Ottoman Empire joined the Central Powers in the autumn of 1914, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
imprisonment was renewed.  For a period of nearly four years, only a few letters found their
way in or out of Haifa.  Only after September 1918, when British forces took the city in the
Battle of Megiddo, could the Bahá’ís communicate regularly with their leader.178
Given the circumstances, it was a welcome surprise when, in the summer of 1916, five
believers received tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressed to the Bahá’ís in the northeastern,
central, western, and southern regions of the United States and in Canada, respectively.
They were immediately published in the September issue of Star of the West and quickly
became known as the “Tablets of the Divine Plan.”  The tablets represented a further
intervention by the head of the faith to accelerate the process of growth, calling the believers

176 Smith, “American Bahá’í Community,” 132.

177 For a discussion of Louis and Louisa Gregory’s financial arrangements, see Morrison, To Move the World,
91-5.

178 For an account of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the Bahá’í holy places during World War One and a Bahá’í
interpretation of the biblical battle of Armageddon, see Roderick Maude and Derwent Maude, The Servant, the
General, and Armageddon (Oxford: George Ronald, 1998).


in North America to spare no effort in spreading their religion to all parts of the continent.  In
each of the five tablets, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá specifically named states and provinces with few or no
Bahá’ís and directed teachers to travel to those parts to establish the faith.  He mentioned
some of the spiritual qualities that the teachers must have and promised them divine aid for
their efforts.  He also reminded the believers that he had urged them to action well before the
outbreak of the world war; in the tablet to the western states he directed them to refer to his
published talks on the subject so that they might “fully realize that this is the time for the
diffusion of the fragrances.”179
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s tablet for the South was sent care of Joseph Hannen in Washington.
While addressed to “the friends and maid-servants of God in the Southern States,” for all
practical purposes it was meant for the region’s two Bahá’í communities in Washington and
Baltimore.  Calling the believers “heralds of the Kingdom of God,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá assured
them of divine assistance in the work of spreading the faith throughout the South.  They
would certainly need it: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá specified that every state in the region would require
attention, and he placed the burden of the work on the Washington community.   “In the
southern states of the United States,” he observed,
the friends are few, that is, in Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas.  Consequently, you must
either go yourselves or send a number of blessed souls to those states, so that they
may guide the people to the kingdom of heaven.180

The Washington community, by far the largest and best organized in the region and the one
to which the tablet had been sent, was by default the base for such an undertaking.  Joseph

179 Star of the West 7, no. 10 (8 September 1916): 89.

180 Ibid., 90.  The sixteen states referred to by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are identical to the “Census South,” the southern
region as defined by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.


Hannen, the secretary of Washington’s Working Committee, became the regional teaching
coordinator, and within a few weeks of the tablets’ publication, Louis Gregory and two other
believers were on the road in the South.
Between late October and late December, Gregory visited fourteen of the sixteen
southern states, including South Carolina, speaking mainly in churches, schools, and
colleges.  Back home in Washington, he reported that during the entire trip “probably more
than fifteen thousand people were reached directly, most of them students, representing many
sections and communities.”181  Receptivity to the message was high.  “So slight was the
opposition,” Gregory wrote, “even in the ranks of the clergy, as to be not worthy of
mention.”  In a Memphis meeting, for example, “over fifty persons, all in sight save one,
after hearing the message and proofs, arose and said the Greatest Name.”182  “Without
exception,” Gregory added, “souls were found ready in cities where the message was
given.”183  He said he would be returning to Charleston, South Carolina, “to deliver the
Emancipation Day address, January 1.  This will be an opportunity to tell them of real
freedom.”184





181 Star of the West 7, no. 17 (19 January 1917): 170.

182 In Islamic tradition, the Qur’án contains ninety-nine names of God, while the “Greatest Name” of God
remained hidden.  The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh wrote that the Greatest Name was bahá’, usually translated as
“glory” or “splendor,” the root of the prophetic title Bahá’u’lláh (“Glory of God”) and of the proper name of the
religion, the Bahá’í (“glorious”) Faith.  See Moojan Momen, Islam and the Bahá’í Faith: An Introduction to the
Bahá’í Faith for Muslims (Oxford: George Ronald, 2000), 242.  In the United States, Ibrahim Kheiralla’s early
presentation of the faith in a series of thirteen lessons culminated in disclosing to believers the Greatest Name of
God, i.e. the identity of Bahá’u’lláh, a practice apparently echoed as late as 1916 in Gregory’s talk in Memphis.
See Stockman, Origins, 8-12.

183 Star of the West 7, no. 16 (31 December 1916): 159.

184 Ibid., 170.


The Making of White Supremacy in South Carolina

When Louis Gregory visited his home state in 1916 and 1917, he encountered a white
supremacist regime at the height of its power.  Born amidst profound social and economic
changes after the collapse of Reconstruction, South Carolina’s Jim Crow system was largely
codified—in the form of a new constitution and enabling legislation at the state and local
levels—between 1895 and 1915.  Aimed at keeping political and economic control in the
hands of the state’s white elite, Jim Crow rested on twin pillars: the political
disfranchisement of black men and the segregation of the races in public places.  By the time
of the Great War, with the system’s most important legal provisions in place and a host of
associated social practices firmly entrenched, South Carolina’s black and white populations
lived in largely separate worlds, their boundaries policed by pervasive violence.  In such a
stifling environment, interracial organizations were few and far between, advocating a
moderation of the system’s cruelest injustices rather than overt disagreement with its
fundamental assumptions.  In this context, the uncompromisingly radical interracialism of the
Bahá’í teachings made the faith quite unusual and probably severely limited its opportunities
for substantial growth.
The immediate background for South Carolina’s white supremacist regime was the
upheaval associated with rapid urbanization, industrialization, and rural decline.  In the
countryside, falling cotton prices, spiraling debts, and depleted and eroded soils drove hard-
pressed farm families, white and black, to leave the land, while a rapid expansion of the
railroad network and an explosion of industrial development encouraged them to settle in
growing towns and cities.  Beginning about 1880, cotton textile manufacturing emerged as
the state’s most important industry.  Heeding the call of prominent opinion leaders in the


region for a “New South” of diversified agriculture and manufacturing that could compete
with the industrializing North, local boosters in the Piedmont of the Carolinas and Georgia
invested in textile mills as a sure means of economic development, civic improvement, and
sustenance for impoverished rural folk (whites only, with few exceptions).  The industry
spawned dozens of new towns and greatly enlarged existing ones as companies built
“villages” near the mills to house employees.  Whole families migrated together, women and
children forming the majority of mill workers, or “operatives.”
The leading edge of the state’s urban-industrial transformation, mill villages were
also the locus of rising tensions of race, class, and gender that had far-reaching social and
political impacts.  In villages, former farm families found steady cash wages, decent housing,
and far easier access to schools, churches, and social activities than in the ravaged
countryside.  But the transition was not always easy.  At a practical level, overcrowding
presented problems of sanitation and hygiene, and working conditions were often quite
difficult.  Men in particular felt an acute loss of personal autonomy as not only they, but also
their wives and children, became wage earners, and as families were increasingly exposed to
the influences of consumer culture and the mass media.  For the state’s political elites, the
rapid shift of so many white families from agriculture to industry was a mixed blessing.
“Town people,” many of whom had fostered the development of the textile industry in the
first place, came to see “mill people” as a potential threat to social order, whose interests as a
class might differ markedly from those of the wealthy farmers and businessmen who,
regardless of factional disputes within the Democratic Party, dominated local and state
politics.  Under the banner of the nationwide Progressive movement, South Carolina’s town


people campaigned to “clean up” the mill villages, while many operatives in turn resented
what they perceived as meddling in their families’ affairs.185
While the rising textile industry provided a way out of rural poverty for whites in the
Piedmont, most blacks remained poor, landless farm laborers, hit harder than whites by the
region-wide agricultural downturn and, except for the grimiest jobs, effectively shut out of
the textile mills.  However, the number of black landowners across the state steadily
increased during the 1880s and 1890s, and black literacy rates, while low overall, climbed as
well.  Blacks were a numerical majority in three-fourths of the state’s counties, and their
presence in urban areas across the state was growing.  In the larger towns, a proliferation of
black churches, schools, colleges, businesses, and fraternal and benevolent societies
providing a vibrant community life, and in Columbia and Charleston, blacks enjoyed
substantially equal access to public accommodations such as street cars and theaters.  While
greatly reduced in numbers and influence by voting restrictions and gerrymandering during
the 1880s, black voters still turned out at the polls, and a few continued to hold elected or
appointed offices.186  For whites in the midst of destabilizing social and economic change,
evidences of black equality, prosperity, and continuing political influence after the collapse
of Reconstruction were particularly galling.  Indeed, as the urban-industrial transformation
exposed increasing cleavages among white South Carolinians, the need to establish and
defend white supremacy was one of the few points on which mill people, town people, and
planter elites could all agree, and white men worked energetically to shore up their authority
over their own wives and children and over African Americans.

185 The classic treatment of the social and political consequences of industrialization in South Carolina is David
Carlton, Mill and Town in South Carolina, 1880-1920 (Baton Rouge and London: Louisiana State University
Press, 1982).

186 Edgar, South Carolina, 413-6.


Like others throughout the region, white South Carolinians in the late nineteenth
century became increasingly preoccupied with what they perceived as an upsurge of black
insolence, vice, and crime, especially sexual assault against white women.  According to
widely-held beliefs, during slavery, when the foundations of the region’s racial hierarchy
were secure, sexual assault by black men had been nonexistent; only during Reconstruction,
when the natural order was temporarily reversed, did black men begin to desire social
equality—informal mixing in public or private settings such as parties, churches, restaurants,
theaters, or trains—with whites.  According to popular wisdom, social equality had aroused
in black men the desire for sexual equality, namely sexual access to white women—the
ultimate challenge to white male supremacy.  Indeed, by the early twentieth century, “social
equality” had become a virtual euphemism for forced miscegenation between black men and
white women.  Borrowing from popular social Darwinist thought, whites believed that
miscegenation would degrade the Anglo-Saxon race and undermine American civilization
itself.  Black men were increasingly portrayed as incapable of disciplining their carnal
desires; in such a charged environment, virtually any transgression by a black man,
regardless of the actual victim, could be construed as having sexual overtones.187
In this context of profound social, economic, and political dislocation, Benjamin
Ryan Tillman, a prosperous Edgefield County farmer, emerged as the self-proclaimed
defender of South Carolina’s white rural folk and the principal architect of its Jim Crow
regime.  With the state’s Farmers’ Alliance has his base of support, he dominated the state’s

187 Useful overviews of the concept of social equality and its relation to racial violence in the early twentieth
century are Stephen J. Whitfield, A Death in the Delta: The Story of Emmett Till (New York: Free Press, 1988),
chapter 1; and Leon Litwack, Trouble in Mind: Black Southerners in the Age of Jim Crow (New York: Vintage
Books, 1998), 206-16.  The classic treatment of nineteenth- and early twentieth-century American racist
ideology is George M. Fredrickson, The Black Image in the White Mind: The Debate on Afro-American
Character and Destiny, 1817-1914. (1971; with new intro., Middletown, CT: Wesleyan University Press, 1987).


political culture from the late 1880s until his death in 1918.188  In the lead up to elections in
1890, Tillman and his allies molded widespread agrarian discontent and white resentment of
black advances into a potent political machine, wresting control of the Democratic Party
from the Lowcountry planter elite that had long dominated the state.  In desperation, the old
guard appealed to the state’s remaining black voters for support.  Tillman handily won the
governorship, but he retained one lesson from the election: as long as blacks could vote, they
could potentially decide elections between Democratic factions and thus check the rule of the
white minority.  In 1895, after the legislature elected him to the U.S. Senate, Tillman called
for a state constitutional convention in order to eliminate black political influence once and
for all.  Against the strenuous objections of a handful of black delegates, the new constitution
included additional suffrage restrictions—a strict residency requirement, a poll tax, and a
literacy test—that leaned most heavily on rural African Americans without directly running
afoul of the Fifteenth Amendment.  The new provisions worked; black voting declined
precipitously beginning with the 1896 elections.189
But suffrage restrictions alone were not enough to completely neutralize black
political influence.  Violence, sponsored by or condoned by the state and supported by white
leaders of thought, was needed to finish the job.  In early 1898 in Lake City, a hamlet in

188 There is an impressive body of scholarship on the relationships among the agrarian revolt, black activism,
and white supremacy.  Two recent treatments of the region as a whole are Omar H. Ali, “Black Populism in the
New South, 1886-1898” (Ph.D. diss., Columbia University, 2003), and Steven Hahn, A Nation Under Our Feet:
Black Political Struggles in the Rural South from Slavery to the Great Migration (Cambridge: Harvard
University Press, 2003), esp. part 3.  For the unique shape of the Populist movement in South Carolina, see
William J. Gaboury, “George Washington Murray and the Fight for Political Democracy in South Carolina,”
Journal of Negro History 62 (July 1977): 258-69; Omar H. Ali, “Standing Guard at the Door of Liberty: Black
Populism in South Carolina, 1886-1895,” The South Carolina Historical Magazine 107, no. 3 (July 2006): 190-
203; and Stephen Kantrowitz, Ben Tillman & the Reconstruction of White Supremacy (Chapel Hill: University
of North Carolina Press, 2000).

189 Newby, Black Carolinians, 43.


Williamsburg County in the Pee Dee, local whites assassinated the black postmaster and
burned down the post office.190  On Election Day later that year in the Piedmont county of
Greenwood, white mobs rampaged through the hamlet of Phoenix, leaving at least seven
blacks and one white dead, after a local white Republican attempted to collect the signatures
of black men who had been prevented from voting.191  Nearly two years later, whites in
coastal Georgetown County used a confrontation with local blacks as a pretext to bring down
the state’s last biracial local government, a “fusion” arrangement in which white Democrats
and black and white Republicans divided the available offices.  When some 1000 black
citizens assembled around Georgetown’s jail to defend a prominent black prisoner from a
rumored lynching, the white mayor and sheriff appealed to the governor to send militia units
from Sumter and Charleston.  During several days of occupation, the state military arrested
twenty local black leaders and raided a lodge hall suspected of containing a cache of
weapons.  True to a pledge by the white officials, the prisoner was not lynched.  But fusion
government in Georgetown—and black political participation in South Carolina—were as
good as dead.192  The year of the Georgetown violence, only 10,000 black men in the state,
about a tenth of those eligible, were registered voters, and of these only 2000 or so dared to

190 For a summary of the Lake City incident in the context of increasing anti-black violence in the era of the
Spanish-American War, see Piero Gleijeses, “African Americans and the War against Spain,” in A Question of
Manhood: A Reader in U.S. Black Men’s History and Masculinity, ed. Darlene Clark Hine and Earnestine
Jenkins (Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1999), 320-45.

191 Edgar, South Carolina, 448.

192 For accounts of the Georgetown violence, see Newby, Black Carolinians, 54-5; George C. Rogers, Jr., The
History of Georgetown County, South Carolina (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1970), 481-4;
and Tom Rubillo, Trial and Error: The Case of John Brownfield and Race Relations in Georgetown, South
Carolina (Charleston, SC: History Press, 2005).


go to the polls.193  South Carolina’s last black legislator, a representative from Georgetown
County, left office two years later.194
With South Carolina’s black citizens shut out of politics, whites of various class
backgrounds united in an effort to segregate them in other aspects of public life.  With
thousands of black and white rural families crowding into towns and cities, the segregation
movement focused on situations of close interpersonal contact in urban and industrial
environments, for example, the very public stages of streetcar and sidewalk, elevator and
restaurant, workroom and washroom.  Where complete separation of the races was
impractical, they sought to reinforce blacks’ second-class status.  In particular, segregation
practices policed the behavior of black men, discouraging any expressions of their social
equality with white men and minimizing opportunities for contact with white women.195
Often couched in the language of the nationwide Progressive movement, in which
largely middle-class activists led efforts to bring order to burgeoning urban areas, segregation
was accomplished through a patchwork of state laws and local ordinances, official and
unofficial business practices, and unwritten codes of interpersonal behavior.  South
Carolina’s Constitution of 1895 codified the state’s nearly universal practice of segregating
public schools—where otherwise black boys might sit next to white girls—and confirmed an
earlier statutory prohibition of interracial marriage.  An act in 1898 required segregated
seating in railway cars; another in 1904 segregated steamboats and ferries.  Municipal
ordinances in Columbia in 1903 and Charleston in 1912 confirmed the segregation of urban

193 Edgar, South Carolina, 445.

194 Tindall, South Carolina Negroes, 61.

195 For the development of legal racial segregation in South Carolina, see Newby, Black Carolinians, 36-47; and
Pauli Murray, ed., States’ Laws on Race and Color (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1997), 406-19.


streetcars, already practiced by the streetcar companies.  (All of these included exceptions
only for black women attending whites as nurses or nannies.)196  In 1905, the legislature
prohibited fraternizing between black and white troops in the state militia.  The next year, it
required segregated dining facilities at train stations.  In 1917, the state’s railroad
commission reinforced segregation at train stations by ordering companies under its
jurisdiction “not to unload white and colored passengers at adjoining ends of their respective
coaches.”197  In 1912, in response to violent clashes between white textile mill workers and
poor blacks and an attempt by two black brothers to build a hotel on a prominent street,
Greenville city officials mandated residential and commercial segregation by designating all-
white and all-black blocks.198
An act in 1915 confirmed that in South Carolina, industrialization and white
supremacy went hand in hand.  The state’s Factory Law mandated segregation in the state’s
cotton textile industry, where it was already widely practiced.  According to the new law,
companies could not allow black and white employees to work in the same room; to use the
same doorways, pay windows, and stairways at the same time; or to use the same toilets,
drinking water buckets, pails, dippers, and glasses at any time.  Because production rooms
were already full of white women and children, most textile employment was thus effectively
closed to blacks.  There were exceptions for firemen in the boiler rooms that powered the
mills, floor scrubbers, and “carpenters, mechanics, and others engaged in the repair or
erection of buildings”—the most obviously subordinate, most menial, and lowest-paying

196 Newby, Black Carolinians, 47.

197 Ibid., 48.

198 Archie Vernon Huff, Jr., Greenville: The History of the City and County in the South Carolina Piedmont
(Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1995), 264-5.


jobs.  With the Factory Law, the General Assembly made it clear that the state’s leading
industry—and the upward mobility it represented—were for whites only, and that blacks’
primary place in the new order was in the fields and the kitchens.
While the rhetoric of South Carolina’s Progressives appealed to reason, order, and
good governance, the maintenance of white supremacy depended in fact on corruption and
violence.  The legal system provided one means of control, eliminating large numbers of
young black men from free society.  Laws regarding vagrancy, civil disorder, contracts, crop
liens, and mortgages strongly disfavored blacks, and black men—mostly young, rural, poor,
and marginally literate—were disproportionately convicted for misdemeanors and felonies
and sentenced more harshly than their white counterparts.  In 1910, for example, when
African Americans made up fifty-five percent of the state’s population, they numbered eighty
percent of the convicts in the state penitentiary; ninety-three percent of those in county jails,
workhouses, and chain gangs; eighty-five percent of those in municipal jails and workhouses;
and one hundred percent of those sentenced to death.  Prisoners were routinely subjected to
inadequate food, shelter, and medical care, overwork, and brutal corporal punishment.199
Legal violence alone was insufficient.  At least sixty blacks—mostly men who demonstrated
political or economic independence or violated racial mores—died at the hands of lynch
mobs in the state between 1900 and 1915, and there were almost as many reported lynching
attempts.200
One of South Carolina’s most prominent and vocal advocates of lynching was
Coleman Livingston Blease of Greenwood, an early and fervent Tillmanite who served as

199 Newby. Black Carolinians, 73.

200 Ibid., 60.


governor from 1911 to 1915 and was a perennial candidate for governor or U.S. senator
thereafter.  Drawing most of his support from dispossessed white farmers and textile
operatives, Blease made his career exploiting the era’s social tensions.  He opposed various
elements of the Progressive agenda—including compulsory education, vaccinations and
health examinations for children, the use of white taxpayers’ money to fund black schools,
safety inspections of factories and textile mills, and laws to reduce the work week—because,
he said, they all interfered with the rights of white husbands and fathers to direct their own
families’ affairs.201  A vicious race baiter, Blease openly called white men of all class
backgrounds to stand together against black assaults on their homes, their families, and their
civilization.  “The pure-blooded Caucasian,” Blease asserted, “will always defend the virtue
of our women, no matter what the cost….  If rape is committed, death must follow.”202  In
October 1911 in the Anderson County mill town of Honea Path, a white mob led by a state
legislator and a local newspaper editor lynched and dismembered Willis Jackson, a black
youth accused of attacking a white girl.  When the editors of The State called for an
investigation, Blease retorted that the governor’s office would never move against white
citizens for “punishing that nigger brute.”  Rather, Blease said he would have gladly resigned
as governor “and come to Honea Path and led the mob.”203
For his part, Ben Tillman used his Senate seat to garner nationwide support for
lynching, both in official Washington and as a favorite speaker on the Chautauqua circuit.  In

201 As one historian has noted, for Blease, such regulations subverted the natural order, treating white men in the
textile mills as a class of dependents alongside blacks, women, and children.  Bryant Simon, A Fabric of
Defeat: The Politics of South Carolina Millhands, 1910-1948 (Chapel Hill and London: University of North
Carolina Press, 1998), 31.

202 Coleman L. Blease, gubernatorial inaugural address, 1911, quoted in Simon, Fabric of Defeat, 32.

203 The Crisis 3 (December 1911): 61, quoted in Litwack, Trouble in Mind, 296.


1907 he asked his Senate colleagues if they would support “the right to have a fair trial and
be punished in the regular course of justice” for a black man who had raped a young white
woman.  Responding to his own question, he said:
So far as I am concerned, he has put himself outside the pale of the law, human and
divine.  He has sinned against the Holy Ghost.  He has invaded the holy of holies.  He
has struck civilization a blow, the most deadly and cruel that the imagination can
conceive.  It is idle to reason about it; it is idle to preach about it.  Our brains reel
under the staggering blow, and hot blood surges to the heart.  Civilization peels off
us, any and all of us who are men; and we revert to the original savage type whose
impulses under such circumstances have always been to ‘kill! kill! kill!’204

The inflammatory rhetoric of Blease and Tillman differed mainly in degree, not in
kind, from that of other South Carolina white leaders at the state and local level.  Most
politicians, newspaper editors, prominent businessmen, and Christian clergymen either
condoned the use of violence to maintain white supremacy or remained silent.  Those who
did speak out often expressed less concern for the black victims than for what extralegal
violence might do to the moral fiber—and the reputation abroad—of white South
Carolinians.   In 1906, for example, Governor Duncan Clinch Heyward arrived on the scene
of the impending lynching of Bob Davis, who was accused of assaulting two teenage girls,
one black and one white, in Greenwood County.  Heyward, perhaps the most refined of the
state’s Progressive-era governors, said he agreed that Davis was a “black devil and fiend of
hell,” but for the sake of “the supremacy and the majesty of the law,” he appealed to the mob
to allow a proper trial.  The mob listened respectfully, and decided to shoot Davis rather than
burn him alive.205



204 Congressional Record, 59th Cong. 2nd Sess., 440-4, quoted in Whitfield, Death in the Delta, 4.
205 Newby, Black Carolinians, 64-5.


Black Accommodation and the Politics of Racial Uplift

In the face of disfranchisement, segregation, and overwhelming violence, black leaders in
early-twentieth century South Carolina were hard pressed to do much more than hold their
communities together.  Many ministers and leading professionals followed the lead of
Booker T. Washington, the charismatic founder of Tuskegee Institute in Alabama and the
country’s most prominent black spokesman between 1895 and his death in 1915.
Washington articulated a doctrine of racial uplift that inculcated self-help, self-discipline, and
the acquisition of middle-class values and property as moral and religious duties.  In his
writings and public addresses, he held that full citizenship and integration into American
society were not universal rights, but privileges to be conferred by the more powerful race.
Those responsible for blacks’ degraded condition were blacks themselves.  Rather than
pursuing fruitless political agitation, a liberal education that held little relevance to the
material needs of the race, or the “artificial forcing” of blacks into public or private social
contact with whites—the greatest follies of the Reconstruction period—he held that blacks
could only make themselves worthy of citizenship by practicing thrift, wisdom, and
temperance, acquiring training in agriculture and manual trades, and building a strong
economic foundation that would make them invaluable to their white neighbors.206

As rates of lynching rose dramatically across the region, Washington set a tone of
tacitly accepting white justifications regarding the sexual crimes of black men and carefully

206 Booker T. Washington, Address at the Metropolitan A.M.E. Church, May 22, 1900, in The Booker T.
Washington Papers, vol. 5, 1899-1900, ed. Louis Harlan et al. (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1981), 530.
The classic biography of Washington (in two parts) is Louis R. Harlan, Booker T. Washington: The Making of a
Black Leader, 1856-1901 (New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1972) and Booker T. Washington:
The Wizard of Tuskegee, 1901-1915 (New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1983).  More recent
treatments include Robert J. Norell, Up from History: The Life of Booker T. Washington (Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 2009); and Michael Rudolph West, The Education of Booker T. Washington:
American Democracy and the Idea of Race Relations (New York: Columbia University Press, 2008).


disavowing any claim to social equality.  “In all things that are purely social,” he famously
reassured whites in his address to the Atlanta International and Cotton States Exposition in
1895, “we can be as separate as the fingers, yet one as the hand in all things essential to
mutual progress.”  For blacks, he pointedly added: “The opportunity to earn a dollar in a
factory just now is worth infinitely more than the opportunity to spend a dollar in an opera-
house.”207  Speaking to a mixed audience at Charleston’s Emmanuel AME Church in 1909,
Washington called social equality an “absurd notion” from the “foolish phase” when blacks
were just emerging from slavery.  Now, he told the whites present, blacks knew better:
Nowhere does the negro desire to intermingle in a social way with members of the
white race, and especially is that so in the South.  I think you will find that the more
the negro is educated, the more he gets to understand himself and the world, the more
he finds satisfaction in the company of his own people, the less he desires to force
himself in any place that he is not wanted.208

In turn-of-the-century South Carolina, most black leaders seemed to take their cue
from Washington.   With the doors to voting and office holding essentially closed, the
importance of churches in the nexus of black community institutions—as well as the
leadership roles of black ministers—only grew in the early twentieth century.  But in the face
of overwhelming white power and violence, the position of ministers depended on their
abandonment of black political and religious visions of the emancipation era.  By the middle
of the nineteenth century, the Christianity of the slaves had pronounced messianic and
millennial overtones, with clear implications for the organization of society: they expected a
divine intervention, the “Day of Jubilo,” that would overturn an unjust order, punish their

207 Booker T. Washington, Up from Slavery: An Autobiography (1901; Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1919),
223-4.

208 Charleston (SC) News and Courier, 20 March 1909, 5.


oppressors, and lead them into freedom.209  After the Union victory, independent black
churches in the former Confederacy became the vital centers of black community building
and political organization.  Congregations established Sunday schools and literacy classes;
disseminated news; resolved disputes among members; assisted members with burial
expenses or relief during illness; hosted speeches by Republican activists and meetings of the
local Union League; and organized local labor protests.  During the high tide of
Reconstruction, black preachers and exhorters often became formal political leaders as well.
For African American Christians, there was no stark separation of reality into the
secular and the spiritual.  As a white lawyer from Barnwell County, South Carolina, reported
during Reconstruction, “the great mass of our plantation hands” relished preaching, funerals,
and political speeches—in no particular order.  “They are of a very religious turn of mind,”
he observed, “a superstitious people, and believe very strongly in the spiritual world . . . .”
Referring to the Union League, the extensive network of grassroots Republican clubs, he
added that “they are organized into leagues,” and “those leagues are opened by prayer, for
the preachers are generally there, and they are counseled as they love their immortal souls to
vote no other than the straight republican ticket.”210  James L. Orr, a former South Carolina
governor, could not say for sure that all the black politicians of his native Anderson County
were preachers, but he did believe that “most of the preachers are politicians.”211

209 Hahn, Nation under Our Feet, 47.

210 Testimony Taken by the Joint Select Committee to Inquire into the Condition of Affairs in the Late
Insurrectionary States, South Carolina, vol. 1 (Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1872), 174,
quoted in Hahn, A Nation under Our Feet, 234.

211 Testimony Taken by the Joint Select Committee to Inquire into the Condition of Affairs in the Late
Insurrectionary States, South Carolina, vol. 1 (Washington, DC: Government Printing Office, 1872), 16, quoted
in Hahn, A Nation under Our Feet, 234.


While the uplift ideology of the emancipation era never entirely disappeared from the
rhetoric of the black church, the totality of white control and the vulnerability of black
communities in the early twentieth century relegated it to a quiet spot on a back bench.  Most
black clergymen seem to have counseled an escapist response to injustice.  As educator
Benjamin Mays, who grew up in rural Greenwood County in the wake of the Phoenix riot,
recalled:
I heard the Pastor of the church of my youth plead with the members of his
congregation not to try to avenge the wrongs they suffered, but to take their burdens
to the Lord in prayer.  Especially did he do this when the racial situation was tense or
when Negroes went to him for advice concerning some wrong inflicted upon them by
their oppressors….  Members of the congregation screamed, shouted, and thanked
God.  They felt relieved and uplifted….  They had their faith in God renewed and
they could stand it until the second Sunday in the next month when the experience …
was duplicated.212

If they directly addressed worldly concerns at all, many ministers preached a theology that
grafted new notions of class advancement onto traditional Protestant doctrines such as
original sin.  They taught that many of the current problems facing blacks were of their own
making, frequently condemned crime, lawlessness, drinking, and sexual immorality among
blacks but seldom criticizing whites or the Jim Crow system they had created.  Personal
regeneration and uprightness coupled with economic striving, not confrontation with whites,
were the keys to success and security for the whole race.  In 1904, for example, the annual
convention of South Carolina’s black Baptists called their fellows “to lead orderly lives, to be
law abiding citizens, to educate their children to remain on the farms instead of seeking the
evils and pleasures of the cities, to be industrious and economical and to accumulate

212 Benjamin E. Mays, The Negro’s God as Reflected in His Literature (New York, 1938), 26, quoted in Newby,
Black Carolinians, 153.


property.”213  If ministers did denounce lynching, they blamed black rapists.  The same year,
a committee of the South Carolina conference of the AME Church urged the state’s blacks to
“deplore both lynching and the crime which sometimes provokes it, rid ourselves of the
fiends, and help to promote better relations between the races.”214
In the twenty years before the First World War, South Carolina’s most prominent
black leader was Rev. Richard Carroll of Columbia (ca. 1859-1929), an ardent exponent of
the gospel of self-help.  Carroll’s work set the tone for race relations in the state.  He played
the role of spokesman for black South Carolinians and chief mediator between them and the
state’s white elite, who often compared him to Booker T. Washington.  Like Washington,
Carroll’s persuasive combination of Protestant orthodoxy and racial accommodation made
him a bulwark, if partially unwitting and unwilling, of white supremacy.
Carroll’s life, like Washington’s, embodied the story of racial uplift.  Born a slave in
Barnwell County just before the Civil War, Carroll was a mulatto who never knew his father
and whose mother died while he was still a child.  He worked his way through school at
Benedict Institute (later Benedict College) in Columbia, founded in 1878 by the American
Baptist Home Mission Society, a northern group.  After becoming a minister, he went to
work for the Society as an itinerant missionary.  His leadership extended to several areas of
black community development.  In 1899, with significant white financial support, he
operated an industrial home for orphaned and wayward black children.  In 1905, again with
white backing, he started a newspaper, the Southern Ploughman, and in 1906, an
employment agency in Columbia.  The next year, he inaugurated a series of annual “race
conferences” which, for more than a decade, would draw representatives of South Carolina’s

213 News and Courier, 15 December 1904, 15, quoted in Newby, Black Carolinians, 150-1.

214 Ibid., 18 December 1904, 10, quoted in Newby, Black Carolinians, 151.


black elite to Columbia to hear black and white speakers discuss the amelioration of the
“Negro problem.”  Throughout his career, he was a frequent contributor to the state’s white
newspapers, holding the ear of white South Carolina as no other black man.  As Washington
noted regarding Carroll,
there is no discounting the fact that he has tremendous influence with the white
people of South Carolina.  Papers like the Columbia State stand by him and believe
him thoroughly….  When I was in South Carolina last I was surprised to see how he
had the help and influence of mayors and state officials.215

Carroll and his allies, black and white, encouraged black South Carolinians to make
the best of segregation by building up their own farms, businesses, and community
institutions—and by staying clear of politics.  “If voting antagonizes the white man,” Carroll
wrote, “if voting will retard the progress of the race, then do not vote.  Let the white man do
the voting.  Let us get the cash.”216  In the face of overwhelming white supremacy, Carroll
held that blacks should
ask and appeal to the stronger race for justice and an equal chance to make a living,
and let us seek to become good American citizens, minding our own business at all
times, avoiding the courts and friction with the white race.217

Carroll was also careful to publicly disavow any claim to social equality with whites.
He explained racial violence as the result of socializing between poor black and white men:
The lawless element among white and colored are [sic] growing.  On the Sabbath day
the woods are full of gamblers of both races in and around all the large cities.
Whiskey selling is carried to the very doors of the colored churches.  Both races
violate the law and nothing is done about it until trouble arises.  Whenever there is
conflict between the races, it is started by this element of colored and white
lawbreakers, who practice “social equality” in the darkness.  You can trace most of

215 Booker T. Washington to Oswald Garrison Villard, Aug. 9, 1910, in The Booker T. Washington Papers, vol.
10, 1909-1911, ed. Louis Harlan et al. (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1981), 364.

216 The State, 3 April 1905, quoted in Newby, Black Carolinians, 179.

217 The State, 16 September 1906, quoted in Newby, Black Carolinians, 179.


the race riots to the dens, dives, gambling places, and houses of ill-fame, where
negroes and white men meet.218

In 1899, before the opening of his children’s home, he appealed to whites in The State:
We do not ask you to put us in your homes, but to help us get homes.  We do not ask
to get into your church pews, but to help us build churches.  We do not ask to get into
your school houses, but want you to help us build schools.  We do not want
intermarriage with your race, but want you to help us produce women of our race.
(They are all colors, and we are satisfied.)  We do not ask you to let us run the
government, but ask you to see that the government gives us justice.  We do not ask
you to give us “40 acres and a mule,” but a chance to buy and time to pay.219

In advance of Carroll’s first race conference in 1907, leaflets appeared in Columbia claiming
that Booker T. Washington, the keynote speaker, “believes in and practices social equality,
and that he walks with and eats with white ladies.”  From the conference podium, Carroll
ridiculed such accusations, countering that the author only wanted to prejudice whites against
the conference and damage its organizer.220
If Carroll was the most prominent exponent of racial uplift in early twentieth-century
South Carolina, easily its most eloquent and prolific apologist was Alonzo Twine’s former
pastor, Rev. Irving E. Lowery (1850-1929).  Born a slave near Lynchburg in Sumter County,
as a boy Lowery worked as the personal servant and messenger of his master, John Frierson,
a pious Methodist layman.  A teenager at emancipation, Lowery attended a makeshift school
near the plantation, becoming one of the thousands of freedpeople of all ages flocking to
schools for the first time.  He was also part of an upsurge in black church membership, as
former slaves left white-controlled biracial churches to form their own congregations.
Lowery became a Methodist, but, unlike his former master, he joined the Methodist

218 The State, 27 September 1906, quoted in Newby, Black Carolinians, 176-7.

219 The State, 18 April 1899, quoted in John Hammond Moore, Columbia and Richland County: A South
Carolina Community, 1740-1990 (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1993), 373.

220 News and Courier, 25 January 1907.


Episcopal Church, the northern branch of Methodism.  Possessed of greater material means
than the independent black denominations, the African Methodist Episcopal and African
Methodist Episcopal Zion churches, the northern Methodists sent missionaries and teachers
among the freedpeople in large numbers and created a substantial branch among black
Southerners.221
Lowery found new educational opportunities in a series of three schools sponsored by
the northern Methodists.  He went first to Baker Bible Institute, the church’s new seminary
for freedpeople in Charleston.  Then he became the first student to enroll in Claflin
University, which initially offered only grammar and normal school training (and merged
with Baker in 1870), in Orangeburg.  He finished his formal education at Wesleyan
Academy, a college-preparatory school in Wilbraham, Massachusetts.  After returning to
South Carolina in 1874, he was stationed in a succession of churches in cities and towns
across the state, including Summerville, Greenville, Charleston, Aiken, and Columbia.222  He
also became a prolific writer, at various times reporting for or editing at least five
newspapers, black and white.223

221 In 1844, white southern Methodists split from their national denomination over the issue of slavery, forming
the Methodist Episcopal Church, South.  After emancipation, black Methodists left their former masters’
congregations in droves to form separate, black-controlled congregations, which had their choice of new
denominational affiliations.  While most joined either the African Methodist Episcopal Church or its smaller
counterpart, the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, both independent black denominations with their
origins in antebellum free black communities, others affiliated with the northern Methodists.  William E.
Montgomery, Under Their Own Vine and Fig Tree: The African-American Church in the South, 1865-1900
(Baton Rouge and London: Louisiana State University Press, 1993), 71-3.

222 I. E. Lowery, Life on the Old Plantation in Ante-Bellum Days, or A Story Based on Facts, with Brief
Sketches of the Author by the Late Rev. J. Wofford White of the South Carolina Conference, Methodist
Episcopal Church and An Appendix (Columbia: The State Co. Printing, 1911), 15-28.
223 Palmetto Leader (Columbia, SC), 4 January 1930.  Lowery’s obituary in the Leader notes he reported for the
Daily Record, The State, and the Palmetto Leader in Columbia.  He was also an editor of the Watchman and
Defender in Timmonsville and wrote for the Southern Indicator in Columbia.


In addition to his newspaper career, in 1911 Lowery published a book that explained
his racial and religious worldviews.  Entitled Life on the Old Plantation in Ante-Bellum Days,
or A Story Based on Facts …, the work combined autobiographical vignettes and journalistic
essays in an exposition of racial uplift theology.  The book, Lowery stated in his introduction,
had two objectives.  The first was to set the record straight regarding slavery.  “Others,” he
wrote, “have written of the evil side of those days, but the author felt it to be his mission to
write of the better side.”224  To that end, the bulk of the work was a series of vignettes
depicting an idyllic life on the Frierson plantation, from the good bread and biscuits made by
“Old Granny,” the cook, to the slaves’ practices at weddings, funerals, and Christmas.  The
closing vignette recounted the sad “breaking up” of the plantation at emancipation.
Lowery’s second objective was to show blacks that “things are now taking a turn for
the better” in the South.225  The trouble with the majority of blacks, he opined, was that:
they look on the darker side of the picture too much.  They read the daily papers and
note the cases of lynchings, burnings, murders and the outrages committed on
members of the race generally, and say the future of the negro in the South is dark,
and is growing darker still.226

This analysis proved incomplete, Lowery argued, because the “best white people” and the
newspapers were opposed to such violence.  Accepting uncritically the popular white
contention that rapes committed by black men against white women were the root cause of
lynching, Lowery argued that because “the brutal offense against the purity of womanhood”

224 Lowery, Life on the Old Plantation, 10.

225 Ibid., 11.

226 Ibid., 133-4.


had decreased, so had anti-black violence.227  As evidence of whites’ goodwill, he noted
plans by the United Confederate Veterans to erect a monument to loyal former slaves.228
In a lengthy appendix, “Signs of a Better Day for the Negro in the South,” Lowery
presented more evidence of what he considered whites’ positive attitudes and concrete
contributions to black welfare.  The appendix consisted of a series of essays originally
published in the Columbia Daily Record, a white newspaper, under such titles as “White
Patrons of Negro Business Enterprises,” “White Contributors toward the Building of Negro
Churches,” and “Current Incidents of Negro Industrial Achievements.”  One essay recounted
a chance meeting in a railway station with South Carolina’s newly-elected junior U.S.
Senator, Ellison D. “Cotton Ed” Smith, a fellow Lynchburg native.229  In Lowery’s telling,
the two had played together as boys—a doubtful claim, since Smith was fourteen years
younger—and they fell into warm conversation as if they were young again.  Smith assured
Lowery: “The motto of the South today is: Every man, irrespective of race or color, shall
have a chance in the race of life.”230  This statement, Lowery insisted,
should fill the negro with hope and with aspiration, for there is a better day ahead of
him right here in the land that gave him birth.  Only let him cease from crime; let him
be industrious, and let him educate his children and the white people of the South will
see to it that he shall have fair chance in the race of life.231

227 Ibid., 134.

228 Ibid., 11-12.

229 Smith served in the U.S. Senate from 1909 until his death in 1944.  He fought against the ratification of the
Nineteenth Amendment because he feared it would enfranchise black women as well as white, and in the 1930s
he emerged as an opponent of the New Deal and of the Democratic party coalition that included northern
African Americans.  At the 1936 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Smith famously walked out
of the hall when a black minister stood to give an invocation.  Smith repeated the story many times afterwards:
“And he started praying and I started walking.  And as I . . . walked across that vast rotunda, it seemed to me
that old John Calhoun leaned down from his mansion in the sky and whispered in my ear, ‘You did right, Ed.’”
See Edgar, South Carolina, 507.

230 Ibid., 136.

231 Ibid., 137.


In another essay, “Friendly Expressions of Southern White People for the Negro,”
Lowry quoted extensively from the published remarks of prominent white citizens, including
Christian ministers, in support of racial uplift theology.  In one excerpt, Henry Watterson, a
newspaper editor from Louisville and a leading New South booster, defended the Tuskegee
model of education to a New York audience.  Watterson argued that while the Negro had
made great progress since emancipation, he was “yet in a state of racial childhood.  As he
realizes this, the faster he will grow, the quicker he will learn, and the sooner he will reach
his racial manhood.”232  Blacks, Watterson counseled, should focus on acquiring the “habits
of method and order; habits of tenacity and acquisition; habits of sustained industry and
sobriety” without which they would not prosper.233  And they should accept racial
segregation as part of their Christian duty:
He is a foolish black man who thinks because the mirage of social equality, which
would prove a curse rather than a blessing, is denied him, that the white man hates
him….  No man should go where he is not wanted; true, self-respecting men dismiss
the very thought of it, going their own way, hoeing their own row, and giving praise
to God that their happiness is within themselves, and beyond the reach of any man, be
he white or black, king or vassal.234

Lowery also quoted a sermon, entitled “Give the Negro the Gospel,” by Rev. Alexander
Sprunt, the pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Charleston, as evidence of whites’ support
for black education.  Sprunt argued a theology of racial uplift as effectively as Washington,
Carroll, or Lowery.  He was careful to specify that “some forms of education may not be
helpful” to blacks, and that he supported only the kind that would “elevate them, and make

232 Ibid., 173.

233 Ibid., 173-4.

234 Ibid., 174.


them the best of citizens,” namely, basic literacy and training for the manual trades.235
Likewise, he continued, “some forms of religion are of no benefit to the negro”; the duty of
white Christians was to give blacks a “pure religion” that would make them “most
enlightened Christians.”236  In Sprunt’s view, the Tuskegee model of education and
traditional Protestantism were the keys to black advancement.  By endorsing such comments,
Lowery made clear his own beliefs that white supremacy was essentially benevolent, and that
by learning the virtues of capitalism, eschewing social equality and citizenship rights, and
holding fast to Protestant orthodoxy, blacks could indeed achieve progress within it.
Given the totality of white supremacy, other black Carolinians, including clergymen,
school teachers, college professors, and businessmen, to adopt attitudes similar to those of
Carroll and Lowery.  In cities and towns across the state, black women were prominent in
local racial uplift efforts.  They worked both through denominational “women’s auxiliaries”
and a network of secular women’s clubs, whose membership often overlapped.  In 1909 the
secular clubs organized the South Carolina Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs with the
motto, “Lifting as We Climb.”237  Regardless of black women’s leadership roles in local
communities, it was black men who generally represented the interests of the race to the
state’s white power-brokers.  And they most often did so with marked deference.  Like
Benjamin Mays’ childhood pastor, who “accepted the system and made no effort to change
it,” black leaders sought adjustments to the white supremacist industrial order rather than call

235 Ibid., 175-6.

236 Ibid.

237 Edgar, South Carolina, 469.  The best treatment of black women’s organizing at a regional and national
level, focusing on the National Baptist Convention, is Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, Righteous Discontent: The
Women’s Movement in the Black Baptist Church, 1880-1920 (Cambridge and London: Harvard University
Press, 1993).  For a study of Evans, see Darlene Clark Hine, “The Corporeal and Ocular Veil: Dr. Matilda A.
Evans (1872-1935) and the Complexity of Southern History,” Journal of Southern History 70 (Feb. 2004): 3-34.


that order itself into question.238  At best, they had to ply an uneasy course between
accommodation and protest, choosing their issues and their language carefully.  In 1910, for
example, a group of prominent educators—including Thomas E. Miller, a former
Reconstruction lawmaker and president of the Colored Normal, Industrial, Agricultural, and
Mechanical College in Orangeburg; N. J. Frederick, principal of Columbia’s only black high
school; and Rev. W. D. Chappelle, the president of Allen University in Columbia—appealed
to the South Carolina Department of Education for modest improvements in the state’s
underfunded system of black schools.  Moved by “a conservative spirit and judgment” and
“guided by the purest of motives and highest conceptions,” they asked for more money for
libraries and school buildings, more vocational education, additional summer schools for
black teachers, and a black supervisor of rural schools who, they were careful to insist, would
work “by permission, and under the control of the state superintendent.”239
Conciliatory rhetoric aside, the harsh realities of African-American life in
Progressive-era South Carolina occasionally forced even Carroll to admit the ultimate
ineffectiveness of his self-help theology.  He was disillusioned with white South Carolinians’
opposition to voting rights even for qualified black men (such as himself), and he was
alarmed at the lack of personal safety afforded blacks, high and low alike.  Amid the welter
of white violence, perhaps the most dramatic demonstration of the limits of racial uplift was
the lynching of Anthony Crawford in 1916.240  Born to slaves in the last year of the Civil

238 Benjamin E. Mays, Born to Rebel:  An Autobiography, rev. ed. (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 2003),
16.

239 Newby, Black Carolinians, 93.

240 This summary of the events surrounding Crawford’s lynching is based on Litwack, Trouble in Mind, 309-12,
and Peter F. Lau, Democracy Rising: South Carolina and the Fight for Black Equality since 1865 (Lexington:
University Press of Kentucky, 2006), 15-6.


War, Crawford owned 427 acres of good farmland outside the town of Abbeville in South
Carolina’s lower Piedmont.  As the head of a large family, the secretary of his local AME
congregation, and a successful cotton farmer, Crawford embodied the racial uplift ideal.  As
one contemporary observer noted, “Anthony Crawford’s life and character embodied
everything that Booker T. Washington held to be virtuous in a Negro.”241  On Saturday
morning, October 21, 1916, he came to town to sell his cotton and got into an argument with
a white storeowner over the offering price.  The sheriff arrested Crawford and took him to
jail, where he was initially protected from a gathering white mob.  Released on bail, he
returned to the gin where his cotton was waiting, only to be attacked by the mob.  Crawford
resisted, crushing the skull of one assailant, but was beaten unconscious before the sheriff
took him back into custody.  When rumors circulated that Crawford might be removed from
the county for his protection, the mob broke into the jail and kicked Crawford to death.
Tying a rope around his neck, they dragged the corpse through the black sections of town,
hung it from a tree at the county fairgrounds, and emptied some two hundred rounds of
ammunition into the lifeless form.  A meeting of white citizens ordered Crawford’s family to
leave town within three weeks, but “cooler heads” prevailed and the family remained.  The
county coroner’s jury found that Crawford had died at the hands of parties unknown.
While some leading Progressives condemned the lynching, the editor of the Abbeville
Scimitar probably came closer to capturing the mood across white South Carolina in his
appeal to white solidarity and his justification of the mob’s actions:
The “best people” of South Carolina know that when white men cease to whip, or kill
negroes who become obnoxious, that they will take advantage of the laxity, and soon
make this state untenable for whites of ALL kinds ….  The point here made is, that no
matter who actually killed Crawford, the responsibility for his death rests upon us

241 [Roy Nash], “The Lynching of Anthony Crawford,” 1916, quoted in Litwack, Trouble in Mind, 309.


ALL ALIKE, and because of his own reckless course, due to chest inflation from
wealth, it was inevitable and RACIALLY JUSTIFIABLE.242

For black Carolinians, the Crawford lynching made clear that no one, regardless of wealth,
education, or moral uprightness, was safe—indeed, these often seemed to be the very reasons
for white violence.  “Our people,” Richard Carroll told the editor of The State, “are restless,
more so now, than I have ever known them.”243


Wartime Unrest and Black Activism

During the years of American involvement in the war in Europe, the Wilson administration’s
rhetoric of unity on the home front and democracy, rule of law, and self-determination for
subject peoples abroad seemed a world away from the poisonous racial climate in South
Carolina.  “Truth is,” the editor of The State confided to his diary just prior to the declaration
of war, “the people of the South—and of the United States—have no idea of conceding to the
negroes the full rights of American freedmen in this year of our Lord 1917.”244  During the
war years, the restlessness that Richard Carroll had identified in the wake of the Crawford
lynching took the form of black out-migration, pressure to participate fully in the war effort,
and establishing an organizational framework for political agitation.
African Americans fled the state in dramatic numbers when northern factories—
prompted by a reduction in immigration from Europe, increased demand for industrial
products to supply the belligerent nations, and mobilization of some three million men for

242 Abbeville (SC) Scimitar, 15 February 1917, quoted in Litwack, Trouble in Mind, 311.

243 Richard Carroll to W. W. Ball, 9 November 1916, W. W. Ball Papers, Duke University Libraries, quoted in
Litwack, Trouble in Mind, 311.

244 W. W. Ball, Diary 3, 1916-1918, entry for 3 June 1917, W. W. Ball Papers, Duke University Libraries,
quoted in Litwack, Trouble in Mind, 206.


military service—opened their doors to black laborers for the first time.  Early in 1917,
Charleston undertaker and activist Richard Mickey called the movement an “exodus” and
predicted it would accelerate.245  Indeed, the 1920 Census revealed that Charleston’s black
population had declined by five percent during the previous decade; statewide it had declined
four percent.  Altogether some 75,000 black Carolinians had moved away.246
Most black leaders, newspapers, and civic groups in South Carolina came out
strongly in support of the war effort, but white leaders generally rejected their overtures.  In
April 1917, Richard Carroll led a delegation of black leaders to meet with Governor Richard
Manning.  The governor assured the group that the war would not affect white supremacy in
South Carolina.  He turned down their offer to raise black troops—with black officers—for
the state’s National Guard, suggesting instead that blacks could best help the war effort by
staying on the farms.  He disparaged those who were leaving for factory jobs in northern
urban centers and offered a reward for the arrest and conviction of labor agents who were
enticing blacks away from the state using, he said, false claims.247  Nearly a year later, at
Carroll’s annual race conference in March 1918, Manning warned that wartime cooperation
between blacks and whites would not lead to social equality.  “[I]t will not be tolerated by the
southern whites,” he said, “and wouldn’t be good for the negroes.”248
When black men drafted into the U.S. Army began arriving at training camps set up
throughout the South, they experienced both a strictly segregated military and local white
communities hostile to their presence.  Outside Spartanburg, a center of the textile industry in

245 Lau, Democracy Rising, 40.

246 Newby, Black Carolinians, 193.

247 Moore, Columbia and Richland County, 377.

248 The State, 14 March 1918, quoted in Moore, Columbia and Richland County, 378.


the upper Piedmont, the new facility of Camp Wadsworth grew larger than the town itself.
Tensions between local merchants and black troops from the 15th New York Regiment nearly
led to rioting in the fall of 1917.  The Army quickly sent the 15th to France to avoid further
trouble.249  By the time Erwin Harris, an eighteen-year-old white Bahá’í from New York City,
arrived at Camp Wadsworth for training in early 1918, there were no black soldiers left
there.250  Discrimination in wartime employment was also widespread.  In May 1918, the
Navy Yard in North Charleston announced 600 jobs for women at a new clothing factory,
specifying that “only white women” should apply.251  In October, the Greenville city council
considered a measure to force black women—but not white—to go to work in wartime
industries.252
Even before U.S. entry into the war, black Carolinians’ restlessness was expressing
itself in new organizations with new demands, implicitly challenging Carroll and other self-
appointed representatives to the white ruling class.  Louis Gregory’s Emancipation Day
speech at Charleston’s Morris Street Baptist Church on January 1, 1917, the keynote address
in a day-long program that included a “grand parade” through the city, opened a year of
increased activism and self-confidence among African Americans in South Carolina.253  Just
a month later, James Weldon Johnson, the new field secretary of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, arrived in South Carolina as part of his first southern

249 Fritz P. Hamer, “Seeds of Change: World War I, South Carolina, Impact and Contributions,” in Forward
Together: South Carolinians in the Great War, ed. Fritz P. Hamer (Charleston, SC: History Press, 2007), 26-7.

250 Star of the West 9, no. 19 (2 March 1919): 225-8.

251 News and Courier, 5 April 1917 and 9 May 1917, quoted in Theodore Hemmingway, “Prelude to Change:
Black Carolinians in the War Years, 1914-1920,” Journal of Negro History 65, no. 3 (Summer 1980): 220.

252 Greenville (SC) Daily News, 2, 9, and 22 October 1918, quoted in Hemmingway, “Prelude to Change,” 220.

253 News and Courier, 31 December 1916.


organizing tour.  Johnson’s strategy was to connect the established institutions of racial
uplift—churches, schools and colleges, fraternal organizations, and women’s clubs—to the
NAACP, in effect pushing Tuskegee-inspired community leaders towards a more activist
agenda.  By the time the United States entered the Great War in April, the NAACP included
a new “Dixie District” or “Southern Empire,” with branches established in Richmond,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Athens, Savannah, Augusta, Tampa, and Jacksonville, as well as South
Carolina’s chief cities, Columbia and Charleston.254  During the next five years, the new
South Carolina branches would spearhead a wave of community activism the likes of which
had not been seen in the state since Reconstruction, prompting a violent white crackdown.

In both the Columbia and Charleston branches, influential black laypeople took the
lead, with ministers notably absent.  In Columbia, members of the Capital Civic League, a
men’s group dedicated to securing black voting rights, essentially transformed their
organization into a local branch of the NAACP.255  Among its principal supporters were
Butler Nance, an attorney, I. S. Leevy, an undertaker and Republican Party activist, and
Nathaniel J. Frederick, a former high school principal, attorney, and journalist.  During a
long legal career, he represented black fraternal orders and the Victory Savings Bank; in the
1920s and 1930s, he was the South Carolina NAACP’s principal attorney.  During the 1910s
he also edited the Southern Indicator, a black-owned newspaper in Columbia, and in 1925 he
founded his own paper, the Palmetto Leader.256  Like its predecessor organization, the
branch’s initial focus was voting rights.  It formed a registration committee that taught

254 Lau, Democracy Rising, 20-26.

255 Ibid., 30-1.

256 Ibid., 27-8.


potential voters the skills they needed to meet the literacy and property requirements, and by
July 1918 the number of black men registered in Richland County had risen to some 2200.257

Compared to the initial Columbia group, the organizers of the new branch in
Charleston represented a broader coalition of black community institutions, including some
of the city’s leading black businessmen, professionals, and skilled craftsmen.  Most had
strong ties to Avery Institute and many to Louis Gregory.  Among them were John McFall, a
pharmacist; Richard and Edward Mickey, undertakers; Benjamin F. Cox, the first black
principal of Avery Institute, and his wife, Jeanette, a prominent clubwoman; Susan Dart
Butler, one of the founders of the South Carolina Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs; and
Eloise Harleston Jenkins, whose husband was Rev. Daniel J. Jenkins, a Baptist minister and
founder of the Jenkins Orphanage for black children.  Eloise Jenkins’s brother, Edwin A.
“Teddy” Harleston, was the branch’s first president.  Teddy Harleston graduated from Avery
in 1900 and went on to study art at Atlanta University and the Museum of Fine Arts School
in Boston.  Leaving a promising career as a painter, he returned to Charleston to take over the
family undertaking business.258   Brother and sister were both students at Avery while Louis
Gregory was a teacher there, and they recalled that he visited their home during his trips to
the city.259
The Charleston branch’s first initiative was a successful letter writing campaign to
secure jobs for 250 black women at the new Navy Yard Clothing Factory, which had initially
advertised positions for white women only.  The initial success quickly earned the branch

257 Ibid., 30.

258 Ibid., 34-7.

259 “Catalogue of the Teachers and Pupils of Avery Normal Institute, Charleston, S.C.,” June 1899, Avery
School Memorabilia Collection, ARC; Drago, Initiative, Paternalism, and Race Relations, 253.


respect—as well as new dues-paying members—among the city’s black working class.260
During 1918 and 1919, the branch took advantage of that support to force city officials to
employ black teachers in black schools, where they had been virtually excluded since the
1880s.  The branch held sixteen public meetings across the city in late 1917 and organized
volunteers to collect some 25,000 signatures for a petition to the local school board.
Rebuffed, they sought legislative action.  Assisted by the Washington, D.C., and Columbia
branches, a committee headed by Thomas E. Miller, former Reconstruction legislator and
president of State College in Orangeburg, lobbied the General Assembly for a bill that
exploited the logic of “separate but equal” to argue for an exclusion of white teachers from
Charleston’s black public schools.  Before the legislature voted on the bill, the Charleston
commissioners capitulated.  In the new school year that began in September 1918, all the
teachers in the city’s black schools were black.261
The success of the school employment effort, and the cooperation between the
Columbia and Charleston branches, encouraged new activism in other parts of the state.
Between April 1918 and June 1919, new NAACP branches formed in Aiken, Anderson,
Beaufort, Darlington, Florence, and Orangeburg.262  Likely spurred by the growth of a bold
new civil rights organization with an essentially secular approach, some of the state’s black
ministers began to raise their voices as well.  In February 1919, as the Charleston NAACP
branch prepared to launch its own voting rights campaign, Bishop W. D. Chappelle, the
president of Allen University, convened a statewide conference on black political

260 Lau, Democracy Rising, 40-1.

261 Ibid., 41-4.

262 Lau, Democracy Rising, 47-8.


participation.  The participants committed to forming local voting clubs to help register new
black voters and passed resolutions demanding a place for blacks on local school boards, the
elimination of the disfranchisement provisions of the 1895 constitution, and equality in
segregated public facilities.  While most participants expressed their loyalty to the
Republican Party, Chappelle predicted that with larger numbers registered, blacks could split
factions of the Democratic Party and wield the balance of power in the state.263  Later the
same month, the return of the all-black 371st Regiment, which had distinguished itself in
battle in France, to Camp Jackson outside Columbia provided another occasion to press
political demands.264  Parading through the streets of Columbia, the black soldiers received a
hero’s welcome from blacks and whites alike.  At a program in their honor held at Benedict
College, a succession of ministers called for wider political roles for black citizens.  Dr. N. F.
Haygood, minister of Sidney Park Colored Methodist Episcopal Church, called for a “man’s
place” for returning soldiers, including service on juries and as policemen.  Echoing calls in
The Crisis, the official organ of the NAACP, Chappelle applied the Wilson administration’s
wartime rhetoric to the situation of blacks at home.  “The war was fought for democracy,” he
said.  “We want democracy in our own country.”265


White Reactions

In the face of wartime upheavals and increasingly bold black demands, white South
Carolinians participated in a nationwide backlash against radicals of all stripes.  In response

263 Ibid., 47; Hemmingway, “Prelude to Change,” 221.

264 Newby, Black Carolinians, 188-9.

265 Hemmingway, “Prelude to Change,” 222.


to an orgy of anti-black violence in the summer of 1919, others organized to promote fair
treatment of African Americans within the Jim Crow system.  Both reactions spurred the
Bahá’ís to launch their first coordinated effort to affect public discourse in the United States
and a reinvigorated teaching campaign.
During the war years, the service of nearly 400,000 black men in the U.S. military
and the migration of more than half a million black Southerners to the North and Midwest to
take industrial jobs previously held by whites heightened the racial fears of whites across the
country.266  A resurgent Ku Klux Klan, organized in Atlanta in 1915 and spreading rapidly to
every state, decried the influence not only of blacks but of immigrants, Jews, and political
radicals.  Local “klaverns” attracted leading white citizens and law enforcement officers, and
in a few Midwestern states the Klan became a potent political force.  In 1917, white mobs
lashed out at black communities and uniformed black soldiers in Illinois, Pennsylvania, and
Texas.267  When the war ended, the situation in cities became even more explosive, as
wartime price controls and production contracts abruptly ceased, inflation spiked, and some
three million demobilized servicemen came home looking for jobs.  During 1919 alone, some
four million workers across the country went out on strike, and factory owners and local
authorities frequently responded with brutal suppression.  At the same time, several isolated
terrorist attacks, heightened fears of radical activity in the United States, already on the rise
in the wake of the Russian Revolution.  In such a climate of fear and resentment, U.S.
Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer and the new Federal Bureau of Investigation led efforts
to crack down on Communists, socialists, anarchists, and African-American activists.

266 Tindall, South Carolina Negroes, 147-8.

267 Ibid., 150-1.


As the country demobilized, a new wave of violence, termed the “Red Summer of
1919” by James Weldon Johnson, targeted blacks across the country.  The first incident
began late on Saturday night, May 10, in a pool hall on Beaufain Street in downtown
Charleston, South Carolina, when a group of white sailors stationed at the naval base in
North Charleston had a verbal altercation with a group of unarmed black men.268  The
argument spilled onto the street, where white civilians joined the fray.  The incident quickly
swelled into a riot.  The mob chased the black men down King and Meeting streets, two of
the city’s main thoroughfares, and some of the sailors stole guns and ammunition from two
shooting galleries.  Spreading across downtown Charleston, white rioters shot
indiscriminately into crowds of black people, pulled at least two black passengers from
streetcars and beat and shot them, and ransacked a black-owned business.  Black residents
may have shot at white sailors as they retreated to North Charleston.  By the time city police
and naval authorities reacted, the violence had largely run its course.  Three blacks had been
killed, and perhaps forty injured.  Rumors spread of more violence in other parts of the state,
and every interracial incident brought fears of rioting.269  During the rest of the summer and
fall of 1919, two dozen other American cities and towns, more than half of them outside the
South, erupted in anti-black riots.  The deadliest outbreaks occurred in Chicago, Washington,
D.C., and the rural area around Elaine, Arkansas, where black sharecroppers were attempting
to form a union.  Some seventy southern blacks, some still in military uniform, fell prey to
lynch mobs during the year.270

268 This account of the Charleston riot is based on Lau, Democracy Rising, 50-1.

269 Newby, Black Carolinians, 192; Hemmingway, “Prelude to Change,” 223.

270 Tindall, South Carolina Negroes, 151-6; John Egerton, Speak Now against the Day: The Generation Before
the Civil Rights Movement in the South (Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 1994), 47.


Mob action, unplanned and uncoordinated, was only the leading edge of white
postwar reaction.  Local and state governments across the South, allied with the new Klan
and the FBI, launched a campaign of violence and intimidation to roll back the limited gains
that blacks had made during the war years.  The worst repression was in Texas, where state
officials and local vigilantes reduced the state’s thirty-three NAACP branches to seven in the
space of two years.271  In South Carolina, while most opposition took shape at the local level,
the highest public officials inspired and condoned the campaign.  James F. Byrnes, a fifth-
term U.S. Representative from the Second District in western South Carolina, gave
permission to act from the floor of Congress.  In an August 1919 speech, he blamed the
NAACP, the radical International Workers of the World, Russian Communists, and northern
agitators for the bloody summer of violence:
I know the Negroes of my district do not seek to participate in politics.  I know that if
left alone they will continue contented, and I do not want these radical negro
publications, whether supported by the I.W.W., the Bolsheviki of Russia, or the
misguided theorist of the North, to be circulated among them, arousing the passions
of the criminal class of Negroes, and resulting in injury to the law-abiding negro as
well as to the white people of the South.272

Implicitly acknowledging the impact of the war on black activism, he assured his colleagues
that white supremacy was strong: “The war has in no way changed the attitude of the white
man toward the social and political equality of the negro … because this is a white man’s
country, and will always remain a white man’s country.”273
In South Carolina, white citizens organized themselves to make good on Byrnes’s
assertions by promoting both general intimidation of the black population and

271 Steven A. Reich, “Soldiers of Democracy: Black Texans and the Fight for Citizenship, 1917-1921,” Journal
of American History 82 (March 1996): 1478-1504.

272 Congressional Record, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., 4305, quoted in Lau, Democracy Rising, 57.

273 Congressional Record, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., 4302-5, quoted in Lau, Democracy Rising, 56.


dismemberment of the network of local NAACP branches.  The Klan spread, openly and
confidently, to towns across the state, often with the explicit approval of local officials.  In
Spartanburg, for example, organizers staged an inaugural meeting on the steps of the county
courthouse, and newspapers gave the meeting publicity.274  In May, 1923, the mayor of
Union, another Piedmont textile town, invited more than 200 Klansmen in full regalia to
march down his town’s main street.  While explicitly disavowing “lawlessness,” the Klan, in
concert with local officials and newspaper editors, led a campaign that included intimidation,
threats, and violence.  In large newspaper ads explaining the purpose of the organization,
Klan leaders trumpeted popular justifications of lynching.  Attempting to project an image of
righteous Christian men defending the sexual virtue of white women, the ads listed “the
tenets of the Christian religion; white supremacy; … protection of our pure womanhood;
[and] preventing the causes of mob violence” among its founding principles.  Congressman
Byrnes echoed the same argument.  In 1921, arguing against a federal anti-lynching bill, he
assured his Congressional colleagues that “rape is responsible directly and indirectly for most
of the lynching in America.”275  Between 1919 and 1927, at least fourteen black South
Carolinians fell victim to lynch mobs, with five killed in 1921 alone.276
The Klan and its allies targeted NAACP leaders for elimination.  After the Charleston
riot, local branch president Teddy Harelston’s life was repeatedly threatened, and
membership in the Charleston and Columbia branches plummeted.  Outside the state’s two
largest urban centers, the situation was even worse.  In mid-1919 in the Upstate textile town

274 News and Courier, 21 January 1921.

275 Congressional Record, 67th Cong., 2nd Sess., 544, quoted in George Brown Tindall, The Emergence of the
New South, 1913-1945, History of the New South, vol. 10 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press,
1967), 170.

276 Lau, Democracy Rising, 57.


of Anderson, the local newspaper editor waged a two-month war of words to silence NAACP
branch president M. H. Gassaway, principal of the local black high school.  When the written
attacks failed to get Gassaway fired, the editor printed death threats.  Gassaway and two
other NAACP leaders fled for the North, and the branch folded.277  By 1923, the branch in
Aiken, James F. Byrnes’s hometown, had ceased its activities.278  The next year, the local
Klan ordered the Florence branch to disband.279  By mid-decade, the NAACP in South
Carolina was an empty shell.
A very different outcome of the racial violence of 1919 was the emergence of a
southern interracial movement.  Already in the years before the war, some of the region’s
leading white Progressives had pioneered in the study of race relations through such
organizations as the University Commission on Southern Race Questions and the YMCA.  In
the aftermath of the war, a group of black and white leaders met in Atlanta and at the
YMCA’s Blue Ridge retreat in North Carolina to establish what would become the
Commission on Interracial Cooperation or “Interracial Commission.”  Under the leadership
of Will W. Alexander, a white former Methodist minister and community organizer in
Nashville, the Interracial Commission initially focused on the peaceful reintegration of
returning black soldiers into their local communities, appointing one white man and one
black man in each southern state to organize local leaders of both races to reduce racial
tensions.  Developing into a permanent organization, it spawned some eight hundred local,

277 Ibid., 53-4.

278 Ibid., 57.

279 Ibid., 58.


county, and state committees across the region—some white, some black, and some
biracial—that worked with differing degrees of success to address specific grievances.280
Lynching was a primary concern for the Interracial Commission and its regional
network of affiliates.  State and local committees frequently intervened to prevent violence,
and the Georgia committee worked to secure indictments against accused lynchers and a
handful of convictions.281  The Interracial Commission’s efforts complemented those of the
national NAACP, which launched a concerted anti-lynching campaign in 1919.  At the
national conference to launch the campaign, the organization released a comprehensive
report, Thirty Years of Lynching, 1889-1918, which challenged popular wisdom; less than
one-sixth of lynching cases involved an accusation of rape or attempted rape.  Armed with
such data, the Interracial Commission’s Division of Women’s Work, formed at a conference
of white Methodists at Blue Ridge in 1920, organized southern women, primarily white, to
oppose lynching.282
Because most of the funding for the Interracial Commission came from church groups
and philanthropists outside the South, it could afford to take a cautiously liberal approach to
race relations.  For all its opposition to lynching, debt peonage, and the Klan, however, the
Interracial Commission was hardly a force for radical change in the region.  While some of
the organization’s leaders believed that Jim Crow was unjust, neither they nor their northern

280 For an overview of the work of the Interracial Commission, see Julia Anne McDonough, “Men and Women
of Good Will: A History of the Commission on Interracial Cooperation and the Southern Regional Council,
1919-1954” (Ph.D. diss., University of Virginia, 1993).

281 Tindall, Emergence of the New South, 179.

282 For treatment of the Division of Women’s Work and its successor organization, the Association of Southern
Women for the Prevention of Lynching (ASWPL), see Jacquelyn Dowd Hall, Revolt against Chivalry: Jessie
Daniel Ames and the Women’s Campaign against Lynching, rev. ed. (New York: Columbia University Press,
1993).


benefactors sought to challenge the system’s underlying assumptions.  Rather, they sought to
ameliorate conditions for blacks and promote fairness within the framework of “separate but
equal.”  Maintenance of segregation was the key to whites’ participation: as one leader
admitted, “unless those forms of separation which are meant to safeguard the purity of the
races are present, the majority of the white people flatly refuse to cooperate with the
Negroes.”283
In addition to its commitment to segregation, the Interracial Commission’s orthodox
Protestant credentials were another key to its limited successes.  While officially secular, its
regional and local leadership included large numbers of clergymen and prominent lay men
and women, and it operated in concert with such organizations as the Young Men’s and
Young Women’s Christian Associations.  The white Methodist leaders gathered at the 1920
Blue Ridge conference captured the sentiments of many when they asserted that “the real
responsibility for the solution of inter-racial problems in the South rests directly upon the
hearts and consciences of the Christian forces of our land.”  Such “Christian forces,”
however, must not be misunderstood as forces for social equality and racial integration.
While expressing the need for fair treatment of blacks, the same group affirmed its “absolute
loyal[ty] to the … principle of racial integrity.”284






283 T. J. Woofter, Jr., The Basis of Interracial Adjustment, 240, quoted in Tindall, Emergence of the New South,
181.

284 An Appeal to the Christian People of the South Adopted by Church Leaders’ Conference, Blue Ridge, North
Carolina, August 18-21, 1920 (n.p., n.d.), quoted in Tindall, Emergence of the New South, 181.



Completing the Divine Plan

Within the Bahá’í community, the postwar violence and the emergence of a new southern
interracial movement coincided with a new wave of teaching activity and an innovative effort
to bring the faith’s teachings on interracial unity to the attention of leaders of though and the
general public.  Both developments were initiatives of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Louis Gregory
played decisive roles in each.  In early 1919, shortly after the conference of South Carolina’s
black leaders and the triumphal welcome for the 371st, Louis Gregory was back in the
Carolinas teaching the faith.  After a stay in Wilmington, Gregory made a two-week visit to
“points in S. C.,” using a relative’s house in Charleston as his base of operations.  In late
April, some three weeks before his old neighborhood erupted in racial violence, he took a
ship from Charleston to New York City for the eleventh annual Bahá’í convention, a
gathering that would lend new momentum to teaching across the South.285
With some 600 believers from across the country in attendance, the 1919 convention
was the largest such gathering in the movement’s history.  There, Ahmad Sohrab, a former
member of the Washington community who had served as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s secretary during
the war, presented the American Bahá’ís with all fourteen of the latter’s “Tablets of the
Divine Plan.” To the five tablets that had reached the community in 1916, three additional
ones written that year were now added, plus six more written in February and March 1917.
Collectively, the tablets outlined a worldwide mission for the North American believers in
the wake of the war.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called them to spread the faith not only in the United
States and Canada, but throughout Latin America and the Caribbean and beyond them to the
rest of the globe:

285 Louis G. Gregory to Joseph A. Hannen, 4 April 1919, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.


[I]t is the hope of Abdul-Baha that just as ye are confirmed and assisted on the
continent of America, ye may also be confirmed and assisted on other continents of
the globe:—that is, ye may carry the fame of the Cause of God to the East and to the
West and spread the glad-tidings of the appearance of the Kingdom of the Lord of
Hosts throughout the five continents of the world.
When this divine call travels from the continent of America to Europe, Asia,
Africa, Australia and the islands of the Pacific, the American believers shall be
established on the throne of everlasting glory, the fame of their illumination and
guidance shall reach to all regions and the renown of their greatness become
worldwide.286

In addition to general exhortations, he specifically directed the American believers to travel
to some 120 countries, territories, and islands.
The world war, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá indicated, was part of God’s plan for humanity.  As the
peoples of the world turned away from outworn institutions, and as governments took steps
to implement, however unwittingly, elements of Bahá’u’lláh’s program for world order, the
Bahá’ís would find new opportunities to teach their faith:
[T]his world consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word
can describe it.  In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is
taking possession of the consciousness of men.  There is not a soul who does not
yearn for concord and peace.  A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.
This is through the consummate wisdom of God, so that capacity may be created, the
standard of the oneness of the world of humanity be upraised, and the fundamentals
of universal peace and the divine principles be promoted in the East and the West.287

For the assembled Bahá’ís, current events seemed to confirm the mandate ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
given them in the tablets.  They noted that their own gathering, “discussing plans for spiritual
union and harmony throughout the world,” was taking place at the same time as the Paris
Peace Conference, where world leaders were “meeting to establish the new world conditions

286 Star of the West 10, no. 17 (19 January 1920): 307-8.

287 Ibid., 309.


politically, economically and socially.”288  As Joseph Hannen observed in his report of the
convention:
It is within the ready recollection of many of us, that the Bahai teachings were called
“ahead of the times” and termed a dream philosophy, perhaps adapted to some future
age of the world.  And now, how rapidly “the times” have caught up with The
Message, so that today men talk the world over in terms of internationalism and
world unity, strange to their minds and tongues, but familiar to the Bahais.289


In addition to addressing the body of the believers in the United States and Canada,
the new tablets included a second message to each geographic region.  In his second tablet to
the southern states, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá observed that as the region’s moderate climate and
physical beauty were conducive to the development of material civilization, so must the
South excel in spiritual civilization.  “[U]nquestionably,” he said, “the divine teachings must
reveal themselves with a brighter effulgence … and the fragrances of holiness be diffused
with swiftness and rapidity.”290  He urged his followers to action, lamenting the fact that “no
adequate and befitting motion has been realized, and no great acclamation and acceleration
has been witnessed” in the region since the introduction of the faith to the United States more
than twenty years earlier.  He pointed to the story of St. Gregory the Illuminator, the
traditional Christian apostle to Armenia:
Nearly 2,000 years ago, Armenia was enveloped with impenetrable darkness.  One
blessed soul from among the disciples of Christ hastened to that part, and through his
efforts, ere long that province became illumined.291


288 Star of the West 10, no. 4 (17 May 1919): 55.

289 Ibid.

290 Star of the West 10, no. 6 (24 June 1919): 100-1.

291 Ibid., 101.


Alluding to the problem of racial prejudice, he called on the Bahá’ís to put forth an effort
similar to St. Gregory’s to establish the oneness of humanity in the South, indicating that
their achievement would have a transforming impact on the United States and the world:
With a firm resolution, a pure heart, a rejoiced spirit, and an eloquent tongue, engage
your time in the promulgation of the divine principles; so that the oneness of the
world of humanity may pitch her canopy in the apex of America and all the nations of
the world may follow the divine policy.  This is certain that the divine policy is
justice and kindness toward all mankind.292

In response to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s mandate, the convention voted to create a national
“Teaching Committee of Nineteen.”  Among the members were Joseph Hannen and Louis
Gregory.  Hannen stayed in Washington to coordinate the “Central Bureau” for the South,
charged with distributing literature to seekers and libraries; publishing articles in the region’s
newspapers; identifying “all the liberal organizations, clubs and churches who would be
willing to have Bahai lecturers”; coordinating teaching circuits and follow-up visits;
promoting the establishment of regular study groups in “all the larger towns”; and keeping an
index of all the believers in the region.293  The number and range of itinerant teachers
increased, and Hannen supported them by forwarding mail and financial contributions from
other believers.  Through the circulation of typewritten bulletins, the Teaching Committee
sought to involve all the believers in the nationwide enterprise, not just the relative few who
were able to travel, “but all who give what time they can in their own localities and who help
in the way of contributing to the expenses of the teaching work.”294

292 Ibid., 101-2.

293 Star of the West 10, no. 5 (5 June 1919): 88-9.

294 Teaching Bulletin, no. 1 (19 November 1919): 1.


Louis Gregory returned to the field, resuming what would become a nearly three-year
period of uninterrupted travel throughout the South.  From 1919 to 1921, he crisscrossed the
region, often in tandem with Roy Williams, an African-American believer from New York
City.295  Williams recalled that he and Gregory “taught together in 30 towns and cities in
South Carolina” during the period, noting especially their engagements “in many churches in
Greenville and Anderson Count[ies],” violence-prone areas with substantial black minorities
in the heart of the Piedmont textile manufacturing belt.296  Sometime during a nine-month
period in 1919, Williams, a highly skilled carpenter, stayed in Charleston long enough to find
temporary employment, perhaps with Louis Gregory’s father; he reported earning fifteen
dollars to help finance his continued travels.297  During the winter of 1920-1921, Gregory
toured Georgia and the Carolinas on the last leg of his extended journey.  From engagements
in Atlanta he traveled to Augusta, Georgia, and its sister city of North Augusta, South
Carolina, then to Columbia and Charleston, and finally through North Carolina before
returning to Washington.298
While the Bahá’ís worked to increase the size and scope of their community, they
also attempted to influence the growing public dialogue on race.  Like many of their
countrymen, American Bahá’ís were appalled at the racial violence of the Red Summer, and
in several localities, especially Washington and Chicago, the outbreaks directly or indirectly

295 Teaching Bulletin, no. 2 (19 July 1920): 7-8.

296 Evelyn Hardin, “Roy Williams: Teacher in Word and Deed,” [South Carolina] Baha’i Bulletin 5, no. 4
(Summer 1974): 3.

297 Roy Williams to Joseph A. Hannen, 10 November 1919, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

298 Esther Sego, “The History of the Bahá’í Cause,” TS, Augusta Bahá’í Archives, Augusta, GA (hereafter cited
as ABA), 1; Bulletin “A” Issued by the Teaching Committee [Teaching Bulletin], n.d. [January 1921], 12;
Bulletin No. 10 Issued by the Teaching Committee of Nineteen [Teaching Bulletin], 15 March 1921, 9.


touched local Bahá’í communities.  In the latter city, one Bahá’í home was firebombed, two
members of another Bahá’í family were jailed briefly, and another believer, an Iranian
physician named Zia Bagdadi, notably aided relief efforts in black neighborhoods.  During
the summer and fall, the Executive Board of the Bahai Temple Unity consulted about “the
best means of promulgating and promoting [the] principle of human unity” and Louis
Gregory and Harlan Ober, a white Bahá’í, discussed plans to hold “mass meetings” to bring
blacks and whites of all classes together to alleviate racial tension.299
However, the initiative for an increased public role came from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Early
in 1920, Agnes Parsons, a wealthy white Bahá’í from Washington, went on pilgrimage to
Palestine.  Parsons recounted that one evening at dinner, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá turned “quite out of
the blue” to her and said “‘I want you to arrange a convention in Washington for amity
between the colored and the white.’”300  Though doubting her own ability to arrange such a
gathering—she had never planned a large event and she had barely moved outside the elite
circles of white Washington before becoming a Bahá’í in middle age—Parsons returned to
the United States with a mission.  Enlisting the help of friends both inside and outside of the
Bahá’í community, Parsons worked for almost a year to develop an approach and plan the
convention.  One of her confidants, former Republican Senator from Minnesota Moses E.
Clapp, suggested that the convention avoid protest over specific grievances or a tone of
political polarization.  “‘Do not make a protest about anything,’” Parsons recalled him as

299 Morrison, To Move the World, 129-32.

300 Ibid., 136.


saying.  “‘Lift the whole matter up into the spiritual realm and work for the creation of
sentiment.’”301
Louis Gregory agreed.  In December 1920, after more than two years traveling to
bring “the Glorious Message of the Kingdom to the oppressed and broken-hearted” across
the South, he wrote to Parsons with his advice.  While he said he was encouraged by the
work of the Commission on Interracial Cooperation, he was well aware of its limitations of
scope and purpose:
There are many, many souls throughout the South today who are working and longing
for a better day.  But without the Light of Abhá [“Most Glorious,” a form of the
Greatest Name] their efforts seem infantile and helpless.  Even some members of the
state inter-racial committee, earnest, thoughtful, hard-working men, have voiced to
me despair.302

Rather than imitate the approach of the Interracial Commission, Gregory said that the Bahá’ís
should involve a broader cross-section of the population, openly advocate integration and
unity, and directly share the faith’s teachings on race:
If the Washington inter-racial congress is along these conventional lines I fear it will
like the others, be fruitless.  But if it be aflame with the Fire of Divine Love, the
hearts will be powerfully influenced and the effect will be great in all the years to
come.303

Rather than focus on alleviating the worst effects of racial discrimination, “Nothing short of a
change of hearts will do,” he wrote.  “Unless the speakers are able to make the power of love
felt, the occasion will lose its chief value.”304

301 Ibid., 137.

302 Ibid., 138.

303 Ibid.

304 Morrison, To Move the World, 137.


The Race Amity Convention, held over three days in May 1921 at Washington’s First
Congregational Church, was the first large interracial gathering since violence had torn the
city apart less than two years before.  The printed program stated the purpose of the
gathering, calling “all the inhabitants of these United States” to participate in a new crusade
to “establish amity between the white and colored people of our land.”  It succinctly placed
the current effort in historical context, at the same time aligning the Bahá’ís with the legacy
of emancipation: “Half a century ago in America slavery was abolished.  Now there has
arisen need for another great effort in order that prejudice may be overcome.”  Bahá’ís and
prominent guests, black and white, served as session chairs, speakers, and artistic presenters.
Diverse crowds of at least fifteen hundred people attended each of the evening sessions, and
widespread newspaper coverage and advance distribution of some nineteen thousand of the
printed programs in churches, stores, schools and other public places ensured an even larger
indirect reach.305
While it is difficult to gauge the practical impact of an event focused on “the creation
of sentiment” rather than specific action items, the Bahá’ís took the very fact of such a large
and well publicized interracial event in the nation’s capital—cutting across lines of political
affiliation, religion, and class—as a victory.  Gregory later pointed out that the convention
spurred members of other Washington churches to start organizing interracial committees.306
It also spurred Bahá’ís in other areas to organize their own conventions.  During the rest of
the 1920s and the 1930s, Race Amity Conventions and related activities were held in various
cities of the Northeast, Midwest, and West.  In the process, local Bahá’í communities

305 Ibid., 138-41.

306 Ibid., 142.


collaborated with organizations such as the NAACP, the National Urban League, and the
League of Women Voters and developed relationships with leading intellectuals and
activists.307  As a result of such explicit public efforts, the Bahá’í Faith became more widely
known as an interracial movement.  At the same time, the membership of local Bahá’í
communities increasingly reflected the religion’s interracial commitment.  According to one
survey, by the mid-1930s blacks were found in at least 33 local communities and comprised
at least five percent of the American Bahá’í population.  Compared to their percentage of the
total national population, African Americans were underrepresented in the Bahá’í Faith, but
compared only to the black population of the states where the faith was established—mostly
outside the South where the majority of blacks lived—they were more nearly at par or
overrepresented within the Bahá’í community.308
As a practical effort to influence public discourse on race in the United States, the
conventions also helped the Bahá’ís forge links with the southern interracial movement.
During the 1920s, Louis Gregory and other teachers in the South saw interracial workers as
important contacts, both for the purpose of encouraging what they regarded as a positive
development in the region and, potentially, for teaching the faith directly.  In their efforts
Gregory saw “the Hand of Divine Bounty, the emanation of which more and more links the
living elements of humanity into a world-wide fellowship.”  Suggesting that the “Bahai Spirit
has revealed its Light to many hearts still unaware of its Name,” he recommended that other

307 Ibid., 144-52, 178-93.

308 Richard Hollinger, “Introduction: Bahá’í Communities in the West, 1897-1992,” in Community Histories,
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 6, ed. Richard Hollinger (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992),
xxvii-xxviii.  The survey in question, the “Bahá’í Historical Record Cards” collected in 1935 and 1936, may
well have undercounted African-American Bahá’ís.  The fullest discussion of the survey is found in Morrison,
To Move the World, 203-9.


traveling teachers in the South approach these “servants of humanity,” the leaders of the
indigenous interracial movement, as potentially receptive to the Bahá’í message.309
Gregory energetically publicized the efforts of the southern movement among the
Bahá’ís, and of the Bahá’ís among southern interracial workers.  During a visit to Columbia
at the end of his 1919-1921 teaching trips, for example, Gregory spoke in several churches
and schools sought out Josiah Morse, a professor of philosophy and psychology at the
University of South Carolina.  Morse, a Virginia-born Jew and an early supporter of the
Interracial Commission, had arranged a conference of students from his own institution and
its two nearby black counterparts, Benedict College and Allen University.310  The effort
presaged the establishment of an educational department of the Interracial Commission in
1922 and, beginning the following year, a variety of interracial forums for college
students.311  Gregory’s positive contact with Morse may have encouraged the latter’s
interracial activities, which lasted well into the 1930s; it certainly disposed him to welcome
other Bahá’í teachers to campus in subsequent years.
On several occasions Louis Gregory shared with Bahá’í audiences the example of
Samuel Chiles Mitchell, a respected white southern educator, for whom an encounter with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá during the latter’s visit to the United States provided decades’ worth of
inspiration for his interracial work.312  Born in Mississippi and raised in Texas, Mitchell was

309 Star of the West 13, no. 11 (February 1923): 305.

310 Teaching Bulletin, no. 10 (15 March 1921): 9; Star of the West 13, no. 11 (February 1923): 305.

311 Tindall, Emergence of the New South, 182-3.  For Morse’s influence on one white student who went on to
become a liberal activist, see Robert M. Randolph, “James McBride Dabbs: Spokesman for Racial Liberalism,”
in From the Old South to the New: Essays on the Transitional South, Contributions in American History, no. 93,
ed. Walter J. Fraser, Jr., and Winfred B. Moore, Jr. (Westport, CT, and London: Greenwood Press, 1981), 255.

312 For a brief treatment of Mitchell’s personal and professional life, see Carlton’s introduction to the most
important work of his son, Broadus Mitchell, who became a noted sociologist.  Broadus Mitchell, The Rise of


an ordained Baptist minister as well as a history professor, social reformer, and university
administrator.  In addition to serving as president of the University of South Carolina (1908-
1913), the Medical College of Virginia (1913-1914), and Delaware College (1914-1920), he
worked with various northern philanthropies dedicated to improving education for black and
white southerners.  In 1912, during his tenure at the University of South Carolina, Mitchell
attended the annual Lake Mohonk Conference on International Arbitration in New York,
where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was the special guest speaker.
The following year, Mitchell’s progressive attitude on black education provoked his
most bitter professional experience.  As a consultant to the Peabody Education Fund, he
recommended that the organization focus its resources in South Carolina on the State College
in Orangeburg.  In response, the president of Winthrop College, the state’s college for white
women in Rock Hill, appealed to Gov. Coleman Blease.  The governor, eager to discredit his
“elite” opponents, accused Mitchell of favoring the education of blacks over that of white
women and insisted on an embarrassing legislative hearing.  While both the Board of
Trustees of the University of South Carolina and the state’s General Assembly vindicated
Mitchell, he accepted a timely offer to head the Medical College of Virginia and never
returned to South Carolina.313
According to Gregory, who visited and corresponded with Mitchell during the 1920s
and 1930s, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk on the oneness of humanity at Lake Mohonk had had a direct
and lasting impact on Mitchell’s interracial work, causing him to resolve never to draw lines

Cotton Mills in the South (1921; with new introduction by David Carlton, Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 2001), x-xvii.

313 For an account of Mitchell’s clash with Blease, see Daniel W. Hollis, “Samuel Chiles Mitchell, Social
Reformer in Blease’s South Carolina,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 70, no. 1 (January 1969): 20-37.


of racial division between his fellow-men.  Apparently alluding to Bahá’u’lláh’s poetic title
of ‘Sun of Truth,’ Gregory reported that “[t]he great horizon line which covers all mankind is
sufficient for him.”  Since Lake Mohonk, Gregory said, Mitchell had repeated ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s words “upon many platforms.”314


Louis Gregory, I. E. Lowery, and Uplift Theology

Another incident in early 1921 sheds light on the relationship between the Bahá’í teachings
and elements of racial uplift theology and illustrates how conservative southern leaders may
have recognized in the new faith—numerically insignificant as it was—a potential threat to
their authority.  One of Gregory’s talks in Columbia garnered unprecedented press coverage
for the faith in South Carolina.  In the first documented public attack on the Bahá’í Faith by a
South Carolina clergyman, prominent black Methodist minister, journalist, and racial uplift
ideologue I. E. Lowery devoted an entire weekly column to a scathing denunciation of Louis
Gregory and the religion he espoused.315  The column appeared in at least two black
newspapers, the Watchman and Defender of Timmonsville and the Southern Indicator of
Columbia, the second of which was distributed statewide.  While there is no evidence of a
response by Gregory, further contact between him and Lowery, or continued public dialogue
about the Bahá’í Faith in the state’s press, the publication of the column may have brought
the faith to the attention of a substantial portion of the state’s black reading public for the
first time.

314 Star of the West 20, no. 1 (April 1929): 9.

315 Lowery, “Column.”  Lowery states that the column is a reprint of an editorial in The Watchman and
Defender, a black newspaper located in Timmonsville in western Florence County and edited by Rev. H.C.
Asbury.  Lowery was a contributing editor of The Watchman as well as its Columbia agent.  Copies of The
Watchman from January and February 1921 have not survived.


According to Lowery, Louis Gregory spoke in the afternoon of January 30 at Sidney
Park Colored Methodist Episcopal Church, an impressive Gothic revival structure on
Blanding Street in downtown Columbia.  The fashionable congregation had a history of
outspokenness.  It was founded in the 1880s when some six hundred members split from
Bethel AME Church and affiliated themselves with the Colored Methodist Episcopal
denomination, a black offshoot of the white southern Methodists.316  Formed in an amicable
separation in 1870 when the few remaining black members in the southern Methodist church
withdrew, the CME church maintained cordial relationships with its parent denomination and
generally acquiesced to white supremacy and eschewed politics.  Its reputation for
conservatism earned it the nicknames of “rebel church” and “old slavery church” from its
more politically active sister denominations, the AME and AME Zion churches.317  Sidney
Park’s minister, the Rev. N. F. Haygood, perhaps something of an anomaly in his
denomination, was an activist who had spoken up publicly for black political rights at
Columbia’s welcome celebration for the 371st Regiment in 1919.  With a concern for
contemporary social problems, Haygood was exactly the kind of minister who would open
his church to speakers from progressive causes, including the Bahá’í Faith.  At Haygood’s
invitation, Louis Gregory attended Sidney Park’s Sunday morning service and from the
podium invited the congregation to his lecture, which would take place at the church that
afternoon.  Lowery was also a visitor at Sidney Park’s morning service (probably because
January 30 fell on the fifth Sunday of the month, when kindred churches in an area often held
joint services).  Recognizing Gregory from his talks “on the Bahai Religion in some of the

316 SCDAH, “Sidney Park Christian Methodist Episcopal Church,” National Register Sites in South Carolina,
http://www.nationalregister.sc.gov/richland/S10817740112/index.htm.

317 Montgomery, Under Their Own, 121-3, 238-40.


churches and halls” of Charleston more than a decade earlier, he decided to attend the
afternoon talk.318
In his column, published three weeks later, Lowery condemned the Bahá’í Faith as
unchristian and devoid of spirit.  He called it “a head religion, and not a heart religion,”
incorrectly but repeatedly referring to Gregory as “professor” and comparing him to
Nicodemus, the Pharisee who, because of his attachment to his worldly learning, could not
understand Jesus’ teaching of the second birth.319  The Bahá’í Faith, Lowery said, was the
same religion that Nicodemus followed, in other words, a sterile and legalistic form without
divine inspiration.  To underline his point, he listed the principles of the faith as Gregory
taught them:
The Search for Truth; The Oneness of Humanity; The Unity of Religions; Religion
and Science Agree; Equality of Men and Women; Abandonment of Prejudice; A
Universal Language; Universal Education; Universal Peace; An International
Tribunal; Solution of the Economic Problem; The Power of the Holy Spirit.320

While Lowery had no quarrel with such teachings, he asserted that they were not grounded in
a personal belief in Jesus Christ:
The principles seem to be all right, but the Lord Jesus Christ is not recognized in
them, and any religion that has no Christ in it, is not worthy of the attention of
intelligent Christian people.  And any attempt to teach, enforce and build up a religion
without Christ will be an utter failure.  The Bahai religion teaches love, but it is not
the love that Christ taught.  It is not the love that the Apostles taught.  It is not the
love that is promulgated by Christianity.321

To underline the danger of the Bahá’í Faith, Lowery recounted a cautionary tale.
Though he never mentioned the young man’s name, he was clearly telling the story of

318 Lowery, “Column.”

319 Ibid.; John 3:1-21.

320 Lowery, “Column.”

321 Ibid.


Alonzo Twine.  Lowery recalled that some years earlier, when he was pastor of Old Bethel
Methodist Church in Charleston, Gregory had spoken in the city, and that one of his
congregants, a “brilliant young lawyer” who had grown up at Old Bethel, “took hold of this
new religion, and tried to master it.”  According to Lowery, as a result of his struggle to
understand the Bahá’í Faith, the young man had “lost his mind” and been committed to the
insane asylum in Columbia.  When Lowery was transferred to a church in Columbia, the
young man’s parents asked him to visit their son often.  He took away the man’s Bahá’í
literature, and finally took his body home for a church funeral.  “This,” he dramatically
concluded the story, “is what the Bahai religion did for a brillian[t] young lawyer.”322
Lowery’s primary argument was that, as attractive as the new religion might seem,
and as eloquently as Gregory presented it, there was “no Christ in it.”  As the Bahá’ís
understood it, however, there was plenty of Christ in the Bahá’í Faith.  Bahá’u’lláh was
forthright in his identification with Christ’s return in the glory of the Father, and his writings,
as well as the writings and recorded public addresses of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, abounded with
biblical references, extensive interpretation of Christian prophecies and theological concepts,
praise for the person and station of Jesus Christ, and explanations of the relationship between
him and Bahá’u’lláh.  Among American Bahá’ís, most of whom came from evangelical
Protestant backgrounds, such claims and scriptural discussions were widely known and
openly shared with friends and seekers.  In particular, Louis Gregory’s published writings,
letters, and talks indicate that he had studied extensively the relationship between
Christianity and the Bahá’í Faith, was very conversant in the scriptures of both religions, and
was able to explain the Bahá’í teachings in language that was familiar to Christian audiences.
Gregory himself had become a Bahá’í because he believed it was an expression of precisely

322 Ibid.


“the love that Christ taught” and the fulfillment of Christian eschatology, and it would have
been uncharacteristic of him not to have said so.
A short, unpublished essay, distributed by the Teaching Committee of Nineteen as
part of its regular bulletin in early 1922, provides an indication of Gregory’s thinking at the
time.  Entitled “A Brief Answer to Questions on the Fulfillment of Some Bible Prophecies
Concerning This Day,” the essay appears to have been prepared by Gregory for distribution
to interested Christian seekers during his teaching trips, and it likely reflected some of the
content of many of his talks.  Gregory either included many of these arguments in his talk at
Sidney Park or interacted personally with Lowery afterwards (or both), for the paper is
clearly the source of the twelve principles Lowery quoted, down to the identical wording and
capitalization.  In the essay, Gregory asserted that “pride and arrogance,” attachment to
worldly learning, and faulty interpretation of prophecies caused people to reject the
“Messengers of God” from age to age.323  He quoted from Jesus’ lengthy condemnation of
the Jewish religious leaders who opposed him: “Ye search the Scriptures for out of them ye
think ye have Eternal Life.  These also testify of me.”324  The same veils that caused the
“scribes and Pharisees” to reject the Son of God, Gregory implicitly warned, might keep
contemporary Christians from recognizing “BAHA’O’LLAH, His Greatest Manifestation,
and ABDUL BAHA, the Servant of God and the Center of His Covenant” in the “Day of
God,” the day of Christ’s “second appearance.”325  Gregory mentioned twelve principles that
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá proclaimed for the “healing of the nations” and the

323 Louis G. Gregory, “A Brief Answer to Questions on the Fulfillment of Some Bible Prophecies Concerning
This Day,” probably distributed with Teaching Bulletin, 19 June 1922, 1.

324 John 5:39.

325 Gregory, “Brief Answer,” 1.


“pacification of the world.”326  Gregory’s discussion put the principles, a version of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s summary of the Bahá’í teachings in some of his talks in the United States, in the
context of Christian millennial expectation, far from the legalism of which Lowery accused
him.327  He linked the twelve principles to the “new Jerusalem,” the city of God associated in
Christian prophecy with Christ’s return.  “If a man will accept it,” he said, “these twelve
great principles are symbolized by the Tree, in the Book of Revelation, bearing twelve
manner of fruits, and the leaves of this tree are for the healing of the nations.”328  In the
remainder of the essay, Gregory treated some dozen additional Christian prophecies,
explaining the meaning of Bahá’u’lláh’s title, the manner of his coming, the relationship
between the “Son” and the “Father,” and the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  In closing, he asserted
that a pure-hearted Christian, investigating the prophecies of the Bible “in the light of the
Bahai Revelation” would find “that the whole Bible was written for this great day of God, in
which we are now living, and that all these prophecies … are now fulfilled.”329
Even if Gregory mentioned only a few such ideas in his Sidney Park talk, it appears
that Lowery deliberately misrepresented Gregory’s exposition of the Bahá’í teachings on
Jesus and Christianity.  Further, he strongly implied that Gregory had malevolent intentions.
In his account, Lowery complimented Gregory for his “good, clear voice,” and called his
oratory “really eloquent and forceful,” but he added that Gregory “displayed considerable

326 Ibid.

327 During his public addresses in the West in 1911-1912, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often explained some of the social and
spiritual teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.  Following his visit, American Bahá’ís compiled the teachings he mentioned
as “twelve universal principles” and reprinted them widely.  See, for example, “Twelve Basic Bahai Principles,”
Star of the West 11, no. 1 (21 March 1920): 4-5, and Louise R. Waite, “The Bahai Revelation,” Star of the West
12, no. 1 (21 March 1921): 9-13.  For a brief discussion of the impact of the principles on the Bahá’ís’ teaching,
see Smith, “The American Bahá’í Community,” 127-8.

328 Ibid.  Cf. Rev. 22:2.

329 Gregory, “Brief Answer,” 2-3.


sagacious judgment in the wording and presentation of his new doctrine” and “was shrewd
enough to conceal his real purposes.”330  By misrepresenting the Bahá’í Faith as devoid of
spirit and anti-Christian, implying that Gregory had evil intent, and including the harrowing
tale of Alonzo Twine, Lowery attempted to scare his readers away from the Bahá’í Faith.
Lowery may well have called into question Gregory’s integrity in order to conceal
other aspects of the Bahá’í Faith that he found more troubling.  For a racial
accommodationist such as Lowery, who had made his career as an intermediary between his
black constituents and the white elite, the Bahá’í teachings and practices on race may have
highlighted some of the shortcomings of his own program.  It is unknown how much Louis
Gregory referred to race in his Sidney Park talk or subsequent discussions with the ministers
in attendance, beyond the references to “The Oneness of Humanity” and “Abandonment of
Prejudice.”  Gregory may have discussed his interaction with Josiah Morse and the work of
the southern interracial movement or the Bahá’í-sponsored Racial Amity Conferences, but
relatively mild interracial contact of this sort would not have been enough to rankle Lowery.
It is unlikely that Gregory mentioned publicly his own marriage to a white woman, an
egregious violation of white supremacist racial mores.  More likely is that Gregory
mentioned ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s insistence on the social equality of the races during his North
American sojourn or the integrated practice of the Washington Bahá’í community, either one
of which shared more in common with the egalitarian rhetoric of the emancipation-era black
church than with Lowery’s cautious version of racial uplift.
The rather pronounced anti-clericalism of the new religion may have been another
problem for Lowery.  Bahá’u’lláh’s extensive teachings on the spiritual sovereignty of the
individual (summarized in Gregory’s list as “The Search for Truth”) included, in language

330 Lowery, “Column.”


remarkably like that of Jesus’ rebuke of the Jewish sectarians, a strong condemnation of
clerics who would arrogate spiritual authority to themselves.  These teachings formed part of
the usual framework for Gregory’s presentations of the Bahá’í Faith to Christian audiences,
and he referred to them in his essay.  While Jesus’ treatment of the subject accused
clergymen of susceptibility to spiritual blindness, Lowery reversed the analogy to paint
Gregory, a layman, not himself, as a latter-day Pharisee.  His church-going readers would
certainly have understood the intent of the accusation, but if they failed to recall the details of
the original story, they might not have noticed Lowery’s rhetorical sleight of hand.
Bahá’í anti-clericalism had practical implications.  Bahá’u’lláh expressly prohibited
the creation of a Bahá’í clergy, providing instead for elected, corporate leadership.  By the
early 1920s, under ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s guidance, the fledgling Bahá’í executive bodies at the
local and national levels in the United States had taken on many of the basic pastoral
functions—protecting and propagating the faith, educating and nurturing the community,
arbitrating disputes among members, and collecting and administering funds—traditionally
associated with clergy.  Even full- and part-time Bahá’í traveling teachers usually paid their
own way, and held no official status in the body of believers.  In the racial uplift theology
shared by Lowery, Richard Carroll, and Booker T. Washington, material attainments and
Christian moral development were closely intertwined, and upright, prosperous ministers
were potent symbols (as well as arbiters) of the race’s aspirations.  Lowery may well have
concluded that if the egalitarian Bahá’í system were to win over too many of his congregants,
he risked losing his privileged status or even his livelihood.  In the context of the rise of new
centers of power inside and outside the black church, such as women’s denominational
auxiliaries and clubs and the NAACP, the democratic structure of the Bahá’í Faith (not to


mention its full inclusion of women in positions of leadership) might have appeared to
Lowery as one more potential blow to the clerical class.
While Lowery may have seen in the Bahá’í Faith a potentially potent theological and
social force—defying at once the orthodoxies of race, religion, class, and gender that lay at
the heart of white supremacist ideology, his own version of racial uplift, and the position of
ministers in the black community—the fact that (in Lowery’s mind at least) the faith had
destroyed Alonzo Twine, a promising young fruit of uplift theology, was alone enough to
have ensured his negative public reaction to Gregory in 1921.  His personal animus and his
unusually conservative theology may have made his an extreme case; indeed, Haygood’s
invitation for Gregory to address his congregation indicates an entirely different kind of
clerical response to the Bahá’í Faith.  Across the United States and in many southern cities
and towns, Bahá’í teachers found Christian ministers—black and white, and from
traditionally liberal and conservative denominations—who were warm to their message.
Many opened their pulpits to Bahá’í visitors, and a handful even became Bahá’ís and
propagated their new faith openly (including Albert Vail, a white former Unitarian minister
who was one of Louis Gregory’s fellow-travelers during 1919-1921).  As for the rank and
file of black churchgoers, Lowery was at pains to downplay the impact of Gregory’s talks on
Columbia audiences: “[W]hile the people admired his oratory, they failed to accept his
teaching.  The impression he seemed to have made was short lived, and soon passed away.
But there may be a few … like the young lawyer referred to above, who will follow the
professor.”331  Judging by responses in other southern cities during Gregory’s 1919-1921
tours, however, his presentation of the Bahá’í Faith—a new religion that was socially and
theologically progressive, united black and white in intimate fellowship and common

331 Ibid.


purpose, and claimed to fulfill Christian expectation of the Kingdom of God on earth—would
likely have been intriguing, if not deeply compelling, to at least a few of those in attendance
at the Sidney Park talk.  While he may have been out of step with progressive ministers such
as Haygood and with the aspirations of an increasingly assertive African-American
community, Lowery’s opposition to Gregory and the Bahá’í Faith and his attempt to
reinforce Protestant orthodoxy in his readers indicate some of the difficulties that
conservative clergymen might face when confronted with the new religion.







Chapter 3

Building Bahá’í Community in the Augusta Area, 1913-1937

While the first person to introduce the Bahá’í Faith to South Carolina was a native son, the
founder of the state’s first Bahá’í community came from half a world away in the medieval
city of Königsberg in East Prussia.  A vocal instructor who immigrated to New York in 1895,
Margaret Klebs became a Bahá’í in New England.  Around 1911, she settled in the Augusta
metropolitan area, a New South urban-industrial center straddling the Savannah River, the
border between South Carolina and Georgia.  Her move to the Augusta area was critical to
the development of the Bahá’í Faith in the Deep South.  With only a scattering of Bahá’ís in
the region—one in Austin, two in Jacksonville, a struggling little group on Mobile Bay, and
perhaps a handful of isolated new believers as a result of Louis Gregory’s fall 1910 teaching
trip—Klebs’s presence in Augusta represented an additional outpost of the religion, a chance
to build a new local community that could serve as a base of expansion into nearby areas.
Remaining in Augusta until the end of her life a quarter century later, Klebs witnessed a
period of dramatic changes in the American Bahá’í movement, as the final decade of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry gave way to a new period of administrative development under his
immediate successor, Shoghi Effendi.  By the mid-1930s, the Augusta-area Bahá’í
community reflected many of the changes in the national movement.  With a functioning
local governing council, a regular schedule of activities, a dedicated meeting facility, and a
growing roster of members, it was larger and better organized than most in the region.


Indeed, the work of Klebs and others in the Augusta area indicated a relatively high degree of
receptivity to the faith not only among black Southerners, as Gregory had discovered, but
among whites of differing class backgrounds as well.  However, unlike the early Washington
community, the Augusta-area Bahá’ís achieved at best only partial integration, highlighting
the need for a fresh approach to teaching the faith in the South.

From Unified Germany to the United States
Founded by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century and capital of their monastic state, the
Baltic Sea port city of Königsberg had been an important medieval trading center and seat of
higher learning.  During the Reformation it had been a stronghold of Lutheranism, and during
the revolutions of the 1840s, of liberalism.  When Margarethe Sophia Klebs was born in
Königsberg in June 1862, it was a cosmopolitan provincial capital, a major stop on the new
rail line connecting Berlin and St. Petersburg, and a major city of the Kingdom of Prussia, an
industrializing, militaristic, and authoritarian state with grand ambitions in Europe.332  During
the years of Klebs’s early childhood, her country was leading the fractious German-speaking
states of north-central Europe toward economic and political unification.  In January 1861,
Prince Wilhelm Friedrich Ludwig of the House of Hohenzollern had succeeded his older
brother as King Wilhelm I of Prussia.  In September the following year, some three months
after Klebs was born, the new king appointed as prime minister Otto von Bismarck, an ardent
royalist and proponent of German unification.  While Klebs was still a girl, Bismarck
launched Prussia on a series of wars—with Denmark in 1863, Austria in 1866, and France in

332 Miriam Haney, “Margaret Klebs,” in The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 8, 1938-1940,
comp. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada (1942; repr., Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980), 670; “Illness Fatal to Miss Klebs,” Augusta (GA) Chronicle, 11 January 1939,
5.


1870—that proved the kingdom’s military and political power to the rest of the German-
speaking states.  In January 1871, as the Franco-Prussian War was ending in a humiliating
defeat for France’s Emperor Napoleon III, the German princes and military leaders
proclaimed Wilhelm I the “German Emperor,” heralding a new federal state along lines that
Bismarck had traced.  Bismarck himself became chancellor of the new German Empire.
As Margarethe Klebs grew to adulthood, the confident new Germany rose as a world
power, with a booming population, rapid economic expansion and technological innovation,
an outpouring of art and culture, and the acquisition of overseas colonies in Africa and the
Pacific.  The more fortunate among its citizens enjoyed unprecedented degrees of material
prosperity.  As part of a “distinguished and cultured” family in the Empire’s leading state,
Klebs received an excellent education, studying piano and voice with some of the best
teachers in Germany, France, and Italy.333  One of her brothers, Ernest Klebs, became a
prominent surgeon in Munich.334  Their uncle Edwin Klebs, a bacteriologist, discovered the
bacillus that causes diphtheria.  In 1894, he left a prominent appointment in Switzerland and
migrated to the United States, practicing at a sanatorium in Asheville, North Carolina before
accepting a teaching position at Rush Medical College in Chicago.335  Two years later
Edwin’s son, their cousin Arnold Klebs, also a physician, followed his father to the United
States, where he treated tuberculosis first at a sanatorium in Citronelle, Alabama and then in
Chicago.336  Possessed of self-confidence and an independent spirit, Margarethe Klebs made
her own living in Europe as a vocalist and teacher.  In 1895, unmarried at age 33, she, too,

333 Haney, “Margaret Klebs,” 670-1.

334 “Illness Fatal to Miss Klebs,” Augusta Chronicle, 11 January 1939, 5.

335 “Professor Edwin Klebs,” British Medical Journal 2, no. 2760 (22 November 1913): 1413-4.

336 Leona Baumgartner, “Arnold Carl Klebs, 1870-1943,” Bulletin of the History of Medicine 14 (July 1943):
201-216.


left for the United States.337  Settling in New York City, Klebs adopted an anglicized spelling
of her first name, Margaret.
In her new country, Margaret Klebs continued to teach music, sometimes as a
private instructor and sometimes in academic settings, and she often ventured far from New
York.  Around the turn of the century she held a position at the Presbyterian College for
Women in Columbia, South Carolina (later merged with Queens College in Charlotte) and
was a member of the Southern Educational Association.338  At least by 1911, she was living
and working among the wealthy Northerners who wintered at the luxury hotels, golf courses,
and polo grounds of Aiken and North Augusta in western South Carolina and the neighboring
city of Augusta, Georgia.  And she was an early and regular patron of Green-Acre-on-the-
Piscataqua, an unusual summer colony in southern Maine across the river from Portsmouth,
New Hampshire.  Founded in 1890 as a resort hotel by Sarah J. Farmer, a daughter of New
England transcendentalists, Green Acre received its name from poet John Greenleaf Whittier,
a family friend and frequent guest.  It was billed as a non-sectarian oasis for the comparative
study of religion and philosophy, with speakers ranging from Swami Vivekananda to W.E.B.
Du Bois.  It attracted a diverse array of poets, artists, intellectuals, free-thinkers, and spiritual

337 Passenger and Crew Lists of Vessels Arriving at New York, New York, 1897-1957, Records of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, National Archives, Washington, DC, http://www.ancestry.com.;
U.S. Bureau of the Census, Fourteenth Census of the United States, 1920 (Washington, DC: National Archives
and Records Administration, 1920), http://www.ancestry.com.  Klebs and her other family members joined a
wave of migrants from Germany to the United States that peaked at 1.3 million in the 1880s.  Most of the
migrants were rural dwellers and industrial workers displaced by Germany’s rapid economic transformation, but
some were members of the middle and upper classes who were dissatisfied with the regime’s militarism and
authoritarianism.  Perhaps is helps explain the migration of Klebs and her relatives.  See Walter Nugent,
Crossings: The Great Transatlantic Migrations, 1870-1914 (Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana University
Press, 1995), 66-9.

338 Southern Educational Association, Journal of Proceedings and Addresses of the Eleventh Annual Meeting
Held at Columbia, S.C., December 26-29, 1901 (N.p.: Southern Education Association, 1902), 279.


seekers from Boston and New York and other cities of the Eastern Seaboard.339  Margaret
Klebs was right at home.  She began to spend her summers in one of Green Acre’s rustic
cottages, teaching private students, arranging musical programs for the other guests,
attending lectures, and enjoying the natural beauty of the riverside setting.
Green Acre also provided Klebs with her first encounter with the Bahá’í Faith.  Early
in 1900, faced with financial difficulties and ill health, Sarah Farmer took a cruise on the
Mediterranean.  On the ship she met two old friends who had become Bahá’ís and were on
their way to Palestine to meet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and they encouraged her to join them.  Farmer
was transformed.  “Heart too full for speech,” she wrote in her diary the night of her first
audience with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “—received by my Lord.”340  During the summer season after
her return home, she taught a class on “The Persian Revelation” at Green Acre, and New
England Bahá’ís soon began to frequent the resort.
One of Farmer’s students was Margaret Klebs.341  It is unclear whether Klebs
identified herself as a Bahá’í as early as 1901, when she was working at Presbyterian College
in Columbia, but she certainly did so by 1911, when she sent a contribution to the temple
fund from North Augusta.342  When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá came to the United States the next year,
Klebs was eager to meet him.  In August, when he visited Green Acre, Klebs was among the

339 For a history of Green Acre, see Anne Gordon Atkinson et al., Green Acre on the Piscataqua (Eliot, ME:
Green Acre Bahá’í School Council, 1991).

340 Bahiyyih Randall Winckler, “Sarah Jane Farmer 1847-1916,” unpublished reference material in the Green
Acre Archives, 5, quoted in Atkinson et al., Green Acre, 29.

341 Haney, “Margaret Klebs,” 671.

342 The record of financial contributions to the Bahá’í Temple fund seems to place Klebs in North Augusta by
1911 or very early 1912.  At the annual convention of the Bahai Temple Unity in April 1912, the Executive
Board’s financial secretary reported that during the previous administrative year (April 1911-April 1912), a
contribution to the Temple fund had been received from North Augusta, South Carolina.  Klebs is the only
Bahá’í known to have been associated with the Augusta area about that time.  “Record of the Fourth Annual
Convention of Bahai Temple Unity,” Star of the West 3, no. 5 (5 June 1912): 5.


five hundred people who joined him there.343  During his week-long stay, he addressed the
gathering about Bahá’í concepts of education and human development, predicted that the
first Bahá’í university and the second Bahá’í temple in the United States would be built at
Green Acre, and engaged in intimate conversation with many individuals.  More than twenty
years later, Margaret Klebs recalled fondly her time with “Him who walked with holy feet on
the ground of our cherished Green Acre.”  “Never to be forgotten,” she said, was the sight of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá with Sarah Farmer, permanently disabled after a fall and unable to continue
her life’s work, “driving slowly around the Green Acre fields.  Blessed are we who could
witness it.”344
Either at Green Acre in August or later in the fall during his second visit to
Washington, D.C., Margaret Klebs had a personal interview with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in which he
directed her to return to the South to teach the faith.345  By the winter of 1912-1913, Klebs
was back in Aiken and North Augusta, and until the end of her life more than a quarter
century later, she followed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instructions.346  She continued to spend the
summers at Green Acre, where lectures, study groups, and interactions with other believers
kept her connected to the main currents of American Bahá’í thought and practice.  The
remaining nine months, usually September to May, she spent in the Augusta area, teaching
music to private students and classes, staging recitals and concerts to benefit local charities,
and attempting to build a new Bahá’í community from scratch.

343 Atkinson et al., Green Acre, 47.

344 Wargha [Margaret] Klebs to a commemorative gathering at Green Acre, 12 August 1935, Eliot Bahá’í
Archives, Eliot, ME (hereafter cited as EBA).

345 Daisy Jackson Moore, one of Klebs’s first Bahá’í students in the Augusta area, recalled that Klebs met with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Washington and that he directed her to move south.  They may have met in Washington as
well as at Green Acre.  Daisy Jackson Moore, handwritten note to “George,” n. d., ABA.

346 “Musical at Hampton Terrace,” Augusta Chronicle, 3 March 1912, 9.


Louis Gregory’s fall 1910 teaching trip through the Carolinas and Georgia had
indicated the potential receptivity of the region’s people, especially African Americans, to
the Bahá’í message.  At the same time, it highlighted the limitations of an approach to
teaching that relied on itinerant lecturers without some method of following up with
interested individuals and groups.  By pursuing her livelihood and making friends and
acquaintances in the Augusta area, Klebs could come in contact with seekers and teach them
individually, nurturing a new Bahá’í community on her own.  She could also greatly enhance
the effectiveness of visiting teachers by making arrangements, securing publicity in advance,
and continuing to teach local people who expressed an interest in the faith.

Sister Cities on the Savannah

When Margaret Klebs moved to the environs of Augusta, she was making her home in an old
city that embodied all the contradictions of the New South.  Located on the Savannah River
at the fall line, the rocky shoals marking the transition from the Piedmont to the broad coastal
plain, the area had been inhabited for at least four thousand years.347  In the early decades of
the Carolina colony, the Native settlement of Savannah Town on the east bank of the river
was a center for the lucrative trade in Indian slaves and deerskins.  When the new colony of
Georgia was chartered in the 1730s, the river became the boundary between it and South
Carolina, and the colony’s governor sent an expedition to build a settlement at the fall line
that would usurp the Carolinians’ Indian trade.  During the late colonial period, the new town

347 In excavations beginning in the 1850s, the oldest pottery in North America was unearthed at Stallings Island
eight miles upstream from Augusta.  For a treatment of the earliest human habitation of the area and the
Stallings Island site, see Kenneth E. Sassaman, Early Pottery in the Southeast: Tradition and Innovation in
Cooking Technology (Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press, 1993).


of Augusta prospered as a tobacco market for the expanding Georgia backcountry and
adjacent areas of South Carolina.
After the invention of the cotton gin in 1793, the area’s population boomed as cotton
production replaced tobacco and African slavery expanded.  Augusta became a center of the
regional cotton trade, and entrepreneurship flourished.  In 1819 Henry Shultz, an immigrant
from Germany who already had a new wharf, a bridge across the river, a bank, and the first
steamboat service to Savannah to his credit, decided to build a new city on the east bank of
the river to rival Augusta.  He laid out streets where his bridge crossed into South Carolina—
not far from the site of Savannah Town—and called it Hamburg after his native city.348
Early in 1834, the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company began rail service
between Hamburg and Charleston.  At 136 miles, it was the longest railroad in the world.349
Within a month, Augusta investors had organized a company to extend the line to Athens and
beyond.  In 1845, the Augusta Canal, which bypassed the rapids on the Savannah, opened.
Spurred by these developments in transportation, several entrepreneurs established factories
in the area.  The Vaucluse and Graniteville textile mills, located on the swiftly-flowing
waters of Horse Creek on the South Carolina side of the river, made the area what one
scholar has called “the cradle of southern industrialization.”350  The railroad also brought the
area’s first tourist industry.  In 1835 the town of Aiken, named for the president of the S.C.
Canal and Railroad Company, was chartered along the line some fifteen miles east of

348 For treatments of Shultz, see Edward J. Cashin, The Story of Augusta (Augusta, GA: Richmond County
Board of Education, 1980), 71-3; and Tom Downey, Planting a Capitalist South: Masters, Merchants, and
Manufacturers in the Southern Interior, 1790-1860 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2006),
chapters 3 and 6.

349 Edgar, South Carolina, 283.  For an extended discussion of the S.C. Canal and Railroad Company, see
Downey, Planting a Capitalist South, chapter 4.

350 Downey, Planting a Capitalist South, 123.


Hamburg.  With a mild climate and easy accessibility by rail from Charleston, Aiken soon
began to attract wealthy visitors from the Lowcountry seeking relief from tuberculosis or
from the heat of summer.  Improvements in transportation, however, also became the
undoing of Hamburg.  The canal and a new railroad bridge connecting the South Carolina
and Georgia sides of the river allowed farmers to bypass Hamburg and take their cotton
directly to Augusta for marketing.  Augusta continued to prosper, but by the 1850s Hamburg
was virtually abandoned.
While fighting during the Civil War largely bypassed the Augusta area, the aftermath
of the conflict brought decades of racial violence, as whites fought to maintain political and
economic control over a substantial black population.  In 1871, after two brief periods of
military rule, conservatives in Georgia, where whites made up a slight majority, were able to
oust the state’s Republican regime at the ballot box.  In South Carolina, where blacks
outnumbered whites two to one, the task of white conservatives was much harder.  In the
lead-up to statewide elections in 1876, the town of Hamburg, repopulated by blacks in the
wake of the war, became a pivotal flashpoint in the struggle between the Republican state
government and an emerging conservative paramilitary movement.  The Hamburg incident,
during which a former Confederate general led hundreds of armed white men from both sides
of the river in an assault on the town and its black militia, emboldened the most conservative
wing of South Carolina’s Democratic Party.  Under the leadership of Martin W. Gary of
neighboring Edgefield County, the “straight-outs,” who opposed power-sharing or “fusion”
with Republicans under reforming Governor Daniel H. Chamberlain, gained control of the
state’s Democratic Party machinery.  They organized thousands of white men into
paramilitary units to keep black voters away from the polls, unleashed a wave of intimidation


and violence that swept the state, and stuffed ballot boxes on Election Day.351  Even such
coordinated efforts, however, were not enough to ensure an outright victory for the
Democratic gubernatorial candidate, former Confederate general Wade Hampton.  Two rival
governments claimed victory in Columbia, and the state’s disputed electoral votes (along
with those from Florida and Louisiana, where Republican regimes faced similar stand-offs)
left the country without a president-elect.  Dealmakers in Washington awarded the disputed
electoral votes to the Republican presidential candidate with an understanding that the last
Republican strongholds in the South would return to Democratic control.  In April 1877, the
last federal troops left South Carolina, and the state’s Republican government collapsed.  The
nation’s venture in reconstructing the South was over, and the fate of black Southerners lay
in the hands of their white neighbors.
For African Americans in the Augusta area, the demise of Reconstruction opened a
new wave of violence and oppression.  In the rural districts, corruption and manipulation of
the legal system ensured the virtual re-enslavement of thousands of African Americans,
mostly men, through debt peonage, county chain gangs, and, on the Georgia side of the
border from 1868 to 1908, the brutal convict lease system.352  For the rest, extralegal violence
became a constant threat.  Many migrated to Augusta in search of education, employment,
and safety.  By the first decade of the twentieth century, black Augusta boasted a number of
churches, lodges, and mutual aid societies; two high schools, one public and one private; a
Methodist-supported college; a nursing school; and a host of businesses.  Black professionals

351 Armed confrontations followed in Charleston and Beaufort Counties and at Ellenton, another small
settlement in Aiken County less than twenty miles from Hamburg.  After the Ellenton incident, white
paramilitaries executed some thirty to fifty black men, including a state legislator.  Edgar, South Carolina, 403.

352 For details of the forced labor system in South Carolina and Georgia after the Civil War, see Newby, Black
Carolinians, 67-79, 129; and John Dittmer, Black Georgia in the Progressive Era, 1900-1920 (Urbana:
University of Illinois Press, 1977), 72-89.


hailed the city’s positive racial climate; in 1894 the editor of one of the city’s black
newspapers declared it “the garden spot of the country as far as the relations of the races
go.”353  But the success of a small minority masked deteriorating conditions in the city’s
black working-class neighborhoods.  In the Territories, or the “Terri,” the sprawling slum
south of Gwinnett Street, limited employment opportunities and a lack of city services
spawned disease, crime, and drug use.354  Nor were urban African Americans entirely
immune from white violence.  In the spring of 1900, a mob of white Augustans lynched
William Wilson, a black painter accused of killing the son of a wealthy white cotton broker
in a fight over a seat on a city streetcar.  In the wake of the lynching, neighbors narrowly
prevented another white mob from burning down the office of an outspoken black newspaper
editor.355
Beginning in the 1880s, Augusta-area politicians played important roles in the
farmers’ revolt and the erection of the Jim Crow regime.  Benjamin Ryan Tillman, who rode
the wave of agrarian discontent to the governorship of South Carolina and engineered the
state’s disfranchisement constitution, was a native of Edgefield County who often trumpeted
his participation in the 1876 violence at Hamburg.  On the other side of the river, Farmers’
Alliance and Populist Party leader Thomas E. Watson, a native of Thomson in McDuffie
County, some thirty-five miles west of Augusta, represented the area in the U.S. House of
Representatives.  An early advocate of black-white political coalition, he turned increasingly
hostile to African Americans after his run for the vice-presidency in 1896, when the Populists

353 Augusta Chronicle, 24 June 1894, quoted in Bobby J. Donaldson, “Standing on a Volcano: The Leadership
of William Jefferson White,” in Paternalism in a Southern City: Race, Religion, and Gender in Augusta,
Georgia, ed. Edward J. Cashin and Glenn T. Askew (Athens and London: University of Georgia Press, 2001),
148.

354 Donaldson, “Standing on a Volcano,” 148-9.

355 Ibid., 158-61.


went down to disastrous defeat nationally.  Much as Tillman used his platform in the U.S.
Senate to advance nationwide support for disfranchisement, segregation, and lynching,
Watson disseminated his ideas through a national journal he published.  His invective fueled
multiple threads of reactionary politics in the early twentieth century, encompassing
Negrophobia as well as opposition to new perceived threats to America and ranging from the
local level to the national.  It spurred the formation of an anti-Catholic faction of the local
Democratic Party that controlled Augusta politics from the turn of the century until the
1940s; the Georgia disfranchisement movement, which by 1910 had decimated the ranks of
black voters through the whites-only primary election system and literacy tests; and the anti-
immigrant, anti-Semitic, and anti-radical sentiment that contributed to the lynching of Leo
Frank in Atlanta in 1915 and the subsequent revival of the Ku Klux Klan as a broad-based
national movement.356
The consolidation of white political control in the decades after Reconstruction
coincided with the New South wave of industrialization.  In the Augusta area and across the
region, a new generation of ambitious young men became the most vigorous proponents of
economic development.  One young entrepreneur who embodied the New South spirit in
Augusta—and whose family maintained a long association with the Bahá’í Faith after
Margaret Klebs’s arrival in the area—was James Urquhart Jackson.  Born in 1856 to a family
of small slaveholders, businessmen, and professionals, Jackson grew up on the family farm
just outside Augusta.  The large household included several members of the extended family
and up to a dozen enslaved house servants and farm hands; after Emancipation, many of the

356 The classic treatment of Watson’s career is C. Vann Woodward, Tom Watson: Agrarian Rebel (1938; New
York: Oxford University Press, 1963).


same African Americans apparently stayed on as free laborers.357  James Jackson’s extended
family was part of the Augusta area’s commercial elite both before and after the Civil War.
One of his uncles, a general during the war, was an attorney, and another was president of a
local bank and one of the area’s first textile mills.358  James’s father, George Twiggs Jackson,
a local militia leader during the war, was a stock and bond broker and the owner or director
of a granite mill, a grain processor, two textile factories, and the Georgia Railroad and
Banking Company.359  The Jacksons were members of First Presbyterian Church on Telfair
Street in Augusta, where Joseph R. Wilson, father of future U.S. president Thomas Woodrow
Wilson, was pastor from 1858 to 1870.  James Jackson and the younger Wilson were born in
the same year and likely attended Sunday school together.360
When James U. Jackson graduated from the University of Georgia in 1876—the year
of Wade Hampton’s coup d’état across the river—it was only natural for him to return to the
family home and go into business in Augusta.  He partnered with his cousin and adopted
brother, Marion Jackson Verdery, whose family’s land bordered the Jackson farm, in a
brokerage business.  He soon became involved in the postwar railroad-building boom,
eventually serving as an officer or founding director of several railroad companies.  In 1888,
he helped organize the Augusta National Exposition, an annual fair designed to draw visitors

357 Jeanne M. McDaniel, North Augusta: James U. Jackson’s Dream (Charleston, SC: Arcadia Publishing,
2006), 19; U.S. Bureau of the Census, Seventh Census of the United States, 1850 (Washington, DC: National
Archives and Records Administration, 1850), http://www.ancestry.com; U.S. Bureau of the Census, Eighth
Census of the United States, 1860 (Washington, DC: National Archives and Records Administration, 1860),
http://www.ancestry.com; U.S. Bureau of the Census, Tenth Census of the United States, 1880 (Washington,
DC: National Archives and Records Administration, 1880), http://www.ancestry.com.

358 McDaniel, North Augusta, 10.

359 Ibid., 20-1.

360 Ibid., 19.


and boost the area’s economy.  The following year, Jackson invested in a new resort hotel,
the Bon Air, on the sandy hills of Summerville just northwest of the city.361
James Jackson’s crowning achievement, however, was the establishment of the
garden suburb of North Augusta across the Savannah.  The new town, embodying both New
South prosperity and the best in contemporary urban design, would have no association with
the black neighborhood of Hamburg.  Surveying the slum on the flood plain near the river,
Jackson planned his town for higher ground.  In 1890 he purchased 5600 acres on the bluffs
just northwest of Hamburg and, with tax incentives from Augusta’s city council, built a new
bridge across the river at 13th Street that would bypass Hamburg completely.  Under no
illusion about competing with Augusta for business, Jackson planned North Augusta
primarily as a residential suburb.  The Delaware civil engineering firm he hired produced an
innovative town plan: manufacturing and businesses were concentrated on the floodplain and
residences above, with parks and greenways that followed the natural contours of the land
interspersed among otherwise regular city blocks.  Along with modern design principles, the
town embodied the ideology of the New South: its two squares, named Calhoun Place and
Hampton Place, commemorated South Carolina’s architects of secession and of Redemption,
respectively, and its two main thoroughfares were named Carolina and Georgia avenues to
symbolize the joining of the two states.362
The growth of North Augusta was part of James Jackson’s broader vision for
expanding the area’s modern infrastructure and tourist industry.  In 1897, Augusta’s electric
trolley system was extended to North Augusta, and with it, electric lights for the town.  In
1902, Jackson formed a new company, the North Augusta Electric and Improvement

361 Ibid., 9-11, 19-23.

362 Ibid., 47, 60-1.


Company, and bought the company that ran the Augusta trolleys.  The combination created
the first inter-urban electric railroad in the South, linking the resort hotels west of Augusta
with North Augusta and Aiken, a distance of some twenty miles.  In 1903 the Hampton
Terrace, a new resort hotel financed by Jackson, opened for business.  Built atop a hill
overlooking North Augusta and also named for Wade Hampton, the five-story building had
300 guest rooms in two massive wings, with a ballroom, sunrooms, and other amusements
around the entryway in the center.  An 18-hole golf course, horseback riding, and a game
preserve provided additional entertainment.  For the next dozen years, many of the country’s
wealthiest and most powerful people—including Marshall Fields, Harvey Firestone, John D.
Rockefeller, and William Howard Taft—spent their winters at the Hampton Terrace.  Like
North Augusta itself, Jackson’s grand hotel symbolized the contradictions of the New South:
simultaneously forward- and backward-looking, a whites-only island of leisure in a sea of
sharecropping, debt, forced labor, low-wage industry, political corruption, and endemic
violence.363  It was an unusual location, to say the least, from which to proclaim the Bahá’í
principle of the oneness of humanity.

“Ere Long in that City”
As a member of a wealthy German family with impressive training in European classical
music, Margaret Klebs enjoyed an elite cultural status in the United States, but she lived
simply, usually boarding in a home or renting a small apartment for the nine months each
year she spent in the Augusta area.  While her own circumstances were modest, early on
Klebs began to make a mark on the artistic and civic life of the area, hosting several public
performances of her students each year, often to raise funds for local charities.  In early

363 Ibid., 51.


March 1912, for example, Klebs arranged a musical program at the Hampton Terrace
attended by hotel guests as well as local residents.  The evening featured twenty students
performing solos and as a chorus and benefitted Augusta’s YWCA.364  In May 1913, Klebs’s
students from Augusta, North Augusta, and Aiken performed at the school auditorium in
North Augusta to benefit both the school and a local Methodist church.365
Klebs’s work necessarily put her in contact with the Augusta area’s white middle-
and upper-class residents—those most interested in and able to afford private voice
instruction and most likely to attend performances of classical music—and those who aspired
to such status, and it was primarily among this segment of the population that she initially
attempted to share the Bahá’í message.  Julia Moore, society editor at the Augusta Herald,
became a friend of Klebs and a student of the faith.  She readily publicized Bahá’í events and
participated herself, apparently without identifying herself as a believer.366  Frank Hulse, a
small businessman in his early twenties with a wife and young child, was one of Klebs’s
students who investigated the faith.367  Another student who became a Bahá’í was Mary Anne
Bracey, a teenager whose father was a traveling salesman.368  Robert Irvin, a music teacher
himself who participated in Klebs’s concerts as accompanist and performer, also became a
believer.  In his early thirties and single, he lived at home with his widowed mother, a
widowed older brother who was an attorney, a younger brother who was city editor at the

364 Augusta Chronicle, 6 March 1912, 5.

365 Augusta Chronicle, 4 May 1913, 9.

366 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; U.S. Bureau of the Census, Fifteenth Census of the United States,
1930 (Washington, DC: National Archives and Records Administration, 1930), http://www.ancestry.com.

367 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; U.S. Bureau of the Census, Fourteenth Census of the United States,
1920 (Washington, DC: National Archives and Records Administration, 1920), http://www.ancestry.com.

368 Augusta City Directory, 1901 (Atlanta: Maloney Publishing Co., 1901), 219.


Augusta Chronicle, a younger sister who was a stenographer in a cotton warehouse, and his
older brother’s young son.369  Another student who became a Bahá’í was a scion of Augusta’s
business elite on one side and of the coastal planter aristocracy on the other.  Daisy King
Jackson was the daughter of James U. Jackson and his second wife, Edith Barrington King of
Savannah, herself the daughter of a prominent Presbyterian minister and, through her mother,
a descendant of Georgia’s colonial governor, merchant, and rice planter James Habersham.370
Klebs’s close association with the Jackson family began early and continued throughout the
years of her residence in the area, providing a variety of openings for teaching and likely
lending the Bahá’í Faith an air of legitimacy in the eyes of the general public.
While Margaret Klebs was able to teach the faith effectively on an individual basis
and was comfortable organizing large events, she seems never to have considered herself a
public speaker.  To attract larger numbers of people to the faith and capitalize on her own
teaching successes, she needed the assistance of other experienced believers.  In 1914, Klebs
invited Joseph Hannen of Washington to come to the Augusta area for a series of speaking
engagements.371  Hannen often traveled as far south as North Carolina as part of his work as a
salesman of medical instruments, and Klebs may have paid for his trip from Charlotte or
Asheville to Augusta and back.372  Klebs arranged for him to speak in North Augusta and
Aiken on at least three occasions.  The first public meeting on the Bahá’í Faith in the area
took place on the evening of March 8, 1914, at James U. Jackson’s mansion in North

369 Fourteenth Census, 1920.

370 McDaniel, North Augusta, 23; Tenth Census, 1880.  For the Habersham family, see Frank Lambert, James
Habersham: Loyalty, Politics, and Commerce in Colonial Georgia (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 2005).

371 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1.

372 Joseph H. Hannen to Margaret Klebs, 11 March 1916, 28 March 1916, and 12 May 1917, Hannen-Knobloch
Family Papers, NBA.


Augusta.  The following evening, Hannen was on the program of a concert at the Hampton
Terrace “for the benefit of Children’s Home and the Mashrak-el-Azkar,” the Bahá’í temple in
Chicago.373  Frank Hulse, Daisy Jackson, and another student, Mabel Rogers, performed two
sets of selections with Robert Irvin and Klebs at the piano.  Between sets, Hannen addressed
the 200 guests about the faith.374   Hannen also addressed students at the Schofield Normal
and Industrial School in Aiken, one of the oldest and most respected schools for African
Americans in South Carolina.  Founded by the Freedman’s Bureau just after the Civil War,
the school was named for its principal, a Pennsylvania Quaker named Martha Schofield, and
had produced numerous African-American professionals, including physician Matilda Evans
of Columbia.  It was supported by local blacks as well as some influential white patrons, both
Aiken natives and winter colony regulars.375  Klebs had arranged the lecture through an
association with John H. Landes, the school’s business manager.376

After returning to Washington, Joseph Hannen reported to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about his
trip.377  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s tablet in reply began by praising Hannen’s teaching efforts—
particularly the “delivery of an eloquent talk,” probably the large gathering at the Hampton
Terrace—and assuring him of divine assistance:
Thy detailed letter was received.  It was the incarnation of pure joy for it contained
the particulars of thy trip to Augusta, Georgia.  It explained the delivery of an
eloquent talk by thee; that thou hast summoned the people to the Kingdom of God

373 Augusta Chronicle, 8 March 1914, B2.

374 Ibid.; Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1.

375 On Schofield, her school, and race relations in postbellum Aiken, see Katherine Smedley, Martha Schofield
and the Re-Education of the South, 1839-1916, Studies in Women and Religion, vol. 24 (Lewiston, NY and
Queenston, ON: Edwin Mellen Press, 1987).

376 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; Smedley, Martha Schofield, 271.

377 Hannen’s letter to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has not been located.  Universal House of Justice, Department of the
Secretariat, email to the author, 10 August 2009.


and hast spread the Divine Teachings.  Consider how every soul who has arisen to
serve the Word of God will be confirmed with the heavenly Cohorts.  Therefore, be
thou happy, because thou art assisted with such service.

And it continued with a prophecy about the future of the Augusta area:

Ere long in that city a great multitude shall enter in the Kingdom of God, the Flag of
the oneness of the world of humanity will cast its shade over that state and the Song
of the Supreme Concourse will be raised from its glens and dales.  The fountain of the
Water of Life will gush forth and the birds of the rose-garden of God will break into
the rapturous songs of the glorification of the Kingdom of Holiness in the most
wonderful melody.  This trace will become eternal and will be continued throughout
the future ages and cycles.378

Predicting the spiritual transformation of the area, including the growth of the Bahá’í
community and the removal of racial prejudice, the letter was as much a confirmation of
Klebs’s move as it was of Hannen’s brief visit, and it inspired her to continue her work in
Augusta and North Augusta for another quarter century.
Over the next few years, the area’s Bahá’í community grew slowly.  In 1918, the
circle of believers and seekers included at least half a dozen people in addition to Margaret
Klebs.  G. P. Talbot, a Virginia native, was the advertizing manager for one of the local
newspapers.379  His wife, Louise Biggar Talbot, born in North Carolina to an English father
and a mother from Georgia, was a nurse.380  Ann McKennie Verdery was a Georgia native
whose husband, connected to the Jackson family through marriage and business, was a
former railroad executive and president of the Warren Manufacturing Company, a textile mill
in Horse Creek Valley.381  Myrtis Tinsley, born in South Carolina to parents from Georgia,

378 “Tablet for Augusta, Georgia,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Joseph Hannen, 18 April 1914, ABA.

379 Thirteenth Census, 1910.

380 Twelfth Census, 1900.

381 The Official Railway List: A Directory (Chicago: Railway Purchasing Agent Co., 1884), 5,
http://books.google.com/books; Handbook of South Carolina: Resources, Institutions and Industries of the State
(Columbia: S.C. Dept. of Agriculture, Commerce, and Immigration, 1908), 455, http://books.google.com/books.


was one of Margaret Klebs’s voice students.382  Julia Moore continued to associate with the
Bahá’ís.383  Robert Irvin, among the first in the city to embrace the faith, had returned to
Augusta after spending three years working for the YMCA in Chicago and in Europe.  While
in Chicago, he had taken part in local Bahá’í activities and been a frequent visitor to the
home of Zia Bagdadi, one of the leaders of the national movement.384  Two young and
energetic believers, however, had moved away.  Daisy Jackson married in 1915 and moved
to Savannah, her husband’s home, and Mary Anne Bracey moved with her family to
Savannah, as well.385  Around 1920, a new Bahá’í, Esther Sego, moved to Augusta.  An
Augusta native born to South Carolina parents, she had recently embraced the faith in
Jacksonville, Florida, during a teaching trip there by Charles Mason Remey of Washington.
She returned to Augusta with her husband, a school teacher and later principal, and became
an active part of the small Bahá’í community.386  The group was sufficiently organized to
name delegates to the annual national convention and, perhaps, to help fund their travel.
Participation in the convention, entailing meeting and consulting with believers from all parts
of the country and electing the members of the Executive Board, surely helped consolidate
the Bahá’í identity of those who attended.  In 1919, Louise Talbot was the Augusta
community’s delegate to the convention, held in New York.  The next year the convention

382 Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta Chronicle, 24 December 1916, 3 and 7 January 1917, B4.

383 Except for Louise Biggar Talbot, who was away, the preceding individuals as well as Klebs sent
contributions to the Persian-American Educational Society, a Washington-based Bahá’í charity.  Margaret
Klebs to Joseph Hannen, answered 8 April 1918, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

384 Margaret Klebs to Alfred Lunt, 26 February 1920, Alfred E. Lunt Papers, NBA; Passport Applications,
General Records of the Department of State, National Archives, Washington, DC, http://www.ancestry.com.

385 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; McDaniel, North Augusta, 93-4; Fourteenth Census, 1920.

386 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930; Polk’s Augusta
(Richmond County, Georgia) City Directory, 1937 (Richmond, VA: R. L. Polk, 1937), 598.


was again held in New York, and Robert Irvin was the delegate.  Both years, Margaret Klebs
served as alternate delegate and presumably attended the convention as well.387
Klebs continued to invite prominent Bahá’ís from other parts of the country to come
to the Augusta area to speak.  Among them were Charles Mason Remey and John Bassett,
who came from Washington in 1918 and 1919.  On one occasion, they spoke at the Jackson
home in North Augusta, and on another at Klebs’s music studio on Greene Street in
Augusta.388  About 1920, Jenabe Assadu’llah Fádil-i-Mazindarání, a Persian Bahá’í scholar
whom ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sent on a tour of the United States, visited the area, speaking to an
interested audience of “about sixty-five of the outstanding colored men” at Augusta’s black
YMCA, led by prominent minister Charles T. Walker.  Accompanied by Esther Sego, Jenabe
Fádil spoke about the elimination of prejudices and distributed Bahá’í literature.  “There
were tears in their eyes as he left,” Sego recalled.389  In April 1921, Martha Root, a journalist
from Pennsylvania who would become the most widely-traveled lecturer in the Bahá’í world
community, visited Augusta as part of a southern tour that had just included a visit to share
the faith with socialist leader Eugene V. Debs in the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary.  In
Augusta, she gave three talks.390  One was at the home of Esther Sego, and another was at the
home of Nellie F. Baird, a sister of Louise Biggar Talbot, and her husband, a small
businessman.391  Root’s main impact may have been on the small group of Bahá’ís rather than

387 Star of the West 10, no. 18 (7 February 1920): 331; Star of the West 11, no. 11 (27 September 1920): 174.

388 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; Augusta Chronicle, 31 March 1919, 3.

389 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1

390 M. R. Garis, Martha Root: Lioness at the Threshold (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983), 128.

391 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1; Fifteenth Census, 1930.


seekers.  Sego recalled that her visit increased “the enthusiasm and faith in the hearts of her
hearers.”392  Other Bahá’ís stopped in the area on their way to winter homes in Florida.393
Small as the group was, the local believers pursued their own teaching efforts and
publicity in the local press.  Sometimes they were rather bold in their outreach.  In January
1917, the Augusta Chronicle noted that Margaret Klebs, Louise Talbot, and Julia Moore had
called on politician and ideologue Thomas E. Watson at his estate outside Thomson.  Guests
for the day of Watson, his wife, Georgia Durham Watson, and his secretary and magazine
editor, Alice Louise Lytle, the Bahá’ís presumably asked for the meeting in order to teach
them the faith.394  From time to time they were also able to ensure that national and
international news of the faith was printed in the local newspapers.  In June 1915, for
example, the Chronicle noted that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “the leader of the worldwide Bahai
movement for the unifying of all humanity in stronger social and religious ties,” had sent a
personal representative to the religious congresses at the Panama-Pacific International
Exposition in San Francisco.395  In April 1917, it announced the opening of the Bahá’í
national convention in Boston as one of “Today’s Events,” along with the postponement of a
trade dinner in Chicago and a meeting of the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur
Athletics in Philadelphia.396  Such “routine” coverage conveyed the message that the faith
was a normal, nonthreatening part of the life of Augusta, the nation, and the world—no small
feat for a foreign, radical, non-Christian religion in the heartland of the new Ku Klux Klan.

392 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 1.

393 Ibid., 1-2.

394 Augusta Chronicle, 16 January 1917, 3.

395 Augusta Chronicle, 12 June 1915, 10.

396 Augusta Chronicle, 28 April 1917, 4.


According to Margaret Klebs, even opposition from local clergy was an indication of
the community’s growing influence in the area.  “The interest in the Bahá’í Cause,” she told
delegates to the 1925 national convention, “has been manifested in a most wonderful way.
Every year it is increasing, and perhaps the best proof that the Cause has been spreading is
that from the various churches the Bahá’í movement has been denounced.”397  While Klebs’s
comments provide little indication of the specific nature or motivation of the criticism in the
Augusta churches, they suggest that I.E. Lowery’s rhetorical attack on the Bahá’í Faith in
Columbia may not have been an isolated incident.

Formative Age
On November 28, 1921, the secretary of the Bahai Temple Unity’s Executive Board received
a brief telegram that would have far-reaching effects on the believers in the Augusta area and
across the United States.  Signed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sister, Bahíyyih Khánum, it read simply:
“His Holiness Abdu-Baha ascended to Abha Kingdom.”398  Over the next several months, it
became clear to the American Bahá’ís that with the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, their faith was
entering a new stage of its development.  Under the leadership of his successor, Shoghi
Effendi, in little more than a decade the American movement grew from a loose association
of local groups into a closely-knit national community pursuing systematic plans for
expansion of the faith.
The devastating news of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s death was quickly disseminated to Bahá’í
communities across the country, and the next several issues of Star of the West were filled

397 “Seventeenth Annual Convention [1925],” TS, Office of the Secretary, National Convention Files, NBA, 63.

398 Star of the West 12, no. 15 (12 December 1921): 245.  “Abhá [Most Glorious] Kingdom,” in Bahá’í
terminology, usually denotes the afterlife.


with letters from members of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s household and American pilgrims explaining
the nature of his brief illness, photographs of his remarkable funeral in Haifa, and extracts
from his tablets and addresses meant to strengthen the solidarity of the believers in their
grief.  “If you should receive news in America that I have been thrown into the sea or carried
away to an unknown place,” read one passage, from a talk to pilgrims in 1905, when he was
still under threat from the Ottoman government, “if you should receive word that I have been
tortured and killed—change not, grieve not; nay, rather, be more firm, be more rejoiced, and
let your steadfastness grow and increase.  For our meeting-place is the Kingdom of God….
[B]e firm, whether I am in this world or not.”399

Such assurances notwithstanding, mourning was mixed with anxiety as Bahá’ís in the
United States and elsewhere wondered who would lead them.  News arrived slowly.  On
December 22, a second telegram from Bahíyyih Khánum stated that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had “left
full instructions in His Will and Testament” for the organization of the faith after his
passing.400  A third message, dated January 16, 1922 and printed on the first page of the
subsequent issue of Star of the West, conveyed the first indications of his plans for a dual
succession: “In will, Shoghi Effendi appointed Guardian of Cause and Head of House of
Justice.  Inform American friends.”  Above the text was a photograph of a young, olive-
skinned man with large, round eyes and a short moustache, wearing a black fez and Middle
Eastern garments.  A caption read, “Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, Grandson of His Holiness

399 Star of the West 12, no. 16 (31 December 1921): 254.

400 Star of the West 12, no. 19 (2 March 1922): 303.


Abdul-Baha, Guardian of the Bahai Cause and Head of the House of Justice.”401  Two
institutions, then, one hereditary and one elected, would guide the faith after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The American Bahá’ís were familiar with the idea of the House of Justice.  In several
of Bahá’u’lláh’s tablets he described an international institution that would be the supreme
body of the Kingdom of God on earth: “The men of God’s House of Justice have been
charged with the affairs of the people.  They, in truth, are the Trustees of God among His
servants and the daysprings of authority in His countries.”402  And as early as the turn of the
century, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had sometimes used the term to refer to their local executive boards.
During his 1912 visit to North America, he had discussed in some detail the roles of the local
Houses of Justice and of the Universal House of Justice in Bahá’u’lláh’s vision for a new
global political-economy:
He has ordained and established the [local] House of Justice, which is endowed with
a political as well as a religious function, the consummate union and blending of
church and state.  This institution is under the protecting power of Bahá’u’lláh
Himself.  A universal, or international, House of Justice shall also be organized.  Its
rulings shall be in accordance with the commands and teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, and
that which the Universal House of Justice ordains shall be obeyed by all mankind.
This international House of Justice shall be appointed and organized from the Houses
of Justice of the whole world, and all the world shall come under its administration.403

Unlike the House of Justice, the institution of the “Guardian of the Cause” (válíyu’l-
amru’lláh), while based on the principle of hereditary succession that Bahá’u’lláh had also
mentioned in his writings, was entirely new.404  Even Shoghi Effendi, the holder of the new

401 Star of the West 12, no. 17 (19 January 1922): 258.

402 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 26-7.

403 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 455.

404 See, for example, Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶ 42, 121, 174; Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 221-2.


office, was surprised.405  At age twenty-four, Shoghi Effendi was the oldest among the
children of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s four daughters, and he had served as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s primary
English secretary during his youth.  At the time of his grandfather’s death, Shoghi Effendi
was studying English and the humanities at Oxford University, and public reading of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s will (and thus transmission of complete details to the Bahá’ís around the
world) was delayed until after his return to Haifa in late December.  He later confided that as
the oldest grandson, he thought that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá might have given him the task of
convening a gathering to elect the Universal House of Justice.406  Instead, the will appointed
him “the sign of God, the chosen branch, the Guardian of the Cause of God,” to whom all the
relatives of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh and the body of the believers must turn.  After ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, he was “the Interpreter of the Word of God,” charged with resolving questions of
doctrine and ensuring the integrity of the faith’s scriptures.407  Further, he was “the sacred
head and the distinguished member for life” of the Universal House of Justice, which had the
power to legislate on matters not explicitly covered in the sacred scriptures.408  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had extended Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant into the future through two institutions, both of which
were assured of divine guidance:
The sacred and youthful branch, the Guardian of the Cause of God, as well as the
Universal House of Justice to be universally elected and established, are both under
the care and protection of the Abhá Beauty [Bahá’u’lláh], under the shelter and
unerring guidance of the Exalted One [the Báb] (may my life be offered up for them

405 While Shoghi Rabbani used his family name in interactions with the public, within the Bahá’í community he
was always referred to by his first name and the Turkish title “Effendi,” equivalent to the English “Sir” or
“Mister.”  His wife, Rúhíyyih Rabbani (an American-Canadian née Mary Maxwell), was known within the
community as Amatu’l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum (“Madam Rúhíyyih, the Maidservant of Bahá”).

406 Rúhíyyih Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl, 2nd ed. (Oakham, England: Bahá’í Publishing, 2000), 42-3.

407 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990), 11.

408 Ibid., 14.


both).  Whatsoever they decide is of God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth
them, hath not obeyed God ….409

The twin institutions, operating in concert, would protect the faith from schism and ensure its
worldwide development.
On January 22, Shoghi Effendi sent his first brief message to the American Bahá’ís,
expressing gratitude for their “unswerving loyalty and noble resolve.”410  In the Bahá’í New
Year (March 21) 1922 issue of Star of the West, under the banner “Resurrection,” Shoghi
Effendi’s first general letter to the American community gave some indication of the
intellectual and spiritual qualities he would bring to his new office.  Noting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
premonition of his passing and quoting a tablet regarding the sure growth of the faith, Shoghi
Effendi asked:
With such assuring utterances and the unmistakable evidences of his sure and clear
knowledge that his own end was nigh, is there any reason why the followers of his
Faith, the world over, should be perturbed?  Are not the prayers he revealed for us
sufficient source of inspiration to every worker in his Cause?  Have not his
instructions paved before us the broad and straight path of teaching?  Will not his
now doubly effective power of grace sustain us, strengthen us and confirm us in our
work for him?  Ours is the duty to strive, by day and night, to fulfill our own
obligations and then trust in his guidance and never failing grace.411


Most of the American Bahá’ís had never met Shoghi Effendi.  However, they were
relieved that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had left a clear authority in the faith, and most quickly transferred
their intense feelings of personal loyalty to his young successor.  A handful of experienced
believers eased the transition.  Emogene Hoagg, one of the earliest American believers and
the first native Californian to become a Bahá’í, had been studying Farsi in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
household before his passing.  She helped translate ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s last tablet to the

409 Ibid., 11.

410 Star of the West 12, no. 18 (7 February 1922): 273.

411 Star of the West 13, no. 1 (21 March 1922): 17.


American Bahá’ís, which appeared in Star of the West, and addressed letters to friends in the
United States about his Will and Testament and the appointment of Shoghi Effendi as
Guardian.  “How wonderfully the Beloved provided for the protection of the Cause…,” she
wrote to one member of the Executive Board.  “Let us pray that the friends in America will
arise with strength and goodwill to obey and to serve.”412  Louis Gregory had met Shoghi
Effendi, “a youth of about fifteen, keenly intelligent, diligent in his work, all reverence and
devotion to the Master,” during his 1911 pilgrimage.413  He wholeheartedly embraced the
new institution of the Guardianship, and during his teaching circuits, he was instrumental in
counseling the Bahá’ís to do the same.414
Shoghi Effendi’s first concern was establishment of the Universal House of Justice.
In his will, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s had specified that the international body should be formed
through “universal suffrage” of the believers in a staged election process: a new institution,
called the secondary or national House of Justice, should be formed “in all countries, and
these secondary Houses of Justice must elect the members of the Universal one.”415  In
March 1922, Shoghi Effendi invited a group of respected and well-informed Bahá’ís from the
United States, Europe, Iran, and India to Haifa to discuss preparations for elections.416
However, the consultation revealed a bleak picture of the worldwide movement’s chances of
fulfilling ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instructions any time soon.  There were only a few dozen
rudimentary local executive bodies—the practical prerequisites for establishing national

412 Ibid., 25.

413 Gregory, “Recollections,” 6.

414 Morrison, To Move the World, 114-6; Rabbani, Priceless Pearl, 50-1.

415 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament, 14.

416 Rabbani, Priceless Pearl, 55–56, 247.


ones—in the United States, and little more than a handful in the Middle East.  Each
functioned largely autonomously, with little consistency between them in such essential
matters such as number of members, voting procedures, mode of operation, and name.  The
only body anywhere in the world that approximated a secondary House of Justice was the
Executive Board of the Bahai Temple Unity in the United States, a relatively weak institution
that only existed to carry out the decisions of the annual national convention.
Without the necessary structure of local and national bodies, election of the Universal
House of Justice according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instructions was impossible; without a pool of
believers experienced in administering the affairs of the community, Shoghi Effendi
concluded that it was also simply impractical.  As one American pilgrim who was visiting
Palestine at the time of the consultation put it succinctly in a letter home: “It seems that
before the Universal House can be established the Local and National Houses of Justice must
be functioning in those countries where there are Bahá’ís.”417  A preliminary stage of
administrative development, then, faced believers around the world.  Shoghi Effendi sent his
consultants home to Germany, Britain, France, and the United States to inform their
respective communities of the task of forming local and national bodies—following ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s usage, he settled on the temporary title of “Spiritual Assemblies” to avoid any
appearance that the Bahá’ís were attempting to usurp civil governments—in anticipation of
the election of the Universal House of Justice.418  (Those invited from India and Iran arrived
too late for the consultations but received similar instructions.)419

417 Ibid., Priceless Pearl, 56.

418 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol. 1 (Chicago: Bahá’í Publishing Society, 1909), 6,
http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/tab-12.html#pg6.

419 Rabbani, Priceless Pearl, 56.


Roy Wilhelm and Mountfort Mills, both members of the Executive Board, were to
report the results of the Haifa meeting to the annual convention in the United States, held in
April in Chicago.  A lengthy letter from Shoghi Effendi, forwarded to all the local
communities in the country shortly before the convention, reinforced “the necessity of having
a local Spiritual Assembly in every locality where the number of adult declared believers
exceed nine, and of making provisions for the indirect election of a Body that shall
adequately represent the interest of all the friends and Assemblies throughout the American
Continent.”420  In lieu of the previous ad hoc system of autonomous groups and committees,
Shoghi Effendi said the elected national body should directly supervise such national matters
as publications and periodicals, teaching, the temple project, archives, membership, and “the
racial question in relation to the Cause” by appointing committees responsible to it.421
The convention, the first held since the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, was an important
moment in the movement’s transition to Shoghi Effendi’s leadership.  The testimonials of
those who had just returned from Haifa helped cement the loyalty of the delegates to their
new Guardian.  Mountfort Mills spoke passionately:
All the complex problems of the great statesmen of the world are as child’s play in
comparison with the great problems of this youth, before whom are the problems of
the entire world….  No one can form any conception of his difficulties, which are
overwhelming….  He is indeed young in face, form and manner, yet his heart is the
center of the world today.  The character and spirit divine scintillate from him today.
He alone can today save the world and make true civilization.422

The convention responded promptly to Shoghi Effendi’s written and verbal instructions.   As
Louis Gregory put it in his report of the proceedings, “It became apparent to all that the time

420 Star of the West 13, no 4 (17 May 1922): 84.

421 Ibid., 87.

422 Ibid, 68.


of the organization of the Divine Kingdom on earth has come and is in process, not according
to human limitations, but in harmony with Supreme Wisdom.”423  The convention
discontinued the Executive Board, replacing it with a new nine-member body, the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, the name suggested by
Shoghi Effendi, and dissolving its committee in charge of publishing Star of the West in
favor of a new board appointed by the National Spiritual Assembly.424  By December, Shoghi
Effendi could write of his satisfaction with the steps the new body had taken to “consolidate
the foundations of the Movement in America,” especially by “centralizing the work” in its
own hands and “distributing it to the various committees” it had appointed, for the temple
project, publishing and literature review, teaching, and children’s education.425  It was the
beginning of an intensive period of administrative development that would last more than a
decade.
From 1922 to the middle of the 1930s, Shoghi Effendi and the Bahá’ís of the United
States wove together the strands of a distinctive Bahá’í system of governance that served as a
model for developments in other countries.  In their writings, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had delineated its founding principles, among them the spiritual nobility of all participants;
the fundamental unity of the body politic; obedience to and love of individuals for their
institutions; avoidance of schism, partisanship, or special interests; collaborative, non-
adversarial decision-making; the importance of consensus and concerted action; and the
essential role of such spiritual qualities as selflessness, humility, and courtesy.  Specific

423 Ibid., 92.

424 Ibid.,  80.

425 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922-1932, 6th ed. (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1995), 28-9.


practices and procedures, however, had to be worked out by the Bahá’ís themselves.
Generally, Shoghi Effendi refrained from insisting on procedural matters, deferring the
establishment of definite rules to the legislative authority of the Universal House of Justice.
In the mean time, he preferred to allow the community and its institutions to experiment in
the light of principle and attempt to reach their own conclusions about best practices.
Through extensive correspondence with institutions and individuals and through personal
interaction with pilgrims (essentially the same tools that had been at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
disposal), Shoghi Effendi kept abreast of every development, providing encouragement,
raising questions, referring to relevant principles, or gently directing as necessary.
With Shoghi Effendi’s guidance, the American community tackled a variety of issues,
some of them rather complex.  The beginning of the administrative year was set at the
Festival of Ridván (April 21-May 2), the anniversary of Bahá’u’lláh’s public declaration of
his mission in 1863, with all Local Spiritual Assemblies as well as the National Spiritual
Assembly elected then.  The movement’s annual convention, a tradition since 1909, evolved
into the Bahá’í National Convention, an institution in its own right which met during the
Ridván Festival to elect the new National Spiritual Assembly and provide it with counsel
about the affairs of the faith around the country.   Delegates to the National Convention were
reapportioned based on the population of local Bahá’í communities, necessitating the
creation of uniform criteria and a formal process for enrolling as a member of the faith and
maintaining reliable lists of believers.  Voting procedures at the National Convention were
refined to ensure the full freedom of the electors, including eliminating the practice of
nominations and adopting plurality, rather than majority, voting for the nine members of the
National Spiritual Assembly.  With the consolidation of national committees, a single


national budget was introduced, along with methods for ensuring adequate regular financial
support for the National Spiritual Assembly and its agencies; to ensure the independence of
the movement from special interests and underline the devotional nature of giving, financial
contributions could only come from members of the faith.  The Green Acre summer school,
previously under the direction of a private board of trustees, gradually came under the
direction of the National Spiritual Assembly, and two additional summer school campuses, in
Davidson, Michigan, and Geyserville, California, were acquired.  National and local
constitutions and by-laws were adopted, and the National Spiritual Assembly and strong
Local Spiritual Assemblies were incorporated.  Systems of communication were developed
among the National Spiritual Assembly, the Local Spiritual Assemblies, and the body of the
believers, promoting a general atmosphere of trust and cooperation.  Members of institutions,
national and local, learned in practice about consultative decision-making, pioneering a new
political language of moderation, collaboration, and dignity and establishing norms and
procedures for cases of disagreement.  The practice of the Nineteen Day Feast at the
grassroots of the movement was refined as the National Assembly encouraged local groups
to hold the Feast regularly and to add a period of community consultation and information-
sharing to its devotional and social portions.426
As challenging and time-consuming as it was to build the system outlined in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s will, Shoghi Effendi repeatedly reminded the members of the National Spiritual
Assembly and the entire community that its fundamental purpose was to harmonize the

426 For discussion of the relationship between Shoghi Effendi and the American community in the development
of the Bahá’í administrative system, see Loni Bramson, “The Plans of Unified Action: A Survey,” in Bahá’ís in
the West, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 14, ed. Peter Smith (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004),
154-197; Loni Bramson-Lerche, “Some Aspects of the Development of the Bahá’í Administrative Order in
America, 1922-1936,” in Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 1, ed. Momen, 254-300; and Arash Abizadeh,
“Democratic Elections without Campaigns?: Normative Foundations of National Bahá’í Elections,” World
Order, 37, no. 1 (2005): 7-49.


efforts of the Bahá’ís and to canalize the transformative spiritual powers inherent in their
faith.  In the “World Order Letters,” a series of seven lengthy letters written between 1929
and 1936, and a host of shorter communications, he explained that the “Administrative
Order” that the Bahá’ís were constructing was not simply a system for the organization of
one tiny religious faction among many in the world, but the “nucleus” and “pattern” of the
“New World Order” brought by the promised one of all the scriptures of the past, the
structural basis of the Christ-promised Kingdom of God on earth.427  With the death of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he said, the faith had passed to a “stage of transition,” a “Formative Period” or
“Iron Age,” in which its worldwide institutions would be built.428  Specifically, the local and
national Spiritual Assemblies constituted the “bedrock” of the Universal House of Justice,
which Bahá’u’lláh had named as the supreme organ of the global commonwealth that would
emerge in humanity’s “Golden Age.”429  Not until they functioned “vigorously and
harmoniously” could that body be brought into being, ushering in a new period of “universal
recognition and world achievements” for the faith.430  For individuals raised in a political
culture characterized by skepticism of government and intense partisanship and which often
seemed to prize the unfettered right of individual self-expression above all else, it was
perhaps only the vision of Bahá’u’lláh’s ultimate purpose for humanity that enabled them to
create an alternative system with distinctly Bahá’í characteristics.

427 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, 1st pocket-size ed. (1938; Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991).

428 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, 42; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By (1944; Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1974), 324.

429 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, 63, 111; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 324.

430 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, 63.


While Shoghi Effendi’s part in the process could often seem gentle and indirect, he
concerned himself with the workings of each part in the new system, including every national
committee and local community, particularly early in the process of administrative
development.  In his December 1922 letter to the National Spiritual Assembly, for example,
he asked that the Local Spiritual Assemblies communicate not only with their national body,
but directly with him.  He requested “to receive as soon as possible from every local
assembly a detailed and official report on their spiritual activities, the character and
organization of their respective assemblies, accounts of their public and private gatherings, of
the actual position of the Cause in their province, and of their plans and arrangements for the
future.”431
Shoghi Effendi’s presence was felt even among the tiny group of Bahá’ís in the
Augusta area.  In January 1923, he wrote collectively to them and to thirty other local
communities in North America—from Santa Rosa, California and Bisbee, Arizona to Ithaca,
New York and St. John’s, New Brunswick—whose numbers were not large enough to form a
Local Spiritual Assembly.  The letter is exemplary of his style of leadership for its care and
specificity; its elevated language; its messages of encouragement, urgency, and confidence in
the abilities of the believers and in the power of divine assistance; and its reliance on
passages of scripture for inspiration and reflection.  Listing each city and town by name,
Shoghi Effendi encouraged the small groups of believers to rely on the heavenly forces at
their disposal, persevere in teaching the faith, and remain focused on the long-term goal of
the regeneration of the world.  He said that although their numbers were “small and limited,”
through the “Celestial Potency bequeathed” to them by the departed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, each
“small company” would “expand and wield such power and influence as no earthly power

431 Ibid., 30.


can ever hope for or attain.”  The faith, he said, quoting words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, was at the
“‘beginning of its growth,’” but the powers within it would “‘gradually appear and be made
manifest.’”  It marched inexorably forward according to the will of God, “lead[ing] humanity
to its glorious destiny.”  In the midst of widespread pessimism about the state of the world,
he said the duty of each Bahá’í was to “arise with greater confidence than ever before,
endeavoring to clear the mists of hate and prejudice that have dimmed the vision of mankind
and, relying upon these assuring words of [‘Abdu’l-Bahá], point out to a weary world the
Way of True Salvation.”  Finally, he enumerated specific goals for each locality: “I very
eagerly await the news of the progress of the Movement in your cities and shall be grateful
and delighted to hear that you have reinforced your numbers, extended your activities,
established a centre and founded a Spiritual Assembly that shall direct and co-ordinate your
efforts for the promotion of the Cause.”432  Through letters such as these, Shoghi Effendi
sought to stimulate the grassroots of the American community and to impart a sense of
shared responsibility for the development of the religion’s institutions.  In effect, he was
letting the small circle of believers in Augusta and the other localities know that the head of
their faith knew who they were, loved them, and had great expectations for them.

Teaching Methods
As Bramson has noted, the development of the Bahá’í administrative structure during the
1920s and 1930s included certain elements of centralization and standardization, such as
improving the religious education of members and new converts, increasing the national

432 Star of the West 14, no. 2 (May 1923): 48.  During the ministry of Shoghi Effendi, the term “center” was
used in two senses in the Bahá’í community, referring on the one hand (as here) to an organized group of
believers, and on the other (usually capitalized) to a room or building dedicated to the group’s community
functions.


community’s financial strength, and, through two “Plans of Unified Action” (1926-1928 and
1931-1934), introducing the element of collective planning for the religion’s growth.  In the
essential work of teaching the faith, however, the period was characterized more by
decentralization, with the net effect of developing new teaching methods and involving a
larger number of Bahá’ís in carrying them out.  These new approaches to teaching had an
impact on the Augusta area, enabling the community to grow more steadily than before and,
by the mid-1930s, to elect the first Local Spiritual Assembly anywhere in the Carolinas and
Georgia.
During the 1920s and 1930s, the National Spiritual Assembly and its agencies tried a
variety of approaches to stimulating, organizing, and carrying out teaching activities.
Throughout the period, the National Assembly charged its National Teaching Committee,
heir to the Committee of Nineteen formed in response to the Tablets of the Divine Plan, with
coordinating teaching around the country.  During much of the period, the National Teaching
Committee included an executive chairman and five regional chairmen (corresponding to the
five regions in the Tablets of the Divine Plan), each responsible for arranging teaching
conferences, public meetings, and circuits by traveling teachers.  At the same time, the first
Plan of Unified Action called for local communities to take the lead in teaching.  The
National Assembly asked Local Spiritual Assemblies to appoint local teaching committees to
organize similar efforts in each community.433  By the late 1920s, the National Teaching
Committee was focusing on assisting the Local Spiritual Assemblies with “extension
teaching projects” in which believers from an established locality systematically visited a
nearby city or town to establish a new community there.  It was also trying to encourage the

433 Bramson, “Plans of Unified Action,” 161.


three summer schools and the Local Spiritual Assemblies to train more Bahá’ís as
teachers.434
The onset of the Great Depression spurred further decentralization of teaching by
necessitating that a larger number of Bahá’ís at the local level take on responsibility for
propagation of the faith.  In the midst of unprecedented financial straits, with the completion
of the temple project commanding the lion’s share of the movement’s national budget, the
National Spiritual Assembly and its agencies could not fund traveling teachers and large
public meetings (the Race Amity Conventions initiated at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s request and, from
1925 to 1928, a similar series called the World Unity Conferences) to the extent that they had
before.  In the context of the Depression, if the faith was to gain new adherents, it would
depend on the initiative of the grassroots of the community.
Crucial to the decentralization of teaching was the thought and influence of Leroy
Ioas, a member of the National Teaching Committee beginning in 1932 and its chairman for
fourteen years.  Ioas, whose German immigrant parents had embraced the faith in Chicago in
1898, was a railway manager by profession, and he brought energy, efficiency, and vision to
the work of the committee.  He championed a method of teaching he termed the “fireside
meeting,” or simply “fireside” (a name perhaps influenced by President Franklin D.
Roosevelt’s “fireside chats,” regular radio addresses, inaugurated in March 1933, in which he
explained to the public government responses to Depression).  In a fireside meeting, a Bahá’í
invited prospective seekers to his or her home, showed warm hospitality, and shared the faith
in a conversational fashion.

434 National Teaching Committee, 1935 Annual Report, quoted in Roger Dahl, “Three Teaching Methods Used
during North America’s First Seven Year Plan,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 5, no. 3 (1993), 3.


Ioas believed that the fireside would enable every Bahá’í to become a teacher,
increase the pool of interested contacts in each locality, and broaden the audience for other
forms of teaching, such as lectures.  Traveling lecturers had tended to receive the most
attention in Bahá’í publications, perhaps contributing to a sense among some in the
community that only good public speakers could be considered teachers of the faith.  “We
sincerely hope to have you here to speak on the Bahai Cause later in the spring,” Louise
Talbott of Augusta had written to Joseph Hannen in 1917.  “We try in a quiet way to interest
people, but are poor talkers generally in large gatherings.”435  For Ioas, such a dependence on
skilled public speakers not only artificially limited the pool of teachers in the community, but
it ran contrary to the call in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings for every believer, not a specific class of
ministers or missionaries, to teach the faith.  It also missed the point that most of the growth
of the faith in the United States—as in the cases of Washington and Augusta—had been as a
result of the kind of intimate, home-based teaching of friends, family members, and
neighbors that he was now calling the fireside.  Writing for the National Teaching Committee
in a 1936 bulletin, Ioas outlined the advantages of the method:
The fireside method of teaching is the simplest and most important kind of teaching
because it is within the ability of every Bahá’í.  Statistics show that more people are
attracted to the Faith by this means than by all the public meetings held by all the
Assemblies in a year.  It is simple because each one works with his own friends and
acquaintances in the friendly atmosphere of his own home, sharing with them as
much of the Precious Gift as he possesses.  And it is important because it provides
opportunity for teaching services for those who cannot do public platform work….
Everyone responds to hospitality and the hospitality of the Bahá’í home which is
permeated with the Holy Spirit has an almost mysterious effect upon the guest.  In
such an atmosphere the conversation sooner or later turns to spiritual matters, and
thus the opportunity for teaching is afforded….  These fireside meetings should never
be large.  The small gathering is more effective because it is always easier to establish
a point of contact with one or two individuals than with a group of widely varied
interests and backgrounds, and this point of contact must be reached before any

435 Margaret Klebs and Louise Talbott to Joseph Hannen, answered 20 March 1917, Hannen-Knobloch Family
Papers, NBA.


teaching can begin….  There should be a number of these intimate, conversational
gatherings during which the individual may ask those questions which are uppermost
in his mind.  When they have been answered to the satisfaction of the inquirer, then
the foundation should be laid for an orderly study of the Faith in a study class which
will instruct him “in what manner the Religion of God hath been founded and what its
object is.”436

The study classes mentioned by Ioas were another long-standing teaching method that
was to some extent formalized in the 1920s and 1930s.  The National Teaching Committee
reported that most local communities had some type of study class, “a versatile and effective
medium of teaching,” by 1932:
Probably very few study groups are of the same type.  They are large and small,
public and private, for inquirers, new believers and confirmed Bahá’ís of long
standing.  They are usually based on one or more of the study outlines distributed by
the National Bahá’í Study Committee or upon some Bahá’í book.  They have resulted
in a deeper knowledge of the teachings, the development of active workers and
teachers, and many new believers.”437

As part of its efforts to define Bahá’í membership and ensure integrity of the faith’s
teachings, the National Spiritual Assembly’s policy, at least from 1935 on, was that seekers’
initial education on the fundamentals of the faith should happen before their enrollment in the
community.  Study classes, then, became an important route for cultivating new believers.438
Across the country, the number of firesides and study classes increased during the
1930s.  Combined with a more widespread observance of the Nineteen Day Feast and Holy
Days and, in some localities, activities for children and youth, they made for a more robust
local Bahá’í organization and a broader reach into the life of the community at large.  In
some areas, they received a boost from or were started as a result of visits by traveling

436 National Teaching Committee, “Teaching the Bahá’í Faith,” 1936, quoted in Dahl, “Three Teaching
Methods,” 4.

437 Ibid., 5.

438 Dahl, “Three Teaching Methods,” 4-5.


teachers, who could often reach a wider audience through public talks and then channel the
most interested to regular firesides and study groups.439  A handful of American believers
specialized in what they called “teaching campaigns,” visiting one city for a week or more to
give a well-planned series of public lectures that culminated in the formation of a study
group.440

Charleston, Columbia, Orangeburg, and Sumter
During the 1920s and 1930s, national developments in teaching and administration were
reflected in the activities of Bahá’ís in the Augusta area and other localities in South
Carolina.  However, the absence of long-term settlers outside of Augusta and North Augusta
meant that the gains elsewhere were mostly short-lived.  Experiences of Bahá’í visitors in
several South Carolina localities during the period provide an instructive counterpoint to the
relatively robust growth of the Augusta-area community.
In the two decades after the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Louis Gregory continued
unabated his travels through the South and other parts of the country, and he adapted his
long-standing practices to new developments in teaching and administration.  For example, in
December 1931 he helped start a Bahá’í study class during a brief visit to Atlanta, and in the
winter and spring of 1934, he resided for several months in Nashville, where he taught a
study class on the Fisk University campus, confirmed six new believers, and enabled the
community to elect its first Local Spiritual Assembly.441  He tried similar methods in South
Carolina.  During a fall 1924 tour of Virginia, the Carolinas, Alabama, and Tennessee,

439 Ibid., 4.

440 Ibid., 5-10.

441 Morrison, To Move the World, 191, 242-3.


Gregory spent twelve days in Sumter, South Carolina, a town some sixty miles east of
Columbia.  He reported speaking to about five hundred students at Morris College, founded
in 1908 by South Carolina’s black Baptists, and to some 1400 students at Lincoln Public
School.  He also spoke at an African Methodist Episcopal church, two white Baptist
churches, and a Presbyterian school.  A report of his visit stated that there were enough
“deeply interested” people in Sumter to form a “small reading circle,” but it is unclear
whether a group ever actually formed.442
From Sumter, Gregory returned to his hometown of Charleston.  However, unlike
Sumter, for some reason he did not recommend the creation of a study group there, despite
evidence of receptivity to the faith.  In the space of eight days, Gregory gave talks in five
churches, six schools, and two “small interested groups.”443  It was probably also during his
1924 visit to Charleston that Gregory called at the home of Clarence W. Westendorff.  A
white South Carolina native, Westendorff was a former automobile salesman who owned a
gas station on St. Philip Street, just two blocks from Gregory’s childhood home.444  He lived
two more blocks east on Wentworth Street with his wife and five children and several
boarders.445  While it is unclear how Westendorff first came to his attention, Gregory had
written to him about the faith and included a Bahá’í text.  The National Teaching
Committee’s regional chairwoman for the southern states recounted the story to the 1925
national convention:

442 “News of the Cause,” Bahai News Letter, no. 4 (April 1925), 4.

443 Ibid.

444 Walsh’s 1925-1926 Charleston, South Carolina, City Directory (Charleston: Southern Printing & Publishing
Co., 1925), 505.

445 Fourteenth Census, 1920.


Mr. Gregory had written to this name and he went to the address and asked if any
Bahais lived there, and a voice responded, “Yes, I got the letter, and I am a Bahai.”
He had been given the Word and had set forth immediately to spread the teachings
that the little book taught him, and he said: “This is the best thing in the world.”  He
began to preach on the street corners, until finally the mayor sent for him.  He said the
mayor said it was not permissible for him to preach on the main street.  He was
imprisoned several times.  He said he told them, “When I was among you as a
Christian, you let me alone; but now I am rising you put me in jail.”  It was for the
sake of his children that he stopped this propaganda in the streets of Charleston.  It
seems they began to be persecuted in the streets, and then our good friend Gregory
advised him not to work in that way, not so melodramatic.446

In contrast to the plight of Alonzo Twine, the administrative development of the American
Bahá’í community meant that Clarence Westendorff did not remain completely isolated in
his new belief.  After Gregory’s visit, he was apparently listed as a Bahá’í and began to
receive the national newsletter.  However, there was still no local community—indeed, no
other single believer—with whom he could associate and form bonds.
Indeed, Louis Gregory visited Charleston at least two more times in the next several
years, but still no local Bahá’í community emerged.  One trip was unplanned.  In October
1929, Louis Gregory was called to Charleston for the funeral of his beloved stepfather,
George Gregory.  The elder Gregory, aged just shy of eighty-seven years, had died after
being accidentally struck by a truck before dawn one morning.447  He had long been a
supporter of his son’s work for the Bahá’í Faith and of his marriage.  “I am glad to hear from
you all your travels,” he had written early in 1914.  “You seem to be going all over the
Country ….  I hope you may live long to do good for the Master….  God bless you and wife.
I am praying for you both.”448  After the funeral, Louis Gregory said that “more of the spirit
and understanding [of the Bahá’í Faith] had penetrated him than his son had dared to hope

446 “Seventeenth Annual Convention [1925],” 61-2.

447 George Gregory, South Carolina Death Records, SCDAH.

448 George Gregory to Louis G. Gregory, 20 Jan. 1914, Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.


for in one so advanced in years.”  He had taken a “deep interest in the Cause, distributed the
literature” to friends in Charleston, and helped to arrange meetings during his son’s visits.
The funeral itself gave an indication of George Gregory’s standing in the community and the
extensive social network he apparently drew on to promote the faith.  About a thousand
people, both black and white, attended, and seven clergymen took part in the service.  The
Mickey Funeral Home, owned by local NAACP founders Richard and Edward Mickey,
handled the arrangements.  Louis Gregory read Bahá’í prayers as part of the program.449
Only a year and a half after his stepfather’s death, in early 1931, Louis Gregory returned to
Charleston as part of an extended trip through Maryland, Virginia, and the Carolinas.  He
spoke at five churches, a Catholic high school, and the Book Lovers’ Club, a black women’s
literary and service society.450  Still, however, there was no indication of an opening to start a
study class in the city.
Also in 1931, the National Spiritual Assembly’s Racial Amity Committee began
sending interracial teams on teaching tours to southern colleges and schools.  Shoghi Effendi
had suggested the idea some time before.  Perhaps encouraged by growing evidence of racial
liberalism and student activism on the region’s college campuses, brought on in part by the
social and economic dislocation of the Great Depression, the committee consulted with Will
W. Alexander of Atlanta, a founder of the Commission on Interracial Cooperation.
Alexander assured the committee that the participants in such a plan “would meet with many
agreeable surprises,” and the committee solicited volunteers at the next national

449 “Teaching Work of Mr. Gregory,” Baha’i News Letter, no. 38 (February 1930), 8; Gregory, South Carolina
Death Records.

450 “Annual Committee Reports, 1930-31: Teaching,” Baha’i News, no. 51 (Apr. 1931), 4.


convention.451  The first team to make a trip consisted of Chauncey Northern of New York
City and Philip Marangella of Portsmouth, New Hampshire.  Northern, a twenty-seven-year-
old black man whose family had migrated north from Hampton, Virginia, was a professional
singer.  He lived at home on the edge of Harlem with his parents, six siblings, his wife, and a
sister-in-law.452  Marangella’s family had migrated from their village in the Potenza region of
southern Italy to New York when he was an infant.453  Married and the father of two children
at age 36, he was an accountant and an amateur poet who frequently contributed to artistic
programs at Green Acre.454  The two developed a presentation of the Bahá’í teachings using
song, poetry, and speech and traveled by car together in the autumn of 1931, first to
Washington and Baltimore and then through Virginia and the Carolinas.
In Richmond, they were “happily received” by Samuel C. Mitchell, professor of
history at the University of Richmond and former president of the University of South
Carolina, who had heard ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speak at the Lake Mohonk conference in 1912.455  In
Columbia, Northern and Marangella spoke at the University of South Carolina “through the
courtesy of Professors in ethics and educational philosophy.”456  They also met Josiah Morse,
chair of the Department of Psychology and Philosophy, whom Louis Gregory had met a
decade earlier and who had promoted interracial student exchanges.  Morse’s colleagues and

451 In The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol.  7, 1936-1938, comp. National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. 1939; repr., Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980) , 664;
“The Heart of Dixie: Teaching Amity in the South,” Baha’i News, no. 58 (January 1932), 2-3.

452 Fifteenth Census, 1930.

453 World War I Selective Service System Draft Registration Cards, 1917-1918, National Archives and Records
Administration, Washington, DC, http://www.ancestry.com.

454 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Portsmouth Herald, 21 August 1930 and 17 September 1930.

455 “Heart of Dixie,” 2-3.

456 Ibid., 3.


students respected him as “a pioneer in the field of racial relationships in the South” and as a
person who was concerned with “the oppressed, underprivileged and neglected classes of
Society.”457  The university’s student newspaper, usually silent on racial issues, carried no
news of the activities of Northern and Marangella.  But about the time of their visit it did
report public remarks by Morse that closely resembled Bahá’í teachings.  The “campus
philosopher” told his ethics class:
Justice is represented as blindfolded.  She has no regard for race, relation, or wealth.
The world today is being weighed and I am afraid it will be found wanting.  We have
come to a turning point in the history of man.  The time has come for the young
people to think clearly and put an end to these age-old hatreds or there will be an end
to mankind.  It is up to you to think broadly and put an end to patriotism that carries a
chip on its shoulder all the time!  Put an end to hatred—national, religious, and
racial!458

Also in Columbia, Marangella and Northern spoke at two black institutions, Benedict
College and Allen University, founded by the state’s African Methodist Episcopal Church in
1870.  Located on adjacent campuses in the heart of Columbia’s main black commercial and
residential neighborhood, Allen and Benedict had likely received Louis Gregory and Roy
Williams during their 1919-1921 teaching trips through the region.
In Orangeburg, Northern and Marangella visited two more black institutions, Claflin
University and the Colored Normal, Industrial, Agricultural, and Mechanical College (known
as “State College”), chartered by the South Carolina General Assembly in 1896 following
adoption of the state’s Jim Crow constitution.  Like Allen and Benedict in Columbia, they
were located on adjacent campuses that formed the cultural and intellectual hub of black

457 The Gamecock (University of South Carolina, Columbia) 25, no. 8 (5 November 1931), 1; Memorial
resolution for Josiah Morse, n.d. [1946], Samuel M. Derrick Papers, South Caroliniana Library, University of
South Carolina, Columbia (hereafter cited as SCL).

458 The Gamecock 25, no. 8 (5 November 1931), 2.


Orangeburg.459  The duo found receptive audiences of “theologians and students” in
Orangeburg, and several of their listeners recalled “previous visits of other teachers of the
Bahá’í Cause,” probably Gregory and Williams.  A dean at one of the colleges said he would
start a Bahá’í study group “as soon as literature was received for it.”460  As in Sumter, it is
unclear whether the national movement responded to the opportunity.

Teaching and Community Development in Augusta
Unlike Charleston, Columbia, Orangeburg, and Sumter, the Augusta area had a small group
of resident believers, at least a few of whom were relatively well deepened in the Bahá’í
teachings and connected to the mainstream of the American movement.  They pursued their
own means of spreading the faith locally, often advertizing their activities in the press.
Margaret Klebs hosted firesides at her studio, and she met new people to teach when she
started music classes in nearby small towns, including Waynesboro, the seat of Burke
County, Georgia, some 30 miles from Augusta, and Johnston, South Carolina, a black-
majority town in Edgefield County some twenty-five miles from North Augusta.461  Esther
Sego met people through participation in several local choirs.462
The local Bahá’ís were able to capitalize on the assistance of traveling teachers by
inviting their own contacts to lectures, securing venues and advance publicity, arranging
smaller meetings in homes, and following up when the visitors had departed.  Lorol
Schopflocher visited Augusta in April 1933.  A Bahá’í from Montreal whose husband, a

459 Newby, Black Carolinians, 260-4.

460 “Heart of Dixie,” 2-3.

461 Augusta Chronicle, 31 January 1926, B3; 8 November 1927, 3; 13 November 1927; and 29 May 1928, 8.

462 Augusta Chronicle, 21 June 1928, 3; 27 April 1930, A6; and 4 June 1934, 2.


wealthy industrialist, was a member of the National Spiritual Assembly, Schopflocher had
travelled widely around the world, combining work for the League of Nations Union with
Bahá’í teaching.463  Back in North America, she often visited Bahá’í communities giving
lectures accompanied by moving pictures of her world travels.  In 1933, the presentation
from her most recent world tour included scenes of California and Hawaii, war-torn
Manchuria, Burma, other sites in Europe and Asia, and the Bahá’í World Center in Palestine.
A “large and appreciative audience,” including many who responded to advance advertizing
and whom the local believers had not invited personally, came to Augusta’s YMCA for the
evening’s program, which included songs by Margaret Klebs and one of her students as well
as Schopflocher’s movie.464
Another traveling teacher, Stanwood Cobb, visited the Augusta area in 1934 to
conduct a “teaching campaign.”  Cobb, a child of New England intellectuals with degrees
from Dartmouth College and Harvard Divinity School, was the founding director of the
Chevy Chase Country Day School in suburban Washington and a leader of the Progressive
Education Association.  He had become a Bahá’í at Green Acre in 1906, met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
five times in Palestine and the United States, and served as an editor of Star of the West and
its successor magazine, World Order, and as a member of the Local Spiritual Assembly of
Washington.465  Cobb was traveling under the auspices of the National Teaching Committee,
and Leroy Ioas asked Margaret Klebs and the other Bahá’ís and seekers in the Augusta area
to arrange venues for him.  Ioas suggested that “Women’s Clubs, Educational Societies,

463 Will. C. van den Hoonaard, “Siegfried Schopflocher,” draft article for the Bahá’í Encyclopedia project,
http://bahai-library.com/encyclopedia/schopflocher.html.

464 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2; Augusta Chronicle, 22 April 1933, 5.

465 “Stanwood Cobb,” in The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 18, 1979-1983, comp. Universal
House of Justice (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1986), 814-7.


Liberal Churches, Luncheon Clubs, etc. are all interested in and appreciate a lecture on the
Universal Principles of the new world order.”466   Cobb gave at least seven public lectures
during his stay in late March and early April.  His topics were wide ranging, reflecting both
his own interest and background and a desire among many American Bahá’ís, heightened
during the Great Depression, to relate the teachings of the faith to contemporary social issues.
They included “Constantinople Days,” an allusion to his time as a college professor in
Turkey and his writings presenting Islam to Western audiences; “Education in the Future
Baha’i State;” “The Unity of Science and Religion;” “A Planned Society,” relating to the
world order of Bahá’u’lláh; and “The New Deal in Washington,” certainly a timely topic but
unusual given the insistence of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi that the
Bahá’ís avoid any appearance of political partisanship.  In North Augusta, he spoke at the
high school auditorium to the PTA and the local American Legion.  In Augusta, he spoke at
the YMCA and in the auditorium of the Georgia Power Company building.467
After the Georgia Power meeting, “well attended by many teachers and Theosophists,
as well as representatives of various clubs and organizations,” the Bahá’ís invited some of
the guests who were “more than casually interested” to join a study group.468  Esther Sego
and Daisy Jackson Moore, who had returned to North Augusta from Savannah, were the only
experienced believers in the group.  The other participants were a virtual cross-section of the
Augusta area’s white middle and working classes, including its relatively large immigrant

466 Leroy Ioas to Margaret Klebs, 6 February 1934, Leroy Ioas Papers, NBA.

467 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2; “Stanwood Cobb, Eminent Baha’i Lecturer to Speak Here Tuesday,”
Augusta Chronicle, 25 March 1934, 14.

468 Marie Frain, “Baha’i History of Augusta, Georgia,” TS, ABA, 1.


population.469  They met at the home of Marie Kershaw, the city’s only female physician, on
Carolina Avenue in North Augusta.470  Kershaw had attended Cobb’s lectures at the
prompting of friends of hers, William and Christine Bidwell, who had just moved to the area
from Miami and were staying at her house until they could get settled.  He was a Tennessee
native and a naturopathic physician, and she was from a farm near Pendleton in South
Carolina’s upper Piedmont.   The Bidwells had recently become Bahá’ís in Miami, the
southernmost outpost of the faith in the United States.471  New believers who had studied the
faith little, they joined the group along with Kershaw.  Mary Biggar Andrews had also
encountered the faith before.  Her sister, Louise Biggar Talbott, who had moved away to
New York, had been one of the early believers in the Augusta area, and she may have
attended the talk by traveling teacher Martha Root at the home of another sister, Nellie Baird,
in 1921.  A recent widow and the mother of two teenage girls, she ran an antique business.472
There were other professionals besides Marie Kershaw and William Bidwell.
Josephine MacDonald was an attorney.  A South Carolina native, she was married to another
attorney and the mother of teenaged children.  They lived on Gwinnett Street south of
Augusta’s central business district.473  Elkin Vogt, a physician, was an instructor at the
University of Georgia Medical School.  Born and raised in Atlanta, he was a son of
immigrants from Alsace-Lorraine and Germany and had come to Augusta as a student.  At

469 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2.

470 Polk’s Augusta (Richmond County, Georgia) City Directory, 1938 (Richmond, Va.: R. L. Polk & Co., 1938),
878-9.

471 W. T. Bidwell, “Memories,” TS, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA, 1; Twelfth Census, 1900; Fifteenth
Census, 1930.

472 Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 33.

473 Fourteenth Census, 1920.


age thirty, he and his wife, Dorothea, were just starting a family.474  Both joined the study
group.  Anna Krogius, an immigrant from Finland, was single at age fifty-six.  A massage
therapist, she lived on Heard Lane in the Summerville neighborhood west of downtown.475
Others in the group were lower-middle class or working class.  Sophie Wallace, a
Georgia native, was a housewife with two children at home.  Her husband was a locomotive
engineer.  They lived on Greene Street in downtown Augusta.476  Ailene Fletcher, a Georgia
native, was a widow with two teenage children.  She ran a beauty salon out of her home on
Broad Street, a few blocks from Sophie Wallace.  Her nineteen-year-old son Clay also joined
the study group.477   Vivian Hoffman, age twenty-three and a Georgia native, lived at home
on Reynolds Street downtown with her father, an automobile machinist, and her mother, a
housewife.  She worked as a secretary in an eyeglass store.478  Claire Glover, in her mid-
thirties and single, lived in a rural district outside North Augusta and worked as a clerk for
the Post Office in Augusta.479  Morgan Barton, a machinist for the Georgia Railroad and a
Georgia native, lived on Martintown Road outside North Augusta in a working-class
neighborhood.  His father had migrated south from New York and his mother was a South

474 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 549.

475 List of aliens, SS Stockholm sailing from Gothenburg, Sweden, 10 January 1920; List of US citizens, SS
Kosciuszko sailing from Copenhagen, 8 October 1930, both in Passenger and Crew Lists of Vessels Arriving at
New York, 1897-1957, microfilm, Records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, National Archives,
Washington, DC, http://www.ancestry.com.

476 Fifteenth Census, 1930.

477 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 191.

478 Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 263.

479 Augusta City Directory, 1937, 214.


Carolinian born to German immigrants.  In his mid-thirties, he was married and the father of
two young children.480
Several members of the study group evidently identified themselves as Bahá’ís
immediately; by the Ridván Festival at the end of April, less than a month after Cobb’s
lectures, the group expected to elect a Local Spiritual Assembly.  The National Spiritual
Assembly, however, apparently concerned at most of the participants’ inexperience,
informed them in a letter that, as one participant recalled, they “would have to stay a Study
Group for a whole year in order to be deepened in the Teachings.”  Over the next year,
between fifteen and twenty-three believers and seekers met each Wednesday night at Marie
Kershaw’s house in North Augusta.481  Their topics of study, including progressive
revelation, the life of Bahá’u’lláh, and health and healing, were reported in the local press,
usually with extensive, factual coverage or a complete reproduction of the lesson.482  After a
year of such study, the National Spiritual Assembly recognized the group’s participants as
Bahá’ís and gave permission to form a Local Spiritual Assembly.  In April 1935, the
community met at Kershaw’s home for the election.  Two of the members were veteran
Bahá’ís, and seven were new.  Five members lived in North Augusta, and four in Augusta.
The cross-border body was the first Bahá’í administrative institution in either South Carolina
or Georgia.483

480 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 51.

481 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 1.

482 Augusta Chronicle, 27 May 1934, 15; 8 October 1934, 2; 26 November 1934, 8; 1 April 1935, 2; and 16
September 1935, 2.

483 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 1.  The local Spiritual Assemblies of Atlanta, Georgia, and Greenville, South
Carolina, were not elected until almost the end of the decade.


Notably absent from the study class and the Local Assembly was Margaret Klebs, the
founder of the community and its most experienced believer.  Apparently Klebs was
uncomfortable with the direction the class had taken, because she attempted to organize her
own group on Friday evenings.484  Perhaps she questioned the group’s grounding in the
teachings, or perhaps she felt sidelined or unappreciated as the community grew.  The
formation of the study group and the election of the first Local Assembly certainly coincided
with a period of declining mental and physical health and financial insecurity for Klebs that
limited her involvement in community activities, regardless of her personal feelings.  One of
the newer believers recalled that “Miss Klebs did not associate with our group,” but the
divide was not total.485  In April 1935, just before the election, Klebs fell and broke her hip,
an injury that necessitated a long convalescence.486  Members of the community, including
Esther Sego and Marie Kershaw, attempted to take care of her at home and solicited financial
contributions from her other Bahá’í friends around the country.487  In 1936, Klebs suffered
again from a “trying and serious illness” and spent many weeks in the hospital.488  She rallied
by the end of the year, preparing a Thanksgiving concert in appreciation for the doctors and
nurses who cared for her and announcing the opening of a “Baha’i Reading Room” on
Telfair Street—even though the community had already opened a Bahá’í Center on 13th

484 Minutes of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Eliot, Maine, 30 September 1934; and “Baha’u’llah Group,”
newspaper clipping, n.d., both in EBA.

485 Bidwell, “Memories,” 1.

486 Augusta Chronicle, 1 April 1935, 4, and 2 April 1935, 5.

487 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada to the Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Eliot, Maine, 25 June 1935 and 16 August 1935; and Esther B. Sego to Louise Thompson, 15 August
1935, all in EBA.

488 Augusta Chronicle, 2 December 1936, 4.


Street.489  During the summer of 1938, the Local Spiritual Assembly of Eliot, Maine tried to
care for Klebs as local residents and Green Acre guests complained about her increasingly
erratic and disruptive behavior.490  She returned to the Augusta area the following fall, and
died of pneumonia in January 1939.  The Local Assembly conducted the funeral service, the
Eliot Bahá’ís paid for flowers, and Daisy Jackson Moore’s mother donated a family cemetery
plot in North Augusta for her burial.491
Despite the discomfort Margaret Klebs may have had with the study group, it proved
an effective means of attracting seekers and confirming new believers in the faith.  Meeting
consistently over the course of several years, the participants ranged over Bahá’í introductory
texts, works of scripture, and the stories of the faith’s apostolic age.  The class was a venue
not only for participants to familiarize themselves with the history and teachings of the faith,
but also to form bonds of friendship and shared identity.  It was also a regular activity to
which new seekers could be easily invited.  According to one participant, between 1934 and
1938, the class completed courses on Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, a widely-used
introductory text; Bahá’í Administration, a compilation of letters of Shoghi Effendi; The
Kitáb-i-Iqán, Bahá’u’lláh’s exposition of the prophecies of the Bible and the Qur’án; Some
Answered Questions, compiled from a series of table talks by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, mostly on
Christian topics; Tablets of Abdul Baha Abbas, a three-volume compilation; and The

489 Augusta Chronicle, 18 November 1936, A10, and 2 December 1936, 4.

490 Minutes of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Eliot, Maine, 1, 5, and 6 June and 5 July 1938, EBA.

491 Augusta Chronicle, 11 January 1939, 5 and 12 January 1939, 2; Moore, Handwritten note to “George,”
ABA.


Dawnbreakers, Shoghi Effendi’s translation of a lengthy history of the birth and rise of the
faith in Iran.492
Late in 1936, an experienced Bahá’í family moved to Augusta from Chicago.  Zia
Bagdadi initially visited the area as a traveling teacher.  Of Iranian background but born and
raised in the Arab world of Lebanon and Palestine, Bagdadi had been a part of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s retinue during his 1911-1912 visits to the West, a member of the Executive Board of
Bahai Temple Unity, a champion of the temple project, and editor of the Farsi section of Star
of the West.493  A physician, he was one of the most active teachers of African Americans in
the Chicago Bahá’í community.  In August 1936 he made a two-week visit to Augusta,
speaking on one occasion to a local women’s luncheon club about the role of women in
establishing world peace.494  Members of the Augusta-area community persuaded Bagdadi to
move.  He returned later in the fall with his wife, Zeenat, who had grown up in the household
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa, and their young daughter.495  The Bagdadis and the Local
Assembly agreed to jointly rent a building on 13th Street in the heart of downtown Augusta
which would serve as the community’s Bahá’í Center, Bagdadi’s professional office, and a
residence for him and his family.  Soon the new Center filled with activities, the Nineteen
Day Feast, Holy Day observances, meetings of the Local Assembly, study group every
Wednesday night, lecture series, and informal dinners.  One believer recalled that the

492 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 1.

493 Zia M. Bagdadi, Passport Applications, January 2, 1906-March 31, 1925, microfilm, General Records of the
Department of State, National Archives, Washington, DC, http://www.ancestry.com.

494 Augusta Chronicle, 21 August 1936, 5.

495 Zeenat Bagdadi, Passport Applications, January 2, 1906-March 31, 1925, microfilm, General Records of the
Department of State, Record Group 59; National Archives, Washington, DC, http://www.ancestry.com.


Bagdadis “baked delicious chicken” and served Persian rice dishes.  Other meetings,
including firesides and Esperanto classes, took place in the homes of believers and seekers.496
By 1937, the community numbered more than thirty members and a network of
friends and seekers perhaps at least as large.  Many of the new believers were friends,
neighbors, and family members of the original study circle participants, and many accepted
the faith through the teaching of Zia Bagdadi.  Vivian Hoffman’s mother, Emma B.
Hoffman, a housewife, became a Bahá’í.497  So did Pawnee Barton, Morgan Barton’s wife.
Effird Lynch, a young clerk at a bakery and delicatessen, was Josephine MacDonald’s next-
door neighbor in Augusta.498  Carlton Sample, age thirty-five and single, had taken singing
lessons from Margaret Klebs.  A draftsman at the Lombard Iron Works, he lived in North
Augusta.499  The personal connections of some of the other new believers are less clear.
George Stevens Frain, age thirty-seven and single, lived on West Avenue in North Augusta
and owned a radio repair shop on 8th Avenue in Augusta.500  Ruth Johnson and Martina S.
Wise, both widows, shared a house down the street from Frain on West Avenue.  Wise, a
radiologist, was an immigrant from Germany.501  Donald Radford had grown up in Keysville
in rural Burke County south of Augusta, where his father ran a hardware store.  Age twenty-
two and single, he was the membership secretary at Augusta’s YMCA, where he also lived.502

496 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2; Frain, “Baha’i History,” 1-2.

497 Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2.

498 Augusta City Directory, 1937, 345.

499 Augusta City Directory, 1937, 471; Augusta Chronicle, 17 December 1933, 12.

500 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 195.

501 Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 301, 596.

502 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 442.


Mabelle Cartledge was a bookkeeper at the J.B. White & Company department store
downtown.503
At least two members of the Augusta community were African Americans.  Della
Scott lived on Gwinnett Street a few blocks from Josephine MacDonald and Effird Lynch,
but her personal connection with the Bahá’í Faith was from a different source.  Marie
Kershaw identified Scott as Esther Sego’s “old nurse.”504  Although Scott was only eight
years older than Sego, the age difference was enough that when Scott was a young teenager
she could indeed have served as a babysitter for Sego.  By the late 1930s, Scott was married
with grown children, only one of whom was still at home.  Her husband, Joseph Scott, was a
railroad porter.  They lived on a mostly black, mostly working-class block; a few of their
neighbors were black professionals.505  Kershaw recalled that Sego had introduced Scott to
the faith and that she “often carried the Message to her and took a few Friends in order to
have Prayers and Readings.”506  Another black believer was Fannie Gadson Toombs.  A
widow, she had three grown children, one from her first husband and two from her second.
She owned her own home on Camille Street in Bethlehem, one of Augusta’s principal black
neighborhoods on land formerly owned in part by the Jackson family.  Toombs had worked
as a domestic servant, but she was also a midwife.507  It is unclear how she learned of the faith
and became a Bahá’í.

503 Augusta City Directory, 1937, 112.

504 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 2.

505 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 478.

506 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 2.

507 Augusta City Directory, 1937, 539.


It is difficult to evaluate the extent to which Della Scott and Fannie Toombs
participated in the activities of the local Bahá’í community.  When Toombs died about 1939,
her passing was noted in the “In Memoriam” section of The Bahá’í World, a volume
compiled and published by the National Spiritual Assembly, indicating that she was officially
enrolled as a believer and that she probably received newsletters and other mail from the
national movement.508  Marie Kershaw’s recollections of the relationship between Esther
Sego and Della Scott may shed light on the situation.  Kershaw indicated that at least a few
other white Bahá’ís in addition to Sego knew Scott and visited her house for devotional or
study meetings, but in an otherwise rather detailed account of the community’s activities she
gave no indication that Scott ever came to the Bahá’í Center or at the homes of white
believers.
The most that can be assumed is that by 1937 the Augusta Bahá’í community was
only “partially-integrated.”  Beginning at least with the visit of Joseph Hannen and Margaret
Klebs to the Schofield School in 1914, white Bahá’ís believers had made attempts to teach
the faith to African Americans, but apparently inconsistently and with little tangible result.
White believers visited the small number of black believers in their homes for purposes of
religious practice, but blacks were functionally excluded from the other activities of the
community.  That is, individual whites were relatively free to discreetly cross lines of
residential segregation by visiting the homes of African Americans whom they knew, but the
same freedom did not apply in reverse.  Both black and white Bahá’ís could face adverse
social, economic, or even physical consequences if blacks visited white homes in any
capacity other than that of servant.  Even the sight of black and white Bahá’ís worshiping or

508 Bahá’í World, vol. 8, 1938-1940, 683.  Toombs was listed in the 1937 and 1938 Augusta city directories, but
not in the 1940 edition.


socializing together in the Bahá’í Center, a private establishment in the city’s central business
district, could have brought unwelcome attention.  Like Washington in the first decade of the
century, the Augusta community could not be characterized as truly interracial, but
essentially as a white community with a few black members.  Unlike Washington, however,
Augusta had no figure like the Hannens and Knoblochs to champion teaching among African
Americans and insist on their full integration.  In the absence of such a champion, it was easy
for white Bahá’ís to remain complacent, and interaction among white and black believers in
the Augusta area thus seems not to have contravened regional racial norms.
In less than a year that he lived in the Augusta area, Zia Bagdadi, previously one of
the most energetic proponents of interracialism in the Chicago Bahá’í community, seems to
have spearheaded new efforts to attract African Americans, with mixed results.509  Based on
contacts by Daisy Jackson Moore, he went with Marie Kershaw and Mabelle Cartledge to
Savannah to teach, speaking at Georgia State College (formerly Georgia State Industrial
College for Colored Youth) and befriending Augustus Harris, a prominent black physician,
and his wife.510  Closer to home, he spoke to “several hundred” people at one of Augusta’s
black Methodist churches.511
Bagdadi also pursued an interesting opening among working-class African Americans
in North Augusta at the home of Marie Kershaw’s washerwoman.  Kershaw recalled that

509 After the Chicago race riot in the summer of 1919, Bagdadi was among few whites who brought relief
supplies into affected black neighborhoods.  Among the most active Bahá’ís in Chicago in outreach to African-
Americans, he had taught Robert S. Abbott, founding publisher of the Chicago Defender, one of the country’s
most influential black newspapers.  After years of association with the Chicago community, Abbott publicly
declared his faith in 1934.  Mark Perry, “Robert S. Abbott and the Chicago Defender: A Door to the Masses,”
Michigan Chronicle, 10 October 1995, http://www.uga.edu/bahai/News/101095.html.

510 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 1-2; A. B. Caldwell, History of the American Negro, Georgia Edition, vol. 2
(Atlanta: A.B. Caldwell Publishing Co., 1920), 90-2, http://books.google.com/books.

511 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 2.


things started quite well: “Zia made Thursday evening talks to first a handful of colored
friends …, then to a houseful, then to a house and porch and yard full, and then to a
tremendous gathering.”  The meetings ended abruptly, however.  Kershaw believed that the
problem was the police.  “Evidently the authorities were displeased with such large groups of
colored people gathering,” she wrote, “because after this the house became dark and closed
to us.”512  Whether the change was the result of police action, other opposition from local
whites, pressures from conservative power-brokers within the African-American community,
or some combination thereof, the incident illustrates some of the external limitations faced by
southern Bahá’ís when they attempted to enlarge and diversify their membership.  While the
dearth of African-American believers and of sustained teaching among blacks in the Augusta
area were probably at least in part the result of attitudes among the white Bahá’ís, it was not
entirely so.  The guardians of white supremacy seemed to ignore the Bahá’í community as
long as it remained numerically small, culturally marginal, geographically circumscribed—
and functionally mono-racial.  On the other hand, outspokenness on the part of individuals
such as Alonzo Twine and Clarence Westendorff in Charleston, or hints that the faith had
mass appeal across racial lines, as in the meetings at the home of the North Augusta
washerwoman, brought swift reaction.  When Zia Bagdadi died suddenly in April 1937,
barely six months after arriving in Augusta, the community lost its one potential champion of
teaching African Americans.513  In a subsequent telegram, Shoghi Effendi praised Bagdadi’s

512 Frain, “Baha’i History,” 2.

513 After his death, Bagdadi’s wife and daughter soon left for Palestine, and Marie Kershaw moved her home
and professional office to the Bahá’í Center in order to maintain it.  Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2;
Frain, ‘Baha’i History,” 3; Augusta City Directory, 1937, 318.


“exemplary faith, audacity, unquestioning loyalty, [and] indefatigable exertions ….”514  After
the crackdown in North Augusta, however, no other believer arose to take his place.

514 Quoted in Sego, “History of the Baha’i Cause,” 2.







Chapter 4

The Great Depression, the Second World War &
the First Seven Year Plan, 1935-1945


During the decade ending in 1945, developments within the Bahá’í community often
contrasted sharply with events in the world at large.  Amidst a global economic downturn of
unprecedented proportions and the most destructive war the world had ever known, the
Bahá’í Faith emerged larger, stronger, and more broadly based than before.  By the mid-
1930s, the dire effects of the Great Depression on the religion’s financial resources
notwithstanding, Shoghi Effendi judged that the Administrative Order in North America was
effective enough for the community to return to a focus on the global mandate for teaching in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of the Divine Plan.  With Shoghi Effendi’s encouragement and
guidance, the Bahá’ís in the United States and Canada conducted a seven-year campaign of
expansion into entirely new territory, establishing outposts of the faith throughout Latin
America.  At the same time, they broadened its geographic scope at home with new
communities in every state and province of North America, including notable expansion in
the South.
In South Carolina, the campaign left the religion with a firmer footing and a broader
following.  Believers settled in the state’s three largest population centers of Charleston,
Columbia, and Greenville, and Bahá’í groups emerged in the latter two cities.  By the
centennial of the faith’s birth in 1944, a celebration held while the war still raged across
Europe and Asia, black and white Bahá’ís from South Carolina could stand with their


brethren from throughout North and South America and rightly claim to represent a cross-
section of the peoples of the Western Hemisphere.  Beneath the dome of their gleaming new
temple in Chicago—a proud symbol of the faith erected at great cost during a decade of
extraordinary scarcity—they were poised to extend their reach to the broken Old World as
soon as the guns fell silent.
Such advances, however, had not come easily.  The campaign’s focus on expansion in
South Carolina and other southern states had raised important questions for a faith that
professed to be interracial.  A quarter century after Louis Gregory’s first teaching trip
through the Deep South, with hard-won community building experience in a few southern
cities, the national Bahá’í movement had faced the daunting task of founding new interracial
communities in multiple localities at once.  In this effort the Bahá’ís faced similar challenges
to those of other southern liberal and radical organizations—Highlander Folk School, the
Southern Conference on Human Welfare, the Communist Party, and labor unions, to name a
few—that were emerging amid the social and economic experimentation of the New Deal
era.  Like the Bahá’ís, these organizations were essentially opposed to segregation and
disfranchisement, but circumstances compelled them to function within the constraints of a
racial caste system that made substantive interracial contacts very difficult to achieve and
maintain.  In particular, they faced the dilemma of how to pursue a forthrightly interracial
agenda while maintaining at least a modicum of white southern participation.  By 1945 the
Bahá’í movement had indeed taken root in more than one South Carolina locality and had
established an interracial identity—but only barely.  The experiences of the Bahá’ís in South
Carolina, part of the national movement’s effort to develop and pursue a workable approach
to expansion in the South, illustrated not only the structural challenges faced by any would-


be interracial organization but also the extent to which individual believers’ attitudes and
understandings could help or hinder the development of nascent interracial communities.

Systematic Action amidst Global Crisis
In the mid-1930s, Shoghi Effendi began to describe a new stage in the development of the
Bahá’í Faith, a “phase of concentrated teaching activity” that would result in the
establishment of the Administrative Order throughout the world.515  In a cablegram to the
National Convention in 1935, he called on the delegates and the incoming National Spiritual
Assembly “to deliberate on measures required to stimulate all local communities and groups
to lend [their] immediate, unprecedented impetus to teaching activities throughout [the]
United States and Canada.”516  The next year, reminding the Convention of the “historic
appeal voiced by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in [the] Tablets of the Divine Plan,” he set before the
participants a compelling vision of geographic expansion that would culminate in 1944, the
centenary of the faith’s birth that marked the Báb’s declaration of his prophetic mission to his
first disciple in Shiraz.  “Would to God,” he pleaded,
every State within [the] American Republic and every Republic in [the] American
continent might ere [the] termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh and establish [the] structural basis of His World Order.517

In a follow-up letter to the newly-elected National Spiritual Assembly less than a month
later, he called again for “fresh conquests and unprecedented triumphs in the teaching field

515 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America: Selected Letters and Cablegrams Addressed to the Bahá’ís of North
America, 1932-1946 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1947), 6-7.  See also Robert Stockman,
“United
States
of
America,”
draft
article
for
the
Bahá’í
Encyclopedia
project,
http://bahai-
library.com/encyclopedia/usa.html.

516 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 4.

517 Ibid., 6.


within the United States and beyond its confines.”518  He restated the original geographic
scope of the project in the Western Hemisphere, and added the idea of extending the plan to
Europe:
Its supreme immediate objective should be the permanent establishment of at least
one center in every state of the American Republic and in every Republic of the
American continent not yet enlisted under the banner of His Faith.  Its ramifications
should gradually be extended to the European continent, and its scope should be made
to include those countries, such as the Baltic States, Poland, Greece, Spain and
Portugal, where no avowed believer has established any definite residence.519

It was no small task to which Shoghi Effendi was calling the American community
(even when systematic expansion into Europe was postponed for a future phase of the
project).  In North America, the Bahá’ís were still heavily concentrated in the eastern urban
core, with twenty-six states of the United States and seven provinces of Canada—huge
swaths of the continent encompassing most of the South, the Great Plains, the mountain
West, Alaska, and the Far North—having a few scattered believers or none at all.  In the vast
territories south of the Rio Grande, barely half a dozen Bahá’ís had ever even set foot.  The
task before them, Shoghi Effendi acknowledged, was “gigantic,” and he stressed the need
both for effective leadership by the national executive body and for the complete support of
the community:
A systematic, carefully conceived, and well-established plan should be devised,
rigorously pursued and continuously extended. Initiated by the National
representatives of the American believers, the vanguard and standard-bearers of the
radiant army of Bahá’u’lláh, this plan should receive the wholehearted, the sustained
and ever-increasing support, both moral and financial, of the entire body of His
followers in that continent.520


518 Ibid., 7.

519 Ibid.

520 Ibid.


Clearly, to extend the reach of the faith so broadly and so quickly would dwarf all previous
expansion efforts and tax the resources and commitment of the movement in America.
Shoghi Effendi’s call struck an unmistakable note of urgency.  In a January 1936
letter, he predicted that the new teaching campaign would synchronize with “a period of
deepening gloom, of universal impotence, of ever-increasing destitution and wide-spread
disillusionment in the fortunes of a declining age.”521  As the faith’s first century drew to a
close, he said in his cablegram to the 1936 National Convention, humanity as a whole was
“entering [the] outer fringes [of the] most perilous stage [of] its existence.”522  “The present
opportunity,” he wrote a few months later, “is unutterably precious.  It may not recur
again.”523
Few observers could have disagreed with his gloomy assessment.  As the American
Bahá’ís gathered for their annual convention in the spring of 1936, the global economy was
in a shambles and the international political order erected after the Great War was rapidly
collapsing.  Virtually every country, rich and poor, was reeling from the effects of the Great
Depression.  Cities around the world, especially those most dependent on heavy industry,
were hit hard, and rural areas dependent on agriculture, mining, and logging suffered even
more.  As manufacturers in the wealthiest countries curtailed their orders for raw materials,
the prices of such commodities as coffee, cotton, rubber, and tin—the lifeline of colonial
economies in Latin America, Africa, and Asia—had collapsed.  International trade was down
sharply, and many countries were attempting to protect their own economies by increasing
import duties.  In the United States, hitherto the world’s industrial powerhouse, the crisis in

521 Ibid., 6.

522 Ibid.

523 Ibid., 7.


agriculture, manufacturing, and finance had brought massive unemployment, widespread
hunger, and the dislocation of countless families.  In the South, the country’s hardest-hit
region, more than one-third of the banks had failed or been forced into mergers, and
manufacturing had declined by half.  Natural disasters compounded the misery in rural areas,
where the agricultural economy was already wrecked from falling cotton prices, and
thousands of desperate farming families were fleeing the region in search of work and
sustenance.  As state and local governments faced bankruptcy and local charities foundered,
only massive spending by New Deal agencies mitigated the suffering.
The worldwide political impacts of the Great Depression were no more encouraging.
Indeed, for the Bahá’ís, the breakdown of international order seemed to indicate that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prediction of a second global conflict, voiced shortly after the Versailles
agreements that had ended the Great War, was quickly coming true.  Quoting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statements made more than a decade before, Shoghi Effendi summarized the deepening
crisis:
Neither the provisions of the so-called Settlement which the victorious Powers have
sought to impose, nor the machinery of an institution which America’s illustrious and
far-seeing President had conceived, have proved, either in conception or practice,
adequate instruments to ensure the integrity of the Order they had striven to establish.
“The ills from which the world now suffers,’ wrote ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in January, 1920,
“will multiply; the gloom which envelops it will deepen.  The Balkans will remain
discontented.  Its restlessness will increase.  The vanquished Powers will continue to
agitate.  They will resort to every measure that may rekindle the flame of war.
Movements, newly-born and world-wide in their range, will exert their utmost effort
for the advancement of their designs.  The Movement of the Left will acquire great
importance.  Its influence will spread.”524

Events in country after country seemed to bear out this analysis.  In Europe, Asia, and
Latin America, fascism and military dictatorship were on the rise, and several aggressively
expansionist regimes were severely destabilizing the fragile world order.  In Japan, a

524 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, 30.


militarist government seemed bent on dismembering its neighbor China.  In 1931 and 1932,
it had invaded Manchuria in China’s rich northeast and set up the puppet state of
Manchukuo.  In response to criticism by the League of Nations, Japan had simply withdrawn
from membership.  Without any further pretense of legal constraint, the Japanese military in
Manchukuo was freely exploiting the civil war between Chinese communists and nationalists
and forming client states in additional provinces.  In 1935, Italy’s fascist regime had begun a
brutal invasion of Ethiopia, using chemical weapons and massive aerial bombardment to
subdue a fellow-member of the League of Nations.  The League had imposed sanctions—in
itself a remarkable departure in the realm of international law—but Italy remained
undeterred.  And in Germany, crippled by massive reparations payments after the Great War,
the National Socialist movement was promising to restore the country’s honor by rebuilding
its military, expanding its borders, and eliminating supposedly unworthy populations from its
midst.  In 1935, the Nazi regime had begun a massive military buildup and promulgated the
Nuremberg laws, designed to strip Jews of their German citizenship.  The following March,
emboldened by Italy’s success in Ethiopia, the German military had reoccupied the
Rhineland in violation of the Treaty of Versailles—and, like Italy, received only token
condemnation from the League of Nations.
Against such a chaotic background, the National Spiritual Assembly acted quickly on
Shoghi Effendi’s advice about a new teaching campaign.  Following the 1936 National
Convention, it created ten Regional Teaching Committees in the United States and Canada,
established a special teaching fund of $30,000, and appointed an Inter-America Committee to


coordinate expansion into Latin America.525  During the year, nine individuals made teaching
trips of various lengths to Mexico, the Caribbean, and several countries in South America.
Another dozen moved to cities in New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma,
Saskatchewan, Texas, Virginia, and Wyoming—all of them territories with few or no
Bahá’ís.526  That fall, moved by a further appeal from Shoghi Effendi for the American
believers to “intensify their teaching work a thousand fold and extend its ramifications
beyond the confines of their native land,” Louis and Louise Gregory spent three months in
Haiti, attracting a sizeable group of seekers, many of them young people, to firesides and a
study group.  The Gregorys intended to stay longer, but opposition by Haitian government
officials to the spread of the faith forced their early return.527


The Seven Year Plan

In the spring of 1937, following further consultations with Shoghi Effendi, the National
Spiritual Assembly formally launched a Seven Year Plan for the American community.  Its
twin objectives were completion of the exterior ornamentation of the temple in Wilmette and
establishment of the faith throughout North and South America and the Caribbean.  “No
triumph,” Shoghi Effendi cabled to that year’s National Convention, “can more befittingly
signalize [the] termination of [the] first century of [the] Bahá’í era than accomplishment of

525 Gareta Busey, “Uniting the Americas,” in The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 9, 1940-
1944, comp. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada (1945; repr.,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981), 187.

526 Leroy Ioas, “Teaching in North America,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 9, 1940-1944, 215-6.

527 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 7; Morrison, To Move the World, 250-1.


this twofold task.”528  The ambitious goals would necessitate both a major financial
commitment and a significant redistribution of the Bahá’í population.
The Plan’s first and more straightforward objective—completion of the temple’s
exterior—was the latest step in an undertaking with important symbolic and practical
consequences.  Initiated nearly thirty years earlier, during the movement’s infancy in
America, the temple project was of a scale and complexity, and the anticipated result of such
a grandeur and beauty, as to make it more like the construction of a medieval cathedral than
of a neighborhood church.  On the eve of the Plan, the temple’s massive concrete-and-steel
superstructure, erected at great cost during the worst years of the Great Depression, stood
complete, but far from lovely, on the shore of Lake Michigan.  The next phase of the
project—to implement the architect’s vision for the building’s outer ornamentation, an
intricate fretwork interlaced with sacred symbols of the world’s great religions—was
unfinished.    Work on the ornamentation had already involved serious technical challenges
and a significant new outlay of scarce funds.  A committee had worked for nine years to
identify a building material both light enough to accommodate the unusual design and
durable enough to withstand the elements.  A Washington firm proposed the use of exposed-
aggregate architectural concrete, a new method that would clad the temple in a glittering
white layer of crushed quartz.  Between 1932 and 1935, the firm fabricated and installed the
ornamentation of the dome and clerestory levels—until, buffeted by the depression, the
Bahá’í community’s funds ran dry.  Work on the gallery story, the main story, and the
nineteen steps encircling the whole structure had yet to begin.  The estimated total cost of the
remaining work was $350,000 (over $5,000,000 in 2007 dollars), a hefty sum for a national
organization of fewer than 3000 members.

528 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 8.


For the American Bahá’ís, few of whom were wealthy even before the economic
collapse, completion of their national house of worship was not just a point of collective
pride, but a matter of spiritual devotion and community solidarity that they sensed from the
beginning would aid in the growth of the movement.  Contributing money toward the temple
was an expression of commitment to their faith and of love for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who had
approved the project and laid the building’s cornerstone during his 1912 visit.  They saw the
temple, the first of its kind outside the Islamic heartland, as evidence not only of the faith’s
worldwide spread, but of their new religious identity as American Bahá’ís.  From an
organizational perspective, the project had provided the initial impulse for the formation of a
national coordinating body, and the Bahá’ís saw it as tangible evidence that they could work
together as a national movement and achieve practical results.  Perhaps it was for these
reasons that Shoghi Effendi repeatedly linked progress of the temple project with the growth
of the community.  For instance, in a cablegram of October 1935 acknowledging the
completion of the temple’s superstructure, Shoghi Effendi remarked on the “forces” which
this step was “fast releasing in the heart of a sorely tried continent.”  Foreshadowing his
explicit call to action of the following spring, he said that a “new hour” had thus struck in the
history of the faith and urged “nation-wide, systematic, sustained efforts in [the] teaching
field” that would channel those forces into expansion and consolidation of the community.529
Several months later, he underlined the connection between the development of the Bahá’í
administrative system, the progress of the temple work, and the new thrust in teaching:
Now that the administrative organs of a firmly established Faith are vigorously and
harmoniously functioning, and now that the Symbol of its invincible might is lending
unprecedented impetus to its spread, an effort unexampled in its scope and sustained

529 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 5-6.


vitality is urgently required so that the moving spirit of its Founder may permeate and
transform the lives of the countless multitudes that hunger for its teachings.530

It was this second objective of the Plan—expanding the geographic reach of the
community into virtually every territory of the Western Hemisphere—that would prove the
more difficult.  Based on some three decades’ experience of expansion efforts within the
United States and Canada, it was clear to Shoghi Effendi and the National Spiritual
Assembly that establishing so many new local communities so far distant from the
movement’s American heartland would require a major shift of the Bahá’í population and a
more active engagement by the rank and file of the community.  As Leroy Ioas, at the time a
member of both the National Spiritual Assembly and the National Teaching Committee,
recalled, the movement’s leaders knew that “the previous methods of extending the Faith into
new areas by itinerant teachers, lecturers and limited follow-up were not sufficiently
effective, but that the only method whereby lasting results could be achieved was through the
settlement plan.”531  During the course of the Plan, individuals or families from the
established localities volunteered to leave their homes and take up residence as “pioneers” of
the faith in each of the “virgin territories” of North and South America.  Like Margaret Klebs
in the Augusta area, they would seek to integrate themselves into the life of their new
localities through work, school, and other activities, come in contact with receptive
individuals, and build new Bahá’í communities through firesides and study groups.  Ideally,
each pioneer would find employment or be otherwise self-supporting, but many required
monetary assistance from the community.  Traveling teachers continued to circulate, but they
would focus on visiting areas where pioneers had settled, reinforcing the local efforts by

530 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 6.

531 Ioas, “Teaching in North America,” 202.


offering public lectures and generating press coverage.  In contrast to the relative handful of
believers who had acted as traveling teachers before, the magnitude of the goals meant that
far larger numbers would need to be engaged in some form of teaching—settling in or
traveling to new areas or strengthening the base of the movement in long-established
localities—and in the necessary fundraising effort to finance both the teaching and temple
work.532
An initial survey by the National Teaching Committee indicated that expansion in the
South would figure prominently in the Seven Year Plan.  Some three decades after the faith’s
arrival on the Potomac and at Mobile Bay, the South accounted for nearly half of the Plan’s
twenty-six virgin territories in North America.  The relatively robust early development of
the Augusta-area community had been the exception rather than the rule in the region.  In
1937, only six cities south of Washington—Nashville, Memphis, Tuskegee, Miami, and St.
Augustine in addition to Augusta—had enough Bahá’ís to form a Local Spiritual Assembly,
and several of these only barely.  Of the sixteen southern states that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
addressed in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, seven contained only a few isolated Bahá’ís and
five had none at all.533
Aside from the logistical challenges of deploying pioneers and traveling teachers and
building strong new communities in the region’s twelve goal states, the Plan heralded
significant cultural and demographic change for the Bahá’ís, as a national movement that was
still mostly white, northern, and urban sought to establish new local communities in the
heartland of black America.  While they were already well represented at the local level—at

532 Ioas, “Teaching in North America,” 200-2; Dahl, “Three Teaching Methods,” 3-4.

533 National Teaching Committee, “Annual Report, May 1937-April 1938,” National Teaching Committee
Records, NBA.


least in comparison to their proportion of the population in the northern and western states
where most Bahá’ís lived—the concentrated push southward represented an opportunity to
attract unprecedented numbers of African Americans to the faith.  Even after the acceleration
of migration during the war years, in the 1930s more than three-fourths of African Americans
resided in the South, and they were a far more significant presence there than in any other
region of the country.  One in four Southerners was black, compared to one in ten people in
both the Northeast and the Midwest and only one in a hundred in the West.  The three states
of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, which together represented only seven
percent of the total national population, accounted for more than twenty percent of African
Americans.  South Carolina alone, with barely more than one percent of all Americans, was
home to more than six percent of the country’s blacks.534  If Louis Gregory’s assessment of
black Southerners’ spiritual receptivity remained true, then prosecution of the Plan seemed
likely to increase the racial diversity of the national movement, enabling it thereby to reflect
more fully the bedrock principle of the oneness of humanity.
As the movement turned southward, it had important experiences to draw on.  Since
the turn of the century, local communities, including in a handful of southern cities and
towns, had been working to foster interracial fellowship within their own ranks.  Through the
Race Amity Conferences and similar local initiatives, the Bahá’ís had created public spaces
to speak out against prejudice and segregation in concert with other organizations.  And
beginning with Louis Gregory’s 1910 trip, he and other teachers had established and nurtured
positive contacts with progressive individuals and groups, white and black, across the South.

534 Campbell Gibson and Kay Jung, Historical Census Statistics on Population Totals by Race, 1790 to 1990,
and by Hispanic Origin, 1970 to 1990, for the United States, Regions, Divisions, and States, Working Paper
Series no. 56 (Washington, DC: Population Division, US Census Bureau, 2002), Appendix A-10,
http://www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0056/twps0056.html.


On the other hand, despite the movement’s early record on race, few of its members
were prepared for the challenges of building interracial communities in the South.  The same
black demographic strength that made the region important to the Bahá’í movement had
provoked the country’s most energetic white responses, with a codification and enforcement
of racial separatism more rigid, pervasive, and violent than anything most of them had so far
been forced to face.  During the 1930s, despite a growing chorus of protest from inside and
outside the South, Jim Crow still held a firm grip across the region, and the forces of racial
and religious orthodoxy often responded brutally to dissent.  The southern campaign would
require the national community to confront some of the ugliest realities of American racism,
and on a far larger scale than it had ever attempted: the same challenges that the early
Washington and Augusta groups had faced would now be repeated simultaneously in
multiple localities, over at least a seven-year period of sustained community-building that
would directly involve a substantial portion of the movement’s existing members.


New Footholds in South Carolina

When the Seven Year Plan began, South Carolina was counted as a “virgin territory” with no
local Bahá’í community.  Aside from the half dozen or so Bahá’ís in the South Carolina
suburbs of Augusta, who were counted as a part of that community, only a few resident
South Carolinians had ever affiliated themselves with the faith, mostly as a result of early
visits by Louis Gregory and others.  Widely scattered and isolated from the mainstream of
the American Bahá’í movement, by the mid-1930s they had all lost contact with the
community, lost interest, or died.


Not surprisingly, the Augusta-area community provided an initial base for the new
effort to expand in South Carolina.  In the early months of the Plan, Christine Bidwell and
Marie Kershaw from North Augusta visited nearby Aiken, where Margaret Klebs had first
arrived a quarter-century earlier, “to see about opening that town.”  They located a hotel
where they could rent a room for speakers, and found that the local newspaper would
publicize meetings.535  About the same time, other Bahá’ís, mostly financially independent
white women from outside the South, began to spend their winters in South Carolina.  In
1936-1937, two women, Amelie Bodmer and May Fisher, traveled the state in a trailer,
visiting “several cities” and making “good Bahai contacts.”536  In December 1937, another
pair, Emogene Hoagg and Agnes O’Neill, arrived in Charleston and spent the rest of the
winter there.537  In 1938-1939, Louise Thompson from Maine took their place in Charleston
and “followed up the interest which had been established” the year before.538  In February
and March 1939, Charles Mason Remey from Washington, D.C., made a teaching trip to
several localities in the state.539
That fall, Emogene Hoagg, one of the most prominent and respected early believers
in the United States, returned to Charleston.  After learning of the faith in 1898 from Phoebe
Hearst, she had become an active traveling teacher and administrator in North America and

535 Christine Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, n.d. [1936], Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

536 National Teaching Committee, “Annual Report, May 1937-April 1938,” National Teaching Committee
Records, NBA.

537 Ibid.

538 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, Annual Bahá’í Reports
Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada for the Year 1938-1939 (New York: Bahá’í
Publishing Committee, 1939), 10.  While this pattern continued sporadically during the 1940s and 1950s, a
Bahá’í community did not emerge in Charleston until the mid-1960s.

539 Ibid., 12.


Europe, notably by making a 6,000-mile trip through Alaska and Canada in 1919 and 1920
and working for the International Bahá’í Bureau, the worldwide community’s liaison to the
League of Nations, in Geneva from 1928 to 1935.540  After the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, she
had been one of the believers with whom Shoghi Effendi had consulted about an early
election of the Universal House of Justice.541  A woman with no family commitments (her
husband had died in 1918 and they had no children), during the Seven Year Plan Hoagg put
herself at the disposal of the National Teaching Committee and traveled extensively to help
fulfill pioneering goals in North America and the Caribbean.  Late in 1939, after traveling
through the Midwest, Hoagg suggested to the National Teaching Committee that she go to
Charleston.  The committee accepted her offer, sending $100 for train travel expenses, a
stock of books for distribution to interested seekers, and a list of believers and “contacts”
from previous teachers in South Carolina.  Regarding the list, the Committee’s secretary,
Charlotte Linfoot, wrote: “I am inclined to think that most of these contacts are pretty cold if
not completely frozen by this time.”542
One of the listed believers was Charles Westendorff, whom Louis Gregory had taught
more than a decade before.  The National Teaching Committee had corresponded with him
over the years, and Linfoot suggested that Hoagg visit to see if he would formally register as
a member of the faith and participate in a study group.  But years of isolation from the rest of
the American Bahá’í community had evidently left Westendorff with little connection to an
evolving movement.  “Really it was a circus!” Hoagg exclaimed in a report of her visit:

540 Ella Goodall Cooper, “Henrietta Emogene Martin Hoagg, 1869-1945,” The Bahá’í World: A Biennial
International Record, vol. 10, 1944-1946, comp. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada (1949; repr., Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981), 520-6; Emogene Hoagg, “Letter
from Haifa in the Mourning Time,” World Order 6, no. 2 (Winter 1971-72): 34-37.

541 Rabbani, Priceless Pearl, 55–56, 247.

542 Charlotte Linfoot to Emogene Hoagg, 5 January 1940, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.


I said we had heard he had accepted the Baha’i Faith.  He immediately said that he
did not confine himself to any organization, nor would he sign a card; that a few
people up “there” could make laws, but it was not necessary to follow them; that he
loved Jesus and felt that he could teach people more easily through the Christian
teachings….  [H]e talks incessantly and to be able to say something I had to take hold
of his arm and actually said, “Just wait a moment I want to say something.”  Then I
explained that it was not a few “up North,” but that we had a Guardian of the Faith
etc. etc.  This seemed to be something he had not heard about….  I invited him to a
study class, and he said he did not have to study, as he received his knowledge
direct.”543

Hoagg said that Westendorff’s neighbors and family regarded him as “erratic,” and he had a
reputation for both kindness and dishonesty.  His son, she said, “laughs at him because he
talks so much.”  Hoagg recommended that he not be retained as a member of the faith: “That
he accepts Baha’u’llah in a certain way, may be true, but that he has [no] conception of His
real station, or knows anything about the Master or the Guardian, or the Administration, is
also true.”544
Other teaching activities were more promising.  Mrs. Walpole, Hoagg’s landlady at
the beginning of her stay in Charleston, arranged for her to speak at a meeting of the King’s
Daughters, a women’s Christian service organization.  “All Charlestonians,” Hoagg noted
with satisfaction.  “They were so pleased that I am asked to speak again the second Tuesday
of April.”  A positive contact with a Unitarian minister led to a meeting with his church’s
Women’s Alliance.  And she spoke to a gathering of friends at the home of the city’s black
librarian.  “Two people are much interested, and another is reading what she can get—
sometimes from the Library.”  Despite the disappointment with Westendorff, she said that a
year of teaching “may bring forth some real fruits” and result in a new community of

543 Emogene Hoagg to Charlotte Linfoot, 22 March 1940, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

544 Ibid.


believers.545  But Hoagg did not stay in Charleston.  Requested by the Inter-America
Committee to go to Havana, Cuba, she left South Carolina around the beginning of
November, 1940.546  Louise Thompson promptly returned to Charleston with her sister,
Emma Thompson, and the two moved into Hoagg’s apartment.  They continued teaching
Mrs. Walpole and her husband, and tried to start a study group.547
Bahá’ís also moved to the capital city of Columbia.  In late 1938, Maud Mickle, a
white woman who, like the Thompson sisters, had settled near Green Acre in Maine, and her
friend Alta Wheeler, also white and a nurse, brought Mickle’s ill and invalid sister, Jennie
Mickle, to spend the winter in the mild climate of Columbia.  One of the people they met was
Louella Moore, a white North Augusta native.  She had learned of the faith there before
moving with her family to Columbia, and she had kept in touch with her Bahá’í friends in the
Augusta area.548  After studying with Mickle and Wheeler, she was ready to join.549   In early
1939, Moore wrote to the National Teaching Committee to express her belief in the Bahá’í
Faith and request enrollment as a member, likely the first person in the state to do so since
the introduction of the procedure.550
In addition to their relationship with Moore and her family, Maud Mickle and Alta
Wheeler focused on teaching the faith among Columbia’s large African-American

545 Ibid.

546 Horace Holley to Emogene Hoagg, 28 October 1940, and Philip Marangella to Emogene Hoagg, 8
November 1940, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

547 Louise Thompson to Emogene Hoagg, 28 November 1940, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

548 Jessie Dixon Entzminger and Louise Moore Montgomery, taped interview by Doris Morris, n.d., Columbia
Bahá’í Archives, Columbia, SC (hereafter cited as CBA).

549 Christine Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, 27 January 1937, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

550 National Teaching Committee to Louella Moore, 17 April 1939, private collection of Richard and Doris
Morris.


population, an endeavor for which Mickle, at least, had some preparation.  A decade earlier,
Mickle and another white woman, Leonora Holsapple-Armstrong, had been among the first
American pioneers in Latin America, settling in Salvador de Bahia, the capital city of Afro-
Brazilian culture on that country’s northeastern coast.  The two had worked in health care in
the city’s vast slums and taught the faith to the people they met.  After Mickle’s Brazilian
experience, reaching out to African Americans in Columbia probably came quite naturally.551
One black woman Mickle and Wheeler met was interested enough in the faith to ask her
landlady if they could come to the house to tell more.  The landlady, Pearl Dixon, was the
widow of an African Methodist Episcopal minister in the rural community of Killian
northeast of Columbia.  After her husband’s death she had moved with her family to the city,
settling by 1939 in a house on Richland Street where she rented rooms to boarders.552  A
member of Sidney Park Colored Methodist Episcopal Church, where Louis Gregory had
spoken some eighteen years before, Dixon approved of the Bahá’í meeting in her home and
invited some of her own friends and family.  Dixon and her daughter, Jessie Dixon
Entzminger, were among the most interested of the listeners.  Dixon embraced the faith
immediately, but Entzminger was more hesitant.  As she later recalled: “I had never heard
tell of the Bahá’í Faith.  It sounded like a funny name.”553
At Dixon’s invitation, Wheeler began leading a study group in the home, and after six
months, Entzminger became a Bahá’í as well.   At least a few local whites also attended the
class.  In late 1940, Louella Moore’s adult daughter, Louise Moore Montgomery, was

551 Leonora Holsapple, “Some Experiences Among the Poor in Brazil,” Star of the West 18 (April 1927): 220-2.

552 Jackie Yasin, personal conversation with author; Hill’s Columbia (Richland County, S.C.) City Directory,
vol. 10, 1939 (Richmond, VA: Hill Directory Co., 1939), 575.

553 Entzminger and Montgomery interview.


“interested but not confirmed” in the faith.554  She continued to study and worship with the
Bahá’í community for nearly a decade before declaring her faith at Dixon’s house.555  The
tiny community also met at the house that the Mickle sisters and Wheeler shared.  When the
Thompson sisters visited Columbia in November 1940, they attended a Holy Day observance
there “with Maud & Alta, Mrs. Moore (white) and the 2 colored believers came.”  According
to Louise Thompson, the white pioneers could have black visitors in their home because they
did not share it with anyone else: “They are able to have this mixed meeting as they have a
cottage or 5-room bungalow all to themselves and no one the wiser.”556
Over the next few years, African American traveling teachers also visited Columbia
to assist the small group.  One was Zenobia Dorsey of Scranton, Pennsylvania.  During her
visit from November 1941 to January 1942, she gave a series of talks to the Waverly
Friendship Club, a women’s social and service organization in the middle-class black
neighborhood surrounding Allen University and Benedict College.  Three of the club’s
members became Bahá’ís.557  Dorsey came back to Columbia in the spring of 1943, and three
people she taught joined the ongoing study class at the Dixon home.558  In the early spring of
1942, Louis Gregory made a stop in Columbia as part of his lecture tour of black schools and
colleges in West Virginia, Virginia, and the Carolinas.  He spoke at Benedict and Allen; at
Booker T. Washington High School, the city’s only high school for African-Americans,

554 Louise Thompson to Emogene Hoagg, 28 November 1940, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

555 Entzminger and Montgomery interview; Baha’i Regional Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin] no. 1
(October-December 1949), 3.

556 Thompson to Hoagg, 28 November 1940.

557 “News of the Bahá’í Friends of N. C., S. C. and So. Ga.,” December 1941, CBA;  National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of
the United States and Canada for the Year 1941-1942 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1942), 32.

558 Regional Teaching Bulletin, no. 9 (1 April 1943): 2.


located near the University of South Carolina campus in the working-class black
neighborhood of Wheeler Hill; and to a meeting of the Palmetto Medical Association, the
statewide professional organization of black physicians.559  The community also used the
local press, both black and white, to advertize its aims and activities.  In the spring and fall of
1940, for example, the Palmetto Leader, a black newspaper, carried stories about the Bahá’í
house of worship in Illinois under the titles “The Universal House of Worship” and “World’s
Most Beautiful Temple.”560  One pointed out that the crystalline quartz for the exterior
ornamentation was mined in Spartanburg County.  In December 1940, the Columbia Record,
a white paper, carried a similar item.561  In March, 1942, the society section of The State
reported a celebration of Bahá’í New Year at the home of Mickle and Wheeler that drew
visitors from Augusta and Charleston.562
The Augusta-area community was the initial source of pioneers to Greenville in South
Carolina’s upper Piedmont.  In the spring of 1938, just days after returning from the National
Convention in Chicago, William and Christine Bidwell moved from North Augusta to pursue
a business opportunity in Greenville, the capital of the regional textile industry, located near
Christine’s family home of Pendleton in neighboring Anderson County.  The couple took
over operations at the Chick Springs Sanitarium six miles east of Greenville in the small
community of Taylors.  The health retreat center had been closed since the death of its

559 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, Annual Bahá’í Reports
Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada for the Year 1942-1943 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Committee, 1943), 28.

560 “The Universal House of Worship,” The Palmetto Leader, 6 March 1940; “Traveling Around America,” The
Palmetto Leader, 30 November 1940, clippings, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.

561 “House of Worship Model Here,” The Columbia Record, 20 December 1940, clipping, private collection of
Richard and Doris Morris.

562 “Baha’i Community Observes New Year,” The State, 24 March 1942, clipping, private collection of Richard
and Doris Morris.


founder five years before, and the Bidwells went into partnership with a woman from Miami
to reopen the facility.563  William, a chiropractor and naturopathic physician who specialized
in healing through diet, saw patients, and Christine oversaw the kitchen.  They “hope[d] to
interest friends in the teachings and soon have a study group,” and Christine dreamed of the
facility becoming a “Baha’i School for the South.”564  But the business venture was
unsuccessful; by the onset of winter the Bidwells had paid out the partner and moved to
downtown Greenville, where they were to remain for nearly two decades.  Their new house
on North Main Street had space for an office, and William Bidwell began to see patients
there.
Soon they did make contacts for teaching.  In early December 1938, William wrote a
friend: “Last night I had three wonderful souls listening to the story of the Bab, Baha’u’llah
and Abdul Baha until 11:30 and were they interested.”  Another “wonderful soul” was
attracted to the new faith but seemed unable to leave her Baptist church.  She said that “she
was afraid to believe and afraid not to believe.”565  In the spring of 1939, William Bidwell
noted that one seeker, likely the same woman, was still visiting their house to discuss the
faith.  As a public school teacher, he said, she was “working under a system where she
cannot come out openly” as a Bahá’í.  He counseled her “to go ahead and develop herself to
the fullest extent” in her individual practice of the faith and assured her that “her opportunity
would come” for public expression of her belief.566

563 Christine Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, 11 May 1938, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

564 Ibid.

565 W. T. Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, 11 December 1938 and Monday 24th [early 1939], Hannen-Knobloch
Family Papers, NBA.

566 W. T. Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, Monday 24th [early 1939], Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.


Formulating a Regional Racial Policy


Like the other fledgling groups that emerged in the South during the Seven Year Plan, the
Bahá’ís in Greenville, Columbia, and Charleston faced the challenge of spreading their faith
and building functional interracial communities in the midst of an oppressive and segregated
society.  Morrison has noted that as the movement established a presence across the South in
the late 1930s and 1940s, the difficulties of fostering interracial fellowship in Washington a
generation before were repeated, to varying degrees, in many localities at once.567  Closer to
home, efforts to build an interracial Bahá’í movement in Augusta had been partial and
sporadic.  Many of the questions remained the same, even as specific local circumstances
differed.  How could the Bahá’ís practice their faith’s cardinal teaching of the oneness of
humanity in a society that was segregated by tradition and by law?  Since Bahá’u’lláh
enjoined his followers to strictly obey civil authorities, Bahá’ís in the South had little choice
but to abide by segregation as far as local and state statutes mandated, while seeking spaces
within the system—such as private homes as in the case of Columbia—where black and
white members could meet together regularly for worship and other community activities.
There were also questions of methodology.  To whom should the pioneers and
traveling teachers—most of whom would be white and middle-class—initially address
themselves in their new localities?  Should they focus on liberal-minded whites, seeking
conversions among the power-brokers of southern society who would then be able to afford
black believers some measure of protection?  Or should they first teach educated blacks, who
over the years of efforts by traveling teachers like Louis Gregory had shown a great deal of
interest in the faith, and approach the rest of the society through them?  How much should
the Bahá’ís—many of whom, at least in the early stages of the Plan, would be from other

567 Morrison, To Move the World, 258.


parts of the country—challenge local conventions and push the limits of acceptable behavior?
How could they teach their faith to blacks without alienating the majority of whites or even
suffering ostracism?  But if they coddled white prejudices, how could they avoid becoming
just another Jim Crow church?  If they brought blacks and whites together indiscriminately—
especially in large numbers—how could they avoid provoking social and economic reprisals,
or violence, against themselves and their seekers?   Perhaps most importantly given previous
experience, would enough white Bahá’ís risk discomfort and opposition to champion the
issue?
A national policy for teaching in the South began to emerge late in 1936, when the
National Spiritual Assembly made plans to visit the fledgling Bahá’í community of
Nashville.  The visit came as part of a decision by the National Assembly to hold its meetings
in different parts of the country “to provide occasions for the holding of Regional
Conferences with the friends, as well as public meetings for promoting the Faith.”568  The
first such visit took place in San Francisco in November 1936, and the next was planned for
Nashville, where a new community was in need of encouragement, the following January.
Two years prior, Louis Gregory had spent several months in Nashville, forming and
nurturing a Bahá’í study group through contacts at Fisk University.  Several black women
had embraced the faith, augmenting what he described as a “tiny group of believers, six
southern whites and one colored,” that already existed in the city.  The small community had
elected Nashville’s first Local Spiritual Assembly in April 1935.569  A visit by the national
body was likely to reinforce the group through an influx of experienced teachers and the

568 “Meetings of the N.S.A.,” Bahá’í News, no. 103 (Oct. 1936), 2.

569 Louis G. Gregory to Edith M. Chapman, Edith M. Chapman Papers, NBA, quoted in Morrison, To Move the
World, 243.


holding of public meetings that could generate press coverage.  However, at least some
members of the National Assembly—few of whom had any significant experience teaching
in the South—apparently questioned the advisability of holding interracial public gatherings,
because the body addressed a letter to Shoghi Effendi asking for his advice.
Replying through his secretary, Shoghi Effendi heartily approved the Nashville visit,
saying it would “greatly encourage the believers in that center,” and he strongly endorsed the
holding of interracial meetings:
The holding of public meetings in that city should be avoided only in case it would
lead to grave and very serious results.  Slight local criticisms and unpopularity should
not act as a deterrent.  The issue [of racial segregation] should be met squarely and
courageously ….570

Bolstered by Shoghi Effendi’s advice, a member of the Regional Teaching Committee
arranged to hold several integrated gatherings, one at Fisk, two at an exclusive hotel, and two
in private homes, during the National Assembly’s visit.571  Particularly noteworthy were the
mixed meetings at the Hermitage Hotel, the premier social venue in the city, where the
management relaxed its strict segregation policy and admitted blacks at the Bahá’ís’ request.
As one black Nashville believer recalled, it was at least “a foot in the door” of segregation in
a citadel of the city’s white high society.572
In addition to his specific thoughts about the Nashville visit, Shoghi Effendi’s letter
also contained advice that appeared to suggest a general approach to teaching in the region.
Likely based on his extensive correspondence with Louis Gregory and other experienced

570 “Letters from the Guardian,” Bahá’í News, no. 103 (October 1936), 1.

571 “Public Meetings in Nashville,” Bahá’í News, no. 105 (February 1937), 2.

572 Albert James, memories of Louis Gregory tape, recorded 4 January 1981, NBA, quoted in Morrison, To
Move the World, 259.


traveling teachers, his guidance became the basis for an explicit national policy for teaching
in the South:
[A]n effort should be made to attract at first the most cultured element among the
colored, and through them establish contact with the white and the masses.  Such
individuals and groups, whether white or colored, who are relatively free from racial
prejudice, should be approached, separately if necessary, and an endeavor should be
made to bring them together eventually, not only on formal occasions and for specific
purposes, but in intimate social gatherings, in private homes as well as in formally
recognized Bahá’í centers.573

Shoghi Effendi’s advice, intended to assist the Bahá’ís to establish viable interracial
communities in the midst of pervasive segregation, seems to reflect a rather subtle analysis
not only of the complex racial and class dynamics of the region, but also of the needs and
capacities of the national Bahá’í community as a whole and of the individual pioneers and
traveling teachers who would be at the forefront of the effort.  He suggested a pragmatic,
long-range approach that would enable the Bahá’ís to establish the foundations of interracial
local communities as quickly and effectively as possible while protecting them somewhat
from possible suspicion, social ostracism, or violent reaction.
Shoghi Effendi took the complete integration of the Bahá’í community itself, “in
intimate social gatherings, in private homes as well as in formally recognized Bahá’í
centers,” as a given.  But his comments indicate an acknowledgement that, depending on
local conditions, blacks and whites might have to be approached separately in the initial
stages of teaching.  Even if local or state laws did not prohibit interracial mingling in private
homes or in Bahá’í-owned buildings, social pressure from ministers, employers, and family
members and the ever-present danger of white supremacist violence could make even
interested individuals who were “relatively free from racial prejudice” wary of mixed
gatherings.  Identification with the new faith required a measure of courage—involving as it

573 “Letters from the Guardian,” Bahá’í News, no. 103 (October 1936), 1.


did a simultaneous rejection of both white male supremacy and traditional Protestantism.
Yet it was precisely the individual spiritual commitment and strong group solidarity
associated with religious community—factors that necessarily took time to cultivate—that
would enable new believers to withstand the opposition that would inevitably come.   By not
insisting on interracial gatherings at the outset, Bahá’í teachers could nurture seekers of
varying backgrounds and temperaments into full acceptance of essential Bahá’í teachings
while perhaps postponing a head-on confrontation with the upholders of orthodoxy.
Shoghi Effendi’s advice also seems to have taken into account the class dynamics
both of the region and of the national Bahá’í movement.  By the mid-1930s, there was ample
evidence that interracial cooperation among the southern working class tended to provoke
brutal suppression, while that which was initiated by the “respectable” class of blacks and
whites was often tolerated.  As Louis Gregory’s interactions with I. E. Lowery and Alonzo
Twine suggested, “the most cultured element among the colored” in a given locality would
surely contain its defenders of the status quo, but it was also likely to include individuals who
would be sympathetic to the faith and willing to use their familiarity with local conditions to
help the Bahá’ís gain an entrée into the community.  “[T]hrough them,” the teachers could
“establish contact” with racially progressive individuals among the white leadership class
and with receptive audiences among the “masses” of blacks and whites, perhaps avoiding
dangerous missteps in the process.  At the same time, the black middle class was probably
the element of a given local population with whom the pioneers and traveling teachers—
mostly well-educated, non-southern whites—could communicate most freely and effectively
about the challenging message of the faith.


After the Nashville visit, the National Spiritual Assembly sought Shoghi Effendi’s
approval of a policy for teaching in the South that distinguished, in effect, between what was
expected of seekers and of confirmed believers.  A local community’s internal functions—
the Nineteen Day Feast and Holy Day observances, voting for and membership on the Local
Spiritual Assembly, and social, educational, and devotional gatherings—had to be conducted
on an integrated basis, but teaching activities such as firesides, study classes, and publicly-
advertized lectures could be conducted separately for black and white seekers if local
conditions seemed to require it.  Shoghi Effendi wrote to approve the policy as a practical
measure to teach “the two races in the South without the slightest discrimination.”  He
reiterated the objective that blacks and whites “should be ultimately brought together, and be
urged to associate with the utmost unity and fellowship, and be given full and equal
opportunity to participate in the conduct of the teaching as well as administrative activities of
the Faith.”574  The National Assembly shared the new policy, including Shoghi Effendi’s
second letter, at the National Convention in April and in the June issue of Bahá’í News.575


The Advent of Divine Justice

A renewed impetus to interracial community-building and a major clarification of the aims of
the faith came in December 1938 with a lengthy letter from Shoghi Effendi to the North
American community.  Subsequently published as a book under the title The Advent of
Divine Justice, the letter emphasized the need for full engagement on the issue of race by
every member and every institution.  Its overall theme was the spiritual prerequisites and
practical means for successful completion of the Seven Year Plan.  Set against the backdrop

574 “Letters from the Guardian (to the National Spiritual Assembly),” Bahá’í News, no. 108 (June 1937), 1-2.

575 “Twenty-Ninth Annual Convention,” Bahá’í News, no. 108 (June 1937), 3.


of a “world, torn with conflicting passions, and perilously disintegrating from within” and the
consequent restrictions imposed on the Bahá’ís in Germany, the Soviet Union, Iran, and
Palestine, Shoghi Effendi’s letter not only focused the attention of the North American
believers on the twin goals of the Plan, but, like his earlier World Order letters, it broadened
their social and world-historical vision of the community’s mission at home and across the
globe.576
While the bulk of the letter consisted of instructions and encouragement regarding the
teaching campaign in the Western Hemisphere, essential to Shoghi Effendi’s thesis was a
sophisticated arraignment of certain aspects of American society and of their harmful effects
on the Bahá’í movement in the United States. Shoghi Effendi argued that “an excessive and
binding materialism” had “unfortunately engendered within” the American nation severe
racial prejudice, laxity in personal morality, and political corruption.577  In this context,
Shoghi Effendi called on the American believers to eliminate these tendencies from the
movement—and eventually from the nation itself.
The lengthiest portion of this critique of American society was a frank discussion of
the problem of lingering racial prejudice among the Bahá’ís.  Shoghi Effendi called it “the
most vital and challenging issue confronting the Bahá’í community at the present stage of its
evolution.”578  Citing a series of unequivocal passages from the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and giving specific instructions to both white and black believers, he argued
that not only the success of the Seven Year Plan but ultimately the destiny of the American

576 Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 1st pocket-sized ed. (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1990), 3-5.

577 Ibid., 19.

578 Ibid., 33-4.


nation depended on the extent to which the Bahá’ís built “an interracial fellowship
completely purged from the curse of racial prejudice ….”579  Discrimination against any
racial minority, Shoghi Effendi wrote, was contrary to the spirit and purpose of the faith, and
there could be no “division or cleavage within its ranks.”  He particularly emphasized the
need for the black and white believers to demonstrate complete equality, “in whichever state
they reside, in whatever circles they move, whatever their age, traditions, tastes, and
habits.”580  Moreover, they should promote interracial fellowship everywhere, both in their
own community and in their daily interactions with others.  “Freedom from racial
prejudice…,” he wrote,
should be consistently demonstrated in every phase of their activity and life, whether
in the Bahá’í community or outside it, in public or in private, formally as well as
informally, individually as well as in their official capacity as organized groups,
committees and Assemblies.  It should be deliberately cultivated through the various
and everyday opportunities, no matter how insignificant, that present themselves,
whether in their homes, their business offices, their schools and colleges, their social
parties and recreation grounds, their Bahá’í meetings, conferences, conventions,
summer schools and Assemblies.581

In particular, he noted, it should be the “keynote” of the policy of the National Spiritual
Assembly, which must “set the example” and “facilitate the application of such a vital
principle” in the life of the community.582
With specific reference to the governance of the community, Shoghi Effendi
formalized a policy meant to increase the participation of minority groups at all levels.  In
cases of ties in elections for Assemblies or delegates, or when the qualifications for
committee appointments were otherwise equal, he stated that “priority should unhesitatingly

579 Ibid., 41.

580 Ibid., 36.

581 Ibid., 36.

582 Ibid., 36-7.


be accorded the party representing the minority.”  Every local community, he wrote, “should
so arrange its affairs” that its institutions, “be they Assemblies, conventions, conferences, or
committees, may have represented on them as many of these diverse elements, racial or
otherwise, as possible.”  Such a policy, he suggested, would both encourage those from
groups that were underrepresented in the religion and demonstrate to the public the
universality of its appeal.583
By forcefully renewing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s insistence on complete social and political
equality within the movement and, as far as opportunities allowed, in their normal social,
economic, and educational activities outside the Bahá’í community, Shoghi Effendi called
the Bahá’ís to a purposeful, consistent, and daily exertion that would assault one of the
dominant ideologies of their society:
Casting away once and for all the fallacious doctrine of racial superiority, with all its
attendant evils, confusion, and miseries, and welcoming and encouraging the
intermixture of races, and tearing down the barriers that now divide them, they should
endeavor, day and night, to fulfill their particular responsibilities in the common task
which so urgently faces them.584


The implications for the southern campaign of the Plan were clear: Shoghi Effendi was
asking the Bahá’ís to demonstrate, across the segregated South, the power of the faith to
attract both blacks and whites and unite them in diverse local communities.  No individual
Bahá’í was exempt, whatever his or her background or personal inclinations; no state could
be considered outside their field of action, however strong its upholders of orthodoxy.  And
the National Spiritual Assembly had responsibility to ensure the project’s success.
An important element in understanding Shoghi Effendi’s critique of American society
and his vision of the role of the Bahá’í movement within it is the assumption—laced

583 Ibid., 35-6.

584 Ibid., 40.


throughout the sacred scriptures of the faith and widely understood among the American
Bahá’ís by the early twentieth century—of the primacy of spiritual forces in social change.
Bahá’u’lláh held that the ultimate source of social cohesion and the advancement of
civilization was the progressive revelation of spiritual reality by the Manifestations of God
and the generative potency their successive appearances had released into the world.  In some
of his most significant tablets, Bahá’u’lláh indicated that the emerging era of global unity
required a more mature conception of the relationship between religion and social welfare.
In an exemplary passage, he wrote: “That which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign
remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing of all the world is the union of all its peoples
in one universal Cause, one common Faith.”585  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá echoed the theme in his tablets
and in his public addresses in the West.  “Material civilization,” he wrote, “is like the body.
No matter how infinitely graceful, elegant and beautiful it may be, it is dead.  Divine
civilization is like the spirit, and the body gets its life from the spirit ….”586
To these concepts, already current among his audience, Shoghi Effendi applied
historical language to assist the Bahá’ís to appreciate the specific role and priorities of the
American community and its relationship to the nation of which it formed a part.  The
Manifestations of God, he noted, had all appeared amidst peoples who were “either fast
declining, or had already touched the lowest depths of moral and spiritual degradation.”587
Each one of them had given birth to a new community of faith distinguished by high morals

585 Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts, H176.  Versions of the statement were published in Bahá’í
treatments of social issues during the Depression era.  Cf. The Bahá’í Magazine (formerly Star of the West) 23,
no. 8 (November 1932), 245, and vol. 25, no. 7 (October 1934), 199.

586 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1997),
227.22.  The entire letter, dated December 17, 1919, was first published in Star of the West 11, no. 8 (1 August
1920), 123-134.

587 Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice, 17.


and social cohesion, “and with it as a lever ha[d] lifted the entire human race to a higher and
nobler plane of life and conduct.”588  The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh had appeared within the
wreckage of the Persian Empire, he argued, not because of “any racial superiority, political
capacity, or spiritual virtue” which it possessed, “but rather as a direct consequence of its
crying needs, its lamentable degeneracy, and irremediable perversity ….”589  For similar
reasons, Bahá’u’lláh and particularly ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had specified the United States to be the
“cradle” and the “standard-bearer” of the future global order:
It is precisely by reason of the patent evils which, notwithstanding its other
admittedly great characteristics and achievements, an excessive and binding
materialism has unfortunately engendered within it that the Author of their Faith and
the Center of His Covenant have singled it out to become the standard-bearer of the
New World Order envisaged in their writings.590


Shoghi Effendi said that by raising up a spiritually vibrant new community “from the midst
of a people, immersed in a sea of materialism, a prey to one of the most virulent and long-
standing forms of racial prejudice, and notorious for its political corruption, lawlessness and
laxity in moral standards,” Bahá’u’lláh would demonstrate his “almighty power” to a
“heedless generation” and would “lay a firm foundation for the country’s future role in
ushering in the Golden Age of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.”591
Before the community could bring the teachings of the faith to bear in a significant
way on the life of the nation, however, it had to reflect them more fully itself.  He noted that
the Bahá’ís were “[i]ncapable as yet, in view of the restricted size of their community and the
limited influence it now wields, of producing any marked effect on the great mass of their

588 Ibid., 18.

589 Ibid., 17-18.

590 Ibid., 19.

591 Ibid.


countrymen.”  First they should work to “regenerate the inward life of their own community”
by developing a non-adversarial system of group governance; new standards of sexual
morality, gender relations, and marriage and family life; and a strong interracial
fellowship.592  Such a focus constituted the key to success in the community’s immediate
objectives, the “bedrock on which the security of all teaching plans, Temple projects, and
financial schemes, must ultimately rest.”593  And over the long term, as the movement grew
in size, resources, and spiritual vibrancy across the United States, the experience gained
would enable “future generations” of Bahá’ís to “assail the long-standing evils that have
entrenched themselves in the life of their nation.”594
In the meantime, Shoghi Effendi made clear that the religion could not simply follow
the lead of others in its work for interracial unity.  “Let neither [black nor white Bahá’ís],” he
wrote, “think that they can wait confidently for the solution of this problem until the initiative
has been taken, and the favorable circumstances created, by agencies that stand outside the
orbit of their Faith.”  Indeed, during the era of the New Deal, a growing chorus of local, state,
and regional organizations across the South—from the Communist Party, labor unions, and
New Deal agencies to Southern Baptist student groups, women’s associations, and the
NAACP—were working across lines of race and class and calling for a new reconstruction of
the region.595  Shoghi Effendi implied, however, that the Bahá’ís would have to chart their

592 Ibid., 20, 41.

593 Ibid., 22.

594 Ibid., 41.

595 For excellent treatments of activism in the South during the 1930s and 1940s, see Egerton, Speak Now
Against the Day; Linda Reed, Simple Decency and Common Sense: The Southern Conference Movement, 1938-
1963 (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1991); and Patricia Sullivan, Days of Hope: Race and
Democracy in the New Deal Era (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1996).  For similar work on


own path and make a distinctive contribution to the cause of racial justice.  This guidance
likely stemmed in part from a concern that the movement not dissipate its limited energy and
resources before its own internal coherence was firmly established.
In addition, there were important differences, at the levels of both ideology and
practical implementation, between the Bahá’í community and other advocates of reform in
the South.  First, the era of the Great Depression and the Second World War saw African-
American activists focusing increased attention on achieving civil rights within and through
the Democratic Party.  Second, particularly as left-leaning organizations united behind the
New Deal in the “Popular Front” of the late 1930s and 1940s, Communist activists and
Marxian theories in general exercised a significant influence on the outlook and programs of
civil rights and labor organizations.  Neither development was completely compatible with
the Bahá’í teachings.  In view of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings on the primacy of spiritual forces in
social change, both ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi specifically rejected Marxian
economic determinism as an inadequate theoretical framework and impractical in
application.596  Similarly, based on the principle of the oneness of humanity, they counseled
the Bahá’ís to avoid the petty loyalties and manipulation inherent in political parties and class
antagonism—not to mention the use of violence, subversion, or civil disobedience as political
tools.597  While the Bahá’ís could wholeheartedly support the broad goals of full civil rights

South Carolina, see Jack Irby Hayes, Jr., South Carolina and the New Deal (Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 2001) and Lau, Democracy Rising.

596 For explorations of the relationship between the Bahá’í Faith and contemporary economic systems, see [Glen
Eyford, ed.], The Bahá’í Faith and Marxism: Proceedings of a Conference Held January 1986 (Ottawa, ON:
Bahá’í Studies Publications, 1987) and Farhad Rassekh, “The Bahá’í Faith and the Market Economy,” Journal
of Bahá’í Studies 11, no. 3/4 (Sept.-Dec. 2001): 31-61.

597 For an excellent treatment of the philosophical underpinnings of the “New World Order” in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, see Saeidi, Logos and Civilization.  For an explanation of the Bahá’í approach to politics, see Udo


and economic justice, their primary objective was neither agitation for reform within the
existing order nor its overthrow.  Shoghi Effendi maintained that the main task of the Bahá’í
community was to broaden the foundations of the new system envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh, a
system that represented, in the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the “highest aims” of the peoples of
the world—of whatever religion, nation, or political faction—for justice, freedom, and
equality.598
Shoghi Effendi’s letter had immediate and far-reaching effects on the American
Bahá’ís.  The National Spiritual Assembly took a more active leadership role in promoting
interracial unity by a variety of means, including appointing a new Race Unity Committee
and providing ample time at the 1939 National Convention for discussion of the letter.  At
that convention, described by one participant as “unified and more mature” than in the past,
Louis Gregory was reelected to the National Spiritual Assembly after several years without a
black member of the body; the Assembly subsequently elected Gregory its first recording
secretary.599  The five-member Race Unity Committee included both Louis Gregory and
Dorothy Beecher Baker, who also served as vice-chairman of the National Spiritual
Assembly.  A white Ohioan descended from the abolitionist Beecher family of New England,
Baker was well-respected among the Bahá’ís and had already emerged as a champion of
racial justice within the community.  Together, she and Gregory coordinated a renewed
“southern college project” beginning in 1940 that sent black and white teachers to some 160
colleges in the region, lecturing “before chapels, assemblies, classrooms, and student clubs”

Schaefer, Ulrich Gollmer, and Nicola Towfigh, Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution to Bahá’í
Apologetics (Oxford: George Ronald, 2000).

598 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, 227.27-30.

599 Morrison, To Move the World, 271-2.


on the oneness of humanity, presenting Bahá’í books to libraries, and distributing pamphlets
to students and professors.600  As a result of Shoghi Effendi’s letter and the National
Assembly’s strong endorsement, the 1940s witnessed a new wave of national and local
efforts similar to the race amity activities of the 1920s and early 1930s, including a wide
variety of conferences, courses, exhibits, and interracial dinners and social activities across
the country.  At the same time, the American community made its first concerted efforts to
teach the faith to Native Americans, Chinese Americans, and, significantly in the context of
wartime prejudices in the United States, Japanese Americans.
The prosecution of the Plan, and particularly the southern campaign, provided ample
opportunities to test and refine the interracial character of the American Bahá’í movement.
The first major challenge to the National Spiritual Assembly’s southern strategy and Shoghi
Effendi’s instructions came in Atlanta in 1940, when the racial conservatism of a group of
white believers nearly succeeded in creating an all-white local community.  The National
Assembly’s intervention in the crisis set a strong precedent for the development of the faith
in the South, including nearby South Carolina.
Previously, Atlanta had been a bright spot in the region.  As early as 1914, a
succession of resident Bahá’ís and traveling teachers, both black and white, had taught the
faith among all segments of the city’s population.  By the late 1930s, there was a small local
community that included both black and white members.  They met together regularly for
Nineteen Day Feasts and Holy Days and, according to the national policy, they often held
separate teaching meetings for white and black inquirers.  Difficulties only arose late in 1939,
when Orcella Rexford, a traveling health and nutrition lecturer who combined her
professional engagements with teaching campaigns, visited Atlanta and attracted a new group

600 Dorothy Baker, “The Bahá’í Faith in the Colleges,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 9, 1940-1944, 773-4.


of seekers—all of them white—to a study group led by Terah Smith, a local white believer
and secretary of the Regional Teaching Committee.  Five of the seekers became Bahá’ís.
However, the new converts were apparently only dimly aware that the faith was an interracial
movement and, indeed, that there were already black believers in the city.  At Ridván 1940,
when a Local Spiritual Assembly was elected for the first time, all the members were white;
it is unclear if the black Bahá’ís were even invited to participate in the election.601
One white couple from among the older group of believers, Raymond and Estelle
Lindsey, decided to press the issue of race in the community by initiating a series of
integrated firesides in their home.  They invited their black neighbors, as well as the black
and white Bahá’ís, for dinner and discussion of the faith.  Afterwards, other white Bahá’ís
protested, and Terah Smith asked the Lindseys not to have any more integrated meetings.  At
the same time, the new Local Assembly did not act on the request of a black seeker, Essie
Robinson, to be enrolled in the Bahá’í community.602  By the fall of 1940, it was clear to the
National Spiritual Assembly that the conservatism of the new white believers—and evidently
at least one of the veteran teachers in the community, as well—was compromising the
integrity of the southern teaching policy in one of the region’s leading cities.
To remedy the situation, the National Assembly arranged to visit Atlanta in
November 1940.  Perhaps not coincidentally, it was Louis Gregory and Dorothy Baker who
formed the National Assembly’s advance team.  Gregory was the first member to arrive.
When he went to a meeting with the community that had been arranged for that evening, only
a portion of the believers—those favorable to integration—showed up.  The next night, when

601 Morrison, To Move the World, 83-4, 103, 191; McMullen, The Bahá’í, 158-60.

602 The situation is summarized in McMullen, The Bahá’í, 161-2.


Dorothy Baker arrived and called a meeting with her and Gregory, everyone came.  Baker
took the lead in the discussion.  “Every single individual,” according to one account, “was
given an opportunity to express himself.”603  Yet Baker left no room for vacillation.  Calling
attention to the fact that Essie Robertson was waiting to be enrolled in the faith, she “made it
clear that the Baha’i Community could never restrict anyone because of color. . . .”604  She
insisted that interracial unity was a matter of spiritual principle and an article of their faith,
and that there could be only one, integrated community in Atlanta.  Any white person who
could not fully embrace the ideal and the practice of interracial fellowship was welcome to
leave the faith.  Additional gatherings held after the arrival of the other members of the
National Assembly reinforced Baker’s message.  At the Biltmore Hotel, a prestigious venue
that promoters dubbed “the South’s Supreme Hotel,” the audience for a major public meeting
included a large number of blacks.605  A subsequent regional teaching conference drew some
thirty Bahá’ís—black and white, pioneers and recent converts—from six southeastern states,
and their deliberations included means by which to reach the white, black, and Jewish
populations.
Altogether, the message to the Atlanta community was clear, and a few whites indeed
“ceased attending Baha’i Assembly and Feast meetings.”606  For the rest of the group,
however, the National Assembly’s visit cemented the interracial character of the movement.

603 Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Atlanta, Georgia, Inc., “Early Bahá’í History of Atlanta, Georgia,” TS,
NBA, 24-25, quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 282.

604 Ibid.

605 National Park Service, “Atlanta Biltmore Hotel and Biltmore Apartments,” Atlanta: A National Register of
Historic Places Travel Itinerary website, http://www.nps.gov/history/nr/travel/atlanta/text.htm#bil.

606 Spiritual Assembly of Atlanta, “Early Bahá’í History,” 24-25, quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 282-
3.


At the next meeting of the Local Assembly, Essie Robertson was enrolled in the community,
and her home quickly became a center of activity.  The following Ridván, Robertson was
elected to the Local Assembly, and the body remained integrated for the rest of the decade.
By the end of the 1940s, the community had built and occupied its first Bahá’í Center a block
off Auburn Avenue in the heart of Atlanta’s black business district—a modest, two-story
structure, but an important statement of the community’s commitment to teaching African
Americans.607
Beyond Atlanta, the National Assembly’s firm stance made clear to Bahá’ís across
the South that the goal of its 1937 policy on teaching in the region was nothing less than fully
integrated local communities.  A letter from Shoghi Effendi (writing through his secretary),
published subsequently in Bahá’í News, underlined the regional implications of the Atlanta
incident, and reinforced his insistence on black participation in local Bahá’í governance:
The Guardian is very pleased to learn of the success that has attended the sessions at
Atlanta and the removal of the disagreement within the community of that city and
the work achieved by the regional conference and the public meeting open to both
races.  A special effort, he feels, should now be made to lay a foundation of unity
between the white and colored Bahá’ís and weld the groups [across the South] into
communities capable of forming Assemblies representative of both races.608

The message was not lost on William and Christine Bidwell, who came from Greenville for
the events.  Writing to Emogene Hoagg on the defeat of the segregationists at the “great
meeting,” William Bidwell reported with apparent satisfaction that “some of the Georgia
cracker[s] could not take being in the same room with the colored brethren.”609


607 McMullen, The Bahá’í, 162-5.  The building was still in use as a Bahá’í Center in 2010.

608 Shoghi Effendi, “Excerpts from Letter from the Guardian,” Bahá’í News, no. 145 (June 1941), 3, quoted in
Morrison, To Move the World, 284.

609 William Bidwell to Emogene Hoagg, letter fragment, [November 1940], H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.


Activism and Suppression in Depression-Era Greenville
In December 1938, William Bidwell wrote to a friend that a white Baptist seeker in
Greenville was “afraid to believe and afraid not to believe” in the Bahá’í Faith.610  Indeed,
the previous decade had left people in the Greenville area with plenty to fear.  In contrast to
the situation in Atlanta and a few of the other fledgling communities in the South, the initial
barrier to the growth of the faith in Greenville seems to have been not lingering racial
conservatism on the part of some of the pioneers, but a local history of brutal suppression of
racial and religious heterodoxy.
As in other cotton-dependent areas in the South, the Great Depression in the Upstate
of South Carolina began not with the 1929 stock market crash but nearly a full decade earlier,
as cotton prices spiraled downward and the boll weevil devastated crops.  During the decade
of the 1920s, half of the state’s counties lost population; in the eight-month period after the
disastrous cotton harvest of 1922, some 50,000 black farm families, mostly from the
Piedmont, left the state for good.611  The sharp decline of the rural economy and the hope of
jobs in the city’s textile industry made Greenville a magnet for poor whites from the
surrounding farms and small towns.  After 1929, the nationwide economic downturn began
to affect the cotton mills, and urban workers as well were hit hard.  For the area’s black
residents, barred from all but the most menial jobs in the textile mills, there was even less
incentive to stay in Greenville; their percentage of the total population declined during the

610 W. T. Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, Monday 24th [early 1939], Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

611 Edgar, South Carolina, 485.


1920s and 1930s to less than 40 percent, as thousands sought opportunities in the cities of the
North and West.612
For those who remained in Greenville, the gravity of the economic crisis and, after
1933, the work and relief programs of the New Deal, began to alter traditional patterns of
dependency.  New Deal agencies largely bypassed the small town bankers, county officials,
and powerful landlords—traditionally the sole sources of employment and credit—
encouraging mill operatives and landless farm laborers in Greenville and across the Carolina
Piedmont to press for better wages and working conditions.613  Other initiatives for change
came from the area’s educated elite, encouraged by the New Deal’s spirit of social and
economic experimentation.  But by the time the Bidwells arrived, every major effort for a
decade to promote social and economic justice and interracial cooperation had ended in
abject failure, either sabotaged by officials the state’s largest and most influential Christian
denomination and their political friends, or violently suppressed by the coordinated efforts of
local police and the Ku Klux Klan.
Protests by Greenville workers, particularly when blacks and whites attempted to
cooperate, were violently suppressed.  In 1929 and again in 1931, the Communist-led
National Textile Workers Union (NTWU) struck against the “stretch-out” (the use of fewer
workers for increased production).  In 1929, a female NTWU organizer was abducted and
beaten by hooded men.614  In 1931, the NTWU organized an Unemployed Council made up
of jobless whites and blacks, which staged a series of biracial marches and made repeated

612 Joseph Turpin Drake, “The Negro in Greenville, South Carolina,” M.A. thesis, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, 1940, 2.

613 Edgar, South Carolina, 510, 513.

614 Huff, Greenville, 302-5.


appeals to the local Red Cross and the city council for relief.  Klan members, often with
police officers standing by, attended city council meetings to intimidate the workers’
representatives, raided the organization’s headquarters, broke up clandestine meetings in
houses, and beat up black and white members.  In 1936, organizers for the Workers Alliance,
a union for employees of the federally-funded Works Progress Administration (WPA), came
to Greenville and set up segregated locals.  Leaders of the two groups, however, worked
closely together, and white union members accompanied black members as they attempted to
register to vote.  In response, police raided houses looking for Communist literature and
arrested black and white members.615
In 1938 and 1939, similar methods defeated an ambitious voting rights campaign
launched by the Greenville branch of the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People (NAACP).  While black residents’ grievances were many, the incident that
sparked the campaign was the city council’s rejection of a plan by the local housing authority
to replace dilapidated houses in black neighborhoods with new low-cost construction.616  In
response to the defeat, the NAACP launched a campaign to register six thousand African-
American voters in time for municipal elections in September 1939.  Approximately 250
African Americans succeeded in registering before violence and intimidation crushed the
campaign.  The Ku Klux Klan copied the names of registrants, beat up organizers and
innocent bystanders during night rides in black neighborhoods in Greenville and smaller
towns in the county, and denounced the campaign in the press as a Communist plot.
Campaign leaders were fired from their jobs and some were jailed by police.  Tensions ran

615 Edwin D. Hoffman, “The Genesis of the Modern Movement for Equal Rights in South Carolina, 1930-
1939,” The Journal of Negro History, 44, no. 4 (October 1959): 362.

616 Drake, “Negro in Greenville,” 205.


high as armed black men patrolled their neighborhoods on the lookout for the Klan.  One
resident said that if the vigilantes had located any Klansmen, “there would have been a race
riot in Greenville that would have made previous Southern race riots look like interracial
good will meetings.”  Only thirty-four of the registered black voters cast ballots in the
municipal election, while white voters, stirred by Klan propaganda, turned out in larger-than-
normal numbers.617
Even members of the area’s white elite risked retribution if their efforts on behalf of
blacks passed from traditional paternalism to substantive advocacy and interracial
cooperation.  A case in point is the Greenville County Council for Community Development,
a New Deal-inspired cooperative agency that ran afoul of the area’s Baptist clergy.  The
organization’s founder, Bennette Eugene Geer, was a prominent local textile executive and
the president of Furman University, a Baptist men’s college in downtown Greenville.
Inspired by the work of such activist educators as Frank Porter Graham and Howard Odum
of the University of North Carolina and funded by the Rockefeller Foundation’s General
Education Board, Geer envisioned the Council as a cooperative venture among Furman, the
city, local schools and libraries, charitable organizations, and state and federal agencies to
channel the spirit and resources of the New Deal into a wide range of community
development projects.  Beginning in 1936, it initiated projects in health, education, housing,
recreation, and environmental stewardship among the area’s black and white residents.  The
Council’s advocacy for African Americans and its support of interracial cooperation, while
far from radical, were substantive.  Working with the Negro Division of the National Youth
Administration and the Phillis Wheatley Center, a local black agency, the Council sponsored

617 Ibid., 178-9, 205-7; Huff, Greenville, 356-8.


a local Committee on Interracial Cooperation, offered continuing education courses for black
schoolteachers, and conducted a comprehensive study of Greenville County’s black schools.
The Council also carried out the research on which the local housing authority based
its application for federal funds for slum clearance.  While the Council sought to distance
itself from the resulting voting rights campaign of the local NAACP, in the eyes of many
prominent whites, the organization was going too far in support of black demands.  In
particular, the Council’s work contributed to a growing perception among conservative
Baptist leaders that Furman University was becoming a citadel of biblical modernism, social-
gospel liberalism, and interracial mixing.  As the controversy over slum clearance put the
Council in the middle of the area’s divisive racial politics, Furman professors clashed with
trustees and local Baptist ministers when a visiting speaker encouraged students to
deemphasize study of doctrine and focus on applying the Christian faith to social conditions.
(It mattered little that the speaker was a Baptist minister himself and the son of a former
president of the university.)  The trustees fired one professor over the matter, and Geer was
forced to resign as president.618  He remained the head of the Council, but, deprived of a
home at the university, the organization folded the next year.619  The demise of the Council
and the suppression of the area’s labor movement and NAACP branch made it clear that
Greenville, dubbed by its boosters as the progressive “Textile Capital of the South,” was in
reality a dangerous place for blacks or whites—together or separately, and regardless of their
class background—to challenge the rule of the city’s business and political elite and their

618 Huff, Greenville, 363-4.

619 Alfred S. Reid, “The Greenville County Council for Community Development: Furman and Greenville in
Partnership in the 1930s,” in Proceedings and Papers of the Greenville County Historical Association, vol. 6,
ed. Albert N. Sanders (Greenville: Greenville County Historical Association, 1981), 78-88.


powerful allies in the Baptist ministry.620


Reinforcements, but Few Recruits
In such an oppressive local climate, it is perhaps not surprising that the Bahá’í Faith was
slow to gain converts in Greenville.  The activism of the Depression decade showed that
southern racial and religious orthodoxies had powerful defenders in Greenville, and to
become a Bahá’í necessarily involved transgressing both sets of mores simultaneously.
White supremacist reaction to the area’s incipient labor and civil rights movements seems to
have created a climate of fear that reinforced the conservative tendencies of some of the
pioneers, strained relationships within the struggling young community, and slowed early
expansion efforts.
Two years after their arrival, the Bidwells remained the only Bahá’ís in the city, and
the prospects of establishing a local community by the end of the Seven Year Plan looked
bleak.  While the Bidwells worked to build their business and nurture a few seekers, it was a
challenge to remain connected to the wider Bahá’í community.  William Bidwell maintained
that he had informed the National Spiritual Assembly of their move to Greenville in 1938.
Yet when Shoghi Effendi cabled to the American Bahá’ís in January 1939 calling for “nine
holy souls” to settle in the nine remaining virgin states and provinces in North America,
South Carolina was still included in the list.621  The Bidwells wrote to the secretary of the
National Teaching Committee asking to be put on the national mailing list of isolated
believers, and they wrote directly to Shoghi Effendi to tell him they had moved to South

620 For a good discussion of activism and violence in late-1930s Greenville, see Lau, Democracy Rising, chapter
3.

621 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 16.


Carolina.  Shoghi Effendi informed the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bidwells’ move,
but not in time for them to be listed as pioneers in the body’s annual report in April 1939.
Horace Holley, the secretary of the National Assembly, wrote to the couple that month: “The
members of the National Spiritual Assembly have been very pleased to receive a letter from
Shoghi Effendi reporting that you have settled in South Carolina as Baha’i pioneers.  Both
the Teaching Committee and the N. S. A. will be more than happy to extend all possible
cooperation in your important work.”  But William Bidwell still felt slighted.  “Holley
knew,” he noted, “that I was at Chick Springs last year.”622  If the national administration
seemed remote and inefficient, the Augusta-area community was completely unhelpful.
Bidwell complained to a friend: “The Augusta crowd asked that we keep our membership
there but they have forgotten we are living and never mail us a news letter.”  Even their
personal practice of the faith was adversely impacted by being outside a local community.
“We do not know when the fast begins,” Bidwell noted, “and I wrote today asking.”623
By early 1940, the Bidwells felt isolated and dispirited, and their efforts to teach their
religion in Greenville had yielded few tangible results.  To remedy the situation, the National
Teaching Committee and its newly established branch, the Regional Teaching Committee for
North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, directed a succession of new pioneers and
traveling teachers to Greenville.  Most of the new arrivals were single or widowed white
women from the established communities in the North and West; later, following the onset of
war, some women whose husbands were away in military service were also able to move as
pioneers.  At least one of the new arrivals, Amelie Bodmer, had taught the faith in South

622 W. T. Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, Monday 24th [early 1939], Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.

623 W. T. Bidwell to Alma Knobloch, 6 March 1939, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA.


Carolina before.  By late 1940, nine Bahá’ís were residing in Greenville, and a Local
Spiritual Assembly was formed.
During the same year, Shoghi Effendi reiterated that all Local Assemblies should
conform to civil boundaries.624  In other words, the jurisdiction of each Local Assembly—
and thus the voting membership of each local Bahá’í community—had to correspond to the
corporate limits of one city or town rather than encompass a number of adjoining suburbs or
unincorporated rural areas.  In some metropolitan areas, the new policy resulted in the
dissolution of Local Assemblies, as two or more localities, hitherto functioning as one Bahá’í
community, found themselves without the requisite nine adult believers.  In the Augusta area,
however, the immediate result was the opposite: there were enough Bahá’ís living in both
Augusta and North Augusta for each to have its own Local Assembly.  With Local
Assemblies in both Greenville and North Augusta, then, it appeared that the Seven Year Plan
goal for South Carolina had been doubly fulfilled.  However, the gains in both areas were
short-lived.  In Greenville, several pioneers were unable to remain.  Within a few months, the
number of Bahá’ís there had dwindled to six and the Local Spiritual Assembly was
dissolved.625  Late in 1940, when Louise Thompson visited the Augusta area for a meeting of
the Regional Teaching Committee, she reported: “The N. & S. Augusta Assemblies are not

624 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í News, no. 102 (August 1936): 2; Bahá’í News, no. 132 (January
1940): 4.

625 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, Annual Bahá’í Reports
Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada for the Year 1940-1941 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Committee, 1941), 19.


very cooperative and need help.”626  By early 1943, the number of believers in Augusta and
North Augusta had each fallen below nine and their Local Assemblies were dissolved, too.627
In 1942, with the end of the Seven Year Plan less than two years away, a new wave of
settlers arrived in Greenville in response to instructions from Shoghi Effendi.  That year, he
modified the expansion goal for North America from simply having “a nucleus of believers
in every State and Province” to establishing at least one Local Spiritual Assembly in each
territory.628  The change required herculean efforts: as the experiences in Greenville and the
Augustas showed, establishing and maintaining a Local Assembly was extraordinarily
difficult without steady growth in membership.  As Leroy Ioas of the National Teaching
Committee recalled, “What in the past had been a matter of sporadic effort now compelled
primary and complete concentration.”629  The Regional Teaching Committees led the effort
by selecting a goal city in each virgin area and sending additional pioneers and visiting
teachers.  For South Carolina, the committee selected Greenville.  Among those who
responded to the new call for pioneers was Grace Wilder, a single young white woman from
Los Angeles, who left for Greenville right after a summer program at the Geyserville Bahá’í
School in northern California.630  Shortly after her arrival, Wilder met and befriended
Virginia Ford, a white Greenville native who soon became the first Bahá’í convert in the city.
Ford’s study of the Bahá’í scriptures and involvement in community activities appear to have

626 Louise Thompson to Emogene Hoagg, 28 November 1940, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

627 “Assembly Roll,” North Augusta, SC, 1941-1942, Local Spiritual Assembly Records, NBA; National
Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1942-1943, 22.

628 Ioas, “Teaching in North America,” 207.

629 Ibid.

630 Grace M. Wilder to John and Louise Bosch, 20 September [1942], John and Louise Bosch Papers, NBA.


been haphazard.  For some time after joining the religion, she did not know that Bahá’ís
believed Bahá’u’lláh to be the return of Christ.  With her husband overseas in the military,
Ford was alone to take care of their young daughter; she found it uncomfortable to attend
Bahá’í meetings because some of the other members did not like children.631
In the fall of 1942, the Regional Teaching Committee held a “Teaching Conference”
in Greenville, one of a series of similar efforts across the country to train more individuals as
competent and confident teachers of the faith.  Twenty Bahá’ís and sixteen seekers, including
residents of the Carolinas and Georgia and two traveling teachers from outside the region,
attended the weekend conference.  According to the Regional Committee’s newsletter, an
important feature of the conference was the “first inter-racial public meeting” on the Bahá’í
Faith in South Carolina, an “outstanding precedent” for the state.  Eva Lee Flack and
Adrienne Ellis, single young African-American women from California who were pioneers
in Greensboro, the goal city for North Carolina, provided a “musical contribution” to the
program.  It is unclear in what kind of venue the conference was held or whether there were
any other African Americans in attendance.632
More pioneers, mostly white, came to Greenville in 1943: Adline Lohse and her
young daughter came from Washington, D.C.; Luda Dabrowski from Larchmont, New York;
Villa Vaughn from New York City; Virginia Camelon from Illinois; and Emogene Hoagg,
recently returned from Cuba.633  While all hoped to help reestablish the Local Assembly, not

631 Ford deduced that that Bahá’u’lláh was the return of Christ from her individual study after becoming a
Bahá’í.  Ali-Kuli Khan, a prominent Washington Bahá’í, confirmed her conclusion during his 1945 visit to
Greenville.  Virginia Ford, audio cassette of interview by Elmer Kenneally, 1989, Greenville Bahá’í Archives,
Greenville, SC (hereafter cited as GBA).

632 Regional Teaching Bulletin, no. 5 (1 December 1942), 1.

633 Adline Lohse to Alma Knobloch, 17 June 1943, Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers, NBA; Regional Teaching
Bulletin, no. 11 (1 June 1943): 1;  National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada,


all were able to stay permanently.  Late in June, the Regional Teaching Committee organized
another Teaching Conference in Greenville.  Fifteen Bahá’ís, including a visiting teacher,
Charles Mason Remey from Washington, D.C., and four seekers attended.  The topics of
study during the conference were “Prophecies Fulfilled” the “Dawnbreakers,” and “Living
the Bahá’í Life.”634  Carolyn Glazener, a white Greenville woman who had been studying the
religion with the Bidwells for some time, became a Bahá’í during the conference, only the
second convert in four years.635  By the fall, three more pioneers had been added to the
Greenville group.  Viola Bower came from New York City, and Roy and Bernice Williams,
also long-time New Yorkers, came from Rocky Mount, North Carolina, where they had
recently settled.  With the arrival of the Williamses, Greenville received its first black
pioneers.  And they seemed particularly well suited to attracting local African Americans to
the faith.  Roy Williams was already somewhat familiar with the area; more than twenty
years earlier, during the course of his extended visit to the state, he and Louis Gregory had
spoken on the faith “in many churches in Greenville and Anderson Count[ies].”636  Further,
the Williamses’ social and economic background made it likely that they could stay in
Greenville indefinitely.  Roy Williams was a master woodworker, and he opened a shop for
fine furniture restoration where he catered to a mostly white clientele.  Bernice Williams, an
experienced public school teacher, secured a job teaching English and French at Sterling

Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada for the Year 1943-1944
(Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1944), 38.

634 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1943-1944, 38.

635 Lohse to Knobloch, 17 June 1943; National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1943-1944, 38; Emogene
Hoagg to Leroy Ioas, 4 October 1943, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.  Lohse’s letter says that one of the
Bidwells’ contacts is ready to become a Bahá’í, the Annual Report states that one person was “confirmed” as a
believer at the summer conference, and Hoagg’s letter refers to Glazener as “the new Bahá’í here.”

636 Hardin, “Roy Williams,” 3.


High School, the county’s only high school for African Americans.637  While both were to
some extend dependent on whites for their livelihood and may therefore have needed to
remain circumspect about their radical religious and racial beliefs, each enjoyed a position of
respect in a black community that was painfully short on professionals, and each had ample
opportunity to serve and befriend large numbers of people in their new locality.638  In
November 1943, with the membership of the Greenville Bahá’í community at least nine
again, the Local Spiritual Assembly was reformed.  With the Williamses as members, it
reflected the community’s newly interracial character.


Racial Politics in Wartime

If the New Deal had strained traditional patterns of economic dependency and encouraged
agricultural and industrial workers to press their concerns, mobilization for a new global war
brought even more thoroughgoing change to South Carolina—trends which, continuing after
the war, opened new opportunities for growth of the state’s Bahá’í movement.  In Greenville
alone, a new Army air field opened, and two local companies, Daniel Construction and Poe
Hardware and Supply, won lucrative federal contracts.  Employment opportunities seemed to
multiply overnight, with textile mills operating around the clock and wages for farm laborers
rising.639  Statewide, nearly 200,000 men and women served in the military during the war.
For thousands more who stayed at home (including the more than one half of eligible black
men and one third of eligible white men who were rejected because of illiteracy or ill health),

637 Ibid.

638 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin] no. 38 (October 1946), 3; Drake, “Negro in Greenville,”
43.

639 Edgar, South Carolina, 513; Lau, Democracy Rising, 124.


war industries brought steady work and good wages.  In Charleston, for example, the Navy
Yard went from 6,000 employees in 1941 to 28,000 in 1943, while other war industries in the
area employed an additional 72,000 workers.640  For South Carolinians, the war meant the
end of the Great Depression, an acceleration of urbanization and industrialization, an
unprecedented level of federal government involvement in daily life and livelihoods, and
often a sense of broadened personal horizons and expectations.
For African Americans in particular, the war provided a new impetus to activism, and
the organization that led and embodied their struggle was a revived and expanded NAACP.
Its chief architect was Levi Byrd, a poorly-educated, self-employed plumber in Cheraw, the
seat of Chesterfield County in the upper Pee Dee.  Between 1933 and 1939, he organized a
largely underground branch of the NAACP in Cheraw, a town little different from those
where branches had folded in the face of opposition in the 1920s.  During the summer of the
Greenville voting rights effort, Byrd began writing to the other remaining branches in South
Carolina to urge the creation of a statewide conference of the association.641  In the fall, as
Klan violence descended on blacks in Greenville, the branches there and in Charleston,
Columbia, Florence, Georgetown, and Sumter sent representatives to an organizational
meeting at Benedict College in Columbia.642  The new state conference immediately
endorsed both the Greenville campaign and the national organization’s call for an end to
segregation and disfranchisement.  Its first two statewide initiatives were a legal campaign to
secure equal pay for black teachers and creation of an alternative black political party to

640 Edgar, South Carolina, 513.  For a recent treatment of the wartime transformation of Charleston, see Fritz P.
Hamer, Charleston Reborn: A Southern City, Its Navy Yard, and World War II (Charleston, SC: The History
Press, 2005).

641 Lau, Democracy Rising, 117.

642 Ibid., 119.


press for voting rights.  While the twin campaigns represented only a partial struggle against
segregation and disfranchisement—the salary equalization campaign did not contemplate the
dismantling of the state’s dual school system and an all-black party was at best a stepping-
stone to full and equitable political participation—they were notable for their energy, for
their tentative successes, and for the foundation they laid for continued activism in the post-
war period.
The campaign to equalize pay between black and white teachers began in 1943 with a
class-action case representing black teachers in Charleston.  Thurgood Marshall and Harold
Boulware, head of the state conference’s Committee on Legal Redress, argued before Judge
J. Waties Waring of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of South Carolina that a
discrepancy in salary between black and white teachers violated the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.  Waring, scion of a prominent white Charleston family and an
unlikely advocate of racial justice, upheld the plaintiffs’ claims, and the Charleston school
district agreed to a consent decree to phase in equal salaries.  The state government attempted
to subvert the ruling, but in 1945 Waring ruled in a second case that Richland County, too,
had to equalize teachers’ salaries.643
A simultaneous effort to secure voting rights focused on gaining access to the
machinery of the state’s Democratic Party.  In South Carolina as across the country, the
impact of the New Deal and the perception that the Roosevelt administration was more
responsive than its Republican predecessors to their needs caused blacks increasingly to
identify with the national Democratic Party.  In 22 of South Carolina’s 46 counties, blacks
still constituted a majority of the population, and NAACP leaders believed they had the

643 Ibid., 129-30.


potential to become an important force in state politics.  But white Democrats, equally
conscious of blacks’ potential strength, fought energetically to exclude them.  “The white
people of this state have successfully run this government for generations,” Gov. Olin D.
Johnston told a reporter in 1942, “and … we intend to run it as we have in the past.”644
In early April 1944, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a case from Texas that party
primary elections were an integral part of the electoral process and therefore could not
exclude African Americans without violating the Fifteenth Amendment.  While South
Carolina’s U.S. senators, Burnet Maybank and Ellison D. “Cotton Ed” Smith, led opposition
in Congress, Gov. Johnston called the General Assembly into extraordinary session to protect
the state’s Democratic primary from the implications of the ruling.  Over the course of six
days, in an unprecedented feat of legislative efficiency, the legislature removed every
reference to primary elections from the state code and passed 147 new laws designed to make
them completely private affairs.645  If legal measures were not enough, Johnston told the
lawmakers, “we South Carolinians will use the necessary methods to retain this white
supremacy in our primaries and to safeguard the homes and happiness of our people.”646
On the opening day of the special session, the Lighthouse and Informer of Columbia,
the unofficial mouthpiece of the state conference of the NAACP, announced the creation of
the South Carolina Colored Democratic Party—a name quickly changed to the Progressive
Democratic Party (PDP).  The new party intended to contest the validity of the state’s white
party at the Democratic National Convention that summer and to run candidates in the

644 AP clipping (1943), Papers of the NAACP, II-B, 209, quoted in Sullivan, Days of Hope, 158.

645 Edgar, South Carolina, 516.

646 Lau, Democracy Rising, 134-5.


November elections.  At its first statewide convention, held on May 24, 1944 in the Masonic
Temple in Columbia, Rev. James Hinton, president of the state conference of the NAACP,
compared the state’s Jim Crow regime to Hitler’s Germany and invoked black wartime
service as a claim to full citizenship rights.  “Black boys are dying on the battlefields,” he
said, “and these South Carolina demagogues meet in extra sessions to further disfranchise
what we are fighting for.”647
By the end of July, when PDP delegates appeared before the credentials
subcommittee of the national Democratic Party to challenge the state’s white regulars for
seating at the convention, they claimed some 45,000 black members across South
Carolina.648  But supporters of the regular party were unmoved, smearing the PDP as the
work of “Communists or Northern agitators.”649  The subcommittee ruled against the PDP on
technicalities, but at home the party nominated Osceola McKaine, a left-leaning activist from
Sumter, to run against Gov. Olin Johnston for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by “Cotton
Ed” Smith.  The first black South Carolinian to run for statewide office since Reconstruction,
McKaine lauded the progressive forces unleashed by the New Deal and the war.  But those
forces still had little sway at South Carolina polling places, where voter fraud, including
intimidation by police and withholding ballots from black voters, marred the November
elections.650
While the state’s political elite fought to defend Jim Crow, other white South
Carolinians, moved by the perversity of the Nazi regime’s racial theories and the upheavals

647 Ibid., 140.

648 Sullivan, Days of Hope, 170.

649 Ibid.

650 Ibid., 189-91.


of wartime, began to openly criticize the system.  In July 1942, for example, Rev. Claude
Evans, a young assistant minister at Columbia’s Washington St. United Methodist Church,
delivered a sermon called “This Conflict of Race,” startling not only the church’s
congregation but an audience on local radio.  In retaliation, the church’s board of stewards
voted overwhelmingly to bar him from preaching.651  The state’s prohibition on servicemen
voting absentee, a measure designed to prevent black soldiers from regaining the franchise
through the back door, was particularly galling to young whites.  In 1944 a soldier named
Albert D. Hutto railed against the policy in a letter to the editor of The State, laying the blame
on racial paranoia: “It seems to me that the average South Carolinian is so afraid that the
negro will get ahead that he is willing to sacrifice his own rights just to make sure that the
negro won’t have any.”652  Though hardly constituting a sea-change in white public opinion,
such incidents indicate that at least a few more white South Carolinians were awakening to
the injustice of the state’s racial system.


Race in the Greenville Community

While African-American activists in South Carolina pursued the somewhat paradoxical
course of forming an all-black political party in order to achieve interracial democracy, a
handful of Bahá’ís in Greenville continued their own efforts to build an interracial faith
community.  Hampered by a local climate of fear, the practical constraints of segregation,
and the conservative “traditions, tastes, and habits” of some of their own members, they often
found themselves frustrated.

651 Edgar, South Carolina, 513.

652 Ibid., 516.


One measure of the community’s attempt to foster interracial fellowship was its effort
to establish a basic pattern of activities for both Bahá’ís and seekers.  Black and white
believers alike participated in the Nineteen Day Feast, the annual election of the Local
Spiritual Assembly, and the Local Assembly’s regular meetings, all of which were generally
held in the homes of the Bahá’ís on a rotating basis.  The whites had little trouble visiting the
Williamses’ home, an apartment in the back of Roy’s furniture shop in a black neighborhood,
but when the Williamses came to the Bidwells’ house, for instance, they were careful to enter
through the office door in the back so as not to arouse the suspicion of the Bidwells’ white
neighbors.653
In their outreach to the public, the Greenville Bahá’ís experimented with both
separate and mixed gatherings.  Beginning in 1944, they announced regular firesides in the
local newspapers using language that would arouse a minimum of suspicion among
conservative whites.  Separate meetings for white and black seekers were held at the Bidwell
and Williams homes, respectively.  A typical announcement in the “City News Briefs”
section of the Greenville News read:
BAHA’IS TO MEET.  “Springtime in the World” will be the subject of Mrs. Adline
Lohse’s talk at the Greenville Baha’i meeting this afternoon at 3:30 o’clock at 800
North Main Street.  Mrs. Wm. Bidwell will be the chairman for the afternoon.  A
Baha’i meeting for colored people will be held at 4:30 at 17 Madison Street.654

They also looked for public venues where they could hold integrated gatherings.  In 1945, the
community rented space in a downtown office building for use as a Bahá’í Center, but the
cost likely being too much for the small group to bear, use of the room was short-lived.655  In

653 Elmer Kenneally, “Fifty Years of the Bahá’í Faith in Greenville, SC, 1939-1989,” TS, GBA, 4.

654 Greenville News, 26 March 1944, 12.

655 Baha’i Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 31 (November 1945): 2.


1947, Virginia Ford, pioneer Gertrude Gewertz, and traveling teacher Ali-Kuli Khan, a
prominent Iranian-American Bahá’í and former diplomat, visited Mayor J. Kenneth Cass to
discuss other options for holding public interracial meetings.  Cass said that the only public
place where blacks and whites could meet together was in the city council chambers, which
he offered for use by the Bahá’ís.  Ford recalled that after a first integrated meeting, with
Khan as the speaker and Mayor Cass in attendance, they used the chambers “a number of
times” without having to mention race at all in their advertizing.656
While they were able to hold private and, eventually, public integrated activities, it
appears that internal disagreements over racial policy prevented the Greenville Bahá’ís from
making a concerted and sustained effort to teach their faith to local African Americans.
While the economic position and social connections of the Williamses must have presented
many opportunities to share the Bahá’í message, it appears likely that the attitudes of some of
the white Bahá’ís may have dampened the enthusiasm of black inquirers, or even made the
Williamses wary of inviting African Americans to investigate the religion.  At least one
influential pioneer was uncomfortable with holding integrated meetings, even among the
Bahá’ís.  Her opposition surely contributed to the community’s relative caution in reaching
out to blacks; moreover, disunity over racial policy may have carried over into other areas
and prevented the tiny community from attracting many new members at all.
Late in 1943, a month before the reestablishment of Greenville’s Local Spiritual
Assembly, Emogene Hoagg expressed her views on race and teaching in a lengthy letter to
Leroy Ioas, the chairman of the National Teaching Committee.657  Hoagg argued that the

656 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 5

657 Emogene Hoagg to Leroy Ioas, 4 October 1943, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.


Greenville Bahá’ís should follow the practice of the Bahá’ís in St. Augustine, Florida, who
had essentially created separate communities for the black and white members.  In St.
Augustine, Hoagg wrote, the “white members go to the colored nineteen day Feasts [sic], but
the colored never go to the other meetings.”  She argued for extreme caution in pressing
Bahá’í racial views among a highly prejudiced white population: “We simply cannot
introduce the Cause here by breaking away from all their customs and inborn ideas.  Shoghi
Effendi knows this.  The Cause suffers a setback in so doing, and the believers are classified
as revolutionists.”658
Hoagg’s letter indicates that several other pioneers, especially Grace Wilder and Luda
Dabrowski, were more forceful in their defiance of Jim Crow, and in their contempt for
southern white racism.  According to Hoagg, indiscreet comments by Dabrowski and Wilder
had aroused the scrutiny of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and raised the specter of
Communism, already a common charge against any southern organization pursuing an
interracial agenda:
Mrs. Glazener, the new Bahá’í here, has been told by the F. B. I. that they have been
getting information regarding Grace Wilder from the time she left California….  One
suspicion is that Grace is a communist.  She constantly has criticized the people here
saying: “People must be changed here,” etc.  This attitude is not received without
comment, nor is it good judgment to criticize in this way.659


658 Ibid.

659 Ibid.  Locally and regionally, white supremacist activists and law enforcement agencies frequently equated
any type of interracial organization with Communist attempts to overthrow southern civilization.  While such
rhetoric became more widespread in the context of the Cold War, it was employed in South Carolina as early as
World War One.  For a recent study of the post-World War Two southern red scare, see Jeff Woods, Black
Struggle, Red Scare: Segregation and Anti-Communism in the South, 1948-1968 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State
University Press, 2004).  For the impact of red baiting on a secular interracial organization, see Linda Reed,
Simple Decency and Common Sense, especially chapter 3.


Hoagg accused another outsider, Ruth Moffett of Chicago, who had spoken at the teaching
conference in the fall of 1942, of driving away prospective middle- and upper-class white
converts and compounding the problem with federal law enforcement:
Here in Greenville where there were quite a number studying and interested, they
were entirely upset by Mrs. Moffett[’s] enthusiasm and bad judgment ….  This is a
serious difficulty to be met now as these people are actively opposed.  One has gone
so far as to report to the F. B. I. that we Baha’is hold “secret meetings” here at 800
[N. Main St., the home of the Bidwells] every Tuesday evening.  These “meetings”
are a class that we are having and are quite freely spoken of.660

Nor were white Bahá’ís the only culprits.  According to Hoagg, Eva Flack McAllister,
recently married young African-American pioneer in Greensboro, was causing a stir in the
small community there “by insisting there should be equality between colored and white in
every way.”  The main problem with this approach, Hoagg continued, was that it “had
prevented many of the better class” of whites in Greensboro “from investigating the
teachings and caused no end of criticism.”  She asked that the National Teaching Committee
not allow McAllister to come to Greenville as a traveling teacher, as “great confusion and
trouble would follow” if McAllister and Dabrowski were allowed to join forces and insist
upon “social equality.”661
Hoagg’s comments seem to echo those of some other white traveling teachers active
in the South during the 1940s, and her invocation of the Guardianship to defend her own
cautious approach indicated that at least some in the movement still had not come to terms
with a national policy, suggested and approved by the head of the faith, that insisted on social
equality and on teaching both black and white Southerners.  As Dahl has noted, another
active teacher, Mabel Ives, expressed views similar to Hoagg’s in a 1941 letter to Shoghi

660 Ibid.

661 Ibid.


Effendi.662  Ives shared impressions of her 1939 visit to Memphis, Tennessee, to help
establish a Local Spiritual Assembly there.  She said that strong racial prejudice in Memphis
had hampered both teaching activities and efforts to build an interracial local community.
Her view was that the faith should not be taught to blacks in large numbers until a sizeable
group of whites became Bahá’ís, so that they could either change southern society or,
through their numbers, offer protection to black Bahá’ís.  Ives received the following reply
on behalf of Shoghi Effendi in 1942:
Regarding the whole manner of teaching the Faith in the South: The Guardian feels
that, although the greatest consideration should be shown the feelings of white people
in the South whom we are teaching, under no circumstances should we discriminate
in their favor, consider them more valuable to the Cause than their Negro fellow-
southerners, or single them out to be taught the Message first….  The Negro and
white races should be offered, simultaneously, on a basis of equality, the Message of
Bahá’u’lláh….
This does not mean that we should go against the laws of the state, pursue a
radical course which will stir up trouble, and cause misunderstanding.  On the
contrary, the Guardian feels that, where no other course is open, the two races should
be taught separately until they are fully conscious of the implications of being a
Bahá’í, and then be confirmed and admitted to voting membership.  Once, however,
this has happened, they cannot shun each other’s company, and feel the Cause to be
like other Faiths in the South, with separate white and black compartments.663

Ives replied to Shoghi Effendi that she would follow his advice and forward copies of the
letter to other teachers in the South, and in March 1943, pertinent excerpts of the letter were
printed in Bahá’í News.664  One way or another, then, Emogene Hoagg certainly knew of
Shoghi Effendi’s latest advice on the matter before she wrote to Leroy Ioas in October.  It
seems, however, to have had little effect on her attitude towards the situation in Greenville.

662 Dahl, “Three Teaching Methods,” 1-15.

663 Bahá’í News, no. 161 (March, 1943): 2.

664 Dahl, “Three Teaching Methods,” 8.


The success of the Seven Year Plan in the South depended on the commitment of
white Bahá’ís in particular to maintain integrated meetings for members and to fully support
a vigorous program of teaching both blacks and whites.  Further, Shoghi Effendi insisted that
social and political equality of the races within the Bahá’í community was a prerequisite for
the movement’s growth and development.  But concern about how local whites and federal
law enforcement perceived them prevented the Greenville Bahá’ís from fully carrying out the
policies of the national and international leadership of their religion.  As a respected senior
member of the faith in the United States, Hoagg’s strong views surely had an impact on the
community.  Perhaps she, Glazener, and the Bidwells, all of whom were native to or had
lived previously in the area, were more conscious of its recent history of violence against
interracial and civil rights groups than the other Bahá’ís and wise to counsel a cautious
approach.  But at a moment when black activists were demonstrating increasing courage in
their challenge to Jim Crow and a growing minority of whites seemed more open to change,
a more unified and focused Bahá’í community in Greenville could certainly have reached out
more energetically to African Americans.  Significantly, in areas where pioneers and
traveling teachers were following all parts of the national policy for the southern campaign—
in Nashville, Atlanta, Greensboro, and Columbia, for example, which all faced similar
obstacles as Greenville—a steady trickle of new black and white believers were indeed
joining the faith and confident and viable interracial communities were emerging.

Culmination
By early 1944, the exterior ornamentation of the house of worship in Wilmette was complete,
and Local Spiritual Assemblies had been established in fifteen Latin American cities.  In


March, with the formation of three remaining Local Spiritual Assemblies in Canada, the final
expansion goal of the Seven Year Plan was met: the faith’s administrative system included
every state of the United States, every province of Canada, and every republic of Latin
America.  Accomplishment of the goals had required broad participation by the rank and file
of the community.  During the course of the Plan, nearly three hundred individuals—more
than ten percent of the North American community at the outset of the Plan—had moved to
become pioneers at home and abroad, and more than three hundred had served as members of
Regional Teaching Committees within North America.665  During the last year of the Plan
alone, more than one hundred individuals had served as itinerant teachers in North
America.666  Bahá’í membership in the United States and Canada had nearly doubled in
seven years to approximately 4800 people, and these from a much broader diversity of social,
economic, and racial backgrounds than before.667  In April 1944, Shoghi Effendi announced
that the North American Bahá’ís had achieved “total victory” in their prosecution of the
Plan.668
Late in May, the National Spiritual Assembly hosted a special “All-America
Convention,” held at the temple in Wilmette and the Stevens Hotel in Chicago, to mark both
the centenary of the faith’s birth and the successful completion of the Plan.  Honorary
delegates from Latin America and some 1600 believers from the United States and Canada—
fully one-third of the movement’s members in North America—attended the proceedings,

665 Marion Holley, “The Growth of the American Bahá’í Community to 1944,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10, 1944-
1946, 161.

666 Ioas, “Teaching in North America,” 213.

667 Stockman, “United States of America,” 6.

668 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 69.


remarkable achievements in themselves given wartime travel restrictions.  They gathered for
a week of devotional programs, artistic performances, consultations, and inspirational
speeches.  The convention concluded on May 25 with a banquet in a ballroom of the Stevens,
the largest hotel in the city and among the largest in the world; the banquet was thoroughly
integrated, with men and women of different racial and national backgrounds sitting together
at the various tables.  Speakers for the evening’s program, broadcast over a local Chicago
radio station, pointed to the week’s proceedings as evidence of the power of the faith to unite
the human race.669  One speaker, an American pioneer to Panama named Alfred Osborne,
noted the diversity of the participants and hailed “the highest type of democracy” at work in
the convention proceedings.  While certainly unaware of the formation of the Progressive
Democratic Party in South Carolina the day before, his comments contrasted the Bahá’í
administration with the shortcomings of mainstream politics:
Every delegate, regardless of his education, social status, color or nationality, had the
right and the privilege of contributing to the deliberations of the Convention.  And
each contribution was given consideration regardless of its source.  Here was an
assembly composed of delegates motivated not by sectional interests, not seeking the
favors of their constituents, not previously instructed as to their voting, their attitudes
or their decisions; not concerned with their own locality; but delegates working for
the welfare of the whole world community.670

The convention, he said, indicated “that human nature can change, that new social values can
deliberately be created; that in fact, the new world is already in existence in the world-wide
Bahá’í family….”  And, looking to the end of the global war, he held up the Bahá’í
community as a source of “great joy and hope to a world weighed down with grave social

669 “Bahá’í Anniversary Banquet, Hotel Stevens, Chicago, May 25, 1944,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10, 1944-1946,
photographs between 172-3.

670 “Bahá’í Centenary Banquet Radio Program,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10, 1944-1946, 175-6.


problems and serious post-war adjustments.”671  Louis Gregory, a member of the convention
planning committee, reveled in the size and diversity of the gathering, evidence of the
community’s transformation in the more than three decades since his first encounter with it.
In his convention report, he paid tribute to the faith’s departed heroes in Iran and America,
“the Dawn-Breakers of the East and the Trail-Blazers of the West, whose deeds and traces
laid an imperishable foundation for this triumph.”672
In view of the long-term development of the Bahá’í Faith, the presence at the
centenary convention of black and white Bahá’ís from the Deep South was almost as
significant as that of the representatives from Latin America.  For seven years, as blacks in
South Carolina and other southern states agitated for political inclusion and most whites
struggled to keep them disfranchised, small groups of Bahá’ís had been erecting the structure
of their own brand of interracial democracy.  The national Bahá’í movement had struggled to
establish itself in a region whose ruling caste strenuously opposed anything resembling its
animating teaching of the oneness of humanity.  While some local communities lagged
behind others in their interracial character, the aggregate result of the effort was a closely
connected regional network of black and white believers, with fledgling local institutions that
included and represented both races in towns from the Carolinas to Texas.  To the southern
Bahá’ís, the title of the “All-America Convention” might have referred as much to their own
participation as to that of their Latin fellow-believers.
For Louella Moore, who had recently moved from Columbia to Charleston, where her
husband was serving in the Army Air Force, the convention was an opportunity to expand

671 Ibid., 175.

672 Louis G. Gregory, “The Historic Thirty-Sixth Convention,” Bahá’í News, no. 170 (September 1944): 1,
quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 300.


her horizons beyond the tiny community of Bahá’ís in the Carolinas and Georgia.  She
renewed old acquaintances and made new ones, sharing lodging with her Columbia friends
Maude Mickle and Alta Wheeler, and meeting other believers from across the country and
across the Western Hemisphere.  For the first time she saw in person the gleaming exterior of
the house of worship, toward the construction of which she had contributed.  “Sure enjoyed
seeing the Temple,” she wrote to her husband in Charleston on a special centenary post card
featuring a picture of the completed structure.673  Among the items she brought home were a
booklet prepared by Shoghi Effendi, “A World Survey of the Bahá’í Faith, 1844-1944,” and
a large photograph of all the convention participants.  The booklet outlined the religion’s
geographic spread and diversity of membership, including lists of countries and territories
opened to the faith, cities and towns with Local Spiritual Assemblies, and languages in which
Bahá’í literature had been published.  The photograph, picturing some 1600 believers of
European, African, Latin American, Asian, and Middle Eastern heritage standing proudly on
the steps of their national temple, gave visible expression to the unity and diversity that the
movement claimed as its essential strength.674
For Roy and Bernice Williams, even an unexpected courtesy on the long train trip to
Chicago seemed to demonstrate the spirit of change at work in the Bahá’í community and in
the world at large.  When they proceeded from their sleeping car to the dining car, waiters
escorted them to a separate, curtained section for blacks.  Observing the scene, a young white
couple seated nearby asked to join them.  The two couples effectively turned the segregated
section into an integrated private dining room: they drew the curtains closed and “had a

673 Louella Moore to Edward Moore, postcard, 24 May 1944, in possession of the author.

674 Shoghi Effendi, A World Survey of the Bahá’í Faith, 1844-1944 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1944); 1944 convention photograph, in possession of the author.


delightful time” sharing a meal together.675  In a certain sense, the incident mirrored the
experience of the Bahá’ís in the southern campaign of the Seven Year Plan.  While their task
was far from finished, they had attempted to build a new kind of community within, but not a
part of, the Jim Crow order.  In so doing, they had managed to turn normally segregated
spaces across the region—from Greenville’s city hall to a Chicago-bound dining car—into
arenas for interracial spiritual fellowship.676

675 Hardin, “Roy Williams,” 3.

676 In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, blacks organized to protest the segregation of passenger
trains and streetcars.  Kelley has argued that, later joined by buses, they remained important public “theaters” of
spontaneous resistance by black working-class people during the rest of the Jim Crow era.  See Robin D. G.
Kelley, “‘We Are Not What We Seem’: Rethinking Black Working Class Opposition in the Jim Crow South,”
Journal of American History 80, no. 1 (June 1993): 75-112.







Chapter 5

Post-war Opportunities & Cold War Challenges, 1944-1953


As the world began to recover from six years of horrific warfare, the Bahá’í movement in the
South sought to grow in a region facing unprecedented social, economic, and political
change.  In South Carolina and other states, white veterans returned from the war ready to
take limited steps to improve governance and education, while black veterans contemplated
far more thoroughgoing reforms.  During the post-war decade, South Carolina’s civil rights
movement grew in size and confidence, while the seeds of a new grassroots movement—
adamantly pro-segregation and anti-Communist—were planted among the state’s whites.
For the state’s Bahá’ís, the period was essentially one of consolidation.  In the context of a
second Seven Year Plan and building on previous expansion efforts in Greenville and
Columbia, they attempted to establish and maintain Local Spiritual Assemblies, use the mass
media to address contemporary concerns and attract public attention, and increase the size
and diversity of the community.  While their interracial activities made them continued
targets of occasional intimidation and violence, by the end of the period they had also
achieved, with a Greenville city council decision, the first official acknowledgement of their
distinctively interracial community identity and practices.
For South Carolina’s Bahá’ís, the dramatic changes at home and abroad and the
growth of their own movement were related.  In 1946, Shoghi Effendi predicted that the
second century of the Bahá’í Faith would witness an acceleration of two distinct but


interrelated processes: “a tremendous deployment and a notable consolidation of the forces
working towards the world-wide development” of the Bahá’í Administrative Order; and the
“first stirrings” of the new global political order, the “Lesser Peace” called for in
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings.  In the former process, the American Bahá’í community would in
many ways set the pattern, and in the latter, the government of the United States would play a
preponderating role.677  Significantly, issues of race, power, and justice came to the fore as
each process unfolded.  For the American Bahá’ís, broadening and strengthening the
interracial character of their community continued to prove critical to their domestic and
international plans for growth.  For the government the United States, the persistent denial of
equality to African Americans, particularly in states like South Carolina, became a cause of
increasing internal instability and a serious liability in its claim to global moral leadership.

South Carolina and Civil Rights in Post-War America

In South Carolina, the demographic and economic shifts alone were enough to distinguish the
post-war decade.  Long-term changes in agriculture that had begun during the New Deal
continued during and after the war.  The size of farm holdings grew, mechanization and rural
electrification spread, and the state’s traditional cotton monoculture gave way to a new
diversity of crops, including peanuts, soybeans, livestock, fruits and vegetables, and
timber.678  In the Pee Dee, tobacco culture boomed with the wartime demand for cigarettes,
which hardly diminished in peacetime; by 1955 tobacco had supplanted cotton as the state’s

677 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 97.

678 Charles F. Kovacik and John J. Winberry, South Carolina: A Geography (Boulder and London: Westview
Press, 1987), 162-75, 187-8.


most valuable crop.679  While farm incomes rose across the state, the mechanization and
centralization of agriculture meant fewer opportunities for tenants and sharecroppers.  The
flight from the countryside to urban areas—or, in the case of black farm families in
particular, out of the state and region altogether—accelerated after the war.  During the
decade of the 1950s, some 150,000 South Carolina farm families moved to cities; across the
state, rural communities declined as schools, churches, and post offices closed.680  Between
1950 and 1970, nearly half a million South Carolinians moved out of the state entirely,
eclipsing the significant population loss during the twenty years surrounding the Great
Depression.681
South Carolina’s wartime industrial boom continued virtually unabated with the
emergence of the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union, and federal
spending again led the way.  The presumed threat of Soviet missile attack encouraged the
scattering of military bases around the country, and South Carolina, like other southern
states, benefitted disproportionately.  The sprawling facilities of Fort Jackson in Columbia
and the Navy Yard in Charleston, as well as multiple smaller installations in Greenville,
Sumter, and Beaufort counties, contributed significantly to local economies through
government spending, in-migration from other states and regions, and the growth of ancillary
services.  Beginning in 1950, the superpowers’ nuclear arms race came home to some of
South Carolina’s poorest counties.  Constructed by the DuPont Corporation and operated by
the federal Atomic Energy Commission, the Savannah River Site produced plutonium and
uranium for use in the country’s growing nuclear arsenal.  Large tracts of farmland in Aiken,

679 Kovacik and Winberry, South Carolina, 163.

680 Edgar, “South Carolina,” 530.

681 Ibid., 530.


Allendale, and Barnwell counties and the entire town of Ellenton, infamous for its race riot
during the 1876 election season, were condemned and destroyed to make way for the
enormous quasi-military facility, but it brought millions of dollars and thousands of new
residents to the Aiken and North Augusta area.682  Private corporations, seeking low wages
and non-union workers for their own operations, followed the defense contractors into South
Carolina.  During the 1950s and 1960s, the state’s textile industry expanded with massive
investment from outside companies and the establishment of new plants producing synthetic
fibers.  Across the broad coastal plain, the lumber, plywood and paper industries boomed,
and tourism, particularly to the state’s beaches and to Charleston’s historic core, became
increasingly important.683

In South Carolina and across the region, the large number of men and women who
had served in the U.S. armed forces returned home changed, and they sought to change their
state in turn.  Training and fighting around the globe brought nearly 200,000 young South
Carolinians, black and white, into contact with new people and new ideas.  Veterans came
home with money in their pockets, newfound skills under their belts, more confidence in
their own abilities, and, having worked as part of the military, more exposure to centralized
planning and authority.  They came home wanting honest elections, responsible local
government, and better economic opportunities.  Thousands took advantage of the GI Bill to
attend college or vocational schools—enrollment at the University of South Carolina, for

682 For an account of the impact of the Savannah River Site’s construction on the area, see Louise Cassels,
Unexpected Exodus: How the Cold War Displaced One Southern Town (1971; with new introduction by Kari
Frederickson, Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2007).

683 Edgar, South Carolina, 531-5.


example, nearly doubled, with more veterans on campus in 1948 than there had been students
in 1945—or to secure loans to buy houses, businesses, and farms.684
In 1946, a group of reform-minded young veterans took over key positions in state
government.  J. Strom Thurmond of Edgefield County, a former state senator and judge and a
decorated war hero, won the governorship calling for “a progressive outlook, a progressive
program, a progressive leadership.”  “We must face the future,” he proclaimed, “with
confidence and with enthusiasm.”  Other young veterans won election to the General
Assembly from counties across the state and attacked the so-called “Barnwell ring” of rural
county politicians who controlled the legislature.685  One of them, C. Bruce Littlejohn of
Spartanburg County, became Speaker of the House.  Under Thurmond and his legislative
allies, the General Assembly passed laws to modernize the state’s ports, prisons, and schools,
and voters approved constitutional amendments abolishing the poll tax and allowing
divorce.686
While a limited spirit of reform stirred white South Carolinians in the aftermath of
war, black veterans returned ready for more comprehensive changes.  Though forced into
second-class status within the military, they, too, had fought a war couched in the rhetoric of
liberty and justice and opposition to Nazi racial theories, and their experiences had raised
expectations of progress at home.  As before and during the war, the focus of black activism
remained access to the ballot and expanded economic and educational opportunities.
However, in the post-war years the institutional basis for their efforts broadened and

684 Edgar, South Carolina, 516-7.

685 W. D. Workman, Jr., “The Ring That Isn’t,” in Perspectives in South Carolina History: The First 300 Years,
ed. Ernest M. Lander, Jr. and Robert K. Ackerman (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1973), 392-
407.

686 Edgar, South Carolina, 517-8.


expanded considerably, provoking energetic reactions by the guardians of Jim Crow on the
one hand, and attracting a few white allies—sometimes in unexpected quarters—on the other.
In the immediate aftermath of the war, a series of violent incidents highlighted the
persistently precarious position of blacks in South Carolina as well as tentative changes in
attitude among some whites.  Two cases received national attention.  In February 1946, Isaac
Woodard, an African-American veteran from Winnsboro, was permanently disabled while in
police custody.  Still in uniform after receiving an honorable discharge, he was on his way
home to Winnsboro by bus when the white driver ejected him for requesting to use the
restroom and turned him over to police in Batesburg, a town in Lexington County near
Columbia.  In jail overnight, police beat and tortured Woodard, leaving him with partial
amnesia and irreversible blindness.  Reaction around the country to Woodard’s case was
swift.  At the request of NAACP executive director Walter White, President Truman ordered
the Justice Department to investigate.687  After a trial in U.S. District Court that was marred
by improprieties by both the U.S. Attorney and the defense, a jury of white South Carolinians
deliberated less than thirty minutes only to find the accused police officers not guilty.688
Less than four months after the acquittal of Woodard’s assailants, state and local
officials reacted quite differently to a new case.  In February 1947, Willie Earle, a young
black man charged with the murder of a white taxi driver in Greenville, was shot, beaten, and
stabbed to death by a white mob while being held in jail.689  In an important departure, new

687 The Crisis 53, no. 9 (September 1946): 276.

688 Egerton, Speak Now against the Day, 363.

689 An excellent assessment of the legal dimensions of the Willie Earle lynching and accounting of black and
white public reaction is William Gravely, “The Civil Right Not to Be Lynched: State Law, Government, and
Citizen Response to the Killing of Willie Earle (1947),” in Toward the Meeting of the Waters: Currents in the
Civil Rights Movement of South Carolina during the Twentieth Century, ed. Winfred B. Moore, Jr. and Orville
Vernon Burton (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2008), 93-118.


governor J. Strom Thurmond ordered a vigorous prosecution of those responsible for Earle’s
death.  In May, after a highly publicized trial that Time magazine called the “biggest lynching
trial the South had ever known,” a Greenville jury acquitted the defendants.690  Many
prominent whites were incensed.  The presiding judge, J. Robert Martin, was so disappointed
that he left the courtroom without thanking the jury; prominent whites in Greenville and
elsewhere reacted with disgust.691  While the white elite were certainly motivated in no small
part by a concern for the effects of racial violence on the area’s reputation as a progressive
manufacturing center, the fact that local, state, and federal officials had worked so
strenuously for justice in the case, that the mob’s actions had been openly aired in court and
the national media, and that so many local whites were dismayed at the trial’s outcome,
indicates the degree to which more than a decade of depression and war had eroded South
Carolina’s racial status quo.  The Earle lynching was the last one recorded in the state.692
A sense of the possibilities of the post-war era came from Charleston, where
organizations of the Popular Front continued to press for coalitions between black and white
workers.  During the winter of 1945 and 1946, workers at American Tobacco Company’s
cigar plant in Charleston who were members of the Food, Tobacco, Agricultural & Allied
Workers Union (FTA), a group with strong Communist ties affiliated with the Congress of
Industrial Organizations, went out on strike for better pay and working conditions.  Most
were black women, but they were joined by a large group of their white women coworkers.
Charleston police constantly harassed the strikers, and the News and Courier published the

690 “South Carolina: Trial by Jury,” Time, 26 May 1947.

691 Egerton, Speak Now Against the Day, 373.

692 Stephen O’Neill, “Memory, History, and the Desegregation of Greenville, South Carolina,” in Toward the
Meeting of the Waters, ed. Moore and Burton, 288.


names of union leaders and meeting places.  On the picket lines the women sang “We Shall
Overcome,” a protest song that they had adapted from one of the area’s traditional African-
American spirituals.  The same winter, the union sponsored a “New South Lecture Series”
that attracted an impressive cross-section of Charleston’s population to consider a sweeping
regional reform agenda.  Held at black churches, the series featured several of the leading
lights of the southern New Deal and attracted hundreds, including black and white industrial
workers, small businesspeople, teachers, and ministers.  For Karl Korstad, a white
Minnesotan working for the Army at a local hospital, who organized the series with his wife,
a native Charlestonian, the interracial cooperation at work in both the strike and the lectures
was evidence of the new spirit unleashed by the war:
There is a strong progressive element in the South, an element which is attempting to
better labor conditions, to improve the educational and economic and social and
political conditions of the poor whites and the Negro.  The people of the South, like
any other people, once they have been given the facts and the opportunity to
understand their economic and political plight, will make the right decision.693

While the Charleston labor movement experimented with limited interracial outreach,
the state NAACP and its de facto political arm, the PDP, were continuing their campaign to
secure black participation in South Carolina’s Democratic Party primaries.  In the summer of
1946, George Elmore, a light-skinned black taxi driver in Columbia and secretary of the
Richland County PDP, managed to register to vote by masking his racial identity from the
local registrar.  When he and other blacks attempted to vote in the August primary, however,
Democratic Party officials turned them away.694  In response, the state conference filed a
class action suit in U.S. District Court to open up the party primary.  On June 12, 1947, Judge

693 Karl Korstad, “Introduction to ‘New South,’” (n.d.), in possession of the author, quoted in Robert R.
Korstad, “Could History Repeat Itself?: The Prospects for a Second Reconstruction in Post-World War II South
Carolina,” in Toward the Meeting of the Waters, ed. Moore and Burton, 254.

694 Lau, Democracy Rising, 175-6.


J. Waties Waring, who had already sided with the NAACP in its teacher pay equalization
campaign, found that the Democratic Party, acting as effective agent of the state, had
improperly excluded blacks from voting.  Rejecting the legislature’s insistence that party
primaries were now private affairs, he wrote that “private clubs and business organizations
do not vote and elect a President of the United States, and the Senators and members of the
House of Representatives of our national congress.”  He pointedly added: “It is time for S.C.
to rejoin the Union.  It is time to fall in step with the other states and to adopt the American
way of conducting elections.”695  The following summer, after the party attempted to
circumvent the ruling, Waring issued an injunction forcing it to open its registration books to
all, and in August, some 35,000 black South Carolinians voted in the Democratic primary.696
At the same time that the state conference of the NAACP was pursuing its fight to
bring down the white primary, it aggressively pursued expansion of the organization into
every corner of the state.  As the first executive secretary of the state conference, Eugene A.
R. Montgomery, a young veteran from Orangeburg, traveled thousands of miles organizing
new branches and recruiting new members.697  The growth was impressive.  In 1946, there
were 49 branches in South Carolina, and by 1951 there were at least 84.  Membership
increased as well, reaching a peak of more than 14,000 in 1948.  Activists recalled that the
work of the association reached thousands more than official records suggested:

695 Ibid., 177-8.

696 Edgar, South Carolina, 519-20.

697 Montgomery’s youngest son from his second marriage, Bennett Montgomery, became a member of the
Bahá’í Faith in the 1990s while living in Boston.  The younger Montgomery and his wife, also a Bahá’í, were
friends of the author in Columbia, South Carolina.


sharecroppers and tenants, vulnerable to eviction by their landlords, were involved in the
branches without placing their names on membership rolls or petitions.698
For the state’s white Democrats, the growing political strength of African Americans
was cause for serious concern.  While the successes of the NAACP at home were disturbing
enough, national events seemed to confirm a growing sense that the Democratic Party was
slipping from their control.   Already during the 1930s and 1940s, black voters in northern
cities had become an important constituency in the New Deal coalition, and in 1944, labor
and civil rights leaders had succeeded in blocking the nomination of South Carolinian James
F. Byrnes, a leader of the conservative southern wing of the party, as Franklin Roosevelt’s
vice-presidential running mate.  In the months before the 1948 elections, President Harry
Truman, seeking a full term of his own, proposed a civil rights agenda that included creating
a permanent Fair Employment Practices Commission, ending poll taxes, and making
lynching a federal crime.  In advance of that year’s Democratic National Convention, Strom
Thurmond led the defeat of the PDP’s second attempt to unseat South Carolina’s white
regulars.  But during the convention, delegates adopted a strong civil rights plank.  When
Minneapolis mayor Hubert Humphrey urged the party to “get out of the shadow of states’
rights and walk forthrightly into the bright sunshine of human rights,” Thurmond led other
southern delegates in a walkout.
Convening the next week in Birmingham, the defectors founded the States’ Rights
Democratic Party.  Known as the “Dixiecrats,” they nominated Thurmond for president and
Mississippi governor Fielding Wright for vice-president.  On the campaign trail, Thurmond
generally avoided overtly racist remarks, but he made clear that he thought the states, not the
federal government, should decide questions of civil rights.  “There’s not enough troops in

698 Lau, Democracy Rising, 183-6.


the Army,” Thurmond told the Birmingham meeting, “to force the southern people to break
down segregation and admit the Negro race into our theaters, into our swimming pools, into
our schools and into our houses.”699  Though they failed to take the presidency from Truman,
the Dixiecrats made an impressive showing for an upstart third party.  In Alabama,
Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina, they took control of the state party machinery,
and in the November elections, the Dixiecrat ticket carried those states plus an additional
electoral vote from Tennessee.700  While the Popular Front activists in Charleston might have
been correct in identifying a “progressive element” among white South Carolinians, the
strength of the Dixiecrat revolt indicated that in the face of an increasingly insistent black
population, many whites would go to great lengths—even sacrificing traditional party
loyalties—to maintain white supremacy.

A “Respite” and a New Plan
For South Carolina’s tiny Bahá’í movement, the postwar upsurge in black activism and the
range of white responses it evoked—from sympathy to visceral opposition—were all part of
the unfolding of a new global order.  Early in the Second World War, Shoghi Effendi had put
the conflict and its long-term consequences in perspective for the American Bahá’ís.  The
war, he wrote, was nothing less than a “direct continuation” of the first global conflict earlier
in the century, the latest stage of the “most great convulsion envisaged by the Prophets from
Isaiah to Bahá’u’lláh, cataclysmic in violence, planetary in range,” and resulting essentially

699 Quoted in Jack Bass and Marilyn W. Thompson, Strom: The Complicated Personal and Political Life of
Strom Thurmond (New York: PublicAffairs, 2005), 117.  For an audio clip of the speech, see
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=865900.

700 Edgar, South Carolina, 521.


from the rejection by the monarchs of Europe and the Near East of Bahá’u’lláh’s summons to
collective security.701  The Bahá’ís should view the conflict as an “essential pre-requisite to
world unification.”702  The fires of war, Shoghi Effendi said, were welding “the limbs of
humanity into one single organism.”703  Though devastating in its immediate impact, the
conflagration would inevitably “release world-shaking, world-shaping forces” that would
“throw down the barriers” that hindered the emergence of the future global civilization
envisioned in the sacred writings of the faith.704  In particular, he said, the entry of the United
States into the war would have a far-reaching impact, providing the means for its “effective
and decisive participation” in the “future reconstruction of human society.”705
A survey of world events in the immediate aftermath of the war indicated that the
political ground had indeed shifted dramatically.  Led by the United States, whose Congress
had rejected ratification of the League of Nations only a generation before, world political
leaders of widely divergent philosophies and temperaments created a new, stronger, more
broadly based international organization, the United Nations, and endowed it with
peacekeeping functions that had been denied the League.  A full realization of the Nazi
regime’s genocidal campaigns prompted unprecedented developments in conceptions of
human rights and international law: the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, and at the Nuremberg Trials, for the first time leaders of a sovereign state
were put on public trial before an international court and convicted of crimes against

701 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 46, 53.

702 Ibid., 42.

703 Ibid., 45.

704 Ibid., 54.

705 Ibid.


humanity.  A renewed sense of the economic interdependence of the world’s countries led to
the establishment of a series of international economic institutions, which began to give
serious attention to issues of justice in the global distribution of wealth and resources.  At the
same time, empires that had survived the previous world war began to totter in the face of
newly invigorated independence movements in Africa and Asia.  While each of these
developments was fraught with setbacks and shortcomings, particularly as the severe rift
between the United States and the Soviet Union handicapped the United Nations system,
significant barriers to global order that had withstood both the Great War and the Great
Depression seemed to be rapidly falling away.  Viewed in this perspective, Bahá’ís in the
southern United States could be certain that, despite the intransigence of the system’s
defenders, the demise of Jim Crow was only a matter of time.
For the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, the end of the war meant a renewal
of their domestic and international teaching campaign.  As the fighting drew to a close in the
spring and summer of 1945, American Bahá’ís provided material relief and organizational
assistance to the battered Bahá’í communities of Germany and Burma, both of which had
suffered persecution by wartime regimes.706  Beyond these special projects, Shoghi Effendi
instructed them in the tasks that lay immediately ahead in preparation for the launching of the
second stage of their worldwide mission.  During 1944-1945, the “first year of the second
Bahá’í century,” he told them to increase the number of pioneers in North America and Latin
America; foster the development of new and existing Local Assemblies and groups; produce
new literature in Spanish and Portuguese for the Latin American campaign; and, using the
media and special events, proclaim the faith to “the masses of the population” of “all races
and classes” as well as to “leaders of public thought.”  Consolidating the foundations of the

706 “Current Bahá’í Activities,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10 (1944-1946), 18-30, 67-8.


newly-expanded community and broadening its reach to the general public, he indicated,
constituted an “indispensable prelude” to the launching of an even more ambitious teaching
plan in Europe “soon after the termination of the world conflict.”707
The National Spiritual Assembly and its agencies pursued all the lines of action that
Shoghi Effendi recommended, gaining important experience in public relations in particular.
When the founding conference of the United Nations was set for San Francisco, the National
Spiritual Assembly took advantage of the opportunity to present the Bahá’í teachings.  In
advance of the conference the body addressed a letter of encouragement to President Truman.
After quoting words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá from his 1912 visit to the United States about the
country’s future role in establishing world peace, they wrote: “May the dire needs of
humanity be met by the creation of a new world order through the efforts of the forthcoming
conference in San Francisco under your leadership.”708  In April 1945, in conjunction with
the conference itself, the San Francisco community and a special committee of the National
Spiritual Assembly collaborated on a wide range of programs, including a symposium and
banquet for members of the international diplomatic corps and a thirteen-week series of local
radio broadcasts on the theme “Foundations of Universal Peace.”  Building on this
experience, during the remainder of the year local communities in twenty-five states and six
provinces, among them Atlanta, participated in a campaign of radio broadcasts that reached
an estimated audience of nine million people with information about the faith.709
Shoghi Effendi was generally quick to praise the accomplishments of the North
American Bahá’ís during the Seven Year Plan, but his assessment of the movement’s

707 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 73.

708 “Current Bahá’í Activities,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10 (1944-1946), 92.

709 Ibid., 90-2.


foundations on the home front and in Latin America—and of the demands that unfolding
world events would place on its members—was realistic.  In an August 1944 letter, he
indicated that while the end of the war would open before the believers in the United States
and Canada “fields of service of tremendous fertility and undreamed-of magnitude,” they
would find themselves unable to take advantage of such opportunities unless the
“considerable and exacting work” of consolidating the communities in the Western
Hemisphere was far enough advanced.710
As fledgling groups of believers worked to establish new Local Assemblies in several
more Latin American cities, an even more difficult task presented itself, that of strengthening
the many new local communities within North America.  Between the launching of the Seven
Year Plan and the end of the war, the geographic spread of the faith had grown from 94
Local Assemblies and groups in 30 states and provinces to 472 such localities in 60 states
and provinces plus the territories of Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico—a fivefold increase in
eight years.711  However, most of the new local communities were quite small, and many
were largely dependent on the presence of home-front pioneers.  The existence of many new
Local Assemblies was tenuous, as deaths, military transfers, and moves for economic or
family reasons could quickly reduce a community’s membership below nine adults.  Even
where it was possible to maintain the Local Assembly, such smallness of numbers meant that
disharmony or personality conflict among only two or three believers could severely hamper
the functioning and growth of the entire group.  To attempt to address such issues, from 1942
to 1946 the National Spiritual Assembly appointed a Committee on Assembly Development
made up entirely of members of the national body.  The initial members were Dorothy Baker,

710 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 74.

711 “Current Bahá’í Activities,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10 (1944-1946), 76.


Amelia Collins, and Louis Gregory, who served as the committee’s secretary for two years.
In addition to frequent correspondence with Local Assemblies, the members of the
committee made personal visits to counsel communities in need of assistance.712
One such struggling Local Assembly was that of Greenville, South Carolina.  First
formed late in 1940 and soon dissolved as pioneers had been forced to leave, the body had
been reestablished in November 1943.  Its new members—Christine Bidwell, William
Bidwell, Viola Bower, Luda Dabrowski, Emogene Hoagg, Adline Lohse, Grace Wilder,
Bernice Williams, and Roy Williams—together reflected both strengths and weaknesses in
the young community.  The only two resident believers not elected to the body were the two
Greenville natives, Virginia Ford and Carolyn Glazener.  Ford may not have known enough
about the faith’s administration to want to participate in the election, and Glazener, upset by
her encounter with the FBI, may have purposely kept her distance.  Except for the Bidwells,
both native Southerners, all the members of the Local Assembly were thus transplants from
the North and West.  In terms of race and gender, the body was as diverse as it could be
given the small size of the group.  The only two men in the community, one white and one
black, were both members.  Of the remaining seven, six were white women and one was a
black woman.713  The body’s officers, elected by plurality vote of its members, were William
Bidwell, chairman; Luda Dabrowski, vice-chairman; Adline Lohse, secretary; and Christine
Bidwell, treasurer.  Thus, with a majority of seven from outside the region, the two native
Southerners on the Local Assembly had each been elected officers.  With a majority of seven
women, one of the men had been elected chairman.  The community’s only two African

712 Morrison, To Move the World, 297.

713 “Assembly Roll,” Greenville, SC, 1943-1944, Local Spiritual Assembly Records, NBA.


Americans served on the body, but neither had been elected as an officer.  And the only two
local converts apparently remained outside the decision-making process entirely.
Beyond its demographic shortcomings, the factors that limited the effectiveness of the
Local Assembly had to do with differences of personality and approach.  As Emogene Hoagg
revealed in her letter to Leroy Ioas just before the arrival of the Williamses, the Greenville
Bahá’ís were severely divided in their understanding of how to teach the faith in a racially
segregated city.  Hoagg and, she intimated, “four others of the group” preferred extreme
caution in teaching African Americans, and she accused Dabrowski and Wilder of “bad
judgment” by practicing social equality.714  Such disagreements certainly continued after the
Williamses arrived and the Local Assembly was reformed.  Further complicating the
situation was a conflict between William Bidwell and Roy Williams that seems to have had
nothing to do with race.  As one Bahá’í who worked closely with both men in later years
recalled, the two loved each other like brothers, and they fought like brothers.  Williams
accused Bidwell, the alternative healer, of mixing bizarre scientific theories with the pure
teachings of the faith.  Bidwell accused Williams, who had seen ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in person in
1912 and received two tablets from him, of being too attached to him and not enough to
Shoghi Effendi.  The men argued frequently and sometimes avoided each other.715
By early 1944, the community was paralyzed.  The chairman of the Local Assembly,
William Bidwell, was attempting to dictate when meetings would be held, and Roy Williams
was refusing to attend and asking the National Teaching Committee to be sent to another
goal city.  Circumventing the normal process of consultation within the Local Assembly,

714 Hoagg to Ioas, 4 October 1943.

715 Melvin Abercrombie, personal conversation with author.


Emogene Hoagg reported the matter directly to Horace Holley, the secretary of the National
Spiritual Assembly.716  By the fall, several pioneers—Bower, Lohse, Wilder, and Hoagg
herself, who was back in Charleston—had left Greenville.  Although at least one more
pioneer was expected to arrive and one of the Greenville natives, Carolyn Glazener, was now
“coming along fine” in deepening her understanding of the faith, disagreement over how to
fill the vacancies on the Local Assembly—whether to select other members of the
community or wait for new pioneers sent by the National Teaching Committee—brought the
work of the body to a standstill.717  Horace Holley, recognizing that the Greenville
community was “going through a real ordeal,” referred the matter to the national Committee
for Assembly Development with the hope that it could send a representative to Greenville to
“try and take hold of the situation.”718  Louis Gregory, who often combined his regular
teaching trips with visits to struggling communities on behalf of the committee, came to
Greenville during his winter 1944-1945 travels through five southern states.  He met with the
communities in Columbia and the Augusta area, and in Greenville he likely took the
opportunity to counsel the members of the Local Assembly.719  The rifts remained unhealed,
however, and the constant fluctuation of pioneers—departure of those unable to stay,
followed by insufficient replacements—left the Greenville community unstable and
sometimes unable to focus on growth.
At Ridván 1946, after a “two-year respite” since the end of the previous plan, Shoghi
Effendi called the North American Bahá’ís to the second stage in their international teaching

716 Horace Holley to Emogene Hoagg, 7 April 1944, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

717 Christine Bidwell to Emogene Hoagg, 23 October 1944, H. Emogene Hoagg Papers, NBA.

718 Holley to Hoagg, 7 April 1944.

719 Morrison, To Move the World, 297.


program.  The struggles in such new communities as Greenville since the launching of the
previous plan played an important part in the formulation of new goals.  In a cable to the
1946 national convention Shoghi Effendi outlined the four main objectives that built on those
of the previous plan and of the interim period.  First was “consolidation of victories already
won throughout the Americas,” including the establishment of additional new local
communities and a “bolder proclamation of the Faith to the masses” through the media and
other means.  Second was the completion of the interior ornamentation of the house of
worship in Wilmette, so that it could be dedicated for public use by the end of the Plan.
Third was development of the administrative structure of the faith in the Western
Hemisphere through the formation of three new National Spiritual Assemblies, a separate
one for Canada and one each for Central America (including Mexico and the Caribbean) and
South America.  The latter bodies, actually regional rather than national in scope, would be
preliminary to the eventual formation, as the base of Local Assemblies grew, of a separate
National Assembly in each Latin American country.  Finally, the international teaching
campaign would be extended from the New World to the “war-torn, spiritually famished
European continent.”720  The new Seven Year Plan would end, like the first, with a major
anniversary celebration, this time in 1952-1953, the centenary of the “‘Year Nine’, the year
[1269 of the Islamic calendar] which alike marked the termination of the Bábí Dispensation,
and signalized the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s prophetic Mission” in the Black Pit, a dungeon in
Tehran.721
Shoghi Effendi had anticipated including several European countries early in the first
Seven Year Plan, but apparently had judged the work in the Americas to be demanding

720 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 88.

721 Ibid., 99.


enough on its own and postponed the European project.  In the intervening years, totalitarian
regimes and devastating warfare had decimated the Bahá’í movement there.  The British
community was left intact during the war, and those in Germany and France reconstituted
themselves once the conflict was over.  But throughout the rest of the continent, the widely
scattered small groups and individuals that had existed before the war were dead, dispersed,
or, in the case of those in the zones of Soviet occupation, too isolated and oppressed to
undertake systematic teaching activities of their own.722  Now, with the continent in ruins and
the political divisions among the Allies deepening, Shoghi Effendi called for the
establishment of Local and National Spiritual Assemblies in eight countries where
Americans could easily settle and where religion was not being officially suppressed:
Belgium, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden.723  In a
cablegram six weeks later, he added Luxemburg and Switzerland to the list.724  To coordinate
the new effort, the National Spiritual Assembly formed a European Teaching Committee,
which quickly began to dispatch pioneers to the “Ten Goal Countries.”  Drawing on the

722 Rabbani, Priceless Pearl, 403.

723 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 88.

724 Ibid., 89.  Notably absent were the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that were occupied by the Soviet
Union, several of which, including Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia, had had resident Bahá’ís before
the war.  Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl, 403.  Two principal factors made it impossible to reestablish the faith
there in the wake of the conflict: the hostility of the Soviet regime and its new client states toward all forms of
religion, which had already resulted in the dismemberment and dissolution of Bahá’í communities within the
Soviet Union and prevented the Bahá’ís in eastern Germany from participating in the reconstituted movement in
western Germany; and the growing mistrust between the Soviet Union and the United States, which made
virtually unthinkable the settlement of American pioneers within the Soviet orbit.  For a brief account of the
movement in areas of Soviet control, see Graham Hassall, “Notes on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths in Russia and
Its Territories,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 5, no.3 (1993): 41-80, 86.


diverse national origins represented within the American community, the committee
prioritized sending pioneers who were natives of the countries in which they were to serve.725
Before the end of the Plan, Shoghi Effendi initiated another stage of the faith’s
worldwide diffusion.  In 1951, he called the National Spiritual Assembly of the British Isles
to lead a “two year plan” to establish the faith in selected territories in Africa.726  While
Bahá’u’lláh himself had briefly touched the Mediterranean shores of the continent during the
course of his exile to Palestine and the faith was well established in Egypt and Sudan, few
Bahá’ís had established residence in the rest of North Africa or the vast portion of the
continent south of the Sahara.  Facing serious restrictions on travel imposed by colonial
regimes, the British National Assembly coordinated the settlement of pioneers from Great
Britain and four other national communities—Egypt and Sudan, India and Burma, Iran, and
the United States—in twenty-five “States and Dependencies” throughout Africa, a prelude,
Shoghi Effendi indicated, to future teaching plans that would involve the cooperation of all
the world’s National Spiritual Assemblies.727

The Second Seven Year Plan in South Carolina
In June 1946, in a short cablegram followed by a lengthy inspirational letter, Shoghi Effendi
elaborated on the new Plan’s domestic goals, reiterating that the number of localities where

725 Horace Holley, “International Survey of Current Bahá’í Activities in the East and West,” in The Bahá’í
World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 11, 1946-1950, comp. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of the United States and Canada (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950), 50.

726 Shoghi Effendi, The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community: Messages from the Guardian of the
Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of the British Isles (Oakham, England: Bahá’í Publishing, 1981), 256-7.

727 Graham Hassall, “References to Africa in the Bahá’í Writings,” Bahá’í Library Online, http://www.bahai-
library.org/file.php?file=hassall_africa_bahai_writings; “International Survey of Current Bahá’í Activities,” The
Bahá’í World; A Biennial International Record, vol. 12, 1950-1954, comp. National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956), 52-3.


Bahá’ís resided should continue to increase.  “Particular care should be constantly
exercised,” he instructed, “to enable the groups scattered throughout the length and breadth
of the states and provinces of the United States and Canada to attain Assembly status,” and to
gradually develop in their functioning.728  He recommended that the National Teaching
Committee focus on helping the thirty groups with six or more members to “speedily attain
Assembly status,” so that the number of such bodies on the North American home front
would reach 175 before the end of the second year of the Plan.  “Attainment of this
immediate objective,” he noted, would not only strengthen the administrative foundations of
the movement at home, but would “challenge and galvanize” the Inter-America and
European Teaching Committees in their work abroad.729
At the end of the summer of 1946, the Regional Teaching Committee of Georgia,
South Carolina, and North Carolina announced in its newsletter “WHAT THE SEVEN
YEAR PLAN MEANS TO OUR REGION.”  First, the committee called for the
establishment of a Local Assembly in Columbia, the only city in the three-state region where
there was a group of six believers, by Ridván 1947, noting that “three new Baha’is or three
Baha’i settlers” would therefore be needed in Columbia “almost at once.”  Second, a Local
Assembly was to be reestablished in North Augusta, where there was a group of five, by
Ridván 1948.  Third, the new Local Assembly in Greenville needed the “full support and
aid” of the regional community; two new pioneers for Greenville had already been identified.
Fourth, the committee called for an immediate doubling of the region’s contributions to the
national fund over the previous year.  Finally, the committee said, each individual would

728 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 93.

729 Ibid., 90.


have to “stand by on the home front,” teaching the faith in his or her locality with a “renewed
spirit of dedication.”730
The expansion goals for Columbia, North Augusta, and Greenville proved to be quite
interconnected in execution.  As in the previous plan, traveling teachers from outside the
state or region tended to cover multiple localities in a circuit, such that several communities
in rapid succession often found themselves with more activity, more publicity, and more
seekers than usual.  As the Bahá’í population of the Carolinas and Georgia rose slowly
during the 1940s and 1950s, however, believers from within the three states also traveled
more frequently to support each other’s teaching and deepening activities.  In August 1946,
for example, Roy and Bernice Williams from Greenville spent a long weekend in
Greensboro, North Carolina visiting “in some of the Baha’i homes,” giving two talks at the
city’s Bahá’í Center, and sharing news of the recent trip of Agnes Alexander, a prominent
teacher from Hawaii, to other cities in the region.731  The following November, when
traveling teacher Marjorie McCormick visited the region, five Bahá’ís from Augusta and
North Augusta came to Columbia to attend a public meeting there.732  During 1946 and 1947,
Annie Romer, a new pioneer in Greenville, travelled each week to Columbia and
occasionally to Augusta and North Augusta to assist with teaching activities.733  Meetings of
the Regional Teaching Committee itself generally rotated around the three states, and the

730 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 37 (August-September 1946): 1.

731 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 38 (October 1946): 2.

732 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 39 (November 1946): 3-4.

733 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, Annual Bahá’í Reports
Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada for the Year 1946-1947 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Committee, 1947), 48; Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 42 (March 1947): 2.


members often met with the local believers and seekers and assisted with public meetings.734
Progress in the South Carolina localities was also linked as a limited number of pioneers
sometimes moved from one city to another according to the priorities of the regional Plan.  In
October 1946, Josie Pinson, a pioneer who settled first in Charleston, which was not a goal
city, relocated to Greenville.735  In 1947 or 1948, Annie Romer moved from Greenville to
Columbia to help establish the Local Assembly there.736

Columbia
For the small group of believers in Columbia, the increased attention during the second
Seven Year Plan led to an expanded membership, an improvement in local community life
and teaching activities, and the formation of a Local Spiritual Assembly.  While the
Columbia group was affected by many of the same social and economic factors that kept the
Greenville community small—the transience of some pioneers and of those employed by the
military, and the difficulties imposed by racial and religious orthodoxy—the believers in
Columbia, beginning with Louis Gregory’s early teaching trips and the efforts of pioneers
Maude Mickle and Alta Wheeler over nearly a decade, had much more consistently worked
to spread the faith among the area’s substantial black population.  They also appear not to
have been subject to serious personality conflicts.  The result was more growth and a more
solidly interracial group of believers and seekers.  Significantly, the community included not
a majority of white pioneers from outside the region, but of local black converts, many of
whom were already connected with each other through familial or social ties.  There was also

734 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1946-1947, 48.

735 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 39 (November 1946): 3.

736 Baha’i Regional Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 1 (October-December 1949): 2.


at least one family of native white South Carolinians.  Louella Moore’s husband, Edward,
became a Bahá’í sometime in the 1940s.  They moved outside the city to Irmo in Lexington
County after the war, but they continued to participate in community activities in Columbia.
Their grown daughter, Louise Montgomery, attended study classes and other gatherings long
before she declared her faith, at a Nineteen-Day Feast in the home of black believer Pearl
Dixon, in late 1949.737
The community life and outreach efforts of the Columbia group indicated a
continuing commitment to reaching both white and black seekers.  Nineteen Day Feasts,
Holy Day observances, and firesides were held not only in the homes of members, but also of
seekers.  The center of community activities was Waverly, the relatively prosperous African-
American neighborhood surrounding the campuses of Benedict College and Allen
University, where most of the black believers and seekers lived.  In the summer of 1946, for
example, Esther Sego came from Augusta and met with seven white and four black believers
and one seeker at the home of one of the black Bahá’ís, Celia Glenn, a dressmaker and
beauty shop owner, on Oak Street five blocks south of Allen.738  Another “meeting for our
Negro non-Baha’i friends” took place at the home of Lutie McKim, who had been studying
the faith for some years, on the Benedict College campus, where her husband was
superintendent of buildings and grounds.  McKim’s sister-in-law from Baltimore attended, as
did two Benedict students from West Africa, two white pioneers, and a black believer who
was also a Benedict student.739

737 Baha’i Regional Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 1 (Oct.-Dec. 1949): 3.

738 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 36 (July 1946): 4; Hill’s Columbia (Richland
County, S.C.) City Directory, vol. 13, 1942 (Richmond: Hill Directory Co., 1942), 528.

739 “Columbia Baha’i Group—Publicity Report,” n.d., CBA; Columbia City Directory 1942, 568.


Several traveling teachers came to Columbia during the opening phase of the Plan,
and the topics of their public lectures reflected the national community’s focus, building on
its recent experience using the mass media, on addressing some of the broad social concerns
in postwar America.  The community continued to advertize its activities in both the local
black and white press, and they had some success broadcasting the teachings of the faith on
the radio.  In November 1946, Margery McCormick, the secretary of the National Teaching
Committee and an agriculture extension agent from Illinois, visited Columbia during a tour
of several cities in the region.  In the Palmetto Room of the Wade Hampton Hotel, a
prominent landmark on Main Street across from the State House, she delivered a lecture
entitled “Security for a Failing World,” an appropriate theme in the context of the emerging
Cold War, to an audience of Bahá’ís from Columbia and Augusta and several inquirers.
Notices in The State and the Columbia Record, both white papers, stated that McCormick
had “traveled in Europe, Africa and the Near East and was in Europe when World War II
broke out.”740  McCormick also spoke about the Bahá’í teachings for fifteen minutes over
radio station WKIX and met individually with seekers.741
In March 1947, Ruth Moffett of Chicago conducted a four-week teaching campaign
in Columbia.  She gave a series of lectures in private homes, on the campus of the University
of South Carolina, and at the Wade Hampton Hotel on a range of topics including “The
Emerging New World Order,”  “What Hope in the United Nations Charter?”, “The World’s
Beautiful Temple Architecture,” and “New Keys to Bible Prophecy Fulfilled in This Day.”
Press notices identified her as a world traveler, as well, and as an accredited observer from

740 The Columbia Record, 30 October 30 and 1 November 1946, clippings, private collection of Richard and
Doris Morris.

741 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 39 (November 1946): 4.


Washington University in St. Louis to the founding conference of the United Nations.742  In
December, Dr. Glen R. Shook, a professor of physics and director of the observatory at
Wheaton College in Massachusetts, visited several cities in the region.  His lecture in
Columbia, entitled “Science and Revelation,” was held at the city’s Chamber of Commerce
building on Lady Street a block from the capitol.  A favorable account in the Columbia
Record noted: “In view of the world crisis, the speaker said that it was absolutely necessary
that scientists and religionists work together and that people think more clearly as to
values….  For many years the idea of a universal religion has been a vital element in Dr.
Shook’s research and writing and he quoted the Baha’i Faith as containing great truths for the
establishment of world peace and unity.”743
Despite the rather energetic teaching efforts of the Columbia community, there were
still not enough believers to form the Local Assembly at Ridván 1947.  One of the local
believers, Celia Glenn, had passed away during the previous administrative year, and
another, Wilhelmina Daniels, may have already moved to Union.744  While Ruth Moffett’s
teaching campaign, conducted just before Ridván in March, “attracted four souls to the Faith,
who wish[ed] to continue studying,” it did not immediately result in any new members.745
The region’s primary goal for the second Seven Year Plan was accomplished late, at least by
1949, and only then by shifting several pioneers from Greenville to Columbia.746  By 1950,

742 The Columbia Record, 8 March 1947; The Gamecock, 11 March 1947; and The State, 23 March 1947, all
clippings, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.

743 The Columbia Record, 1 January 1948, clippings, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.

744 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1946-1947, 48.

745 Ibid.; South Carolina State Voting List, 1950, CBA.

746 Records from 1947-48 are incomplete, but a Local Spiritual Assembly was clearly in existence by 1949.
William Bidwell stated that the Columbia Assembly was formed by “splitting” the one in Greenville.  Regional


there were still just enough resident believers, all of them women, to maintain the Local
Assembly.  In another respect, however, the community was stronger than others in the state.
Only three of the members—Alice Dudley, Eugenie Meyer, and Josie Pinson—were
pioneers.  The rest—Della Clark, Pearl Dixon, Alice Dudley, Henrietta Dukes, Jessie
Entzminger, Eunice Grant Long, and Annie Mae Robinson—were black Columbians, several
of whom had been associated with the faith for at least a decade.747


Greenville
The regional movement’s efforts to strengthen the local community in Greenville were less
successful.  There was a flurry of activity early in the Plan.  In June 1946, Marjorie Ullrich of
Oak Park, Illinois visited the region with her two young daughters and another youth.  In
Greenville, she spoke on “Outstanding Episodes from the Life of Baha’u’llah” at the home of
the Williamses and on “God’s Call to the Nations” at the home of the Bidwells, with ten
seekers attending the latter meeting.  A third meeting was held at the home of the Savages,
“interested friends” of the Bidwells.748  In the fall, William Bidwell began teaching a class on
The Dawn-Breakers, also at the home of the Savages, with other seekers participating.749
The next month, Agnes Alexander of Honolulu visited as part of her tour of the region,
accompanied by Emma Lawrence, a pioneer in Charleston.  Alexander arranged for
interviews with the head of the city’s powerful ministerial union and, with his approval, the

Baha’i Bulletin for North and South Carolina [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 1 (October-December 1949): 3;
Bidwell, “Memories,” 1.

747 South Carolina State Voting List, 1950, CBA.

748 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 36 (July 1946): 3.

749 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 38 (October 1946): 3.


editor of the Greenville News and the manager of local radio station WFBC.  These contacts
resulted in a story in the newspaper and, later in August, the community’s first radio
broadcast, entitled “Pattern for Future Society.”750  In November, the visit of Marjorie
McCormick, secretary of the National Teaching Committee, included a meeting with the
members of the Local Assembly, an informal dinner fireside with twelve “interested friends,”
and an advertized public meeting on a “World Safe for Humanity” with another twelve
seekers.  “Six new contacts were made through these two [teaching] meetings,” the Regional
Committee reported, and the study class continued, but apparently no new declarations of
faith resulted.751
More teaching efforts followed in subsequent years—in December 1948 the
community held a weekly study class and a weekly fireside and planned to start a monthly
public meeting—but pioneers continued to be the majority of the members.752  After a lapse
in 1945, for six years in a row, from 1946 to 1951, there were enough resident Bahá’ís at
Ridván to maintain the Local Spiritual Assembly.  In 1947, Virginia Ford left with her
husband for military posts in Columbus, Georgia, and Japan, and in 1952 the Local
Assembly lapsed again.753  Lonely and dispirited, William and Christine Bidwell bought a
farm outside of town in 1954.  When Ford returned permanently to Greenville two years
later, only four Bahá’ís remained in the city.754

750 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 36 (July 1946): 3; Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional
Teaching Bulletin], no. 37 (August-September 1946): 2.

751 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 39 (November 1946): 3.

752 Regional Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], December 1948, 3.

753 National Bahá’í Archives to the author, 22 April 1995.

754 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 7.


In the post-war years, as South Carolina’s civil rights movement grew and began to
register additional breaches in the Jim Crow system, the tiny groups of Bahá’ís around the
state still had to be discreet about how they brought blacks and whites together for teaching,
worship, and other community functions.  Jessie Entzminger recalled an incident from the
early years of the second Seven-Year Plan in Columbia.  She and her mother, Pearl Dixon,
went to a Nineteen-Day Feast at the home of the recently married Marie Kershaw Frain, who
had moved from North Augusta to Columbia for a job at the veterans’ hospital near Fort
Jackson.  Frain’s neighbors called the police, who came to the house and ordered the black
Bahá’ís to leave.  After that, Entzminger said, the Columbia community held all their
meetings at black members’ homes, where neighbors and police were less concerned about
the presence of a few whites, or in rented halls.755  In Greenville, Virginia Ford’s house was
attacked by the Ku Klux Klan after African-American Bahá’ís visited.  One witness was a
white child whose grandparents lived on the same street.  Gail Fassy Black recalled the
incident:
[G]oing to visit my grandparents on Maco Terrace and seeing a cross burning in the
front yard of Virginia’s house two doors away, and the windows of her house
knocked out, I was very disturbed.  I asked my grandmother why they were burning a
cross there.  She said, “They have black people visiting there and the Ku Klux Klan
doesn’t like it.”756


More than a decade later, when she embraced the faith in Ford’s home, it was with a clear
understanding of the risks of being part of an interracial faith community.
While their interracial activities made Bahá’ís around the state targets of intimidation
and occasional violence, the Greenville group set an important precedent by securing an

755 Entzminger and Montgomery, interview.

756 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 14-15.


initial measure of legal protection.  In early 1953, just before the end of the Plan, Roy
Williams appeared before the Greenville city council to ask for a formal acknowledgement of
the local community’s interracial character and protection of its activities.  The council
decided that interracial religious gatherings were not contrary to city ordinance and that “as a
religious organization,” the Bahá’í community “could not be interfered with in the process of
its meetings because of the guarantee of freedom of worship.”757  The decision did not end
the Greenville community’s difficulties, but likely formed the basis for their efforts less than
a decade later to secure legal recognition of the religion by state officials.

Louis Gregory’s Final Years
Notably absent from the South during the second Seven-Year Plan was the region’s ablest
and most experienced traveling teacher, Louis Gregory.  After his trip through Georgia and
the Carolinas in the winter of 1944-1945, Gregory had to curtail his teaching and
administrative work as his own health and that of his wife, Louise, began to decline.  In
December 1948, after returning from a short plane trip to Kansas City to assist at the funeral
of a Bahá’í friend, Gregory suffered a stroke.  Though he recovered quickly, thereafter he
stayed close to the couple’s home, a modest cottage near Green Acre in Maine.  In addition
to caring for Louise, he focused his attention on several writing projects, teaching classes at
Green Acre, hosting firesides, and maintaining his voluminous correspondence.  He remained
vitally interested in South Carolina until the end of his life, seeking out ways to spread the
teachings of the faith there even from a distance.

757 “Greenville, S.C. Group Wins Right to Hold Non-Segregated Meetings,” Bahá’í News, no. 266 (April 1953):
8.


In January 1949, barely a month after his stroke, Louis Gregory wrote to the
postmaster at Darlington, South Carolina—apparently without revealing his own racial
identity—to request information on the Dargan family, his white kinfolks in Darlington.  The
postmaster forwarded the letter to George E. Dargan, a local attorney and son of a four-term
Congressman, who wrote a lengthy reply to Gregory including birth, marriage, and death
records from the family Bible.758  From the information that Dargan supplied, Gregory would
have discovered that the two of them were second cousins—their grandfathers were brothers.
Gregory wrote again, this time enclosing “papers” that apparently indicated either the nature
of his familial relationship, the Bahá’í views on race, or both.  “I think,” Dargan averred in a
curt second reply, “that the promotion of harmonious relations between the white and colored
people of the South has been greatly retarded by political demagogues and agitators, both
North and South.”759
Surely on Dargan’s list of “political demagogues and agitators” disrupting race
relations in South Carolina were U.S. District Court Judge J. Waties Waring and his wife,
Elizabeth Avery Waring, with whom Gregory corresponded in 1950.  Waring’s troubles
began in 1945, when he had scandalized himself among Charleston’s upper crust by
divorcing his first wife, a well-to-do Charleston native, and marrying Elizabeth Avery
Hoffman, a twice-divorced woman from Connecticut and an outspoken racial liberal.
Rumors flew that they entertained African-American guests in their home.  In the wake of
Waring’s decisions equalizing teachers’ salaries and striking down the white primary, their

758 Dargan’s father was George William Dargan (1841-1898), a former Confederate soldier, attorney, and
Redeemer politician.  He served as state representative (1877-1880), as solicitor of the Fourth Judicial Circuit of
South Carolina (1880-1883), and U.S. representative from the Sixth District of South Carolina (1883-1891).
Yates Snowden and H. G. Cutler, ed., History of South Carolina, vol. 5 (Chicago and New York: Lewis
Publishing Co., 1920), 87, http://books.google.com/book.

759 George E. Dargan to Louis G. Gregory, 26 February 1949, Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.


relationships with white Charleston deteriorated.  The final break came in January 1950,
when Elizabeth Waring spoke to a mixed gathering at the city’s black YWCA.  She exhorted
African Americans to take and use the civil rights that were already rightfully theirs and
castigated conservative southern whites as “a sick, confused and decadent people,” “full of
pride and complacency, introverted, morally weak and low.”760  The comments were too
much for the city’s white elite to bear.  “I walk from my house to the courthouse every
morning,” Waties Waring told a reporter from a national magazine.  “I pass many former
friends, many of them men and women I grew up with.  There is no friendly greeting, not
even a sign of recognition.  They look straight ahead or, if they see me in time, cross over to
the other side of the street.  About the only white people who speak to me are lawyers—and
they do so only because they can’t afford not to speak to the judge.”761
Louis Gregory wrote to Judge Waring twice in 1950, once in the spring and once in
the fall, apparently expressing encouragement and enclosing Bahá’í literature both times.
“Mrs. Waring and I deeply appreciate the literature you have sent us and your very kind
message,” Waring replied to Gregory’s first letter.  “We are indeed happy since we feel sure
that we are on the right road, and communications like yours convince us that that is true.”762
To Gregory’s second letter he replied: “It is very heartening to receive letters from decent
thinking people like yourself, and Mrs. Waring and I appreciate your kind words about
us.”763  Gregory forwarded the correspondence to the National Spiritual Assembly,

760 “South Carolina: Marching Through Charleston,” Time, 30 January 1950, http://www.time.com/time/
magazine/article/0,9171,856480,00.html.

761 “‘Disowned’ by Dixie,” The Christian Science Monitor, 10 January 1951, clipping, Louis G. Gregory
Papers, NBA.

762 J. Waties Waring to Louis G. Gregory, 26 April 1950, Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.

763 J. Waties Waring to Louis G. Gregory, 20 November 1950, Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.


apparently suggesting that the body address its own words of encouragement to the judge and
to other whites who were taking a stand for racial justice.764  In March 1951, the National
Assembly wrote to Waring to commend him for “the spiritual nature of [his] decisions
concerning race,” sending him three Bahá’í books that they hoped would “confirm [his] own
convictions.”765  Gregory lived just long enough to see Waring’s most significant
contribution to the civil rights movement, his May 1951 dissenting opinion in a landmark
school desegregation case from rural Clarendon County, but not the couple’s flight the
following year from ostracism in Charleston to the safety of New York City.
In late July 1951, Louis Gregory passed away suddenly at his home in Eliot.  A cable
from Shoghi Effendi a few days later attested to Gregory’s decades of service to the faith,
posthumously lifting him to the highest office (aside from the Guardianship itself) in the
Bahá’í community and placing his contributions in global and historical context:
Profoundly deplore grievous loss of dearly beloved, noble-minded, golden-hearted
Louis Gregory, pride and example to the Negro adherents of the Faith.  Keenly feel
loss of one so loved, admired and trusted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Deserves rank of first
Hand of the Cause of his race.  Rising Bahá’í generation in African continent will
glory in his memory and emulate his example.  Advise hold memorial gathering in
Temple in token recognition of his unique position, outstanding services.766


The institution of the Hands of the Cause of God to which Shoghi Effendi referred had been
created by Bahá’u’lláh, who appointed four prominent Iranian Bahá’ís to assist him in
stimulating teaching and the development of communities in the Middle East.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
continued to direct the activities of these four and referred to at least four more individuals,
also Iranians, as Hands of the Cause after their deaths.  In addition, in his Will and Testament

764 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States to Louis G. Gregory, 26 March 1951, Louis
G. Gregory Papers, NBA.

765 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States to Judge Waties Waring, 26 March 1951,
Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.

766 “Messages from the Guardian,” Bahá’í News, no. 247 (September 1951): 1.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá outlined the responsibilities of the Hands and gave the Guardian of the faith
the responsibility to appoint them and direct their activities.  For some thirty years, however,
Shoghi Effendi did not take steps to develop this institution, concentrating instead on the
establishment and development of local and national executive bodies.  However, during this
period he continued ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s practice of naming Hands of the Cause posthumously,
conferring the title on ten men and women from a variety of national, ethnic, and religious
backgrounds, seven of them prior to Gregory’s death.  Only afterwards, beginning in
December 1951, did Shoghi Effendi appoint living Hands and assign them specific tasks.
While the living Hands of the Cause worked according to Shoghi Effendi’s instructions,
those who, like Gregory, were appointed posthumously had distinguished themselves in
service to the faith largely through their own initiative.767
In addition to honoring Louis Gregory’s spiritual station, Shoghi Effendi’s cablegram
also suggested a strong connection with the African continent.  Gregory’s practical links to
Africa—his own racial heritage and his brief visit to Egypt during the course of his 1911
pilgrimage—were rather indirect.  But Shoghi Effendi’s assessment makes sense in light of
the Bahá’í writings on racial unity and long-range developments within the faith and in the
world at large.  In his talks and writings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had repeatedly linked the
achievement of interracial unity in the United States with the establishment of world peace.
“When the racial elements of the American nation unite in actual fellowship and accord,” he
had told a mixed gathering in Washington during his 1912 visit, “the lights of the oneness of
humanity will shine, the day of eternal glory and bliss will dawn, the spirit of God

767 Eunice Braun et al., “Hands of the Cause of God,” Bahá’í Encyclopedia Project, http://www.bahai-
encyclopedia-project.org.


encompass, and the divine favors descend….  This is the sign of the Most Great Peace….”768
Such predictions seemed to take on some practical significance in the wake of World War
One with the development of an international Pan-African movement and after World War
Two with the acceleration of the civil rights movement in the United States and the anti-
colonial movement in Africa.  At both moments, activists and theorists explicitly linked
black people’s struggles for justice on both sides of the Atlantic, and at both moments,
initiatives of the worldwide Bahá’í community—the Race Amity Conferences in the first
instance, and the first systematic plan to establish the faith across the African continent in the
second—sought to apply the faith’s teachings to emerging opportunities.
In the context of these trends, clear to Shoghi Effendi or any other astute observer by
the early 1950s, Louis Gregory’s “unique position” in the development of a solidly interracial
Bahá’í movement in the United States—and his intellectual and spiritual influence, indirect
but no less significant, on the tenor and focus of African-American aspirations in the early
twentieth century—were enough to connect him to the future of independent Africa and to
the nascent Bahá’í communities there.  Louis Gregory did not live to see the complete
dismantling of the Jim Crow regime, the political independence of the African colonies and
their accession to the United Nations as equal members, or the influx of large numbers of
people in Africa and the African Diaspora into the Bahá’í Faith—phenomena which he and
the successive heads of the faith certainly saw as interrelated and which seemed to proceed
with such rapidity during the quarter century after he died.  But at the end of his life he was
certain that positive change was both inevitable and imminent.  In the concluding chapter of
“Racial Unity,” a manuscript he finished shortly before his passing, he wrote:

768 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 57.


Light is everywhere breaking for the oppressed peoples of the earth.  Deep shadows
prove the intensity of the light.  The interests of no groups or classes will be
overlooked or forgotten… .  Assuming that the victims of injustice will continue their
struggle, no human might can long debar them from the long sought goal.  Earth and
air, fire and water, the stars in their courses, the high tide of destiny, and the Will of
divine Providence are all arrayed against the forces of oppression.769


The “[r]ising Bahá’í generation in [the] African continent,” the first fruits of an Africa
Campaign that involved the settlement of black and white American pioneers who were
themselves a testimony to Louis Gregory’s “outstanding services,” would “glory in his
memory and emulate his example,” not only as one of the most distinguished teachers and
administrators of the faith, but as a radical activist of African descent who had recognized in
its program for the reconstruction of the world the “highest aims” of his people for justice
and peace.770

“Brilliant Victories”
By late 1951, as the second Seven Year Plan was entering its final months, it was clear that
the worldwide Bahá’í community had reached a new stage in its geographic diffusion and
administrative consolidation.  In a November 1951 cable, Shoghi Effendi called for the
holding of four intercontinental conferences, in Kampala, Chicago, Stockholm, and New
Delhi, between February and October 1953.  The conferences, he said, would serve a triple
purpose in the history, identity, and growth of the faith.  They would commemorate the
“Great Jubilee,” the centenary of the beginning of Bahá’u’lláh’s prophetic mission in a
subterranean dungeon in Tehran.  They would provide a “demonstration of Bahá’í solidarity
of unprecedented scope and intensity” befitting the emerging stage in the religion’s

769 Louis G. Gregory, “Racial Unity,” chapter 28, “Conclusion,” TS, Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.

770 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, 227.27-30.


worldwide development.  And they would enable the believers around the world to “adopt
effectual measures” for the inauguration of a third Seven Year Plan, running from 1956 to
1963.  Unlike the first and second plans, which had been primarily the work of the American
community, the third would involve all the National Spiritual Assemblies and “embrace all
the continents of the earth.”  Its ambitious goal would be the diffusion of the faith to all of the
remaining countries and territories of the globe, what Shoghi Effendi called “the world
establishment of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, as prophesied by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and envisioned by
Daniel,” in time for the celebration of the “Most Great Jubilee” marking Bahá’u’lláh’s formal
assumption of the prophetic office in Baghdad.771

In a cablegram of March 1952, Shoghi Effendi lauded the “brilliant victories won in
the course of the second Seven Year Plan.”772  Indeed, progress had been made on several
fronts.  In the Americas, there was a wider base of Local Spiritual Assemblies, and the
formation of three new National Spiritual Assemblies—that of Canada in 1948 and those of
Central America and South America in 1951—meant that the faith’s administrative order
embraced the whole hemisphere.  By April 1952, Shoghi Effendi could announce the
completion of the interior ornamentation of the American community’s house of worship at
Wilmette and the initiation of landscaping in preparation for the building’s dedication for
public worship.773  In Central and Western Europe, new Local Assemblies were functioning
in each of the ten goal countries.  The rapid growth of the faith in Italy moved Shoghi
Effendi to call for the formation, at Ridván 1953, of an additional National Spiritual

771 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971),
16-7.  Cf. Daniel 12:12.

772 Shoghi Effendi, Messages, 1950-1957, 23.

773 Ibid., 28.


Assembly for that country and Switzerland, bringing to twelve the total number of such
“pillars of the future House of Justice” in the world.774  At the faith’s World Center in Haifa
and ‘Akká, a related step towards the establishment of the Universal House of Justice was the
formation, in 1951, of the International Bahá’í Council, a secretariat which Shoghi Effendi
called the “forerunner” of that institution.  He charged the Council primarily with
establishing relations with the new state of Israel and assisting him with completion of the
superstructure of the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel, a project scheduled for completion
in time for the 1953 celebration.775
Even more stunning in Shoghi Effendi’s estimation than the development of the faith
in Latin America and Europe had been its initial growth in Africa, an aspect of the second
Seven Year Plan not even contemplated at the outset.  In April 1952, he enumerated the “first
fruits” of the two-year Africa Campaign: the “settlement of Persian, American, British,
Egyptian and Portuguese pioneers in Liberia, North Rhodesia, Angola, Libya, Spanish
Morocco and Mozambique” and the inauguration of “teaching classes, public meetings and
firesides” in each of those areas; “the enrollment of several native Africans” into the faith;
the establishment of Local Spiritual Assemblies in Kampala, Uganda, and Dar-es-Salaam,
Tanganyika; and the purchase of a Bahá’í Center in Kampala.776  The following January he
announced to the worldwide community that in a little more than a year, more than 200
Africans from some 16 ethnic groups had become Bahá’ís in Kampala and the surrounding
rural districts.777  He anticipated the early establishment in Africa of several regional-level

774 Ibid., 25.

775 Ibid., 7.

776 Ibid., 26.

777 Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, 290.


National Spiritual Assemblies like those already functioning in Central and South
America.778
Paralleling the development of the faith’s local and national elected bodies, Shoghi
Effendi formalized the institution of the Hands of the Cause of God.  In December 1951 he
took the “long inevitably deferred step” of appointing an initial contingent of twelve
Hands—including Louis Gregory’s longtime associates Dorothy Baker, Horace Holley,
Leroy Ioas, and Charles Mason Remey—whom he assigned to serve at the Bahá’í World
Center and in Asia, Europe, and the Americas.779  Three months later, in February 1952, he
appointed an additional contingent of seven Hands, including residents of Africa and
Australia, bringing the total number to nineteen.  He assigned the Hands with responsibility
for “the propagation and preservation of the unity of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh” and noted that
they were “destined” eventually to direct institutions “paralleling those revolving around the
Universal House of Justice.”  Later in 1952, he brought into being the first such institution by
asking the Hands of the Cause residing on each continent to appoint Auxiliary Boards whose
members, acting “as their adjuncts or deputies,” would systematically visit Bahá’í
communities to assist them in carrying out the teaching plans.780
Within the United States, the record of the second Seven Year Plan was mixed, as the
imperatives of international pioneering and completion of the temple had an adverse impact
on the other home front goals.  The initial drive to raise the number of Local Spiritual
Assemblies, from 123 in 1945 to 175 in 1948, had been accomplished, but only with great


778 Shoghi Effendi, Messages, 1950-1957, 21.

779 Ibid., 19.

780 Ibid., 20.


difficulty.781  In February 1948, at the “eleventh hour,” Shoghi Effendi had been “moved to
plead . . . that the rank and file of the community, particularly the members in the long-
established leading strongholds of the Faith—New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San
Francisco, Washington—issue forth” from their homes and settle in the goal cities.782  The
175 Local Assemblies were formed on schedule less than three months later, but by the end
of 1951, the number had fallen again as members of those bodies left the country as pioneers
to Latin America, Europe, and Africa.  In November 1951, Shoghi Effendi expressed his
disappointment that the “constant broadening and the steady reinforcement of this internal
administrative structure” had been “allowed to fall into abeyance” and been “eclipsed” by the
community’s successful deployment of international pioneers.783  When the Plan ended in the
spring of 1953, there were organized groups in some 600 localities across the country, nearly
double the total from 1945.  But there were only 171 Local Assemblies, an increase of less
than 50 during the same period and four short of the goal.784
In the same message of November 1951, Shoghi Effendi also lamented the
“accumulating deficit” in the national fund.785  Skyrocketing construction costs in the
postwar economic boom had increased the budget for the interior ornamentation and
landscaping of the house of worship, prompting Shoghi Effendi to order drastic cost-saving
measures during 1949 and 1950, including suspension of publications, public relations

781 Holley, “Current Bahá’í Activities,” Bahá’í World, vol. 11, 1946-1950, 38.

782 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947-1957. (1965; Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1997), 45.

783 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 102.

784 Horace Holley “International Survey of Current Bahá’í Activities,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 10, 1944-1946, 77;
“Bahá’í Directory, 1953-1954,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 12, 1950-1954, 721-43.

785 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 102.


efforts, and programs at the three summer school campuses in California, Maine, and
Michigan.786  In part to compensate for the school closings, the National Spiritual Assembly
had initiated the “Bahá’í Institute,” a decentralized program of study conferences held around
the country for the “self-education” of communities “by mutual participation ….”787
In South Carolina, even though it had been adversely affected by the same national
trends, the Bahá’í movement was more widespread, more diverse, and more confident in
1953 than it had been at the end of the previous plan.  In terms of the geographic spread of
the faith, new communities were functioning far from the environs of Augusta.  In addition to
North Augusta and Aiken County, there were groups of believers in Columbia and Greenville
with their own community activities and efforts at expansion and consolidation.  The only
major shortcoming in this regard was Charleston, the state’s largest and most important city,
where, despite being the scene of relatively vibrant black and interracial activism and of the
first mention of the faith in South Carolina, a succession of relatively short-term pioneers had
been unable to raise a Bahá’í community.  Elsewhere, the faith was making some tentative
forays into rural and small-town South Carolina.  During the second half of the 1940s, a
transplant from the Atlanta community had resided in Bennettsville in the Pee Dee.788  In
1950, one believer resided in Walterboro in the Lowcountry and another in Union in the
Piedmont.789  Three years later, there were isolated Bahá’ís in Allendale, Clemson, and
Orangeburg.790

786 Allen B. McDaniel and Paul E. Haney, “Interior Ornamentation of the Bahá’í House of Worship,” in Bahá’í
World, vol. 12,1950-1954, 536; “Landscape Plan of the Bahá’í House of Worship by Hilbert Dahl,” in Bahá’í
World, vol. 12,1950-1954, 540; Rabbani, Priceless Pearl, 405-6.

787 Holley, “Current Bahá’í Activities,” Bahá’í World, vol. 11, 1946-1950, 44-5.

788 Baha’i News Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], no. 36 (July 1946): 3.

789 South Carolina State Voting List, 1950, CBA.


The size and diversity of the movement had grown along with geographic expansion.
By the end of the Plan there were more than thirty Bahá’ís in the state.  While pioneers had
been instrumental in the expansion of the faith, some two-thirds of the believers in 1953 were
natives or longtime residents who had encountered the faith locally.  Dozens more, perhaps,
participated in local Bahá’í worship, study, and social activities without having joined the
religion.  The community included both black and white members, in rough proportion to the
racial composition of the state as a whole, and they ranged in occupational and social
background from black domestic workers in Columbia to, in at least the case of Daisy Moore
in North Augusta, a well-to-do scion of the antebellum elite.  Beyond the circle of individual
believers’ family members, neighbors, and coworkers, there was significant experience in
several localities in contacting local government officials and leaders of thought, as well as in
using radio, newspapers, and public meetings to bring the history and tenets of the faith to the
attention of a wider audience.
In stark contrast to the situation when Alonzo Twine had embraced the faith in 1910,
the Bahá’í administrative system in 1953 effectively connected the Bahá’ís in South Carolina
to each other and to a wider faith community at the regional, national, and international
levels.  During the course of the first and second Seven Year Plans, Local Spiritual
Assemblies had been established in North Augusta, Greenville, and Columbia, although, as
in other states, maintaining the necessary numbers had been a constant challenge.  By Ridván
1953, even the new Columbia body had lapsed as pioneers departed for new posts in the
Unites States or abroad—Alice Dudley to Washington, D.C.; Eugenie Meyer to Switzerland;


790 “Bahá’í Directory, 1953-1954,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 12, 1950-1954, 734.


Josie Pinson to Union, South Carolina; and Annie Romer to New Orleans—contributing to
the shortfall in the national goal for new Local Assembly formation.791
Especially important given the struggle to build an administrative base at the local
level, a regional committee structure gave the movement coherence, fostered a sense of
shared mission and identity across state boundaries, and channeled human and financial
resources to various localities relatively efficiently.  In 1950, for example, a member of the
Regional Teaching Committee from North Augusta conducted the National Spiritual
Assembly’s first “Bahá’í Institute” program on the Covenant for the Aiken County and
Columbia communities, and a visiting teacher from New York did the same for Greenville.792
Regardless of whether a group was large enough to have a Local Spiritual Assembly,
regional and national newsletters kept each individual informed of news and events close to
home and around the world.  And every believer could participate in the process of electing
the National Spiritual Assembly.  Beginning in 1944, when Shoghi Effendi instructed that
delegates to the National Convention be apportioned by state and not just by localities with
Local Assemblies, the believers in South Carolina had gathered each fall to elect their
delegate.  Together with Local Assembly elections, the state convention formed an arena of
religious governance that, despite its limitations of size, united people across lines of race,
class, and gender in ways that most other organizations in the state, religious or secular,
could barely imagine.  Small and limited in resources as it was, still tenuous in both its legal
and administrative foundations, and alternately disregarded or persecuted by most of those

791 Ibid.; Alice Dudley, “Unfinished Journey,” TS, in possession of the author; South Carolina State Voting List,
1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris; Baha’i Regional Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin],
no. 1 (October-December 1949): 3; “In Memoriam,” in The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 14,
1963-1968, comp. Universal House of Justice (Haifa, Israel: Universal House of Justice, 1974), 375-7; Eugenie
Meyer to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Moore, postcards, 20 November 1960 and 2 December 1962, private collection
of Richard and Doris Morris.

792 Regional Teaching Committee Bulletin [Regional Teaching Bulletin], December 1950, 1.


few who were even aware of its existence, an indigenous Bahá’í movement that was both
coherent and distinctively diverse had established itself in South Carolina during two
successive plans of systematic growth.







Chapter 6

Broadening the Base Statewide, 1950-1965


In April 1963, when sixteen-year-old Richard Abercrombie arrived in London, England, for
the Bahá’í World Congress, it was the first time he had made more than a short car trip from
his home in Greenville, South Carolina.  Indeed, much had changed in his life since he first
heard of the Bahá’í Faith less than two years before.  In the scriptures of his new religion he
found answers to spiritual questions that the ministers at the Baptist church where he had
grown up were unwilling or unable to answer.  His circle of friends had widened.  There was
the white family who defied Jim Crow segregation to befriend him and other black youth and
introduce them to the Bahá’í Faith, and the feisty black woman from California—a sister of
former boxing heavyweight champion Joe Louis, she was quick to point out—who visited
Greenville and converted his father through her exposition of Biblical prophecy.  The whole
family had become Bahá’ís, and at least ten of his school friends had followed suit.  Then
there was the travelling.  He had gone to Augusta, the closest city with a Bahá’í
administrative council, to be formally enrolled in the religion.  Several times already he had
gone to St. Helena Island at the southern tip of South Carolina, where black and white
Bahá’ís from several southeastern states gathered twice a year for a week of study and
fellowship at the historic campus of Penn Center, founded as a school for freedpeople after


the Civil War and lately used as a retreat center by Martin Luther King, Jr. and his colleagues
in the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.793
Now Abercrombie was making the biggest trip of his life, to the Bahá’í World
Congress in London.  Seven thousand Bahá’ís from seventy countries gathered for the event
to mark the successful completion of a ten-year worldwide expansion program and the
establishment, on the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s public announcement of his prophetic
mission, of the Universal House of Justice called for in his writings.  When Abercrombie
entered Royal Albert Hall, the premier convention venue in London, on the first day of the
Congress, the sight of the participants stunned him.  People from every corner of the globe,
many of them in the traditional dress of their culture, met and greeted each other as brothers
and sisters.   The African participants particularly impressed Abercrombie, a black American
teenager coming of age amid the civil rights movement.  He noticed the great variety of
language, dress, and physical features among them, from the tall and slender Ethiopians to
the Pygmies from the rain forests of the Congo.  He had grown up thinking of Africa as one
big country, but now, among the African Bahá’ís he met, he saw for the first time a glimpse
of the continent’s diversity.794
For Abercrombie and the other participants, the five days of the World Congress
provided a foretaste of the peaceful global civilization that was both the central theme and
the goal of their religion—an emerging phenomenon at once worldwide and grand in scope
and intensely local and personal in the lives of its protagonists.  One speaker at the gathering,

793 James Richard Abercrombie, interview by author, Greenville, SC, 7 December 2003.  For King’s
relationship with Penn, see J. Tracy Power, I Will Not Be Silent and I Will Be Heard: Martin Luther King, Jr.,
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and Penn Center, Topics in African American History 2
(Columbia: South Carolina Department of Archives and History, 1993).

794 Ibid.


an indigenous man from the highlands of Bolivia, said: “I am not a literate man, and I am
very happy to be here to see my brothers from all over the world….  We want unity and love
for the whole world….”795  Another, speaking of how he would describe the Congress on his
return to his native Philippines, said: “When I go back to the villages I can tell them that I
saw the garden of God!”796  Richard Abercrombie recalled: “Seeing all these people from
different ethnic and religious backgrounds, the beauty of these diverse people coming
together for one purpose, I knew it could happen all over the world.  It wasn’t just in
Greenville, South Carolina; this was a world community.”  “I already knew that,” he added,
“but at the World Congress I saw it.”797

Richard Abercrombie’s presence at the London Congress testified to the
development—concurrently with an increasingly assertive black freedom struggle within the
United States and a paralyzing Cold War with the Soviet Union—of a Bahá’í movement in
South Carolina with a larger, more diverse, and more youthful membership, a stronger
institutional and legal basis, and an orientation that sought increasingly to influence the
course of social change in the state.  During much of the 1950s, in the context of a new
campaign by South Carolina’s political leaders and a grassroots segregationist movement to
destroy the NAACP, the interracialism of the Bahá’ís seemed more dangerous than usual,
and the statewide community could do little more than hold itself together.  However, as the
civil rights movement began to register more gains at home and across the region, South
Carolina’s political and business elite sought increasingly to ease the transition to
desegregation.  As the legal, social, and economic risks—both to blacks and whites—of

795 Bahá’í World, vol. 14, 1963-1968, 72.

796 Ibid.

797 Abercrombie interview.


identifying with an interracial movement began to soften, the Bahá’ís became more bold in
their public outreach and more open about the interracial character of their community, and
more South Carolinians seemed inclined to associate with or become members of the Bahá’í
movement.  By the middle of the 1960s, as the global framework of the Bahá’í
Administrative Order stood completed and the Jim Crow regime crumbled, South Carolina’s
Bahá’í community began to prepare for rapid growth of their faith in cities and rural areas in
all parts of the state.

Briggs, Brown, and “Massive Resistance” in South Carolina
In the evening of his life, Louis Gregory had predicted intensification both of the African-
American civil rights movement and of opposition to it.  “Deep shadows,” he observed,
“prove the intensity of the light.”798  In South Carolina, events in the 1950s seemed to bear
out Gregory’s statement.  As the state’s NAACP led the country in a concerted attack on
segregation in public schools, South Carolina’s white political leaders and a new grassroots
movement opposed to civil rights attempted to destroy the organization and ruin its
supporters.  The direct effect was to force the state’s civil rights movement into a temporary
retreat during the second half of the decade; indirectly, the renewed climate of fear stifled the
growth of the Bahá’í community until a new group of pioneers arrived in 1956 and 1957.
On May 28, 1951, less than two months before Louis Gregory’s death, black parents
and students from Summerton, a small town in Clarendon County in the lower Pee Dee,

798 Gregory, “Racial Unity,” Louis G. Gregory Papers, NBA.


finally had their day in federal court in Charleston.799  It was the culmination of a process
begun nearly four years earlier in the summer of 1947, when AME minister Rev. Joseph
Armstrong De Laine had begun organizing black families in the Summerton area to press for
improvements in the local education system.  Their first efforts had focused on forcing local
school districts to provide bus transportation for their children as they did for white children.
Rebuffed at every turn by white officials and suffering severe economic reprisals, they had
filed suit in U.S. District Court in May 1950 to force Clarendon County School District 22 to
provide equal school facilities for black children.  But the judge, J. Waties Waring, had
instructed the plaintiffs’ attorneys to re-file the case so as to directly challenge the provision
for separate schools in South Carolina’s constitution of 1895.  By extension, the case would
also call into question the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson decision permitting
“separate but equal” public accommodations for blacks and whites, the legal justification for
the entire national system of racial segregation.  Because the new case challenged the state
constitution, it would be heard not before Waring alone, but before a three-judge panel.  Two
of the three judges were likely to rule against the plaintiffs, ensuring an appeal to the U.S.
Supreme Court.
In late May 1951, a year after filing the original suit, Briggs v. Elliott was heard
before Chief Judge John Parker, Judge George Bell Timmerman, and Waring. The plaintiffs,
joined by African-American sympathizers from across South Carolina and other states,
crowded into an overflowing Charleston courtroom.  The plaintiffs’ attorneys, Thurgood
Marshall and Harold Boulware, argued that schools for blacks in District 22 were not just

799 This account of the Clarendon County case is based on Richard Kluger, Simple Justice (New York: Random
House, 1977); and Benjamin F. Hornsby, Stepping Stone to the Supreme Court: Clarendon County, South
Carolina (Columbia: South Carolina Department of Archives and History, 1992).


segregated, but inferior to their white counterparts.  The defense attorneys, Robert Figg, Jr. of
Charleston and S. Emory Rogers of Summerton, did not contest the inferiority of the black
schools, but asked only that the state be given more time to improve facilities.
As expected, the two-to-one decision ordered equalization of the schools, not
desegregation.  Waring’s dissenting opinion, however, proved the most significant result of
the case.  In his scathing denunciation of segregation in education, Waring ridiculed the logic
of racialism and called for immediate equal treatment of African-American citizens.  “I am of
the opinion,” he wrote,
that all of the legal guideposts, expert testimony, common sense and reason point
unerringly to the conclusion that the system of segregation in education adopted and
practiced in the state of South Carolina must go and must go now.  Segregation is per
se inequality.800

It was a landmark opinion, the first of its kind in the country by a federal judge.801
For most of South Carolina’s white leaders, however, there was no question of
abandoning segregation.  Reaction to the Briggs case was swift.  Even before the decision,
the General Assembly had begun a massive “school equalization” program designed to
forestall desegregation of the schools.  The brainchild of Gov. James F. Byrnes, who had
served in all three branches of the federal government before returning to South Carolina and
running for governor, the massive building plan used proceeds from a new sales tax and a
large bond issue in an effort to improve facilities across the state and bring black schools up
to par with white schools.802  “It is our duty,” Byrnes had told legislators soon after taking
office, “to provide for the races substantial equality in school facilities.  We should do it

800 Quoted in Kluger, Simple Justice, 366.

801 David W. Southern, “Beyond Jim Crow Liberalism: Judge Waring’s Fight against Segregation in South
Carolina, 1942-52,” The Journal of Negro History 66, no. 3 (Autumn 1981): 219-20.

802 Rebekah Dobrasko, “Upholding ‘Separate but Equal:’ South Carolina’s School Equalization Program, 1951-
1955,” M.A. thesis, University of South Carolina, 2005, 5-11.


because it is right.  For me, that is sufficient reason.”  But Byrnes’s appeal was cold political
calculation: with challenges to the separate but equal doctrine underway in Clarendon County
and in several other states, he hoped that equalization would forestall desegregation.  “If any
person wants an additional reason,” he had pointedly added, “I say it is wise.”  Over the next
four years, more than 800 schools, mostly antiquated one- and two-room buildings, were
closed and replaced with state-of-the-art new facilities costing some $124 million, an
enormous sum for an impoverished state.803  Some two-thirds of the money went to black
schools, even though black children were only forty percent of the school population.804  For
African American students as well as for many rural whites, it was more attention from the
state of South Carolina than they had ever received.805
Increased education funding, however, was not the government’s only weapon in the
fight to maintain the racial status quo.  The same year that it approved the school building
campaign, the General Assembly formed a special committee to recommend measures to
avoid desegregation.  Among the results of its work were a successful statewide referendum
to delete the constitutional requirement for state-supported public schools and passage of a
new statute withholding state money from any school to which a student was transferred by
court order—measures that seemed to contradict the campaign to “modernize” the state’s
school system and revealed its true purpose.
When the NAACP appealed Briggs v. Elliott to the U.S. Supreme Court, Gov. Byrnes
used public and private means to influence the outcome, hiring one of the country’s best
appellate lawyers to defend the state and discussing the case with members of the Supreme

803 Dobrasko, “Upholding ‘Separate but Equal,’” 35.

804 Edgar, South Carolina, 523.

805 Dobrasko, “Upholding ‘Separate but Equal,’” 23-9.


Court with whom he had served as well as with President Dwight D. Eisenhower, a
Republican to whom he had thrown his political support in the 1952 elections.806  Despite
Byrnes’s best efforts, the Supreme Court’s unanimous decision, announced May 17, 1954,
overturned segregation in public education and, by implication, in all other aspects of public
life.  In reversing Plessy v. Ferguson, the Court used language derived in part from Waring’s
dissenting opinion in the Briggs case: “In the field of public education, the doctrine of
‘separate but equal’ has no place.  Separate educational facilities are inherently unequal.”807
Reaction among South Carolina whites was swift.  The “Committee of 52,” a
statewide group of white business, political, and religious leaders, published a statement
calling for maintenance of separate schools at all costs in order to preserve “domestic
tranquility.”  Adopting the language of John C. Calhoun in the Nullification Controversy of
the 1830s—a rhetorical and political precursor to the Civil War—the committee asked the
state government to “interpose” itself between the federal courts and local school districts.808
The editor of the Greenville News called the Brown decision “an insult to the intelligence of
White people,” while Bob Jones, Sr., the head of Greenville’s fundamentalist Bob Jones
University, said that racial intermingling was contrary to the will of God and that every effort
to create “one world and one race outside the body of Christ has been of the devil.”809

806 Some evidence suggests that Byrnes even used his influence with the justices to ensure that a Kansas case,
Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, appeared on the docket ahead of South Carolina’s Briggs, which came
first both alphabetically and chronologically in the group of five similar cases that the court planned to hear
together.  See Edgar, South Carolina, 522.

807 Quoted in Kluger, Simple Justice, 782.

808 Edgar, South Carolina, 524.

809 Greenville News, 18 May 1954; 2 June 1955; 5 March 1956; 18 September 1960, quoted in Huff, Greenville,
401-2.


Jones’s comments in particular heralded the emergence of a new grassroots
movement in which popular anti-Communist, anti-secular, and anti-civil rights sentiments
coalesced and took on institutional form.  The movement’s spearhead was a network of
Citizens’ Councils, formed across the Deep South in the wake of the Brown decision to
challenge the Supreme Court’s authority and defend segregation.  In the context of the Cold
War rivalry with an expansionist, nuclear-armed Soviet Union and of a nationwide red scare,
the defenders of segregation attempted to harness widespread fears by discrediting the civil
rights movement as a Kremlin-inspired threat to American democracy.  They smeared any
individual or organization who questioned Jim Crow, leftist or not, as advocating atheism,
Communism, and miscegenation.810
The Citizens’ Councils spread quickly in South Carolina after the Brown decision.
By the summer 1956, the organization’s membership in the state had swelled to some 40,000
people, with its most active support in Midlands and Lowcountry counties with large black
populations—the same areas that had voted overwhelmingly for Strom Thurmond’s Dixiecrat
ticket in 1948.811  Like their counterparts in other states, South Carolina’s Citizens’ Councils
worked closely but informally with an interlocking network of federal, state, and local
government agencies, including the FBI and the State Law Enforcement Division; local and
state political bosses; conservative newspapers; ministers of various denominations; and
professional anti-Communist activists.812

810 Woods, Black Struggle, Red Scare, 4-7.

811 Ibid., 36-8; Edgar, South Carolina, 525.

812 Woods, Black Struggle, Red Scare, 113-6.


While the Citizens’ Councils claimed to represent the “respectable” majority of the
white community and disavowed any use of violence, their energetic campaign to uphold
white supremacy emboldened the Ku Klux Klan, which reasserted itself in the wake of the
Brown decision.  Across the state, segregationist organizers and vigilantes put to extensive
use the tools of propaganda, economic pressure, intimidation, and violence against civil
rights activists and virtually anyone, black or white, who favored compliance with the
Supreme Court’s ruling.  In Clarendon County, black petitioners in the Briggs case faced a
new round of reprisals, including denial of credit, firing from jobs, and threats of physical
violence; Harry Briggs, the Navy veteran whose name headed the list, and J. A. DeLaine, the
minister who had organized the campaign, both fled the state.  In black-majority Orangeburg
County, when black parents petitioned the local school board for an immediate end to
segregation in accordance with Brown, the local Citizens’ Council turned white economic
power against the petitioners and the NAACP branch, and state law enforcement investigated
the “subversive activities” of State College students and faculty members.813
Dissent was even silenced in the state’s white universities and press.  Jack O’Dowd,
editor of the Florence Morning News, while no racial liberal, advised his readers to accept
Brown as the law of the land.  After suffering threats and attempts to force his car off the
road, he conceded defeat and moved to Chicago.  In Columbia, Chester Travelstead, dean of
the School of Education at the University of South Carolina, wrote to newly-elected governor
George Bell Timmerman, already known as the most conservative member of the three-judge

813 For an account of black protest and white opposition in Orangeburg during the 1950s, see John W. White,
“The White Citizens’ Councils of Orangeburg County, South Carolina,” in Toward the Meeting of the Waters,
ed. Moore and Burton, 261-73.


panel that had heard Briggs v. Elliott, criticizing him for opposing the Supreme Court’s
ruling.  Timmerman quickly made sure that Travelstead lost his job.814
As they had during and after each of the world wars, South Carolina’s senior
politicians set the tone and encouraged their constituents to act in the wake of the Brown
decision.  Now in the U.S. Senate, Strom Thurmond wrote the first draft of the “Southern
Manifesto,” a document signed by a majority of southern Congressional delegations and
calling for “massive resistance” to the Supreme Court’s authority, while his political base at
home and in other Deep South states became the foundation of the Citizens’ Councils and the
regional anti-Communist movement.  South Carolina’s senior senator, former governor Olin
D. Johnston, worked closely with James Eastland of Mississippi, one of the Senate’s most
vituperative segregationists and chairman of its Internal Security Subcommittee, which
investigated alleged Communist activities in the United States.815  In the House of
Representatives, W. J. B. Dorn of South Carolina’s Second District warned his colleagues
about a Kremlin plot to divide America over race and thereby bring about a Communist
revolution.816
Within the state, the executive and legislative branches of government and their allies
worked closely together in a campaign to dismantle the NAACP.  In 1956, during a
legislative session that one white journalist dubbed the “Segregation Session,” the General
Assembly passed a resolution requesting that the U.S. Justice Department investigate the
state NAACP as a “subversive organization” that pursued an agenda “contrary to the

814 Edgar, South Carolina, 527.

815 Woods, Black Struggle, Red Scare, 67.

816 Dorn to P. M. Archibald, 28 October 1957, William Jennings Bryan Dorn Papers, SCL, quoted in Woods,
Black Struggle, Red Scare, 71.


principles upon which the economic and social life of our state rests” and posed a “danger to
our way of life.”  It also passed a law barring members of the organization from employment
in local, county, or state government.  The next year, Governor Timmerman and Attorney
General T.C. Callison supported the firing of members of the Allen University and Benedict
College faculties for alleged Communist ties, and in 1958, the General Assembly created a
Committee to Investigate Communist Activities.817  Altogether, the measures chilled any
activist spirit among black public school teachers and the faculty and staff of the state’s
public and private black colleges, hitherto among the NAACP’s strongest supporters.  At the
same time, informal tactics targeted the organization’s leaders.  In 1957, the energetic and
capable Modjeska Simkins was ousted from her role as secretary of the state conference after
the Charleston News and Courier smeared her for alleged Communist sympathies.  The next
year James Hinton, having suffered an attack on his house and behind-the-scenes pressure
from powerful whites, resigned as conference president.818  The measures had their intended
effect.  Between 1955 and 1957 the number of branches in the state fell from eighty-four to
thirty-one, and membership from more than 8,000 to just over 2,000.819  At a time when the
organization would otherwise have been capitalizing on its legal victories to mobilize a
broader attack on segregation and disfranchisement, it was instead forced to contract and
grew largely silent.





817 Woods, Black Struggle, Red Scare,  113-4.

818 Lau, Democracy Rising, 210-1.

819 Ibid., 210.


The World Crusade
In South Carolina, with the civil rights movement in retreat and the white masses mobilized
to oppose any attempt at integration, the state’s Bahá’ís sought simply to hold their ground.
From a global perspective, however, already by October 1952, when the Holy Year
commemorating the centenary of the first stirrings of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation began, the
results of the second Seven Year Plan had convinced Shoghi Effendi to immediately begin
the next stage in the growth of the Bahá’í Faith.  Instead of the projected third Seven Year
Plan set to start in 1956 after a “brief respite of three years,” the world’s twelve National
Spiritual Assemblies would jointly prosecute a Ten Year Plan starting with the conferences
already scheduled for 1953 in Kampala, Chicago, Stockholm, and New Delhi.820
In a cable at the start of the Holy Year, Shoghi Effendi announced the launching of a
“fate-laden, soul-stirring, decade-long, world-embracing Spiritual Crusade” that aimed at the
“immediate extension of Bahá’u’lláh’s spiritual dominion as well as the eventual
establishment of the structure of His administrative order in all remaining Sovereign States,
Principal Dependencies … scattered over the surface of the entire planet.”  He called the
Bahá’ís around the world essentially to leap over what otherwise might have been several
stages of the religion’s development, “to achieve in a single decade feats eclipsing in totality
the achievements which in the course of the eleven preceding decades illuminated the annals
of Bahá’í pioneering.”821
The specific goals of the ten-year endeavor fell into four broad categories:
“development of the institutions at the World Center of the Faith in the Holy Land;”
consolidation of the twelve territories with National Spiritual Assemblies, “destined to serve

820 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, 88.

821 Shoghi Effendi, Messages, 1950-1957, 40.


as administrative bases for the operations of the twelve National Plans;” consolidation of all
the other countries and territories where Bahá’ís resided; and “the opening of the remaining
chief virgin territories on the planet” through the settlement of pioneers.  The Plan’s
culmination would come at Ridván 1963, the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of his
prophetic mission to the followers of the Báb in Baghdad.  Two consecutive events would
mark the occasion.  First, the members of the National Spiritual Assemblies then in existence
would constitute an International Convention at the World Center in Haifa and elect the first
Universal House of Justice.  Shortly thereafter, before the end of the Ridván Festival, the
newly-elected members of that body and believers from around the world would gather in
Baghdad for a World Congress to celebrate the completion of the Ten Year Plan and the
establishment of the crowing unit of the faith’s Administrative Order.
The new Plan, which Shoghi Effendi acknowledged was “at once arduous, audacious,
challenging, unprecedented in scope and character,” staggered the imagination of the
Bahá’ís.  Some 250 territories around the world would require pioneers.  The number of
National Spiritual Assemblies would be more than quadrupled with the formation of 48 new
national or regional bodies, and national headquarters, publishing trusts, sites for future
temples, and other properties would have to be acquired.  Bahá’í literature would have to be
translated and published in an additional 91 languages.  Two new houses of worship would
be built, one in Tehran, Iran, and the other in Frankfurt, Germany, and at the World Center,
major projects would include improvements to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and construction of
the International Bahá’í Archives, the first of a series of administrative buildings Shoghi
Effendi envisioned on the side of Mount Carmel.822

822 Ibid., 41-3.


The lion’s share of the work went to the Bahá’ís of the United States, the “envied
custodians” of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan.823  In his message to the National Convention in
1953—part of more than a week of activities associated with the Intercontinental Conference
and the dedication of the Wilmette temple for public worship—Shoghi Effendi assigned the
community a series of twenty-four tasks.  In the international arena, they were asked to open
or consolidate thirteen territories in Africa, fourteen in Asia, eighteen in Europe, and seven in
the Americas through the settlement of pioneers; assist or supervise the establishment of
thirty-six new National Spiritual Assemblies; insure the legal incorporation of fourteen of the
new bodies; assist with the acquisition of all their national headquarters and of land for future
temples in Stockholm, Rome, Panama City, and Johannesburg; and translate Bahá’í literature
into twenty minority languages of Europe and the Americas.  Within the United States, the
goals were less exotic, perhaps, but no less daunting: complete the landscaping around the
temple; establish a publishing trust; initiate the community’s first systematic teaching among
Native Americans; continue and expand the public relations campaign through the press and
radio; and nearly double the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies from 171 to 300.824
For some thirty Bahá’ís in South Carolina, the goals must have seemed daunting
indeed.  They had built a community that represented much of the state’s diversity and
established a basic administrative structure in the state, but the gains so far had required
herculean efforts and been difficult to sustain.  Often during the previous two plans, the
international goals of the faith had even seemed to compromise local development as capable
pioneers were diverted elsewhere.  Now the outlook was even dimmer, since unlike the last
two plans, which had occurred amidst a general expansion of civil rights activism in South

823 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 120.

824 Ibid., 107-9.


Carolina, the new plan would have to be carried out in the midst of a statewide conservative
backlash against the secular movement that most fully embodied the faith’s central teachings.

The Crusade, the Cold War, and Race in America
As he had since the early years of his ministry, early in the Ten Year Plan Shoghi Effendi
attempted to explain both contemporary social and political trends and the immediate tasks of
the American Bahá’í community in the light of his vision for the long-term development of
human society.  In particular, he set the black freedom struggle and the work of the Plan in
the context of a global shift in the balance of power between subject peoples and their
oppressors.  As it tore down more barriers to the unification of humanity, this shift, he
predicted, would create unprecedented opportunities for the growth of the faith within the
United States and around the world.
The Ten Year Plan unfolded during a period of deepening crisis for the United States
abroad and at home.  As the Plan began, the Korean War was drawing to a close and the anti-
Communist campaign of Joseph McCarthy in the U.S. Senate was at its height.  The decade
following the armistice in Korea was the darkest in the Cold War rivalry with the Soviet
Union.  The phenomena of political assassinations, overt and covert military interventions,
and proxy warfare between allies of the rival superpowers became commonplace on all
continents, evidenced by U.S.-sponsored coups in Iran and Guatemala in 1953, the Suez
Crisis and the Hungarian Revolution in 1956, and the deepening conflict in Vietnam after the
failure of the 1954 Geneva Accords.  The nuclear arms race quickened as new technologies
put the possibility of unprecedented destruction within the grasp of the superpowers and
several of their allies.  Following the Soviets’ launching of Sputnik, the world’s first artificial


satellite, in 1957, the arms race moved into space.  The world probably came closest to
nuclear annihilation towards the end of the Plan when, in October 1962, the United States
and the Soviet Union faced off over the positioning of Soviet nuclear missiles in Cuba.

Within the United States, a “culture of conformity” took hold of the postwar
generation.  Bolstered by the mass media—including the new phenomenon of television—
and by federal government policy, the trend was characterized by unprecedented prosperity
and an explosion of consumer goods; an increasing suburbanization of the population; a
resurgence of religious practice in general and of evangelical Protestantism in particular; and
political conservatism.  At the same time, social commentators and political leaders pointed
to an increase in juvenile delinquency and the rise of iconoclastic movements in art,
literature, and music—epitomized by the raging of the Beat poets and the unabashed
sexuality of rock and roll—as evidence that the culture of conformity was leaving many
Americans, particularly the young, profoundly discontented.  Most significantly, an
increasingly broad-based and assertive civil rights movement and the widespread opposition
and violence that it provoked mocked postwar perceptions of prosperity and stability and, in
the context of the Cold War, embarrassed the federal government’s efforts to secure the
allegiance of black and brown peoples in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
For Shoghi Effendi, such conditions lent fresh urgency to the prosecution of the Ten
Year Plan.  He sent a special messenger to the Plan’s inaugural conference in the United
States to remind the American community of the continuing, critical importance of
broadening and strengthening their interracial fellowship.  In May 1953, when Dorothy
Baker, a member of the National Spiritual Assembly and Hand of the Cause of God,
addressed the Intercontinental Conference in Chicago, she was fresh from a pilgrimage to the


World Center and from participation in the first of the four conferences in Uganda.  Before
some 2300 believers from across North and South America, Baker recounted the emphatic
instructions she had received from Shoghi Effendi during her pilgrimage:
He said one driving thing over and over—that if we did not meet the challenging
requirement of raising to a vast number the believers of the Negro race, disasters
would result.  And second, that it was now time for us to arise and teach the Indians
of this country.  In fact he went so far as to say on two occasions that this dual task is
the most important teaching work on American shores today.”825

Urging those in attendance to commit to teaching the faith in  African American and Native
American communities at home, Baker recalled Shoghi Effendi’s colorful comments about
‘Alí Nakhjavání and Philip Hainsworth, young pioneers to Uganda from Iran and Great
Britain, respectively, who had been instrumental in establishing the faith in the villages
around Kampala:
[T]hey lived with the Teso people; they ate the food of the Teso people; they slept on
straw mats or leaves, or whatever it is that you sleep on among the Teso people.  The
rain falls on your head and salamanders drop in your tea, if there is tea.  And they
stayed!  And they did not say, “Conditions do not warrant it because these people eat
herbs and things that would just kill us.”  They stayed!  Is there an ‘Alí Nakhjavání,
then, in America?  At the present, no.  I mean, up to the present.  Is there a Philip
Hainsworth?  Up to the present, no.826

The Plan, Baker said, was occurring at a moment of profound change at home and abroad,
which the Bahá’ís must understand and welcome:
Now the dark-skinned people, he said, would have an upsurge that is both spiritual
and social.  The spiritual upsurge will rapidly bring them great gifts because this is an
act of God and it was so intended.  And all the world’s prejudiced forces will not hold
it back one hair’s breadth.  The Bahá’ís will glorify it and understand it.  The social
repercussions of race suppressions around the world will increase at the same time,
and frightened, the world’s forces will see that the dark skinned peoples are really

825 Dorothy Baker, address recorded at All-America Conference, Chicago, 3-6 May 1953, quoted in Morrison,
To Move the World, 292.

826 Dorothy Baker, address at All-America Conference, quoted in Dorothy Freeman Gilstrap, From Copper to
Gold: The Life of Dorothy Baker (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1999), 410-1.


rising to the top—a cream that has latent gifts only to be brought out by Divine
bounties.  Where do the Bahá’ís stand in this?  Again and again he pointed out that
the Bahá’ís must be in the vanguard of finding them and giving them the base.  For
the social repercussions will at times become dreadful, if we do not, and we shall be
judged by God.
I thought that I was rather a fanatic on the race question, at least a strong
liberal, but I sat judged by my Guardian, and I knew it.  My sights were lifted
immeasurably and I saw the vistas of these social repercussions, coming because of
our spiritual negligence through the years, and I saw the Indian tribes dotted around
this continent unredeemed, waiting—waiting for an ‘Alí Nakhjavání.  Are the African
friends going to have to come and awaken us for the dark skinned races in our midst?
…
God grant that we may raise up our heroes who will dedicate their lives to the
Indians, to the great dark skinned races, to the Eskimos, to the Negro peoples so
brilliant, so promising in our national life.  Which one will be our ‘Alí Nakhjavání?827

In July 1953, only three months after the inauguration of the Plan, Shoghi Effendi
wrote a lengthy letter to the American believers in which he elaborated on the relationship
between the “upsurge” to which Baker had referred and the worldwide development of the
Bahá’í Faith.  The Plan, he predicted, must “awaken the select and gather the spiritually
hungry amongst the peoples of the world;” “create an awareness” of the religion among the
cultural, intellectual, and political elites of every country; carry it “to regions so remote, so
backward, so inhospitable that neither the light of Christianity or Islam has, after the
revolution of centuries, as yet penetrated;” and complete the “structural basis” of its global
Administrative Order, which would eventually “assemble beneath its sheltering shadow
peoples of every race, tongue, creed, color and nation.”828  In Shoghi Effendi’s vision, the
Plan opened the way for new stages in the faith’s worldwide development extending decades
or centuries into the future.  Delineating those stages, he wrote that the enlistment of “fresh
recruits” around the globe in the “slowly yet steadily advancing army of the Lord of Hosts”

827 Dorothy Baker, address at All-America Conference, quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 292-3, and
Gilstrap, From Copper to Gold, 411.

828 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 114.


would presage a period of rapid growth to which Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had both
referred in their writings: “the entry by troops of peoples of divers nations and races into the
Bahá’í world.”829  The phenomenon of entry by troops, in turn, would be a “prelude” to more
momentous world events, “possibly catastrophic in nature,” that would bring “a mass
conversion of these same nations and races” to the Bahá’í Faith—a phenomenon of world-
historical proportions that would “suddenly revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange
the equilibrium of the world, and reinforce a thousandfold the numerical strength as well as
the material power and the spiritual authority of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.”830
As in previous plans, Shoghi Effendi connected the teaching efforts of the American
Bahá’ís to their own spiritual welfare and to the immediate destiny of their country.  In July
1954, barely a year into the Ten Year Plan and just two months after the Supreme Court’s
announcement of the Brown decision, Shoghi Effendi addressed another major letter, entitled
“American Bahá’ís in the Time of World Peril,” to the believers in the United States.
Echoing themes he had raised since the early years of his ministry, Shoghi Effendi insisted
that the United States was passing through a serious moral, spiritual, and political crisis,
“which to a superficial observer [was] liable to be dangerously underestimated.”831
The root of the crisis, he asserted, was “crass materialism.”  Implicitly pointing out
the hollowness of the culture of conformity, Shoghi Effendi described materialism as an
approach to life that placed “excessive and ever-increasing emphasis on material well-being,

829 Ibid., 117.  For earlier references, see Bahá’u’lláh, Summons, 1.270 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-
Baha Abbas, vol. 3 (New York: Baha’i Publishing Committee, 1916), 681.  The phrase is borrowed from “The
Help,” the short final sura of the Qur’án: “In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful!  When the
Help of God and the victory arrive, and thou seest men entering the religion of God by troops; then utter the
praise of thy Lord, implore His pardon; for He loveth to turn in mercy.” Qur’án, trans. J. M. Rodwell, 110:1-3.

830 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 117.

831 Ibid., 124.


forgetful of those things of the spirit on which alone a sure and stable foundation can be laid
for human society.”832  The phenomenon, he noted, was not uniquely American.  Without
referring directly to the country’s visceral anti-Communism, he wrote that materialism was
an “evil” which “all those within the capitalist system” shared with their “sworn enemies” in
the Communist countries, and which was rapidly infecting the rest of the world like a cancer
in the wake of the Second World War.833  Bahá’u’lláh, he reminded his readers, had clearly
denounced materialism in his writings and predicted its consequences, comparing it to a
“devouring flame” that would precipitate “dire ordeals and world-shaking crises that must
necessarily involve the burning of cities and the spread of terror and consternation in the
hearts of men.”  Indeed, the most recent war had been only the latest stage in the “global
havoc” which a wayward humanity seemed destined to suffer.834  Shoghi Effendi pointed to
the nuclear arms race, the burden of continued military spending, and the victory of the
Communists in the Chinese civil war as factors that had “contributed … to the deterioration
of a situation which, if not remedied, is bound to involve the American nation in a
catastrophe of undreamed-of dimensions and of untold consequences ….”835


In the context of the Cold War, Shoghi Effendi argued that persistent racial problems
posed a threat to the security and integrity of the nation.  Unlike southern ideologues,
however, who blamed black activists and Communist infiltrators for upsetting the country’s
race relations, Shoghi Effendi placed the onus of change squarely on the shoulders of the
masses of white Americans and their government.  In his view, the twin keys to averting even

832 Ibid., 125.

833 Ibid., 124.

834 Ibid., 125.

835 Ibid., 125-6.


more severe racial violence—which the Soviet Union would surely seek to exploit—were a
fundamental shift in the consciousness of white America accompanied by decisive structural
change.  The “governed and governors alike” had neglected the “supreme, the inescapable
and urgent duty” of “remedying, while there is yet time, through a revolutionary change in
the concept and attitude of the average white American toward his Negro fellow citizen, a
situation which, if allowed to drift, will, in the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cause the streets of
American cities to run with blood ….”836
The difficulties that threatened the United States from inside and out, including the
challenge of establishing racial justice, were to Shoghi Effendi part of the divine plan for the
unification of the human race.  By dealing successfully with such tests, the country would
“find itself purged of its anachronistic conceptions, and prepared to play a preponderating
role, as foretold by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in the hoisting of the standard of the Lesser Peace, in the
unification of mankind, and in the establishment of a world federal government on this
planet.”  These “fiery tribulations” would not only “firmly weld the American nation to its
sister nations in both hemispheres,” but would cleanse it of the “accumulated dross which
ingrained racial prejudice, rampant materialism, widespread ungodliness and moral laxity
have combined, in the course of successive generations, to produce ….”837
The implications for the prosecution of the Ten Year Plan were serious.  The
American Bahá’í movement could not expect, Shoghi Effendi said, “at this critical juncture
in the fortunes of a struggling, perilously situated, spiritually moribund nation, to either
escape the trials with which this nation is confronted, nor claim to be wholly immune from

836 Ibid., 126.

837 Ibid., 126-7.


the evils that stain its character.”838  The spiritual “primacy” with which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
invested the American community by the Tablets of the Divine Plan could “lose its vital
power and driving force” through the “neglect and apathy” of the believers.839  In contrast to
the sad state of the nation of which they formed a part, the American Bahá’ís must remain
focused, consecrate themselves to “every single objective” of the Plan, and make sacrifices
for its completion.840
In the first year of the Plan, the formidable international goals assigned to the
American community had elicited an immediate and overwhelming response.  One hundred
fifty-seven believers had left the country as pioneers, including five members of the National
Spiritual Assembly who had resigned their posts and been replaced in a by-election.  By the
end of the second year, another 125 would settle abroad.841  However, as in the second Seven
Year Plan, the multiplication of Local Spiritual Assemblies within the United States was
receiving less attention.  Shoghi Effendi advised that the international pioneering effort must
be “increased, doubled, nay trebled” at home, “particularly in the goal cities, where hitherto
the work has stagnated ….”  Noting the concentration of believers in the leading urban
centers, “where, owing to the tempo and the distractions of city life, the progress of the Faith
has been retarded,” he called for the New York and Chicago communities to lead a “veritable
exodus” to the goal cities.  “Indeed,” he added emphatically, “so grave are the exigencies of
the present hour, and so critical the political position of the country, that were a bare fifteen

838 Ibid., 127.

839 Ibid.

840 Ibid.

841 “International Survey of Current Bahá’í Activities,” in The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 13,
1954-1963, comp. Universal House of Justice (Haifa, Israel: Universal House of Justice, 1970), 270.


adult Bahá’ís to be left in each of these cities, over which unsuspected dangers are hanging, it
would still be regarded as adequate” to maintain their Local Spiritual Assemblies—among
the oldest and strongest in the country.842
The response of the American Bahá’ís to Shoghi Effendi’s appeal was slow.  Two
years later, in a letter of July 1956, he again called them to the “revitalization” of their own
national community and the “broadening and consolidation of its foundations.”  He wrote
that a “far greater proportion of the avowed supporters of the Faith” must arise to teach an
“infinitely greater number” of new believers, increase the number of new localities through
an unprecedented flow of home-front pioneers, and accelerate the formation of Local
Spiritual Assemblies “while safeguarding those already in existence.”843  Barely a year later,
he repeated his call that the American movement be “spiritually reinvigorated,
administratively expanded, and materially replenished.”  “The flame of devotion,” he wrote,
“… must, in whatever way possible, be fanned and continually fed throughout the entire area
of the Union, in every state from the Atlantic to the Pacific seaboards, in every locality where
Bahá’ís reside, in every heart throbbing with the love of Bahá’u’lláh.”  Repeating the
message of his previous letters and of Dorothy Baker’s address at the outset of the Plan, he
wrote that the same spirit that had sent so many pioneers around the world must be
“recaptured” at home in order to combat the “militant racialism, political corruption,
unbridled capitalism, wide-spread lawlessness and gross immorality” that were proliferating
“with ominous swiftness” throughout their country.”844

842 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 128.

843 Ibid., 147-8.

844 Ibid., 154.


The lukewarm response of the community to the home-front goals and the rising tide
of white opposition to the Brown decision prompted Shoghi Effendi to scrap the earlier
national policy on teaching in the South.  A spate of letters in 1957 directed the Bahá’ís to
refocus their attention on teaching African Americans, particularly in the South.  Shoghi
Effendi implied that while the previous policy that permitted teaching blacks and whites
separately had been just in principle, the complacency of white Bahá’ís had rendered it
ineffectual, evidenced by the fact that too few people of either race had become believers:
The attitude toward teaching the Faith in the southern states of the United States must
be entirely changed.  For years, in the hope of attracting the white people, in order to
“go easy” with them and not offend their sensibilities, a compromise has been made
in the teaching work throughout the South.  The results have been practically nil.  The
white people have not responded, worth mentioning, to the Faith, and the colored
people have been hurt and also have not responded.845


If most southern whites, embracing militant racial conservatism, proved unresponsive to the
Bahá’í message, the believers should focus instead on teaching blacks:
He feels it is time that the Bahá’ís stopped worrying entirely about the white element
in a community, and that they should concentrate on showing the negro element that
this is a Faith which produces full equality and which loves and wants minorities.846

In the face of white retrenchment, Shoghi Effendi renewed his call to practice
complete social equality, with all its possible ramifications:
The [white] Bahá’ís should welcome the Negroes to their homes, make every effort to
teach them, associate with them, even marry them if they want to.  We must
remember that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself united in Bahá’í marriage a colored and a white
believer.  He could do no more. 847


845 Shoghi Effendi (through his secretary) to Bahá’í Inter-Racial Teaching Committee, Dorothy Frey, chairman,
27 May 1957, Letters of Shoghi Effendi, NBA, quoted in Morrison, To Move the World, 294.

846 Ibid.

847 Ibid.


The encouragement of interracial marriage stood in stark contrast to the mood of white
America.  Interracial marriage remained illegal in twenty-four of the forty-eight states, and
since the Brown decision, the Citizens’ Councils and their allies had consistently equated
school desegregation with interracial sex.  The arguments of white parents, clergymen,
Citizens’ Councils, and politicians across the South mixed contemporary anti-Communism
with traditional regional rhetoric involving defense of Protestant orthodoxy, defiance of
unjust federal government authority, and protection of the sexual purity of white girls from
black predators.  In the words of one Citizens’ Council report, “the malignant powers of
mongrelization, communism, and atheism” were conspiring to destroy the United States
through school desegregation.  “Racial intermarriage,” it warned, “has already begun in the
North and unless stopped will spread to the South.”848  In September 1957, when South
Carolina Gov. George Bell Timmerman learned that President Eisenhower was preparing to
send soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division to protect nine black students who had enrolled
in Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, he told a local reporter that if the President
was directing parents “to mix the children of Arkansas against their will, he is attempting to
set himself up as a dictator and this action may be taken as further evidence of an effort to
Communize America.”849

Shoghi Effendi took the Little Rock crisis as a reason for more boldness.  In one
letter, published in the November 1957 issue of Bahá’í News, Shoghi Effendi urged the
American Bahá’ís, particularly in the South, not to be surpassed by other organizations:

848 Robert Patterson, annual report to the Mississippi Association of Citizens’ Councils, 1956, quoted in Sara
Diamond, Roads to Dominion: Right Wing Movements and Political Power in the United States (New York:
Guilford Press, 1995), 73.

849 The State, 24 September 1957, quoted in Ernest McPherson Lander, Jr., A History of South Carolina, 1865-
1960 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1960), 205.


They should be courageous in their racial stand, particularly as so many non-Bahá’ís
and non-Bahá’í organizations are showing marked courage at this time, when the
decisions of the Supreme Court are being so hotly contested in the South.  The friends
must remember that the cardinal principle of their Faith is the Oneness of Mankind.
This places an obligation on them far surpassing the obligation which Christian
charity and brotherly love places upon the Christians.  They should demonstrate this
spirit of oneness constantly and courageously in the South.850


He expected the Bahá’ís to put their faith’s “cardinal principle” into practice not only by
supporting the necessary structural changes in society, but by practicing social equality in
their own community and personal relations and focusing their teaching efforts on African
Americans.  He acknowledged that such a course might well result in the emergence of local
Bahá’í communities that were mostly or completely black, an outcome he explicitly
welcomed.  He wrote that the faith should be representative of the local population: “In a
great many places in the South, the majority of the population is still Negro.  This should be
reflected in the Bahá’í Community, fearlessly.”851
Shoghi Effendi’s encouragement of all-black local communities added another
challenge for a movement that was already having trouble meeting its domestic expansion
goals, implicitly directing the settlement of more pioneers in the towns and farms of the
southern Black Belt, where opportunities for outsiders were most limited and Citizens’
Councils were most powerful.  In South Carolina, where the black population had fallen
under fifty percent during the decade of the 1920s, African Americans remained the majority
in twenty-one of the state’s forty-six counties, most of them rural areas in the Midlands and
the Coastal Plain.  These did not include the four urban counties—Aiken, Charleston,

850 Shoghi Effendi (through his secretary), Bahá’í News, no. 321 (November 1957), insert, quoted in Bonnie J.
Taylor, ed., The Pupil of the Eye: African Americans in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (Riviera Beach, FL:
Palabra Publications, 1998), 158.

851 Ibid.


Greenville, and Richland—where most Bahá’í activity had been concentrated for the last
forty years.852  To apply Shoghi Effendi’s advice in South Carolina would mean a level of
systematic exertion and focused redistribution of the Bahá’í population not unlike the first
efforts to establish footholds across the region during the previous two plans—with perhaps a
greater degree of cultural adjustment as believers from urban areas shifted their attention to
the world of the countryside.

Revitalization in Greenville
In South Carolina, the “revitalization” of the American home front that Shoghi Effendi had
called for began during the second half of the Ten Year Plan, with the arrival of an energetic
new group of pioneers and traveling teachers, a renewal of growth in some of the existing
communities and the establishment of new ones, and the emergence of more native South
Carolinians as capable teachers and administrators of the faith.  In Greenville, the change
began in 1956, when Richard and Joy Benson, a young white couple from Michigan, moved
to town.  Joy Benson was from a Bahá’í family.  Her father, born a Muslim in Iran, embraced
the faith after immigrating to the United States, along with her mother, a white American.
She had recently graduated from medical school at the University of Michigan, and her
husband, of Christian background and investigating the Bahá’í Faith, had just graduated from
law school there.  Joy had attended the Intercontinental Conference in Chicago in 1953 and
been moved by Dorothy Baker’s appeal for Bahá’ís to dedicate themselves to teaching
among African Americans, and when the time came to apply for her medical residency, she
looked at programs in South Carolina.  Richard already had some experience in the state,

852 Edgar, South Carolina, 526.


having served in the Navy in Charleston.  They visited with Bahá’ís in Greenville, Columbia,
Charleston, and North Augusta before she decided to apply at Greenville General Hospital.853
In 1956, when the Bensons moved to Greenville, only a few Bahá’ís—Roy and
Bernice Williams, white pioneers Grace von der Heydt and Martha Fettig, Carolyn Glazener,
and Virginia Ford, who had recently returned from her husband’s military service overseas—
remained in the city.  Carolyn Glazener was estranged from the community, and Roy and
Bernice Williams moved to neighboring Anderson County shortly after the Bensons arrived.
Early in 1957, Richard Benson became a Bahá’í, making a functional group of five.
Additional pioneers came to Greenville around the same time.  Pearl Easterbrook and Zoe
Meyer, retired schoolteachers from Illinois who were teaching in the South, arrived.  Cleo
Linsday, a white Bahá’í from Atlanta who, with her husband, had taken a stand for
integration of the community in the 1940s, and Thelma Allison, a black Atlanta Bahá’í who
had been taught the faith by Louis Gregory in Nashville, came as well.  With nine believers
residing in the city, the Local Spiritual Assembly was reestablished at Ridván.854  One of the
pioneers befriended a local white woman, Dorothy Thomas Buchanan, and her mother,
Dorothy L. Thomas, who both became Bahá’ís.  Joy Benson’s parents, John and Junie Faily,
came to Greenville to live with them.855  And Thelma Allison’s grown son, Bill, joined his
mother there.  But the departure of several pioneers meant that it was often a struggle to keep
nine people to maintain the Local Assembly.  Virginia Ford recalled that “every year from
January to March there would be a search for believers to hold the LSA.”856

853 Joy F. Benson, interview by author, Columbia, SC, 19 October 2004.

854 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 7-8.

855 Ibid.

856 Ibid., 7.



From virtually the moment they arrived in Greenville, Richard and Joy Benson faced
ostracism and intimidation for their unorthodox racial and religious views.  Their first
confrontation with the city’s white elite came when Richard interviewed at the prestigious
Haynsworth law firm, where Clement Furman Haynsworth, Jr., whose great-grandfather had
founded Furman University, was senior partner.  The interview went well and Richard was
given an appointment time to return and sign a contract.  Before leaving, however, he asked
to use the office telephone to call his wife at the home where the couple was staying.  The
receptionist said she would dial and asked for the name.  When he replied that they were
staying with Grace von der Heydt, it became apparent that everyone in the office knew the
Bensons’ host as a Bahá’í and a proponent of racial equality.  When Richard returned to sign
his contract, he waited for two hours while no one in the office spoke to him.  He left only to
find that every law firm he applied to in town turned him down.  The next year, President
Eisenhower appointed Haynsworth to the federal bench.857
Richard Benson, on the other hand, struggled to practice law on his own in a city
where he had been blacklisted; to make ends meet he worked part-time in real estate.  With a
down payment from Joy’s parents, the couple bought a large house on Overbrook Circle in a
fashionable neighborhood near downtown.  While the city council had already acknowledged
the Bahá’ís’ right to hold interracial meetings, that fact did not stop individual whites and the


857 In 1957, Clement F. Haynsworth, Jr. (1912-1989), a Democrat who had supported Eisenhower in 1956, was
appointed to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, where he served for 32 years.  In 1969,
President Nixon nominated Haynsworth to the U.S. Supreme Court.  The nomination was defeated by a
coalition of labor and civil rights groups who pointed to his history of rulings unfavorable to their interests.
“Judge Clement Haynsworth,” Time, 29 August 1969, http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,
901281,00.html; Alfonso A. Narvaez, “Clement Haynsworth Dies at 77; Lost Struggle for High Court Seat,”
New York Times, 23 November 1989, http://www.nytimes.com/1989/11/23/obituaries/clement-haynsworth-dies-
at-77-lost-struggle-for-high-court-seat.html?pagewanted=1.  In 2009, Haynsworth’s firm, Haynsworth Sinkler
Boyd, employed four African American attorneys out of a total of approximately 140. “Diversity,” Haynsworth
Sinkler Boyd website, http://www.hsblawfirm.com/profile.php?AboutusID=8.


city’s police force from targeting the community.  As soon as they began hosting integrated
Bahá’í gatherings, the Bensons began to receive threatening phone calls.  Rumors circulated
among their neighbors that Joy Benson was an Indian princess, that the NAACP had bought
their house for them, and that the couple was running a gambling ring.  Neighbors yelled
vulgar remarks at the Bensons and their black guests.  The children of one family chased the
Benson children out of their yard.  Another neighbor was P. Bradley Murrah, an attorney and
state senator who had defended his cousin in the Willie Earle lynching trial in 1947.  Murrah
organized a petition to the General Assembly alleging that the Bensons were Communists
and illicit race-mixers.858  The police frequently staked out the house during Bahá’í meetings,
shining lights on the front door as visitors departed and recording license plate numbers of
the cars outside, and more than once Richard Benson went to the police station to explain
that the Bahá’ís were not Communists.859
While Richard Benson struggled to support a growing family in a hostile
environment, his mother-in-law, Junie Faily, began making connections with black
Greenvillians.  She decided to attend a black church to get to know people, and one of the
teenage girls she met began babysitting the Benson children from time to time.  In 1960, the
Bensons hosted a birthday party for her, attended by a few Bahá’ís and ten to fifteen black
youth, students at Sterling High School.   Before the party started, one of the guests, a white
Bahá’í from Asheville, North Carolina, named William Tucker, gave a short talk about the
faith.

858 Benson interview.

859 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 9.


Richard Abercrombie, one of the young people in attendance, was not impressed with
the party or the talk.  Mixing socially with white people was strange enough, but the thought
that a southern white man had anything worthwhile to tell black people about religion was
ridiculous.  When a school friend invited him to a fireside a few months later, he decided not
to attend.  But the night of the meeting, when he was in the middle of a dress rehearsal for a
school play, he felt a strong compulsion to go.  He ran to where the meeting was being held,
the home of the Shumates, another black family Junie Failey had befriended, nearby on
Anderson Road.  The speaker was Eulalia Barrow Bobo, an African-American woman from
California and a sister of Joe Louis Barrow, the former world heavyweight boxing champion.
Raised a Baptist in Mississippi and Detroit, she had become a Bahá’í in 1954 as a result of a
mystical vision, and now she had come south to teach the faith among African Americans.860
When Abercrombie arrived, Bobo had already begun her presentation on the Bahá’í concept
of religious history—the progressive revelation of God’s will to humanity by a succession of
divine messengers including Abraham, Krishna, Moses, Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, and,
most recently, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  Abercrombie was intrigued.  When he asked
questions about Biblical prophecies, Bobo’s answers were unlike anything the pastor at his
Baptist church had ever said.  Abercrombie recalled: “I was dying to ask questions about
things that had bothered me, like the return of Christ, His returning in the clouds, and the
dead rising from the grave.  I couldn’t accept what I had previously been taught ….”  While
Bobo was speaking Abercrombie remembered that he had promised to return to the dress
rehearsal.  “I ran back to school,” he recalled, “and found that everyone had left, including

860 Gwendolyn Etter-Lewis, “Radiant Lights: African-American Women and the Advancement of the Bahá’í
Faith in the U.S.,” in Lights of the Spirit: Historical Portraits of Black Bahá’ís in North America, 1898-2000,
ed. Gwendolyn Etter-Lewis and Richard Thomas (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2006), 55-6.


the janitor.  I turned around and ran all the way back to the Sumates’ to have further
discussion with Eulalia.  She explained about the clouds of doubt and materialism and about
the spiritually dead being born again.”  When he went home that night, he told his parents
what he had heard about the Bahá’í Faith, and said he “knew it was the truth.”861
Charles and Lillie Abercrombie, staunch Baptists, wanted to investigate the strange-
sounding religion that seemed to be winning over their son.  Lillie Abercrombie recalled:
“Ricky kept going to Bahá’í meetings, would come home and tell us what had transpired, and
we would be up until 3 a.m. talking about it.  Ricky just changed when he heard about the
Faith, so I had to find out just what it was.”  Ricky invited Joy Benson and Eulalia Bobo to
the house.  “I could talk to Joy,” Lillie Abercrombie recalled.  “She was a mild mannered,
loving person, but Eulalia was too much for me.  Charles couldn’t talk to Joy; he would just
chew her up.  But he couldn’t chew Eulalia up.  She was too tough.862
Charles Abercrombie, a building contractor and church deacon, admitted, “Jacob
wrestled with an angel all night long, [but] I wrestled with something worse than that, Eulalia
Bobo.”863  After about three weeks of late-night discussions in which Bobo explained the
claims of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh based on the Bible, Charles became a Bahá’í.  Soon his
family, as well, began to suffer for their association with the faith.  Charles recalled: “We had
an advertisement in the newspaper that a Bahá’í meeting would be held here.  When that
happened, the contracts I had to build houses were just cut off.  People said that they had
someone else who could do it cheaper.”  The Abercrombies took Charles’s unemployment as

861 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 9.

862 Ibid., 11.

863 Ibid.


a chance to travel to teach the faith.864  They visited a son in college in Tennessee and went
from there to Detroit where Lillie’s mother lived.  They arranged for a fireside at her
mother’s home, but the local speaker they had called did not come.  Charles recalled: “Two
young Bahá’ís there said that they couldn’t handle a crowd of that size, so I said to Lillie,
‘We can handle it.’”  They gave the presentation, and Lillie’s mother, niece, and nephew
became Bahá’ís.  Within the year, most of the rest of the family, including all their children
and two of Charles’s brothers, had embraced the faith.865  It was the first time in South
Carolina that a whole extended family had become Bahá’ís.
Back in Greenville, Charles Abercrombie made income from a piece of farmland
outside of town, and his contracts returned slowly.  The local police monitored Bahá’í
meetings at the Abercrombies’ house on Rebecca Street in the working-class Nicholtown
neighborhood.  “The police kept close watch and harassed the youngsters,” recalled Lillie
Abercrombie.  “They wanted to know what we were drinking and what we were selling.
After about a year, things began to change for the better.  Instead of harassing our young
people, the police started protecting [them].  Ricky would talk to bus drivers and taxi drivers
and give them literature.  Ricky invited the officers to come into our meetings, but no one
did.”  She added: “Of course we had both the whites and the blacks down on us.  Because the
blacks thought we were bringing trouble into their neighborhood, they didn’t like us
either.”866

864 Ibid., 11.

865 Abercrombie interview.

866 Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 12.


Despite opposition from blacks and whites, the community continued to grow.
Several more young African Americans, mostly school friends of the Abercrombie children
who were attending a Bible study conducted by the Bahá’ís, became believers in 1961 and
1962.   At least one new Bahá’í was from a mill village background.  Luther B. Silver was a
white Spartanburg County native who, along with thousands of other white rural folk, had
abandoned farming in the 1920s and moved to Greenville in search of work in the textile
industry.867  His whole family had worked at Dunean Mill, one of the string of textile
factories that encircled the city.868  In September 1962, at the age of 73, he addressed a letter
to the members of West Greenville Baptist Church to resign his membership.  Since meeting
Bahá’ís late the previous year, he wrote, he had been “very forcibly impressed with the
teachings and practice of this Faith and decided to join in with them and help promote
[it].”869    Later, other members of Silver’s family became Bahá’ís.870  Almost overnight, the
decades-long problem of having enough believers to maintain the Local Spiritual Assembly
seemed solved.  In 1962, there were even enough outside the city limits to form the first
Local Assembly of Greenville County.871  By 1963, there were some thirty adult Bahá’ís in
the Greenville area, and at least a dozen more youth and children.872



867 Fourteenth Census, 1920; Fifteenth Census, 1930.

868 Hill’s Greenville (Greenville Co.) City Directory, 1945 (Richmond, VA: Hill Directory Co., 1945), 470.

869 Luther B. Silver to the members of West Greenville Baptist Church, 26 Sep. 1962, private collection of Joy
F. Benson; Kenneally, “Fifty Years,” 14-15.

870 Feast of Ridvan report, 1966, private collection of Joy F. Benson.

871 “Bahá’í Directory 1962-1963,” in The Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 1040.

872 South Carolina State Voting List, 1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.


Reentering the Pee Dee
In late 1956, Jordan and Annette Young, brand-new Bahá’ís and recent graduates of Palmer
College of Chiropractic in Davenport, Iowa, consulted with their Bahá’í friends at the school
about where they might move to open a practice.  They learned that there were not many
chiropractors in South Carolina, and not many Bahá’ís, either.  In January 1957, they arrived
with their three-month-old son in the town of Florence, the center of the Pee Dee region of
eastern South Carolina.  While believers had previously resided in Charleston and several
smaller Lowcountry localities, their move began the first significant penetration of the Bahá’í
Faith into the state’s rural Black Belt.

Jordan Young came from a family of Polish and English Jews in Springfield,
Massachusetts.  Inquisitive about religion from a young age, by the time he shipped off for
the Korean War, Young had concluded that there was one God, that there should be only one
religion, and that all the clergy of the different faiths “should stop begging money off of poor
people and get jobs.”  He first heard of the Bahá’í Faith from a black fellow-soldier in a troop
carrier on the Pacific Ocean, when both were slumped over the rails suffering from
seasickness.  After his return to the United States and his decision to enter Palmer, he
seriously investigated the religion.  Eventually he brought his girlfriend to an introductory
meeting at the home of a Bahá’í faculty member.  Annette McNeely, a white Thomaston,
Georgia, native, was just finishing her studies at Palmer and had had few experiences to
challenge her Baptist upbringing.  That night, the speaker’s first words to the assembled
guests were, “The sound of my voice is Gabriel’s trumpet to you.”  She then proceeded to


use Bible verses to prove that Bahá’u’lláh was the return of Christ.  She had McNeely’s
undivided attention. 873
When the couple decided to marry, they knew that the only way to keep peace in his
family would be for McNeely to convert to Judaism.  When they were first married in a civil
ceremony, she was Baptist and he was Jewish.  By the time she had completed the
conversion process and they could have a Jewish ceremony, he had become a Bahá’í.  In
October 1956, not long after the second ceremony, Annette McNeely Young became a
Bahá’í.  The following January, days after Jordan Young’s graduation, they arrived in
Florence.874
When the Youngs opened their office in March 1957, they hoped to defy racial
segregation by having both black and white patients use the building’s only entrance.
Instead, only white patients came.  To have any black patients at all, they had to cut another
door in the back and install one of the ubiquitous symbols of Jim Crow, a “colored entrance
in rear” sign.  However, they maintained only one waiting room, and they used the two
treatment rooms interchangeably for black and white patients.  To make quality health care
available to all, they decided to put a box on the wall with a sign that asked people to pay
what their conscience dictated rather than charging a set fee.  Their practice quickly went
from dozens of patients to hundreds.  One man charged black motel workers a dollar to drive
them to Florence from Myrtle Beach, sixty miles away in Horry County, for treatment.875
Jordan Young often used humor to diffuse tense situations.  Once a flustered white patient

873 Jordan and Annette Young, interview by author, Easley, SC, 25 September 2003.

874 Young interview.

875 Ibid.


pulled him aside and whispered, “Dr. Young, there’s niggers in the waiting room!”  Young
replied, “You’re a Christian, aren’t you?  Well, then you know there’s only one God, one
salvation, one baptism, one heaven, one hell—and one waiting room!”876

The Youngs gradually began to invite some of their patients back to the office in the
evenings to learn about the Bahá’í Faith.  Jordan Young recalled that black patients were
reluctant to visit their home for fear of negative consequences—not for themselves, they said,
but for the Youngs.  The office was a safer gathering-place, and there was a steady trickle of
interested listeners over the next few years.877  Several of the Youngs’ black patients from
Florence and Myrtle Beach, as well as their white receptionist and her husband, became
Bahá’ís.  About the same time, another Bahá’í couple moved to Lake City in the southern
part of Florence County.  Lee Grimsley, a white Lake City native, and his wife, Genelle,
from nearby Georgetown County, had also become Bahá’ís while he was a student at Palmer
College.878  In April 1962, there were enough Bahá’ís in the area to form the first Local
Spiritual Assembly of Florence County.  Of its nine members, six were white and three were
black, and five were recent local converts.879  The next year, there were ten adult Bahá’ís in
the city of Florence, nine in Florence County, and four in Horry County.  Of the twenty-

876 Ibid.

877 Ibid.

878 South Carolina State Voting List, 1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.

839 “Bahá’í Directory 1962-1963,” in The Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 1040; South Carolina State Voting
List, 1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.


three, seventeen were working-class African-Americans.880  When the Local Spiritual
Assembly of Florence was formed in 1964, all of its members were black.881

Seasonal Schools and the Frogmore Community
During the Ten Year Plan, a new element of Bahá’í community life cemented the believers in
South Carolina more closely with a regional movement.   Beginning with the Green Acre
Bahá’í School in Eliot, Maine, “summer schools” had emerged in various locations around
the country as programs to deepen participants’ knowledge of the faith, to train them to be
more confident and competent teachers, and provide an experience of Bahá’í community life
and social interaction.  Additional summer school properties were acquired in Michigan and
California, but during the 1950s more regional summer schools began in rented facilities,
usually lasting for a long weekend or a week.  In some areas, winter schools were added.
During the second year of the Plan, Bahá’ís in the southeastern states began long-weekend
summer conferences at Blue Ridge Assembly at Black Mountain, North Carolina, fifteen
miles east of Asheville.  Founded in 1912 by lay Protestants as a religious education center
for the YMCA, by the 1950s the facility was virtually unique in the Carolinas for allowing
interracial groups to stay overnight.  At the 1955 conference, more than one hundred Bahá’ís
and friends attended, of whom at least thirteen were African American.  Blacks and whites
shared dormitory and dining spaces, study sessions and recreation—including the facility’s
swimming pool—and relaxed in the rocking chairs on the grand front porch of Robert E. Lee
Hall.  Paul Haney, the chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly and a recently appointed

880 South Carolina State Voting List, 1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.

881 Young interview.


Hand of the Cause of God, was the conference’s special guest; other presentations covered
such topics as youth in the faith, international pioneering, and teaching racial minorities.882
In 1960, the conference moved to Penn Community Center at Frogmore on St. Helena
Island, one of the Sea Islands at the southern tip of South Carolina.  The facility had an
important place in the region’s history.  Founded as a school for former slaves in 1862,
shortly after Union forces captured the islands around Beaufort, it was the oldest survivor of
the “Port Royal Experiment,” the mixture of government and private initiatives carried out on
the occupied islands during the war that served as a precursor to Reconstruction.  It had
closed as a school in 1948 but reopened shortly thereafter as Penn Community Services
Center, a social and economic development agency serving the Gullah people of the area.
Located on an isolated island with a majority black population, Penn Center was farther from
the gaze of the white public than Blue Ridge and an ideal facility for a racially diverse Bahá’í
community.  Also in 1960, increased demand led to the creation of an annual winter school
during the Christmas holiday in addition to the summer school.  With two gatherings of
believers and seekers each year from 1960 to 1965, Penn Center became an important
rallying point for the Bahá’í movement in the Southeast.883
Indeed, the change in venue coincided with other changes in the regional movement.
Beginning around 1960, new members of the Area Teaching Committee of the South
Atlantic States (the successor of the Regional Teaching Committee, serving Florida, Georgia,
and South Carolina), including Richard and Joy Benson and Martha Fettig of Greenville and

882 Group photograph and “3rd Blue Ridge Conference” brochure, private collection of Richard and Doris
Morris.

883 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the
Bahá’ís of the United States for the Year 1961-1962 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1962), 14.


Lee and Genelle Grimlsey of Lake City, brought new energy to the teaching work in the
area.884  Among the most visible results was an increase in the rate of growth.  In the 1959-
1960 administrative year, seven adults and youth became Bahá’ís in the entire three-state
region.885  The next year, the total was fifteen.  In 1961-1962, the number tripled to 36 adults
and nine youth.886  There were more qualitative shifts, as well.  The committee actively
encouraged teaching among African Americans and youth, conducting a survey of local
communities’ outreach efforts to blacks and holding several youth conferences each year.887
In Greenville and Columbia, Bahá’ís began weekly spiritual education classes that included
their own children and children of friends and neighbors.888  As more African Americans and
young people became involved in Bahá’í activities, music took on added importance in the
community’s collective life.  Several believers composed original words and music or set
prayers and passages from the Bahá’í writings to music.  According to the committee, the
new emphasis on music “had a great effect on reaching many hearts and providing great
inspiration in many meetings.”  They added: “In Georgia and South Carolina, there is
scarcely a meeting now without the singing of truly appropriate songs.”889

884 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the
Bahá’ís of the United States for the Year 1959-1960 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1960), 14; National
Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1961-1962, 13; National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States, Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States for the Year 1962-1963 (Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1963), 13.

885 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1959-1960, 15.

886 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1961-1962, 14.

887 Ibid., 13-4; National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1962-1963, 13.

888 Ibid.; Entzminger and Montgomery interview.

889 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1962-1963, 14.


An unexpected result of the change in location to Penn Center was the emergence of a
local community on St. Helena Island.  After their first use of the facility, members of the
Area Teaching Committee sensed a receptivity to the Bahá’í message on the island and
adopted it as their own “extension teaching project.”890  During the 1961-1962 winter school
session, they arranged for Eulalia Barrow Bobo to speak “from the pulpit of a local Baptist
church on Emancipation Day, Jan. 1, 1962.”  The result was a “wide distribution of literature
among the islanders and firesides in the home of one of the Frogmore residents.”  Among the
four people to embrace the faith during the session was Viola Chapman, an islander and
retired Dean of Women at Hampton Institute in Virginia, likely the first native Gullah-
speaker to embrace the Bahá’í Faith in South Carolina since Alonzo Twine in 1910.891
Reporting to the National Spiritual Assembly at Ridván 1962, the committee expected more
declarations of faith in the area and went so far as to suggest that “the spark of mass
enrollment in the South may well be ignited in this locality.”892  Several more islanders did
become Bahá’ís during 1962, and a white North Augusta believer, Helen Glover Michaels,
moved to Frogmore as a pioneer.  At Ridván 1963, there were enough Bahá’ís on the island
to form a Local Spiritual Assembly.893  When a ninth islander became a Bahá’í, Michaels,
who was terminally ill with cancer, stepped down from the body and returned to North

890 National Spiritual Assembly, Annual Reports, 1961-1962, 14.

891 Ibid.

892 Ibid.

893 “Bahá’í Directory 1962-1963,” in The Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 1040.


Augusta.894  At Ridván 1964, Frogmore, like Florence, had a Local Assembly made up
entirely of African Americans.895

Civil Rights Movement at High Tide
In South Carolina and across the South, the ten years of the World Crusade witnessed, as
Shoghi Effendi had anticipated, an unprecedented “upsurge” of people of African descent.
Faced with public demonstrations, accelerating legal challenges, and pressure from the
NAACP and other organizations from within the state—and, eventually, the glare of national
press coverage and intervention by various agencies of the federal government—South
Carolina’s white elite had first closed ranks to oppose black demands.  But as challenges at
home mounted and violence gripped other states, they negotiated to desegregate key
institutions with a minimum of chaos and economic upset, all the while attempting to
maintain a veneer of order and dignity.  While it took until the end of the 1960s for the public
school system, South Carolina’s largest segregated institution, to fall, by the middle of the
decade the grassroots regional movement had achieved, in the form of landmark federal
legislation, the formal dissolution of the Jim Crow regime.
While white reaction to the Brown decision in the mid-1950s temporarily quieted
most black protest, it did not take long for activists to begin to regroup, rebuild their
organizational structures, and consider new strategies.  Between 1957 and 1959, James T.
McCain, president of the Sumter County branch of the NAACP, organized nine chapters of
the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), a Chicago-based organization inspired by

894 Area Teaching Committee Bulletin, no. 4 (June 1963), 2; South Carolina State Voting List, 1963, private
collection of Richard and Doris Morris.

895 South Carolina State Voting List, 1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris.


Mohandas K. Gandhi’s program of nonviolent direct action, in South Carolina.896  The first
major direct-action protest in the state, a collaboration between CORE and the NAACP,
whose local membership and leadership frequently overlapped, followed an early 1959
incident at the Greenville airport in which a black civilian employee of the Air Force was
forcibly removed from the white waiting room.  On Emancipation Day, January 1, 1960,
after an unsuccessful lawsuit before U.S. District Court judge and former governor George
Bell Timmerman, some 250 protesters marched from Springfield Baptist Church to the
airport.  Representatives of the NAACP and CORE presented a petition to the airport
authority calling for an end to the “stigma, the inconvenience, and the stupidity of racial
segregation.”  A little more than a year later, in February 1961, the plaintiff won his case on
appeal, and the airport was desegregated by court order.897  It was the beginning of a new
phase of direct-action protest across the state.
A month after the march to the Greenville airport, black college students in
Greensboro, North Carolina, staged the first “sit-ins” to demand equal service at lunch
counters in downtown stores.  Less than two weeks later, CORE organized students from
Friendship Junior College for a sit-in campaign in downtown Rock Hill, South Carolina.  In
March, students from State College organized sit-ins in the Kress Department Store in
Orangeburg, prompting local police to attack with water hoses and tear gas and arrest four
hundred students.  The next day, the New York Times carried a front-page story of the
violence in Orangeburg, including a picture of the wet and battered protesters held in a

896 Lau, Democracy Rising, 217-8.

897 O’Neill, “Memory, History, and Desegregation,” in Toward the Meeting of the Waters, ed. Moore and
Burton, 289.


makeshift outdoor stockade.898  In the next few weeks, high school and college students
staged similar demonstrations in Charleston, Columbia, Denmark, Greenville, Manning,
Spartanburg, and Sumter.899  In Greenville, students from Sterling High School staged
“study-ins” at the city’s main library and “skate-ins” at a whites-only skating rink operated
by the Parks and Recreation Department, resulting in several arrests and lawsuits to overturn
segregation in the city.900  By year’s end, some 70,000 black students—and a few white
allies—had staged similar demonstrations in every southern state.901
In the spring of 1961, as the sit-in movement continued across the region, CORE’s
national office planned a two week “Freedom Ride” designed to test local compliance with a
1960 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that mandated desegregation of interstate travel facilities.
Two interracial groups of riders would leave Washington and arrive in New Orleans on May
17, the seventh anniversary of the Brown decision, passing through Virginia, the Carolinas,
Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi on their way.902  The first violence of the ride came in the
textile town of Rock Hill, South Carolina, already tense from an active sit-in movement,
when a white mob attacked the group in the bus station.903  In Winnsboro, a black-majority
town with a powerful Citizens’ Council, two riders, one black and one white, were arrested at
the bus station lunch counter and narrowly escaped lynching.  At Sumter, the riders were

898 Edgar, South Carolina, 536-7; Lau, Democracy Rising, 217.

899 Edgar, South Carolina, 536; R. Scott Baker, “Schooling and White Supremacy: The African American
Struggle for Educational Equality and Access in South Carolina, 1945-1970,” in Toward the Meeting of the
Waters, ed. Moore and Burton, 309.

900 O’Neill, “Memory, History, and Desegregation,” 289-90.

901 Lau, Democracy Rising, 217.

902 Raymond Arsenault, “Five Days in May: Freedom Riding in the Carolinas,” in Toward the Meeting of the
Waters, ed. Moore and Burton, 201-4.

903 Ibid., 209-11.


joined by three Morris College students who had helped lead sit-ins since the formation of a
campus chapter of CORE in March 1960.904  After a short rest, the riders continued to
Augusta, and the short South Carolina phase of the ride was over.
But the state’s white politicians spoke of the Freedom Ride, coming in the midst of
sit-ins across the state, as little less than an invasion.  Strom Thurmond, the junior U.S.
senator, denounced the riders as “outside agitators,” part of a Communist conspiracy to
subvert the “Southern way of life.”  His colleague Olin Johnston issued a public letter to his
constituents asserting that “the Freedom Riders are part of the cold war propaganda program
of the Communists,” who should not be “allowed to prey upon the religious, racial and social
differences of our people.”905  When one of the Morris College freedom riders returned to
Sumter after the harrowing last leg of the ride, he was abducted by white men, taken to a
clearing in the woods, stripped, and threatened with castration as the letters KKK were
carved into his chest and legs.  He asked the Justice Department to investigate, but Governor
Ernest F. Hollings dismissed the allegations as “a hoax.”906
Other white leaders sought a more pragmatic approach.  On July 1, 1961, at the
annual Watermelon Festival in Hampton, Charles Daniel, a Greenville construction magnate
and member of State Development Board, made a speech entitled “South Carolina’s
Economic Challenge,” popularly known as the “Watermelon Speech.”  After referring to
strict new antidiscrimination measures in federal contracts with the state’s textile companies,
he said:

904 Ibid., 212-4.

905 Ibid., 216.

906 Ibid., 217-8.


The desegregation issue cannot continue to be hidden behind the door.  This situation
cannot be settled at the lunch counter and bus station levels.  We must handle this
ourselves, more realistically than heretofore; or it will be forced upon us in the
harshest way.  Either we act on our own terms, or we forfeit the right to act.907

In the words of one Greenville textile executive, the speech “gave the blessing of the
establishment to desegregation.”908  It signaled a new willingness on the part of the state’s
business elite—probably motivated in no small part by economic self-interest—to work with
black organizations and white elected officials to achieve desegregation with a minimum of
disruption.
The next year, white business, civic, and religious leaders in Greenville and Columbia
each formed an interracial committee to quietly negotiate an end to segregation in their
respective business districts.  But progress there and in other localities was slow.  On June 5,
1963, the state conference of the NAACP published a list of nine demands for an end to
discriminatory practices and announced that eight cities—Charleston, Columbia, Florence,
Greenville, Orangeburg, Rock Hill, Spartanburg, and Sumter—would be targets of massive
protests.  Responses differed with local circumstances.  In Florence, Greenville, Rock Hill,
and Spartanburg, the threat of demonstrations was enough, and white and black leaders
quickly reached desegregation agreements.  Other cities, including Anderson, Beaufort,
Greenwood, and Newberry, acted to end downtown segregation even though they had not
been named.  Demonstrations forced white leaders in Columbia to the table, but in
Charleston, protests descended into violence before city officials responded.  In Orangeburg,

907 O’Neill, “Memory, History, and Desegregation,” 290-1.

908 Ibid., 291.


black and white leaders had little contact with each other, and the situation remained tense
and unresolved.909
The South Carolina demonstrations followed a similar campaign to desegregate
downtown Birmingham, Alabama.  On May 2 and 3, 1963, Birmingham police unloosed
dogs and fire hoses on demonstrators, including hundreds of school children, as the nation
watched on television.  Spurred by the Birmingham violence, in June the Kennedy
administration sent a major civil rights bill to Congress that would end segregation and
discrimination in public facilities, education, employment, voting, and government agencies.
In August, a quarter of a million people, representing an interracial coalition of civil rights
and labor organizations, gathered on the National Mall in Washington to press for passage of
the bill.  As pressure mounted around the region, violence increased.  The same day President
Kennedy introduced the civil rights bill, Medgar Evers, field secretary of the Mississippi
NAACP, was shot to death at his home in Jackson.  In November, while visiting Dallas in an
effort to shore up support among southern whites hostile to civil rights, Kennedy himself was
gunned down.  The Civil Rights Act passed in July 1964.  By then, most cities and towns in
South Carolina had at least taken initial steps to end segregation in their business districts,
and several had formally repealed their segregation ordinances.910
Concerted efforts to desegregate the state’s downtowns coincided with a successful
campaign in higher education.  Here, too, white officials were concerned above all with
avoiding violence that would embarrass the state and drive away investors.  In January 1962,
Harvey Gantt, a black Charleston native, applied for admission to Clemson College.
Governor Hollings, who had been elected as a staunch segregationist, worked behind the

909 Edgar, South Carolina, 540.

910 Huff, Greenville, 404; Edgar, South Carolina, 540.


scenes to prepare for Gantt’s enrollment, especially after violence erupted in the fall over the
admission of the first black student at the University of Mississippi.  On January 9, 1963, as
Gantt’s case came before the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, Hollings made his
farewell address to the General Assembly.  “As we meet,” he said, “South Carolina is
running out of courts.  If and when every legal remedy has been exhausted, this General
Assembly must make clear South Carolina’s choice, a government of laws rather than a
government of men.…  This should be done with dignity.  It must be done with law and
order.”  The state’s business leaders pledged support.  On January 16, the court ruled to
admit Gantt, and he enrolled a week later without incident.  The following fall the University
of South Carolina admitted its first black students since Reconstruction.  By May 1965, all of
the state’s white public colleges and half of its white private colleges had admitted black
students or agreed to do so.911
While white leaders acquiesced in the desegregation of business establishments and
colleges and universities, they fought the longest to maintain the state’s dual public school
system.  In 1963, U.S. District Court Judge J. Robert Martin, the same judge who had tried
the Willie Earle lynching case in 1947, ordered the public schools in Charleston and
Greenville to desegregate.  Both districts complied only minimally.912  In April 1964, Martin
issued a consent decree approving the Greenville board’s new plan for the “enrollment,
assignment, and transfer of pupils without regard to race, creed, or color.”  The plan, known
as “freedom-of-choice,” placed the burden of integration on black families and, like
Charleston’s scheme to limit black enrollment based on test scores, resulted in only token

911 Edgar, South Carolina, 538-9.

912 Baker, “Schooling and White Supremacy,” 309-10.


integration.  In Richland County, a similar freedom-of-choice plan was somewhat more
successful; by 1966, some 1,250 black students attended formerly all-white schools.913
While the Civil Rights Act included a provision intended to prohibit discrimination in
voter registration, it did not eliminate the poll tax or address the use of intimidation and
violence against black potential voters.  Civil rights organizations across the South pushed
for new a new, stronger voting rights law, culminating in the Selma to Montgomery marches
in Alabama in March 1965.  On “Bloody Sunday,” March 7, state and local police attacked
some 600 marchers with billy clubs, cattle prods, and tear gas as they left Selma.  Images of
the bloodied demonstrators appeared on television and in newspapers around the country and
around the world.  On March 15, the new President, Lyndon B. Johnson, presented a voting
rights bill to Congress.  His speech before the body signaled the strongest public support by
the federal government for the rights of African Americans since Reconstruction.  “Even if
we pass this bill,” Johnson said,
the battle will not be over.  What happened in Selma is part of a far larger movement
which reaches into every section and state of America.  It is the effort of American
Negroes to secure for themselves the full blessings of American life.  Their cause
must be our cause, too, because it is not just Negroes but really it is all of us who
must overcome the crippling legacy of bigotry and injustice.914

In his unmistakable Texas accent, he closed the speech with the words of the South Carolina
spiritual that had become an anthem of the civil rights movement: “And we shall
overcome.”915  In August, Johnson signed into law the Voting Rights Act of 1965.  As a legal
and social system sanctioned by the federal government, Jim Crow was no more.

913 Moore, Columbia and Richland County, 427.

914 Lyndon B. Johnson, Special Message to Congress, 15 March 1965, Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and
Museum, http://www.lbjlib.utexas.edu/johnson/archives.hom/speeches.hom/650315.asp.

915 Ibid.


The effect in South Carolina was immediate.  Federal marshals enforced the Voting
Rights Act in several counties of the state, and CORE immediately registered 37,000
additional black voters in 24 counties.  In the elections of 1966, as a resurgent Republican
Party fielded candidates for statewide office for the first time in the twentieth century,
African Americans provided the margin of victory for Democrats in the races for Congress
and the governorship.916  Two years later, South Carolina’s delegation to the Democratic
National Convention in Chicago included twelve blacks, and it was the only one from the
Deep South not to have its credentials challenged.917  By the end of the decade, black
registered voters were more than a quarter of the state’s electorate.918

Civil Rights and the Greenville Bahá’í Community
As the Bahá’í community in Greenville grew during the early 1960s, its members took steps
to secure legal protection for their activities, project a more openly interracial public image,
and lend support to local civil rights initiatives.  The legal measures, undertaken in response
to goals of the Ten Year Plan, gave the community more security than it had ever enjoyed.
Richard Benson approached Rex L. Carter, a fellow Greenville attorney and Speaker of the
South Carolina House of Representatives, about securing state recognition for the Bahá’í
marriage ceremony.  Carter wrote to the Attorney General, Daniel McLeod, who issued an
opinion in April 1961 that officers of a Local Spiritual Assembly were authorized to perform
marriages.  Citing the By-laws of the Greenville Local Assembly and case law from South
Carolina and other states, the opinion stated that the relevant section of the state’s code,

916 Lau, Democracy Rising, 219.

917 Edgar, South Carolina, 541.

918 Ibid.; Kovacik and Winberry, South Carolina: A Geography, 154.


which provided for “Only ministers of the Gospel or accepted Jewish Rabbis” to perform
marriages, extended “to any person authorized by a religious faith to conduct a marriage
ceremony in accordance with the tenets of such faith.”  “It is the opinion of this office,”
McLeod wrote, “that those persons authorized by the Baha’i Faith to perform marriage
ceremonies are ‘ministers of the Gospel’ within the meaning of the marriage statutes of South
Carolina and such persons may validly perform marriages in this State.”919  In September
1962, the nine members of the Local Assembly—Wiley B. Allison, Joy F. Benson, Richard
Benson, Katherine Faily, John N. Faily, Martha Fettig, Luther B. Silver, Dorothy Thomas,
and Grace von der Heydt—secured incorporation as “The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of Greenville, South Carolina, Inc.”920   The two legal actions gave the movement in South
Carolina its first recognition by the state government.
Encouraged alike by their religion’s national and international leaders and by the
serious blows that a surging civil rights campaign was dealing to the Jim Crow regime both
locally and nationally, the larger, more diverse, and legally protected Bahá’í community in
Greenville became more confident in upholding social equality in their public and private
activities, more creative in their outreach efforts, and more vocal in their support for the
mainstream civil rights movement.  The Bahá’ís hosted interracial picnics, study groups, and
Holy Day services and invited their friends, classmates, coworkers, and family members.921

919 David R. McLeod to Rex L Carter, facsimile of letter, in Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 692.  The South
Carolina Bahá’í movement’s first interracial marriage, on St. Helena Island, came in 1968, a year after the U.S.
Supreme Court’s decision in Loving v. Virginia nullified state anti-miscegenation statutes.  Lynn Markovich
Bryant, “I’m Black and I’m Proud,” wished the white girl (Lincoln, NE: iUniverse, 2002), 1; Karen Blair,
“Lines Were Clearly Drawn for Woman Growing Up in Biracial Family, The Herald, 20 July 2003.

920 “Certificate of Incorporation of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Greenville, South Carolina,
U.S.A.,” facsimile of original, in Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 654; Benson interview.

921 Miscellaneous programs, invitations, flyers, and photographs, private collection of Joy F. Benson.


They organized programs for Human Rights Day and United Nations Day—uncommon
occurrences in a city whose powerful religious leaders were highly suspicious of
internationalism—and the speakers included not only local and visiting Bahá’ís, but local
attorneys, civil rights workers, teachers, and students.  In December 1958, for example, they
observed Human Rights Day at the Phillis Wheatley Center, the black community center in
Nicholtown.  On the program were Matthew Perry of Spartanburg, the new head of the state
NAACP’s legal committee, and Laura Townes, a local white Quaker and sister-in-law of
Charles Townes, the Greenville native who invented the laser.922  The December 1964
observance took place at the Citizens & Southern National Bank on Camperdown Way, and
the speakers were Robert Anderson, a Sterling High School graduate and one of the three
African Americans who had integrated the University of South Carolina the previous
semester, and Hattie Smith, a colleague of Bernice Williams at Sterling.923
In September 1964, the community invited Matthew Perry to speak at a “Spiritual
Singing Convention” at Greenville Memorial Auditorium, the city’s premier concert venue.
Thirty-five area musical groups participated, and other speakers included Asheville Bahá’í
William Tucker and Rev. James Bevel from Atlanta, a prominent leader of the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference.  Advertizing named John Bolt Culbertson, a prominent
local white lawyer with ties to both civil rights and labor organizations, as the “sponsor” of
the event.924

922 Greenville Piedmont, 11 and 13 December 1958, clippings, private collection of Joy F. Benson..

923 Greenville Piedmont, 11 December 1964, clipping, private collection of Joy F. Benson.; Henry H. Lesesne, A
History of the University of South Carolina, 1940-2000 (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2002)
143-50.

924 Miscellaneous programs, invitations, flyers, and photographs, private collection of Joy F. Benson.


In addition to regular notices of their activities, the community frequently placed
large informative pieces about the origins and purposes of the faith in local newspapers.
Among them were such bold headlines as “BAHA’U’LLAH, The Promised One of All
Ages,” “5,000,000 Baha’is Believe BAHA’U’LLAH Is Christ’s Return,” “Why Should I
Become a Baha’i?” and “Do You Know in What Day You Are Living?”  Each included
explanatory text, attractive graphics, and local contact information.925  In advance of the 1964
Human Rights Day program Luther Silver addressed a letter to the editor of the Greenville
News.  He called for the United States to uphold the provisions of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights and a spirit of “brotherhood and human dignity” at home and abroad.  “No
nation, great or small,” the retired mill worker asserted, “can for long keep from becoming
entangled in this web of international association which the hand of Divine Providence is
weaving.”926
During 1963 and 1964, the community took a stand for desegregation of public
facilities when city officials, responding to litigation that would mandate the integration of
the state park system, moved to permanently close Greenville’s public swimming pools.  In
1961, groups of African Americans had been denied entry to Myrtle Beach and
Sesquicentennial State Parks, and NAACP attorney Matthew Perry had filed suit on their
behalf to end discrimination in the park system.  In April 1963, federal judge J. Robert
Martin, citing a recent Supreme Court decision, ruled that the state had sixty days to
desegregate the state parks.  In response, the General Assembly’s special committee to
defend segregation and Attorney General Daniel McLeod recommended that the Forestry

925 Miscellaneous newspaper clippings, private collection of Joy F. Benson.

926 “Letters to the Editor,” Greenville News, 6 December 1964, clipping, private collection of Joy F. Benson.


Commission close all the parks.927  Fearing the implications of the ruling for city parks,
Greenville’s city council followed suit, closing the swimming pool for whites in Cleveland
Park and the one for blacks in Green Forest Park.  City officials insisted that the closings
were for maintenance, but the city zoo requested permission to house six sea lions at the
Cleveland Park facility.  Greenville Bahá’ís joined the public outcry against the pool
closings, citing the need for more recreation facilities for area youth, not fewer, and
recommending to city officials that both facilities be integrated and opened the next year on a
trial basis.   At a public hearing at City Hall, Bernice Williams told aldermen: “We all know
why the pools were not opened this year and it is a shame that for this reason we must
sacrifice wholesome pleasures for our children for the sake of a few sea lions.”928

In addition to Robert Anderson at the University of South Carolina, another Sterling
High School graduate associated with the Bahá’í community became intimately involved in
the desegregation of the state’s institutions of higher education.  In 1965, Joseph Vaughn
became the first black resident undergraduate student at Furman University in Greenville.  At
Sterling, Vaughn had been a student leader.  He spoke fluent French, thanks to teacher
Bernice Williams, and “had a cosmopolitan outlook that left fellow students with the
impression that he had studied abroad.”929  Dean of students Francis Bonner and incoming
university president Gordon Blackwell, proponents of integration, recruited Vaughn to
Furman.  They had encouraged the university’s board of trustees to integrate the student
body, but the executive board of the South Carolina Baptist Convention, the university’s

927 Robert J. Moore, “The Civil Rights Advocate,” in Matthew J. Perry, ed. Burke and Gergel, 161-2.

928 “Aldermen Hear Opposition To Greenville’s ‘Pool Zoo,’” The Greenville Piedmont, 17 October 1963;
“Council Faces Pool Question,” The Greenville News, 10 August 1964, 4, both clippings, private collection of
Joy F. Benson.

929 David Shi, “Joe Vaughn Fought His Own Crusade,” Greenville News, 10 February 2002.


parent institution, asked that no action be taken until after the Convention’s annual meeting
in November 1964.  In the mean time, Bonner arranged for Vaughn to enroll at Johnson C.
Smith University, a black institution in Charlotte.  When the Convention met, it narrowly
reversed Furman’s new policy.  At an emergency meeting, the university’s board of trustees,
all Baptists appointed by the Convention, defied the Convention by reaffirming their earlier
decision to integrate.  In February 1965, Vaughn and three black graduate students were
admitted.  The following year, Vaughn became a Bahá’í.930

Upsurge
During the period of the Ten Year Plan, the process that Shoghi Effendi had termed the
social and political “upsurge” of the dark-skinned peoples became apparent in the United
States and around the world.  The process of decolonization, which had gained momentum
immediately following the Second World War, picked up significant speed.  In 1954, after
nearly a decade of fighting, France recognized the independence of Vietnam, while rebels in
its colony of Algeria launched their own war of liberation.  In 1957, Great Britain recognized
the independence of Malaysia and of Ghana, the latter move launching a new wave of
decolonization across Africa.  In 1960, the “Year of Africa,” seventeen African colonies
gained their independence from France, Great Britain, Belgium, and Italy; by 1965, fewer
than a dozen territories on the continent remained under colonial rule.  The host of new
African and Asian states changed the global balance of power as members of the United
Nations, readily contributing some of their best and brightest to an emerging global civil

930 Alfred Sandlin Reid, Furman University: Toward a New Identity (Durham: Duke University Press, 1976),
199; Shi, “Joe Vaughn;” Joe Vaughn, “Why I Am a Baha’i, Not a Christian,” Furman Paladin, 10 February
1967, clipping, private collection of Joy F. Benson; Feast of Ridvan report, 1966, private collection of Joy F.
Benson.


service and engaging in critical debate about the nature of international political and
economic arrangements that primarily benefitted their former rulers and other western
countries.
The United States was hardly immune to the impact of global trends.  It granted
independence to the Philippines in 1947 and self-government to Puerto Rico in 1952, and its
last major colonial territories, Alaska and Hawaii, joined the union as states in 1959.  Even
before the Korean War ended in stalemate, the United States found itself implicated in the
conflict in Indochina; after the partition of Vietnam in 1954, successive presidential
administrations committed more resources to a conflict they perceived as vital to the
containment of Communism.  Within the country, the black freedom struggle reached its
crest in the first half of the 1960s.  The direct participation of hundreds of whites from across
the country in civil rights activities in the South and media coverage of the southern
movement—and of its violent detractors—contributed to a measure of the “revolutionary
change in the concept and attitude of the average white American toward his Negro fellow
citizen” that Shoghi Effendi had called for.  Championed by a white southern President, the
civil rights legislation of 1964 and 1965—the first serious attempt by the federal government
in nearly a century to make good on the promises of Reconstruction—heralded a major
reconception of American citizenship and nationhood.  From the point of view of the
American Bahá’ís, one of the major structural barriers to the realization of the oneness of
humanity—and to their own ability to grow and function as an interracial movement—had
fallen.
During the same period, the Bahá’í Faith went far towards vindicating its claim to be
a world religion, embodying a measure of the spiritual upsurge that Shoghi Effendi had


predicted would accompany the social and political rise of the dark-skinned peoples.  Shoghi
Effendi himself did not live to see the fruit of his life’s work.  On November 4, 1957, at the
mid-point of the World Crusade he had conceived and directed, he died unexpectedly in
London from complications of influenza.  He had named no successor to the Guardianship.
In the months before his death, however, he had taken additional steps to develop the
institution of the Hands of the Cause of God.  In June 1957, he had added to their role of
encouraging the teaching work the “primary obligation to watch over and insure protection to
the Bahá’í world community.”  In October, he had appointed a third contingent of eight
Hands, including a native Ugandan, raising their number to twenty-seven, and designated
them as the “Chief Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Commonwealth.”   In the
same message, he had also called for the holding of five intercontinental conferences in 1958
to deliberate on the completion of the Plan and appointed a Hand as his personal
representative to each.  The Hands of the Cause, acting on Shoghi Effendi’s instructions and
the provisions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s will and testament, assumed temporary leadership of the
faith, guiding the worldwide community toward completion of the Ten Year Plan and making
preparations for the formation of the Universal House of Justice.  The five intercontinental
conferences became venues for the believers to come to terms with the death of Shoghi
Effendi and to rededicate themselves to the work of the faith.  Despite what could have been
a devastating leadership crisis, they met or surpassed virtually all of the Plan’s goals.931
During the decade of the Plan, the number of countries, territories, and major islands
opened to the faith more than doubled to 259, and members of hundreds of indigenous
groups across the Americas, Africa, Asia, and the islands of the Indian and Pacific Oceans

931 For a documentary account of the interregnum under the Hands of the Cause, see Rúhíyyih Rabbani, ed., The
Ministry of the Custodians, 1957-1963 (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992).


became Bahá’ís.  Scores of new Local Spiritual Assemblies and forty-four new National
Spiritual Assemblies were formed.  To varying degrees, these institutions acquired legal
entity, national and local headquarters, investment properties, cemeteries, sites for future
temples, recognition of Bahá’í marriages and Holy Days, publishing facilities, and literature
in appropriate languages—surpassing most of the associated numerical goals of the Plan.
In some countries, persecution of the faith severely constrained the functioning of
communities.  In 1958, the Intercontinental Conference planned for Jakarta, Indonesia—one
of the five called for by Shoghi Effendi at the mid-point of the Plan—had to be moved to
Singapore because of government opposition.932  Pioneering goals in the Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe remained largely unfulfilled, and in 1962 the Soviet government demolished
the remains of the world’s first Bahá’í temple in Turkmenistan.  In Iran, a campaign by Shiite
clerics and military leaders in the wake of a 1953 coup resulted in the destruction of the
national Bahá’í headquarters, desecration of Bahá’í cemeteries and holy sites, and the rape,
murder, or dismissal from employment of individual believers and families across the
country.  The orgy of violence scuttled plans for the erection of a house of worship in
Tehran, but in its stead Shoghi Effendi called for two temples, one in Kampala, Uganda, and
another in Sydney, Australia, to be built.  By the end of the Plan, these two symbols of the
faith’s rise in Africa and the Pacific were completed, and the other temple originally called
for, outside Frankfurt in the heart of a divided Germany, was nearly finished.933
Beyond the explicit numerical goals of the Plan, a development of far-reaching
importance for the worldwide community was an acceleration of the process of entry by
troops mentioned by Shoghi Effendi in 1953.  From initial experiments in Uganda during the

932 Marion Hofman, “Five Intercontinental Conferences, 1958,” in Bahá’í World, vol.13, 1954-1963, 331-2.

933 “The Completion of the Bahá’í World Crusade, 1953-1963,” Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 459-69.


Africa Campaign that preceded the Plan, teaching projects aimed at bringing the faith to rural
villagers spread to countries around the world.  A survey of such efforts indicated
encouraging initial results, especially in Africa and Asia.  In Congo alone, some 20,000
people became Bahá’ís during the Plan.  In Cameroon, hundreds of new believers formed 54
Local Spiritual Assemblies in villages throughout the country.  Even in tiny Mauritius off the
East African coast, the faith grew from a lone pioneer in 1953 to a network of 19 groups and
16 Local Spiritual Assemblies ten years later.  In Indonesia, hundreds of people on the
isolated Mentawai Islands became Bahá’ís and started seven primary schools for village
children.  On the main island of Java, the faith spread from eight localities to 97 during one
year of the Plan.  Similar growth occurred in Vietnam, the Philippines, Sarawak, and Brunei.
In South Korea, 2000 people became Bahá’ís during the last four months of the Plan.  The
most dramatic growth occurred in India.  Beginning in 1961 with a teaching conference in
the central state of Madhya Pradesh, campaigns of village teaching raised the number of
believers in the country from 850 to 87,000 and the number of Local Assemblies from 58 to
675.934
Similar changes were also apparent in the Americas, where growth was fastest among
indigenous peoples and in rural areas.  By the end of the Plan, most of the Bahá’ís in Latin
America were Indians.  In the highlands of Bolivia, teaching among native peoples
proceeded rapidly beginning in 1956, when two Indian brothers stopped to inquire about the
faith in the Bahá’í Center in La Paz.  By the end of the Plan, the Bolivian community had
swelled to approximately 8000 believers, and similar growth was beginning in Panama,
Haiti, and Brazil.  Even in Canada, natives representing 11 tribes made up a quarter of the

934 Ibid.


national community by the end of the Plan.935  A long-term shift in worldwide Bahá’í
membership had begun during the decade that would soon tip the scales away from Iran and
North America and towards the global south, away from major urban areas and towards
small towns and villages.936
In the United States, new growth was occurring in several areas.  Members of 35
Native American tribes, including the Cherokee, Choctaw, and Creek in the Southeast,
became Bahá’ís during the Plan.937  In South Carolina and Georgia in particular, African
Americans in cities, small towns, and rural areas showed signs of high receptivity to the faith.
Across the country, the community was growing at its fastest rate since the 1890s.  By 1963,
membership was more than 10,000, with some 1200 enrollments each year.938  About a third
of the new believers were young people ages 15 to 20, and various activities for children and
youth, including Bahá’í associations on college and university campuses, became
widespread.939  And after a slow start, the administrative goals of the Plan were exceeded.  At
Ridván 1963, there were 331 Local Spiritual Assemblies in the United States, of which 111
were incorporated—well above the goals of 300 and 100, respectively.  In Alaska, the growth
of the movement prompted Shoghi Effendi to call for the establishment of a separate
National Spiritual Assembly for the territory in 1957, the first time such a body had been
created in a political subdivision of a country.940

935 Ibid., 467.

936 Moojan Momen, “Learning from History,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2, no. 2 (1989): 58-9.

937 “Completion of the Bahá’í World Crusade,” 467.

938 Stockman, “United States of America,” 6.

939 Ibid.; “Bahá’í Youth Activities, April 1954-April 1963,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 768-75.

940 “Current Bahá’í Activities,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 13, 1954-1963, 270-2.


In South Carolina, the Bahá’í Faith had grown both quantitatively and qualitatively.
In ten years the state’s population of adult believers had more than doubled to nearly eighty
adults and probably as many children and youth.  They resided in 17 localities, from cities to
hamlets.  At the end of the Plan there were four Local Spiritual Assemblies, in Greenville,
Greenville County, Florence County, and Frogmore; one of these had achieved incorporation
as well as secured statewide recognition for the Bahá’í marriage ceremony.941  Renewed
efforts to teach the faith to African Americans, including the working class and the middle
class, young and old, rural and urban dwellers, had met with initial success in several
localities.  At the end of the Plan, African Americans accounted for at least half of the
statewide community, surpassing their proportion of the general population.  And they had
begun to bring aspects of their rich cultural and religious heritage with them into the Bahá’í
movement, as families and friends studied and embraced the faith as groups and the practice
of congregational singing, planned and spontaneous, became widespread.  The statewide
community ended the Plan still numerically quite small in relation to the state’s population,
but with a more vibrant interracial fellowship than ever and a stronger legal and
administrative basis for further growth.
Altogether, the experience in the state seemed to vindicate Louis Gregory’s
assessment, made some six decades earlier, of the spiritual receptivity of African Americans
and Shoghi Effendi’s more recent insistence on bringing the faith to them in larger numbers.
Lillie Abercrombie recalled that William Bidwell, observing the revitalization of the
Greenville Bahá’í community during the early 1960s, recognized the wisdom in Shoghi
Effendi’s analysis.  Bidwell admitted that his priority all along had been reaching the white

941 South Carolina State Voting List, 1963, private collection of Richard and Doris Morris. The Columbia-area
group had dwindled to seven members.


population, since “the whites were the ones doing bad things and the ones who needed to be
taught.  So that’s what I tried to do, but with little result.  Now, as I look back … I wish I had
tried to teach more blacks.  If I had, maybe things would have been different.”942  Perhaps the
most important lesson of the decade in South Carolina was that when the community made
outreach to African Americans the priority, open-minded whites would be attracted to the
faith in larger numbers, as well.  Given the growth that was apparent across the United States
and in other countries, by the end of the Plan the Bahá’ís in South Carolina were beginning to
conceive of themselves as part of a mass movement in the making.
The crowning achievement of the Ten Year Plan was the election of the Universal
House of Justice, the highest organ of the faith ordained in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh.  On
April 21, 1963, the one hundredth anniversary of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in the Garden of
Ridván in Baghdad, at an International Convention held in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s house in Haifa,
the ballots of the members of the world’s 56 National Spiritual Assemblies brought the
Universal House of Justice into being.  Representing the choice of a cross-section of the
human race voting in local and national conventions, it was likely the first global democratic
election.  A week later more than 6000 believers, new and old—including Richard
Abercrombie, Joy Benson, and Martha Fettig of Greenville and Lee and Genelle Grimsley of
Lake City—assembled in London for the Bahá’í World Congress, considerable political
instability and opposition to the faith in Iraq having made Baghdad an impractical location.
The South Carolinians were astonished at the human diversity represented in the
Congress, a living testimony to the worldwide community’s success in the Ten Year Plan.
And when the nine members of the Universal House of Justice were presented to the

942 Lillie Abercrombie, interview by Frances Worthington, Greenville, SC, October 2003, TS in author’s
possession.


gathering, they could not help but notice that one of them was a black Southerner.  Amoz
Everett Gibson, whose parents had become Bahá’ís in Washington, D.C., in 1912, was a
veteran of the Second World War, a public school teacher, a pioneer to the Navajo
Reservation, and, until the election the previous week in Haifa, one of two black members of
the National Spiritual Assembly.  His membership on the Universal House of Justice
underscored the accomplishment of the American Bahá’ís, particularly in the South.  Before
the passage of major civil rights legislation in the United States, black and white Bahá’ís in
South Carolina and other southern states had participated freely in their faith’s unique
governance system as both voters and candidates, as members of Local Spiritual Assemblies,
as delegates to the National Convention, and as members of the National Spiritual Assembly
and finally of the Universal House of Justice.  By the time Jim Crow fell, they had built a
vibrant religious community through which they attempted to transcend their country’s
traditional boundaries of gender, class, and race and become citizens of the world.






Epilogue

The Bahá’í Faith as Mass Movement




(Oh well I) woke up this mornin’ with my mind (my mind it was) —
set on Bahá’u’lláh.
(Oh well I) woke up this mornin’ with my mind (my mind it was) —
set on Bahá’u’lláh.
(Oh well I) woke up this mornin’ with my mind (my mind it was) —
set on Bahá’u’lláh.
(Yá Bahá’-) Yá Bahá’- (Yá Bahá’-) Yá Bahá’-
Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá!943

—Southern Bahá’í teaching song, ca. 1970,
adapted from a freedom song,
adapted from a traditional spiritual




By the time the civil rights movement reached its apogee in the mid-1960s, the Bahá’ís in
South Carolina had already laid the foundations of the state’s first truly interracial religious
community.  Growing against all odds in a hostile environment, it had emerged as a coherent
movement with branches in several cities and smaller towns and an unusually diverse body
of members.  More than any other religious group in the state, it embodied the ideal of the
“beloved community” that Martin Luther King, Jr., articulated as the ultimate goal of the
civil rights movement: the vision, rooted in Christian millennial expectation, of a
spiritualized polity characterized by justice, love, and the “total interrelatedness” of all

943 “O Thou Glory of the All-Glorious,” a form of the Greatest Name used as an invocation.


people.944  Their small numbers, however, severely limited the ability of the Bahá’ís in South
Carolina and elsewhere to promote the wholesale transformation of society anticipated in
their sacred scriptures, and for which enlightened contemporary leaders like King were
increasingly calling.  Some six months after its first election, the Universal House of Justice
wrote that in order for the worldwide Bahá’í community to “extend its influence into all
strata of society,” it must “grow rapidly in size.”945
While the successive heads of the faith and many among its members had long
anticipated a widespread response to its message, little in the previous half century of
collective experience in South Carolina—or, indeed, anywhere else in the country—had
prepared the Bahá’ís for the successes and challenges that would come in the wake of Jim
Crow’s demise.  As the Universal House of Justice continued Shoghi Effendi’s pattern of
global teaching plans, beginning with a Nine Year Plan (1964-1973), and as formal racial
barriers faded across the South, imperatives within the Bahá’í community met heightened
social and spiritual concerns in American society at large.  The result was an explosive
growth in membership, centered in South Carolina—and, to a lesser extent, other states of the
Deep South—that permanently altered the character, organization, and aspirations of the
Bahá’í movement in the United States.



944 Martin Luther King, Jr., Why We Can’t Wait (New York: Harper & Row, 1963), 128. For treatments of the
“beloved community,” see Kenneth L. Smith and Ira G. Zepp, Jr., Search for the Beloved Community: The
Thinking of Martin Luther King, Jr. (Lanham, MD: University Press of America, 1986), esp. chapter 6, and
James H. Cone, Martin & Malcolm & America: A Dream or a Nightmare (Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1991),
esp. chapter 8.

945 Universal House of Justice to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh throughout the World, October 1963, Messages
from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, comp. Geoffry W.
Marks (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996), 6.6.


Rapid Expansion
Between 1963 and 1968, the Bahá’í population of the United States grew by nearly one third,
from 11,000 to nearly 18,000.  Most of the new believers were teenagers and young adults,
and college campuses became centers of Bahá’í activity.946  At the same time, developments
in South Carolina and several other southern states seemed to indicate that additional growth
was beginning in other quarters.  In the rural areas around Florence, Jordan Young’s black
and white patients arranged for him to speak on the message of “Bahá’u’lláh of Persia” to
large audiences in local churches.947  In Florence, Greenville, and Charleston—where a new
community was finally emerging with the settlement of new pioneers—the Bahá’ís hosted
large “interracial picnics” for their families and friends.948  In 1967 and 1968, inspired by
Shoghi Effendi’s advice from a decade before, two Auxiliary Board members recruited black
and white Bahá’í families to settle as home-front pioneers in small towns of the southern
Black Belt, including Winnsboro, South Carolina; Dawson, Georgia; and Canton,
Mississippi.949  In 1969, the National Spiritual Assembly appointed a new Deep South
Committee to focus attention on the opportunities that seemed to be opening in the South.
Early in 1970, American Bahá’ís read the news that dozens of people were enrolling in the
faith at firesides in Dawson; in Bogalusa, Louisiana; and in Adams Run, a rural community
in Charleston County, South Carolina—an entirely unprecedented development for a national

946 Hollinger, “Introduction: Bahá’í Communities,” xxx; Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” 233.

947 Young interview.  Jordan Young said he adopted the locution, uncommon in the American Bahá’í
community, for his talks in churches as an equivalent to “Jesus of Nazareth,” a title used frequently among
Protestants in reference to the historical Jesus.

948 Kahn, Sandra Santolucito, “Encounter of Two Myths: Bahá’í and Christian in the Rural American South—A
Study in Transmythicization” (Ph.D. diss., University of California, Santa Barbara, 1977), 243-4.

949 Jack McCants to Elizabeth Martin, 18 May 2006, copy in possession of the author; Elizabeth Martin,
interview by author, Columbia, SC, 5 April 2003.


movement used to declarations of faith by individuals, not whole families and social
networks.950  Encouraged by the Hands of the Cause of God and the National Assembly and
coordinated by the Deep South Committee, an emboldened cadre of mostly young Bahá’ís in
the region developed a new teaching program that borrowed elements of the language, music,
and organizing strategies of the civil rights movement and the emerging youth culture.951
During the winter of 1970-1971, the Deep South Committee organized a three-month
regional teaching campaign, designed to take advantage of the winter school holiday, to test
the new approach.
The South Carolina phase of the campaign was by far the most successful.  Based in
Dillon in the upper Pee Dee, it brought together Bahá’ís resident in the state with young
traveling teachers from across the country.  Fanning out to other towns each morning
according to planned itineraries, the teams shared the message of the faith wherever they
found listeners; according to one colorful report, they talked with people “[i]n laundromats,
restaurants, night-clubs, on the streets, in yards, in the rain, in the mud, in the snow.”952  With
those who were interested they shared prayers from the Bahá’í scriptures or left copies of the
“Ebony reprint,” a large, full-color booklet based on an article on the faith from the popular
African-American magazine.953  Often they enrolled new believers on the spot:

950 American Bahá’í 1, no. 2 (February 1970): 1, 4; vol. 1, no. 3 (March 1970): 1, 11; vol. 1, no. 4 (April 1970):
1, 4.

951 American Bahá’í, special edition (October 1970), 1-3.

952 “Carolina Story,” American Bahá’í, February 1971, 4.

953 [Lerone Bennett, Jr.], “Bahá’í: A Way of Life for Millions,” Ebony 20, no. 6 (April 1965): 48-56; booklet of
the same name in possession of the author.  The article, originally published under a cover story on the death of
Nat King Cole, had already brought the Bahá’í Faith to the attention of African Americans around the United
States.  The author, Lerone Bennett, Jr., was a well-known journalist and author of popular works of African-
American history.  The photographer, Lacey Crawford, and his wife became Bahá’ís as a result of his work on
the story, settling in Winnsboro, South Carolina, as pioneers in 1968 and serving subsequently at the Bahá’í
World Center.  Personal conversation with Ethel Crawford, Columbia, SC.


One lady looked out her window and saw two Bahá’ís singing.  She opened the door
and yelled to them that if it was their music she heard she wanted them to come and
sing for her.  She insisted that they come inside her house and “set awhile.”  Next
moment all her children were becoming Bahá’ís.  A few days later some more of us
visited her again and she gave us all the warmest welcome.  We talked awhile and
then spent most of the time with her in prayer—each child, with the exception of one
who was just too shy, read from the prayer book….954


At evening mass meetings in rented halls, they made more in-depth presentations, in word
and song, to new Bahá’ís and their friends and family members, often with active
participation from the audience.  According to a report of one meeting:
During the night almost all of the 80 people there became Bahá’ís and those who’d
already declared experienced their first deepening class….  [S]ome of the audience
joined us up front.  Some of them sang for us, and we parted only after all forming a
big unity circle and sharing prayers for unity and thanksgiving.955

At the midpoint of the traumatic first year of mandatory statewide school
desegregation in South Carolina, as disenchantment with the civil rights movement set in
among many blacks and whites around the country and the competing rhetorics of black
power and white conservatism dominated the national political discourse, the teams of young
Bahá’ís taught that God had sent a new Messenger to unite the human race.  In rural hamlets,
urban working-class neighborhoods, and college campuses across the state, they found that
the goal of a racially integrated, spiritually revived society still held wide currency.  Even
before the close of the campaign, the Universal House of Justice announced to the worldwide
community the enrollment of 8000 new believers in South Carolina.  The process of entry by
troops, it cabled, was “rapidly accelerating” in the United States.956

954 “Carolina Story,” American Bahá’í, February 1971, 4.

955 Ibid.

956 Universal House of Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies, 31 January 1972, Messages from the
Universal House of Justice 1968-1973 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976), 65.



Almost overnight, the Bahá’í Faith in South Carolina had gone from a tiny
community in a handful of localities to a mass movement with members in every county.957
In 1970, there were eight Local Spiritual Assemblies in South Carolina; the next year, after
the winter project, there were 108, more than any other state in the country.958  By the middle
of 1972, some 20,000 people—mostly African Americans, but hundreds of Native Americans
and European Americans as well—had become Bahá’ís in South Carolina.959  By the end of
the Nine-Year Plan in 1973, the number of Bahá’ís in the United States had grown to 60,000,
up from 11,000 at the outset; fully one-third of the national community resided in South
Carolina.960  As the pages of national Bahá’í publications filled with stories and photographs
of the southern campaign and South Carolina notices dominated the “In Memoriam” and
“Directory Changes” sections, it became clear that the geographic center of the American
movement had shifted dramatically.  Confident proponents of teaching in the South went so
far as to predict that South Carolina would eventually become “the first all-Bahá’í state in the
country.”961
Teachers on the ground in South Carolina, however, were already coming to terms
with the difficulties of sustaining such rapid growth.  Reinforced by a stream of home-front
pioneers and traveling teachers—many of them young adults and new Bahá’ís themselves—
they set about the difficult business of establishing Bahá’í community structures and
practices in dozens of localities scattered across the state.  The relative remoteness of many

957 Hampson, “Growth and Spread” 281.

958 American Bahá’í, May 1971, 4-5.

959 Kahn, “Encounter of Two Myths,” 262.

960 Robert Stockman, “U.S. Bahá’í Community Membership: 1894-1996,” The American Bahá’í, 23 November
1996, 27.

961 “Operation ‘Gabriel,’” American Bahá’í, January 1972, 3.


of the new believers from the handful of established Bahá’í communities, and the acute
poverty and limited literacy that many of them faced, made for serious logistical challenges.
The Universal House of Justice urged perseverance, creativity, and unity, encouraging the
entire national community, “newly enrolled and believers of long standing, to . . . continue
unabated their efforts to reach the waiting souls, while simultaneously consolidating the
hard-won victories.”  It said the successful techniques of the southern campaign should be
immediately applied to reach racial minorities in other parts of the country, including Native
Americans, Asian Americans, and Latinos.962  Subsequent projects did enroll smaller
numbers of new believers in other regions, but the swelling membership in South Carolina
and elsewhere severely tested the capacity of the national administration to maintain unity of
vision in an increasingly diverse community and to marshal the necessary resources, human
and financial, to support continued growth.963  Even with support from the national
movement, it quickly became apparent that further expansion in South Carolina—or, indeed,
simply maintaining the community at its new, larger size—would largely depend on building
the capacity of believers within the state as teachers and administrators.
Almost immediately, the National Spiritual Assembly appointed a state teaching
committee for South Carolina with a full-time coordinator and, following reapportionment of
delegates to the National Convention as a result of the movement’s growth in the South and
elsewhere, a district teaching committee in each of the state’s new electoral units.964  At the
same time, several of the campaign’s leaders in the Pee Dee asked the National Spiritual

962 Universal House of Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 14
February 1972, National Bahá’í Review, no. 51 (March 1972): 1, published in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice 1968-1973, 85.

963 For a discussion of the increasing diversity of the American Bahá’í community in the 1960s and 1970s, see
Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” 344-50.

964 American Bahá’í, September 1971, 2; May 1971, 3; and August 1971, 6-7.


Assembly to establish a “teaching institute,” called for by the Universal House of Justice to
train new teachers of the faith in areas of large-scale growth, and a radio station to reach new
believers in isolated rural areas.965  In Georgetown County near Hemingway, a white couple,
former Pentecostal ministers who had led most of their congregation into the faith, sold a
large tract of family land to the National Spiritual Assembly to establish such a facility.966
Inaugurated in October 1972 and named for the South Carolina movement’s most prominent
native son, the Louis G. Gregory Bahá’í Institute became a hub of activity in the state and
region.967  Over the next quarter-century, the Institute and the state and district teaching
committees, collaborating with other agencies of the National Spiritual Assembly and with
the Auxiliary Board members, experimented with a variety of approaches to teaching,
training, and community development—including the holding of weekend, five-day, and
nine-day study courses, covering many aspects of individual and collective Bahá’í life, at the
Hemingway campus and elsewhere in the state; the deployment of teachers for home
deepening visits in hundreds of localities; and the holding of regular children’s classes and
summer camps for children and youth.  Attempting to reach new believers of all ages and
varying educational levels, they developed new publications and audio-visual materials, and
they frequently made use of the arts, including drama, singing, and puppetry, in expansion
and consolidation activities.  In periodic campaigns of expansion and consolidation, the size
and geographic scope of the movement continued to grow, but more slowly; by the end of the
1970s there were Bahá’ís in some 440 towns and hamlets in South Carolina, with more than

965 Young interview.

966 Ibid.

967 “Louis G. Gregory Institute Dedication and Special Deepening Conference,” American Bahá’í, November
1972, 1-3; Bahá’í News no. 501 (December 1972): 7.


180 Local Spiritual Assemblies and regular firesides and classes for children and adults in
many localities.968
A new burst of rapid growth took place in the mid-1980s.  Encouraged by members
of the Continental Board of Counselors, an institution created in 1968 by the Universal
House of Justice to extend into the future the functions of the Hands of the Cause of God
appointed by Shoghi Effendi, a statewide teaching campaign during 1985 and 1986 resulted
in some 2500 new enrolments, the settlement of new home-front pioneers in several
localities, and initial use of an innovative curriculum—developed by Bahá’ís in Colombia
and used increasingly throughout Latin America—for training new believers as teachers.969
The number of Local Spiritual Assemblies in the state rose to some 275.970  Also in 1985,
following a national fundraising campaign, the Institute inaugurated the contemplated radio
station, which began broadcasting to a large section of eastern South Carolina and
southeastern North Carolina.971  The following fall, it launched an annual regional arts
festival on the Hemingway campus.  To mark the occasion, famed jazz trumpeter John Birks
“Dizzy” Gillespie, a native of nearby Cheraw who had become a Bahá’í in Los Angeles in
1968, performed with his band and held music workshops at schools in the Pee Dee area.972



968 American Bahá’í, March 1979, 7.  For a sampling of local Bahá’í communities in South Carolina, see South
Carolina Bahá’í Bulletin 3, [no. 1] (April 1973), 4; vol. 3, no. 6 (Fall/Winter 1974), 7-8); vol. 5, no. 1 (Spring
1975), 4.

969 South Carolina Bahá’í, Winter 1985-1986, 1, 4; Spring 1986, 2-4.

970 South Carolina Bahá’í, Spring 1986, 1.

971 American Bahá’í, May 1985, 1.

972 American Bahá’í, November 1986, 1.


Decline and Revival
Despite the brief renewal of interest in large-scale growth, the general mood of the national
Bahá’í movement during the 1980s and 1990s was one of disenchantment with the process,
which had turned out to be harder and more complicated than anyone had imagined in the
heady days of 1970 and early 1971.  The overall rate of growth slowed, and the community
increasingly devoted its attention and resources to other matters, including developing
Sunday schools for Bahá’í children in urban areas, integrating thousands of Iranian Bahá’í
refugees fleeing the 1979 Islamic Revolution, and using the mass media to broadcast the
faith’s teachings.973  As the focus of the national movement shifted, teaching activities and
Bahá’í community life waned across South Carolina.  The Bahá’í population of rural
localities in particular began a slow decline as youth and adults pursued other interests,
moved away in search of education or employment, or died, leaving younger generations
with little or no Bahá’í identity.
The South Carolina experience was not unique.  In several countries, the difficulties
of sustaining large-scale growth led Bahá’í communities to “turn back to more familiar
activities and more accessible publics.”974  In the mid-1990s, based on some thirty years’
worth of trial and error in the Deep South and other parts of the world, the Universal House
of Justice launched the worldwide Bahá’í community on what it promised would be a
concerted, decades-long effort to develop the human resources and institutional capacity
needed for sustained growth of the religion.  Recasting familiar features of Bahá’í collective
life and creating entirely new ones, it introduced the elements of the new strategy in a

973 Peter Smith, “The Bahá’í Faith in the West: A Survey,” in Bahá’ís in the West, Studies in the Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions, vol. 14, ed. Peter Smith (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004), 24-6.

974 [Universal House of Justice], Century of Light, 101.


succession of global plans that began in 1996.  Noting that previous efforts to raise human
resources for teaching had “resulted in only a relatively small band of active supporters of the
Cause,” the Universal House of Justice said that the centerpiece of the strategy would be a
new global network of “training institutes.”975  In contrast to the previous approach of the
Louis Gregory Institute, in which participants travelled to the Hemingway campus for most
programs, the House of Justice described the training institute not as a facility, but as an
organizational structure that would offer courses in many locations, thus minimizing costs
and maximizing access.  Also in contrast to the South Carolina approach, in which the
various programs held by the Institute often seemed disconnected from each other, the new
system offered a logical sequence of courses with a clear purpose: helping participants
develop “the spiritual insights, the knowledge, and the skills needed to carry out the many
tasks of accelerated expansion and consolidation, including the teaching and deepening of a
large number of people—adults, youth and children.”976  With an initial focus on training
youth to conduct devotional meetings, home deepening visits, and children’s classes in their
own localities, the new system would be the key to revitalizing large-scale growth in
countries and regions that had experienced it before, as well as introducing it in new areas.
As local communities increased in size and complexity and Local Spiritual Assemblies grew
in executive capacity, the Bahá’ís would be able to initiate programs of social and economic
development to benefit the entire population.977

975 Universal House of Justice to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, 26 December 1995,
in [Universal House of Justice], The Four Year Plan: Messages of the Universal House of Justice (Riviera
Beach, FL: Palabra Publications, 1996), 7.

976 Ibid.

977 Universal House of Justice to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, 9 January 2001, in
[Universal House of Justice], The Five Year Plan, 2001-2006: Messages of the Universal House of Justice, 2nd
ed. (Riviera Beach, FL: Palabra Publications, 2003), 36-7.


During a Four-Year Plan (1996-2000), some 300 national or regional training
institutes around the world began to function, and most quickly adopted the curriculum from
Colombia that had first been used in South Carolina more than a decade before.  In the
United States, the National Spiritual Assembly created a number of training institutes along
the lines of the new model, including one for South Carolina.  The board of directors of the
new South Carolina institute began to offer courses in several locations in the state, while the
campus of the Louis Gregory Institute devolved to a Bahá’í community center, with sporadic
programs aimed primarily at the area around Hemingway.  In 2002, the three training
institutes serving North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia were merged into a single
entity, the Carolinas and Georgia Regional Training Institute, with one board and a full-time
executive director.
Additional structural changes came with the introduction, in several large and
populous national communities, of Regional Bahá’í Councils, a new administrative
institution between the local and national levels.  In 1997, the Universal House of Justice
called for the election of four nine-member Regional Councils in the United States (one for
each region outlined in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of the Divine Plan) by the members of the
Local Spiritual Assemblies.  The Councils quickly assumed supervision of the training
institutes in their respective regions.  During a Twelve Month Plan (2000-2001) and a Five
Year Plan (2001-2006), the Universal House of Justice introduced another new element, the
concept of the “geographic cluster.”  It directed each National Spiritual Assembly to divide
its territory into a number of clusters according to basic social, economic, and demographic
patterns, for example, a group of nearby towns and villages or a large city and its suburbs.
The House of Justice indicated that the work of the training institutes and the execution of


teaching plans would henceforth take place primarily at the level of the clusters, which it
described as “seedbeds of expansion” on a manageable scale.978  The principal focus of each
National Assembly would be to develop the capacity of Bahá’í communities in cluster after
cluster to initiate and sustain their own programs of growth.
According to the new framework, the Regional Bahá’í Council of the Southern States
divided the Carolinas and Georgia into some ninety geographic clusters.  By 2002, the
Carolinas and Georgia Institute was conducting training programs in more than sixty of
these; with more than 2000 people in the region having taken at least one course in the
sequence, the number of devotional meetings and children’s classes was beginning to rise in
several areas.  The Council judged four clusters, including the Columbia metropolitan area in
South Carolina, to be sufficiently strong to launch intensive programs of growth.  Organized
in three-month cycles of expansion and consolidation, the growth was miniscule compared to
that of the early 1970s—measured in the dozens rather than the thousands.  However, early
evidence indicated that new believers were integrating more seamlessly than before into a
vibrant community life and, through participation in the courses of the training institute,
arising as confident teachers themselves.
Based on the experiences of the first few advanced clusters, the Universal House of
Justice called for the establishment of at least 1500 intensive programs of growth around the
world during a second Five Year Plan (2006-2011).  In the Carolinas and Georgia, the
Regional Council initially identified some twenty clusters, including ten lying all or partly in
South Carolina, that could initiate such growth during the Plan.  Early in 2006, the National
Spiritual Assembly decided to place the campus of the Louis Gregory Institute under the
direction of the Regional Council.  The Council in turn quickly integrated the property into

978 Universal House of Justice to the Bahá’ís of the World, Ridván 2003, in Five Year Plan, 69.


the new training institute structure for the Carolinas and Georgia, retaining the older name
for the whole organization.  The impact of the new Louis G. Gregory Bahá’í Institute on
plans for growth was immediate.  Beginning in the summer of 2006, a series of youth
training seminars held at the Hemingway campus and in additional locations throughout the
three-state region brought a new generation, many of them African Americans whose parents
and grandparents had become Bahá’ís in the campaigns of the 1970s, into the forefront of the
movement.  In cluster after cluster, young people took the lead in teaching teams, and a burst
of creative activity—epitomized by songs composed spontaneously during the seminars that
set passages from the sacred writings to music—energized community life.
By 2008 and 2009, membership growth in the country as a whole had returned to the
level of the mid-1980s.979  This time, however, the new believers—most of them African
American, Latino, and immigrant families—were spread rather evenly in clusters across the
United States rather than concentrated in South Carolina, and the growth showed no signs of
abating.  As the American Bahá’í movement entered the centennial year of Louis Gregory’s
first southern teaching trip, it seemed that the growth campaigns of the 1970s for which he
had presciently laid the groundwork were beginning to bear new fruit in his home state and
beyond.






979 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, Ridván 2009 Annual Report (N.p.
[Wilmette, IL]: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 2009), 3.







BIBLIOGRAPHY


Archival and Manuscript Collections

Augusta Bahá’í Archives, Augusta, GA

Miscellaneous

Avery Research Center for African-American History and Culture, College of
Charleston, SC
Avery School Memorabilia Collection

Columbia Bahá’í Archives, Columbia, SC

Miscellaneous

Eliot Bahá’í Archives, Eliot, ME

Miscellaneous

Greenville Bahá’í Archives, Greenville, SC

Miscellaneous

National Bahá’í Archives of the United States, Wilmette, IL
John and Louise Bosch Papers
Louis G. Gregory Papers
Hannen-Knobloch Family Papers
H. Emogene Hoagg Papers
Leroy Ioas Papers
Local Spiritual Assembly Records
Alfred E. Lunt Papers
National Teaching Committee Records
Office of the Secretary Records

South Carolina Department of Archives and History, Columbia
South Carolina Death Records
South Carolina State Hospital Records
South Carolina State Hospital Commitment Files

South Caroliniana Library, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Samuel M. Derrick Papers


Interviews

James Richard Abercrombie, Greenville, SC, 7 December 2003.

Joy F. Benson, Columbia, SC, 19 October 2004.

Steve Brisley, Operations Supervisor, Information Services Office, Bahá’í National
Center, Wilmette, IL, by telephone, 20 December 2001.

Jordan and Annette Young, Easley, SC, 25 September 2003.


Electronic Databases

Bureau of the Census. Seventh Census of the United States, 1850.
http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Eighth Census of the United States, 1860. http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Tenth Census of the United States, 1880. http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Twelfth Census of the United States, 1900. http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Thirteenth Census of the United States, 1910. http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Fourteenth Census of the United States, 1920. http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Fifteenth Census of the United States, 1930. http://www.ancestry.com.

National Archives and Records Administration. Passport Applications. General Records
of the Department of State.  http://www.ancestry.com.

———. Records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
http://www.ancestry.com.

———. World War I Selective Service System Draft Registration Cards.
http://www.ancestry.com.

National Park Service. Atlanta: A National Register of Historic Places Travel Itinerary.
http://www.nps.gov/history/nr/travel/atlanta/text.htm#bil.

———. Civil War Soldiers and Sailors System. http://www.civilwar.nps.gov/
cwss/soldiers.cfm.

South Carolina Department of Archives and History. National Register Sites in South
Carolina. http://www.nationalregister.sc.gov/.


Periodicals

American Bahá’í
Bahá’í News
Bahai News Letter
Augusta (GA) Chronicle
The Crisis
The Gamecock (University of South Carolina)
Greenville (SC) News
Rock Hill (SC) Herald
Charleston (SC) News and Courier
Charleston (SC) Post and Courier
New York Times
Palmetto Leader (Columbia, SC)
Portsmouth (NH) Herald
Regional Teaching Bulletin
South Carolina Bahá’í
South Carolina Baha’i Bulletin
Southern Indicator (Columbia, SC)
Star of the West
The State (Columbia, SC)
Teaching Bulletin (Washington, DC)
Time


Books and Articles

‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. Compiled by Howard
MacNutt. 1921. 2nd edition, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2007.

———. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1997.

———. Tablets of Abdul Baha Abbas. Vol. 1. Chicago: Bahai Publishing Society, 1909.
http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/.

———. Tablets of Abdul Baha Abbas. Vol. 2. Chicago: Bahai Publishing Society, 1915.
http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/.

———. Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas. Vol. 3. New York: Baha’i Publishing Committee,
1916. http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/.

———. The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1990.


Abizadeh, Arash. “Democratic Elections without Campaigns?: Normative Foundations of
National Bahá’í Elections.” World Order, 37, no. 1 (2005): 7-49.

Ali, Omar H. “Black Populism in the New South, 1886-1898.” Ph.D. diss., Columbia
University, 2003.

———. “Standing Guard at the Door of Liberty: Black Populism in South Carolina,
1886-1895.” The South Carolina Historical Magazine 107, no. 3 (July 2006):
190-203.

Amanat, Abbas. Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement in Iran,
1844-1850. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1989.

Armstrong-Ingram, R. Jackson. Music, Devotions, and Mashriqu’l-Adhkár. Studies in
Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 4. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1987.

Arsenault, Raymond. “Five Days in May: Freedom Riding in the Carolinas.” In Toward
the Meeting of the Waters: Currents in the Civil Rights Movement of South
Carolina during the Twentieth Century, edited by Winfred B. Moore, Jr., and
Orville Vernon Burton, 201-21. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press,
2008.

Atkinson, Anne Gordon et al. Green Acre on the Piscataqua. Eliot, ME: Green Acre
Bahá’í School Council, 1991.

Augusta City Directory, 1901. Atlanta: Maloney Publishing Co., 1901.

Ayers, Edward L. The Promise of the New South. New York and Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1992.

The Báb. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Translated by Habib Taherzadeh.
Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.

The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record. Vol. 7, 1936-1938. Compiled by the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.
1939; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.

The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record. Vol. 8, 1938-1940. Compiled by the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.
1942; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.

The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record. Vol. 9, 1940-1944. Compiled by the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.
1945; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.


The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record. Vol. 10, 1944-1946. Compiled by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.
1949; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record. Vol. 11, 1946-1950. Compiled by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.
1950; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record. Vol. 12, 1950-1954. Compiled by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. 1956; reprint,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

The Bahá’í World: An International Record. Vol. 13, 1954-1963. Compiled under the
direction of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa, Israel: Universal House of
Justice, 1970.

The Bahá’í World: An International Record. Vol. 14, 1963-1968. Compiled under the
direction of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa, Israel: Universal House of
Justice, 1974.

Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
First pocket-sized edition, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.

———. The Hidden Words. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1985.

———. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. First pocket-sized edition, Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1993.

———. The Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002.

———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Translated by Habib
Taherzadeh. First pocket-sized edition, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1988.

Baker, Dorothy. “The Bahá’í Faith in the Colleges.” In The Bahá’í World: A Biennial
International Record, vol. 9, 1940-1944, compiled by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, 773-6. 1945; reprint,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Baker, R. Scott. “Schooling and White Supremacy: The African American Struggle for
Educational Equality and Access in South Carolina, 1945-1970.” In Toward the
Meeting of the Waters: Currents in the Civil Rights Movement of South Carolina
during the Twentieth Century, edited by Winfred B. Moore, Jr., and Orville
Vernon Burton, 300-15. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2008.


Balyuzi, H. M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1971.

———. The Báb. New ed. Oxford: George Ronald, 1973.

———. Bahá’u’lláh: King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald, 1980.

Bass, Jack and Marilyn W. Thompson. Strom: The Complicated Personal and Political
Life of Strom Thurmond. New York: PublicAffairs, 2005.

Baumgartner, Leona. “Arnold Carl Klebs, 1870-1943.” Bulletin of the History of
Medicine 14 (July 1943): 201-216.

[Bennett, Lerone, Jr.] “Bahá’í: A Way of Life for Millions.” Ebony 20, no. 6 (April
1965): 48-56.

Blum, Edward J. W. E. B. Du Bois: American Prophet. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press, 2007.

Boyer, Paul. When Time Shall Be No More: Prophecy Belief in Modern American
Culture. Cambridge, MA, and London: Harvard University Press, 1992.

Bramson, Loni. “The Plans of Unified Action: A Survey.” In Bahá’ís in the West, Studies
in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 14, edited by Peter Smith, 154-197. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004.

Bramson-Lerche, Loni. “Some Aspects of the Development of the Bahá’í Administrative
Order in America, 1922-1936.” In Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 1,
edited by Moojan Momen, 254-300. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1982.

Braun, Eunice, et al. “Hands of the Cause of God.” Bahá’í Encyclopedia Project,
http://www.bahai-encyclopedia-project.org.

Bryant, Lynn Markovich. “I’m Black and I’m Proud,” wished the white girl. Lincoln,
NE: iUniverse, 2002.

Buck, Christopher. Alain Locke: Faith and Philosophy. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions, vol. 18. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2005.

Burke, W. Lewis and William C. Hine. “The South Carolina State College School of
Law.” In Matthew J. Perry: The Man, His Times, and His Legacy, edited by W.
Lewis Burke and Belinda F. Gergel, 17-60. Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 2004.

Busey, Gareta. “Uniting the Americas.” In The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International
Record, vol. 9, 1940-1944, compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, 186-99. 1945; reprint, Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.



Caldwell, A. B. History of the American Negro, Georgia Edition. Vol. 2. Atlanta: A.B.
Caldwell Publishing Co., 1920, http://books.google.com/books.

Carlton, David. Mill and Town in South Carolina, 1880-1920. Baton Rouge and London:
Louisiana State University Press, 1982.

Cashin, Edward J. The Story of Augusta. Augusta, GA: Richmond County Board of
Education, 1980.

Cassels, Louise. Unexpected Exodus: How the Cold War Displaced One Southern Town.
1971. With a new introduction by Kari Frederickson, Columbia: University of
South Carolina Press, 2007.

Chappell, David L. A Stone of Hope: Prophetic Religion and the Death of Jim Crow.
Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 2004.

Clark, Deb. “The Bahá’ís of Baltimore, 1898-1990.” In Community Histories, Studies in
the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 6, edited by Richard Hollinger, 111-50. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992.

Cole, Juan. Modernity and the Millennium: The Genesis of the Bahai Faith in the
Nineteenth-Century Middle East. New York: Columbia University Press, 1998.

Cooper, Ella Goodall. “Henrietta Emogene Martin Hoagg, 1869-1945.” In The Bahá’í
World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 10, 1944-1946, compiled by the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, 520-
6. 1949; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Cone, James H. Martin & Malcolm & America: A Dream or a Nightmare. Maryknoll,
NY: Orbis Books, 1991.

Cornish, Dudley Taylor. The Sable Arm: Negro Troops in the Union Army, 1861-1865.
New York: W.W. Norton, 1966.

Cox, Harvey. Fire from Heaven: The Rise of Pentecostal Spirituality and the Reshaping
of Religion in the Twenty-first Century. Cambridge, MA: Da Capo Press, 2001.

Dahl, Roger. “Three Teaching Methods Used during North America’s First Seven Year
Plan.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 5, no. 3 (1993), 1-16.

Diamond, Sara. Roads to Dominion: Right Wing Movements and Political Power in the
United States. New York: Guilford Press, 1995.

Dittmer, John. Black Georgia in the Progressive Era, 1900-1920. Urbana: University of
Illinois Press, 1977.

“Diversity,” Haynsworth Sinkler Boyd website, http://www.hsblawfirm.com/


profile.php?AboutusID=8.

Dobrasko, Rebekah. “Upholding ‘Separate but Equal:’ South Carolina’s School
Equalization Program, 1951-1955.” M.A. thesis, University of South Carolina,
2005.

Donaldson, Bobby J. “Standing on a Volcano: The Leadership of William Jefferson
White.” In Paternalism in a Southern City: Race, Religion, and Gender in
Augusta, Georgia, edited by Edward J. Cashin and Glenn T. Askew, 135-76.
Athens and London: University of Georgia Press, 2001.

Downey, Tom. Planting a Capitalist South: Masters, Merchants, and Manufacturers in
the Southern Interior, 1790-1860. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press,
2006.

Doyle, Don H. New Men, New Cities, New South: Atlanta, Nashville, Charleston, Mobile,
1860-1910. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1990.

Drago, Edmund L. Initiative, Paternalism, and Race Relations: Charleston’s Avery
Normal Institute. Athens and London: University of Georgia Press, 1990.

Drake, Joseph Turpin. “The Negro in Greenville, South Carolina.” M.A. thesis,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 1940.

Du Bois, W. E. B. The Souls of Black Folk. 1903. With a new introduction, New York:
Dover Publications, 1994.

Edgar, Walter. South Carolina: A History. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press,
1996.

Egerton, John. Speak Now against the Day: The Generation Before the Civil Rights
Movement in the South. Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina
Press, 1994.

Esslemont, John E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. 5th revised edition. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.

[Eyford, Glen, ed.] The Bahá’í Faith and Marxism: Proceedings of a Conference Held
January 1986. Ottawa, ON: Bahá’í Studies Publications, 1987.

Etter-Lewis, Gwendolyn. “Radiant Lights: African-American Women and the
Advancement of the Bahá’í Faith in the U.S.” In Lights of the Spirit: Historical
Portraits of Black Bahá’ís in North America, 1898-2000, edited by Gwendolyn
Etter-Lewis and Richard Thomas, 49-68. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2006.

Fairclough, Adam. Race and Democracy: The Civil Rights Struggle in Louisiana, 1915-
1972. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1995.


Fraser, Walter J. Charleston! Charleston!: The History of a Southern City. Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press, 1989.

Fredrickson, George M. The Black Image in the White Mind: The Debate on Afro-
American Character and Destiny, 1817-1914. 1971. With a new introduction,
Middletown, CT: Wesleyan University Press, 1987)

Gaboury, William J. “George Washington Murray and the Fight for Political Democracy
in South Carolina.” Journal of Negro History 62 (July 1977): 258-69.

Garis, M. R. Martha Root: Lioness at the Threshold. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1983.

Gaston, Paul M. Man and Mission: E. B. Gaston and the Origins of the Fairhope Single
Tax Colony. Montgomery, AL: Black Belt Press, 1993.

Gibson, Campbell and Kay Jung. Historical Census Statistics on Population Totals by
Race, 1790 to 1990, and by Hispanic Origin, 1970 to 1990, for the United States,
Regions, Divisions, and States. Working Paper Series no. 56. Washington, DC:
Population Division, US Census Bureau, 2002. http://www.census.gov/
population/www/documentation/twps0056/twps0056.html.

Gilstrap, Dorothy Freeman. From Copper to Gold: The Life of Dorothy Baker. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1999.

Gleijeses, Piero. “African Americans and the War against Spain.” In A Question of
Manhood: A Reader in U.S. Black Men’s History and Masculinity, edited by
Darlene Clark Hine and Earnestine Jenkins, 320-45. Indianapolis: Indiana
University Press, 1999.

Green, Constance McLaughlin. The Secret City: A History of Race Relations in the
Nation’s Capital. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1967.

Gravely, William. “The Civil Right Not to Be Lynched: State Law, Government, and
Citizen Response to the Killing of Willie Earle (1947).” In Toward the Meeting of
the Waters: Currents in the Civil Rights Movement of South Carolina during the
Twentieth Century, edited by Winfred B. Moore, Jr., and Orville Vernon Burton,
93-118. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2008.

Gregory, James N. The Southern Diaspora: How the Great Migrations of Black and
White Southerners Transformed America. Chapel Hill: University of North
Carolina Press, 2005.

A Heavenly Vista: The Pilgrimage of Louis G. Gregory. Washington, DC: R. L.
Pendleton, n.d., ca. 1912. Reprint, Ferndale, MI: Alpha Services, 1997.
http://bahai-library.com/file.php?file=gregory_heavenly_vista.


Gulpaygání, Abu’l-Fazl. The Bahá’í Proofs. 1902. Reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.

Hahn, Steven. A Nation under Our Feet: Black Political Struggles in the Rural South
from Slavery to the Great Migration. Cambridge and London: Harvard University
Press, 2003.

Hall, Jacquelyn Dowd. Revolt against Chivalry: Jessie Daniel Ames and the Women’s
Campaign against Lynching. Revised edition, New York: Columbia University
Press, 1993.

Hamer, Fritz P. Charleston Reborn: A Southern City, Its Navy Yard, and World War II.
Charleston, SC: The History Press, 2005.

———. “Seeds of Change: World War I, South Carolina, Impact and Contributions.” In
Forward Together: South Carolinians in the Great War, edited by Fritz P. Hamer,
13-52. Charleston, SC: History Press, 2007.

Hampson, Arthur. “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith.” Ph.D. diss., University
of Hawaii, 1980.

Handbook of South Carolina: Resources, Institutions and Industries of the State.
Columbia: S.C. Dept. of Agriculture, Commerce, and Immigration, 1908.
http://books.google.com/books.

Haney, Miriam. “Margaret Klebs.” In The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International
Record, vol. 8, 1938-1940, compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, 670-2. 1942; reprint, Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.

Harlan, Louis R. Booker T. Washington: The Making of a Black Leader, 1856-1901. New
York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1972.

———. Booker T. Washington: The Wizard of Tuskegee, 1901-1915. New York and
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1983.

Harvey, Paul. Freedom’s Coming: Religious Culture and the Shaping of the South from
the Civil War through the Civil Rights Era. Chapel Hill and London: University
of North Carolina Press, 2005.

Harvin, Stephanie. “The Ripple Effect: Influencing the Tide of History.” (Charleston)
Post and Courier, 2 February 2003.

Hassall, Graham. “Notes on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths in Russia and Its Territories.”
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 5, no.3 (1993): 41-80, 86.


———. “References to Africa in the Bahá’í Writings.” Bahá’í Library Online,
http://www.bahai-library.org/file.php?file=hassall_africa_bahai_writings.

Hatcher, William S., and J. Douglas Martin. The Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global
Religion. Revised edition, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2003.

Hayes, Jack Irby, Jr. South Carolina and the New Deal. Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 2001.

Hemmingway, Theodore. “Prelude to Change: Black Carolinians in the War Years, 1914-
1920.” Journal of Negro History 65, no. 3 (Summer 1980): 212-27.

Herrmann, Duane L. “The Bahá’í Faith in Kansas.” In Community Histories, Studies in
the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 6, edited by Richard Hollinger, 67-108. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992.

Higginbotham, Evelyn Brooks. Righteous Discontent: The Women’s Movement in the
Black Baptist Church, 1880-1920. Cambridge and London: Harvard University
Press, 1993.

Hill’s Columbia (Richland County, S.C.) City Directory. Vol. 10, 1939. Richmond, VA:
Hill Directory Co., 1939.

Hill’s Columbia (Richland County, S.C.) City Directory. Vol. 13, 1942. Richmond, VA:
Hill Directory Co., 1942.

Hill’s Greenville (Greenville Co.) City Directory, 1945. Richmond, VA: Hill Directory
Co., 1945.

Hine, Darlene Clark. “The Corporeal and Ocular Veil: Dr. Matilda A. Evans (1872-1935)
and the Complexity of Southern History.” Journal of Southern History 70 (Feb.
2004): 3-34.

Hoagg, Emogene. “Letter from Haifa in the Mourning Time.” World Order 6, no. 2
(Winter 1971-72): 34-37.

Hoffman, Edwin D. “The Genesis of the Modern Movement for Equal Rights in South
Carolina, 1930-1939.” The Journal of Negro History, 44, no. 4 (October 1959):
346-369.

Hofman, Marion. “Five Intercontinental Conferences, 1958.” In The Bahá’í World: An
International Record, vol. 13, 1954-1963, compiled under the direction of the
Universal House of Justice, 311-32. Haifa, Israel: Universal House of Justice,
1970.

Holley, Horace. “International Survey of Current Bahá’í Activities in the East and West.”
In The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 10, 1944-1946,


compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States
and Canada, 13-94. 1949; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

———. “International Survey of Current Bahá’í Activities in the East and West.” In The
Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 11, 1946-1950, compiled by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada,
15-54. 1950; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Holley, Marion. “The Growth of the American Bahá’í Community to 1944.” In The
Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 10, 1944-1946, compiled by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada,
158-661. 1949; reprint, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Hollinger, Richard. “Introduction: Bahá’í Communities in the West, 1897-1992.” In
Community Histories, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 6, edited by
Richard Hollinger, vii-xlix. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992.

Hollis, Daniel W. “Samuel Chiles Mitchell, Social Reformer in Blease’s South Carolina.”
South Carolina Historical Magazine 70, no. 1 (January 1969): 20-37.

Hornsby, Benjamin F. Stepping Stone to the Supreme Court: Clarendon County, South
Carolina. Columbia: South Carolina Department of Archives and History, 1992.

Hudson, Janet. Entangled by White Supremacy: Reform in World War I-era South
Carolina. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2009.

Huff, Archie Vernon, Jr. Greenville: The History of the City and County in the South
Carolina Piedmont. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1995.

Ioas, Leroy. “Teaching in North America.” In The Bahá’í World: A Biennial
International Record, vol. 9, 1940-1944, compiled by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada, 215-6. 1945; reprint,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Jenkins, Wilbert L. Seizing the New Day: African Americans in Post-Civil War
Charleston. Bloomington and Indianapolis: University of Indiana Press, 1998.

Johnson, Lyndon B. Special Message to Congress, 15 March 1965, Lyndon Baines
Johnson Library and Museum, http://www.lbjlib.utexas.edu/johnson/
archives.hom/speeches.hom/650315.asp.

Kahn, Sandra Santolucito. “Encounter of Two Myths: Bahá’í and Christian in the Rural
American South—A Study in Transmythicization.” Ph.D. diss., University of
California, Santa Barbara, 1977.

Kantrowitz, Stephen. Ben Tillman & the Reconstruction of White Supremacy. Chapel
Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2000.



Kelley, Robin D. G. Hammer and Hoe: Alabama Communists during the Great
Depression. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1990.

———. “‘We Are Not What We Seem’: Rethinking Black Working Class Opposition in
the Jim Crow South.” Journal of American History 80, no. 1 (June 1993): 75-112.

King, Martin Luther, Jr. Why We Can’t Wait. New York: Harper & Row, 1963.

Kluger, Richard. Simple Justice. New York: Random House, 1977.

K’Meyer, Tracy. Interracialism and Christian Community in the Postwar South: The
Story of Koinonia Farm. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 1997.

Korstad, Robert R. “Could History Repeat Itself?: The Prospects for a Second
Reconstruction in Post-World War II South Carolina.” In Toward the Meeting of
the Waters: Currents in the Civil Rights Movement of South Carolina during the
Twentieth Century, edited by Winfred B. Moore, Jr., and Orville Vernon Burton,
252-60. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2008.

Kovacik, Charles F., and John J. Winberry. South Carolina: A Geography. Boulder and
London: Westview Press, 1987.

Knaus, Kristina Lee. “One Region, Many Faiths.” The (Columbia) State, 5 September
2003, B8.

Lambert, Frank. James Habersham: Loyalty, Politics, and Commerce in Colonial
Georgia. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 2005.

Lander, Ernest McPherson, Jr. A History of South Carolina, 1865-1960. Chapel Hill:
University of North Carolina Press, 1960.

Lesesne, Henry H. A History of the University of South Carolina, 1940-2000. Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press, 2002.

Letwin, Daniel. The Challenge of Interracial Unionism: Alabama Coal Miners, 1878-
1921. Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 1998.

Lau, Peter F. Democracy Rising: South Carolina and the Fight for Black Equality since
1865. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2006.

Lippy, Charles H., ed. Religion in South Carolina. Columbia: University of South
Carolina Press, 1993.

Litwack, Leon. Trouble in Mind: Black Southerners in the Age of Jim Crow. New York:
Vintage Books, 1998.


Lowery, I. E. Life on the Old Plantation in Ante-Bellum Days, or A Story Based on Facts,
with Brief Sketches of the Author by the Late Rev. J. Wofford White of the South
Carolina Conference, Methodist Episcopal Church and An Appendix. Columbia:
The State Co. Printing, 1911.

———. “Rev. I. E. Lowery’s Column.” Southern Indicator, 19 February 1921, 3.

McCandless, Peter. Moonlight, Magnolias, and Madness: Insanity in South Carolina
from the Colonial Period to the Progressive Era. Chapel Hill and London:
University of North Carolina Press, 1996.

McDaniel, Allen B., and Paul E. Haney. “Interior Ornamentation of the Bahá’í House of
Worship.” In The Bahá’í World; A Biennial International Record, vol. 12, 1950-
1954, compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States, 533-8. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956.

McDaniel, Jeanne M. North Augusta: James U. Jackson’s Dream. Charleston, SC:
Arcadia Publishing, 2006.

McDonough, Julia Anne. “Men and Women of Good Will: A History of the Commission
on Interracial Cooperation and the Southern Regional Council, 1919-1954.” Ph.D.
diss., University of Virginia, 1993.

McMullen, Michael. The Bahá’í: The Religious Construction of a Global Identity. New
Brunswick, NJ and London: Rutgers University Press, 2000.

McPherson, James M. The Negro’s Civil War: How American Negroes Felt and Acted
during the War for the Union. New York: Random House, 1965.

MacRobert, Iain. The Black Roots and White Racism of Early Pentecostalism. New York:
St. Martin’s Press, 1988.

Martin, Waldo. No Coward Soldiers: Black Cultural Politics and Postwar America.
Cambridge and London: Harvard University Press, 2005.

Maude, Roderick and Derwent Maude. The Servant, the General, and Armageddon.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1998.

Mays, Benjamin E. Born to Rebel:  An Autobiography. Revised edition, Athens:
University of Georgia Press, 2003.

Mitchell, Broadus. The Rise of Cotton Mills in the South. 1921. With a new introduction
by David Carlton, Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2001.

Momen, Moojan. Islam and the Bahá’í Faith: An Introduction to the Bahá’í Faith for
Muslims. Oxford: George Ronald, 2000.

———. “Learning from History.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2, no. 2 (1989): 55-68.



Montgomery, William E. Under Their Own Vine and Fig Tree: The African-American
Church in the South, 1865-1900. Baton Rouge and London: Louisiana State
University Press, 1993.

Moore, John Hammond. Columbia and Richland County: A South Carolina Community,
1740-1990. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1993.

Moore, Robert J. “The Civil Rights Advocate.” In Matthew J. Perry: The Man, His
Times, and His Legacy, edited by W. Lewis Burke and Belinda F. Gergel, 155-82.
Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 2004.

Moorhead, James H. World without End: Mainstream American Protestant Visions of the
Last Things, 1880-1925. Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press,
1999.

Morrison, Gayle. To Move the World: Louis G. Gregory and the Advancement of Racial
Unity in America. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

Moses, Wilson Jeremiah. Afrotopia: The Roots of African American Popular History.
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998.

———. Alexander Crummell: A Study of Civilization and Discontent. New York: Oxford
University Press, 1989.

———.“The Lost World of the New Negro, 1895-1919: Black Literary and Intellectual
Life before the ‘Renaissance.’” Black American Literature Forum 21, nos. 1-2
(Spring-Summer 1987): 61-84.

Moss, Alfred A. The American Negro Academy: Voice of the Talented Tenth. Baton
Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1981.

Murray, Pauli, ed. States’ Laws on Race and Color. Athens: University of Georgia Press,
1997.

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada. Annual
Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada for the
Year 1938-1939. New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1939.

———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada for the Year 1940-1941. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1941.

———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada for the Year 1941-1942. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1942.


———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada for the Year 1942-1943. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1943.

———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada for the Year 1943-1944. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1944.

———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States and
Canada for the Year 1946-1947. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1947.

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. Annual Bahá’í Reports
Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States for the Year 1959-1960. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1960.

———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States for the Year
1961-1962. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1962.

———. Annual Bahá’í Reports Presented to the Bahá’ís of the United States for the Year
1962-1963. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1963.

———. Ridván 2009 Annual Report. N.p. [Wilmette, IL]: National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of the United States, 2009.

Niebuhr, Gustav. “Hemingway Journal: A Little Bit of a Change From Old-Time
Religion.” New York Times, 31 March 2000.

Neibuhr, H. Richard. The Kingdom of God in America. New York: Harper & Row, 1937.

Newby, Idus A. Black Carolinians: A History of Blacks in South Carolina from 1895 to
1968. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1973.

Norell, Robert J. Up from History: The Life of Booker T. Washington. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 2009.

Nugent, Walter. Crossings: The Great Transatlantic Migrations, 1870-1914.
Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1995.

The Official Railway List: A Directory. Chicago: Railway Purchasing Agent Co., 1884.
http://books.google.com/books.

Oldfield, John. “The African American Bar in South Carolina.” In At Freedom’s Door:
African American Founding Fathers and Lawyers in South Carolina, edited by
James Lowell Underwood and W. Lewis Burke, 116-29. Columbia: University of
South Carolina Press, 2000.


Stephen O’Neill. “Memory, History, and the Desegregation of Greenville, South
Carolina,” in Toward the Meeting of the Waters, ed. Moore and Burton, 288.

Parsons, Agnes. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in America: Agnes Parsons’ Diary. Edited by Richard
Hollinger. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1996.

Perry, Mark. “Robert S. Abbott and the Chicago Defender: A Door to the Masses.”
Michigan Chronicle, 10 October 1995, http://www.uga.edu/bahai/News/
101095.html.

Polk’s Augusta (Richmond County, Georgia) City Directory, 1937. Richmond, VA: R. L.
Polk, 1937.

Power, J. Tracy. I Will Not Be Silent and I Will Be Heard: Martin Luther King, Jr., the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and Penn Center. Topics in African
American History, no. 2. Columbia: South Carolina Department of Archives and
History, 1993.

“Professor Edwin Klebs.” British Medical Journal 2, no. 2760 (22 November 1913):
1413-4.

Rabbani, Rúhíyyih, ed. The Ministry of the Custodians, 1957-1963. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1992.

Rabbani, Rúhíyyih. The Priceless Pearl. Second edition, Oakham, England: Bahá’í
Publishing, 2000.

Randolph, Robert M. “James McBride Dabbs: Spokesman for Racial Liberalism.” In
From the Old South to the New: Essays on the Transitional South, Contributions
in American History, no. 93, edited by Walter J. Fraser, Jr., and Winfred B.
Moore, Jr., 253-64. Westport, CT, and London: Greenwood Press, 1981.

Rassekh, Farhad. “The Bahá’í Faith and the Market Economy.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies
11, no. 3/4 (Sept.-Dec. 2001): 31-61.

Reed, Linda. Simple Decency and Common Sense: The Southern Conference Movement,
1938-1963. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1991.

Reich, Steven A. “Soldiers of Democracy: Black Texans and the Fight for Citizenship,
1917-1921.” Journal of American History 82 (March 1996): 1478-1504.

Reid, Alfred S. “The Greenville County Council for Community Development: Furman
and Greenville in Partnership in the 1930s.” In Proceedings and Papers of the
Greenville County Historical Association, vol. 6, edited by Albert N. Sanders, 78-
88. Greenville: Greenville County Historical Association, 1981.


Reid, Alfred Sandlin. Furman University: Toward a New Identity. Durham: Duke
University Press, 1976.

Rogers, George C. Jr. The History of Georgetown County, South Carolina. Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press, 1970.

Rubillo, Tom. Trial and Error: The Case of John Brownfield and Race Relations in
Georgetown, South Carolina. Charleston, SC: History Press, 2005.

Rutstein, Nathan. Corinne True: Faithful Handmaid of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1987.

Saeidi, Nader. Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Báb. Waterloo, ON:
Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2008.

———. Logos and Civilization: Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh. Bethesda: University Press of Maryland, 2000.

Sassaman, Kenneth E. Early Pottery in the Southeast: Tradition and Innovation in
Cooking Technology. Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press, 1993.

Schaefer, Udo, Ulrich Gollmer, and Nicola Towfigh. Making the Crooked Straight: A
Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics. Oxford: George Ronald, 2000.

Sears, William. Thief in the Night. Oxford: George Ronald, 1961.

Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922-1932. Sixth edition,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.

———. The Advent of Divine Justice. First pocket-sized edition, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1990.

———. Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947-1957. 1965. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1997.

———. God Passes By. 1944. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.

———. Messages to America: Selected Letters and Cablegrams Addressed to the
Bahá’ís of North America, 1932-1946. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1947.

———. Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1971.


———. The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community: Messages from the
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of the British Isles. Oakham,
England: Bahá’í Publishing, 1981.

———. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters. 1st pocket-size ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.

———. A World Survey of the Bahá’í Faith, 1844-1944. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1944.

Simon, Bryant. A Fabric of Defeat: The Politics of South Carolina Millhands, 1910-
1948. Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 1998.

Smedley, Katherine. Martha Schofield and the Re-Education of the South, 1839-1916.
Studies in Women and Religion, vol. 24. Lewiston, NY and Queenston, ON:
Edwin Mellen Press, 1987.

Smith, Kenneth L. and Ira G. Zepp, Jr. Search for the Beloved Community: The Thinking
of Martin Luther King, Jr. Lanham, MD: University Press of America, 1986.

Smith, Peter. “The American Bahá’í Community, 1894-1917: A Preliminary Survey.” In
Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 1, edited by Moojan Momen, 85-223.
Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1982.

———. “The Bahá’í Faith in the West: A Survey.” In Bahá’ís in the West, Studies in the
Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 14, edited by Peter Smith, 3-60. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 2004.

———. An Introduction to the Bahá’í Faith. New York: Cambridge University Press,
2008.

Snowden, Yates, and H. G. Cutler, eds. History of South Carolina. Vol. 5. Chicago and
New York: Lewis Publishing Co., 1920. http://books.google.com/book.

Southern, David W. “Beyond Jim Crow Liberalism: Judge Waring’s Fight against
Segregation in South Carolina, 1942-52.” The Journal of Negro History 66, no. 3
(Autumn 1981): 209-27.

Southern Educational Association. Journal of Proceedings and Addresses of the Eleventh
Annual Meeting Held at Columbia, S.C., December 26-29, 1901. N.p.: Southern
Education Association, 1902.

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Austin, Texas. “Anna Reinke and the Early Years of
the Bahá’í Faith in Austin.” Austin Bahá’í Website, http://www.austinbahai.org/
?view=history.


“Stanwood Cobb.” In The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 18, 1979-1983,
compiled under the direction of the Universal House of Justice, 814-7. Haifa, Israel:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1986.

Stockman, Robert. H. “The Bahá’í Faith and American Protestantism.” Th.D. diss.,
Harvard University, 1990.

———. The Bahá’í Faith in America. Vol. 1, Origins, 1892-1900. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1985.

———. The Bahá’í Faith in America. Vol. 2, Early Expansion, 1900-1912. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1995.

———.  “U.S. Bahá’í Community Membership: 1894-1996.” The American Bahá’í, 23
November 1996, 27.

———. “United States of America.” Draft article for the Bahá’í Encyclopedia project,
http://bahai-library.com/encyclopedia/usa.html.

Sullivan, Patricia. Days of Hope: Race and Democracy in the New Deal Era. Chapel Hill:
University of North Carolina Press, 1996.

Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George Ronald, 2000.

Bonnie J. Taylor, ed. The Pupil of the Eye: African Americans in the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. Riviera Beach, FL: Palabra Publications, 1998.

Thompson, James Lawrence. Of Shattered Minds. Edited by Anita Warick Roof.
Columbia: South Carolina Department of Mental Health, 1989.

Thompson, Juliet. Juliet Thompson’s Diary. With a preface by Marzieh Gail. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1995.

Tindall, George Brown. The Emergence of the New South, 1913-1945. History of the
New South, vol. 10. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1967.

———. South Carolina Negroes, 1877-1900. 1952. Revised edition, Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press, 2003.

Tyson, Timothy. Radio Free Dixie: Robert F. Williams and the Roots of Black Power.
Chapel Hill and London: University of North Carolina Press, 2001.

[Universal House of Justice]. Century of Light. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2001.

———. The Five Year Plan, 2001-2006: Messages of the Universal House of Justice.
Second edition, Riviera Beach, FL: Palabra Publications, 2003.


———. The Four Year Plan: Messages of the Universal House of Justice. Riviera Beach,
FL: Palabra Publications, 1996.

Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986:
The Third Epoch of the Formative Age. Compiled by Geoffry W. Marks.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996.

———. Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1968-1973. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1976.

van den Hoonaard, Will. C. “Siegfried Schopflocher.” Draft article for the Bahá’í
Encyclopedia project, http://bahai-library.com/encyclopedia/schopflocher.html.

Wacker, Grant. Heaven Below: Early Pentecostals and American Culture. Cambridge
and London: Harvard University Press, 2001.

Walsh’s 1901 Charleston, South Carolina, City Directory. Charleston: Walsh Directory
Co., Inc., 1910.

Walsh’s 1925-1926 Charleston, South Carolina, City Directory. Charleston: Southern
Printing & Publishing Co., 1925.

Ward, Allan L. 239 Days: ‘Abdul-Bahá’s Journey in America. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1979.

Washington, Booker T. The Booker T. Washington Papers. Vol. 5, 1899-1900. Edited by
Louis Harlan et al. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1981.

———. The Booker T. Washington Papers. Vol. 10, 1909-1911. Edited by Louis Harlan
et al. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1981.

———. Up from Slavery: An Autobiography. 1901. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1919.

Wendte, Charles W. Heart and Voice: A Collection of Songs and Services for the Sunday
School and the Home. Boston: Geo. H. Ellis Co., 1909. http://books.google.com.

West, Michael Rudolph. The Education of Booker T. Washington: American Democracy
and the Idea of Race Relations. New York: Columbia University Press, 2008.

White, John W. “The White Citizens’ Councils of Orangeburg County, South Carolina.”
In Toward the Meeting of the Waters: Currents in the Civil Rights Movement of
South Carolina during the Twentieth Century, edited by Winfred B. Moore, Jr.,
and Orville Vernon Burton, 261-73. Columbia: University of South Carolina
Press, 2008.  .

Whitfield, Bruce. The Dawning-Place: The Building of a Temple, the Forging of the
North American Bahá’í Community. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1984.



Whitfield, Stephen J. A Death in the Delta: The Story of Emmett Till. New York: Free
Press, 1988.

Woods, Jeff. Black Struggle, Red Scare: Segregation and Anti-Communism in the South,
1948-1968. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2004.

Woodward, C. Vann. Tom Watson: Agrarian Rebel. 1938. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1963.

Workman, W. D., Jr. “The Ring That Isn’t.” In Perspectives in South Carolina History:
The First 300 Years, edited by Ernest M. Lander, Jr., and Robert K. Ackerman,
392-407. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1973.

Zaraqání, Mahmúd. Mahmúd’s Diary: The Story of Mírzá Mahmúd-i-Zaraqání
Chronicling ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey in America. Translated by Mohi Sobhani
and Shirley Macias. Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.