Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book T h r e e

Li g h ts of ‘I r f án
Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted provided that
the sources and authors are clearly indicated, with the exception of
provisional translations, which are not to be further distributed.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 6 0 2 0 1
U S A
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3502
E-mail: iayman@usbnc.org
Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Thre e
General Editor Iraj Ay m a n
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
159 B.E. 2002 C.E.
Copyright © 2002, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
w w w. i r f a n c o l l o q u i a . o rg
Design and Artwork by Trey and Lynne Ya n c y
Edited and typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com

Li g h ts of ‘I r f án
I
t is now incumbent upon them who are endowed with a hearing
ear and a seeing eye to ponder these sublime words, in each of
which the oceans of inner meaning and explanation are hidden,
that haply the words uttered by Him Who is the Lord of
Revelation may enable His servants to attain, with the utmost
joy and radiance, unto the Supreme Goal and Most Sublime
Summit—the dawning-place of this Voice.
— B a h á ' u ' l l á h
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 147

Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Table of Contents
P r e f a c e  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i i i
A Journey through the Seven Va l l e y s
Ghasem Bayat  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 1
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of God’s Wo r d
LeRoy Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 9
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 9
The Wronged One: Shí‘í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Visitation for
Mullá Husayn
William McCants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 3
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 5
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 7
The Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib: introduction and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2 1
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2 9
Theological Responses to Modernity in the Nineteenth-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 3 9
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith: Classification of
Concepts and Practices
Enoch Ta n y i  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 5 5
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James T h o m a s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 7 3
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang and Nineteenth-century China
Jianping Wa n g  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 8 5
A p p e n d i x
contents of previous volumes of Lights of ‘Irfán  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 9 9
Preface
i

Li g h ts of ‘I r f án
i i

Preface
T
he Words of God have innumerable significances and mysteries of meanings - each one a thousand and
m o r e ,1 Ábdu’l-Bahá asserts in one of His talks delivered in the United States. And in another talk He adds,
“It is difficult to comprehend even the words of a philosopher; how much more difficult it is to under-
stand the Words of God. The divine Words are not to be taken according to their outer sense. They are symbol-
ical and contain realities of spiritual meaning.”2 The ‘Irfán Colloquium is a forum for those who undertake deep-
er studies of the Words of God, attempting to understand the meanings and messages contained in those sacred
words and presenting their findings to the participants.3 Such gatherings take place several times in Europe and
North America every year. Each year more than 100 papers are presented in these gatherings, half of them in the
sessions conducted in English and the other half in the sessions conducted in Persian. The present volume of
The Lights of ‘Irfán contains some of the papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia held in 2001. Lights of ‘Irfán
volumes are published by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund.4
The main theme of the colloquium in 2001 was Mysticism and the Bahá’í Faith. About half of the papers pub-
lished in this volume deal with various aspects and dimensions of that theme. Two papers are on the Seven
Va l l e y s, studying it from two different points of view: “A Journey through the Seven Valleys” by Ghasem Bayat
and “The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method” by Robert Sarracino. This latter paper and Kavian Milani’s
paper “The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order” open new lines of research in Bahá’í lit-
e r a t u r e .
Papers on “Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community” by Moojan Momen, “The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual
Journey Towards God” by Todd Lawson, “Knowledge, Certitude and Mystical Heat: The Hidden Essence of
G o d ’s Word” by LeRoy Jones, and “Mysticism in African Traditional Religion” by Enoch Tanyi present various
aspects of and different approaches to the study of mysticism and the Bahá’í Faith.
The sessions of the Irfan Colloquium, over the past few years, have been followed by a Seminar on the study
of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Studies presented in 2001 and included in this volume, in addition to the papers
related to the Seven Va l l e y s, are “The beginning that hath no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology” by Vahid Brown,
which discusses the interpretation of a particular segment of the Tablet of Wisdom (Lawh-i-Hikmat); “Lawh-i-
Mánikjí Sáhib,” a Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh in response to the questions of Mánikjí Sáhib, by Ramin Neshati; “A n
Exposition on the Fire Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh” by James Thomas; and “The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative
Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Visitation for Mullá Husayn” by William McCants.
Other papers in this volume include “From Adam to Baha’u’llah: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy” by Zaid
L u n d b e rg, a paper which was not completely ready for publication in The Lights of ‘Irfán, Book II, and was
mistakenly referred to in the Preface of that volume under its earlier title “Perception Into Faith: A R a d i c a l
Discontinuity Within Unity” ; Jianping Wa n g ’s “The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang and
Nineteenth-century China” ; and Oliver Scharbrodt’s paper “Theological Responses to Modernity in the
Nineteenth-century Middle East.”
All papers in this volume present the views and understandings of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors; therefore their style or scholarly approaches are not the same. They are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of the surnames of the authors. Abstracts of all the
presentations made at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars are published in a series of separate booklets.
Iraj Ay m a n
Chicago, March 2002
N o t e s
1) ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, P romulgation of Universal Peace (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust) p. 155
2) ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, P romulgation of Universal Peace, p. 459
3) ‘ I r f á n is a Persian-Arabic word referring to mystical, theological, and spiritual recognition and knowledge.
4) Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-1941) was a distinguished Bahá’í scholar of the Biblical studies and a prominent teacher of the Bahá’í
Preface
i i i

Faith in Iran.
i v
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

A Journey through the Seven Valleys1 of Bahá’u’lláh
by Ghasem Bayat
Preamble
I
n this brief journey through the Seven Va l l e y s2 of Bahá’u’lláh, we will partake of its spiritual bounties, focus
on its principal message, tune our hearts to the teachings it enshrines, marvel at its masterful composition
and form, and recognize some of the distinctive features of this book as compared with Islamic mystic writ-
ings. This brief journey is at best an introduction to this Epistle, and is intended to encourage the readers to
embark on an in-depth study of the Seven Valleys to receive the full measure of love and life it off e r s .
The Historical Background
This Epistle of Bahá’u’lláh was revealed during the Baghdad period, circa 1862 C.E. . It was revealed in
answer to questions raised by S ha yk h M u h y i ’ d - D í n ,3 the judge of K hániqayn, a town located in Iraqi
Kurdistan, northeast of Baghdad, and near the Iranian border.
The words of the beloved Guardian in describing the significance of this Epistle and its relation to other
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh provides us with a perspective on this book:
To these two outstanding contributions to the world’s religious literature [the Kitáb-i-ˆqán and the Hidden
Words], occupying respectively, positions of unsurpassed preeminence among the doctrinal and ethical
Writings of the Author of the Bahá’í Dispensation, was added, during that same period, a treatise that may
well be regarded as His greatest mystical composition, designated as the “Seven Valleys,” which He wrote
in answer to the questions of S ha yk h Muhyi’d-Dín, the Qádí of K hániqayn, in which He describes the
seven stages which the soul of the seeker must needs traverse ere it can attain the object of its existence.4
This Epistle was revealed in the language and the composition of the mystic Sufi Writings, and is part of a
category of the mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh that includes Books such as the Four Va l l e y s ,5 the Hidden
Wo r d s ,6 and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán,7 plus Tablets like the Essence (Gems) of Mysteries,8 and the Mat hn a v í y - i -
Mubárak (Blessed Ode).9 All of these Writings, with the exception of the Blessed Ode, were revealed during
the Baghdad period, prior to the declaration of His ministry. The composition of the Blessed Ode probably
started during His sojourn in Kurdistan but was completed in A d r i a n o p l e .
The Seven Valleys describes various stages in the mystic journey of a wayfarer, and identifies the conditions
prerequisite to success in this spiritual quest. This Treatise is revealed in an eloquent language and is composed
in a masterful style, with beauty and brevity. Some of its poems, traditions, words of wisdom and stories can
be traced back to the mystic writings of ‘Attár, Rúmí, Ansárí, Saná’í, and others. At a first glance, therefore, it
appears to be a mystical book in conformity with the Islamic mystical literature of the past, encouraging the
seekers to break away from the rigors of life and undertake a spiritual path. A deeper study of the language,
themes, style and abundance of poems and stories that are used in this Epistle only serve to accentuate this first
i m p r e s s i o n .
In spite of this resemblance to the Islamic mystic writings, it stands apart from all in its purpose, its mean-
ings, its message, and its claims. This article will show how virtually every story, every metaphor and every
poem conveys distinctly different objectives and meanings from those intended by the mystics in their writ-
ings. All these find their fulfilment in the Person of Bahá’u’lláh and His advent in this world. Examples will
be offered to show how the use of mystic language and its metaphors have been used to proclaim this new
Cause and its Truth through a medium commonly understood by mystics.
Some of the distinctive features of this Epistle that form the subject matter of this article on the Seven
Valleys are as follows:
i .
The principal message of this Treatise is the glad-tidings of the coming of the Promised
Manifestation of the Ancient Beauty amongst men. This message appears throughout this Epistle,
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

at times wrapped in metaphors and allusions, and at other times in abundantly clear language.
i i .
This Treatise uses mystic language and its abundant metaphors to expound on the Truth brought
by the new Cause about the reality of God’s Manifestations, the relationship of man to his Creator,
and the purpose and the ultimate reach of man’s spiritual quest. The contrasts between these asser-
tions and common Sufi beliefs are at times overwhelming.
i i i .
This Treatise also contains the seeds and the elements of many of the teachings of the Cause that
were amplified in subsequent Writings of the Faith throughout Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry.
The Language and the Composition
This Epistle is revealed in a masterful style, eloquent composition, extreme brevity, and in apparent con-
formity to the traditions and language common amongst the mystic Sufis. Like many Islamic mystical writ-
ings, the Seven Valleys describes the themes that relate to the wayfarer’s path, highlights issues that they need
to consider at each stage, and provides advice on the titles and requirements of these stages.
The celebrated thirteenth-century Persian mystic ‘Attár1 0 describes the eternal spiritual quest of man for the
knowledge and companionship of the Lord in his book the Conference of the Birds (M a n t i q u ’t - Ta y r) .11 In this
book, ‘Attár uses the metaphor of birds for humanity and the human soul. He relates how the birds assembled
to learn about their King. Upon learning about Him they longed so much for His company that they embarked
on a harsh and long journey to reach Him. At last, thirty tired and tried birds amongst them reached the pres-
ence of their King, the Phoenix. The Phoenix is that mystical bird repeatedly reborn again from the ashes, in
much the same way that God’s Manifestations grace the world of man with their frequent visits. The Persian
name for this mythical Phoenix is Seymorgh, meaning “thirty (s e y) birds (m o rg h).”
In the Conference of the Birds ‘Attár recalls these seven stages of the journey of the birds as seven valleys,
and describes them as the Valleys of Search, Love, Knowledge, Contentment, Unity, Wonderment, and Poverty
and Nothingness. It is noteworthy that there is a significant diversity of views amongst the mystics about these
stages, their numbers and descriptions. It is sufficient to state that ‘Attár himself describes the number of these
stages in his “Book of Hardship” (M o s i b a t - N á m e h) as five, each with different titles.1 2 These stages are
described still differently by Abú-Nasr Sarraj, are counted as ten by S ha yk h ‘Abdu’lláh Ansárí, and later as one
hundred in his other works.
Any detailed discussion of these stages and their descriptions as related by the mystics falls outside the
scope of this brief article. As intended in mystic writings, “valley” relates to the treacherous and dangerous
path or station that a wayfarer has to traverse. Its names, descriptions and numbers are subject to the perspec-
tive of the wayfarer, and are consequently often reported diff e r e n t l y. It is unfortunate that throughout the years
these superficial aspects of the spiritual journeys have received undue attention by the wayfarers and have
actually become obstacles between them and the object of their quests.
One of the objectives of the Seven Valleys has been to assist the seeker to search and find Bahá’u’lláh, as
He has proclaimed Himself in ways that all eyes can see Him and all ears can hear His melody. Bahá’u’lláh
refers to the futility of the ritualistic efforts of some that have caused these numerous obstacles in the wayfar-
e r s ’ paths to Him with these words:
Secrets are many, but strangers are myriad. Volumes will not suffice to hold the mystery of the Beloved
One, nor can it be exhausted in these pages, although it be no more than a word, no more than a sign.
“Knowledge is a single point, but the ignorant have multiplied it.”1 3
Bahá’u’lláh titles these stages of spiritual quest in the Seven Valleys as the Valleys of Search, Love,
Knowledge, Unity, Contentment, Wonderment, and True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness. With a minor
change in order, these are the same valleys that ‘Attár discussed.
A study of the Seven Valleys indicates that a wayfarer’s journey through these stages is intended to break
him away from undue attachment to and obsession with this material world, and purify and prepare his mind
and heart to perceive higher truths. The guidance given in the Seven Valleys is about knowing oneself, one’s
need of spiritual bestowals, contentment and submission unto the will of God, and the desire for God’s favour.
It encourages perseverance in one’s search after the Beloved, purification of one’s eyes, ears and mind from
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

whatever may be unacceptable in His sight, and the opening of one’s heart so that His love may enter.
This journey is a physical and spiritual endeavour to build a wayfarer’s character and spirit in order to make
him worthy of entering the presence of his Lord. At the same time, it is in line with the teachings of all great
Faiths. The choice of ‘A t t á r’s titles for the stages in this spiritual endeavour is neither critical nor central to
the main theme of this Epistle. The Seven Valleys does not intend to elevate any of the methods and descrip-
tions of these stages over others, and it should not be our goal either. This point comes across clearly from the
Words of Bahá’u’lláh when He states:
The stages that mark the wayfarer’s journey from the abode of dust to the heavenly homeland are said to
be seven. Some have called these Seven Valleys, and others, Seven Cities.1 4
As can be seen from this quote and from earlier quotes, Bahá’u’lláh places no special emphasis on the num-
bering or titles of these paths.
A seeker in the Sufi traditions was expected to spend a lifetime of effort and training under different spiri-
tual guides to pass through these valleys. Bahá’u’lláh’s statement in the Seven Valleys instead places the
emphasis on the Lord’s grace and the genuineness of the wayfarer’s search, and not on mere ritualistic eff o r t s :
These journeys have no visible ending in the world of time, but the severed wayfarer—if invisible confir-
mation descend upon him and the Guardian of the Cause assist him—may cross these seven stages in seven
steps, nay rather in seven breaths, nay rather in a single breath, if God will and desire it. And this is of “His
grace on such of His servants as He pleaseth.”1 5
The objective is recognition of Bahá’u’lláh and obedience to His commandments in a single declaration of
faith and submission, “Yes, My Lord.”
Regarding the large number of metaphors and citations in this Treatise, Bahá’u’lláh explains that the men-
tion of many of these references is in response to the wishes of the friends:
There is many an utterance of the mystic seers and doctors of former times which I have not mentioned
here, since I mislike the copious citation from sayings of the past; for quotation from the words of others
proveth acquired learning, not the divine bestowal. Even so much as We have quoted here is out of defer-
ence to the wont of men and after the manner of the friends.1 6
While most of Bahá’u’lláh’s tablets are addressed to specific individuals or groups, these tablets are actual-
ly intended for a much wider audience and a large section of mankind. For example, the Book of Certitude was
ostensibly revealed in answer to the questions of a maternal uncle of the Báb, but there is no doubt that this
book has served to enlighten, in addition to Muslims, a large number of Jewish and Christian believers by
addressing their scriptural concerns as well. Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets are written to many groups and sections of
mankind, including Zoroastrians, Jews, Christians, Muslims, Bábís, Sufis, clergymen, kings, rulers, and the
l e a r n e d .
In the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’u’lláh states that His intention in revealing Tablets to the clerg y,
doctors of jurisprudence, and Sufis had been to teach and educate each group of people according to their
capacity and provide for the transformation of individuals, thereby bringing about the peace and tranquillity of
all mankind:
The purpose of the one true God, exalted be His glory, hath been to bring forth the Mystic Gems out of the
mine of man. . . . That the divers communions of the earth, and the manifold systems of religious belief,
should never be allowed to foster the feelings of animosity among men, is, in this Day, of the essence of
the Faith of God and His Religion. . . . Exert yourselves that ye may attain this transcendent and most sub-
lime station, the station that can insure the protection and security of all mankind. This goal excelleth every
other goal, and this aspiration is the monarch of all aspirations. . . . At one time We spoke in the language
of the lawgiver; at another in that of the truth-seeker and the mystic, and yet Our supreme purpose and
highest wish hath always been to disclose the glory and sublimity of this station.1 7
This statement indicates that the purpose underlying Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical Writings has been the same as that
of the entire body of His Writings. Bahá’u’lláh’s intention has not been to add to or modify any of the diverse
and disparate Sufi movements.
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

Some of the distinctive features of the Seven Valleys from the Islamic mystic Writings are highlighted
b e l o w.
Glad Tidings of the Appearance of God’s Manifestation amongst Humanity.
The principal message of the Seven Valleys is that God’s Manifestation has appeared amongst humanity.
This is the Good News awaited by the faithful for centuries and even millennia. This message is also for the
mystics who would prepare themselves for their entire lives for just a glimpse of the Ancient Beauty.
The Islamic mystic Writings provide spiritual guidance to seekers in their quest for communion with God.
The words of Bahá’u’lláh, on the other hand, are the words of the Divine proclaiming His Manifestation in this
world and calling the believers to His Presence. This Good News, which in the Seven Valleys is at times
wrapped in allegories and symbolic terms and at other times in lucid terms, is unmistakably clear if taken as a
w h o l e .
As the views of some Sufi extremists regarding their communion with God have become indistinguishable
from Pantheism, Bahá’u’lláh makes it clear in this Treatise that union with God as described by Sufi extrem-
ists is unattainable. He redefines and restates the goal of the mystic quest as recognition of God’s Manifestation
for the age and obedience to His laws, thus uniting the goals of the mystics and the faithful in their hopes and
aspirations. This is a significant change for the mystics and will be discussed in greater detail.
He emphatically states and clearly defines the limit of man’s spiritual reach:
H o w e v e r, let none construe these utterances to be anthropomorphism, nor see in them the descent of the
worlds of God into the grades of the creatures; nor should they lead thine Eminence to such assumptions.
For God is, in His Essence, holy above ascent and descent, entrance and exit; He hath through all eternity
been free of the attributes of human creatures, and ever will remain so. No man hath ever known Him; no
soul hath ever found the pathway to His Being. Every mystic knower hath wandered far astray in the val-
ley of the knowledge of Him; every saint hath lost his way in seeking to comprehend His Essence.
Sanctified is He above the understanding of the wise; exalted is He above the knowledge of the knowing!
The way is barred and to seek it is impiety.1 8
Thus, the object of the ancient quest and the ultimate spiritual reach of a wayfarer in this day is recognition
of Bahá’u’lláh. T h e Seven Valleys contains the spiritual guidance that prepares man to meet and recognize the
“Lord of the A g e.” In a complementary Epistle, the Four Valleys, seekers at all stages of spiritual development
are guided to one of the manifold attributes and stations of Bahá’u’lláh. These two Treatises are the Lord’s
guidance to His subjects to recognize and follow Him, even though the formal declaration of His message was
yet to come. These messages, some of which are highlighted here, are expressions of love and excitement, hope
and fulfilment.
In the opening chapter of the Seven Va l l e y s, in response to a letter from the S ha yk h, Bahá’u’lláh addresses
him in these words:
And since I noted thy mention of thy death in God, and thy life through Him, and thy love for the beloved
of God and the Manifestations of His Names and the Dawning-Points of His Attributes—I therefore reveal
unto thee sacred and resplendent tokens from the planes of glory, to attract thee into the court of holiness
and nearness and beauty, and draw thee to a station wherein thou shalt see nothing in creation save the Face
of thy Beloved One, the Honored, and behold all created things only as in the day wherein none hath a
m e n t i o n .1 9
This is an invitation to the S ha yk h to enter His presence and gaze on the face of the Beloved, the Honored.
He is then promised that if he recognizes Him he will achieve his spiritual destiny in the “heavenly abode” in
“the Center of realities,” which is the World of the Cause:
By My life, O friend, wert thou to taste of these fruits, from the green garden of these blossoms which grow
in the lands of knowledge, beside the orient lights of the Essence in the mirrors of names and attributes—
yearning would seize the reins of patience and reserve from out thy hand, and make thy soul to shake with
the flashing light, and draw thee from the earthly homeland to the first, heavenly abode in the Center of
realities, and lift thee to a plane wherein thou wouldst soar in the air even as thou walkest upon the earth,
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

and move over the water as thou runnest on the land.2 0
The meanings of this statement and the station of Bahá’u’lláh are unmistakable, yet, to make it even clear-
e r, Bahá’u’lláh then refers to Himself as the “Shebá of the Merciful,” and to His message as “the wind (S a b á)
of certitude” that brings faith and certainty.
Wherefore, may it rejoice Me, and thee, and whosoever mounteth into the heaven of knowledge, and whose
heart is refreshed by this, that the wind [Sabá] of certitude hath blown over the garden of his being, from
the Sheba of the A l l - M e r c i f u l .2 1
For the S ha yk h and other mystics like him, the meaning and intention of these metaphors was abundantly
c l e a r. For Sufis, “Sabá” is an easterly breeze that carries the fragrance and message of the Beloved. The east
is a metaphor for the world of light and heaven, while the west is symbolic of the darksome material world.
Mythology has it that S hebá, i.e., Queen of S hebá, received a message of love and compliance from King
Solomon. S hebá responded positively and, in doing so, became the king’s beloved. Consequently “S hebá” in
Sufi literature stands for a metaphor of the pure souls who respond to the Lord’s commands and become the
Manifestation of His names and attributes in the human realm.
Therefore, it can be understood that the eastern breeze of certitude (the new Faith) has arrived from the
Manifestation of the All Merciful (Bahá’u’lláh) from the heavenly abode in the Center of realities (World of
Cause) to refresh the soul of this seeker (the S ha yk h) .
This paragraph ends with a remark often found in Islamic Writings: “Peace be upon him who followeth the
Right Path.” As this expression is repeated five times throughout this Epistle it merits some additional com-
m e n t .
The “Right Path” is what every practicing Muslim prays for five times a day. This is a challenge for every
Muslim who professes Islam to be the Right Path, yet prays fervently to be guided to it. Islamic traditions
explain that the “Right Path” is a reference to the Person and the Cause of the Promised One of Islam. In this
context, Bahá’u’lláh states that He is indeed the “Way of God” and His Tr u t h .
O Salmán! The door of the knowledge of the Ancient Being hath ever been, and will continue for ever to
be, closed in the face of men. No man’s understanding shall ever gain access unto His holy court. As a
token of His mercy, however, and as a proof of His loving-kindness, He hath manifested unto men the Day-
Stars of His divine guidance, the Symbols of His divine unity, and hath ordained the knowledge of these
sanctified Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His own Self. Whoso recognizeth them hath rec-
ognized God. Whoso hearkeneth to their call, hath hearkened to the Voice of God, and whoso testifieth to
the truth of their Revelation, hath testified to the truth of God Himself. Whoso turneth away from them,
hath turned away from God, and whoso disbelieveth in them, hath disbelieved in God. Every one of them
is the Way of God that connecteth this world with the realms above, and the Standard of His Truth unto
every one in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. They are the Manifestations of God amidst men, the evi-
dences of His Truth, and the signs of His glory. [emphasis added]2 2
This is an example of Bahá’u’lláh’s reference to Himself as the Promised One of Islam, clear and lucid to
those of pure heart and mind who have eyes to see and ears to hear, and yet concealed to those who do not wish
to know.
Bahá’u’lláh amplifies His intended meaning of this phrase from the words of a Muslim mystic, K há j i h
‘Abdu’lláh A n s á r í ,2 3 when He states:
Wherefore, relevant to this, K hájih ‘Abdu’lláh—may God the Most High sanctify his beloved spirit—hath
made a subtle point and spoken an eloquent word as to the meaning of “Guide Thou us on the straight
path,” which is: “Show us the right way, that is, honor us with the love of Thine Essence, that we may be
freed from turning toward ourselves and toward all else save Thee, and may become wholly Thine, and
know only Thee, and see only Thee, and think of none save T h e e.”2 4
As all attributes and names of God relate to the Manifestation of the Lord, the love of the Lord that this mys-
tic equates to the “Straight Path” also means the love of His Manifestation.
It is interesting to note that “Guide Thou us on the straight path” is quite similar in meaning and purpose to
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

the words of Jesus Christ in the Lord’s Prayer: “Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, T h y
kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.”2 5 These two statements are probably amongst the
most often repeated and yet equally misunderstood statements by Christians and Muslims alike.
In Sufi traditions, a seeker has to follow and learn the manners of search from a spiritual guide (Murs hí d ) ,
and first reach a state of union and total submission unto him. He then needs to find the highest-ranking guide
of his age (Q u t b , l i t e r a l l y, the “Pole,” signifying the station of this guide around whom all things revolve), and
reach the same state of total submission and union with him. He will then be ready to contemplate union with
the Lord. Bahá’u’lláh reminds this S ha yk h that he needs a spiritual guide to undertake his search, and that He
is that Guide who can lead him. To reiterate the significance of His assertion, He further reminds the S ha yk h
of an often related story of a journey in which “Moses the Law-giver” was asked to accompany K hidr to obtain
wisdom. In mystic Writings K hidr was regarded as the wise and enlightened soul who was enabled to find and
q u a ff from the water of life and obtain eternal life.
During their journey K hi d r’s actions and motives were questioned by Moses three times after K hidr indi-
cated that he did not wish to go any further with Him in view of Moses’ lack of confidence in him. Nevertheless
he explained the just motives of his actions to Moses before parting from Him: (1) He had damaged and dis-
abled the boat they were travelling in to protect it from being confiscated by the local ruler for military pur-
poses; (2) He had killed a young man to avoid a pending spiritual disaster he was about to bring upon his fam-
ily; (3) He had repaired the ruined wall of a garden that belonged to an orphan without asking for reward to
avoid the discovery of the family treasure which had been buried under the wall by the now-deceased father,
until his son becomes an adult.
In this story, related in Rúmí’s Mat hn a v í2 6 and cited twice in the Seven Valleys by Bahá’u’lláh, the contrast
is made between Moses as the Law-giver and K hidr as the essence of wisdom. Despite His knowledge and
powers, Moses was unable to grasp the wisdom of things and was in need of a guide. This mystic rendering of
a portrait of a Manifestation of God is not in conformity with Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings on the station and unity
of Manifestations of God. There could be many explanations for the symbolism of this story. One may regard
Moses and K hidr as two aspects of the manifold stations of Moses. One aspect of Him is portraying the sig-
nificance of the Law and the other reflecting the need for wisdom in all things. The story teaches the need for
a combination of wisdom and the law.
Bahá’u’lláh refers to this story in conformity to mystic traditions for a purpose:
Veiled from this was Moses
Though all strength and light;
Then thou who hast no wings at all,
Attempt not flight.
If thou be a man of communion and prayer, soar up on the wings of assistance from Holy Souls, that thou
mayest behold the mysteries of the Friend and attain to the lights of the Beloved, “Ve r i l y, we are from God
and to Him shall we return.”2 7
The essence of Bahá’u’lláh’s message in quoting Rúmí in this story is that the S ha yk h, or indeed any seek-
e r, needs to follow Him regardless of his own knowledge and powers, just as Moses had to follow K hidr on
His spiritual journey. So, K hidr is a metaphor for the Person of Bahá’u’lláh, and the mystics could not miss
the implications of this statement. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh uses the words of Rúmí, “Then thou who hast no
wings at all,/Attempt not flight,” to inform the seeker gently that he is indeed in need of His guidance.
The manner in which this mystic story has been related and used in the Seven Valleys is an example of the
masterful use of an old story to convey a new message.
Bahá’u’lláh refers to His person in this passage as the “Holy Soul” and the “Friend” and “Beloved. ” It is
noteworthy that, throughout the ages, the mystics have used the term “Beloved” as strictly referring to God.
Bahá’u’lláh states that the true seeker needs His guidance to behold His mysteries and see His lights. In the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán, among other titles, Bahá’u’lláh refers to Himself as the Source of all light:
And now, We beseech the people of the Bayán, all the learned, the sages, the divines, and witnesses
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

amongst them, not to forget the wishes and admonitions revealed in their Book. Let them, at all times, fix
their gaze upon the essentials of His Cause, lest when He, Who is the Quintessence of truth, the inmost
reality of all things, the Source of all light [Núr al-anwár], is made manifest, they cling unto certain pas-
sages of the Book, and inflict upon Him that which was inflicted in the Dispensation of the Qur’ á n .2 8
The term núr al-anwár, “the Source of all light” (lit. “Light of lights”), has been the subject of much com-
mentary by great thinkers and philosophers such as Suhrevardí, the founder of the philosophical school of
Is hráq, “Illumination.”2 9 He states that “Núr al-anwár” is the pinnacle of creation, the purpose of creation, the
first creation, the first wisdom, the primal reason, the universal mind, and that all lights and minds are but its
creation and owe their existence to it. These terms are interchangeably used by mystic philosophers and
thinkers to refer to God’s Manifestations. Bahá’u’lláh clearly chose to declare His station in the Book of
Certitude and the Seven Valleys in terms that would have been unmistakably understood by those familiar with
the philosophical schools of thought of the time. His use of such titles as “Quintessence of truth,” the “inmost
reality of all things,” and the “Source of all light” reflects His claim.
Throughout this Treatise Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes that the seeker needs to open his inner eyes to see the
Beloved, and listen attentively to His words. To succeed, he must leave aside his own preconceived ideas and
abandon all prejudices. The stories in this Epistle serve to make these very points. A few examples of such sto-
ries will clearly support this view and show how each story at the same time has been given a fresh purpose
and meaning in the context of the message of His advent.
The love-story of Majnún and Laylí is an old narrative of romance about the children of two Arab noble-
men. In Persian literature, and especially in Persian mystic literature, this romance has evolved to symbolize a
divine relationship. The most noteworthy example of this can be seen in the poetry of Nizámí Ganjaví, written
around 1188 C.E.3 0 In the Seven Valleys Bahá’u’lláh once again alludes to His station using this well-known
s t o r y. He first relates the story as told by ‘Attár in the Conference of Birds. He tells how Majnún was found
sifting through the dust in search of his beloved Layli. To the onlookers, who criticized him for “searching for
a pure pearl in the dirt of the street,” he declares that he would seek her everywhere, that perchance he might
find her. Then Bahá’u’lláh adds a short epilogue to this story that states:
Yea, although to the wise it be shameful to seek the Lord of Lords [Rabu’l-Arbáb] in the dust, yet this beto-
keneth intense ardor in searching. “Whoso seeketh out a thing with zeal shall find it. ”3 1
This statement at first glance seems to be an affirmation of the positive effects of zeal and perseverance in
achieving one’s goals. However, a closer look reveals that Bahá’u’lláh interprets the title “pure pearl” in the
story to mean “Lord of Lords.” That is, Majnún really w a s searching for his Lord in the dust. Furthermore, the
choice of “Lord of Lords” [R a b u ’ l - A r b á b] is deliberate, for its a b j a d number is the numerical equivalent of His
own name “Husayn-‘ Alí,” both adding up to 238. This may signal that if the seeker searches for the Lord of
Lords with zeal, he will succeed in finding Him in the world of man.
A true test of the faith of sincere believers throughout the ages has been their ability to perceive the
Manifestations of the Lord in human flesh, in circumstances common to all. It is this test that distinguished
Peter in the Dispensation of Christ and Mullá Husayn in the Dispensation of the Báb from others. The diff i-
culty of the people of His age to recognize His station is clear from the way Christ answered John the Baptist
when he asked Him if He was the Messiah:
Jesus answered, “Go and tell John what you hear and see: the blind recover their sight, the lame walk, the
lepers are made clean, the deaf hear, the dead are raised to life, the poor are hearing the good news—and
happy is the man who does not find me a stumbling block.”3 2
Like Christ, Bahá’u’lláh uses metaphors to overcome the handicap of people, asking them to open their
inner eyes and ears to recognize Him. One example is that of His story of Jacob and his love and longing for
his lost son Joseph, a well-known and often quoted narrative in the mystical literature.
In this story Joseph, the twelfth son of Jacob, was so much loved by his father that his envious brothers,
wishing to dispose of him, threw him in a well and then sold him into slavery. Pretending that he had been
killed by wild beasts, they then presented Jacob with his son’s bloodstained shirt. Jacob cried so much at the
reported loss of his son that he lost his sight. In the meantime, Joseph was taken to Egypt by slave-traders and
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

sold into the house of a wealthy merchant. Years later, the lovesick lady of the house, to punish him for his
honesty and chastity, accused him of ill behaviour, thereby sending him to prison.
Over the course of seven years of imprisonment, Joseph demonstrated his ability to interpret fellow prison-
e r s ’ dreams, including a high-ranking official temporarily fallen out of favour. This skill was so amazing that
it resulted in his being brought to the court of the Pharaoh to interpret his dream. Pharaoh had dreamt that seven
lean cows devoured seven fattened cows and seven dried out wheat bushels destroyed seven green wheat
bushels. Joseph interpreted this dream to be a warning that seven lean years will follow seven years of plenty.
The Pharaoh appreciated this interpretation and put him in charge of collecting surplus wheat in preparation
for the coming years of famine. So ended Joseph’s undeserved years of suffering and the beginning of his pros-
perity and authority
In the meantime, due to famine in the land of Palestine, his brothers travelled to Egypt in search of food.
Joseph recognized his brothers but did not introduce himself at first. After informing them of his identity, he
sent his shirt with his brothers to Jacob to Palestine. Never having lost hope of seeing his son, Jacob, after
inhaling the perfume-laden smell of his son’s shirt, regained his sight. Jacob subsequently travelled to Egypt
once again to enjoy the pleasure of his son’s company.
This moving story has been the subject of many poems and mystical narratives throughout the ages. It is
noteworthy that the Báb chose to reveal a commentary on the Súrih of Joseph of the Qur’án on the first night
of His declaration to Mullá Husayn. The beloved Guardian refers to this book too and its references to
Bahá’u’lláh as the true Joseph in God Passes By in these words:
A more significant light, however, is shed on this episode, marking the Declaration of the Mission of the
Báb, by the perusal of that “first, greatest and mightiest” of all books in the Bábí Dispensation, the cele-
brated commentary on the Súrih of Joseph, the first chapter of which, we are assured, proceeded, in its
e n t i r e t y, in the course of that night of nights from the pen of its divine Revealer. The description of this
episode by Mullá Husayn, as well as the opening pages of that Book attest the magnitude and force of that
weighty Declaration. A claim to be no less than the mouthpiece of God Himself, promised by the Prophets
of bygone ages; the assertion that He was, at the same time, the Herald of One immeasurably greater than
Himself. . . .
Already in S híráz, at the earliest stage of His ministry, He had revealed what Bahá’u’lláh has characterized
as “the first, the greatest, and mightiest of all books” in the Bábí Dispensation, the celebrated commentary
on the Súrah of Joseph, entitled the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá, whose fundamental purpose was to forecast what
the true Joseph (Bahá’u’lláh) would, in a succeeding Dispensation, endure at the hands of one who was at
once His arch-enemy and blood brother. This work, comprising above nine thousand three hundred vers-
es, and divided into one hundred and eleven chapters, each chapter a commentary on one verse of the
above-mentioned Súrah, opens with the Báb’s clarion-call and dire warnings addressed to the “concourse
of kings and of the sons of kings” ; forecasts the doom of Muhammad S háh; commands his Grand Vi z i r,
Hájí Mírzá Áqásí, to abdicate his authority; admonishes the entire Muslim ecclesiastical order; cautions
more specifically the members of the S hí‘ih community; extols the virtues, and anticipates the coming, of
Bahá’u’lláh, the “Remnant of God,” the “Most Great Master . . .”3 3
Bahá’u’lláh refers to this story in the Seven Valleys, the Four Va l l e y s, and other of His works, pointing to
Himself as that true Joseph, and that, like Jacob, seekers need to open their inner eyes to see Him. Some exam-
ples on this theme are quoted here from the Seven Va l l e y s :
In this journey the seeker reacheth a stage wherein he seeth all created things wandering distracted in
search of the Friend. How many a Jacob will he see, hunting after his Joseph; he will behold many a lover,
hasting to seek the Beloved, he will witness a world of desiring ones searching after the One Desired. . . .
And if, by the help of God, he findeth on this journey a trace of the traceless Friend, and inhaleth the fra-
grance of the long-lost Joseph from the heavenly messenger, he shall straightway step into THE VA L L E Y
OF LOVE and be dissolved in the fire of love. . . .
O My Brother! Until thou enter the Egypt of love, thou shalt never come to the Joseph of the Beauty of the
Friend; and until, like Jacob, thou forsake thine outward eyes, thou shalt never open the eye of thine inward
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

being; and until thou burn with the fire of love, thou shalt never commune with the Lover of Longing.3 4
When taken together, these references show that the historical Joseph is only a metaphor, and furthermore,
the true Joseph is the Friend, the traceless Friend, Joseph of the Beauty of the Friend, understood in mystical
Writings to point to the Lord. The news of this long-lost Joseph and His advent was to come from a heavenly
m e s s e n g e r, as it was the subject of many of the Báb’s Writings. As the beloved Guardian stated the fundamental
purpose of Qayyúmu’l-Asmá was to “forecast what the true Joseph (Bahá’u’lláh) would, in a succeeding
Dispensation, endure at the hands of one who was at once His arch-enemy and blood brother.” A brief exami-
nation of the life of Bahá’u’lláh reveals many other similarities between Bahá’u’lláh and Joseph, including His
exile and suffering, and His triumph in His earthly life. In the same way that Jacob longed for his long-lost son
Joseph, a stream of believers sought Bahá’u’lláh’s company at all costs and under all conditions, a fulfilment
of His words when describing the condition of the seekers in the Valley of Search:
In this journey the seeker reacheth a stage wherein he seeth all created things wandering distracted in
search of the Friend. How many a Jacob will he see, hunting after his Joseph; he will behold many a lover,
hasting to seek the Beloved, he will witness a world of desiring ones searching after the One Desired.3 5
J a c o b ’s loss of his physical sight and his subsequent discovery of his lost Joseph are again used as a
metaphor for directing the seekers to forsake their outward eyes. In this way, the physical persons of God’s
Messengers do not become tests of their faith and obstacles for them.
Sacred scriptures often contain a series of tests to measure the sincerity of believers’ faith. They test the will-
ingness of the faithful to forsake wealth and comfort, and if necessary, life itself, in the path of Tr u t h .
Furthermore, the faithful should be prepared to endure all hardship and calamities in the path of his love with
contentment and gratefulness. Examples of these can be found in the Jewish Scriptures, the New Te s t a m e n t ,
Q u r’án, mystical literature, and Bahá’í scriptures. In the Seven Valleys this message is given repeatedly. In one
instance Bahá’u’lláh uses a well-known story to remind the S ha yk h and other seekers of the prerequisites of
true love. He quotes only part of a long story from Rúmí about “a man in love,” who had lost his health and
wealth in the path of his love to no avail:
There was once a lover who had sighed for long years in separation from his beloved, and wasted in the
fire of remoteness. From the rule of love, his heart was empty of patience, and his body weary of his spir-
i t .
Shunned by all, his longing bore no fruit until:
At last, the tree of his longing yielded the fruit of despair, and the fire of his hope fell to ashes. Then one
night he could live no more, and he went out of his house and made for the marketplace. On a sudden, a
watchman followed after him. He broke into a run, with the watchman following; then other watchmen
came together, and barred every passage to the weary one.
Agonized with displeasure at the watchmen and in despair he finds himself at a decision point about life itself:
Then he came to a garden wall, and with untold pain he scaled it, for it proved very high; and forg e t t i n g
his life, he threw himself down to the garden.
Once he made that choice to give up his life he indeed found his life and love:
And there he beheld his beloved with a lamp in her hand, searching for a ring she had lost. When the heart-
surrendered lover looked on his ravishing love, he drew a great breath and raised up his hands in prayer .
. .
In this way, his intense displeasure with this seemingly cruel act of the watchmen was transformed into a
deep appreciation of the Lord’s pleasure:
Now if the lover could have looked ahead, he would have blessed the watchman at the start, and prayed on
his behalf, and he would have seen that tyranny as justice; but since the end was veiled to him, he moaned
and made his plaint in the beginning. Yet those who journey in the garden land of knowledge, because they
see the end in the beginning, see peace in war and friendliness in anger.3 6
In this way, the Beloved of the world asks everyone to act in the same way. Once again this familiar story
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

only serves to highlight the intended message.
Bahá’u’lláh often expresses His displeasure with people without inner eyes and ears, people who have made
Him the target of their tyranny and envy. In such an address in the Seven Valleys He makes another reference
to His station:
Thus it is that certain invalid souls have confined the lands of knowledge within the wall of self and pas-
sion, and clouded them with ignorance and blindness, and have been veiled from the light of the mystic
sun and the mysteries of the Eternal Beloved; they have strayed afar from the jewelled wisdom of the lucid
Faith of the Lord of Messengers, have been shut out of the sanctuary of the All-Beauteous One, and ban-
ished from the Ka‘bih of splendor. Such is the worth of the people of this age!
And if a nightingale soar upward from the clay of self and dwell in the rose bower of the heart, and in
Arabian melodies and sweet Iranian songs recount the mysteries of God—a single word of which quick-
eneth to fresh, new life the bodies of the dead, and bestoweth the Holy Spirit upon the moldering bones of
this existence—thou wilt behold a thousand claws of envy, a myriad beaks of rancor hunting after Him and
with all their power intent upon His death.3 7
His proclamation that His word bestows new life to the dead and confers Holy Spirit upon this existence is
a clear statement of His station.
A still clearer message comes when Bahá’u’lláh describes the special bounties of His day and that all should
try to benefit from His presence while He is still with them:
The cloud of the Loved One’s mercy raineth only on the garden of the spirit, and bestoweth this bounty
only in the season of spring. The other seasons have no share in this greatest grace, and barren lands no
portion of this favor. O Brother! Not every sea hath pearls; not every branch will flower, nor will the
nightingale sing thereon. Then, ere the nightingale of the mystic paradise repair to the garden of God, and
the rays of the heavenly morning return to the Sun of Truth—make thou an effort, that haply in this
dustheap of the mortal world thou mayest catch a fragrance from the everlasting garden, and live forever
in the shadow of the peoples of this city.3 8
He calls His day the spiritual “season of spring,” and refers to Himself as the “nightingale of the mystic par-
adise,” and “the rays of the heavenly morning.” In His mercy for those who have still missed His claim, He
makes yet another proclamation of His advent for those who have eyes to see:
And when thou hast attained this highest station and come to this mightiest plane, then shalt thou gaze on
the Beloved, and forget all else.
The Beloved shineth on gate and wall.
Without a veil, O men of vision.
Now hast thou abandoned the drop of life and come to the sea of the Life-Bestower. This is the goal thou
didst ask for; if it be God’s will, thou wilt gain it.3 9
Once a seeker recognized this Manifestation of the Lord for this age he will enter the sea of the Life-
Bestower and gaze at the face of the Beloved and forget all else. Then he will discover that the light of the
Beloved Who has revealed Himself is the source of all lights.
The poem that Bahá’u’lláh quotes here is a masterpiece of Persian poetry by Hatif of Isfahan4 0 and carries
an incredible message parallels one of the principal messages of the Bahá’í dispensation: the concept of
“Progressive Revelation.”
In this poem, in a state of wonderment one night, Hatif finds his way to a Zoroastrian temple. There, he finds
Zoroastrian believers engaged in ceremonies surrounding the Holy Fire. With all his being, he recognizes that
there is only one God, and that all are but His signs. Hatif then makes his way to a Christian church in which
worshipers are engaged in their devotions. He challenges them in their belief in the Tr i n i t y. One of the devo-
tees explains to him that the Trinity is only a reflection of the Ancient Beauty in three mirrors. He hears this
from the chime of the church bell with his inner ears that there is no One but Him, and that all are but His
signs. In that state of amazement and with a pure heart and open mind he enters a mystic temple in which he
1 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

finds the lovers of the Beloved. He asks them for guidance and after quenching his thirst once again, he
becomes conscious of a melodious chant coming from the heavenly quarters stating that there is no One but
Him, and that all are but His signs. It is then that he discovers that
The Beloved shineth on gate and wall
Without a veil, O men of vision.
Hatif then concludes that while the Beloved shineth like the sun it would be inappropriate to search for Him
with a candle. Morning has broken while we are still in the night season. This brief reference to a single verse
of this poem in the Seven Valleys speaks volumes about Bahá’u’lláh’s message.
And finally Bahá’u’lláh makes the most obvious reference to His advent and His person using a poem from
R ú m í :
How strange that while the Beloved is visible as the sun, yet the heedless still hunt after tinsel and base
metal. Yea, the intensity of His revelation hath covered Him, and the fullness of His shining forth hath hid-
den Him.
Even as the sun, bright hath He shined,
But alas, He hath come to the town of the blind!4 1
To complete our discussion on this theme, we will offer one last reference in the Seven Valleys to the
Q u r’án. In the Valley of Wonderment Bahá’u’lláh makes the following statement:
The pen groaneth and the ink sheddeth tears, and the river of the heart moveth in waves of blood. “Nothing
can befall us but what God hath destined for us.” Peace be upon him who followeth the Right Path!4 2
In this passage Bahá’u’lláh reiterates His confidence that His fate is governed by the will of God and not by
the machinations of His enemies. In evidence of His claim, He offers the Qur’ánic verse “Nothing can befall
us but what God hath destined for us.”
An examination of the context of this verse shows the appropriateness of this statement and the extraordi-
nary message that exists below the surface. It refers to verse 51 in the Súrat’ a t - Tauba (Repentance) in the
Q u r’án, which was revealed in Medina and, in particular, deals with the treachery and breaking of treaties by
the infidels.4 3 Muhammad foretells of their coming punishment and declares to them that the station of those
who serve the Cause of God and participate in the Holy War is far above those who maintain their infidelity
and yet repair the Mosque. He states that those who put their worldly interests above God’s will are in a loss.
In vain, the infidels wish to extinguish the Light of God, but He will protect His Light. He warns the believ-
ers that unless they serve the Cause of God, He will choose others to replace them. He then states that “noth-
ing will happen to us except what God has decreed for us; He is our Protector; and on Him let the believers
put their trust.”
Bahá’u’lláh reminds those who have insight that just like the Prophet of Islam He is the target of attacks
from friend and foe, alike, and that He will endure all in the pathway of His Lord. God will establish His Cause
and protect His Light, that is Him, even if people oppose Him. If those around Him reject His call, He will
raise up others to assist Him.
As a befitting conclusion to this section and revealing a glimpse of Bahá’u’lláh’s station, below are some of
the titles that appear in the Seven Valleys: Sheba of the All-Merciful, Joseph of the Beauty of the Friend, T h e
Friend, Sun of Truth, Manifestation of the Sun of reality, the Beloved, the Eternal Beloved, the Beauty of the
Beloved, the Nightingale of the Mystic Paradise, the Nightingale with Arabian Melodies and Sweet Iranian
Songs, the Eternal Morning Dawn, the New Beloved One, the Light of Manifestation of the King of Oneness,
the Master of the House, the Master of Love, the Tree of Knowledge, the Eternal City, the City of God, the
Face of The Beloved One, the Divine Face, the Guardian of The Cause, the Sea of the Life-Bestower, the
Falcon of the Mystic Heaven
Spiritual Truths in the Seven Valleys
The Seven Valleys is a repository of a great deal of spiritual truths of this Cause. Although this book is
revealed in the language and form of the mystic Writings, at times the truths it contains completely contradict
1 1
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

the common views of the Sufis. At other times it acts to resolve, clarify, modify and harmonize many of the
complex and paradoxical elements of their beliefs. In the interest of brevity, however, only a few examples of
these truths are highlighted in this article.
1. The Ultimate Goal of Man’s Spiritual Quest
Over time, the Sufis came to believe that, if confirmed by the Lord’s grace, a seeker would eventually reach
a state of union with the Lord. Termed “annihilation in God [f a n á ’] and eternal life in Him [b a q á ’],” this union
has been described variously by different mystics.
Bahá’u’lláh rejects this view, stating that this goal is unattainable to humanity. He further clarifies that the
ultimate goal of man’s reach in physical life is recognition of the Lord’s Manifestation for the age and service
at His threshold:
H o w e v e r, let none construe these utterances to be anthropomorphism, nor see in them the descent of the
worlds of God into the grades of the creatures; nor should they lead thine Eminence to such assumptions.
For God is, in His Essence, holy above ascent and descent, entrance and exit; He hath through all eternity
been free of the attributes of human creatures, and ever will remain so. No man hath ever known Him; no
soul hath ever found the pathway to His Being. Every mystic knower hath wandered far astray in the val-
ley of the knowledge of Him; every saint hath lost his way in seeking to comprehend His Essence.
Sanctified is He above the understanding of the wise; exalted is He above the knowledge of the knowing!
The way is barred and to seek it is impiety; His proof is His signs; His being is His evidence. . . . Yea, these
mentioning that have been made of the grades of knowledge relate to the knowledge of the Manifestations
of that Sun of reality, which casteth Its light upon the Mirrors. . . . Then it is clear that even for the rays
there is neither entrance nor exit—how much less for that Essence of Being and that longed-for Mystery.4 4
Bahá’u’lláh offers the words of ‘Alí, the son-in-law of the Prophet Muhammad, as proof of His statement:
“The way is barred and to seek it is impiety. ” 4 5 The significance of this reference to Sufis stems from the fact
that most Sufi groups regard ‘Alí as their spiritual figurehead.
Bahá’u’lláh explains the meaning of the Unity of God, annihilation of self, perpetual union with God and
the essence of faith and Certitude in another Ta b l e t :
He is indeed a true believer in the unity of God who, in this Day, will regard Him as One immeasurably
exalted above all the comparisons and likenesses with which men have compared Him. He hath erred
grievously who hath mistaken these comparisons and likenesses for God Himself. Consider the relation
between the craftsman and his handiwork, between the painter and his painting. Can it ever be maintained
that the work their hands have produced is the same as themselves?
O S ha yk h, O thou who hast surrendered thy will to God! By self-surrender and perpetual union with God
is meant that men should merge their will wholly in the Will of God, and regard their desires as utter noth-
ingness beside His Purpose. Whatsoever Creator commandeth His creatures to observe, the same must they
d i l i g e n t l y, and with the utmost joy and eagerness, arise and fulfil. They should in no wise allow their fancy
to obscure their judgment, neither should they regard their own imaginings as the voice of the Eternal. . .
. The station of absolute self-surrender transcendeth, and will ever remain exalted above, every other sta-
tion. It behoveth thee to consecrate thyself to the Will of God. Whatsoever hath been revealed in His
Tablets is but a reflection of His Will. So complete must be thy consecration, that every trace of worldly
desire will be washed from thine heart. This is the meaning of true unity.
Do thou beseech God to enable thee to remain steadfast in this path, and to aid thee to guide the peoples
of the world to Him Who is the manifest and sovereign Ruler, Who hath revealed Himself in a distinct
attire, Who giveth utterance to a Divine and specific Message. This is the essence of faith and certitude.4 6
From these passages, it becomes clear that the mystic Beloved for the age is Bahá’u’lláh, and that the zenith
of the spiritual reach of a seeker is recognition of Him and His Cause, and obedience to His commands.
2. God’s “Most Excellent Names”
Bahá’u’lláh states repeatedly in the Seven Valleys and other tablets such as the Kitáb-i-ˆqán that man can-
not attain to the knowledge of God except through the knowledge of the attributes of God’s Messengers. In
1 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

fact, He states that a perfect understanding of God’s unity demands negation of any names and attributes to
that Essence of Essences. He once more offers the words of ‘Alí, the son-in-law of the Prophet as evidence for
His statement about the characters of those who have gone beyond the limitations of names and attributes and
attained His recognition:
For these have passed over the worlds of names, and fled beyond the worlds of attributes as swift as light-
ning. Thus is it said: “Absolute Unity excludeth all attributes.”4 7
‘A l í ’s complete statement is that religion begins with the Lord’s recognition, His recognition is only com-
plete by obedience and faith in Him, and faith in Him is complete only with recognition of His Oneness.4 8
Recognition of His Oneness is complete with purity of Faith in Him, and completeness of Faith in Him
demands negation of any names and attributes to Him, as no one and no attributes can befittingly describe Him.
During the Islamic Dispensation, a series of names and attributes referred to as “Most Excellent Names”
were thought to be God’s Names and Titles. This was based on a reference in the Qur’án in which all such
names are attributed to Alláh and Rahmán (“Mercy”):
Say: Call upon Alláh, or call upon Rahmán: By whatever name ye call Upon Him, (it is well): For to Him
belong the Most Beautiful Names.4 9
These “Most Excellent Names” have been related in the words of the Prophet (hadít h) and the Imáms with
minor differences. Ja‘far as-Sádiq, the sixth Shí‘íh Imám, was reported to relate ninety-nine of these names.
In a departure from this general belief and in complete conformity to ‘A l í ’s statement (“. . . completeness of
Faith in Him involves negation of any names and attributes to Him, as no one and no attributes can befitting-
ly describe Him . . .”), Bahá’u’lláh uses part of the same Qur’ánic passage and explains that all these names
and titles refer to God’s Messenger, Muhammad:
He who was A h m a d in the kingdom of the exalted ones, and M u h a m m a d amongst the concourse of the near
ones, and Mahmúd in the realm of the sincere ones . . . “by whichsoever (name) ye will, invoke Him: He
hath most excellent names” in the hearts of those who know.5 0
In other words, these titles and attributes belong to all of God’s Manifestations. In many tablets Bahá’u’lláh
refers to His Own Advent with all of these “Excellent Names.” For example, in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh
s t a t e s :
Ve r i l y, all created things were immersed in the sea of purification when, on that first day of Ridván, We
shed upon the whole of creation the splendours of Our most excellent Names and Our most exalted
Attributes. This, verily, is a token of My loving providence, which hath encompassed all the worlds.5 1
3. Unity of Being
The concept of “Unity of Being,” which at times, and for some Sufi extremists, borders on pantheism, is
amongst the principal beliefs of many Sufis and other groups of mystics. For a detailed discussion of various
aspects of this topic the reader is referred to other publications.5 2 , 5 3
A short presentation of some of the main concepts about God that have been current amongst diff e r e n t
groups would help a better understanding of the Bahá’í perspective on this subject:
1 .
God of Immanence: This means an in-dwelling God. This implies an impersonal God that is part
of the order of creation and a close relationship between Him and His creation.
2 .
Transcendent God: This is a God that has caused the creation but remains as a definite and an indi-
vidual entity, separate from His creation. Man is not part of God and God does not dwell in the
world or in man. This is the God of prophetic religions.
3 .
Pantheistic God: Pantheism involves belief in a God that is the totality of creation. God is the
whole, and the world and man are parts of it. Man is a part of God or as most Sufis believe, man
possesses some elements of God within him. As a consequence of this view mystics have come to
believe that either man can reach God or man can actually become united with Him. The ecstasy
and the joy that accompanies moments of prayers, meditation and contemplation have been off e r e d
by the mystics as evidence to their claim of becoming united with God.
1 3
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

4 .
God of Deism: This is the belief of those who accept that the universe has been created and is con-
trolled by an intelligent force, and furthermore, identify this force with the God of religion.
However they deny that this force is a personal God who hears man’s prayers and has any interest
in man’s welfare.
5 .
God of T h e i s m: This is the belief of those who see God as the creator and separate from nature and
yet dwells in every of its activities. This is much the same as a God that is both immanent and tran-
s c e n d e n t .
The mystery of the joining of man with God has been described in various ways by mystics. Some have
made it analogous to a drop of rain that has been separated from the sea and eventually flows back to the sea.
The pantheistic view of God and creation is remarkably consistent with this analogy. Some have explained the
creation as a mere mirage and unreal in the same way that waves disappear after the sea becomes calm. Wa v e s
are but reflections of creation, that in essence and substance, come from the sea and unto it return.
This brings up the nature of the process of creation. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá provides us with an insight on this topic
in Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s:
Know that proceeding is of two kinds: the proceeding and appearance through emanation, and the pro-
ceeding and appearance through manifestation. The proceeding through emanation is like the coming forth
of the action from the actor, of the writing from the writer. Now the writing emanates from the writer, and
the discourse emanates from the speaker, and in the same way the human spirit emanates from God. It is
not that it manifests God--that is to say, no part has been detached from the Divine Reality to enter the body
of man.5 4
The second kind of creation is through Manifestation, just as a tree grows from a seed. The flower manifests
the seed, and in a sense, is not entirely different from the seed. This belief is at the core of the pantheistic view.
Furthermore, the mystics have come to believe that the soul of man is the spiritual element in him, and that,
prior to its association with man’s body, this soul existed in some form with God. It is a natural extension of
the belief that we are part divine, that God dwells in us, and that our soul returns to Him. The Sufis’ i n t e r p r e-
tation of the scriptures that “one needs to know oneself to know God” comes from this premise.
Some mystics have come to define the “Unity of Being” as the unity of God with His creation. Others have
come to believe God is the only true existence, and that creation is as ephemeral as sea-waves or bubbles that
form and disappear at the surface of water. In Mullá Sadra’s philosophy this subject appears as the “Unity of
Being” and the “Diversity of Created T h i n g s.”5 5 Nevertheless he sees a common underlying unity in the diver-
sity of the world of creation, just as light appears in different colors as it passes through differently colored
glasses. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, our return to our Lord is not like the return of drops to the sea but more
like the return of birds to the Abhá Paradise.
As opposed to the philosophically based “Unity of Being,” some Sufis have come to reach their goal through
love and adoration. The founder of this school of thought is believed to be Ibn-Faridh.5 6 This belief is called
the “Unity of Witnesses, the Lover and the Beloved [S hu h ú d].” Whatever these descriptions convey and under
whatever definition this communion with the Lord falls, Bahá’u’lláh wishes to take the seeker to heights that
go far beyond these terms and their meanings. In a reference to these views He states in the Seven Valleys that
[i]n this Va l l e y, the wayfarer leaveth behind him the stages of the “oneness of Being and Manifestation
[S huhúd]” and reacheth a oneness that is sanctified above these two stations. Ecstasy alone can encompass
this theme, not utterance nor argument; and whosoever hath dwelt at this stage [Mahfel] of the journey, or
caught a breath from this garden land, knoweth whereof We speak.5 7
In this statement, Bahá’u’lláh describes the station of the believers who were admitted to His banquet [M a h f e l]
and entered His garden.
It is worthwhile to ponder the station of the Lord’s Manifestation for this age. Bahá’u’lláh testifies to His
station in these words:
God testifieth that there is none other God but Him and that He Who hath appeared is the Hidden Mystery,
the Treasured Symbol, the Most Great Book for all peoples, and the Heaven of bounty for the whole world.
He is the Most Mighty Sign amongst men and the Dayspring of the most august attributes in the realm of
1 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

creation. Through Him hath appeared that which had been hidden from time immemorial and been veiled
from the eyes of men. He is the One Whose Manifestation was announced by the heavenly Scriptures, in
former times and more recently. Whoso acknowledgeth belief in Him and in His signs and testimonies hath
in truth acknowledged that which the Tongue of Grandeur uttered ere the creation of earth and heaven and
the revelation of the Kingdom of Names. Through Him the ocean of knowledge hath surged amidst
mankind and the river of divine wisdom hath gushed out at the behest of God, the Lord of Days. Well is it
with the man of discernment who hath recognized and perceived the Tr u t h .5 8
He is the promise of all ages, He is the Beloved of all, He is the object of adoration for all, He is the One sought
by all and the union that man seeks is union with Him.
4. The Three Realms: Realms of God, His Messengers (the Cause) and Man
It can be said that, with rare exceptions, the majority of Sufis as well as the faithful in Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam believe in two realms, one the realm of God and the other in which men and other created things
reside. The consequence of this belief has been a general confusion about the station and place of the Founders
of great religions. In the early years of Islam, the Muslims placed Prophet Muhammad firmly on earth, the
Christians, based on the Nicene Creed, raised Jesus Christ to the level of the realm of God, and some mystics
and Sufis allowed man to reach God’s station.
Bahá’u’lláh, however, teaches that there are three realms, the realm of God (the absolute and the Divine
Essence), the world of man (the realm of all created things), and an intermediary kingdom, the realm of God’s
Messengers (the world of Cause). In the opening passage of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the first two realms (the Wo r l d
of man and the world of Cause) are explicitly mentioned, and the third (the realm of God) implicitly stated:
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause
and the world of creation.5 9
Bahá’u’lláh presents in the Seven Valleys some of His manifold stations. His titles in this book, some of
which were quoted earlier, attest to this. In the Four Valleys He refers to four of His stations, i.e. His Self,
Wisdom, Love and Spirit. In the Súrat’ul-Haykal (Discourse of the Temple), He clarifies the relationship
between His Person (Mírzá Húsayn-‘ Alí), His Divine Spirit (Most Great Spirit), and God, where the concept
of the three realms are expounded. It is in this context that it would be possible to understand and relate to
Trinity in the context of the Bahá’í Faith, i.e. the Father = God, the Son = Jesus and the Holy Spirit =
Christ/Divine Spirit).
In the early history of Islam, based on the Qur’án and Islamic traditions, the Muslims regarded the Prophet
Muhammad as only another human being, the only difference being that He was the recipient of God’s
Revelation. In time, however, some Muslim thinkers, and in particular the Sufis, started to focus on the spirit
of the Prophet and relate it to the Word, Logos, First Created, Primal Will, Light of Muhammad, etc.
Bahá’u’lláh refers to these titles of the Divine Spirit of the prophet in the Seven Va l l e y s :
And I praise and glorify the first sea which hath branched from the ocean of the Divine Essence, and the
first morn which hath glowed from the Horizon of Oneness, and the first sun which hath risen in the
Heaven of Eternity, and the first fire which was lit from the Lamp of Pre-existence in the lantern of sin-
gleness: He who was Ahmad in the kingdom of the exalted ones, and Muhammad amongst the concourse
of the near ones, and Mahmúd in the realm of the sincere ones. . . “by whichsoever (name) ye will, invoke
Him: He hath most excellent names” in the hearts of those who know.6 0
These titles all refer to the Most Great Spirit that is the Divine Spirit to all Manifestations of God through-
out the ages. So it can be seen that there is a consistency throughout the ages in referring to God’s vicegerents
Divine Spirit.
With belief in this intermediary realm confusion surrounding the meaning of the words of Manifestation of
God regarding their stations clears.
5. The Relationship Between Religion, Mystic Path, and the Truth
Some Sufi orders gradually came to believe that the purpose of religion, particularly religious laws and ordi-
1 5
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

nances, was to purify man’s heart and mind and prepare him for undertaking a true mystic path. The purpose
of the mystic quest in turn was to guide man to the “Truth.” In doing so, some Sufis saw religion as only a pre-
liminary step in their quest. As a consequence, some Sufi orders came to believe that observance of the laws
of religion was only binding on a wayfarer in the initial stages of his quest, and thereafter were not binding on
him. This belief became the cause of a great deal of conflict and bloodshed amongst believers. It must be said,
h o w e v e r, that many other Sufi orders never accepted this doctrine.
In a radical departure from this belief and its implications, Bahá’u’lláh defines the essential and comple-
mentary relationship between these stages of man’s spiritual maturation and enjoins the observance of all laws
and ordinances at all times:
In all these journeys the traveler must stray not the breadth of a hair from the “Law,” for this is indeed the
secret of the “Path” and the fruit of the Tree of “Tr u th” ; and in all these stages he must cling to the robe
of obedience to the commandments, and hold fast to the cord of shunning all forbidden things, that he may
be nourished from the cup of the Law and informed of the mysteries of Tr u t h .6 1
Bahá’u’lláh states that the “Law” (religious ordinances) is the secret of the mystic “Path,” and the “Fruit”
(result) of the Tree of “Truth.” Through this relationship, these three aspects of man’s spiritual journey are
eternally linked. Bahá’u’lláh strengthens this in the opening chapter of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas where He makes
m a n ’s salvation conditional on both recognition of God’s Manifestation for each age and obedience to His
L a w s :
It behoveth every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe
every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is
acceptable without the other. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of Divine inspiration.6 2
This very theme and the need for observance of all of the Lord’s ordinances have been repeated throughout
the Wr i t i n g s .
True belief in God and recognition of Him cannot be complete save by acceptance of that which He hath
revealed and by observance of whatsoever hath been decreed by Him and set down in the Book by the Pen
of Glory. They that immerse themselves in the ocean of His utterances should at all times have the utmost
regard for the divinely-revealed ordinances and prohibitions. Indeed His ordinances constitute the mighti-
est stronghold for the protection of the world and the safeguarding of its peoples.6 3
6. Wealth, Poverty, Detachment and The Process of Living
One of the features distinguishing the Bahá’í Writings, including the Seven Valleys, from the extremist mys-
tical Writings is the meaning of common Sufi terms such as “poverty” and “detachment.” Among some of the
early puritans and Sufis in Islam there appeared the belief that this world is but transitory and worthless and
that man’s salvation depends upon his complete break from it all. These believers found ample references from
the Qur’án and other Islamic sources supporting their views:
47:36 The life of this world is but play and amusement: and if ye believe and guard against Evil, He will
grant you your recompense, and will not ask you (to give up) your possessions.6 4
Or in another verse from the Qur’ á n :
29:64 What is the life of this world but amusement and play? but verily the Home in the Hereafter—that
is life indeed, if they but knew.6 5
The works of many notable Sufi writers abound with expressions about the uselessness of this world. Few
passages from the writings of K hájih ‘ Abdulláh Ansárí on this subject would suff i c e :
O my dear, why are you wondering about the conditions of this world and why do you expect your wealth
to last? How one can explain this riddle of wealth that has been earned at great sufferings, and accumulat-
ed at great hardship, and yet left behind with sorrows and disappointment? . . . This world is but a bridge
on the path to the next. It is neither a place for peace nor a place for rest. It is all but the cause of hardship
and calamities. This world is bent on causing you harm and mistreatment. Whoever found wealth therein
is truly poor, and whoever found status he is amongst the wrongdoers. Every song that it sings says “The
world is the prison of the believer and the heaven of the unbeliever,” and every speech that it makes states
1 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

that “the world is but a place for error.”6 6 , 6 7
The true meanings of poverty, wealth, detachment and the purpose of life and prescriptions for living are
abundantly explained in the Bahá’í Writings. Study of these Writings makes it quite clear that in this Faith
“poverty” is not about being materially poor, and “detachment” is not about breaking away from life and peo-
ple and committing oneself to endless rituals in remote temples. The Faith intends to bring about a spiritual
and a material balance to one’s life, and take away the errors of obsession with a one-dimensional material
existence. Otherwise a life of isolation from society, begging for one’s existence, wasting of one’s time and
resources, being utterly useless to oneself and the society, and occupying oneself with endless hard rituals in
the name of worship have all been abhorred in the Wr i t i n g s .
The objectives of this Faith are to bring about prosperity and social justice for all, and a civilized and spir-
itual human society. It is about peace and harmony and the establishment of an ever-advancing civilization in
this world and preparation of man for a spiritual regeneration and spiritual progress in worlds to come. T h e
Bahá’í teachings are all about building a more suitable world and society for the future generations.
Some examples of these teachings include: compulsory education for all; learning of trades and professions;
extending helping hands to all in need; building of orphanages and universal healthcare for all and all ages;
elimination of extremes of wealth and poverty; enrichment of family life; equality for all; elimination of the
need for wars and weapons of mass destruction; and world government
Therefore some of the references to poverty in the Seven Valleys and the Hidden Words such as these quot-
ed belowshould be understood in the wider context of the Writings as a whole:6 8 , 6 9
O friend, the heart is the dwelling of eternal mysteries, make it not the home of fleeting fancies; waste not
the treasure of thy precious life in employment with this swiftly passing world. Thou comest from the
world of holiness—bind not thine heart to the earth; thou art a dweller in the court of nearness—choose
not the homeland of the dust.
O YE T H AT PRIDE Y O U R S E LVES ON MORTA L RICHES!
Know ye in truth that wealth is a mighty barrier between the seeker and his desire, the lover and his
beloved. The rich, but for a few, shall in no wise attain the court of His presence nor enter the city of con-
tent and resignation. Well is it then with him, who, being rich, is not hindered by his riches from the eter-
nal kingdom, nor deprived by them of imperishable dominion. By the Most Great Name! The splendor of
such a wealthy man shall illuminate the dwellers of heaven even as the sun enlightens the people of the
e a r t h !
Teachings in the Seven Valleys
The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, irrespective of the time-period, language, and form of composition all have a
common purpose, and all contain elements of the Teachings of the Faith. As an example some of the Te a c h i n g s
that appear in the Seven Valleys and were elucidated in His subsequent Writings are outlined here:
•
God is indescribable. All names and titles given to God relate to God’s Manifestations.
•
The Manifestations of God are all one.
•
Obedience to God’s commandments and recognition of His Manifestations at each age are both
necessary for man’s salvation.
•
Man is in need of God’s grace, bounty and spiritual guidance.
•
The spiritual Worlds of God are innumerable.
•
M a n ’s heart and soul becomes worthy of God’s grace when purified and cleansed from base desires
and excessive materialism. The guidance given in the Seven Valleys prepares man to receive God’s
g r a c e .
•
The ultimate goal of man’s spiritual progress is recognition of God’s Manifestation for the age.
•
Man is essentially a spiritual being with material needs. Hence his happiness depends on the extent
of his spiritual growth.
1 7
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

•
Physical and spiritual truths are not absolute, but relative.
•
Each man receives his portion of God’s grace and everyone is judged according to his or her own
c a p a c i t y.
•
The prerequisite to success in one’s search after truth is the elimination of all forms of prejudices
and blind imitation.
•
Man must set his vision at the outcome of all things.
N o t e s
1) This paper was presented at Louhelen and Bosch Bahá’í Schools in Michigan and California during October and November 1999.
2) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, translated by Marzieh Gail, in consultation with ‘Alí-Kulí K hán, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wi l m e t t e ,
Ill., U.S., 1991.
3) S ha yk h Muhyi’d-Dín, the judge of K hániqayn in Iraqi Kurdistan.
4) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 140.
5) Bahá’u’lláh, Four Va l l e y s, translated by Marzieh Gail, in consultation with ‘Alí-Kulí K hán, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wi l m e t t e ,
Ill., U.S., 1991.
6) Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Wo rd s, translated by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill, U.S., 1931
7) Bahá’u’lláh, K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, United Kingdom
8) Bahá’u’lláh, The Essence (Gems) of Mysteries ( J a w á h i ru ’ l - A s r á r ). [This Epistle is in Arabic with no approved translation yet.]
9) Bahá’u’lláh, Mat hnavíy-i-Mubárak (The Blessed Ode). [This poem is in Persian and has the same style as that of Mathnavi of
Rúmi. There is no approved English translation of this ode yet.]
10) Fáridu’d-Dín ‘Attár (ca. 1150–1230 C. E.), one of the greatest Persian Sufi poets.
11) ‘A t t á r, The Conference of the Bird s .
12) ‘A t t á r, Book of Hardship ( M o s í b a t - N á m e h ) .
13) Bahá’u’lláh, T h e Seven Va l l e y s, p. 24.
14) I b i d ., p. 4.
15) I b i d ., p. 40.
16) I b i d ., p. 26.
17) Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to The Son of the Wo l f, pp. 13–15
18) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, pp. 22-23.
19) I b i d ., p. 3.
20) I b i d ., pp. 3-4.
21) I b i d ., p. 4.
22) Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, U.K. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, XXI, p. 49.
23) K hájih ‘Abdu’lláh Ansárí, (1006–1088 C.E.), a well-known Sufi, principally remembered for his Supplications and Quatrains.
24) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, p. 16.
25) New Testament, Matthew 6:9–10
26) Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmi (1207–1273 C.E.), the founder of the “Mawlavi Whirling” dervish order and author of the Mat hnaví, one of
the most celebrated mystical works of all time. Bahá’u’lláh quotes Rúmí in many of His Wr i t i n g s .
27) References to the story of the journey of Moses and K hidr from Rúmí’s Mat hnaví appear on page 17:
Veiled from this was Moses
Though all strength and light;
Then thou who hast no wings at all,
Attempt not flight.
and on page 26:
If K hidr did wreck the vessel on the sea,
Yet in this wrong there are a thousand rights.
28) Bahá’u’lláh, K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n, p. 92.
1 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

29) Suhrevárdí, founder of the philosophical school of Is hr á q .
30) Nezámí Ganjáví, Five [Stories], (K hamsih-ye Nezám’í), written around 11 8 8 – 1189 C.E.
31) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, pp. 6-7.
32) New Testament, Matthew 11 : 4 - 6 .
33) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 6, 23.
34) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, pp. 5-9 passim.
35) I b i d ., pp. 5-6.
36) I b i d ., pp. 13-14.
37) I b i d ., p. 19–20
38) I b i d ., p. 38
39) I b i d ., pp. 38–39
40) Hatif of Isfahan
41) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, p. 39.
42) I b i d ., p. 35.
43) Súrat’a t - Tauba (Repentance) from the Qu r’ á n 9 : 5 .
44) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s, pp. 22–24.
45) ‘Alí-ibn-Abí-Tálib. Related by Is hráq K hávarí in Qa m ú s - i - ˆ q á n, vol. 2, p. 741.
46) Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 336–338.
47) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s, p. 15.
48) ‘Alí-ibn-Abí-Tálib, A Collection of Sermons and Letters (N a h j ’ u l - B a l a g h a t).
49) Qur’án, S.17 (Bani-Isra’il), 11 0 .
50) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s, p. 2.
51) Bahá’u’lláh, K i t á b - i - A q d a s, p. 47.
52) Evelyn Underhill, Mysticism. The Nature and Development of Spiritual Consciousness, Oneworld Publications, U.K.
53) Glen A. Shook, Mysticism, Science a n d R e v e l a t i o n, George Ronald, U.K.
54) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s, pp. 239–41.
55) Mullá Sadrá
56) Ibn-Faridh
57) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s, p. 39.
58) Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, Tajallíyát (Effulgences) p. 47.
59) Bahá’u’lláh, K i t á b - i - A q d a s, p. 19.
60) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s, p. 2.
61) I b i d ., pp. 39–40.
62) Bahá’u’lláh, K i t á b - i - A q d a s, p. 19
63) Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, Tajallíyát (Effulgences) p. 50.
64) Qur’án 47:36—MUHAMMAD
65) Qur’án 29:64—AL- ‘A N K A B U T.
66) K hájih ‘Abdulláh Ansárí. A n w á r- a l - Tahqiq (Lights of Search) in Persian, page 42. What is given here is a verb translation from
P e r s i a n .
67) Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s, p. 35.
68) Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Wo rd s, p. 41.
1 9
A Journey through the Seven Vall e ys

2 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Beginning that Hath No Beginning: Bahá’í Cosmogony1
by Vahid Brown
Behold, O concourse of the earth, the splendours of the End, revealed in the Manifestations of
the Beginning!
— B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h
E
ndowed with consciousness, gifted with reason, humankind’s experience of the world is necessarily an
experience of meaning, collectively embodied in our worldviews and revealed in our cultures, lan-
guages, institutions, and ways of life. Myth, in the sense of the core sacred narrative of humankind’s
spiritual traditions, has for millennia been a circle enclosing all aspects of human life. At the center of this cir-
cle is the consciousness of the intimate relationship between the Absolute and the world. The fount of the
mythic consciousness is a narrative of cosmogony, a foundational, overarching story of the creation of the uni-
verse. The perception of this link between the deep core of the Bahá’í Faith’s spiritual vision of the universe
and its outermost application in its social, administrative or institutional affairs is essential to an adequate
awareness of modern Bahá’í life as s a c re d. The goal of this paper is to delineate several fundamental aspects
of Bahá’í cosmogony and its underlying metaphysics, aspects which are central to the mythic vision of the
world that animates Bahá’í life.
Throughout the works of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, creation remains an important theme,
addressed in a variety of ways in several different “codes,”3 often alluding to aspects of the Islamic cosmogo-
nic tradition. More than any other term, symbol, or concept, however, the Will of God is at the center of the
Bahá’í notion of creation. It is the defining term of Bahá’í myth at every level, be it prophetological, episte-
mological, historical, societal, or personal.
In Bahá’u’lláh’s Lawh-i-Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom) we find an important discussion of the Will and of cos-
mogony that provides an ideal framework for our exploration, as it brings together diverse but parallel creation
narratives found in the broader corpus of Bahá’í scripture. This paper will be structured around a detailed
exploration of four selected passages from the Tablet (paragraphs 8, 9, and 12).
The Tablet was addressed to Áqá Muhammad Q á’iní, Nabíl-i-Akbar, arguably the most learned of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s early disciples.4 Nabíl-i-Akbar was deeply versed in virtually all fields of study available to a
man of his time and place, a fact to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred when speaking of him as a man “of wide
learning, at once a mujtahid, a philosopher, a mystic, and gifted with intuitive insight, he was also an accom-
plished man of letters and an orator without a peer. ”5 Such a prodigious wealth of knowledge on the part of His
audience may explain Bahá’u’lláh’s allusions in this Tablet to so many currents of cosmogonic understanding
in Islam.
As regards thine assertions about the beginnings of creation, this is a matter on which conceptions vary by
reason of the divergences in men’s thoughts and opinions. Wert thou to assert that it hath ever existed and
shall continue to exist, it would be true; or wert thou to affirm the same concept as is mentioned in the
sacred Scriptures, no doubt would there be about it, for it hath been revealed by God, the Lord of the
w o r l d s .6
This passage has been interpreted in a number of ways by various scholars of the Bahá’í Faith, the gamut
of which can be gauged by referring to the works of Adib Taherzadeh, Moojan Momen, and Juan Cole.
Adib Taherzadeh maintained that these sentences, along with the remainder of this paragraph, give an
unequivocal statement of the eternity of the world, and a firm rejection of the idea of a temporally originated
cosmos, of creation ex nihilo.7 He reads the paragraph as juxtaposing two ideas of creation: (a) that “it hath
ever existed,” that it is eternal and (b) that “God was a hidden treasure and created man in order to make
Himself known,” which refers to the sentence in the Tablet immediately following those given above.8 The lat-
2 1
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

ter idea, to Taherzadeh, “seems to imply an interval without a creation,” i.e., the notion of temporal origina-
t i o n .9 Taherzadeh is clear, however, that such an idea is implied and is o n l y implied, and he goes on to opine
that what is really being distinguished are two ideas of eternality, “the eternity of God and the eternity of His
c r e a t i o n . ”1 0 He explains this idea by referencing talks on the matter by ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá in Some A n s w e re d
Qu e s t i o n s, and another Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh from the ‘Akká period, the Lawh-i-‘A b d u ’ l - Va h h á b .11
A d i fferent reading of this paragraph is presented by Moojan Momen in an article in which he argues for
cognitive relativism vis-à-vis questions of Bahá’í metaphysics.1 2 In it, he describes the issue as “that of whether
the world of creation is coeternal with God or created in time.”1 3 In line with the development and application
to Bahá’í metaphysics of the idea of cognitive relativism, which is the wider context in which this statement
occurs, the author suggests that both of these positions are equally valid, but neither of them are “true” in any-
thing like an absolute sense, for they concern realities or processes about which no intelligible concept can be
considered adequate. Momen appears to read the passage as e x p l i c i t l y suggesting a notion of creation in time,
which is then set in juxtaposition to the notion of eternality.
Juan Cole’s position lies somewhere in between. In his draft entry on the Tablet of Wisdom for the Bahá’í
encyclopedia project, Cole seems, like Momen, to take for granted that Bahá’u’lláh is writing about the ques-
tion of the eternity of the world versus its creation in time, out of nothing.1 4 To Cole, Bahá’u’lláh is saying that
“both the eternality of the world and the creation of the world are valid ways of talking,” a statement which he
supports by a treatment of the same distinction between essential (or ontological) pre-existence and temporal
pre-existence noted by Ta h e r z a d e h .1 5 That is, the world is originated by God and is therefore contingent, and
God, as That upon which the existence of the world is contingent, is essentially pre-existent. Yet this process
of originating the cosmos has always been going on, and there is not a t i m e in which it began, before which
there was no world. Thus, to speak of God being b e f o re the creation is to speak of His existential rather than
temporal priority in relation to the world. These concepts are explained by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the text
Taherzadeh cites.1 6
Both Momen and Cole are reading this passage as a clear reference to the notions of creation in time, cre-
ation from nothing, or both. If we follow Cole and accept “sacred Scriptures” to embrace the Bible and the
Q u ’ r á n ,1 7 we are left with the quandary that neither of these texts carry an explicit concept of creation ex nihi -
l o. In fact, there are plenty of indications that the idea of temporal creation ex nihilo d i d n ’t arise in the
Abrahamic religions until a considerable time after the composition of their core scriptures.1 8 A d d i t i o n a l l y,
there have always been important figures and sects in these religious traditions promoting readings of these
texts that did not imply an ex nihilo creation, but simply a causal relationship between God and the world. One
such group was the S ha yk hí movement, with which Nabíl-i-Akbar, the immediate recipient of this Tablet, was
a s s o c i a t e d .1 9
M o m e n ’s reading of the passage hints at a larger problem. Do the Bahá’í writings affirm the eternality of
the world or its creation out of nothing in time? If the answer is yes to both, how do we resolve the apparent
c o n t r a d i c t i o n ?
As Momen implied in his comments about the Lawh-i-Hikmat, the answer is yes on both counts. As to the
eternality of the world, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote and spoke emphatically on this point. One could cite, in support
of the argument for eternity, the following:
Know that it is one of the most abstruse spiritual truths that the world of existence—that is to say, this end-
less universe—has no beginning. . . . If we could imagine a time when no beings existed, this imagination
would be the denial of the Divinity of God. Moreover, absolute nonexistence cannot become existence. . .
. Therefore, as the Essence of Unity (that is, the existence of God) is everlasting and eternal—that is to say,
it has neither beginning nor end—it is certain that this world of existence, this endless universe, has nei-
ther beginning nor end.2 0
The Creator always had a creation; the rays have always shone and gleamed from the reality of the sun, for
without the rays the sun would be opaque darkness. The names and attributes of God require the existence
of beings, and the Eternal Bounty does not cease. If it were to, it would be contrary to the perfections of
G o d .2 1
Here we see no equivocation, no room for the suggestion of temporal creation or creation ex nihilo. Such,
2 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

according to these citations, would be contrary to God’s perfection and in denial of His divinity. The matter
would appear to be settled, if it weren’t for other instances in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh that speak of creation
from nothing. For example:
All that is in heaven and all that is in the earth have come to exist at His bidding, and by His Will all have
stepped out of utter nothingness into the world of being.2 2
All praise to the unity of God, and all honor to Him, the sovereign Lord, the incomparable and all-glori-
ous Ruler of the universe, Who, out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all things, Who, from
naught, hath brought into being the most refined and subtle elements of His creation, and Who, rescuing
His creatures from the abasement of remoteness and the perils of ultimate extinction, hath received them
into His kingdom of incorruptible glory.2 3
The apparent contradiction is resolved, however, by the interpretations of ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Eff e n d i ,
both of whom state that “nothingness” in this context is not meant literally, as an absolute nonexistence which
is replaced by existence in an act of c reatio ex nihilo. Writing of the second quotation from Bahá’u’lláh imme-
diately above, Shoghi Effendi stated, through his secretary:
The statement in the “Gleanings”, pp. 64-65, “who out of utter nothingness . . .” etc., should be taken in a
symbolic and not a literal sense. It is only to demonstrate the power and greatness of God.2 4
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke repeatedly to this question. In one instance, He states that “existence and nonexistence
are both relative. If it be said that such a thing came into existence from nonexistence, this does not refer to
absolute nonexistence, but means that its former condition in relation to its actual condition was nothing-
n e s s . ”2 5
If we re-examine the passage from the Tablet of Wisdom, it is quite clear that Bahá’u’lláh is affirming the
eternity of the universe, while at the same time upholding the truth of whatever has been revealed in the sacred
Scriptures. Even if we assume that His reference to the sacred Scriptures is intended to engage in the mind of
His reader a more or less common understanding of these texts—that the universe was created in time and from
nothing—it seems clear that He is not doing so in order to a f f i r m that understanding. Bahá’u’lláh juxtaposes
two truths, which many thought to be opposed to one another, and proceeds to elucidate their compatibility.
One can affirm the scriptural concept of creation since the universe is dependent on a cause, exists through
something other than itself, and is therefore contingent. This fact entails a preexistence on the part of its Cause,
but a preexistence which is ontological rather than temporal. The fact that the universe has always existed does
not confer upon it an eternity identical to the eternity of God, for the latter exists at an infinitely higher place
in the hierarchy of being.
This same juxtaposition and resolution was offered in another place by Bahá’u’lláh, where He writes:
As to thy question whether the physical world is subject to any limitations, know thou that the compre-
hension of this matter dependeth upon the observer himself. In one sense, it is limited; in another, it is
exalted beyond all limitations. The one true God hath everlastingly existed, and will everlastingly contin-
ue to exist. His creation, likewise, hath had no beginning, and will have no end. All that is created, how-
e v e r, is preceded by a cause.2 6
In the Lawh-i-‘A b d u ’ r-Razzáq, Bahá’u’lláh offers yet another manner of approach, one which introduces a
fundamental concept for Bahá’í cosmogony. In it, Bahá’u’lláh again addresses an individual who had posed a
“question concerning the origin of creation.”2 7 He first answers that the beginning of creation “hath had no
beginning,” that it “hath existed from eternity, and will continue to exist forever. ” 2 8 He then refers to a well-
known hadít h that could be understood to imply a c reatio ex nihilo:
As to those sayings, attributed to the Prophets of old, such as, “In the beginning was God; there was no
creature to know Him,” and “The Lord was alone; with no one to adore Him,” the meaning of these and
similar sayings is clear and evident, and should at no time be misapprehended. To this same truth bear wit-
ness these words which He hath revealed: “God was alone; there was none else besides Him. He will
always remain what He hath ever been. ” Every discerning eye will readily perceive that the Lord is now
manifest, yet there is none to recognize His glory. By this is meant that the habitation wherein the Divine
Being dwelleth is far above the reach and ken of any one besides Him. . . . He will, for ever, remain immea-
2 3
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

surably exalted above any one except Himself.2 9
This is similar to the resolution examined above. The sayings of the Prophets that imply a time when God
existed p r i o r to the existence of anything else are interpreted by Bahá’u’lláh to point to an ontological priori-
t y, not a temporal one. God can always be described as being “alone,” for His is an absolute existence, while
all else is contingent and caused, acquiring existence from the will of another.
But He continues in this Tablet to provide a unique turn on this cosmogonic issue, assimilating its cosmic
level to an historical dimension. The Manifestations of God are offered as one of the intended referents in the
scriptural passages that speak of God and His creation. The various names by which the reality with cosmic
causal significance are known in the Bahá’í writings and which are understood to have “created” all things—
the Will, the Word, the Command—are related to the Manifestations of God in such a way as to imbue T h e i r
activity with cosmogonic meaning. Thus, Bahá’u’lláh offers an additional elucidation of those texts that speak
of God “before” creation in the context of the earthly mission of His Manifestations:
Consider the hour at which the supreme Manifestation of God revealeth Himself unto men. Ere that hour
cometh, the Ancient Being, Who is still unknown of men and hath not as yet given utterance to the Wo r d
of God, is Himself the All-Knower in a world devoid of any man that hath known Him. He is indeed the
Creator without a creation. For at the very moment preceding His Revelation, each and every created thing
shall be made to yield up its soul to God. This is indeed the Day of which it hath been written: “Whose
shall be the Kingdom this Day?” And none can be found ready to answer!3 0
This plurality of cosmogonic levels is essential to the Bahá’í mythic structure, and allows the creativity of
God to be perceived in concrete moments of sacred time. By virtue of its capacity for extension to diverse lev-
els of experience and reality, cosmogonic symbolism reverberates throughout humanity’s diverse modes of life,
be they personal, cultural, historical, spiritual, or political. As will be seen, the thread that ties the cosmogony
to all aspects of the sacred in the Bahá’í worldview is the concept of the Will of God.
The next passage from the Tablet of Wisdom reads:
Indeed He was a hidden treasure. This is a station that can never be described nor even alluded to. And in
the station of ‘I did wish to make Myself known,’ God was, and His creation had ever existed beneath His
shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from its being preceded by a Firstness which can-
not be regarded as firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto all men of learning.3 1
There are two narratives embraced by this passage; one of symbol and metaphor, and one of a more ratio-
nal, philosophical discourse. Both narratives have a long heritage of development, and both are essential to
Bahá’í cosmogony. Over the next few pages we will call these, respectively, the myth of the Hidden Tr e a s u r e
and the paradox of causality.
The Myth of the Hidden Treasure
The myth of the Hidden Treasure springs ultimately from a h a d ít h q u d s í—a recorded utterance of
Muhammad, His companions or Imams, which has as part of its text an ascription of a saying to God Himself.3 2
Though providing the substance of contemplation for countless Muslim mystics over time, this particular
h a d ít h q u d s í was generally repudiated by the hadít h s c h o l a r s .3 3 It is not found in any of the six canonical col-
lections of hadít h recognized by Sunnis and most Shí’ites as authentic and authoritative. Nonetheless, it is
quoted, cited, and alluded to in a great many places in the Bahá’í writings, and ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá wrote a cele-
brated commentary on it while in His teens.3 4
While there are a number of variants of the Hidden Treasure hadít h, the form which is cited here in the
Lawh-i-Hikmat and upon which ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá wrote His commentary can be translated as follows:
I was a Hidden Treasure. I did wish (or love) to make Myself known, so I created the Creation that I might
be known.
The Tablet of Wisdom distinguishes between two “stations” (m a q á m á t) of God or of Being in this hadít h.
The first station is that of the Hidden Treasure, so transcendent that it is beyond description or even allusion.
With reference to this station, it is impossible to ascribe existence to anything other than the divine Essence.
In His commentary on this hadít h, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:
2 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

And that Essence of Primal Oneness, in that most great station in which it is said: “There was God and
there was naught else besides Him,” is called by the names: the Hidden Treasure, the Hidden Ipseity, the
Absolute Unity, Pure Essence, Absolute Non-specificity, the Hidden of the Hidden, the Primal Mystery, the
Absolute Unknown, the Indescribable One, the Undiscoverable One and other Names.3 5
The second station, of “I did wish to make Myself known,” is the station at which God can be addressed by
names and attributes, including “the Creator.” As such, He has a creation, which is contingent yet eternally
existent. These two stations are also distinguished in a prayer of Bahá’u’lláh:
I testify that Thou wast a hidden Treasure wrapped within Thine immemorial Being and an impenetrable
Mystery enshrined in Thine own Essence. Wishing to reveal Thyself, Thou didst call into being the Greater
and the Lesser Worlds, and didst choose Man above all Thy creatures, and didst make Him a sign of both
of these worlds, O Thou Who art our Lord, the Most Compassionate!3 6
The creative activity of the second stage can be referred to as the Word, as in this verse: “Thou didst wish
to make Thyself known unto men; therefore, Thou didst, through a word of Thy mouth, bring creation into
being and fashion the universe. ”3 7 The Word of God, in turn, depends upon the agency of God’s Will (m as hí y y -
a t) and Purpose (i r á d i h):
I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of
His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all
that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths.38
In the myth of the Hidden Treasure, we can discern the classic cosmogonic pair of chaos and cosmos. T h e
station of the Hidden Treasure corresponds to chaos, for at this stage the universe is considered as nothingness,
while God’s Essence is an impenetrable abyss, in which it is impossible to identify characteristics or structure.
At the station of “I did wish to make Myself known,” there comes the appearance of order (cosmos), a clear
relationship between Creator and creation in pursuance of a definite purpose. The concept which mediates
between these two sides of the semantic opposition is the Will. It is the Will which brings creation “out of the
wastes of utter nothingness” —chaos—and it is “the energies of Thy Will whereby the entire creation hath been
generated” that regulate the order—cosmos.
It should also be noted that the human being plays a critical role in the myth of the Hidden Tr e a s u r e .3 9 If the
desire to be known is the cause of creation, such a desire could only be fulfilled in the creation of a being with
the capacity for knowledge. This central role is expressed by Bahá’u’lláh in the following:
Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct operation of His
unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and capacity to know
Him and to love Him—a capacity that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary
purpose underlying the whole of creation . . .4 0
As with the cosmos/chaos pair, the semantic opposition of known/unknown, which, in the myth of the
Hidden Treasure is the tension behind the decision of God to create, is mediated by the Will of God. Not only
is the Will responsible for the creation of the capacity to know, it is the Manifestation of that Will in the
Prophets and Messengers that mediates between the latency of this capacity and its actual fulfillment. Perhaps
the clearest expression of the identity of the Will with the Prophets is this passage from the Báb: “It is this
Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in every Prophet and speaketh forth in every revealed Book.”4 1 T h a t
h u m a n i t y ’s knowledge of God is possible only through the Manifestations is a central theme throughout the
Bahá’í writings, for it is the Manifestation of God “Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His
Cause and the world of creation.”4 2
The cosmogonic concepts of the myth of the Hidden Treasure are used at a variety of levels. In the Lawh-i-
Hikmat, we see them employed at the level of cosmogony proper, in terms of the creation of the universe. But
these concepts are also central to the Bahá’í view of sacred history, in which cycles of time are initiated by the
appearance of a Manifestation of the Primal Will, a Prophet who transmits God’s message to humanity and lays
the foundation for a new civilization. All of the same elements are present. The moment before the Prophet
reveals Himself, there is a “Creator without a creation,”4 3 a chaos in which God is utterly hidden. The “works
and acts of each and every one of these Manifestations of God” are assimilated to the creative activity of God,
2 5
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

inasmuch as they “are a reflection of His Will and Purpose.”4 4 At both levels, creation is effected through the
Word. There is even a parallel in the distinction between the two stations of God described above and the two
stations of the Manifestations explained by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán. At the level of God’s Oneness—
the Hidden Treasure—no attributes or names can be affirmed, since the Essence is identical only with Itself
and transcends description. Similarly, in “the station of pure abstraction and essential unity, ”4 5 all of the
Prophets are one, and no distinctions can be made between them. In the station of wishing to be known, God
is named by definite attributes, each of which has a concomitant effect—i.e., God is the Creator and therefore
has His creation. Reflecting this, the Prophets have a “station of distinction,” in which “[e]ach one of them is
known by a different name, is characterized by a special attribute, fulfils a definite Mission, and is entrusted
with a particular Revelation.”4 6 Their “particular Revelation” corresponds to the creation of a new civilization
in the era in which They appear.
The Paradox of Causality
Turning to the second narrative, we find the perplexing statement that the universe, though eternal, is pre-
ceded by a “Firstness which cannot be regarded as firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto
all men of learning.”4 7 Our understanding of this paradox of causality, insofar as any understanding is possi-
ble, will be facilitated by a brief look at its development in Islamic thought.
Greek philosophy, which the Islamic world studied and absorbed, contrasted two traditions of the idea of
God or the Absolute. In Aristotelian thought, God is the First Cause, the Unmoved Mover who is ultimately
responsible for all motion. From this perspective, God is the highest link in a chain of causality, and is there-
fore directly connected to His effects. The Neoplatonic tradition, on the other hand, emphasized the transcen-
dence of God or “the One.” This latter tradition—at least insofar as it is based in the works of Plotinus—held
that any name for God is merely a symbol for an unknowable reality, a reality which is the ground of the chain
of being rather than its apex. For example, in the Enneads, Plotinus writes:
The name “the one” is merely a denial of multiplicity. The Pythagoreans signified it symbolically among
one another through the term Apollo [a-pollón: “not many”], by apophasis of the many. If the one is to be
taken as a positing, name, and referent, we would express ourselves more clearly if we did not speak its
name at all. We speak it so that we can begin our search with that which signifies the most simple, ending
with the apophasis of even that.4 8
How can one say that it is a being among beings, something to which a thus can be applied? It is other than
all things that are “thus.”4 9
There is certainly a hierarchy of causes in Neoplatonism—the chain of hypostases—but the link between the
two highest orders of being in this hierarchy is of a different nature than the link between the highest order of
the hierarchy and that unutterable reality that transcends yet embraces the chain of being in its totality.
The Islamic philosophical discourse on these issues can also be schematized into two similarly contrasting
traditions. Islamic theology could be called apophatic in a general sense, in that it could not but affirm the all-
important principle of t a w h í d, divine unity, and that “there is nothing like Him.”5 0 Yet there is a broad divide
between, on the one hand, such philosophers as Ibn Síná (Avicenna, d. 1037 C.E.) or al-Farábí (d. 950 C.E.), for
whom it is legitimate to represent God as the First Cause, the Necessary Being; and on the other hand, such
Shí’ite thinkers as the Ismá‘ílí Abú Ya’qúb Sijistání (tenth century) or S ha yk h Ahmad al-Ahsá’í (d. 1826), for
whom the ascription to God of being a cause (‘ i l l a) is little less than heresy.
In early Ismá‘ílí thought, the cause of causes (‘illat al-‘illal) is not God, but rather the First Intellect, which
is the first originated being.5 1 God is not delimited or defined by creation because, to these thinkers, a cause is
necessarily delimited and qualified by its effect. The appearance of an effect confers the quality of causation
upon its cause. Inasmuch as an effect rises n e c e s s a r i l y from its cause, as heat does from fire, God envisioned
as first cause would cease to be free. Rather, the first cause, the cause of all secondary causes, is said to have
been made to cause those causes by God. It is not directly caused by God, but is rather o r i g i n a t e d (a b d a’a) by
Him. It may seem like wordplay, but the essential point of this argument is that God is not the first cause in
the great chain of causes and effects, for if this were the case God would then be similar to those secondary
causes and their effects. Rather, God is the Origin (m u b d i ‘) of the First Intellect, the latter being identified with
2 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

the Word or the Unity (w a h d a ).5 2 From this first originated being (a l - m u b d a ’a l - a w w a l), all things are produced
through emanation (i n b i ’ át h or f a y d). The chain of causation begins here, functioning in much the same way
as in the Neoplatonic hierarchy.5 3
In the works of S ha yk h Ahmad al-Ahsá’í one finds many parallels to the metaphysical doctrines of the Bábí
and Bahá’í Faiths. Like the philosophers of early Ismá‘ílism, S ha yk h Ahmad drew upon the teachings of the
Shí‘í Imáms in elaborating his thought. One reported saying of the sixth Imám, Ja‘fár as-Sádiq, was particu-
larly important for the S ha yk h’s understanding of creation. In this enigmatic statement, quoted abundantly by
S ha yk h Ahmad, the Imám says: “God created the Will (m as hi y y a t) through itself (b i - n a f s i h á), and created all
things (a l - as hy á’a) through the Wi l l . ”5 4
One can see from this statement how S ha yk h Ahmad may have developed a notion similar to that of the early
Ismá‘ílís, in which God is not seen as the direct cause of creation but as the origin of the first cause. In fact,
S ha yk h Ahmad did exactly that, though not in the same terms. He took this teaching of Imám Sádiq and laid
it at the foundation of his metaphysics. For S ha yk h Ahmad, the “acting” of an agent is distinct from both the
agent itself and the act for which the acting is a process of occasioning.
If the Primal Will created itself, or was created by itself, does God then have no connection with the uni-
verse? Is there not a circularity in the idea of a self-created Will? S ha yk h Ahmad is emphatic in answering both
of these questions in the negative. He explains that m as hi y y a t is God’s acting, and an acting5 5 depends upon an
agent of that acting for its subsistence.5 6 He defines the mode of subsistence by which the acting of an agent
has its own distinct being as “subsistence of emanation,” or “processional subsistence” (qiyám as-Sudúrí) .5 7
Thus, the Primal Will is contingent upon God for its being, and could be conceptualized as God’s “process of
emanating.” Yet, he insists that the Emanator, the process of emanating, and the end-result emanation are three
distinct realities, which he classifies on the cosmological scale as Real Being (al-wujúd al-haqq), A b s o l u t e
Being (al-wujúd al-mutlaq), and Delimited Being (al-wujúd al-muqayyad) .5 8 In the case of the Primal Will, it
is dependent on God for its existence but is at the same time its own cause. S ha yk h Ahmad points out that a
process-of-willing is not coequal with the actor upon whom this process depends, nor is it the same as the
willed result. Further, the process-of-willing does not come to be through anything other than itself, for if it
did we would have to say that it came to be through another process-of-willing which in turn depended upon
a third process-of-willing, around and around in an infinite regress.5 9 Thus, the Primal Will can be seen as its
own cause, while yet remaining contingent in relation to God, the Real Being.
In Bábí and Bahá’í texts, we can find both of these approaches to the affirmation of God’s transcendence.
As in early Ismá‘ílí doctrine, God is not the cause of causes but the Originator of the cause of causes; and as
with S ha yk h Ahmad, the traditional statement of the Imám Ja‘fár as-Sádiq is cited in evidence of God’s inde-
pendence from receiving qualification from His eff e c t s .
These strains are the background to the statement under discussion, that “His creation had ever existed
beneath His shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from its being preceded by a Firstness
which cannot be regarded as firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable even unto all men of learning.”6 0
From one perspective, the Firstness (a w w a l) is not a firstness (lá awwal) due to the fact that creation is not
“after” God in a temporal sense. But further, it is not even “after” God as an effect is “after” a cause. T h e
Primal Will, while it constitutes an actional quality of God, is its own cause. It is the Primal Will which in turn
is the agent of the creation of the universe. God’s “firstness” in relation to the Primal Will is ambiguous, for
the Primal Will is the cause of the Primal Will. But on the other hand, the “firstness” of the Primal Will is not
absolute, for its very being is God’s activity.
A few pages later in the Lawh-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh seems to employ language similar to the Ismá‘ílís to
indicate these distinctions, when He says that “such men as were the source and the wellspring of Wi s d o m
never denied the moving Impulse [‘ i l l a] behind these causes, nor the Creator [m u b d i ‘] or the Origin [m a b d a ‘]
t h e r e o f . ”6 1 This language appears to mirror the Ismá‘ílí notion of the First Intellect or Primal Will as the cause
(‘ i l l a) of causes, with God as the originator (m u b d i ‘) of the First Intellect. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reiterates this princi-
ple in several places, such as in the following: “He, the invisible, the lofty and the incomprehensible, is pre-
ceded by no cause but rather is the Originator of the cause of causes.”6 2
The writings of the Báb display a nearly identical use of terms to distinguish the creativity of God from the
2 7
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

creativity of the Primal Will as first “cause.” Todd Lawson has cited passages from the Báb’s earliest work—
the Tafsír Súrat al-baqara—that employ the terms i b d á ‘ (origination, from the same root as m u b d i ‘) and ik ht i -
r a ’ (invention) in what Lawson describes as the Báb’s “distinctive cosmogony entailing twin creative process-
e s . ”6 3 The employment of these and similar pairs of terms to make this same distinction has a rich tradition in
Islamic philosophy, and is not confined to Ismá‘ílí cosmology. As William Chittick notes:
For many Muslim thinkers, “innovation” [ibdá‘] is God’s creation without intermediary, whereas “cre-
ation” (k halq) refers to his creation by means of a preexistent something. Thus one can say that God “inno-
vated” the intellect, but he “created” everything by means of the intellect.6 4
As to the saying of Ja‘fár as-Sádiq, this is also quoted and discussed in the Bábí and Bahá’í writings. Saiedi
has noted that in the Báb’s Sahífiy-i-‘Adlíyyih (Book of Justice), the Báb “explains that God created the
Primal Will from nothing through the causation of the Will itself without any external determination, and cre-
ated all other beings by the causation of the Will . . .”6 5 In His Súriy-i-tawhíd, the Báb expounds the doctrine
at some length, explicitly citing the Imáms, and identifying the Primal Will with the First Remembrance, which
can be understood to refer to the archetypal reality of the Manifestation of God.6 6 This latter element of the
B á b ’s treatment of this idea is expressed in another Tablet in which God addresses the Báb, as His
Manifestation, in these words:
In truth I have created Thee through Thyself, then at My Own behest I have fashioned all things through
the creative power of Thy Word. We are All-Powerful. I have appointed Thee to be the Beginning and the
End, the Seen and the Hidden.67
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also quotes the tradition of Imám Ja‘ f á r, though in a slightly different form. This is in a com-
mentary on the very passages of the Lawh-i-Hikmat being examined here, and is cited in the course of explain-
ing the segment which is the substance of the next stage of our inquiry, to which we now proceed.
That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today. The world of
existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction between the active force [fá’il]
and that which is its recipient [munfa’il]. These two are the same, yet they are different. . . . Such as com-
municate the generating influence [fá’ilayn] and such as receive its impact [munfa’ilayn] are indeed cre-
ated through the irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides
His Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof. 6 8
In a Tablet to S ha yk h ‘ Alí-Akbar Qúc hání, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá elucidates and interprets the above paragraph
from the Lawh-i-Hikmat, as well as a later passage concerning Nature.6 9 After quoting the first sentence of the
above, He writes: “From this blessed verse it is clear and evident that the universe is evolving. In the opinion
of the philosophers and the wise this fact of the growth and evolution of the world of existence is also estab-
lished. That is to say, it is progressively transferred from state to state.”7 0
Concerning the next sentence, ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
The world of existence came into being through the heat generated . . . that is to say: The matter [máddih]
and primary matter [hayúlá, Greek hylé] of contingent beings is the ethereal power, which is invisible and
known only through its effects, such as electricity, heat, and light—these are vibrations of that power, and
this is established and proven in natural philosophy and is known as the ethereal matter [máddíyih-át hí r í y-
ih]. This ethereal matter is itself both the active force (fá’il) and the recipient (munfa’il); in other words,
it is the sign of the Primal Will in the phenomenal world. “God created man by the Primal Will and the
Primal Will by itself.”’ The ethereal matter is, therefore, the active force since light, heat and electricity
appear from it. It is also the recipient, for as vibrations take place in it, they become visible.7 1
This verse and its commentary has brought us to the heart of Bahá’í cosmogony. This cosmogonic narra-
tive—of the creative interaction of active and passive forces—is the model for Bahá’í sacred narrative at every
level.
This narrative describes a creative unfoldment with respect to three levels of being. The first level is God,
and it is His acting—self-caused yet contingent—that occupies the second level. To this level can be given the
m o r e - o r-less equivalent names of the Word, the Command, or the Primal Will of God. The third level is that
of the creation, the phenomenal world. Earlier we noted that S ha yk h Ahmad sets forth a similar model, giving
2 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

the three levels the names Real Being, Absolute Being, and Delimited Being. The God-Command-Creation
scheme is emphasized by ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá in a number of places, such as in Some A n s w e red Questions, where we
find Him saying:
[T]he Sufis admit God and the creature, and say that God resolves Himself into the infinite forms of the
creatures, and manifests like the sea, which appears in the infinite forms of the waves. These phenomenal
and imperfect waves are the same thing as the Preexistent Sea, which is the sum of all the divine perfec-
tions. The Prophets, on the contrary, believe that there is the world of God, the world of the Kingdom, and
the world of Creation: three things.7 2
The Lawh-i-Hikmat describes the dynamics of the relationships between these three levels in terms of
p ro c e s s and semantic opposition. At the level of the world of God, there is no tension between opposites, nor
any duality. God is the coincidentia oppositorum, in Whom essence is identical with existence. All divine
attributes and names, which include polarities such as justice and mercy, merge into one at the level of the
Unknowable Essence, of the Hidden Treasure. This is elegantly expressed by S ha yk h Ahmad in his a l - F a w á ’ i d
a l - H i k m i y y a h:
With respect to His Quintessence (Glorified is He!), however, the matter is counter to that which is possi-
ble with respect to creation. So from a single aspect He is Lofty in His Proximity, Proximate in His
Loftiness. From a single aspect He is the Manifest in His Occulting, the Occult in His Manifesting. From
a single aspect He is the First through His Lastness, the Last through His Firstness.7 3
This is an eternal and immutable state, described earlier as the station of the Hidden Treasure. The station
of God’s desire to be known can be identified with the second level, the world of Command. This second level
is God’s acting (f i ’ l), His Primal Will which was created through itself. It is here that the first trace of duality
arises, a duality infinitely more subtle than the duality prevailing in the world of creation. From what is below
it, the world of Command appears as a perfect unity, but in relation to God it is nothing. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said
Though the ‘First Mind’ [the Primal Will] is without beginning, it does not become a sharer in the preex-
istence of God, for the existence of the universal reality in relation to the existence of God is nothingness,
and it has not the power to become an associate of God and like unto Him in preexistence.7 4
But what exactly is this duality in the World of Command, and what, at this level, do the active and passive
forces signify? In looking for the answers in the Bahá’í writings, we find an abundance of codes employed.
These codes use symbols drawn from the Qur’án and traditions of Islamic thought, from Greek philosophy,
even from the esoteric science of alchemy. We’ll here explore several prominent “codes” relevant to the myth-
ic dimension at other levels of the Bahá’í teachings, and that are thus part of the experience of the sacred in
the modern-day Bahá’í community.
One code for the expression of the creative tension in the world of Command derives from the Qur’ánic cre-
ation myth. In it, a prominent theme concerns the word “Be,” by which God brings things into existence. T h e r e
are eight verses that employ the formula, one of which reads: “Ve r i l y, His Command, when He intends a thing,
is only that He says to it, “Be!” —and it is!”7 5
The Arabic word for “be” is k u n, from the three-letter root k á f (K), w á w ( W, Ú), and n ú n (N). The impera-
tive form used in these Qur’ánic verses is written with just the two consonants k á f and n ú n. Islamic thinkers
developed a number of symbolic interpretations of these verses, in which the káf and the n ú n were seen to rep-
resent primordial entities engaged instrumentally by God’s creative Command. One common interpretation
coupled this verse with the first verse of the sixty-eighth S ú r i h of the Qur’án: “Nún. By the Pen and that which
they write.”7 6 The k á f was identified with the Pen, which is used symbolically in Islamic and Bahá’í texts for
the Primal Will or First Intelligence; while one of n ú n’s literal meanings— “i n k p ot” —was exploited to pro-
vide a symbol for the passive counterpart to the active Pen.7 7
In an early Ismá‘ílí text by Abú Ya’qúb Sijistání (tenth century), we find a passage concerning the “signifi-
cance of ascribing the Command of God to these two letters—that is, to the k á f and the n ú n,” in which it is
explained that
anything having either a spiritual or a corporeal nature cannot appear except as one of a pair, [regardless
of] whether it is sublime or mundane. Because the Command of God, the A l m i g h t y, initiates the formation
2 9
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

of such pairs, it is represented by two letters so that it will be understood that God’s Command is the cause
of everything in which duality is found to exist. . . . As joined together in this word whose very being
derives from the Command of God, these two letters are witness on the part of every pair of creatures, each
one being paired with its partner, just as the káf is the mate of the nún, that this condition in all cases
derives from the Command of God, the Most High.78
Later in the same work, Sijistání writes: “The first cause which is the oneness is called “the Word [k a l i m a]
of God,” glorious is His majesty and it—that is, k a l i m a—has four letters. . . . The k á f [in k a l i m a] corresponds
to intellect, since it is the principle of existences and the origin of higher and lower substances, and in it is the
seed of corporeal and spiritual forms. This is like saying that the totality of all creatures appears with the k u n
[of the divine Command k u n] even before the n ú n. ”7 9
These passages envision the two letters of the kun representing the principle of duality, a principle manifest
throughout contingent being, but with its source in the Command rather than in God. Sijistání states that every-
thing in existence is one of a pair; this perhaps derives from the many statements in the Qur’án to the eff e c t
that all things were created in pairs.8 0 Sijistání also relates the k á f-n ú n duality to the composite nature of all
things, in which are necessarily combined matter and form.8 1 He notes that the k á f in k u n is vowelled (m u t a -
h a rr i k; a term used to signify a vowelled consonant, but lit. “in motion”), while n ú n in the word kun is not
vowelled (i.e., carries a s u k ú n, which means literally “silence, repose, rest”). This is then related to the activ-
ity of káf and the passivity of n ú n, which are further said to be symbolic of prime matter and form, respec-
t i v e l y.8 2
In the work of S ha yk h Ahmad, the symbols of these two letters are treated similarly. The k á f and the n ú n a r e
the active and passive forces which interact at the World of Command and thereby produce the lower realms
of existence; in his terminology, they constitute the dynamics of Absolute Being by which Delimited Being is
generated. The káf is said to symbolize the Will of God (m a s h í y y a t), and n ú n, His Purpose (i r á d i h). For S ha yk h
Ahmad, in each composite thing existence is active while essence is passive. Will is responsible for the cre-
ation of the first while Purpose is responsible for the creation of the second.8 3
In the Báb’s Ta f s í r-i-Bismilláh ar-Rahmán ar-Rahím, the same equation is made between these two letters
and the respective stages of Will and Purpose. He writes that the Will, represented by káf, is the father of all
things and is responsible for the creation of matter. Purpose, represented by n ú n, is the mother of all things and
is responsible for the creation of form.8 4 The matter/form pair is closely related with that of existence/essence
mentioned by S ha yk h Ahmad.
In the works of Bahá’u’lláh the “code” of the káf and the n ú n are also employed as symbols for the process
whereby cosmic creativity—through which the World of Creation issues from the World of Command by the
intrumentality of the Will of God—is assimilated to the creative power of the Manifestation of God, through
Whom human life and civilization is revolutionized and reformed. The symbol is used in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
paragraph 177, where it is translated as “the letters B and E.” In the notes to that text we read: “Shoghi Eff e n d i ,
in letters written on his behalf, has explained the significance of the ‘letters B and E.’ They constitute the word
‘ B e , ’ which, he states, ‘means the creative Power of God Who through His command causes all things to come
into being’ and ‘the power of the Manifestation of God, His great spiritual creative force.’”8 5
As mentioned above, the k á f and the n ú n have also been identified with three other pairs of active and pas-
sive realities: existence and essence, matter (or substance) and form, and Will and Purpose. The first two pairs
can be treated together, as they revolve around similar philosophical problems. The Aristotelian concept of
hylomorphism (from h y l é, prime matter, and m o r p h é, form) holds any given thing to be composed of a poten-
tial material element and an actual formal element. The active/passive values to these categories, however, are
reversed in S ha yk hí and Bahá’í texts, so that the active half of this pair is considered to be matter (m á d d a) or
substance (j a w h a r) rather than form (s ú r a t). The question of existence and essence embraces a history of philo-
sophical speculation distinct from the question of hylomorphism. It was of major concern and the subject of
lively debate in Islamic philosophy from the time of Ibn Síná, and can be summarized as the question of
whether a thing was primarily a mode of existence to which an essence functioned as a qualifying accident, or,
on the other hand, an essential reality to which existence was the qualifying accident allowing it to appear in
outward manifestation.
3 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

In the Bahá’í writings, the two questions—of hylomorphism and existence over essence—are answered in
essentially the same way. Any given thing in the universe is seen as a composite in which matter or substance
is an active element “received” by a delimiting form. In the same way, existence is the act, closely identified
with the Will, and essence is the particular reception of this act by which a thing comes to be as it is. The two
elements are simultaneous in the coming-into-being of the thing, each of them necessary. The “thingness” of
the thing lies in neither essence nor existence, but rather both of them through their interaction. However, mat-
ter or existence is higher in the hierarchy of being, as it depends solely on God’s acting, while form or essence
depends on matter/existence for its subsistence. Matter is called the “father,” form the “mother,” but both are
necessary in the “procreation” of the thing. These points are variously expressed in the following quotations:
For example it has been stated that all things are composed of two elements: the “receiver” [qábil] and
the “received” [maqbúl]. By “received” is meant substance [mádda] and primary matter [huyúlá] and by
“receiver” is meant the form [súrat] and shape which confines and limits the primary matter from its state
of indefiniteness and freedom to the courtyard of limitation and definite form.8 6
[I]t is not possible for a thing to have an external existence and not to be formed into a shape because
substance [mádda] and primal matter [hayúlá] in order to exist need form[súrat], while shape and form in
order to appear need substance.8 7
The sun is born from substance [máddih] and form [súrat], which can be compared to father and mother,
and it is absolute perfection; but the darkness has neither substance nor form, neither father nor mother,
and it is absolute imperfection.8 8
Some think that the body is the substance [jawhar] and exists by itself, and that the spirit [rúh] is acci-
dental and depends upon the substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the rational soul [nafs an-
nátiqih] is the substance, and the body depends upon it. If the accident—that is to say, the body—be
destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains . . . the rational soul is the substance through which the body
e x i s t s .8 9
C e r t a i n l y, that which is the substance [jawhar] is superior to that which is the accident, for the substance
is the origin, and the accident is the consequence; the substance depends on itself, while the accident is
dependent on something else; that is to say, it needs a substance upon which to depend.9 0
The inseparability of the halves of these pairs casts light on the statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá regarding the
ethereal matter quoted above. Another aspect of the unity of active and passive is that they are both manifes-
tations of the one Primal Wi l l .
The other pair seen in the káf and the n ú n is that of m as híyyat and i r á d i h, Will and Purpose. These are relat-
ed to the creative energies of the Command mentioned in the verses of the Qur’án that speak of the word k u n,
such as the one already quoted:
Ve r i l y, His Command, when He intends [iradih] a thing, is only that He says to it, “Be!” —and it is!9 1
Will is mentioned in a similar fashion:
Alláh createth what He will [yashá’, same rt. as mas hiyyat]. If He decreeth [qadá] a thing, He saith unto
it only: Be! [kun] and it is.9 2
In the context of the Bahá’í writings, Will and Purpose are the two highest degrees of a seven-stage schema
which describes the process of the generation of all things, from the apex of the World of Command down to
their appearance in the world of creation. This schema goes back to a saying of the sixth Imám, Ja ‘fár as-Sádiq,
which mentions the following degrees: Will (m as hi y y a t ), Purpose (i r á d a), Determination (q a d a r), Decree
(q a d á), Permission (id hn), Fixed Time (a j a l), and Book (k i t á b) .9 3 Nader Saiedi has discussed this scheme in a
recent work, in which he notes that the “heart of these seven stages of creation is the union between existence
and essence.”9 4
Beginning with treatment of this question in S ha yk h Ahmad, the stage of Will is related to the creation of
existence, and Purpose with the creation of essence and its linking to existence.9 5 Returning to the Báb’s Ta f s í r-
i-Bismilláh ar-Rahmán ar-Rahím already referred to above, it will be remembered that He equated k á f w i t h
Will, n ú n with Purpose, and ascribes the creation of matter (m á d d a) to the former and of form (s ú r a t) to the
3 1
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

l a t t e r. He states that Will is the father of all things, Purpose their mother, and then he relates this to a saying
attributed to Rahmán in which the latter is reported to have stated that he and ‘Alí were the father and moth-
e r, respectively, of all Muslims.9 6 We begin to see from these sets of mutually implicating pairs how the dialec-
tic at the level of cosmogony can be assimilated to spiritual history.
We have already seen Bahá’u’lláh employing the concepts of Will and Purpose as interrelated counterparts
to the cosmic creation . . . “ —no sooner had the First Word proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and
purpose, out of His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the whole creation was revolution-
ized . . .” —but He also refers to this process as the agency in the bringing into being of the laws and princi-
ples by which His community is organized: “. . . grant that Thy servants may not be kept back from this Divine
Law [s ha r í‘a h] which, at Thy will [m as hi y y a t] and according to Thy pleasure [i r á d a], hath branched from T h y
most great Ocean.”9 7
In the following key passage from the Lawh-i-Hikmat, “Such as communicate the generating influence [f á ’ i -
l a y n] and such as receive its impact [m u n f a ’ i l a y n] are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God
which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are but the creatures and the eff e c t s
t h e r e o f , ”9 8 the words f á ’ i l a y n and m u n f a ’ i l a y n could be literally translated as the twin agents and the t w i n
p a t i e n t s. Bahá’u’lláh has identified the f á ’ i l a y n as fire and water and the m u n f a ’ i l a y n as air and earth.9 9 In other
places, the Bahá’í writings engage the Graeco-Islamic tradition on this question, in which the two agents could
be defined as heat and cold, and the two patients moistness and dryness, with the four elements themselves
thus composed of active and passive natures.1 0 0 One could read this verse as saying that the Word of God is
responsible for the creation of the four Classical categories of elements and natures, which interact with each
other in the composition of all physical things. It can also be read as a reference to the dialectics of Will and
Purpose and of Determination and Decree within the World of Command.
These first four degrees of the Báb’s seven-stage schema are often treated as a distinct quaternity by both
S ha yk h Ahmad and the Báb. In the Persian Bayán, the Báb dazzles the reader with over a dozen interrelated
symbolic quaternities, including (1) Will, (2) Purpose, (3) Determination, (4) Decree; and (1) fire, (2) air, (3)
w a t e r, and (4) earth. In the former, Will and Determination are the active counterparts of the passive elements
of Purpose and Decree. Thus, we can align these concepts to the verse in the Lawh-i-Hikmat, in that the f á ’ i -
l a y n, the two agents of fire and water, are equated in the Bayánic quaternal symbolism with the active cate-
gories of Will and Determination, while the m u n f a ’ i l a y n, the two patients of air and earth, are equated with
Purpose and Decree. Following S ha yk h Ahmad, the Bayánic quaterinities are divisions or stages of the one A c t
or Acting of God, known also as the Primal Wi l l .1 0 1 The unity of the twin realities in the Primal Will can be
seen as identical to the unity of the four realities, but with the latter there is a greater measure of dynamic com-
p l e x i t y.1 0 2
Ve r i l y, the Word of God is the Cause that hath preceded the contingent world—a world which is adorned
with the splendours of the Ancient of Days, yet is being renewed and regenerated at all times.1 0 3
From the elements of Bahá’í cosmogony already surveyed, it is clear that creation is not a single, unique
event, from which time and creation stretch passively on. The activity of the divine Will is constant, and it is
upon this ceaseless activity that each existing thing depends. In the above passage from the Lawh-i-Hikmat,
an additional element to this relationship is introduced. The divine Will provides not simply a constant ground
of being for all existent things; it is responsible at every moment for the creation of the cosmos. This is entailed
by the active/passive categories in the Bahá’í writings.
There is a constant transformation of form and essence that consitutes the appearance of change and devel-
opment in the things around us. If we think of this transformation as existential motion, then the cause of such
motion will be either the forms that appear to be flitting from state to state, or it will be the substance (or exis-
tence) which these forms delimit and define into a particular thing. If the existential motion is caused by the
nature of the forms, then form is active. If it is caused by the nature of existence, then existence is active. Since
it has been seen that, in Bahá’í texts, existence is the active category while essence or form is passive, we must
conclude that the appearance of change and development is due to the active nature of existence (or substance).
It has also been seen that existence derives from God’s acting, from His Will. It is thus fundamentally—one
could say literally—dynamic. As all particular things in the cosmos depend upon the Will, they are charactized
3 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

by this dynamism in their very being, and cannot be considered to be “at rest” in any way. From one moment
to the next, all things subsist in the ground of God’s dynamic acting, being constantly regenerated and renewed.
Every instant is a cosmogonic moment, “in the beginning.”
Bahá’u’lláh is explicit about this idea of perpetual creation in the Kitáb-i-Badí‘ . Saiedi has summarized the
presentation as follows:
Completion is simply and solely dependent on the will of God because creation is a continuous process.
God does not create a being which then continues to exist on its own. On the contrary, everything is at
every moment coming into existence and ceasing to exist. Bahá’u’lláh describes this as the continuous
reflection of the different names of God, including the names of Life-Giver and Life-Ta k e r. If nothing in
the realm of creation is characterized by continuous existence, and everything is always created anew, then
perfection or completion is only a matter of the divine act of creation. It is the will of God to bring into
existence any being at any moment in any form He desires.1 0 4
Another statement of this principle is found in Bahá’u’lláh’s Súriy-i-Va f á :
Know thou moreover that every created thing is continually brought forth and returned at the bidding of
thy Lord, the God of power and might.1 0 5
The idea of perpetual creation can also be considered as p ro c e s s, as in the following passage:
The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested.
The process of His creation hath had no beginning, and can have no end.1 0 6
The metaphors of breath and of sunlight have also been used in the Bahá’í writings to express this concept:
I can have no doubt that should the holy breaths of Thy loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful
favor cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe over all created things, the entire creation
would perish, and all that are in heaven and on earth would be reduced to utter nothingness.1 0 7
[A]ll the earth’s creatures require the bounty of the sun, for their very existence is dependent upon solar
light and heat. Should they be deprived of the sun, they would be wiped out. This is the being with God,
as referred to in the Holy Books: man must be with his Lord.108
The doctrine of continuous cosmogony is of immense significance to the mythic dimension of the Bahá’í
Faith. According to this perspective, all operations of the Will of God are creative, and all events or entities
seen to represent God’s Will are endowed with the charisma of cosmogony. Likewise, the Word of God,
whether in the sense of the primordial command “Be!” or in the sense of the scriptures brought by the Prophets
and Messengers, is endowed with an infinite capacity to bring ever-new realities into being.
The nature of history is comprehended by Bahá’u’lláh in ways that exactly parallel the description of the
cosmogonic process. As the universe is a product of God’s Will, so is the historical process seen as a manifes-
tation of this dynamic and all-pervading reality. In the case of both cosmic unfoldment and the series of tem-
poral events, the engine that moves the process forward is depicted as a dialectic of opposing forces. Periods
of history, like the physical world, are described as springing from the Word of God, and depend upon the
ceaseless divine activity of this dialectic in order to develop. At the center of both space and time stands the
figure of the Manifestation of God, the vehicle of the Primal Will, at Whose appearance the world is recreat-
ed and time is begun anew. The two narratives—of creation and of history—employ the same stock of images
and codes, and modern Bahá’í life is, in many ways, the performance of these narratives: the same images and
codes serve to confer upon it historical meaning and world-creativity in the consciousness of those who live
i t .
A b b r e v i a t i o n s
B P
Bahá’í Prayers
G P B
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By
G W B
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
K A
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
3 3
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

K I
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
L A N Z
Shoghi Effendi, Letters from the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand
M F
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials of the Faithful
P M
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
S A Q
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s
S WA
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á
S W B
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb
T B
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
N o t e s
1) The article presented here is, with minor modifications, the third chapter of a lengthier work, Cosmos and Chaos: Myth, Cre a t i o n ,
and the Bahá’í Administrative Ord e r, forthcoming. That work and this revised extract are greatly indebted to the generous assis-
tance offered by too many people to mention here. While I’ll include full acknowledgements in the book, I cannot omit men-
tion here of the constant help provided by David Bikman as a critical reader and masterful editor; by William F. McCants and
Khazeh Fananapazir for similar assistance, and for help with primary sources; and to beloved Sara, Dr. Rhett Diesser, Ismael
Velasco, Armin Eschraghi, Keven Brown, Erica Toussaint, Damien Adia, Dr. Iskandar Hai, Dr. Kavian Milani, Dr. Steven
Phelps, Iscander Tinto, Guy Sinclair, Darach Watson, James Goldsmith, and many, many others, for all your assistance, encour-
agement, and friendship. Thanks also to Dr. Iraj Ayman for extending the invitation to present Cosmos and Chaos at the 2001
‘Irfán Colloquium in Michigan.
2) K I, p. 168.
3) “Code” is here used following the myth scholar Eleazar Meletinsky, in the sense of a particular descriptive language in mythopoe-
ic discourse. See P o e t i c s, p. 210.
4) Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís, p. 11 2 .
5) MF, p. 6. Nabíl-i-Akbar was a remarkable man by any standard. Prior to becoming a Bábí (ca. 1853) he attained the rank of m u j -
t a h i d (a Shí’í jurist empowered to decide on matters of Islamic law), by the authority and under the tutelage of the greatest Shí‘í
leader of his time, S ha yk h Murtadá Ansárí. The latter was the sole m a r j a ’ a t - t a q l í d (point of emulation in all matters of reli-
gious practice) of the entire Shí’í world, and was mentioned by Shoghi Effendi as the man “whom Bahá’u’lláh . . . extolled in
the ‘Lawh-i-Sultán,’ and numbered among ‘those doctors who have indeed drunk of the cup of renunciation,’ and ‘never inter-
fered with Him,’ and to whom ‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred as ‘the illustrious and erudite doctor, the noble and celebrated scholar,
the seal of seekers after truth.’” (G P B p. 143) Before studying with S ha yk h Murtadá, Nabíl-i-Akbar spent five years in the town
of Sabzivár, attending the classes of Hájí Mullá Hádí Sabzivárí (d. 1878), the most renowned Persian philosopher-mystic of the
Qájár period in Iran (1794-1909), called in his day the “Plato of his time” and the “Seal of the Sages” (Nasr, I s l a m i c, p. 305).
Nabíl-i-Akbar was eulogized by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in MF (pp. 3-7), and was named by Him as one of the Hands of the Cause of
G o d .
6) T B, p. 140.
7) R e v e l a t i o n, IV: 3 9 f .
8) I b i d ., p. 40.
9) I b i d .
10) I b i d .
11) I b i d ., p. 40f.
12) Momen, “Relativism.”
13) I b i d ., p. 206.
14) Cole, “Lawh-i-Hikmat,” web.
15) I b i d .
16) Taherzadeh, R e v e l a t i o n, IV:40n.
17) Cole makes this equation for the passage in the Lawh-i-Hikmat in “The Concept of Manifestation,” section 3: “God and the
Wo r l d . ”
1 8 ) According to one author: “Nearly all recent studies on the origin of the doctrine of creatio ex nihilo have come to the conclu-
sion that this doctrine is not native to Judaism, is nowhere attested in the Hebrew Bible, and probably arose in Christianity in
the Second Century C.E.. in the course of its fierce battle with Gnosticism.” (Peter Hayman, “Monotheism—A Misused Wo r d
in Jewish Studies,” Journal of Jewish Studies 42 (1991), p. 1-15) The Encyclopædia Britannica Online, under the article
“Judaism,” adds that “[a]lthough the first chapter of Genesis affirms divine creation, it does not offer an entirely unambiguous
view of the origin of the universe, as the debate over the correct understanding of Gen. 1:1 in former as in modern times dis-
closes. (Was there or was there not a preexisting matter, void, or chaos?) Yet, basically, the interest of the author was not in the
mode of creation, a later concern perhaps reflected in the various translations of the verse: “In the beginning God created,”
3 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

which could signify what medieval philosophers designated c reatio ex nihilo (“creation out of nothing”); and “when God began
to create,” which could indicate some concept of prime matter. He was concerned rather to affirm that the totality of existence,
inanimate (Gen. 1:3-19), living (20-25), and human (26-31), derived immediately from the same divine source; and, thus, that
it is a universe.” (“Judaism” Encyclopædia Britannica Online. <search.eb.com/bol/topic?eu=108153&sctn=25>) In a lengthy
study of Islamic cosmogony, Dr. al-Alousi points out, in discussing the Qur’ánic idea of creation (k ha l a q a) that “[t]he etymo-
logical meaning of khalaqa indicates creation from some material. The attempts of commentators and philogists [sic] to inter-
pret the word in a peculiar way in the Qur’án, that is to say in favour of creation ex-nihilo, reflect later influences” (T h e
P ro b l e m, p. 22). The author meticulously combs the Qur’án for any explicit statement of creation from nothing, and finds, not
only that there is no such verse, but that there is much evidence that the Qur’án teaches creation from something, an ordering
of the cosmos by God from already-existing matter (I b i d ., chap. 1). This same observation regarding the Qur’ánic account of
creation starting from some substance rather than from nothing was made by Dr. Vahid Rafati in his article “Lawh-i-Hikmat.”
19) MF, p. 3.
20) S AQ, p. 180.
21) I b i d ., p. 281.
22) G W B, p. 318.
23) I b i d ., p. 64f.
24) L A N Z, p. 41.
25) S AQ, p. 281.
26) G W B , p. 162.
27) G W B, p. 150.
28) I b i d .
29) I b i d ., p. 150f.
30) I b i d ., p. 151.
31) T B, p. 140.
32) Some Islamic scholars consider this tradition to be an I s r á ’ i l i y y a, a wisdom-saying passed down by the Jews that eventually
entered the oral traditions of the early Muslims. On this question, see Roberto Tottoli, “Origin and Use of the Term Isra’iliyyat
in Muslim Literature.” Arabica: Journal for Arabic and Islamic Studies 49.2 (April 1999), pp. 193-210. See also Nurbakhsh,
Tr a d i t i o n s, p. 13, where it is called a h a d ít h q u d s í but is given as a saying of the prophet David. Nurbakhsh quotes the hadít h
from a thirteenth-century ms.
33) Chittick, Sufi Path, p. 391n 14.
34) G P B, 241. M. Momen has published a provisional translation of this tablet in his “‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s Commentary. . . ”
35) Momen, “‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s Commentary,” p. 9.
36) P M, p. 48f.
37) B P, p. 122f.
38) P M, p. 295.
39) Cf. the illuminating discussion by Hodgson, Ve n t u re, II:222-227, on the “myth of the microcosmic return.”
40) G W B, p. 65.
41) S W B, p. 125.
42) K A, p. 21.
43) G W B, p. 151.
44) G W B, p. 59.
45) K I, p. 152.
46) I b i d ., p. 176.
47) T B, p. 140.
48) Sells, M y s t i c a l, p. 17. Bracket-note is Sells’.
49) I b i d ., p. 19.
50) Qur’án 25:11 .
51) Makarem, D o c t r i n e p. 81.
52) Netton, Alláh p. 217.
53) This is very much a simplification of early Ismá‘ílí cosmogonic philosophy. For more information, refer to the works of Paul
Wa l k e r, Daftary, Makarem and Netton listed in the bibliography.
3 5
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

54) Hamíd, M e t a p h y s i c s 174n 23, my translation of the A r a b i c .
55) As awkward as it is, I’ve followed S ha yk h Ahmad in using the gerund “acting” as opposed to “action” to highlight the distinc-
tion between an action and the process whereby that action comes into being.
56) I b i d ., p. 207.
57) I b i d ., pp. 148 and 174f.
58) I b i d ., p. 97.
59) I b i d ., p. 174.
60) T B, p. 140.
61) I b i d ., p. 144.
62) S WA, p. 61; cf. S AQ p. 203.
63) Authority of the Feminine, p. 110, 122n 81. For examples of earlier usage of these terms in this manner by medieval
Neoplatonists—Jewish and Muslim—see Altman and Stern, Isaac Israeli, pp. 68-74. See also below, note 121, for the usage of
these terms by S ha yk h A h m a d .
64) Chittick, H e a rt p. 77f.
65) L o g o s, p. 55f.
66) Le Béyân A r a b e, p. 25ff .
67) S W B, p. 159.
68) T B, p. 140.
69) S ha yk h ‘ Alí-Akbar Qúc hání (1871-1915) was a remarkable man, of similar distinction in knowledge as Nabíl-i-Akbár, recipi-
ent of the Tablet of Wisdom. In addition to receiving his authorization to practice Islamic law from the leading m u j t a h i d of his
d a y, he was also an exponent of the philosophy of Mullá Hádí Sabzivárí (see note 4 above). In this Tablet, ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á
addresses him as “thou who callest unto the Covenant.” He was martyred in Khurasan in 1915, and his death is mentioned by
Shoghi Effendi on p. 298f. of G P B. The Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is published in M á ’ i d í y - i - Á s m á n í (‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Is hr á q -
K hávarí ed., 9 vols. Tehran: Mu’assisa Millí Matbú’at Amrí, 128-9 B.E.) 2:68-70, and Amr va K ha l q, 1:168-9. Part of a pro-
visional translation by Keven Brown was published in the Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2:3 (1989-90), p. 28, in his article on the
origin of matter.
70) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Lawh-i-S ha yk h ‘ Alí-Akbar Qúc hání S hahíd, passage as trans. by Keven Brown, “A Bahá’í Perspective” p. 28.
71) From the same provisional translation by Keven Brown, partially published in I b i d ., p. 28. The partial translation of this pas-
sage as found there has been modified in consultation with Keven Brown.
72) S AQ, p. 295.
73) Hamíd, M e t a p h y s i c s p. 344; Arabic text on p. 497f.
74) S AQ, p. 203.
75) Qur’án 36:82, Muhsin Khán trans.
76) Qur’án 68:1, Pickthall trans.
77) See Milani and Fananapazir, “Pen Motif.”
78) P. Wa l k e r, Wellsprings 5 1 .
79) I b i d ., p. 107.
80) For example, Qur’án 13:3, 36:35, 42:11, 43:12, 51:49, 53:45.
81) P. Wa l k e r, op. cit. p. 52.
82) I b i d . This equation is a reversal of tradition hylomorphism, but is a postition in which he follows his predecessor, the Ismá‘ílí
philosopher Abú ‘Abdalláh al-Nasafí (d. 942)—see Netton, Alláh Tr a n s c e n d e n t , p. 213. From Aristotle to the present, hylo-
morphism has been understood in terms of the constitution of all things of p a s s i v e matter and a c t i v e form. Hylomorphism was
an integral feature of Islamic philosophy, where it was almost universally employed in the traditional, Aristotelian way. T h e s e
early Ismá‘ílí authors are quite unusual in this sense. No other Islamic philosopher seems to have followed them in this respect,
with one major exception: S ha yk h Ahmad al-Ahsá’í. Corbin makes a brief reference to this aspect of S ha yk h A h m a d ’s meta-
physics (H i s t o ry of Islamic Philosophy, p. 355). The fact the Sijistání and al-Nasafí represent earlier proponents of this theory
has not been noted by S ha yk h A h m a d ’s modern commentator, Idris Hamíd, to whose work we are indebted for much the mate-
rial related to S ha yk h Ahmad used here. Hamíd notes, regarding the S ha yk h’s unorthodox position on this question: “Here
S ha yk h Ahmad makes a philosophical commitment that is, as far as I know, unique in the history of philosophy of Muslim civ-
ilization as well as neoplatonism in general. Reversing traditional hylomorphism, S ha yk h Ahmad asserts that m a t t e r is the
active principle while f o r m is the receptive principle. Reverse hylomorphism is one of the fundamental principles underlying
S ha yk h A h m a d ’s entire metaphysics and cosmology, which is, in large part, an application of this principle” (M e t a p h y s i c s, p.
392n 38).
This reversal of the traditional position appears to be much more prominent in S ha yk h A h m a d ’s thought than in either of the two
3 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Ismá‘ílís, but this question requires further research. The Bábí and Bahá’í writings also maintain that matter is active while form
is passive.
83) Hamíd, M e t a p h y s i c s p. 297f.
84) Afnan, “Tafsír” p. 126.
85) K i t á b - i - A q d a s, p. 245n 188.
86) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Momen, “‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s Commentary” p. 27. I have modified the translation of this passage, in which
Momen gives “Fashioner” for q á b i l and “Fashioned” for m a q b ú l. This rendering can be misleading. The two terms come from
the same root, meaning to receive, assent, comply, be willing or passive in relation to something. From the root verb, these two
forms correspond respectively to something that does the action (q á b i l is the “doer” of receptivity, i.e. is the “receiver”) and
the thing to which the action is done (m a q b ú l is the thing that is “received”). To illustrate, the verb root k a t a b a , meaning “to
write,” follows the same pattern: k á t i b is a writer, one who writes, while maktúb means “written” or something that is written.
It is doubtless somewhat confusing to talk about the action of passivity, but “fashioner” seems to convey the opposite of this,
and the result is that the reverse hylomorphism—so explicit in this passage—is obscured.
87) I b i d .
88) S AQ, p. 89.
89) I b i d ., p. 239.
90) I b i d ., p. 292.
91) Qur’án 36:82.
92) 3:47.
93) There are variants to this h a d ít h. Hamíd quotes a version from the famous collection of Imámí traditions by Kulayni, the ‘ U s u l
min al-kafi: “Nothing in the Earth or in the Firmament comes to be except with seven dispositions [k h i s á l]: a willing [m as hi y y -
a t], a desiring [i r á d i h], a determining [q a d a r], an accomplishing [q a d á], permission [id hn], a record [k i t á b], and a term of dura-
tion [a j a l]” (M e t a p h y s i c s, p. 394n 45). This is also quoted in an article by M. Jad hbání on these seven stages in the Báb’s writ-
ings. As Jad hbání notes, the order of the last two is reversed in the writings of the Báb, so that k i t á b is the last term (“Marátib,”
part one, p. 38).
94) L o g o s, p. 54.
95)
First [of the stages of the Act (fi’l) in relation to Its effects (maf’úlát)] is the stage of Will (mas hi y y a t). It is the first
remembrance (d hikr al-awwal) as [Imám] ar-Ridá told Yúnus. By this is meant that a thing, prior to the stage of ma s hi y y-
at, is without mention (d hikr) in any of the stages of possibility. The beginning of its mention is that it be known in its
existence (kawn). . . . Second is Purpose (irádih), and this is the determination of what has been willed. This is its sec-
ond mention, known in its essence (‘ayn)”
(S ha yk h A h m a d ’s Fawá’id al-Hikmiyyah, in Hamíd, Metaphysics p. 434; my translation from the A r a b i c ) .
. . . Origination (ibdá’)—or Invention (ikhtirá’)—is the first creation of God. He created it through itself, then created
the letters through the Origination, and made them actually from it. To any thing, He says: ‘Be (kun)! And it is.’ The let-
ter káf alludes to Invention, that is, to the Will (mas hiyyat), and this is the káf that circles around itself, for it is the source
of existence (kawn). The n ú n refers to Origination, that is, to Purpose (irádih), and it is the source of essence (‘a y n ) ”
(I b i d ., p. 438, my trans.).
96) Afnan, “Tafsír” p. 126.
97) P M, p. 27.
98) T B, p. 140.
99) In a Tablet partially cited in Is hr á q -K hávarí, op. cit., vol. 1 p. 47f.
100) See Rafati, “Lawh-i-Hikmat” passim.
101) The quaternity of Will, Purpose, Determination and Decree are set forth as the divisions of the Divine Activity in S ha yk h
A h m a d ’s F a w á ’ i d, fourth f á ’ i d a. See Hamíd, M e t a p h y s i c s, pp. 434-442 for the Arabic, translated on pp. 293-303.
102) The Bayánic quaternities and related symbolism in Bahá’í and S ha yk hí texts, though relevant to the exploration of the myth-
ic dimension of the Bahá’í Faith, would unduly expand the proportions of the present work if treated fully here. I am current-
ly working on a study of this issue, and God willing, the preliminary results of this study will be presented at the ‘Irfán
Colloquium in Michigan in 2002.
103) T B, p. 141.
104) Saiedi, L o g o s p. 189f., summarizing Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-Badí’ (Prague: Zero Palm Press, 1992), pp. 121-123.
105) TB, p. 183.
106) GWB, p. 61.
107) PM, p. 90.
108) SWA, p. 54.
3 7
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

B i b l i o g r a p h y*
‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. Memorials of the Faithful. Trans. M. Gail. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1997.
———. Selections from the Writings of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á. Trans. M. Gail et al, 1s t ps edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1997.
———. Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s. Trans. Laura Clifford Barney, 1s t ps edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1997.
Afnan, Muhammad. “Tafsír Bismilláh ar- R a h m´ án ar-Rahím.” Á h a n g - i - B a d í ’ 24:5-6 (126 B.E./1969 C.E.), pp. 121-126.
al-Alousi, Husam Muhi Eldin. The Problem of Creation in Islamic Thought: Qu r’án, Hadíth, Commentaries, and Kalam. Ph.D. dis-
sertation, University of Cambridge, 1965.
Altmann, A l e x a n d e r, and S.M. Stern. Isaac Israeli: A Neoplatonic Philosopher of the Early Tenth Century. Oxford University
Press, 1958
Báb, The [Siyyid ‘Alí Muhammad S hirází]. Le Béyân Arabe: Le Livre Sacré Du Bâbysme de Séyyèd ‘Alí Mohammed dit Le Bâb.
Trans. A.L.M. Nicholas. Paris: Ernest Leroux, 1905.
———. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Trans. Habib Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1985.
Bahá’u’lláh, Mírzá Husayn ‘ Alí Núrí. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Trans. Shoghi Effendi, 1s t ps edn. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
———. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, 1s t ps edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1993.
———. The Kitáb-i-ˆqán: The Book of Cert i t u d e. Trans. Shoghi Effendi, 1 s t ps edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
———. Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh. Trans. Shoghi Effendi, 8 t h edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Trans. Habib Taherzadeh, et al., 1s t ps edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1988.
Balyuzi, H.M. Eminent Bahá’ís in the time of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George Ronald, 1985.
Brown, Keven. “A Bahá’í Perspective on the Origin of Matter.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2:3 (1989-90), pp. 15-44.
Chittick, William C. The Heart of Islamic Philosophy: The Quest for Self-Knowledge in the Teachings of Afdal al-Dín Káshání.
Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press, 2001.
———. The Sufi Path of Knowledge: Ibn al-‘A r a b i ’s Metaphysics of Imagination. A l b a n y, NY: State University of New Yo r k
Press, 1989.
Cole, Juan R.I. “The Concept of the Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.” Bahai Studies 9 (1982), pp. 1-38.
———. “Lawh-i-Hikmat (The Tablet of Wisdom),” draft entry for a Bahá’í encyclopedia. Online at www. b a h a i - l i b r a r y. o rg / e n c y-
c l o p e d i a / w i s d o m . h t m l .
Corbin, Henry. H i s t o ry of Islamic Philosophy. Trans. Liadain Sherrard. London and New York: Kegan Paul International and
Islamic Publications, Ltd., 1993.
D a f t a r y, Farhad. The Ismá‘ílís: Their History and Doctrines. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.
D a f t a r y, Farhad, ed. Mediaeval Isma‘ili History and Thought. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996.
Hamíd, Idris Samawi. The Metaphysics and Cosmology of Process A c c o rding to S ha yk h ‘Ahmad al-Ahsá’í: Critical Edition,
Translation, and Analysis of the Observations in Wisdom. Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. of Philosophy of the State University of
New York, Buffalo, 1998.
Hodgson, Marshall G.S. The Ve n t u re of Islam, 3 vols. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1974.
J ad hbání, Mehrán. “Marátib-i-sab’ ah-ye takawwun.” P a y á m - i - B a h á ’ í 202 (Sep. 1996), pp. 38-41; 203 (Oct. 1996), pp. 31-34.
Lawson, Todd. “The Authority of the Feminine and Fátima’s Place in an Early Work by the Báb,” in The Most Learned of the Shí’a:
The Institution of the Marja’ Ta q l í d, ed. Linda Walbridge. Oxford University Press, 2001, pp. 94-127.
Makarem, Sami. The Doctrine of the Ismá‘ílís. Beirut: Arab Institute for Research and Publishing, 1972.
Mázandarání, Fadil, ed. Amr va K ha l q, 4 vols. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 141-142 B.E./1984-85 C.E..
M e l e t i n s k y, Eleazar. The Poetics of Myth. Trans. Guy Lanoue and Alexandre Sadetsky. New York and London: Routledge, 1998.
* For reasons of space, this list is limited to works cited or referred to in the notes to the article presented here. For a full list of works
consulted in the writing of the book—in which this article forms the third of five chapters—see Cosmos and Chaos, f o r t h c o m-
i n g .
Milani, Kavian, and Nafeh Fananapazir. “A Study of the Pen Motif in the Bahá’í Writings.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9:1 (March
1999), pp. 27-49.
3 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Momen, Moojan. “‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s Commentary on The Islamic Tradition: “I was a Hidden Treasure . . . ,” introduction and trans-
lation.” Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 3:4 (Dec 1985), pp. 4-35. Online at www. b a h a i - l i b r a r y. o rg / p r o v i s i o n a l s / h i d d e n . t r e a s u r e . h t m l
———. “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics,” in Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi, Studies in the Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions vol. 5, ed. M. Momen. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1988, pp. 185-217.
Muhsin Khán, Muhammad, and Muhammad Taqi-ud Dín al-Hilali. I n t e r p retation of the Meaning of the Noble Qu r’án in the
English Language: A Summarized Version of at-Tabarí, al-Qu rtubí, and Ibn Kathír with comments from Sahíh al-Bukhárí.
Riyadh: Maktaba Dar-us-Salam, 1994.
N a s r, Seyyed Hossein. The Islamic Intellectual Tradition in Persia. Ed. Mehdi Amin Razavi. Richmond, Surrey: Curzon Press,
1 9 9 6 .
Netton, Ian Richard. Alláh Transcendent: Studies in the Stru c t u re and Semiotics of Islamic Philosophy, Theology, and Cosmology.
Routledge: London and New York, 1989.
Nurbakhsh, Javad. Traditions of the Prophet: A h a d í t h. New York: Khaniqahi-Nimatulláhi Publications, 1981.
Pickthall, Mohammed Marmaduke. The Meaning of the Glorious Koran: an explanatory translation. New York and To r o n t o :
Mentor Books, n.d.
Rafati, Vahid. “Lawh-i-Hikmat: fá’ilayn va munfa’ilayn.” ‘A n d a l í b 5.19 (143 B.E./1986 C.E.), pp. 29-38.
Saiedi, Nader. Logos and Civilization: Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bethesda, MD: University Press
of Maryland, 2000.
Sells, Michael A. Mystical Languages of Unsaying. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1994.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, new edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.
———. Letters from the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand, 1923-1957. Sydney: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of Australia, 1971.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, 4 vols. Oxford: George Ronald, 1974-87.
Wa l k e r, Paul E. Abu Ya’qub Sijistani: Intellectual Missionary. London and New York: IB Taurus, 1996.
———. Early Philosophical Shiism: The Ismá‘ílí Neoplatonism of Abú Ya’qúb Sijistání. Cambridge: Cambridge University
P r e s s , 1 9 9 3 .
———. The Wellsprings of Wisdom: A Study of Abú Ya’qúb al-Sijistání’s Kitáb al-Ya n á b í ’ including a complete English transla -
tion with commentary and notes on the Arabic text. Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press, 1994.
3 9
The Beginn i ng that Hath No  Begin n in g

4 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart:
The Hidden Essence of God’s Word
by LeRoy Jones
Number me not with them who read Thy words and fail to find Thy hidden gift which, as
decreed by Thee, is contained therein, and which quickeneth the souls of Thy creatures and the
hearts of Thy servants.
—Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations1
P
ursuing knowledge in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh is no mere quest for learning, nor simply an exercise
in logic and language. Instead, finding the true knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh grips the seeker in a delicate
dance of words that pulls one into a web of allusion and intrigue. Unlike seeking a mechanical kind of
knowledge that is somehow based on material reality, the pursuit of His knowledge entails action as one tries
to tailor their own life to the commands and wishes of God in an ever unfolding drama of personal discovery.
The beauty, force and grandeur of His words parallels any intellectual understanding as we realize that by
aligning our lives the inner ear is opened to the incomparable splendor of the Nightingale’s song of inner
knowledge. This silent melody grows ever sweeter as we gradually unravel the hidden mysteries embedded in
the subtleties of these Holy Words.
If this portrayal sounds too sensational or dramatic, we need only examine such passages as that in the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán when the “trumpet blast of knowledge” awakens the seeker’s heart, soul and spirit. But, this
occurs only after that seeker has reached a state of “longing desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of
rapture, and ecstasy. ”2 Not the normal state we assume in preparation for study. Bahá’u’lláh also refers to the
“ethereal cup of true knowledge,”3 suggesting this knowledge is delicate and other worldly. We see no mere
intellectual knowledge when perusing this verse from that same book.
Such are the mysteries of the Word of God, which have been unveiled and made manifest, that haply thou
mayest apprehend the morning light of divine guidance, mayest quench, by the power of reliance and
renunciation, the lamp of idle fancy, of vain imaginings, of hesitation, and doubt, and mayest kindle, in the
inmost chamber of thine heart, the new-born light of divine knowledge and certitude.4
Most western conceptions treat knowledge as though it has objective reality. We accrue it, organize it, dis-
seminate it, utilize it, disregard it and forget it. All the while there is in some minds the lurking realization that
this world of ideas and thought is not nearly so tangible and under control. Thus the philosophers ask, “What
is this stuff we call knowledge anyway?” Considering the never-ending, varied, and prodigious number of
answers, one realizes that this is no simple question.
The Bahá’í Faith accepts much of what is typically considered knowledge. For example, high praise is given
for science and philosophy. Yet Bahá’u’lláh reserves special distinction for what He terms divine or true
knowledge. Rather than being something we manipulate, this true knowledge is dynamic and seems to embrace
us in a transforming process of realization and empowerment.5 The precise nature of this knowledge in not
c l e a r, however, it may be that true knowledge has two dimensions. The outer knowledge, the written word,
when used constructively helps isolate preconceived ideas and traditions, allowing our minds to embrace new
perspectives and paradigms. It provides guidance on how to come closer to God. Linked to the proper use of
outer knowledge is the inner spiritual knowledge. These two types of knowledge can either oppose each other
or act synerg i s t i c a l l y. Much of Bahá’u’lláh’s writing emphasizes that those who misunderstand the outer form
of God’s word fail to grasp its inner message. This failure of understanding is based on a spiritual condition,
because only the pure in heart can use the outer message to access the inner reality, thereby opening our inner
self to ever deeper levels of divine knowledge and certitude.
At this point in Bahá’í development, any statements defining what might be termed Bahá’í knowledge must
4 1
K nowl ed ge, Certi t ude, and the Mys t i cal Hear t

be considered tentative. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the possibility that accessing this true knowl-
edge may have more to do with beauty and longing than with the world of the senses and logic. Inner knowl-
edge is hidden and is beyond words and thought. Bahá’u’lláh speaks of hidden mysteries and subtle allusions
that draw us to the deep heart’s core. This knowledge involves spiritual communion and a language of the heart
that pulls one ever closer to God. Magically embedded in the words of the Manifestation, this knowledge is
disclosed only to the pure in heart.
Bahá’u’lláh often links true knowledge with certitude. Interestingly, the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, “Book of Certitude,”
covers true or divine knowledge as a major theme. Literal definitions of the word “certitude” indicate that it is
a sense or feeling of certainty, whereas definitions of “certainty” describe it is as conclusions or data that are
beyond doubt. Certainty is an intellectual state, whereas certitude is a spiritual state more like faith. In fact, in
the following verse He compares certitude to faith, implying that true or divine knowledge is more spiritual
than intellectual. Beginning His discussion of knowledge and certitude in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh states:
[T]hey that tread the path of faith, they that thirst for the wine of certitude, must cleanse themselves of all
that is earthly—their ears from idle talk, their minds from vain imaginings, their hearts from worldly aff e c-
tions, their eyes from that which perisheth. They should put their trust in God, and, holding fast unto Him,
follow in His way. Then will they be made worthy of the effulgent glories of the sun of divine knowledge
and understanding, and become the recipients of a grace that is infinite and unseen, inasmuch as man can
never hope to attain unto the knowledge of the All-Glorious, can never quaff from the stream of divine
knowledge and wisdom, can never enter the abode of immortality, nor partake of the cup of divine near-
ness and favour, unless and until he ceases to regard the words and deeds of mortal men as a standard for
the true understanding and recognition of God and His Prophets. [all emphases added]6
Bahá’u’lláh associates divine knowledge with “a grace that is infinite and unseen,” as well as entering the
“abode of immortality,” and “divine nearness and favour.” Divine knowledge appears almost synonymous with
the “knowledge of the All-Glorious” and the “recognition of God.” To access divine knowledge we must com-
pletely detach ourselves from all that is earthly as well as the words and deeds of mortal men. Nowhere in this
passage does He emphasize study or learning.
Later in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán He notes:
O my brother, when a true seeker determineth to take the step of search in the path leading to the knowl-
edge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is the seat of the
revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allu-
sions of the embodiments of satanic fancy. He must purge his breast, which is the sanctuary of the abiding
love of the Beloved, of every defilement.7
A few lines before these words in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh indicates that divine knowledge can “blos-
som nowhere except in the city of a stainless heart,”8 suggesting that divine knowledge is the same as the
“knowledge of the Ancient of Days.” He defines the heart as the “seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries
of God” indicating a link between true knowledge and the “inner mysteries.” Obviously, this is not the mater-
ial heart, but a spiritual organ which is our mystical center and a channel for the knowledge of God. He clari-
fies this idea in these words.
The heart must needs therefore be cleansed from the idle sayings of men, and sanctified from every earth-
ly affection, so that it may discover the hidden meaning of divine inspiration, and become the treasury of
the mysteries of divine knowledge.9
The first thing a seeker of divine knowledge must do is “cleanse and purify his heart” from “all acquired
knowledge.” In the previous paragraph of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh states, “Thus will these mysteries be
unraveled, not by the aid of acquired learning, but solely through the assistance of God and the outpouring of
His grace.”1 0 Apparently acquired knowledge is equivalent to acquired learning and is something we must be
wary of as we try to penetrate these mysteries and gain or develop true knowledge.
In many other places Bahá’u’lláh says that we cannot rely on human learning,11 which creates an interest-
ing dilemma. As we study the words of Bahá’u’lláh and grasp their concepts, even if we memorize those
words, can we categorize the results of these efforts as anything other than acquired learning? Bahá’u’lláh says
4 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

we must cleanse our hearts of all acquired learning. Taking this argument to its extreme, one could conclude
that as we learn the words of Bahá’u’lláh, that process alone does not impart true knowledge. If that is the case,
then His words and verses in and of themselves, as well as the intellectual understanding they impart, are not
true knowledge.
Another common perspective cautions us not to let the traditions and presuppositions of past religions cloud
our views. We must purge our minds of this type of acquired learning and allow the teachings of the new
Manifestation to take root. These new teachings and realizations are considered true knowledge. Passages from
the Kitáb-i-ˆqán such as the following are used to support this view.
And their conviction is such that were a person to be made manifest with all the promised signs and to
promulgate that which is contrary to the letter of the law of the Gospel, they must assuredly renounce him,
refuse to submit to his law, declare him an infidel, and laugh him to scorn. This is proved by that which
came to pass when the sun of the Muhammadan Revelation was revealed. Had they sought with a hum-
ble mind from the Manifestations of God in every Dispensation the true meaning of these words revealed
in the sacred books—words the misapprehension of which hath caused men to be deprived of the recog-
nition of the Sadratu’l-Muntahá, the ultimate Purpose—they surely would have been guided to the light
of the Sun of Truth, and would have discovered the mysteries of divine knowledge and wisdom. [ a l l
emphases added]1 2
O b v i o u s l y, a person must seek the Manifestation with a humble mind and open heart. In this state a person
will not be deprived of recognition and of the discovery of divine knowledge. However, does this mean that
“the true meaning of these words revealed in the sacred books” is true or divine knowledge? Verses such as
this could indicate that the new, insightful interpretation of the signs or their “true meaning” is divine or true
knowledge. However, there are other verses that suggest true knowledge is an ethereal reality beyond words.
While this ethereal reality is the focus of this paper, I do not want to dismiss the possibility that the outer form,
the words of the verses, is a kind of outer true knowledge that parallels an inner true knowledge that is con-
cealed within the words. Divine inner knowledge is a language of the heart and does not use words or utter-
ance. Like certitude, this inner knowledge is not simply a cognitive state. In addition, recognition of the
Manifestation is the result of a proper understanding of the signs and, as we shall see later, recognition is relat-
ed to divine knowledge.
The next few passages strongly indicate that there is a divine language that is veiled and concealed, how-
e v e r, that the outer form can be considered true knowledge is not so clear. Bahá’u’lláh states:
It is evident unto thee that the Birds of Heaven and Doves of Eternity speak a twofold language. One lan-
guage, the outward language, is devoid of allusions, is unconcealed and unveiled; that it may be a guid-
ing lamp and a beaconing light whereby wayfarers may attain the heights of holiness, and seekers may
advance into the realm of eternal reunion. Such are the unveiled traditions and the evident verses already
mentioned. The other language is veiled and concealed, so that whatever lieth hidden in the heart of the
malevolent may be made manifest and their innermost being be disclosed. . . This is the divine standard,
this is the Touchstone of God, wherewith He proveth His servants. None apprehendeth the meaning of
these utterances except them whose hearts are assured, whose souls have found favour with God, and
whose minds are detached from all else but Him. In such utterances, the literal meaning, as generally
understood by the people, is not what hath been intended. Thus it is recorded: “Every knowledge hath
seventy meanings, of which one only is known amongst the people. And when the Q á’im shall arise, He
shall reveal unto men all that which remaineth.” He also saith: “We speak one word, and by it we intend
one and seventy meanings; each one of these meanings we can explain.”1 3
Bahá’u’lláh says the “inner language is veiled and concealed.” No one will understand this language except
those who are pure of heart, “whose hearts are assured.” The outer language gives clear guidance so that the
“ w a y f a r e r,” the seeker who is far from God, may move toward “reunion.” This reunion may be likened to the
distraught lover finally finding his beloved. The outer language is likely the guide for someone pursuing the
truth of the inner language—a seeker struggling to discover the mysteries locked in the heart, and let loose
their power.
The tradition {hadít h) which maintains there are seventy-one meanings in each word of Revelation might
4 3
K nowl ed ge, Certi t ude, and the Mys t i cal Hear t

also indicate a sealed language which goes beyond words. Does Bahá’u’lláh really want us to search each word
for seventy-one symbolic meanings or is this entire verse a symbolic reference to the inner meanings of the
heart—a range of spiritual significance which is vast in its scope?
How can there be a language or a knowledge which transcends words? ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá states:
[Y]ou desire to approach the presence of God and to become informed of the realities and precepts of God.
It is my hope that you may put forth your most earnest endeavor to accomplish this end, that you may
investigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that you may attain knowledge of the myster-
ies hidden therein. Be not satisfied with words, but seek to understand the spiritual meanings hidden in the
heart of the words.1 4
The “presence of God,” we will see later, is likely the knowledge of God. So, to approach the presence or
knowledge of God ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá encourages us to seek the mysteries hidden in the words. Compare the above
passage to these words from the Epistle to the Son of the Wo l f .
It is now incumbent upon them who are endowed with a hearing ear and a seeing eye to ponder these sub-
lime words, in each of which the oceans of inner meaning and explanation are hidden, that haply the words
uttered by Him Who is the Lord of Revelation may enable His servants to attain, with the utmost joy and
radiance, unto the Supreme Goal and Most Sublime Summit—the dawning-place of this Vo i c e .15
Clearly there is an inner significance which must be sought and is available to those with inner faculties. In
another verse of the Epistle Bahá’u’lláh expands on this theme.
O thou who art named Dayyán! This is a hidden and preserved Knowledge. We have entrusted it unto
thee, and brought it to thee, as a mark of honor from God, inasmuch as the eye of thine heart is pure. T h o u
wilt appreciate its value, and wilt cherish its excellence. God, verily, hath deigned to bestow upon the
Point of the Bayán a hidden and preserved Knowledge, the like of which God hath not sent down prior to
this Revelation. More precious is it than any other knowledge in the estimation of God—glorified be He!
He, verily, hath made it His testimony, even as He hath made the verses to be His testimony.16
Once again we see there is a hidden knowledge that is imparted to one whose “heart is pure.” More inter-
esting however, is that He makes a distinction between this “hidden and preserved Knowledge” and His “vers-
es.” He refers to each of these as His testimony. Bahá’u’lláh makes a similar distinction elsewhere.
The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His
Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one or the other He hath established the words He
hath revealed as proof of His reality and truth. This is, verily, an evidence of His tender mercy unto men.
He hath endowed every soul with the capacity to recognize the signs of God. How could He, otherwise,
have fulfilled His testimony unto men, if ye be of them that ponder His Cause in their hearts.17
If we assume that both “His truth is His own Self,” as well as, “His Revelation” are more closely linked to
true and hidden knowledge, as opposed to “the words He hath revealed” or His verses, then a very diff e r e n t
idea of knowledge must follow. This shift in perspective is supported by the following.
Behold, how lofty is the station, and how consummate the virtue, of these verses which He hath declared
to be His surest testimony, His infallible proof, the evidence of His all-subduing power, and a revelation
of the potency of His will. He, the divine King, hath proclaimed the undisputed supremacy of the verses
of His Book over all things that testify to His truth. . . . Their excellence is unrivalled, their virtue noth-
ing can surpass. They are the treasury of the divine pearls and the depository of the divine mysteries. T h e y
constitute the indissoluble Bond, the firm Cord, the ‘Urvatu’l-Vut hqá, the inextinguishable Light.
Through them floweth the river of divine knowledge, and gloweth the fire of His ancient and consum-
mate wisdom. . . no manifestation greater than the Prophets of God hath ever been revealed, and no tes-
t i m o n y mightier than the testimony of their revealed verses hath ever appeared upon the earth. Nay, this
testimony no other testimony can ever excel, except that which the Lord thy God willeth.1 8
Bahá’u’lláh obviously elevates the status of His verses in this passage. Is it simply because of their message
and guidance? Or, is an equally important part of their distinction that they are a “treasury” and a “depository”
of divine and knowledge and wisdom. Not simply an intellectual argument or set of rules, but, “Through [these
verses] floweth the river of divine knowledge, and gloweth the fire of His ancient and consummate wisdom.”
4 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

S o m e h o w, enshrined within these words, flows a hidden river of knowledge and wisdom.
What is contained in this hidden river? In the following passage, after establishing the shortcomings of
learning, the Báb defines “true knowledge” :
True knowledge, therefore, is the knowledge of God, and this is none other than the recognition of His
Manifestation in each Dispensation.1 9
That recognition is more than simple detection, identification, or even acceptance is made clear in the open-
ing words of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws . . . It behoveth everyone who reacheth this most sublime station,
this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world.
These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.20
Bahá’u’lláh clarifies this theme:
The first and foremost duty prescribed unto men, next to the recognition of Him Who is the Eternal Tr u t h ,
is the duty of steadfastness in His Cause . . . The spirit that animateth the human heart is the knowledge of
God, and its truest adorning is the recognition of the truth that “He doeth whatsoever He willeth, and
ordaineth that which He pleaseth.” Its raiment is the fear of God, and its perfection steadfastness in His
F a i t h .2 1
After recognition we must be steadfast in His laws. He links steadfastness to the “knowledge of God,” which
the Báb called “true knowledge.” This knowledge “animateth the human heart.” If obedience is inseparable
from recognition we can conclude that the “knowledge of God” or “true knowledge” is closely linked to stead-
fastness. Through the ongoing process of obedience to the Manifestation we can delve ever deeper into this
ethereal realm. The core of this realm is the spiritual or mystical heart, the human faculty which connects us
to God.
The concept of unity is also linked to this divine knowledge.
[T]he time when the . . . Tree of knowledge and wisdom will have vanished . . . when the portals of divine
unity and understanding—the essential and highest purpose in creation—will have been closed, when cer-
tain knowledge will have given way to idle fancy.2 2
This essential purpose is the same as the recognition of the Manifestation.
[T]hey have been deprived of the recognition of the essential Purpose and the knowledge of the Mystery
and Substance of the Cause of God. For the highest and most excelling grace bestowed upon men is the
grace of “attaining unto the Presence of God” and of His recognition.23
“Essential and highest purpose,” “first and foremost duty,” and the “highest and most excelling grace” are
not only connected to recognition but to knowledge as well. “Divine unity and understanding” are also com-
pared to recognition, which is the “knowledge of God” or “true knowledge.” Divine or true understanding is
compared to true knowledge in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán. With Bahá’u’lláh coupling unity and understanding we see
u n i t y, one of the most important themes of the Bahá’í Faith, linked to “true knowledge.”
Recognition and communion are intimately connected to true knowledge the forces of knowledge and cer-
titude, that are likely concealed within our spiritual selves. In the Hidden Words Bahá’u’lláh states:
Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside
Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto
thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting.24
The true seeker of knowledge must access his heart as the “seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries of
God.” In this Hidden Word Bahá’u’lláh states He gave us being “out of the essence of knowledge.” We must
turn unto ourselves to find Bahá’u’lláh within. Our own hearts are the sanctuary of this power, the seat of the
presence of God or the knowledge of God, where the mysteries are unveiled as the heart is made pure. A f o c u s
on the heart imparts a sense of intimacy, likely related to the mystic feeling or state of spiritual communion
which the Guardian referred to as the core of religion.2 5 In another passage Bahá’u’lláh states,
4 5
K nowl ed ge, Certi t ude, and the Mys t i cal Hear t

Such are the words with which My Forerunner hath extolled My Being, could ye but understand. W h o s o
reflecteth upon these verses, and realizeth what hidden pearls have been enshrined within them, will, by
the righteousness of God, perceive the fragrance of the All-Merciful wafting from the direction of this
Prison and will, with his whole heart, hasten unto Him with such ardent longing that the hosts of earth and
heaven would be powerless to deter him. Say: This is a Revelation around which every proof and testimo-
ny doth circle. Thus hath it been sent down by your Lord, the God of Mercy, if ye be of them that judge
aright. Say: This is the very soul of all Scriptures which hath been breathed into the Pen of the Most High,
causing all created beings to be dumbfounded, save only those who have been enraptured by the gentle
breezes of My loving-kindness and the sweet savours of My bounties which have pervaded the whole of
c r e a t i o n .26
Bahá’u’lláh calls His verses the “very soul of all Scriptures which hath been breathed into the Pen of the
Most High, causing all created beings to be dumbfounded, save only those who have been enraptured by the
gentle breezes of My loving-kindness.” Notice that those who “realizeth what hidden pearls have been
enshrined within” these verses will hasten unto Him with such “ardent longing” and will be “enraptured” not
simply by the scriptures but by the soul of the Scriptures. Bahá’u’lláh makes clear that there is a power with-
in His verses that goes far beyond the words themselves.
They who recite the verses of the All-Merciful in the most melodious of tones will perceive in them that
with which the sovereignty of earth and heaven can never be compared. From them they will inhale the
divine fragrance of My worlds—worlds which today none can discern save those who have been endowed
with vision through this sublime, this beauteous Revelation. Say: These verses draw hearts that are pure
unto those spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed in words nor intimated by allusion.2 7
These verses draw the pure in heart to spiritual worlds which cannot be expressed in words. But there is
m o r e .
Teach your children the verses revealed from the heaven of majesty and power, so that, in most melodious
tones, they may recite the Tablets of the All-Merciful in the alcoves within the Mas hr i q u ’ l - A d h k á r s .
Whoever hath been transported by the rapture born of adoration for My Name, the Most Compassionate,
will recite the verses of God in such wise as to captivate the hearts of those yet wrapped in slumber. We l l
is it with him who hath quaffed the Mystic Wine of everlasting life from the utterance of his merciful Lord
in My Name—a Name through which every lofty and majestic mountain hath been reduced to dust.2 8
Pure hearted souls who have been drawn in rapture to these ineffable spiritual worlds, when reciting the
verses melodically will also attract other hearts. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá further links knowledge to ecstasy and attrac-
tion, “I beg of God that the power of the Spirit will cause in thee such ecstasy and attraction that thou . . .
mayest hold a cup of knowledge of God in thy hand.”2 9 He suggests that knowledge and certitude come with
love, ecstasy and rapture, “I beg of Him to bestow His confirmations upon those loved ones . . . their hearts
filled with ecstasy and fervour and yearning love, with knowledge and certitude, with steadfastness and unity,
their faces beauteous and bright.”3 0 He also couples this ecstasy with love, “Briefly, if to the knowledge of God
is joined the love of God, and attraction, ecstasy and goodwill, a righteous action is then perfect and com-
p l e t e . ”3 1
Once the heart is drawn to God in a state of rapture, ecstasy and devotion, that heart manifests true knowl-
edge and thus fulfills its reality as the “seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries of God.” The “path lead-
ing to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days” ends with the heart in a state of “earnest striving, of longing
desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and ecstasy,” when the “lights of knowledge and cer-
titude envelop” the seeker. “At that hour will the mystic herald . . . through the trumpet blast of knowledge”
awaken that seeker to an entirely new world, revealing the “hidden mysteries” and opening a “door that lead-
eth him to the stations of absolute certitude.”3 2
Perhaps the most important question is, how can we use this hidden and mystical knowledge? Does it have
import for our day-to-day lives? Is it a systematic process or something we wait and hope for? Anything more
than a cursory analysis of these questions is beyond the scope of this paper. Regardless, it is important to note
that divine knowledge is not simply an impractical or exclusive search for esoteric knowledge. The path to this
hidden knowledge is at the very heart of our success as Bahá’ís—all individual and collective Bahá’í endeav-
4 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

ors rely on this search. The following passage from the Guardian suggests a systematic approach.
I . . . feel that the greatest stress must be laid upon the necessity of exemplifying in a most liberal and prac-
tical manner the driving power hidden in this Divine Revelation, rather than upon the idle reiteration of a
set of principles, however exalted and unique in their character.3 3
“Exemplify” means demonstrate and embody. Shoghi Effendi is clear that we must exemplify the “driving
power hidden in this Divine Revelation.” Over reliance on the notable and vital social principles of the Bahá’í
Faith will not build the New World Order. There are many indications that this hidden driving power is linked
to true and hidden knowledge. However, this is a topic requiring further analysis. No matter, it is clear that we
must have a primary focus on the hidden elements of this Faith and if this hidden power is related to hidden
divine knowledge we have an important clue regarding the nature of our mission as Bahá’ís, revealing a sub-
ject that deserves special attention as we explore and implement the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.
We must make every effort as individuals and as institutions to understand the implications and process of
pursuing the hidden mysteries. Reading, learning, and then adhering to the verses of Bahá’u’lláh are essential,
for every word is charged with a deep beauty and import that initiates a continuing process of self realization—
an ever deepening connection to the true knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh. “These verses draw hearts that are pure
unto those spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed in words nor intimated by allusion.”3 4
We have harkened to what the nightingale of knowledge
sang on the boughs of the tree of thy being,
and learned what the dove of cert i t u d e
cried on the branches of the bower of thy heart . . .
whosoever mounteth into the heaven of knowledge,
and whose heart is re f reshed by this,
that the wind of cert i t u d e
hath blown over the garden of his being. . .
— B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h3 5
N o t e s
1) Prayers and Meditations, trans. Shoghi Effendi, (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 6t h printing 1974), p. 83.
2) Kitáb-i-ˆqán, trans. Shoghi Effendi, 6t h ed. (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974), p. 196.
3) I b i d . p. 11 8 .
4) I b i d . p. 49.
5) In all fairness, many have commented on the dynamic and empowering nature of knowledge. However, in the West the idea of
knowledge as stuff is dominant and the notion of its empowering capability has more to do with how we use the knowledge
than the power of the knowledge itself.
6) I b i d . pp. 3, 4.
7) I b i d . p. 192.
8) I b i d . p. 191.
9) I b i d . p. 70.
10) I b i d . p. 192.
11) “O thou who art reputed for thy learning! . . . Thou, who art gone far astray, art indeed wrapt in a thick veil.” (Bahá’u’lláh:
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 80) “[B]ehold how ye have allowed your learning to shut you out, as by a veil, from Him W h o
is the Dayspring of this Light . . .” (Bahá’u’lláh: Epistle to the Son of the Wo l f , p. 129) “Let not thine ignorance in human learn-
ing and thy inability to read or write grieve thine heart. The doors of His manifold grace are within the mighty grasp of the
power of the one true God.” (Bahá’u’lláh: G l e a n i n g s, p. 312)
12) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n . pp. 27, 28.
13) I b i d . pp. 254, 255.
14) P romulgation of Universal Peace, compiled by Howard MacNutt. (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982), p. 459.
15) Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Trans. Shoghi Effendi. (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971) p. 147.
4 7
K nowl ed ge, Certi t ude, and the Mys t i cal Hear t

16) I b i d . pp. 175, 176.
17) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, iffth printing, 1971),
pp. 105, 106.
18) Kitáb-i-ˆqán, pp. 204, 206.
19) Selections from the Writings of the Báb, trans. Habib Taherzadeh, 1s t ed. (Great Britain: W & J Mackay Limited, 1976), p. 89.
20) The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, (Haifa: The Bahá’í World Center, 1992), p. 19.
21) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 290, 291.
22) Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 29.
23) I b i d . p. 138. Emphasis added.
24) The Hidden Wo rds of Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi, (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Reprint 1979), p.13. Emphasis
a d d e d .
25) Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í News 102, August 1936, p. 3 in Compilation of Compilations, Vol. 2, pp. 237, 238. Emphasis added.
26) The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 67, 68. Emphasis added.
27) I b i d . p. 61. Emphasis added.
28) I b i d . p. 74. Emphasis added.
29) Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 4, (Chicago, 1909), p. 721.
30) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ( Trans. Committee at the Bahá’í World Center. [Chatham, Great Britain: W & J
M a c k a y, 1978]) p. 260.
31) Some A n s w e red Questions, p. 302.
32) Kitáb-i-ˆqán, pp. 192-196.
33) Bahá’í Administration, Shoghi Effendi. (Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill, 1974 ed.), p. 96. Emphasis added.
34) The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 68.
35) Seven Valleys and Four Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail (Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill, 1971 ed.) pp. 2, 4.
4 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
by Todd Lawson
Introduction to the translation
T
he preliminary translation offered here is of the Risála fi’s-sulúk (Tehran Bahá’í Archives Ms. 6006. C.,
pages 73-74, 23 lines per page), one of the Báb’s earliest extant Writings—perhaps the earliest.1 T h e
R i s á l a begins on the seventh line of page 73. I am grateful to Stephen Lambden who years ago supplied
me with a xerox of this privately published “edition.” I have no knowledge of its manuscript base. Denis
MacEoin in his S o u rces for Early Bábí Doctrine and History, pp. 44, 196 (n.b. under Risálat at-tasdíd) lists
five privately published “editions” for the R i s á l a (among which this is one) and observes that the original Wo r k
“appears to have been written during the later years of Sayyid Kázim Ras ht í ’s life (and thus before the com-
mencement of the Báb’s own career).” (p. 44) Here MacEoin has chosen to translate s u l ú k as “right behavior, ”
but the contents and concerns of this brief piece strongly suggest that a more accurate rendering would be
“ j o u r n e y,” “spiritual search,” or even “mystic quest.”
The first translation of the text, below, is offered without the encumbrances of copious notes and references,
except as indicated by small caps (indicating a quotation from the Qur’án) and quotation marks (indicating a
quotation from the hadít h) and other minor punctuation (Arabic has no punctuation system analogous to
English usage). Much of this same Qur’ánic and hadít h material will continue to figure prominently in later
Writings of the Báb. For example, the relatively lengthy quotation from the Hadít h Kumayl in this short work
is noteworthy because it shows the importance the Báb attached, from the beginning, to this celebrated and
widely-commented-upon short sermon of ‘Alí ibn Abí Tálib, the first Imám of the Shí‘a and prime bearer of
post-prophetic spiritual authority and charisma (w a l á y a). The Hadít h Kumayl is also known as the H a d ít h
m á ’ l - h a q í q a, viz, the sacred words in answer to the question “What is divine reality?” It should be noted, also,
that this very important hadít h is not found in the canonical Nahj al-balágha. Reference to it by the Báb is sig-
nificant because it shows that He was deeply engaged in the long, venerable and exceedingly rich Shí‘í mys-
tical—or gnostic—discourse associated with it. Indeed, the Báb also wrote a separate commentary devoted
solely to this sermon (S o u rc e s, p.199). In the Bábí/Bahá’í tradition, interest in the Hadít h did not stop with the
Báb; one of His more prominent followers eventually adopted one of its distinctive formulations, s u b h - i - a z a l,
“Dawn of Eternity,” as an honorific title. Bahá’u’lláh Himself also makes repeated reference to this sermon
throughout His Writings as when, in referring to another one of the sermon’s distinctive ideas, He speaks of
the “veils of glory” (subuhát al-jalál, “delusions of grandeur”). The literal meaning, “lofty praises of divine
g l o r y,” suggests that one must rigourously avoid equating one’s understanding of sublime divine qualities with
the absolute unknowable essence of God. “Veils of glory” is a symptom of spiritual disease diagnosed origi-
nally by ‘A l í .
The translation offered here also demonstrates, if such were necessary, how important the Qur’án was for
the Báb. It is most important to point out that while many of the Qur’ánic quotations or references are very
brief, their appearance in this text is also meant to stimulate in the mind of the reader the immediate scriptur-
al context that they represent in addition to the relevant distinctive Shí‘í exegetical tradition. Therefore, in the
accompanying notes some of the unquoted Qur’ánic context is supplied.
F i n a l l y, this R i s á l a shows quite clearly the interest the Báb had in and His attachment to the teachings of
S ha yk h Ahmad and Sayyid Kázim. Apart from the explicit mention of the latter, the basic quaternary structure
of the discourse reflects S ha yk hí teachings. The understanding of the “next world” (Paradise or Hellfire) as
spiritual conditions, rather than places, is also a distinctive S ha yk hí teaching and shows how that synthesis
combined the languages of Sufism and Shí‘ism. I plan to offer a fuller account of these features of the R i s á l a
in a future article which will contain, in addition to a translation of the H a d ít h K u m a y l, the Báb’s separate com-
mentary on it, a study of Shí‘í exegesis of the text and a discussion of the Qur’ánic and other Hadít h m a t e r i a l
in addition to a discussion of related writings from the masters of the S ha yk hí school.
4 9
The Spir i t u al Journey towards God

In some cases, the translation violates strict literalness in the interest of readability. Qur’án translations are
based upon those of Yusuf Ali. I should like to record my debt to Dr. Muhamed Afnan who years ago kindly
agreed to look over a preliminary edition of the Arabic text and offer several valuable suggestions based upon
his precious and intimate knowledge of the Báb’s writings and manuscripts of the R i s á l a not available to me.
All errors in the translation are mine and mine alone.
For those who would like to pursue a more detailed study of the R i s á l a I offer a second translation (follow-
ing the first, below). This one does have a few notes scattered throughout the text and is more technical in gen-
eral. In this connection, it is important to mention the manner in which the Báb expresses His ideas through
the poetic and “musical” use of a few key Arabic roots, the most frequent being Q- W- M (straightness, rising,
standing), B - W- B (gate), W- H - D (oneness). Here, again, the Composition would appear to follow the rules of
i m p r o v i s a t i o n .
5 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Báb’s “Journey towards God”: the Risálah fi’s-Sulúk ilá Alláh*
IN T H E NA M E O F GO D, T H E ME R C I F U L , T H E CO M PA S S I O N A T E* *
Be steadfast, O seeker of piety, in the station of affirming the divine unity. As God, exalted be He, has said:
AS F O R T H O S E W H O S AY “ OU R LO R D I S GO D” T H E N C O N T I N U E
S T E A D F A S T, T H E A N G E L S
D E S C E N D
U P O N T H E M S AY-
I N G “F E A R N O T , N O R B E G R I E V E D , A N D R E C E I V E
G O O D N E W S O F T H E G A R D E N
W H I C H
Y E W E R E P R O M I S E D ! ”
Know ye that “the paths to God are as numerous as the breaths of the creatures” yet, there is NO SO U L b u t
ON E and there is no religion but the one religion, and it is the CA U S E
O F GO D. AN D OU R C O M M A N D
I S B U T A S I N -
G L E A C T.
SO S E T T H O U T H Y FA C E S T E A D I L Y TO T H E T R U E FA I T H —T H E N AT U R E M A D E B YGO D—I N W H I C H HE H A S M A D E M E N.
TH E R E
I S N O A LT E R I N G GO D'S C R E A T I O N .
Ve r i l y, Religion is supported by four pillars:
1) A ffirming the divine unity
2) Prophethood
3) Guardianship, and
4) The community of true believers
These are four gates, none of which is of any use without the others.
And all of this is the FA C E O F GO D W H I C H
W I L L N E V E R P E R I S H . And this is the love of the Family of God which
is the same as the love of God. This is the Hidden Treasure to which the Prophet, upon Him and His family be
peace, openly alluded when He said: “Above each good is another good until one loves us, and when one loves
us there is no good higher. ”
So love, beloved, lover, and Beloved are four divine signs appearing from the radiant self-manifestation of
the family of God in you and in your soul. Whenever these four signs are remembered within you and your heart
is illumined, and your soul stirred, and your spirit moved and your body quakes with longing, then you are truly
among the people of paradise and the companions of the Commander of the Faithful, upon him be peace.
Indeed, at such a time you are in conformity with the T R U E
R E L I G I O N and the T R U E
B A L A N C E and the obvious
and clear PAT H. Above this station there is no good.
Thus one ascends unto the abode of the permanence of God.
There is no end to the love of God and no finish.
This is the guiding principle of the search.
There can be no question, the Sharí‘a in its entirety is one method in the quest of the servant for his Lord, but
it must be according to the guiding principle and goal as I have described.
As for the road to attaining the guiding principle—know that attainment to the station of your own sign is
attainment to your Lord. And this is the station of pure piety towards God, exalted be He, as when one of the
prophets asked of God, praised be He, “How can we attain to Thee?” God, may He be exalted, said, “Cast away
thyself and rise to Me.”
And this is why the station of the novices is conditional upon denying the self what it passionately desires
and forcing upon it what it detests because there is no veil more base for the servant than his own self.
* This is a provisional translation for presentation and discussion at 'Irfán Colloquia. It is not to be reproduced or further distributed
in any form or medium.
* * Text in SM A L L CA P S indicates Qur’ánic content
5 1
The Spir i t u al Journey towards God

By God! If you struggle against your self you will by and by send it to the station of nearness and remem-
brance and intimacy in the shade of your Beloved and adore Him above all else, to the extent that even if you
were cut to shreds you would not be negligent of His station. Because, the [true] knower is he whose heart is
with God; such a one has no speech, thought, nor act except in, by, with and about God, exalted be He.
Neglect not your personal struggle and thereby forfeit T H Y P O R T I O N I N T H I S
W O R L D B U T D O T H O U G O O D A S GO D
H A S B E E N G O O D TO T H E E .
And if you are neglectful it will be your great loss on the Day of the Return and you will say: “AH! WO E I S
M E! —I N T H AT I N E G L E C T E D
M Y D U T Y TO WA R D S GO D!”
So pass on whither we have been ordered and fear not T H E R E P R O A C H E S
O F T H O S E
W H O F I N D FA U LT. TH I S I S T H E
G R A C E
O F GO D W H I C H HE W I L L B E S T O W O N W H O M HE P L E A S E T H
A N D GO D I S T H E O W N E R
O F A L L G R A C E
A N D T H E
A L L -K N O W I N G .
Flee from whatever distracts you from God. Indeed such is a deadly poison which will consume you in flames
though you be unaware.
NAY, W E R E Y O U TO K N O W W I T H C E RTA I N T Y
O F M I N D Y O U W O U L D B E AWA R E . YO U S H A L L
C E RTA I N LY S E E H E L L F I R E .
AG A I N Y O U S H A L L
S E E I T W I T H
C E RTA I N T Y O F S I G H T
It is incumbent upon you to abandon the world and all that is in it. Indeed, it is the chief of all evils. And in
your quest do not linger in any one station. Thus a dog of the Jews is better than the people of the marketplace
because the people of the marketplace are the people of spiritual torpor. Ve r i l y, this lingering is the source of
that negligence which bars access to God.
Ve r i l y, the world and the hereafter are two spiritual states. If you turn towards God, exalted be He, then you
are in paradise and if you are occupied with your self then you are in hell and in the world. Therefore under-
stand these allusions and sever thyself from all unworthy habits and lusts. Endure patiently the alienation of peo-
ple and the blame of the companion and the S c h a d e n f re u d e of the enemy from among family and off s p r i n g .
And when you have begun your quest according to this M E T H O D of search, then the gate of God will open to
your soul and you will request entrance into the realm of the holy one.
For the people of insight these subtle allusions will suff i c e :
“Rend the veils of glory and allusions and efface the idle fancies and rend the veils and be attracted to the
exclusive unity—the quality of affirming the divine unity until the light of dawn shines forth from” the sun of
thy reality and Y O U E N T E R
T H E C I T Y of unity W H I L E
I T S P E O P L E A R E U N AWA R E “and extinguish the lamp” of every-
thing that has veiled you from God, exalted be He, so that you will attain to the P R A I S E D
S TAT I O N that God, exalt-
ed be He, has promised the people who glorify God at night—that is to say the turning towards the absolute
divine unity in the midst of intense darkness, as in the verse: IT M AY B E T H AT T H Y LO R D W I L L R A I S E
T H E E U P TO
A P R A I S E W O R T H Y S TAT I O N.
And T H I S B O O K , on the WAY of search, is kept brief for those possessed of insight and in it is that which will
be sufficient for the pure amongst the affirmers of the divine unity. The particulars have been fully written about
by my master, my support, my teacher, the pilgrim Sayyid Kázim al-Ras htí, may God lengthen his life and bring
forth from it good results. So seek the WAY O F Y O U R LO R D M A D E S M O O T H
F O R T H E E . TH E R E C O M E T H
F O RT H F R O M
T H E I R
B E L L I E S
A D R I N K
D I V E R S E
O F H U E S , W H E R E I N
I S H E A L I N G
F O R M A N K I N D
A N D A M E R C Y ; W H I L E T H E O P P R E S S O R S
I N C R E A S E
O N LY I N R U I N .
5 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Annotated translation of
The Báb’s “Journey towards God”: the Risálah fi’s-Sulúk ilá Alláh
IN T H E NA M E O F GO D, T H E ME R C I F U L , T H E CO M PA S S I O N A T E 2
Be steadfast (QW M) ,3 O seeker of piety (TQW) , 4 in the station (QW M) of affirming the divine unity (W H D) .5
God, exalted be He, said:
AS F O R T H O S E W H O
S AY “ OU R LO R D
I S GO D” T H E N
C O N T I N U E
S T E A D F A S T (QW M), T H E A N G E L S
D E S C E N D
U P O N
T H E M S AY I N G “F E A R
N O T, N O R B E G R I E V E D , A N D R E C E I V E
G O O D N E W S O F T H E G A R D E N
W H I C H Y E W E R E P R O M I S E D ! ”
( Q u r’án 41:30; cf. 46:13)
Know ye that “the paths to God are as numerous as the breaths (a n f á s) of the creatures,”6 while there is N O
S O U L but O N E (nafs wáhida; W H D; cf. Qur’án 4:1; 31:28; 39:6), and that there is no religion but the one reli-
gion (dín wáhid; W H D), and it is the C A U S E O F G O D (amr A l l á h; Qur’án 33:37; 49:9 and p a s s i m). A N D O U R C O M -
M A N D (a m ru n á) I S B U T A S I N G L E (A C T ) (wa má amruná illá wáhida; W H D Q u r’án 54:50; the second half of the
verse, not quoted here by the Báb, continues: A S T H E T W I N K L I N G
O F A N E Y E ) .
SO S E T
T H O U (f a -’a q i m; QW M) T H Y FA C E S T E A D I L Y TO T H E T R U E
FA I T H —T H E
N AT U R E
M A D E
B Y GO D (f i t r a
a l l á h)—I N W H I C H HE H A S M A D E M E N . TH E R E I S N O A LT E R I N G GO D'S C R E A T I O N . ( Q u r’án 30:30; cf. the end of this
verse and Qur’án 30:31-32 alluded to here but not explicitly quoted by the Báb: T H AT I S T H E
R I G H T
R E L I G I O N
(al-dín al-qayyim; QW M), B U T M O S T P E O P L E
D O N O T K N O W . 31: T U R N Y E B A C K I N R E P E N T A N C E TO HI M A N D F E A R
HI M (i t t a q ú h u; TQW), ES TA B L I S H
R E G U L A R
P R A Y E R S (w a’aqímú al-salát; QW M) , A N D B E N O T O F T H O S E W H O J O I N
G O D S W I T H GO D (wa lá takúnú min al-mus hr i k í n). 32: T H O S E
W H O S P L I T
U P T H E I R
R E L I G I O N
A N D B E C A M E
M E R E
S E C T S (s hí’a n) , E A C H PA RT Y R E J O I C I N G
I N W H AT T H E Y H A D W I T H
T H E M . )
Indeed, (true) Religion is supported (m u t a q a w w a m; QW M) by four pillars.
1) Ta w h í d ( a ffirming the divine unity)
2) N u b u w w a ( p r o p h e t h o o d )
3) Wa l á y a (guardianship), and
4) S h í‘a (the community of true believers)
These are four gates (a b w á b, sing. b á b B W B) of which no one is of any use without the others.
And all of this is the FA C E O F GO D (wajh A l l á h ) W H I C H W I L L
N E V E R P E R I S H . (cf. Qur’án 28:88).7 And it (i.e.
this “face of God”) is the love of the Family of God (hubb ál A l l á h)8 which is the same as the love of God (w a
huwa nafs hubb A l l á h). This is the Hidden Tr e a s u r e9 to which the Prophet, upon Him and His family be peace,
openly alluded when He said: “Above each good is another good until one loves us, and when one loves us
there is no higher good above it.”1 0
So love (h u b b), beloved (h a b í b), lover (m u h i b b), and Beloved (m a h b ú b) are four divine signs (á y á t) appear-
ing from the self-manifestation of the family of God (tajallí ál A l l á h) in you and they are your soul.11
Whenever these four signs are remembered within you and your heart is illumined, and your soul stirred,
and your spirit moved and your body quakes with longing (s ha w q), then you are truly (h a q q a n) among the peo-
ple of paradise and the companions of the Commander of the Faithful,1 2 upon him be peace.
At such a time you are indeed upon the T R U E R E L I G I O N
(al-dín al-qayyim, Qur’án 30:30; QWM) and the T R U E
B A L A N C E (al-qistás al-mustaqím, Qur’án 17:35 and 26:182; QW M) and the obvious and clear PAT H (al-sirát al-
wádih al-mubín). Above this station (QW M) there is no good (h a s a n a) .
Thus one ascends unto the abode of the permanence of God (b a q á ’ A l l á h) .1 3
There is no end to the love of God and no finish.
This is the guiding principle (q u t b) of the search.1 4
Indeed the S ha r í‘a in its entirety is a method for the quest of the servant for his Lord, but by movement
5 3
The Spir i t u al Journey towards God

according to the guiding principle (q u t b) as I have described.
As for the road to attaining the guiding principle (q u t b)—know that attainment to the station (QW M) of your
sign is attainment to your Lord. And this is the station of pure piety (TQW ) towards God, exalted be He, as
when one of the prophets asked of God, praised be He, “How can we attain to Thee?” God, may He be exalt-
ed, said, “Throw down thyself and rise to Me.”1 5
And this is why the station (QW M) of the novices (a l - m u b t a d i ’ í n) is conditional upon denying the self what
it passionately desires and forcing upon it what it detests because there is no veil more base (a w h as h) for the
servant than his own self.
By God! If you struggle against your self and thereby send it to the station of nearness and remembrance
and intimacy in the shade of your Beloved and adore Him above all else, even if you were cut to shreds you
would not be negligent of His station because the knower is he whose heart is with God and he has no speech,
allusion nor act except in, by, with and about God, exalted be He.
Neglect not your personal struggle (i j t i h á d) and thereby forfeit T H Y P O R T I O N
I N T H I S
W O R L D
B U T D O T H O U
G O O D A S GO D H A S B E E N G O O D
TO T H E E.1 6
And if you are neglectful it will be your great loss on the Day of the Return and you will say: “AH! WO E I S
M E! —I N T H AT I N E G L E C T E D
M Y D U T Y TO WA R D S GO D!” (Qur’án 39:56)1 7
So pass on Whither We Have Been Ordered1 8 and Fear Not1 9 T H E R E P R O A C H E S
O F T H O S E
W H O F I N D FA U LT.
TH AT I S T H E G R A C E O F GO D W H I C H HE W I L L B E S TO W O N W H O M HE P L E A S E T H
A N D GO D I S T H E O W N E R O F A L L G R A C E
A N D T H E A L L -K N O W I N G . ( Q u r’án 5:54)2 0
Flee from whatever distracts you from God. Indeed such is a deadly poison which will consume you in
flames while you are unaware. NAY, W E R E Y O U TO K N O W W I T H C E R TA I N T Y O F M I N D (‘ilm al-yaqín) (Y O U W O U L D
B E AWA R E ). YO U S H A L L
C E RTA I N L Y S E E H E L L F I R E . AG A I N
Y O U S H A L L
S E E
I T W I T H
C E RTA I N T Y
O F S I G H T (‘ayn al-
y a q í n). (Qur’án 102:5-7)
It is incumbent upon you to abandon the world and all that is in it. Indeed, it is the chief of all evils. And in
your quest do not linger in any station. Ve r i l y, a dog of the Jews is better than the people of the marketplace
because the people of the marketplace are the people of lingering (ahl al-wuqúf). Ve r i l y, such is the source of
that negligence which bars access to God.2 1
Indeed, the world and the hereafter are two spiritual states.2 2 If you turn towards God (19), exalted be He,
then you are in paradise and if you are occupied with your self then you are in hell and in the world. T h e r e f o r e
understand these allusions (is há r á t) and sever thyself from all habits and lusts. And endure patiently the alien-
ation of people and the blame of the companion2 3 and the S c h a d e n f re u d e of the enemy from among family and
o ff s p r i n g .
And when you have begun your quest along this path of search, then the gate of God (báb A l l á h; B W B) will
open to your soul and you will request entrance into the realm of the the Most Generous (mulk al-karím) .
For the people of insight these subtle allusions [will suff i c e ] :2 4
“ P u rge” to the highest possible degree “the sublime praises of divine glory” of “allusions” and “efface the
idle fancies and rend all veils and be attracted to the divine exclusive unity—[by] the quality of affirming the
divine unity until the light of dawn shines forth” from the sun of thy reality and Y O U E N T E R
T H E C I T Y of unity
W H I L E
I T S P E O P L E
A R E U N A WA R E 2 5 and extinguish the lamp2 6 of everything that has veiled you from God, exalt-
ed be He, so that when you attain to a P R A I S E D
S TAT I O N 2 7 (QW M) such as God, exalted be He, has promised the
people who glorify God at night2 8 that is to say the turning towards the absolute divine unity in the midst of
intense darkness, S O O N T H Y LO R D W I L L R A I S E
T H E E U P TO A P R A I S E W O R
T H Y S TAT I O N . (QW M)2 9
And T H I S WR I T I N G on the M E T H O D (s a b í l) of search, is kept brief for those possessed of insight and in it is
that which will be sufficient for the pure amongst the believers in the divine unity. The particulars have been
fully written about by my master, my support, my teacher, the pilgrim Sayyid Kázim al-Ras htí, may God
lengthen his life and bring forth from it good results. So seek the WAY31  O F Y O U R LO R D M A D E S M O O T H
F O R T H E E.
TH E R E
C O M E T H
F O R T H F R O M
T H E I R
B E L L I E S
A D R I N K
D I V E R S E
O F H U E S , W H E R E I N
I S H E A L I N G
F O R M A N K I N D
A N D A
M E R C Y ; WH I L E T H E O P P R E S S O R S
I N C R E A S E
O N LY I N R U I N . ( Q u r’án 16:69)
5 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Appendix
Hadíth Kumayl*
Kumayl bin Ziyád asked ‘ A l í :
“What is reality?”
‘Alí replied: “What are you compared to reality?” (i.e., “How dare you ask such a question!”)
Kumayl said: “Are you not the master of your own secret knowledge?” (i.e., “What is the matter, can’t you
answer my question?”)
‘Alí replied: “Most certainly (b a l á)! But you will receive only a few drops of the ocean of knowledge that
overflow from the abundance of my own knowledge.”
Kumayl: “Is it like you to disappoint a questioner?”
‘Alí responded: “reality is dispersing the clouds of glory without allusion.” (al-haqíqat kas hf subuhát al-
jalál min g hayr is há r a = [The perception of] reality [is achieved only in] dispelling one’s delusions of grandeur
in vain attempts to compare that reality with anything whatsoever. )
Kumayl said: “Explain this further!”
‘Alí said: “It is the effacement of vain imaginings with clear consciousness of that which is known.”
Kumayl said: “Explain this further!”
‘Alí said: “It is the rending of the curtain and being overwhelmed by the divine secret.”
Kumayl said: “Explain this further!”
‘Alí said: “It is the irresistible attraction of the exclusive divine unity [achieved] by means of the quality of
a ffirming the divine unity. ”
Kumayl said: “Explain this further!”
‘Alí said: “A light shines forth from the dawn of eternity and it radiates it effects upon the temples conse-
crated to affirming the divine unity. ”
Kumayl said: “Explain this further!”
‘Alí said: “When the dawn breaks, extinguish the lamp.”
* From Sayyid Haydar Ámulí, Jámi‘ al-asrár wa manba‘ al-asrár, edited by H. Corbin and O. I. Yahyá. Bibliotheque iranienne, vol.
16, Institut Français de Recherche en Iran: Tehran, 1989 (first published 1969), p. 170.
N o t e s
1 )
An earlier version of this translation was posted on H-Bahai a few years ago. It is available, along with the unedited A r a b i c
text, at www2.h-net.msu.edu/bahai/trans/vol2/suluk/suluktr. h t m
2 )
Invocation at the beginning of every Qu’ánic súra but one: b i s m i l l á h i r- r a h m á n i r- r a h í m. It is widely used throught the length
and breadth of Islamic written culture to begin a piece of writing or speech. The Báb would continue to employ the symbolism
of this phrase, known as the b a s m a l a, throughout His ministry. The Letters of the Living are understood to be the living man-
ifestations of its eighteen letters.
3 )
’i s t a q i m: This imperative of the 8th form of the verb Q- W- M is noticed here to demonstrate two features of the R i s á l a. First,
this usage shows that the Báb is directly addressing an anonymous male, probably the same person who asked the Báb about
s u l ú k in the first place (see next note). Second, this also is the first instance of the several appearances of the root Q- W- M in the
R i s á l a. Among the various words that are derived from this root, two would gain greater and greater prominence as the Báb’s
ministry unfolded: (1) q i y á m a: Resurrection, the Shí‘í eschaton; and (2) q á ’ i m: Resurrector, One Who Arises, according to Shí‘í
tradition, in order to replace the injustice of the world with justice. Note, in this regard, the closing Qur’ánic quotation of the
R i s á l a.
4) yá sá’il al-tuqá: Note that the root from which the word for piety is derived T-Q- W recurs throughout the text.
5) maqám al-tawhíd: traditional Sufi terminology: m a q á m is usually translated as “station.” Depending upon the schema, there may
be 4, 7, 8 or any number of “stations” that a seeker might expect to achieve and master in the quest or journey towards God. In
each station, it should be noted, the seeker may also expect to encounter various spiritual changes referred to as “states” —
5 5
The Spir i t u al Journey towards God

a h w á l, singular h á l (see below note 21). Ta w h í d is frequently mistranslated as “unity.” It is important to stress here that it is an
active participle, not a noun. The perfect performance of this act is the goal of all believers in the divine unity. See below the
references to the Hadít h Kumayl (and the Appendix where this Hadít h is translated). Here the central subject is precisely guid-
ance, from the Imám ‘Alí to another questioner, Kumayl ibn Ziyád, on how to properly affirm the divine unity.
6) Hadít h, also quoted in the Báb’s Tafsír súrat al-baqara a d 2:38, frequently quoted in the Sufi tradition.
7) The idea of the “face of God” is mentioned several times in the Qur’án. Its interpretation, like many other important Qur’ á n i c
words and phrases, is highly controversial. One of the more frequently-quoted verses in which the “face of God” is mentioned
is in the context of the story of the changing of the Qiblih from Jerusalem to Mecca. At 2:115, the Qur ’án says: UN TO GO D
B E L O N G T H E EA S T A N D T H E WE S T, S O W H I T H E R S O E V E R Y E T U R N, T H E R E I S T H E FA C E O F GO D. LO! GO D I S A L L E M B R A C I N G, A L L K N O W-
I N G. “Face of God” has been interpreted a number of ways. The Manifestation is the “face” of God in the sense that He repre-
sents the visible aspect of the divine, the Deus Revelatus, as distinct from the eternally hidden aspect of God, the divine
Essence, the Deus Absconditus. There is another sense in which “face” can be understood. The root W- J - H denotes surface and
direction. The derivative j i h a means aspect or sense (cf. the French s e n s “direction” as in the word for “one way [street]” : s e n s
u n i q u e. Looked at this way, then the “face” of God, far from denoting or even connoting any crude anthropomorphism, means
“ G o d ’s direction.” Thus, the above verse says all directions lead to God. This is in accord with the partial hadít h quoted below
by the Báb. The direction in which God may be sought is therefore a perfect topic in an epistle devoted to the best way of jour-
neying towards God. Cf. also j i h á t, w a j h / w u j ú h as technical terms in t a f s í r. A verse may be said to have several wujúh, or
“ a p p r o a c h es” : several different meanings or intentions.
8 )
hubb ál Alláh ál Alláh, “Family of God,” is most immediately understood as the Prophet Muhammd, His daughter Fátima and
the twelve Imáms. There is also a feature of this usage that indicates “á l” (as distinct from “a h l”) can also include faithful fol-
lowers whether related or not. The epithet is frequently used by the Báb throughout His Wr i t i n g s .
9 )
Cf. the Hadít h Qudsí known as kuntu kanzan mak hf í y a n “I was a Hidden Treasure” and the commentary on this important hadít h
by ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá translated and commented on by Moojan Momen available on the World Wide Web at
w w w. n o r t h i l l . d e m o n . c o . u k / r e l s t u d / k k m . h t m
1 0 ) Although the relevant sources are full of countless traditions enjoining the believers to love the Prophet and His Family, I have
not found a source for this hadít h. Note here, however, that the Báb, in the course of His epistle on the topic of the mystic quest
also provides an interpretation of two key Islamic texts: (1) the “face of God” and (2) the identity of the “Hidden Tr e a s u r e . ”
11) The text is difficult to read here. Previously, I saw it as fíka wa fí nafsika. Now I think it is really fíka wa hiya nafsika. One
awaits other m s s. to compare this reading with.
1 2 ) ‘Alí ibn Abí Tálib, the first Imám of the Shí‘a, cousin and half-brother of the Prophet Muhammad, husband of Fátima and
"father" of all the other Imáms.
1 3 ) Traditional Sufi technical term, usually seen paired with its conceptual opposite “annihilation,” f a n á’. See, for example,
Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Va l l e y s, the Valley of True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness. The basic idea is that one seeks to anni-
hilate (f a n á ’) the self, ego (n a f s) so that nothing remains (b a q á ’) except divinity.
1 4 ) Qu t b is another traditional Sufi technical term. It typically refers to an individual who is the bearer of spiritual authority
(w a l á y a). It means “axis,” “pivot,” and “center.” (The North Pole is called, in Arabic al-qutb al-s ha m á l í [s ha m á l í = “north”])
Although it is generally thought that the word acquired its meaning central spiritual authority in a more or less purely Sufi con-
text, it is important to note that in one of the most widely celebrated sermons from the Nahj al-balág ha ‘Alí refers to himself
as the “pivot of the community” (qutb al-rahá). The Báb’s use of this term demonstrates one of the more important features of
the S ha yk hí-Bábí-Bahá’í tradition, namely that it continued a process of using mystical terminology in a Shí‘í context. The idea
of “center” figures prominently in the later Qayyúm al-asmá. See my article “The Coincidentia Oppositorum in the Qayyúm al-
asmá” available on the World Wide Web at www2.h-net.msu.edu/bahai/bhpapers/vol5/tatanj/tatanj.htm
15) In the Sufi tradition, this hadít h is ascribed to al-K harráz, the important ninth-century mystic of Baghdad.
1 6 ) Cf. Qur’án 28:77, the story of Qárún. This reference may be a clue to the social class, if not the identity, of the recipient of the
tablet. This verse continues: AN D S E E K N O T O C C A S I O N S F O R M I S C H I E F I N T H E L A N D. FO R GO D L O V E S N O T T H O S E W H O D O M I S C H I E F.
17) Qur ’án 39:56 má farrattu fí janb alláh (j a n b is a metaphor implying threshold and by extension door or gate, viz., b á b). T h e
verse continues: AN D WA S B U T A M O N G T H O S E W H O M O C K E D!
18) Paraphrase of Qur’án 15:65.
1 9 ) Q u r’ánic diction.
2 0 ) The Báb deviates, with remarkable deftness, from the Qur’án in this citation. Again, it is important to note the mention of the
TR U E FR I E N D (w a l í) in the verse immediately following (but unquoted by the Báb) as well as the other elements of the S ha yk hí
four supports: YO U R R E A L F R I E N D S ( a w l i y á , plural of w a l í: guardian) A R E N O L E S S T H A N GO D, HI S ME S S E N G E R A N D T H E F E L L O W -
S H I P O F T H E B E L I E V E R S. . . . Qur ’án 5:55.
2 1 ) That is “lingering/loitering/hesitation” —w u q ú f—is “the source of that negligence which bars access to God.” The root mean-
ing of WQF is the diametric opposite of the root meaning of S L K from which s u l ú k.
2 2 ) H á l = Traditional Sufi technical term perhaps transformed here in a distinctive usage influenced by Hikmat-i-iláhi eschatology.
2 3 ) malámat al-qarín, cf. Qur’án 37:51; 43:36; 43:38; 4:38 where q a r í n is frequently an evil companion.
2 4 ) “People of Insight” = ahl al-basíra
5 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

2 5 ) Reference to Qur’án 28:15 and the story of Moses’ act of murder.
S h o r t l y, at 28:18, there is a mention of DAW N or MO R N I N G. See the following.
2 6 ) This is a brief running commentary, beginning here with the word “purge” and ending with the Qur’ánic word STAT I O N on an
oft-cited portion of the famous Hadít h Kumayl (see appendix). The Báb also wrote a commentary on this hadít h (S o u rc e s, p.
199 lists 5 “mss.” of this early work.)
2 7 ) maqám mahmúd, cf. Qur’án 17:79 and the later use of this epithet by Bahá’u’lláh in the Four Va l l e y s.
2 8 ) ahl al-tahajjud fí al-layl
2 9 ) Q u r’án 17:79. N.b. the uncited previous verse: ES TA B L I S H W O R S H I P AT T H E G O I N G D O W N O F T H E S U N U N T I L T H E D A R K O F N I G H T,
A N D T H E R E C I TA L O F T H E QU R’Á N AT D O W N. LO! TH E R E C I TA L O F T H E QU R’Á N AT D AW N I S E V E R W I T N E S S E D. AN D S O M E PA RT O F T H E
N I G H T AWA K E F O R I T (fa-tahajjad bihi), A L A R G E S S F O R T H E E ( Q u r’án 17:178). This connects the Báb’s language, mentioned in
the previous note to the Qur’án. His reader was expected to grasp the allusion without His having to explicitly cite the precise
language. Perhaps, though, the most important allusion His interlocutor was expected to understand was the one to the follow-
ing verse (17:80): SAY “O M Y LO R D! LE T MY E N T RY B E B Y T H E G AT E O F T R U T H A N D H O N O R, A N D G R A N T ME F R O M T H Y P R E S E N C E
A N A U T H O R I T Y (s u l t á n) TO A I D ME.
3 0 ) Q u r’án 2:2: d hálika al-kitáb may also be translated as TH AT I S T H E BO O K (I N WH I C H T H E R E I S N O D O U B T) . Here the Báb shows
an early instance of putting His Writings in the same category as the Qur’án. This would become one of the most prominent
features of His Work as represented, for example, in the later Qayyúm al-asmá.
3 1 ) D i fferent grammar but can have the same meaning as the beginning of following Qur’ánic quotation.
5 7
The Spir i t u al Journey towards God

5 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh:
The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy*
by Zaid Lundberg
Contemplate with thine inward eye the chain of successive Revelations that hath linked the
Manifestations of Adam with that of the Báb . . .
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings XXXI
T
he purpose of this paper is to briefly present a preliminary1 contextualization of the Bahá’í idea of a
chain of pro p h e c y, which is an intimate and important feature of the Bahá’í doctrine of progressive rev-
e l a t i o n .2
Although the term “prophecy” commonly is understood as f o re-telling, in academia it is better known as
f o rt h- t e l l i n g ,3 i.e., it has to do with “prophetology” rather than with “futurology” (although prophecy, admit-
t e d l y, sometimes includes this dimension as well). The technical term “chain of prophecy” can be found in var-
ious religious contexts other than in the Bahá’í Faith, and is not specifically a Bahá’í term. Generally speak-
ing, a chain of prophecy refers to a sequence (linear and/or cyclical) of mediators (prophets, messengers,
a v a t a r s , etc). It can be defined as “a sequence of religious mediators who operate between divine (supramun-
dane) and earthly (mundane) realms.”
This paper argues that variations, or family-resemblances,4 of such an idea of a chain of prophecy can be
located in the following religious contexts, including some major and well-known religions of the world
(Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, and Hinduism), as well as a few less well-known
religions (Bábísm, Manichaeism, and Jainism), and branches, or sects, of religions (S ha yk hism, Pseudo-
Clementines, Elkesaites, and Ebionism).
The Bahá’í Faith
The opening passage from the Kitáb-i-ˆqán above may serve as an example where Bahá’u’lláh explicitly
states the idea of an unending s u c c e s s i o n of revelation, ranging from Adam to the Báb.5 Two main themes that
are relevant for this paper are therefore the closely related ideas of:
•
the c h a i n of s u c c e s s i v e r e v e l a t i o n s
•
the l i n k a g e of Adam and the Báb (and ultimately Bahá’u’lláh)
It is also significant that it is within this immediate context of the quoted passage of Bahá’u’lláh where
Shoghi Effendi first employs the technical term p ro g ressive re v e l a t i o n .6
A similar statement “from Adam” is also found elsewhere in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán where Bahá’u’lláh refers to
“all the Prophets, from Adam even unto the ‘Seal,’ [ M u h a m m a d ] . ”7 The idea of a chain of prophecy can also
be found in statements by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, e.g., “From time immemorial the divine teachings have been s u c c e s -
sively revealed, and the bounties of the Holy Spirit have ever been emanating.”8 More specifically, ‘A b d u ’ l -
Bahá speaks of “From the days of Adam” while implying the idea of a chain of prophecy:
From the days of Adam until today, the religions of God have been made manifest, one following the other,
and each one of them fulfilled its due function, revived mankind, and provided education and enlighten-
m e n t .9
In another passage ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explicitly identifies various religious figures while expressing the idea of
a chain of prophecy:
For the position of Adam, with regard to the appearance and manifestation of the divine perfections, was
in the embryonic condition; the position of Christ was the condition of maturity and the age of reason; and
the rising of the Greatest Luminary [Bahá’u’lláh] was the condition of the perfection of the essence and of
5 9
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

the qualities. This is why in the supreme Paradise the tree of life is the expression for the center of absolute-
ly pure sanctity—that is to say, of the divine supreme Manifestation. From the days of Adam until the days
of Christ, They spoke little of eternal life and the heavenly universal perfections. This tree of life was the
position of the reality of Christ; through His manifestation it was planted and adorned with everlasting
f r u i t s .1 0
In the last passage it is clear that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses various organic metaphors (embryo, tree, fruits) to con-
vey the accumulative growth of religion/revelation. He writes more elaborately on the idea of a chain of
prophecy in the following passage:
All these holy, divine Manifestations are one. They have served one God, promulgated the same truth,
founded the same institutions and reflected the same light. Their appearances have been successive and
correlated; each One had announced and extolled the One Who was to follow, and laid the foundation of
reality . . . the divine religions They established have one foundation; Their teachings, proofs and evi-
dences are one; in name and form They diff e r, but in reality They agree and are the same.11
In connection with describing the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi states that “The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh should
indeed be regarded . . . as the culmination of a cycle, the final stage in a series of s u c c e s s i v e , of preliminary
a n d p r o g r e s s i v e re v e l a t i o n s .”1 2 Shoghi Effendi is even more specific than both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á
since he uses the chain metaphor in conjunction with a description of the Bahá’í Faith and progressive revela-
tion in at least two occasions:
It [the Bahá’í Faith] should be viewed not merely as yet another spiritual revival in the ever-changing for-
tunes of mankind, not only as a further stage in a chain of progressive Revelations, nor even as the culmi-
nation of one of a series of recurrent prophetic cycles, but rather as marking the last and highest stage in
the stupendous evolution of man’s collective life on this planet.1 3
[The Bahá’í Faith] readily and gratefully recognizes their [previous Dispensations] respective contribu-
tions to the gradual unfoldment of one Divine Revelation, unhesitatingly acknowledges itself to be but one
link in the chain of continually progressive Revelations . . .1 4[emphases added]
More explicitly, Shoghi Effendi clearly connects the idea of a chain of prophecy with the doctrine of pro-
gressive revelation:
It [the Bahá’í Revelation] regards them [the religions that have preceded it] . . . as different stages in the
eternal history and constant evolution of one religion, Divine and indivisible, of which it itself forms but
an integral part. . . . the fundamental principle which constitutes the Bedrock of Bahá’í belief, the princi-
ple that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is orderly, continuous and pro-
gressive and not spasmodic or final.1 5
With regard to Adam, Shoghi Effendi states that “There are no Prophets, so far, in the same category as
Bahá’u’lláh, as He culminates a great cycle begun by A d a m .” [emphasis added]1 6 In the following passage it is
possible to see how Shoghi Effendi refers to progressive revelation and the chain of prophecy while simulta-
neously employing an organic metaphor:
. . . the series of progressive Revelations starting with Adam and concluded by the Revelation of the Seal
of the Prophets, marked by the successive appearance of the branches, leaves, buds, blossoms . . .1 7
In addition, Shoghi Effendi also refers to Islam as “the succeeding link in the chain of Divine Revelation.”1 8
The terms “Prophet” and “Messenger”1 9 are frequently utilized by especially Bahá’u’lláh and ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ,
but the term “Manifestation of God”2 0 appears to be the most commonly used epithet. The Manifestation of
G o d2 1 is also, according to Cole, at the center of the teachings of Bahá’í.2 2 S i m i l a r l y, Saeidi states that:
The doctrine of manifestation, the concept of manifestation, is a fundamental, central, theological, philo-
sophical, and sociological concept of the Bahá’í Faith. . . . Everything should be understood, can be under-
stood in terms of this fundamental category, in terms of this fundamental concept. [It is] not just one con-
cept among other concepts, but the central conceptual category of the Bahá’í Faith.2 3
Although it may be correct to infer that the concept of the Manifestation of God plays a very central role in
Bahá’í, it is argued that this concept is integral of a much larger and more central doctrine—that of progres-
6 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

sive revelation.2 4
The terminology, which is connected with the Manifestations of God, is rather exhaustive. The following
citation by Bahá’u’lláh may illustrate the abundant and complex variety of titles and metaphors that are asso-
ciated with this concept:
It hath, therefore, become manifest and evident that within the tabernacles of these Prophets and chosen
Ones of God the light of His infinite names and exalted attributes hath been reflected, even though the
light of some of these attributes may or may not be outwardly revealed from these luminous Temples to
the eyes of men. That a certain attribute of God hath not been outwardly manifested by these Essences of
Detachment doth in no wise imply that they who are the Day Springs of God’s attributes and the
Treasuries of His holy names did not actually possess it. Therefore, these illuminated Souls, these beau-
teous Countenances have, each and every one of them, been endowed with all the attributes of God.
[emphasis added]2 5
In addition to the above stated designations, Bahá’u’lláh entitles the Manifestation of God as: “Ta b e r n a c l e s
of holiness,” “Primal Mirrors,” “Essences of Being,” “Day Stars of His divine guidance,” “symbols of His
divine unity,” “sanctified Beings,” “Manifestations of His wondrous Essence,” “the Luminaries of truth,”
“Manifestations of the Sun of Truth,” “Manifestations of Holiness,” “Birds of the celestial Throne” etc.
F u r t h e r, the concept of “manifestation” occurs also in connection with other epithets. In the next passage
Bahá’u’lláh enumerates various titles of the Manifestations of God and states that they are all essentially iden-
t i c a l :
By virtue of this station they have claimed for themselves the Voice of Divinity and the like, whilst by
virtue of their station of Messengership, they have declared themselves the Messengers of God. In every
instance they have voiced an utterance that would conform to the requirements of the occasion, and have
ascribed all these declarations to Themselves, declarations ranging from the realm of Divine Revelation to
the realm of creation, and from the domain of Divinity even unto the domain of earthly existence. Thus it
is that whatsoever be their utterance, whether it pertain to the realm of Divinity, Lordship, Prophethood,
Messengership, Guardianship, Apostleship, or Servitude, all is true, beyond the shadow of a doubt.2 6
Although Bahá’u’lláh above seems to include a variety of titles under the epithet of Manifestation of God,
in His Kitáb-i-ˆqán He elevates the “Prophet endowed with constancy” who has revealed a “Book” and which
suggests the advent of a new revelation and the establishment of a new religion.2 7 ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá is more explic-
it on this point since He clearly distinguishes between two kinds of prophets:
U n i v e r s a l l y, the prophets are of two kinds. One are the independent Prophets Who are followed; the other
kind are not independent and are themselves followers. The independent Prophets are the lawgivers and
the founders of a new cycle . . . The Manifestations of universal Prophethood Who appeared independent-
ly are, for example, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. But the others who are
followers and promoters are like Solomon, David, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel. For the independent
Prophets are founders; They establish a new religion and make new creatures of men; They change the gen-
eral morals, promote new customs and rules, renew the cycle and the Law. Their appearance is like the sea-
son of spring, which arrays all earthly beings in a new garment, and give them a new life. With regard to
the second sort of Prophets who are followers, these also promote the Law of God, make known the
Religion of God, and proclaim His word. Of themselves they have no power and might, except what they
receive from the independent Prophets.2 8
Here one can see an important difference in that the independent Prophets,2 9 i.e., Abraham to Bahá’u’lláh,
are “founders” of “a new religion.”3 0 These kinds of Prophets are also referred to as “universal Prophets.”3 1 T h e
“second sort of Prophets” is d e p e n d e n t3 2 upon the former for whom they are “followers and promoters.”3 3 I n
other words, the latter kind of prophets (Salomon to Ezekiel),3 4 does not establish a new religion since they do
not reveal a “Book.” They do, however, “promote the Law of God” and “make known the Religion of God.”
C o n s e q u e n t l y, only Prophets “endowed with constancy,” or the “universal” and “independent Prophets,” are
upheld as Manifestations of God.
In the example above ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá enumerates six universal Prophets, or Manifestations of God, but other
sources mention additional religious figures, and therefore the following names can be added to the sequence:
6 1
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

Adam, Noah, Krishna, Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Húd, Sálih, Jesus Christ, Muhammad, the Báb and
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h .3 5
If one were to include both kind of prophets (independent and dependent) that Bahá’u’lláh, ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á
and Shoghi Effendi mention in their writings, one could enumerate thirty-two religious figures (in alphabeti-
cal order):
1) Adam 2) Abraham 3) The Báb 4) Bahá’u’lláh 5) Buddha 6) Confucius 7) Daniel 8) David 9) Elijah 10)
Ezekiel 11) Hud 12) Isaac 13) Isiah 14) Ishmael 15) Jacob 16) Jeremiah 17) Jesus Christ 18) Jethro 19)
Job 20) Joel 21) John the Baptist 22) Joseph 23) Joshua 24) Krishna 25) Lot 26) Moses 27) Muhammad
28) Noah 29) Sálih 30) Solomon 31) Zachariah 32) Zoroaster
Yet, neither Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, nor Shoghi Effendi specify a limited number of Manifestations of
God. On the contrary, the number of Manifestations of God appears to be unknown or unlimited. On this theme
Bahá’u’lláh states:
[T]he Manifestations of His Divine Glory . . . have been sent down from time immemorial, and been com-
missioned to summon mankind to the one true God. That the names of some of them are forgotten and the
records of their lives lost is to be attributed to the disturbances and changes that have overtaken the world.36
[T]he manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His
divine Essence, encompassed the earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been
withheld, nor have the showers of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. [emphasis added]37
S i m i l a r l y, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes that
there have been many holy Manifestations of God. One thousand years ago, two hundred thousand years
ago, one million years ago, the bounty of God was flowing, the radiance of God was shining, the domin-
ion of God was existing.38
From these examples it should be clear that the forgoing mentioned number of s i x Manifestations of God is
not an exclusive number, since Bahá’u’lláh states that they “have been sent down from time immemorial,” “in
every age,” and even that “the names of some of them are forgotten.” Similarly, the quote by ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á
above supports this conclusion since He states that the Manifestations of God existed even as far back as “a
million years ago.” The appearance of a Manifestation of God, according to this view of prophecy, may be a
rare event, but it is not a unique phenomenon in the history of mankind. Although the list of religious figures
above seems to be limited to the Near and Far East regions, Bahá’u’lláh also says that “Unto the cities of a l l
nations He hath sent His Messengers.”3 9 Together with the above sentence “encompassed the earth” it is pos-
sible to interpret such passages as an allusion to a global scheme of revelation. Consequently, the revelatory
process does not seem to be restricted to any specific time period or geographic locality.
Although the examples above are predominantly oriented toward the p a s t it is relevant to turn the attention
to the f u t u re perspective of the Manifestations of God. Thus, for example, in His Súriy-i-Sabr, Bahá’u’lláh
addresses this issue and states that “God hath sent down His Messengers to succeed to Moses and Jesus, and
He will c o n t i n u e to do so till ‘the end that hath no end’; so that His grace may, from the heaven of Divine
b o u n t y, be c o n t i n u a l l y vouchsafed to mankind.”4 0 Thus, Bahá’u’lláh only claims to be the latest, not the last,
in a sequence of Manifestations of God.
The Middle Eastern and Iranian Contexts
Babism
Bahá’u’lláh was an early and distinguished adherent of the Báb (1819-1850), the Prophet-founder of the
Bábí religion,4 1 though the two never physically met. That the Báb was a promulgator of the idea of continu-
ous revelation is foremost seen in His claim of being the Q á’im/Mahdí of Islam.4 2 The following passage the
Báb conveys clearly the idea of a chain of prophecy, not only in the past but in the future as well:
In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will appeared in Adam; in the day of Noah It became
known in Noah; in the day of Abraham in Him; and so in the day of Moses; the day of Jesus; the day of
Muhammad, the Apostle of God; the day of the ‘Point of Bayán’ [the Báb]; the day of Him Whom God
shall make manifest; and the day of the One Who will appear after Him Whom God shall make manifest.
6 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Hence the inner meaning of the words uttered by the Apostle of God, ‘I am all the Prophets,’ inasmuch as
what shineth resplendent in each one of Them hath been and will ever remain the one and the same sun.43
Here the Báb explicitly asserts a chain of prophecy. However, this chain does not end with him, but He
prophesies a subsequent man yuzhiru h u ’ l l á h (Him Whom God shall make manifest):
For everything shall be set aside except His Writings, which will endure until the following Revelation.
And should anyone inscribe with true faith but one letter of that Revelation, his recompense would be
greater than for inscribing all the heavenly Writings of the past and all that has been written during previ-
ous Dispensations. Likewise continue thou to ascend through one Revelation after another, knowing that
thy progress in the Knowledge of God shall never come to an end, even as it can have no beginning. [ e m p h a-
sis added]4 4
A n o t h e r, and more elaborate passage, can be found in Báb’s Persian Bayán:
It is clear and evident that the object of all preceding Dispensations hath been to pave the way for the
advent of Muhammad, the Apostle of God. These, including the Muhammadan Dispensation, have had, in
their turn, as their objective the Revelation proclaimed by the Q á’im. The purpose underlying this
Revelation, as well as those that preceded it, has, in like manner, been to announce the advent of the Faith
of Him Whom God will make manifest. And this Faith—the Faith of Him Whom God will make mani-
fest—in its turn, together with all the Revelations gone before it, have as their object the Manifestation des-
tined to succeed it. And the latter, no less than all the Revelations preceding it, prepare the way for the
Revelation which is yet to follow. The process of the rise and setting of the Sun of Truth will thus indefi-
nitely continue—a process that hath had no beginning and will have no end.45
The probably clearest example of a chain of prophecy is found in the Báb’s Kitáb-i-Panj Sha’n (Book of the
Five Grades)4 6 where He explicitly writes of nine man yuzhiru h u ’ l l á h (Him Whom God shall make manifest):
His [God’s] exteriority in [the Qur’án] is Muhammad, the Messenger of God; in the Bayán it is [the Báb];
in the Gospel it is Jesus, the Spirit of God; in the Psalms it is David, the upright of God; in the Torah it
is Moses, the One Who conversed with God. And after the Bayán it is [1] man yuzhiruhu’lláh; and after
man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [2] man yuzhiruhu’lláh; and after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [3] man yuzhiruhu’lláh; and
after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [4] man yuzhiruhu’lláh; and after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [5] man yuzhiruhu’lláh;
and after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [6] man yuzhiruhu’lláh; and after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [7] man yuzhiruhu’l-
láh; and after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [8] man yuzhiruhu’lláh; and after man yuzhiruhu’lláh, [9] man
y u z h i r u h u ’ l l á h .4 7
Although the Báb here explicitly mentions nine man yuzhiruhu’lláh, this number should not be taken at face-
value but rather as a symbolic figure. Thus, Lambden writes that the Báb “did not simply speak of one future
appearance of Manifestions of God but nine or more such theophanies. In fact, He did not limit the number of
their successive and progressive Divine Manifestations in the world.”4 8 The following passage of the Báb
implies that the number of future Prophets indeed is indefinite:
God hath raised up Prophets and revealed Books as numerous as the creatures of the world, and will con-
tinue to do so to everlasting.4 9
Shaykhism
The Báb had been a student of Siyyid Kázim Ras htí (d. 1843) who in turn had been the foremost disciple of
S ha yk h Ahmad al-Ahsá’í (d. 1825), the founder of S ha yk hi s m .5 0 The Báb was thus well versed in the S ha yk hí
school of prophetology. Thus, for example, Rafati writes the following about the S ha yk h í view of continuous
and successive revelation:
According to the S ha yk hí theory, a prophetic cycle began with Adam and continued to the Prophet
Muhammad. During this Adamic cycle, six major prophets appeared: Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses,
Jesus, and Muhammad. While most Muslims believe that Muhammad was the last prophet, S ha yk h A h m a d
maintains that Muhammad was the last prophet only within this cycle. . . . S ha yk h A h m a d ’s view of
Muhammad as the final prophet only within the Adamic cycle implies a continuing divine revelation
through a succession of prophets in a series of cycles; while each cycle has a beginning and an end, the
cyclical process itself is progressive and continuous.51
6 3
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

Rafati explains that S ha yk h Ahmad uses the analogy of the development of an embryo with humanity’s spir-
itual progress and were various prophets play central roles:
According to the S ha yk hí view, the six stages of embryonic development corresponds to the six prophets
who appeared in the Adamic cycle: the stage of the life-germ corresponds to Adam; the stage of the clot,
to Noah; the stage of the morsel of flesh, to Abraham; the stage of the bones, to Moses; the stage of the
flesh, to Jesus, and the stage of another creation, to Muhammad. Following the analogy further, as the first
five stages of embryonic development are prerequisite to the entrance of the spirit into the body, the first
five religions are perceived as performing a preparatory function for the religion of the Prophet
Muhammad. The last stage of the development of an embryo is final only in respect to its life in the womb,
for the now completely developed embryo will be born into another world. Likewise, although the sixth
stage of the Adamic cycle, i.e., the Prophet Muhammad, is the last stage of its cycle, it is, at the same time,
the beginning of a new phase in the spiritual development of humankind and marks the inception of a new
c y c l e .5 2
Here we can clearly see that although Muhammed is regarded as the “last Prophet” He is this only within a
cycle, i.e., the “Adamic cycle.” Thus, in S ha yk hism we can enumerate the following six Prophets:
1) Adam, 2) Noah, 3) Abraham, 4), Moses, 5), Jesus, 6) Muhammad
Islam
S ha yk hism emerged within the Shí‘í branch of Islam that historically has emphasized the continuity of rev-
elation a f t e r Muhammed. Yet, this succession was mainly restricted through the succession of Imáms.
H o w e v e r, what is of importance in this context is once again the idea of a chain of prophecy. An example is
the Isma‘ílís who believe that
Prophets come in cycles which comprise a “great week” of seven thousand years. Each cycle is presided
over by one of the Prophets . . . (Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad), as well as by an
“intermediary” (wási), (Seth, Shem, Ishmael (Ismá‘íl), Aaron, Peter, ‘Alí), and a “permanent Imám”
( I m á m -Q á’im). . . . 5 3
S i m i l a r l y, the Ahl-i-Haqq “believe in seven successive manifestations of God, coming to dwell ‘in a gar-
m e n t.’ ”5 4 It is also possible to locate passages of an esoteric identification with previous prophets. For exam-
ple, in the h a d ít h a l - S a h á b a , ‘ A l í5 5 is supposed to have made the following claim:
I am Adam, I am Noah, I am Abraham, I am Moses, I am Jesus, I am Muhammad; I move through the forms
as I wish—whoso has seen me has seen them, and whoso has seen them has seen me.”5 6
According to Nicholson, Rúmí (1207-1273) believed that “in every era there is a new manifestation of God,”
and in his D í w á n , Rúmí states that “every instant the Loved One assumes a new garment, now of age, now of
y o u t h . ”5 7 According to this view, the Spirit has appeared in various forms as: Adam, Noah, Abraham, and Jesus.
Nicholson further writes that “In every generation he [the Spirit] was coming and going, until at last he
appeared in Muhammad and ruled the world and he became ‘Alí with his sword.”5 8
The Iranian al-Mukanna’ (fl. 755-85) went one step further and identified himself not only with various
prophets but with G o d :
I am your God and the God of the whole world. I call myself by whatever name I wish. I am he who man-
ifested himself in the creation in the guise of Adam, and later in the guise of Noah, later in the guise of
Abraham, later in the guise of Moses, later in the guise of Jesus, later in the guise of Muhammed, and later
in the guise of Abu Muslim, and finally in the appearance you now behold.5 9
Although the Shí‘í branch’s interpretations of an idea of a chain of prophecy is not accepted in the Sunni
and majority branch of Islam, both the term and the idea of a “chain of prophets”6 0 can clearly located.
Waldman, writing on the topic of Nubúwah (prophethood) in Islam, states for example that it
has been God’s primary means of communicating with humankind, involving a long and continuous chain
of revelation-bearers who were related both functionally and genetically . . . The chain stretched from the
first human, Adam, to the deliverer of the Qur’án, Muhammad. . . .6 1
The idea of a chain of prophecy is further and lucidly depicted in several s ú r a h s of the Qu r’ á n .6 2 For exam-
6 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

p l e :
Say ye: “We believe in God, and the revelations given to us, and to Abraham, Ismá‘íl, Isaac, Jacob, and the
Tribes, and that given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to all Prophets from their Lord: We make no dif-
ference between one and another of them . . .” (2:136)
We have sent thee inspiration, as We sent it to Noah and the Messengers after him: We sent inspiration to
Abraham, Ismá‘íl, Isaac, Jacob and the Tribes, to Jesus, Job, Jonah, Aaron and Solomon, and to David We
gave the Psalms. Of some Apostles We have already told thee the story; of others We have not—and to
Moses God spoke direct—apostles who gave good news as well as warning . . . (4:163-65)
The two most common terms for “prophet” in the Qu r’ á n are r a s ú l (messenger) and n a b í ( p r o p h e t ) .
According to The Concise Encyclopedia of Islam, the former is a Prophet “who brings a new religion or a
major new revelation” and the latter is a prophet “whose mission lies within the framework of an existing reli-
g i o n . ”6 3 Some of the prophets are also referred to as ú l ú - l -‘azm (prophets endowed with constancy; Qu r’ á n
46:35).
The following twenty-six prophets (in alphabetical order) can be found in the Qu r’án:
1) Adam 2) A l a y s a ’ (Elisha) 3) Ayyúb (Job) 4) Dá’úd (David) 5) Dhú-l-Kifl (Ezekiel) 6) Húd 7) Ibrahím
(Abraham) 8) Idrís (Enoch) 9) Ilyás (Elijah, Elias) 10) ‘Isá (Jesus) 11) Isaiah 12) Isháq (Isaac) 13) Ismá‘íl
(Ishmael) 14) Luqmán 15) Lút (Lot) 16) Muhammad 17) Músá (Moses) 18) Núh (Noah) 19) Sálih 20)
S h u’ayb (Jethro) 21) Sulaymán (Solomon) 22) Yúnus (Jonah) 23) ‘Uzair (Ezra) 24) Yahyá (John the
Baptist) 25) Ya’qúb (Jacob) 26) Yúsuf (Joseph)64
Yet, the number of prophets does not seem to be exhausted by the ones listed above, since some traditions
give the symbolic number of 124,000 prophets,6 5 and, more importantly, because the Qu r’ á n (10:48; 16:36)
also states that prophets/messengers have been sent to e v e ry n a t i o n / c o m m u n i t y. It is also significant that some
authors even use the term “progressive revelation”6 6 and “progressive disclosure”6 7 in the context of Islamic
r e v e l a t i o n .
H o w e v e r, although Islam clearly recognizes a chain of prophecy, a progressive disclosure of revelation, and
that a prophet has been sent to every nation, one of the basic doctrines of Islam is that Muhammad is k há t i m
a l - a n b i y á ’ (the Seal of Prophets, Qu r’ á n 33:40), and that Islam is the perfected religion (Qu ’ r á n 5:3-5). This is
often interpreted as if there will be no other prophet after Muhammad and, consequently, that there will be no
future religion other than Islam. On this point, for example, Zaki writes that “the Qur’án abrogates all previ-
ously revealed scriptures just as Muhammad’s prophethood supersedes the missions of all previous prophets,
which are now rendered otiose of his universality” and that Muhammad therefore “retrospectively annuls . . .
all the prophets who had preceded Him and at the same time invalidates the claim of any future claimant to the
t i t l e . ”6 8 S i m i l a r l y, Nadwi writes that “It was perfectly logical as well as inevitable, too, that after the complete
and final guidance had been vouchsafed to the Prophet of Islam, the chain of pro p h e c y should come to an end
with him.”6 9
This idea that Muhammad is completing a chain of revelation can further be seen in the following h a d ít h
recorded by al-Buk hárí (810-870):
Narrated Abu Huraira: A l l á h ’s Apostle said, “My similitude in comparison with the other prophets before
me, is that of a man who has built a house nicely and beautifully, except for a place of one brick in a cor-
n e r. The people go about it and wonder at its beauty, but say: ‘Would that this brick be put in its place!’ S o
I am that brick, and I am the last of the Prophets.”70
By using this brick/house analogy, Muhammad is depicted as “the last brick” and thereby completing the
“house of revelation.” He is thus seen as “the last of the Prophets.” In other words, although it is clearly pos-
sible to find a chain of prophecy in Islam, this chain is seen as e n d i n g with the Prophet Muhammad.
Manichaeism
Having briefly reviewed the Bábí-Bahá’í and Islamic views of prophecy, it significant to note that A n d r a e
asserts that “Mohammed’s conception of revelation . . . betrays a relationship to the Ebionitic-Manichaean doc-
trine which cannot be accidental.”7 1 What is especially significant with the religion of Mání (216-276) is that
here it is possible to locate a prophet-founder’s first and explicit claim of being a part of a chain of prophecy.
6 5
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

An example of this claim can be found in the writings of al-Bírúní (973-1048), who cites the following from
M á n í ’s S h á b ú h r a g á n:
Wisdom and deeds have always from time to time been brought to mankind by the apostles of God. So in
one age they have been brought by the apostle called Buddha to India, in another by Zarathustra to Iran,
in another by Jesus to the West. Thereupon this revelation has come down, this prophecy in this last age
through me, Mání, the apostle of the God of truth to Babylonia.7 2
In this passage it is clear that Mání sees himself as one of the apostles who have been sent “from time to
time” and to different countries. Thus, he recognizes the following series of prior prophets:
1) Buddha 2) Zoroaster 3) Jesus
H o w e v e r, al-S há h r a s t á n í7 3 lists another sequence of prophets:
1) Adam 2) Seth 3) Noah 4) Abraham 5) Buddha 6) Zoroaster 7) Jesus Christ 8) Paul
Other sources also list Shem, Sem, Enosh, and Nikotheos7 4 as prophets. For example, Lieu writes that:
We learn from the first discourse in the Kephalaia that Mani regarded Seth (or Sethel), the son of A d a m ,
as the first of a line of special prophets from the Father. He was followed by Enosh, Enoch and Shem. A f t e r
them came Buddha, Zoroaster, Jesus and Paul. After Paul, mankind was gradually led astray into sin until
the time when there appeared again a just man who belonged to the ‘kingdom’ . Together with another
righteous person they gave strength to the church. . . . After they had descended to the Land of Light, the
church again degenerated and became like a tree which was deprived of its fruits. It was then that Mani’s
apostleship began, as he was the Paraclete of Truth who was promised by Christ to this last generation.75
Thus, a more complete list of the successive prophets of Manichaeism would include the following twelve
p r o p h e t s :
1) Adam 2) Seth 3) Enosh 4) Enoch 5) Noah 6) Shem 7) Abraham 8) Buddha 9) Zoroaster 10) Jesus Christ
11) Paul 12) Mání
What makes Manichaeism especially interesting in the context of the Bahá’í Faith is that Mání “believed he
was promulgating a new universal religion that would supersede all others.”7 6 Mání, however, did not only
uphold that his religion was a continuation or succession of previous religions, but that it was superior and
f i n a l . C o n s e q u e n t l y, Lieu states that Mání saw himself “as part of a chain of re v e a l e r s which finally terminat-
ed with him.”7 7 Thus, it is small wonder that Mání, centuries before Muhammad, used the epithet k há t i m u ’ n -
nabíyín (the seal of the prophets).7 8 Although Manichaeism seem to have influenced Islam, it is also important
to note that Mání grew up in an Elkesaite environment.
Pseudo-Clementines, Ebionites, and Elkesaites
Another context in which the chain of prophecy occurs is the Judeo-Christian sects that flourished around
the first four centuries C.E. The Pseudo-Clementines refers to a collection of early Christian writings7 9 ( 3 2 5 -
380) that were clearly influenced by Ebionism. The Ebionites were Christians who maintained the Jewish law
and claimed Ebion as its founder, but this term is more likely derived from ebyóním (the poor).8 0 Earlier it was
seen that Andrae referred to “the Ebionitic-Manichaean doctrine.” Both the Ebionites (c. 200 C.E.) and the
Elkesaites (c. 100 C.E.) identify Adam and Christ as prophets. They also believed in a series of successive
i n c a r n a t i o n s .8 1 The Pseudo-Clementines and Ebionites also speak of a reincarnated v e rus propheta ( t r u e
p r o p h e t ) .8 2 This “True Prophet” is viewed in a recurring fashion as “the seven pillars of the world” and which
can be enumerated as:
1) Adam 2) Enoch 3) Noah 4) Abraham 5) Isaac 6) Jacob 7) M o s e s
The eight and final pillar is that of Christ.8 3 H o w e v e r, the idea of seven pillars that the world rests upon is,
according to Schoeps, derived from the old Jewish H a g g a d a h. He further states that:
All the seven are alike in that each is a saddiq (righteous man), i.e., a true prophet. Also, the picture of the
wandering Shekinah (the glory of God) was widely known and frequently associated with the seven right-
eous men. The names change, but the patriarchs and Moses are constant members of the group; in them the
glory of God returns to the earth after the sins of the earliest period had driven it away. The later cabala
developed these views into a doctrine of the reincarnation of the original man Adam Kadmon.8 4
6 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Schoeps refers to this chain of prophecy as “cyclical succession of the Spirit of revelation.” In discussing
its range of influence he states that it “extends from Elkesai, the Mandeans, Mani, and Mohammed, to the
Shiitish Imám-doctrine of the Hadít h” and that it subsequently was “translated back into Judaism.”8 5 Above it
was seen that this idea of a chain of prophecy could be extended forward to S ha yk hism, Bábísm, and the Bahá’í
Faith. The rest of this paper will show that this idea can be extended even further backwards to encompass not
only Christianity and Zoroastrianism, but also Buddhism, Jainism, and Hinduism.
Christianity
Although Schoeps does not mention Christianity, it is clear that at its center is the belief that Jesus is the
eschatological and soteriological M a s i a h (Christos) of Judaism. Thus, from a Christian perspective, He is
promised and prophesied in the Jewish scriptures (TNK)—the “Old Te s t a m e nt” —and the “New Testament” is
the testimony and the fulfillment of this promise. For example, in John 5:46 Jesus is supposed to have said: “If
you believed Moses, you would believe Me, for He wrote about Me” which probably is an allusion to Dt.
18:15-19 “Yahweh your God will raise up for you a Prophet like Me from among your own brothers.”8 6 J e s u s
is indeed also referred to as a “prophet” many times in the New Te s t a m e n t8 7 and John (7:40) even makes a ref-
erence of Jesus as “t h e prophet.” More importantly, Jesus refers to Himself twice as a “prophet.”8 8
At the time of Jesus it was also thought that some of the ancient prophets Moses, Elijah, and Jeremiah would
appear as a prophet revividus before the coming of the Messiah.8 9 This is apparent in the dialogue of the
“ Transfiguration” passages in e.g., Matt. 17:1-13:9 0
After six days Jesus took with Him Peter, James and John the brother of James, and led them up a high
mountain by themselves. There He was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and His
clothes became as white as the light. Just then there appeared before them Moses and Elijah, talking with
Jesus . . . The disciples asked Him, “Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah must come first?” Jesus
replied, “To be sure, Elijah comes and will restore all things. But I tell you, Elijah has already come, and
they did not recognize Him, but have done to Him everything they wished. In the same way the Son of
Man is going to suffer at their hands.” Then the disciples understood that He was talking to them about
John the Baptist.91
Although this passage suggests a more esoteric view of the chain of prophecy, it may allude to Jesus’
prophetic stature being on par with the theophanies of Moses,9 2 E l i j a h ,9 3 and John the Baptist.9 4 A perhaps more
explicit example of a chain of prophecy is “The Parable of the Te n a n ts” :9 5
There was a landowner who planted a vineyard. He put a wall around it, dug a winepress in it and built a
w a t c h t o w e r. Then he rented the vineyard to some farmers and went away on a journey. When the harvest
time approached, he sent his servants to the tenants to collect his fruit. The tenants seized his servants;
they beat one [1], killed another [2], and stoned a third [3]. Then he sent other servants to them, more than
the first time, and the tenants treated them the same way. Last of all, he sent his son [4] to them.9 6 “ T h e y
will respect my son,” he said. But when the tenants saw the son, they said to each other, “This is the heir.
Come, let’s kill him and take his inheritance.” So they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and
killed him.97
Commenting on this passage Aune writes that “The series of messengers represents the prophets who were
prosecuted and killed by a rebellious Israel, while the beloved son is Jesus, the last in a long series of pro p h e t -
ic messengers who have experienced rejection by the people.”9 8 Aune also writes of Jesus as “the final mes-
senger of God.”9 9 Another passage, which is often employed by Christian adherents of a continuous and pro-
gressive revelation between the OT and the NT is Heb. 1:1:
In the past God spoke to our forefathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways, but in
these last days He has spoken to us by His Son.
Judaism
Although Schoeps refers to that the idea of a “cyclical succession of the Spirit of revelation” this idea was
eventually “translated back into Judaism.” Yet, the idea of a chain of prophecy can clearly be found even in
the ancient Hebrew religion (from which Rabbinical Judaism is the only surviving offspring). Thus, for exam-
ple, the Encyclopedia Judaica boldly asserts:
6 7
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

There is . . . no analogy to the Israelite chain of prophecy . . . which produced a successive line of prophets
spanning several centuries who guided and taught the people, reproved and censured them for their sins,
and threatened impending destruction or promised future restoration.100
This, however, could be questioned since both Christianity and Islam make claims of being heirs to this
“successive line of prophets.” Still, Judaism is different from both Christianity and Islam since it has no s i n -
g l e founder or unique soteriological mediator, although Abraham and, especially Moses— “the paragon of
p r o p h e t s ”1 0 1 and “the master of the prophets”1 0 2—play extraordinary roles. Thus, the Encyclopedia Judaica
states that “The classical prophets . . . considered themselves successive links in the chain of divine messen -
g e r s extending back to Moses.”1 0 3
Judaism has a variety of terms for “prophet” e.g., náví (prophet), ‘ísh ha-‘Elóhím (man of God), r ó ’ e h a n d
h ó z e h ( s e e r ) .1 0 4 That the prophets have played an important role in Judaism can be seen in the very name of the
Ta N a K1 0 5 where N stands for N e v i ’ i m (Prophets). However, the prophets can be further subdivided into n e v i ’ i m
r i s h o n i m (“former” or “earlier” prophets: Joshua, Judges, Samuel, Kings), and nevi’im aharo n i m (“latter” or
“major” prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel; and the twelve “minor” prophets: Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah,
Jonah, Micha, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephania, Haggai, Zehariah, and Malachi).1 0 6
The following list of fifty-five prophets is based on the Ta l m u d and Rashi: 1) Abraham, 2) Isaac, 3) Jacob,
4) Moses, 5) Aaron, 6) Joshua, 7) Pinchas, 8) Elkanah, 9) Eli, 10) Samuel, 11) Gad, 12) Nathan, 13) David,
14) Solomon 15) Iddo, 16) Michaiah son of Imlah, 17) Obadiah, 18) Ahiyah the Shilonite, 19) Jehu son of
Hanani, 20) Azariah son of Oded, 21) Jahaziel the Levite, 22) Eliezer son of Dodavahu, 23) Hosea, 24) A m o s ,
25) Micah the Morashtite, 26) Amoz, 27) Elijah, 28) Elisha, 29) Jonah ben Amittai, 30) Isaiah, 31) Joel, 32)
Nahum, 33) Habakkuk, 34) Zephaniah, 35) Uriah, 36) Jeremiah, 37) Ezekiel, 38) Shemaiah, 39) Baruk h, 40)
Neriah, 41) Seraiah, 42) Mehseiah, 43) Haggai, 44) Zechariah, 45) Malachi, 46) Mordecai Bilshan, 47) Oded,
48) Hanani, 49) Sarah, 50) Miriam, 51) Deborah, 52) Hannah, 53) Abigail, 54) Huldah, 55) Esther
Although both Adam and Noah have been considered as prophets in the above reviewed religions it is note-
worthy that neither one is regarded as a prophet in Judaism. Yet, even though fifty-five prophets can be listed,
the Ta l m u d also states that the number of prophets was i n n u m e r a b l e , or more precisely, twice the number of
Jews who left Egypt, estimated as being 600,000. Thus, the number of prophets would amount to 1,200,000.1 0 7
Zoroastrianism
In the above contexts it was seen that Zoroaster was only mentioned in the Bahá’í and Manichean contexts.
The life-time of Zoroaster, or more precisely, Zarathustra (Spitaman), has never been satisfactorily resolved
since scholars are divided into two groups: (1) Boyce who estimates 1700-1200 B.C.E, and (2) Zaehner and oth-
ers who claim 628-551 B.C.E. Moreover, later Parsi tradition dates Zarathustra to have lived 6000 B.C.E., but
this date is not accepted by Western scholars. Thus, there is a great variance from 6000-600 B.C.E. H o w e v e r,
most scholars agree that Zarathustra was an h i s t o r i c a l figure and some even suggest that He may have been
the very first prophet or apocalypt in history,1 0 8 or the “oldest known millenarian prophet.”1 0 9 From the extant
Zoroastrian writings it is clear that He was z a o t a r or á t h r a v a n ( p r i e s t )11 0 and that He also saw himself as
saoshyant ( s a v i o u r ) ,111 a n d m a t h r a n ( p r o p h e t ) .11 2 N y b e rg states that Zoroastrianism’s greatest innovation was
its prophetology and that “Zarathustra was the first who thought good, spoke good, acted good. He was the
first áthravan, the first r a t h a é s r (chariot-fighter), the first v á s t ry ó . f s u y a n t (shepherd),” and “mankind’s first
lawgiver and teacher of the heavenly command.”11 3
In the context of the idea of a chain of prophecy it is interesting that a scheme of ten incarnations exists in
the Av e s t a .11 4 It states that Véréthraghna (glorious power) appeared as follows:
1) Váta (wind), 2) Golden-horned bull, 3) White horse, 4) Male camel, 5) Boar, 6) Young man, 7) V á r e g a n -
bird, 8) Ram (?), 9) Goat, 10) Wa r r i o r11 5
What is especially significant in this context is that Nyberg writes that V é r é t h r a g h n a “has wandered through
time and makes the unifying bond in the history of Iran.”11 6 F u r t h e r, there is the notion of k a v i s ( p r i e s t - k i n g s )
who are seen as forerunners of Zorostrianism, and Nyberg states that “even very old Avesta-texts may have had
a fixed series of such pre-zoroastrian rulers and heroes.”11 7 M o r e o v e r, both Nyberg and Widengren describe
Zarathustra as “primordial man reincarnated,”11 8 which suggests the notion of pre-existence. Indeed, this idea
6 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

can be seen in the division of the development of the cosmos and its three protagonists:
1) Gayó-maretan (primordial man),11 9 2) Zarathustra, and 3) Saoshyant.
This idea was also seen above in that Zarathustra was seen as the first priest, chariot-fighter and shepherd.
Thus, these examples illustrate the notion of a series of succession, although it is unclear if they have had any
soteriological function.
The idea of the S a o s h y a n t (savior) can be found at several places in the oldest Zoroastrian texts—the
G á t h á s .1 2 0 Gnoli states that “the concept of the future saviour is one of the fundamental notions of
Zoroastrianism” and that “the doctrine . . . had already taken shape in the Achaemenid period (sixth to fourth
centuries B.C.E.) . ”1 2 1 For example, in Ya s h t 19:89 the S a o s h y a n t is labeled as a “messenger of Ahura Mazda.”1 2 2
Yet, the identification of Saoshyant with a f u t u re savior is quite misleading since Zarathustra, as was seen
above, also refers to himself as S a o s h y a n t .1 2 3 H o w e v e r, as was also stated earlier, Zoroastrianism recognizes
three successive soteriological mediators after Zarathustra, although it is believed that the number of three
S a o s h y a n t s was a later development.1 2 4 It is possible to enumerate the three future and successive soteriologi-
cal mediators of Zoroastrianism as:
1) Ushedar (Uchshyatereta), 2) Ushedarmah (Uchshyat-nemah) 3) Saoshyant (Astvatereta).
The three Saoshyants are depicted as “sons” of Zarathustra although it is clear that they are born during the
last two millennia (i.e., the years 10,000-12,000 in the Zoroastrian calendar). The eleventh millennium is inau-
gurated with the arrival of Ushedar, who will “renew the prophet’s [Zarathustra’s] revelation and defeat the
forces of evil.”1 2 5 Here Boyce implies that it is the original revelation that is renewed. The twelfth millennium
is inaugurated with Ushedarmah, and the final S a o s h y a n t (Astvatereta) arrives at the end of the final millenni-
um—in the year 11 9 4 3 .1 2 6 Thus, it is important to note that the time-span between the three saviors is approx-
imately 1,000 years, i.e., a millennium. Yet, it is possible to note, as Nyberg states, that “Zarathustra makes a
continuous series with his mythical sons, the apocalyptic saviours” and that “the appearance of Zarathustra is
the prelude to the eschatological event.”1 2 7
F u r t h e r, the last S a o s h y a n t is, in the P a h l a v i-literature, always identified simply as “Soshyant,” but the
Av e s t a refers to him as Astvatereta (he who embodies righteousness).1 2 8 N y b e rg writes that Astvatereta is “the
pinnacle and completion of humanity.” As was stated above, Nyberg sees “Zaratustra as primordial man rein-
carnated” and likewise are “the apocalyptic saviours Zarathustra reincarnated.”1 2 9 The evidence for this,
according to Nyberg, is Yasna 46:3 where Zarathustra identifies himself with the Saoshyants.1 3 0 S i m i l a r l y,
Widengren sees the three S a o s h y a n t s as “incarnations of Zarathustra as the divine Primordial Man” and that it
is therefore possible to discern “a clear series of four saviour-figures: Zarathustra, Hushetar, Hushetarmah and
S o s h y a n s . ”1 3 1 Although G a y ó - m a re t a n may not have functioned as a soteriological figure in the mythical past,
he may, since he is regarded as the incarnation of Zarathustra, still be included in the series of soteriological
mediators. It is therefore possible to summarize and enumerate the following series of five successive soterio-
logical mediators of Zoroastrianism as follows:
1) G a y ó - m a re t a n (primordial man), 2) Zarathustra, 3) Ushedar 4) Ushedarmah 5) Saoshyant (Astvatereta)
The Indian context
Having briefly reviewed and discussed the idea of a chain of prophecy in the Middle Eastern and Iranian
contexts, we will now turn to three religions of Indian context: Buddhism, Jainism, and Hinduism.
Buddhism
The central figure of Buddhism is Siddharta Guatama (566-486/560-480 B.C.E.)1 3 2 or “the Buddha.” Yet, on
this point Parrinder writes that “We commonly speak of Gotama as t h e Buddha, but every Buddhist, T h e r a v á d a ,
as well as Maháyána, believes that there are numerous Buddhas, past and to come.”1 3 3 Thus, the theme in
Buddhism which is most relevant in this context of the idea of a chain of prophecy is the idea of successive
Buddhas, or Buddhavamsa (Lineage of Buddhas). This idea seems to be specifically Indian and ultimately
influenced by the Hindu a v a t a r a -scheme, and most probably, indirectly influenced by Jainism,1 3 4 a l t h o u g h
G a u t a m a “Quite early . . . is perceived as one of several Buddhas in a series that began in the distant past.”1 3 5
Related to this is the idea from the J á t a k a tales which states that the Buddha has gone through five-hundred
6 9
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

previous births1 3 6 and that, in a sense, there are Buddhas in preparation.1 3 7
The idea that a Buddha is born in various epochs can, for example, be found in the Digha Nikaya:
K n o w, Vasettha, that (from time to time) a Tathagata is born into the world, a fully Enlightened One,
blessed and worthy, abounding in wisdom and goodness, happy, with knowledge of the world, unsurpassed
as a guide to erring mortals, a teacher of gods and men, a Blessed Buddha.138
M o r e o v e r, in a passage from the Saddharmapundaríka (Lotus Sútra), the Buddha supposedly said “I am
repeatedly born in the world of the living.”1 3 9 H o w e v e r, Parrinder writes that the idea of succession of Buddhas
is already established in the oldest part of the Buddhist P á l i canon, the Sutta Pitaka,1 4 0 mentions six previous
Buddhas where Gautama is the seventh, but the future Buddha—Maitreya—is n o t mentioned here (although
He is mentioned elsewhere in the P á l i canon). Thus, in the oldest canon it is possible to identify the following
succession of Buddhas:
1) Vipassi, 2) Sikhi, 3) Vessabhu, 4) Kakusandha, 5) Konágamana, 6) Kassap, 7) Gautama, 8) Maitreya
The first Buddha, Vipassi, is supposed to have lived eighty thousand years ago. Later texts, e.g.,
B u d d h a v a m s a , does not mention only s i x d i fferent Buddhas but t w e n t y - f i v e , where Gautama is identified as the
twenty-fifth Buddha and where eighteen Buddhas existed before Vipassi. The Buddhas are as follows:
1) Dipankara, 2) Kondanna, 3) Mangala, 4) Sumana, 5) Revata, 6) Sobhita, 7) Anomadassin, 8) Paduma,
9) Narada, 10) Padumuttara, 11) Sumedha, 12) Sujata, 13) Piyadassi, 14) Atthadassi, 15) Dhammadassi,
16) Siddhattha, 17) Tissa, 18) Phussa, 19) Vipassi, 20) Sikhi, 21) Vessabhu, 22) Kakusandha, 23)
Konágamana, 24) Kassapa, 25) Gautama
So far it has been shown that the concept of the Buddha is highly ambivalent and that Buddhism recognizes
a limited number in the succession of Buddhas. Yet, other Buddhist writings do not limit the Buddhas but enu-
merate either a greater number or an infinite number of Buddhas in the universe. For example, although the
M a h á v a s t u views Sidhartha Gautama as the last in a succession in the present cycle, it still names t h o u s a n d s
of other Buddhas. Other texts e.g., the L a l i t a v i s t a r a and the S a d d h a r m a p u n d a r í k a , mention m i l l i o n s o f
B u d d h a s .1 4 1 Again the Mahávastu treat the “Buddha-lands” and “Buddha-fields” as a s a n k h y e y a ( i n n u m e r a b l e )
and that the Buddhas are as numerous as the sands of the Ganges.1 4 2 F i n a l l y, the Lotus Sútra states that:
At that time Shákyamunibuddha’s emanations in the eastern quarter, Buddhas of the lands equal in num-
ber to the sands of a hundred thousand myriad of millions of Ganges rivers, each Buddha preaching
Dharma, assembled in this place, Buddhas of ten directions all gathering in order and sitting in the eight
q u a r t e r s .14 3
Although the previous paragraphs convey the multiplicity of Buddhas there are still Buddhist writings which
points in the other direction i.e., towards an underlying unity beyond the multiplicity of Buddhas. For exam-
ple, the M i l a n d a p a n h a states that:
There is not distinction between any of the Buddhas in physical beauty, moral habit, concentration, wis-
dom, cognition and insight . . . for all Buddhas are exactly the same as regards Buddha-dhammas.1 4 4
This text only treats the physical, moral and mental qualities, but the S a rvatathágatatattvasangraha and the
Lankávatára Sútra teach the unity of all the Buddhas.1 4 5 Parrinder writes that the unity and identity of all the
Buddhas is implied in the concept of the D h a r m a - k á y a ( Truth or Cosmic Body), and “therefore t h e B u d d h a
was actually a l l the Buddhas of the past.” He labels this idea as a sort of “universal pantheism or rather pan-
B u d d h i s m . ”1 4 6 S i m i l a r l y, but writing about the five celestial Buddhas, Lamb also states that:
Buddhism came close to Hindu monism, not to say, monotheism, with the development of the notion of a
primordial buddha behind the five celestial buddhas [Vairocana, Akshbhya, Ratnasmbhava, A m i t á b h a ,
A m o g h a s i d d h i ] .147
M o r e o v e r, the Lotus Sútra depicts the vyúha (manifestations, emanations) of the Buddha.1 4 8 Although the
two authors write about different areas of Buddhism, they reach the conclusions that there is the concept of a
transcendental Buddha who unifies either the Buddhas of the past or the celestial Buddhas. Parrinder summa-
rizes succinctly what has been said above as follows:
7 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Buddha is not an Incarnation or Avatar of God or any other superior being. He incarnates himself by
himself. Yet there is a transcendental element, and the Buddha is a substitute-deity. The Buddha himself,
or the reality behind all the Buddhas, or the Dharma-body, is ultimate and omnipotent. He is either utterly
transcendent and absolute, like Brahman, or both transcendent and personal like Vishnu. In Maháyána
there are countless Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, yet as in Theraváda there is a determined move to show that
fundamentally they are all one. This is not in the sense that there is only one Buddha at a time, to guaran-
tee his supremacy, but there is a need to get the bewildering multiplicity of Buddhas to their unity in the
one Buddha or Dharma.149
Jainism
The religion of Jainism was founded by Vardhamana (599-527 B.C.E.), better known as Mahávira (great
hero), or Jina (victor, conqueror). The most important concept in Jainism in the context of an idea of a chain
of prophecy is the doctrine of the T í rt h a n k a r a s (one who builds the ford, ford-finders, crossing-makers). T h e y
are also referred to as J i n a s , or A rh a n t s (saints). Together with the C a k r a v a rt i n s (wheel-turners) and other such
heroes, they form the class of the venerated sixty-three personages of the Jain universal history. Together they
are called M a h á p u ru s h a s (great men).1 5 0 Caillat refers to the T í rt h a n k a r a s as “Prophets who periodically teach
the world the truth of the imperishable Jain tradition” and that “Mahávíra was one of an unending succession
of tírthankaras.”1 5 1 M o r e o v e r, it is noteworthy that the Jain tradition is referred to as “imperishable,” which
could be seen as synonymous with an “eternal” tradition. However, what is interesting is the notion that the
T í rt h a n k a r a s occur p e r i o d i c a l l y and in a s u c c e s s i o n . Thus, Jainism enumerates twenty-four T í rt h a n k a r a s w h o
“are said to appear at given periods in selected regions.”1 5 2 Parrinder states that this succession may be the old-
est and is perhaps the origin of the development of the twenty-five Buddhas of Buddhism.1 5 3 The twenty-four
T í rt h a n k a r a s can be enumerated as follows:
1) Rishabha 2) Ajita, 3) Sambhava, 4) Abhinandana, 5) Sumati, 6) Padmaprabha, 7) Supárshva, 8)
Candraprabha, 9) Suvidhi (Pushpadanta), 10) Shítala, 11) Shreyámsa, 12) Vásupújya, 13) Vimala, 14)
Ananta, 15) Dharma, 16) Shánti, 17) Kunthu, 18) Ara, 19) Malli,1 5 4 20) Munisuvrata, 21) Nami, 22)
(Arista)nemi, 23) Párshva, 24) Mahávíra
According to the Jain tradition, the first T í rt h a n k a r a , Rishabha, lived eight million years ago.
Hinduism
The idea of a chain of prophecy can in Hinduism best be found in the doctrine of avatars. The concept of
a v a t á r a is often thought of as equivalent to “incarnation,”1 5 5 but etymologically speaking, the word means
rather “descent” or “down-coming.”1 5 6 It is also interesting that the term was historically coined fairly late and
that the word p r á d u r b h á v a (manifestation) is rather more frequent in the older texts.1 5 7 Some authors suggest
that the “germ of the doctrine of the Avatar” can be derived from the P u ru s h a-sukta in Rig Ve d a .1 5 8 Yet, the
word a v a t á r a neither occurs in the four Ve d a s , nor in the classical U p a n i s h a d s , but it is implicitly referred to
in the later U p a n i s h a d s .1 5 9 A classic list over the d a s h á v a t á r a (ten avatars) was later established in an appen-
dix to the great Indian epic M a h á b h á r a t a , called Harivamshá (c. 600 C.E.). The names and the numbers of the
a v a t a r s d i ffer in various works (from ten, twenty-two, and thirty-nine, or innumerable), but according ten-
a v a t a r- s c h e m e1 6 0 the common avatars of Vishnu are:
1) Fish (m a t s y a), 2) Tortiose (k ú r m a), 3) Boar (v a r á h a), 4) Man-Lion (N a r a - s i m h a), 5) Dwarf (v á m a n a) ,
6) Ráma with the axe (Parashu-Ráma) 7) Ráma of the Rámáyana, 8) Krishna, 9) the Buddha, 10) Kalkin.
Although this scheme clearly differs from the Zoroastrian scheme on several points, one can still recognize
a few similarities: the fact that there are t e n “incarnations,” the Boar (v a r á h a), and that both Vishnu and
Véréthraghna appear in both animal and human forms. It is also possible to recognize a few animals that are
associated with the Jain T í rt h a n a k a r a s , e.g., Bull, Horse, Boar, and Goat. Moreover, the fourteenth
T í rthanakara, Anantanatha, is sometimes associated with the Falcon, and V é r é t h r a g h n a also appears as the
V á re g a n-bird.
The twenty-two-a v a t a r-scheme enumerates the following:
1) Primeval man (P u ru s h a), 2) Boar (v a r á h a), 3) Nárada, 4) Nara and Naráyána, 5) Kapila, 6) Dattátreya,
7) Yajna, 8) Rishabha,1 6 1 9) Prithu, 10) Fish (m a t s y a), 11) Tortiose (k ú r m a), 12) Dhanvan-tari, 13) Mohiní,
7 1
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

14) Man-Lion (N a r a - s i m h a), 15) Dwarf (v á m a n a), 16) Ráma with the axe (P a r a s h u - R á m a), 17) Ve d a -
Vyása, 18) Ráma, 19) Bala-ráma, 20) Krishna, 21) Buddha, 22) Kalkin.
As was seen in Zoroastrianism, each S a o s h y a n t was associated with “his own time” (millennium) and the
three soteriological mediators after Zarathustra were concentrated to and identified with the l a s t two millen-
nia, but the Indian schemes associates a soteriological mediator with e a c h age or cycle.1 6 2
Comparisons and Conclusions
Having reviewed the idea of a chain of prophecy in the Middle Eastern, Iranian and Indian contexts, it
should by now be clear that the idea of a chain of prophecy—above defined as “a sequence of religious medi-
ators who operate between divine (supramundane) and earthly (mundane) realms” —is not the exception but
rather the rule in some of the world’s great religions. Yet, it has also been shown that in the great Semitic reli-
gions (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam) no Indian or Iranian figures could be found. Conversely, in the three
Indian religions reviewed (Buddhism, Jainism, Hinduism) neither Semitic nor Iranian figures could be locat-
ed. Moreover, in Zoroastrianism no Semitic or Indian figures could be identified, although a few parallels
could be noted between Zoroastrianism and Hinduism. Even though it appears as we have three independent
religious “strands” (Semitic, Iranian, Indian) it is significant that they all have, nevertheless, developed a fam-
ily-resemblance of an idea of a chain of prophecy.
If one were to compare which prophets that are the most common in the Semitic strand1 6 3 with that of the
Bahá’í Faith, one would immediately recognize many of the above reviewed religious figures (except Krishna
and the Báb). This comparison could be depicted as follows:
The only figure that occurs across all the religions in the Semitic strand is Abraham. Jesus appears in all tra-
ditions except Judaism. As was mentioned earlier it is noteworthy that neither Adam nor Noah appears in
Judaism. Similarly, it is peculiar that Moses does not appear as a prophet in Manichaeism.
7 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

One major difference, however, between these three strands is that the Semitic and Iranian are predomi-
nantly linear whereas the Indian is c y c l i c a l . M o r e o v e r, it was also seen that of all the religious contexts
reviewed, two religions—Manicheism and the Bahá’í Faith—clearly included prophets/Manifestations of God
from all thre e strands.
Thus, Mání includes from the
•
S e m i t i c strand: Adam, Seth, Enosh, Enoch, Noah, Shem, Abraham, Christ, Paul
•
I n d i a n strand: Buddha
•
I r a n i a n strand: Zarathustra
S i m i l a r l y, but more extensively, the Bahá’í Faith includes from the
•
S e m i t i c strand: Adam, Abraham, Daniel, David, Ezekiel, Hud, Isaac, Isaiah, Ishmael, Jacob,
Jeremiah, Jesus Christ, Jethro, Job, Joel, John the Baptist, Joseph, Joshua, Lot, Moses,
Muhammad, Noah, Sálih, Solomon, Zachariah
•
I n d i a n strand: Krishna (Kalkin) and Buddha (Maitreya)
•
I r a n i a n strand: Zarathustra and the Báb
•
C h i n e s e strand: Confucius
Although Manichaeism and the Bahá’í Faith draw from similar strands, the emphasis is in both cases clear-
ly on the Semitic strand. One striking difference, however, is that the Bahá’í Faith does not include Mání in its
chain of prophecy.1 6 7 Another difference is that Bahá’í Faith includes a f o u rth strand—the Chinese—although
Confucius is n o t regarded as a Manifestation of God in the Bahá’í Faith.1 6 8
Even though it was stated that we could speak of three independent strands, it is clear that scholars of reli-
gion believe that these different traditions have directly or indirectly influenced each other. For example, writ-
ing on the influence of Zoroastrianism on Judaism, Duchesne-Guillemin states that:
[T]he influence of Zoroastrianism on the evolution which came to light in Judaism from the time of the
Exile onwards and through the manifold contacts with Iran which were to follow. The development in
Palestine of the doctrines of Apocalypse, Kingdom of God, Last Judgment, Resurrection, Man and Son of
Man, Prince of this World, or Prince of Darkness, and Saviour, was to prepare a milieu capable of receiv-
ing and interpreting the message of the life, the word, and the death of Jesus.1 6 9
S i m i l a r l y, Amanat writes of the “Perso-Mesopotamian melting pot of the formative Islamic age” where “the
Mahdí of Muslim eschatology acquired many features of his Zoroastrian, Jewish, and Christian predeces-
s o r s . ”1 7 0 Amanat thus seems to be in agreement with other scholars of religion who have noticed that the idea
of the M a h d í1 7 1 is part of a greater and assimilated religious heritage where the Iranian tradition of
Zoroastrianism and the Semitic traditions 1 7 2 have mixed and recycled ideas in a syncretistic fashion. T h u s ,
although we may see the Semitic and Iranian traditions as distinct, we could also, as Hodgson calls it, speak
of “the Irano-Semitic tradition.”1 7 3
Yet, the idea of “the Irano-Semitic tradition” does not explain the development of the idea of a chain of
prophecy in an Indian context. On this point Lamb writes that:
All Buddhists accept the phenomenon of Maitreya the future Buddha, who, according to most views,
abides in Tusita heaven as a boddhisattva. Early on, Buddhism may have come under the influence of
Zoroastrianism. By the beginning of the Christian era the cult of a Buddhist Messiah was widespread.17 4
Thus, Lamb suggests a Zoroastrian influence on Buddhism. Although the Zoroastrian view of cosmos is lin-
e a r, Widengren calls this the “doctrine of cyclic revelation” and he goes much further than Lamb when he
states that this doctrine
is so intimately bound up with the original Zoroastrian teaching of the four successive saviours, viz.
Zarathustra and the three Saoshyants, that its ancient Iranian origin cannot well be challenged . . . And last
but not least: the doctrine of cyclic revelation, as an Iranian theoloumenon, shows so much resemblance
with the Indian avatara speculation that, in all probábílity, we are able to assume the existence of an ancient
Indo-Iranian dogma of revelation as the real background of the doctrine of Mani in this case.175
7 3
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

In other words, we may speak not only of “the Irano-Semitic tradition” but of an “Indo-Iranian dogma of
revelation.” Buck seems to be in agreement with this when he also refers to the concept of “cyclic revelation” :
The later Elkesaite movement had adopted Jewish-Christian ideas of cyclic revelation which show a strong
a ffinity with the Ebionite-Christian concepts found in the Pseudo-Clementines. It appears from all of this
evidence that the doctrine of cyclic revelation itself cyclically recurs, e.g. in the doctrines of
Zoroastrianism, Ebionite Christianity, Manichaeism, Islam, and the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths, as well as in
Buddhist thought and Hindu apocalypse.1 7 6
To oversimplify, a few scholars of religion seem to suggest a pattern of influence in the following manner:1 7 7
(I n d i a n Strand) Hinduism ⁄ Jainism ⁄ B u d d h i s m
€ ‹
(I r a n i a n Strand) Zoroastrianism
€
(S e m i t i c Strand) Judaism ⁄ C h r i s t i a n i t y ⁄ Elkesaites, Ebionites, Pseudo-Clementines ⁄
M a n i c h a e i s m ⁄ I s l a m ⁄ S ha yk hi s m ⁄ Bábism ⁄ the Bahá’í Faith
In this view the “Indo-Iranian dogma of revelation” lies at the core and eventually influences “the Irano-
Semitic tradition.” Such a tradition is clearly expressed by Mání in the Second Century C.E. who is well aware
of not only the Semitic and the Iranian strands but the Indian as well. Being a native of Babylon
(Mesopotamia/modern Iraq) he was geographically situated between the Semitic and Indian strands. Aware of
Zarathustra, the Buddha and the Christ, he claimed to be their fulfillment. Similarly, Bahá’u’lláh, seventeen
centuries later, and although a native of Iran, it was in Baghdad, Iraq where he claimed to be the fulfillment of
all previous prophets and manifestations of God.
N o t e s
* This revised and edited paper was originally presented as The Chain of Prophecy: Pro g ressive Revelation as a Theory of Relativity.
1) I certainly hope that scholars of religion who are competent in the various religious traditions mentioned in this paper and in
comparative religion one day will study this idea more in depth.
2) Lundberg 1996, 2000.
3) Etymologically the word “prophet” comes from the Greek p ro - p h é t a , meaning “one who declares, an expounder.” Interestingly,
the word prophet is etymologically derived from the Indo-Germanic root B H Á (Skeat 1984:415) which is structurally similar
to the three radicals in the Arabic Bahá “ b e a u t y, magnificence, splendor; brilliancy” (Wehr 1976:80).
4) Wittgenstein 1953.
5) It is noteworthy that Bahá’u’lláh here combines the words “contemplate” and “inward eye.” I ultimately interpret this to be an
esoteric or meditative exercise. Although Bahá’u’lláh does not state, “look with thine outward eyes,” I will show that the idea
of a chain of prophecy also can be located in various exoteric religious contexts.
6) “ And when this process of P ro g ressive Revelation culminated . . .” Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 74-75, italics
added.
7) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 2 4 4 .
8) P romulgation of Universal Peace 3 1 3 - 3 1 4 .
9) Selections from the Writings of A b d u ’ l - B a h á 51, italics added.
10) Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 124, italics and clarification added.
11) P romulgation of Universal Peace 1 5 .
12) World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 103, italics added, 163; God Passes By 1 0 .
13) World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 163, italics and clarification added.
14) God Passes By 100, italics and clarification added.
15) World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 11 4 - 11 5 .
16) From a letter written on behalf of the Guardian to the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand, December 26,
1941, italics added.
17) CF 82, italics added.
7 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

18) PDC 120.
19) These terms are sometimes used synonymously. See K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 51, 152; G l e a n i n g s 48; Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 2 3 .
20) A r. m a z h a r- i - i l á h í. See K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 33; G l e a n i n g s 26, 50, 59; Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 1 2 7 - 1 2 8 .
21) G l e a n i n g s 26, 49-50. For a more detailed study on this concept see Cole 1982.
22) Cole 1982:1; Boykin 1982:15.
23) Saiedi 1997.
24) See World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 11 4 - 115, 103; Lundberg 2000.
25) G l e a n i n g s 48-49, italics added.
26) G l e a n i n g s 5 5 - 5 6 .
27) See K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 2 1 6 : 2 2 0 .
28) Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 1 6 4 - 1 6 6 : 1 4 9 - 1 5 0 .
29) A r. n a b í - b i - i s t i q l á l .
30) P romulgation of Universal Peace 361-362, Towfigh 1989:171-74; Schaefer 1995:129.
31) Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 1 6 4 - 1 6 6 .
32) A r. nabí g hayr mustaqill.
33) See e.g., Towfigh 1989:171-74; Schaefer 1995:129
34) However, both David and Joseph are accounted as Prophets, Messengers, or “Messengers of the Word of God” in K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n
51, 255.
35) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 7 - 11; Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 47; 165-166, P romulgation of Universal Peace 197-198, 221-222, 346.
36) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 174, italics added; G l e a n i n g s 2 0 .
37) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 14, italics added.
38) P romulgation of Universal Peace 4 6 3 .
39) G l e a n i n g s 145, italics added. Cf. Qu r’ á n 6:42; 10:46, 16:33; 16:63; 35:19.
40) Quoted in World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: 116, italics added.
41) For more in-depth analyses of the Bábí religion see e.g., Browne 1918; Amanat 1989.
42) For a discussion on the Qá’im/Mahdí in Shí‘í Islam see e.g., Sachedina 1981; Halm 1991.
43) SB:126, clarification added.
44) SB:91, italics added. Cf. SB:89.
45) SB:105-106.
46) I want to thank Dr. Stephen Lambden for this information.
47) Lambden 1992:135-136. Cf. MacEoin 1986:142, footnote 48.
48) Lambden (personal communication March, 1997).
49) SB:125.
50) For more in-depth analyses of S ha yk hism see e.g., MacEoin 1979; Rafati 1990.
51) Rafati 1990:106, italics added.
52) Rafati 1990:106-108.
53) E I “Ismá‘ílís” 196.
54) Parrinder 1970:197-98.
55) In S hí‘í Islam it is especially the “extremist sects” (g hu l u w) which have not only portrayed Imám ‘Alí as s u p e r i o r to the Prophet
Muhammad, but have even asserted his apotheosis. See e.g., Moosa 1988.
56) Quoted in MacEoin 1986:103. Cf. Abú Yazíd al-Bistámí’s claim “They said: ‘God has servants instead of Abraham, Moses and
Jesus . . .’ He [Abú Yazíd] said: ‘I am all of them.” See ‘Attár 1905:171; Friedmann 1989:144-45.
57) Nicholson 1950:142.
58) Nicholson 1950:142ff, clarification added.
59) Widengren 1973:44-45.
60) Biljefeld 1969: 17.
61) E R “ N u b ú w ah” : 2, italics added.
7 5
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

62) Qu r’ á n 2:87; 3:84; 40:78.
63) CEI 1 9 8 9 .
64) For a list of the prophets mentioned in the Qu r’án see e.g., 3:36; 4:161; 6:33; 17:57.
65) Askari 1991:96.
66) Parrinder 1970:268; Biljefeld 1969:40.
67) Zaki 1991:42, 50.
68) Zaki 1991:50. See also Nadwi 1979:151-217; Noori 1981; Friedmann 1989:49-82.
69) Nadwi 2001, italics added.
70) A l - B uk hárí Sahíh, Kitáb al-manáqib 18 (vol. 2, p. 390).
71) Andrae 1960:107.
72) Cited in Widengren 1973:43.
73) E R E 398. See also A u g u s t i n e ’s Contra Faustum Manichaeum, xix, 3.
74) Asmussen 1975:12; Lieu 1985:23, 65.
75) Lieu 1985:85.
76) E R 1 7 0 .
77) Lieu 1985:156, italics added.
78) Asmussen 1975:11-12; E R Manichaeism 166.
79) Erroneously attributed to Clement of Rome, the first of the “Apostolic Fathers” (d. ca. 100 C.E.), and hence the name “Pseudo-
C l e m e n t i n e s . ”
80) Cf. Matt. 5:3; Luke 4:18, 7:22.
81) E E R 1 4 4 .
82) A B D 2 6 1 .
83) ERE “Ebionism” 145. See also Andrae 1960:100.
84) Schoeps 1969: 70.
85) Schoeps 1969: 71.
86) italics added. See e.g., Acts 3:22-23; 7:23.
87) Mark: 6:14-15; Luke 24:19; John 4:19; 6:14; 7:52.
88) Mark 6:4; Luke 4:24.
89) See Aune 1983: 124-124, 154, 187. See also Matt. 16:13-20; Mark: 6:14-16; 8:27-30; John 1:19-23.
90) Cf. Mark 9:2-13; Luke 9:28-31.
91) italics added.
92) Niehaus 1995.
93) 1 Kings 17-19.
94) Matt. 11:10-14 “I will send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way before you. . . . For all the Prophets and
the Law prophesied until John . . . He is the Elijah who was to come.”
95) Cf. Mark 12:1-9; Luke 20:9-16.
96) Cf. Matt. 3:17 “This is my Son, whom I love; with Him I am well pleased.”
97) Matt. 21:33-41; italics and clarifications added. Cf. Neh. 9:26; Matt. 5:12; 23:34; Luke 11:49; Thess. 2:15.
98) Aune 1983: 158, 192, italics added.
99) Aune 1983: 175-6.
100) EJ 1160, italics added.
101) E J 11 7 0 .
102) E J 11 7 5 .
103) E J 1164, italics added.
104) EJ “Prophets and Prophecy” 11 5 4 .
105) An acronym of Torah (the Law), N e v i ’ i m (the Prophets), and K e t u v i m (the Books).
106) EJ “Prophets and Prophecy” 1151. UJC “Prophets and Prophecy” 658.
7 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

107) EJ “Prophets and Prophecy” 11 7 6 .
108) Nyberg 1937:298, Duchesne-Guillemin 1 9 5 2 : 1 8 .
109) Boyce in EI “Apocalypt” 155.
110) Ya s h t 1 3 : 9 4 .
111) The term s a o s h y a n t is, according to Nyberg 1937: 258, derived from the verb s a v-, which also is at the root for the noun s a v a h
(s a v á) “salvation through the ordeal.” The term saoshyant could be translated as “the one who provides savah (salvation),” in
other words, a “saviour.” Gnoli E R 69 translates s a o s h y a n t as “future benefactor”
112) Ya s n a 50:6. See also Nyberg 1937:181, Ringgren & Ström 1968:197-198.
113) Nyberg 1937: 337, my translation.
114) Ya s h t 1 4 .
115) Nyberg 1937:78.
116) Nyberg 1937:82, my translation.
117) Nyberg 1937:33, my translation.
118) Nyberg (1937:32, 338, 437, my translation; Widengren 1971:275, 268-269.
119) Literally “mortal life.” See also E R “Zoroastrianism” 584.
120) Ya s h t s 19:86-96 and Yasna 4 6 : 3 .
121) Gnoli E R 69. See also Gnoli’s article in E R “Zoroastrianism” 586.
122) Ya s h t 19:92-93; Boyce 1984: 90.
123) Nyberg 1937:259.
124) Gnoli E R 6 9 .
125) Boyce E I “Apocalypt” 156.
126) Nyberg 1937:34-35; Boyce 1984:21.
127) Nyberg 1937:34-35, my translation.
128) According to Boyce 1978:42 the name is derived “after Zoroaster’s own words: ‘May righteousness be embodied,’” which can
be found in Ya s h t 43:16. Gnoli E R :586 translates Astvatereta as “he who embodies truth.”
129) Nyberg 1937:32, my translation. See also 341-343.
130) Nyberg 1937:259.
131) Widengren 1971:268-269, my translation.
132) According to the Sri Lankan sources, D í p a v a n s a and the Mahávansa, the dates Buddha’s life can be estimated as 624-544
B.C.E.. However, other sources (Chinese and Indian) estimate the dates 448-368 B.C.E.. Thus, the discrepancies ranges to up to
almost two hundred years! See E R 3 2 1 .
133) Parrinder 1970:149.
134) Parrinder 1970:150.
135) E R 3 2 7 .
136) By using simple arithmetic and calculating 500 (incarnations) x 80 years (an expected life-time) would amount to a time frame
of a minimum of 40,000 years!
137) Parrinder 1970:151.
138) Momen 1995:35.
139) Parrinder 1970:173, my emphasis. This passage is reminiscent of Lord Krishna’s statement in the Bhagava Gita 4 : 5 - 8 .
140) Cf. the Mahávadána Sutta (Discourse on the Great Legend) and the Samyutta Nikáya which mention seven Buddhas (except
M a i t r e y a ) .
141) See Parrinder 1970: 157.
142) See Lamb 1994:14.
143) Quoted in Lamb 1994:14. Cf. The Avatansaka Sútra which states that “ Within each atom are inconceivably many Buddhas.”
144) Conze 1954:11 0 - 111 .
145) Lamb 1994:20.
146) Parrinder 1970:178.
147) Lamb 1994:21, clarification added.
148) Parrinder 1970:179.
7 7
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

149) Parrinder 1970:180.
150) E R 5 3 5 .
151) E R 5 3 5 .
152) E R 5 3 5 .
153) Parrinder 1970:181.
154) T h e T í rt h a n k a r a s are usually only male (according to the D i g a m b a r a s), but the nineteenth, Malli, is a female (according to the
S h v e t a m b a r a s) .
155 ) For a detailed discussion on the relationship between avatar and incarnation see Parrinder 1970 who has titled his book Av a t a r
and Incarnation. Gonda 1960:269 defines an avatar as an “appearance” rather than an incarnation.
156) “From a verb t r í , to cross over, attain, save, with the prefix a v a , down; and so a v a - t r í , descend into appear, become incarnate.”
Parrinder 1970:19. It is interesting here to note that the verb trí also can mean “save.” Thus, even from an etymological point
of view, to label the a v a t a r s as “soteriological mediators” appears to be fair.
157) See Abegg 1928:39 and Parrinder 1970:20. According to Parrinder 1970:71 even such a late work as the H a r i v a m s h a “ s p e a k s
of an incarnation as a ‘manifestation’ (p r a d ú r b h á v a) rather than a v a t á r a , which is a popular term.” Parrinder 1970:230, 226
further states that “It is a modern Hindu belief that the Avatars are . . . manifestations of God in them” or that they are “theo-
phanies, manifestations of the divine in visible form.” It is also important to note that not all Hindus believe in the a v a t a r-
scheme as depicted in the classical texts. Parrinder 1970:100 writes that some of the modern Indian movements, e.g. Prarthana
Samáj states that ‘God does not incarnate himself ’ and that according to the Árya Samáj ‘the doctrine of avatáras, or divine
incarnations, is denied’.
158) Parrinder 1970:16-17. Rig Ve d a 10: 90.
159) Parrinder 1970:20.
160) The different lists on the ten-avatar-scheme varies. See e.g., M a h á b h á r a t a (XII. 389, 104, E M), Váyu Purána, and the entry
on “Avatára” in ER pp. 14-15.
161) Rishabha is the first Jaina t í rt h a n k a r a .
162) Widengren 1971:268-269.
163) Omitting S ha yk hism and Bábism due to lack of space, but still noting that both of these enumerate the identical prophets as
Islam above.
164) As was noted earlier G a y ó - m a retan was referred to as “primordial man,” Adam is also sometimes, e.g., P romulgation of
Universal Peace:229, seen in the Bahá’í Faith as the progenitor of mankind.
165) Shoghi Effendi God Passes By:94-95 claims that Bahá’u’lláh is the fulfillment of the Zoroastrian expected savior Sháh
Bahram. For a more in-depth analysis of this relationship see Buck 1998.
166) Shoghi Effendi God Passes By:94 claims that Bahá’u’lláh is the fulfillment of the Hindu expected savior Kalkin (“reincarna-
tion of Krishna”) and the Buddhist Maitreya (“fifth Buddha”). For a more in-depth analysis of this relationship see Buck 1981,
1 9 8 6 .
167) One explanation of this could be that Manichaeism was a religion that ultimately “failed.”
168) “Confucius was not a Prophet. It is quite correct to say he is the founder of a moral system and a great reformer.” Letters fro m
the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand, p. 41.
169) Duchesne-Guillemin 1952:2.
170) Amanat 1989:2.
171) From a l - M a h d í (the guided one) and which refers, according to the twelfth I m á m of the twelver Shí‘ah, Muhammad b. Hasan
a l- ’ Askari (b. 869), also known as Muhammad al-Mahdí. The M a h d í is also known as a l -Qá’ i m (the one who will arise, the
ariser), a l - M u n t a z á r (the awaited one), a l -Qá’im al-Muntazár (the awaited Qá’im), a l - H u j j a (the Proof), Sáhib al-Amr ( M a s t e r
of Command), Sáhib al-Zamán (Master of the Age). Other frequent terms that are related with the reappearance of the Mahdí
are q i y á m (rise), q i y á m a (resurrection), z u h ú r (appearance, emergence), r a j ’ a (return) and k hu r ú j (coming forth). See Sachedina
1981; Halm 1991; E I “A L - M A H D S . ”
172) The religion of Mání and the subsequent development of Manichaeism was in itself a great example of a highly syncretistic
religion, combining elements from both the Judeo-Christian and Zoroastrian traditions. See e.g., Widengren 1945, 1973; Lieu
1985, 1994.
173) Hodgson 1974.
174) Lamb 1994:31.
175) Widengren 1945:66.
176) Buck 1981: footnote 9, emphasis original.
177) However, the influence of the idea of the chain of prophecy must not be seen as a d i re c t and unilinear process of influence.
Fowler 1982:43 makes an important point in this context: “In generic resemblance, the direct line of descent is not so dominant
7 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

that the genre theory can be identified with source criticism. We need to leave room for polygenesis . . . and for more remote
influences . . . Codes often come to a writer indirectly, deviously, remotely, at haphazard, rather than by simple chronological
lines of descent.”
B i b l i o g r a p h y
‘ A t t á r, Faríd al-Dín 1905. Tadhkirat al-awliyá’ . L o n d o n .
ABD 1992. The Anchor Bible Dictionary. D o u b l e d a y, NY.
Abegg, Emil 1928. Der Messiasglaube in Indien und Iran. B e r l i n .
‘ Abdu’l-Bahá 1982. Selections from the Writings of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á . Bahá’í World Centre, Ha i f a .
— — — . Some A n s w e red Questions. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL.
— — — . 1982. The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill..
A l - B uk hárí Sahíh, Kitáb al-manáqib, 18 vols..
Amanat, Abbas 1989. R e s u rrection and Renewal: The Making of the Bábí Movement in Iran 1844-1850. Cornell University Press,
L o n d o n .
Andrae, Tor 1960. Mohammed: The Man and His Faith. Harper & Row, NY.
Askari, Hasan 1991. The Qur’ánic Conception of Apostleship, in Dan Cohn-Sherbok (ed.) Islam in a World of Faiths. M a c M i l l a n ,
L o n d o n .
Asmussen, J. P. 1975. Manichaean Literature: Representative Texts Chiefly from Middle Persian and Parthian Wr i t i n g s . S c h o l a r’s
Facsimiles & Reprints, NY.
Augustine, St. Contra Faustum Manicheaum.
Aune, D. E. 1983. P rophecy in Early Christianity and the Ancient Mediterranean Wo r l d . Eerdmans, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Báb 1978. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. (transl. by Habib Taherzadeh). Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa.
Bahá’u’lláh 1983. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill..
The Bhagavad Gita 1962. The Bhagavad Gita (transl. Juan Mascaró). Penguin Books.
Biljefeld, W. A. 1969. A Prophet and More Than a Prophet? The Muslim World, Vol. LIX, 1.
Boyce, Mary 1978. Z o roastrianism: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices. Routledge & Kegan Paul. London.
Boyce, Mary (ed.) 1984. Textual sources for the study of Zoro a s t r i a n i s m . Manchester University Press, Manchester.
Boykin, John 1982. The Bahá’í Faith. I n t e r- Varsity Press, IL.
Browne, E. G. 1918. Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion Compiled by E. G., Bro w n e . Cambridge University Press,
C a m b r i d g e .
Buck, Christopher 1986. A Unique Eschatological Interface: Bahá’u’lláh and Cross-Cultural Messianism, in Peter Smith (ed.)
Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, Vol. 3. Kalimát Press, LA.
— — — . 1 9 9 8 . Bahá’u’lláh as Zoroastrian Saviour. Bahá’í Studies Review 8 .
———. 1981. The Mystery of the Sworded Warrior in Hindu Apocalypse: Was Kalki Visnuyasas Bahá’u’lláh? Abstracts of the
American Academy of Religion/Society of Biblical Literature—Pacific Northwest Region Annual Meeting. Vancouver School
of T h e o l o g y.
E I 1989. The Concise Encyclopedia of Islam (ed. Cyril Glassé). Harper & Row, San Francisco.
Cole, J. R. 1982. The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings. Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 9.
Conze, Edward (ed.) 1954. Buddhist Texts Through the A g e s . Bruno Cassirer, Oxford.
Duchesne-Guillemin, Jaques 1952. The Hymns of Zarathustra. Being a Translation of the Gáthás together with Introduction and
C o m m e n t a ry. John Murray, London.
E E R 1971. Encyclopaedia of Ethics and Religion. Charles Scribner’s sons, NY.
ER Encyclopedia of Religion. Macmillan Publ. Co., NY.
EI 1978. The Encyclopedia of Islam. E.J. Brill, Leiden.
EJ n . d . . Encyclopedia Judaica. Keter Publishing House, Jerusalem, Israel.
F o w l e r, Alastair 1982. Kinds of Literature: An Introduction to the Theory of Genres and Modes. Harvard U.P. , Cambridge, MA.
Friedmann, Yo h a n n a n 1989. P rophecy Continuous: Aspects of Ahmadí Religious Thought and Its Medieval Backgro u n d . U n i v e r s i t y
of California Press, LA.
Gonda, Jan 1960. Die Religionen Indiens: Veda und älterer Hinduismus. K o h l h a m m e r, Stuttgart.
Halm, Heinz 1991. S h i i s m . E d i n b u rgh University Press, Edinburg h .
7 9
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

Hodgson, M. G. S. 1974. The Ve n t u re of Islam: Conscience and History in World Civilization—3 vols. University of Chicago Press,
C h i c a g o .
Lamb, Christopher 1994. Buddhism, in J. Holm & J. Bowker (eds.) Myth and History. P i n t e r, London.
Lambden, Stephen 1997. The Background and Centrality of Apophatic Theology in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture, in Jack McLean
(ed.) Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives on a Bahá’í Theology. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 8.
Kalimát Press, LA.
———. 1992. Man Yuzhiruhu’lláh after Man Yuzhiruhu’lláh. The Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, 6 : 4 - 7 : 2 .
Lieu, S. N. C. 1985. Manichaeism in the Later Roman Empire and Medieval China. J.C.B. Mohr, T ü b i n g e n .
L u n d b e rg, Zaid 1996. Bahá’í Apocalypticism: the Concept of Pro g ressive Revelation. Unpublished MA thesis, Lund University.
———. 2000. The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation, in I. Ayman (ed.) Lights of ‘Irfán, Book One.
Evanston, IL.
MacEoin, D. M. 1979. F rom S ha yk hism to Bábism: A Study in Charismatic Renewal in Shí‘í Islam. Ph.D. dissertation, Cambridge
U n i v e r s i t y.
———. 1986. Hierarchy, A u t h o r i t y, and Eschatology, in Peter Smith (ed.) In Iran: Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 3.
Kalimát Press.
The Mahábhárata 1980—. M a h á b h á r a t a (transl. and ed. by J. A. B. van Buitenen). University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
Momen, Moojan 1995. Buddhism and the Bahá’í Faith. G e o rge Ronald, Oxford.
———. 1990. Hinduism and the Bahá’í Faith. G e o rge Ronald, Oxford.
———. 1988. Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics. Studies in the Bábí a n d B a h á ’ í - re l i g i o n s , vol. 5. Kalimát Press, LA.
Moosa, Matti 1988. E x t remist Shiites: The Ghulat Sects. Syracuse University Press, NY.
Nadwi, A. H. A. 1979. Islamic Concept of Pro p h e t h o o d . Academy of Islamic Research and Publications. Lucknow.
———. 2001. www. i s l a m 4 a l l . c o m / m o h a m m e d . h t m
Nicholson, R. A. (ed.) 1950. Rúmí, Poet and Mystic (1207-1273): Selections from his Wr i t i n g s . G e o rge Allen and Unwin, London.
Niehaus, J. J. 1995. God at Sinai: Covenant and Theophany in the Bible and Ancient Near East. Zondervan Publishing House,
M i c h i g a n .
Noori, Yahya 1981. Finality of Prophethood and a Critical Analysis of Bábism, Bahaism, Qa d i y a n i s m . Te h r a n .
N y b e rg, H. S. 1937. Irans forntida re l i g i o n e r. S v. Kyrkans Diakonistyrelses Bokförlag. Stockholm.
P a r r i n d e r, Geoffrey 1982 (1970). Avatar and Incarnation: The Divine in Human Form in the Wo r l d ’s Religions. Oxford University
Press, Oxford.
Rafati, Vahíd 1979. The Development of S ha yk hí Thought in Shí‘í Islam. Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, UCLA.
———. 1990. The Development of S ha yk hí Thought in Shí‘í Islam, in Heshmat Moayyad (ed.) The Bahá’í Faith and Islam. B a h á ’ í
Studies Publications, Ottawa.
Ringgren, H. and Ström Å. V. 1968. Religionerna i historia och nutid. Verbum, Stockholm.
Sachedina, A. A. 1981. Islamic Messianism: The Idea of Mahdí in Twelver Shí‘ism. S U N Y Press, NY.
Saiedi, Nader 1997. Comparative Study of Religion and the Concepts of the Manifestation and Pro g ressive Revelation [ C o u r s e -
description / audio-tapes]. Landegg International University, Switzerland.
Samyutta Nikáya 1 9 8 0 . Samyutta Nikáya (ed. by Leon Feer). Pali Text Society, London.
S c h a e f e r, Udo 1995. Beyond the Clash of Religions: The Emergence of a New Paradigm. Zero Palm Press, Prague.
Schoeps, H.-J. 1969. Jewish Christianity: Factional Disputes in the Early Churc h . Fortress Press, Philadelphia.
Shoghi Effendi 1980. Citadel of Faith: Messages to America 1947-1957. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL.
———. 1974. God Passes By. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL.
———. 1980. The Promised Day Is Come. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL.
———. 1991. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL.
Skeat, W. W. 1984. A Concise Etymological Dictionary of the English Language. Clarendon Press, Oxford.
Towfigh, Nicola 1989. Schöpfung und Offenbarung aus der Sicht der Bahá’í-Religion anhand ausgewählter Te x t e . G e o rge Olms
Verlag, Hildesheim.
U J C 1943. The Universal Jewish Encyclopedia. N Y.
Váyu Purána 1 9 8 7 - 1 9 8 8 . Váyu Purána (transl. and anno. by G.V. Tagare). Motilal Banarsidass, Delhi.
We h r, Hans 1976. Arabic-English Dictionary. Spoken Languages Services, Inc., NY.
Widengren, Geo 1945. The Great Vohu Manah and the Apostle of God: Studies in Iranian and Manichaean religion. U p p s a l a .
8 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Widengren, Geo 1971. Religionens värld. Almqvist & Wiksell Förlag AB, Stockholm.
———. 1973. The Gnostic A t t i t u d e . Institute of Religious Studies, UCSB, Santa Barbara.
Wittgenstein, Ludwig 1953. Philosophical Investigations (transl. by G.E.M. Anscombe). Blackwell, Oxford.
Zaki, Yaqub 1991. The Qur’án and Revelation, in Dan Cohn-Sherbok (ed.) Islam in a World of Faiths. MacMillan, London.
8 1
From Ad am to  Bahá’u’ lláh

8 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Wronged One: Shí‘í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Visitation
for Mullá Husayn
by William McCants
T
o understand the significance of the martyrdom of Husayn for the Shí‘í community and the religious lit-
erature it occasioned, one must look at the accounts of his pitiful death following his betrayal by his sup-
porters in Kufah; his decision born of indomitable will to stand alone and unaided, save for a small band
of followers, against an army of 5,000; the thirst which afflicted his family; their subsequent slaughter at the
hands of his enemies; the pathetic scene of Husayn clutching his murdered son in his arms; and his final death
and humiliation at the hands of S ha m i r, who placed his head on a pike and carried it to Yazíd, the Umayyad
Caliph. It was a gruesome parade, the marching dirge of which was crafted from the wails of the few women
left to mourn the dead.
Some historians might question the carefully constructed narrative of the events and cast suspicion upon the
act of memory colored by more sectarian concerns. This, thankfully, is not the province of our inquiry. Rather,
it is precisely the structure of this account that demands our attention, as it is the basis of later devotional activ-
ities. Indeed, the account itself may be seen as a devotional acts, a sacralizing narrative played out again and
again in commemorations of Husayn’s martyrdom in the Shí‘í world and in private visitations to his grave.
The central position of Husayn’s martyrdom in the formation of Shí‘í identity can find no greater parallel in
religious writing than the Passion of Jesus of Nazareth. Both men, as portrayed in later accounts, were betrayed
by their followers. Both were left to die alone and abandoned, pierced with wounds and mourned by a few
pious women. Death, however, was merely a vehicle for victory in both narratives, granting lasting influence
to the men who had offered up their lives for Truth and thereby demonstrated the falsity of their persecutors’
acts. This core narrative of betrayal, abandonment, suffering, martyrdom, and victory forms the emotional cen-
ter of both Christianity and Shí‘í Islam.
These observations, of course, are not original and have been explicitly expounded by contemporary schol-
ars of religion. What has not been heretofore discerned, however, is the important role that these topoi play in
the narrative structure of the works of Bahá’u’lláh. One may even argue that they are the defining structure
underlying most of His epistles and homilies. Proving such an assertion, however, is not possible in a single
article. Therefore, I have chosen to begin the study of this narrative structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets by focus-
ing on a single devotional text, a Tablet of Visitation for Mullá Husayn, and its Shí‘í antecedents. After a com-
parative analysis, I will offer some tentative observations about the importance of this narrative structure in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.
To understand the kinship between Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings and Shí‘í narratives of the martyred Imám, we
must first examine the structure of devotional texts used during visitations of Husayn’s grave. As will be seen,
these devotions parallel the structure of the narrative of his martyrdom. Although some elements of the narra-
tive may be more pronounced in one text, or absent in another, all of these texts generally conform to the fol-
lowing outline (the elements of which will be indicated in the text, following, in <angle brackets>):
List of Elements:
1 .
Praise and greetings for previous Prophets, Muhammad and finally his primogeny, particularly the
Imáms.
2 .
The virtues and station of Husayn or the other Imáms
3 .
The struggling (m u j á h a d a) of Husayn in the path of God
4 .
The patience of Husayn during his afflictions
5 .
Loneliness of Husayn
a. The abandonment of Husayn and the lack of supporters
b. Promise of God’s aid and assistance, which will lead to ultimate victory
c. Promise of revenge on Husayn’s enemies
8 3
The Wron ged One

The suffering of Husayn
The weeping of his followers, the heavens and the angels at his martyrdom
The recognition of Husayn’s spiritual authority or authority of the Imáms (w i l á y a)
9 .
The recognition of the purity of the Imám
1 0 .
The supplicant asks to be numbered among Husayn’s companions
11 .
The supplicant asks to be counted among those that were martyred with Husayn
1 2 .
The supplicant asks to be accounted among the faithful
1 3 .
The cursing (l a‘n) of Husayn’s enemies
1 4 .
A final prayer (d u ‘ á’) to Husayn which consists of:
a. Asking Husayn for intercession (s hi f á‘a)
b. Asking for blessings and forgiveness for supplicant and for the supplicant’s parents and family
Intermingled with the prayers of visitation are a series of genuflections that are composed of the recital of
“Alláh-u-Akbar” (t a k b í r), the raising of the hands in supplication (q u n ú t), bending at the waist and placing the
hands upon the knees (r a k‘a), prostration (s a j d a), and, in some texts, the recitation of Qur’ánic verses. T h e s e
genuflections indicate that the recital of the prayers of visitation are not only an inner, spiritual act, but also a
performance, or a series of movements that embody and reinforce the narrative of the text and highlight the
renewal of the covenant between the supplicant and the martyred Imám.
In order to substantialize this adumbration of the various prayers of visitation for Husayn, I have further
summarized two basic Shí‘í devotional texts below. I have chosen these texts because they are different enough
to illustrate the provisional nature of the outline I have provided above, but they also contain the basic themes
common to most devotional texts of the genre. Further, they are fairly far apart in time and differ in authorship
so as to give an indication of the maintenance of these themes throughout Shí‘í history.
The first sample is from a fourth-century (AH) text recorded in the Kámil az-Ziyárát by Ja‘far b.
Muhammad b. Qulawayya al-Qummí, a Shí‘í Muslim who died in 368 AH. The text, which is purported to be
related from the sixth Imám, Ja ‘ far as-Sádiq, begins with a salám (greetings and blessings) upon Husayn, the
angels, who are identified as “they who are drawing nigh unto God” (a l - m u q a rr i b ú n), and the
Muslims.<Element 1, above> The supplicant then affirms that Husayn was righteous in his beliefs and is God’s
blood-ransom among humanity (thár alláh).<Element 2> This ransom can only be redeemed through belief in
the Imáms (a w l i y á ’).<8> The supplicant then asks to be endeared to the Imáms both in this world and the next.
At this point, the supplicant walks a little, says “Alláh-u-Akbar” seven times, and stands before the grave
of Husayn. He then praises God and asks to be counted among Husayn’s party (w a f d).<Element 10> After this,
the supplicant beseeches God to curse (l a‘an a) the enemies of Husayn.<13> The supplicant then asks to be
counted among the faithful,<12> after which he says “Alláh-u-Akbar” five times and walks a little.
Again, the supplicant asks to be numbered among the faithful and to be counted among those who were with
Husayn and martyred with him.<10,11,12> At this point, the supplicant says “Alláh-u-Akbar” three times and
then puts both of his hands on the grave. The supplicant then calls to mind the purity of Husayn and his status
as the ransom of God.<2> After this, he puts both cheeks on the Imám’s grave and then seats himself and men-
tions to God that which he desires. After this, the supplicant returns to his previous position and puts both
hands on his legs, whereupon he praises the Imám and acknowledges that God will kill those who killed
h i m . < 5 c >
The supplicant then turns to Husayn’s son, ‘Alí, and mentions whatsoever he desires. The supplicant then
stands facing the graves of the martyrs and gives them greetings (s a l á m) and recognizes them as the most exalt-
ed of all martyrs.<1,2> After this, the supplicant places the grave between his hands and prays for that which
is seemly for him. The supplicant then says that he is approaching God through Husayn, after which he says
“Alláh-u-Akbar” eleven times without pause, walks a short way and then stands facing the Qibla.<14a> T h e
supplicant then praises God and calls to mind Husayn’s martyrdom and speaks directly to Husayn of God’s
promise to assist him and testifies before Husayn that God has been faithful to His pledge and destroyed his
e n e m i e s . < 5 b / c >
After this, the supplicant says “Alláh-u-Akbar” seven times, walks a little, and then faces the grave of
Husayn. The supplicant then testifies that Husayn was obedient to God’s commands and struggled (j á h a d a) in
8 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

His path (s a b í l).<3> After this, he recounts God’s cursing of those who forsook Husayn and those who killed
him.<13> Finally, the supplicant testifies to God’s w i l á y a as passed down through the Imáms and beseeches
God to curse those who disobeyed Husayn and spilled the blood of the Imáms.<8,13>1
The structure of the prayer of visitation closely resembles that of the narrative arrangement of the story of
the Imám’s martyrdom, and is, in fact, a symbolic reconstruction of those events so that the supplicant might
identify himself with the suffering of the martyred Imám and reaffirm his ultimate redemption in the hearts of
the faithful. Further, the text also demonstrates the centrality of the w i l á y á of the Imám and his liminal posi-
tion as a gateway of divine forgiveness and pardon.
These elements are even more strikingly apparent in a prayer of visitation attributed to the twelfth Imám and
recorded in Majlísí’s voluminous Bihár al-Anwár. The text of the prayer begins with a s a l á m upon the prophets
mentioned in the Qur’án, both major and minor, and upon the Holy Family (i.e. Muhammad, ‘Alí, Fátima,
Husayn and Hasan).<1> Greetings and blessings are also given to the angels that weep for Husayn and cir-
cumambulate his grave and to the signs of physical grief expressed on Husayn’s behalf.<1> In a particularly
moving passage, the supplicant states in the cadence of beautiful rhymed prose (s a j ‘) :
Peace be upon thee [Husayn] from he who is aware of thy sanctity [hurmatika] and is faithful to thine
authority [wiláyatika] and is drawing nigh unto God through thy love and is free of (the sins) of thine ene-
mies.<1,8> Greetings from his heart, lacerated through thy wounds, and from his tears shed at mention
of thee. It is the greeting of the distraught, afflicted one who, if he had been with thee in Karbila, would
have shielded thee with his own self from the blades of the swords and expended his last life breath for
you, and struggled by thy side [jáhada bayn yadayka] and assisted thee [nasaraka] against whomsoever
oppressed thee.<3> He would have offered up his spirit and his body, his kin and his possessions, as a
ransom for thee. Ve r i l y, his spirit is a sacrifice [fidá’] for thy spirit and his family is (offered up as) a
shield for thy family. < 1 0 , 11 >
H o w e v e r, the passage of time hath hindered me and that which hath been destined hath prevented me from
aiding thee and I was unable to fight [muhárib] against whomsoever fought against thee and displayed
enmity towards thee. Therefore, I lament (thy passing) morning and eve and weep for thee, exchanging
tears for blood in sorrow over thee and regret for that which hath befallen thee, grieving until I die through
the anguish of the wounded one . . . <5a>2
The supplicant then recounts the virtues of Husayn, stating that he was an observant Muslim and struggled
in God’s path.<2,3> Further, his relationship to the Holy Family is detailed and the supplicant testifies that he
faithfully carried out God’s trust.<2> The patience of Husayn during his afflictions is then described and the
supplicant bears witness that he assisted the religion of God and made it victorious through his efforts.<4, 5b>
At this point the supplicant praises the station of the Imám and recounts his suffering at the hands of his ene-
mies, reemphasizing his fortitude and solitude in the midst of adversity.<2,4,6> The wailing of the women in
H u s a y n ’s party after his death is recounted, as his head is raised aloft upon the point of a spear.<6,7> The sup-
plicant then states that the suffering of Islam and Muhammad are due to Husayn’s murder, which brought about
the weeping of the heavens and the angels.<7>
After testifying to Husayn’s sufferings, the d u ‘ á ’portion of the prayer of visitation begins. The supplicant
first asks for entrance to paradise through the intercession (s hi f á‘a) of Muhammad and his family and implores
them for favor and bounties, blessings and forgiveness.<14a> At this point in the prayer, there are a series of
genuflections, consisting of two r a k‘a s accompanied by a specified Qur’ánic Súra. The first part of the s h a h á -
d a (the Muslim creedal statement of belief) is then recited: “There is no god but God.” The supplicant then
a ffirms his belief in God and His prophets and asks Him to bless the Holy Family and the Twelve Imáms. A f t e r
this, he asks for blessings through the Imám Husayn, beseeching God for aid and assistance.<14a> The sup-
plicant then affirms his weakness and God’s power and acknowledges his personal waywardness. T h i s
acknowledgement is followed by a supplication to God through Husayn to grant forgiveness to the supplicant,
his parents and all the believers, both living and dead.<14a/b>
At the end of the prayer, there are further genuflections, after which God is asked for blessings. The sup-
plicant then prostrates upon the tomb and gives a final s a l á m to Husayn. Once he has done this, the supplicant
may then say a private prayer for himself, his parents and for whatsoever else he may desire.<14b>3
8 5
The Wron ged One

Raised as a Twelver Shí‘í Muslim, Bahá’u’lláh would have had knowledge of the various prayers for visi-
tation of the Imáms and been familiar with the general outlines of Husayn’s martyrdom as performed during
‘ Áshúrá reenactments commemorating his death. Therefore, it is not surprising that this reverence for the
Imám Husayn is present in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh. What is surprising is the extent to which the narrative
structure of Husayn’s death, as embodied in histories and devotional texts associated with it, permeates the
Writings and the identity of Bahá’u’lláh. For Him, the narrative of Husayn’s suffering was made flesh and
reenacted in His Person.
To illustrate this point, we will focus on a single text that neatly captures the narrative structure of the vis-
itation prayers for the Imám Husayn and ties together a number of common elements found throughout
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s writings. The text is a Tablet of Visitation written by Bahá’u’lláh for Mullá Husayn, the first per-
son to believe in the mission of Sayyid ‘Alí Muhammad, the Báb.
Throughout His prophetic career, the Báb wrote a number of Tablets of Visitation (z i y á r a t n á m a) for the
Imáms and his followers. In the early days of His ministry, He wrote a Tablet of Visitation for the Imám ‘ A l í
and later wrote one for all of the Imáms known as the “Ziyára jámi‘a al-kabíra.” The Báb also wrote a num-
ber of z i y a r á t n á m a s for the martyrs of Tabarsí and one for Fátima.4 In the Persian Bayán, the Báb limited tomb
visitation (z i y á r a) to Himself and the 18 Letters of the Living, whom He regarded as the return of Muhammad,
Fátima, the twelve Imáms and the four gates (with Himself as the “Primal Point”).5 In Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Husayn, we find a confluence of all of these trends: a z i y á r a t n á m a for one of the martyrs
of Tabarsí who was regarded as the return of Muhammad.
The recipient of the Tablet, Varaqatu’l-Firdaws (“The Leaf of Paradise”), was the sister of Mullá Husayn
and distinguished in her own right as an early believer in the Báb and as a learned companion of Táhirih, as
evinced in the following account by her husband, the scholar S ka yk h Abú Turáb of Qazvín:
“I married her three years ago in Kerbelá. She was then but an indifferent scholar even in Persian, but now
she can expound texts from the Kur’án and explain the most difficult questions and most subtle points of
the doctrine of the Divine Unity in such wise that I have never seen a man who was her equal in this time,
or in readiness of apprehension. These gifts she has obtained by the blessing of His Holiness the Supreme
and through converse with Her Holiness the Pure [Táhirih] (upon whom be the splendour of God!). I have
seen in her a patience and resignation rare even in the most self-denying men, for during these years,
though I have no sent her a single diínár for her expenses, and she has supported herself only with the
greatest diff i c u l t y, she has never uttered a word; and now that she has come to Teherán she refrains alto-
gether from speaking of the past, and though, in accordance with the wishes of Jenáb-i-Bábu’l-Báb, she
now desires to proceed to Khurásán, and has literally nothing to put on save the one well-worn dress which
she wears, she never asks for clothes or traveling-money, but ever seeks reasonable excuses wherewith to
set me at my east and prevent me from feeling ashamed. Her purity, chastity, and virtue are boundless, and
during all this while no unprivileged person hath so much as heard her voice.”6
Is hráq K hávarí adds a few more details to our scanty knowledge of Va r a q a t u ’ l - F i r d a w s ’ l i f e :
The young, respected sister [bíbí kúc ha k - i - h a ms hírih] of Jináb-i-Mullá Husayn, the Báb al-Báb, who was
surnamed “The Leaf of Paradise” [varaqat al-firdaws]. She accompanied her brother and mother to
Karbila, where she married the well-known S ha yk h Abú Turáb. After the raising of the call [the declara-
tion of the Báb], she became a believer in the blessed Cause and was among the companions of T á h i r i h .
She accompanied Táhirih to Iran, and, after a brief stay in Qazvín and Tehran, she went to Khorásán and
stayed in Mas hhad. After hearing of the martyrdom of her brother at Fort Tabarsí, she left Mas hhad with
her mother for Bas hrúíyih, where she provided service and resided in great diff i c u l t y. After a short period
of time, she set out for ‘Is hqábád to offer (her) customary services until the time of her death.7
The key to understanding Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Visitation for Mullá Husayn is the multivalent persona of
“Husayn” who is explicitly or obliquely referred to throughout the text. On one level, it is an allusion to Mullá
Husayn, the first person to believe in the Báb. On another, it evokes the image of the Imám Husayn. On yet
a n o t h e r, the persona refers to Bahá’u’lláh Himself, Mírzá Husayn ‘Alí. The two latter personae are particular-
ly significant, as Bahá’u’lláh’s spiritual affinity for and identification with His namesake, which He often men-
tions in a number of Tablets, is beyond dispute.8 He may have also obliquely identified Himself with the Imám
8 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

in many Tablets by referring to Himself as “the Wronged One” (a l - m at hl ú m), an allusion to Husayn as the
Wronged Martyr (a l - m at hlúm as h-s ha h í d). Bahá’u’lláh seems to allude to this equivalence in the opening pas-
sage of the Ta b l e t :
This is a Book by the Wronged One, Who hath been named “the Glorious” [al-bahá’] in the kingdom of
eternity [malakút al-baqá’], and “the Exalted, the Most High” [al-‘ Alíy al-a ‘lá] in the dominion of lofti-
ness [jabarút al- ‘Alá’]. In the Unseen World [láhút al-‘ amá’] He is known by all of the beautiful Names
of God and in the world below [ard al-ans há’] He is known as Husayn, yet most of the people are wrapped
in veils and idle fancies [wahm ‘ at hí m ] .9
As in the Shí‘í prayers of visitation for the Imám Husayn, Bahá’u’lláh begins the Tablet by mentioning the
prophets and holy ones of old. However, He breaks with tradition by not only identifying Himself with their
s u ffering, but by identifying Himself as their return.
Te l l i n g l y, the blur of the shifting identities in the Tablet is mirrored grammatically with the shift from third
person singular, to second person singular, to first person singular, and finally to first person plural, all within
the space of five lines:
Again He was slain as one oppressed upon the plain of Karbila and with Him they martyred those whom
God hath related unto His Own sanctified and radiant Self, until such time that they cut off His head and
banished His family [ahlahu] and paraded them throughout the land [dárúhum fí al-balád]. Likewise the
hosts of the evil ones condemned Him and once again suspended Him in the air and He was martyred in
the path of God, the Help in Peril, the All-Powerful, the Omnipotent. Once again Thou wert imprisoned
in the land of Tá for four months, as is well-known, and the Pen of the Worlds [qalam al-‘álamín] is
unable to recount that which befell Thee. After that they removed Me from the prison and exiled Me,
along with my family, from the lands (of my birth) [al-awtán] until We entered Iraq and abided therein.
The next portion of the Tablet even more strongly echoes the visitation texts for the Imám Husayn.
Bahá’u’lláh begins by recounting His suffering at the hands of the oppressors, even though He was solely occu-
pied with spreading the glad-tidings amongst the people. Only God protected Him from their machinations and
granted Him victory over His enemies, even though He was alone and unaided. In response to His loneliness
and suffering, the inmates of heaven weep and the maids of heaven mourn his plight.
Like the visitation texts for the Imám Husayn, Bahá’u’lláh also dwells upon the spiritual station of Mullá
Husayn. Here, there are parallels in tone as well as structure, as Mullá Husayn is praised in terms that were
reserved for the Imáms in Shí‘í Islam. At this juncture, Bahá’u’lláh refers to the station of the first believer in
the Báb by his name, Husayn:
[T]hrough which the standards of ascendancy hath been manifested and the Sun of grace hath shone forth
and the moon of bounty hath shed its splendor and the Ancient Beauty hath been established upon the
Throne of His Name, the Exalted, the Most Great. Through it the Kingdom of Names hath been raised up
and the Embodiments [hayákil] of the Divine Attributes and the Temple [haykal] of holiness hath been
adorned with the ornament of His Name, the Most Ancient. Through it the Lord of Command [sultán al-
amr] hath encompassed all created things and the Sun of bounty hath shone forth upon all beings. By
means of this Name the two great rivers have flowed through the Twin Exalted Names [al-ismayn al-
a‘íyayn]. [304]
S u r p r i s i n g l y, Bahá’u’lláh characterizes Mullá Husayn in terms that closely mirror his descriptions of
Manifestations of God that are found in other Ta b l e t s :
Visit Him before (thou visiteth) Me inasmuch as He was sent down [nuzzila] at that time from the domin-
ion of God [jabarút alláh], the Holy, the Most Exalted, the A l l - Wise, the Omniscient. [305]
Mullá Husayn is also referred to as “the Dayspring of Names and their Fountain-Head and the Dawning-
place of the Divine Attributes and their Depository” (305), and his resting place is called the “Court of
Paradise, the place where the First Name (ism al-awwal) is buried, which God hath made the tomb (m as hh a d)
of His Temple, the Most Holy, the All-Powerful, the Luminous” (305). As witnessed in the Tablets of Vi s i t a t i o n
by the Báb for the Letters of the Living, we have here one of the few instances in the Writings of Baha'u'llah
of the expansion of the theophany to include notable believers.
8 7
The Wron ged One

After praising Mullá Husayn’s station, Bahá’u’lláh informs Varaqatu’l-Firdaws of the various genuflections
and repetitions of the names of God that are part of the visitation ritual. Like the visitation texts for the Imáms,
these genuflections and repetitions are integral parts of the communion with the Imám and a means of obtain-
ing divine grace, as evinced in the following passage:
Praise God, thy Lord [say “ Alláh-u-Akbar”], nineteen times and at each instance of praise, God shall open
one of the doors of Rizvan upon thy face and waft the sweet savors of the All-Glorified [as-subhán] unto
thee from the direction of Paradise. (305)
F i n a l l y, Bahá’u’lláh ends the Tablet with a prayer (d u ‘ á ’) to be said by the supplicant. The prayer begins
with a testament to the power and authority of the Báb, and then again enumerates the lofty station of Mullá
Husayn. Since the Tablet has been translated in full, I will not quote the passages glorifying the station of the
first believer in the Báb.
After testifying to the station of Mullá Husayn, the supplicant then bears witness to his suffering and his
struggle (m u j á h a d a) in the path of God. Paralleling both the visitation prayers for the Imám Husayn and
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s own words about himself at the beginning of the Tablet, the supplicant asserts that through God’s
aid, Mullá Husayn helped bring about the manifestation of “the testimony of God and His proof, the power of
God and His omnipotence, the majesty of God and His grandeur, and His sovereignty over all created things.
. . .” (307) In language identical to that of the visitation prayers for the Imám Husayn, the supplicant blesses
those who have fought with (m u h á r a b a) Mullá Husayn against the enemies of God (presumably at Fort S ha yk h
Tabarsí) and recognizes his authority (wiláya). Further, the companions of Mullá Husayn are called the Party
of God (h i z b u ’ l l á h), just as the companions of Imám Husayn are called the w a f d ’ u ’ l l á h ( p a r t y, or group of
God). Similarly, the trials and tribulations of Mullá Husayn are recounted, which are accompanied by the
weeping of the denizens of heaven. Finally, in a most stunning parallel with the Shí’í visitation texts, the curse
(l a ‘ n a) of God is invoked against Mullá Husayn’s enemies.
As in most of the Shí‘í prayers found in the visitation texts, the supplicant ends by asking God for the for-
giveness of sins through “Husayn,” but in this case it is Mullá Husayn. The believer also asks Mullá Husayn
and the martyrs of Fort S ha yk h Tabarsí for intercession [i s t is hf á ‘] with God.
When we compare the elements of this Tablet of Visitation with the outline of the structure of Shí‘í devo-
tional texts detailed above, we find that it clearly shares a formal pattern with the Imámí Shí‘í prayers of vis-
itation for the Imám Husayn. Not only is the flow of the narrative structure the same, but also the precise lan-
guage used to describe Husayn’s martyrdom and ultimate triumph is appropriated by Bahá’u’lláh.
S i g n i f i c a n t l y, this Tablet was not composed in the early days of Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry, where we could
expect to find many of these structural elements which would be familiar to his immediate Shí‘í/Bábí audi-
ence. However, the Tablet was written during Bahá’u’lláh’s exile in ‘Akká. So why would Bahá’u’lláh employ
such a clearly Shí‘í form in this devotional text so late in his ministry?
I believe it is due to the central importance of the narrative of Husayn’s martyrdom in the self-conception
of Bahá’u’lláh. The suffering and loneliness of Husayn is the narrative that Bahá’u’lláh most strongly identi-
fied with throughout His life, going so far as to claim to be the return of the Imám Husayn in physical retelling
of the Shí‘í narrative of the Imám’s martyrdom. Further, these topoi, as arranged in the narrative structure of
Shí’í histories and prayers associated with Husayn’s death, form the underlying pattern of many of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s Tablets to believers. Frequently, Bahá’u’lláh recounts in a single Tablet His patience during His
a fflictions at the hands of His enemies, relying solely upon God. The heavens weep and the angels sigh at His
s u ffering, which He bore alone for the redemption of the world. Finally, ultimate victory is promised through
the aid of God and the believers. Bahá’u’lláh will then write a prayer to be recited by the believers, beseech-
ing God through Him for forgiveness and pardon, and asking to be accounted among the faithful.
The assertion that the Shí‘í narrative of the martyrdom of Husayn is the master structure through which
Bahá’u’lláh views His own life and patterns His writings is a broad one and to fully demonstrate the validity
of this argument would require an entire monograph. I hope, however, that this paper will serve as a catalyst
for a more detailed examination of one of the principle structural elements in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and
its antecedents in Shí‘í Islam.
8 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Tablet of Visitation for Mullá Husayn*
[p. 301] This Súra of Visitation [súrat az-ziyára] hath been sent down from the dominion of grace [j a b a r ú t
a l - f a d l] on behalf of the First Name of God [li-ism alláh al-awwal] in order that the adoring one [qánitat al-
k u b r a] and they who have believed in God and His verses may visit him by its means. T h e y, verily, are of those
who have attained.
He is the Powerful, the A l l - M i g h t y, the Exalted [a l-‘A l í y], the All-Glorious [a l - a b h á] !
This is a Book by the Wronged One, Who hath been named “the Glorious” [a l - b a h á ’] in the kingdom of
eternity [malakút al-baqá’], and “the Exalted, the Most High” [ a l-‘Alíy al-a‘á] in the dominion of loftiness
[jabarút al-‘A l á ’]. In the Unseen World [láhút al-‘a m á ’] He is known by all of the beautiful Names of God
and in the world below [a rd al-ans há ’] He is known as Husayn, yet most of the people are wrapped in veils
and idle fancies [wahm ‘at hí m]. None can recount that which hath befallen Him save God, the King, the
Exalted, the Great. At one time He was brutally afflicted by Cain and was slain in the path of God and ascend-
ed unto Him as one oppressed. Such was the state of affairs in days gone by, as God hath known and born wit-
ness. At another time He was sorely tried at the hands of Nimrod and thrown into the fire. God made the fire
as a light and mercy for Him and He, verily, doth protect His servants who have drawn nigh unto Him. Once
again He was persecuted by Pharaoh and that which befell Him hath caused the hearts of the devoted ones to
burn. Again, He was suspended upon the cross and ascended unto God, the Mighty, the Beautiful. Once more
He was afflicted by Abu Jahl and by them who rose up against Him in dissension from among the people of
h y p o c r i s y. They inflicted upon Him that which He hath not mentioned in the Qur’án [má lá yad hk u ru bi-bayán]
and the Self of the Merciful was a witness thereunto and knew that which befell Him. Again He was slain as
one oppressed upon the plain of Karbila and with Him they martyred those whom God hath related unto His
Own sanctified and radiant Self, until such time that they cut off His head and [p. 302] banished His family
[a h l a h u] and paraded them throughout the land [dárúhum fí al-balád]. Likewise the hosts of the evil ones con-
demned Him and once again suspended Him in the air and He was martyred in the path o f
God, the Help in Peril, the All-Powerful, the Omnipotent. Once again Thou wert imprisoned in the land of T á
for four months, as is well-known, and the Pen of the Worlds [qalam al-‘álamín] is unable to recount that
which befell Thee. After that they removed Me from the prison and exiled Me, along with my family, from the
lands (of my birth) [a l - a w t á n] until We entered Iraq and abided therein. None can recount that which befell us
in that land at the hands of them who were created by My command. At every moment the shafts of the sedi-
tious were hurled [ramy an-nifáq], even though We concealed [s a t a r n á] the Cause and announced the glad-tid-
ings [m u b as h s hi r] amidst the servants, calling them unto God, the A l l - M i g h t y, the Beautiful, until all of the
religious communities [kull al-milal] rose up against Me with all of (t h e ir) might [kull al-hayl]. Tr u l y, I was
alone and betook myself to confront the enemies [muqábilat al-a‘dá’] and My Lord caused Me to triumph inas-
much as I was obedient unto Him [kuntu mustatí‘an ‘a l a y h i] until He established [h a q q a q a] the Cause of God
through His Words and thwarted the designs of those who join partners with God. Through that the fire of
hatred was kindled in the breasts of those who profess faith in the Point of the Bayán. Likewise they allowed
their souls to be seduced and Satan extolled their deeds [zayyana lahum as h-s haytán ‘a‘m á l a h u m] and they
were among the heedless. I swear by God! There hath befallen me from those (people) that which hath befall-
en no one else. Wherefore the eyes of the helpless [a l - q á s i r á t] wept over me in the chambers (of heaven) and
the hearts of the sincere ones cried out and behind them wept the eye of God, the Sovereign, the Omnipotent,
the Exalted, the Wise. The ears of Him Whom God hath made victorious heareth the clamor of all created
things and their lamentation in these days on account of that which befell Us at the hands of those who
acknowledged God in His First Manifestation then disbelieved in Him after He came unto them in the Latter
Beauty [jamál uk hr á], the Sovereign, the Most Manifest. Ve r i l y, We (dwelt) among them and among those who
disbelieved among the religious communities of previous times, until [p. 303] the Sun of tribulation shone
forth from the horizon of the Divine Decree and the judgment of exile came to pass according to that which
hath been set down in the holy and preserved Tablets.
* This is a provisional translation for presentation and discussion at 'Irfán Colloquia. It is not to be reproduced or further distributed
in any form or medium.
8 9
The Wron ged One

By the one true God! I arose to confront [m u q á b i l a] the enemies during the days when the hearts of the mys-
tic knowers were perturbed and the pillars of every soul quaked, and those who were among us and those who
professed Thy oneness quivered in fright [ i qs ha‘a rra julúd], until the hosts of aid and assistance descended
from the dominion of God [jabarút alláh], the Help in Peril, the Mighty, the Great. He protected Me through
the Truth and assisted Me with the angels of heaven and earth and the invisible hosts of (all) the worlds. We
left the city with the ornament of Him (by) whom the wisdom of the wise and the hearts of the mystic know-
ers become bewildered. In every city the Ancient Beauty passed, the necks of they who glorify God [a l - m u t a k -
a b b i r í n] were bowed in submission in the presence of His Manifestation. In every spot He came to, the necks
of those who profess the unity of God and they who join partners with Him were (both) bowed low, until we
came to this prison. God is aware of that which we endured at the hands of them who cherished ill-will in their
hearts against this Youth, as if they lay in ambush upon a place of malice [marsad al-g hill li-min al-
m u n t at hi r í n]. Not a moment hath passed save that the calumnies of the darts of discord were hurled by the
hosts of the perfidious. I swear by God! At all times I am slain by the swords of hatred, as the tongue of God,
the Exalted, the Most High, hath born witness. The people are wrapped [k u n n i n a] in great heedlessness and
dissension. If the people will sanctify their ears, they, verily, shall hear at this time that which their Lord, the
All-Glorious [a l - a b h á] is crying out in the realms above and shall be of those who harken. However, they are
veiled [i h t a j a b a] from that which the Tongue of the Ancient of Days is saying in the dominion of utmost sor-
row [jabarút al-ag hm a m] and they are of those who are heedless. They rose up against us in such wise that
they have condemned Me to death without clear proof [b a y y i n a] from God and a great Book. Ve r i l y, the hosts
of (divine) aid and assistance were sent down again and again and God protected Me through them and made
Me to speak forth with His remembrance and made Me manifest through His sovereignty and made Me to shine
forth with the lights [p. 304] of the holiness of His grandeur and speak with the praise of His Own Self, the
Exalted, the Most Great. Such is that which hath been decreed for us and we have recounted it truthfully that
perchance the people might be numbered amongst those that have apprehended the truth.
O leaf of Paradise [waraqat al-fird a w s]! When this radiant and resplendent Tablet hath reached thee, rise
from thy seat and take it with the hand of submission [yad al-k hu d ú ‘], then inhale from it the fragrance of God,
thy Lord and the Lord of all the worlds. Call to mind, then, my misfortunes which have been revealed in it that
thou mayest be (numbered) among those women in the Tablets who make mention of God, the Help in Peril,
the A l l - M i g h t y, the Omnipotent. Teach, then, the Cause of thy Lord among those women who are in thy com-
pany and among those men who are guided by the guidance of the Spirit [hidáyat ar- r ú h] and accounted among
the well-assured.
Drink with healthy relish, O leaf of Paradise, inasmuch as the breezes of the Spirit have wafted unto thee
and attracted thee unto the Egypt of the Divine Presence, the spot of the recognition [‘irfán] of thy Lord, the
A l m i g h t y, the Peerless. Thou hast drunk from the chalice of the mercy of thy Lord and attained unto that which
none in all the worlds have attained. Therefore, render thanks unto thy Lord, then raise thy hands in supplica-
tion [u q n u t í], and then bend down with thy hands resting on thy knees [i r k a ‘ í], and take hold of the Book of
God through His power. Ve r i l y, it is a mighty Book [kitáb ‘at hí m] .
Well is it with thee inasmuch as God hath related thee unto his [Mullá Husayn’s] name through which the
standards of ascendancy have been manifested and the Sun of grace hath shone forth and the moon of bounty
hath shed its splendor and the Ancient Beauty hath been established upon the Throne of His Name, the Exalted,
the Most Great. Through it the Kingdom of Names hath been raised up and the Embodiments [h a y á k i l] of the
Divine Attributes and the Temple [h a y k a l] of holiness have been adorned with the ornament of His Name, the
Most Ancient. Through it the Lord of Command [sultán al-amr] hath encompassed all created things and the
Sun of bounty hath shone forth upon all beings. By means of this name the two great rivers have flowed
through the Twin Exalted Names [al-ismayn al-a‘í y a y n]. None have drunk from them save those whom God
hath singled out for His Cause, those whom He hath enraptured among His servants and they whom He hath
purified among His creatures and made the dawning-places [p. 305] of His Beautiful Names and the manifes-
tations of His exalted Attributes. He hath numbered them among those who have attained unto the Presence of
Him Who is the Inaccessible, Incomparable, the Omnipotent.
O leaf of Paradise! Visit Him before (thou visiteth) Me, inasmuch as he was sent down [n u z z i l a] at that time
from the dominion of God [jabarút alláh], the Holy, the Most Exalted, the A l l - Wise, the Omniscient. W h e n
9 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

thou dost desire to begin thy visit to the Dayspring of Names and their Fountain-Head and the Dawning-place
of the Divine Attributes and their Depository, arise and turn thy face unto the Court of Paradise, the place
where the First Name [ism al-awwal] is buried, which God hath made the tomb [m as hh a d] of His Temple, the
Most Holy, the All-Powerful, the Luminous. When thou hast turned (thy face), stand still and praise God [k a b -
birí alláh, i.e. say “Alláh’u-Akbar” ], thy Lord, nineteen times and at each instance of praise, God shall open
one of the doors of Ridván upon thy face and waft the sweet savors of the All-Glorified [a s - s u b h á n] unto thee
from the direction of Paradise. In such wise hath the Command been decreed from the presence of the
A l m i g h t y, the A l l - Wise. Repeat “Alláh’u-Abhá” [t u b a h h á] nine times with certitude in His Cause and
acknowledgement of His sovereignty while glorifying His Own Self and submitting to His manifestation and
drawing nigh unto the face of Him who is the Most Holy, the Most Resplendent [a t - T á l i ‘], the Most Manifest,
the Effulgent [a l - b á h i r], the Luminous [a l - l á m i h], the Radiant, the Refulgent. Then say: “I bear witness by my
very soul and my essence, my being and my tongue, and by my heart and the limbs of my body, that there is
none other God but Him and that the Point of the Bayán is, verily, His manifestation and His revelation [b u r ú z]
and His glory [‘ i z z u h u] and His honor [s ha r a f u h u] and His grandeur for all who are in the Concourse on High.
M o r e o v e r, He is His majesty and His might and His power [i q t i d á ru h u] among all that are in the heavens and
on earth. Ve r i l y, He who hath been manifested through Truth is His sovereign over all who are in the heavens
and on earth and His glory [b a h á ’ u h u] over all who are in the dominion of Command and the world of cre-
ation [jabarút al-amr wa al-k ha l q] . ”
S a y, then: “Upon Thee, O secret of the Divine Decree, be the first Spirit, made manifest from the reposito-
ry of grandeur [makman al-kibriyá’], and the first mercy, which descended from the heaven of holiness from
the right side of the throne, the seat of our Lord, the Exalted, the Most High, and the Temple of the irrevoca-
ble Purpose [haykal al-amdá’] and the Word of the Most Perfect in the dominion of eternity [jabarút al-baqá’]
and the Most Great Name in the Kingdom of created things!
I bear witness by my own essence, [p. 306] and by my soul and my tongue, that Thou art the one through
whom the Beauty of the Most Praised was established upon the Throne of His Name, the Most Merciful, and
through whom the Primal Will hath been made manifest unto the people of the earth [ahl al-akwán] and
through whom the melody of Paradise hath been sent down from the heaven of grace from the presence of T h y
Lord, the A l m i g h t y, the Beneficent, and through whom the Cause of God, the Help in Peril, the Omnipotent,
the Powerful, the Ordainer, hath been made manifest. I bear witness that Thou art the first light manifested
from the Beauty of Oneness [jamál al-ahadiyya] and the first sun which shone forth from the horizon of
Divinity [ufuq al-iláhiyya]. But for thee, the Beauty of the Divine Identity [a l - h u w w i y a] would not have been
manifest and the secrets of eternity [a s - S a m a d i y y a] would not have been revealed. I bear witness that through
thee the birds of the hearts of them that long for thee have soared unto the atmosphere of nearness and reunion
and the hearts of the lovers have tasted the sweetness of intimate communion and the beauty of the radiance
of the sun of the Face of Thy Lord, the Majestic [a l - j a l á l], the Glorious [a l - a j l á l]. But for thee, none would
have known the Self of God and His Beauty nor would any soul have attained unto the shores of His nearness
and His Presence. Contingent being would not have quaffed the water of his bounty and loving-kindness, and
all created things would not have slaked their thirst through the wine of His grace and generosity. Through thee
the veils of all existent things have been rent asunder and the Kingdom of Names and Attributes hath been
made manifest. Through thee every soul hath been guided unto the shores of holiness and grandeur and through
thee the Mystic Dove hath warbled upon the twigs [a f n á n] of eternity and the Bird of the Throne hath sung
upon the branches [ag hs á n] of the Sadrah of Bahá. Through thee the Beauty of the invisible world [a l -g ha y b]
hath been made manifest through His Name, the Exalted, the Most High and through thee all Good [kull k ha y r]
hath been sent down from the dominion of the Divine Essence [jabarút al-‘a m á ’] unto the kingdom of creation
[malakút al-badá’] and every grace which the finger of God hath traced upon the Tablet of the Divine Decree.
Through thee all created things have been encompassed by the mercy of God, the Mighty, the A l l - K n o w i n g ,
the Most Great. But for thee, heaven would not have been upraised nor the earth inhabited. The oceans would
not have appeared, nor the trees born fruit and the leaves would have remained bereft of verdure [p. 307] and
the sun of grace would not have shone forth from the horizon of holiness and radiance. Through thee the
breezes of forgiveness have been wafted upon all who are in the heavens and on earth. Through thee the gates
of Paradise were flung open unto all people, and the hearts of them that have believed in God, the A l m i g h t y,
the Most Powerful, the Generous, have been enraptured. Thou art the Word through which God hath decided
9 1
The Wron ged One

between all created things and distinguished the joyous [a s - s a ‘ í d] from the miserable [as h-s ha q á] and the light
from the darkness and the believer from him who hath joined partners with God, from that day to this, in which
heaven hath been rent asunder. God hath come upon clouds [t hu l a l] from (the world of) Command and around
Him are a company of His chosen angels. When the veils are torn asunder and the Face cometh from behind
the coverings with the hosts of power and glory [ribwát ‘izz ‘at hí m] and they who render thanks unto God, (the
people) shall flee on the right and on the left and drunkenness shall seize all who are in the heavens and on
earth save a few letters [‘iddat ahru f] (belonging to) the face of thy Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate.
I testify that thou hast born the trust of Thy Lord, the All-Merciful and hath known the Beauty of the A l l -
Glorified [jamál as-subhán] before all existent things were created and that thou hast attained unto the pres-
ence of God in the day which none knew of save thee. This is due to a grace from God Who created thee
through it before the creation of the heavens and the earth. I bear witness to thy remembrance through which
the tongues of all created things were loosed in praise of their Lord, the All-Knowing, the A l l - Wise, and to thy
praise of He who is thy Maker. All things have arisen [qáma ‘a l á] in praise of Him and to this beareth witness
all of existence [kull al-wujúd] in both the visible [ash-shuhúd] and invisible [a l -g ha y b] worlds and beyond
them God Himself knoweth and testifieth to the truth of My words. I bear witness that thou hast assisted the
religion of God and made manifest His Cause and struggled [j á h a d t a] in His path inasmuch as Thou wert obe-
dient unto Him. Through thine aid the testimony of God and His proof, the power of God and His omnipo-
tence, the majesty of God and His grandeur, and His sovereignty over all created things were made manifest.
Blessed be they [p. 308] who struggled with thee and battled against [hárabú ma‘] the enemies of God by thy
command and circled round thee and entered the shelter of thine authority [w a l á y a t u k a] and drank from the
living waters of thy love and suffered martyrdom before thy face and were laid to rest [ru q i d ú]1 0 within the
precincts of Thy court. T h e y, verily, are of those who rest peacefully [a r- r á q i d í n]. I testify that they are the
helpers [a n s á r] of God upon His earth and His trustees in His lands and the people of God [hizb alláh] amongst
His creatures and the hosts of God amongst His creation and the pure ones of God betwixt the heavens and the
earth.
I bear witness to the great tests and overwhelming adversities which befell thee in the path of thy Lord and
the tribulations which compassed thee on every side. Nothing prevented thee from the path of thy Creator and
thou didst exert thyself [jáhadta bi-nafsika] until thou wert slain as a martyr in His way. Thou didst offer up
thy spirit, soul, and body out of love for thy Master, the Ancient of Days. I testify that all things between heav-
en and earth and the eyes of those who have drawn nigh unto God behind the Tabernacle of manifest glory
wept over thy suffering. The mystic maidens [a l - h ú r i y y á t] bared their heads in the celestial chambers [a l -g hu r -
f á t] and beat upon them with wondrous and holy fingers. They prostrated their faces upon the dust and sat upon
the ashes and cried out at that time in the luminous, crimson11 chambers. I testify that through Thy misfortune
[fí musíbatika] all created things have been clothed with the robe of black and the faces of the sincere ones
have paled. The pillars of those who profess the unity of God have been shaken and the eye of might and
grandeur hath wept in the exalted and holy dominion [j a b a r ú t]. I bear witness at this time, O my master, in my
present state that thou hast not fallen short in thy duty towards thy Lord nor hast thou tarried out of love for
thy Master. Thou hast proclaimed His Cause in both the East and the West until thou didst sacrifice thyself as
a martyr in His path. [p. 309]
May God curse [l a‘an alláh] those people who have oppressed thee and rebelled against thee and attacked
thy soul and caviled at thy face and denied thy testimony and failed in their duty towards thee and turned away
disdainfully from submission to thee [ a l -k hadú‘ bayn yadayka]. Ve r i l y, they were among those who join part-
ners with God. Therefore, I beseech God by thee and by them who are in thy presence to grant me forg i v e n e s s
and pardon my sins and sanctify me from the defilement of the earth and make me of those who are pure. Grant
that I may attain His Presence during these days in which all are heedless of Him and are shut out as by a veil
(from Him). Enable me to stand firm with Him and obedient to His cause and to have certitude in His Own
Self and steadfastness in His verses and enter into His shade, and be established within the court of His mercy,
martyred [as h-s ha h á d a] in His path and repentant unto His Self, the Exalted, the Most Great. Though thee we
beseech God to debar us not, in these days, from the splendors of the lights of His Face nor deprive us of the
wonders of His grace nor shatter our hopes in His mercy which hath encompassed all the worlds. We ask God
to make us firm in His love and steadfast in His Cause in such wise that our feet shall always remain upon His
9 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Path [s i r á t], which hath been made manifest through the power of Truth among the heavens and the earth.
M e r c y, praise and glory [a l - b a h á ’] be upon you, O pure ones [a s f i y á’] of God amongst the servants, and his
trusted ones [u m a n a ’] in the lands, and upon your bodies [a j s á d] and your selves [a j s á m] and your spirits, and
your firstness [a w w a l i k u m] and your lastness, and your inner and outer beings, and upon them who have abid-
ed in your midst [h a l l ú j a w á r a k u m] and circumambulated you and attained unto the door of your mercy and
stood before the manifestation of the lights of your forgiveness and entered the threshold of your nearness and
drew nigh unto God though you and sought intercession [i s t a f s h a ‘ ú] from God through your souls and visited
your sanctuary and sought to be blessed by your grave [t u r b a] and sought guidance by your guidance. T h e y,
v e r i l y, are of those who are turning unto your holy, sanctified, illumined, and radiant faces.
Therefore, O my God and my Master! I beseech Thee by him and by them who have been laid to rest
[ru q i d ú] [p. 310] in his midst [fí hawlihi] to number us among those who have soared in the atmosphere of T h y
mercy and quaffed the wine of Thy favor and bounty and attained unto the pinnacle of graciousness through
Thy generosity and Thy tender mercies and tasted the sweetness of Thy remembrance and scaled the loftiest
heights and the highest stations through Thy grace and manifold favors and are detached from all things and
travel swiftly unto the court of Thy gracious favors. The breezes of the glory of Thy tender mercies and the
fragrances of Thine eternal holiness have seized them. Ve r i l y, Thou art the Omnipotent, the All-Powerful, the
A l l - Wise.
O our God and our Beloved! Forgive us and our parents and they who are close to us among those who
believe in Thee and in Thy verses and in Him Who hath been manifested through Thy Sovereignty. Make us
then, O my God, powerful in this world through Thy might and grant that we may attain unto Thy presence in
the next world. Debar us not from that which Thou dost possess nor shatter our hopes in all of that which
beseemeth Thee. Ve r i l y, Thou art the Bounteous, the Most Excellent, the Benevolent and, verily, Thou art our
Lord, the All-Merciful and our God, Whose help is implored by all men and upon Whom we rely [‘álayka at-
t u k l á n]. None other God is there but Thee, the Ever- F o rgiving, the Generous, the All-Merciful.”
Thus have we set forth this Tablet for thee, O leaf of Paradise, and made mention of thee in order that thou
mayest follow that which thou hast been enjoined to follow and be among those who adore (God) in the holy
and luminous Tablets.
— Bahá’u’lláh, A t h á r- i -Qa l a m - i - A ‘ l á , vol. 4 (Tehran, 133 B.E. ) , p. 301-10
N o t e s
1) Ibn Qúlúyah, Ja ‘ far ibn Muhammad, Kámil al-ziyárát (Bayrút: Dár al-Surúr, 1997): 358-62.
2) Majlisí, Muhammad Baqír. Bihár al-Anwár. Muhammad Baqír al-Mahmúdí, ed. Tehran: Wizárat al-Irshád al-Islamí, 1986-. p.
3 2 0 .
3) Majlisí, 317-27.
4) Denis MacEoin, The Sources for Early Bábí Doctrine and History: A S u rv e y (Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1992): 99.
5) MacEoin. Rituals in Bábism and Bahá’ísm. Pembroke Persian Papers, vol 2. London: British Academic Press, 1994: 26-7.
6) Mírzá Huseyn of Hamadán, The Tárík h-i-Jadíd or New History of Mírzá ‘Alí Muhammad the Báb, trans. by Edward G. Browne
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1893): 94.
7) ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Is hráq-Khávarí, Da’irat al-Ma‘a r i f - i - B a h á ’ í [Bahá’í Encyclopedia]. Vol. 15. Digitally published, East Lansing,
MI: H-Bahai, 2001. Vol. 15: 111.
8) See, for example, G l e a n i n g s IX. In several untranslated Tablets, Bahá’u’lláh’s identification with the Imám Husayn is much more
explicit. In a Tablet to S ha yk h ‘ A b d u ’ l - H u s a y n - i - Tihrani, Bahá’u’lláh also remarks, “O Husayn! You visit (the grave of) Husayn
while killing Husayn!” [t a z ú ru al-Husayn wa taqtulu al-Husayn!]. Ma´idih-ye A s a m a n i, vol. 4, p. 136.
9) This is one of the few places that Bahá’u’lláh refers to a quaternal structure of the universe, although the device was quite com-
mon in the Writings of the Báb. For an excellent discussion of quaternal structures in the Writings of the Báb, see Todd Lawson,
“The Dangers of Reading: Inlibration, Communion, and Transference in the Qur’án Commentary of the Báb,” S c r i p t u re and
R e v e l a t i o n, ed. Moojan Momen (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997).
10) Although the published version of the Tablet contains ru f i d ú (to carry, support something), ru q i d ú seems to be the correct read-
ing given the context and its repetition as an active participle at the end of the clause.
11) The text reads “‘Alá g hurfát k hamrin munírin,” but k ha m r (wine) is probably a scribal error and h u m r (red) was intended.
9 3
The Wron ged One

9 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order.
by Kavian Sadeghzade Milani
Introduction
R
eligious thought incorporates philosophy, theology and mysticism; indeed, the mystical experience is
integral to religious experience. Shoghi Effendi commented in a letter that “the core of religious Faith
is that mystic feeling which unites man with God.” He further notes in the same letter that “[t]he Bahá’í
Faith, like all other Divine Religions, is thus fundamentally mystic in character” (Spiritual Foundations # 4 0 ) .
Expanding this understanding of mysticism, religious scholar Annemarie Schimmel writes that mysticism “in
its widest sense . . . may be defined as the consciousness of the One reality—be it called Wisdom, Light, Love
or Nothing” (Mystical Dimensions of Islam 4) This consciousness cannot be reached by intellectual endeavors,
as it transcends human intellect and rationalization.1 The human heart, however, can engage in spiritual dis-
c o v e r y, and tread the mystic path. Mysticism, therefore, may be defined as the quest and journey of the human
soul towards its Creator.2 In the Bahá’í context, this means that the human soul embarks on the mystical path
through the recognition of Bahá’u’lláh. Consequently, the psychology of the soul changes3 under both the
gnostic and volunteristic aspects of Bahá’í spirituality.4 The copper of the soul is transmuted into gold in the
process of Divine alchemy and the ailments of the human soul are healed in remembrance of God.5 The Bahá’í
Revelation invites all human souls to partake of this Divine Elixir.6
A significant portion of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh concerns mysticism. Both the theory (doctrine) and
method (practice) of the mystical experience are expounded. Many texts are primarily concerned with the mys-
tical path. The Hidden Words, The Seven Valleys, and The Four Valleys are some of the best-known represen-
tative Writings from this group.7 Even texts such as the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, which are not pri-
marily intended to be mystical treatises, present and treat a variety of mystical topics. There have been a num-
ber of recent attempts by Bahá’í scholars to examine the vast corpus of Bahá’í Writings concerning spiritual
and mystical topics.8 As a whole, however, the author agrees with the assessment made by Jack McLean that
the mystical elements of the Bahá’í Faith remain under- e x p l o r e d .9
The Bahá’í Revelation presents to the wayfarer a variety of vehicles for the spiritual journey. The mystical
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh detail the spiritual path in sundry ways.1 0 The Bahá’í Faith validates a number of spir-
itual and mystical practices as essential for one’s spiritual development, whereas some of the so-called mysti-
cal practices are discounted and even forbidden, such as mortification, mendicancy and poverty. The authenti-
cally spiritual practices are however confirmed and endorsed. The Obligatory Prayers (s a l á t) are indispensable
to spiritual progress, as are the recitation of other prayers and meditations revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. The read-
ing of the verses of God every day and night provides the human soul with an “occasion of encounter with the
person of the divine Manifestation, Bahá’u’lláh.”11 Fasting (s a w m) and the daily invocation of “A l l á h - u - A b h á”
are also integral to the Bahá’í mystical experience. Obedience to the laws and ordinances of Bahá’u’lláh key
to the Divine Elixir designed to transform the copper of the soul into gold.1 2 Work itself is considered to be a
critical element in Bahá’í mysticism.1 3 All of the above elements are generally acknowledged and well-appre-
ciated elements of Bahá’í spirituality. This article, however, will examine an element of the Bahá’í spiritual
experience which is often neglected with regards to its mystical dimensions: the Bahá’í Administrative Order.
The thesis that the Bahá’í Administrative Order is an instrument designed by Bahá’u’lláh for the mystic
wayfarer is the subject of this study. The Administrative Order has already been the subject of numerous aca-
demic examinations.1 4 Most such studies have focused on comparative political theory. To date, the mystical
dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order remain largely unexplored. Some authors have acknowledged
such spiritual aspects, though. Jack McLean, for example, in his formulation of Bahá’í spirituality writes:
For a Bahá’í, to further the aims and purposes of the Bahá’í revelation means to participate in the erection
of a new society, whose blueprint the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith have drawn up and whose keynote
is justice.
9 5
Mys ti cal Dim e n si ons of the Adm in is t rative Orde r

This new society is Bahá’u’lláh’s new world order which is completely without parallel in the utopian soci-
eties and systems of government that have evolved until the present day. This world system of Bahá’u’lláh,
which exists today in embryonic form and whose Head is the Universal House of Justice, is the visible
expression of all the intangible spiritual precepts and superlative teachings that Bahá’u’lláh has revealed
to humanity.15
This article advances the thesis that the Administrative Order is an indispensable component of Bahá’í mys-
tical transformation. The author will first examine the theosophical framework and develop the nomenclature
required for the study of any mystical system. This theosophical foundation will then be applied to the creation
of the Bahá’í Administrative Order as a mystical entity.
Theosophy (Hikmat-i-Illáhí) and Mysticism (‘Irfán)
Any serious examination of the mystical experience must take account of theosophical considerations.1 6
Mysticism was earlier defined as the journey of the human soul towards God. Theosophy may be defined as
“that sacred philosophy which springs from such inward illumination; it is the mysticism of the mind as dis-
tinguished from the mysticism of the heart.”1 7 Thus, theosophy can be equated with Hikmat-i-Illáhí ( D i v i n e
Wisdom, lit. T h e o - s o p h i a), as outlined in the Bahá’í Writings. It is within this framework that Bahá’í mystical
theory should be examined.1 8
In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh introduces three distinct forms of theophany.1 9 The three are Universal
Revelation (Ta j a l l í y - i - ‘ á m), the Holy Outpouring (F a y d - i - M u q a d d a s) and the Most Holy Outpouring (F a y d - i -
A q d a s) .2 0 The Universal Revelation is that theophany by which God is manifested “upon the inmost reality of
each and every created thing . . . and made it a recipient of the glory of one of His attributes.”2 1 As such
Bahá’u’lláh declares, “ All created things eloquently testify to the revelation of that inner Light within them.”2 2
This universal theophany is available to all wayfarers, whether from within or outside the Bahá’í tradition and
the mystic should behold the inner mysteries enshrined in all things as he traverses the path. Such speculation
is integral to the Bahá’í spiritual experience.2 3 The Most Holy Outpouring on the other hand represents the
Specific Revelation of God (Ta j a l l í y - i -K há s s). This theophany “is confined to the innermost Essence, unto
which no man can attain.”2 4 This Specific Revelation occurs in the realm of Absolute Oneness (A h a d i y y a h)
where the names and attributes of God are indistinguishable from God’s Essence, and where God is both the
Lover and the Beloved.2 5
The Holy Outpouring (F a y d - i - M u q a d d a s) that Bahá’u’lláh equates with the Secondary Revelation of God
(Ta j a l l í y - i -T há n í), however, is the theophany of immediate interest, as it refers specifically to Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. This Holy Outpouring (F a y d - i - M u q a d d a s) belongs to “the realm of the primal and original mani-
festation of God.”2 6 In Sufi terminology this Revelation is the locus through which the names and attributes of
God are manifested.2 7 This is in conformity with Bahá’í theology:
These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the recipients and revealers of all the unchangeable attribut-
es and names of God. They are the mirrors that truly and faithfully reflect the light of God. Whatsoever is
applicable to them is applicable to God, Himself, Who is both the Visible and the Invisible.2 8
The Secondary Revelation or Holy Outpouring has been identified with the “Supreme Pen,” the “First
Emanation of God,” and the “Creative B and E” in Sufi literature.2 9 The above have all been identified with
Bahá’u’lláh in the Bahá’í Wr i t i n g s .3 0 It is this theophany that Bahá’u’lláh directly represents. It is also through
this Holy Outpouring that the human soul encounters the Divine Elixir and embarks on the mystical path. T h u s
the volunteristic and gnostic elements of the Bahá’í mystical experience are derived from Bahá’u’lláh. T h e
encounter of the human soul with the Holy Outpouring (F a y d - i - M u q a d d a s) in the Bahá’í Revelation is the spir-
itual dimension that is unique to the Bahá’í mystical experience. All the integral elements of the Bahá’í spiri-
tual path mentioned earlier have been directly derived from this Secondary Revelation. It is this same theo-
phany that generates the Bahá’í Administrative Order through the “mystic intercourse” described below.
The Pen-Tablet Interaction and the Generation of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
The Pen (q a l a m)/Tablet (L a w h) interaction is a commonly utilized motif in the Bahá’í Writings. Both terms
occur frequently in Bahá’í scripture. Sometimes their use denotes literally a pen or a tablet, but often their
9 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

meaning is symbolic, referring to Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation. The Pen thus represents an active entity and
is generative, whereas the Tablet is passive in relation to the Pen and a recipient.3 1 The Pen generates the Ta b l e t
itself. In the Tablet of Wisdom Bahá’u’lláh explains the creation of the world of existence using this same
m o t i f :
That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not in the form thou seest today. The world of
existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction between the active force and that
which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they are diff e r e n t .3 2
This is by no means the only application of this motif. For example, later in that same Tablet Bahá’u’lláh
elaborates on the Word of God as the originator of matter, through the creation of “Such as communicate the
generating influence and such as receive its impact” (fá‘ilayn va munfa’ilayn). These are generally taken to be
a reference to the four elements of air, water, fire and earth, whose active /recipient interactions beget all mat-
t e r.3 3
The Guardian applies the same motif to the generation of the Bahá’í Administrative Order. The passage
below from God Passes By describes the interaction between active and recipient forces, where Bahá’u’lláh is
the active force and ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá is the recipient entity. The text establishes the following relationship,
The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, on the other hand, may be regarded as the offspring resulting
from the mystic intercourse between Him Who had generated the forces of a God-given Faith and the One
Who had had been made its sole Interpreter and was recognized as its Perfect Exemplar. The creative ener-
gies unleashed by the Originator of the Law of God in this age gave birth, through their impact upon the
mind of Him Who had been chosen as its unerring Expounder, to that Instrument, the vast implications of
which the present generation, even after the lapse of twenty-three years, is still incapable of fully appre-
h e n d i n g .3 4
The Fayd-i-Muqaddas (Holy Outpouring) or the Secondary Revelation of God is here stated to interact with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá through a “mystic intercourse.” This “mystic intercourse” begets the Will and Testament, which
is considered to be the charter for the Bahá’í Administrative Order. Therefore according to the text the Bahá’í
Administrative Order has an unequivocal mystical linkage to Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi had already elabo-
rated on this in the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh a few years earlier:
The creative energies released by the Law of Bahá’u’lláh, permeating and evolving within the mind of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, have, by their very impact and close interaction, given birth to an Instrument which may be
viewed as the Charter of the New World Order which is at once the glory and the promise of this most great
Dispensation. The Will may thus be acclaimed as the inevitable offspring resulting from that mystic inter-
course between Him Who communicated the generating influence of His divine Purpose and the One W h o
was its vehicle and chosen recipient. Being the Child of the Covenant—the Heir of both the Originator and
the Interpreter of the Law of God—the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá can no more be divorced from
Him Who supplied the original and motivating impulse than from the One Who ultimately conceived it.35
This passage reiterates many of the points that the passage from God Passes By addressed. It establishes the
a c t i ve/recipient relationship again and outlines the “mystic intercourse” that generates the Will and Te s t a m e n t ,
w h i c h is the charter for the Administrative Order. The Covenant between Bahá’u’lláh and every Bahá’í soul is
also incorporated into this “mystic intercourse” and preceded the birth of the Administrative Order. The criti-
cal function of the Covenant is suggested by the reference to the Will and Testament of ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá as the
“Child of the Covenant.”3 6 The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh and the Administrative Order are thus inseparable.
In God Passes By Shoghi Effendi presents the exact point again, albeit using a different metaphor. There he
describes the embodiment of the Spirit of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh in the institutions of the Faith after the
passing of ‘ A b d u ’ l - B a h á :
The moment had now arrived for that undying, that world-vitalizing Spirit that was born in Shíráz, that had
been rekindled in Tihrán, that had been fanned into flame in Baghdad and Adrianople, that had been car-
ried to the West, and was now illuminating the fringes of five continents, to incarnate itself in institutions
designed to canalize its outspreading energies and stimulate its growth. (324)
The analysis presented is of the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. It is generally understood that with the passing of
9 7
Mys ti cal Dim e n si ons of the Adm in is t rative Orde r

‘Abdu’l-Bahá the Bahá’í Faith emerged from a period of “charismatic” leadership and entered an “adminis-
trative” phase. Shoghi Eff e n d i ’s examination is somewhat different and conforms well to his thought analyzed
earlier: It was “that world-vitalizing Spirit” that incarnated itself in “institutions,” thereby establishing the con-
tinuity of the mystical linkage with Bahá’u’lláh.
The following passage is also of interest in this regard. It makes the point that an artificial separation
between the “spiritual” and the “administrative” aspects of the Cause is “tantamount to a mutilation of the
Cause.” He writes:
To dissociate the administrative principles of the Cause from the purely spiritual and humanitarian teach-
ings would be tantamount to a mutilation of the body of the Cause, a separation that can only result in the
disintegration of its component parts, and the extinction of the Faith itself.” (Shoghi Effendi, The Wo r l d
Order of Bahá’u’lláh 5)
Mysticism, Law, Authority and the Bahá’í Administrative Order37
As illustrated above, the Bahá’í Administrative Order was inaugurated by and derives its authority from the
Manifestation, and like other expressions of Bahá’í spirituality it is accommodated into the Bahá’í prophetic
schema without diff i c u l t y.3 8 Two issues must be addressed at this point. The first concerns authority and divine
guidance in the Bahá’í Administrative Order. The other concerns the divine Law and the legislative compo-
nents of this Order. The issues of divine guidance, authority, and divine Laws are critical questions that every
mystical system must answer. This article will briefly examine how these issues were understood in Sufism
and Sufi Orders. Then the same questions will be raised regarding the Bahá’í Administrative Order as a mys-
tical system.3 9 Authority and Divine guidance are important in any mystical quest as Trimingham points out in
connection to Sufism:
Masters of the Way realized that the mystical tendency is highly dangerous as an individual experience,
since the soul under the influence of a “state” is wide open to delusion and self-deception. There are mys-
tic Ways to other gods than God.4 0
In Sufism mystical guidance was provided for the Sufi wayfarer through two interrelated sources: the Sufi
master and the Qu t b (spiritual pole). The masters are essential for spiritual development as the following pas-
sage indicates:
Connection to a master is considered a condition sine qua non for spiritual success. Without a master, with-
out a guide, all illusions and all distractions are to be feared. This is what is meant by the well-known Sufi
adage “who does not have a s ha yk h has Satan for his s ha yk h. ”41
The masters are all inwardly connected with the Qu t b (spiritual pole) of their age. The Qutb is the central
mystical locus of the Universe, from whom the masters derive their inspiration and authority. The wayfarer-
m a s t e r-Qu t b hierarchy is essential to the Sufi world-view. These dynamics were accepted despite the fact that
they find little textual justification in Islamic Scripture.4 2 The second problem addresses the tension between
the mystics and the jurists. It can be maintained that Sufism in general was observant of the Islamic legal ordi-
nances, and that Sufis were to observe religious Law.4 3 It is generally acknowledged, however, that the focus
on the mystical de-emphasized the legal code and that more radical Sufism fostered and augmented anti-nomi-
an tendencies.4 4 The gap between the legalistic and mystical traditions in Islam was rarely bridged, and main-
stream Islam has always looked upon Sufism with a degree of suspicion.
The Bahá’í Administrative Order represents a unique synthesis compared with Sufism. The mystical forces
of the Bahá’í Revelation were channeled through the person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá after the passing of Bahá’u’lláh.
Upon the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the “mystic intercourse” described above had taken place, and the Bahá’í
Administrative Order was begotten. In other words, the mystical encounter of the human soul with the Holy
Outpouring (F a y d - i - M u q a d d a s) becomes possible through the encounter with the Bahá’í Administrative Order.
Bahá’u’lláh had anticipated both the Universal House of Justice and the Bahá’í Administrative Order in the
K i t á b - i - A q d a s .4 5 At present, the Universal House of Justice, designated by Bahá’u’lláh as the “Ark of God”
(S a f í n a t ’ u ’ l l á h) in the Tablet of Carmel, is the spiritual pole and the center of Bahá’í spirituality. According to
Shoghi Effendi, the Universal House of Justice is the one divinely appointed Center and the one expressly-des-
ignated pivot around which Bahá’í administration revolves.4 6 The relationship between the human soul and the
9 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Universal House of Justice is secured through the Covenant. It has already been demonstrated that the
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh is instrumental in the generation of the Bahá’í Administrative Order. The establish-
ment of a covenant between the mystic and the object of mystical quest or the Pole (Qu t b) is an integral part
of the mystical experience. In the case of the Bahá’í Administrative Order, the Covenant between Bahá’u’lláh
and the human soul also implies a relationship between that soul and the Universal House of Justice. This spir-
itual Covenant also serves to maintain the organic unity of the Bahá’í world.
All must seek guidance from the Universal House of Justice and turn to them.4 7 The Will and Te s t a m e n t
maintains that the Universal House of Justice is “the source of all good and freed from all error” and that
“whatever they decide has the same effect as the Text itself.”4 8 “God will verily inspire them with whatsoever
He willeth”4 9 as it serves to “insure the continuity of that divinely-appointed authority”5 0 from the source of
Revelation. This body also provides infallible guidance for Bahá’ís on “legislative and administrative ordi-
nances” and “may enact laws that are not expressly recorded in the Book.”5 1 As such, the Universal House of
Justice represents a unique synthesis of the legislative and spiritual offices, naturally eliminating the tension
permeating Islamic spirituality described above. For the Bahá’í wayfarer the Universal House of Justice is not
a mere administrative organ elected in a three-tier process by universal suffrage; rather, it is a sanctified repos-
itory of divine guidance and the spiritual axis of the Bahá’í world. A c c o r d i n g l y, the establishment of a spiri-
tual connection between the heart of the mystic and the Universal House of Justice becomes an essential com-
ponent of the Bahá’í mystical experience.
The theoretical rather than the practical aspects of Bahá’í mysticism are the primary concern of this article.
H o w e v e r, the fact that the Universal House of Justice represents the axis par excellence of Bahá’í spirituality
should not be considered a mere theoretical or doctrinal element of the Bahá’í mystical experience. It has sig-
nificant practical implications for the manner in which one traverses the mystic path. The following is a high-
ly instructive example of the dynamics between a Bahá’í (and eventual martyr) and the Universal House of
Justice. It is selected from the introduction to a report written for and addressed to the Universal House of
Justice by Mrs. Jínús Mahmúdí, who at the time (1981) was an Auxiliary Board Member. The occasion for this
report was the arrest of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran in August 1981. In it Mrs.
Mahmúdí records an interesting account of the individual members of the N.S.A. and provides unique insights
into the spiritual state of their meetings. It was written under circumstances of extreme danger. Both the rela-
tionship of the National Spiritual Assembly with the Universal House of Justice as well as her individual con-
nection to and understanding of the Supreme Institution of the Bahá’í Administrative Order are clearly con-
veyed in this report:
May my life be sacrificed for you. We give thanks—We are content. You have said that whatever comes to
pass is the will of God. Therefore we render thanks—We are content—We are servants—Just give us the
strength to endure . . . Strengthen each one of us a thousand-fold so that we can withstand the onrush of
the tribes of the earth, then we will like unto the mighty ocean send waves unto the shores of the East and
the West.
Your crazed lovers are now in the prison of love. That new creation that you yourself had created. Yo u r
guidance was not withheld from them even for a moment. Your love and your igniting words would cease-
lessly arrive like copious rain. At first it caused their tears to flow, then it would set them on fire. Then it
bestowed upon them freshness, subtlety, power and strength. This is how you created that new creation.
When Husayn5 2 would call and say that there was a new message from the House of Justice they did not
know how to get to the gathering. They began with prayers and supplications and then would consume your
every word with all their existence. They derived new life from it and prepared for sacrifice.53
The implications for the mystic wayfarer are very real. These souls entered the field of martyrdom inspired
and strengthened by the Universal House of Justice. Their connection to the axis of Bahá’í spirituality allowed
for their mystic union with the Beloved.5 4
The Feast
The Bahá’í Administrative Order encompasses all Bahá’ís at the level of the nineteen-day Feast. This insti-
9 9
Mys ti cal Dim e n si ons of the Adm in is t rative Orde r

tution is established in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
Ve r i l y, it is enjoined upon you to offer a feast, once in every month, though only water be served; for God
hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit through both earthly and heavenly means.5 5
The Feast is the bedrock of Bahá’í administration. The Feast also serves to remove barriers and unite the
community at grass roots, and as such is rendered non-elitist. It is a sacred practice with significant spiritual
and devotional character.5 6 It has authentic counterparts in other mystical schools, such as in Sufism where reg-
ular spiritual meetings entitled majlis (pl. m a j á l i s) are held “for the purpose of reading instructive texts, invo-
cation, and singing.”5 7 The well-known Sufi practice of s a má‘ (spiritual concert) is an example of such spiri-
tual meetings.5 8 These sessions were the source of inspiration and ecstasy for the Sufis, and they began with
and ended with Quránic recitation. The Bahá’í nineteen day Feast likewise is intended for inspiration and
uplifting. ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá elaborates on this theme as follows:
The believers of God must assemble and associate with each other in the utmost love, joy, and fragrance.
They must conduct themselves (in these Feasts) with the greatest dignity and consideration, chant divine
verses, peruse instructive articles, read the Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, encourage and inspire each other with
love for the whole human race, invoke God with perfect joy and fragrance, sing the verses, glorifications,
and praises of the Self-Subsistent Lord, and deliver eloquent speeches. The owner of the house must per-
sonally serve the beloved ones. He must seek after the comfort of all, and with the utmost humility he must
show forth kindness to every one. If the Feast is arranged in this manner and in the way mentioned, that
supper is the “Lord’s Supper,” for the result is the same result and the effect is the same eff e c t .5 9
‘Abdu’l-Bahá envisions music as an element of the Feast. Bahá’í scholars have acknowledged the impor-
tance of music in the Bahá’í spiritual experience.6 0 This suggests a prominent role for music in the Bahá’í
Feast. In short the Feast, as an integral component of the Bahá’í Administrative Order, presents an occasion
for spiritual development for the soul.
The Rulers (Umará’) and the Learned (‘Ulamá)
Bahá’u’lláh has called for two branches of the Bahá’í Administrative Order in the Kitáb-i- ‘Ahdí (Book of
My Covenant): the Rulers (U m a r á) and the Learned (‘ U l a m á) .6 1 The Universal House of Justice has stated that
the “distinction is that whereas the ‘rulers’ function as corporate bodies, the ‘learned’ operate primarily as indi-
viduals.” The administrative functions of both branches are clearly defined and delineated in the Bahá’í
Writings as well as in the writings of the Guardian and the Universal House of Justice. Both branches are inte-
gral to the theory and practice of Bahá’í spirituality. The members of the Local Spiritual Assembly for exam-
ple “should consider themselves as entering the Court of the Presence of God, the Exalted, the most High, and
as beholding Him Who is the Unseen” as ordained by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.6 2 They are to serve
both the individual Bahá’í and the community at large as “channels of divine guidance.”6 3 This branch of the
Bahá’í administration is unique in terms of mystical guidance compared to other schools of mystical thought,
with respect to even though one finds parallels between the “rulers” and the function of the spiritual master in
general.
It is the “learned” arm of the Bahá’í administration, however, that parallels the function of the Sufi master
most closely, and as such it is also integral to the Bahá’í mystical experience. This arm consists of the Hands
of the Cause, the Continental Board of Counselors and the Auxiliary Board. The functions of the Hands of the
Cause as delineated in the Will and Testament are:
The obligations of the Hands of the Cause of God are to diffuse the Divine Fragrances, to edify the souls
of men, to promote learning, to improve the character of all men and to be, at all times and under all con-
ditions, sanctified and detached from earthly things. They must manifest the fear of God by their conduct,
their manners, their deeds and their words.6 4
The functions of the “Hands” as expounded above are clearly similar to that of the Sufi master as examined
e a r l i e r.6 5 These same functions of the Hands of the Cause are carried into the future by the Continental Board
of Counselors, and their Auxiliary Board. Therefore the term “learned” has been applied to the Hands of the
Cause, Counselors, and Auxiliary Board members.
1 0 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Hands of the Cause of God, the Counselors and the members of the Auxiliary Board fall within the
definition of the “learned” given by the beloved Guardian. Thus they are all intimately interrelated and it
is not incorrect to refer to the three ranks collectively as one institution.
H o w e v e r, each is also a separate institution in itself.6 6
The two arms of the Bahá’í Administrative Order are critical components of Bahá’í spirituality, both in mys-
tical method and mystical theory. The “learned” derive their authority and inspiration from the Universal
House of Justice in the same manner that the Sufi masters derive their authority from the Qu t b. The following
comments by the Universal House of Justice regarding the two arms of administration, however, must be kept
in mind, where they indicate the supreme synthesis incorporated in the administrative structures of the Bahá’í
Faith.
The newness and uniqueness of this concept make it difficult to grasp; only as the Bahá’í Community
grows and the believers are increasingly able to contemplate its administrative structure uninfluenced by
concepts from past ages, will the vital interdependence of the “rulers” and the “learned” in the Faith be
properly understood, and the inestimable value of their interaction be fully recognized.6 7
The “newness” of this synthesis makes it difficult to fully comprehend. The Bahá’í mystic therefore stands
in need of a new frame of reference, as there is nothing in our known ancient and traditional spiritual heritage
that can fully compare with the Bahá’í Administrative Order.6 8 This new paradigm requires that every Bahá’í
individual heed this passage from the Lawh-i-Hikmat: “Abase not the station of the learned in Bahá and belit-
tle not the rank of such rulers as administer amidst you.”6 9
Hál (state) and Qál (speech)
Of particular importance for the mystic wayfarer is the distinction between the two Sufi notions of hál ( s p i r-
itual state) and q á l (speech). Hál refers to inner and authentic spiritual state of the wayfarer, whereas qál i s
what one utters by mouth. The former is a genuine spiritual and internal phenomenon, whereas the latter is an
external one. Sufi literature favors the inner spiritual state, which is “real” over the spoken or outer, which may
or may not reflect the inner reality. An example occurs in the narrative of Moses and the Shepherd in Rumi’s
M at hnaví where God teaches Moses the distinction.
We look not at the exterior and the speech (qál),
We behold the inner and the state (hál).7 0
This distinction is maintained in the Bahá’í Wr i t i n g s ,7 1 for the inner state is emphasized in all matters per-
taining to the Bahá’í mystical experience rather than the outer aspects. For example, if a person should go
through the motions of the obligatory prayer carelessly and without any spiritual connection, that prayer may
not bring about the desired mystical experience.7 2 The Bahá’í administrative Order is also an agent for trans-
formation of the human soul, and much like other spiritual practices can only function as such if engaged in
with spirituality and with a pure intention. It is the duty of every Bahá’í wayfarer to engage the Bahá’í admin-
istration as an authentic hál experience rather than a q á l one. Thus, the individual cannot practice adhering to
the letter of the law with regards to the Bahá’í Administrative Order and not the spirit. Only then can the Bahá’í
administration be a component of the Bahá’í spiritual experience. The following passage on behalf of Shoghi
E ffendi touches on the same point:
Laws and institutions, as viewed by Bahá’u’lláh, can become really effective only when our inner spiritual
life has been perfected and transformed. Otherwise religion will degenerate into a mere organization, and
becomes a dead thing. (Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional A t t i t u d e #40)
Conclusion
Writing in the 1930s, Shoghi Effendi stated that there are features and relationships in the Bahá’í
Administrative Order that will be defined and analyzed by future generations. This article is a study of one
such feature—the mystical dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order. The thesis is advanced that
Bahá’u’lláh has through the Covenant bequeathed to posterity “an excellent and priceless heritage.”7 3 T h r o u g h
this heritage the wayfarer can encounter the Holy Outpouring (F a y d - i - M u q a d d a s). The Bahá’í A d m i n i s t r a t i v e
Order has a number of unique and key features when considered as a mystical entity, one of which is the inclu-
1 0 1
Mys ti cal Dim e n si ons of the Adm in is t rative Orde r

sion of all at the level of the Feast. The full spectrum of this topic cannot be explored in this article. The read-
er is invited to consider this thesis in light of the scriptural evidence beyond those presented here. The impli-
cation for the human soul whether as one serving on administrative bodies or otherwise is clear: the encounter
with the Administrative Order is critical to the mystical path.
N o t e s
1) This is not a concept peculiar to the Bahá’í tradition. For example, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy 515 defines mysti-
cism as “a doctrine or discipline maintaining that one can gain knowledge of reality not accessible to sense perception or to
rational conceptual thought.” See the Seven Va l l e y s p. 33 for an elaboration on this theme by Bahá’u’lláh.
2) Bahá’í thought maintains that the chief endowment of the human being is the rational soul (n a f s - i - n á t i q a h) also identified with
the human spirit (r ú h - i - i n s á n í). Ontologically, the human soul is at the end of the Arc of Descent, and at the beginning of the
Arc of Ascent, which is the initiation of the spiritual journey (Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s 2 8 5 - 8 6 ) .
3) Traditional Sufi teachings describe an elaborate psychology (m a‘ rifat an-nafs). In this system, which is based on Quránic nomen-
clature, the soul (n a f s) progresses from the nafs-i-amárah (the commanding soul) to the nafs-i-mutma’inah (the confirmed soul)
and the n a f s - i - m a rdiah (that has attained Divine good-pleasure). The Sufi science of the soul is treated in adequate detail in
Islamic Spirituality: Foundations 294-307. Bahá’u’lláh has acknowledged and confirmed Sufi psychology (cf. M a j m ú ‘ i y - i -
Alwáh-i-Hadrat-i-Bahá’u’lláh 97). Bahá’u’lláh has elsewhere markedly simplified the Bahá’í science of the soul:
Much hath been written in the books of old concerning the various stages in the development of t he soul, such as con-
cupiscence, irascibility, inspiration, benevolence, contentment, Divine good-Pleasure and the like; The Pen of the Most
High, however is disinclined to dwell upon them. Every soul that walketh humbly with its God, in this Day, and cleaveth
unto Him, shall find itself invested with the honor and glory of all goodly names and stations (Gleanings 159).
4) Schimmel divides the mystical approaches into the “volunteristic” and the “gnostic.” The volunteristic mystic aims to posses the
attributes of God, whereas the gnostic mystic attempts to obtain a deeper knowledge of God (Mystical Dimensions of Islam 6 ) .
Both elements are explicitly present in the Bahá’í Writings.
5) Hidden Wo rds of Bahá’u’lláh, from the Persian, passage number 32.
6) Along the way, as the soul begins to change, the individual experiences new understandings of the self and its relationship to
other individuals as well as to God. It is this broad complex of transformed spiritual attitudes and understandings that I will call
mystical experience.
7) A multitude of other key tablets also present and elaborate upon the mystical dimensions of the Bahá’í Revelation. The Qa s í d i y -
i - Va rq á ’ í y y i h and M at hnaví are two such tablets. It is regrettable that the scholarly community in general has not accorded these
Tablets the close attention that they merit, from the standpoint of mystical content and teachings as well as the literary form.
These texts have been examined however with respect to other aspects and there are provisional translations of the Qa s í d a h
available as detailed in S e c ret and Symbol (258-59) by Christopher Buck.
8) In general the author agrees with the assessment made by Jack McLean who states that “it is regrettable that very little Bahá’í
scholarship to date has explored the topic of mysticism in a positive light . . .” (Dimensions in Spirituality 83). Dimensions in
Spirituality by Jack McLean is a noteworthy attempt to compensate this deficiency. It represents the first serious attempt
towards a comprehensive formulation of Bahá’í spirituality. Dr. Dáryús h Ma ‘ání has also contributed a significant volume of
literature on this topic in Persian. His Kanz-i-Asrár (Thesaurus of Mysteries), for example, only the first volume of which has
been published, represents a lexicon of the terminology utilized in the Hidden Wo rds of Bahá’u’lláh.
9) Dimensions in Spirituality ( 8 3 ) .
10) To these must be added the authorized interpretations made by ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Eff e n d i .
11) Dimensions in Spirituality ( 5 8 ) .
12) Kitáb-i-Aqdas paragraph 4. See also The Seven Valleys ( 3 9 - 4 0 ) .
13) Kitáb-i-Aqdas paragraph 33, where Bahá’u’lláh states: “We have exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of worship
of the one true God.” This represents a radical break from the Sufi tradition where a mystic was known for his poverty, and
renunciation of the world. Hence the designations f a q í r in Arabic and d a rv ís h in Persian, both of which mean “poor,” came to
be generally accepted terms for the Sufi. These mystics were frequently inclined to beg, a practice also forbidden by
Bahá’u’lláh in the K i t á b - i - A q d a s.
14) An introductory outline of the development and structure of the Bahá’í Administrative Order is presented by Smith in The Bábí
and Bahá’í Religions: From Messianic Shi‘ism to a World Religion 115-35. The Search for a Just Society (424-33) by John
Huddleston is an interesting presentation and incorporates a rare balance between the spiritual and administrative elements.
Another excellent study is An Organic Order by Roger Coe in The Vision of Shoghi Effendi. The most comprehensive overall
treatment remains that of Shoghi Effendi himself as detailed in his writings such as The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 152-57.
15) Dimensions in Spirituality 1 2 6 .
16) The word “theosophy’ itself poses a problem, as it has been used to denote a variety of ideas and schools of thought.
17) See The Sufi Orders in Islam by Trimingham 138.
1 0 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

18) This article presents a synthesis derived from Bahá’í Sacred Writings and the writings of Shoghi Effendi. Such inductive rea-
soning has inherent flaws and is always dangerous. The author wishes the readership to give close attention to the following
guidance by the Universal House of Justice in this regard.
As you point out in your letter, divine Revelation is infallible and proceeds from an all-encompassing knowledge of the
Truth, but when individual Bahá’ís attempt to apply Sacred Texts to any specific problem or situation they do so using
their own minds which are of limited understanding. . . . The Bahá’í principle of harmony between religion and science
requires, as you say, that a Bahá’í scholar must use his intelligence to arrive at a solution of a specific problem if there
is an apparent conflict between a Sacred Text and other evidence; and also he must accept the fact that some problems
may defy his comprehension. . . . (Scholarship 26)
19) By theophany the authors intend Self-Revelation of the Ipseity. Here the terms manifestation, revelation and theophany are uti-
lized as synonyms. The Ipseity is identified with the Sufi Huwa (He), which refers to the unknowable Essence of God.
20) Book of Certitude 139-43. These definitions are presented in an attempt to arrive at an understanding of “attainment unto the
divine Presence” (L i q á ’ u ’ l l á h).
21) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 1 4 9 .
22) Book of Certitude 1 4 0 .
23) The seeker should achieve this state in the Valley of Search, the first of the Seven Va l l e y s.
24) Book of Certitude 141. This article does not intend to treat the complex theosophical background of the Universal Revelation
and the Specific Revelation. See H i k m a t - i - I l l á h í 278-79 by Qams hi’í and Qá m ú s - i - ˆ q á n 3 : 1194-1204 by A. Is hr á q -K hávarí for
further details.
25) Bahá’í Writings acknowledge Five Divine Presences or realms. These are in descending order Háhút, Láhút (Heavenly Court),
J a b a r ú t (Dominion), Malakút (Kingdom) and N á s ú t (Corporeal World). In the Tablet of All Food (L a w h - i - K u l l - i - Ta ‘ á m) ,
Bahá’u’lláh identifies the Heaven of Absolute Oneness as H á h ú t (Unknowable Essence). Even the Manifestations have no
access to this realm. This paper will not deal with this very interesting topic. For a study of the Five Divine Presences in the
Bahá’í Writings see The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh 1: 58-59, by Adib Taherzadeh. In the Most Holy Outpouring God reveals
His Self to Himself, and He is at once the Lover and the Beloved (M a k á t í b - i -‘Abdu’l-Bahá 2:12-13).
26) Book of Certitude 1 4 2 .
27) The Secondary Revelation (Ta j a l l í y - i -T há n í) corresponds to theophany in the realms of L á h ú t and J a b a r ú t, where the latter rep-
resents the first stage of differentiation or substantiation (t a q y í d). See the Tablet to Varqá (L a w h - i - Va rq á) in Momen’s
“Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics” 192.
28) Book of Certitude 1 4 2 .
29) For example H i k m a t - i - I l l á h í 3 3 0 .
30) This nomenclature has been examined in Milani, Kavian S. and Nafeh Fananapazir, “A Study of the Pen Motif in Bahá’í
Writings.” (J A B S 9 : 1 )
31) A l -Qalam (Pen) is defined by the glossary in Islamic Spirituality: Foundations as “the instrument of God’s creative act.” Sachiko
Murata suggests similar dynamics in her study of gender relation in the writings of Ibn-‘Arabí in the Tao of Islam. She writes:
The Pen writes out these words on the Tablet, thus manifesting the spiritual essences of all things . . . The Pen has two
faces. With one face it looks at God, and with the other it looks at the Tablet and everything below it. In the same way
the Tablet has two faces. With one face it looks at the Pen, and with the other it looks at the worlds that lie below it. In
relation to the Pen, the Tablet is receptive and thereby manifests differentiation. But in relation to cosmos, the Tablet is
active and manifests governing control. (The Tao of Islam 13)
32) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 1 4 0 .
33) A comprehensive treatment of this subject by Keven Brown, “A Bahá’í Perspective on the Origin of Matter, ” appeared in the
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2.3.90. See also Islamic Spirituality: Manifestations (464-66) for a general introduction to the topic.
34) God Passes By 3 2 5 .
35) The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 1 4 4 .
36) The implications of the Covenant for the mystical journey of the human soul towards God will be examined in a later section.
The reference to the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as “the Child of the Covenant” has clear implications for the Bahá’í
w a y f a r e r.
37) The reader will note that this article establishes a number of comparison and contrasts between the Bahá’í Administrative Order
and mystical thought, particularly Islamic mysticism (Sufism). This serves as a lead into the central issues at hand. The author
hopes that the readers note that the Bahá’í Faith is an independent world religion, and not a Sufi sect. The comparison is valid
in as much as the Bahá’í Administrative Order is noted to have authentic mystical content as established by this article.
38) The case was different with Sufism (Islamic mysticism), as it could not be incorporated into the Islamic prophetic structure. T h e
two were however, allowed to co-exist alongside each other as Trimingham points out. See The Sufi Orders in Islam 133-46 for
a detailed study on this theme.
39) As Sufism is not the focus of this article experts will no doubt find this treatment of the Sufi content superficial. The point of
the comparison is however to demonstrate how these issues have been synthesized in the Bahá’í Administrative Order. The Sufi
1 0 3
Mys ti cal Dim e n si ons of the Adm in is t rative Orde r

1 0 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án
Orders (T á ’ i f a s) themselves are later developments in Sufism. Trimingham points out:
The foundation of the orders is the system and relationship of master and disciple, in Arabic murs hid (director) and muríd
(aspirant). It was natural to accept the authority and guidance of those who had traversed the stages (maqámát) of the
Sufi Path. (Sufi Orders in Islam 3)
There have been a number of studies on these Sufi Orders. The most comprehensive to date is that of Trimingham entitled S u f i
O rders in Islam. More recent treatments are found in Islamic Spirituality: Manifestations.
40) Islamic Spirituality: Manifestations 1 4 7 .
41) See Nasr in Islamic Spirituality: Foundations 2 7 1 - 7 2 .
42) It should not be surprising that the Sufi hierarchy was accepted without textual justification. The master-mystic dynamics are
developments that were later systematized to explain the Sufi mystical experience
43) See for example A Sufi Rule for Novices 3 1 .
44) See The Mystics of Islam by Nicholson 126-27.
45 See for example the Kitáb-i-Aqdas paragraphs 42 and 30. The twin pillars of this Order are Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice. Cf. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh ( 1 4 7 ) . According to the Will and Testament the Guardian of the Faith is the
designated and authoritative “interpreter of the Word of God” among other functions. The Universal House of Justice is exam-
ined in detail shortly.
Paragraph 42 of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas is also significant for the fact that it anticipates the very situation, which occurred in the Bahá’í
world in 1957, precipitated by the passing of the Guardian (Shoghi Effendi) and the absence of a Universal House of Justice.
This passage will be explored later in this article.
46) See letter written on behalf of the Guardian quoted in The Continental Board of Counselors 44-45.
47) Will and Testament of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á 2 6 .
48) Will and Testament 14 and 20.
49) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 6 8 .
50) World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 1 4 8 .
51) World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 1 4 9 .
52) Husayn is a reference to Dr. Husayn Nají who at the time was the chairman of the National Spiritual A s s e m b l y.
53) A copy of this historical letter came to my attention in 1986.
54)
O Son of Justice! Whither can a lover go but to the land of his beloved? And what seeker findeth rest away from his
h e a r t ’s desire? To the true lover reunion is life, and separation is death. His breast is void of patience and his heart hath
no peace. A myriad lives he would forsake to hasten to the abode of his beloved. (Hidden Words, from the Persian, num-
ber 4).
55) Kitáb-i-Aqdas paragraph 57.
56) See the K i t á b - i - A q d a s, note number 82.
57) The Concise Encyclopedia of Islam 2 4 8 .
58) Attendance at such gatherings is highly recommended for both the Sufi veteran and the new initiate. cf. Islamic Spirituality:
F o u n d a t i o n s 275. The well-known practice of samá‘ (spiritual concert) characterized by music and dance to induce spiritual
ecstasy is a form of such gatherings. The rules governing this spiritual practice are many and differ according to the Sufi order.
(Cf. A Sufi Guide for Novices, by Milton, 61-66)
59) Principles of Bahá’í A d m i n i s t r a t i o n 1 7 .
60) See Rafati in K hús hihá-í az K harman-i-Adab va Hunar 2:27-28, where the following passage from the Kitáb-i-Aqdas ( p a r a-
graph 51) is suggested regarding the role of music in the Bahá’í spiritual experience:
We have made it lawful for you to listen to music and singing. Take heed, however, lest listening to thereto should cause
you to overstep the bounds of propriety and dignity. Let your joy be the joy born of My Most Great Name, a Name that
bringeth rapture to the heart, and filleth with ecstasy the minds of all who have drawn nigh unto God. We, verily, have
made music as a ladder for your souls, a means whereby they may be lifted up unto the realm on high; make it not, there-
fore, as wings to self and passion.
61) Cf. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 221, where it is written:
It is incumbent upon everyone to aid those daysprings of authority and sources of command who are adorned with the
ornament of equity and justice. Blessed are the rulers and the learned among the people of Bahá.. They are My trustees
among My servants and the manifestations of My commandments amidst My people. Upon them rest My glory, My
blessings and My grace which have pervaded the world of being. In this connection the utterances revealed in the K i t á b -
i-Aqdas such that from the horizon of their words the light of divine grace shineth luminous and resplendent.
Shoghi Effendi has provided the following clarification on these twin arms of Bahá’í A d m i n i s t r a t i o n ,
In this holy cycle the “learned” are, on the one hand, the Hands of the Cause of God, and, on the other, the teachers and

d i ffusers of His teachings, who do not rank as Hands, but who have attained an eminent position in the teaching work.
As to the “rulers” they refer to the members of the Local, National and International Houses of Justice. The duties of
each of these souls will be determined in the future. (Continental Board of Counselors 42.)
62) Kitáb-i-Aqdas paragraph 30.
63) Ridvan 153 message from the Universal House of Justice paragraph 24.
64) Will and Testament of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á 1 3 .
65) The comparison weakens when the entire scope of the activities of the Hands of the Cause are considered. The institution of the
“learned” has the dual function of protection and promotion of the Bahá’í Faith. The “Hands” were also instrumental in con-
ducting the affairs of the Bahá’í Faith during the years 1957-63, after the passing of Shoghi Effendi and prior to the election of
the Universal House of Justice. The critical function of the “learned” was anticipated in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (paragraph 42). A
comparison of paragraphs 40 and 173 further suggests this critical function of the “learned.” The scope of the activities of the
“learned” therefore transcend those of the Sufi masters.
66) Continental Board of Counselors 4 2 .
67) Continental Board of Counselors 4 5 .
68) It is worth noting that according to the Universal House of Justice Bahá’u’lláh has “permanently excluded the evils admittedly
inherent in the institutions of the ‘learned’ in past dispensations.” The Continental Board of Counselors 45.
69) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 1 3 8 - 3 9 .
70) For the full story see Rumi’s M at hnaví book 2: 1722-1817
71) See for example Amr va K ha l q 3:445-48 by A. Mázindarání.
72) According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá “in every word and movement of the obligatory prayer there are allusions, mysteries and a wisdom
that man is unable to comprehend, and letters and scrolls cannot contain” (Spiritual Foundations # 2 7 ) .
73) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 2 1 9 .
B i b l i o g r a p h y
‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. Some A n s w e red Qu e s t i o n s. Trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Wilmette, Ill. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1994.
———. The Will and Testament of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
Audi, Robert. The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.
———. Hidden Wo rds of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
———. K i t á b - i - A q d a s. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1993.
———. M a j m ú ‘ i y - i - A l w á h - i - H a d r a t - i — B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h. Bahá’í-Verlag: Hofheim-Langenhain, 1982.
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. The Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s. Trans. Marziah Gail. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.
Brill, Susan. “Conversive Relationality in Bahá’í Scholarship: Centering the Sacred and Decentering the Self.” Published in the
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 7 . 2 . 1 9 9 5
Brown, Keven. “A Bahá’í Perspective on the Origin of Matter.” Published in the Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2 : 3 : 1 9 9 0 .
Buck, Christopher. Symbol and Secret: Qurán Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-ˆqán. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1995.
Coe, Roger. “An Organic Order: Implications from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi as to the Nature of the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh.” Published in the Vision of Shoghi Effendi, proceedings of the Association for Bahá’í Studies ninth annual con-
ference, November 2-4, 1984, Ottawa, Canada.
Glassé, Cecil. The Concise Encyclopedia of Islam. New York: HarperCollins Publisher, 1991.
G o l d z i h e r, Ignaz. I n t roduction to Islamic Theology and Law. Trans. Andras and Ruth Hamori. Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 1981.
Huddleston, John. The Search for a Just Society. Oxford: George Ronald, 1989.
Is hr á q -K hávarí, A. Qá m ú s - i - ˆ q á n. Vol. 3. Tehran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 128 B.E.
Ma‘ání, D. K a n z - i - A s r á r. Bahá’í-Verlag: Hofheim-Langenhain, 1993.
Mázindarání, A. Amr va K ha l q. Vols. 3 and 4. Bahá’í-Verlag: Hofheim-Langenhain, 1986.
McLean, Jack A. Dimensions in Spirituality. Oxford: George Ronald Publisher, 1994.
Milson. A Sufi Rule for Novices.
Momen, M. “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics,” in Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions vol. 5. Ed. Moojan Momen.
Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988.
Murata, S. The Tao of Islam. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1992.
1 0 5
Mys ti cal Dim e n si ons of the Adm in is t rative Orde r

1 0 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án
N a s r, S.A. Ed. Islamic Spirituality: Foundations. New York: Crossroad Publishing Company, 1991.
———. Islamic Spirituality: Manifestations. New York: Crossroad Publishing Company, 1991.
Nicholson, Reynald A. The Mystics of Islam. London: Penguin Books, 1989.
Principles of Bahá’í Administration: A C o m p i l a t i o n. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
Q a ms hi’í, M. Hikmat-i-Iláhí. Tehran: Intisharat Islamí, 1965.
Rafati, Vahid. “Muqadami’í bi-Ik htisár Dar Bárih-i-Irtibát-i-‘Irfán-i-Islamí bá A m r-i-Bahá’í.” Published in K hús hihá-í az
K harman-i-Adab va Hunar vol. 2. Proceedings from Persian Literature and arts conference held in the summer of 1990 at the
Landegg A c a d e m y, Switzerland. Landegg A c a d e m y, 1991.
Rumi, Mawláná Jalál ud-dín. M at hn a v í - i - M a ‘ n a v í. Tehran: Sohayl Publishers, 1992.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Mystical Dimensions of Islam. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1975.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
———. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
Smith, Peter. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions: From Messianic Shi‘ism to a World Religion. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1987.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Vol. 1. Oxford: George Ronald, 1980.
Trimingham, J. Spencer. The Sufi Orders in Islam. London: Oxford University Press, 1971.
Universal House of Justice. Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional A t t i t u d e. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1980.
———. Continental Board of Counselors. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
———. On Scholarship. Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1995.

Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
by Moojan Momen
R
eligion has played many roles in human history. One of its roles has been that of assisting and promot-
ing the spiritual development of the individual—helping to put the individual in touch with the spiritual
side of their being, placing the individual into a higher, better relationship with Transcendent reality. In
most religions, a minority of the members of religion have made this aspect of the religion their main concern
and have organized themselves for the better pursuit of this aspect. This has resulted in the emergence of
Christian and Buddhist monasteries and Sufi orders in Islam.
In the Bahá’í Faith, mysticism has been brought forward to a central role in the religion. Indeed, Shoghi
E ffendi has defined “that mystical feeling which unites man with God” as “the core of religious faith” (Hornby
1988, 506, no. 1704). It is thus the concern of all Bahá’ís rather than that of just a minority. In this paper, we
will leave aside the examination of personal spirituality and mysticism (the use of prayer, fasting and medita-
tion in order to achieve spiritual progress) and concentrate upon the communal aspect, the organisation of the
Bahá’ís as a mystic community. We will begin with a brief look at the Islamic mystical community, the Sufi
orders, and at Bahá’u’lláh’s historical interactions with these and with Sufi mystics, especially those wander-
ing dervishes who were a familiar sight in nineteenth-century Iran. Then we will examine the general features
of the organisation of mystical orders and communities in the different religions of the world and Bahá’u’lláh’s
criticism of these. Lastly, we will look at the way that Bahá’u’lláh organised the Bahá’í community in such a
way as to be a new type of mystical community.
Bahá’u’lláh and Mystics
There is much evidence that Bahá’u’lláh was sympathetic to and had close relations with many Muslim mys-
tics during His lifetime. The clearest evidence for this comes from the Baghdad period. When Bahá’u’lláh left
Baghdad because of disunity among the Bábís, He took up the lifestyle of a wandering dervish among the
Sulaymaniyyah mountains. He soon became regarded as a Sufi s ha yk h and was invited by the head of the
K halidiyyah (Naqs hbandíyyah Order) in the Kurdish town of Sulaymaniyyah to stay in their t a k i y y a h ( r e t r e a t ) .
While there, Bahá’u’lláh expounded on the great mystical text, the Futúhát Makkiyyah of Ibn al- ‘Arabí. He
also composed a poem, the Qasídah-yi Warqá’iyyah (Ode of the Dove), in the style of the Tá’iyyah, a famous
poem of the Sufi master, Ibn Fárid. Although the Bábís of Baghdad managed to persuade Bahá’u’lláh to return
there, He continued His ties with the Kurdish Sufis, who visited him from time to time in Baghdad. Since the
time of His years in Baghdad He had been in touch with the Q ádiriyyah Order as well as the Naqs hb a n d í y y a h .
He wrote the Four Valleys for a Kurdish Sufi leader whom He had met in Sulaymáníyyih, S ha yk h ‘A b d u ’ r-
Rahmán Tálabání of Kirkúk, the head of the prominent Kurdish Tálabání family and leader (s ha yk h) of the
Q ádirí Sufi order in Kurdistan. Bahá’u’lláh also wrote the Seven Valleys for S ha yk h Muhiyu’d-Dín, a Sufi of
the Q ádirí order, who was to succeed his father as a Sufi s ha yk h in Gilzarda. In these texts, Bahá’u’lláh showed
Himself to be perfectly at home with Sufi terminology and concepts.
During the rest of Bahá’u’lláh’s sojourns, He remained in touch with Sufi initiates and s ha yk hs. Hájí Mírzá
Ridá Qulí Safá, a well-known Sufi s ha yk h of the Ni‘matu’lláhí order, visited him in Istanbul; Hájí Muhammad
‘Alí Pírzádih, a celebrated Sufi, boarded Bahá’u’lláh’s ship at Alexandria to pay his respects; and Hájí
Muhammad ‘Alí Sayyah visited Bahá’u’lláh in ‘Akká. Many Ottoman officials were inclined to Sufism and
several of these came to regard Bahá’u’lláh very highly on account of the spirituality they observed in him.
Among these was Sulayman Pás há, a Sufi of the Q ádiriyyah Order who was governor of Edirne while
Bahá’u’lláh was there. Bahá’u’lláh also instructed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to respond to a request from Safvet Páshá for
a commentary on an Islamic Tradition much favoured by Sufis (“I was a Hidden Treasure . . .”).
Among those who became Bahá’ís during the time of Bahá’u’lláh, there were many who were either Sufis
or were inclined towards Sufism. Among these was the famous calligrapher Mírzá Muhammad Husayn
Mishkín-Qalam, a Sufi of the Ni‘matulláhí order; Sulaymán K hán, later known as Jamál Effendi; and A h m a d
1 0 7
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

Yazdí, to whom the Arabic Tablet of Ahmad was addressed; and several of several of the companions of
Bahá’u’lláh in His journeys, including Darvish Sidq ‘Alí, Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí Isfahání, and Hájí
Muhammad K hán Balúch. Many other prominent disciples of Bahá’u’lláh either showed interest in Sufism or
wore the garb of dervishes for a time. These include Mullá Muhammad Zarandí Nabil-i-A‘zam and Mullá
Muhammad Qá’iní Nabíl-i-Akbar.
There were also a number of conversions among Iranian Sufi dervishes, who, even after conversion, con-
tinued as wandering dervishes. Hájí Qalandar of Hamadán, upon becoming a Bahá’í took to the road and lived
the life of a wandering dervish, meeting with and converting other dervishes. He visited ‘Akká on several
occasions, once in the company of another Bahá’í dervish Sádiq-‘Alí Qazvíní (Mazandarání n.d., 6:711 - 1 2 ) .
Hájí ‘ Abdu’l-Karím of Qazvín, a twenty-year-old man from a wealthy family, met Hájí Qalandar and was con-
verted both to the Bahá’í Faith and the dervish way of life. Leaving behind all his property, he took the Sufi
name of ‘Árif- ‘Alí and began to travel. After a time, a certain Ismá‘íl joined him as student, taking the Sufi
name Hájí Ta y f ú r. These two travelled through the Ottoman domains eventually reaching ‘Akká, where
Bahá’u’lláh gave Hájí ‘Abdu’l-Karím the name of Hájí Mu’nis (Mazandarání n.d., 6:554-5). In Baghdad, the
two travellers met and converted Hájí Ta v a n g a r, another dervish from Qazvín, and four of his companions
(Mazandarání n.d., 6:555-6). In this way, the Bahá’í Faith gradually spread among the dervishes. On one occa-
sion, a group of six Bahá’í dervishes appeared in ‘ Akká to visit Bahá’u’lláh.
It would appear that Bahá’u’lláh looked to Sufism and mysticism as a way of attracting Sunnis to the Bahá’í
Faith, since Sunnis were usually hostile to anything that emerged from Iran and which they therefore consid-
ered tainted with Shi‘ism. This process started in Baghdad where Bahá’u’lláh produced several mystical works
in a style familiar to Sufis. But it was from ‘Akká that Bahá’u’lláh appears to have organised and directed a
campaign to spread the Bahá’í Faith among Arab, Turkish and Indian Sunnis through Bahá’í mystics, who
would travel through these lands in the garb of dervishes, speaking to the people and hoping to guide a few to
the Bahá’í Faith. They would, of course, use Bahá’u’lláh’s Seven Valley and Four Valleys as well as His mys-
tical poetry for this. Among those who appear to have been specifically instructed by Bahá’u’lláh to carry out
this campaign were Hájí Qalandar, who after visiting Bahá’u’lláh travelled through Syria, Iraq, and A n a t o l i a
(Mazandarání n.d., 6:711-12); Jamál Effendi, who was instructed by Bahá’u’lláh to travel in the garb of a Sufi
dervish throughout the Ottoman domains and teach the Bahá’í Faith (1871-5; Samandar, Ta r ik h, 213 and
Momen 1999-2000, 50) and who was later instructed to continue in the same way throughout India and south-
east and central Asia (Momen 1999-2000); Hájí Eliyáhú who, after visiting Bahá’u’lláh in ‘Akká, travelled
throughout the Sunni world in dervish dress (Mazandarání n.d., 6:674); and Sayyid Hás him of Kás hán, who on
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s instructions spent seven years wandering through Iraq, Syria and the Arabian peninsula dressed
as a dervish (Va h i d - Tehrani n.d., 1-2). None of these individuals appears to have had any great success, how-
e v e r, except for Jamál Eff e n d i ’s efforts in India and Burma. Later, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá appears to have abandoned
this plan in favour of using Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl Gulpáygání to approach the more orthodox Sunni Muslims at the
Azhár University in Cairo.
The Social Organisation of Mystical Orders
Insofar as we can discern similarities in the social organisation of the mysticism in the various religions of
the world, these would consist of:
1. A hierarchical structure with a leader who is regarded as being farthest along the spiritual path and who
is thought capable of guiding others along that path. One of the main features of mysticism in the religions of
the world is the fact that they usually result in some form of hierarchical organisation. In Theravada and most
forms of Mahayana Buddhism, the spiritual path can only be successfully trod in a monastery under the guid-
ance and authority of an abbot or senior monk. In many forms of Hinduism, true mysticism only occurs under
the tutelage of a guru. Absolute obedience of His commands is required. In Christianity, the traditional path for
mystics was to join one of the more mystical monastic orders, such as the Franciscans and the Carmelites.
These orders often stressed discipline and obedience to the hierarchy of the order. Islamic mysticism, Sufism,
is organised into orders, each of which has a s ha yk h (p í r, murs hi d) or leader. The fact that progress along the
mystical path can only be attained under the authority and guidance of a s ha yk h is emphasised by such say-
ings as “he who has no s ha yk h has the Devil as his s ha yk h. ”
1 0 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

One of the aspects of the master-initiate relationship that is thus set up is that of confession, laying oneself
emotionally and psychologically bare before the master. This practice forms an important part of Christian
mystical and monastic orders, but is also to be found in Sufi orders. Another aspect is the complete submission
and obedience shown by the initiate towards the master. It was not unusual, for example, for the initiate to pros-
trate themselves before the master. Rules about how initiates are to behave, especially towards the master are
part of Christian, Sufi and Buddhist orders. A typical text explaining the relationship of master to initiate is the
following description of Sufism:
This relationship draws the novice from the turmoil of the world into the refuge provided by the master’s
spiritual presence and protection. This result demands, however, that two conditions be fulfilled: (1) con-
fession and (2) compliance with the master’s guidance. (Ajmal 1987: 295-6)
2. The insistence that it is only by personal, oral transmission of the teaching and experience of the com-
munity that one can really make progress along the spiritual path—it is not something that can just be learned
from books. This principle is held by mystics and mystical orders from Buddhism and Hinduism through to
Islam and Christianity. Thus for example, Honen, the Japanese Buddhist Master and founder of the Jodo school
of Buddhism, said:
A man who reads about the doctrines of the Jodo without receiving oral instruction will miss the thing real-
ly necessary to the attainment of Ojo (enlightenment). (Shunjo 394)
All mystical orders are to some extent gnostic—they hold to a secret or knowledge or wisdom which is only
transmitted through their order. Indeed, even within the order, there is sometimes an elite inner circle that has
full access to this esoteric knowledge while the outer circle merely benefits and obtains a grace and blessing
through being associated with the inner circle. There is thus usually a distinct elitism associated with these
mystical orders. This state of affairs is described thus by Frithjof Schuon:
[A]lthough esotericism is reserved, by definition and because of its very nature, for an intellectual elite
necessarily restricted in numbers, one cannot help observing that initiatory organizations have at all times
included in their ranks a relatively large number of members . . . this leads to a distinction, within the broth-
erhoods between inner and outer circles, the members of the latter being scarcely aware of the real nature
of the organization to which they belong . . . (Schuon 1984: 33-4)
These mystical orders usually relate this secret or esoteric knowledge to the founder of their religion, some-
times saying that it is a secret teaching that the founder transmitted to those who were ready to hear it or else
that the founder transmitted in a dream or vision.
3. An inclination towards monasticism or asceticism. Insofar as these mystical orders perceive the world and
its distractions to be a hindrance to their quest, these groups try to isolate themselves from the world. In the
monastic setting there are often elaborate rules of behaviour for initiates to follow, commonly involving peri-
ods of isolation, a reduction or absence of speech, sexual abstinence and a general reduction in ordinary human
interactions. Even in Islam, where monasticism is prohibited, the Sufi orders developed retreats (k ha n e g a h s,
t e k k e s , or z a w i y a s), which shared many similarities with monasteries.
4. Practices that lead to altered states of consciousness. The commonest form of this is the repeated rhyth-
mic chanting of a formula (mantra [ S k t . ] , d hikr [ A r. ], or h e s y c h a s m [ G r.]), usually accompanied by rhythmic
breathing leading to hyperventilation and resulting in ecstatic and trance experiences. In fact these ecstatic and
trance states result in altered states of consciousness which are often interpreted by those experiencing them
as become one with the universe. Thus they reinforce the monistic view of reality to which these mystical
orders subscribe.
5. Ethics, Law and Unity. There are a number of other features which are not typical of mystical orders but
which did occur historically in Islam and which we will note here because they were of particular concern to
Bahá’u’lláh. In Islamic history we can see a development in mysticism. In the earliest phase, mystics were just
pious individuals, such as Hasan al-Basrí and Rabí‘a (both eighth century C.E.) with a desire for direct com-
munion with and experience of the Divine. Although these individuals may have had a circle of students to
whom they gave religious instruction, they did not attempt to set up a religious community or order. Later, in
the Twelfth through Thirteenth Centuries, Islamic mysticism became more formal with the setting up of the
1 0 9
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

spiritual lineages of the great Sufi orders, such as the Q ádiriyyah and the Rifá’iyyah. Although ideally, each
successive leader of the order was chosen by the previous leader on the basis of their high spiritual station and
their ability to guide others, in practice, the leadership of most Sufi orders became hereditary. By the Fifteenth
C e n t u r y, these Sufi orders had begun to establish formal practices such as repetitive chanting, rhythmic breath-
ing, song and dance. Increasingly the focus was away from individual spiritual development and towards group
practices (which often led to altered levels of consciousness and the ecstatic experiences associated with such
states), the veneration of saints and shrines, and the working of miracles and cures—activities that no doubt
increased the popularity of these orders, but were of little relevance to the true mystic quest. In other words,
spiritual depth had been sacrificed for show, effect and sentiment.
In several religions, and especially in Islam, there has also been a tendency for some of those pursuing the
mystical path to degenerate morally. Thinking that they have achieved a higher plane through spiritual exer-
cises and discipline, they have considered themselves above the religious law and sometimes sunk into moral-
ly reprehensible behaviour.
The mystical thread in the development of religions has always been in tension with other threads, such as
the trend towards ritualism and legalism. In the religions of the West, those tending towards legalism have usu-
ally attacked those who follow the mystic path. Thus another problem of the mystic path has been the propen-
sity to cause divisions.
When Bahá’u’lláh came to analyse and give His formulation of the spiritual problems of humanity, He gave
some degree of attention to what was by then the ancient question of how to organise a community that sets
out to promote spiritual development. In His analysis, He pointed out the weaknesses of the existing systema-
tisations of the mystic path in the world’s religions.
Bahá’u’lláh’s critique of existing mystical pathways
In His writings, Bahá’u’lláh critiques all five of the characteristic features of mystical order that are enu-
merated above. As He surveys the various religious hierarchies and organizational frameworks that existed in
His day, He found none of them satisfactory for His purpose of creating a mystical religious community.
1. Leadership and a hierarchical structure. Bahá’u’lláh’s criticism of all forms of religious leadership can be
found in many places in His works. His assessment of them is:
Leaders of religion, in every age, have hindered their people from attaining the shores of eternal salvation,
inasmuch as they held the reins of authority in their mighty grasp. Some for the lust of leadership, others
through want of knowledge and understanding, have been the cause of the deprivation of the people. By
their sanction and authority, every Prophet of God hath drunk from the chalice of sacrifice, and winged His
flight unto the heights of glory. . . . Content with a transitory dominion, they have deprived themselves of
an everlasting sovereignty. (Bahá’u’lláh 1989:15-1 6 )
Although Bahá’u’lláh allows that in past ages, when the majority of people were illiterate and there were no
social support systems in society, religious leaders and religious professionals may have been necessary, He
states that that stage in human history is now past. With the increasing ability of all human beings to obtain an
education and read the scriptures for themselves, the balance has now shifted so that the negative aspects of
their role out-weigh the positive.
Bahá’u’lláh also comments on some specific practices that are part of the master-initiate relationship. A p a r t
from abolishing the religious leadership of the mystical master and the obedience due to him, Bahá’u’lláh pro-
hibits the confessing by one individual of his/her sins before any individual or even in a group setting:
Moreover such confession before people results in one’s humiliation and abasement, and God—exalted be
His glory—wisheth not the humiliation of His servants. (Bahá’u’lláh 1978, 24)
2. Oral Transmission and Gnostic Knowledge. With regard to oral transmission of scripture and knowledge,
which is considered of primary importance in most mystical traditions, Bahá’u’lláh deals with this as an aspect
of His criticism of religious leadership as a whole. The insistence on oral transmission is often a pretext for
elevating and strengthening the position of the leader of a mystical order. But the tradition of oral transmission
and master-initiate relationships is also condemned by Bahá’u’lláh because it leads to t a q l í d, the blind imita-
1 1 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

tion and following of the master, and thus to spiritual stagnation. It negates that spirit of search and investiga-
tion which is essential on the mystic path: “O My Brother, journey upon these planes in the spirit of search,
not in blind imitation” (Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Va l l e y s and K i t á b - i - A q d a s, p. 24). He also attributed the corruption
of Islam to its attribution of binding authority to the orally transmitted reports of the sayings of Muhammad
(Shoghi Effendi in Hornby 1988, 439, no. 1435).
With regard to the gnostic knowledge implicit in most mystical orders, Bahá’u’lláh states that in this day all
the spiritual knowledge and guidance that is necessary for the mystic quest is freely and openly available to
all. All claims to a secret spiritual knowledge that is above what ordinary people can understand are to be treat-
ed with great suspicion.
And among the people is he who layeth claim to inner knowledge, and still deeper knowledge concealed
within this knowledge. Say: Thou speakest false! By God! What thou dost possess is naught but husks
which We have left to thee as bones are left to dogs. (1992, 36)
Even more strongly condemned are those who claim that certain specific abstruse knowledge is necessary
for spiritual understanding. Bahá’u’lláh condemned, for example Karím K hán Kirmání, the S ha yk hí leader
who taught mystical philosophy to his circle of disciples. He states that he had perused Kirmání’s book
I rs há d u ’ l - Aw w á m (Guidance to the Ignorant) and “From this title We perceived the odour of conceit and vain-
g l o r y, inasmuch as he hath imagined himself a learned man and regarded the rest of the people ignorant” (1989,
185). More specifically, Bahá’u’lláh condemns Kirmání for claiming that some twenty obscure and abstruse
branches of learning were necessary in order to understand Muhammad’s Mi‘ráj, the night-ascent to heaven,
one of the key events in the life of Muhammad, that has always been understood by mystics in Islam to be a
symbol of the mystic’s ascent towards God.
We noticed that he had enumerated some twenty or more sciences, the knowledge of which he considered
to be essential for the comprehension of the mystery of the “Mi‘ráj.” We gathered from his statements that
unless a man be deeply versed in them all, he can never attain to a proper understanding of this transcen-
dent and exalted theme. Among the specified sciences were the science of metaphysical abstractions, of
a l c h e m y, and natural magic. Such vain and discarded learnings, this man hath regarded as the pre-r e q u i-
sites of the understanding of the sacred and abiding mysteries of divine Knowledge . . .
Gracious God! Such is the measure of his understanding . . . how clear and evident it is to every discern-
ing heart that this so-called learning is and hath ever been, rejected by Him Who is the one true God. How
can the knowledge of these sciences, which are so contemptible in the eyes of the truly learned, be regard-
ed as essential to the apprehension of the mysteries of the “Mi‘ráj,” whilst the Lord of the “Mi‘r á j ”
Himself was never burdened with a single letter of these limited and obscure learnings, and never defiled
His radiant heart with any of these fanciful illusions? . . . By the righteousness of God! Whoso desireth to
fathom the mystery of this “Mi‘ráj,” and craveth a drop from this ocean, if the mirror of his heart be
already obscured by the dust of these learnings, he must needs cleanse and purify it ere the light of this
mystery can be reflected therein. (1989, 186-7)
Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes in His works that true spiritual knowledge is not dependent on book learning or
instruction in abstruse and esoteric matters. It is purely dependent on one’s spiritual qualities and capacities:
Heed not the idle contention of those who maintain that the Book and verses thereof can never be a testi-
mony unto the common people, inasmuch as they neither grasp their meaning nor appreciate their value.
And yet, the unfailing testimony of God to both the East and the West is none other than the Qur’án. We r e
it beyond the comprehension of men, how could it have been declared as a universal testimony unto all
people? . . .
Such contention is utterly fallacious and inadmissible. It is actuated solely by arrogance and pride. Its
motive is to lead the people astray from the Ridván of divine good-pleasure and to tighten the reins of their
authority over the people. And yet, in the sight of God, these common people are infinitely superior and
exalted above their religious leaders who have turned away from the one true God. The understanding of
His words and the comprehension of the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise dependent upon
human learning. They depend solely upon purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit. (1989,
2 1 0 - 11 )
1 1 1
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

3. Monasticism or asceticism. Bahá’u’lláh states that monasticism and withdrawal from the world is no
longer an acceptable means for individuals to try to achieve spiritual progress. He instructs monks and others
who seclude themselves to go out into the world and occupy themselves with what will benefit humanity:
Say: O concourse of monks! Seclude not yourselves in your churches and cloisters. Come ye out of them
by My leave, and busy, then, yourselves with what will profit you and others. Thus commandeth you He
Who is the Lord of the Day of Reckoning. Seclude yourselves in the stronghold of My love. This, truly, is
the seclusion that befitteth you, could ye but know it. He that secludeth himself in his house is indeed as
one dead. It behooveth man to show forth that which will benefit mankind. He that bringeth forth no fruit
is fit for the fire. (1988, 49)
Bahá’u’lláh also admonishes monks and spiritual ascetics that the concept of celibacy as an assistance to
spiritual progress is erroneous. In Christianity, for example, Bahá’u’lláh states that it was born out of a mis-
guided idea that all sexual intercourse is evil and out of a ill-conceived desire to emulate Christ’s celibacy.
Bahá’u’lláh states that it is lechery that is forbidden, not legitimate marital relations, and that the reason for
C h r i s t ’s celibacy was not intended to indicate that this was a desirable state but rather was born out of neces-
s i t y. Addressing monks in general, He states:
Enter ye into wedlock, that after you another may arise in your stead. We, verily, have forbidden you lech-
e r y, and not that which is conducive to fidelity. . . . He that married not (Jesus Christ) could find no place
wherein to abide, nor where to lay His head, by reason of what the hands of the treacherous had wrought.
His holiness consisted not in the things ye have believed and imagined, but rather in the things which
belong unto Us. (1988, 49-5 0 )
Bahá’u’lláh condemns asceticism and the severe practices of self-denial and self-punishment that often
accompany this. He implies that these actions are often only done so as to attract the adulation of the masses:
How many a man hath secluded himself in the climes of India, denied himself the things that God hath
decreed as lawful, imposed upon himself austerities and mortifications, and hath not been remembered by
God, the Revealer of Verses. Make not your deeds as snares wherewith to entrap the object of your aspi-
ration. (1992, 36)
4. Practices that lead to altered states of consciousness. Among the laws given by Bahá’u’lláh is one that
commands the chanting of the phrase “Alláhu Abha” 95 times daily. There is some question as to whether this
can be considered the same as Sufi d hi k r or a mantra. The fact that one must count the number of times that
one is saying the formula is somewhat against that loss of consciousness of one’s surroundings that usually
accompanies trance and ecstasy states associated with reciting d hikrs and mantras.
What we can say is that although Bahá’u’lláh made the spiritual development of the individual a central con-
cern of His religion, He did not raise any of the practices leading to altered states of consciousness to the level
of a law. Thus He evidently did not think these practices were essential for spiritual development. Moreover,
Bahá’u’lláh warns against excessive recitation to the point that causes weariness and dejection:
Pride not yourselves on much reading of the verses or on a multitude of pious acts by night and day; for
were a man to read a single verse with joy and radiance it would be better for him than to read with lassi-
tude all the Holy Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Read ye the sacred verses in such
measure that ye be not overcome by languor and despondency. Lay not upon your souls that which will
weary them and weigh them down, but rather what will lighten and uplift them, so that they may soar on
the wings of the Divine verses towards the Dawning-place of His manifest signs; this will draw you near-
er to God, did ye but comprehend. (1992, 149)
Another mystical activity which some traditions recommend is the practice of visualization. In Mahayana
Buddhism, for example, one of the spiritual practices that is recommended is that of visualising the We s t e r n
Paradise (Sukhavati) of Amitabha. This visualisation is achieved under the instruction of a master. ‘A b d u ’ l -
Bahá speaks of a similar process of visualising but rather than visualising a heavenly place, the process that
He refers to is the intellectual visualising, with the inner eye, of a spiritual truth. Moreover, ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá does
not imply that a master is required for this process to occur:
Day and night you must strive that you may attain to the significances of the heavenly Kingdom, perceive
1 1 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

the signs of Divinity, acquire certainty of knowledge and realize that this world has a Creator, a Vi v i f i e r, a
P r o v i d e r, an Architect—knowing this through proofs and evidences and not through susceptibilities, nay,
r a t h e r, through decisive arguments and real vision—that is to say, visualizing it as clearly as the outer eye
beholds the sun. In this way may you behold the presence of God and attain to the knowledge of the holy,
divine Manifestations. (1982, 227)
5. Ethics, Law and Unity. Bahá’u’lláh was strongly critical in several places in His writings of certain devel-
opments in Sufism. In the Seven Valleys, He specifically refutes those Sufis who have asserted that once a
mystic has attained a certain level or stage on the mystic path, then religious laws, which are intended for the
uninitiated masses, are no longer incumbent upon them:
In all these journeys the traveller must stray not the breadth of a hair from the “Law,” for this is indeed the
secret of the “Path” and the fruit of the Tree of “Tr u th” ; and in all these stages he must cling to the robe
of obedience to the commandments, and hold fast to the cord of shunning all forbidden things, that he may
be nourished from the cup of the Law and informed of the mysteries of Truth. (1991, 39-4 0 )
In general, in Bahá’u’lláh’s time, the behaviour and morals of some Sufis had sunk to a low point. Some
were intoxicated and unruly; others were unprincipled charlatans who performed sleights of hand and trickery
to fool the uneducated masses into thinking that they had super-natural powers. After a passage in which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that Bahá’u’lláh ordained a special night for the mystics and dervishes, He goes on to cor-
rect any possible misunderstanding as to who is meant:
He went on to say that “dervish” does not denote those persons who wander about, spending their nights
and days in fighting and folly; rather, He said, the term designates those who are completely severed from
all but God, who cleave to His laws, are firm in His Faith, loyal to His Covenant, and constant in worship.
It is not a name for those who, as the Persians say, tramp about like vagrants, are confused, unsettled in
mind, a burden to others, and of all mankind the most coarse and rude. (1971, 38)
In addition, Bahá’u’lláh condemns some mystics for allowing themselves to be fed and supported by the
generality of the people, while they seclude themselves and do nothing that contributes to the general good.
Among them are mystics who bear allegiance to the Faith of Islam, some of whom indulge in that which
leadeth to idleness and seclusion. I swear by God! It lowereth man’s station and maketh him swell with
pride. Man must bring forth fruit. One who yieldeth no fruit is, in the words of the Spirit [Christ], like unto
a fruitless tree, and a fruitless tree is fit but for the fire. (1978, 60)
Bahá’u’lláh was also critical of any movement that created a split or disunity in a religion. Mystics often
created such disunity by being at odds with the majority of their fellow-believers, although it must be admit-
ted that it has usually been the latter and their leaders that have initiated the conflict and have persecuted the
mystics. In the Tablet of Unity, Bahá’u’lláh condemns in particular the creation of separate sects based on dif-
ferent rituals and public acts of worship. He refers in particular to different ways of saying the ritual obligato-
ry prayer and to the Sufi practice of dancing. He laments the fact that Islam has become weakened because it
has become divided into numerous religious communities, each with their own public rituals and practices.
Bahá’u’lláh considers that the Sufi orders have played a major role in this process of dividing and weakening
Islam. In the following provisional translation of a passage from the Tablet of Unity, Bahá’u’lláh specifically
refers to a number of Sufi orders as examples of this process:
The Holy Law (S ha r í‘ah) of the Messenger of God may be likened to an ocean from which innumerable
gulfs branch out. And this is the cause of the weakness of the S ha r í‘ah of God among the peoples. Until
now no-one, not kings nor subjects nor the indigent have understood the reason for this, nor have they
appreciated how to regain that power that has vanished and the learning that has fallen away. Thus one gulf
is S hí‘a, one gulf is Sunni, one S ha yk hí, another S háh Ni‘matulláhí, one Naqs hbandí, another Malámatí,
one Jalálí, another Rifá‘í, and yet another K hárábátí. Thus are multiplied the innumerable pathways to hell.
Thus do the stones weep and the Pen of the All-High laments. Seest thou what has befallen a S ha r í‘a h
whose light illumined the world and whose fire, that is to say the fire of its love, was the guide of its peo-
ples. Well is it with those who ponder upon these matters and investigate then and are fair in their judge-
ment. Thus did this difference in public rituals become the cause of the shaking of the foundations of the
Cause of God (Bahá’u’lláh unpublished)
1 1 3
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

Bahá’u’lláh’s Formula for a Mystic Community
One of the most important things that Bahá’u’lláh did was to make it clear that the quest for personal spir-
itual development (the mystical quest) is the central concern of religion. This is something that has not always
been clear in other religions. In the majority orthodox interpretation of Judaism and both Sunni and Shí‘í Islam,
for example, the central concern of the religion is the following of a Holy Law, the correct performance of rit-
uals and the correct pattern of life. Bahá’u’lláh annuls most of the provisions of the Holy Law, saying in eff e c t
that such rigid frameworks were necessary in the childhood of humanity but now that humanity has reached
m a t u r i t y, decisions on the pattern of one’s life should be left to the ethical judgement and sense of dignity and
moderation of the individual. Instead, He refocuses the energies of the followers of His Religion on the spiri-
tual development of the individual. From now on, the mystic quest is to be everyone’s concern. Using the term
that in Sufism signifies the mystical union of the lover and the Beloved (w i s á l), Bahá’u’lláh calls this day, “the
Day whereon the Finger of majesty and power hath opened the seal of the Wine of Reunion (w i s á l), and called
all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth.” (1983, 28-2 9 )
Thus while the mystical quest is a religious interest of a minority in other religions (the members of Sufi
orders, the ascetics in Hinduism, the monks in Christianity and Judaism, etc.), in the Bahá’í Faith, it becomes
a central concern of the whole community. While in other religions, separate communities need to be set up in
order to cater for the minority who wish to pursue the mystical quest (Sufi orders, Christian and Buddhist
monastic communities), in the Bahá’í Faith, the whole community is engaged in the mystical quest and thus
the Bahá’í community itself is the mystic community. The Bahá’í administrative order thus becomes the org a-
nization of a mystic community.
1. Leadership and a hierarchical structure. In the religious community that He is creating, Bahá’u’lláh does
not want individuals to claim authority. He does not want any Bahá’í to see himself or herself as being of a
higher rank than other Bahá’ís. ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá emphasizes this when He states that, despite His position of
being the leader of the community and the Centre of the Covenant, He wishes His rank to be merely that of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (the “servant” [lit. “slave”] of Bahá’u’lláh; Shoghi Effendi 1991, 139). Shoghi Effendi similar-
ly refused all attempts by Bahá’ís to elevate his position and he signed his English letters to Bahá’ís “your true
b r o t h e r.” Bahá’u’lláh treats of this theme in the Tablet of Unity, of which the following is a provisional trans-
lation of the relevant part:
Another type is the unity of rank or station. This results in the rising up of the Cause and its elevation
among the peoples. But if ranking and preference of one over another comes into its midst, the world falls
into ruin and desolation may be witnessed. Those souls who have drunk from the sea of the utterance of
the All-Merciful and are turning towards the All-High Horizon should see themselves as being of one rank
and one station. Should this injunction be firmly established and be realised through the power and might
of God, the world would be seen as the Abhá paradise. Verily human beings are exalted, as can be found
in every Divine scripture; but to consider oneself as more learned, more favoured, more accomplished,
more righteous or more exalted is a mighty error and sin. Well is it with those souls who are adorned with
the ornament of this unity and are accepted before God. Look at the ‘ulamá of Iran. If they had not con-
sidered themselves the most exalted and most accomplished of all beings, they would not have caused
those wretched followers of theirs to curse and blaspheme against the Desire of the Worlds. All humanity
is dismayed, nay the entire world is bewildered, at these false and neglectful souls. The fire of pride and
vainglory has burnt them all, but they are not aware of it and do not understand. They have not drunk a
drop of the ocean of knowledge and understanding. Woe unto them and unto what their tongues have
uttered and unto what their hands have wrought on the day of retribution and on this day when the people
have arisen for the Lord of the Worlds. (Bahá’u’lláh, unpublished)
Having established this principle, Bahá’u’lláh was then left with the question that, if the Bahá’ís were to be
a mystic community and if there was to be no religious leaders in the community, what then was going to
replace the role of the spiritual guide or master to that mystic community? What was going to replace the Sufi
s ha yk h or murs hid, the guru, the abbot or senior monk of the monastery?
There are several ways in which the role of the spiritual guide or master is replaced in the Bahá’í commu-
n i t y. First, Bahá’u’lláh instructs every Bahá’í to read and meditate upon a passage of the Bahá’í scriptures
1 1 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

every day: “Peruse ye every day the verses revealed by God. Blessed is the man who reciteth them and
reflecteth upon them” (Bahá’u’lláh in C o m p i l a t i o n 1991, 1:188, no. 363). Through this process, spiritual
secrets will be revealed to the mystic: “Meditate profoundly, that the secret of things unseen may be revealed
unto you, that you may inhale the sweetness of a spiritual and imperishable fragrance” (Bahá’u’lláh 1989, 8).
This process will in itself lead to progress along the mystic path:
They who recite the verses of the A l l-Merciful in the most melodious of tones will perceive in them that
with which the sovereignty of earth and heaven can never be compared. From them they will inhale the
divine fragrance of My worlds—worlds which today none can discern save those who have been endowed
with vision through this sublime, this beauteous Revelation. Say: These verses draw hearts that are pure
unto those spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed in words nor intimated by allusion. Blessed be
those who hearken. (Bahá’u’lláh 1992, 11 6 )
There are, in the Bahá’í scriptures, numerous prayers, supplication and meditations from Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá which will assist in this process of spiritual enlightenment and progress.
Turn to God, supplicate humbly at His threshold, seeking assistance and confirmation, that God may rend
asunder the veils that obscure your vision. Then will your eyes be filled with illumination, face to face you
will behold the reality of God and your heart become completely purified from the dross of ignorance,
reflecting the glories and bounties of the Kingdom. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá 1982, 293)
Beyond this, the Bahá’í teachings also have provision for the obtaining of spiritual guidance through tap-
ping the spiritual wisdom of the community. The process of consultation is applied to all aspects of Bahá’í
community life. It is applied in the administrative affairs of the community, but Bahá’ís are also encouraged
to gather together, read the Bahá’í scriptures and consult about the meaning and spiritual significance of these.
Bahá’u’lláh states that this process leads to “awareness” and “awakening” (in C o m p i l a t i o n 1991, 1:93, no.
170). Bahá’u’lláh calls consultation “the lamp of guidance which leadeth the way and the bestower of true
understanding” (Bahá’u’lláh 1978, 168). There is a great deal in the Bahá’í writings about the way in which
consultation should occur (see below), but if it is carried out in this way, then Bahá’ís believe that it is supe-
rior to the master-initiate relationship as a source of spiritual guidance because it taps the collective wisdom
of the group and, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “the views of several individuals are assuredly preferable to one man,
even as the power of a number of men is of course greater than the power of one man. Thus consultation is
acceptable in the presence of the A l m i g h t y, and hath been enjoined upon the believers.” (C o m p i l a t i o n 1 9 9 1 ,
1 : 9 7-98, no. 182)
In the Bahá’í community, however, as developed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, individuals do not
have authority. There are individuals who have special designations, such as Hands of the Cause, Counsellors,
and the Afnán, but these designations are only honorary or confer opportunities for service to the Bahá’í com-
m u n i t y. Such roles as these individuals may have in the Bahá’í community are advisory and exhortatory. T h e y
have no authority. Authority belongs only to elected institutions.
2. Oral Transmission and Gnostic Knowledge. With regard to authoritative transmission of the scriptures of
the Bahá’í Faith, the official position is almost the exact opposite of what is to be found in most mystical
orders. In the Bahá’í Faith, all are encouraged to read the scriptures for themselves and to gain their own under-
standing of them. The scriptures and authoritative texts consist only of material that was written down either
by one of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith or was seen and approved by them. Material that has been
orally transmitted even through just one transmitter has no binding authority.
Shoghi Effendi has laid down the principle that the Bahá’ís should not attribute much importance to talks,
reported to have been given by the Master, if these have not in one form or other obtained his sanction.
Bahá’u’lláh has made it clear enough that only those things that have been revealed in the form of Ta b l e t s
have a binding power over the friends. Hearsays may be a matter of interest but can in no way claim
a u t h o r i t y. This basic teaching of Bahá’u’lláh was to preserve the Faith from being corrupted like Islam
which attributes binding authority to all the reported sayings of Muhammad.
This being a basic principle of the Faith we should not confuse Tablets that were actually revealed and
mere talks attributed to the founders of the Cause. The first have absolute binding authority while the lat-
1 1 5
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

ter can in no way claim our obedience. The highest thing this can achieve is to influence the activities of
the one who has heard the saying in person. (Hornby 1988, 438-439, no. 1435)
We have seen above that these traditions of oral transmission through master-initiate relationships are
regarded by Bahá’u’lláh as not merely perpetuating the phenomenon of religious leadership, which He con-
demns, but also leading to spiritual stagnation in that each generation merely continues the insights and guid-
ance that it has inherited and does not push forward the boundaries of human spiritual achievement.
Bahá’u’lláh calls upon His followers to “[t]ear asunder, in My Name, the veils that have grievously blinded
your vision, and, through the power born of your belief in the unity of God, scatter the idols of vain imitation”
(1983, 143, no. 75). Each Bahá’í is instructed to know of his/her own knowledge, to investigate reality and
judge matters independently for himself/herself:
The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and
neglect it not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes and not through the
eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not through the knowledge of thy neighbour.
(Bahá’u’lláh 1990, Arabic 2)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá stresses this need for human beings to free themselves of blind imitation of religious leaders
and spiritual masters and to investigate reality for themselves:
God has given man the eye of investigation by which he may see and recognize truth. He has endowed man
with ears that he may hear the message of reality and conferred upon him the gift of reason by which he
may discover things for himself. This is his endowment and equipment for the investigation of reality. Man
is not intended to see through the eyes of another, hear through another’s ears nor comprehend with anoth-
e r’s brain. Each human creature has individual endowment, power and responsibility in the creative plan
of God. Therefore, depend upon your own reason and judgment and adhere to the outcome of your own
investigation; otherwise, you will be utterly submerged in the sea of ignorance and deprived of all the
bounties of God. Turn to God, supplicate humbly at His threshold, seeking assistance and confirmation,
that God may rend asunder the veils that obscure your vision. Then will your eyes be filled with illumina-
tion, face to face you will behold the reality of God and your heart become completely purified from the
dross of ignorance, reflecting the glories and bounties of the Kingdom. (1982, 293)
3. Monasticism or asceticism. We have seen above that Bahá’u’lláh forbade monastic seclusion and called
upon the monks to emerge from their monasteries and to take an active role in society. Having criticised and
dismissed many aspects of the existing mystical communities, Bahá’u’lláh was faced with the task of creating
an alternative structure that would replace the role of the monastery, that would give the guidance and support
upon the mystical path that was provided in the traditional monastic setting. Of course, Bahá’u’lláh had to
operate within the historical reality of His time. The Bahá’í community was a persecuted minority with much
of its energy and efforts being spent in merely surviving. Therefore Bahá’u’lláh was compelled to delay much
of the implementation of His ideas. He laid down the principles but left it to His successors, ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi, to bring these ideas to reality. Thus in considering the creation of the Bahá’í community as a
mystical order, we must look across the whole of the history of the Bahá’í Faith in order to discern its features.
There are various features of Bahá’í community life that allow it to function as a supportive environment
for spiritual development and the mystical life. The first is the fact that most community activity is carried out
in an environment of prayer and devotion. Second that the individual members of the community are encour-
aged to interact with each other in such a way as to promote love and unity. Third, Bahá’u’lláh prohibits back-
biting in the community, since He states that it “quencheth the light of the heart, and extinguisheth the life of
the soul.” (Bahá’u’lláh 1983, 265)
In brief, what Shoghi Effendi and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have tried to create is a religious community that is suff i-
ciently supportive to allow the individuals in it to develop themselves spiritually within a “safe” environment
as a replacement for the monastic environment.
4. Mystical Practices. There are a number of practices used by mystics to which Bahá’u’lláh did give His
qualified assent. Certain mystical systems believe that the very vibrations of the chanting of holy verses them-
selves have an effect. Thus, for example, in Yoga mantras should be said in a voice that is “alive and resonant”
so that it may “utilize the power of sound vibrations to influence modalities of consciousness.” (Hewitt 1991,
1 1 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

442). Similarly, Bahá’u’lláh instructs that His words be chanted in “in the most melodious of tones” (1992,
116). He further exhorts the Bahá’ís:
Gather ye together with the utmost joy and fellowship and recite the verses revealed by the merciful Lord.
By so doing the doors to true knowledge will be opened to your inner beings, and ye will then feel your
souls endowed with steadfastness and your hearts filled with radiant joy. (Compilation 1991, 1:188, no.
3 6 4 )
There is a reference, moreover, in the Bahá’í scriptures to Bahá’u’lláh having ordained a certain night for
those who wish to carry out repetitive chanting (d hi k r) activities.
While in the barracks, Bahá’u’lláh set apart a special night and He dedicated it to Darvish Sidq-‘ Alí. He
wrote that every year on that night the dervishes should bedeck a meeting place, which should be in a
flower garden, and gather there to make mention of God [d hikr]. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá 1971, 38)
In the main, however, Bahá’u’lláh turns the attention of the Bahá’ís towards practices of individual devo-
tion such as prayer and meditation upon the Bahá’í scriptures, and away from specific techniques which lead
to states of trance or ecstasy.
Process and Progress
As well as establishing the Bahá’í community as an alternative to the traditional mystical communities,
Bahá’u’lláh has ensured that the workings of the Bahá’í community facilitate and enhance the process of mys-
tical progress and spiritual advancement. Thus, for example, many authors of texts on mysticism in the past
have emphasised the importance of willing obedience to the master or spiritual guide. This obedience is nec-
essary both to ensure compliance with the master’s instructions but also to enable the initiate to develop spir-
itual qualities such as humility and detachment. In the Bahá’í community, the same result is achieved through
the concept of the Covenant. This concept means that each generation of Bahá’ís agrees to obey the instruc-
tions of the Centre of the Covenant— ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, followed by Shoghi Effendi, followed by the Universal
House of Justice. In day-to-day terms, Bahá’ís currently obey the local and national institution of the Bahá’í
community in the place where they live. Although full discussion and consultation is encouraged in the process
leading up to a decision, once these institutions have made a decision, it is expected that all Bahá’ís will obey
this, whether or not they agree with the decision. This allows the same spiritual processes that occur through
obedience—suppression of the ego, the development of humility, and detachment from one’s own fond notions
and preconceived ideas.
We have seen above that consultation can be a source of spiritual guidance for Bahá’ís. It is also however,
in its very process a way of enhancing spiritual development. The qualities that need to be cultivated in order
for good consultation to occur, whether this be consultation over the meaning of the text or over an adminis-
trative matter, are also qualities that are needed for the spiritual progress of the individual.
The prime requisites for them that take counsel together are purity of motive, radiance of spirit, detach-
ment from all else save God, attraction to His Divine Fragrances, humility and lowliness amongst His
loved ones, patience and long-s u ffering in difficulties and servitude to His exalted Threshold. (‘A b d u ’ l -
Bahá 1978, 87, no. 43)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also writes of the need for “courtesy, dignity, care and moderation” (in C o m p i l a t i o n 1 9 9 1 ,
1:95, no. 176) as a pre-condition for consultation. In short, the development of many of the virtues that
progress human beings along the mystical path are facilitated by engagement in the process of consultation.
And both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have encouraged the use of this consultative process in all aspects of
both personal and community life:
Settle all things, both great and small, by consultation. Without prior consultation, take no important step
in your own personal affairs. Concern yourselves with one another. Help along one another’s projects and
plans. Grieve over one another. Let none in the whole country go in need. Befriend one another until ye
become as a single body, one and all . . . (‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Compilation 1991, 1:98-9, no. 185)
In this way, the whole of one’s life as a Bahá’í becomes a continuous chance to consult and thus to improve
these qualities and progress along the mystic path.
1 1 7
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

We have see above that Bahá’u’lláh prohibits the isolation of the monastic community and instructs the
monks to emerge from their monasteries. Instead He creates the Bahá’í community, in which He encourages
as much diversity as possible—Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi always called Bahá’ís to seek
out new and diverse groups to bring into the community. ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá, for example, encouraged the A m e r i c a n
Bahá’ís to bring the black races into the Bahá’í community, even though He knew that this would be a great
test for the white Bahá’ís. Shoghi Effendi encouraged and reported as a great success the enrolment of new
races and tribes into the Bahá’í community. The Universal House of Justice has also encouraged Bahá’ís to
seek to enrol members of all classes and strata of society. Thus, while in a monastic community the monks
interacted with others who were of much the same cultural and social outlook as themselves, in the Bahá’í
community one is exposed to every type of person and to types of cultural and social outlooks that clash with
o n e ’s own. This creates a situation in which tests arise due to conflicting outlooks of individual Bahá’ís. T h u s ,
c o m m o n l y, the greatest tests and difficulties for Bahá’ís arise from their interactions with other Bahá’ís. (This
being indeed a reflection of Bahá’u’lláh’s own experience: “My imprisonment doeth Me no harm, neither the
tribulations I suff e r, nor the things that have befallen Me at the hands of My oppressors. That which harmeth
Me is the conduct of those who, though they bear My name, yet commit that which maketh My heart and My
pen to lament.” Baháu’lláh 1988, 23)
As a consequence of this great variety of people interacting within the Bahá’í community, there will always
tend to be great differences of opinion. The important factor in allowing this potentially unstable mixture to
continue without exploding and splitting into sects is the concept of the Covenant. The source of the unity of
the Bahá’í Faith is not a uniformity of doctrine and thought or the strict regimentation of a Holy Law, it is loy-
alty to the Covenant. As long as Bahá’ís maintain this loyalty, they are free to have widely differing ideas about
the Bahá’í Faith. But this very freedom will inevitably be a source of irritation and tests to their fellow-believ-
ers, who think differently from them. Western ways of doing things will clash with Eastern ways; conserva-
tives will be offended by radicals; liberals will be frustrated by fundamentalists. ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá says that it is
through meeting and overcoming tests that human beings grow spiritually (1971, 49-51). Thus in the dynam-
ics of the social interactions of the Bahá’í community and under the umbrella of the unity brought about by the
Covenant, one’s spiritual qualities of love, patience, forbearance and empathy are put to the test and refined.
The social dynamics of the Bahá’í community and the resultant development of spiritual qualities has been dis-
cussed further by Daniel C. Jordan:
When one joins a Bahá’í Community, he joins a family of extremely diverse human beings with whom he
will have to work and establish meaningful relationships. The first thing he finds out is that his old reper-
toire of responses is no longer adequate. So many different human beings represent a great many
unknowns, and trying to relate to those unknowns creates energy (anxiety) which sets that reciprocal
process of knowing and loving though faith and courage in motion. Defining a legitimate goal which will
constructively utilize the energy from that anxiety will call forth a new repertoire of responses. Each new
response is a bit of one’s latent capacity made manifest—a release of human potential. Another way of say-
ing it is that the Bahá’í Community offers more opportunities for knowing and loving under growth-fos-
tering circumstances than can be found anywhere else.
. . . Thus the Bahá’í community, because of its diversity, provides many of those tests which are essential
for our development. At the same time, guidance from Bahá’í institutions and the commitment of members
of the community to accept each other for what they can become provides the courage to turn those test
into vehicles for spiritual development—for the release of human potential (n.d., 13-14).
One function of the spiritual master or guide in traditional mystical communities has been to act as a cor-
rective to delusions and self-deceptions that all are prone to. The processes of consultation and community
interactions provide the corrective mechanism in the Bahá’í community. It is very easy to think that one has
achieved such qualities as patience and love if one is in an isolated cocoon in a monastic setting. It is much
more difficult to be self-deluded when one is interacting in a diverse community and trying to consult with
individuals of a widely differing social, cultural and educational background to oneself.
L a s t l y, in the processes of the Bahá’í community that lead to spiritual development and progress, great
emphasis is given to the concept of service. Thus for example, when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is enumerating what will
lead to the mystic’s goal of nearness to the Divine, He includes service to humanity and service in the cause
1 1 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

of universal peace among these pre-requisites.
Bahá’u’lláh proclaims in the Hidden Words that God inspires His servants and is revealed through them.
He says, “Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for My descent. Thy spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse
it for My manifestation.” Therefore, we learn that nearness to God is possible through devotion to Him,
through entrance into the Kingdom and service to humanity; it is attained by unity with mankind and
through loving-kindness to all; it is dependent upon investigation of truth, acquisition of praiseworthy
virtues, service in the cause of universal peace and personal sanctification. In a word, nearness to God
necessitates sacrifice of self, severance and the giving up of all to Him. Nearness is likeness. (‘A b d u ’ l -
Bahá 1982, 148)
This teaching of the Bahá’í Faith is intended as a corrective to the tendency, described above, for some to
think that because they think they have reached a certain spiritual station, they can indulge in a life of idleness
and seclusion. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares that, on the contrary, the closer one becomes to the Divine, the higher
o n e ’s mystical ascent, and the more one engages in service to other human beings, the more interactions one
has with individuals who are unlike oneself, and therefore more tests come one’s way. Thus it is also through
service that one’s spiritual qualities are extended and refined.
This aspect of service is, at present, mainly an individual endeavour. Its role in Bahá’í community life is as
yet undeveloped. It will only come to fruition with the development of the institution of the Mas hr i q u ’ l -
Ad hk á r, the dependencies of which are intended to “afford relief to the suffering, sustenance to the poor, shel-
ter to the wayfarer, solace to the bereaved, and education to the ignorant.” (Shoghi Effendi 1968, 184) As the
institution of the Mas hr i q u ’ l - Ad hkár develops, the Bahá’í community will increasing adopt a service ethos and
thus this avenue for the spiritual development of the individual will be enhanced.
In summary, the Bahá’í administration is not just the organization of a mystical community, but has been set
up precisely so that its very functioning is itself the promotion of the spiritual development of the individual.
The processes of the Bahá’í community act in a similar manner to give the individual the maximum chance of
spiritual progress and a way of assessing this progress and avoiding self-deception.
B i b l i o g r a p h y
‘ Abdu’l-Bahá 1967. Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t
———. 1971. Memorials of the Faithful. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t
———. 1978. Selections from the Writings of ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre
———. 1982. The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t
Ajmal, Mohammad 1987. “Sufi Science of the Soul” in Islamic Spirituality: Foundations, World Spirituality. London: Routledge
and Kegan Paul, 294-307
Bahá’u’lláh 1978. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre
———. 1983. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh (trans. Shoghi Effendi). Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust (para-
graph numbers also given)
———. 1988. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (trans. Shoghi Effendi). Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t ,
———. 1989. The Kitáb-i-ˆ q á n (trans. Shoghi Effendi). Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
———. 1990. The Hidden Wo rd s. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust (Arabic and Persian numbers given)
———. 1991. The Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t
———. 1992. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre (verse number given)
———. unpublished. The Tablet of Unity. Provisional translation by Moojan Momen from text in A d‘ iyyah Hadrat-i-Mahbúb
(original edition: Faraju’lláh al-Kurdí, Egypt, 76 B.E./1920; reprint Germany 1980), pp. 388-406
Compilation of Compilations, The. Prepared by the Universal House of Justice 1963-1990. 2 vols. [Sydney]: Bahá’í Publications
Australia, 1991.
Hewitt, James 1991. The Complete Yoga Book.. London: Rider
Jordan, Daniel n.d. Becoming your True Self. London: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t (originally published in World Ord e r 3 / 1 : 4 3 - 5 1 )
H o r n b y, Helen (comp.) 1988. Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2n d e d n .
Mazandarání, Fádil n.d., Zuhúr al-Haqq, vol. 6, undated manuscript in private hands
1 1 9
Mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Commun i t y

Schuon, Frithjof. 1984. The Transcendent Unity of Religions, Wheaton Ill.: Quest
Shoghi Effendi 1968. Bahá’í A d m i n i s t r a t i o n. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t
———. 1991. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
Shunjo 1925, Honen the Buddhist Saint (trans. H.H. Coates and R Ishizuka), Kyoto: Society for the Publication of the Sacred
Books of the Wo r l d
Va h i d - Tehrani, Mihrangiz. Biography of Sayyid Hasan Has himízádih Mutavajjih, undated manuscript in private hands
1 2 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib:
Introduction and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
“ Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch.”
— B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h
T
h e Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib is a prominent tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in the early ‘Akká period.1 O f
the context and circumstances surrounding its revelation not much is known, but oblique internal allu-
sions to significant historical events makes it possible to trace the date of its recording to circa 1869-
1872. This Tablet enjoys a singular distinction in the corpus of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings, as it is the first occa-
sion where He gives expression to the now-famous proclamation “Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves
of one branch.” It is also noteworthy for its style and composition—one of only relatively few tablets
Bahá’u’lláh revealed in pure Persian.2 A rudimentary English translation first appeared in Star of the We s t, an
edited version of which is reproduced below.3 This paper concerns itself with an epigrammatic survey of the
salient themes found in this renowned Tablet, and with their import and correlation to Bahá’u’lláh’s writings
of the same and later periods. Apart from succinct comments, no attempt has been made to analyze, scrutinize,
or annotate the Tablet. An effort, however feeble, has been made to enhance the pedestrian quality of the S t a r
of the We s t translation in the distant hope of inching closer to the poetic eminence of the original.
Introduction
The recipient of the Tablet, Mánikjí Sáhib,4 was a Parsi agent dispatched to Persia by the Zoroastrian com-
munity of Bombay (now Mumbai) to aid and assist their co-religionists in the land of their origin.5 T h e
Zoroastrian community of India took form in the wake of several waves of migrations by disadvantaged and
persecuted Persian Zoroastrians, first shortly after the invasion of Arab Muslims in the Safavid period and
more recently in the Qajar period, principally from the towns of Yazd, Kirman and their surrounding villages.
These émigrés settled by and large in the Indian provinces of Gujarat and Maharashtra.
It is well documented that ethnic and religious minorities in Qajar Iran faced a bleak and precarious exis-
tence. During the long and oppressive reign of Násirud-dín S háh (1848-96), political chaos, economic depri-
vation and moral bankruptcy progressively permeated the fabric of Persian society and wreaked havoc upon
its normative order. The Shí‘a clergy (‘u l a m á) routinely dealt with non-Muslims in a disdainful and callous
m a n n e r, often under the pretext of “enjoining the good and forbidding the evil” (al-amr bi’l-ma’ruf va al-nahy
‘an al-munkar) .6 By branding religious minorities as “ritually impure,” depriving them of blood money equiv-
alent to a Muslim, making conversion to Islam obligatory for any man or a woman that wished to marry a
Muslim and other insufferable practices, the clergy establishment managed to maintain an iron grip on
enforced social mores and bolstered its hold on political power. Inciting mob action to harass assumed heretics
(i.e., Sufis, Bábís, and the like) was a common tactic employed by the mullás, the more unscrupulous of whom
sometimes stood to gain financially—through pillage, plunder and other insalubrious schemes—by institu-
tionalizing what many in the West would denounce as naked discrimination and extortion. While the Bábís,
and later Bahá’ís, were singled out for particularly brutal and bloody persecution, the Zoroastrians were never
immune from lesser forms of maltreatment.7 Upon settlement in India, these emigrants—known as Parsis (i.e.,
Persians)—felt liberated to restore their sense of community, to unstintingly practice their religion and, most
i m p o r t a n t l y, to prosper in trade and commerce under the British Raj. Having established and organized them-
selves, they set out to alleviate the miserable conditions of their brethren in Iran. Through a series of agents,
Mánikjí being the first, they managed to absolve Zoroastrians from the payment of special taxes (j i z y a) levied
on religious minorities and, ultimately, to secure a royal decree for the establishment of a self-governing asso-
ciation called the Anjuman-i-Nasirí. The primary mission of this association was to lobby the state to intervene
1 2 1
L awh-i-M án i kjí Sáh ib

in cases of gross mistreatment of Zoroastrians and to promote and preserve the Persian language in its pure
f o r m .8
Mánikjí met Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad in 1854 while en route to Iran and later corresponded with Him on
more than one occasion. He was impressed by Bahá’u’lláh’s dignity and comportment and in due time became
well disposed to the Bábí community through an enduring rapport with Him. This Tablet was revealed in
response to one of Mánikjí’s letters in which he posed specific questions to Bahá’u’lláh on Divine Names, lan-
guage preference (i.e., Persian over Arabic), education, and the like. Although Mánikjí did not read or write
Persian he nonetheless had a keen interest in safeguarding it in its pure, non-Arabicised form. He hired Mírzá
Abul-Fadl Gulpáygání, the celebrated Bahá’í scholar and recognized pure Persian expert, to teach in a school
he helped found for educating Zoroastrian children.9 In subsequent letters, Mánikjí continued to seek out
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s views on the validity of various religions, nationalism, the origin of humanity, and other such
t o p i c s .1 0
Until the early 1860s the Bábí, and later Bahá’í, communities in the Middle East drew their ranks chiefly
from the local Muslim populations—lower-ranking mullás being some of its most ardent converts.
S u b s e q u e n t l y, the Bahá’í community succeeded in attracting adherents from two distinct religious minorities
in Iran: the Jews and the Zoroastrians. The only other religious minority of consequence, the Christians
(Armenians, Assyrians and other sects), remained relatively intact and immune to the phenomenon of Bábí and
Bahá’í conversions.11 The brutality of the Muslim clergy in putting the Iranian Bahá’ís through horrific tortures
and bloody massacres on the one hand, and the meekness with which these assumed heretics accepted their lot
on the other, increasingly led members of these religious minorities, who as noted were not immune to lesser
forms of abuse, to empathize with the plight of the Bahá’ís and to look more closely into their beliefs and prac-
tices, thereby leading many of them to enlist within the ranks of the nascent Bahá’í community. Even after hav-
ing converted, however, they continued to maintain strong bonds with their former religious communities, cus-
toms and contacts.1 2 For Zoroastrians the tracing of Bahá’u’lláh’s ancestry to the last monarch of the pre-
Islamic Sasanian dynasty—Yazdigird III—and His claim to be S háh Bahram Varjavand, the latter-day Savior
promised in their Scriptures, provided further impetus for their rapid conversion.1 3 I r o n i c a l l y, the Zoroastrian
priests (d a s t u r s) and the Muslim clergy found themselves united in pressuring these converts to abandon their
newfound religion.
Mánikjí, it appears, was not merely a promoter of the Persian language or a protector of Zoroastrian rights.
His activism and influence spanned the socio-cultural, religious and political spheres. Being reform-minded,
he routinely communicated with Persian intellectuals, political activists and dissenters such as Mírzá Fath ‘A l í
Ak hundzada, Áqá Buzurg Kirmání, Mírzá Malkum K hán, and the like.1 4 Also, doubts have persisted about the
nature of his Anglo-Indian connections and his possible role as a British mole.1 5 He frequently commissioned
others to write on topics that held his interests, but would either tamper with the finished product or would
claim authorship for material he did not write.1 6 As mentioned, he employed prominent Bahá’ís and specifi-
cally commissioned Mírzá Husayn Hamadání to write a history on the Bábí religion that came to be known as
New History (Ta r ík h- i - J a d í d), a work not devoid of controversy. Despite the growing tensions between the
Zoroastrian dasturs and prominent Zoroastrian converts, however, Mánikjí retained a favorable outlook toward
the Bábís and Bahá’ís and continued to maintain a warm friendship with Bahá’u’lláh.
Synopsis
A brief outline of the salient themes found in the Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib appears below:
i .
Praise of God
The Tablet begins with references to Water of Life and First Rays (i.e., Divine Revelation) as the
source of creation. Bahá’u’lláh confirms speech as God’s primary bequest to mankind and His use
of wisdom and intellect as ever-pleasing to the A l m i g h t y.
i i .
Greetings and salutations
As common literary devices in personal correspondences such as this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh’s expres-
sions of fondness for Mánikjí and His buoyant optimism for their continued friendship follow the
recollection of their meeting in the land of Arabia (i.e., Baghdad).
1 2 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

i i i .
Response to question about Divine Names
While affirming God as the Divine Physician, Bahá’u’lláh, in a possible reference to the rulers and
the clerg y, laments the recklessness of the “selfish” in misleading the masses, and underscores the
importance of being attentive to the changing exigencies of time and place (i.e., dynamic pragma-
tism). In the Tablet to Queen Victoria, He uses a similar metaphor to associate the state of human-
ity to a sick body that is misdiagnosed and untreated owing to the selfish desires of ignorant physi-
cians. He further declares: “That which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and might-
iest instrument for the healing of all the world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause,
one common Faith. This can in no wise be achieved except through the power of a skilled, an all-
powerful and inspired Physician.”1 7
i v.
Exhortations to turn to God
In moving imagery Bahá’u’lláh reckons those that recognize His station as having attained immor-
tality and those that reject Him as never capable of attaining life.
v.
Response to question about preferred language
M á n i k j í ’s question pertained to His preference for Persian over Arabic. Bahá’u’lláh’s response
clarifies that both are meritorious and that the purpose of language is the conveyance of a message,
for which either language is adequate. In later tablets—for instance Splendours (Is hráqát) and
E ffulgences (Tajalliyát)—Bahá’u’lláh designates Arabic as the “eloquent” tongue and calls Persian
“ l u m i n o u s . ”1 8 Acknowledging Mánikjí’s bias, however, Bahá’u’lláh bestows supplementary praise
on Persian as the mother tongue of the Manifestation of God for this age.
v i .
Detachment from earthly possessions
In reference to the misdeeds of some (presumably His followers), Bahá’u’lláh gives vent to His
disappointment that such acts have kept others from realizing His Message. He further deems
detachment as a prerequisite for the elevation of humanity to the heights of nobility and makes
human tranquility contingent upon personal benevolence.
v i i .
Abandonment of alienation and enmity
Echoed in numerous other tablets, the uninhibited association and fellowship among all nations is
a central theme here and anchors Bahá’u’lláh’s call to unity.
v i i i . Advice against avarice
In a lucid analogy that brings into focus the literary excellence of this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh cautions
that covetousness and greed can veil the light of the soul just as the thin eyelid obstructs vision.
i x .
Admonition to combine speech with action
Impact of speech is conditioned upon the speaker being in step with the needs and expectations of
the hearer. Bahá’u’lláh encourages the exercise of moderation in speech and links soft speech to
the nurturing efficacy of milk, whereas coarse speech is equated to a sharp dagger. In the Lawh-i-
Maqsúd and elsewhere Bahá’u’lláh expounds on this topic.1 9
x .
Continued exhortations to turn to God
Drawing upon evocative imagery such as “Sun of Wisdom,” “Ocean of Knowledge,” and “Falcon
on the arm of the Almighty” Bahá’u’lláh further explicates His station.
x i .
Glad tidings of the unity of mankind
Perhaps the pivotal message in this Tablet—and in Bahá’u’lláh’s entire revelation—is the call to
the unity of mankind. In countless tablets He elevates it above all human aspirations. His persis-
tent appeals to adopt a common tongue and script buttress this plea to unity. In the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Bahá’u’lláh states: “The well-being of mankind, its peace and security, are unattainable unless and
until its unity is firmly established.” In the same Book, Bahá’u’lláh instructs world leaders to adopt
a single language and script and affirms that doing so will bring about “the greatest instrument for
promoting harmony and civilization.” The unity of mankind, in Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation, is one of
two signs that herald the coming of age of the human race.2 0
x i i .
Admonitions to adopt a virtuous life
1 2 3
L awh-i-M án i kjí Sáh ib

A ffirming the past as the mirror of the future, Bahá’u’lláh calls for the recognition of His station.
He further promotes the pursuit of useful sciences and encourages truthfulness, detachment, faith,
moderation (especially in speech), wisdom and tactfulness. Bahá’u’lláh concludes the Tablet by
inspiring confidence in the ultimate destiny of mankind to attain to the fruits of His mission.
Conclusion
This paper has offered a glimpse, however pithy, into one of Bahá’u’lláh’s most outstanding tablets of the
early ‘ Akká period. A more exhaustive study of the Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib awaits the ambition of the future
seeker and student. It is not unreasonable to posit, however, that many of Bahá’u’lláh’s tablets of the later
‘Akká period, such as those cited in the Synopsis section above, draw heavily upon the themes first introduced
in this Tablet. While the non-trivial enterprise of arriving at a definitive and cohesive taxonomy of the vast cor-
pus revealed by the Supreme Pen still eludes many a student of Bahá, it is yet possible to attempt to frame and
contextualize this Tablet for a better understanding of its core message. Challenges abound, however. Many of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s writings are not yet available in English or are otherwise inaccessible to a wide audience in the
West, and much of what is published must be approached with caution and meticulous scholarship.
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s writings are often steeped in cryptic allusions and technical terms that cannot be easily deci-
phered. Against this backdrop, the scholarship of Mírzá Abul-Mírzá Gulpáygání is edifying. His provision of
a framework for the classification and enumeration of the “styles” encompassing Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation is de
rigueur and foundational for such a survey. Bahá’u’lláh wrote in one of nine styles such as: proclamations,
prayers and meditations, commentaries and interpretations of past religious scriptures, laws and ordinances,
mystical writings, addresses to rulers and kings, philosophical writings, ethical teachings and, finally, social
t e a c h i n g s .2 1 As evidenced by the main themes found in this Tablet, it can be placed into the last of these cate-
gories even as it comprehends elements of some of the other styles, such as ethical teachings.
While the foremost theme of the Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib accentuates the call for the unity of mankind,
Bahá’u’lláh also stresses the need to act in accordance with the exigencies of time and to be alert to the prob-
lems of the day. He, moreover, advises all nations and races to dispel alienation, enmity and estrangement.
Other social and ethical teachings present in this Tablet include the necessity to use language with wisdom, to
adopt virtuous traits, to eschew greed, to take up useful sciences and so on. In numerous later writings,
Bahá’u’lláh continues to expand and elaborate on many of the same topics. For example, in Glad Ti d i n g s
( B is hárát), Words of Paradise (Kalimát-i-Firdawsiyyih) Splendours (Is hráqát) and other tablets of the post-
Aqdas era, Bahá’u’lláh explains how a universal language and script are necessary ingredients for achieving
the unity of the human race. In the Lawh-i-Maqsúd, Bahá’u’lláh goes further to mandate the establishment of
a universal auxiliary language and script as “incumbent upon every man of insight and understanding.”2 2 In a
tablet revealed in the latter part of the ‘Akká period—associated with His departure from that city, circa
1877—called the Tablet of Unity (Lawh-i-Ittihad), Bahá’u’lláh expounds on some of the very same themes
found in this Tablet. While defining the various meanings of unity, He consistently recalls the principles of
moderation in speech, the necessity of placing deeds before words, the hazards of vainglory and dominance
and finally, the exhortation to associate with all peoples in a spirit of unity and fellowship.
Ostensibly a reply to a letter of a friend, the Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib enjoys a marked distinction in
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s voluminous revelation for its weighty content and for its lofty and lucid diction. Mánikjí
deserves our abiding gratitude for eliciting this majestic Tablet from the Supreme Pen and for his unrelenting
services towards furthering the principles of education and human rights in Qajar Iran—principles that, it
should not escape our attention, he avidly shared with Bahá’u’lláh.
Translation
As mentioned, a rudimentary translation by Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab was first published in Star of the We s t.
What appears below is an extensively edited and modified variant of that translation. Where necessary I have
filled the gaps in non-translated sections (such as the exordium and other phrases), corrected mistranslations,
and supplied variant renderings, which, it is my belief, more closely convey the sense of the original. The t e x t s
in italics are either from Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh or Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and have been reproduced in lieu of the equivalent Star of the We s t text. An Arabic prayer
1 2 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

is appended at the end of the Tablet, which is not translated here or in Star of the We s t. To the extent possible,
I have endeavored to approximate the literal denotation of the original. However, evidence of the unattainable
goal of a “befitting rendering of Bahá’u’lláh’s matchless utterance” can be found throughout this translation. I
pray that the reader will excuse all such shortcomings and deficiencies.
Lawh-i-Mánikjí Sáhib*
In the Name of the Incomparable Lord!
Praise be unto Him, the Eternal Seer, who through a dewdrop of the ocean of His Generosity raised up the
firmament of existence, begemmed it with the stars of knowledge and summoned mankind to the court of per-
ception and understanding! This dewdrop, which is the Primal Word of the A l m i g h t y, is at times called the
Water of Life for it quickens the lifeless souls in the desert of ignorance and at other times it is known as the
First Rays. When this radiance shone forth from the Sun of Wisdom, the Primary Movement was made mani-
fest through the bounty of the Incomparable, the Wise One. He is the Knower, the Merciful! He is sanctified
above every statement and attribute! The seen and the unseen fail to attain a measure of His understanding.
The world of being and everything therein bears witness to this Utterance. Thus it is established that the First
Bestowal of the Almighty is speech and its acceptance by Him is conditioned upon wisdom. It is the First
Instructor in the School of Existence and the Primal Emanation of God. All that is visible is but through the
radiance of its Light and all that is revealed is through the appearance of its Knowledge. All names originate
from His Name and the start and end of all affairs are in His Hand.
Your letter reached this Captive of the world in this prison. It brought happiness, increased friendship and
renewed the remembrance of former times. Praise be unto the Possessor of the Universe for permitting our
meeting in the land of Arabia. We met, we conversed and we listened. It is hoped that forgetfulness shall not
follow that encounter, that the passage of time shall not erase its remembrance from the heart and that from
what was sown shall sprout the flora of friendship, verdant, luxuriant and imperishable.
You have asked about Divine Names. The All-Knowing Physician hath His finger on the pulse of mankind.
He perceiveth the disease, and prescribeth, in His unerring wisdom, the re m e d y. Every age hath its own pro b -
lem, and every soul its particular aspiration. The remedy the world needeth in its present-day afflictions can
never be the same as that which a subsequent age may re q u i re. Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the
age ye live in, and center your deliberations on its exigencies and re q u i re m e n t s .
We can well perceive how the whole human race is encompassed with great, with incalculable afflictions.
We see it languishing on its bed of sickness, sore-tried and disillusioned. They that are intoxicated by self-con -
ceit have interposed themselves between it and the Divine and infallible Physician. Witness how they have
entangled all men, themselves included, in the mesh of their devices. They can neither discover the cause of
the disease, nor have they any knowledge of the re m e d y. They have conceived the straight to be crooked, and
have imagined their friend an enemy.
Incline your ears to the sweet melody of this Prisoner. Arise, and lift up your voices, that haply they that are
fast asleep may be awakened. Say: O ye who are as dead! The Hand of Divine bounty pro f e reth unto you the
Water of Life. Hasten and drink your fill. Whoso hath been re-born in this Day, shall never die; whoso re m a i n -
teth dead, shall never live.2 3
You have written regarding languages: Arabic and Persian are both good, for that which one desires of a lan-
guage is to attain insight into the discourse of the narrator and this can be obtained from either tongue.
H o w e v e r, as in this day the Sun of Wisdom shines forth from the horizon of Persia this language is all the more
p r a i s e w o r t h y.
O friend! When the Primal Word appeared in these latter days, a number of the heavenly souls heard the
Melody of the Beloved and hastened toward it, while others, finding the deeds of some at odds with their
words, stayed far and were deprived from the radiance of the Sun of Knowledge.
* This is a provisional translation for presentation and discussion at 'Irfán Colloquia. It is not to be reproduced or further distributed
in any form or medium.
1 2 5
L awh-i-M án i kjí Sáh ib

S a y, O ye sons of earth! Thy Lord, the Pure One, proclaims: In this glorious Day whatever will purge you
f rom corruption and will lead you towards peace and composure, is indeed the Straight Path.2 4 Purity from the
stains of desire means detachment from all things that occasion loss and abate human nobility, which in turn
comes about when one favors his own words and deeds, notwithstanding their merit. Serenity is attained when
one becomes the well-wisher of all who are on earth. He who is informed will readily testify that if all the peo-
ples of the earth were to attain to these Heavenly Utterances they would by no means be prevented from the
Ocean of Divine Generosity. The heaven of righteousness has no Star, and shall not have any, brighter than
this. The first Utterance of the Wise One is this: O ye sons of earth! Turn away from the darkness of alienation
and seek the radiance of the Sun of Unity. This is that which shall benefit the people of the world more than
aught else.
O friend! The Tree of Utterance has no better a Blossom and the Ocean of Wisdom has no brighter a Pearl
than this. O ye sons of wisdom! Flimsy as it may be, the eyelid yet prevents the eye from seeing the world and
all that is therein. Consider then what would result when the curtain of greed veils the vision of the heart. Say,
O people! The darkness of avarice and envy obscures the light of the soul even as clouds eclipse the radiance
of the sun. He who listens with the ear of intelligence to this Utterance shall unfurl the wings of freedom and
soar with great ease toward the heaven of understanding.
When the world was environed with darkness, the Sea of Generosity was set in motion and Divine
Illumination made visible the deeds. This is that same illumination foretold in the heavenly books. Should the
Almighty desire it, He will sanctify the hearts with pure speech and shine the Light of the Sun of Unity upon
the souls and thereby regenerate the world. O people! Words must be demonstrated through deeds, for the lat-
ter is the true witness of the former. Words alone shall not quench the thirsty nor unlock the doors of sight to
the blind. The Heavenly Wise One proclaims: A harsh word is like unto a sword, while gentle speech like unto
milk. In this manner will the children of the world attain to knowledge and improve their lot. The Tongue of
Wisdom proclaimeth: He that hath Me not is bereft of all things. Turn ye away from all that is on earth and
seek none else but Me. I am the Sun of Wisdom and the Ocean of Knowledge. I cheer the faint and revive the
dead. I am the guiding Light that illumineth the way. I am the royal Falcon on the arm of the A l m i g h t y. I unfold
the drooping wings of every broken bird and start it on its flight.2 5
The Peerless Friend says: The path of freedom has been opened! Hasten ye! The Fount of Knowledge is
gushing! Drink ye! Say O friends! The tabernacle of unity hath been raised; re g a rd ye not one another as
strangers. Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch.2 6 Truly I say: Whatsoever abates igno-
rance and augments knowledge has been and shall be pleasing to the Creator. Say, O people! Walk under the
shadow of Justice and Righteousness and take shelter under the pavilion of Unity. Say, O thou possessor of
sight! The past is the mirror of the future; see and be apprised thereof that perchance you may recognize the
Friend and not be the cause of His displeasure. In this day, the best fruit from the Tree of Knowledge is that
which benefits mankind and improves his condition.
Say! The tongue bears witness to My Truth; do not defile it with falsehood. The soul is the treasury of My
Mystery; do not surrender it to avarice. It is hoped that in this Dawn, through which the universe has been illu-
mined with the rays of the Sun of Understanding and Knowledge, we may attain to the good pleasure of the
Beloved and drink from the Ocean of Divine Recognition.
O friend! As ears are few to hear, for some time now the Pen has been silent in its own chamber, to such an
extent that silence has overtaken utterance and has been deemed more favorable. Say, O people! Words are
revealed according to capacity, so that newcomers may stay and beginners may make progress. Milk must be
given according to prescribed measure, such that the babes of the world may enter into the Realm of Grandeur
and be established upon the Court of Unity.
O friend! We have seen the pure ground and have sown the seed of knowledge thereupon. Now it is left to
the rays of the sun—will they singe the seedling or cause it to grow? Say: In this day, through the greatness of
the Peerless, the Wise One, the Sun of Knowledge has appeared from behind the veil of the soul. All the birds
of the meadow are inebriated through the wine of Understanding and are content with the remembrance of the
Beloved. Well is it with him who comprehends.
1 2 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

N o t e s - i
I wish to acknowledge the assistance of Amin Neshati whose perceptive suggestions and valuable editing greatly improved the qual-
ity of this paper.
1) The original Tablet can be found in M a j m u i y - i - A l v á h - i - M u b a r a k (Cairo, 1920) p. 259-67. It is also published in D a ry a y - i - D a n i s h
(New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985) pp. 2-10. A short description appears in A. Taherzadeh, The Revelation of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h, vol. 3, (Oxford: George Ronald, 1996) p. 270.
2) Bahá’u’lláh used pure Persian (P a r s i y - i - s a r i) rather sparingly, except when corresponding with Zoroastrians or for other special
occasions. The Persian spoken in His time and to today borrows heavily from Arabic, the language of Islam. He used Arabic as
the primary language of revelation and many of His prayers and tablets in Persian are heavily Arabicised. An Arabic prayer
appears at the end of this pure Persian Tablet, perhaps to reinforce Bahá’u’lláh’s affirmation that both Persian and Arabic are
worthy of praise.
3) See Star of the We s t, vol. 1:1 1910 pp. 5-7. For a partial translation, see section CVI in Gleanings from the Writings of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h, trans., Shoghi Effendi (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976) p. 213.
4) His full name is Mánikjí Limji Hataria. In Hindi, the suffix ‘jí’ is appended to names and titles of venerated persons as a sign of
respect and endearment, the closest English rendering being ‘dear.’ Also, it is customary in India to use “Sáhib” as a formal
designation or title of a respected personage, somewhat equivalent to ‘Excellency’ in English or to “Jináb” in Persian.
5) S. Stiles [Maneck], “Early Zoroastrian Conversions to the Bahá’í Faith in Yazd, Iran,” in J. Cole and M. Momen, eds., S t u d i e s
in Bábí and Bahá’í History: From Iran East and We s t , vol. 2 (Los Angeles: Kalimat, 1984) p. 70.
6) For a fuller treatment of clergy-instigated persecutions see S. Arjomand, The Shadow of God and the Hidden Imam, (Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press, 1987) pp. 251-57.
7) For a brief account, see Taherzadeh, R e v e l a t i o n, vol. 3, (Oxford: George Ronald, 1996) pp. 260-5.
8) M. Fischer, “Social Change and the Mirrors of Tradition: The Bahá’ís of Yazd,” in H. Moayyad, ed., The Bahá’í Faith and Islam
(Ottawa: The Association for Bahá’í Studies, 1990), pp. 25-55. On the proliferation of political associations (a n j u m a n s) during
the reign of Násirud-dín S háh and their influence on the court, see A. Amanat, Pivot of the Universe ( Washington, DC: Mage,
1 9 9 7 ) .
9) See Stiles, op. cit. On Mánikjí’s illiteracy in Persian, see A. Gulpáygání, Letters and Essays, trans., J. Cole (Los A n g e l e s :
Kalimat, 1985) pp. 78-79.
10) J. Cole, Modernity and the Millennium (New York: Columbia University Press, 1998) pp. 147-150.
11) M. Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions (Oxford: George Ronald, 1981) pp. 244-250.
12) See Stiles, op. cit.
13) H. Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory (Oxford: George Ronald, 1980) pp. 9-12. See also Fischer, op. cit.
14) M. Bayat, Mysticism and Dissent (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1982) pp. 169-171.
15) Personal interviews with members of the Sifidvash family, a prominent Bahá’í family of Zoroastrian lineage now living in
California, December 2000.
16) D. MacEoin, The Sources for Early Bábí Doctrine and History (Leiden: Brill, 1992) pp. 153-160. See also Gulpáygání, s u p r a.
17) Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh ( Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983) p. 255.
18) Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas ( Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988) p. 49. See also
pp. 22, 68, 127.
19) On “impressive and penetrating speech,” see i b i d ., p. 172.
20) Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992). See p. 11, K189, n193-4.
21) See A. Mazandarani, A s r á ru ’ l - Át há r ( Tehran: Mu’ a s s a s i y - i - M a t b u’ at-i-Amri, 129 BE) vol. 4, p. 128.
22) See Ta b l e t s, pp. 164-71.
23) See G l e a n i n g s , p. 213.
24) See Ta b l e t s, op. cit.
25) I b i d .
26) I b i d .
1 2 7
L awh-i-M án i kjí Sáh ib

1 2 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
by Robert Sarracino
I. Introduction
T
he Seven Valleys is extolled by Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By as Bahá’u’lláh’s “greatest mystical
c o m p o s i t i o n . ”1 In this Treatise “He describes the seven stages which the soul of the seeker must needs
traverse ere it can attain the object of its existence.”2 It is written in the language of Sufi mysticism, and
contains references and allegories familiar to those who would be conversant with the literature, traditions and
history of Sufism. Indeed, the very choice of “Seven Valleys” finds precedent in the greatest work of ‘A t t á r.
If we consider that the supreme goal of mysticism is to attain “the Presence of God,” the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, according to Bahá’í belief, has unleashed such a flood of grace and divine knowledge into the
world of humanity that this supreme pursuit, the pursuit of attaining the Presence of God, has now become the
legitimate pursuit of every member of the human race. A careful reading of Scripture would reveal that, in fact,
this has always been true. But religious truth has in the past been clouded by the often self-serving interpreta-
tion of the clerg y, and despite the truths contained in Scripture, supreme spiritual attainment was considered
possible for only a few. Although renunciation of the world was not sufficient, it was necessary: only those
who turned their backs on the secular world, the world of work and family and wealth and politics, who became
reliant for material sustenance on the generosity of those who by choice or force of circumstances pursued
“lesser” spiritual goals—only such professionals in the path of God could attain mysticism’s highest goal.
With the Bahá’í Revelation comes a revolution in our perception of the path to spiritual attainment.
Bahá’u’lláh, recommending those branches of knowledge which do not “start with words and end with words,”
elevates work which is done in the spirit of service to the rank of worship. Monks and priests are enjoined to
“give up the life of seclusion,” to “direct their steps towards the open world,” to marry and to “bring forth one
who will make mention of God.”3
We have exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of worship of the one true God!”4
Having attained the stage of fulfillment and reached his maturity, man standeth in need of wealth, and such
wealth as he acquireth through crafts or professions is commendable and praiseworthy. . .5
Thus mysticism—that is, the supreme goal of mysticism—is for all. In this sense the Seven Valleys is truly
r e v o l u t i o n a r y. This short but potent work distills the arcane knowledge of mysticism, clarifying and purifying
the true and the divine while exposing and abandoning the residue of human fancy and invention. Written to a
member of a fraternity which had existed for centuries, this work thus marks the fall of that fraternity as a com-
munity of the spiritual elite.
The Seven Valleys, whose pages outline “the seven stages the soul must needs traverse” in its search for
truth, thus becomes a universal guide for all who pursue their professions and support themselves and their
dependents, and who, while living lives of material, intellectual and social service, strive to bring their lives
and pursuits in line with the will of God. It is a guide for anyone engaged in a process of discovery, whether
personal discovery or discovery as part of a professional pursuit. Specifically, it is—or can be—an inspiration
and sourcebook for the scientist engaged in scientific research. The essence of the scientific method is con-
tained within its pages.
There are, in my view, three basic steps in the scientific method:
1 .
Acceptance of a source of reality and adoption of a “world view.” The modern sciences accept
nature as this source of reality. To a Bahá’í, the Manifestation of God is the source of reality. One
of the best presentations of the world view of the modern physicist is contained in The Character
of Physical Law, a transcript of a series of lectures by Nobel laureate Richard Feynman.6 P e r h a p s
the most concise statement of the Bahá’í world view, a world view which must necessarily accom-
pany acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh, is contained in “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” from T h e
1 2 9
The Seven Vall e ys and the Sci e n tific Me t h o d

World Order of Bahá’u’lláh by Shoghi Eff e n d i .7
2 .
Questioning of reality. For the scientist this q u e s t i o n i n g takes the form of selected observation,
controlled experimentation and mathematical analysis. Except when paradigms fail this question-
ing is done within a particular paradigm. For a Bahá’í, questioning takes the form of study of the
revealed writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá, the three Central Figures of the Faith;
of the Guardian, the appointed and authorized interpreter of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh; and the
Universal House of Justice, upon which has been conferred the authority to “elucidate” the truths
contained in Bahá’í scripture.
3 .
Resolution or synthesis. This can take the form of confirmation of a paradigm, articulation of that
paradigm, or, when paradigms fail, resolution of a crisis through creation of a new paradigm. In
times of great crisis it can take the form of creation of a new world view. Synthesis of data into
laws or theories is not trivial, is not obvious, is not linear and is not easy.8 It is a difficult and
demanding task, and requires the full range of human abilities, including imagination and creativ-
ity as well as reasoning ability. The final product—a new formulation, a new understanding, a new
t h e o r y, a new paradigm—if successful, will influence the way an entire community of scientists
will think. But no particular resolution or synthesis is unique. There is no way of knowing the full
range of possible systems which explain any given set of observations and experiments. The sci-
entific community invariably settles on one particular system, which becomes the dominant para-
digm.
II. The Seven Valleys
The 0th Valley
The scientific method begins with an act of faith: faith that the universe is rational; faith on the part of the
scientist that he can, indeed, make sense out of the universe; faith that the truths of the universe can be inves-
tigated by the technological means at hand, can be grasped by the mind of man and brought into order within
the systems—mathematical and other—which human logic has created. In talking about the role of faith in the
scientific enterprise, Alfred North Whitehead writes,
I mean the inexpugnable belief that every detailed occurrence can be correlated with its antecedents in a
perfectly definite manner, exemplifying general principles. Without this belief the incredible labours of sci-
entists would be without hope. It is this instinctive conviction, vividly poised before the imagination,
which is the motive power of research: that there is a secret, a secret which can be unveiled. How has this
conviction been so vividly implanted in the European mind?
[T]here seems but one source for its origin. It must come from the medieval insistence on the rationality
of God, conceived as with the personal energy of Jehovah and with the rationality of a Greek philosopher.
Every detail was supervised and ordered: the search into nature could only result in the vindication of the
faith in rationality. . . . I am not talking of the explicit beliefs of a few individuals . . . [but] the impress on
the European mind arising from the unquestioned faith of centuries.9
Bahá’u’lláh justifies this faith in a number of passages which are highly significant for their implications for
the scientific enterprise. In the Hidden Words He writes,
Out of the wastes of nothingness, with the clay of My command I made thee to appear, and have ordained
for thy training every atom in existence and the essence of all created things.1 0
and in the Lawh-i-Hikmat,
Look at the world and ponder a while upon it. It unveileth the book of its own self before thine eyes and
revealeth that which the Pen of thy Lord, the Fashioner, the All-Informed, hath inscribed therein. It will
acquaint thee with that which is within it and upon it . . .11
Thus, in the Bahá’í view, the universe can be understood because it was created to be understood. Science
is worth pursuing because in uncovering the truths of nature we uncover our own reality, which means we
come to know God, which is the purpose of our creation.
1 3 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

This mystical role of nature, which physicists of this century have often referred to as the “beauty” of nature,
was expressed by the French mathematician Henri Poincare:
If nature were not beautiful, it would not be worth knowing, and if nature were not worth knowing, life
would not be worth living.1 2
At the very core of modern science is the belief that “nature is the sole arbiter of truth.” If nature conflicts
with human reason or with tradition or authority, then tradition and authority are wrong, and what is called
“human reason” is flawed. If nature conflicts with mathematics, then we must create a new mathematics. T h i s
belief, accepted on faith, lies at the core of modern science. Along with this belief comes a world view, the
world view expressed above, that nature is in some sense rational and amenable to human investigation. A n d
again, this is accepted on faith. And finally, modern science proceeds by working within paradigms. T h o m a s
Kuhn in The Stru c t u re of Scientific Revolutions1 3 has pointed out that the acceptance of a particular paradigm,
or the search for and creation of a new paradigm if the old is seen to be flawed, is essential to the scientific
method. It is under the umbrella of paradigms, motivated by problem solving and paradigm articulation, that
the great body of scientific work is carried out, work which at times can lead to progress so rapid that it aston-
ishes even the scientist himself. But the acceptance of a paradigm, paradigm articulation, and paradigm revo-
lution are part of the scientific enterprise. All are carried out under a dominant world view or what one might
call a “grand paradigm.”
In the beginning, then, one must articulate one’s world view and prepare oneself for investigation and dis-
c o v e r y. And this is how the Seven Valleys begins. It articulates a world view essential for the true seeker and
inspires the seeker—the scientist—with confidence in his own inner potential; with confidence that he does,
in fact, have within himself the means to embark on the search and reach the goal.
The Seven Valleys begins,
Praise be to God Who hath made being to come forth from nothingness . . .1 4
There is a Supreme reality, and the universe is a c re a t i o n—as distinct from an entity which simply “exists”
or has “just happened.” Thus, the foundation for the scientific enterprise is laid. That the universe is c re a t e d
implies it is an infinite mystery, which in turn implies that science will be an eternal enterprise.
. . . graven upon the tablet of man the mysteries of pre-existence . . .1 5
By simple logic, no existence can encompass its own pre-existence. Upon man, however, the “mysteries of
pre-existence” have been engraved. Hence, man transcends the material creation. If it is science through which
we come to understand the creation, then science will not only be an eternal enterprise but, this passage
implies, science will be a f ruitful enterprise.
And finally we read, in this powerful opening paragraph which sets the tone for the entire work, that
every man may thereby win his way to the summit of realities, until none shall contemplate anything what-
soever but that he shall see God therein.16
The scientific imperative, like the religious imperative, has been built into the very spirit of man. This pas-
sage, so evocative of the second Arabic Hidden Word, that man should “see with his own eyes” and “know of
his own knowledge,” gives us the divine mandate to pursue science and religion and gives to the individual the
sovereign authority to investigate, discover and apprehend reality.
In the second paragraph Bahá’u’lláh establishes the authority of the Manifestation of God:
And I praise and glorify the first sea which hath branched from the ocean of the Divine Essence, the first
morn which hath glowed from the Horizon of Oneness . . .1 7
The Seven Valleys was written to a Muslim before Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of His own Mission, and hence
this paragraph is explicitly in praise of Muhammad. It is clear, however, in light of the body of Bahá’í teach-
ings, that these words apply not exclusively to Muhammad, but to the Manifestation of God. It was mentioned
above that the first step in the scientific method is acceptance of a source of reality. For Bahá’ís this source is
the Manifestation of God. Bahá’ís accept this on faith, in the same way that the physical scientist accepts on
faith that nature is a source of reality rational in its underpinnings.
1 3 1
The Seven Vall e ys and the Sci e n tific Me t h o d

F i n a l l y, the scientist needs confidence in himself and in his own abilities, and encouragement in his search
for truth. When paradigms fail—and they fail often—Thomas Kuhn has talked about the “silent revolutions”
of science—scientists need inspiration and confidence. Scientific work centred around a paradigm in crisis is
extremely difficult, requiring as it does not only the ability but the courage to look at data and scientific prob-
lems in a very different way, and the courage to propose a new way of thinking to a community which con-
tains conservative elements which will inevitably oppose the new paradigm. Even if new paradigms are not
found, however, there is the challenging task of paradigm articulation, in which the crisis is resolved through
modification of the existing paradigm.
Towards the end of the opening section the would-be seeker is assured,
I therefore reveal unto thee sacred and resplendent tokens from the planes of glory, to attract thee into the
court of holiness and nearness and beauty . . .1 8
And he is encouraged,
wert thou to taste of these fruits . . . yearning would seize the reins of patience and reserve from out thy
hand . . . and draw thee from the earthy homeland to the . . . Center of realities.1 9
This, of course, is the great aspiration of the inspired scientist: to reach the “center of realities” of the field
of his enquiry.
The Valley of Search
The second step in the scientific method is to question reality. For the physicist this questioning takes sev-
eral accepted forms: selected observations, controlled experiments, and mathematical analysis. In the case of
what Thomas Kuhn calls “normal science” this questioning takes place in the context of a paradigm. The par-
adigm determines which questions are worth asking and, generally, what answers should be obtained. The vital
role of the paradigm in science can hardly be overstated. Nature, taken as a whole, is too complex and the mul-
tiplicity of possible experiments and the great mass of possible data obtainable from these experiments is too
overwhelming to allow any sense or anything like progress to be made. The paradigm, by creating a “picture”
of what nature is and what it should be, tells the scientist what questions are worth asking, what data is extra-
neous and what is essential; it helps create order out of what otherwise would be bewildering confusion.
When the scientist questions reality he almost always expects a particular answer. This creates a dilemma:
if the correct answer is obtained, is it because he somehow contrived to obtain the expected answer, or is it
because the paradigm actually models nature within the context of the experiment? When he doesn’t get that
a n s w e r, there are several possibilities:
1 )
He did not perform the experiment or the analysis correctly (his apparatus or experimental tech-
nique was deficient; his mathematical analysis was wrong), and he has to perform it again, perhaps
with new experimental or mathematical apparatus.
2)
He asked the wrong question, and nature is trying to give an answer to a question he din’t think he
had asked.
3)
The paradigm needs articulation.
4)
The paradigm is wrong.
The scientist needs “objectivity.” In fact, what he needs are just those qualities and attributes described by
Bahá’u’lláh in the Valley of Search.
It is incumbent on these servants that they cleanse the heart . . . from every marking, and that they turn
away from imitation . . .2 0
This “cleansing of the heart,” what the scientist loosely calls “objectivity,” must, however, be within a con-
text—within a paradigm. Hence a key condition of this stage of search is given in the passage,
In their search, they have stoutly girded up the loins of service . . .2 1
That is, the seeker must have a concept of “service,” and must be engaged in this service.
The steed of this Valley is patience . . .2 2
1 3 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

He must be engaged in service while “at every moment” seeking “to journey from the plane of heedlessness
into the realm of being.”2 3
When paradigms fail—and they fail first in the minds of only one or a few scientists and later the entire com-
munity—the researcher faces the extremely difficult task of replacing them. Science works only within mod-
els. No model has ever been abandoned until it has been replaced with a new one which the scientific com-
munity has come to see as being superior.
How does one discover a new paradigm?
[W]hatever he hath seen, and heard, and understood, all must he set at naught, that he may enter the realm
of the spirit . . .2 4
Labor is needed, if we are to seek Him; ardor is needed, if we are to drink of the honey of reunion with
Him . . .2 5
These passages can serve as an inspirational guide for the scientist in search of a new paradigm. They apply
equally in the educative process. In order to succeed and become a practicing scientist the student must learn
the reigning paradigm. He must learn to think in a new way; he must learn to reorder his entire thinking
process. It takes labor and ardor, and a willingness to abandon the past.
The Valley of Love
Once the scientist thinks he has found the answer, once the student thinks he has understood the existing
model, he enters a new state. Both researchers and students alike describe the emotions which accompany the
dawn of a new understanding: excitement, exultation, ecstasy; they “dissolve” in the new discovery, a state
Bahá’u’lláh describes as “ u n a w a re of himself, and of aught besides himself.”2 6 Having found an answer, they
see all problems as having their solution in this one answer. This state is all-consuming.
The absent-mindedness and single-mindedness of students and scientists is legendary. The physicist Leo
Szilard was noted for being so perpetually lost in his own thoughts that he would often wander across streets
without bothering to notice the traffic. This proved highly amusing to his colleagues and highly irritating to
motorists when he first went to Chicago to join Enrico Fermi as part of his team.
A story is told of Meyer, one of the three discoverers of the principle of the Conservation of Energ y — w h a t
is now called the First Law of Thermodynamics—that a physicist acquaintance of his once objected to his ideas
by saying that if he, Meyer, were right, then water would be heated just by being shaken. Meyer stared at his
friend and bolted from the house. Two days later a strange man, unshaven, disheveled, agitated, appeared at
the man’s house and shouted, “And it is!” It was Meyer, who had spent the last two days shaking a bottle of
w a t e r.
This Va l l e y, however, is a dangerous place to be for too long.
He hath bound a myriad victims in his fetters . . . Know that every redness in the world is from his anger.2 7
There is no one more intolerable than a scientist defending his paradigm. Time and again in the history of
science, scientists, in the name of truth and objectivity, have shown an intolerance, vindictiveness, irrationali-
ty which in individuals supposedly dedicated to truth, defies description. Boltzmann committed suicide
because of the treatment he received at the hands of his contemporaries. “If Meyer had not been mad,” accord-
ing to one biographer, he never would have been able to persist against the scientific fraternity of his day.
Today Neo-Darwinism is coming under attack from several directions: biochemistry, mathematics and a per-
sistent, not insignificant, trickle of anomalous evidence. The stubborn refusal of some of its most ardent
defenders to examine dispassionately contradictory evidence, and their irrational labeling of those who do not
toe their party line, are illustrative of what happens to scientists who remain in the Valley of Love.
Some will remain in this Valley forever. Others will pass beyond it:
And if, confirmed by the Creator, he escapes from the claws of the Eagle of love, he will straightway step
into the Valley of Knowledge.28
The Valley of Knowledge
To the scientist the process of escaping “the claws of the Eagle of love” is the maturation of his under-
1 3 3
The Seven Vall e ys and the Sci e n tific Me t h o d

standing. On one level—on the level of the student, for instance—knowledge and understanding reach the
point at which the “lover” enters the fraternity, that is, the community of scientists. The student becomes a pro-
fessional. One cannot become a professional scientist of caliber without having gone through the ardor of the
Valley of Love, without experiencing the pain of this Valley and without experiencing the doubt that must
accompany this pain. When the scientist enters the Valley of Knowledge the ardor of the Valley of Love is not
lost, but it becomes tempered with knowledge. “Doubt” gives way to “ c e rt i t u d e . ”
For the scientific revolutionary the passion of discovery, the almost fanatic desire to convert the scientific
community to one’s new paradigm, accompanied by doubt that perhaps the new discovery is not, after all, real-
ly correct, gives way to a more mature understanding, and certitude that the new discovery is, after all, correct.
The physicist Paul Dirac, who discovered an equation which married quantum mechanics with Einstein’s
Special Relativity, wrote that he initially used his new, relativistic equation to find first order corrections to the
nonrelativistic Schrodinger wave equation. He did not proceed to solve for second order corrections because,
he said later, he was afraid his equation might prove wrong. He accordingly published a paper giving his first
order corrections. Another researcher, picking up on his work, then solved the equation to second order. T h e
second order solution matched experimental data, and Dirac now knew he had made a great discovery—but
the credit for this verification, which could have gone to him, went to someone else.
The Valley of Unity
The Valley of Knowledge is the “last plane of limitation.” After this stage the seeker enters the Valley of
Unity where
he pierceth the veils of plurality . . . and ascendeth into the heaven of singleness . . . [W]ith the eye of God
he beholdeth the mysteries of divine creation.2 9
Beyond the state of “knowledge” the scientist reaches a state, described by this Valley and the ones above
it, in which he comes to see the great unity in the laws of his discipline. Although wedded to a particular par-
adigm—he must be, in order to be a practicing scientist—he has also in a sense transcended this paradigm. T h e
physicist, for instance, is willing to see physics in new ways, willing to entertain new paradigms, willing to be
intrigued by new problems which strike at the very boundaries of his belief—willing, in a sense, to see those
problems which d o strike at the boundaries of his belief. By contrast, a physicist who has not reached this stage
will see how all problems can be explained within the confines of his models. Since the great majority of prob-
lems which will be confronted in his working life fall into this latter category, he can have a very successful
career without progressing beyond the Valley of Knowledge.
In seeing the unity behind the laws of physics, as can be seen only on the level of this Va l l e y, the physicist
also, to his way of thinking, sees the great unity of nature. He has come to see the Mind of God. His reality i s
r e a l i t y.
Thomas Kuhn has pointed out that one of the great and unique features of science is the existence of a com-
munity which, sooner or later, comes to accept the same family of paradigms. The notion of progress itself, he
has pointed out, is meaningful only in the context of a community of believers. Science as a collective enter-
prise isn’t just about discovering and knowing, it is about coming to see all nature with a single eye and a uni-
fied vision. It is this aspect of religious truth, as well, which also makes religion progressive. The great strength
of the Bahá’í community, a strength which will become more and more apparent as the community grows and
progresses, is its ability to acquire a unified vision and to see the world with a single eye.
In science this unified vision does not prevent new discoveries from being made and new paradigms—what
scientists would unhesitatingly call greater insight into the workings and secrets of nature—from emerg i n g .
And although it provides a healthy conservative brake on change, it certainly does not stifle debate. In the same
w a y, the unified vision of the Bahá’í Faith, guaranteed by the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, will not prevent new
discoveries, progress and new paradigms—what Bahá’ís would unhesitatingly call new truths—from emerg-
ing within the body of truth contained in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. And while giving stability to the entire
system, this unified vision does not suppress the “clash of differing opinions” which is so healthy and so nec-
essary for a progressing community.
Science progresses through a community conducting ever more sophisticated experiments and analysis
1 3 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

within a paradigm. The Bahá’í community will progress in a number of ways, but one of the chief agents of
its progress is consultation. It is through consultation that problems will be solved, new problems appear, and
community transformation—what an historian of science might call paradigm articulation or, more rarely, par-
adigm shift—will take place.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said that one of the wisdoms of consultation is that sometimes one wise person will have
a solution which a thousand others might not see. It is consultation which will allow the one correct view to
rise to the fore and become accepted by the thousand. Is this not evocative of the scientific process, in which
the discovery of a lone scientist, a discovery which at first glance may appear completely wrong, eventually
achieves acceptance by the community as a whole?
The Bahá’í writings create a vision of progress. Shoghi Effendi wrote that the people of the future would be
far more spiritual, far more advanced than people of today and that the Bahá’í institutions, now in their infan-
c y, would mature. Bahá’ís see their individual, collective and institutional lives as progressing to the point at
which they will eventually realize the divine Purpose and express divine Truth to an unprecedented degree. Is
this not similar to the self image of the scientific community? Science also, scientiste believe, will continue to
progress. Its paradigms will increasingly reflect the reality of nature; its evolving systems will become an ever-
advancing expression of Truth.
The Valleys of Contentment, Wonderment and True Poverty
Bahá’u’lláh describes valleys beyond the Valley of Unity: the Valley of Contentment, the Valley of
Wonderment and the Valley of True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness. “The tongue faileth in describing these
t h ree Valleys, and speech falleth short. ”3 0 These Valleys contain much that would be useful to a practising sci-
entist working at the forefront of knowledge, striving to advance from what is known and understood towards
the infinite heights of reality; that would be useful, as well, to one striving to integrate material and spiritual
knowledge; striving to integrate natural philosopy and what ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá has called “divine philosophy. ”3 1
What has been explored in this paper seems to unveil a remarkable similarity between, on the one hand, the
method used by the scientific community, and on the other hand, the method used by the Bahá’í community in
its operation and development. There is a remarkable similarity between the method employed by the individ-
ual scientist or the student and the method employed by the individual Bahá’í in his striving to progress in per-
sonal, family, community and institutional life and service. Keys to this method are contained in the Seven
Valleys. It can serve as a guide, a sourcebook, for the scientist and the religious believer alike.
III. Conclusion
One of the questions which has intrigued Western historians is why Europe and its descendent cultures
achieved such overwhelming economic, scientific and military dominance in the past four centuries. It is the
European system, these historians point out, which today has come to dominate the world’s economic, educa-
tional, intellectual and scientific life. Answers have been offered by McNeil in Rise of the We s t,3 2 Tr e v o r- R o p e r
in The Rise of Christian Euro p e,3 3 Landes in The Wealth and Poverty of Nations,3 4 and Phillips in The Cousins’
Wa r s.3 5 Kuhn in The Stru c t u re of Scientific Revolutions points out:
But only the civilizations which have descended from Hellenic Greece have possessed more than the most
rudimentary science. The bulk of scientific knowledge is a product of Europe in the last four centuries. No
other place and time has supported the very special communities from which scientific productivity
c o m e s .3 6
Inherent in this concern is the further question, born out of anxiety, “how can this achievement of Europe,
and the promise it holds for future progress, become lasting?” What is not to ensure, as the West loses its eco-
nomic and intellectual dominance, as Western-born systems continue to become global and merge with sys-
tems and philosophies foreign to European culture and to Christianity, that the gains made by Western civi-
lization will endure? What is to prevent a slide back into a more primitive approach to apprehending the uni-
verse?
To Bahá’ís, operating from a different paradigm—to borrow this phrase from the contemporary historian—
the question is different. To Bahá’ís the economic and scientific advancement which took place in Europe from
the Renaissance up to the Age of Imperialism was an inevitable consequence of the Revelation of Muhammad.
1 3 5
The Seven Vall e ys and the Sci e n tific Me t h o d

Just why it was Europe and not the Muslim world itself, or India, or China, which took up the torch of Muslim
civilization and carried it to its preordained heights, is another question, but it is not the crucial question which
it is to someone not sharing the Bahá’í world view.
As to why it was n o t the Muslim world itself which continued to carry the torch, the Bahá’í historian Mírzá
Abu’l Fadl offers an answer, or at least the seed of an answer: at a crucial stage in the development of Muslim
civilization the learned of that society turned away from science and turned instead towards a theology which
became increasingly indulgent and fruitless. Tr e v o r-Roper in The Rise of the Christian West points out that it
was Europe’s failure in its response to the rise of Islam, rather than the fall of Rome, which plunged Europe
into the Dark Ages, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in The Secret of Divine Civilization3 7 points out that it was exposure to
the Muslim world, through the Crusades, which started Europe back on the path towards civilization. This path,
blocked by the Church, was not an easy path to follow. The first stirring of Europe, what Tr e v o r-Roper calls
the mini-Renaissance, was successfully squashed by the Church. The second attempt, however—what we call
the Renaissance—and the succeeding scientific revolution—succeeded despite the Church.
To Bahá’ís, the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh will ensure that the gains made by Europe through the inspiration
of the Revelation of Muhammad will not be lost. In fact, the development of civilization since the middle of
the Nineteenth Century, as explained in the masterful works of Shoghi Effendi, is due to a degree unrecognized
at present to the inspiration of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, which will continue to exert its beneficial influ-
ence until its consummation in humanity’s first truly global civilization. This supremely optimistic view, stim-
ulating and energizing in its effects, is shared by the entire Bahá’í community. And as that community gains
strength this view will gain greater acceptance in the world at larg e .
Thomas Kuhn points out, with some obvious anxiety,
Just how special that community [the scientific community] must be if science is to survive and grow may
be indicated by the very tenuousness of humanity’s hold on the scientific enterprise.3 8
To Bahá’ís the hold is not tenuous at all. It is the inevitable outgrowth of the progressive unfoldment of
divine Truth and the divine Will in successive divine Revelations. The question of why it was Europe, what
elements led Europe to succeed, and how we can ensure that those essential elements of success are preserved
in civilization, is therefore a secondary question. The key question is how to most rapidly transform the world
into the global system envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh. The diversity of the human experience, when coupled with
the moral and social principles contained in divine Revelation, rather than having the potential to destroy the
systems erected by modern science and through modern thought, will on the contrary enhance the economic,
scientific, intellectual, social and political development of the global community.
Scientists use a method. They use a method which in the past has been highly successful. More than any-
thing, the scientific community wishes to continue that success. It seeks a method which will, in the long run
and despite any changes society may yet undergo, keep science alive; a method which will prevent stagnation
and guarantee science’s continued progress. T h e Seven Valleys contains the core of just such a method.
N o t e s
1) Shoghi Effendi. 1965. God Passes By p. 140. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
2 ) Ibid. p. 140
3) Bahá’u’lláh. 1978. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh p. 24. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t .
4) Bahá’u’lláh. 1992. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas p. 20. Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa.
5) Bahá’u’lláh. 1978. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh p. 35. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t .
6) Richard Feynman. 1965. The Character of Physical Law. Cambridge: M.I.T. P r e s s .
7) Shoghi Effendi. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” pp. 97-157. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Tr u s t .
8) A few years ago George Duvall, of the Department of Physics at Washington State University, spoke about the vital importance,
and diff i c u l t y, of engaging in scholarship in the physical sciences:
Physics has become a very difficult subject. The expansion of the field in both depth and breadth during the last forty
year is almost incomprehensible. The coherence which has characterized physics in the past is slipping away, and too lit-
1 3 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

tle effort is being made to prevent it. There are three legitimate activities for the academic: research, teaching, and schol-
arship. The last of these is not properly recognized by university administrators, yet it plays a key role in science. It is
the scholar who keeps up with progress on a broad front, who digests new results, synthesizes and simplifies them, inte-
grates them with existing knowledge, and makes them available to his fellows and comprehensible to his students. To
accomplish this is an intellectual feat of the greatest magnitude, and it si a natural companion to teaching. Unfortunately,
scholarship of this kind does not mature quickly, it does not lead to large numbers of publications, and its merit is not
easily evaluated. By failing to recognized the value of scholarship and to learn how to evalueate it, universities are doing
a great disservice to students, the faculty, the professions, and the nation.
G e o rge Duvall. 1989. “Three Blind Men and an Elephant,” in Shock Compression of Condensed Matter.
9) Alfred North Whitehead. 1967. Science and the Modern World. New York: Free Press.
10) Bahá’u’lláh. 1939. The Hidden Wo rd s, Persian #29. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t .
11) Bahá’u’lláh. 1978. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh p. 141. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t .
12) Henri Poincare. Quoted in Peitgen, Jurgens and Saupe. 1992. Chaos and Fractals p. 15. New York: Springer- Ve r l a g .
13) Thomas Kuhn. 1962. The Stru c t u re of Scientific Revolutions. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
14) Bahá’u’lláh. 1945. The Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s p. 1. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t .
15) Ibid. p. 1
16) Ibid. p. 1-2
17) I b i d . p. 2
18) Ibid. p. 3
19) Ibid. p. 4
20) I b i d . p. 5
21) Ibid.
22) I b i d .
23) I b i d .
24) I b i d . p. 7
25) I b i d .
26) I b i d . p. 8
27) I b i d . p. 10
28) Ibid. p. 11
29) Ibid. p. 17
30) Ibid. p. 30
31) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. 1982. The Promulgation of Universal Piece: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá During His Visit to the United
States and Canada in 1912. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Tr u s t .
32) William McNeill. 1963. The Rise of the West. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
33) Hugh Tr e v o r- R o p e r. 1965. The Rise of Christian Europe. London: Thames and Hudson.
34) David Landes. 1998. The Wealth and Poverty of Nations. London: A b a c u s .
35) Kevin Phillips. 1999. The Cousins’ Wars. New York: Basic Books.
36) The Stru c t u re of Scienctific Revolutions, p. 168
37) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. 1957. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
38) The Stru c t u re of Scientific Revolutions, p. 167
1 3 7
The Seven Vall e ys and the Sci e n tific Me t h o d

1 3 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Theological Responses to Modernity in the Nineteenth-century Middle East:
The examples of Bahá’u’lláh and Muhammad Abduh
by Oliver Scharbrodt
Introduction: Bahá’u’lláh, Muhammad Abduh, and the challenge of modernity
T
he emergence of Western modernity in the nineteenth-century Middle East led to the appearance of a
variety of movements that responded to modernity. The military, political and economic dominance of
Western powers in the Middle East that resulted in the colonisation or semi-colonisation of many coun-
tries of that region illustrated the backwardness of Muslim countries which were not prepared for the exposure
to Western modernity. Therefore, political movements sought the modernisation of the state apparatus by intro-
ducing Western administrative patterns and legal reforms, constitutionalists demanded the abolition of absolute
monarchy and supported democratisation, and state officials intended to prepare Middle Easterners intellectu-
ally to modernity by establishing a Western-like educational system. Usually the discussion of the emerg e n c e
of modernity in the Middle East is concerned with these socio-political issues.
H o w e v e r, Western imperialism had a deep psychological impact on Middle Easterners as well. The domi-
nance and rule of non-Muslims over Muslims questioned the strength of Islam and forced Muslims to admit
that the followers of Christianity, a religion Islam was supposed to supersede, have achieved a greater civili-
s a t i o n .1 The belief that Islam was the final and perfect revelation of God was contradicted by the vulnerabili-
ty and dependence of Muslim states on Western intervention. Hence, the emergence of Western modernity has
an important theological dimension, since the backwardness of Muslims in relation to the so-called infidels
from Europe questions the superiority of the Islamic religion. Only a small minority abandoned Islam at all,
thinking the religion itself responsible for the decline of the Middle East and seeking a solution in Western sec-
ularism. The majority searched for a religious response to modernity and hoped for a restoration of the glori-
ous past of Islam.2 Any response which does not intend to abandon the religious tradition at all, has to find an
explanation for the present decline of Muslim societies and to explain how the religious tradition can be made
relevant for modernity in order to maintain its universal validity. If such a religious response intends to mod-
ernise Muslim societies, it has to find a theological justification for reform on the basis of the Islamic tradi-
tion. Such an approach is not unusual to Muslim theological discourse which always had political implications
and was pursued in support of a specific political agenda.
This paper will present and compare two religious responses to Western modernity in the nineteenth-centu-
ry Middle East: the theological ideas of Bahá’u’lláh (1817-1892) and Muhammad Abduh (1849-1905).
Muhammad Abduh is undoubtedly one of the most influential thinkers of modern Islam. Being the disciple of
Jamál al-Dín al-Afg haní and the teacher of Ras híd Ridá, Abduh stands in the line of eminent personalities in
the Islamic world of the last two centuries. A fg há n í ’s fame is based on his Pan-Islamic political activism, while
R i d á ’s significance lies in his ideological impact on modern Muslim political movements like the Muslim
Brotherhood. Both secular liberal-minded Muslim intellectuals and fundamentalist ideologues refer to A b d u h
as their predecessor in reforming Islam. Abduh received a traditional education at Azhar where he came in con-
tact with A fg hání and became one of his closest disciples. Because of his support for the nationalist movement
that emerged in Egypt in the 1870’s, Abduh was exiled to Beirut after the defeat of Urabi’s nationalist revolt
in 1882. Later he went to Paris and allied with A fg hání, publishing with his teacher the anti-British journal a l -
U rwat al-Wut hq á. In 1888, the permission was given to him to settle again in Egypt, where he started working
as a judge and became chief mufti of Egypt in 1899. Until his death in 1905, he was much involved in pub-
lishing activities and tried to implement administrative and educational reforms at A z h a r.
Both Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh deal in their writings with those socio-political issues that other reform move-
ments in the Middle East discussed. However, this paper will focus on their theological ideas, following the
thesis that any reform attempt with a religious outlook has to provide a theological justification for its aims.
Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh are not interested in theology per se, but intend to provide a metaphysical framework
1 3 9
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

for their respective reform programmes. A b d u h ’s most important theological work is the Risalat al-tawhíd, a
systematic treatise on Islamic theology that was published after his return to Egypt on the basis of the lectures
he gave during his exile in Beirut. Bahá’u’lláh has not written a systematic treatise on the subject, but His the-
ological ideas are spread throughout His writings. The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, which He wrote in Baghdad in the late
1850s or early 1860s before His open proclamation, expresses His growing prophetic consciousness and can
be considered to be the theological manifesto of the Bahá’í Faith. This paper will compare Bahá’u’lláh’s and
Muhammad A b d u h ’s ideas on theology, prophetology, and salvation history. The comparison does not only aim
at showing differences and parallels, but also at finding reasons for them in relation to the objectives of their
reform programmes. It demonstrates how both thinkers try to bridge tradition with modernity and to find a the-
ological response to the tension between both forces by appropriating, stressing, dismissing and modifying ele-
ments of the traditions they come from and enriching them with modern ideas. The comparison distinguishes
between four modern motifs in their theologies.
Modern motifs in Bahá’u’lláh’s and Muhammad Abduh’s theologies
Rationalism
It is not surprising that both thinkers refer to Mu‘tazila rationalism and nominalism in order to modernise
and to a certain extent rationalise theology. However, Bahá’u’lláh and Muhammad Abduh only make selective
use of Mu‘tazila ideas and use them to a different degree. A b d u h ’s point of departure is a philosophical proof
of God’s existence. According to him, it is possible to prove God’s existence rationally without any reference
to revelation. One can find analogies of this philosophical approach in medieval Christian and Muslim theo-
logical discourses which have appropriated the Aristotelian theory of existence to prove the validity of either
the Christian or Islamic revelation universally, based on reason.3 For Abduh, logic provides universal canoni-
cal rules for secure and objective knowledge.4 Abduh applies this notion of logic to his philosophical approach
to theology in order to provide it with a foundation which he considers to be rational and hence universally
v a l i d .
Abduh distinguishes three epistemological categories which have ontological counterparts. Everything that
can be known can be categorised as being either possible (m u m k i n), impossible (m u s t a h í l) or necessary
(w á j i b) . 5 Three principles of existence follow these categories of knowledge. Abduh discriminates between
“that which is contingent,6 that which is necessarily self-existent7 and that which is inherently impossible of
e x i s t e n c e . ”8 , 9 These three categories of existence enable Abduh with a tool to deduce from them the existence
of God, while discussing them en détail. The mode of the impossible or non-existent is only an imaginative
category which can neither in reality nor logically be existent.1 0 The contingent possesses potentially and
equally both the mode of being and the mode of non-being. It requires an external force that causes the actu-
alisation of the principle of being. The existence of the contingent depends on a prior cause, as it can never
cause its existence by itself. The contingent ceases from existing when a cause lacks or stops the continuous
process of causation. The contingency of things of the created world can be perceived, as they come into being
and disappear later. All contingent things of the world constitute the contingent which requires a primal cause.
This cause cannot be part of the contingent since, being a cause, it must exist prior to the contingent. The nec-
essarily existent and the non-existent are the two ontological modes that precede the contingent. However,
since the non-existent does not exist, only the necessarily existent can be the primal cause.11
After having shown that the necessarily existent Being causes the contingent, Abduh introduces the essen-
tial qualities of the primal cause. One of its characteristics is its pre-existent eternity, since it precedes all con-
tingent things.1 2 All attributes must be assigned to it in their most complete form to maintain its perfection. A s
it bestows attributes to contingent things and hence determines their nature, it must possess these attributes per-
f e c t l y.1 3 The qualities of life, knowledge, will, freedom of choice must be then, according to Abduh, essential
attributes of the necessarily existent Being as well.1 4 One can find a similar discourse on the attributes of the
Supreme Being among Neoplatonists, except for the stress on unity (w a h d a) which has been added to this set
by A l - As h‘arí and A l -G hazálí in Muslim theological discourse.1 5 Likewise for Abduh, the oneness of the nec-
essarily existent Being “in His essence, His attributes, His existence and His acts”1 6 has to be assumed. T h e
attribute of unity implies its non-composite nature and its uniqueness, as no being is equal to it.1 7 With this
philosophical approach to God’s existence, Abduh presumes to have proven the rationality of the fundamental
1 4 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

belief in one God and to have shown the harmony of reason and revelation in the basic question of God’s being.
For Abduh, reason alone is sufficient to lead to the belief in God. Abduh revives the philosophical approach to
God of medieval Muslim theologians and philosophers for his apologetic aim of demonstrating the reconcil-
ability of Islam with reason.1 8
In contrast to Abduh, Bahá’u’lláh does not seek a rational foundation for the faith in God. Although He
shares with Abduh the distinction between the contingency of creation and God as its non-contingent creator,
He does not provide a logical explanation of God’s existence, but embeds God and His creation in a Sufi-like
cosmological scheme. A p p a r e n t l y, Bahá’u’lláh does not see the necessity to prove God’s existence, and the
addressees of His writings probably never doubted it anyway.
The different attitudes of Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh towards reason can be observed in their discussion of the
divine attributes as well. Both share a nominalistic and skeptical view of language, but again the extent and
the purpose they use it for differs. Both agree that the divine essence is neither attainable by human compre-
hension nor expressible by language—only through His attributes can God be recognised. Whereas for A b d u h
most attributes can be rationally deduced from the necessarily existent Being, Bahá’u’lláh underlines that all
attributes assigned to God have no reality and do not reflect the divine essence. This difference can be
explained by their different objectives. Although Abduh follows the scholastic tradition in expounding a philo-
sophic approach to God’s existence and emphasises the necessity and importance of a rational basis of theol-
o g y, he does not entirely agree with a complete appropriation of speculative philosophy in theological dis-
course. For him, the attempt to integrate wholly Greek philosophy in Muslim theology entails a danger that the
ultimate truth criteria of Qur’án and Sunna could be replaced by those of peripatetic philosophy.1 9 F u r t h e r m o r e ,
Abduh is critical of many scholastic discussions which he considers to be futile, as they seek to grasp theo-
logical ideas which are not rationally comprehensible. Such discussions have often led to unnecessary sectar-
ian divisions that have undermined Muslim doctrinal unity. A b d u h ’s primary aim is to find the essential doc-
trines of Islam which all Muslims can agree on. He therefore eschews subtle theological speculations which he
considers to be counter- p r o d u c t i v e .2 0
Abduh legitimises the necessity of philosophical caution in reflecting on God by quoting the following
h a d ít h: “Ponder the creation of God, but do not take your meditations into the Divine essence, or you will per-
i s h . ”2 1 In accordance with this hadít h, Abduh employs the atomistic theory of philosophy that distinguishes
between accidents and substance of a thing.2 2 Only accidents of a thing, namely its qualities, are accessible for
the human mind, while the substance of a thing which lies behind its accidents is not comprehensible, because
“reason quite lacks the competence to penetrate the essence of things.”2 3 Due to the ultimate alterity of God, it
is impossible to grasp the divine essence.2 4 Only some of God’s attributes are accessible by the rational facul-
t y. Most problems of theological speculation are not solvable, such as whether the attributes of God are part of
the divine essence, separated from it, or what other kind of relationship they have to each other. Such ques-
tions transcend human understanding. Any controversy around these issues is a controversy around words
which can never fully reflect reality, “for linguistic usage [isti‘mál al-lug ha] does not ‘grasp’ truth [a l - h a q í q a] ,
and even if words do come to expressive grips with reality, the way language put things never does full justice
to them as they really are essentially. ” 2 5 Abduh employs a nominalistic and sometimes even agnostic attitude
in order to avoid subtle theological speculations that have divided the Muslim community, but is willing to
adopt a philosophical approach to God as long as it promotes his intention to rationalise theology.
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s use of nominalism serves different purposes. In the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, theology and
prophetology are connected with cosmology. The structure of Bahá’u’lláh’s theological cosmos provides the
metaphysical background that illustrates the station of God and the prophets and the function of revelation.
Hence, any discussion of theological issues in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings has to start with an outline of His meta-
physics. The most well-known structuralistion of cosmos is the threefold scheme that distinuishes between the
world of God (‘álam al-haqq), the world of command (‘álam al-amr), i.e. the world of the Manifestions, and
the world of creation (‘álam al-k ha l q). The world of the Absolute Truth (h a q q) stands on top of the hierarchy.
It refers to God’s primordial divine essence in its non-manifest and undifferentiated status of pure oneness
(a h a d i y y a) .2 6 In this realm God is one, as there is no distinction between His substance and His Attributes, and
God is absolutely transcendent, as all Attributes ascribed to Him on that level fail to reflect divine Reality and
even the Prophets have no access to this realm and cannot comprehend God’s pure Essence.2 7 Since God is con-
1 4 1
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

tained as a non-manifest essence in the highest realm, any attempt to describe His Being in this stage is futile.
An impersonal description of God is dominant in reference to this world. Any description of God can never
represent His inaccessible divine Essence and any conceptualisation of the absolute Truth is inevitably mis-
c o n c e i v e d .2 8 In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh affirms: “So lofty is this station that no testimony can bear wit-
ness, neither evidence do justice to its truth . . .”2 9 At this stage a negative theology of the deus absconditus
(the hidden God) prevails, which almost resembles an agnostic attitude.3 0
Despite the transcendence of the impersonal God, Who is so far beyond mystical experience or philosophi-
cal conception 3 1 then even the possibility of adequate worship is thrown into doubt,3 2 Bahá’u’lláh assigns
attributes to Him. Following orthodox Islamic theology, God is described as “the Eternal,”3 3 “the Powerful, . .
. the A l m i g h t y ”3 4 and as the omniscient source of all knowledge, having sight, hearing, speech, life and unity.3 5
H o w e v e r, in accordance with the Mu‘tazila, Bahá’u’lláh makes only nominalistic use of these attributes, con-
sidering them not as real entities but rather as allegorical descriptions of God’s indescribable nature,3 6 since “it
is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the divine Being is immensely exalted beyond every human
attribute, such as corporal existence, ascent and descent, egress and regress . . .”3 7 Attributing qualities to God
irrespective of their insufficiency illustrates that God is beyond all imperfections.3 8
God becomes manifest in the realms inferior to the World of Absolute Truth. Only through these manifesta-
tions is God approachable. The first manifestation occurs with the emergence of the Primal Will that emanates
from the primordial divine essence. This l o g o s becomes the point of departure of theology. Since there is no
real theology outside God’s manifestation, only a negative theology referring to God as the Absolute Truth, one
should speak of “manifestation theology”3 9 or “theophanology. ” 4 0 The Word of God (kálimát alláh/k a l á m
a l l á h) or l o g o s is not only the first but also the pivotal attribute that becomes manifested, as it links God’s
inscrutable essence with creation. The Word of God is the generative and creative force in the universe, being
“the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are but the creatures and the effects there-
o f . ”4 1 Bahá’u’lláh is only nominalistic in reference to God in the highest realm to underscore the inaccessibil-
ity of divine essence. This negative approach to God becomes the foundation of His manifestation theology.
God is only accessible through the revelation of His attributes in the metaphysical realms and for human beings
through the appearance of a Manifestation of God.
Hence, the appropriation of Mu‘tazila rationalism by Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh depends on how useful it is for
the ultimate purposes of their theologies. A b d u h ’s aim is to rationalise religious belief and to achieve Muslim
doctrinal unity by eschewing contentious theological controversies. His dogmatic exposition is supposed to be
generally accessible and to show the essential beliefs Muslims have in common in order to overcome sectari-
an divisions.4 2 Islam is presented as Ve r n u n f t re l i g i o n4 3 (religion of reason) that reconciles revelation with phi-
l o s o p h y, because they share the same basic axiom. Philosophy starts from the existence of the necessarily exis-
tent Being and Islamic theology is based on the Qur’ánic teachings of God that do not contradict, but even con-
firm the philosophical approach.4 4
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s use of nominalism serves different purposes. For him, theology is not rationalisable, as rea-
son fails to comprehend God who is as a logic-transcending entity beyond all forms of conceptualisation. His
negative approach to divine essence illustrates the necessity of the revelation and manifestation of divine
attributes in creation. Bahá’u’lláh appropriates Sufi terminology and concepts as a means to expound the
dependence of human beings on the Manifestations of God to recognise God. Any knowledge about God stems
from His Manifestations alone. Whereas Abduh intends to rationalise theology, Bahá’u’lláh develops theology
as a metaphysical framework that makes the continuous revelation of God in history plausible and allows the
possibility of a post-Qur’ánic revelation.4 5
Ethics
Another approach Bahá’u’lláh and Muhammad Abduh use to rationalise theology is to give prophethood pri-
marily a socio-moral function and to stress the ethical necessity of divine revelation. For both, the prophets or
Manifestations provide knowledge of the afterlife, lay the foundations for solidarity and unity of a communi-
t y, and bring doctrines that become the source of a new civilisation. Individual and collective well-being
depends on divine revelation. Both assume the priority of ethics over theological and metaphysical expositions.
Abduh follows al-G ha z á l í ’s emphasis on ethics in composing the Risalat al-tawhíd as “un traité éthico-
1 4 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

t h é o l o g i q u e ”4 6 which underscore the necessary relevance theological discussions must have to moral questions.
Likewise, a shift from metaphysics to ethics is discernible in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings. As the nature of meta-
physical realities transcends human comprehension and the perception of them depends on the beholder’s per-
spective, all knowledge of them is inevitably provisional and limited. Therefore, the moral consequences and
spiritual message a metaphysical concept conveys are more important than the actual reality of such a con-
c e p t .4 7 Nevertheless, how prophethood fulfils its moral function is conceived by both in a slightly different way
which reveals their different attitudes towards reason. A d d i t i o n a l l y, A b d u h ’s exposition of prophecy remains
in orthodox framework, whereas Bahá’u’lláh’s employs Sufi concepts and terms to give a new notion of
p r o p h e t h o o d .
Abduh has an elitist approach towards ethics. Like the Mu‘tazila, Abduh uses an aesthetic point of depar-
ture for ethics. According to the Mu‘tazila doctrine, the aesthetic distinction between beautiful and ugly ( h a s a n
wa qabíh) is inherent to human nature. Although there might be different opinions on what actually defines
beauty or ugliness, all human beings agree that there is a basic distinction between both qualities.4 8 This aes-
thetic distinction is transferred to the ethical sphere, since actions likewise possess beauty or ugliness in them-
selves or in the results they produce.4 9 Hence, Abduh assumes like the Mu‘tazila, an intuitive aesthetic com-
petence with an ethical counterpart that can discriminate between beautiful and ugly and good and bad, respec-
t i v e l y. Therefore, reason would theoretically be sufficient for the determination of moral values without divine
r e v e l a t i o n .5 0
H o w e v e r, only a small minority is able to use its rational faculty adequately to come to right moral conclu-
sions. Most people can only make limited use of their reason, as its full application is circumscribed by their
p a s s i o n s .5 1 A small elite can actualise the right moral values on their own without revelation, but the morality
of certain acts is difficult to prove rationally to the whole of humanity. Hence, a guidance is necessary that
gives an adequate understanding of those aspects of religion and ethics that are not attainable by the majority
of people.5 2 The prophets are the mediators that bring knowledge of God and His Attributes to the generality
of people and convey those truths, the elite already has realised. Speaking with superior divine authority, they
provide secure foundations of religious and moral knowledge and bestow a strong belief, that cannot be
achieved by reason.5 3
In contrast to Abduh, Bahá’u’lláh has a skeptical attitude towards reason and its moral competence. For
Him, everybody requires divine revelation, as it conveys knowledge which is unattainable by reason at all.
Human beings cannot rely on their nature to determine ethical values, since they only partly follow the natur-
al law as an instinct-reduced being. The dual animal and angelic nature of human beings necessitates guidance
that reveals the divine potentialities in them. Revelation is the Archimedic point all morality is rooted in.5 4
Likewise the channels of moral guidance, namely the prophets and Manifestations, are differently con-
ceived. Abduh follows the orthodox Sunni prophetology. He stresses the human nature of the prophets who are
ordinary human beings dependent on the conditions of human life and do not differ from others on this pure-
ly human level.5 5 He upholds the doctrine of ‘ i s m a that the prophets are exempted from sin and error. God
chooses exceptional souls that are receptive for divine revelation and possess moral and spiritual superiority
to their contemporaries to mediate between him and creation. The prophets reveal books which contain the
Word of God and which are sufficient proof of the authenticity of their prophecy due to their inimitability.5 6
The authenticity of their prophetic mission encourages obedience to the revealed moral laws. In order to ratio-
nalise the Islamic doctrine of prophecy, Abduh restricts the infallibility of the prophets to their prophetic mis-
s i o n .5 7 Abduh particularly stresses that the prophets do not have any authority on scientific issues. Neither rea-
son nor revelation affirms the absolute infallibility of the prophets in all aspects of life.5 8 Abduh excludes
prophetic infallibility from science for the purpose of opening scientific research for humans and interpreting
prophetic references to nature that might contradict modern sciences allegorically.
In Bahá’u’lláh’s writings, the ethical dimension of revelation is illustrated by placing the Manifestations in
the cosmological scheme. Bahá’u’lláh uses the term “manifestation” (m a z h a r, z u h ú r) in two senses. On the one
hand, it refers to the manifestation of divine attributes in creation as part of the permanent creative process of
God. On the other hand, “Manifestation” describes the recipients of the secondary revelation of God, namely
the divine prophets and messengers that have been sent to humanity throughout the course of history. This con-
cept of the Manifestations5 9 of God which follows to a certain extent the Islamic prophetology and adopts some
1 4 3
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

Sufi terms is probably one of the most original aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s theology and plays the most signifi-
cant role therein. The introduction of this term in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh implies His claim to offer a new
vision of revelation and salvation history. The term “Manifestation” is meant to transcend the Islamic termi-
n o l o g y, as prophethood or messengerhood represent lower definitions of theophany, whereas the introduction
of a new terminology suggests Bahá’u’lláh’s intention to provide a fuller understanding of theophany.6 0
Nevertheless, the Qur’ánic terms prophet (n a b í) and messenger (r a s ú l) can be found in Bahá’u’lláh’s writ-
ings as well as the basic prophetological concepts of the Islamic tradition, particularly of Shí‘ism. Like the
major theologians of Shí‘í Islam, Bahá’u’lláh distinguishes between prophets with a merely admonishing func-
tion and “prophets endowed with constancy or legislating prophets.”6 1 The prophets with constancy bring a
new law, abrogating the provisions of the previous revelation. Likewise, a book has been revealed to them
which becomes the instrument of the new divine legislation.6 2 Like Islamic prophetology, Bahá’u’lláh stresses
the sinlessness and moral infallibility (‘ i s m a) of the prophets with constancy. In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, He intro-
duces the concept of the “Most Great Infallibility [al-‘ismat al-kubrá] ”6 3 which does not only consist of their
moral perfection, but also of their independence from moral laws of the previous revelations. As divine legis-
lators, these prophets act in a non-ethical realm.6 4
In the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, “prophets endowed with constancy” is synonymous with “Manifestations of
God.” The Manifestations fluctuate between human and divine consciousness and not only transmit the Wo r d
of God but are identical with it. They are not ordinary humans or equal to other contingent beings; rather, being
identical with the eternal l o g o s, They are uncreated and precede the contingent world.6 5 All divine attributes
are perfectly reflected in Them and conveyed to creation. Their moral authority stems from Their status as
Manifestation of God which perfectly represents divine attributes into creation to enable the spiritual progress
of the individual and the material and spiritual progress of society. Human beings have to emulate this reflec-
tion to obtain divine attributes, that are inherent in themselvs, and to follow the moral laws introduced by the
Manifestations for individual and collective well-being.6 6 Despite the conceptual differences between
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s and A b d u h ’s prophetology, both stress the ethical dimension of prophethood to make revelation
relevant to the requirements of the modern world.
Evolution
Both Bahá’u’lláh and Muhammad Abduh expound an evolutionary notion of salvation history and a dynam-
ic concept of religion. Salvation history is the gradual revelation of the divine will in the course of history that
correlates to the evolutionary development of human civilisation. Likewise religion is not a static and
immutable entity, but an active force that has to be revitalised and actualised to changing conditions.
Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh distinguish between the essential part of religion that cannot be modified, but has to be
preserved, and the changeable part that has to be assimilated to the requirements of time in order to keep reli-
gion alive as a social force. However, both use this evolutionary and dynamic concept of religion and salva-
tion history for different purposes. Whereas Abduh uses the evolutionary motif to defend the superiority of
Islam, Bahá’u’lláh employs it to make the necessity of a new theophany credible.
P a r t i c u l a r l y, the evolutionary thought of Herbert Spencer is considered to have been an influence on
A b d u h .6 7 It enabled the development of an evolutionary concept of salvation history that serves as a further
legitimisation of the finality of Muhammad’s prophethood. The development of humanity in general is analo-
gous to the psychological development of the individual. Humanity passes from its childhood to adolescence
and finally reaches its maturity.6 8 The different religions constitute the divine educational programme for
humanity and respond to the spiritual and intellectual capacity of the time they appear and convey prescrip-
tions according to the needs of that specific period. Abduh divides history in three stages that represent the
development of humanity. In the pre-prophetic period, the primary concern of humanity was the satisfaction of
its material and physical needs. In this period, an animistic understanding of nature prevailed. People then
became more conscious of the mechanisms of natural law and social life and partly realised the spiritual
dimension of their existence in the prophetic period. The divine prophets appeared successively to reveal the
divine Will. Humanity now lives in the post-prophetic period which does not require any further prophetic rev-
e l a t i o n .6 9
The religious education of humanity took place in the prophetic period with three successive revelations that
1 4 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

led humanity from infancy to maturity. The three religions Abduh refers to are very likely Judaism,
C h r i s t i a n i t y, and Islam. The religion that appeared at humanity’s childhood (Judaism) corresponded to the
capacity and mentality of the people by appealing to the senses with miracles and containing simple and com-
prehensible provisions. It guided humanity by a rigorous ethics that demanded complete obedience.7 0 Over the
course of time, humanity made spiritual and intellectual progress and reached its adolescence. The religion
which appeared at that stage responded to contemporary circumstances and had a purely emotional appeal. T h e
primary objective of the adolescent divine revelation consisted in increasing the spiritual awareness of human-
ity: “It laid down for men sacred laws of asceticism, drawing them away from the world altogether and turn-
ing them towards higher life.”7 But this religion (Christianity) became corrupted by its religious leaders and its
ascetic stress on the after-life neglected the material needs of human beings. This religion declined due to sec-
tarian divisions. Anti-intellectual tendencies that revealed a strong hostility to science caused stagnation and
social decay.7 2
The arrival of Muhammad’s prophecy and the emergence of Islam mark the ultimate culmination of the evo-
lutionary divine education of humanity. Islam has the most universal appeal, addressing emotion and reason
s i m u l t a n e o u s l y.7 3 For Abduh, Islam introduced the essential unity of all religions, as their basic teachings are
identical and they all represented different stages of the divinely guided salvation history: “[Islam] demon-
strated that religion with God was one in all generations, that there was a single Divine purpose for their reform
without and their cleansing within.”7 4 D i fferences among the religions are explained by the dissimilar condi-
tions and circumstances of the times when new prophets appeared.7 5 Although all religions participate in one
single truth, Abduh presents inclusivist Islam as being the complete and final expression of truth.7 6 Due to its
complete nature and universal appeal, Islam leads humanity to maturity and builds the transition from the
prophetic to the post-prophetic period. As humanity has achieved its maturity, Abduh believed, it does not
require any further divine revelation, and as Islam already represents the complete expression of truth that can-
not be augmented, prophethood terminated in Muhammad’s mission. Hence, A b d u h ’s view of salvation histo-
ry delivers an evolutionary argument for the finality of Muhammad’s prophethood.
Although divine revelation has ceased with Muhammad and brought salvation history to its ultimate climax,
the evolutionary development of the Islamic religion does not stop, but the fundamental principles of Islam
have to be re-actualised in correlation with the requirements of time. Abduh uses the concept of the m u j a d d i d
(renewer) who appears periodically to renew Islam by cleansing it from unnecessary traditions and reinstating
the pristine faith of the early period.7 7 As other Islamic scholars like Ibn K haldoun or Ibn Taimiyya, Abduh dis-
tinguishes between rules concerned with questions of ritual and worship (i b á d á t) and rules dealing with
h u m a n s ’ relations to the world and to each other (m u ‘ á m a l á t). While the former are unquestionably prescribed
by revelation and are immutable, the latter consist in abstract principles which have to be interpreted and
applied to changing conditions.7 8 Hence, Abduh encourages a new i j t i h á d, employing the general m u ‘ á m a l á t
principles to the present needs and aiming at the welfare of society (m a s l a h a). He repudiates the imitation
(t a q l í d) of the legal theories of medieval Islamic scholars, because their provisions are not prepared for the
demands of the modern world.7 9 I j t i h á d as interpretative instrument and m a s l a h a h as legal criterion guarantee
the flexibility of Islam in order to make it relevant to modern issues.
Bahá’u’lláh introduces a dynamic concept of religion which undergoes different stages in its development.
The emergence of a new theophany is referred to as being similar to the season of spring, as the revelation
induces a new spirit into humanity and creates a new consciousness. Every religion reaches the zenith of its
development, when its doctrines are widespread in society and the civilisation founded by that religion attains
its climax.8 0 H o w e v e r, after this period of progress, the decline of a religion inevitably commences, when peo-
ple start corrupting the religion and its original teachings.8 1 Bahá’u’lláh interprets symbolically the eschato-
logical motif that in the Day of Judgement the sun and moon will darken; these signify the oblivion of the gen-
uine teachings of religion and the merely outer performance of its rituals without the right ethical and spiritu-
al consciousness.8 2 In another passage, Bahá’u’lláh, referring to Shí‘í Islam, compares the situation at the early
days with the present-day conditions and concludes that Shí‘í Islam declined because the believers abandoned
its genuine doctrines, became dogmatic, and blindly followed the religious leadership.8 3 The rise and decline
of a religion is, hence, “an inevitable and natural process”8 4 which is caused by its adherents.
This dynamic notion of religion going through stages of progress and decline necessitates the continuous
1 4 5
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

periodical renewal of revelation to re-establish the genuine faith of God which the believers have abandoned.
Every new religion breaks “with past traditions; with obsolete, outworn forms and institutions; and with a rit-
ualistic conservatism divested of any meaning.”8 5 In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh speaks of the “City of
Certitude” that is periodically re-constituted by the Manifestations of God.8 6 H o w e v e r, this cyclical scheme
with the reconstitution of the genuine Faith of God throughout salvation history is completed with a linear
notion of progress. A new theophany does not only fulfil the transhistorical mission of the Manifestations and
adapts it to changing circumstances, but each new revelation leads to progress and a higher consciousness.8 7 I n
accordance with the evolutionary progress of humanity, every new Manifestation reveals a fuller account of
truth which goes in line with the increasing receptivity of humanity and, therefore, supersedes the previous rev-
e l a t i o n s .8 8
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s concept of salvation history combines the cyclical theme of return and renewal with the lin-
ear theme of evolution and progress. All Manifestations of God are connected with Each Other as the agents
of God’s continuous evolutionary education of humanity. Salvation history as progressive revelation does not
allow any claims to exclusivity or finality of any religion and stresses the continuity of revelation, as “not for
a moment hath his grace been withheld, nor have the showers of His living-kindness ceased to rain upon
m a n k i n d . ”8 9 The future will experience likewise the emergence of new theophanies.9 0 Bahá’u’lláh claims to be
the Manifestation of God for this age who does not only re-emphasise the essential doctrines of all religions,
but likewise provides teachings which contain the solutions for problems of this age. He further claims to be
the fulfilment of the eschatological expectations of all religions. By identifying himself with the awaited mes-
sianic figures of Islam, Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and Judaism, He does not only underline the essential
unity of all Manifestations, as every theophany is the return of the previous ones, but also universalises his
claim considering himself to be the Promised One of all religions.9 1 His theophany marks the e s c h a t o n w h i c h
the scriptures of previous religions anticipate. Therefore, His mission will inaugurate a new age in the history
of humanity as promised and will lead to the reconciliation of all religions and the establishment of world
peace. Through Bahá’u’lláh’s theophany, humanity will reach its maturity.
A radical break with the past occurs with Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, necessitated because tradition does not
provide adequate solutions for modern problems. It is not enough to reform the s h a r í‘a; what was needed was
a new s h a r í‘a equipped for modern challenges.9 2 The concept of progressive revelation provides an explana-
tion for the present decay of Muslim societies which is the inevitable result of the natural decline of the Islamic
religion. However, progressive revelation links the new theophany with the previous traditions. It upholds the
essential identity of all Manifestations who are part of salvation history and contains the idea of the periodical
renewal of the faith of God under varying social circumstances.9 3 This notion of essential identity between all
religions facilitates the acceptance of new authority claims, since it suggests that by becoming a follower of
Bahá’u’lláh one does not betray one’s own tradition, as the essential beliefs are identical in all religions.
Becoming a Bahá’í rather means following the most recent version of the genuine faith of God.
Universalism
The evolutionary scheme of salvation history in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Muhammad Abduh stress-
es the essential identity of all prophets and the unity of all religions and explains the differences among them
as being the result of the historical and cultural context the prophets appeared in. Hence, Bahá’u’lláh and
Abduh give their theologies a universalistic outlook.9 4 Behind the historical Manifestations of religion lies “the
changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the future.”9 5 Both construe a “metareligion,” a religion
beyond religion that all adherents of concrete historical faiths should acknowledge sharing in common.”9 6 S u c h
essentialist notions of religion can be found in the Islamic tradition, particularly in Sufism, which distinguish-
es between the exoteric (z á h i r) and esoteric (b á t i n) dimension of religion and emphasises likewise the essen-
tial esoteric unity of all religions behind the secondary exoteric diff e r e n c e s .9 7 Textual support for a universal-
istic idea of religion can be found in the Qur’án as well.9 8 In addition to these antecedents of theological uni-
versalism in the Islamic tradition, Bahá’u’lláh’s and A b d u h ’s universalistic approaches conform to modern
intentions of philosophy in the Renaissance and the Enlightenment to achieve an essentialist view of religion
by philosophical abstraction. Enlightenment thinkers like Kant conceived a natural religion behind the positive
religions with their theological corruption. This primordial religion of reason with its stress on ethics and spir-
ituality should become the foundation for reconciliation of all religions.9 9
1 4 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

From Bahá’u’lláh’s and A b d u h ’s universalistic theology stems their call for practical tolerance and interre-
ligious dialogue. For both, tolerance is the attitude that should determine the behaviour of all religionists to
each other. Abduh stresses the tolerant nature of Islam by pointing at its peaceful spread, the actual motivation
of which was to defend people’s right to convert to Islam. There were neither systematic missionary activities
nor forced conversions.1 0 0 On the contrary, all inhabitants of the Muslim territories enjoyed religious freedom
and co-existed peacefully regardless of their religious affiliations. The tolerant atmosphere of early Islam even
allowed non-Muslims to achieve high positions in the state apparatus and encouraged Jews who were perse-
cuted in Europe to immigrate to Islamic territories.1 0 1 F i n a l l y, this spirit of tolerance that disregarded social,
racial and religious distinctions promoted mass conversions to Islam. In contrast to the Western image of Islam
as a religion of violence, Abduh underlines its peaceful character by giving j i h á d a purely defensive charac-
t e r.1 0 2 Likewise, Bahá’u’lláh obliges his followers to adopt a tolerant attitude towards adherents of other reli-
gions. As the new source of divine legislative authority He claims to be, He abrogates any Islamic laws and
practices He considers to be intolerant. Bahá’u’lláh prohibits j i h á d1 0 3 and prescribes peaceful missionary activ-
ities. Any form of religious discrimination is prohibited, as well as religious fanaticism and factionalism and
all practices that discredit other religionists.1 0 4 Bahá’u’lláh explicitly abrogates the Shí‘ite concept of the ritu-
al impurity of non-Muslims1 0 5 and the practice of despising and cursing them.1 0 6 Another legal consequence of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s call for tolerance is the lifting of any marital restrictions between adherents of different reli-
g i o n s .1 0 7
H o w e v e r, for Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh the mere practice of passive tolerance is not sufficient. Both stress the
necessity of dialogue among the adherents of different religions in order to overcome prejudices and the
resolve hostility and separation among religions.1 0 8 Abduh is credited with having been involved in interreli-
gious activities between Muslims, Christians, and Jews during his exile in Beirut, aiming at a rapprochement
of the three Semitic religions.1 0 9 Bahá’u’lláh makes the participation of his followers in interreligious dialogue
a religious obligation.11 0 Such a dialogue is the requirement for the mutual reconciliation of all religions and
the creation of a cosmopolitan consciousness that considers the whole humanity as one family and prioritises
the collective welfare of humanity over particular interests.111 This dialogical approach expresses the primary
objective of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission which consists in “the unification and pacification of the whole world.”11 2
Despite the tolerant and universalistic tone of their theologies, Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh cannot be considered
to be proponents of religious pluralism. Although they discourage religious exclusivity and its attendant intol-
erant excesses, both undertake an inclusivistic approach to other religions. They accept the divine origin and
temporary validity of other religions, but their religion—Islam in the case of Abduh and the Bahá’í Faith in the
case of Bahá’u’lláh—represents the most accurate version of divine revelation that is fully equipped to face
the challenges of the modern world. For Abduh, Islam is the religion that harmonises perfectly with human
nature, as it appeals to reason and emotion alike. The egalitarian tendencies and the liberating force of Islam
make it a modern religion par excellence. According to his exposition, Islam is not only compatible to moder-
nity but can function as a moral foundation of the modern society as well, and be the criterion which discerns
the good and bad elements of progress: “Islam could serve both as a principle of change and a salutary control
over it.”11 3 In a similar way, Bahá’u’lláh claims His religion to be the absolute and ultimate truth criterion by
virtue of its being the latest divine revelation.11 4 The inclusivistic appropriation of the previous religions in the
concept of progressive revelation implies that the Bahá’í Faith supersedes all previous traditions. Bahá’u’lláh’s
“cross-cultural messianism”11 5 is the means to universalise His claim. In order to transcend the boundaries of
the Islamic tradition, He claims to be the promised messianic figure of Islam, Christianity, Judaism, and
Zoroastrianism, the four religions that co-exist in Iran.11 6 This “multiple messiaship”11 7 does not aim at sup-
porting religious pluralism, but intends to create a link with other religious traditions in order to facilitate con-
versions from non-Muslims.
Conclusion: Bahá’u’lláh’s post-Islamic and Abduh’s modernist response to modernity
W. Shepard distinguishes five Muslim reactions to modernity which he terms Islamic secularism, Islamic
modernism, radical Islamism, Islamic traditionalism, and neo-traditionalism.11 8 Rippin adds to this categorisa-
tion a post-modern and a post-Islamic response: “It is a common phenomenon in religion that, if the question-
ing of the authority of the past is taken far enough in the desire to be able to accommodate or compensate for
the changes of the modern period, there is a need for a new source of authority. ”11 9 Considering Bahá’u’lláh’s
1 4 7
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

theological concepts, it becomes evident that they intend to introduce Bahá’u’lláh as new source of authority
which provides divine guidance in the face of modern requirements. Human beings cannot respond adequate-
ly to the modern challenge due to their limited perception of the whole problematique, but God has to respond
himself to it via a new revelation, as He is the all-knowing Educator of humanity. Establishing Bahá’u’lláh as
new source of authority and breaking with the past traditions endows Him with legislative flexibility, since He
has not to compromise with the provisions of the previous traditions. Bahá’u’lláh’s legislation is characterised
by both a sacralizing and desacralizing process.1 2 0 He desacralizes provisions and laws of previous religions
that He considers to be outdated and sacralizes modern ideas of the Western world by giving them the status
of a religious obligation. For instance, in the Lawh-i-Bishárát Bahá’u’lláh prohibits holy war, celibacy, the
practice of confession and penance and dress restrictions as part of the desacralizing process and sacralizes
modern values and concepts like religious tolerance, constitutionalism, disarmament or scientific and techno-
logical progress.1 2 1 Introducing Bahá’u’lláh as new theophany and combining Islamic and non-Islamic ele-
ments in his theology implies a gradual dissociation of the Bahá’í Faith from its Islamic origin that charac-
terises it as a post-Islamic response to modernity.1 2 2
C e r t a i n l y, Abduh does not transcend the boundaries of the Islamic tradition. Nevertheless, A b d u h ’s approach
is fairly similar to the one of Bahá’u’lláh. Abduh also desacralizes elements of the tradition he considers to be
inappropriate and condemns t a q l í d. For Abduh, this desacralizing process intends to limit the doctrines
Muslims must believe in to an essential minimum which is contained in the original sources, the Qur’án and
the authenticated Sunna, and was embodied by the early generation of the believers. I j t i h á d, that denies the
authority of the medieval legacy and only holds sacred the original sources, enables the flexibility of the
Islamic religion in the light of modern requirements. Despite his claim to refer only to the original Islamic
sources, A b d u h ’s understanding of Islam is informed by a Western view, and Islamic concepts are equated with
Western ideas, as Hourani points out: “In this line of thought, m a s l a h a gradually turns into utility, s h u r a i n t o
parliamentary democracy, i j m a ’ into public opinion; Islam itself becomes identical with civilization and activ-
i t y, the norms of nineteenth-century social thought.”1 2 3 Hence, Abduh is eclectical in his method, selecting and
re-interpreting elements of the Islamic tradition which support his view of Islam and can be reconciled or even
equated with modern ideas.1 2 4 This approach characterises Abduh as a representative of Islamic modernism.
Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh definitely differ in their assessment of the modern relevance of Islam. W h e r e a s
Abduh tries to re-universalise Islam for modernity, Bahá’u’lláh intends to overcome Islam and to re-univer-
salise religion by establishing a new one. What promoted conversion to the Bahá’í Faith from Muslims and
members of the religious minorities in Iran at the end of the last century was the “combination of traditional
religious symbolism and modernistic or rationalist arg u m e n t a t i o n . ”1 2 5 For the converts, Bahá’u’lláh preserved
the essence of past religions while actualising it to the modern context. The good parts of tradition were kept
and completed with modern ideas. Such a characterisation mutatis mutandis applies to A b d u h ’s approach as
well. Although never leaving Islam, Abduh attempts to give an updated version of his religion, preserving ele-
ments of tradition that are authentic and essential and harmonising them with modernity. Bahá’u’lláh and
Abduh have the objective in common to integrate modern values in a religious framework to counter the neg-
ative developments that are inseparably connected with the dialectics of modernity. The German sociologist
Max Weber describes this dialectics by characterising the rationalising drive of modernity as making the world
orderly and reliable but not meaningful.1 2 6 Bahá’u’lláh and Abduh try to provide modern life in a rationalised
and disenchanted world with religious meaning. No matter how one assesses the success of both to reconcile
religion and modernity in their theologies, this issue is not only relevant to Middle Easterners in the Nineteenth
C e n t u r y, but remains an important issue in the present. The rapid spread of Western modernity through the
forces of globalisation at the end of the Twentieth Century makes the conservation of a distinct cultural and
religious identity even more difficult. In an increasingly secular environment, living a religious life becomes
actually more challenging. Hence, the struggle for a religious identity will continue and affects Muslims,
Bahá’ís and other religionists alike.
N o t e s
1) See Amanat 1989, 24ff . .
2) Not surprisingly, messianic aspirations were revitalised in such a crisis milieu. The decay of Islam requires the appearance of the
1 4 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Mahdí who would restore the dignity of Muslims and defeat the infidels. The Mahdí uprisings in Sudan that were directed
against British colonialist rule in North Africa are just one example of the chiliastic tone religious responses to modernity could
a d o p t .
3) See Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, LV I .
4) See Uthman 1944, 60.
5) See Abduh 1966, 41; Horten 1916, 86.
6 ) mumkin li-d há t i h í
7) wájib li-d há t i h í
8) mustahíl li-d há t i h í
9) Abduh 1966, 41.
10) See Abduh 1966, 41.
11) See Abduh 1966, 44;. Horten 1916, 86.
12) Abduh 1966, 45.
13) See Abduh 1966, 46.
14) See Abduh 1966, 47ff .
15)v See Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, LV I I .
16) Abduh 1966, 51.
17) See Abduh 1966, 52; Adams 1933, 146.
18) Interestingly, one can perceive a rather impersonal description of God, Who is called the necessarily existent Being (wájib al-
w u j ú d) in order to find less anthropomorphic terms for God and His attributes. This impersonalism is meant to give A b d u h ’s
theology a more universal and rational outlook in contrast to an anthropomorphic representation of God in Christianity.
19) See Jomier 1954, 131.
20) See Adams 1933, 11 6 f .
21) Abduh 1966, 53.
22) See Adams 1933, 117; Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, LIX..
23) Abduh 1966, 54.
24) See Abduh 1966, 55.
25) Abduh 1966, 56.
26) See Momen 1988, Relativism, 3.
27) Bahá’ulláh himself admits His ignorance referring to this realm: “And I, verily, in view of My injury and My misery am not
informed of even a letter thereof.” (Lawh-kullu’t - Ta’ám II, 16)
28) See McLean 1992, 54.
29) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 9 1 .
30) See Cole 1982, 3.
31) See Schaefer 1995, 11 8 .
32)
That ideal King hath, throughout eternity, been in His Essence independent of the comprehension of all beings, and will
continue, for ever, in His own Being to be exalted above the adoration of every soul.
(K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 5 2 f . )
33) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 1 3 5 .
34) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 2 1 9 .
35) See Cole 1982, 3.
36) See Cole 1982, 3f.
37) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 9 8 .
38) See Ma’sumian 1994, 3.
39) McLean 1992, 25
40) Cole 1982, 2.
41) Ta b l e t s 1 4 0 .
42) See Uthman 1944, 123f.
1 4 9
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

43) Goldziher 1920, 363.
44) Particularly, Ibn K ha l d ú n ’s influence on A b d u h ’s exposition of the history of Islamic theological discourse can be discerned.
Abduh adopts Ibn K ha l d ú n ’s definition of t a w h í d, the philosophical proof of God’s existence and nominalistic notions of God
from the Prolegomena.See Binder 1964, 66ff.
45) Bahá’ulláh’s and A b d u h ’s different intentions are recognisable in their use of allegorical interpretation of the Qur’án (t a ’ w í l) .
For Abduh, t a ’ w í l is the exegetical instrument to resolve tensions between revelation and reason by searching for a symbolic
meaning behind the literal contents of a Qur’ánic passage (See Uthman 1944, 137). Bahá’ulláh likewise employs allegorical
Q u r’ánic interpretation in His writings, which has a long tradition in Shí‘ism. However, the symbolic reading of eschatologi-
cal passages in the Qur’án shall not only de-emphasise the miraculous meaning of a passage, but prove that Bahá’ulláh fulfils
eschatological prophecies not in a literal, but in a symbolic sense: “The reading Bahá’ulláh rejects is a suspension of natural
l a w. The reading he offers is an engagement of spiritual law, portrayed as vivifying the visionary landscape of the heart. T h e
r e a d e r, open to a new interpretation will be open to a fresh source of authority.” (Buck 1998, 6)
46) Uthman 1944, 124.
47) See Momen 1988, 15.
48) See Abduh 1966, 67.
49) See Abduh 1966, 68.
50) See Caspar 1957, 165.
51) See Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, LXV.
52) See Abduh 1966, 74f.
5 3 )
Only by dint of the revealed law do we have knowledge of obligation and of the good in that quality of certainty which
brings peace to the soul.
(Abduh 1966, 76)
54) See Schaefer 1997, 49.
55) See Abduh 1966, 78.
56) See Abduh 1966, 78.
57) Abduh refers to a tradition on the pollination of palm trees. According to this tradition, the Prophet initially prohibited the pol-
lination of the trees, but later changed His mind: “He did so in order to teach men that their practices in such economic and
practical fields are the results of their experiments and researches, and that these last are quite valid, so long as the Divine laws
are observed and fine virtues maintained.” (Abduh 1966, 80)
58) See Abduh 1966, 80.
59) Manifestation with capital “M” will be used referring to the Prophets and Messengers in order to distinguish Them from the
general sense of the manifestation of divine attributes in creation.
60) See Cole 1982, 14.
61) See Cole 1982, 9f.
62)
In the days of Moses it was the Pentateuch; in the days of Jesus the Gospel; in the days of Muhammad the Messenger of
God the Qur’án; in this day the Bayán [the major book written by the Báb]; and in the dispensation of Him Whom God
will make manifest His own Book—the Book unto which all the Books of former Dispensations must needs be referred,
the Book which standeth amongst them all transcendent and supreme.
K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 1 9 9 f
63) See K i t á b - i - A q d a s 3 6 .
64) See Ta b l e t s 1 0 6 ff.; Cole 1982, 11 .
65) See L a w h - i - Z u h ú r 2 .
66) See Cole 1982, 30f.
67) See Hourani 1962, 143; Uthman 1944, 127.
68) See Adams 1933, 157.
69) See Uthman 1944, 105ff .
70) See Abduh 1966, 132.
71) Abduh 1966, 133.
72) See Abduh 1966, 133.
73) See Abduh 1966, 134.
74) Abduh 1966, 134.
75) See Abduh 1966 130.
1 5 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

76) See Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, LXXVI; Uthman 1944, 150.
77) See Uthman 1944, 127.
78) See Hourani 1962, 148; Badawi 1976, 82f.
79) See Badawi 1976, 79f.
80) See Lundberg 1996, 9.
81) See Schaefer 1995, 139.
82) See K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 4 1 .
83)
Behold, O Muhammad, how the sayings and doings of the followers of Shí’ih Islam have dulled the joy and fervor of its
early days, and tarnished the pristine brilliancy of its light. In its primitive days, whilst they still adhered to the precepts
associated with the name of their Prophet, the Lord of mankind, their career was marked by an unbroken chain of victo-
ries and triumphs. As they gradually strayed from the path of their Ideal Leader and Master, as they turned away from the
Light of God and corrupted the principle of His Divine unity, and as they increasingly centered their attention upon them
who were only the revealers of the potency of His Word, their power was turned into weakness, their glory into shame,
their courage into fear.
Gleanings 69
84) Lundberg 1996, 12.
85) Schaefer 1995, 140.
86) See K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 1 9 9 f .
87) See Schaefer 1995, 141.
88) See K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 4 4 .
89) K i t á b - i - ˆ q á n 1 4 .
90) See Schaefer 1995, 142f.
91) See Lundberg 1996, 4.
92) See Amanat 1989, 406f.
93) See Amanat 1989, 408.
94) A b d u h ’s essentialist view of religion can be observed in his characterisation of religious reform programmes. For him, any reli-
gious reform that aims at a return to original sources means a rapprochement to other religions, since the fundamental teach-
ings of all religions are identical. In discussing Protestantism, he stresses its similarities with Islam. The Protestant opposition
to ecclesiastic authority and the emphasis on an open and independent individual interpretation of the Bible allowed the emer-
gence of modern sciences. However, according to A b d u h ’s exposition, Protestantism kept dogmatic intolerance, supported lit-
eral scripturalism and contained anti-intellectualist tendencies. (See Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, XLVI; Ayyub 1974,
1 2 9 ff . )
95) G l e a n i n g s 1 3 6 .
96) Cole 1998, 150.
97) See Cole 1998, 151.
9 8 )
To you hath He prescribed the faith [dín] which He commanded unto Noah, and which we revealed to thee, and which
we commanded unto Abraham and Moses and Jesus. (42:11); Say ye: “We believe in God, an that which hath been sent
down to us, and that which hath been sent down to Abraham and Ismael and Isaac and Jacob and the tribes and that which
hath been given to Moses and to Jesus, and that which was given to the prophets from their Lord. No difference do we
make between any of them: and to God are we resigned (Muslims).” (2:130)
99) See Figl 1993, 170ff .
100) See Abduh 1966, 143f.
101) See Abduh 1966, 144.
102) See Abduh 1966, 147.
1 0 3 )
The first Glad-Tidings which the Mother Book hath, in this Most Great Revelation, imparted unto all the peoples of the
world is that the law of holy war hath been blotted out from the Book.
(Ta b l e t s 2 1 )
104) See Schaefer 1997, 43.
105) See K i t á b - i - A q d a s 4 7 .
1 0 6 )
Now let us beseech God—praised be His glory—to graciously guide aright the followers of the Shí‘ih sect and to purg e
them of unseemly conduct. From the lips of the members of this sect foul imprecations fall unceasingly, while they
invoke the word “Mal‘ún” (accursed)—uttered with a guttural sound of the letter ‘ayn—as their daily relish.
1 5 1
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

(Ta b l e t s 9 2 )
107) See K i t á b - i - A q d a s 6 9 f .
108) See Michel/Razik 1925, Introduction, XLVII; Schaefer 1997, 44f.
109) See Uthman 1953, 72.
11 0 )
Consort with all religions with amity and concord, that they may inhale from you the sweet fragrance of God. Beware
lest amidst men the flame of foolish ignorance overpower you. All things proceed from God and unto Him they return.
He is the source of all things and in Him all things are ended.
(K i t á b - i - A q d a s 7 2 )
111) See Schaefer 1997, 16ff .
112) Smith 1987, 75.
113) Hourani 1962, p. 139
114) See Schaefer 1997, 33ff .
115) Buck 1986, 157.
116) See Buck 1986, 162ff .
117) Buck 1996, 158.
118) See Rippin 1993, 34ff .
119) Rippin 1993, 32.
120) See Buck 1999, 146.
121) See Tablets 21ff.; Buck 1999, 147ff .
122) See Rippin 1993, 33f.; Buck 1999, 175.
123) Hourani 1962, p. 144
124) See Hourani 1962, p. 143
125) Smith 1987, 93f.
126) See Cole 1998, 4.
B i b l i o g r a p h y
Abduh, M., 1925. Rissalat al-tawhíd: exposé de la religion musulmane. Traduite de l’ arabe avec une introduction sur la vie et les
idées du Cheik h Mohammed Abdou par B. Michel et Moustapha Abdel Razik. Paris.
———. 1966. The Theology of Unity. Tr. I Musa’ ad and K. Cragg. London.
———. 1980. Risálat al-tawhíd. A l -Qáh i r a .
Adams, C., 1933. Islam and Modernism in Egypt: a Study of the Modern Reform Movement Inaugurated by Muhammad A b d u h.
L o n d o n .
Amanat, A., 1989. R e s u rrection and Renewal: The Making of the Bábí Movement in Iran, 1844-1850. Ithaca.
Ayyub, M., 1974. “Islam and Christianity: a Study of Muhammad A b d u h ’s View of the Two Religions,” Humaniora Islamica Vo l .
II, 121-137.
Badawi, Z., 1976. The Reformers of Egypt: a Critique of al-Afg hání, Abduh and Ridha. Slough.
Bahá’u’lláh 1982. T h e Kitáb-i-ˆqán: The Book of Cert i t u d e. Tr. by Shoghi Effendi. London.
———. 1992. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas—The Most Holy Book. Bahá’í World Centre. Haifa.
———. 1993. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Tr. by Shoghi Effendi., Wilmette, Ill..
———. 1993. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Tr. by Habib Taherzadeh et al. Wilmette/ Ill.
———. 1995. K i t á b - i - A q d a s. Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa.
———. 2000. Tablet of Manifestation (L a w h - i - Z u h ú r ). Tr. by Anonymous. Available: www. b a h a i - l i b r a r y. o rg / p r o v i s i o n a l s / m a n i-
festation.html [18/08/2000]
———. 2000. Tablet of All Food (L a w h - i - K u l l u ’t - Ta ’ á m ). Tr. by Stephen Lambden.
B i n d e r, L., 1964. Ideological Revolution in the Middle East. Wi l e y.
Buck, Christopher. 1986. “A unique eschatological interface: Bahá’u’lláh and Cross-cultural Messianism,” Smith, P. (ed.). In Iran.
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í-History 3. Los A n g e l e s .
———. 1990. “ Bahá’u’lláh as World Reformer,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 3:2, 23-70.
1 5 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

———. 1998. “The Kitáb-i-ˆqán: An Introduction to Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of Certitude with Two Digital Reprints of Early
Lithographs,” Occasional Papers on S ha yk hí, Bábí, and Bahá’í Studies Vol. 2, no. 5, 1-26. Available: www2.h-
net.msu.edu/bahai/bhpapers/vol2/iqan&sn.htm [07/08/2000]
———. 1999. Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity and the Bahá’í Faith. A l b a n y.
C a s p a r, R., 1957. “Le Renouveau mo’tazilite,” Mélanges: Institut Dominicain d’Études Orientales (MIDEO) 4, 141-201.
Cole, Juan R. I. 1982. “The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings,” Bahá’í Studies 9, 1-38.
———. 1993. “‘I am all the Prophets’: The Poetics of Pluralism in Bahá’í Texts,” Poetics To d a y 14, no. 3, 447-476.
———. 1992. “Iranian Millenarianism and Democratic Thought in the Nineteenth-Century Middle East,” International Journal of
Middle East Studies 24, 1-26.
———. 1998. Modernity and the Millenium: The Genesis of the Bahá’í Faith in the Nineteenth-Century Middle East. New Yo r k .
———. 1983. “Ras híd Ridá on the Bahá’í Faith in Egypt: 1897-1921,” Arab Studies Qu a rt e r l y 5, 276-91.
Cole, Juan R. I. (trans.), 1981. “Muhammad Abduh and Ras híd Ridá: A Dialogue on the Bahá’í Faith,” World Ord e r vol. 15, no.
3/4, 7-16.
Figl, J., 1993. Die Mitte der Religionen: Idee und Praxis universalreligiöser Bewegungen. Darmstadt.
G o l d z i h e r, I., 1920. Die Richtungen der islamischen Koranauslegung. Leiden.
Horten, M., 1916. “Muhammad Abduh: sein Leben und seine theologische-philosophische Gedankenwelt,” Beiträge zur Kenntnis
des Orients 13, 85-114; 14, 74-128.
Hourani, A., 1988. Arabic Thought in the Liberal A g e. Cambridge.
J o m i e r, J., 1954. Le Commentaire Coranique du Manar: tendences modernes de l’exégèse coranique en Égypte. Paris.
L u n d b e rg, Z., 1996. “Bahá’í Apocalypticism: The Concept of Progressive Revelation.” Lund University. (unpublished MA d i s s e r-
tation) Available: www. b a h a i - l i b r a r y. o rg/theses/apocalyptic [12/08/2000]
M a ’sumian, B, 1994. “The Realms of Existence as Described in the Tablet of All Food,” Deepen magazine 3.2.2, 11 - 1 7 .
McLean, J., 1992. “Prolegomena to Bahá’í T h e o l o g y,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 5:1, 25-66.
Momen, M., 1983. “The Bahá’í Influence on the Reform Movements of the Islamic World in the 1860s and 1870s,” Bahá’í Studies
B u l l e t i n vol. 2, no. 2, 47-65.
———. 1988. “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics,” Momen, M. (ed.). Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi.
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í-Religions 5. Los A n g e l e s .
———. 1995. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Prophetology: Archetypal Patterns in the Lives of the Founders of the World Religions,” B a h á ’ í
Studies Review vol. 5:1, 1-9.
Rippin, A., 1993. Muslims: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices. Vol. 2: The Contemporary Period. London.
Rodwell, J. M. (tr.), 1974. The Koran. London
S c h a e f e r, U., 1995. Beyond the Clash of Religions: The Emergence of a New Paradigm. Prague.
———. 1997. Die mystische Einheit der Religionen: Zum interreligiösen Dialog über ein We l t e t h o s. Hofheim.
Seferta, Y., 1986. “The Concept of Religious and Political Authority according to Muhammad Abduh and Ras híd Ridá,” I s l a m i c
Qu a rt e r l y 30, 159-164.
Smith, P., 1987. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions: F rom Messianic S h í ‘ i s m to a World Religion. Cambridge.
Taherzadeh, A., 1974-87. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford.
Trimingham, J. S., 1971. The Sufi Orders in Islam. Oxford.
Uthman, A., 1944. Muhammad Abduh: essai sur ses idées philosophiques et re l i g i e u s e s. Le Caire.
———. 1953. Muhammad A b d u h. Tr. by Charles Wendell. Washington, D.C.
1 5 3
T h eolo gi cal Re s p onses to Mo de r n i t y

1 5 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
by Enoch N. Tanyi
Introduction
I
t can be inferred from the Bahá’í Writings that African Traditional Religion (henceforth, “ATR”) is divine in
its origin. Two passages are cited below in support of this inference:
[T]he peoples of the world, of whatever race or religion, derive their inspiration from one heavenly Source
. . .1
[T]he divers communions of the earth, and the manifold systems of religious belief . . . have proceeded
from one Source . . .2
The Bahá’í Faith further teaches that:
The Bahá’í Faith, like all other Divine Religions, is thus fundamentally mystic in character.3
African Traditional Religion can, therefore, also be said to be mystical in character.
As the topic implies, the object of this paper is to classify the concepts and practices of mysticism in both
religions. But, to classify in what manner?
To answer this question, the author is presenting four main steps:
i .
to examine the dictionary or popular understanding of the term mysticism
i i .
to determine the classification or major types of mysticism as derived from the Bahá’í Wr i t i n g s
i i i .
to locate or identify the concepts in ATR can be considered “mystical”
i v.
to place the ATR concepts within the classification derived from Bahá’í Wr i t i n g s .
Following these four steps, the concepts of mysticism in ATR are classified in the light of the Bahá’í teach-
i n g s .
The Meanings of the Term “Mysticism”
A look at the dictionary meaning of the word m y s t i c i s m would lead us to also seek the meanings of the words
m y s t i c a l , mystic, magic, and o c c u l t. The meanings are as follows:
m y s t i c i s m n. 1: the experience of mystical union or direct communion with ultimate reality reported by
mystics 2a: religion based on mystical communion b: a theory of mystical knowledge 3a: obscure or irra-
tional speculation b: a theory postulating the possibility of direct and intuitive acquisition of ineff a b l e
knowledge or power.
m y s t i c a l adj. 1: having a spiritual meaning or reality that is neither apparent to the senses nor obvious to
the intelligence 2a: of, relating to, or resulting from an individual’s direct communion with God or ultimate
reality b: based upon intuition, insight, or similar subjective experience 3. UNINTELLIGIBLE, CRY P T I C
4: MYSTIC 2.
m y s t i c adj. 1: MYSTICAL 1 2: of or relating to mysteries or esoteric rites: OCCULT 3: of or relating to
mysticism or mystics 4a: MYSTERIOUS b: ENIGMATIC, OBSCURE c: Inducing a feeling of awe or
wonder d: having magical properties.
m a g i c n. 1a: the use of means (as charms, spells) believed to have supernatural power over natural forces
. . . 2a: an extraordinary power or influence seemingly from a supernatural source b: something that seems
to cast a spell: ENCHANTMENT
1 5 5
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

o c c u l t i s m n. a belief in or study of supernatural powers and the possibility of subjecting them to human
c o n t r o l .
o c c u l t adj. 1: not revealed. Secret 2: ABSTRUSE, MYSTERIOUS 3: not able to be seen or detected: con-
cealed 4: of or relating to supernatural agencies, their effects, and knowledge of them.4
An examination of the words mysticism, mystical, and m y s t i c reveals six key features associated with the
word or concept m y s t i c i s m . They are:
1 .
the experience of mystical union or direct communion with ultimate reality,
2 .
inducing a feeling of awe or wonder,
3 .
having a spiritual meaning or reality that is neither apparent to the senses nor obvious to the intel-
l i g e n c e ,
4 .
anything based upon intuition, insight, or similar subjective experience,
5 .
of or relating to mysteries or esoteric rites: occult,
6 .
having magical powers.
In this paper, the first two features would constitute what this author terms types one and two mysticism.
The third and the fourth features constitute the third type of mysticism. The fourth type mysticism is unique
and not described in the dictionary as m y s t i c i s m . Features five and six form the fifth and the sixth type mysti-
cism collectively, not respectively.
The Types of Mysticism—A Classification Inferred from Bahá’í Writings
There are six types or classes of mysticism:
Class One or “True Mysticism” : The ecstatic joy that results from communion with the Souls of the
Manifestations leading to physical martyrdom5 or the living of a life of self-sacrifice and saintliness.6 This is a
more refined state of Incipient True Mysticism. (The meaning of self-sacrifice is explained under the discus-
sion on s e l f - s u rre n d e r and in note 1.)
Class Two or “Incipient True Mysticism” : The state of spiritual communion or feeling (which is the core of
religious faith) which can be chiefly brought about and maintained by means of worship, prayer and medita-
tion, for the sake of union with God and the acquisition of human virtues and powers for the development of
the individual and society.7
Class Three or “Cognitive or Coronary Mysticism” : The realm of spiritual meanings and realities not appar-
ent to the senses or obvious to the intelligence. This has to do with reflection upon scriptural and religious writ-
ings, and striving to unravel the abstruse or the mystic meanings of the words and symbols in the Holy Wr i t ,
the profound emanations of sages and mystics, or the spiritual significance of certain religious acts. (The rea-
son for describing this type of mysticism as “ c o ro n a ry ” is explained in note 4.)
Class Four or “Biological and Societal Mysticism” : This is the adolescent, developmental stage of an indi-
vidual or the stage
in the evolution of the organisation of human society . . . in the collective life of mankind . . . endowing
the whole human race with such potentialities of well-being as shall provide . . . the chief incentive
required for the eventual fulfillment of its high destiny.8
Class Five or “Natural” or “Mundane Mysticism” : Mystic concepts and practices not purely for communion
with God and the development of human virtues, but aimed basically at solving mundane and orthodox occult
problems and, in some cases, keeping harmony between the living world on one hand, and the world of spirit
and the spirit of ancestors on the other. These concepts are, larg e l y, either upheld in a general way by the
Bahá’í teachings or they are neutral, meaning that the Bahá’í teachings are silent over them. They are basical-
ly true.
Class Six or “Orthodox Occultism” : Mystic concepts and practices not purely for union with God and the
development of human virtues, but aimed basically at giving free rein to the ego, or at seeking to appear mys-
1 5 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

terious and powerful before other mortals. They are often used for nefarious or inimical activities, and are
either prohibited by the Bahá’í teachings or discouraged.
Having outlined a Bahá’í classification of m y s t i c i s m, the next task is to identify African Tr a d i t i o n a l
R e l i g i o n ’s concepts of mysticism. After consulting a number of books,9 the concepts mentioned are: A n c e s t r a l
Reverence, Dreams and Visions, Healing, Herbalism, Libation, Magic, Medicine, Miracles, Prayer, Sacrifice,
Soothsaying, Sorcery, Spirit-possession, Traditional medicine, Talismans and Charms, Witchcraft and Wo r s h i p .
Ancestral Reverence, in this author’s opinion, is implicit in ATR mysticism. This theme is, usually, not treated
under mystical or mysterious forces.
The Application of the Terms “Mystic,” “Occult,” and “Psychic” to Cultural Practices
This classification was made because there is no explicit, authoritative Bahá’í classification. The diff i c u l t y
of applying such terms as mystic, occult, and psychic to cultural practices is acknowledged by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice in the extract below:
We have not been able to locate any explicit definition of “occult” in the Bahá’í Writings. While we under-
stand the difficulties which can arise when one tries to apply such terms as “psychic” and “occult” to spe-
cific cultural practices, the most explicit guidance we have located appears in the statement from the
Universal House of Justice letter quoted . . .1 0( a s ) :
It is clear that what ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi had in mind when warning the believers against
meddling with psychic forces were those that spiritualists believe come from a deliberate effort on the part
of individuals to establish communication with the departed.11
The guidance then continues that
[T]he meaning of “mystic” is dependent upon the context in which it occurs. Occasionally “occult” and
“mystic” do refer to the same type of phenomena. For example . . . we are discouraged from seeking
“occult experiences” and “the hearing of mystic voices. . . .”1 2
On the other hand, “mystic” is also used to refer to a very different sphere of human experience, the reality
and importance of which is frequently emphasized. For example, in another statement we are encouraged to seek
“that mystical feeling that unites man with God” and to “cultivate the sense of spirituality through meditation
and prayer,
[f]or the core of religious faith is that mystic feeling that unites man with God. . . . Otherwise religion will
degenerate into a mere organization, and become a dead thing.1 3
The epitome of this guidance is that mystic has two major meanings. In one sense, it i s synonymous with
“ o c c u l t. ” This meaning of the concept m y s t i c or o c c u l t includes psychicism or psychic phenomena. The con-
cepts in this group are discouraged. In the second major sense, mystic is n o t synonymous with “occult,” is
highly encouraged, and seeking this kind of m y s t i c experience is vital to the individual’s spiritual development.
How to identify “that mystic feeling that unites man with God” varies from one individual to the other, and
this is expressed in note 3. The full text of this guidance is reproduced in note 2 for the reader’s benefit.
First and Second Class Mysticism
Worship, Prayer, and Meditation
In this section, two things will be attempted. First of all, the author will try to show that the concepts in each
class really fit into their class by definition. Secondly, the author will try to show whether or not a given con-
cept applies to both religions, and the extent to which it applies.
The supreme and most exalted goal of man is to get near to and to be united with God. Bahá’u’lláh wrote:
Let the flame of search burn with such fierceness within your hearts as to enable you to attain your supreme
and most exalted goal—the station at which ye can draw nigh unto, and be united with, your Best-Beloved.
. . .1 4
Attaining to this station requires intense search. But we must also learn to commune with the Souls of the
Manifestations of God as they are the intermediaries between us and God, and God cannot be known directly
1 5 7
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

by us puny mortals. This “True Mysticism” is expressed in the Bahá’í teachings thus:
We liken God to the Sun, which gives us all our life. So the Spirit of God reaches us through the Souls of
the Manifestations. We must learn to commune with Their Souls, and this is what the Martyrs seemed to
have done, and what brought them such ecstasy of joy that life became nothing. This is the true mysticism,
and the secret, inner meaning of life which humanity has at present, drifted so far from.1 5
True mysticism is not mentioned in the African Traditional Religions. The class of Bahá’í mysticism to
which ATR gets very close is the less refined, lower degree, second class or “Incipient True Mysticism.” To
attain this state of communion and union with God, this Incipient True Mysticism, the best and the chief instru-
ment is worship (respect or reverence paid to a divine being or a form of religious practice with its creed and
ritual) which includes prayer and meditation. Meditation, as a spiritual exercise, is not stressed at all in AT R .
The converse is true in the Bahá’í teachings. The cardinal role of worship—which includes prayer and medi-
tation—in mysticism are made clear in reference number 17. In ATR, worship and prayer are basic in mysti-
cism, as can be seen in this passage of Mbiti in which he defines worship as
a means of renewing contact between people and God, or between people and the invisible world.1 6
Self-Surrender
Essentially united with God through worship, prayer, and meditation, is self-surrender, for this quality is
absolutely essential for the attainment of union with God. The Bahá’í teachings say that:
By self-surrender and perpetual union with God is meant that men should merge their will wholly in the
Will of God, and regard their desires as utter nothingness beside His Purpose. Whatsoever the Creator com-
mandeth His creatures to observe, the same must they diligently, and with the utmost joy and eagerness,
arise and fulfil.1 7
E s s e n t i a l l y, ATR also stresses submission to the Will of God. But with its submission to the dominating
influence of adulteration due to changing times and minds divergent from the original teachings, whatever they
might have been, we have in the tenets of ATR, concepts and practices which are at variance with the Will of
G o d .
Third Class or Cognitive Mysticism
African Traditional Religion has no Holy Scripture as such, in the sense of a Bible for Christians or the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas for the Bahá’ís, but its proverbs, songs and emblems contain great wisdom that might be traced to a
divine Source.
An example of a wise saying from Sierra Leone, in West Africa, is
If God dishes you rice in a basket, do not wish to eat soup!1 8
One obvious meaning of this proverb is contentment with the Will of God. Pithy though this saying may be,
without the clear backing of authentic scripture, it does not rise above the heaven of poetry.
On the contrary, this citation from the Bahá’í teachings gives a clear example of the third type of mysticism:
[T]he heart is endowed with four stages, which would be recounted should a kindred soul be found.1 9
How can the heart have four stages? The fact that the Author of this verse states that these four stages of the
heart can only be recounted if a kindred soul is found indicates that the meaning of that citation transcends
human understanding and intelligence.
Fourth Class or Biological and Societal Mysticism
In the Bahá’í teachings, coming of age, adolescence, is described as:
That mystic, all-pervasive, yet indefinable change, which we associate with the stage of maturity inevitable
in the life of the individual and . . . must . . . have its counterpart in the evolution of the organisation of
human society.2 0
This stage is, therefore, considered to form a special class of mysticism.
According to the Bahá’í teachings, for the individual, this is the age of spiritual maturity fixed at the age of
1 5 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

fifteen: “it marks that point in life at which the believer takes firmly into his own hands the responsibility for
his spiritual destiny. At age fifteen, the individual has the privilege of affirming, in his own name, his faith in
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h .”2 1 Starting from this age, the recitation of the obligatory prayer is obligatory,2 2 fasting during the
prescribed month of fasting is binding,23 marriage may be contracted,2 4 the obligatory, congregational Prayer
for the Dead must be recited for the departed before burial,2 5 and the burial ring worn on the finger of the
corpse before burial.26 A d m i n i s t r a t i v e l y, this is the age for the assumption of some administrative responsibil-
ities, precisely, serving on committees.2 7
The significance of the age of maturity, however, goes far beyond the fulfillment of responsibilities. The fol-
lowing extract from a tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá links the attainment of maturity with the deepening of one’s under-
standing and comprehension of the realities of life, and the enhancement of one’s very capacity for understand-
i n g :
Know thou that before maturity man liveth from day to day and comprehendeth only such matters as are
superficial and outwardly obvious. However, when he cometh of age he understandeth the realities of
things and the inner truths. Indeed, in his comprehension, his feelings, his deductions and his discoveries,
every day of his life after maturity is equal to a year before it.2 8
In the collective life of human society, this is the stage “endowing the whole human race with such poten -
tialities of well-being as shall provide . . . the chief incentive re q u i red for the eventual fulfillment of its high
d e s t i n y.2 9 This Bahá’í meaning of mysticism in the collective life of mankind has no parallel in ATR. But on
the individual plane, this period in ATR is referred to as the initiation period, and in
. . . that period a person goes through physical, emotional and psychological changes, which take him from
childhood to adolescence and adulthood.3 1
Fifith Class, Natural or Mundane Mysticism
Medicine
In African Traditional Religion, medicine is defined differently from medicine in the Western culture, as
the use of the neutral, vital, supernatural force in the universe to fight witchcraft, to diagnose and to cure
diseases, to prepare good luck charms, and, in some cases, to cause h a r m .3 1
The definition above tells us that the main thrust of medicine in ATR is to solve mundane and orthodox
occult problems, and, not to seek union with God or to acquire human virtues.
Considering this definition from the Bahá’í point of view, three elements have to be addressed—the nature
of the supernatural force, the fight against witchcraft, the diagnosis and the cure of diseases, the preparation of
good luck charms, and the causing of harm. If this supernatural force is from the invocation of the spirit of the
departed, which is strongly discouraged (see section under n e c ro m a n c y), whatever use that force is put to can-
not be approved. But if this supernatural force is from some other source, its effects are acceptable. The aspects
of fighting witchcraft, diagnosing and curing diseases, and the preparation of good luck charms are discussed
in this paper. Even though no religion approves of causing harm to any soul, power in the hands of either a
Bahá’í or a non-Bahá’í can be misused. Medicine may, therefore, either be upheld or disapproved of by the
Bahá’í teachings depending upon the source of the supernatural force animating the work of the medicine man.
Traditional Medicine
In ATR, traditional medicine “is the art of using the available forces of nature to prevent diseases and to
re s t o re and pre s e rve health.”32 Traditional medicine men, therefore, “ c a rry out the work of healing the sick . .
.”3 3 Persistent and serious complaints are “usually said to be magic, sorc e ry, witchcraft, broken taboos or the
work of spirits.”3 4 In this case, the medicine man “ p rescribes a cure which may include herbs, religious ritu -
als and the observance of certain prohibitions or dire c t i o n s .”3 5
Traditional medicine, therefore, entails healing the sick and fighting witchcraft and sorcery.
As for the aspect of healing the sick, the Bahá’í Faith teaches that:
It is clear from . . . statements made by the Guardian, as well as from the practice of Bahá’u’lláh, the
Master and the Guardian himself, that by “a scientific system of medicine” he was not limiting this choice
1 5 9
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

to the medical theories currently dominant in western countries. The House of Justice, therefore, does not
exclude the use of traditional native healers, . . . There is, nevertheless, an important borderline between
unorthodox medical practice and sheer quackery or superstition, and this we should be careful not to
c r o s s .3 6
As to the matter of fighting witchcraft and sorcery, the Bahá’í Faith acknowledges the existence of these
forces and recommends the method of quelling them.
The Bahá’í teachings state that there is no independent force of evil in the world. However, there are nega-
tive forces which are described as evil and which can affect an individual adversely. It is reassuring to note that
in a letter of 26 November 1939 written on behalf of the Guardian to an individual believer there appears the
s t a t e m e n t :
Evil forces do take control of our life, but it is within our power to free ourselves from falling under their
s u b j e c t i o n .3 7
How to free one’s self from falling under their subjection is elaborated on the same page in which reference
43 is found and in another memorandum dated 13 June 1999. To enter into the details would be a digression.
It can be seen from the above discussion that the concept of traditional medicine is common to both reli-
gions even though they differ from each other in some details of practices. It can also be seen that the main
objective of traditional medicine is to solve mundane problems, and not to seek union with God or to acquire
human virtues. It, therefore, falls under the fifth class.
The Gift of Healing
In several African societies, there are people reputed to be solely healers, and to possess the gift of healing
which they may harness by any method, one of which is the laying on of hands or massaging the affected part.
As to a definition of the “gift of healing,” the Research Department wrote that it “. . . has not found a pre -
cise definition of the phrase ‘the gift of healing’ in the Bahá’í Wr i t i n g s .”38 Even though there is no precise def-
inition, there is some guidance:
The so-called “gift of healing” is a God-given talent. . . . There is nothing in the Teachings to prohibit the
friends from discovering, either for themselves or with the help of experts if they wish, that they have such
a gift . . . a Bahá’í is free to practice such powers as long as he does so without attributing his or her pow-
ers to the Faith or to Bahá’u’lláh. . . . Bahá’ís are free to accept treatment from individuals whom they
believe to be endowed with such a gift.3 9
The guidance further explains that:
It appears to us that this phrase is associated with different aspects of ‘spiritual’ healing, depending upon
the context in which it is used.4 0
With this approval of the gift of healing which, obviously, seeks to heal illnesses and, thus, solve a mundane
problem, this concept fits into the fifth class.
Herbalism
Herbalism, the application of herbs and other plant parts for the treatment of diseases is a common practice
in African societies.
The Bahá’í Faith upholds pure herbalism in the words below:
Treat disease through diet, by preference, refraining from the use of drugs; and if you find what is required
in a single herb, do not resort to a compounded medicament.4 1
But, when herbalism is combined with religious elements,42  the Bahá’í Faith sounds a note of caution in these
words:
[O]ne must consider the context in which a herbal treatment is used in order to know if it is a simple ther-
apeutic remedy, or part of some ritualistic practice which may or may not conflict with Bahá’í Te a c h i n g s .4 3
Herbalism is directed solely towards solving physical or mundane problems. It, therefore, comes under the
fifth class mysticism.
1 6 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Soothsaying
Soothsaying, another common practice in traditional African communities, is not condemned in the Bahá’í
teachings. For the Bahá’í view on consulting soothsayers, the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice says that it is “not aware of texts which specifically prohibit these practices”4 4 a n d “does not equate
consulting soothsayers and diviners” with “occult experiences.”4 5
Ancestral Reverence
Africans do not worship their departed relatives. It is true that departed relatives are believed to continue
to live and to show interest in their surviving families. These families may show their belief by building
shrines for the departed and placing bits of food or drink there or on the graves, and sometimes mention-
ing them in their prayers.4 6
The Bahá’í Faith upholds the importance of remembering one’s forebears, especially one’s parents, and in
making certain types of offerings in their names.4 7
Some of these offerings are “charity and beneficence” and the imploration of “p a rdon and remission of
s i n s .”4 8
Even though “ With re g a rd to the question of ancestor rituals, the Research Department has not, to date,
been able to locate any statement in the Bahá’í Writings . . .”4 9 the reader has been given general guidelines
with respect to determining the acceptability of cultural practices, including ancestor ritual:
Bahá’ís should be encouraged to preserve their inherited cultural identities, as long as the activities
involved do not contravene the principles of the Faith.5 0
Looking at the texts above, one can say that as far as maintaining a healthy link with one’s ancestors, espe-
cially one’s parents, is concerned, the two religions are in accord. They may only differ insofar as placing bits
of food and sprinkling drops of drink on ancestral graves and shrines is concerned, for these, in the Bahá’í
v i e w, are offerings far inferior to feeding the poor or performing other acts of charity in the name of the ances-
tors. Praying for their soul’s progress and for the remission of their sins are acts common to both religions.
Since ancestral reverence is solely aimed at maintaining harmony with the ancestors, it rightly falls under
class five mysticism.
Talismans and Charms (Religious Articles and Objects)
“ R e l i gious articles and objects are many, and we find them in all African societies.”5 1 These objects, also
called talismans and/or charms which
are empowered magically through the repetition of set words . . . may be used for a variety of purposes:
attracting a lover, gaining employment, protecting from witchcraft, productivity of gardens, accumulation
of wealth, protection from sickness and . . . to protect warriors from . . . bullets in modern warfare.5 2
Though discussion of talismans is rare in the Bahá’í writings, their use was upheld by the earlier teach-
ings of the Báb:
Dieu a fixé pour les gens du Béyán, deux grands bienfaits. . . . C’est le <héikel> pour les hommes. . . Pour
les spectacles du Bá (les femmes), il a permis des cercles. . . .5 3
This author translates this passage as: “God has ordained for the people of Bayán, two great blessings. . . . It
is the pentacle for men . . . For (women), He has permitted circles.”
The influence to be exerted by these objects is also mentioned. For the pentacles of men:
Tout ce qu’on écrira dans ces <héikèl>, l’influence s’en manifestera sur la personnalité de celui qui l’a u-
ra écrit, mot pour mot, point par point.5 4
This translates as:
The influence of all that is written in these pentacles will be manifested word for word, point by point, on
the personality of the writer.
For women, the influence of the circles is to protect them morally:
1 6 1
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

“ces cercles les protégent moralement.”5 5
In the Bahá’í Faith, there is also
a charm-like prayer, in pentacle form, for protection. It is called Du’áy-i-Haykal (Prayer of Haykal).
Bahá’u’lláh‘ . . . has given . . . instructions on how this prayer should be copied, in what color and with
what kind of ink, and how it should be carried.5 6
The two religions are in agreement on this theme. But, in the Bahá’í Faith there is room for ascending to
class one mysticism if the writer of the talisman beseeches God for spiritual qualities and for martyrdom and
through prayer.
Protection against Knife Cuts and Bullets
Some African native doctors specialize, among others, in giving treatments that protect the user from knife
cuts and bullets.
From the Bahá’í view, the Research Department, referring to a letter from the Universal House of Justice
answered that:
The Salient point . . . seems to be the distinction between something that is prescribed as a simple thera-
peutic remedy and something that is taken as part of a religious ritual as a form of sacrament.’ We note,
also, that the House of Justice points out that there is “an important borderline between unorthodox med-
ical practice and sheer quackery or superstition, and this we should be careful not to cross.”5 7
Protection against knife cuts and bullets is to attain a mundane goal. It has nothing to do with seeking com-
munion with God.
Libation
This is the act of pouring some liquid to the spirits and the act is accompanied by a prayer.5 8
The concept of libation is not mentioned in the Bahá’í teachings. The place of prayer in the Bahá’í teach-
ings has already been discussed. Libation is, therefore, a purely ATR concept. Its significance “lies in the belief
that since the liquid softens the ground, it symbolically opens the way to the presence of the divine Power or
p o w e r s .”5 9 Libation, in essence, is, therefore, a symbol.
Animal Sacrifice
“Sacrifice is the act of offering the life of an animal or person, or some object to the divine Power or pow -
e r s .”6 0 This offering is also made to deities, divinities, ancestors and kings.
The object of offering sacrifice is to maintain
contact or communion between the divine and man. It serves as the best way through which man maintains
an established relationship between himself and his object of worship.6 1
On the matter of sacrifice, the Research Department wrote that:
The sacrifice of animals is an ancient custom and a familiar theme in the history of religion.6 2
The Bahá’í Faith further explains this symbol in this way:
Just as the sheep sacrificed its life, likewise this natural state of man, which is the animalistic state, must
be sacrificed. How should it be sacrificed? The vices of the animalistic state of man must be entirely anni-
hilated, and he must be characterized with divine virtues.6 3
With the . . . greater spiritual maturity of the people, the symbolic act of self-sacrifice largely replaced the
sacrificial animals, and it is this symbolic act that is most acceptable in this Day.6 4
This means that the sacrifice of animals is a reminder that human beings must completely overcome their
evil qualities and replace them with virtues. Clearly, therefore, human sacrifice is at variance with the Bahá’í
teachings and animal sacrifice is abrogated. Its major objective is conciliation and propitiation with the divine
which could have made it class one mysticism. But the fact that it is just a symbol makes it fitted for class five
m y s t i c i s m .
1 6 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Other Offerings
The offerings considered here are bits of food, and alcohol. This has been treated under A n c e s t r a l
R e v e r e n c e .
The Bahá’í Faith upholds the importance of remembering one’s forebears, especially one’s parents, and in
making certain types of offerings in their names.6 5
These are:
the intercession and the sincere prayers of other human souls, or through the charities and important good
works which are performed in its name.6 6
O fferings are, therefore, made in both religions, but the nature differs from one to the other.
Dreams and Visions
Like many other peoples, Africans consider dreams a method by which the ancestral spirits can communi-
cate with the living. . . . Dreams are usually taken seriously.6 7
This definition is limited because, in reality, dreams are also considered to be a method by which God com-
municates with the living. The same definition applies to visions. Therefore, both terms are used synony-
m o u s l y. Dreams and visions in ATR can be evoked after certain traditional practices. It could be the wearing
of a special talisman before going to bed. The powers of this talisman then enable the wearer to receive what-
ever message is communicated or revealed to him.
Dreams and visions are very important in the Bahá’í Faith. It is considered to be “the most mysterious of
the signs of God amongst men.”6 8
The Bahá’í Faith teaches that:
There are three kinds of visions or dreams. First, those that arise from over-excited nerves, or disordered
stomach, and of no use whatever. Second, when God sends a revelation to a soul that is not entirely pure
from the world: to such an one He sends visions in symbols and signs, and these experiences need an inter-
p r e t e r. The third kind is when a soul who is severed from the world receives a revelation from God. In this
station everything is clear and pure and needs no explanation.6 9
In the Bahá’í Faith, therefore, not all dreams should be taken seriously. Those that are due to over- e x c i t e d
nerves, if they can be identified, must be discarded. Those that are symbolic must be handled with caution
because they need an infallible interpreter. The third type is clear and needs no explanation.
The Bahá’í Faith teaches further that
there can be, under certain rare circumstances . . . communion with some soul gone before into the invis-
ible world, but that most of this type of experience which people often claim to have with departed souls
is nothing but the product of their own imaginations—however real it may seem to them to be.7 0
It is possible, the Bahá’í Faith teaches, to receive communication with the soul of the departed even though
this experience is rare. There are instances in Africa were people have been instructed in dreams by some
ancestor and taught the cure for certain ailments.
In the Bahá’í Faith, dreams and visions are not to be sought by any means unless they occur by themselves.
This is what it says:
When a person endeavors to develop faculties so that they might enjoy visions, dreams, etc., actually what
they are doing is weakening certain of their spiritual capacities; and thus under such circumstances, dreams
and visions have no reality, and ultimately lead to the destruction of the character of the person.7 1
To summarize, both religions, in principle, share in the belief in dreams and visions. But the Bahá’í Faith,
unlike the ATR, identifies three types of dreams, teaches that the type due to over-excited nerves or disordered
stomach are useless. The second type, symbolic dreams, if properly interpreted may lead one into the third,
second and first class mysticism, inasmuch as they lead one to truth and to seeking closer union with God. T h e
third type of dreams is clear and needs no interpretation. It “comes to an individual through the grace of God.
. .”7 2 It often leads to truth.
1 6 3
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

When either of the two true dream-types comes to an individual involuntarily, it is desirable; if evoked by
some rituals, it is harmful to the soul of the individual.
Because dreams and visions also have the attribute of the second and the third class mysticism, it makes it
d i fficult to restrict it to class five mysticism. On the other hand, because it can be evoked—and, this seems to
be the more common practice in society—often for mundane or orthodox occult reasons having little or noth-
ing to do with the sanctification of the soul, this concept is classed under class five mysticism.
Miracles or Supernatural Acts
Miracles is a concept that runs through many other concepts in African Traditional Religion.
The Bahá’í Faith teaches about miracles attributed to the Manifestations of God as proof of Their role, and
about those attributed to conjurors. For the first case, it teaches that:
Our purpose is not to deny such miracles; our only meaning is that they do not constitute decisive proofs,
and that they have an inner significance.7 3
For the second case, the Bahá’í Faith states that:
Extraordinary feats have also been related to some conjurors.7 4
It goes on to state that:
The outward miracles have no importance for the people of reality. If a blind man receives sight, for exam-
ple, he will finally again become sightless, for he will die and be deprived of all his senses and powers.
Therefore, causing the blind man to see is comparatively of little importance, for this faculty of sight will
at last disappear.7 5
This statement should not be taken too far out of the context. True, if a man has protection against knife cuts
or bullets, he would eventually die of some other cause. But in the situation of civil disorder and traditional
warfare, one can countenance this feat.
One effect of miracles, though, is that they fill some people with awe and bafflement at the omnipotence of
God. Even the virgin birth of Jesus Christ is no proof of His Manifestation. But it fills one with awe and
reminds one of the supremacy of God— “ God does what He will.7 6
Miracles are not performed with the objective of attaining union with God, but for the purpose of solving
mundane problems. For these reasons they fall under class five mysticism.
Class Six Mysticism or Orthodox Occultism
Magic, Witchcraft (or Wizardry) and Sorcery
In African Traditional Religion, “Magic can be defined as an attempt by man to tap and control . . . super -
natural powers or re s o u rces of the universe for his own benefit.” White magic is “primarily used for pro t e c -
tion against the evil forces that are found every w h e re .”7 7 Black magic “is intended primarily to harm people
and pro p e rt y.”78  “S o rc e ry is defined as the use of black magic and medicines against others.”7 9 Witchcraft “i s
a manifestation of . . . mystical forces which may be inborn in a person, inherited or acquired in various
w a y s .”80 It is distinct from sorcery. “Its distinctive feature is that there is no palpable apparatus connected with
it, no rites, ceremonies, incantations or invocations that the witch has to perform.”8 1
More informative than these rather vague definitions is the popular observation that these phenomena are
often practised with evil intent.
These concepts are not specifically defined in the Bahá’í teachings, and no clear synonymy exists between
witchcraft and psychic forces (see note 5), but the elements involved, except for white magic, are worth not-
ing. Some guidance is given below:
[T]he term “voodoo” generally refers to a variety of practices often including sorcery, the supposed sum-
moning of spirits, elaborate rituals, and animal sacrifices. While nothing has been found in the Bahá’í
Writings specifically on the set of beliefs and practices which make up voodoo, Bahá’ís can readily use the
authoritative texts of the Faith as a standard with which to assess the various elements of voodoo.8 2
1 6 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Since voodoo involves summoning spirits, practising elaborate rituals and doing evil, it would seem quite
justified to proscribe these concepts and practices. The Universal House of Justice, referring to j u - j u a n d
magic, a reference that very well applies to witchcraft, sorcery and psychic forces, wrote: “. . . educate the
friends to avoid such practices . . .”8 3
The purport of the above concepts is to do evil, seeking, therefore, to accentuate the ego of the practitioner.
It therefore fits this definition of orthodox mysticism.
Necromancy
Necromancy is synonymous to psychicism in the Bahá’í teachings. It is the practice of summoning spirits.
As stated in reference numbers 16 and 93 (below), the believers are strongly warned against summoning the
spirits of the departed.
The mere fact that necromancy is proscribed qualifies it for class six mysticism.
Mediumship
“Mediums are people who get in touch with the spirit world.”8 4 If this connection is made involuntarily, the
Bahá’í teachings are not against it. But if this connection is cultivated, the Bahá’í Faith is against it. It says
t h a t :
What ‘Abdu’l-Bahá always pointed out in this matter is that these psychic powers were not to be used in
this world, and that, indeed, it was dangerous to cultivate them here. They should be left dormant, and not
exploited, even when we do so with the sincere belief we are helping others. . . .
If children are inclined to be psychic they should not be blamed for it too harshly; they should not be
encouraged to strengthen their powers in this direction.8 5
It is commonly observed that this faculty is often cultivated. For this reason, mediumship is against the
Bahá’í teachings and placed under class six mysticism. A hint to this understanding is found in the refusal of
the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to accept a medium into his fold. He telegraphed:
CONCERNING MEDIUM DO NOT ADVISE A C C E P TANCE MEMBERSHIP.8 6
Spirit Possession
This is a rather vexed theme. There are, generally speaking, two types of spirit-possession. One type is
described below:
Amid dancing, drumming, and the carrying of carved objects . . . the deity will descend upon a devotee. .
. . ,she or he will gasp ecstatically and go limp, then suddenly leap into tremendous activity and take on
the characteristics of the spirit. . . . People may ask questions of the possessed and receive answers in the
name of the divine.8 7
The Bahá’í Faith teaches that:
Regarding the materialization of spirits through mediums: A person finding himself in a state of trance, or
unconsciousness, is like one who sleeps; whatever he feels and sees he imagines to be matter and of mate-
rial things, but in reality they are wholly immaterial.8 8
Outside the bounty of the Holy Spirit, whatsoever thou hearest as to the effect of trances, or the mediums’
trumpets, conveying the singing voices of the dead, is imagination pure and simple.8 9
This statement, perhaps, needs some commentary. Since the Bahá’í teachings mention that the situation out-
side the bounty of the Holy Spirit is pure imagination, this supposes that within the bounty of the Holy Spirit
mediums can have true revelations. But, whatever they perceive is not material: it is spiritual. Like a type two
dream, it needs to be interpreted. And this is where a wide zone is created for groping in the dark.
This type of mediumship is accepted if it develops involuntarily and if its impressions can be correctly inter-
preted. However, even if its perceptions can be correctly interpreted, it is not permitted to cultivate medi-
umship intentionally. It is also difficult to classify this type as good or evil, as what counts is the kind of com-
munication received and the intention for evoking such influence. It has nothing to do with developing human
v i r t u e s .
1 6 5
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

The second type of spirit-possession is one in which it is believed that supernatural, evil power can possess
one or manipulate one’s behaviour. The Bahá’í Faith teaches that
the condition of those people who are described in the Gospel as being possessed of devils . . . should be
interpreted figuratively . . .9 0
Here, again, the absence of correct, authoritative interpretation poses diff i c u l t i e s .
Contrary to the meaning of the above statement, the Bahá’í teachings affirm that sometimes people are influ-
enced by evil, supernatural forces. Two relevant citations are found below:
Evil forces do take control of our life, but it is within our power to free ourselves from falling under their
s u b j e c t i o n .9 1
The second one states that:
The House of Justice fully appreciates that . . . there are many instances of individuals being aff e c t e d
adversely by the psychic arts of the other people.9 2
Even though this second type of spirit-possession is true, because it is evil and has nothing to do with acquir-
ing human virtues, it is condemned and, therefore, placed under class six mysticism.
Dreams and Visions
The category of dreams and visions that fall under this class of mysticism is that sought with the aid of some
special rites or practices. Dreams and visions of this type are those that prove harmful to the seeker’s soul. T h i s
has been discussed earlier and is disapproved of.
Talismans and Charms
Talismans and charms appear under this group in the cases where they are used as paraphernalia in orthodox
occult practices aimed at causing evil. The objective for employing them in this case is not to seek communion
with God or to acquire human virtues, but to seek mystic experiences.
Conclusions
Mysticism in the Bahá’í teachings can be placed under six classes, which can be placed descending order of
importance. Class one or True mysticism has no parallel in African Traditional Religion. Class two mysticism
is common to both religions insofar as worship and prayer are concerned in basic principles. Class three mys-
ticism is also shared by both religions, but the absence of a proof of a divine, authentic source in ATR, the say-
ings and acts in ATR are limited to the emanations of sages, mystics, and religious leaders. Class four mysti-
cism is shared by both only insofar as in ATR, adolescence or the coming of age of the individual is concerned.
But, in general, African Traditional Religion does not consider adolescence as mysticism.
It can be seen, therefore, that almost all the concepts in ATR fit into classes five and six. This underlines the
fact that, the older a religion, the further away from the essence of its teachings do the adherents move, thus
calling for its renewal.
In addition, this paper has broadened the understanding of mysticism in African Traditional Religion by
shedding some new light on adolescence, and it has shown the irrelevance of the popular concepts of mysti-
cism in ATR to the spiritual development of the individual and to modern society.
R e f e r e n c e s
1) Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 217.
2) I b i d ., p. 287.
3) Compilation of Compilations, volume two, p. 238
4) All definitions taken from We b s t e r’s Seventh New Collegiate Dictionary.
5) Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, pp. 406-7.
6) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star of the We s t 5: VIII: 6: 65.
7) Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi dated 8 December 1935, cited on p. 4 of a memorandum from the Research Department
of the Universal House of Justice dated 21 Jan. 1996.
1 6 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

8) Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 163-164.
9) See nos. 4, 9, 11, and 18 of the Bibliography.
10) Memorandum dated 21 Jan. 1996, p .4.
11) I b i d ., p. 3.
12) I b i d .
13) I b i d ., p. 5.
14) Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, ch. CLIII, pp. 323-4.
15) Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, pp. 406-7.
16) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 60.
17) Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 337.
18) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 209.
19) Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys and The Four Va l l e y s, p. 41.
20) Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 163f.
21) The Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal house of Justice, p. 665.
22) Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 144.
23) I b i d ., p. 147.
24) I b i d ., p. 148.
2 5 Lights of Guidance, p. 157, no. 427.
2 6 ) The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 126, Question 70.
27) The Universal house of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, p. 665.
2 8 ) Lights of Guidance, p. 132, no. 371.
29) Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’ulláh, p. 164.
30) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 96.
31) Tanyi, African Traditional Religion and the Bahá’í Faith (unpublished ms.). p. 46.
32) Awolalu and Dopamu, West African Traditional Religion, p. 240.
33) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 154.
34) I b i d ., p. 155.
35) I b i d .
36) I b i d .
3 7 ) Issues Related to the Practices of African Traditional Healers (IRPATH), p. 4.
38) Memorandum dated 13 June 1999., p. 1.
39) Memorandum dated 31 March 1988., p. 5.
40) Memorandum dated 13 June 1999., p. 1.
41) I R PATH, p . 1 .
42 Gehman, African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective, pp. 77-8.
43) Memorandum dated 21 Jan., 1996, p. 6.
44) Memorandum dated 27 Dec., 1994, p. 7.
45) Memorandum dated 6 March 1997, p. 1.
46) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p 18.
47) Memorandum dated 17 October 1991, p. 1.
48) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some A n s w e red Questions, pp. 231, 232.
49) Memorandum dated 17 October 1991, p. 2.
50) I b i d .
51) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 24.
52) Gehman, African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective, p. 71.
53) The Báb, Le Béyan Persan, translated from Persian into French by A.L.M. Nicholas, p. 26.
1 6 7
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

54) I b i d .
55) I b i d .
56) Reported in an article by Iraj Ay m a n i n The Lamp, Vol.5, number 2, June 2000, p. 4, online at www. w i l m e t t e i n s t i t u t e . o rg / l a m p s
57) Memorandum dated 27 Dec., 1994, p.6.
58) Awolalu and Dopamu, West African Traditional Religion, p.128.
59) I b i d .
60) I b i d ., p. 132.
61) I b i d .
62) Memorandum dated 31 March 1988., p. 1.
63) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star of the West 3: IV: 12: 205.
64) Memorandum dated 31 March 1988., p. 1.
65) Memorandum dated 17 October 1991, p.1.
66) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some A n s w e red Questions, pp. 240.
67) Gehman, African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective, p. 142.
68) Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 187.
69) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star of the West 8: 14: 7: 211.
70) Lights of Guidance, p. 389, no. 1054.
71) Lights of Guidance, p. 390, no. 1057.
72) I b i d .
73) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some A n s w e red Questions, p. 38.
74) I b i d ., p. 37.
75) I b i d ., p. 101.
76) A r b e r r y, The Koran Interpreted, súra 14: 32.
77) Gehman, African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective, p. 69.
78) I b i d .
79) I b i d ., p. 72.
80) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 166.
81) Gehman, African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective, p. 72.
8 2 ) Aspects of Traditional African Culture, p. 45, no. 38.
83) I b i d ., p. 40, no. 32.
84) Mbiti, I n t roduction to African Religion, p. 158.
85) Lights of Guidance, p. 387, no. 1048.
86) Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p. 175.
87) King, African Cosmos, p. 60.
88) Lights of Guidance, p. 394, no. 1074.
89) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á, p. 160, no. 139.
90) Lights of Guidance, p. 385, no. 1043.
91) I R PAT H , p. 4.
92) Aspects of Traditional African Culture, p. 41, no. 35.
N o t e s
I. A text that supports and expresses reference no. 11 is:
Sacrifice of life is of two kinds. To be killed for the Cause is not so difficult as to live for it in absolute obedience to the
commands of God.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star of the West 5:VIII:6:65
The teaching about the symbolism in animal sacrifice dates as far as the Old Testament days. But as usual, humanity quickly turns away
1 6 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

from the essence of the teachings of God, and holds on to superstition. The Book of Psalms, in chapter 50 verses 8-13 and chapter 51 verse
16, tells us that God does not need animal sacrifice. The sacrifice that is acceptable to Him is indicated in verses 14 and 15 of the same
chapter in these words:
O ffer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and pay your vows to the Most High . . .
Psalm 51 verse 17, gives us more guidance on the acceptable sacrifice:
The sacrifice acceptable to God is a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise . . .
‘Abdu’l-Bahá clarifies the meaning of thanksgiving in these words:
In this day, to thank God for His bounties consisteth in possessing a radiant heart, and a soul open to the promptings of
the spirit. This is the essence of thanksgiving.
Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 179, no. 153.
This understanding ties in with the second meaning of sacrifice giving by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá above, for sacrifice in the path of God and obe-
dience to His commands mean the same thing, and it is this obedience or sacrifice that brings about a pure, contrite and radiant heart.
Thus, even before the Bahá’í Dispensation, God had revealed the symbolism in animal sacrifice, and taught that true sacrifice is the spir-
itual conditions of possessing a pure and radiant heart which come about by keeping one’s vows to God, in other words, obeying God’s com-
mands, and by repenting from one’s sins.
II. The whole of reference number 17, which is a letter dated 8 December 1935 written on behalf of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, is
cited below:
It is this condition, so sadly morbid, into which society has fallen, that religion seeks to improve and transform. For the
core of religious faith is that mystic feeling that unites man with God. This state of spiritual communion can be brought
about and maintained by means of meditation and prayer. And this is the reason why Bahá’u’lláh has so much stressed the
importance of worship. It is not sufficient for a believer to merely accept and observe the teachings. He should, in addi-
tion, cultivate the sense of spirituality, which he can acquire chiefly by the means of prayer. The Bahá’í Faith, like all other
Divine religions, is thus fundamentally mystic in character. Its chief goal is the development of the individual and society,
through the acquisition of spiritual virtues and powers. It is the soul of man that has first to be fed. And this spiritual nour-
ishment prayer can best provide. Laws and institutions, as viewed by Bahá’u’lláh, can become really effective only when
our inner spiritual life has been perfected and transformed. Otherwise religion will degenerate into a mere org a n i z a t i o n ,
and become a dead thing.
III. A question that one might naturally ask is how to identify this mystic feeling. The answer to this question is given below:
With regard to Mr. . . . ’s question about how one can identify “that mystic feeling that unites man with God,” it is the
view of the Research Department that the answer is to be derived from personal meditation and may well be different for
each person.
A memorandum from the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice dated 9 April 1996.
I V. The third class of mysticism is given the adjective “coronary” because this class deals with understanding scripture, and several refer-
ences in scripture show that the heart is the seat of understanding. Some of these are: Isaiah 6: 10, Matt.13:14, John 12:40; Súras 7:179 and
63:3; The Hidden Words (Persian), numbers 16,33, and 36, Bahá’í Prayers ( Wilmette, Ill.: B.P. T., 1991), p.165, and Gleanings, pp.293, 303.
Another reason is that, understanding of scripture is the purpose for which scripture is revealed. Bahá’u’lláh wrote that:
. . . in every age, the reading of the scriptures and holy books is for no other purpose except to enable the reader to appre-
hend their meaning and unravel their innermost mysteries. Otherwise, reading without understanding, is of no abiding
profit unto man.
Kitáb-i-ˆqán, London, England: B.P. T., 1961 edition., pp. 11 0 - 111 .
Thus, Bahá’u’lláh makes a direct link between the understanding of scripture and mysticism in stating that the sole purpose for reading
scripture has always been, is, and will always be, to understand their meaning and to unravel their mysteries.
V Talking of psychic powers and witchcraft, one might want to know the relationship between these two. The answer is given below:
The Research Department has found nothing in the Writings clarifying the relationship between the use of “psychic pow-
ers” and what some call “witchcraft.”
A memorandum from the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice to an individual dated 5 April 1999
B i b l i o g r a p h y
‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á . Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
1 6 9
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

———. Some A n s w e red Questions. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust (B.P. T.), first pocket-size edition, 1984/reprint 1990.
A r b e r r y, Arthur J. The Koran Interpre t e d . Wo r l d ’s classics paperback. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1983.
Awolalu, J.O. and P.A. Dopamu. West African Traditional Religion. Ibadan, Nigeria: Onibonoje Press and Book Industries (Nig.)
Ltd., 1979.
Báb, The (Sayyed ‘ Alí Muhammad). Le Béyan Persan. Traduit du Persan par A.L.M. Nicholas. Paris, France: Librairie Paul
G e u t h n e r, Tome Tr o i s i è m e .
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Translated by Habib Taherzadeh with the assistance of a
Committee. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
— — — . The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Wilmette, Ill.: B.P. T., 1993.
———. The Seven Valleys and the Four Va l l e y s . Wilmette, Ill.: B.P. T., 1991.
———. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill.: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States, first pocket-sized edition, 1983.
Gehman, Richard J. African Traditional Religion in Biblical Perspective. Nairobi, Kenya: East African Educational Publishers
Ltd., 1993.
H o r n b y, Helen. Lights of Guidance, A Bahá’í Reference File. New Delhi, India: B.P. T., 1983.
King, Noel Q. African Cosmos, An Introduction to Religions in A f r i c a . Belmont, California: Wadsworth, Publishing Company,
1 9 8 6 .
Lamp, The. A quarterly newsletter of the Wilmette Institute of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States.
Marks, Geoffry W. Messages from the Universal House of Justice (1963-1986), A c o m p i l a t i o n . Wilmette, Ill.: B.P. T., 1996.
Memorandum from the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice to an individual dated 31 March 1988.
———. dated 17 October 1991.
———. dated 27 December 1994.
———. dated 21 January 1996.
———. dated 9 April 1996.
———. dated 6 March 1997.
———. dated 5 April 1999.
———. dated 13 June 1999.
Mbiti, John S. Introduction to African Religion. Nairobi, Kenya: East African Educational Publishers Ltd., 2n d reprinted edition,
1 9 9 4 .
Shoghi Effendi. Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community. London, England: B.P. T., 1981.
———. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill.: B.P. T., 2nd revised edition,1974.
Star of the We s t , vols.3, 5, and 8. Reprinted. Oxford: George Ronald, 1978. The Bahá’í Magazine. Chicago: Bahá’í News Service.
Tanyi, Enoch. African Traditional Religion and the Bahá’í Faith (unpublished ms.).
Universal House of Justice, The. Aspects of Traditional African Culture. Lagos, Nigeria: B.P. T, 1999.
———. Issues Related to the Practices of African Traditional Healers. A compilation prepared by the Universal House of Justice.
We b s t e r’s Seventh New Collegiate Dictionary. Massachusetts: G. & C. Merriam Company, Publishers, 1965.
1 7 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

1 7 1
Mys ti cism in Afr i can Trad i ti on al Re l i gi on

1 7 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

An Exposition on the Fire Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh:
(Lawh-i-Qad Ihtaraqa’l-Mukhlisún)
by James B. Thomas
Preface
T
o understand Bahá’u’lláh’s famous Fire Tablet it is essential to know about the events and conditions
regarding the state of the Bahá’í Faith that preceded the time of its revelation. The emotion expressed is
so plaintive that the human station of Bahá’u’láh seems to dominate His soul yet His divine station wells
up with such reverence for God that a mystical intercourse between these two stations of His being produces
a profound message for all Bahá’ís and those yet unborn. It is a message of victory, of steadfastness, and of
great promise.
The Fire Ta b l e t ’s full title, taken from its opening lines, is “Lawh-i-Qad Ihtaraqa’l-Muk hlisún.” The literal
translation of this is “Tablet of ‘The Faithful Ones [m u k h l i s ú n] have Burned [qad ihtaraq],’” which Shoghi
E ffendi translated as “the hearts of the sincere are consumed in the fire of separation.”1 The Fire Tablet is often
recited by Bahá’ís at times of suffering and difficulties and it was revealed when great afflictions and sorrows
had surrounded Bahá’u’lláh. However, many believers, even those who are deeply moved by its tone, often
state that they do not entirely understand It. This celebrated Tablet therefore deserves study with respect to its
real and mystical implications.
In the closing days of the exile of Bahá’u’llá’h and His followers in Adrianople, certain catastrophic events
occurred within the fragile Bahá’í community that deeply affected Bahá’u’lláh. The divisiveness inculcated by
Siyyid Muhammad that had begun earlier in Constantinople, which was in fact the cause of further exile to
Adrianople, struck at the very heart of the embryonic Faith established by Bahá’u’lláh. Mírzá Ya h y á ,
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s half brother, was a victim of his own vanity, probably due to the Báb’s appointment of him as
the nominal leader of His followers, for reasons not pertaining to his capacities.2 Yahyá developed an insatiable
lust for power and recognition within the very community of Bahá’ís that Bahá’u’lláh had so miraculously
regenerated. It was during this time that the followers of the Báb, the Herald and precursor of Bahá’u’lláh,
began to identify themselves as Bahá’ís rather than Bábís.3
Introduction
For the purpose of reviewing The Fire Tablet, it is important to appreciate the depth of the extraordinary
phenomenon of regeneration that occurred in an earlier time of the first exile to Baghdad after Bahá’u’lláh’s
terrible incarceration in the Síyáh-Chál, the “dark pit” in Tehran. Indeed this phenomenon would recur on a
greater scale in His fourth and final exile to the inhospitable prison city of ‘ Akká. In each instance of repres-
sion experienced by the fledgling Bábí community it was the resplendent figure of Bahá’u’lláh that would
inspire them, and ultimately the world, through numerous tablets that were revealed even during the time of
His own severe duress.
The cowardice Yahyá exhibited innumerable times going back to the Baghdad exile now turned into arro-
gance under the influence of the “Anti-Christ” of the Bahá’í Dispensation, Siyyid Muhammad. A pattern of
insurrection unfolded that culminated in an attempt on the life of a Divine Messenger of God. Bahá’u’lláh had
always protected and nurtured His half brother, and for him to turn on Bahá’u’lláh in this way was heart rend-
ing. Moreover, Yahyá rent so deep a schism on the most basic tenet of the Faith, the principle of unity, that it
would prove to be the most damaging thing that Bahá’u’lláh would ever face in spite of great personal and
physical ordeals exacted by outside enemies of the Faith.
The machinations of Siyyid Muhammad and Mírzá Yahyá provoked such consternation with the Tu r k i s h
authorities that a further final exile was ordered, to the prison-city of ‘Akká, Palestine. Ultimately the party
was divided, one groupwould go with Bahá’u’lláh to ‘Akká and the other group would go with Mírzá Ya h y á
to Cyprus. On August 31, 1868 Bahá’u’lláh and seventy followers arrived at “the most great prison,” ‘Akká.
1 7 3
An Exp o si ti on on the Fire Tabl e t

U n f o r t u n a t e l y, some followers of Yahyá were put in the group with Bahá’u’lláh, including Siyyid Muhammad,
and four followers of Bahá’u’lláh were put in the group with Yahyá. This was most distressing for the believ-
ers, for whom separation from their Beloved was unbearable. For Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and the Bahá’ís,
the presence of Siyyid Muhammad would provide endless torment during the early years in ‘ Akká. One loyal
follower actually attempted suicide to avoid separation from his Beloved.
Conditions in the prison were harsh and very unhealthy, so much so that three persons died while suff e r i n g
extreme fever. All the prisoners were subjected to strict confinement by their captors. But the worst aspect of
life in the barracks was brought on by the covenant breakers. The Siyyid and three others campaigned with lies
to defame Bahá’u’lláh. Then they colluded with the authorities to prevent pilgrims, some of whom traveled
great distances on foot, from seeing or even communicating with Him.4 This meant that the persecuted believ-
ers in Persia were left bereft of guidance from their Lord; indeed, many did not know whether He was alive or
dead. Then something happened that utterly devastated Bahá’u’lláh and His family.
Shoghi Effendi describes this tragic event:
To the galling weight of these tribulations was now added the bitter grief of a sudden tragedy—the pre-
mature loss of the noble, the pious Mírzá Mihdí, the Purest Branch, ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s twenty-two year old
b r o t h e r, an amanuensis of Bahá’u’lláh and a companion of His exile from the days when, as a child, he was
brought from Tihran to Baghdad to join his Father after His return from Sulaymáníyyih. He was pacing the
roof of the barracks in the twilight, one evening, wrapped in his customary devotions, when he fell through
the unguarded skylight onto a wooden crate, standing on the floor beneath, which pierced his ribs, and
caused, twenty-two hours later, his death, on the 23rd of Rabí’u’l-Avval 1287 A.H. (June 23, 1870). His
dying supplication to a grieving Father was that his life might be accepted as a ransom for those who were
prevented from attaining the presence of their Beloved.5
This poignant episode provides the clearest example of the great suffering endured by Bahá’u’lláh through-
out His long ministry. Bahá’u’lláh revealed a prayer in memory of His son that is reminiscent of A b r a h a m ’s
intended sacrifice of His son:
Glorified art Thou, O Lord, my God! Thou seest me in the hands of Mine enemies, and My son blood-
stained before Thy face, O Thou in Whose hands is the kingdom of all names. I have, O my Lord, off e r e d
up that which Thou hast given Me, that Thy servants may be quickened and all that dwell on earth be unit-
e d .6
It must be noted that Bahá’u’lláh, having the power of life and death, suffered an enormous sacrifice by
acquiescing to His son’s wish to ransom his life for the opening of the gates of the prison.7
Profundity of Suffering
When reviewing the dispensations of the past it becomes readily apparent that all Divine Messengers suf-
fered greatly in various ways simply because They were bringing the teachings of God to mankind.
Bahá’u’lláh, perhaps because of His longevity and because of the scope of His Revelation, seemed to bear an
inordinate burden throughout His earthly life.
In a tablet, He encapsulates these phenomena while identifying Himself with the Messengers of the past:
At one time Thou didst deliver me into the hands of Nimrod; at another Thou hast allowed Pharaoh’s rod
to persecute me. Thou alone canst estimate, through Thine all-encompassing knowledge and the operation
of Thy Will, the incalculable afflictions I have suffered at their hands. Again Thou didst cast me into the
prison-cell of the ungodly for no reason except that I was moved to whisper into the ears of the well-
favored denizens of Thy kingdom an intimation of the vision with which Thou hadst, through Thy knowl-
edge, inspired me and revealed to me its meaning through the potency of Thy might. And again Thou didst
decree that I be beheaded by the sword of the infidel. Again I was crucified for having unveiled to men’s
eyes the hidden gems of Thy glorious unity, for having revealed to them the wondrous signs of Thy sov-
ereign and everlasting power. How bitter the humiliations heaped upon me, in a subsequent age, on the
plain of Karbilá! How lonely did I feel amidst Thy people; to what state of helplessness I was reduced in
that land! Unsatisfied with such indignities, my persecutors decapitated me and carrying aloft my head
1 7 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

from land to land paraded it before the gaze of the unbelieving multitude and deposited it on the seats of
the perverse and faithless. In a later age I was suspended and my breast was made a target to the darts of
the malicious cruelty of my foes. My limbs were riddled with bullets and my body was torn asunder.
F i n a l l y, behold how in this day my treacherous enemies have leagued themselves against me, and are con-
tinually plotting to instill the venom of hate and malice into the souls of Thy servants. With all their might
they are scheming to accomplish their purpose. . . .8
It was in this milieu of despair, tragedy and torment that Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Lawh-i-Qad I h t a r a q a ’ l -
M uk hl i s ú n, or the “Fire Tablet” as it is known in the West. The Tablet was revealed in 1871 for a young devot-
ed follower named Hájí Siyyid ‘A l í - A k b a r.1 0 It may be studied in three parts. (1) First, Bahá’u’lláh, in His
human station, describes conditions of abject sorrow followed by invocations to God pertinent to those condi-
tions in such poignant terms that it is reminiscent of the plaintive call by Christ during His crucifixion when
He asked “My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?”9 Then He reverently addresses God by His attrib-
utes. (2) God, speaking through His Messenger, responds to the call of Bahá’u’lláh with omnipotent authority,
explaining why such conditions exist, and then addresses Him in most endearing terms. (3) The call of God is
answered by Bahá’u’lláh, in His station of Divine Messenger, in a most provocative way bursting through the
ashes of despair like a phoenix rising with the triumph of sacrifice.
I have attempted to associate specific conditions with each invocation. There were many incidents, feeding
one into another, which occurred over a number of years that were related to this Tablet. Only a few are rep-
resented here. The Súriy-i-Mulúk (Súrih of Kings) contains some elements of Bahá’u’lláh’s experience prior
to His banishment to “The Most Great Prison” that influenced the writing of the Fire Tablet. This famous Ta b l e t
expresses, in a sense, the culmination of emotions and truths associated with the tribulations experienced by
Bahá’u’lláh and His company for a period that spanned nineteen years. All of this has since been transformed
miraculously into ultimate victory for His cause.
In the following passages, text in italics is from the Fire Tablet, unless otherwise identified.
Despair and Invocation
Bahá’u’lláh begins by addressing God in terms of ultimate respect for His station such as the “First Cause”
and the “Supreme Being.”
In the Name of God, the Most Ancient, the Most Great.
He then begins His plaintive calls:
Indeed the hearts of the sincere are consumed in the fire of separation: Where is the gleaming of the light
of Thy Countenance, O Beloved of the worlds?
This refers to the heart-rending fact that the closest the followers of Bahá’u’lláh could approach was the city
gate of ‘ Akká, and then only His hand would be visible waving in the distance. Within the prison, forced sep-
aration between members in His company created a sense of isolation and they began to feel spiritually bereft,
deprived of the resplendent presence of Bahá’u’lláh. Some were expelled from ‘Akká due to the machinations
of Siyyid Muhammad.
Separation, the opposite of unity, was perhaps the most grievous of any condition experienced by the
Bahá’ís. The beloved Guardian quotes Áqáy-Kalím on the occasion of the final rupture between Bahá’u’lláh
and Mírzá Yahyá in Adrianople: “All the companions lamented in their separation from the Blessed Beauty.
‘Those days, ’ is the written testimony of one of those companions, ‘were marked by tumult and confusion. We
were sore-perplexed, and greatly feared lest we be permanently deprived of the bounty of His presence. ’”11
Again He calls:
Those who are near unto Thee have been abandoned in the darkness of desolation: Where is the shining of
the morn of Thy reunion, O Desire of the worlds?
Bahá’ulláh is referring to the conditions in ‘Akká, which were abominable. Also, the authorities were
1 7 5
An Exp o si ti on on the Fire Tabl e t

required to treat the believers harshly while others had been forced to remain behind along the path of exile.
He cries out:
The bodies of Thy chosen ones lie quivering on distant sands: Where is the ocean of Thy presence, O
Enchanter of the worlds?
Here He speaks about the remnants of the Bábí community, which remained devastated in their homeland
and thirsted for spiritual guidance, and a few of whom were forced to travel to the island of Cyprus with the
archenemy of the Faith, Mírzá Ya h y á .
E a r l i e r, when the exiles were still in Adrianople, ominous events began to occur. Shoghi Effendi describes
the events that transpired:
Emboldened by the recent ordeals with which Bahá’u’lláh had been so cruelly afflicted, these enemies,
who had been momentarily quiescent, began to demonstrate afresh, and in a number of ways, the latent
animosity they nursed in their hearts. A persecution, varying in the degree of its severity, began once more
to break out in various countries. In Ád harbáyján and Zanján, in Nis hápúr and Tihrán, the adherents of
the Faith were either imprisoned, vilified, penalized, tortured or put to death. Among the sufferers may
be singled out the intrepid Najaf-‘Alíy-i-Zanjání, a survivor of the struggle of Zanján, and immortalized
in the “Epistle to the Son of the Wolf,” who, bequeathing the gold in his possession to his executioner,
was heard to shout aloud “Yá Rabbíya’l-Abhá” before he was beheaded. In Egypt, a greedy and vicious
consul-general extorted no less than a hundred thousand tumans from a wealthy Persian convert, named
Hájí A b u ’ l -Q ás i m - i -S hírází; arrested Hájí Mírzá Haydar- ‘Alí and six of his fellow-believers, and insti-
gated their condemnation to a nine year exile in K hartúm, confiscating all the writings in their posses-
sion, and then threw into prison, Nabíl, whom Bahá’u’lláh had sent to appeal to the K hedive on their
behalf. In Baghdad and Kázimayn indefatigable enemies, watching their opportunity, subjected
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s faithful supporters to harsh and ignominious treatment; savagely disemboweled ‘A b d u ’ r-
Rasúl-i-Qumí, as he was carrying water in a skin, at the hour of dawn, from the river to the Most Great
House, and banished, amidst scenes of public derision, about seventy companions to Mosul, including
women and children.1 2
Then He laments:
Longing hands are uplifted to the heaven of Thy grace and generosity: Where are the rains of Thy bestow-
al, O Answerer of the worlds?
Despair had gripped the company of Bahá’u’lláh and many felt that they were near the end of their endurance.
Again He cries:
The infidels have arisen in tyranny on every hand: Where is the compelling power of Thine ordaining pen,
O Conqueror of the worlds?
Unbelievers in very high places of power across the Ottoman Empire had colluded to destroy the infant Faith
promulgated by Bahá’u’lláh by imposing unbearable conditions upon His followers. Repression extended
throughout the realm as well.
In Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh He writes:
Twenty years have passed, O kings, during which We have, each day, tasted the agony of a fresh tribula-
tion. No one of them that were before Us hath endured the things We have endured. Would that ye could
perceive it! They that rose up against Us have put us to death, have shed our blood, have plundered our
p r o p e r t y, and violated our honor. Though aware of most of our afflictions, ye, nevertheless, have failed to
stay the hand of the aggressor. For is it not your clear duty to restrain the tyranny of the oppressor, and to
deal equitably with your subjects, that your high sense of justice may be fully demonstrated to all
m a n k i n d ?1 3
He exclaims:
The barking of dogs is loud on every side: Where is the lion of the forest of Thy might, O Chastiser of the
w o r l d s ?
1 7 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

This multiple metaphor includes a follower, Mírzá Ridá-Qulí, who had been dismissed by Bahá’u’lláh after
disgracing the Faith by committing shameful deeds. He joined forces with his sister Badrí Ján, Mírzá Ya h y á ,
and Siyyid Muhammad in a campaign of calumnies against Bahá’u’lláh. Their efforts were so devastating that
the citizens of ‘Akká began to show enmity and malice toward the believers. All of them were as “barking
d o g s . ”
He includes the world in His lament:
Coldness hath gripped all mankind: Where is the warmth of Thy love, O Fire of the worlds?
The pain that Bahá’u’lláh is bearing at this time is exacerbated by events far beyond the “Most Great Prison.”
The corruption and perversion of religion in Persia and Turkey were always of deep concern to Bahá’u’lláh,
both with regard to His followers and ultimately to the populace in general.
He then exclaims:
Calamity hath reached its height: Where are the signs of Thy succor, O Salvation of the worlds?
Sedition caused by the Azalís had reached a fevered pitch. The venom of their hostility had endangered the
very life of Bahá’u’lláh yet He admonished His small company to be patient and forbearing.1 4
He expresses deep concern:
Darkness hath enveloped most of the peoples: Where is the brightness of Thy splendor, O Radiance of the
w o r l d s ?
Though a few were still steadfast in their faith, the spiritual light in most countries was flickering out in a sea
of disbelief. This condition is clarified when He addresses the rulers in Constantinople:
We behold in thee the foolish ruling over the wise, and darkness vaunting itself against the light. Thou art
indeed filled with manifest pride. Hath thine outward splendor made thee vainglorious? By Him Who is
the Lord of mankind! It shall soon perish, and thy daughters and thy widows and all the kindreds that dwell
within thee shall lament. Thus informeth thee the All-Knowing, the A l l - Wi s e .1 5
The pattern continues; He rephrases exclamatory statements of despair, followed by variations of His ques-
tions. These are repeated in cadence as He appeals to God with exalted titles and attributes.
The necks of men are stretched out in malice: Where are the swords of Thy vengeance, O Destroyer of the
w o r l d s ?
Only God can wreak vengeance. Bahá’u’lláh constantly restrained His followers against punishing the oppres-
sors of the Faith. Whenever they went against His will, tragedy followed.
Abasement hath reached its lowest depth: Where are the emblems of Thy glory, O Glory of the worlds?
There are two conditions of abasement referred to by Bahá’u’lláh: one is related to Himself and the other to
the people and rulers. The first is actually of greater importance because it concerns the abasement that was
forced upon the person of Bahá’u’lláh, an abasement which He considered His glory!
Sorrows have afflicted the Revealer of Thy Name, the All-Merciful: Where is the joy of the Dayspring of
Thy Revelation, O Delight of the worlds?
The Guardian identifies the rebellion of Mírzá Yahyá as the greatest source of sorrow for Bahá’u’lláh: “This
supreme crisis Bahá’u’lláh Himself designated as the Ay y á m - i -S hidád (Days of Stress), during which ‘the most
grievous veil’ was torn asunder, and the ‘most great separation’ was irrevocably effected. It immensely grati-
fied and emboldened its external enemies, both civil and ecclesiastical, played into their hands, and evoked
their unconcealed derision. It perplexed and confused the friends and supporters of Bahá’u’lláh, and seriously
damaged the prestige of the Faith in the eyes of its western admirers. It had been brewing ever since the early
days of Bahá’u’lláh’s sojourn in Baghdad, was temporarily suppressed by the creative forces which, under His
as yet unproclaimed leadership, reanimated a disintegrating community, and finally broke out, in all its vio-
lence, in the years immediately preceding the proclamation of His Message. It brought incalculable sorrow to
Bahá’u’lláh, visibly aged Him, and inflicted, through its repercussions, the heaviest blow ever sustained by
Him in His l i f e t i m e . ”1 6
1 7 7
An Exp o si ti on on the Fire Tabl e t

Anguish hath befallen all the peoples of the earth: Where are the ensigns of Thy gladness, O Joy of the
w o r l d s ?
Militant materialism had taken the reins of power in Europe, and would threaten peace far beyond that conti-
nent. In the Orient a despotic empire, centered in Constantinople, brought unbearable pressure on the Faith that
was destined to save mankind from its spiritual self-destruction.
Thou seest the Dawning Place of Thy signs veiled by evil suggestions: Where are the fingers of Thy might,
O Power of the worlds?
Siyyid Muhammad and Áqá Ján wrote anonymous letters which perverted the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, and
which accused Him of having conspired with Bulgarian leaders and certain ministers of European powers to
achieve, with the help of some thousands of His followers, the conquest of Constantinople. Government off i-
cials were alarmed by this, and determined to isolate Bahá’u’lláh and reduce Him to powerlessness. He was in
seclusion during these events.1 7
In a broader sense, Bahá’u’lláh makes mention:
My face hath come forth from the veils, and shed its radiance upon all that is in heaven and on earth; and
yet, ye turned not towards Him, notwithstanding that ye were created for Him, O concourse of kings!1 8
Sore thirst hath overcome all men: Where is the river of Thy bounty, O Mercy of the worlds?
A spiritual vacuum permeated the world that left humans in a state of confusion beyond their own awareness
or understanding.
Greed hath made captive all mankind: Where are the embodiments of detachment, O Lord of the worlds?
Lust for power, corruption at all levels of society, gluttony for wealth, and an insatiable appetite for prestige
or fame had brought what was once the most civilized of nations to the lowest level of spiritual poverty. T h e
kings of the earth are admonished for what they pride themselves in, especially ornaments and treasuries.
Thou seest this Wronged One lonely in exile: Where are the hosts of the heaven of Thy Command, O
Sovereign of the worlds?
The Beloved Guardian describes the restrictions imposed on Bahá’u’lláh and His family: “Explicit orders had
been issued by the Sultán and his ministers to subject the exiles, who were accused of having grievously erred
and led others far astray, to the strictest confinement. Hopes were confidently expressed that the sentence of
life-long imprisonment pronounced against them would lead to their eventual extermination. The farmán of
Sultán ‘A b d u ’ l-‘Azíz, dated the fifth of Rabi‘u ’t h-T hání 1285 A.H. (July 26, 1868), not only condemned them
to perpetual banishment, but stipulated their strict incarceration, and forbade them to associate either with each
other or with the local inhabitants.”1 9
I have been forsaken in a foreign land: Where are the emblems of Thy faithfulness, O Trust of the worlds?
Bahá’u’lláh, in His human station of “the wronged One,” is desirous of a sign of reassurance.
The agonies of death have laid hold on all men: Where is the surging of Thine ocean of eternal life, O Life
of the worlds?
He is deeply disturbed by the spiritual sickness of mankind.
The whisperings of Satan have been breathed to every creature: Where is the meteor of Thy fire, O Light
of the worlds?
The divisiveness caused by Mírzá Yahyá and his agents is so devastating that it seems to permeate the world.
Shoghi Effendi explains: “It was engineered throughout by the tortuous intrigues and incessant machinations
of that same diabolical Siyyid Muhammad, that vile whisperer who, disregarding Bahá’u’lláh’s advice, had
insisted on accompanying Him to Constantinople and Adrianople, and was now redoubling his efforts, with
unrelaxing vigilance, to bring it to a head.”2 0
The drunkenness of passion hath perverted most of mankind: Where are the daysprings of purity, O Desire
of the worlds?
Greed, zeal for fame, and lust for power on the part of the bulk of mankind lay at the root of the problems
1 7 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

facing the early Bahá’ís, both in the immediate vicinity of ‘Akká and in the Ottoman Empire as a whole.
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh asks the people of Constantinople: “Hath the drunkenness of passion laid
hold upon you, or is it that ye are sunk in heedlessness? O Spot that art situate on the shores of the two seas!
The throne of tyranny hath, verily, been established upon thee, and the flame of hatred hath been kindled with-
in thy bosom. . . . ”2 1
Thou seest this Wronged One veiled in tyranny among the Syrians: Where is the radiance of Thy dawning
light, O Light of the worlds?
The “dawning light” emanated from those lands that had been introduced to the Faith by early believers, first
in Persia, then Iraq and Tu r k e y. Added to them during Bahá’u’lláh’s sojourn in Adrianople were the Caucasus
and Syria. Nabíl had converted a number of those early pioneers. ‘Akká was part of the province of Syria.2 2
Thou seest Me forbidden to speak forth: Then from where will spring Thy melodies, O Nightingale of the
w o r l d s ?
Bahá’u’lláh has now withdrawn from all contact with others.
Most of the people are enwrapped in fancy and idle imaginings: Where are the exponents of Thy certitude,
O Assurance of the worlds?
Bahá’u’lláh addressed the kings of Christendom in no uncertain terms when He questioned them about the
sayings of Jesus regarding the many signs of the Christ’s return:
“When He, the Spirit of Truth, is come, He will guide you into all truth.” And yet, behold how, when He
did bring the truth, ye refused to turn your faces towards Him, and persisted in disporting yourselves with
your pastimes and fancies.2 3
Bahá is drowning in a sea of tribulation: Where is the Ark of Thy salvation, O Savior of the worlds?
Shoghi Effendi describes a fresh danger that clearly threatened the life of Bahá’u’lláh: “Though He Himself
had stringently forbidden His followers, on several occasions, both verbally and in writing, any retaliatory acts
against their tormentors, and had even sent back to Beirut an irresponsible Arab convert, who had meditated
avenging the wrongs suffered by his beloved Leader, seven of the companions clandestinely sought out and
slew three of their persecutors, among whom were Siyyid Muhammad and Áqá Ján. The consternation that
seized an already oppressed community was indescribable. Bahá’u’lláh’s indignation knew no bounds.”2 4
After this horrendous act “Even the children of the imprisoned exiles, whenever they ventured to show
themselves in the streets during those days, would be pursued, vilified and pelted with stones. . . . The cup of
B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h ’s tribulations was now filled to overflowing . . .”2 5
If we pause a moment and visualize a vast reservoir that may be likened to the great capacity that
Bahá’u’lláh possessed for sensitivity, compassion, love and suffering, we can sense the enormous despair that
befell Him after nineteen long years of relentless attack from without and from within the embryonic commu-
nity of believers. That reservoir of pain had been fed by rivers and streams of tribulation, flowing in from every
direction beginning with His incarceration in the “black pit” of Tehran in August 1852. The level of duress had
finally reached its capacity and began flooding over the “dam” until it literally broke and released a cataract
of power and emotion that became this, the Fire Ta b l e t .
Thou seest the Dayspring of Thine utterance in the darkness of creation: Where is the sun of the heaven of
Thy grace, O Lightgiver of the worlds?
Jealousy became one of the motivating factors in the multifarious complicities purportedly involving
Bahá’u’lláh. Mírzá Husayn-K hán, the Mus híru’d-Dawlih, and his associates arose to take full advantage of the
recent troubles that had been experienced by Bahá’u’lláh and to assure His destruction. In Constantinople, the
esteem shown Bahá’u’lláh by the governor Muhammad Pás há-i-Qibrisí and his successors incensed the author-
ities. Aware of the instabilities prevailing in their own countris, they were disturbed by the constant comings
and goings of pilgrims in Adrianople and by the exaggerated reports of Fu’ád Pás há. They were further pro-
voked by petitions of Mírzá Yahyá that reached them through his agent, Siyyid Muhammad.2 6
The lamps of truth and purity, of loyalty and honor, have been put out: Where are the signs of Thine aveng-
1 7 9
An Exp o si ti on on the Fire Tabl e t

ing wrath, O Mover of the worlds?
When Bahá’u’lláh went into seclusion after the rebellion of Mírzá Yahyá, He found even more perplexities
resulting from the collusion of Siyyid Muhammad and Mírzá Yahyá. They had written calumnious letters about
Bahá’u’lláh and had them disseminated in Persia and Iraq. They also wrote petitions couched in obsequious
language and sent them to the governor of Adrianople. Mírzá Yahyá then “dispatched one of his wives to the
government house to complain that her husband had been cheated out of his rights and that her children were
on the verge of starvation.” Meanwhile, Siyyid Muhammad had journeyed to the capital and, speaking to the
Persian A m b a s s a d o r, accused Bahá’u’lláh of sending an agent to assassinate Násiri’d-Dín-S há h .2 7
Canst Thou see any who have championed Thy Self, or who ponder on what hath befallen Him in the path-
way of Thy love? Now doth My pen halt, O Beloved of the worlds.
Consternation within the mind of Bahá’u’lláh had now reached its zenith. It is reminiscent of Lot who long ago
tried to save the cities of Sodom and Gomorra but failed in his attempt to identify people of virtue. But with
Bahá’u’lláh there were such individuals.
The branches of the Divine Lote-Tree lie broken by the onrushing gales of destiny: Where are the banners
of Thy succor, O Champion of the worlds?
The human side of Bahá’u’lláh had become utterly devastated by events. He is likened to a lote tree that in
ancient times was planted at the end of a road beyond which there is no passing.2 8
This Face is hidden in the dust of slander: Where are the breezes of Thy compassion, O Mercy of the
w o r l d s ?
Regarding Mírzá Yahyá, Bahá’u’lláh admonishes: “Thou hast perpetrated against thy Brother what no man
hath perpetrated against another.” “What hath proceeded from thy pen,” He, furthermore, has affirmed, “hath
caused the Countenances of Glory to be prostrated upon the dust, hath rent in twain the Veil of Grandeur in the
Sublime Paradise, and lacerated the hearts of the favored ones established upon the loftiest seats.”2 9
The robe of sanctity is sullied by the people of deceit: Where is the vesture of Thy holiness, O Adorner of
the worlds?
Siyyid Muhammad, Áqá Ján, and Mírzá Ridá-Qulí had indulged in a campaign of abuse, calumny and intrigue
against Bahá’u’lláh which exceeded that of the campaign launched in Constantinople earlier by Siyyid
Muhammad, the “Anti-Christ” of the Bahá’í Faith.3 0
The sea of grace is stilled for what the hands of men have wrought: Where are the waves of Thy bounty,
O Desire of the worlds?
The manner in which the prisoners were treated from the first days in ‘Akká had remained so egregious, so
flagrantly abusive, and under such abominable conditions that it was designated “The Most Great Prison.”
Worse, Bahá’u’lláh was isolated in the prison. Later He would withdraw for the sake of unity.
The door leading to the Divine Presence is locked through the tyranny of Thy foes: Where is the key of
Thy bestowal, O Unlocker of the worlds?
Periodically the evil machinations conducted by the foes of the Faith from within produced such intractable
divisiveness that Bahá’u’lláh would withdraw into solitude for a time. This occurred in Baghdad, A d r i a n o p l e ,
and finally in ‘A k k á .
The leaves are yellowed by the poisoning winds of sedition: Where is the downpour of the clouds of T h y
b o u n t y, O Giver of the worlds?
The insidious, relentless acts of deceit and subversion by Siyyid Muhammad and his cohorts had aff e c t e d
friends of the Faith in negative ways and had bolstered its enemies.
The universe is darkened with the dust of sin: Where are the breezes of Thy forgiveness, O Forgiver of the
w o r l d s ?
The devastating impact of Mírzá Ya h y á ’s rebellion was so significant that it overwhelmed the infant Faith for
1 8 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

a time. Bahá’u’lláh expands His lamentation to include all of the spiritual reality of man.
This Youth is lonely in a desolate land: Where is the rain of Thy heavenly grace, O Bestower of the worlds?
In His seclusion Bahá’u’lláh was utterly alone and He had to bear this in order to eventually restore unity in
the Bahá’í community.
Among the forgoing Bahá’u’lláh has, in a spiritual sense, referred to extreme cold, calamity, the wicked,
stirrers of sedition, confinement of prisoners, loneliness, banishment, abasement, affliction, and hearts full of
h a t e .
Another Voice
God now answers Bahá’ulláh in most endearing Te r m s :
O Supreme Pen, We have heard Thy most sweet call in the eternal realm: Give Thou ear unto what the
Tongue of Grandeur uttereth, O Wronged One of the worlds!
One by one He answers the questions that had been put to Him by Bahá’u’lláh.
Were it not for the cold, how would the heat of Thy words prevail, O Expounder of the worlds?
Were it not for calamity, how would the sun of Thy patience shine, O Light of the worlds?
Lament not because of the wicked. Thou wert created to bear and endure, O Patience of the worlds.
How sweet was Thy dawning on the horizon of the Covenant among the stirrers of sedition, and Thy yearn-
ing after God, O Love of the worlds.
By Thee the banner of independence was planted on the highest peaks, and the sea of bounty surged, O
Rapture of the worlds.
By Thine aloneness the Sun of Oneness shone, and by Thy banishment the land of Unity was adorned. Be
patient, O Thou Exile of the worlds.
We have made abasement the garment of glory, and affliction the adornment of Thy temple, O Pride of the
w o r l d s .
Thou seest the hearts are filled with hate, and to overlook is Thine, O Thou Concealer of the sins of the
w o r l d s .
When the swords flash, go forward! When the shafts fly, press onward! O Thou Sacrifice of the worlds.
Dost Thou wail, or shall I wail? Rather shall I weep at the fewness of Thy champions, O Thou Who hast
caused the wailing of the worlds.
Triumph and Certitude
Bahá’u’lláh, speaking now as a Divine Messenger, responds to the admonitions of God:
Ve r i l y, I have heard Thy Call, O All-Glorious Beloved; and now is the face of Bahá flaming with the heat
of tribulation and with the fire of Thy shining word, and He hath risen up in faithfulness at the place of
sacrifice, looking toward Thy pleasure, O Ordainer of the worlds.
Then as Bahá’u’lláh addresses the recipient of this potent tablet, we may also consider that He is addressing
the Bahá’ís of the world!
O ‘ A l í - A k b a r,3 1 thank thy Lord for this Tablet whence thou canst breathe the fragrance of My meekness,
and know what hath beset Us in the path of God, the Adored of all the worlds.
F i n a l l y, His confirming certitude:
Should all the servants read and ponder this, there shall be kindled in their veins a fire that shall set aflame
the worlds.
— B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h3 2
1 8 1
An Exp o si ti on on the Fire Tabl e t

N o t e s
1) Taherzadeh: Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 3, p. 226.
2) I b i d ., Vol.1, p. 53
3) Balyuzi: Bahá’u’lláh The King Of Glory, p. 250.
4) Shoghi Eff e n d i : God Passes By, p. 187.
5) I b i d ., p. 188.
6) Shoghi Effendi: Messages to A m e r i c a , p. 34.
7) Taherzadeh: R e v. of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol 3, p. 208.
8) Shoghi Eff e n d i : World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 11 8 - 11 9 .
9) Matthew 27:46.
10) Taherzadeh: Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol 3, p. 226.
11) Shoghi Effendi: God Passes By, p. 167-168.
12) I b i d ., p. 178.
13) Bahá’u’lláh: Gleanings, p. 247.
14) Balyuzi: Bahá’u’lláh: The King Of Glory, p. 321.
15) Bahá’u’lláh: Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 53.
16) Shoghi Effendi: God Passes By, p. 163-164.
17) I b i d ., p. 178-179.
18) Shogi Eff e n d i : The Promised Day Is Come, p. 22.
19) Shoghi Effendi: God Passes By, p. 186.
20) I b i d ., p. 164.
21) Bahá’u’lláh: K i t á b - i - A q d a s, p. 52-53.
22) Shoghi Effendi: God Passes By, p. 176.
23) Bahá’u’lláh: Gleanings, p. 246.
24) Shoghi Effendi: God Passes By, p. 189.
25) I b i d ., p. 191.
26) I b i d ., p. 178-179.
27) I b i d ., p. 167-168.
28) A Basic Bahá’í Dictionary, p. 141.
29) Shoghi Effendi: God Passes By, p. 169-170.
30) I b i d ., p. 189.
31) Taherzadeh, Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 2, p. 275.
‘Alí-Akbar was a young devoted believer for whom Bahá’u’lláh had great affection. He had a “sweet melodius voice” which had
a profound effect upon the listener when he chanted prayers.
32) Bahá’u’lláh: Bahá’í Prayers (US), p. 214-220.
B i b l i o g r a p h y
Cameron, Glenn, with Wendi Momen. A Basic Bahá’í Dictionary, Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1989.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, London, UK: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1949.
Bahá’u’lláh. Selections revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and ‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á , Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Book of Laws), Haifa, Bahá’í World Center, 1992.
Balyuzi. Bahá’u’lláh The King of Glory, Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1980.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.
Taherzadeh. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vols. 1, 2 and 3, Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1984.
The Holy Bible, Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan Publishing House.
1 8 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

1 8 3
An Exp o si ti on on the Fire Tabl e t

1 8 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang
and Nineteenth-century China
by Jianping Wang
T
he terms “Báb” and “Bábí” (in Chinese, “Bábu”) can be found in the Sufi teachings of Ma Lingming,
the founder of the Ling Ming Tang (Chinese: “Sufi hospice of soul enlightening”) Sufi order of Lanzhou.
This fact first came to my attention in 1996 when I was reading Ma To n g ’s book Traces of the Original
S o u rces of Islamic Sects and Ta r i q a s in China. I found it very interesting: a Sufi Order in China may have had
historical connections with the Bábí movement or the Bahá’í Faith in the interaction between Iranian Islam and
the t a r i q a s in China. However I had not further pursued this historical research until the International
Conference of Religion, Ethics and Culture jointly held by Institute of World Religions, CASS and Pacific Rim
Institute for Development and Education (PRIDE) in Oct. 1998. In that conference I met Dr. Moojan Momen,
a specialist in the fields of Shí‘a Islam and Bahá’í studies from England. We talked about the possibility of
such a connection, and about the conception of the Báb in the Sufism of the Ling Ming Tang school. Dr.
Momen suggested the need for further study of the cross-religious impact in Northwest China, a region which
had been penetrated by different spiritual thoughts since its functioned on Silk Road in history and was a con-
tact zone among Persian religions, Indian religions, Arabic Islam, and Chinese religions.
Inspired by this idea I surveyed the available materials on Ling Ming Tang, and corresponded with Dr.
Momen from time by time through E-mail. He encouraged me to begin the worthwhile historical investigation
in Lanzhou. I was able to undertake some fieldwork in Lanzhou and its surroundings during Jan. 23 to Feb. 4,
2 0 0 1 .1 The following is my report of this field visit and a study of Ling Ming Ta n g ’s relationship to the teach-
ings of the Báb as recorded and discussed by available Chinese sources.
Ling Ming Tang’s Relationship with the Bábí Movement
The word “Báb” appears in Ma Lingming’s will, which states that “a w l a ’ [Arabic: the friends of Alláh, or
the high ranked Sufi saints] are the divinely nominated persons at the doorway of the Báb.” Akhund Ma
Xiangzhen, one of the disciples of Ma Lingming, said in his article “Praising the Grandiose Path of a w l a’ ” that
“a w l a’, a w l a’, the true a w l a’, the authentic s i l s i l a [Arabic: “series,” mystical teachings of Muhammad passed
down through a Sufi order’s succession of s ha yk hs] comes from Baghdad. There is the divinely nominated man
on the threshold of Báb, Islam will not be passed to the other than a w l a . ’”2 He said more in a poem entitled
“Phrase of Three Characters on a w l a’ ” : “a w l a ’ path, way of returning to Alláh; the door of Báb, just be here;
there is Heaven Lord, there is the Law; One divides into three, three merges into One.”3 There are two diff e r-
ent explanations for the numerals “One” and “three” in the poem. The first is that the “One” means Islam and
“three” refers to K hafiyya, Qadriyya, and a special secret “d hi k r” (Arabic: “remembrance” chanting, esp. of
the divine names of Alláh and the Prophet Muhammad); or refers to Qadriyya, K hafiyya and Ling Ming Ta n g .
The second explanation is that the “One” refers to “Alláh” and the “three” refers to the Prophet, the saints, and
the ordinary believers.4
The word “Báb” is also found in the oral sources in the will of Ma Lingming that is circulated and kept in
memories among the clerics and followers of Ling Ming Tang today. On several occasions during my investi-
gations, it was said to me that: “a w l a ’ is the dragon5 for those who answer at the threshold of the Báb to the
inquiring people.”6 I first heard this phrase containing the word “Báb” from Wang Yuguang, the older brother
of the current spiritual chief (S ha yk h) and the Third Successor of Ling Ming Tang, Wang Shoutian. Wa n g
Yuguang, then eighty-three years of age, cited this word at the same time he related to me: “I began studying
Sufism at the Ling Ming Tang q u b b a [Arabic: “tomb, shrine”] when I was a young boy. I had safeguarded the
tomb of Ma Lingming for twenty years. Under the guidance of Shan Zijiu, the S ha yk h and the Second
Successor of Ling Ming Tang, I had also studied the Sufi textbooks.”7 In a personal meeting with S ha ykh Wa n g
Shoutian himself, he recited the same phrase to me.8 Later on I found the word “Báb” used in a phrase similar
to the one I heard from Wang brothers in a hand-copied text on Ma Lingming’s will preserved by Ma Ruqi, the
1 8 5
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

grandfather of Ma Hengyuan, a young Madrasah student with whom I became acquaintance during my field-
work at Ling Ming Ta n g .9
There are two controversial arguments over the question of the relation between Ling Ming Tang and the
term “Báb” in the available written and oral sources. Akhund Ma Zhanhai, the S ha yk h of Xidaoyuan (the
Western Courtyard of Ling Ming Tang), a group which split from Ling Ming Tang in the 1930s, thinks there
is no such connection with Babism. In an interview with me he claimed that “Ma Tong [the author aforemen-
tioned] relates the word “Báb” in the will of Ma Lingming to the Bábí movement and Bábí insurrection in Iran
of the 1840s. This is not true with regard to the historical facts. Our Ling Ming Tang belongs to the Sunni sect,
a true and righteous Islam. The Bábí sect was a group of the Shí‘a, and the Bábí sect betrayed Islam, so it
became the heresy or evil religion. Professor Ma Tong arbitrarily put these two different groups [Ling Ming
Tang and the Bábí movement] together and inter-related them, but such an action does not fit to the reality and
is entirely groundless. It would be a shame to further discuss any such links between Ling Ming Tang and the
Bábí sect.”1 0
Ma Zhanhai’s rejection of an historical linkage seems to derive from his attitude and background: as an
orthodox Sunni, he assumes that Ling Ming Tang must have had no historical connection with the Shí‘a-influ-
enced Bábís. However, such a personal value judgement does not automatically refute the evidence for the pos-
sibility of a linkage.
My argument advocating an historical link is supported by several elders of Ling Ming Tang, as well as the
sources recorded by that Sufi order itself in its past history. Wang Shoutian himself, the current leader of Ling
Ming Tang, confirmed in an interview with me that Ling Ming Ta n g ’s teaching was inspired by the thought of
the Bábí.
Papa [Persian and Eastern Turkish: “grandfather”; Turkish: “father”]11 Jing Duzi [Jidaz?] of the Qadriyya
instructed Ma Lingming, who was twenty-five years old then [1877], in the Sufism and passed to him the
true silsila [i.e., the authentic mystical teachings passed down from the Prophet Muhammad]. This took
place in Yuzhong County where Ma Lingming lived for a short time while escaping the turmoil of war.
After Ma Lingming received the teaching from Papa, he left for Lanzhou that very evening. This trans-
mission of Sufi knowledge did not only pass the doctrines of the four Sufi orders [i.e. the K hafiyya and
Jahriyya orders of Naq shbandíyya, plus Qadriyya and Kubruwiyya] to Ma Lingming, but also passed the
teachings of the Báb on to him.1 2
The “Papa Jing Duzi” mentioned by Wang Shoutian refers to a Sufi S ha yk h from Kashghar Qubba or
K ha n a q a h (Persian: Sufi hostel used for praying, ceremonial services, education, dormitory, charity, and pil-
grimage spot)—more precisely, from Apak Qubba near Kashghar. This information is confirmed by a hand-
copied source circulated among the believers of Ling Ming Tang, although with variation over the age of Ma
Lingming when Papa Jing Duzi taught him:
Ma Lingming kept his cultivation in Sufi doctrine till the time of his fortieth year [1893, the 18th year of
Guangxu Reign], then a S ha yk h with his honoring title Wafiya al-Dín, named Jing Duzi from Kashghar
Qubba the holy land, sent the ijazat [Arabic: “license,” the proof of the silsila, the transmission of the
authentic Sufi doctrine] to the Founder of Ling Ming Tang. From that day, Ma Lingming began to dis-
seminate this Sufi creed in public, and inherited the true Light of the Prophet Muhammad teaching, and
became the first S ha yk h in the silsila [i.e., authorized S ha yk h] of Ling Ming Ta n g .1 3
Ma Lingming was probably introduced to Sufism when twenty-five years old and received the i j a z a t , i . e .
permission for transmitting the knowledge, at age forty. He either had one instructor named Papa Jing Duzi
who taught him at two separate times, or he had two different Sufi S ha yk hs who taught him on two diff e r e n t
occasions. It cannot be ruled out that, between his twenty-fifth and fortieth years, Ma Lingming had contact
with different spiritual sources transformed by different teachers of mysticism, including that of the Bábí and
Bahá’í Faith.
H o w e v e r, the name of Papa Jing Duzi has been also confused with another name of “Great Fragrant Papa”
(Da xiang papa) in several recordings of Ling Ming Ta n g ’s history. While speaking on the connection of Ling
Ming Tang with Babism, S ha yk h Wang Shoutian also told me about Fragrant Papa’s mission to Ma Lingming:
“Salim, the Arabian Sufi, taught Ma Lingming Sufism at Sanjiaji Town of Guanghe County, and the soul of
1 8 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Great Founder of the [K hafiyya Naqs hbandíyya] Sufi Order with fragrance echoed in the mind of Ma
Lingming, the Founder of Ling Ming Ta n g . ”1 4 “Salim” here is definitely confused with Habíb Alláh, whom the
other sources identify as “Fragrant Papa.” For example, according to “Brief Notes of the Great Fragrant
Master” recorded by one of Ma Lingming’s disciples:
His Arabic Sufi name was Habíb Alláh who came from Daihailai [Tehran?] wenyi [?]. He traveled to
Yemen and Baghdad for his religious studies in order to disseminate the authentic Islam and help people
in the world. He had studied Sufism in the záwiya [Arabic: “Sufi hospice”] of S ha yk h Ray and had served
S ha yk h Halil, the respected scholar, for eighteen years. One night he had a dream in which, while train-
ing in the military horseback-riding range, he shot two arrows in an easterly direction. He hit and felled
two targets: a dragon and a phoenix. He related his dream to the S ha yk h, who congratulated him and said:
“Please go to China at once and instruct the great saints there in the Sufi doctrine.” He obeyed the
S ha yk h’s order and embarked on the journey. He arrived in Lanzhou in the 9 t h Month of the Chinese Lunar
C a l e n d a r, 1877. The teacher [Habíb Alláh] met the disciple [Ma Lingming], enabling this Sufi tariqa
[Arabic: “Sufi order”] to spread to China. The Great Master had such a pleasant, fragrant smell that he
was referred to by all as “Fragrant Papa.” The Master suffered from armed robbery and war-fighting when
he traveled to Suzhou on his way back to Arabia, and became a martyr who dedicated his life to Islam.
The date of Fragrant Papa’s passing is the 1 s t day of the 1 s t Month in Chinese Lunar Calendar, in the 4t h
Year of Guangxu Reign [1878].1 5
A source recorded much earlier describes Fragrant Papa’s meeting with Ma Lingming with a vivid narration:
When he was twenty-five years old [on the 9t h Day of the 9t h Month of Chinese Lunar Calendar, the 3r d
Year of Guangxu Reign, 1877] Ma Lingming met Habíb Alláh who, known as Great Fragrant Papa, had
come to Lanzhou of Gansu for teaching Sufism. Habíb Alláh declared that he was born in Dehailai
[ Tehran?] wenyi of India [Iran], and traveled to Baghdad where he studied at a Sufi hospice headed by
S ha yk h Riwal al-Dín who taught disciples the Qadriyya Sufi knowledge. In the meeting of Lanzhou,
Habíb Alláh talked with Ma Lingming so intimately, and the two were in agreement on so many issues,
that the former instructed the latter in the doctrine of the Qadriyya under the cypresses at the Qubba of
the Fourth Great Grandpa Hai. After three months of the first teaching, Habíb Alláh passed true religious
light of the Prophet [Muhammad] to Ma Lingming, and relinquished his post as a chief of the tariqa in
favor of him. At the same time he also informed him the preconditions of disseminating Sufi knowledge,
and finally gave him the proofs of Sufi teaching and missionary beside the well in the backyard of
Xiuheyan Mosque.1 6 Soon after that, Habíb Alláh departed for his home country, but on the journey he
was killed by armed robberies in Suzhou [Jiuquan today] on the 1s t Day of the 1s t Month in Chinese Lunar
C a l e n d a r, the 4t h Year of Guangxu Reign [1878].1 7
Both documents indicate that Habíb Alláh (Fragrant Papa) came to Lanzhou of China in 1877 when Ma
Lingming was twenty-five, and disseminated the Sufism originated from Yemen, Baghdad and probably Iran.
If the latter two recordings are reliable, then Habíb Alláh studied Islamic mysticism in Baghdad and perhaps
in Iran around the 1850s, the same time the Bábí movement was cruelly suppressed by the Iranian rulers and
Bahá’ulláh along with the surviving Bábí community was exiled to Baghdad. After suffering numerous mas-
sacres, the Bábí movement went underground and continued to spread the Báb’s (and soon Bahá’u’lláh’s )
teachings. In my opinion, Habíb Alláh might have made contact with the disciples of Bahá’ullah or with other
Bábís in Baghdad, Iran, or Central Asia and received some mystical Islamic ideas from the teaching of Báb.
If we combine all three sources into an ordered event we find they are very similar: a “Papa” with various
names arrived in Lanzhou from Arabia and Iran or India via Central Asia and the Kashghar region in Xinjiang
in a mission of teaching Sufi mystic Islam mingled with Bábí teachings. That mission initiated Ma Lingming
who was then twenty-five and who, fifteen years later at age forty, founded a new Sufi group. These sources
also report that this Papa was killed in an armed robbery on his way back to Arabia (more likely Iran) after he
had initiated Ma Lingming. So there are two possibilities which I believe can be deduced from the above mate-
rials. First, Papa Jing Duzi (Wafiya al-Dín) and Papa Habíb Alláh could be the same person, since both share
the title “papa” with Fragrant Papa, or Great Fragrant Papa. The confusion in names would be due to the length
in time in which the oral narration and manuscripts of the followers of Ling Ming Tang have confused the
names in their historical memorials. Second, Papa Jing Duzi and Fragrant Papa Salim or Habíb Alláh may be
1 8 7
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

two different Sufi or Bábí teachers who transmitted their mystical knowledge in different times. While both
possibilities have historical merit, I think the former is more likely.
So what is the most likely real name of “Papa,” and where was he from? These details are not as important,
because all available sources agree on the facts that a Papa (or Papas) with “fragrant smell” from Iran (or
Arabia or India) who studied in Baghdad and Yemen came to Lanzhou. He (or they) passed Sufi creeds, includ-
ing the Báb’s teachings, to Ma Lingming, the founder of Ling Ming Tang, sometime between 1877 and 1893,
probably closer to 1877.
H o w e v e r, other materials which attempt to trace the event of Fragrant Papa’s meeting Ma Lingming have
shown a wide range diversity in dates and names. For example, one says:
Reviewing the silsila of the Founder, Ma Lingming’s Sufi teaching lineage starts in the period of the end
of the Ming and the beginning of the Qing dynasties [i.e. in the Seventeenth Century]. Hamíd al-Dín, born
in Hamadán in South Xinjiang [sic], the Grand Fragrant Founder or the descendant of the Prophet
Muhammad in the twenty-fifth generations, accepted the Sufi doctrines of the Naqs hbandíyya and
Qadriyya orders in Yemen and Baghdad. He revealed the secrets of Alláh on Truth to A n c e s t r a l
Grandfather Hai, Great Grandfather Mi, Great Grandfather Ma, Young Akhund Shi, Grandfather Mu, and
Belly Bai. Seven generations’ disciples had spread the Light. They had the task of safeguarding the seal
and waiting for the wali [a reference to Ma Ling Ming] to receive the seal.1 8
The author of this source mistakenly located Hamadán in South Xinjiang; it is actually in Iran. He also con-
fused the event of Fragrant Papa’s meeting Ma Lingming with the time that Khoja Apak, the leader of the
White Mountainous Group in East Turkestan, came to Northwest China to teach K hafiyya Sufism among the
Hui Sufis during his life in exile following a failed power struggle with the Black Mountainous Group.1 9
Ma Wanrui, a ninety-three-year-old disciple of the second Ling Ming Tang s ha yk h, also believes that Hamíd
al-Dín, who lived in the Seventeenth Century, transmitted the silsila to Ling Ming Tang, which was founded
in the turning of the Nineteenth and the Twentieth Centuries:
The Sufi doctrine passed by the First Founder of Ling Ming Tang is a true teaching of the true religion. It
was instructed by the Shaykhs in Yemen and Baghdad [in the period of the Song Dynasty, 960-1279] to
Hamíd al-Dín, the tariqa’s Ancestry Fragrant Founder [in the period of the Ming Dynasty, 1368-1644], and
was inherited by Habíb Alláh [in the period of Emperor Qianlong of the Qing Dynasty, 1736-1795].2 0
He adds that “[Ling Ming Ta n g ] ’s name is ismu d ha t [Arabic: “name attribute”], its s i l s i l a is that Fragrant
S ha yk h Azíz Hamíd al-Dín Amír from Yemen and Baghdad transmitted his personal teachings [secrets] to
Haníf al-Dín Alláh [Ma Lingming, founder of Ling Ming Ta n g ] . ”2 1
The obvious problem here is, how can a person who lived in the Seventeenth Century have met a person
who lived in the Nineteenth Century? Or how can a Sufi who lived in the period of the Tenth to the T h i r t e e n t h
Centuries have taught Sufism to someone who lived in the period of the Fourteenth and the Seventeenth
Centuries? Ma Wanrui as a Sufi has no doubts abou this, for he thinks that Alláh can create miracles and can
help two remote generations to communicate through the Holy Spirit. In the Sufi tradition K hi d r, the hidden
prophet in Islam, can convey communication between the dead and the living, between people across a span
of several generations, between the Prophet Muhammad and His followers, and between two remote regions.
In my field notes, I find the content of the s i l s i l a of Ling Ming Tang which includes this declaration:
After the Prophet Muhammad was born, the transmission of the True Path was restored to the sealed stage
for ten thousand prophets. The true secret was passed to the four Caliphs and then passed to the saints
among the offspring of succeeding generations of the Prophet Muhammad. The descendants of the Prophet
in the twenty-fifth generations from the Naqshbandíyya and the Qadriyya passed it to Hamíd al-Dín, the
Great Fragrant Founder of Hamadani Qubba in Kashghar. He passed down the silsila to the disciples for
the eleven generations that inherited the secret and the seal. The personal transmission will last to the end
of time, and the True Light of Qutbu Osh will guide the True Path forever.2 2
On the basis of the s i l s i l a of Ling Ming Tang and the other sources of Sufi mysticism transmitted to Ma Ling
Ming in Lanzhou, we can summarize the scattered information and clues concerning Fragrant Papa to reach
the following likely conclusions:
1 8 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Real name: Either Jing Duzi or Wafiya al-Dín; or Salim or Habíb Alláh or Hamíd al-Dín; or Azíz Hamíd
al-Dín A m í r.
Date: either the Sixteenth-Seventeeth Centuries or the Eighteenth-Nineteenth Centuries.
Itinerary of his travels: Arabia, Yemen, Baghdad to “Daihailan wenyi” (which, though identified as
being in India, is more likely Tehran) to Hamadan to Kashghar to Lanzhou (where he met Ma
L i n g m i n g ) .
Knowledge transmission: Qadriyya to mystical Sufism to Qadriyya and Naqs hbandíyya [K ha f i y y a ]
including Bábí teachings.
I notice in my fieldwork at Ling Ming Tang that the date of Fragrant Papa’s murder in Suzhou on his way
back to his homeland Arabia (actually, Iran) has been memorialized by the believers. This annual memorial
service is always held on the 1s t Day of the 1s t Month in Chinese Lunar Calendar. Such a memorial service
strongly indicates that Fragrant Papa was an actual historical figure. According to the death date commemo-
rated by the followers of Ma Lingming, I believe that Lanzhou Lingming gongbei jiao shi (History of Lingming
Qubba t a r i q a in Lanzhou), a manuscript circulated among the followers of Ling Ming Tang in the early part
of the Twentieth Century, and Ma Xiangzhen’s work Qingzhen zhexue qiyu lu (Notes of the Wonderful Wo r d s
in Islamic Philosophy), are both more credible and perhaps much closer to the fact. According to the s i l s i l a o f
Ling Ming Tang, Fragrant Papa Hamíd al-Dín, after leaving his home of Hamadan, had studied for a time in
Baghdad and Yemen before departing for Lanzhou where in 1877 he initiated Ma Lingming with Sufi ideas
and Bábí teachings. Such a description has great similarity to the figure of Habíb Alláh or Papa Jing Duzi, who
taught Ma Lingming the Sufi knowledge and Bábí teaching. Therefore, Habíb Alláh or Papa Jing Duzi was
actually Persian, not an Arab or a Turk from Kashghar. The sources recorded Habíb Alláh or Salim as being
Arab because he had studied in Baghdad and Yemen for eighteen years and he had command of the Arabic lan-
guage. People thought him coming from Kashghar Qubba because he traveled from Iran via Kashghar in South
Xinjiang (East Turkestan) and perhaps lived at the Khoja Apak Qubba for some time. That is the reason why
the followers of Ling Ming Tang confused him with Khoja Apak, S ha yk h of the White Mountains group, who
lived in the period of the Seventeenth to the Eighteenth Centuries. Therefore, they mistakenly confused the
names, the span of time, the different generations, and the different locations. The divergence in name, date
and location concerning Great Fragrant Papa’s teaching to Ma Lingming from various sources is also certain-
ly due to such a long time procession of the oral and written historic composition in which many believers of
Ling Ming Tang in different generations have participated. Errors and confusion could certainly have occurred.
Now we turn to the question of the possible relation—or more exactly, the linkage—between Fragrant Papa
or Papa Jing Duzi and the Báb’s teachings which swept through Iran in the mid-Nineteenth Century. My expla-
nation of their connection is based on following logical conceptions: First, the region of Iran was always one
of the main sources for transmission of Islam to China. The Silk Road that linked the Persian Chinese Empires
in trade and cultural contacts was the main channel through which Islam entered China, and Muslim mer-
chants, soldiers, and priests came from Iran to China. In this way, the Persian and Central Asian Muslims
played a prominent role in forming the Muslim community in China. Even the Silk Road stopped functioning
as the main Eurasian trade route after the Indian Ocean became the dominant route for marine navigation in
the Fifteenth Century. Its passage remains as the arch-line for the Muslim hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) and for
transmission of Sufi mystical teaching between China and the Islamic world. This is evidenced by the many
Persian living habits and Persian vocabulary which have become deeply rooted in the cultural life of Muslim
communities in China in the historic process of the Persian Islam’s penetration into China.
Second, the regions of Iran and Central Asia were not only home to many of Sufi orders which later took
root in China, but were themselves crucial to the dissemination of Sufi teachings. The main Sufi orders, includ-
ing the Naqs hbandíyya, Qadriyya, Kubrawiyya, and Chistiyya, have all traced their original sources and their
founders to Persia or Persianized Central A s i a .2 3
Third, China was the region historically to which the Shí‘a and other religious minorities in Iran would flee
for safety when they faced religious persecution and suppression. This happened in the time of the Ummayads
cracking down on the Shí‘a movement, in the time of the Abbasids persecuting the K hawalijis, and in the time
of the Safavids suppressing Sufism. So it is most likely that, after the Iranian authorities executed the Báb and
1 8 9
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

suppressed His movement across the whole of Iran, some Bábís may have fled to China to escape persecution
from the Qajar rulers and even for their very survival. Bábí refugees, or those of their childrens’ g e n e r a t i o n ,
may have taken the names of Fragrant Papa (implicating spice trade activity) or Hamíd al-Dín or Papa Jing
Duzi etc. They stepped on the ancient Silk Road through Central Asia via Kashghar to Lanzhou, a place on this
famous route but with a concentrated Muslim population, for living or religious teaching since they had a good
command of Arabic and native Persian knowledge. Such linguistic skill in Arabic and Persian was always
deemed by Chinese Muslims as a good virtue for a cleric’s qualification or nomination in community.
Fourth, because Bábí teaching would be regarded as heresy and Shí‘a Islam already received hostility
among the Sunni Muslims in China that time, Fragrant Papa (i.e. Jing Duzi or Salim or Habíb Alláh or Hamíd
al-Dín) had to pretend to be a Sufi and teach Sufism among the Sufis in China, and meanwhile tried to con-
tinue his Bábí doctrine’s dissemination among the Chinese Muslim communities. On the basis of such possi-
bilities, it is conceivable that Babism could have been transmitted from Iran to Ling Ming Tang, one of the Sufi
orders in Northwest China along the old Silk Road in the late Nineteenth Century. A n y w a y, the phenomena that
the spiritual seeds from Persia were carried to China through the social, cultural and economic channels have
been repeated many times in that region in past and present.
Before we make more explicit the logical link between the Báb’s teachings and the Sufi thought of Ma
Lingming, we will introduce briefly the history of the Prophet/Founder of the Bábí Faith and Its arising in Iran
in the Nineteenth Century. The founder of the Bábí movement, Sayyid ‘ Alí Muhammad “the Báb” (1820-
1851), was born into a merchant family in Shiraz, Iran. He briefly attended lectures of a famous scholar, Sayyid
Kázim Ras htí, head of the S ha yk h í school in Karbala, Iraq. The S ha yk h ís advocated the creed that the Mahdí,
the Twelfth Imám, the Salvation Lord of Islam, would soon come to the world. They thought that after one
thousand years of disappearance, “occultation,” the Mahdí would return to this world when it was full of
laments and unhappiness, and he would right the world’s inequalities.
In 1844 Sayyid ‘ Alí Muhammad declared himself the Báb and the One Whose coming Sayyid Kázim Ras ht í
had promised. He revealed a book entitled Bayán (Arabic and Persian: “exposition” or “meditation”). The mis-
sion of the Báb was to prepare the people of the world for the coming of the Mahdí, “He Whom God will make
manifest.” In 1848, following a series of Bábí upheavals in Iran, the S háh put the Báb in jail in Mákú and later
C hihríq, and executed Him in 1851. The Bábí movement was severely suppressed by the S háh and the ruling
classes in Iran. Afterward, many Bábís escaped to the marginal areas around the country. No doubt some Bábí
believers escaped to Central Asia and India where they survived under the shelter of the Bahá’í Faith later on.
It is very possible that some Bábís came to China and hid as Sufis living among the Muslims in China to avoid
the persecution in Iran.
Another reason has strongly convinced me that a linkage between Ma Lingming or Sufi order in China with
the Bábí teaching from Iran is very possible if we refer to the following historical fact. Dr. Momen E-mailed
the following to me: “I have been doing some research regarding a Bahá’í teacher who traveled very exten-
sively in Asia. His name was Jamál Effendi. He traveled to Ladakh and then on towards Yarqand [Shache of
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region today]. This route probably took him southeast at first skirting the
Karakorum Range and entering Tibet. As a consequence of frost-bite which affected his feet, he was forced to
remain in Yarqand for six months, probably the winter of 1888-9 or 1889-90. I wonder whether Ma Lingming
may have met him there, heard about the Bahá’í teachings and then taken this back to Gansu Province.”2 4 A s
a matter of fact, Ma Lingming had never traveled to Xinjiang. However, his disciples had traveled extensive-
ly in Xinjiang (for this point we will discuss below).
So following such a clue provided by Dr. Momen it is certainly possible that the Báb’s teaching arrived in
Xinjiang, China’s East Turkestan in late Nineteenth Century through different routes. Bábí or Bahá’í teachers
identified as Papa Jing Duzi (Wafiya al-Dín), Habíb Alláh, Hamíd al-Dín, and Salim and possibly disciples of
Jamál Effendi in Xinjiang, disseminated Bábí and Sufi teachings to Ma Lingming in Lanzhou. A l t e r n a t i v e l y,
Ma Lingming’s disciples may have gone Xinjiang and met Jamál Effendi or his believers, and thereby been
exposed to Bábí thought. So anyway, these events begin a new chapter in Sufi orders’ history in China. If Jamál
E ffendi really taught his Bahá’í Faith to some Uighurs in South Xinjiang, it also likely that Habíb Alláh or
Salim, or Hamíd al-Dín, one of the disciples of Jamál Effendi, revealed a mystical idea (Báb teaching) to Ma
Lingming in Lanzhou when he was forty years old (1893). Perhaps, Ma Lingming received Báb teaching sev-
1 9 0
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

eral times in his life. Just as reflected in the comments by Wang Shoutian: someone from outside China trans-
mitted all Sufi doctrines from various Sufi orders, including Bábí teaching, to Ma Lingming, the founder of
Ling Ming Ta n g .2 5
Why Ma Lingming accepted the Báb’s Teachings
After having read all the materials I had collected and acquired during the investigation in Lanzhou, I found
myself asking, why it was only Ma Lingming, and not other Sufis or Sufi groups in Lanzhou or in Gansu, who
accepted the Báb’s teachings transmitted by Papa(s) from Iran via Xinjiang? Why is it only in Ling Ming
Ta n g ’s Sufism that the concepts of Báb can be found, and in all other Sufi orders in China we cannot find it?
To answer this question we must understand the personality of Ma Lingming, his background, his living time,
and the miserable sufferings Ling Ming Tang experienced afterward in the development of his order.
Ma Lingming’s real name was Ma Yilong, and Lingming (Chinese: “soul enlightenment”; Ling Ming Ta n g
actually takes after Ma Lingming’s given name) was his pen name. His Sufi name was Qutb Haníf al-Dín A l l á h
(Arabic: “the true axis of God’s religion”). He was born in the provincial capital, Lanzhou, in 1853 (the 20t h
Day of the 11t h Month of Chinese Lunar Calendar, the 3r d Year of Xianfeng Reign)2 6 and died at age of seven-
ty-three in 1925 (the 19t h Day of the 3r d Month in Chinese Lunar Calendar, the 14t h Year of the Republic). A t
the age of seven Ma began studying Chinese and Arabic in school, the m a d r a s a , and became the class’s best
pupil. After he grew up he became a very pure Muslim who observed the Quranic teachings and Sunna. At the
age of ten he lived through the Hui Muslim rebellion in Shaanxi and Gansu provinces against the Manchu
Empire. He was fourteen when, in the 5t h Year of Tongzhi Reign (1866), the Military Commander of Lanzhou
led a mutiny during which people suffered a serious famine. In such an environment Ma accompanied his
mother fleeing from home for the safety of their lives. They settled in Ningding (Guanghe County today). His
mother died in the following year and “he had to work as a laborer for a rich family during the daytime and
recite the Quran and other Sufi texts in the evening. Although life was very hard and the work was tiring, he
had never given up prayer. ”2 7
Ma Lingming later migrated to Yuzhong County and from there he moved farther to Hezhou (today’s Linxia)
of Gansu, afterwards sojourning in Xining of Qinghai. He spent time as a beggar and at same time sought
knowledge from religious teachers. When thirty-five years old (the 14t h Year of Guangxu Reign, or 1888), he
was invited to the post of Imám (Chinese j i a o z h a n g, or “religious chief”) of Yejigou Mosque in Yuzhong of
Gansu, and later to the post of Imám of other mosques in different places in that province. “He emphasized
externally the five pillars of Islam sanctioned by the S ha r i‘a, and made great efforts internally in t a r i q a t r a i n-
ing and meditation. He was ready to distribute the alms that his believers handed him to the poor as charity
and he never kept money for his personal pocket.”2 8
At forty-two years of age, when the turmoil of Region of He River and Huang River broke out in 1895, Ma
Lingming, carrying his daughters, fled to Lanzhou with his wife, and rented out two rooms for living. At that
time he had already received Qadriyya teaching from Salim (more likely Papa Jing Duzi), K hafiyya teaching
from Habíb Alláh, and teachings of the Báb. “After he concentrated wholly in spreading the creed of a w l a ’
path Ma Lingming often begged food as a dervish (Sufi wanderer) to make his living. He would stop to beg as
soon as he got minimal food for his family living. If someone gave him clothes and money, he would decline
the off e r. He sometimes sang songs to himself and danced alone, and would often be seen playing games with
children in a lane or on the street. He was so innocent and simple-minded that he always acted like a young
b o y.” “He would not be angry when he was beaten, nor when abuse was shouted at him, and he was carefree
about being mocked in public. There was always a smile on his face whenever he met any situations, and he
never sought revenge for others’ mischief against him. People called him a “madman.” But whenever someone
was confused or had troubles and came to him for consultation, he would illustrate the meaning by present real-
i t y, or tell a story of the past, or cite a current example to let the other person understand for himself or herself
what the truth was. At first people might not comprehend what his meaning, but people saw the signs from the
facts in Ma’s illustration later on.” He came to be respected and revered by many people.2 9
Until his death Ma Lingming had always lived a very spare life and contributed food, clothing, and money—
whatever he possessed—to those who were in need and poor. Even during his late years, when Ling Ming Ta n g
had developed into an influential Sufi group in Lanzhou and was receiving ample donations from its believers,
1 9 1
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

Ma Lingming continued to keep his life as simple as in his early stages of life. Because he and his followers
lived such an austere life and often helped the poor and weak, Ling Ming Tang was highly attractive to the
many people who lived in a society full of injustice, corruption, exploitation, repression, immorality, war tur-
moil, and natural disasters. To these people who felt so hopeless in such a miserable life, Ma Lingming’s Sufi
and Bábí teachings were a shining beacon for their future. This is reminiscent of the history of the Báb and
Bahá’ulláh, whose Faiths found fertile ground amongst a populace that could no longer tolerate further repres-
sion by the ruling authorities in Iran. The Báb, Bahá’ulláh, and Ma Lingming were all true representatives of
the poor people and lower classes in the society. They in different ways protested society’s injustices, and chal-
lenged the authority of tyrants. T h a t ’s why Ma Lingming easily incorporated Bábí teachings: the religions of
Báb and Ma Lingming alike were often first adopted by peasants and by society’s lower- and middle-classes,
those who were deprived of the rights of the basic living means.
Ma Lingming disseminated his Sufi teaching mainly among the merchants and traders, and the peddlers who
sold food on the streets of the city. They belonged to the lower- and middle-classes, and they followed him in
l a rge number. In the rural countryside, Ma Lingming’s followers were largely composed of poor peasants.3 0
This is another similarity between Babism and Ma Lingming’s Ling Ming Tang. The Báb came from a mer-
chant family and the social base of His following was largely lower- to middle-class, including a number of
merchants, traders, and peddlers. The similar background and the almost same social basis could relate two
religious movements closely in two remote regions through some intermediate role: the refugees of Bábí
movement and Bahá’í teachers transmitted a mystical creed consisting of an amalgam of Bábí teachings and
Sufism, to a Sufi order in Northwest China which faced the similar social crisis Báb had faced decades earli-
e r.
The Bábí movement was suppressed and persecuted by the authorities in Iran. The same fate befell the
believers of Ling Ming Tang in its history. As Ma Lingming began teaching Bábí ideas and a new Sufi creed,
he and his religion was charged by others as “madmen” spreading heresy, and they wanted the authorities to
arrest him and execute him.3 1 The Order was eventually closed and the body of Ma Lingming was moved out
of the q u b b a in 1958. Ten years later the authorities demolished the q u b b a , and a state-owned factory occu-
pied its place during the Cultural Revolution of China. Many religious clerics of Ling Ming Tang were put in
jail and some of them were persecuted and even killed.3 2 Wang Shoutian was incarcerated for many years, and
in the 1970s was himself sentenced to death, escaping execution only accident.3 3 Not until the 1980s was Ling
Ming Tang allowed to resume its religious activity in public.
Ling Ming Tang and its Connection to Hami and Kashghar, Xinjiang
As demonstrated above, both Chinese sources and information given me by Dr. Momen testify that Bábí or
Bahá’í teachings came from Iran and Central Asia via Kashghar or South Xinjiang and influenced the Sufi
creed of Ling Ming Tang in Lanzhou founded by Ma Lingming in the late Nineteenth Century. Papa Jing Duzi,
or Habíb Alláh and Hamíd Al-Dín visited the Kashghar Qubba (Qubba of Khoja Apak) and stayed there for a
time. The early Bahá’í teacher Jamál Effendi traveled through Pakistan’s Kashmir Ladakh to Yarqand in South
Xinjiang. Jamál Eff e n d i ’s Bábí and Bahá’í beliefs, which may have become commingled with Sufi ideas, were
transmitted to his Uighur disciples in Yarqand. From there, Bábí teachings filtered to Kashghar, Hami, and
other parts of Xinjiang. The geographic location of Xinjiang has thus played a crucial role in the transmission
of Bábí teaching between Iran and Lanzhou of China, eventually resulting in the creation of a new Sufi order.
Because of this historical connection between Lanzhou of Ling Ming Tang and the Sufi saints’ q u b b as in
Xinjiang, Ling Ming Tang kept sending its missionaries and religious envoys to Xinjiang, particularly to Hami
and Kashghar, to disseminate its teachings and seek new followers. Ling Ming Tang in Lanzhou regards
Kashghar and Hami in Xinjiang as the primary source of its Sufi teaching. Because of this missionary and
teaching-studying activity, Ling Ming Tang set up a sub-branch in Hami. It was named Kao Fu Tang, modeled
on its founder Kao Fu who was one of the main disciples of Ma Lingming in Lanzhou. From Hami, religious
personnel were sent to the southern Xinjiang for the further missionary work.
Following are the abstracts from the materials of Ling Ming Ta n g ’s history to show how a branch was
formed in Hami, how the contacts with Kashghar were maintained, how the Muslims in Xinjiang converted to
Ling Ming Ta n g ’s teaching, and how Ling Ming Tang Sufism penetrated to the South Xinjiang where Ling
1 9 2
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Ming Tang receiving its spiritual influence.
Kao Fu, one of the disciples of Ma Lingming, under his Master’s instruction embarked upon mis-
sionary work to disseminate Ma Lingming’s Sufism among the Muslims of Hami, in Xinjiang. Many Huis
and Uighurs in Xinjiang converted to Ling Ming Tang. Therefore, the Hui and Uighur Muslims in many
areas of Xinjiang were the followers of Ling Ming Tang. Even today the Western Courtyard of Ling Ming
Tang [i.e., its branch in Hami] has more than 20,000 followers.3 4
In spring of the 11t h Year of the Republic [1922], the founder of Ling Ming Tang ordered his disci-
ple Shan Zijiu3 5 to Hami in Xinjiang for missionary work.36 Shan Zijiu began his journey from Hami to
the Kafi Cave on the 1s t Day of the 1s t Month in Chinese Lunar Calendar, the 12t h Year of the Republic
[1923]. He arrived at the cave after a few days of walking, thereby fulfilling this pilgrimage, and chant-
ed the du‘á [Arabic: “prayer”]. He went on to Kuche where he visited the qubba of Hidaya al-Dín A l l á h
[Khoja Apak]. This qubba was the holiest place for Sufism in China. There was an old S ha yk h with the
family name Ma who, at the age of 120, was still in quite good health. He congratulated Shan Zijiu with
a Sufi gesture as he met him. All believers around prayed in da’ir [Arabic: “circle”] by kneeling down,
and they chanted the Quranic verses for good wishes. Afterwards, the old S ha yk h asked to look at a clas-
sic Sufi text Shan Zijiu had brought with him. Shan handed him the scroll, and the S ha yk h unfolded it.
Tears came to his eyes as he recited the passages of the text. He closed the scrolls and cried that the holi-
est doctrine had enlightened China. After the prayer, the believers requested Shan Zijiu to lead the ritual
of holding hands in d hikr or salát [Arabic: “obligatory Muslim prayer”]. The S ha yk h then issued the trav-
eling certificate to Shan for his return back to Hami.3 7
Shan Zijiu reported his pilgrimage to the Kafi Cave and his visiting the Kuche qubba to the Founder
of Ling Ming Tang [Ma Lingming]. The founder was so happy after he heard of these experiences that he
gave his instruction [ijaz]: “Now the way of awla’ [“friends of God,” i.e. Sufi saints] is brightened!
In the first ten days of the 5t h Month in Chinese Lunar Calendar [1923], the founder of Ling Ming
Tang ordered Shan Zijiu to go to Hami again to collect alms for construction of the q u b b a [in Lanzhou].3 8
In the 14t h Year of the Republic [1925], the Founder of Ling Ming Tang passed away. After the com-
memoration of the 40t h Day of the deceased [Founder], Shan went to Hami with Ma Yuming to announce
the news of the Founder’s passing to the believers there. Shan performed the commemoration of the One
Hundredth Day of the Founder’s decease with the believers in Hami.3 9
Even in the 1950s and in the 1960s, during a time when religious activities were not fully eradicated but
were severely restricted by the authorities in China, Ling Ming Tang still sent its missionaries to Xinjiang, par-
ticularly southern Xinjiang to disseminate its Sufi doctrine clandestinely among the Uighur and Hui Muslims.4 0
Also Professor Du Shaoyuan from the Xinjiang School of the Communist Party heard, during his historical
investigation in the South Xinjiang in the early 1950s, that there was a Bábí group among the various Sufi
orders in the Turkic-speaking Muslim communities.4 1
Ling Ming Tang Today
As mentioned, Wang Shoutian is the Third Successor of Ma Lingming and the current leader of Ling Ming
Tang. He began his speech celebrating the opening ceremonies of the rebuilt wooden framework of the Eight
Diagram Palace of Ling Ming Tang Qubba with these words:
What is Ling Ming Tang? Ling Ming Tang is a banner-pole set up on the earth by A l l á h ’s true religion
Islam; It is the axis of heaven and earth, the resting place of the Noble Prophet and the focus of pilgrim-
age for many dustani [Persian: “friends with faith”].4 2
Such a remark certainly incites criticism from the traditional Sunni Muslim communities, especially the
Ik hw a n i4 3 communities in Northwest China, which regard Sufis like Ling Ming Tang as heretics.4 4 Still, Ling
Ming Tang has managed to develop dramatically, even in the antagonistic environment of the last twenty years.
After the Cultural Revolutions, as religion gradually resumed activities under a new policy taken by a more
pragmatic Communist Party, the Lanzhou Municipal Government agreed to return the site of the demolished
q u b b a to Ling Ming Tang in the early 1980s. However, by that time the site housed a small factory. This pro-
1 9 3
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

posal was turned down by Wang Shoutian who thought such a plan would be too costly for the factory and the
many workers who would lose their jobs in its re-location. He also recognized that the old site of Ling Ming
Tang q u b b a was too small and would not meet the demands of the expanding community for long. Instead of
seeking to regain the old property, he suggested that the government allocate a bare hill on Wuxing Ping
(Pentagon Apron) in the suburb of Lanzhou for the new Ling Ming Tang q u b b a. The local authorities prompt-
ly approved his proposal, so without seeking compensation from the factory Wang Shoutian led his believers
in 1984 to settle down on a bare hill where there was no water, no grass, no electricity, and not even a road.
Wuxing Ping was a place well known by local people as “stones rolling when wind blows,” a slope without
l i f e .4 5 Life was harsh at first for the followers of Ling Ming Tang who took up residence there. Wang Shoutian
recalled those days as being “so cold in the winter, and hot with so many mosquito in the summer as we lived
in two shabby sheds. Every day we sent people going down the hill to fetch water for our basic consumption.”4 6
Soon they began to work over and to make green this bare hill. They planted various trees including fruit
trees; they built a road to the top of hill; they dug a deep well with the assistance of a government agency; and
they built a water pool for drinking and irrigating trees and gardens. They spent 10,000 Yuan, their entire sav-
ings at the time, to buy five cows and six sheep from Xinjiang for breeding in 1986. Fifteen years has passed
since then, and when I visited Ling Ming Tang recently I saw their herd had nearly reached to 100 cows and
600 sheep. The cows produce 500 kilograms of fresh milk per day. The net income of selling milk to the inhab-
itants in Lanzhou is about 1,500 Yuan every day, and with that money Ling Ming Tang has bought several
trucks and vehicles for transportation.4 7
In 1985, Ling Ming Tang started the construction work for its new q u b b a complex, using funds entirely col-
lected from the donation of its believers. After sixteen years’ endeavors, Ling Ming Tang has completed con-
struction of a grand complex of buildings which includes a mosque with a size of 2,500 square meters by 30
meters in height that can hold one thousand people performing prayer; the Eight Diagram Palace in which the
remains of Ma Lingming and Shan Zijiu are buried; the Front Hall where the believers hold memorial services
for Fragrant Papa, the Founder, and his successors; the Madrasa Building in which religious students study Sufi
knowledge; the monastery residence; the wing buildings; student dormitories; the Five Arch Rostrum; Dining
Hall and gardens, and more. The entire q u b b a is 40,000 square meters in size and contains about 16,000 square
meters of architectural area. Standing on the top of Pentagon Apron, it looks like a large, tall, and grand strong-
hold rising up from the surrounding landscape, where it is looked up to by all. Once the encompassing brick
walls had been built, the q u b b a became the largest q u b b a and mosque complex in Lanzhou.4 8 The believers of
Ling Ming Tang, led by Wang Shoutian, have invested 20,000,000 Yuan to make green fourteen hectares of
bare land on the hill, planted 300,000 trees, and built three Chinese rose gardens. Its beauty has attracted more
than 10,000 tourists from both China and abroad for the last few years and become one of the gems of
L a n z h o u ’s tourist industry.4 9
At present Ling Ming Tang claims approximately 300,000 followers in China.5 0 The believers with their
families live in Gansu, Xinjiang, Ningxia, Qinghai, Henan, and other regions.5 1 The headquarters of Ling Ming
Tang is located in Lanzhou, but it has several branch hospices in Guyuan, Ningxia and in Hami, Xinjiang. T h e
followers of Ling Ming Tang in the Minhe County of the Qinghai Province founded a branch hall in the 1990s,
but it was banned because its establishment did not receive the permission (i j a z) from S ha yk h Wa n g
S h o u t i a n .5 2 C u r r e n t l y, Wang Shoutian has recruited twenty-six m a w l l á h (Persian and Turkish: “Madrasa stu-
dents”) and several teachers to engage in Islamic Sufism education. Religious students and pious followers,
including a group of young people who come from different parts of the country, are living at the Ling Ming
Tang q u b b a. They study and work as volunteers for the Order on Pentagon Apron. The once-bare hill has
become a large, beautiful garden. There is a remarkable similarity between Ling Ming Tang and the Bahá’í
Faith, for Bahá’í believers around the world have come together to fund the construction of the “Arc,” a com-
plex of beautiful buildings and gardens in Haifa, Israel, which also functions as the Bahá’í World Center. My
pilgrimage to the Arc in 1998 left the same indelible impressions on me as my visits to the Ling Ming Ta n g
q u b b a .
While resembling the Bahá’í Faith, Ling Ming Ta n g ’s Sufism has also absorbed other spiritual elements
from other religions such as Buddhism, Taoism and Confucianism. Ling Ming Tang maintained good relations
with the clerics of Buddhism and Taoism during the times of Ma Ling Ming and Shan Zijiu. When Shan Zijiu
1 9 4
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

passed away, Taoist monks came to Ling Ming Tang for mourning.5 3 Even today, Wang Shoutian often makes
friends with the Taoists in Lanzhou and holds dialogue with them in religious doctrine. All s ha yk hs of Ling
Ming Tang over three generations keep their life in celibacy in the Order. This is different from other Muslim
communities, and is one of the main reasons traditional Sunni groups accuse Ling Ming Tang of heresy.
Although Ling Ming Ta n g ’s headquarters in Lanzhou functions primarily as a Sufi hospice, it also maintains
a wide-ranging connection with society. Ling Ming Tang has frequently contributed funds to help the high
schools in the poor mountainous areas where mainly the minority ethnic groups reside. It has also often donat-
ed money, clothing, food and other materials to areas struck by natural disasters such as earthquake, flood, and
d r o u g h t .5 4 Like the Bahá’í Faith, Ling Ming Tang tries its best to maintain an approach that is not anti-gov-
ernment in its political line. S ha yk h Wang Shoutian is very skillful in keeping on good terms with the author-
ities at all levels. He holds several official positions, such as Deputy Chairman of Islamic Association of Gansu
Province, the Standing Member of the Political Consultation Committee of Lanzhou Municipality, and Deputy
Chairman of Islamic Association of Lanzhou. Several celebrated leaders, including the provincial governor, the
provincial general secretary of the Communist Party, and even a daughter of the late Chairman Mao Zedong
came to visit Ling Ming Tang. Their words of dedication are carved in calligraphy on wooden tablets and hung
on the gates and the rostrum of the Order. By this way Ling Ming Tang maintains a solid social base and
expands its influence in a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and multi-spiritual society. Perhaps the Bábí teachings
mixed in with its Sufism have contributed to Ling Ming Ta n g ’s success and to its great revival in post-Mao and
post-Deng China. Like the Bahá’í Faith, Ling Ming Tang strives to build a beautiful garden on the earth for its
followers and for the whole of mankind.
Conclusion and Summary
It is very likely that the teachings of the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh impacted upon the Sufi doctrine of Ling Ming
Tang in Lanzhou, China in the period of the end of the Nineteenth to the early Twentieth Centuries. Such a
hypothesis is based on the aforementioned fact that in Ma Lingming’s teaching of Sufism he promulgated the
concept of the Báb, the Mahdí who instructed Ma Lingming to lead his followers on the righteous path toward
God. The concept of “Báb” has not been found among other Sufi orders in China which, along with the tradi-
tional Sunni Hui majority, accused the idea of the Báb as embraced by Ling Ming Tang as “the astray” and
“[heretical] Shí‘a.” The second reason to support the hypothesis of the linkage between the Bábí movement
and Ling Ming Tang is that, according to both written and oral recordings from Ling Ming Tang a Sufi by name
of Grand Fragrant Papa Jing Duzi (Jidaz?), or Habíb Alláh, or Hamíd al-Dín, or Salim, or maybe several Sufis
with these names came to Lanzhou from Iran by way of Baghdad, India and Kashghar to initiate Ma Lingming
in Sufi and Bábí teachings.
The sources from Ling Ming Tang are also compatible with Bahá’í reports that an Iranian Bahá’í named
Jamál Effendi had traveled extensively in India and Central Asia, coming as far as Yarqand in South Xinjiang
in the latter Nineteenth Century, disguised as a Sufi dervish but disseminating Bahá’í teachings.5 5 From this
point of view it is possible that one of Jamál Eff e n d i ’s disciples in South Xinjiang traveled to Lanzhou to pro-
claim the advent of and the teachings of the Báb to Ma Lingming, who subsequently launched a new Sufi order
in Northwest China.
The argument of the possible linkage of the Bábí movement in Iran with Ling Ming Tang in China has been
strongly supported by the historical phenomenon that China, particularly Northwest China, was often a niche
for those who fled religious persecution in Iran. So it is not surprising that persecuted Bábís (and later, Bahá’ís)
would flee to China, seeking refuge from slaughter. Finally, the paper discusses the similarities between the
Bábí movement in Iran and Ling Ming Tang in China to strengthen the argument that both mystical movements
have had at least some interaction. These similarities include that both religious organizations have almost the
same social basis and social background, both advocate tolerance of other religious traditions and an attitude
of inclusiveness toward them, both make great efforts to build a beautiful garden on the earth, and both came
to advocate a neutral but friendly attitude toward the civil government. Finally, the paper put the interaction
between the Bábí movement and Ling Ming Tang into the broader context of the encounters and contacts
between Persian and Chinese religions which history records. It shows that no culture or civilization can devel-
op in isolation, and that interaction between two different religious traditions or among the several spiritual
1 9 5
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

cultures creates the opportunities for dialogue and compromise necessary for human beings to bridge the dif-
ferences which will inevitably arise in our globalized future. Only by following this guideline are any spiritu-
al groups such as Bahá’í and Ling Ming Tang able to flourish and achieve their goals.
N o t e s
1) I am grateful to the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund for its very kind support to make this fieldwork possible and support my
traveling expenses to London for the 35t h Session of the Irfan Colloquium. Also I am deeply indebted to Dr. Moojan Momen
for his carefulness in reading this paper and giving comments and suggestion to correct the errors in the text.
2) Concerning Baghdad Mr. Wang Yuguang, the older brother of Wang Shoutian who is the current leader of Ling Ming Tang, con-
firmed to me that “Our teaching came from Baghdad, for this we have the evidence to testify the true fact.” See the recording
of my interview with him, on Jan. 25, 2001.
3) Ma Xiangzhen: Qingzhen zhexue qiyu lu (Notes of Wonderful Words in Islamic Philosophy), a manuscript hand-copied by Ya n
Qifeng, p. 82 and p. 195. These citations are included in Ma To n g ’s book Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan ( Traces of
the Original Sources of Islamic Sects and Ta r i q as in China), Yinchuan: Ningxia People’s Press, 1995, second edition, p. 132.
4) Ma To n g : Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan, p. 130.
5) Dragon, Chinese l o n g, here symbolizes the founder of Ling Ming Tang and his successors because all of them have theChinese
character l o n g in their style names in the s i l s i l a of the Ling Ming Tang Sufi Order.
6) In Professor Ma To n g ’s book it was recorded as “a w l a ’ is the f a r i d a t [Arabic: “imperative, obligation”] at the gateway of Báb.”
See Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan, p. 132.
7) Interviews with Mr. Wang Yuguang on Jan. 25, and Jan. 26, 2001.
8) Personal interview with S ha yk h Wang Shoutian on Jan. 27, 2001.
9) Lingming shangren zhuanlue (Brief Biography of Saint Lingming), hand-copied by Ma Ruqi, p. 2.
10) Ak hund Ma Zhanhai, the chief of the Western Courtyard of Ling Ming Tang in the third generation, personal interview, evening
of Jan. 28, 2001.
11) In Persian and Turkish it also has the meaning of the representative of the hidden Imám Mahdí of Shí‘ a Islam, see the article
“Báb” in The Encyclopaedia of Islam, Vol. 2, 1s t edition, Leiden: E.J. Brill.
12) Personal interview with Wang Shoutian, then age eighty-one, on Jan. 25, 2001.
13) Ma Xinglu narrated and copied by Ma Ustadh and revised by Han Shou (a Ling Ming Tang follower): Lanzhou Ling Ming Ta n g
daotang jianli (Brief Notes of Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang Qubba), May of 1994, p. 2.
14) Personal interview with Wang Shoutian on Jan. 25, 2001.
15) Ma Xiangzhen (probably a disciple of Ma Ling Ming): Qingzhen zhexue qiyu lu (Notes of the Wonderful Words in Islamic
Philosophy), hand-copied by Yan Qifeng. P. 100.
16) This mosque, one of the oldest mosques in Lanzhou, remains open to this day.
17) Lanzhou Lingming gongbei jiao shi (History of Lingming Qubba t a r i q a in Lanzhou), a manuscript cited from Ma To n g :
Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan ( Traces of the Original Sources of Islamic Sects and Ta r i q as in China), I b i d ., pp.
1 3 0 - 1 3 1 .
18) Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang daotang jianli (Brief Notes of Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang Qubba), narrated by Ma Xinglu, hand-copied
by Ma Ustadh and revised by Han Shou in May of 1994, p. 2.
19) For this event of Khoja Apak please refer to the book by Ma Tong: Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan ( Traces of the
Original Sources of Islamic Sects and Tariqas in China), I b i d ., pp. 131-132.
20) Ma Wanrui narrates: “The Lineage of the True Mainstream,” Ling Ming Tang shiji (Historical Notes of Ling Ming Tang), record-
ed by Ma Jieli, hand-copied in March of 1990, pp. 5-6. Akhund Ma Zhanhai holds the date of Qianlong Reign a mistake.
According to his view, it should be in the late Nineteenth Century.
21) Ma Wanrui narrates: “The Lineage of the True Mainstream,” Ling Ming Tang shiji, I b i d ., p. 11 .
22) Extract from the inscription carved on the left brick wall of Rostrum of Three Flowers, Ling Ming Tang Qu b b a, copied by me
on Jan. 25, 2001.
23) For this argument, please refer to Jianping Wa n g ’s paper “Historical Connection between Persian Sufis and Ta r i q as in China,”
presented to the International Conference of Mawlláh Sadra Philosophical Thinking (Tehran, May 1999).
24) Moojan Momen, personal E-mail dated Aug. 27, 2000.
25) Refer to my personal interview with Wang Shoutian on Jan. 25, 2001.
26) Another source gives the birth year as 1852, the 2n d Year of the Xianfeng Reign. See Ma Wanrui narrates: “Biography of
Founder of Ling Ming Tang,” Ling Ming Tang shiji, I b i d ., p. 4.
27) Lanzhou Lingming gongbei jiao shi (History of Lingming Qubba t a r i q a in Lanzhou), a manuscript cited from Ma To n g :
1 9 6
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan ( Traces of the Original Sources of Islamic Sects and Ta r i q as in China), I b i d ., pp.
1 3 8 - 1 3 9 .
28) Lanzhou Lingming gongbei jiao shi, I b i d ., p. 138.
29) I b i d .
30) Ma Tong: Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan, I b i d ., p. 143.
31) Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang daotang jianli (Brief Notes of Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang Qu b b a), I b i d ., p. 3.
32) Ma Wanrui narrates: “The Will of Shan Zijiu, the Chief Successor of Ling Ming Tang,” Ling Ming Tang shiji, I b i d ., p. 75.
33) Personal interview with Wang Shoutian, Jan. 25, 2001.
34) Ak hund Ma Zhanhai, the chief of the Western Courtyard of Ling Ming Tang in the third generation, personal interview, evening
of Jan. 28, 2001.
35) Shan Zijiu (-1956), his pen name Yulong, became the Chief Successor of Ling Ming Tang in the second generation after the
death of Ma Ling Ming in 1925.
36) Ma Renpu: Yulong shangren luezhuan ( A Short Biography of Yulong, the disciple of the Founder), manuscript, hand-copied, pp.
5 - 6
37) Ma Renpu: Yulong shangren luezhuan, I b i d ., pp. 7-8.
38) Ma Renpu: Yulong shangren luezhuan, I b i d ., pp. 8-9
39) Ma Renpu: Yulong shangren luezhuan, I b i d ., pp. 12-13.
40) My personal interview with Ak hund Ma, a close disciple of Wang Shoutian, the Third Successor of Ling Ming Tang, on Jan.
27, 2001. Ak hund Ma comes from Qinghai Province and lives in Lanzhou now.
41) See Du Shaoyuan’s manuscript, “A Brief Introduction of Islamic Sects in Kashghar, Yarkand and Hotan Regions,” paper sub-
mitted to the First Conference of Islamic Studies in China, Beijing, September of 1986, p. 49.
42) Cited from Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang daotang jianli (Brief Notes of Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang Qu b b a), narrated by Ma Xinglu,
I b i d ., p. 1.
43) ik hw a n [Arabic: “brotherhood”], a movement influenced by Wahhabism from Saudi Arabia at the end of the Nineteenth Century
by Chinese Hui Muslims who returned from hajj. It remains powerful in the Muslim communities in Northwest and Southwest
China today.
44) I noticed this kind of hostility from the neighboring communities in Lanzhou when I was doing my fieldwork. Han Shou, a
member of Ling Ming Tang, told me that his ex-wife and son who belonged to Ik hwani group had even beaten him because
they thought Ling Ming Tang a heretic organization and, therefore, a betrayal of Islam. Even Ma Zhanhai, the chief of the
branch which split off from Ling Ming Tang, was accused of straying from the righteous path. (personal interviews with Han
Shou on Jan. 25, 2001 and with Ma Zhanhai on Jan. 28, 2001)
45) Li Haoliang: “Man Sows Seed on Sleeping Ox Hill,” Lanzhou Evening Newspaper, Oct. 26, 1999, p. 2.
46) My interview with Wang Shoutian, on Jan. 26, 2001, p. 2.
47) Lu Kaidong and Wang Zhengxiang: “Dare Changing Bare Hill into Green Garden,” Qilihe Newspaper, Jan. 12, 2000, p. 4.
48) Ma Qiang: “An Investigative Study of Mosques and Qu b b as in Lanzhou,” Huizu yanjiu (Journal of Hui Studies), no. 4, 2000,
p. 46.
49) Li Haoliang: “Man Sows Seed on Sleeping Ox Hill,” Lanzhou Evening Newspaper, Oct. 26, 1999, p. 2.
50) My interview with Wang Shoutian, on Jan. 26, 2001, p. 2.
51) People from other Sufi orders in Lanzhou say that the figure of Ling Ming Ta n g ’s population is exaggerated. However, anoth-
er piece of information recorded by Ling Ming Tang says that its followers number one million. See Lanzhou Ling Ming Ta n g
daotang jianli (Brief Notes of Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang Qubba), narrated by Ma Xinglu, I b i d ., p. 9.
52) Wang Shengli, a local cadre working at Bureau of Ethnic Minority and Religion of Qilihe District, Lanzhou, supplied this infor-
mation. He was a close nephew of Wang Shoutian, the Third Successor of Ling Ming Tang (personal interview, Jan. 25, 2001).
Even in Beijing I met a follower of Ling Ming Tang who owns an Islamic restaurant.
53) Interview with Zhang Qiang who comes from Minhe County in Qinghai, Jan. 27, 2001.
54) Ma Wanrui narrates: “The Lineage of the True Mainstream,” Ling Ming Tang shiji (Historical Notes of Ling Ming Tang), I b i d .,
p. 68.
55) Liang Guoning: “Hui Elder Care of Education for Ethnic Minorities,” Lanzhou Evening Newspaper, Jun. 21s t, 1999, p. 16; Lu
Xiangxin and Liang Guoning: “Ling Ming Tang on Pentagon Apron,” Lanzhou T. V. Program Newsletter, etc.
56) Moojan Momen: “An Account of the Activities and an Analysis of the Role of Jamál Effendi in the Propagation of the Bahá’í
Faith throughout Asia,” later published as “Jamál Effendi and the early spread of the Bahá’í Faith in South A s i a . ”
1 9 7
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang

B i b l i o g r a p h y
Du, Shaoyuan: “A Brief Introduction of Islamic Sects in Kashghar, Yarkand and Hotan Regions.” Manuscript, paper submitted to
the First Conference of Islamic Studies in China, Beijing, September of 1986, pp. 1-50.
The Encyclopaedia of Islam, 1s t edition, Leiden: E.J. Brill, vols. i-iv.
Lanzhou Lingming gongbei jiao shi (History of Lingming Qubba t a r i q a in Lanzhou), a manuscript composed by a believer of Ling
Ming Tang in the early of the 1950s.
Li, Haoliang: “Man Sows Seed on Sleeping Ox Hill,” Lanzhou Evening Newspaper, Oct. 26, 1999.
Liang, Guoning: “Hui Elder Care of Education for Ethnic Minorities,” Lanzhou Evening Newspaper, Jun. 21s t, 1999.
Lu, Xiangxin and Liang, Guoning: “Ling Ming Tang on Pentagon Apron,” Lanzhou T. V. Program Newsletter.
Ma, Renpu: Yulong shangren luezhuan ( A Short Biography of Yulong, the disciple of the Founder), manuscript, hand-copied.
Ma, Ruqi, hand-copy: Lingming shangren zhuanlue (Brief Biography of Saint Lingming).
Ma, To n g : Zhongguo Yisilan jiaopai menhuan suyuan ( Traces of the Original Sources of Islamic Sects and Ta r i q as in China),
Yinchuan: Ningxia People’s Press, 1995, the second edition.
Ma, Wanrui narrates: “The Lineage of the True Mainstream,” Ling Ming Tang shiji (Historical Notes of Ling Ming Tang), record-
ed by Ma Jieli, hand-copied in March of 1990.
Ma, Xiangzhen: Qingzhen zhexue qiyu lu (Notes of Wonderful Words in Islamic Philosophy), a manuscript hand-copied by Ya n
Q i f e n g .
Ma, Xinglu narrates, copied by Ustadh Ma and revised by Shou Hans: Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang daotang jianli (Brief Notes of
Lanzhou Ling Ming Tang Qu b b a), May of 1994.
Momen, Moojan: “An Account of the Activities and an Analysis of the Role of Jamál Effendi in the Propagation of the Bahá’í
Faith throughout Asia,” a paper presented at the ABS—ESE conference, Newcastle, Dec. 1999, later published as “Jamál
E ffendi and the early spread of the Bahá’í Faith in South Asia,” in Bahá’í Studies Review 9 (1999/2000).
Wang, Jianping: “Historical Connections between Persian Sufis and Ta r i q as in China,” presented to the International Conference
of Mawlláh Sadra Philosophical Thinking (Tehran, May 1999).
1 9 8
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án

Appendix
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán volumes I and II
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Pilgrimage and Religious Identity in the Bahá’í Faith, by Per-Olof Åkerdahl
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Eff e n d i , by Cyrus A l a i
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din A t t a r, by Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From Material Civilization
to Spiritual Civilization, by Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation, by Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith, by Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, by Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious Revelation, b y
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind, by Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology, by Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Lawh-i-Hikmat of Bahá’u’lláh, by Peter Te r r y
‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and Ta l k s
Translated into English (1911–1920), by Peter Te r r y
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb, by Muhammad A f n a n
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity, by William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple), by Mohamad Ghasem
B a y a t
The Firm Cord of Servitude, by Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective, by Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God, by Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith, by LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az g ha y b - i - b a q á ’ burqa‘ bar
afkan az ‘id hár ” : An Introduction and Three Versions of Provisional English
Translations, by Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Lawh-i-Ittihád)—A Provisional Translation, by Moojan Momen
‘A b d u ’ l - B a h á ’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow of the
Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul, by Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wo r d l e ss” : Mystical Language, Revelation and Scholarship, b y
Ismael Ve l a s c o
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, by Brian
A. Wi t t m a n
1 9 9
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang