INTERNATIONAL TEACHING CENTRE

19 May 1983

To the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh throughout the World

Dearly loved Friends,

Since the tragic death of Mr. Paul Haney there have been only two Hands of the Cause residing in the Holy Land. We have therefore decided to call upon Dr. ‘Alí-Muḥammad Varqá and Mr. Collis Featherstone to participate in the discharge of the special duties of the Hands of the Cause residing in the Holy Land when the occasion requires, as for example, in dealing with matters of Covenant-breaking. They will be able to perform these functions either by correspondence or by periodic sojourns at the World Center.

We have decided to raise the number of resident members of the International Teaching Centre to nine. For reasons of health Mrs. Florence Mayberry is leaving the World Center, bringing to an end her highly valued services on this institution. Four new Counselor members have therefore been appointed: Dr. Magdalene Carney, Mr. Mas‘úd Khamsí, Dr. Peter Khan and Mrs. Isobel Sabri, whom we now call upon to transfer their residences to the Holy Land, where they will join the Hands of the Cause Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum and ‘Alí-Akbar Furútan and Counselors Anneliese Bopp, Hooper Dunbar and ‘Azíz Yazdí.

To watch over the security and ensure the protection of the Faith of God.

To direct the work of the Continental Pioneer Committees.

To administer the expenditure of the International Deputization Fund.

To administer an annual budget that will be provided from the Bahá’í International Fund, allocating therefrom to the Continental Boards of Counselors monies for special teaching projects and literature subvention, and, when necessary, contributions to the Continental Funds.

The transfer of functions and responsibilities in implementation of the above decisions will be made gradually as the new members are able to settle in the Holy Land. National Spiritual Assemblies and Continental Pioneer Committees will be notified, as necessary, of any changes in procedure that will be required; in the meantime they should continue to operate as before.

It is our ardent prayer that the decisions now taken will be blessed by Bahá’u’lláh and will enable the World Center of the Faith to coordinate and direct with ever greater effectiveness the self-sacrificing and assiduous labors of the friends of God in every part of the world during the challenging years which lie before us.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

[signed: International Teaching Centre]