A LITERARY
HISTORY OF PERSIA

Volume IV

Modern Times
(1500-1924)

BY
EDWARD G. BROWNE



Cambridge
At the University Press



I DEDICATE THIS VOLUME TO MY MOTHER
IN TOKEN OF A GREAT DEBT OF GRATITUDE AND LOVE





Firdawsí, Yúsuf u Zulaykhá (ed. Ethé, p. 240, ll. 2431-2 and 2426).




Íraj Mírzá Jalálu’l-Mamálik.



PREFACE

THIS volume concludes the task which I undertook more than twenty-two years ago, and which represents the labour of a
life-time, for ever since I began the study of Persian in the summer of 1880, being then only eighteen years of age, the desire
to write a complete Literary History of Persia has increasingly possessed me. The first instalment, “from the earliest times
until Firdawsí,” carried the history down to the early days of the eleventh century of the Christian era, and was published in

1902; and the continuation, down to the Mongol Invasion in the middle of the thirteenth century, in 1906, both these volumes
being published by Mr. Fisher Unwin. Fourteen years elapsed ere the third volume, entitled A History of Persian Literature
under Tartar Dominion (A.D. 1265-1502), saw the light. The reasons which led me to issue it in a form and under a title
differing somewhat from its predecessors are explained on p. viii of the Preface, but essentially it constitutes the third volume
of the Literary History of Persia, just as this, which deals with the last four centuries (A.D. 1500-1924), and is entitled, as
foreshadowed in the same Preface (p. ix), A History of Persian Literature in Modern Times, is to be regarded as the fourth
and last volume of the work.
Although I cannot regard this present volume as superior to its three predecessors in form or interest, and am fully aware
of its defects, I think that it contains more new matter and represents more original research than the others. Owing to the
opinion prevalent not only in Europe, but to a considerable extent in Turkey and India also, that poetry is the only department
of Persian literature which merits much attention, and that little poetry worth reading has been produced since the time of
Jámí, the literature of the last four centuries has been very much neglected, and

[page viii]

the sources of which I have made use are almost exclusively Persian, and, until the nineteenth century is reached, when
printing and lithography were gradually introduced into Persia, chiefly manuscript. In the formation of my Persian library I
have always had regard to the requirements of my work rather than to mere beauty of illumination, illustration, or hand-
writing, and I have been singularly fortunate in acquiring the very interesting collection of the late Sir Albert Houtum
Schindler and a number of the rare and precious manuscripts collected by the late Ḥájji ‘Abdu’l-Majíd Belshah. To Mr. A. G.
Ellis I am indebted for the generous loan, often for a period of several years, of many rare books to which I could not
otherwise have obtained access; while for constant and ungrudging help I am under the deepest obligations to his successor in
the Oriental Book Department of the British Museum, Mr. E. Edwards, as well as to Dr. L. Barnett, the Head of that
Department.
I wish that I could have profited more by the counsel of my Persian friends, especially Mírzá Muḥammad Khán of
Qazwín and Ḥájji Mírzá Yaḥyá of Dawlatábád, during the progress of this work, but to my old acquaintance Ḥusayn Dánish
Bey of the Ottoman Public Debt, a notable man of letters both in Persian and Turkish, I am indebted for many valuable and
illuminating observations. Another old friend, Sayyid Ḥasan Taqí-záda, fortunately chanced to visit this country after an
absence of some fourteen years while the last sheets of this book were passing through the Press, and he most kindly read
through the proofs and favoured me with numerous observations and corrections which will be noticed under the Errata and
Addenda. From well-read and intelligent Persians the European student of their language can learn many things not to be
found in books, at any rate in books to which he has access, while their taste and judgement, even if at times he cannot
wholly agree with them, are almost always suggestive and deserving of consideration. Only a few days ago I received

[page ix]

a visit from the learned Shaykh Káẓim ad-Dujaylí, an Arabic-speaking Shí‘a of ‘Iráq who has recently joined the teaching
staff of the London School of Oriental Studies, and I enquired of him what, in his opinion, were the best Arabic books on
Shí‘a doctrine. He at once named the five following works, none of which I had previously heard of, much less seen, though
all have been printed or lithographed in Persia:
(1) Kashfu’l-Ghiṭá fí Akhbárí Áli’l-Muṣṭafá, by Shaykh Ja‘far al-Kabír.
(2) Kitábu’l Qawánín, by al-Qummí.
(3) Kitábu Rasá’ili’sh-Shaykh Murtaḍá al-Anṣárí.
(4) Jawáhiru’l-Kalám, by Shaykh Muḥammad Ḥasan.
(5) Kitábu’l-Wasá’il, by Ḥájji Mírzá Ḥusayn an-Núrí

I will not attempt to thank individually all those who by their sympathy and interest have encouraged me in my book, or
who by their skilful craftsmanship have given it form and substance. The writing of it has been a pleasure, and the
completing of it is a source of thankfulness and satisfaction. Even its errors and imperfections will, I trust, by provoking
criticism and stimulating research, serve to advance and extend our knowledge of the subject, and if, as I hope, I have been
single-minded in this aim, I shall prefer the reasoned criticism of competent scholars to the undiscriminating praise of over-
zealous friends, even as Sa‘dí says: —



“Thou who recountest my virtues, thou dost me harm in sooth:
Such is my outward seeming, but thou hast not known the truth.”

EDWARD G. BROWNE.

June 12, 1924



TABLE OF CONTENTS



PAGE
PREFACE

vii



PART I
AN OUTLINE OF PERSIAN HISTORY
DURING THE LAST FOUR CENTURIES
CHAP.


I.
Some general considerations on the Ṣafawí Dynasty
II.
The Creation of the Ṣafawí Power to 930/1524. Sháh Isma‘íl and his Ancestors
III.
Culmination and Decline of the Ṣafawí Power, from Sháh Ṭahmásp (A.D. 1524-1576) to Sháh Ḥusayn
(A.D. 1694-1722)
IV.
An Outline of the history of Persia during the last two centuries (A.D. 1722-1922)



PART II
PERSIAN VERSE DURING THE LAST FOUR CENTURIES
V.
Some general considerations on the later and especially the Religious Poetry of the Persians
VI.
Poets of the Classical Tradition. Pre-Qájár period (A.D. 1500-1800)
VII.
Poets of the Qájár period



PART III
PERSIAN PROSE DURING THE LAST FOUR CENTURIES
VIII.
The orthodox Shí‘a Faith and its exponents, the Mujtahids and Mullás
IX.
Prose writers until A.D. 1850
X
The most modern developments (A.D. 1850 onwards)



INDEX




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

I.
Sháh ‘Abbás I (“the Great”)
Frontispiece
II.
Shaykh Abdál Pír-záda presenting the Uzbek leader’s horse to Sháh ‘Abbás
To face page 42
III.
Sháh ‘Abbás II
IV.
Karím Khán-i-Zand’s Court
V.
Karím Khán-i-Zand alone
VI.
Áqá Muḥammad Khán and Ḥájji Ibráhím
VII.
Shifá’í, poet and physician
VIII.
Autograph of the poet Ṣá’ib
IX.
Autograph of the poet Wiṣál
X
Ḥájji Mírzá Áqásí
XI.
Autograph of the poet Yaghmá
XII.
Muẓaffaru’d-Dín Mírzá with his tutor Riḍá-qulí Khán “Hidáyat”
XIII.
Autograph of Mullá Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí
XIV.
Autograph of Mullá Ṣadrá
XV.
Autograph of Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín-i-‘Ámilí
XVI.
Autograph of Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ



ERRATA AND ADDENDA

(The letters T.z. in brackets at the end of a note indicate
that the correction was suggested by Taqí-záda.)

p. 170, l. 14. “Read
(‘ways,’ ‘passages’) for
(‘Tombs’), which gives no good sense.” [T.z.] The washing of the
feet before praying is a Sunní practice; the Shí‘a confine themselves to mere stroking of the foot (masḥ) with the damp
hand. The clasping of the hands mentioned in the succeeding miṣrá‘ is also characteristic of the Sunnís; the Shí‘a let
them hang down by their sides.

p. 187, l. 14. “For
read
. No Shí‘a could have written this verse without exposing himself to the charge of
blasphemy.” [T.z.]

p. 188, last three lines. “The Asrár-i-Shahádat1 is commonly ascribed to Mullá Áqá-yi-Darbandí, entitled ‘the Promoter of
mourning for the Holy Family’ (Murawwij-i-‘Azá-dárí-yi-Ahl-i-Bayt).” [T.z.]

p. 220, last paragraph. “Mention should be made of the poems of Ṣafí-‘Alí Sháh, and of his versified Persian commentary on
the Qur’án.” [T.z.] (I can find no mention of him in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín, the Bustánu’s-Siyáḥat,
or any of the Catalogues at my disposal.)

p. 221, “Rúdagí,” and p. 299, “Rúdakí” should be identical in spelling, and I believe that the latter form is the more correct.

p. 222. “Mention should be made of V. Zhukovski’s collection of Persian Taṣnífs, with Russian translations, published at St
Petersburg in 1902. Berezine also published nine Taṣnífs with English

[page xiv]

translations set to music and adapted to the piano.” [T.z.] (I find that I possess the former work, which is entitled
ОЬАЗЦЋІ ПЕРСПДСАГО НАРОДНАГО ТВОРЧЕСТВА, but I cannot identify the latter.)

p. 338 “Two half-verses (miṣrá‘) have been accidentally omitted after l. 7. The two verses should run thus” [T.z.]: —



p. 355, l. 1. There is some difference of opinion as to the proper vocalization of the place-name which I have written
“Tanukábun.” Taqí-záda thinks it should be “Tunukábun,” while Riḍá-qulí Khán in his Anjuman-árá-yi-Náṣirí gives it as
“Tanakábun.”

pp. 369-370. “The titles ‘Muḥaqqiq-i-Ardabílí’ and ‘Muqaddas-i-Ardabílí’ both belong to Mullá Aḥmad, so that the first line
on p. 370 should read “The same mujtahid of Ardabíl, also entitled Muḥaqqiq,” etc.

p. 370, last line. “Ḥájji Mírzá Ḥasan-i-Shírází and Ḥájji Mírzá Ḥasan-i-Ashtiyání are not to be mentioned in the same breath.
The former was to the latter as a king is to a petty local governor.” [T.z.]

p. 373. “Áqá Jamál-i-Khwánsárí was the author of the well-known book on the superstitions of Persian women entitled
Kitáb-i-Kulthúm Nana. His father, Áqá Ḥusayn-i-Khwánsárí, was called Ustádu’l-Kull fí’l-Kull (‘the Master of All in
All’), and, besides many facetiae, wrote glosses on the Shahíd-i-thání’s commentary on the Lum‘a.” [T.z.]

p. 378, ll. 19 et seqq. “Many similar catechisms (with such titles as Risála-i-‘amaliyya, Mas’ila, Nukhba, and the like) have
been composed in the last century, and as many as a hundred may have been printed. One of the best known is the
Jámi‘u’sh-Shattát of Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim ibnu’l-Ḥusayn ar-Riḍawí al-Qummí, author of the Kitáb-i-Qawánín.”[T.z.]
Concerning the last-named writer, see Edwards’s Catalogue of Persian printed books, cols. 60 and 61.

p. 393, ll. 8-9. “‘Alí Awsaṭ succeeded his father Ḥusayn as Imám, not ‘Alí Akbar, who, together with the infant ‘Alí Aṣghar,
perished at Karbalá.” [T.z.]

[page xv]


1 It is, however, ascribed, as I have ascribed it, to Isma‘íl Khán Sarbáz by Edwards in his Catalogue of Persian Books in the British
Museum, col. 302-3. The life of Mullá Áqá-yi-Darbandí, who died at an advanced age sometime before A.D. 1873, is given in the
Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (Ṭihrán lith. ed. of 1304/1886, pp. 75-9). Amongst his works mention is there made of one entitled Iksíru’l-‘Ibádát fí
Asrárí’sh-Shahádát.

p. 407, l. 14. “The Jámí‘-i-‘Abbásí was completed in 20 chapters, and has been printed repeatedly, but the first five chapters
are often published separately for the instruction of children in elementary religious duties.” [T.z.] According to Edwards
(op. cit., cols. 407-8) chapters vi-xx were subsequently added to Shaykh-i-Bahá'í’s unfinished work by Niẓám b.
Ḥusayn-i-Sáwají.

p. 407, fourth line from the end, and p. 435, l. 5. “The Abwábu’l-Janán was not by Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ, but, so far as I
remember, by Mullá Ḥusayn Wá‘iẓ-i-Káshifí, the author of the well-known Anwár-i-Suhaylí.” [T.z.] The real author
appears to have been Muḥammad b. Fatḥu’lláh Rafí‘u’d-Dín, called ‘Wá‘iẓ-i-Qazwíní’ (‘the Preacher of Qazwín’). See
Edwards, op. cit., cols. 405-6.

p. 410. “Sayyid Muḥammad Báqir of Rasht was only a third- or fourth-rate theologian, and Mullá Aḥmad-i-Niráqí (p. 411)
only of the second class. Much more important, though omitted here, are: —
(i) Áqá-yi-Bihbihání, the founder of the Uṣúlí and Mujtahidí School, who flourished at the end of twelfth century of the
hijra.
(ii) Shaykh Ja‘far-i-‘Arab (also called al-Kabír, ‘the Great’), who was contemporary with Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh.
(iii) Shaykh Muḥammad Ḥasan, author of the Jawáhiru’l-Kalám, a large work in six volumes on Shí‘a Jurisprudence
(see p. ix supra).
(iv) Shaykh Murtaḍá al-Anṣárí, founder of present-day Shí‘a Law, and the Master of all the mujtahids of the last seventy
years with the exception of —
(v) Shaykh Hádí of Ṭihrán, who was also of the first class.”

p. 430. “Shaykh Aḥmad al-Aḥsá’í was not an admirer and follower but a great enemy of Mullá Ṣadrá. Of modern Persian
philosophers mention should have been made of Mírzá Abu’l-Ḥasan-i-Jilwa, who died only some twenty years ago.”
[T.z.] I met him in Ṭihrán in the winter of 1887-8. See my Year amongst the Persians, p. 149.

p. 435. “One of the best of Mullá Muḥsin’s works is the Kalimát-i-Maknúna (‘Hidden Words’), of which mention should
have been made here.” [T.z.]

p. 441. “Dr Muḥammad of Kirmánsháh, called Kufwí, who died in 1326/1908, specialized in cardiac diseases, and first called
attention

[page xvi]

to a peculiar murmur (called in French ‘empiolement’) characteristic of embolism, on which he published a monograph
in French2. He also wrote several medical treatises on the Diseases of Women and Children in Persian.” [T.z.]

p. 454, l. 1. “For I‘timádu’d-Dawla read I‘timádu’s-Salṭana.” [T.z.]

p. 468. “Newspapers existed in Persia before A.D. 1851, in the reign of Muḥammad Sháh (A.D.1835-1848) and even in the
later days of his predecessor Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh. See the Káwa newspaper passim, especially No. 6 of the New Series
(Dawra-i-Jadid).” [T.z.] The article in question appeared in the issue of June 8, 1921, pp. 14-16. It mentions a rather
vague report of a Persian newspaper published at Dihlí in A.D. 1798, and a much more definite report of one published
in Ṭihrán in 1253/1837-8.

p. 486, end. “The articles to which reference is here made were not by Mírzá Muḥammad Khán but by myself, writing under
the pen-name of Muḥaṣṣil (‘Student’).” [T.z.]3

p. 488. “To say ‘Mírzá Káẓim-záda,’ ‘Sayyid Jamál-záda,’ ‘Taqí-záda Khán’ and the like is as contrary to Persian usage as to
say in English ‘Sir Grey’ for ‘Sir Edward Grey’ and the like. Such titles as ‘Mírzá,’ ‘Sayyid’ and Ḥájji can only be
prefixed, as ‘Khan,’ ‘Beg’ and the like can only be suffixed, to personal names, such as Ḥasan, ‘Alí and Muḥammad, not
to patronymics.” [T.z.]4



2 I have been unable to find any trace of this alleged discovery or of the French term connoting it (which I think should be empilement),
though I have consulted two eminent physicians on the subject.
3 Taqí-záda’s letter was received in time to correct the two passages to which the two concluding notes refer, but I have allowed them to
stand because the first specifies the true authorship of the articles in question, while the second lays down a rule of which I had hitherto
been unaware.
4 Taqí-záda’s letter was received in time to correct the two passages to which the two concluding notes refer, but I have allowed them to
stand because the first specifies the true authorship of the articles in question, while the second lays down a rule of which I had hitherto
been unaware.

PART I.
AN OUTLINE OF PERSIAN HISTORY
DURING THE LAST FOUR CENTURIES



CHAPTER I.
SOME GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON
THE ṢAFAWÍ DYNASTY.

The rise of the Ṣafawí dynasty in Persia at the beginning of the sixteenth century of the Christian era was an event of the
greatest historical importance, not only to Persia herself and her immediate neighbours, but to Europe generally. It marks not
only the restoration of the Persian Empire and the re-creation of the Persian nationality after an eclipse of more than eight
centuries and a half, but the entrance of Persia into the comity of nations and the genesis of political relations which still to a
considerable extent hold good. Mr. R. G. Watson in the brief retrospect with which he opens his excellent History of Persia
from the beginning of the Nineteenth Century to the year 18585 shows a true appreciation of the facts when he takes this
period as his starting-point, for in truth it marks the transition from mediaeval to comparatively modern times. The Arab
conquest in the middle of the seventh century after Christ overthrew the Zoroastrian religion and the Sásánian Empire, and
reduced Persia to the position of a mere province of the Caliphate, until the Caliphate itself was destroyed by the Mongols or
Tartars in the middle of the thirteenth century. Both before and after this momentous event there were, it is true, independent
or quasi-independent dynasties ruling in Persia, but these were generally of Turkish or Tartar origin, like the Ghaznawís,
Saljúqs, Khwárazmsháhs, and Houses of Chingíz and Tímúr; or, if Persian like the Buwayhids, exercised control over a
portion only of the old Persian Empire. To the

[page 4]

Ṣafawí dynasty belongs the credit of making Persia “a nation once again,” self-contained, centripetal, powerful and respected,
within borders practically identical in the time of Sháh ‘Abbás the Great (A.D. 1587-1628) with those of the Sásánian
Empire. It was then that Iṣfahán, whither he transferred the seat of government from Qazwín, became, as the Persian saying
runs, “Half the world” (Niṣf-i-Jahán), or “Medio mundo” as Don Juan of Persia has it, abounding in splendid buildings and
skilful craftsmen, frequented by merchants from distant lands, and visited by diplomatic missions, not only from India,
Transoxiana and Turkey, but from almost every European state from Russia to Spain and Portugal.
Yet, in spite of its importance and the abundant materials available, no good complete history6 of the Ṣafawí dynasty has
yet been written. The outlines given by Sir John Malcolm and Sir Clements Markham in their histories of Persia are
inadequate in scope and inaccurate in detail, and are based on very limited materials, and those not by any means the most
authentic. The abundance and variety of the materials, the inaccessibility of many important sources of information, and the
polyglot character of the documents concerned constitute serious obstacles to one who aspires to treat adequately of this
period. The four most important contemporary Persian records of its earlier portion, down to the death of Sháh ‘Abbás the
Great, are the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, containing the biography of Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín, that celebrated saint of the thirteenth
century from whom the dynasty derives its name; the Nasab-náma-i-Silsila-i-Ṣafawiyya on the genealogy of the family, with
valuable biographical details of its earlier representatives not to be found elsewhere; the

[page 5]

Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, completed in A.D. 1577, only about a year after the death of Shah Ṭahmásp, whose reign together with
that of his father and predecessor Sháh Isma‘íl, the founder of the dynasty, it records ; and the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-
‘Abbásí, an immense monograph on the reign of Sháh ‘Abbás the Great. Not one of these has been published7,much less
translated, and all except the last are very rare even in manuscript. Of the Nasab-náma and the ‘Álam-árá I am fortunate
enough to possess copies which formerly belonged to the late Sir Albert Houtum-Schindler, while the incomparable
generosity of Mr. A. G. Ellis placed at my disposal manuscripts of the two other histories mentioned above. And though the
authors of later general histories in Persian, such as Riḍá-qulí Khán in his supplement to Mírkhwánd’s Rawḍatu’s-Ṣafá, have
made use of some of these works, they too often not merely abridge but grievously distort the passages they cite.
Of such wanton distortion the following is a good instance. In July, A.D. 1599, Sháh ‘Abbás the Great sent to Europe a
mission accredited to the Courts of Russia Poland, Germany, France, Spain, England and Scotland, and to the Pope of Rome

5 London: Smith and Elder, 1866.
6 Of Krusinski’s and Hanway’s admirable accounts of the later Ṣafawí period I shall speak in chap. iii.
7 Since this was written I have received through a Persian correspondent a copy of the excellent lithographed edition of the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá
published at Bombay in 1329/1911.

and the Seniory of Venice. This mission included Ḥusayn ‘Alí Beg8 as Persian Envoy, with four Persian gentlemen or
“knights” (caballeros, as they are called in Don Juan of Persia’s narrative), fifteen Persian servants, the celebrated Sir
Anthony Sherley with fifteen English attendants, two Portuguese friars, and five interpreters.

[page 6]

Travelling by way of the Caspian Sea and the Volga, they first visited Moscow, where they remained for five or six months;
thence through Germany to Italy, where they were not permitted to go to Venice for fear of offending an Ottoman envoy who
happened to be there at the time, but were well received at Rome, where they arrived in April, 1601, and remained for two
months. Thence they proceeded by ship from Genoa to the south of France and so to Spain, where three of the four “Persian
knights” adopted the Catholic faith and took the names of Don Philippe, Don Diego and Don Juan of Persia.
Sir Anthony Sherley, whose relations with his Persian colleague had from the first been very strained, separated himself
from the mission at Rome, but up to that point the independent accounts written by himself and some of his companions9
enable us to check Don Juan’s narrative. Don Juan, however, having apostasized from Islám, dared not return to Persia to
meet the fate of a renegade, so that for the tragic sequel we must turn to the Persian historians. In the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí
under the year 1022/1613-410 we find an account of the arrival at Iṣfahán of ambassadors from the King of Spain,
accompanied by several Christian priests and a Persian envoy returning from Europe11. The latter, who had incurred the
Sháh’s displeasure, was incontinently put to death in the most cruel manner, without being permitted any opportunity for
explanation or apology; and the Sháh then explained to the Spaniards that he had dealt thus with him because of sundry
treasonable and disrespectful acts of

[page 7]

which he had been guilty during his mission, such as opening letters sealed with the royal seal and making known their
contents; wearing mourning on the occasion of the Queen of Spain’s death; and selling the credentials to the Pope with which
he had been provided to a merchant who should impersonate him and derive what profit he could from the transaction. “But,”
the Sháh concluded, “the chief of his faults and the chief reason for his punishment was that he behaved so ill towards the
attendants who accompanied him, and vexed them so much, that several of them adopted the Christian faith and remained in
Europe in order to escape from his tyranny, so that zeal for Islám required his punishment, and thus he received his deserts.”
Turning now to Riḍá-qulí Khán’s supplement to the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, a general history of Persia compiled about A.D.
1858, we find an account of the same event obviously copied, with very slight modifications, from the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí,
but with one important and most wanton alteration, for Sháh ‘Abbás is there represented as saying that the chief of his
ambassador’s faults was that several persons were disposed to embrace Islám and come to Persia, but the Persian envoy
treated them so ill that they repented of their intention, returned to the Christian faith, and remained in that country. For this
deliberate falsification of history I can only account by supposing that Riḍá-qulí Khán did not wish to encourage the idea that
a Persian Muslim could possibly become a Christian; but the moral I wish to draw is that the later Persian historians must be
used with great caution, and that every statement should, where possible, be traced to contemporary records.
Before leaving this subject, I must refer to an erroneous conjecture of Sir John Malcolm’s arising from an inadequate use
of the Persian sources. In the year 1002/1593-4, being the seventh year of Sháh ‘Abbás’s reign, Jalál, the Chief Astrologer,
foretold dis-

[page 8]

aster to the occupant of the Throne, and advised that the Sháh should abdicate for a few days and substitute for himself some
person worthy of death on whom the prediction of the stars might be fulfilled. This was accordingly done, and a man named
Yúsufí was made king for three days, at the conclusion of which he was put to death, and Sháh ‘Abbás resumed the Throne.
Sir John Malcolm12 says that this Yúsufí, “whom Persian authors take care to tell us was an unbeliever,” was “probably a
Christian,” but this is an error; he belonged to a heterodox Muslim sect called Nuqṭawiyya (“People of the Point”) who
believed in metempsychosis and other heretical doctrines, and of whose appearance and destruction a full account is given by
the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí13 and reproduced in the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá. It is therefore essential, if a true history of the Ṣafawís is
to be written, that we should go back to the original sources, and, as a preliminary, that these sources, at present existing only
in manuscript, should be published.

8 Don Juan calls him (f. 120b) “Uzen Aly Bech,” but Antonio di Govea has “Ussein Alibeg,” which shows clearly that the first part of the
name is Ḥusayn, not Úzún, as I had at first supposed.
9 See especially The Sherley Brothers…by one of the same House (Chiswick, 1828), pp. 22-35.
10 F. 230 of my MS. marked H. 14.
11 Although the envoy is here named Dengiz Beg Shámlú with the title of Yúz-báshí (Captain), not Ḥusayn ‘Alí Beg, as in Don Juan’s
narrative (f. 120b), there can, I think, be little doubt as to their identity.
12 History of Persia (London, 1815), vol. i, p. 527.
13 Ff. 46b-47b of my MS. H.14.

The Persian histories, however, are only part of the material available for such a work: the numerous and in some cases
excellent Turkish chronicles, published and unpublished, dealing with this period, and especially with the Turco-Persian wars
which continued almost without intermission during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, constitute an indispensable
supplement and corrective. Almost more important is Firídún Bey’s great collection of Turkish State Papers entitled
Munsha’át-i-Saláṭín, compiled some time before 991/1583 and published at Constantinople in two volumes14 in 1274/1858.

[page 9]

The diplomatic correspondence contained in this valuable and insufficiently-appreciated book is arranged chronologically
and is partly in Turkish, partly in Arabic, and partly in Persian. From the time of Tímúr onwards much of it is concerned with
contemporary Persian affairs, and of the last half of the first volume a large portion consists of letters interchanged between
the Sulṭáns Báyazíd II (A.D. 1482-1512), Salím I (A.D. 1512-1520), and Sulaymán I (A.D. 1520-1566) on the one hand, and
Sháh Isma‘íl (A.D. 1500-1524) and his son and successor Sháh Ṭahmásp (A.D. 1524-1576) on the other. There are also
valuable journals of certain campaigns, such as that which culminated in the Battle of Cháldirán, so disastrous to the Persians,
on August 23, 1514, wherein the movements of the Ottoman army and the incidents of their outward and homeward marches
are chronicled day by day. Other State Papers, both Persian and Turkish, which exist only in manuscript, have hitherto
remained practically unexplored15.
A third class of materials of which it is impossible to overestimate the importance consists of the writings of Europeans
who visited Persia during this period on diplomatic, missionary or commercial business. Thanks to the liberal attitude of Sháh
‘Abbás the Great towards Christians, the number of these in his and the succeeding reigns was very large. The best general
account of them and their works with which I have met is that given by the late M. Charles Schefer, in the Introduction (pp. i-
cxv) to his edition of l’Estat de la Perse en 166016 by le Père Raphaël du Mans, Superior of the Capuchin Mission at Iṣfahán,
a man singularly qualified by

[page 10]

his high character and intellectual attainments, as well as by his prolonged sojourn of fifty years (A.D. 1644-1696) in Iṣfahán,
to speak with authority. The works enumerated by M. Schefer17 are variously written in Dutch, English, French, German,
Italian, Latin, Portuguese and Spanish, but many of the more important have appeared in two or three different languages. Of
their authors (excluding the earlier Venetian envoys to the Court of Úzún Ḥasan, such as Caterino Zeno, Josepho Barbaro and
Ambrosio Contarini, most of whom visited Persia during the latter half of the fifteenth century, and consequently before the
rise of the Ṣafawí dynasty) the best known are Anthony Jenkinson, the Sherley brothers, Cartwright, Parry and Sir Thomas
Herbert of the English, and of the others Antonio di Govea, Don Garcias de Silva Figuerosa, Olearius, Teixeira, Pietro della
Valle, Tavernier, Thevenot, and last but not least Chardin and Pétis de la Croix. M. Schefer does not carry his survey beyond
the seventeenth century, but the final downfall of the Ṣafawís before the Afghán onslaught in A.D. 1722 found an able
historian in the Jesuit Père Krusinski, while letters from some of the Dutch merchants in Iṣfahán, a few of which have been
published by H. Dunlop in his Perzië (Haarlem, 1912; pp. 242-7), serve to illuminate the tragic details of that disaster. From
this time until the rise of the present Qájár dynasty towards the end of the eighteenth century comparatively  few Europeans
visited or resided in Persia, a fact due partly to the unsettled state of the country, and the consequent difficulties in the way of
missionary or commercial enterprises, and partly to the

[page 11]

changed political conditions. The object of the numerous diplomatic missions from various European countries which visited
Persia during and immediately before the Ṣafawí period was, in nearly all cases, to seek her cooperation in combating the
formidable power of the Ottoman Turks, which was at its height during the period which began with their conquest of
Constantinople in A.D. 1453 and culminated in the reigns of Sulṭáns Salím “the Grim” and Sulaymán “the Magnificent”
(A.D. 1512-1566), of whom the former conquered Egypt and the Holy Cities and assumed the title of Caliph, while the latter
only failed by the narrowest margin to capture Vienna. So formidable did the Turkish menace appear to European statesmen
that Busbecq, Ferdinand’s ambassador at the Court of Sulaymán, expressed himself in the following remarkable words: “’Tis
only the Persian stands between us and ruin. The Turk would fain be upon us, but he keeps him back. This war with him

14 When this was written, I possessed only the first volume, which contains 626 pp. and comes down to the year 966/1558. By the kindness
of my friend Ḥusayn Dánish Bey I have since acquired the second volume also.
15 Some other very interesting State Papers from the Dastúru’l-Inshá of Ṣárí ‘Abdu’lláh Efendi (d. 1079/1668) have also been published
and annotated by the late M. Ch. Schefer in his Chrestomathie Persane (Paris, 1885),vol. ii, pp. 218-259 and ۱١۳٣۲٢-۹٩۰٠۲٢.
16 Leroux, Paris, 1890, pp. cxv + 465.
17 To these we must not omit to add the Mirátu’l-Mamálik (“Mirror of Kingdoms”) of the gallant Turkish admiral Sídí ‘Alí Ra’is, who
travelled overland from India to Turkey in A.D. 1554-6, and was received by Sháh Ṭahmásp at Qazwín. Vambéry’s English translation of
this book (Luzac, London, 1899) leaves a good deal to be desired.

affords us only a respite, not a deliverance18.” In A.D. 1722 when the Ṣafawí dynasty, long degenerate, finally collapsed,
Persia was left for the moment a negligible quantity, the Turks had ceased to be a menace to Europe, and the bitter sectarian
quarrel which lay at the root of two centuries of Turco-Persian warfare gradually lost much of its virulence, especially after
the development of the more conciliatory policy of the great Nádir Sháh. Under these changed conditions the earlier
European policy became at once unnecessary and impossible.
From this brief survey of the sources whence our knowledge of the Ṣafawí dynasty is derived, we must now pass to the
consideration of its chief characteristics. These, though clear enough in general outline, present a series of very interesting
problems

[page 12]

which even yet cannot be regarded in all cases as definitely solved. These problems group themselves under the headings of
Nationality, Religion, Art and Literature, and in this order we shall now proceed to consider them.


NATIONALITY.

It has been said above that to the Ṣafawís belongs the credit of making Persia, after the lapse of eight centuries and a
half, “a nation once again.” This is true, but the nationalism which thus found expression was very different in several
respects from the various forms of nationalism with which we are familiar at the present day. Language and race, which are
the key-notes of the latter, played a very small part in it compared with religion. At no time was the mutual hatred of Turk
and Persian more violent and bitter than during the eight years (A.D. 1512-1520) when Sulṭán Salím “the Grim,” and Sháh
Isma‘íl, the founder of the Ṣafawí power, were the respective protagonists of the two nations. The despatches of this period,
recorded by Firídún Bey, pass from the realm of diplomacy to that of vulgar abuse, and “rascally Red-heads” (Awbásh-i-
Qizil-básh) is the politest expression wherewith the Turkish Sulṭán refers to his Persian foes, The cause of this intense hatred,
equally adequate and obvious, will be discussed under the heading of “Religion,” but it did not extend to race or language.
When America entered the late War it was stated in the newspapers that in certain towns the people, to give vent to their
hatred of everything German, collected all the German books they could find and burned them. No Turk or Persian of the
sixteenth century would have given expression to his feelings of hostility in so puerile a fashion. On the contrary, it is a
remarkable fact that while Sulṭán Salím and Sháh Isma‘íl both possessed considerable poetic talent, the former wrote almost
exclusively in Persian, and the latter, under the pen-

[page 13]

name of Khaṭá’í, almost exclusively in Turkish19. Ottoman hatred was directed against the heretical Qizil-básh as
misbelievers, not as Persians (Írání), while the Persian language (Fársí) continued to hold its position as the polite idiom of
literature and diplomacy. And though the ancient conflict between Írán and Túrán was familiar to all educated Turks and
Persians in the classical Sháh-náma, or “Book of Kings,” of Firdawsí, Salím, in the following curious exordium to a despatch
written in April, 1514 (Ṣafar, 920)20, compares himself to the legendary Persian kings Firídún, Kay-Khusraw and Dárá, while
likening his Persian opponent Sháh Isma‘íl to the Turkish protagonist Afrásiyáb:



[After the doxology] “But to proceed. This excellent address hath been issued on our part,
we who are the Refuge of the Caliphate21, the slayer of the infidels and polytheists,

18 Creasy’s History of the Ottoman Turks (London, 1877), pp. 171-2 ad calc. Cf. Forster and Daniell’s Life and Letters of…Busbecq
(London, 1881), vol. i, pp. 221-2.
19 See E. J. W. Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. ii, p. 261, for a brief account of Salím’s Persian Díwán, of which a most sumptuous
edition, based on numerous MSS., by the late Dr. Paul Horn, was printed in Berlin as a gift to the late Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd from the ex-
Emperor of Germany in 1904. A number of Sháh Isma‘íl’s Turkish poems are given in my MS. of the Silsilatu’n-Nasab-i-Ṣafawiyya. See
J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, p. 412, where other references are given.
20 See Firídún Bey, vol. i, p. 381.
21 An interesting proof that, contrary to the views of Professor Nallino, the position of Caliph was already claimed by Sulṭán Salím, as it
certainly was by his son and successor Sulaymán.

[page 14]

the extirpator of the foes of the Faith, the humbler of the Pharaohs’ pride22, the tarnisher
of the Kháqán’s23 crowns, the King of those who fight and strive for Religion, whose
pomp is as that of Firídún, whose Court is as that of Alexander, whose justice and equity
is as that of Kay-Khusraw, that Dárá of noble descent, Sulṭán Salím Sháh, son of Sulṭán
Báyazíd, son of Sulṭán Muḥammad Khán, to thee, who art the ruler of the Persians, the
most mighty general and puissant leader, the Ḍaḥḥák24 of the time, the Dáráb of the
combat, the Afrásiyáb of the age, the famous Amír Isma‘íl.”

On the other hand I have only found one verse wherein Sháh Isma‘íl is definitely identified with the Persian as contrasted
with the Shí‘a cause. This verse occurs in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh25 and runs:



“The illuminator of the crown and throne of the Kayánians26,
The upholder of the star of the Káwayán27.”

For the rest, the seven tribes who formed the back-bone of the Qizil-básh army were, as their names Rúmlú, Shámlú,
Mawṣillú, etc., sufficiently indicate, almost exclusively Turkish, as were the principal officers of the Ṣafawí army, whose
war-cry, as we learn

[page 15]

from the rare history of Sháh Isma‘íl28, was not “Long live Persia!” or the like, but, in the Turkish language, “O my spiritual
guide and master whose sacrifice I am!”



More than a century after Isma‘íl’s death, when the capital had been transferred from the north of Persia to Iṣfahán,
Turkish seems still to have been the language generally spoken at Court29. These instances, to which might be added many
more, will suffice to show how different was the spirit which animated the Ṣafawí revival (though it undoubtedly produced
that homogeneity which is the basis of national sentiment) from the Nationalism of the modern Pan-Turanians and “Young
Persians,” who put the extension and purification from foreign elements of the national language in the foremost place in
their programme. At the present time the Turkish nationalists of Angora proclaim their new Caliph in Turkish instead of in
the time-honoured Arabic, while Riḍá Khán, the Persian military dictator, strives to introduce in his army a purely Persian
military terminology.


RELIGION.

Although the Muhammadans, according to their own statements, are divided into seventy-two or seventy-three different
sects30, in later times at any rate, when certain controversies, such as those connected with Free Will and Predestination and
the

[page 16]

22 Literally, “he who rubs in the dust the noses of the Pharaohs,” alluding to Sulṭán Salím’s conquest of Egypt and overthrow of the
Mameluke dynasty.
23 The Kháqán is the title given to the king of Túrán and the Turks. The word is, I believe, Mongol, and is identical with the alternative
forms Qá’án and Khán.
24 Ḍaḥḥák is the Azhi-daháka or Dragon-king of the Avesta, represented in the Sháh-náma as an Arab usurper.
25 Under the year 908/1502-3, f. 47b of Mr. A. G. Ellis’s MS.
26 The second dynasty of the ancient legendary kings of Persia.
27 Káwa was the patriotic blacksmith who led the revolt against the foreign usurper Ḍaḥḥák, and whose leather apron became the national
standard under the name of Dirafsh-i-Káwayán.
28 Add. 200, f. 41a of the Cambridge University Library. See Sir E. Denison Ross’s description of this book in the J.R.A.S. for 1896, vol.
xxviii, pp. 264-283.
29 See the second English edition of Olearius (London, 1669); p. 212.
30 See Shahristání’s Kitábu’l-Milal, ed. Cureton, pp. 2-3.

Creation of the Qur’án, have sunk into a subordinate position, it may fairly be said that the capital and cardinal division is
into the People of the Sunnat and the People of the Shí‘a. Scattered communities of the latter are found in Asia Minor, Syria
(where they are called Mutawallí, pl. Matáwila), India and other Muhammadan lands, but in Persia only is the Shí‘a doctrine
not only that held by the great majority of the people, but also the State Religion. Before considering how it was raised to this
position by the Ṣafawís about the year A.D. 1500, we must briefly consider its essential nature, and here we cannot do better
than quote Shahristání, the learned author of the Kitábu’l-Milal, or “Book of Sects,” who died in the middle of the twelfth
century, and who writes of them31 as follows:
“THE SHÍ‘A. — They are those who took the side of (Sháya‘ú) ‘Alí in particular, declaring him to be Imám and Khalífa
by explicit written deed, public or secret, and believing that the Imámate cannot quit his posterity; and that, should it do so, it
is only by reason of wrong wrought by another, or prudential renunciation on his own part32. They assert that the Imámate is
not a question of expediency but of principle: it does not depend on popular choice, so that an Imám can be set up by their
appointment, but is an essential of Religion which it is not permissible for even the Apostle of God to ignore or neglect, and
which cannot be transferred or committed to the common people. They are united in their assertion as to the necessity of such
explicit designation [of the Imám on the part of his predecessor] and the established innocence of the Imáms of all sins, small
or great, and also

[page 17]

in their principles of recognition and repudiation, alike in word, deed and faith, save in cases of ‘prudential concealment’
(taqiyya), in which point, however, some of the Zaydís oppose them. As to the actual transmission of the Imámate. however,
there is much discussion and difference of opinion, and at each such transmission and stage there is an argument, a doctrine
and a schism. There are five [principal] divisions, the Kaysánis, the Zaydís, the Imámís, the Extremists (Ghulát) and the
Isma‘ílís, of whom some incline in their principles to the Mu‘tazila, some to the Sunna and; some to Anthropomorphism
(tashbíh).”
Put in a briefer, clearer and more concrete form, this means that all the Shí‘a reject and repudiate the first three of the
“Four Orthodox Caliphs” (al-Khulafá-u’r-Ráshidún), Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán, who were elected, and hold that ‘Alí,
the cousin of the Prophet Muḥammad and the husband of his daughter Fáṭima, should have succeeded him, and had in fact
been nominated by him as his successor; and that after ‘Alí the succession continued in his family by Divine Right. But even
within this family there was no place for election, each Imám specifically choosing and nominating his successor, as the
Prophet had chosen and nominated ‘Alí. Amongst those who agreed in these general principles, however, there was plenty of
room for disagreement as to details. Some of the Shí‘a were content that the Imám should be descended from ‘Alí, and were
therefore ready to recognise Muḥammad ibnu’l-Ḥanafiyya, “the son of the Ḥanafite woman”; others, including the “Sect of
the Seven” or Isma‘ílís and the “Sect of the Twelve” or Imámís, with which last we are chiefly concerned, limited the
succession to the children born to ‘Alí by his wife Fáṭima, the Prophet’s daughter. With the third Imám Ḥusayn, ‘Alí’s
younger son by Fáṭima, a new factor came into operation, for, according to quite early and respectable historians, such as

[page 18]

al-Ya‘qúbí33, a daughter of the last Sásánian king of Persia, Yazdigird III, was given to him in marriage and bore him a son
named ‘Alí and entitled Zaynu’l-’Ábidín, who was the Fourth Imám, and who combined in himself direct descent from the
Prophet through his daughter Fáṭima and from the ancient Royal House of Persia. Small wonder that to him and his
descendants the loyal devotion of the Persians was so freely rendered!
Thus we see that the quarrel between Sunní and Shí‘a is by no means one of names and personalities only, but of the
essentially antagonistic doctrines of Democracy and the Divine Right of Kings. The Arabs are, and always have been, in
large measure democratic in their ideas, while the Persians have ever been disposed to see in their Kings divine or semi-
divine beings. And if the idea of a humanly-elected head of the State be repugnant, how much more that of an Imám, or Vice-
gerent of the Prophet, chosen by popular suffrage? Hence the Imámí and Isma‘ílí sects of the Shí‘a have always had their
stronghold in Persia, though under the Sunní Turkish dynasties of the Ghaznawís and Saljúqs they were kept in a state of
subordination34. They were more favoured under the Buwayhids and some of the Mongols, notably Gházán and Khudá-banda
(Uljáytú), but they first obtained unquestioned supremacy throughout the whole of Persia under the Ṣafawís.
Who, then, were these Ṣafawís, when did they so vehemently adopt the Shí‘a doctrine, and how did they succeed in
establishing their supremacy?

[page 19]

31 Op. cit., pp. 108-9.
32 E.g. the second Imám, al-Ḥasan, elder son of ‘Alí, ostensibly surrendered his rights “for prudential reasons” (taqiyya) to the Umayyad
Mu‘áwiya, but he could not really divest himself of the sacred quality of Imám.
33 He wrote about the end of the ninth Christian century, and his excellent history, edited by Houtsma, was published at Leyden in two vols.
in 1883. See also vol. i of my Lit. Hist. of Persia, p. 229 and n. 2 ad calc.
34 Abundant illustrations of this are furnished by such works of the Saljúq period as the Siyásat-náma and the Ráḥatu’ṣ-Ṣudúr.

Ṣafawí is the adjective formed from Ṣafí, a notable Ṣúfí saint, named in full Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín, who died in Gílán in A.D. 1334
at the age of 85 in the odour of sanctity, and who claimed to be descended in the twentieth degree from Músá Káẓim the
seventh Imám35. That he was really a man of note in his own time is proved beyond doubt by the way in which his
contemporary, the great statesman and historian Rashídu’d-Dín Faḍlu’lláh, speaks of him in his letters36, and also by the fact
that an immense biography of him, the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, was composed shortly after his death, largely from data supplied by
his son Ṣadru’d-Dín, which has been used directly or indirectly by all the historians of the great dynasty whereof he was the
ancestor. Sháh Isma‘íl, the actual founder of the dynasty, was sixth in descent from him, but I have found no evidence to
prove that he himself adopted the violent Shí‘a views characteristic of his descendants. The little evidence available points
rather the other way, for in a letter written to Isma‘íl’s son Sháh Ṭahmásp in A.D. 1529-30 by the Uzbek leaders, they say
that, according to what they have heard, Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín was a good Sunní, and express their astonishment that
Ṭahmásp “neither follows the example of His Holiness Murtaḍá ‘Alí, nor that of his forefather37.” Khwája ‘Alí, grandson of
Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín and great-great-grandfather of Sháh Isma‘íl, is the first member of the House who shows a strong Shí‘a bias38
and holds converse in his dreams with the Imáms, and his grandson Junayd and his great-grandson Ḥaydar are the first to
assert their claims with the sword and to die on the field of battle.
At the beginning of the fifteenth century, then, the Ṣafawís were simply the hereditary pírs, murshids, or spiritual

[page 20]

directors of an increasingly large and important order of darwíshes or Ṣúfís which drew its adherents not only from Persia but
from the Turkish provinces of Asia Minor, where they appear to have carried on an active propaganda39. How successful this
promised to become in later days is shown by the dreadful massacre of some forty thousand of the Shí‘a perpetrated in his
dominions by Sulṭán Salím “the Grim” as a preliminary to his great campaign against Sháh Isma‘íl in A.D. 151440. To these
devoted darwíshes or muríds, as their war-cry cited above (p. 15) sufficiently shows, the head of the Ṣafawí House, even after
he had ceased to be a Shaykh and had become a Sháh, continued to be regarded as the pír or murshid. Chardin, Raphaël du
Mans41, and other reputable authorities have scoffed at the title “Great Sophi,” by which the Ṣafawí Sháhs are commonly
designated by contemporary European diplomatists and writers, on the ground that the Ṣúfís were generally poor and humble
people and of doubtful orthodoxy, despised and rejected of men, and unlikely to lend their name to the Great King of Persia.
But in the Persian histories of the Ṣafawís, even in the Silsilatu’n-Nasab compiled about the time when Raphaël du Mans
wrote, and still more in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh and other earlier chronicles, the Ṣúfís, especially the Ṣúfís of Rúm (i.e.
Turkey in Asia), are represented as the cream of the Ṣafawí army; we read of “self-sacrifice, courage, and whatever else is
inseparable from Ṣúfí-hood42” and of unworthy and disloyal acts described as “un-Ṣúfí-like”(ná-Ṣúfí). What, then, more
natural than that he who was regarded not only as the Sháh of Persia

[page 21]

but as the Shaykh of these devoted darwíshes or Ṣúfís, whose courage amazed contemporary Venetian travellers, should be
called in Europe “the Great Ṣúfí” or “Sophi”? At any rate no more probable origin has been suggested for this term, which
can scarcely be regarded as a corrupt pronunciation of Ṣafawí.
It would appear that an idea prevailed in Europe (based, perhaps, on vague recollections of the Magi or Wise Men from
the East) that Sophi was derived from σοϕός, an opinion which Don Juan of Persia43 is at pains to refute; for, having
described how Sháh Isma‘íl immediately after he had conquered Tabríz adopted the title of “gran Sophi de Persia,” he adds:
“no Sophi por sabio, como algunos mal entendieron, pensando que venia de Sòpos vocablo Griego, sino de Sophi, que es
vocablo Persiano, y quiere dezir, lana, ō algodon” (“Not Sophi in the sense of wise, as some have erroneously supposed,
thinking it to come from the Greek word σοϕός, but from Sophi, which is a Persian word meaning wool or cotton44”).
The rapid rise to power of Isma‘íl is one of the most remarkable events in Persian history, especially in view of his
forlorn and threatened childhood. His father, Shaykh Ḥaydar, was killed in A.D. 1490 when he was only about three years of
age45, and he and his two brothers, of whom the elder, Sulṭán ‘Alí, also fell in battle about A.D. 1495, were in constant
danger from the Turkmán rulers of the “White Sheep” dynasty, and had many hair-breadth escapes in which they owed their
lives to the devoted loyalty of their faithful Ṣúfís. Only seven of these accompanied Isma‘íl when, at the age of thirteen, he
set out from Láhiján for Ardabíl to win a kingdom or perish in the attempt, but at every

35 For the full pedigree, see the J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, p. 397 and n. I ad calc.
36 Ibid., pp. 417-18.
37 For the text of this passage, see p. 43 infra.
38 See the J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, pp. 407-8.
39 See Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. ii, pp. 227-8 ad calc.
40 Ibid., p. 259, and pp. 71-3 infra.
41 L’Estat de la Perse en 1660, ed. Schefer, pp. 16-17.
42 See J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, the Persian words on the illustration facing p. 415.
43 Ed. Valladolid. 1604. f. 50a.
44 Krusinski agrees with this view. See p. 68 of the English version (London, 1728).
45 He was born on Rajab 5, 892 (June 27, 1487).

[page 22]

stage he received reinforcements, so that at Ṭárum his army numbered fifteen hundred men, and by the time he reached
Arzinján on his way to attack Farrukh-Yasár, king of Shírwán, it had increased to seven thousand. Within a year he had taken
Tabríz, been crowned king of Persia, and, despite the attempts of his counsellors to dissuade him, imposed the Shí‘a doctrine
on his subjects. He was warned that two-thirds of the people of Tabríz were Sunnís, and that the introduction into the prayers
and professions of Faith of the distinctively Shí‘a clauses, and more especially the cursing of the first three Caliphs, Abú
Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán, might lead to trouble. “God and the Immaculate Imáms are with me,” he replied, “and I fear no
one. By God’s help, if the people utter one word of protest, I will draw the sword and leave not one of them alive46.” He was
as good as his word, and when the above-mentioned anathema was uttered all men were commanded, on pain of death, to
exclaim, “May it (i.e. the curse) be more, not less!” (Bísh bád, kam ma-bád!).
Ruthless and bloodthirsty as he showed himself, Sháh Isma‘íl, as depicted by contemporary Venetian travellers, had
many attractive characteristics. At the age of thirteen he was, according to Caterino Zeno, “of noble presence and a truly
royal bearing, … nor did the virtues of his mind disaccord with the beauty of his person, as he had an elevated genius, and
such a lofty idea of things as seemed incredible at such a tender age.” Angiolello describes him as “very much beloved … for
his beauty and pleasing manners”; and, when grown to man’s estate, as “fair, handsome, and very pleasing; not very tall, but
of a light and well-framed figure; rather stout than slight, with broad shoulders. His hair is reddish; he only wears
moustachios, and uses his left hand instead of his right. He is as brave as a game-cock, and stronger than

[page 23]

any of his lords; in the archery contests, out of the ten apples that are knocked down, he knocks down seven.” The
anonymous merchant, after describing Isma‘íl’s doings in Tabríz, adds “from the time of Nero to the present, I doubt whether
so bloodthirsty a tyrant has ever existed,” yet adds a little further on that at Caesarea “he caused proclamation to be made that
everyone who brought provisions for sale should be liberally paid, and forbade his men, under pain of death, to take even as
much as a handful of straw without paying for it, as it was a friendly city.” He further describes him as “amiable as a girl,
left-handed by nature, as lively as a fawn, and stronger than any of his lords,” and says that “this Sophi is loved and
reverenced by his people as a god, and especially by his soldiers, many of whom enter into battle without armour, expecting
their master Ismael to watch over them in the fight.”
The closest historical parallel to the Ṣafawí movement is, I think, afforded by the propaganda in favour of the ‘Abbásids
carried on by Abú Muslim in Persia with so great a success in the first half of the eighth century of our era. Both were
consciously religious and only unconsciously, though none the less truly, racial; the chief difference was that the later
movement had to confront in the person of the Ottoman Sulṭán Salím a far more energetic and formidable antagonist than the
earlier in the Umayyad Caliph Marwán, and hence its more limited success; for while the ‘Abbásid cause triumphed
throughout almost the whole of the Eastern lands of Islám, the Ṣafawí triumph was limited to Persia, though without doubt at
one time it threatened Turkey as well. Fear is the great incentive to cruelty, and it was chiefly fear which caused Sulṭán Salím
to massacre in cold blood some forty thousand of his Shí‘a subjects. Fear, however, was not the only motive of this ferocity;
with it were mingled anger

[page 24]

and disappointment. For Sulṭán Salím was what is now called a Pan-Islamist, and his ambition was to be not merely the
Sovereign of the greatest and most powerful Muhammadan State, but the supreme head of the whole Muslim world. His
conquest of Egypt and the Holy Cities of Mecca and Madína in A.D. 1517, and his assumption of the title of Caliph, which,
whether by threats or promises, or a combination of the two, he induced the last titular ‘Abbásid Caliph to surrender to him,
might well have given him this position but for Sháh Isma‘íl and the barrier of heterodoxy which he had erected between the
Turks, Egyptians and other Sunnís to the West and their fellow-believers to the East in Transoxiana, Afghánistán,
Balúchistán and India. The Persians not only refused to recognise Sulṭán Salím as Caliph, but repudiated the whole theory of
the Caliphate. The Turkish victory over the Persians at Cháldirán in August, 1514, failed of its results owing to the refusal of
the Ottoman troops to push home their advantage, and thus robbed the succeeding Egyptian campaign of its full measure of
success, and left a lasting soreness which served greatly to weaken the political power of Islám and to impose a check on
Turkish ambitions whereby, as we have seen, Europe greatly profited. Between A.D. 1508, when it was taken by the
Persians, and A.D. 1638, when it was finally recovered by the Turks, Baghdád, once the metropolis of Islám, changed hands
many times as the tide of these bitter and interminable wars ebbed and flowed, until the increasing weakness and effeminacy
of the later Ṣafawí kings left Turkey in undisputed possession of Mesopotamia.


ART AND LITERATURE.


46 The original text is quoted on p. 53 infra, ad calc.

One of the most curious and, at first sight, inexplicable phenomena of the Ṣafawí period is the extraordinary dearth of
notable poets in Persia during the two centuries of its duration. Architecture,

[page 25]

miniature-painting and other arts flourished exceedingly; the public buildings with which Sháh ‘Abbás adorned his realms,
and especially his capital Iṣfahán, have not ceased to command the admiration of all who beheld them from his time until the
present day; and Bihzád and the other artists who flourished at the Tímúrid court of Herát found worthy successors in Riḍá-
yi-‘Abbásí and his colleagues. Yet, though poets innumerable are mentioned in the Tuḥfa-i-Sámí47 and other contemporary
biographies and histories, there is hardly one (if we exclude Jámí, Hátifí, Hilálí and other poets of Khurásán, who were really
the survivors of the school of Herát) worthy to be placed in the first class. During the seventy stormy years of Tímúr’s life
there were at least eight or ten poets besides the great Ḥáfiẓ, who outshone them all, whose names no writer on Persian
literature could ignore; while during the two hundred and twenty years of Ṣafawí rule there was in Persia, so far as I have
been able to ascertain, hardly one of conspicuous merit or originality. I say “in Persia” advisedly, for a brilliant group of
poets from Persia, of whom ‘Urfí of Shíráz (d. A.D. 1590) and Ṣá’ib of Iṣfahán(d. A.D. 1670) are perhaps the most notable,
adorned the court of the “Great Moghuls” in India, and these were in many cases not settlers or the sons of emigrants, but
men who went from Persia to India to make their fortunes and returned home when their fortunes were made. This shows that
it was not so much lack of talent as lack of patronage which makes the list of distinctively Ṣafawí poets so meagre. The
phenomenon is noticed by Riḍá-qulí Khán in the preface to his great anthology of Persian poets entitled Majma‘u-l-Fuṣaḥá48,
composed in the middle of the last century, as well

[page 26]

as by European scholars like the late Dr. Ethé, who have written on Persian poetry; with this difference, that the European
writers commonly speak of Jámí as the last great Persian poet, and consider that during the four centuries which have elapsed
since his death Persia has produced no poet of eminence, while Riḍá-qulí Khán, rightly as I think, places certain modern
poets of the Qájár period, notably such men as Qá’ání, Furúghí and Yaghmá, in the first rank.
That no great poet should have arisen in Persia in days otherwise so spacious and so splendid as those of the Ṣafawís
seemed to me so remarkable that I wrote to my learned and scholarly friend Mírzá Muḥammad Khán of Qazwín, to whose
industry and acumen students of Persian owe so much, to ask him, first, whether he accepted this statement as a fact, and
secondly, if he did, how he explained it. In reply, in a letter dated May 24, 1911, he wrote as follows:
“There is at any rate no doubt that during the Ṣafawí period literature and poetry in Persia had sunk to a very low ebb,
and that not one single poet of the first rank can be reckoned as representing this epoch. The chief reason for this, as you
yourself have observed, seems to have been that these kings, by reason of their political aims and strong antagonism to the
Ottoman Empire, devoted the greater part of their energies to the propagation of the Shí‘a doctrine and the encouragement of
divines learned in its principles and laws. Now although these divines strove greatly to effect the religious unification of
Persia (which resulted in its political unification), and laid the foundations of this present-day Persia, whose inhabitants are,
speaking generally, of one faith, one tongue, and one race, yet, on the other hand, from the point of view of literature, poetry,
Ṣúfíism and mysticism, and, to use their own expression, everything connected with the ‘Accomplishments’‘ (as opposed to
the

[page 27]

‘Legalities’)49, they not merely fell far short in the promotion thereof, but sought by every means to injure and annoy the
representatives of these ‘Accomplishments,’ who were generally not too firmly established in the Religious Law and its
derivatives. In regard to the Sufis particularly they employed every kind of severity and vexation, whether by exile,
expulsion, slaughter or reprimand, slaying or burning many of them with their own hands or by their sentence. Now the close
connection between poetry and Belles Lettres on the one hand, and Ṣúfíism and Mysticism on the other, at any rate in Persia,
is obvious, so that the extinction of one necessarily involves the extinction and destruction of the other. Hence it was that
under this dynasty learning, culture, poetry and mysticism completely deserted Persia, and the cloisters, monasteries, retreats
and rest-houses [of the darwíshes] were so utterly destroyed that there is now throughout the whole of Persia no name or sign
of such charitable foundations, though formerly, as, for instance, in the time of Ibn Baṭúṭa, such institutions were to be found
in every town, hamlet and village, as abundantly appears from the perusal of his Travels, wherein he describes how in every
place, small or great, where he halted, he alighted in such buildings, of which at the present day no name or sign exists.
Anyone ignorant of the circumstances of the Ṣafawí period might well wonder whether this Persia and that are the same
country, and the creed of its inhabitants the same Islám; and, if so, why practically, with rare exceptions, there exists now not
a single monastery throughout the whole of Persia, while in those parts of Turkey, such as Mesopotamia, Kurdistán and

47 This biography of contemporary poets by Prince Sám Mírzá, the son of Sháh Isma‘íl, is another work which urgently needs publication.
48 Lithographed at Ṭihrán in two large volumes in 1295/1878.

Sulaymániyya, which did not remain under the Ṣafawí dominion, there are many such buildings just as there were in Ibn
Baṭúṭa’s days.
“At all events during the Ṣafawí period in place of great

[page 28]

poets and philosophers there arose theologians, great indeed, but harsh, dry, fanatical and formal, like the Majlisís, the
Muḥaqqiq-i-thání, Shaykh Ḥurr-i-Ámulí and Shaykh-i-Bahá'í, etc.”
Most professional poets in the East are primarily panegyrists, and if Riḍá-qulí Khán is correct in his assertion that the
Ṣafawí kings, especially Ṭahmásp and ‘Abbás the Great, expressed a wish that laudatory poems should be addressed to the
Imáms rather than to themselves, another and a more creditable cause for the diminution of poets in their realms is indicated.
More material benefits were to be looked for from the Great Moghuls50 than from the Imáms, and hence the eyes and feet of
the more mercenary poets turned rather to Dihlí than to Karbalá. But to religious poetry commemorating the virtues and
sufferings of the Imáms a great impetus was given in Persia, and of these poets Muḥtasham of Káshán (d. A.D. 1588) was the
most eminent. But, besides these more formal and classical elegies, it is probable that much of the simpler and often very
touching verse, wherein the religious feelings of the Persians find expression during the Muḥarram mourning, dates from this
period, when every means was employed to stimulate and develop these sentiments of devotion to the House of ‘Alí and
detestation of its oppressors. On the other hand the dramatisation of these moving scenes, which now form so remarkable a
feature of the Muḥarram mourning (Ta‘ziya), and are often described by European writers as “Miracle Plays,” seems to have
taken place at a much later period. That careful writer Olearius spent the month of Muḥarram, A.H. 1047 (May-June, 1637)
at Ardabíl, the sanctuary of the Ṣafawí family,

[page 29]

and gives a very full description of all that he saw, the mournings, wailings, lamentations and cuttings culminating on the
‘Áshúrá, the tenth day of the month or Rúz-i-Qatl, but he makes no mention of any dramatic representations, so that it is
pretty certain that none existed at that time. To elucidate this point I addressed enquiries to two well-informed and intelligent
Persian friends, Sayyid Taqí-záda and Mírzá Ḥusayn Dánish. The former expressed the opinion that while the solemn
recitations known as Rawḍa-khwání (i.e. the reading from the pulpit of the Rawḍatu’sh-Shuhadá, or “Garden of the
Martyrs,’) and other similar books) dates from Ṣafawí times, the Ta‘ziya-gardání, shabíh, or “Passion Play” was of much
later date, and perhaps owes something to European influences. The latter also placed the origin of these “Passion Plays” (of
which Sir Lewis Pelly’s translations give a good idea to the English reader) about the end of the eighteenth or beginning of
the nineteenth century, i.e. at the beginning of the Qájár period, and incidentally cited the following interesting verses by
Shaykh Riḍá-yi-Kurd in illustration of the view that the Persian dislike of ‘Umar is due not less to the fact that he conquered
Persia and overthrew the Sásánian dynasty than to his usurpation of the rights of ‘Alí and Fáṭima:



“‘Umar broke the back of the lions of the thicket:
He cast to the winds the thews and sinews of Jamshíd.
This quarrel is not about the usurpation of the Caliphate from ‘Alí:
Persia has an ancient grudge against the House of ‘Umar.”

In conclusion we must not omit to notice another step taken by the Ṣafawí kings which added greatly to the

[page 30]

consolidation of Persia and the prevention of a continued outflow of men and money from the country, namely the exaltation
and popularisation of Mashhad, Qum and other holy cities of Persia, whereby the tide of pilgrims was to a considerable
extent confined within the limits of their Empire, in which, as we have seen, the most sacred shrines of Karbalá, Najaf and
Mashhad ‘Alí were long included before they finally fell under Turkish dominion51.


POSTSCRIPT.

50 The liberality of Humáyún towards poets and men of letters is especially noticed under the year of his death (962/1555) in the Aḥsanu’t-
Tawáríkh. This and the succeeding topics will be more fully discussed in a subsequent chapter.
51 See Krusinski, op. cit., pp. 159-161.

I am indebted to my friend Mr. H. L. Rabino, of H.B.M.’s Consular Service, for the following valuable notes on the
celebration of the Muḥarram mourning at Baghdád as early as the fourth Muhammadan (tenth Christian) century. I have only
the text of the two passages (one in German and the other in Persian): the reference was probably given in the accompanying
letter (December 23, 1922), which has unfortunately been mislaid. I have an impression that they are taken from one of
Dorn’s articles, probably published in the Mélanges Asiatiques. The whole quotation runs as follows:

“Die ‘ta‘sieh’ wurden in Baghdad i. J. 963 von der Buwaihiden Mu‘iss-ed-daula eingeführt, wie uns Ahmed b. Abu’l-
Feth in seinem Werke خ￿ ص￿     ا￿   ا￿ (Inscr. Mus. As. No. 567a) berichtet.”



[page 31]



“Institution of the mourning for the Chief of Martyrs
in Baghdád in A.H. 352 [A.D. 963].

“It is related in the History of Ibn Kathír the Syrian that Mu‘izzu’d-Dawla Aḥmad ibn Buwayh issued orders in Baghdád
that during the first ten days of Muḥarram all the bazaars of Baghdád should be closed, and that the people should wear black
for mourning and betake themselves to mourning for the Chief of Martyrs [the Imám Ḥusayn]. Since this procedure was not
customary in Baghdád, the Sunní doctors regarded it as a great innovation; but since they had no control over Mu‘izzu’d-
Dawla, they could do nothing but submit. Thereafter every year until the collapse of the Daylamite [or Buwayhid] dynasty,
this custom of mourning was observed by the Shí‘ites in all countries during the first ten days of Muḥarram. In Baghdád it
continued until the early days of the reign of Ṭughril the Saljúq.”



CHAPTER II.
THE CREATION OF THE ṢAFAWÍ POWER TO 930/1524.
SHÁH ISMA‘ÍL AND HIS ANCESTORS.

That Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín, the saintly recluse of Ardabíl from whom the Ṣafawí kings of Persia derived their descent
and their name, was really an important and influential person in his own day, is a fact susceptible of historical proof. He who
wins a throne and founds a great dynasty destined to endure for more than two centuries is apt, if he be of lowly origin, to
create, or allow to be created, some legend connecting his ancestors with famous kings, statesmen or warriors of old, or
otherwise reflecting glory on a House which, till he made it powerful and illustrious, held but a humble place in men’s
esteem. But Sháh Isma‘íl, sixth in descent from Shaykh Ṣafí (as we shall henceforth call him for brevity), who founded the
Ṣafawí dynasty about the beginning of the sixteenth century of the Christian era, and raised Persia to a position of splendour
which she had scarcely held since the overthrow of the ancient and noble House of Sásán by the Arabs in the seventh century,
had no occasion to resort to these devices; for whether or no Shaykh Ṣafí was directly descended from the seventh Imám of
the Shí‘a, Músá Káẓim, and through him from ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib52 and Fáṭima the Prophet’s daughter (and his

[page 33]


52 The full pedigree is given (with only slight variants) in the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, Silsilatu’n-Nasab-i-Ṣafawiyya and most
other histories of this dynasty, and runs as follows:(1) Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín Abu’l-Fatḥ Isḥáq b. (2) Amínu’d-Dín Jibrá’íl b. (3) Ṣáliḥ b. (4)
Quṭbu’d-Dín Aḥmad b. (5) Ṣaláḥu’d-Dín Rashíd b. (6) Muḥammad Ḥáfiẓ b. (7) ‘Awaḍ al-Khawáṣṣ b. (8) Fírúzsháh-i-Zarrín-kuláh b. (9)
Muḥammad b. (10) Sharafsháh b. (11) Muḥammad b. (12) Ḥasan b. (13)Muḥammad b. (14) Ibráhím b. (IS) Ja‘far b. (16) Muḥammad b.
(17) Isma‘íl b. (18) Muḥammad b. (19) Sayyid Aḥmad al-A‘rábí b. (20) Abú Muḥammad Qásim b. (21) Abu’l-Qásim Ḥamza b. (22) AL-
IMÁM MÚSÁ AL-KÁẒIM, the seventh Imám and fifth in direct descent from ‘Alí and Fáṭima.

claim is probably at least as good as that of any contemporary Sayyid), two facts prove that in his own time (the thirteenth
century) he was highly accounted as a saint and spiritual guide.
The first and more important of these two facts is the concern shown by that great Minister Rashídu’d-Dín Faḍlu’lláh for
his welfare, and the desire to win his favour and intercession. In the very rare collection of the Minister’s letters known as the
Munsha’át-i-Rashidí53 there occur two documents affording proof of this. The first is a letter (No. 45 of the collection, ff.
145b-149a of the MS.) addressed to Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín himself, offering to his monastery (Khánqáh)a yearly gift of corn,
wine, oil, cattle, sugar, honey and other food-stuffs for the proper entertainment of the notables of Ardabíl on the anniversary
of the Prophet’s birthday, on condition that prayers should be offered up at the conclusion of the feast for the writer and
benefactor. The second (No. 49, ff. 161a-169b) is addressed by Rashíd to his son Mír Aḥmad, governor of Ardabíl, enjoining
on him consideration for all its inhabitants, and especially “to act in such wise that His Holiness the Pole of the Heaven of
Truth, the Swimmer in the Oceans of the Law, the Pacer of the Hippodrome of the Path, the Shaykh of Islám and of the
Muslims, the Proof of such as attain the Goal, the Exemplar of the Bench of Purity, the Rose-tree of the Garden of Fidelity,
Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’l-Millat wa’d-Dín (may

[page 34]

God Most High perpetuate the blessings of His Holy Exhalations!) may be well pleased with and grateful to thee54.” These
letters, and especially the second, which is filled with the most exaggerated praises of Shaykh Ṣafí, sufficiently prove the
high repute which he enjoyed amongst his contemporaries55.
The second fact germane to our thesis is that comparatively soon after his death a most extensive monograph on his life,
character, teachings, doctrines, virtues and miracles was compiled by one of his followers, the darwísh Tawakkul56 ibn
Isma‘íl, commonly called Ibnu’l-Bazzáz, apparently under the inspiration and direction of Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín, who
succeeded his father Shaykh Ṣafí as head of the Order and held this position for fifty-eight years (A.D. 1334-1392). This rare
and important book has never been printed57,but is the chief source of all later accounts of the head of the family and dynasty,
in most of which it is frequently and explicitly cited. A much later recension of it was made in the reign of Sháh Ṭahmásp
(A.D. 1524-1576) by a certain Abu’l-

[page 35]

Fatḥ al-Ḥusayní. I have personal knowledge of only three manuscripts, Add. 11745 of the British Museum58; No. 87 of the
Pote Collection in the library of King’s College, Cambridge59; and a fine copy made at Ardabíl in 1030/1621, now belonging
to Mr. A. G. Ellis, who, with his customary generosity, placed it at my disposal for as long as I required it. This exhaustive
work comprises an Introduction, twelve chapters, and a Conclusion, each of which is divided into numerous sections60, and
its contents are summarized by Rieu with his usual precision. It contains interesting matter, diluted by much that is
wearisome save to a devoted disciple, and represents on a more extensive scale the type of hagiography familiar to all Persian
students in such books as the Manáqibu’l-‘Árifín of Aflákí, available in the English version of Redhouse61 and the French of
Huart62. The extracts from it included in most later histories of the family, notably the Silsilatu’n-Nasab-i-Ṣafawiyya63,will
suffice to satisfy the curiosity of most readers, though a careful perusal and analysis of the original work would undoubtedly
yield results of value, most of the anecdotes and sayings being vouched for by Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín. But before further
discussing Shaykh Ṣafí and his descendants something more must be said about his ancestors.

[page 36]


53 See my article on the Persian MSS. of the late Sir Albert Houtum-Schindler, K.C.I.E. in the J.R.A.S. for Oct. 1917, pp. 693-4, and my
Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion (hereinafter sometimes denoted as “Pers. Lit. iii”), pp. 80-87.

55 Shaykh Ṣafí died in 735/1334 at the age of 85. Rashídu’d-Dín was put to death in A.D. 1318 at the age of 70 or somewhat over.
56 Or Túklí
as it is written and pointed in a note in Mr. Ellis’s manuscript.
57 Since this was written I have obtained through the kindness of one of my Persian correspondents a copy of an excellent lithographed
edition published at Bombay in 1329/1911, of the very existence of which I was ignorant when this chapter was written.
58 See Rieu’s Pers. Cat., pp. 345-6.
59 See my Suppl. Hand-list, p. 137, No. 837.
60 Ch. viii comprises no less than 27 sections.
61 Prefixed to his metrical translation of the First Book of the Mesnevi (Mathnawí) of Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, published in Trübner’s Oriental
Series in 1881. The Manáqib, or “Acts of the Adepts,” occupies pp. 3-135.
62 Les Saints des Derviches Tourneurs (Études d’Hagiographie Musulmane), vol. i (Paris, Leroux), 1918; vol. ii, 1922.
63 See my account of this rare and interesting work in the J.RA.S. for July, 1921, pp. 395-418. Both Dr. Babinger and M. Minorsky have
called my attention to the fact that another MS. of this work at St. Petersburg was described by Khanikoff in the Mélanges Asiatiques, i,
pp. 580-583.

THE ANCESTORS OF SHAYKH ṢAFIYYU’D-DÍN.

That the seventh Imám Músá Káẓim had, besides the son ‘Alí Riḍá who succeeded him in the Imámate, another son
named Ḥamza, from whom Shaykh Ṣafí claimed descent, is a fact vouched for by the historian al-Ya‘qúbí64, but the next
dozen links in the chain (including five Muḥammads without further designation) are too vague to admit of identification.
The earliest ancestor of the Ṣafawís who is invested with any definite attributes is Fírúzsháh-i-Zarrín-kuláh (“Golden-
cap”),who is stated by the Silsilatu’n-Nasab to have been made governor of Ardabíl, henceforth the home and rallying-point
of the family, by a son of Ibráhím-i-Adham, here represented as king of Persia. Ibráhím-i-Adham, however, though reputed
of kingly race, renounced the world, became a notable saint, and died about A.D. 780 in Syria, and history knows nothing of
any son of his who succeeded to a throne in Persia or elsewhere. Fírúzsháh died after a prosperous life at Rangín in Gílán,
and was succeeded by his son ‘Awaḍ, of whom nothing is recorded save that he lived and died at Isfaranján near Ardabíl. His
son Muḥammad earned the title of Ḥáfiẓ because he knew the Qur’án by heart, an accomplishment for which he is said to
have been indebted to the Jinn65, who kidnapped him at the age of seven and educated him amongst themselves for a like
number of years. The two succeeding heads of the family, Ṣaláḥu’d-Dín Rashíd and Quṭbu’d-Dín Aḥmad, seem to have lived
quietly at Kalkhorán66,devoting themselves to agriculture, until a fierce incursion of

[page 37]

the Georgians compelled the latter to flee to Ardabíl with his family, including his little son Amínu’d-Dín Jibrá’íl, then only a
month old. Even here they were not left unmolested: the Georgians pursued them and they had to take refuge in a cellar,
where their lives were only saved by a devoted youth, who, ere he fell beneath the swords of his assailants, succeeded in
concealing the entrance to the cellar by throwing down a large earthen jar over it. Quṭbu’d-Dín himself was severely
wounded in the neck and hardly escaped with his life, and his grandson Shaykh Ṣafí, who was born during his life, used to
relate that when his grandfather took him on his shoulder he used to put four baby fingers into the scar left by the wound. In
due course Quṭbu’d-Dín was succeeded by his son Amínu’d-Dín Jibrá’íl, farmer and saint, who adopted Khwája Kamálu’d-
Dín ‘Arabsháh as his spiritual director, and married a lady named Dawlatí; she in due course, in the year 650/1252-3, bore
him the son who afterwards became famous as Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín, with whom the family suddenly emerges from
comparative obscurity into great fame. The author of the Silsilatu’n-Nasab, not content with giving the year of his birth,
further fixes the date as follows. At the time of his birth Shams-i-Tabríz had been dead five years, Shaykh Muḥyi’d-Dín
ibnu’l-‘Arabí twelve years, and Najmu’d-Dín Kubrá thirty-two years. He was five years old when Húlágú Khán the Mongol
conquered Persia, twenty-two on the death of Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, and forty-one on the death of Sa‘dí. The eminent saints
contemporary with him included Amír ‘Abdu’lláh-i-Shírází, Shaykh Najíbu’d-Dín Buzghúsh, ‘Alá’u’d-Dawla-i-Samnání and
Shaykh Maḥmúd-i-Shabistarí (author of the Gulshan-i-Ráz or “Rose-bed of Mystery”). He had three elder67 and two younger
brothers68 and one

[page 38]

elder sister, being thus the fifth in a family of seven; and his father died when he was six years of age.


SHAYKH ṢAFIYYU’D-DÍN (A.D. 1252-1334).

Hitherto we have suffered from the exiguity of biographical details, but now we are rather embarrassed by their
abundance. The Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, it is true, probably contains all that can now be known about Shaykh Ṣafí, but it is a
voluminous work, containing some 216,000 words, and written in a fairly simple and direct style without much
“stuffing”(ḥashw) or rhetorical adornment, so that anything approaching a full analysis of its contents would in itself
constitute a volume of considerable size. It is lamentably deficient in dates, and in general deals rather with the spiritual than
the material aspects of the life of Shaykh Ṣafí and his director Shaykh Záhid-i-Gílání. Stated as briefly as possible, its
contents are as follows:
Introduction (in 2 sections). Shaykh Ṣafí’s advent foretold by the Prophet and by former saints, such as Jalálu’d-Dín
Rúmí.
Chapter I (in 11 sections, two of which are further subdivided). Early life of Shaykh Ṣafí. His genealogy. Portents
preceding his birth. His birth and childhood. His search for a spiritual director. He finally meets Shaykh Záhid of Gílán. His
life as a disciple of this holy man. His succession to the supremacy of the Order. His spiritual affiliation up to the Prophet.
Characteristics and miracles of Shaykh Záhid.

64 Ed. Houtsma, vol. ii, p. 500.
65 For some account of the believing Jinn, see Qur’án, lxxii.
66 This, as M. V. Minorsky has pointed out to me, and not “Gilkhwárán,” is the proper pronunciation of this name.
67 Muḥammad, Ṣaláḥu’d-Dín Rashíd and Isma‘íl.
68 Ya‘qúb and Fakhru’d-Dín Yúsuf.

Chapter II (in 3 sections). Some of the miracles of Shaykh Ṣafí, whereby he delivered men from the perils of the sea and
of deep waters, of mountains, mist and snow, and from foes, bondage and sickness.
Chapter III (in 3 sections). Some of the miracles wrought by the favourable or unfavourable regards of Shaykh Ṣafí.

[page 39]

Chapter IV (in 6 sections, two of which are further subdivided). Some of Shaykh Ṣafí’s sayings, and his explanations of
verses of the Qur’án, traditions of the Prophet, utterances of the Saints, and allegorical verses of the poets.
Chapter V (in 3 sections). Some of Shaykh Ṣafí’s miracles connected with the Jinn, with animals, and with inanimate
objects.
Chapter VI (undivided). Ecstacies and devotional dancing of Shaykh Ṣafí.
Chapter VII (in 5 sections). Various miracles of Shaykh Ṣafí, such as thought-reading, foretelling future events, converse
with the dead, etc.
Chapter VIII (in 27 sections). Further examples of the virtues, powers, pious actions, effective prayers, intuitions and
views of Shaykh Ṣafí, vouched for by his son Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín.
Chapter IX (in 2 sections). Last illness and death of Shaykh Ṣafí.
Chapter X (in 3 sections). Posthumous miracles of Shaykh Ṣafí.
Chapter XI (in 3 sections). The fame and greatness of Shaykh Ṣafí and his vicars (Khulafá) throughout the world.
Chapter XII (in 2 sections). Miracles wrought by Shaykh Ṣafí’s disciples.
Conclusion.

That so comparatively small a portion of this voluminous work should be biographical is disappointing but not
surprising, for how can those who regard themselves as belonging to the Timeless and Placeless (Lá Makán) be expected to
trouble themselves about dates or similar details? All these hagiographies, indeed, have a similar character, and deal chiefly
with the pious sayings, devout practices and supernatural achievements (karámát) of those whose lives they record.

[page 40]

That these karámát69 have an interest of their own in connection with Psychical Research has been recognised by D. B.
Macdonald in his excellent book on The Religious Attitude and Life in Islam70 and by Cl. Huart in his Saints des Derviches
Tourneurs71. The latter classifies the psychical phenomena recorded in his original, the Manáqibu’l-‘Árifín (composed about
718/1318, only some thirty years earlier than the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, which was very probably modelled on it), as follows:
dreams; knowledge of future events; second sight and divination of hidden objects; thought-transference; luminosity of
bodies, human and inanimate; automatic opening of closed doors; ubiquity; anaesthesia and immunity against poisons; action
on material objects at a distance; production of the precious metals; abnormal muscular, digestive and sexual powers and
physical enlargements of the body; shifting features and instability of countenance; apparitions; psychotherapy; replies to
difficult questions; conversions to Islám; sermons to animals; vengeance of the Saints; mental alienation; protracted seclusion
and fasting; talismans; sudden disappearances. Examples of all, or nearly all, of these phenomena are to be found in the
Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, while a smaller but fairly representative selection is contained in the Silsilatu’n-Nasab, but a detailed
examination of them, though not without interest and value, would be out of place in this volume. It must be noted, however,
that certain aspects of these Muslim saints, as recorded by their disciples and admirers, are to Western

[page 41]

minds somewhat repellent; their curses are no less effective than their blessings, and their indulgences no less remarkable
than their abstentions, while grim jests on the fate of such as have incurred their displeasure are not uncommon. Thus a
certain prince named Siyámak, son of Shírwánsháh, when setting out for the Mongol camp (urdú), spoke in a disparaging
manner of Shaykh Záhid’s disciples, and threatened on his return to pull down or burn their monasteries. When this was
reported to the Shaykh he merely remarked, playing on the prince’s name, that Siyámak would become Siyáh-marg (meaning
“the Black Death”); which saying was duly fulfilled, for, having in some way incurred the wrath of the Mongol sovereign, he
was, after the barbarous fashion of these people, wrapped up in black felt and kicked or trampled to death72. To Shaykh

69 The supernatural achievements of thaumaturgists are divided by Jámí (Nafaḥátu’l-Uns, ed. Nassau Lees, pp. 22-31) into three classes: (i)
the evidential miracles of the Prophets, called ma‘jizát; (ii) the “gifts” (karámát) vouchsafed by God to his saints for their greater honour;
and (iii) the “wonders” (khawáriqu’l-‘ádát) wrought by ordinary men by means of Black or White Magic.
70 University of Chicago Press, 1909.
71 Paris, Leroux, 1918-1922.
72 The last ‘Abbásid Caliph, al-Musta‘ṣim, is said to have been put to death by Húlágú Khán in this way, the Mongols having a dislike to
shedding kingly blood. So Clavijo informs us that at the court of Tímúr “the custom is that when a great man is put to death he is hanged;
but the meaner sort are beheaded.” See Sir Clements Markham’s translation of his Narrative, published by the Hakluyt Society in 1859,
p. 150.

Záhid, on the other hand, Gházán Khán73 the Mongol Ílkhán showed the greatest respect, especially after the saint had
exhibited his powers of mind-reading, which so impressed Gházán that he insisted on kissing his feet.
Externally the life of Shaykh Ṣafí, especially after he became the disciple of Shaykh Záhid and settled at Ardabíl, was
not very eventful. As a child he was serious, unsociable and disinclined for play. At a comparatively early age he appears to
have got a “concern” about religion, and to have seen visions and held converse with the Unseen World. Finding no adequate
direction in Ardabíl, and hearing the fame of Shaykh

[page 42]

Najíbu’d-Dín Buzghúsh of Shíráz, he desired to go thither, but, having finally overcome his mother’s opposition to the
journey, arrived there only to find the saint dead74. While at Shíráz he made the acquaintance of many notable saints and
darwíshes, and of the celebrated poet Sa‘dí, of whom, however, he seems to have formed but a poor opinion. Indeed he
appears to have treated the poet with scant civility, even refusing to accept an autograph copy of his poems. Finally Ẓahíru’d-
Dín, the son and successor of Shaykh Buzghúsh, told Shaykh Ṣafí that no one could satisfy his spiritual needs except Shaykh
Záhid of Gílán, whose personal appearance and dwelling-place on the shore of the Caspian Sea he described to him in detail.
Four years elapsed, however, ere he was successful in tracking down the elusive saint, then sixty years of age, by whom he
was cordially welcomed, and with whom he spent the next twenty-five years of his life.
Shaykh Záhid’s full name, as given in the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá, is Táju’d-Dín Ibráhím ibn Rawshan Amír ibn Bábil ibn
Shaykh Pindár (or Bundár) al-Kurdí as-Sanjání, and the mother of his grandfather Bábil is said to have been a Jinniyya. The
title of Záhid (“the Ascetic” or “Abstemious”) was given to him by his Director Sayyid Jamálu’d-Dín for reasons which are
variously stated. He gave his daughter Bíbí Fáṭima in marriage to Shaykh Ṣafí, to whom she bore three sons, of whom the
second, Ṣadru’d-Dín, ultimately succeeded his father as head of the Order. The author of the Silsilatu’n-Nasab was one of his
descendants, who were collectively known as Pír-záda and apparently continued to enjoy high consideration during the
whole Ṣafawí period.
From the data given by the Silsilatu’n-Nasab, viz. that

[Illustration: Shaykh Abdál Pír-záda presenting the captured horse of the Uzbek leader, Dín Muḥammad Khán, to Sháh
‘Abbás the Great]

[page 43]

Shaykh Záhid was 35 years older than Shaykh Ṣafí, that both died at the age of 85, and that the latter died in 735/1334, we
may conclude that the former died about 700/1300; and this is corroborated by the further statement that his grandson
Ṣadru’d-Dín was born in 704/1305, four years after his death. Shaykh Ṣafí now became head of the Order, and held this
position for 35 years, when he died75, and was in turn succeeded by his son Ṣadru’d-Dín. He produced some poetry both in
the dialect of Gílán (in which also several of his conversations with Shaykh Záhid were conducted) and likewise in ordinary
Persian. Though one of his quatrains76 testifies to his love of ‘Alí (“how much soever he in whose heart is a grain of love for
‘Alí may sin, God will forgive him” are his words), I find no evidence that he held those strong Shí‘a views which
subsequently characterised his descendants. There is, indeed, a piece of evidence to the contrary in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh,
an important unpublished history of the first two Ṣafawí kings composed in the reign of Sháh Ṭahmásp and including the
years A.H. 901-985 (A.D. 1495-1577)77. In a letter of remonstrance addressed to this ruler by the Uzbek ‘Ubayd Khán in
936/1529-1530 the following sentence occurs78:



[page 44]

“We have thus heard concerning your ancestor, His sainted Holiness Shaykh Ṣafí,
that he was a good man and an orthodox Sunní, and we are greatly astonished that you
neither follow the conduct of Murtaḍá ‘Alí nor that of your ancestor.”


73 He reigned A.D. 1295-1304. See my Pers. Lit. iii, pp. 40-46.
74 According to Jámí (Nafaḥát, p. 548) he died in Sha‘bán 678 (Dec. 1279).
75 On Monday, Muḥarram 12, 735 (Sept. 12, 1334).
76 See J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, p. 403.
77 Mr. A. G. Ellis most kindly placed at my disposal his MS. of this rare book, to which all subsequent references are made.
78 F. 166a.

He did much, however, to extend and develop the Order of which he was the Superior, and his influence is illustrated by
a statement of Mawláná Shamsu’d-Dín Barníqí of Ardabíl, quoted in the Silsilatu’n-Nasab79, that the number of those who
came to visit him along one road only — that from Marágha and Tabríz — in the course of three months amounted to some
thirteen thousand. Many if not most of these must have come from Asia Minor, so that even at this early date the Order was
establishing and consolidating itself in regions where it was afterwards destined to cause the greatest anxiety to the Ottoman
Sulṭáns80.
Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín succeeded his father at the age of 31 in 735/1334 and controlled the affairs of the Order for 59 years
until his death in 794/1392. He also composed verses in Persian, and is besides credited with many miracles, the most
celebrated of which was his recovery and restoration to Ardabíl of the door of the principal mosque which had been carried
off by the Georgians when they raided that city about 600/1203-481. Amongst the most celebrated of his disciples was the
poet Qásimu’l-Anwár, whose orthodoxy was somewhat suspect, and who was expelled from Herát by Sháh-rukh under
circumstances which I have discussed elsewhere82. That Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín’s influence and ac-

[page 45]

tivities also aroused the suspicions of neighbouring potentates is shown by the action of Malik-i-Ashraf83, who lured him to
Tabríz and kept him in confinement there for three months, when, warned by a dream, he released him, but subsequently
attempted to recapture him and compelled him to flee into Gílán. Other holy and learned men suffered at the hands of this
tyrant, and one of them, the Qáḍí Muḥyi’d-Dín of Barda‘a, depicted in such vivid colours the odious oppression of Malik-i-
Ashraf to Jání Beg Khán son of Uzbek, the ruler of the Dasht-i-Qipcháq, that the latter invaded Ádharbáyján, defeated Malik-
i-Ashraf, and put him to death. According to the Silsilatu’n-Nasab84 he also had an interview with Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín,
treated him with great respect, and confirmed to him the possession of certain estates whereof the revenues had formerly been
allocated to the shrine at Ardabíl.
Shaykh Ṣadru’d-Dín, like his father Shaykh Ṣafí, performed the pilgrimage to Mecca at the end of his life, and is said to
have brought back with him to Ardabíl the Prophet’s standard. Shortly after his return he died, in 794/1392, and was
succeeded by his son Khwája ‘Alí, who controlled the affairs of the Order for thirty-six years until his death on Rajab 18, 830
(May 15, 1427). This happened in Palestine, where he is buried, his tomb being known as that of “Sayyid ‘Alí ‘Ajamí85.”
Like his father and grandfather he

[page 46]

was a worker of miracles and a poet, and over two hundred of his Persian verses are quoted in the Silsilatu’n-Nasab. In him
strong Shí‘a tendencies reveal themselves: instigated by the Ninth Imám Muḥammad Taqí in a dream he converts the people
of Dizful, by a miraculous stoppage of their river, to a belief in and recognition of the supreme holiness of ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib;
and he exhorts Tímúr, whose regard he had succeeded in winning by a display of his psychical powers, to “chastise, as they
deserve, the Yazídí Kurds, the friends of Mu‘áwiya, because of whom we wear the black garb of mourning for the
Immaculate Imáms86.” More celebrated is his intercession with Tímúr on behalf of a number of Turkish prisoners (asírán-i-
Rúm)whose release he secured, and whose grateful descendants, known as “the Turkish Ṣúfís” (Ṣúfiyán-i-Rúmlú),became the
most devoted adherents and supporters of the Ṣafawí family87.

[page 47]

79 See J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, pp. 403-4.
80 Compare Dr. Franz Babinger’s remarks in his admirable study Schejch Bedr ed-Dín der Sohn des Richters von Simāw (Berlin and
Leipzig, 1921), especially p. 15 of the Sonderabdruck.
81 See pp. 36-7 supra, and J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, pp. 406-7.
82 Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion, pp. 473-486 and pp. 365-6. I must here note an error into which I fell concerning the verses
of Qásim quoted on p. 474. These obviously refer not to Shaykh Ṣafí but to his son Ṣadru’d-Dín, who actually lived exactly ninety years
(A.H. 704-794). The word     in l. 1 probably needs emendation to some word (like    ) meaning “son”; in any case this is its
meaning here. The translation should run:”The Ṣadr of Saintship, who is the son [or survivor or representative] of Shaykh Ṣafí etc.
83 See d’Ohsson’s Histoire des Mongols, vol. iv, pp. 740-2.
84 J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, pp. 405-6.
85 See J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, p. 407. Dr. Franz Babinger wrote to me in a private letter: “Quds-i-Khalíl ist vielmehr al-Quds wa’l-Khalíl,
d.h. Jerusalem und Hebron, eine häufige Bezeichnung für Südpalästina.” This is confirmed by the Rev. Canon J. E. Hanauer, to whom
Dr. Babinger wrote about this matter, and who kindly endeavoured to identify this tomb. His very interesting letter is too long to quote in
full. “The Arab historian Mejd ed-Dín,” he says, “who wrote about A.D. 1495, i.e. seventy years later [than Khwája ‘Alí’s death], gives a
list of the most renowned Shaykhs buried at Hebron, but does not mention ‘Alí ‘Ajamí. We must therefore look for the shrine elsewhere.
Four different places of note suggest themselves.” These are (1) the Ḥaram of ‘Alí ibn ‘Alawí 2½ hours north of Jaffa; (2) the Walí of al-
‘Ajamí, just south of Jaffa; (3) a sacred oak-grove with the shrine of “the Imám ‘Alí” near the Báb-el-Wad; and (4) another very holy
shrine of al-‘Ajamí, on the hill above the village of Bayt Maḥsír, amidst woods and thickets. Canon Hanauer is inclined to think that the
last is most probably the tomb in question.
86 J.R.A.S. for July, 1921, p. 408.
87 See Sir John Malcolm’s History of Persia (ed. 1815),vol. i, pp. 496-7 and footnotes. The ascription of this act of intercession to Shaykh
Ṣadru’d-Dín and still more to his father Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín is an anachronism.

Shaykh Ibráhím, better known as Shaykh Sháh, succeeded his father in 830/1427 and died in 851/1447-8. Little is
recorded of him save the names of his six sons, and he is even omitted entirely in the succession by the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-
yi-‘Abbásí. He was succeeded by his youngest son Shaykh Junayd, with whom the militant character of the family first
asserted itself. He visited Diyár Bakr and won the favour of Úzún Ḥasan, the celebrated ruler of the “White Sheep” Dynasty,
who bestowed on him the hand of his sister Khadíja in marriage. This alliance, combined with the assembly round his
standard of ten thousand Ṣúfí warriors (ghuzát-i-Ṣúfiyya), “who deemed the risking of their lives in the path of their perfect
Director the least of the degrees of devotion88,” aroused the alarm of Jahánsháh, the Turkmán ruler of Ádharbáyján and the
two ‘Iráqs, and other neighbouring princes, and Shaykh Junayd fell in battle against Shírwánsháh89. His body, according to
one account, was brought to Ardabíl and there buried, but according to others it was buried near the battle-field at a village
variously called Quryál, Qarúyá1 or Qúriyán.
Shaykh Ḥaydar (the “Sechaidar” of Angiolello), like his father Junayd, whom he succeeded, found favour in the eyes of
the now aged Úzún Ḥasan, his maternal uncle, who gave him in marriage his daughter Marta, Ḥalíma, Bakí Áqá or ‘Álam-
sháh Begum, whose mother, the celebrated Despina Khátún (“Despinacaton”), was the daughter of Kalo Ioannes, the last
Christian Emperor of Trebizond, of the noble Greek family of the Comneni90. The anonymous Venetian merchant whose
narrative is included in the Italian travels in Persia in the

[page 48]

fifteenth and sixteenth centuries91 describes him as “a lord about the rank of a count, named Secaidar, of a religion or sect
named Sophi, reverenced by his co-religionists as a saint and obeyed as a chief. There are,” he continues, “numbers of them
in different parts of Persia, as in Natolia (Anatolia) and Caramania (Qaramán), all of whom bore great respect to this
Secaidar, who was a native of this city of Ardouil (Ardabíl or Ardawíl), where he had converted many to the Suffavean
(Ṣafawí) doctrine. Indeed he was like the abbot of a nation of monks; he had six children, three boys92 and three girls, by a
daughter of Assambei (Ḥasan Bey, i.e. Úzún Ḥasan); he also bore an intense hatred to the Christians.” He it was who,
divinely instructed in a dream, bade his followers adopt in place of the Turkmán cap (ṭáqiya-i-Turkmání) the scarlet cap of
twelve gores (Táj-i-duwázda tark)93 from which they became universally known as “Red Heads” (Qizil-básh in Turkish;
Surkh-sar in Persian). “They are accustomed,” says the anonymous Venetian merchant cited above (p. 206 of the Italian
Travels), “to wear a red caftan, and above that a high conical turban made with a dozen folds, representing the twelve
sacraments of their sect, or the twelve descendants of ‘Alí94.”
Shaykh Ḥaydar, like his father, fell in battle against the hosts of Shírwánsháh and his Turkmán allies at Ṭabarsarán near
Darband. Twenty-two years later his death was

[page 49]

avenged and his body recovered and brought to Ardabíl by his redoubtable son Sháh Isma‘íl, who was at this time (Rajab 20,
893: June 30, 1488)95 only a year old.


SHÁH ISMA‘ÍL.
(Born 892/1487; crowned 905/1499-1500; died 930/1523-4)

Nothing could appear more unpromising than the position of the three little sons of Shaykh Ḥaydar, who were for the
moment entirely at the mercy of their father’s enemies. Sulṭán Ya‘qúb, the son of Úzún Ḥasan, however, shrank from killing
them for the sake of their mother, who was his sister, and contented himself with exiling them to Iṣṭakhr in Fárs, where they
were placed in the custody of the governor Manṣúr Beg Parnák. According to Angiolello96, however, the three boys were
confined on an island in the “Lake of Astumar” (identified by the translator with Lake Van) inhabited by Armenian
Christians, where they remained for three years and became “very much beloved, especially Ismael, the second, for his
beauty and pleasing manners,” so that when Rustam, the grandson of Úzún Ḥasan, after the death of his uncle Ya‘qúb, sent a

88 These particulars are from the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí.
89 In 850/1456 according to Babinger, op. cit., p. 83.
90 See Pers. Lit. iii, p. 407.
91 Translated and edited by Charles Grey and published by the Hakluyt Society in 1873, pp. 139-207.
92 These were Sulṭán ‘Alí Mírzá (or Pádisháh), Isma‘íl, and Ibráhím, according to the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí, but they are
differently given in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh.
93 See the late Sir A. Houtum-Schindler’s note on this in the J.R.A.S. for 1897, pp. 114-115. For a long note on Qizil-básh, see Babinger’s
Schejch Bedr ed-Dín ,pp. 84-5 of the Sonderabdruck.
94 This, of course, is an error, for the Twelve Imáms include ‘Alí, who was the first of them and was succeeded by eleven of his
descendants.
95 According to the rare history of Sháh Isma‘íl represented by Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, however, Shaykh Ḥaydar
was killed in 895/1490.
96 Pp. 101-2 of the Hakluyt Society’s translation by Charles Grey.

message to demand their surrender, intending to put them to death, the Armenians not only made excuses for not giving them
up but enabled them to escape by boat to the “country of Carabas” (Qará-bágh). In the Persian accounts, however, Rustam is
credited with their release from Iṣṭakhr, because, being at war with his cousin Baysunqur, he thought to strengthen himself by
an alliance with them and their numerous devoted followers. He accordingly invited the eldest brother Sulṭán ‘Alí to Tabríz,

[page 50]

received him with much honour, conferred on him all the paraphernalia of sovereignty and the title of Pádisháh, and
despatched him to attack Baysunqur, whom he defeated and slew in a battle near Ahar. Having thus got rid of his rival,
Rustam sought to rid himself of his ally, who, warned by one of his Turkmán disciples, fled to Ardabíl, but was overtaken by
his enemies at the neighbouring village of Shamásí and killed in the ensuing skirmish in the year 900/1494-597. His two
brothers, however, reached Ardabíl in safety, and were concealed by their faithful followers during the house-to-house search
instituted by the Turkmáns, until an opportunity presented itself of conveying them secretly into Gílán, first to Rasht, where
they remained for a short period, estimated at anything from seven to thirty days, and then to Láhiján, the ruler of which
place, Kár-kiyá Mírzá ‘Alí, accorded them hospitality and protection for several years. It is related that on one occasion when
their Turkmán foes came to look for them he caused them to be suspended in a cage in the woods so as to enable him to
swear that they had no foothold on his territory.
To the valour and devotion of Isma‘íl’s disciples, the “Ṣúfís of Láhiján,” contemporary European writers testify as
forcibly as the Persian historians. “This Sophi,” says the anonymous Italian merchant98, “is loved and reverenced by his
people as a

[page 51]

god, and especially by his soldiers, many of whom enter into battle without armour, expecting their master Ismael to watch
over them in the fight. … The name of God is forgotten throughout Persia and only that of Ismael remembered.” “The
Suffaveans fought like lions” is a phrase which repeatedly occurs in the pages of the Venetian travellers. Yet for all this, and
the numbers and wide ramifications of the Order (“from the remotest West to the limits of Balkh and Bukhárá,” says the rare
history of Sháh Isma‘íl, speaking of the days of his grandfather Junayd), it is doubtful if their astounding successes would
have been possible in the first instance but for the bitter internecine feuds of the ruling “White Sheep” dynasty after the death
of the great and wise Úzún Ḥasan in A.D. 1478, from which time onwards their history is a mere welter of fratricidal warfare.
Isma‘íl was only thirteen years of age when he set out from the seclusion of Láhiján on his career of conquest. He was
accompanied at first by only seven age of thirteen devoted “Ṣúfís,” but, as he advanced by way Ṭárum and Khalkhál to
Ardabíl, he was reinforced at every stage by brave and ardent disciples, many from Syria and Asia Minor99. Ordered to leave
Ardabíl by the Turkmán Sulṭán ‘Alí Beg Chákarlú, he retired for a while to Arjawán near Astárá on the Caspian Sea, where
he amused himself with fishing, of which he was very fond; but in the spring of A.D. 1500 he was back at Ardabíl, having
rallied round him a goodly army of the seven Turkish tribes who constituted the backbone of the

[page 52]

Ṣafawí military power100. He now felt himself strong enough embark on a holy war against the Georgian “infidels” and a war
of revenge against Farrukh-Yasár, king of Shírwán, whom he defeated and killed near Gulistán (906/1500). He decapitated
and burned the corpse, built a tower of his enemies’ heads, destroyed the tombs of the Shírwánsháhs, and exhumed and
burned the remains of the last king, Khalíl, who had killed his grandfather Shaykh Junayd. The noble dynasty thus
extinguished claimed descent from the great Sásánian king Anúsharwán (Núshírwán), and numbered amongst them the
patron of the famous panegyrist Kháqání.
Having captured Bákú (Bádkúya, Bádkúba) Isma‘íl, advised in a dream by the Imáms, decided to raise the siege of
Gulistán and march on Ádharbáyján. Alwand and his “White Sheep” Turkmáns endeavoured to arrest his advance, but were
utterly defeated at the decisive battle of Shurúr with great slaughter. Alwand fled to Arzinján, while Isma‘íl entered Tabríz in
triumph and was there crowned King of Persia (907/1501-2). Henceforth, therefore, we shall speak of him as Sháh Isma‘íl,
but by the Persian historians he is often entitled Kháqán-i-Iskandar-shán (“the Prince like unto Alexander in state”), as his
son and successor Sháh Ṭahmásp is called Sháh-i-Dín-panáh (“the King who is the Refuge of Religion”).

97 The following portion of this account, taken from the rare history of Sháh Isma‘íl mentioned in n. 1 on p. 15 above, has been published
with translation by Sir E. Denison Ross in the J.R.A.S. for 1896 (vol. xxviii), pp. 264-283.
98 P. 206 of the Hakluyt Society’s Travels of Venetians in Persia (London, 1873). See also p. 223 of the same volume, where Vincentio
d’Alessandri speaks in similar terms of the devotion of his subjects to Ṭahmásp, the son and successor of Isma‘íl. Most of this passage
has been already quoted on p. 23 supra.
99 Cf. Pers. Lit. iii, p. 417. So the rare history of Sháh Isma‘íl (Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, f. 27a):

100 These were the Shámlú, Rúmlú, Ustájlú, Takallú, Dhu’l-Qadar, Afshár and Qájár. From the two last respectively there arose in later
days Nádir Sháh and the present Royal House of Persia.

Already Sháh Isma‘íl and his partisans had given ample proof of their strong Shí‘a convictions. Their battle-cry on the
day they slew Shírwánsháh was Alláh! Alláh! wa ‘Alí waliyyu’lláh (God! God! and ‘Alí is the Friend of God!”)101, while
Alwand was offered peace if he would

[page 53]

embrace this doctrine and pronounce this formula102. But now Sháh Isma‘íl resolved that, with his assumption of the kingly
rank, the Shí‘a faith should become not merely the State religion but the only tolerated creed. This decision caused anxiety
even to some of the Shí‘a divines of Tabríz, who, on the night preceding Isma‘íl’s coronation, represented to him that of the
two or three hundred thousand inhabitants of that city at least two-thirds were Sunnís; that the Shí‘a formula had not been
publicly uttered from the pulpit since the time of the Imáms themselves; and that if the majority of the people refused to
accept a Shí‘a ruler, it would be difficult to deal with the situation which would then arise. To this Sháh Isma‘íl replied, “I am
committed to this action; God and the Immaculate Imáms are with me, and I fear no one; by God’s help, if the people utter
one word of protest, I will draw the sword and leave not one of them alive103.” Nor did he content himself with glorifying
‘Alí and his descendants, but ordained the public cursing of the first three Caliphs of the Sunnís, Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and
‘Uthmán, and that all who heard the cursing should respond

[page 54]

“May it be more, not less!” (Bísh bád, kam ma-bád!) or suffer death in case of refusal.
Immediately after his coronation, according to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh104,he ordered all preachers (Khuṭabá) throughout
his realms to introduce the distinctively Shí‘a formulae “I bear witness that ‘Alí is the Friend of God” and “hasten to the best
of deeds” (ḥayya ila khayri’l-‘amal) into the profession of Faith and the call to Prayer respectively; which formulae had been
in abeyance since Ṭughril Beg the Saljúq had put to flight and slain al-Basásírí five hundred and twenty-eight years
previously105. He also instituted the public cursing of Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán in the streets and markets, as above
mentioned, threatening recalcitrants with decapitation. Owing to the dearth of Shí‘a theological works the religious
instruction of the people necessitated by the change of doctrine presented great difficulties, but finally the Qáḍí Naṣru’lláh
Zaytúní produced from his library the first volume of the Qawá‘idu’l-Islám (“Rules of Islám”) of Shaykh Jamálu’d-Dín …
ibn ‘Alí ibnu’l-Muṭahhir al-Ḥillí106, which served as a basis of instruction “until day by day the Sun of Truth of the Doctrine
of the Twelve [Imáms]

[page 55]

increased its altitude, and all parts and regions of the world became illuminated by the dawning effulgences of the Path of
Verification.”
Of the anger and alarm aroused by these proceedings in the neighbouring kingdoms, and especially in the Ottoman
Empire, we shall have to speak presently, but first we may with advantage give from the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh107 the list of
potentates in Persia itself who at this time claimed sovereign power: (1) Sháh Isma‘íl in Ádharbáyján; (2) Sulṭán Murád in
most of ‘Iráq; (3) Murád Beg Báyandarí in Yazd; (4) Ra’ís Muḥammad Karra (?  ڪ) in Abarqúh; (5) Ḥusayn Kiyá-yi-
Chaláwí in Samnán, Khwár and Fírúzkúh; (6) Bárík Parnák in ‘Iráq-i-‘Arab; (7) Qásim Beg ibn Jahángír Beg ibn ‘Alí Beg in
Diyár Bakr; (8) Qáḍí Muḥammad in conjunction with Mawláná Mas‘úd in Káshán; (9) Sulṭán Ḥusayn Mírzá (the Tímúrid) in

101 Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, f. 35b.
102 Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, f. 40.
103 Ibid., f. 44b. The text of this important passage, to which reference has been already made (p. 22 supra), runs as follows:

104 F. 44 of Mr. A. G. Ellis’s manuscript.
105 See Weil’s Geschichte der Chalifen, vol. iii, pp. 92-102. Al-Basásírí was the Commander-in-chief of the troops of the Buwayhid al-
Maliku’r-Raḥím. He espoused the cause of the Fáṭimid Caliph al-Mustanṣir and attempted to depose the ‘Abbásid Caliph al-Qá’im. He
was killed on Dhu’l-Qa‘da 6, 451 (Dec. 14, 1059). Since Isma‘íl was crowned in 907/1501-2, we must understand “previously” as
referring not to this event, but to the composition of the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, or rather this portion of it, for it extends to the year
985/1577, while the date we require is 979/1571-2 (451 + 528 = 979).
106 The name is defective in the MS., but most closely resembles this. Such a writer is mentioned towards the end of the fifth Majlis of the
Majálisu’l-Mú’minín, but he has no work bearing precisely this name. It is possible that the popular Sharáyi‘u’l-Islám of another al-Ḥillí
is intended. See Rieu’s Arabic Supplement, p. 212.
107 F. 45 of Mr. Ellis’s MS.

Khurásán; (10) Amír Dhu’n-Nún in Qandahár; (11) Badí‘u’z-Zamán Mírzá (the Tímúrid) in Balkh; and (12) Abu’l-Fatḥ Beg
Báyandarí in Kirmán.
Many of these petty rulers (Mulúku’ṭ-Ṭawá’if) were quite insignificant, and several of them I cannot even identify. None
of them long stood in Sháh Isma‘íl’s victorious path. His old enemy Alwand of the “White Sheep” dynasty suffered a
decisive defeat at his hands in the summer of A.D. 1503, and died a year or so later at Diyár Bakr or Baghdád108. His brother
Murád was defeated and Shíráz occupied about the same time, and stern punishment overtook the Sunni doctors of Kázarún,
many of whom were put to death, while the tombs and foundations of their predecessors were destroyed109. The words
Raḥmatun li’l-‘Ála-

[page 56]

mín (“a Mercy to the Worlds”) were found, not very appropriately from an impartial point of view, to give the date 909 (A.D.
1503-4) of this event; while the equivalent chronogram Shaltáq-i-Sipáhí (“Military Coercion”) was observed by the poets and
wits of Fárs to commemorate in like manner the appointment by Sháh Isma‘íl of his captain Ilyás Beg Dhu’l-Qadar as
governor of Shíráz. Káshán, always a stronghold of the Shí‘a110, received Isma‘íl with enthusiasm, and he held a great
reception at the beautiful suburb of Fín. Thence he passed to the holy city of Qum, intending, apparently, to winter there, but
hearing that Ilyás Beg, one of his most trusted officers, “a Ṣúfí of pure disposition and right belief111,” had been murdered by
Ḥusayn Kiyá-yi-Chaláwí, he marched out on February 25, 1504, to avenge him. Three weeks later he was at Astarábád,
where he was met by Muḥammad Muḥsin Mírzá, the son of the Tímúrid Sulṭán Ḥusayn Mírzá, and, having attacked and
destroyed the fortresses of Gulkhandán and Fírúzkúh, he reduced the stronghold of Ustá by cutting off the water-supply,
massacred the garrison (ten thousand souls, according to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh), and took captive the wretched Ḥusayn
Kiyá, whom he confined in an iron cage, but who succeeded in inflicting on himself a wound which in a few days proved
mortal112. Still more unfortunate was Ra’ís Muḥammad Karra of Abarqúh, who rebelled and took possession of the ancient
city of Yazd. Him also Sháh Isma‘íl confined in a cage, and smeared his body with honey so that the wasps tormented him
until he was finally burned alive in the maydán of Iṣfahán.

[page 57]

About the same time an embassy came from the Ottoman Sulṭán Báyazíd II (A.D. 1481-1512) to offer “suitable gifts and
presents” and congratulations on Sháh Isma‘íl’s conquest of ‘Iráq and Fárs. They were dismissed with robes of honour and
assurances of Isma‘íl’s friendly sentiments, but were compelled to witness several executions, including, perhaps, that of the
philosopher and judge Mír Ḥusayn-i-Maybudí113, whose chief offence seems to have been that he was a “fanatical Sunni.”
Persian kings were disposed to take this means of impressing foreign envoys with their “justice”; Clavijo relates a similar
procedure on the part of Tímúr114, and Sháh Isma‘íl’s son and successor Ṭahmásp sought to impress and intimidate
Humáyún’s ambassador Bayrám Beg by putting to death in his presence a number of heretics115. To the Turkish envoys it
would naturally be particularly disagreeable to witness the execution of a learned Sunní doctor by those whom they regarded
as detestable schismatics.
Of the increasingly strained relations between Turkey and Persia, culminating in the Battle of Cháldirán (August, 1514),
we shall have to speak very shortly, but we must first conclude our brief survey of Sháh Isma‘íl’s career of conquest. To
describe in detail his incessant military activities would be impossible in a work of the scope and character of this book, and
only the barest summary is possible.
During the years A.H. 911-915 (A.D. 1506-1510) Sháh Isma‘íl was for the most part busy in the West. He first entered
Hamadán and visited the tomb of the Imám-záda Sahl ‘Alí. A serious revolt

[page 58]

of the “Yazídí” Kurds116 next demanded his attention. Their leader, Shír Ṣárim, was defeated and captured in a bloody battle
wherein several important officers of Sháh Isma‘íl lost their lives. To their relatives the Kurdish prisoners were surrendered
to be put to death “with torments worse than which there may not be.” War was next waged against the conjoined forces of

108 According to contemporary European accounts he was put to death in cold blood by Isma‘íl. See p. 62 infra.
109 Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, f. 55.
110 See the Ráḥatu’ṣ-Ṣudúr, ed. Muḥammad Iqbál (“E. J. W. Gibb Memorial,” New Series, vol. ii, 1921), p. 30.

112 According to Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library (f. 61) the body was conveyed to Iṣfahán and there blown to pieces in the
maydán with gunpowder.
113 His commentary on the Hidáya is still the favourite text-book for beginners in philosophy. See also Brockelmann’s Gesch. d. Arab. Litt.,
vol. ii, p. 210, and Rieu, B.M.P.C., p. 1077.
114 Embassy lo the Court of Timour, A.D. 1403-6, published by the Hakluyt Society, 1859, pp. 149-150.
115 W. Erskine’s History of India, etc. (London, 1854), vol. ii, p. 281.
116 “All the Curds,” says the anonymous Italian merchant (p. 157), “are truer Mahometans than the other inhabitants of Persia, since the
Persians have embraced the Suffavean doctrine, while the Curds would not be converted to it: and though they wear the red caftans, yet
in their hearts they bear a deadly hatred to them.”

Sulṭán Murád, the thirteenth117 and last of the “White Sheep” dynasty, and ‘Alá’u’d-Dawla Dhu’l-Qadar (the “Aliduli” of the
Italian travellers of this period), who, refusing Isma‘íl’s proposal that he should “set his tongue in motion with the goodly
word ‘Alí is the Friend of God, and curse the enemies of the Faith” (to wit, the first three Caliphs), appealed for help to the
Ottoman Turks. Sháh Isma‘íl, however, was not to be denied, and successively captured Diyár Bakr, Akhláṭ, Bitlís, Arjísh,
and finally in 914/1508 Baghdád itself, whereby he obtained possession of the Holy Shrines of Karbalá and Najaf, so dear to
Shí‘a hearts, where he hastened to offer prayers and thanksgivings. At Ḥuwayza he showed that, ardent Shí‘a as he was, he
would not tolerate the exaggerated veneration of ‘Alí characteristic of the Ghulát, represented there by certain Arabs called
Musha‘shi‘, who venerated ‘Alí as God, and, invoking his name, would cast themselves on sharp swords without

[page 59]

sustaining injury, after the fashion of the modern ‘Ísáwiyya of North Africa. Their leader, Mír Sulṭán Muḥsin, died about this
time, and was succeeded by his son Sultan Fayyáḍ, who claimed for himself divine honours118. Sháh Isma‘íl ruthlessly
suppressed these heretics, and proceeded to Dizful and Shúshtar, receiving the submission of the Lur chieftain Sháh Rustam,
who won his favour by “the utterance of prayer and praise in the Lurí tongue with extreme sweetness.” Thence Sháh Isma‘íl
made his way eastwards to Fárs, encamped for a while at Dárábjird, and organised a great hunting expedition, of which the
special object was a kind of mountain goat which yields the “animal antidote” (pádzahr-i-ḥaywání)119. He also put to death
the Qáḍí Muḥammad-i-Káshí, who held the high ecclesiastical office of Ṣadr, and replaced him by the Sayyid-i-Sharíf of
Astarábád, who was descended on his mother’s side from the celebrated Jurjání. He further erected at Qaṣr-i-Zar a
mausoleum in memory of his brother Sulṭán Aḥmad Mírzá, who had died there, and, under the title of Najm-i-Thání (“the
Second Star”), appointed Amír Yár Aḥmad-i-Khúzání of Iṣfahán to succeed “the First Star,” Amír Najmu’d-Dín Mas‘úd of
Rasht, who had recently died and been buried at Najaf. The poet Ummídí celebrated this appointment in a very ingenious and
sonorous qaṣída beginning:



[page 60]

From Fárs Sháh Isma‘íl marched into Shírwán (where Shaykh Sháh, the son of Farrukh-Yasár, had re-established
himself), recovered the body of his father Shaykh Ḥaydar and conveyed it to Ardabíl for burial, as already related, and took
Darband.
So far Sháh Isma‘íl had been chiefly occupied in putting down minor princes and pretenders and in consolidating his
power in Persia, of which he had to the West and North-West greatly enlarged the territories, and had almost restored the
ancient frontiers of Sásánian times. Hitherto he had hardly come into conflict with the two powerful enemies who were
destined to give so much trouble to himself and his successors, to wit the Uzbeks of Central Asia and the Ottoman Turks. Of
his relations with these formidable rivals we must now speak, but, before doing so, a few more words may be said of Sháh
Isma‘íl’s character and appearance. As usual, a much more vivid picture of these is given by contemporary travellers than by
his own countrymen, though his courage, energy, cruelty and restless activity are sufficiently apparent in the Persian
chronicles of his reign. At the age of thirteen, when he began his career of conquest, he was, according to Caterino Zeno120,
“of noble presence and a truly royal bearing, as in his eyes there was something, I know not what, so great and commanding,
which plainly showed that he would yet some day become a great ruler. Nor did the virtues of his mind disaccord with the
beauty of his person, as he had an elevated genius, and such a lofty idea of things as seemed incredible at such a tender age.
… He had vigour of mind, quickness of perception, and a personal valour … never yet … equalled by any of his
contemporaries.” Angio-

[page 61]

lello121 speaks of “his beauty and pleasing manners” when he was a child, and relates122 how, in his campaign against
‘Alá’u’d-Dawla (“Alidoli”), “he supplied himself with provisions, paying for everything, and proclaiming abroad that

117 They are thus enumerated in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh (f. 109b of Mr. Ellis’s MS.): (1) Qará ‘Uthmán; (2) ‘Alí Beg; (3) Sulṭán Ḥamza; (4)
Jahángír Mírzá (these four ruled over Diyár Bakr only); (5) Úzún Ḥasan; (6) Khalíl; (7) Ya‘qúb; (8) Báysunghur; (9) Rustam; (10)
Aḥmad Beg; (11) Muḥammadí Mírzá; (12) Alwand Mírzá; (13) Sulṭán Murád.
118 Add. 200, Camb. Univ. Lib., f. 83a:

119 In this hunting expedition 56,700 head of game are said to have been killed.
120 Narrative of Italian Travels in Persia (Hakluyt Society, London, 1873), pp. 46-8. See p. 22 supra, where part of this passage has been
already cited.
121 Narrative of Italian Travels in Persia, p. 102 and p. 22 supra.
122 Ibid., pp. 109 and 196, and p. 23 supra.

everyone might bring supplies to the camp for sale, and that anyone taking anything without paying for it would be put to
death.” “This Sophi,” he says a little further on123, “is fair, handsome, and very pleasing; not very tall, but of a light and well-
framed figure; rather stout than slight, with broad shoulders. His hair is reddish; he only wears moustachios, and uses his left
hand instead of his right. He is as brave as a game-cock, and stronger than any of his lords; in the archery contests, out of the
ten apples that are knocked down, he knocks down seven; while he is at his sport they play on various instruments and sing
his praises.” “He is almost worshipped,” he remarks in another place124, “more especially by his soldiers, many of whom
fight without armour, being willing to die for their master. While I was in Tauris [Tabríz] I heard that the king is displeased
with this adoration, and being called God!” The anonymous merchant describes him125 at the age of thirty-one as “Very
handsome, of a magnanimous countenance, and about middle height; he is fair, stout, and with broad shoulders, his beard is
shaved and he only wears a moustache, not appearing to be a very heavy man. He is as amiable as a girl, left-handed by
nature, is as lively as a fawn, and stronger than any of his lords. In the archery trials at the apple he is so expert that of every
ten he hits six.” The same writer, on the other hand, after describing his massacre of Alwand’s soldiers, of the male and
female kinsmen of Sulṭán Ya‘qúb, of three

[page 62]

hundred courtezans of Tabríz, of “eight hundred avaricious Blasi126” who had been brought up under Alumut [i.e. Alwand],
of “all the dogs in Tauris,” and of his own mother [or step-mother], concludes, “From the time of Nero to the present, I doubt
whether so bloodthirsty a tyrant has ever existed.” He presented, in short, the strangest blend of antithetical qualities; and we
are alternately attracted by his personal charm, his unquestionable valour, generosity and — within certain limits — justice,
and repelled by actions, such as those recorded above, revealing a savagery remarkable even in that cruel and bloodthirsty
age. His courage was shown not only on the field of battle but in the chase. Hearing after his conquest and occupation of
Baghdád of a singularly fierce man-eating lion which had its lair in a thicket and terrified the inhabitants of the
neighbourhood, he insisted, in spite of all remonstrances, in destroying it single-handed with the bow he knew so well how to
use127. At the age of thirteen he had already slain a fierce bear in like manner in a cave near Arzinján128. When “immense
treasures” fell into his hands on the capture of one of the Caspian ports, “he divided them amongst his men, keeping nothing
for himself129.” Yet the same traveller who reports this instance of generosity and political foresight (for in consequence of it
“he was joined by numbers, even those who were not Suffaveans flocking to his standard in hopes of receiving gifts of this
nature from the valiant Ismael”) describes how the Sháh with his own hand cut off the head of the unfortunate young prince
“Alumut130,” captured by treachery, whom he himself had seen bound in chains in a tent; and tells of even darker deeds
wrought at Tabríz on the occasion of the Sháh’s

[page 63]

second entry into that city in A.D. 1520131. Towards the Sunnís he showed himself ruthless, sparing neither eminent divines
like the learned Farídu’d-Dín Aḥmad, a grandson of the celebrated scholar Sa‘du’d-Dín-i-Taftázání, who for thirty years had
held the office of Shaykhu’l-Islám in Herát132, nor witty poets like Banná’í, who perished in the massacre of Qarshí in
918/1512. But perhaps the most conspicuous instance of a ferocity which pursued his foes even after their death was his
treatment of the body of his old enemy Muḥammad Khán Shaybání, or Shaybak, the Uzbek, of which we shall have to speak
very shortly.
It has already been stated that the foreign relations of Sháh Isma‘íl, after he had cleared Persia of the “White Sheep” and
other rivals for the sceptre of that ancient kingdom, were chiefly with three Powers, the Tímúrids, who still kept a precarious
hold on Herát and portions of Khurásán and Central Asia; the formidable Uzbeks of Transoxiana; and the Ottoman Turks.
With the last two, rigid Sunnís in both cases, the relations of Persia were, and continued to be, uniformly hostile; with the
Tímúrids, themselves menaced by the Uzbeks, comparatively friendly and at times even cordial. The aged Sulṭán Ḥusayn ibn
Bayqará, whose brilliant and luxurious court at Herát was so famous a centre of literature and art133, is reckoned amongst the
rulers who, with less success than Sháh Isma‘íl, endeavoured to replace the Sunní by the Shí‘a doctrine in their dominions134;
and Bábur, whether


123 Ibid., p. 111. See pp. 22-3 supra.
124 Ibid., p. 115.
125 Ibid., p. 202. Part of this passage has been already quoted on p. 23 supra.
126 I am at a loss to explain this word.
127 Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh (Ellis MS.), f. 74b.
128 Ibid., f. 26.
129 Travels of a Merchant, p. 188.
130 Ibid., pp. 197-8. The Ḥabíbu’s-Siyar and other Persian histories, however, represent Alwand as dying a natural death. Cf. p. 55 supra.
131 Travels of a Merchant, p. 207.
132 He was put to death in Ramaḍán, 916/December, 1510.
133 See Dr. F. R. Martin’s Miniature Paintings and Painters of Persia etc., pp. 35-6.
134 See Lit. Hist. Pers. iii, p. 456, and Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, f. 45b, which places this attempt in the year 873/1468-
9.

[page 64]

from conviction or policy, showed enough partiality towards the Shí‘a faction to cause grave disaffection amongst his Central
Asian Sunní subjects135. There existed, then, in this case no such essential cause of enmity as in the two others, while a
common hatred of Shaybání Khán and his redoubtable Uzbeks naturally tended to unite Bábur to Isma‘íl.
It is beyond the scope of this work to enter into a detailed account of the decline of the Tímúrid and the rise of the Uzbek
power, of which ample particulars may be found in Erskine’s and other works136. Suffice it to say that Shaybání or Shaybak
Khán, a direct descendant of Chingíz Khán137, first became prominent about A.D. 1500, when he captured Samarqand and
Bukhárá, and later Táshkand and Farghána. He invaded Khurásán in 911/1505-6, in the year of Sulṭán Ḥusayn’s death, and in
the course of the next year or two practically exterminated the Tímúrids, with the exception of Bábur and Badí‘u’z-Zamán, of
whom the latter sought refuge with Sháh Isma‘íl. It was not until 916/1510-11, however, that he came into direct conflict
with Sháh Isma‘íl, whom he had provoked by a raid on Kirmán in the previous year and a most insulting letter in reply to
Isma‘íl’s politely-worded remonstrance138. Sháh Isma‘íl was not slow to respond to his taunts, and,

[page 65]

the rest of his realms being for the moment tranquil, at once marched into Khurásán to meet him, visiting on his way the
Shrine of the Imám ‘Alí Riḍá at Mashhad, so sacred in Shí‘a eyes. The decisive battle was fought on Dec. 1 or 2, 1510, at
Ṭáhir-ábád near Merv, where, after a stubborn and protracted conflict, the Uzbeks were utterly defeated and Shaybání killed.
When his body was found under a heap of slain, Sháh Isma‘íl ordered the limbs to be cut off and distributed to different parts
of his kingdom, and the head to be stuffed with straw and sent as a grim gift to the Ottoman Sulṭán Báyazíd II at
Constantinople139. The bones of the skull he caused to be mounted in gold and made into a drinking-cup for his own use, and
one hand he sent to Áqá Rustam Rúz-afzún, the ruler of Mázandarán, by a special messenger, Darwísh Muḥammad Yasá’úl,
who cast the hand on to Rustam’s skirt as he sat amidst his courtiers at Sárí, crying “Thou didst say, ‘My hand on Shaybak
Khán’s skirt’ (dast-i-man-ast u dáman-i-Shaybak Khán)140: lo, his hand is now on thy skirt!” So astounded were those present
by this audacity that none lifted a hand to stay the messenger’s departure, and Rustam received so great a shock that he soon
afterwards sickened and died. Of the drinking-cup the following grim anecdote is told. One of Shaybání’s trusted advisers,
Khwája Kamálu’d-Dín Ságharchí, saved his life by professing the Shí‘a faith, and was admitted into the service of Sháh
Isma‘íl. One day at a banquet the latter, pointing to the drinking-cup, asked him if he recognized the skull of his late master.
“Yes, glory be to God,” replied Kamálu’d-Dín; “and how favoured by fortune was

[page 66]

he! Nay, fortune still abides with him, so that even now he rests in the hands of so auspicious a being as thyself, who
continually drinks the Wine of Delight!”



Shaybání Khán was sixty-one years of age at the time of his death and had reigned eleven years. He was, as already
stated, a fanatical Sunní and had grievously persecuted the Shí‘a in his dominions: now it was the Sunnís who suffered in
their turn at the hands of Sháh Isma‘íl. The Uzbek power, in spite of this disaster, was far from being broken, and, though a
formal peace was concluded between them and the Persians a few months afterwards, they had an ample revenge at the battle
of Ghujduwán, where Bábur and his Persian allies suffered a disastrous defeat and many of their leaders, including Najm-i-
Thání, were slain in November, 1512. During the whole of the sixteenth century they were a constant menace to Persia, and
accounts of their raids into Khurásán occur with monotonous iteration in the pages of the Persian historians of this period.

135 See W. Erskine’s History of India, vol. i (London, 1854), pp. 319-320.
136 For example, the History of the Moghuls of Central Asia etc., by N. Elias and Sir E. Denison Ross (London, 1898), and, of course, the
incomparable Memoirs of Bábur, in the tasteful new edition of Erskine and Leyden’s translation annotated and revised by Sir Lucas King
(Oxford, 1921).
137 The Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh (f. 88b) gives his pedigree thus: Shaybak Khán b. Búdáq Sulṭán b. Abu’l-Khayr Khán b. Dawlat Shaykh b. Íltí-
Oghlan b. Fúlád-Oghlan b. Aybu Khwája b. … b. Bulgháy b. Shaybán b. Jújí b. Chingíz Khán.
138 See Erskine’s History of India, vol. i, pp. 297 et seqq. The text of this long letter is given in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh (Ellis MS., ff. 80b et
seqq.).
139 According to the history of Sháh Isma‘íl contained in Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library (f. 141), Prince (afterwards Sulṭán)
Salím was greatly offended at this, and had a violent quarrel with his father Báyazíd on the subject.
140 I.e. “I seek protection from him.”

We must now turn to the far more important relations of Persia with the Ottoman Turks at this period, on which more
light is thrown by the State Papers so industriously compiled and edited by Firídún Bey in 982/1574 under the title of
Munsha’át-i-Saláṭín (“Correspondence of the Kings”)141 than by

[page 67]

most of the Persian or Turkish historians. These letters, which passed between successive Ottoman Sulṭáns and neighbouring
rulers, as well as between them and their sons, ministers and governors, are sometimes in Turkish and sometimes in Persian
or Arabic. Unfortunately many of them are undated. They have hitherto been so little used that no apology is needed for
summarizing the contents or indicating the purport of such of them as concern the Ṣafawís down to the death of Sháh Isma‘íl
in 930/1523-4, that is, during the reigns of the Ottoman Sulṭáns Báyazíd II (886-918/1481-1512), Salím I (918-926/1512-
1520), and the first four years of Sulaymán “the Magnificent” (926-930/1520-1524).

(1) From Ya‘qúb Pádisháh of the “White Sheep” dynasty to Sulṭán Báyazíd, announcing the defeat and death of Shaykh
Ḥaydar (Sháh Isma‘íl’s father), (p. 309). This letter, in Persian, is undated, but must have been written soon after Shaykh
Ḥaydar, who is called the “President of the people of error” (Sar-i-ḥalga-i-arbáb-i-ḍalál), was killed on June 30, 1488. The
writer assumes that the news of the destruction of “these misguided rebels, enemies of the Prophetic Dispensation and foes of
Church and State” will be welcome to all good Muslims.
(2) Sulṭán Báyazíd’s answer to the above, also in Persian and undated (p. 311). Congratulations are offered to Ya‘qúb
on the victory of “the Báyandarí142 hosts of salvation” over the “misguided Ḥaydarí faction” (gurúh-i-ḍálla-i-Ḥaydariyya).
(3) From Sháh Isma‘íl to Sulṭán Báyazíd II, requesting that his disciples in Asia Minor may not be prevented from
visiting him at Ardabíl (p. 345). This letter, undated and in Persian, is important as proving how numerous were the partisans
of the Ṣafawís in the Ottoman dominions.

[page 68]

(4) Sulṭán Báyazíd’s answer to the above, also in Persian and undated (pp. 345-6). The Ottoman Sulṭán says that, having
investigated the matter, he finds that the motive of many of these pilgrims is not the desire to fulfil a pious duty, but to escape
from the obligation of military service.
(5) From Sháh Isma‘íl to Sulṭán Báyazíd on the same subject, also in Persian and undated (pp. 346-7). He explains that
he has been compelled to enter Ottoman territory to chastise his foes, but intends thereby no unfriendly or disrespectful act
towards Báyazíd, and has strictly enjoined his soldiers to respect the persons and property of the inhabitants.
(6) Sulṭán Báyazíd’s answer to the above, also in Persian and undated (p. 347). Báyazíd accepts Isma‘íl’s assurances,
and has ordered his officials to co-operate with him in a friendly spirit.
(7) From Alwand, the Áq-Qoyúnlú ruler of Persia, to Sulṭán Báyazíd, in Persian, except the Arabic prologue, and
undated (pp. 351-2). Alwand announces the arrival of Báyazíd’s envoy Maḥmúd Áqá Cháwúsh-báshi with his master’s letter,
urging the Báyandarí or Áq-Qoyúnlú family to unite against their common enemy, the “rascally Red-heads” (Awbásh-i-Qizil-
básh). Alwand promises to do his best, whether his relations help him or not, provided he can count on material and moral
support from Báyazíd.
(8) Báyazíd’s answer to the above, also in Persian and undated (pp. 352-3). He commends Alwand’s resolve, and
promises help against the “rebellious horde of the Qizil-báshes” (ṭa’ifa-i-bághiya-i-Qizil-báshiyya).
(9) From Báyazíd to Ḥájji Rustam Beg the Kurd, in Persian, dated Rabí‘ i, 908/September 1502 (p. 353). He asks for
correct information as to the doings of the Qizil-báshes and the result of their struggle with the Áq-Qoyúnlú or Báyandarí
princes, to be communicated to his envoy Kaywán Cháwúsh.

[page 69]

(10) Ḥájji Rustam’s reply to the above, in Persian and undated (pp. 353-4). The writer states that the “religion-rending
Qizil-báshes” (Qizil-básh-i-Madhhab-kharásh), having defeated Alwand and Murád of the Áq-Qoyúnlú family, are now
seeking an alliance with Egypt against the Ottoman Turks, and are advancing on Mar‘ash and Diyár Bakr.
(11) From Sulṭán Báyazíd to Sulṭán Ghúrí of Egypt, in Arabic, dated 910/1504-5 (pp. 354-5). This letter contains an
allusion to “the man who has appeared in the Eastern countries and defeated their ruler and overcome their peoples,” which,
as appears from the answer, refers to Sháh Isma‘íl, or possibly Sháh-qulí.
(12) Answer to the above, in Arabic, undated (pp. 355-6). This letter contains a reference to “the victory of the misguided
Qizil-báshí faction in the Eastern countries,” described as a “public calamity which has appeared in those regions.”


141 Printed at Constantinople in 1274/1858. Until lately I only possessed vol. i, which comprises 626 pp. and comes down to about
966/1558-9. For some account of this most important work, see von Hammer’s Gesch. d Osmanisch. Reich., iv, p. 15; Flügel’s Vienna
Catalogue, i, pp. 282-3; Z.D.M.G., vii, p. 460; Notices et extraits, v, pp. 668-688; Rieu’s Turkish Cat., pp. 80-83; and Ḥájji Khalífa (ed.
Flügel), v, p. 488.
142 Báyandarí is an alternative name for the Áq-Qoyúnlú, or “White Sheep” dynasty.

These are the only letters in Sulṭán Báyazíd’s correspondence directly connected with the Ṣafawís, though there are
others of interest to students of Persian history addressed to Sulṭán Abu’l-Ghází Ḥusayn (911/1506), the poet Jámí143, the
philosopher Jalálu’d-Dín Dawání, and the Shaykhu’l-Islám of Herát Farídu’d-Dín Aḥmad-i-Taftázání (913/1507), who was
put to death by Sháh Isma‘íl three years later for refusing to subscribe to the Shí‘a doctrine. Before we consider the State
Papers of Sulṭán Salím’s reign, something more must be said of the beginnings of that bitter strife between Turkey and Persia
which is one of the most prominent features of the whole Ṣafawí period, and has done so much to undermine the unity and
weaken the power of Islám. And here we cannot do better than quote the opening paragraph of

[page 70]

old Richard Knolles’s144 account of the formidable Shí‘a revolt in Anatolia promoted by the celebrated Sháh-qulí (“King’s
servant”), called by the Turks Shayṭán-qulí (“Devil’s servant”), the son of Ḥasan Khalífa a disciple of Isma‘íl’s father Shaykh
Ḥaydar.
“After so many troubles,” says Knolles, “Bajazet gave himself unto a quiet course of life, spending most part of his time
in study of Philosophy and conference with learned men; unto which peaceable kind of life he was of his own natural
disposition more enclined than to Wars; albeit that the regard of his State and the earnest desire of his Men of War drew him
oftentimes even against his Will into the Field. As for the Civil Government of his Kingdom he referred it wholly to his three
principal Bassaes, Alis, Achmetes and Jachia145, who at their pleasure disposed of all things. After that he had in this quiet
and pleasing kind of life to his great contentment passed over five years, of a little neglected Spark suddainly arose such a
Fire in Asia as was hardly after with much blood of his People and danger of that part of his Empire quenched; the reliques
whereof yet trouble those superstitious People at this day. Which thing was brought to pass by the crafty device of Chasan
Chelife and Schach Culi his Boy (whom some call Teckel Scachoculu and others Techellis)146, two Hypocritical Persians;
who flying into those countries and with the counterfeit shew of feigned Holiness having procured to themselves a great
name amongst those rude People, with a number of windy headed Followers (filled with the novelty of their new

[page 71]

Doctrine) raised first such a diversity of opinions about the true successors of their untrue Prophet, and afterwards such a
Rebellion amongst the People, as that the one yet remaineth, and the other was not in a good while after without great
bloodshed appeased.”
There follows a lengthy account of this dangerous rebellion, in which the Turks suffered several severe reverses and lost
many notable officers, including the Grand Vezír Khádim ‘Alí Pasha, ere the rebels were dispersed, killed, or driven into
Persia. Instead of rewarding or comforting the fugitives, however, Sháh Isma‘íl put many of them to death at Tabríz, because,
as Knolles says147, they had plundered a caravan of rich merchants; but, according to the most modern Turkish historian148 in
order to clear himself of complicity in the eyes of Báyazíd. Knolles adds that “Techellis himself (i.e. Sháh-qulí), to the terror
of others, was burnt alive”; but, according to the Turkish historian, he fell at the same time as ‘Alí Pasha in the battle of Gyuk
Cháy, between Síwás and Qayṣariyya, in which statement the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh149 agrees. “Techellis thus put to flight,”
continues Knolles, “Jonuses150 caused strait inquisition to be made through all the Cities of the lesser Asia for all such as had
professed the Persian Religion; and them whom he found to have borne Arms in the late Rebellion he caused to be put to
death with most exquisite torments and the rest to be burnt in their Foreheads with an hot Iron, thereby forever to be known;
whom together with the Kinsfolks and Friends of them that were executed or

[page 72]

fled with Techellis he caused to be transported into Europe and to be dispersed through Macedonia, Epirus and
Peleponnesus, for fear lest if Techellis, now fled into the Persian Kingdom, should from thence return with new Forces, they
should also again repair unto him and raise a new Rebellion. This was the beginning, course, and ending of one of the most
dangerous Rebellions that ever troubled the Turkish Empire; wherein all, or at leastwise the greatest part, of their Dominions
in Asia might have been easily surprised by the Persian King, if he would thoroughly have prosecuted the occasion and
opportunity then offered.” These events are placed by Knolles in A.D. 1508, but by the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh in 917/1511-12,
the year before Báyazíd’s death.

143 See Lit. Hist. Pers., iii, pp. 422-3.
144 I quote the sixth edition of his Turkish History, with Sir Paul Rycaut’s continuation, published in London in 1687. The passage in
question occurs on p. 315 of vol. i.
145 I.e. ‘Alí, Aḥmad and Yaḥyá Pashas.
146 These names stand for Ḥasan Khalífa, Sháh-qulí, and Takallú or Tekellú, i.e. of the Tekké-íli.
147 Op. cit., p. 324.
148 ‘Abdu’r-Raḥman Sheref’s History of the Ottoman Empire (Constantinople, 2nd edition, 1315/1897-8), vol. i, pp. 196-7. Cf. von
Hammer’s Gesch. d.Osmanisch. Reich., vol. ii, pp. 359-360 and 393-4.
149 Ff. 90-91 of Mr. A. G. Ellis’s MS.
150 Yúnus Pasha, Grand Vezír to Sulṭán Selím, executed in 923/1517.

It is curious that little or nothing is said by the Persian historians about this massacre of the Shí‘a in Turkey, which von
Hammer describes as one of the most dreadful deeds ever perpetrated in the name of Religion, not excepting the cruelties of
the Inquisition or the Massacre of St. Bartholomew. That most of the Turkish historians ignore it is less astonishing, since it
can hardly be a matter of pride for them. Knolles appears to be mistaken in placing it in the reign of Báyazíd II, for there can
hardly have been two such massacres, and one certainly took place in 1514 after the accession of Salím, as witnessed by
Nicolo Giustiniani in an account dated October 7 of that year151. The number of victims is placed by Sa‘du’d-Dín, Soláq-záda
and ‘Alí Abu’l-Faḍl, the son of Idrís of Bitlís, at 40,000. The particulars given by the last-named writer, quoted by von
Hammer in the original Persian verse transliterated into the Roman character, are as follows152:

[page 73]



Von Hammer’s translation, which can hardly be bettered, runs as follows:

“Der Sultan wohlbewandert, voll Verstand,
Schickt kund’ge Schreiber aus in jedes Land;
Aufzeichnen sollen sie nach Stamm und Stammen
Die Jünger dieses Volks mit Nahm und Nahmen.
Von sieben Jahren bis auf siebzig Jahr
Bring’ im Diwan die List’ ein jeder dar.
Es waren Vierzigtausend grad enthalten
In den Verzeichnissen von Jung und Alten,
Die Bringer dieser Listen wurden dann
Gesandt an die Statthalter mit Ferman.
Wo immer hin die Feder war gekommen,
Ward Fuss für Fuss das Schwert zur Hand genommen.
Es wurden hingerichtet in dem Land
Mehr als die Zahl, die in den Listen stand.”

Turning now once more to the Munsha’át of Firídún Bey, we find the following letters belonging to the reign of Sulṭán
Salím which bear on his relations with Persia.

(13) From Sulṭán Salím to ‘Ubayd Khán the Uzbek, in Persian, dated the end of Muḥarram, A.H. 920 (March 27, 1514),
only five months before the Battle of Cháldirán (pp. 374-7). In this long letter, sent by the hand of a certain Muḥammad Bey,
Salím denounces “that vile, impure, sinful, slanderous, reprehensible and blood-thirsty

[page 74]

Ṣúfí-cub” (to wit Sháh Isma‘íl), “at whose hands the people of the Eastern lands are rendered desperate”



and calls upon ‘Ubayd Khán to do his part in avenging the death of his father Shaybak Khán.
(14) Answer to the above, also in Persian, dated the end of Jumáda ii, 920 (August 21, 1514), pp. 377-9. In this letter
‘Ubayd Khán describes how he has already avenged his father and slain “the lesser dog, agent and lieutenant of the greater
dog (i.e. Sháh Isma‘íl), who in his quintessential folly had conferred on him the title of Najm-i-Thání153,” and promises to aid

151 See von Hammer, op. cit., vol. ii, p. 403 ad calc. The passage runs: “Che il Signor havea mandá a far amazzar tutti della secta di Sofi.”
152 Ibid., p. 638.
153 This victory of the Uzbeks over the allied forces of Sháh Isma‘íl and Bábur took place on Ramaḍán 17, 918 (Nov. 26, 1512). Amír
Najmu’d-Dín Mas‘úd (“the First Najm” or “Star”) died in 915 (1509-1510) and was succeeded in his office and title by Amír Yár
Aḥmad-i-Iṣfahání, called Najm-i-Thání, “the Second Najm” or “Star.”

the Turkish Sulṭán in extirpating the “inconsiderable remnant”
of the “rascally infidels and heretical ‘Red-
heads’”

(15) From Sulṭán Salím to Sháh Isma‘íl, in Persian, dated Ṣafar, 920 (April, 1514), pp. 379-381. This letter, written in
the most arrogant and offensive tone, calls on Isma‘íl to repent of his heresies and evil practices, especially the cursing of
“the two Shaykhs” (Abú Bakr and ‘Umar), and threatens, should he continue obdurate, to invade and wrest from him “the
lands which he has usurped by violence.”
(16) From Sulṭán Salím to Muḥammad Beg Áq-Qoyúnlú, in Persian, dated the end of Ṣafar, 920 (April 25, 1514), pp.
381-2, congratulating him on the sound Sunní principles of himself and his family and subjects, and inviting his co-operation
against the “heretical ‘Red-heads’.”

[page 75]

(17) Reply to the above, in Persian, dated the end of Rabí‘ ii, 920 (June 23, 1514), p. 382. From this it appears that
Salím’s letter was brought by an envoy named Aḥmad Ján, who took back the answer, and that the writer was in great fear
that the correspondence might be discovered.
(18) Sulṭán Salím’s second letter to Sháh Isma‘íl, in Persian and undated, pp. 382-3. In this letter Salím lays claim to the
Caliphate, accuses Sháh Isma‘íl and his family of heresy and immorality, and calls on him to repent and suffer Persia to be
annexed to the Ottoman dominions.
(19) Sulṭán Salím’s third letter to Isma‘íl, in Turkish, dated the end of Jumáda i, 920 (July 23, 1514) and written from
Arzinján, taunting him with his apparent unwillingness to try the fortune of battle.
(20) Sháh Isma‘íl’s reply to Sulṭán Salím’s three letters, in Persian and undated (pp. 384-5). This is apparently the letter
to which Creasy refers in his History of the Ottoman Turks (ed. 1877, pp. 136-7)) for the writer hints that Salím’s secretary
must have written under the influence of bang or opium, and sends a gold casket filled with a special preparation of one or
both of these narcotics, sealed with the Royal Seal, by the hand of his messenger Sháh-qulí Ághá.
(21) Sulṭán Salím’s fourth letter to Isma‘íl, in Turkish, dated the end of Jumáda ii, 920 (August 21, 1514)) again
challenging him to battle.

Shortly after this last letter was written, namely early in the month of Rajab154, 920 (August-September, 1514), a great
battle was fought between the Turks and Persians at Cháldirán, situated some 20 parasangs from Tabríz, where 3000 of the
former and 2000 of the latter were slain, but the Turkish artillery decided the day, and Sháh Isma‘íl, notwithstanding the
valour shown by him and his devoted followers, was forced

[page 76]

to give way and to fall back beyond Tabríz, which was occupied by the Turks on Rajab 16, 920 (Sept. 6, 1514). Many men of
note on both sides were slain; of the Turks Ḥasan Pasha, Begler-begi of Rumelia, who commanded the left wing of the
Ottoman army, Ḥasan Bey, Governor of Morea, Uways Bey of Caesarea, Ayás Bey of Latakia, and many other high civil and
military officials; of the Persians Amír Sayyid-i-Sharíf of Shíráz, a protagonist of the Shí‘a doctrine, Amír ‘Abdu’l-Báqí, a
descendant of the noted saint Sháh Ni‘matu’lláh of Kirmán, Sayyid Muḥammad Kamúna of Najaf, Khán Muḥammad Khán,
and many others.
Sulṭán Salím, greatly elated by his success, immediately despatched the usual bombastic proclamations of victory (fatḥ-
náma) to his son Sulaymán, to the Khán of the Crimea, to the Kurdish chieftains, to Sulṭán Murád, the last of the Áq-Qoyúnlú
or “White Sheep” dynasty, to Sháh Rustam of Luristán, to the Governor of Adrianople, and others. The texts of these
documents are given by Firídún Bey (pp. 386-96), but they are followed (pp. 396-407) by a document of much greater
historical value, namely a detailed journal of the movements of the Turkish army from the time they marched out of
Adrianople on Muḥarram 3, 920 (March 20, 1514) until they returned to winter at Amásiya at the end of the same year (Nov.-
Dec., 1514). They marched in 105 stages from Adrianople to Tabríz by way of Constantinople, Caesarea, Síwás, Arzinján,
Cháldirán, Khúy and Marand; thence back to Amásiya in 58 stages, by way of Nakhjuwán, Jisr-i-Júbán, and Bayburt. They
erected a pyramid of the skulls of their enemies on the field of battle, handed over to Ja‘far Bey one of Sháh Isma‘íl’s wives
who fell into their hands, and massacred Khálid Bey and 150 of his Qizil-básh companions at the village of Sáḥilán the day
before they entered Tabríz, in which city, however, they seem to have behaved with

[page 77]

moderation, as even the Persian historian of Sháh Isma‘íl testifies155. Sulṭán Salím remained there only about a week (Sept. 6-
14, 1514), when he departed, taking with him the Tímúrid Prince Badí‘u’z-Zamán, the fugitive son of the late Sulṭán Abu’l-
Ghází Ḥusayn ibn Bayqará156, and a number of skilled artisans whom he proposed to settle in his dominions. Within two or

154 On the first of the month (Aug. 22, 1514) according to Firídún Bey (p. 402).
155 Add. 200 of the Cambridge University Library, f. 151.
156 He died at Constantinople four months later of the plague.

three weeks of his departure Sháh Isma‘íl was back in Tabríz. According to Sir John Malcolm157, “the effect of so great a
reverse upon the sanguine mind of Isma‘íl was deep and lasting, and though before of a cheerful disposition he was never
afterwards seen to smile.” But as a matter of fact the defeat, decisive as it was, had little permanent effect, since the
discontent and nostalgia of the Janissaries compelled the Ottoman Sulṭán to withdraw from Persian territory, and, save for the
extirpation of the little Dhu’l-Qadar dynasty158 at Kamákh near Arzinján in the spring of A.D. 1515, his martial ardour was
fully occupied, until his death in A.D. 1520, with the subjection of Egypt, Syria and Arabia.
Sháh Isma‘íl, on his return to Tabríz after the battle of Cháldirán, sent a very polite and apologetic letter159 by the hand of
Núru’d-Dín ‘Abdu’l-Wahháb to Sulṭán Salím, who, apparently, vouchsafed no reply, but some months later (end of Rajab,
921 = Sept. 9. 1515) wrote in Turkish a long letter to ‘Ubayd Khán the Uzbek inciting him to persecute the Shí‘a160.

[page 78]

The documents connected with Sulṭán Salím’s reign fill another 84 pages of Firídún Bey’s compilation161, but, with one
notable exception, contain only incidental abusive references to Sháh Isma‘íl. The exception is formed by two poems, one in
Persian and the other in Turkish, addressed to Sulṭán Salím by an unpatriotic Persian named Khwája Iṣfahání, probably
identical with Khwája Mawláná-yi-Iṣfahání, a fanatical Sunní who attached himself to the Uzbek Shaybak Khán, and whose
death is recorded in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh under the year 927/1521162.
The following verses from the Persian poem will suffice to give an idea of its character.




[page 79]


157 History of Persia, vol. i, p. 504. I can find no confirmation of this in the Persian histories which I have consulted.
158 According to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh comprised only four rulers, Malik Aṣlán, Sulaymán, Náṣiru’d-Din and ‘Alá’u’d-Dawla, of whom
the last, together with four of his sons and thirty of his followers, was decapitated by Sulṭán Salím’s soldiers on June 13, 1515.
159 Firídún Bey, vol. i, pp. 413-414.
160 Ibid., pp. 415-416.
161 The last ends on p. 500.
162 From a line in his Turkish poem it appears that his home was in Khurásán and Khwárazm (Khiva), which he had been compelled to
leave since “Infidelity had completely destroyed the Home of Faith, and established itself in the Seat of Religion.”

“O messenger of auspicious aspect, carry my prayer to the victorious King.
Say, ‘O King of all the World, thou art today accredited in valour.
Thou didst lay the foundations of Religion in the World; thou didst restore
the Holy Law of Muṣṭafá [Muḥammad].
Religion hath been renovated by thy zeal, the World lies under the burden of
thy favour.
If the realm of the Holy Law is firmly established, it is all through the fortune
of Sulṭán Salím

[page 80]

Persia and Turkey quake through fear of thee, since thou hast cast from his
head the crown of the Red-cap163.
O victorious one, thou hast cast his crown from his head: now manfully
cast his head from his body!
The Red-head is like the viper; until thou crushest his head it availeth
nothing.
Thou art today, through thy noble qualities, the Vicar (Khalífa) of God and
of Muḥammad.
Dost thou hold it right that the guebre164 and brute-heretic should revile
the Companions of the Prophet?165
If thou dost not break him by the strength of thy manhood, and if thou
turnest back without having cut off his head,
If he obtains amnesty in safety, I will seize thy skirt in the day of
Resurrection.
Thus have I seen in the accounts of the Prophet, that Dhu’l-Qarnayn
(“the Two-horned”)166 was Emperor in Rome.
For this cause did he style himself Dhu’l-Qarnayn, because he added
the dominion of Persia to that of Rome167.

163 Burk is a Turkish word denoting a kind of tall fur cap, and Qizil-burk (“Red-cap”) is, of course, equivalent to Qizil-básh (Persian Surkh-
sar) “Red-head.”
164 The word gabr (anglicized by Thomas Moore as “guebre”) properly denotes a Zoroastrian, but is constantly applied by writers of this
period to any non-Muslim, infidel or heretic, like the corresponding gyawur (“giaour”) of the Turks. See p. 95 infra.
165 This, of course, refers to the cursing of Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán instituted by Sháh Isma‘íl. See pp. 53-4 supra.
166 This mysterious person is commonly (as here) identified with Alexander the Great. See Qur’án xviii, 82, 85, 93 and commentary
thereon.
167 The term Rúm was applied successively to the Roman, the Byzantine and the Ottoman Empires, and by the Persian historians of this
period the Ottoman Sulṭán is constantly called Qayṣar-i-Rúm.

His two horns were sovereignty throughout the World; his orders ran
through East and West.
Come, break the Idol by the aid of the Faith, and add the Kingdom of
Persia to the Throne of Rome168!’”

Sulṭán Salím died in 926/1520, having reigned, according to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, 8 years, 8 months and 8 days. He
was succeeded by his son Sulaymán, called by his

[page 81]

countrymen “the Law-giver” (Qánúní) and by Europeans “the Magnificent.” The Persian poet Amíní composed a poem on
his accession, of which each half-verse (miṣrá‘) yields the date 926. The following verse is cited as a specimen by the
Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh:



“Fortune hath given the Kingdom of Desire to the Ká’ús of the Age, the Second Solomon.”

Three years later (in 929/1523), when Sulṭán Sulaymán conquered Rhodes, another Persian Poet, Niyází, commemorated
this victory in an equally ingenious qaṣída beginning:



where the first half-verse gives the date of Sulaymán’s accession (926/1520), and the second the date of the conquest of
Rhodes169.
Sháh Isma‘íl died on Monday, Rajab 19, A.H. 930 (May 23, 1524) at the age of 38 after a reign of 24 years, and was
buried with his fathers at Ardabíl. He left four sons, Ṭahmásp, born on Dhu’l-Ḥijja 26, A.H. 919 (Feb. 22,1514), who
succeeded him; Alqáṣ, born in 922/1516, and Sám and Bahrám, both born in the following year; besides five daughters170. In
his reign the sword was more active than the pen. He not only eliminated all of his numerous rivals in Persia, but greatly
enlarged her frontiers. “His kingdom,” says the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh171,

[page 82]

“included Ádharbáyján, Persian ‘Iráq, Khurásán, Fárs, Kirmán and Khúzistán, while Diyár Bakr, Balkh Merv were at times
under his control. In the battle-field he was a lion wielding a dagger, and in the banquet-hall a cloud raining pearls. Such was
his bounty that pure gold and worthless salt were alike in his sight, while by reason of his lofty spirit the produce of ocean
and mine did not suffice for the donations of a single day, and his treasury was generally empty. He had a passion for the
chase, and alone used to slay lions. He had issued orders that whoever should bring news of a lion should receive from his
officers a horse and saddle; and he who should bring news of a leopard an unsaddled horse. He would go forth alone and kill
lions and leopards. During his reign he fought five [great] battles, the first with Farrukh-Yasár king of Shírwán at the place
called Jabání, the second with Alwand at Shurúr, the third with Sulṭán Murád at Alma Qúlághí near Hamadán, the fourth with
Shaybak Khán in the neighbourhood of Merv, and the fifth with Sulṭán Salím at Cháldirán172.” The date of his death (930) is
given by the word Ẓill, “Shadow” (of God), and by the words Khusraw-i-Dín, “Prince of the Faith,” as expressed in the two
following chronograms:




168 The term Rúm was applied successively to the Roman, the Byzantine and the Ottoman Empires, and by the Persian historians of this
period the Ottoman Sulṭán is constantly called Qayṣar-i-Rúm.
169 Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh (Mr. Ellis’s MS., f. 128). The first miṣrá‘ gives the correct date (926), but the second, as written in the MS. (with
), gives 940. I have emended this to
, which gives 930, though this is still one too much.
170 Khánish Khánum, Parí-Khán Khánum, Mihínbánú Sulṭánum, Firangís Khánum and Zaynab Khánum.
171 F. 131.
172 These battles were fought in 906/1500, 907/1501, 908/1503, 916/1510, and 920/1514 respectively. In all except the last Sháh Isma‘íl
was victorious.

[page 83]



As regards literature, there was, as elsewhere explained, an extraordinary dearth of remarkable poets in Persia during the
whole Ṣafawí period173, while the great theologians belong to a later time when the Shí‘a faith, raised by Sháh Isma‘íl to the
position of the established national religion of Persia, had taken firm root. Most of the celebrated writers whose deaths are
recorded in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh and other chronicles of Isma‘íl’s reign really belong to the brilliant circle who gathered
round the Tímúrid Sulṭán Abu’l-Ghází Ḥusayn and his talented Minister Mír ‘Alí Shír Nawá’í. Such were the poets Hátifí,
nephew of the great Jámí, who died in 927/1521; Amír Ḥusayn Mu‘ammá’í (d. 904/1498-9); Banná’í, who perished in the
massacre wrought by Isma‘íl’s general Najm-i-Thání174 at Qarshí in 918/1512; Hilálí, who was killed by the Uzbeks at Herát
in 935/1528-9 for his alleged Shí‘a proclivities; the philosopher Jalálu’d-Dín Dawání (d. 908/1502-3); the historian
Mírkhwánd (d. 903/1497-8 at the age of 66); and the versatile Ḥusayn Wá‘iẓ-i-Káshifí, commentator, ethicist and narrator,
best known as the author of the Anwár-i-Suhaylí175. The poet Qásimí celebrated the achievements of Sháh Isma‘íl in a Sháh-
náma, hitherto unpublished and but rarely met with even in manuscript176, completed ten years after the death of that
monarch, who appears to have been less susceptible than most Persian potentates to the flattery of courtiers and venal verse-
makers177.



CHAPTER III.
CULMINATION AND DECLINE OF THE ṢAFAWÍ
POWER, FROM SHÁH ṬAHMÁSP (A.D. 1524-1576) TO
SHÁH ḤUSAYN (A.D. 1694-1722).

Ṭahmásp, the eldest of Isma‘íl’s sons, was only ten years of age when he succeeded his father. He reigned over Persia for
fifty-two years and a half, and died on May 14, 1576. In the contemporary chronicles he is usually denoted as Sháh-i-Dín-
panáh (“the King who is the Refuge of Religion”). The date of his accession is commemorated in the following verse:



“O Ṭahmásp, King of the World, who, by the Divine Assistance,
didst take thy place on the throne of gold after the Victorious King!

Thou didst take the place of thy father; thou didst subdue the world:
‘Thou didst take the place of thy father’ (já-yi-pidar giriftí)178
was the date of thine accession.”

Of the numerous records of his long reign two, on which in what follows I shall chiefly draw, are worthy of special note;
his own autobiography179 from his accession on Monday, Rajab 19, 930 (May 23, 1524), to his shameful surrender of the
Turkish Prince

[page 85]

Báyazíd, who had sought refuge at his court, in 969/1561-2; and the excellent Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh of Ḥasan Beg Rúmlú,
concluded in 985/1577-8 only a year after Ṭahmásp’s death. The autobiography, possibly suggested by Bábur’s incomparable
Memoirs, is far inferior to that most instructive and amusing work, and is not greatly superior to the over-estimated Diaries of

173 See pp. 24-29 supra.
174 See p. 74 ad calc.
175 Accounts of the more notable of these writers will be found in the preceding volume of this history, Persian Literature under Tartar
Dominion.
176 See Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, pp. 660-661.
177 See p. 28 supra.
178 3 + 1 + 10 + 2 + 4 + 200 + 20 + 200 + 80 + 400 + 10 = 930 A.H. = 1523-4 A.D.
179 Printed by the late Dr. Paul Horn in vol. xliv of the Z.D.M.G. (for 1890), pp. 563-649; and lithographed in vol. ii of the Maṭla‘u’sh-
Shams of Muḥammad Ḥasan Khán I‘timádu’s-Salṭana, pp. 165-213.

the late Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh; but it throws some valuable light on the mentality of Ṭahmásp, and on those inner conditions
which it is so difficult to deduce from the arid pages of the official chronicles, containing for the most part a mere record of
interminable wars and massacres, and leaving us quite in the dark as to the social and intellectual state of the people. That
Ṭahmásp was a bigot is indicated both by Sir John Malcolm180 and Erskine181, though the former historian takes the more
favourable view of his character, describing him as “of a kind and generous disposition,” and adding that he “appears to have
possessed prudence and spirit, and, if he was not distinguished by great qualities, he was free from any remarkable vices.”
Anthony Jenkinson, who carried a letter of recommendation from Queen Elizabeth182, had a not very gratifying audience with
him at Qazwín in November, 1562183. The Venetian Ambassador Vincentio d’Alessandri, who was accredited to his Court in
1571, describes him184, “in the sixty-fourth year of his age, and the fifty-first of his reign,” as “of middling stature, well
formed in

[page 86]

person and features, although dark, of thick lips and a grizzly beard,” and says that he was “more of a melancholy disposition
than anything else, which is also known by many signs, but principally by his not having come out of his palace for the space
of eleven years, nor having once gone to the chase nor any other kind of amusement, to the great dissatisfaction of his
people.” He further describes him as boastful, but unwarlike and “a man of very little courage”; as caring little for law and
justice, but much for women and money; as mean and avaricious, “buying and selling with the cunning of a small merchant.”
“Notwithstanding the things mentioned above,” he concludes, “which make one think he ought to be hated, the reverence and
love of the people for the King are incredible, as they worship him not as a king but as a god, on account of his descent from
the line of ‘Alí, the great object of their veneration,” and he cites the most extraordinary instances of this devotion and even
deification, which is not confined to the common people but extends to members of the Royal Family and courtiers, and to
the inhabitants of the remotest parts of his realms. One magnanimous act of the king’s reign, which led to a great alleviation
of the burden of taxation imposed on his people, the Venetian Ambassador ascribes to the influence of a dream, “in which the
Angels took him by the throat and asked him whether it was becoming to a king, surnamed the Just and descended from ‘Alí,
to get such immense profits by the ruin of so many poor people; and then ordered him to free the people from them.” This
story is likely enough, for Ṭahmásp in his Memoirs records numerous dreams to which he evidently attached great
importance. Thus in a dream ‘Alí promises him victory over the Uzbeks about A.D. 1528185, and a year or two later at Herát
advises

[page 87]

him as to another campaign186, whereon he remarks, “the belief of this weak servant Ṭahmásp aṣ-Ṣafawí al-Músawí al-
Ḥusayní187 is that whoever sees His Holiness the Commander of the Faithful (i.e. ‘Alí), on whom be the blessings of God, in
a dream, that which he says will come to pass.” Again in his twentieth year two consecutive dreams, in the second of which
he sought and obtained from the Imám ‘Alí Riḍá confirmation of the first, led him to repent of wine-drinking and other
excesses, and to close all the taverns and houses of ill-repute in his domains, on which occasion he composed the following
quatrain188:



“For a while we pursued the crushed emerald189;
For a while we were defiled by the liquid ruby190;
Defilement it was, under whatever colour:
We washed in the Water of Repentance, and were at peace.”

This “repentance” or conversion of Sháh Ṭahmásp is recorded in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh under the year 939/1532-3.

180 History of Persia, vol. i, pp. 511-513.
181 A History of India under … Baber and Humáyún (London, 1854), vol. ii, pp. 285 etc.
182 For the text of this curious letter, see the Hakluyt Society’s Early Voyages and Travels to Russia and Persia (No. lxxii, London. 1886),
pp. 112-114.
183 Ibid., pp. 144-147.
184 Travels of Venetians in Persia (Hakluyt Society, 1873), pp. 215 et seqq.
185 P. 584 of Horn’s Denkwürdigkeiten cited above p. 84, n. 2.
186 Horn, loc. cit., p. 592.
187 These three epithets refer to his ancestors Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín, the Imám Músá al-Káẓim and the Imám Ḥusayn.
188 Horn, loc. cit., p. 600, also cited in the Átash-kada (Bombay lith., 1277/1860-1, p. 17).
189 I.e. Bang or Ḥashísh (Cannabis Indica), as explicitly stated in the Átash-kada.
190 I.e. wine.

About the same time the army of the Ottoman Sulṭán Sulaymán, profiting as usual by Persia’s preoccupation with one of
the constantly recurring Uzbek invasions of her north-eastern province, marched into Ádharbáyján, where it was overtaken
by a premature but violent snow-storm (it was in the month of

[page 88]

October), in which numbers of the Turkish troops perished. This disaster to the arms of his hereditary foe Sháh Ṭahmásp191
ascribes to “the help of God and the aid of the Immaculate Imáms.” It has been commemorated in the following forcible
quatrain, given in the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh and the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí:



“I went to Sulṭániyya, that rare pasture-ground:
I saw two thousand dead without grave or shroud.
‘Who,’ said I, ‘killed all these Ottomans?’
The morning breeze arose from the midst saying ‘I!’”

Other dreams are meticulously recorded by Sháh Ṭahmásp in his Memoirs: at Ardabíl he sees and converses with the
vision of his ancestor Shaykh Ṣafiyyu‘d-Dín192; on another occasion he receives encouragement from the spirit of Shaykh
Shihábu’d-Dín193; other allegorical dreams are recorded under the years 957/1550 and 961/1554194.

In his domestic relations Sháh Ṭahmásp was unhappy, though not perhaps more so than most contemporary Asiatic
sovereigns, notably the Ottoman Sulṭáns. He had three younger brothers, Sám (notable as a poet and biographer of poets)195,
Bahrám and

[page 89]

Alqáṣ, of whom the first and third rebelled against him. Sám Mírzá was cast into prison in 969/1561-2 and was ultimately put
to death there in 984/1576-7 by Ṭahmásp’s successor. The case of Alqáṣ was much worse, for he was a traitor as well as a
rebel, and not only took refuge with Sulṭán Sulaymán at Constantinople, but incited him to attack Persia and took an active
part in the ensuing war against his own country. At Hamadán, in 955/1548, he plundered the house of his sister-in-law, the
wife of Bahrám Mírzá, and later advanced as far as Yazdikhwást, where he made a massacre of the inhabitants, but in the
following year he was defeated and fell into the hands of his brother Bahrám, who handed him over to Ṭahmásp. The King
imprisoned him in the Castle of Alamút, according to his own Memoirs196, or, according to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, in the
Castle of Qahqaha, where he perished a week later. “In short,” says Ṭahmásp in recording the event, “after some days I saw
that he did not feel safe from me, but was constantly preoccupied, so I despatched him to a fortress with Ibráhím Khán and
Ḥasan Beg the centurion, who took him to the Castle of Alamút and there imprisoned him. After six days, those who had
custody of him being off their guard, two or three persons there, in order to avenge their father whom Alqáṣ had killed, cast
him down from the castle. After his death the land had peace.” It can scarcely be doubted that Ṭahmásp approved, if he did
not actually arrange, this deed of violence. Bahrám Mírzá died the same year at the age of 33.
Much worse was the case of the unfortunate Prince Báyazíd, son of the Ottoman Sulṭán Sulaymán, who, deprived of his
government of Kútáhiya and driven from his native land by the intrigues of his father’s Russian wife Khurram197 (whose

[page 90]

one object was to secure the succession of her son Salím, afterwards known as “the Sot”) took refuge at Ṭahmásp’s court in
967/1559-60. An Ottoman mission headed by ‘Alí Páshá was sent to Qazwín to demand the surrender of Báyazíd and his
children. They arrived there, as we learn from Anthony Jenkinson’s narrative198, four days earlier than himself, to wit on

191 Horn, loc. cit., p. 602. See also the Turkish journal of this campaign given by Firídún Bey (vol. i, pp. 588-9), where mention of this
severe cold is made. Sulṭániyya was reached by the Turkish army on 5 Rabí‘ ii, 941 (October 14, 1534).
192 Ibid., p. 607.
193 Ibid, p. 623.
194 Ibid., pp. 635-6.
195 He was the author of a valuable but unpublished Biography of contemporary poets entitled Tuḥfa-i-Sámí.
196 Horn, loc. cit., p. 631.
197 See Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. iii, pp. 10-11.
198 Early Voyages, etc. (Hakluyt Society, 1886, vol. i), p. 141 and footnote, in which the substance of Knolles’s contemporary account is
given. See also Creasy’s History of the Ottoman Turks (London, 1877). pp. 186-7.

October 30, 1562, and Ṭahmásp, moved partly by fear of the Turkish power, partly by bribes, disregarded his solemn
promises to the contrary and caused or suffered the unfortunate Prince and his four little sons to be put to death, and, as
Anthony Jenkinson says, “sent his head for a present, not a little desired, and acceptable to the unnatural father.” Ṭahmásp
seems to have overcome any scruples he may have felt in breaking his solemn promises to the guest he thus betrayed by
handing him over not directly to his father, but to the emissaries of his brother Salím. The case is bad enough even as stated
by the Sháh himself in his Memoirs, which conclude with a pretty full account of this episode199, ending thus:
“At this date ‘Alí Áqá came from his Majesty the Sulṭán200, and of [my] Nobles and Court everyone who had sent a
present received its equivalent, save in the case of my own gift and offering, which on this occasion also had not proved
acceptable; and there was a letter full of hints and complaints. I said, ‘Here have I arrested and detained Prince Báyazíd with
his four sons for the sake of His Majesty the Sulṭán and Prince Salím; but since I have given my word not to

[page 91]

surrender Báyazíd to the Sulṭán, I have determined that when the Sulṭán’s commands arrive and likewise the emissaries of
Prince Salím, I will surrender [Báyazíd] to the latter, so that I may not break my promise.’ So when the Sulṭán’s messengers
arrived, I said, ‘Your Excellency and Ḥasan Áqá are welcome, and I will act according to the commands of His Majesty and
in no wise transgress his orders, but faithfully accomplish whatever service he may indicate. But in return for so material a
service I desire from His Majesty the Sulṭán and Prince Salím such reward and recompense as may be worthy of them; and,
moreover, I hope of the Sulṭán in a friendly way that no hurt may befall Prince Báyazíd and his sons’.”
Needless to say this pious wish in no wise influenced the tragic course of events, but the Sháh’s compliance with the
Sulṭán’s imperious demands led to a temporary amelioration of the relations between Persia and Turkey which is reflected
both in Anthony Jenkinson’s narrative and in the concluding State Papers contained in the first volume of Firídún Bey’s
Munsha’át, in which for the first time Ṭahmásp is addressed by Sulaymán with decent civility, though there is no explicit
reference to this event.
More creditable and better known is the reception of Humáyún, the son of Bábur and Emperor of Dihlí, at the Court of
Ṭahmásp in A.D. 1544 when he was driven out of his own dominions. Of the hospitality which he received Sir John
Malcolm201 speaks with enthusiasm; but Erskine202, giving less weight to the official accounts than to the “plain unvarnished
tale” of Humáyún’s servant Jawhar203, takes the view (which he

[page 92]

supports by numerous illustrations) that in reality “Humáyún had much to suffer and many humiliations to endure”; and that
in particular great pressure was brought to bear on him to compel him to adopt the Shí‘a faith, which might have gone even
further but for the moderating influence of the Sháh’s sister Sulṭánum Khánum, the Minister Qáḍí-i-Jahán and the physician
Núru’d-Dín. One of the pictures in the celebrated palace of Chahil Sutún204 at Iṣfahán represents an entertainment given by
Ṭahmásp to Humáyún.
The foreign relations of Persia during the reign of Ṭahmásp were chiefly, as in the reign of his father Isma‘íl, with three
states — Turkey, the Uzbeks of Transoxiana, and the so-called “Great Moghuls” of Dihlí. During the greater part of his reign
(until 974/1566-7) the great Sulṭán Sulaymán occupied the Ottoman throne; afterwards Salím II (“the Sot”), and, for the last
two years of his life (982-4/1574-6) Murád III. Of the Uzbek rulers ‘Ubayd Khán, until his death in 946/1539-40, and
afterwards  Dín Muḥammad Sulṭán were his most formidable foes, who ceased not to trouble his eastern, as did the Ottoman
Turks his western borders. Of the “Great Moghuls” Bábur (died 937/1530-1), Humáyún (died 962/1555) and Akbar were his
contemporaries. Anthony Jenkinson, as we have seen, came to him with credentials from Queen Elizabeth in A.D. 1561, and
some thirteen years later, towards the end of his reign, the arrival of a Portuguese mission from Don Sebastian is recorded in
the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh under the year 982/1574-5, but it met with a bad reception.
Between the Ottoman Turks on the one hand and the Uzbeks on the other, Persia enjoyed little peace at this period, and
these campaigns on the N.E. and N.W. frontiers

[page 93]


199 Horn’s text, loc. cit., pp. 642-9.
200 Here, as elsewhere, called Khwándgár, apparently a corruption of Khudáwandgár (“the Lord”), itself in turn corrupted by the Turks into
Khúnkár (“the Shedder of Blood”).
201 History of Persia (London, 1815), vol. i, pp. 508-9.
202 History of India under … Baber and Humáyún (London, 1854), vol. ii, pp. 280 et seqq.
203 Translated by Major Charles Stewart and printed in London in 1832 for the Oriental Translation Fund.
204 See Lord Curzon’s Persia, vol. ii, p. 35. A copy of the picture in question by Texier is reproduced in Sir Percy Sykes’s History of Persia
(2nd ed., London, 1921), vol. ii, p. 164.

succeeded one another with varying fortune but with monotonous reiteration. Sulṭán Sulaymán’s chief campaigns were in
940-942/1534-6, when Baghdád was taken from the Persians and Ádharbáyján invaded205; 950/1543-4; 953-955/1546-8,
when the Sháh’s brother Alqáṣ allied himself with the Turks; 959/1552, when the Persians recovered Arjísh; and 961/1554,
when Sulaymán burned Nakhjuwán and attacked Ádharbáyján for the fourth time. The Turkish military power was at this
time at its zenith, and was formidable not only to the Persians but to the great European Powers, who, indeed, were thankful
for such diversion of its activities as the Persians from time to time effected, so that Busbecq, Ferdinand’s ambassador at the
Court of Sulaymán, declares that “only the Persian stands between us and ruin206.” Creasy207 speaks of the “pre-eminence of
the Turks of that age in the numerical force and efficiency of their artillery”;and adds that “the same remark applies to their
skill in fortification, and in all the branches of military engineering.” Inferior as were the Persian to the Ottoman troops alike
in discipline and equipment, it was much to their credit that they were able to offer as stout a resistance as they did, especially
as the continual object of Turkish diplomacy at this time was to incite the Uzbeks, Turkmáns, and other Sunní peoples, to
combine with them in attacking “the rascally Red-heads” (Qizil-básh-i-Awbásh). Of this policy the State Papers of
Sulaymán’s, as of his father Salím’s, reign afford ample evidence; for instance the letter addressed to a Turkmán

[page 94]

chief about the end of 960/1553 (given on pp. 612-613 of Firídún Bey’s Munsha’át) and transmitted to him, apparently, by
four of his representatives, Muḥammad, Mír Abú Turáb, Mír Ṭútí and Sunduk, who, after performing the Pilgrimage, had
visited the Sulṭán’s Court at Constantinople on their homeward journey, and had delighted him with accounts of their
achievements against the Persians.
The wars with the Uzbeks were equally continuous, especially until the death of the redoubtable ‘Ubayd Khán, the son of
Shaybak Khán, a direct descendant of Chingíz, in 946/1539-40, at the age of fifty-three, after a reign of thirty years. He is
said by the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh to have suffered defeat in only one of the seven campaigns he fought against the Persians.
Ṭús, Mashhad, and especially Herát suffered terribly during these wars, which were nearly always accompanied by severe
religious persecutions. The poet Hilálí fell a victim to the Sunní fanaticism of the Uzbeks at Herát in 935/1528-9, as the poet
Banná’í had fallen a victim to Shí‘a intolerance at Qarshí in 918/1512-13; and under the year 942/1535-6 the Aḥsanu’t-
Tawáríkh gives the following graphic account of the persecution of the Shí‘a which took place on the capture of Herát by
‘Ubayd Khán on Rajab 20, 942 (January 14, 1536):



[page 95]



“Every day by order of that unbelieving Khán (‘Ubayd) five or six individuals were
slain for Shí‘a proclivities on the information of ignorant persons in the market-place208
of Herát. Godless villagers and treacherous townsmen would seize anyone against whom
they cherished a grudge and drag him before the judge, asserting that in the time of the
‘Red-heads’ (i.e. the Shí‘a Persians) he used to curse Abú Bakr and ‘Uthmán209; and on
the word of these two ignorant witnesses the judge would pronounce sentence of death on
the victim, whom they would then drag to the market-place of Herát and put to death.
Through their sinister acts the waves of sorrow and the hosts of mischief attained their
culmination, while plunder and looting took place throughout the confines of Khurásán.”

205 A complete diary of this campaign against the “arch-heretic Qizil-básh King Ṭahmásp” will be found in vol. i of Firídún Bey’s
Munsha’át , pp. 584-598. The Ottoman army left Constantinople on June 10, 1534, occupied Baghdád in December of the same year, and
returned to Constantinople on Jan. 7, 1536.
206 See p. 11 supra.
207 History of the Ottoman Turks (London, 1877), p. 202.
208 Chahár-súq (from which is derived the modern Turkish chárshi) is the point of intersection of two main bázárs; a sort of Oriental
Oxford Circus, affording the greatest publicity.
209 The omission of ‘Umar, unless due to a scribe’s error, is remarkable.

With the Georgians also the Persians were constantly at war during this period, to wit in 947/1540-1, 950/1543-4,
958/1551, 961/1554, 963/1556, 968/1560-1, and 976/1568-9. These wars were also waged with great ferocity, and it is worth
noting that contemporary Persian historians constantly speak of the Christian inhabitants of Georgia as “guebres” (gabrán, a
term properly applicable only to the Zoroastrians), as in the following verse describing the first of these campaigns:



“In that stony wilderness those beasts had established themselves, the native land of man-
stealing guebres.”

In this campaign, as the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh informs us, such of the Georgians as consented to embrace Islám were
spared, but those who refused were put to the sword; and similarly, in speaking of the campaign of 958/1551 the same history
says:

[page 96]



“The victorious champions encompassed the lands of the sinful unbelievers,
lowlands and highlands, and every mountain and ridge whither that misguided one [their
ruler] had fled was levelled with the plain by the trampling of the [Persian] warriors. Not
one who drew breath of those polytheists saved his soul alive from the circle of wrath and
vengeance of ‘and God encompasseth the unbelievers210,’ and, by lawful heritage, the
wives, families and property of the slain passed to their slayers.”

Besides these greater wars, there were minor operations against the more or less independent rulers of Gílán, and the last
representatives of the ancient but expiring dynasty of the Shírwánsháhs, who boasted descent from the great Núshírwán.
Although the last of this line, Sháhrukh ibn Sulṭán Farrukh ibn Shaykh-Sháh ibn Farrukh-Yasár, was put to death by
Ṭahmásp in 946/1539-40, nine years later we read of a scion of the house named Burhán in conflict with Isma‘íl Mírzá. In
Gílán, Khán Aḥmad, the eleventh ruler of a petty dynasty which had ruled for two hundred and five years, was defeated and
interned in the Castle of Qahqaha in 975/1567-8. In 981/1573-4 Tabríz was terrorized by a gang of roughs who were not
reduced to order and obedience until a hundred and fifty of them had been put to death. Barbarous punishments were
frequent. Muẓaffar Sulṭán, governor of Rasht, was for an act of treason paraded through the streets of Tabriz, decor-

[page 97]

ated for the occasion, amidst the mockery of the rabble, and burned to death in an iron cage, suspended under which in a
particularly cruel and humiliating fashion Amír Sa‘du’d-Dín ‘Ináyatu’lláh Khúzání simultaneously suffered the same fate.
Khwája Kalán Ghúriyání, a fanatical Sunní who had gone out to welcome ‘Ubayd Khán the Uzbek and was accused of
speaking slightingly of the Sháh, was skinned in the market-place of Herát and the stuffed skin exhibited on a pole. Ruknu’d-
Dín Mas‘úd of Kázarún, a most learned man and skilful physician, incurred the Sháh’s displeasure and was burned to death.
Muḥammad Ṣáliḥ, a liberal patron of poets, in whose honour Ḥayratí composed a panegyric, had his mouth sewn up because
he was alleged to have spoken disrespectfully of the King, and was then placed in a large jar which was afterwards thrown to
the ground from the top of a minaret.
According to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, Sháh Ṭahmásp was in his youth much interested in calligraphy and painting; he
also liked riding on Egyptian asses, which consequently became fashionable, and were adorned with golden trappings and
gold-embroidered saddle-cloths. Alluding to these idiosyncrasies a ribald poet with the extraordinary nom de guerre of
Búqu’l-‘Íshq (“the Trumpet of Love”) lampooned him in this verse:




210 Qur’án, ii, 18.

“The scribe, the painter, the Qazwíní and the ass
Obtained easy promotion without trouble.”

He made a great ostentation of piety, “regarding most things as unclean, and often spitting out his half-eaten food into
the water or the fire,” in view of which it is satisfactory to know that “he would not eat in company.” He was also punctilious
about such matters as cutting his nails, and would spend the day after this operation in the bath.

[page 98]

Ṭahmásp died on Tuesday, Safar 15, 984 (May 14, 1576) at the age of sixty-four after a reign of fifty-three years and a
half, the longest reign, according to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, of any Muhammadan sovereign except the Fáṭimid Caliph al-
Mustanṣir bi’lláh211. Eleven of his sons are enumerated in the history just cited, of whom nine at least survived him. The
eldest, Muḥammad Khudá-banda, who was about forty-five years of age, though he succeeded to the throne a year later,
renounced it on his father’s death on account of his partial blindness, this infirmity, whether natural or deliberately inflicted,
being regarded in the East, and especially in Persia, as an absolute disqualification for the exercise of regal functions212. His
younger brother Ḥaydar, taking advantage of the absence from the capital of his brothers, of whom Isma‘íl was imprisoned in
the Castle of Qahqaha, while the others were for the most part resident in distant provinces, endeavoured to seize the throne,
but was murdered in the women’s apartments, where he had taken refuge, by the partisans of his brother Isma‘íl, who was
proclaimed king in the principal mosque of Qazwín nine days after his father’s death.
Isma‘íl’s reign was short but sanguinary, and in his drastic methods of dealing with possible competitors for the Crown
he rivalled the most ruthless of the Ottoman Sulṭáns. He first put to death his two brothers Sulaymán and Muṣṭafá; then, after
providing an elaborate funeral for his father at Mashhad and a gorgeous coronation for himself at Qazwín, in which his
remaining brothers occupied their due positions, he resumed his fratricidal activities. On Sunday the sixth of Dhu’l-Ḥijja,
A.H. 984 (Feb. 24, 1577), he put to death the six following princes: Sulṭán Ibráhím Mírzá, poet, artist, musician and
calligrapher;

[page 99]

his nephew Muḥammad Ḥusayn Mírzá, a lad of eighteen, who had already been deprived of his eyesight; Sulṭán Maḥmúd
Mírzá; his son Muḥammad Báqir Mírzá, a child of two; Imám-qulí Mírzá, and Sulṭán Aḥmad Mírzá. He next turned his
attention to those princes who were resident in outlying provinces, such as Badí‘u’z-Zamán Mírzá and his little son Bahrám
Mírzá in Khurásán, Sulṭán ‘Ali Mírzá in Ganja, and Sulṭán Ḥasan Mírzá in Ṭihrán, all of whom he destroyed. Only by a most
wonderful chance, accounted by his biographer Iskandar Munshí213 as a miraculous intervention of Providence, did the little
Prince ‘Abbás Mírzá, destined to become the greatest of Persia’s modern rulers, escape his uncle’s malevolence. The blood-
thirsty Isma‘íl had actually sent ‘Ali-qulí Khán Shámlú to Herát, of which ‘Abbás Mírzá, though only six years of age214, was
the nominal governor, to put the young prince to death, but the emissary, whether actuated by pity or superstition, delayed the
accomplishment of his cruel task till the sacred month of Ramaḍán should be over, and ere this respite had come to an end a
courier arrived bringing the joyful news of Isma‘íl’s death, the manner of which was as discreditable as his life. On the night
of Sunday, Ramaḍán 13, A.H. 985 (Nov. 24, 1577), being at the time the worse for drink, he had gone out in search of
adventures into the streets and bázárs of the city accompanied by one of his favourites, a confectioner’s son named Ḥasan
Beg, and other disreputable companions, and towards dawn had gone to rest in Ḥasan Beg’s house, where he was found dead
later in the day. Some suggested that he had been poisoned, or first drugged and afterwards strangled, while others
maintained that he had merely taken an overdose of the opium

[page 100]

wherewith he was wont to assuage the pain of a colic to which he was subject. But his death was so welcome to all that no
great trouble seems to have been taken to arrive at the manner of it, and it does not even appear that any punishment was
inflicted on Ḥasan Beg, who, indeed, is said to have been also half paralysed when found215.
Muḥammad Khudá-banda, in spite of his blindness, was now placed on the throne which he had refused on the death of
his father Sháh Ṭahmásp. He was at this time about forty-six years of age216 and was resident at Shíráz, having been replaced
in his former government of Herát by his little son Prince ‘Abbás Mírzá, whose narrow escape from death has just been
described. The new king at once set out for Qazwín, and amongst those who welcomed him at Qum was Ḥasan Beg Rúmlú,
the author of the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, which important but unpublished history was concluded in this very year and contains
the most authoritative account of the events above narrated. That this account is in places confused and must be

211 He reigned sixty lunar years, A.H. 427-487 (A.D. 1035-1094).
212 See Chardin’s Voyages (Paris, 1811), vol. v, pp. 241-244.
213 Author of the well-known monograph on Sháh ‘Abbás the Great entitled Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí.
214 He was born at Herát on Ramaḍán I, 978 (]an 27, 1571).
215 Cf. Sir John Malcolm’s History of Persia (London, 1815),vol. i, pp. 516-517.
216 According to the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh he was born in 938/1531-1.

supplemented by later histories like the Khuld-i-Barín and Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí arises from the fact that the author,
for his own personal safety, had to walk with great caution amidst the rapidly-changing circumstances of these perilous times.
At Qazwín, Muḥammad Khudá-banda received the homage of Sulaymán Páshá, a great-grandson of Abú Sa‘íd the
Tímúrid, who greeted him with the following verses:



[page 101]

“O King, thy gate is the qibla of the Kings of the world,
Heaven is subjugated and earth surrendered to thee:
In thy reign the thread of royalty hath become single217,
But, Praise be to God, though single it is strong!”

The able, ambitious and beautiful Princess Parí-Khán Khánum, Ṭahmásp Sháh’s favourite daughter218 by a Circassian
wife, who had played a prominent part in the troubles succeeding his death, and aspired to rule in fact if not in name, was put
to death at Muḥammad Khudá-banda’s command by Khalíl Khán Afshár, together with her mother’s brother Shamkhál Khán,
and Sháh Shujá‘, the infant son of the late King Isma‘íl. In consequence of these pitiless slaughters the representatives of the
Ṣafawí Royal Family were now reduced to Sháh Muḥammad Khudá-banda himself and his four sons, Ḥamza, ‘Abbás, Abú
Ṭálib and Ṭahmásp. The first, who is sometimes reckoned amongst the Ṣafawí kings (since he seems for a while to have
exercised regal functions during his half-blind father’s life-time), was murdered by a young barber named Khudá-verdí219 on
the 22nd of Dhu’l-Ḥijja, 994 (Dec. 4, 1586). Abú Ṭálib was thereupon nominated Walí-‘ahd, or Crown Prince, instead of his
elder brother ‘Abbás, who was still in Khurásán, but who speedily appeared on the scene with his guardian and tutor
Murshid-qulí Khán Ustájlú,

[page 102]

inflicted condign punishment on those who had prompted the murder of his elder brother Ḥamza, and rendered his two
younger brothers harmless by depriving them of their eye-sight and imprisoning them in the Castle of Alamút220. His father
abdicated in his favour after a reign of ten years in Dhu’l-Qa‘da, 995 (October, 1587), and Sháh ‘Abbás ascended the throne
to which he was destined to add so great a glory. He and his three brothers were all the sons of one mother, a lady of the
Mar‘ashí Sayyids of Mázandarán, who seems to have resembled her sister-in-law Parí-Khán Khánum in her masterful
character as well as in her tragic fate, for she, together with her aged mother and many of her kinsfolk and countrymen, was
murdered by some of the Qizil-básh nobles who objected to her autocratic methods and dominating influence over her
irresolute and peace-loving husband, being of opinion that —



“No luck remains in that household where the hen crows like a cock221.”

Muḥammad Khudá-banda was born in 938/1531-2, was forty-six years of age when his father Sháh Ṭahmásp died in
984/1576-7, reigned ten years after the death of his brother Isma‘íl, survived his abdication eight or nine years, and died in
1004/1595-6. His character is thus described by Riḍá-qulí Khán in his Supplement to the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá: “He had some
knowledge of all the current sciences, and was incomparable in understanding and judgement, virtue and discernment, bounty
and generosity, and expression and eloquence. Being a ‘servant of God’ (Khudá-banda) he showed an excessive

[page 103]

clemency in matters of administration, war, anger and punishment, and, so far as possible, would not consent to the death of
any one. Though he struck the first blow at Khudá-verdí the barber222, this was only according to the enactment of the Holy

217 I suppose this alludes to the practical extermination of the rest of the Royal Family by Isma‘íl II.
218 Sir John Malcolm (op. cit., vol. i, pp. 514 and 517) appears to confuse her with her mother, since he calls her “the favourite Sultána of
the deceased monarch” (Ṭahmásp), and “the sister of Shamkhál.” In the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí she is enumerated as the second of
Ṭahmásp’s eight daughters, but according to other Persian historians she was one of the five daughters of Sháh Isma‘íl and the sister of
Ṭahmásp. See p. 81 supra, n. 2 ad calc. By “Don Juan of Persia” she is called the Infanta.
219 Called by “Don Juan of Persia” (f. 104a) “Cudy de Lac” (i.e. Dallák), “que es como si dixeramos en Español, Cudi el barbero del Rey.”
220 “Don Juan of Persia,” f. 107b.
221 Supplement to the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá.

Law. In consequence of his weak eyesight he seldom gave public audience, and, while he tarried in the women’s apartments,
the Sayyida [his wife] gave effect to his commands, and, in order more effectively to control affairs, herself sealed the
documents. … In short, he was a king with the qualities of a religious mendicant, or a religious mendicant endowed with
regal pomp (Pádisháhí darwísh-khiṣál, yá darwíshí pádisháh-jalál).”
His reign, though short, was troubled not only by the domestic tragedies indicated above, but by the Turks, Uzbeks,
Crimean Tartars, Georgians and other external foes, who, encouraged by the spectacle of those internecine struggles which
succeeded the death of Ṭahmásp, sought to profit by the distractions of Persia.
Sháh ‘Abbás I, commonly and justly called “the Great,” was only sixteen or seventeen years of age when he ascended
the throne in 996/1588223, and died in Jumádá i, 1038/Jan. 1629 at the age of 60 after a reign of 43 lunar years, in which, by
general agreement, Persia reached the highest degree of power, prosperity and splendour ever attained by her in modern
times. His position at first was, however, fraught with dangers and difficulties. Not only was his kingdom threatened, as
usual, by the Ottoman Turks on the west and the Uzbeks on the east, but many of the provinces were in revolt and the country
was distracted by the rivalries and ambitions of the great Qizil-básh

[page 104]

nobles of different tribes, in the hands of two of whom, Murshid-qulí Khán and ‘Alí-qulí Khán, the young King seemed at
first to be a mere puppet. When the former accompanied him to Qazwín to place him on the throne, the latter was left in
Khurásán to bear the brunt of the Uzbek attack, to which, after a defence of nine months, he fell a victim. ‘Abbás, suspecting
Murshid-qulí Khán of deliberately withholding help from his rival, caused him to be murdered one night in camp at Sháhrúd,
thus freeing himself from an irksome tutelage, and becoming a sovereign ruler in fact as well as in name. Realizing that he
could not possibly wage successful war simultaneously with the Turks and the Uzbeks, he determined, with far-sighted
prudence, to make peace, even on unfavourable terms, with the former in order to check the encroachments of the latter and
to devise some mechanism to control the disorderly rivalries of the Qizil-básh nobles, whereby his authority and the
efficiency of his military force were paralysed. The terms of the treaty with Turkey included the surrender of the towns and
districts in Ádharbáyján and Georgia conquered by the Ottoman troops during a war which had lasted more than twelve years
(985-998/1577-1590), such as Tabríz, Ganja, Qárs, Nakhjuwán, Shakí, Shamákhí and Tiflís, as well as part of Luristán; the
abandonment of the cursing of the first three Caliphs, Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán; and the sending as a hostage to
Constantinople of Sháh ‘Abbás’s nephew Ḥaydar Mírzá, who departed with the Turkish general Farhád Páshá for the
Ottoman capital, where he died two years later.
Sháh ‘Abbás next proceeded to subdue Shíráz, Kirmán, Gílán and Khurram-ábád in Luristán, and to inflict condign
punishment on Ya‘qúb Khán Dhu’l-Qadar and other rebels. Meanwhile ‘Abdu’l-Mú’min Khán and his Uzbeks were again
ravaging Khurásán, and the

[page 105]

Sháh, advancing to attack them, was stricken down by fever at Ṭihrán. While he lay sick and unable to move, the holy city of
Mashhad was taken and sacked by the savage Uzbeks and many of its inhabitants slain. Sabzawár224 suffered a similar fate in
1002/1593-4; but three or four years later225 ‘Abdu’lláh Khán, the Uzbek sovereign, died, and his son, the above-mentioned
‘Abdu’l-Mú’min Khán, was killed by his own people. It was at this juncture (April, 1598) that Sháh ‘Abbás was at length
able to attack the Uzbeks in force and drive them out of Khurásán, which now at length enjoyed a period of peace and
tranquillity. On his return from this victorious campaign to Qazwín in the autumn of the same year, he found awaiting him
there those celebrated English soldiers of fortune Sir Anthony and Sir Robert Sherley, whose romantic adventures are fully
described in several excellent monographs226. These, who were accompanied by some dozen English attendants, including at
least one cannon-founder, aided him greatly in the reconstruction of his army and especially in providing it with artillery, the
lack of which had hitherto so severely handicapped the Persians in their wars with the Turks, so that, as it is quaintly phrased
in Purchas’s Pilgrims, “the mighty Ottoman, terror of the Christian world, quaketh of a Sherley fever, and gives hopes of
approaching fates. The prevailing Persian hath learned Sherleian arts of war; and he which before knew not the

[page 106]

use of ordnance, hath now five hundred pieces of brass and sixty thousand musqueteers; so that they, which at hand with the
sword were before dreadful to the Turks, now also, in remoter blows and sulphurean arts, are grown terrible.” The discipline

222 The murderer of his son Ḥamza. See p. 101 supra and n. 3 ad calc.
223 He was born, according to the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí, on Ramaḍán 1, 978 (Jan. 27, 1571), or 979 (Jan. 17, 1572). The words
form
the chronogram of his coronation.
224 The author of the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí says that he himself saw amongst those slain at Sabzawár women with children at the breast.
225 In 1006/1597-8, according to the ‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí.
226 e.g. “The Sherley Brothers, an historical Memoir of the Lives of Sir Thomas Sherley, Sir Anthony Sherley, and Sir Robert Sherley,
Knights, by one of the same House” (Evelyn Philip Shirley; Roxburgh Club: Chiswick, 1848); “The Three Brothers, or the Travels and
Adventures of Sir A., Sir R. and Sir T. Sherley in Persia, Russia, Turkey, Spain, etc., with Portraits” (Anon., London, 1825).

of the Persian army had also been improved by the elimination of the more ambitious and disobedient Qizil-básh nobles; the
creation of a composite tribal force known as Sháh-seven (“King-lovers”), united not by tribal allegiance but by personal
devotion to the King; and the formation of a regular infantry comparable in some degree to the Turkish Janissaries.
A year or two later circumstances were favourable for the long-projected attempt to recover the provinces wrested from
Persia by the Turks during the interregnum which succeeded the death of Ṭahmásp. The reign of the feeble Muḥammad III
was approaching its end, and Turkey was weakened by a prolonged war with Austria and by the so-called Jalálí227 revolt in
Asia Minor when Sháh ‘Abbás opened his campaign in 1010/1601-2. Tabríz was retaken “with cannon, an engine of long-
time by the Persians scorned as not beseeming valiant men,” in 1012/1603-4, and two years later the celebrated Turkish
general Chighála-záda Sinán Páshá (“Cicala”) was defeated near Salmás and compelled to retreat to Ván and Diyár Bakr,
where he died of chagrin. Baghdád and Shírwán were recaptured by the Persians about the same time, but the former changed
hands more than once during the reign of Sháh ‘Abbás, and the occasion of its recapture from the Turks in A.D. 1625 gave
rise to an

[page 107]

interchange of verses between Ḥáfiẓ Páshá and Sulṭán Murád IV which has attained a certain celebrity in Turkish literary
history228.
No coherent and critical account of these wars between the Persians on the one hand and the Turks, Uzbeks and
Georgians on the other has yet, so far as I know, been written, but the materials are ample, should any historian acquainted
with Persian and Turkish desire to undertake the task. The enormous preponderance of the military element in such
contemporary chronicles as the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí makes them very dull and arduous reading to anyone not
specially interested in military matters; even from the point of view of military history they are vitiated by overwhelming
masses of trivial details and the absence of any breadth of view or clearness of outline. Many matters on which we should
most desire information are completely ignored, and it is only here and there incidentally that we find passages throwing light
on the religious and social conditions of the time. Of the recapture of the Island of Hurmuz in the Persian Gulf from the
Portuguese in March, 1622, by a combined Anglo-Persian force we have naturally very detailed contemporary English
accounts.
Allusion has already been made in the introductory chapter229 to the splendour and prosperity of Iṣfahán under Sháh
‘Abbás, and to the number of foreigners, diplomatists, merchants and missionaries, which his tolerant attitude towards non-
Muslims brought thither. These and other similar matters are very fully discussed in the first volume of the great monograph
on his reign entitled Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí, half of which consists of an Introduction (Muqaddama) comprising

[page 108]

twelve Discourses (Maqála). The first of these, dealing with his ancestors and predecessors, is much the longest, and in my
manuscript occupies about two hundred pages; the others, though much shorter, often occupying only a page or two, are more
original, and deal with such matters as the religious devotion of Sháh ‘Abbás; his wise judgement and wide knowledge; his
worthiness to be regarded as a Ṣáḥib-Qirán, or “Lord of a fortunate Conjunction”; his miraculous preservation on several
occasions from imminent peril; his wise administration and care for public security; his inflexible severity; his pious
foundations and charitable bequests; his wars and victories; his birth and childhood; and an account of the most eminent
nobles, divines, ministers, physicians, calligraphers, painters, illuminators, poets and minstrels of his reign. Speaking of his
severity (Maqála vi) the author, Iskandar Munshí, says that no one dared to delay one moment in the execution of any order
given him by the King: “for instance, should he command a father to kill his son, the sentence would be carried out
immediately, even as the decree of destiny; or should the father, moved by parental tenderness, make any delay, the
command would be reversed; and should the son then temporize, another would slay both. By such awful severity the
execution of his commands attained the supreme degree of efficiency, and none dared hesitate for an instant in the fulfilment
of the sentence inevitable as fate.” He also compelled his officers, on pain of death, to be present at all executions; held each
provincial-governor and local magistrate responsible for the security of the roads in his district; and punished falsehood with
such severity that it was generally believed that if anyone ventured to lie to him, he was informed of it from the Spirit World.
Yet at other times he would be very friendly and unassuming in his intercourse with his

[page 109]

courtiers and attendants, careful of their rights and just claims, and ready to overlook accidental and involuntary
shortcomings. Though not averse from the banquet and the wine-bout, he was greatly concerned to be correctly informed as

227 An account of the heretic Jalál is given by Munajjim-báshí (Ṣaḥá ‘ifu’l-Akhbár, Turkish version, ed. Constantinople, A.H. 1285, vol. iii,
p. 471). He and many of his followers were killed near Síwás in 925/1519, but evidently the sect which he founded retained its vitality for
the better part of a century afterwards.
228 See E. J. W. Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. iii, pp. 248-251, and, for the originals, vol. vi, pp. 190-191.
229 Pp. 24-5 supra.

to the circumstances of the neighbouring kings and countries, and devoted much attention to the development of his
Intelligence Department. He was also something of a linguist, and not only appreciated but occasionally composed poetry.
Amongst the towns and districts which benefited most from his munificence were, besides his capital Iṣfahán, Mashhad
and its holy shrine of the eighth Imám ‘Ali Riḍá, which, as we have seen, he rescued from the savage and fanatical Uzbeks
and raised to a position of the greatest glory and honour; Ardabíl, the original home of his family; Qazwín, the earlier capital
of the Ṣafawís; Káshán, near which he constructed the celebrated dam known as the Band-i-Quhrúd230; Astarábád; Tabriz;
Hamadán; and the province of Mázandarán, one of his favourite resorts, which he adorned with several splendid palaces and
the great causeway extending from Astarábád to Ashraf, of which full particulars are given in Lord Curzon’s great work on
Persia231. As regards his conquests, his armies reached Merv, Nisá, Abíward, Andakhúd and even Balkh in the north-east, and
Nakhjuwán, Erivan, Ganja, Tiflís, Darband and Bákú in the north-west.
No useful purpose would be served by enumerating here all the notable persons in each class mentioned by Iskandar
Munshí, who wrote, as he repeatedly mentions in the course of his work, in 1025/1616, but the most important are, amongst
the divines and

[page 110]

men of learning, Mír Muḥammad Dámád and Shaykh Bahá’u’d- Dín Ámilí; amongst the calligraphists, Mawláná Isḥáq
Siyáwushání, Muḥammad Ḥusayn-i-Tabrízí, Mír Mu’izz-i-Káshí, Mír Ṣadru’d- Dín Muḥammad, and others; amongst the
artists and miniature painters, Muẓaffar ‘Alí, Zaynu’l-’Ábidín, Ṣádiq Beg, ‘Abdu’l-Jabbár, and others; amongst the poets,
Ḍamírí, Muḥtasham, Walí, Waḥshí, Khwája Ḥusayn, Mír Ḥaydar Mu‘ammá’í, the brothers Ṭayfúr and Dá‘í, Wálih and
Malik of Qum, Ḥátim of Káshán, Ṣabrí Rúzbihání, Ḥisábí, the Qáḍí Núr-i-Iṣfahání, Ḥálatí, Halákí, Maẓharí of Cashmere, and
the Qazwínís Furúghí, Tabkhí, Sulṭánu’l-Fuqará, Ká’ká and Sharmí; and amongst the singers and minstrels232, Ḥáfiẓ Aḥmad-
i-Qazwíní, Ḥáfiẓ, Jalájil-i-Bákharzí, Ḥáfiẓ Muẓaffar-i-Qumí, Ḥáfiẓ; Háshim-i-Qazwíní, Mírzá Muḥammad Kamáncha’í,
Ustád Muḥammad Mú’min, Ustád Shahsuwár-i-Chahár-tárí, Ustád Shams-i-Shaypúrghú’í-i-Warámíní, Ustád Ma’ṣúm
Kamáncha’í, Ustád Sulṭán Muḥammad Ṭanbúra’í, Mírzá Ḥusayn Ṭanbúra’í, Ustád Sulṭán Muḥammad-i-Changí, and the
Qiṣṣa-khwáns (story-tellers) and Sháhnáma-khwáns (reciters of the ‘Epic of Kings’), Ḥaydar, Muḥammad Khursand and
Fatḥí, of whom the two last were brothers and natives of Iṣfahán. It is because the fame of the singers, minstrels and
musicians who constitute this last class is in its nature so ephemeral that I have enumerated them in full, as indicating what
forms of musical talent were popular at the court of Sháh ‘Abbás. That Sháh ‘Abbás deserved the title of “the Great” there
can be no question, and many of his severities have been palliated, if not excused, even by European historians like

[page 111]

Sir John Malcolm233; but his cruel murder of his eldest son Ṣafí Mírzá and his blinding of another, Khudá-banda Mírzá, and
the tragical circumstances connected therewith234, form a dark page in the records of his otherwise glorious reign, which
ended with his death in the early part of A.D. 1629. He was succeeded by his grandson Sám Mírzá, who, on his accession,
took the name of his unfortunate father, and mounted the throne of Persia under the title of Sháh Ṣafí I.
There is a well-known tradition of the Muhammadans235 that Solomon died standing, supported by the staff on which he
leaned, and that his death remained unknown to the Jinn, who laboured at his command in the construction of the Temple, for
a year, until the wood-worm ate through the staff and the body fell to the ground. This legend may well serve as a parable of
the century of Ṣafawí rule which followed the death of Sháh ‘Abbás the Great, who, by his strength and wisdom, gave to
Persia a period of peace and outward prosperity which for nearly a hundred years protected his successors from the results of
their incompetence. Four of his house succeeded him ere the catastrophe of the Afghán invasion in A.D. 1722 effected its
downfall, to wit, his grandson Sháh Ṣafí above mentioned (A.D. 1629-1642); his great-grandson Sháh ‘Abbás II (A.D. 1642-
1666); his great-great-grandson Ṣafí, subsequently recrowned under the name of Sulaymán (A.D.1666-1694); and his great-
great-great-grandson Sháh Ḥusayn (A.D. 1694-1722). Of Sháh Ṣafí, Krusinski236 says that “’tis certain there has not been in
Persia a more cruel and bloody reign than his” and describes it as “one continued series

[page 112]

of cruelties”; while Hanway237 observes that “he interfered so little in the affairs of the government that the Persians would
have scarcely perceived they had a king, had it not been for the frequent instances of barbarity which stained his reign with

230 See my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 185-6.
231 Vol. i, pp. 376-8, etc.
232 Of these titles, Ḥáfiẓ denotes a Qur’án-reciter or rhapsodist; Kamáncha’í a violinist; Chahár-tárí a player on the four-stringed lute;
Shaypúrghú’í a trumpeter; Ṭanbúra’í a drummer; and Changí a harper.
233 History of Persia (ed. 1815), vol. i, pp. 555-6.
234 Ibid., pp. 560-5.
235 See the commentaries on Qur’án xxxiv, 13.
236 P. 44 of the English translation (London, 1728).
237 Revolutions of Persia (London, 1753), vol. i, p. 20.

blood”; and that “by his own folly he lost Kandahar and Babylon [Baghdád], two of the most important places on his
frontiers.” Than Sháh ‘Abbás II, on the other hand, according to Krusinski238, “next to Ismael I and Schah-Abas the Great,
Persia never had a better king of the family of the Sophies.” Although, like his father and predecessor, he was “too much
subject to wine, and committed some acts of cruelty, yet, abateing a few excursions, of which he might justly be reproached,
he shewed himself, during the whole course of his reign, truly worthy of the crown he wore.” “The farther he advanced into
his reign,” continues the Jesuit, “the more he was beloved by his subjects and the more feared by his neighbours. He loved
justice, and had no mercy of the governors and other public officers who, abusing their authority, oppressed the people, of
which several instances may be seen in Tavernier. He had a great and noble soul, was very kind to strangers, and openly
protected the Christians, whom he would not have in the least molested for their religion, saying, ‘That none but God was
master of their consciences; that, for his own part, he was only governor of externals; and that all his subjects being equally
members of the State, of what religion soever they were, he owed justice to them all alike.’” This reign, however, was the last
flicker of greatness in the Ṣafawí dynasty, for Sulaymán (to quote Krusinski239 once more), a “degenerated very much from
the virtues of his father Schah-Abas II, and made his reign remarkable only by a thousand instances of cruelty,

[Illustration: SHÁH ‘ÁBBAS THE SECOND
1920. 9.17-013 [2] (Brit. Mus.)]

[page 113]

the bare mention of which is shocking. When he was in wine or in wrath nobody about him was sure of life or estate. He
caused hands, feet, nose and ears to be cut off eyes to be plucked out, and lives to be sacrificed upon the least whim that took
him; and the man that was most in his favour at the beginning of a debauch was generally made a sacrifice at the end of it.
This is the character given us of him by Sir John Chardin, who was in part a witness of what he relates as to this matter.
Persons thought their lives in such danger whenever they approached him that a great lord of his Court said, when he came
from his presence, that he always felt if his head was left standing upon his shoulders. It was under this prince that Persia
began to decay. He thought so little like a king that when it was represented to him what danger he was in from the Turks,
who, when they had made peace with the Christians, would come and attack his finest provinces if he did not put himself in a
position to repel them, he answered very indifferently that he did not care, provided they left him Iṣfahán.”
Sháh Ḥusayn, the last Ṣafawí king (for his nominal successors Ṭahmásp II and ‘Abbás III were mere puppets in the
hands of Nádir Sháh), was very unlike his predecessors, for his clemency was so excessive as “rendered him incapable of any
severity, though never so moderate and necessary240,” while having one day accidentally wounded a duck with his pistol “he
himself was as much terrified as if he had really committed murder, and made the same exclamation as is customary in Persia
upon the shedding of human blood, by saying Kanlu oldum241, i.e. ‘I am polluted with blood’; and that very instant he caused
two hundred tomons to be given to the poor as an atonement for what he thought a

[page 114]

great sin.” He was something of a scholar and theologian, much under the influence of the Mullás, and so careful of his
religious duties and so much attached to the reading of the Qur’án as to earn for himself the nick-name of Mullá or “Parson
Ḥusayn242.” Though at first a vehement prohibitionist, he was later induced by his grandmother, instigated by wine-loving
courtiers and power-seeking eunuchs, to taste the forbidden liquor, which gradually obtained such a hold on him that “he
would not by any means hear the mention of business, but left it all to the discretions of his ministers and eunuchs, who
governed the kingdom just as they pleased, and took the greater license because they were very sensible they had nothing to
fear from a prince who was so weak as to refer the very petitions he received to them without so much as reading them243.”

In such a work as this, which is concerned primarily with Persian literature and only secondarily with Persian history,
and that only in broad outlines, save in the case of periods which witnessed some definite change in the national outlook, it is
unnecessary to enter into a more detailed account of the later Ṣafawí period; the more so because several excellent accounts
of the decline and fall of this remarkable dynasty, and of the state of Persia at that time, are readily accessible to the English
reader. Of these the following may be especially commended.
Adam Olearius, Secretary to the Embassy sent by Frederick Duke of Holstein to Russia and Persia, was in the latter
country from November, 1636 until February, 1638. His Voyages and Travels, originally written in Latin, were translated
into French and thence, by John Davies, into English. I have used the English version published in 1669. Olearius, or
Oelschläger, to give him his original


238 Op. cit., p. 49.
239 Op. cit., pp. 57-8.
240 Krusinski, op. cit., pp. 105-108.
241 Turkish:

242 Krusinski, op. cit., p. 71.
243 Ibid., p. 76.

[page 115]

name, was a careful observer, and seems to have had a very fair knowledge both of Persian and Turkish, and his work is one
of the best accounts of Persia in the seventeenth century.
Le Père Raphaël du Mans, Superior of the Capuchin Mission at Iṣfahán, was born in A.D. 1613, went to Persia in 1644,
and died there in 1696. His Estat de la Perse en 1660 in the learned edition of M. Schefer (Paris, 1890) gives a valuable if not
very lively account of Persian institutions at a somewhat later date than Olearius.
The Chevalier Chardin was born in A.D. 1643, was twice in Persia for about six years each time (A.D. 1664-70 and
1671-77), and settled in London in 1681, where he died in 1713. Of the numerous editions of his Voyages en Perse I have
used that of the learned Langlès (Paris, 1811) in ten volumes, of which the last contains (pp. 151-244) an admirable Notice
chronologique de la Perse, depuis les temps les plus reculés jusqu’à ce jour by the editor, carried down to the time of Fatḥ-
’Alí Sháh Qájár.
Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín, who traced his descent from the celebrated Shaykh Záhid-i-Gílání, the spiritual director of Shaykh
Ṣafiyyu’d- Dín, the ancestor of the Ṣafawí kings, was born in A.D. 1692 at Iṣfahán, where he spent the greater part of his
time until he left Persia for India, never to return, in A.D. 1734. He wrote his Memoirs (published in the original Persian with
an English translation by F. C. Belfour in 1830-1) in 1741, and died at Benares at a ripe old age in 1779, Though he was
himself involved in the disaster which overtook Iṣfahán in 1722, he gives a much less vivid and moving picture of the
sufferings of its inhabitants during the siege by the Afgháns than that drawn by Krusinski and other European observers. His
portraits of contemporary statesmen, theo-

[page 116]

logians and poets, on the other hand, lend a special value to his book.
Father Krusinski, Procurator of the Jesuits at Iṣfahán for some eighteen or twenty years previous to A.D. 1722, compiled
an admirable History of the Revolution of Persia from the beginning of the Ṣafawí dynasty down to A.D. 1727 in which the
circumstances of the Afghán invasion and its consequences are narrated in the utmost detail.
Jonas Hanway, who was in Persia in A.D. 1743-4, wrote and published in 1753 in two volumes An historical account of
the British Trade over the Caspian Sea, with a Journal of Travels, which he supplemented by two further volumes on the
Revolution of Persia, the first containing The Reign of Shah Sultan Hussein, with the Invasion of the Afghans, and the reigns
of Sultan Mir Maghmud and his successor Ashreff, and the second The History of the celebrated usurper Nadir Kouli, from
his birth in 1687 till his death in 1747, to which are added some particulars of the unfortunate reign of his successor Adil
Shah. For the earlier part of his history Hanway is much indebted to Krusinski, but for the later period (A.D. 1727-1750),
including the whole account of Nádir Sháh, he is an independent and most valuable authority, while his narrative is
throughout lively and agreeable to read.
These are only a few of the many writers and travellers whose works throw light on this period. I have mentioned them
because they are the ones I have chiefly used, but a long and serviceable account of a much larger number will be found in
Schefer’s Introduction to his edition of le Père Raphaël du Mans mentioned above. The European writers are here, for
reasons well set forth by Sir John Malcolm244, more instructive and illuminating than the Persian historians, for

[page 117]

whom, as he says, “we can hardly imagine an era more unfavourable. A period of nearly a century elapsed without the
occurrence of any one political event of magnitude; and yet the extraordinary calm was productive of no advantage to Persia.
The princes, nobles, and high officers of that kingdom were, it is true, exempt from the dangers of foreign or internal war; but
their property and their lives were the sport of a succession of weak, cruel and debauched monarchs. The lower orders were
exposed to fewer evils than the higher, but they became every day more unwarlike; and what they gained by that tranquillity
which the State enjoyed lost almost all its value when they ceased to be able to defend it. This period was distinguished by no
glorious achievements. No characters arose on which the historian could dwell with delight. The nation may be said to have
existed on the reputation which it had before acquired till all it possessed was gone, and till it became, from the slow but
certain progress of a gradual and vicious decay, incapable of one effort to avert that dreadful misery and ruin in which it was
involved by the invasion of a few Afghan tribes, whose conquest of Persia affixed so indelible a disgrace upon that country
that we cannot be surprised that its historians have shrunk from the painful and degrading narration.”
Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín245 takes precisely the same view. “Many ages having now elapsed,” says he, “since civilization,
tranquillity, and the accomplishment of all worldly blessings had attained a state of perfection in the beautiful provinces of
Írán, these were become a fit object for the affliction of the malignant eye246. The indolent King and princes, and the army
that sought nothing but repose and for near a


244 History of Persia (London, 1815), vol. i, pp. 568-570.
245 P. 106 of Belfour’s text = p. 116 of his translation.
246 The Evil Eye is called by the Arabs ‘Aynu’l-Kamál, “the Eye of Perfection,” because anything perfect of its kind is especially exposed
to its attacks.

[page 118]

hundred years had not drawn the sword from the scabbard, would not even think of quelling this disturbance247, until
Maḥmúd248 with a large army marched into the provinces of Kirmán and Yazd, and, having committed much plunder and
devastation, proceeded on his route to Iṣfahán. This happened in the early part of the year 1134/1721.”
Jonas Hanway249 speaks in a similar strain. “Persia never enjoyed,” says he, “a more perfect tranquillity than in the
beginning of the present [i.e. the eighteenth] century. The treaties she had concluded with her neighbours were perfectly
observed and secured her against any foreign invasions; whilst the effeminacy and luxury of her inhabitants, the ordinary
consequences of a long peace, left no room to apprehend any danger from the ambition of her own subjects. This monarchy,
which had suffered so many revolutions in past ages, seemed to be settled on a solid foundation when the news of its
subversion surprised the whole world. The authors of this amazing catastrophe were a people hardly known even to their own
sovereigns, and have now acquired a reputation only by the fame of those nations which they brought under their subjection.
These people … are comprised under the general denomination of Afghans250.”

The policy of Sháh ‘Abbás the Great has been described above as wise and far-sighted, but this statement needs some
qualification; for, while it greatly strengthened the power of the Crown, it undoubtedly conduced in the end to the weakening
of the nation

[page 119]

and the degeneration of its rulers. Previous kings had been embarrassed chiefly by ambitious relatives, powerful tribal chiefs,
and turbulent townsmen; and for all these things Sháh ‘Abbás set himself to provide remedies. Instead of allowing his sons to
hold high administrative posts and take a prominent part in wars, he either blinded them or put them to death, or immured
them in the ḥaram, where, as Krusinski well explains251, they lead a life of hardship and privation rather than of luxury and
pleasure, while receiving a very imperfect education, and falling under the influence of the palace eunuchs, who ended by
becoming the dominant power in the State. To his destruction of the great nobles and tribal chiefs, and his creation of the
Sháh-sevens as a counterpoise to the seven tribes to whom his predecessors owed their power, allusion has already been
made252. A more extraordinary example of his application of the maxim Divide et impera was his deliberate creation in all the
large towns of two artificially antagonized parties, named, according to Krusinski253, Pelenk and Felenk, who indulged at
intervals in the most sanguinary faction-fights, they being, as Krusinski puts it, “so opposite, and so much enemies one to the
other, that people in different States, in arms against one another, do not push their aversion and enmity farther.” He adds (p.
92) that “though they fought without arms, because they were not supposed to make use of anything else but stones and
sticks, it was with so much fury and bloodshed that the King was obliged to employ his guards to separate them with drawn
swords; and hard it was to accomplish it, even with a method so effectual, insomuch that at Ispahan in 1714 they were under
a necessity, before

[page 120]

they could separate the combatants, to put about three hundred to the sword on the spot.”
Besides the eunuchs, there grew up and attained its full development under “Mullá Ḥusayn,” the last unhappy though
well-meaning occupant of the Ṣafawí throne at Iṣfahán, another dominant class whose influence hardly made for either
spiritual unity or national efficiency, namely the great ecclesiastics who culminated in the redoubtable Mullá Muḥammad
Báqir-i-Majlisí, the persecutor of Ṣúfís and heretics, of whom we shall have to speak at some length in a future chapter. His
admirers254 call attention to the fact that his death, which took place in 1111/1699-1700255, was followed in a short time by
the troubles which culminated in the supreme disaster of 1722, and suggest that the disappearance of so saintly a personage
left Persia exposed to perils which more critical minds may be inclined to ascribe in part to the narrow intolerance so largely
fostered by him and his congeners.




247 The seizure of Qandahár by the revolted Afgháns led by Mír Ways.
248 The son and successor of Mír Ways.
249 Revolutions of Persia, vol. i, p. 22.
250 The Afgháns are, however, mentioned by the Arabian historian Ibnu’l-Athír in several places, the earliest mention being under the year
366/976-7. They were very troublesome in S.E. Persia in the middle of the fourteenth century. See my Abridged Translation of the
Ta’ríkh-i-Guzída (E. J. W. Gibb Series, xiv, 2), pp. 161 et seqq.
251 Op.cit., pp. 65-70.
252 See p. 106 supra
253 Op. cit., p. 91. Hanway (vol. iii, p. 32 ad calc., and p. 33) calls them Peleuk and Feleuk. At a later period they were known as Ḥaydarí
and Ni‘matí.
254 e.g. the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, p. 216 of the lithographed edition of 1306/1888-9.
255 The chronogram is
.

CHAPTER IV.

AN OUTLINE OF THE HISTORY OF PERSIA DURING
THE LAST TWO CENTURIES (A.D. 1722-1922).

Only after much hesitation and several tentative experiments have I decided to endeavour to compress into one chapter
two centuries of Persian history. Were this book, primarily intended as a political history of Persia, such an attempt would be
out of the question; for this long period witnessed the Afghán invasion and its devastations; the rise, meteoric career, and
sudden eclipse of that amazing conqueror Nádir Sháh; the emergence in a world of chaos and misery of Karím Khán-i-Zand,
generally accounted the best ruler whom Persia ever possessed, and of his gallant but unfortunate successor Luṭf-‘Alí Khán;
the establishment of the still reigning Qájár dynasty, and within that period the occurrence, amidst many other important
events, of two remarkable phenomena (the rise and growth of the Bábí religious movement since 1844, and the political
Revolution of 1906) which profoundly affected the intellectual life and literary development of Persia, each one of which
might well form the subject of a lengthy monograph rather than a chapter. This book, however, is written not from the
political but from the literary point of view, and the historical part of it is only ancillary, and might have been omitted entirely
if a knowledge of even the general outlines of Oriental history formed part of the mental equipment of most educated
Europeans. From this point of view much fuller treatment is required for periods of transition, or of great intellectual activity,
than for periods of unproductive strife not so much of rival ideas and beliefs as of conflicting ambitions. To the latter
category belongs the greater part

[page 122]

of the two centuries which must now engage our attention. During this period the literary language (which, indeed, had
become fixed at any rate in the fourteenth century, so that the odes of Ḥáfiẓ, save for their incomparable beauty, might have
been written but yesterday) underwent no noticeable change; few fresh forms of literary expression were developed until the
middle of the nineteenth century; and few fresh ideas arose to modify the Shí‘a frenzy of Ṣafawí times until the rise of the
Bábí doctrine in A.D. 1844, of which, however, the literary effects were less considerable than those of the Revolution of
1906. Moreover excellent and detailed accounts of the Afghán invasion, of Nádir Sháh, and of the earlier Qájár period
already exist in English, several of which have been mentioned at the end of the preceding chapter256; these could hardly be
bettered, and would only be marred by such abridgment as would be necessary to fit them into the framework of this book.
Hence I have deemed it best to limit myself in this chapter to a brief outline of the more salient events of these last two
centuries.


THE AFGHÁN INVASION (A.D. 1722-1730).

Unlike the Arabs, Mongols, Tartars and Turks, who were instrumental in effecting previous subjections of Persia by
foreign arms, the Afgháns are, apparently, an Íránian and therefore a kindred race, though differing materially in character,
‘from the Persians. The Persian language is widely spoken in their wild and mountainous country, while in their own peculiar
idiom, the Pushtô, James Darmesteter saw the principal survivor of the language of the Avesta, the scripture of the
Zoroastrians. They are a much fiercer, hardier, and more warlike people than the Persians, less refined and ingenious, and

[page 123]

fanatical Sunnís, a fact sufficient in itself to explain the intense antagonism which existed between the two nations, and
enabled the Afgháns to give to their invasion of Persia the colour of a religious war.
In A.D. 1707 Qandahár, a constant bone of contention between the Ṣafawí kings of Persia and the “Great Moghuls” of
India, was in the possession of the former, and was governed in a very autocratic manner by a Georgian noble named Gurgín
Khán. Mír Ways, an Afghán chief whose influence with his fellow-countrymen made him an object of suspicion, was by his
orders banished to Iṣfahán as a state prisoner. There, however, he seems to have enjoyed a considerable amount of liberty and
to have been freely admitted to the court of Sháh Ḥusayn. Endowed with considerable perspicacity and a great talent for
intrigue, he soon formed a pretty clear idea of the factions whose rivalries were preparing the ruin of the country, and with
equal caution and cunning set himself to fan the suspicions to which every great Persian general or provincial governor was
exposed. This was the easier in the case of one who, being by birth a Christian and a Georgian of noble family, might,
without gross improbability, be suspected of thinking more of the restoration of his own and his country’s fortunes than of
the maintenance of the Persian Empire, though there seems in fact no reason to suspect him of any disloyalty.
Having sown this seed of suspicion and completely ingratiated himself with the Persian Court, Mír Ways sought and
obtained permission to perform the pilgrimage to Mecca. While there he took another important step for the furtherance of
his designs. He sought from the leading ecclesiastical authorities a fatwá, or legal opinion, as to whether the orthodox Sunní
subjects of a heretical (i.e. Shí‘a) Muslim ruler were bound to obey him, or were justified, if occasion

256 See pp. 114-118 supra.

[page 124]

arose, in resisting him, if necessary by force of arms. The decision, which supported the latter alternative and so accorded
with his designs, he carried back with him to Iṣfahán and subsequently to Qandahár, whither he was permitted to return, with
strong recommendations to Gurgín Khán, in 1709. There he soon organized a conspiracy against the latter, and, taking
advantage of the temporary absence of a large part of the Persian garrison on some expedition in the neighbourhood, he and
his followers fell on the remainder when they were off their guard, killed the greater number of them, including Gurgín Khán,
and took possession of the city. It was at this juncture that the fatwá obtained at Mecca proved so useful to Mír Ways, for by
it he was able to overcome the scruples of the more faint-hearted of his followers, who were at first inclined to shrink from a
definite repudiation of Persian suzerainty, but who now united with the more hot-headed of their countrymen in electing Mír
Ways “Prince of Qandahár and General of the national troops257.”
Several half-hearted attempts to subdue the rebellious city having failed, the Persian Government despatched Khusraw
Khán, nephew of the late Gurgín Khán, with an army of 30,000 men to effect its subjugation, but in spite of an initial success,
which led the Afgháns to offer to surrender on terms, his uncompromising attitude impelled them to make a fresh desperate
effort, resulting in the complete defeat of the Persian army (of whom only some 700 escaped) and the death of their general.
Two years later, in A.D. 1713, another Persian army commanded by Rustam Khán was also defeated by the rebels, who thus
secured possession of the whole province of Qandahár.
Mír Ways, having thus in five or six years laid the foundations of the Afghán power, died in A.D. 1715, and was

[page 125]

succeeded by his brother Mír ‘Abdu’lláh, whose disposition to accept, under certain conditions, Persian suzerainty led to his
murder by his nephew Mír Maḥmúd, son of Mír Ways, who was forthwith proclaimed king. The weakness of the Persian
government thus becoming apparent, others were led to follow the example of the Afgháns of Qandahár. Amongst these were
the Abdálí Afgháns of Herát, the Uzbeks of Transoxiana, the Kurds, the Lazgís and the Arabs of Baḥrayn, and though the
Persian General Ṣafí-qulí Khán with 30,000 troops succeeded in defeating an Uzbek army of 12,000, he was immediately
afterwards defeated by the Abdálí Afgháns.
In A.D. 1720 Mír Maḥmúd assumed the aggressive, crossed the deserts of Sístán, and attacked and occupied Kirmán,
whence, however, he was expelled four months later by the Persian General Luṭf-‘Alí Khán, who, after this victory,
proceeded to Shíráz and began to organize “the best-appointed army that had been seen in Persia for many years” with a view
to crushing the Afgháns and retaking Qandahár. Unfortunately before he had accomplished this his position was undermined
by one of those Court intrigues which were so rapidly destroying the Persian Empire, and he was deprived of his command
and brought as a prisoner to Iṣfahán, while the army which he had collected and disciplined with such care rapidly melted
away, and the spirits of the Afgháns were proportionately revived. The capture and sack of Shamákhí by the Lazgís and the
appearance of strange portents in the sky combined still further to discourage the Persians, while the ordering of public
mourning and repentance by Sháh Ḥusayn tended only to accentuate the general depression.
The fatal year 1722 began with the second siege and

[page 126]

capture of Kirmán by Mír Maḥmúd. The most remarkable incident connected with this was that he was joined by a number of
“guebres” (gabr)258, the small remnant of the Persians who still profess the ancient religion of Zoroaster, and who exist in any
number only in the cities of Kirmán and Yazd and the intervening region of Rafsinján with its chief town Bahrámábád. Why
these people should have attached themselves to foreign Muslims to make war on their Muslim compatriots it is hard to
understand, unless the fanaticism of the Shí‘a divines was responsible for driving them into this extraordinary course. Still
more remarkable, if true, is Hanway’s statement that they provided Mír Maḥmúd with one of his best generals, who, though
he bore the Muhammadan name of Naṣru’lláh, was, according to the same authority259, “a worshipper of fire, since there
were two priests hired by the Sultan who kept the sacred flame near his tomb.”
From Kirmán Mír Maḥmúd marched by way of Yazd, which he attempted but failed to take by storm, to Iṣfahán, having
scornfully refused an offer of 15,000 túmáns260, to induce him to turn back, and finally pitched his camp at Gulnábád, distant
some three leagues from the Ṣafawí capital. After much dispute and diversity of opinions, the Persian army marched out of
Iṣfahán to engage the Afgháns on March 7th and on the following day, largely through the treachery of the Wálí of
‘Arabistán, suffered a disastrous defeat.
The battle of Gulnábád, fought between the Persians and the Afgháns on Sunday, March 8, 1722, decided the fate of the
Ṣafawí dynasty as surely as did the battle of Qádisiyya in A.D. 635 that of the Sásánians, or the conflict between the Caliph’s
troops and

257 Krusinski, p. 187.
258 Hanway's Revolution of Persia, vol. i, p. 99.
259 Ibid., p. 186.
260 At that time, according to Hanway (loc. cit., p. 100), equivalent to £37,500.

[page 127]

the Mongols outside Baghdád in A.D. 1258 that of the ‘Abbásids. Between these three battles, moreover, there was a
remarkable point of similarity in the splendour and apparent strength of the defenders and the squalor and seeming weakness
of their assailants. The similarity in this respect between the battles of Qádisiyya and Baghdád has been noticed in a well-
known passage of the Kitábu’l-Fakhrí261, to which the following account of the battle of Gulnábád by Hanway262 forms a
remarkable parallel:

“The sun had just appeared on the horizon when the armies began to observe each other with that curiosity so natural on
these dreadful occasions. The Persian army just come out of the capital, being composed of whatever was most brilliant at
court, seemed as if it had been formed rather to make a show than to fight. The riches and variety of their arms and
vestments, the beauty of their horses, the gold and precious stones with which some of their harnesses were covered, and the
richness of their tents contributed to render the Persian camp very pompous and magnificent.
“On the other side there was a much smaller body of soldiers, disfigured with fatigue and the scorching heat of the sun.
Their clothes were so ragged and torn in so long a march that they were scarce sufficient to cover them from the weather,
and, their horses being adorned with only leather and brass, there was nothing glittering about them but their spears and
sabres.”

These three great and decisive battles resembled one another in several respects. In each case a great historic dynasty, the
extent of whose inward decay was masked by its external splendour, and apparent, because hitherto unchallenged, strength
and supremacy, collapsed before the fierce onslaught of a hardy and warlike folk, hitherto hardly known, or accounted as
little better than barbarians; and in each case the more or less prolonged process of degene-

[page 128]

ration which rendered the final catastrophe not only possible but inevitable is fairly obvious to subsequent historians, even if
its extent and significance were not realized until the fatal touchstone was applied. The results, however, differed widely
according to the character and abilities of the assailants. The Arab invaders of the seventh century established an Empire
which endured for six centuries and effected a profound and permanent change in the lands and peoples whom they brought
under their sway. The Mongol conquests were even more extensive, reaching as they did from China and Thibet to Germany
and Russia, but the cohesion and duration of the vast Empire which they created were far inferior. The Afghán conquest, with
which we are now concerned, was little more than an extensive and destructive raid, resulting in some seventy-five years of
anarchy (A.D. 1722-1795), illuminated by the meteoric career of that Napoleon of Persia, Nádir Sháh, and ending in the
establishment of the actually reigning dynasty of the Qájárs. The actual domination of the
Afgháns over Persia only endured for eight or nine years263.
Seven months elapsed after the battle of Gulnábád before the final pitiful surrender, with every circumstance of
humiliation, of the unhappy Sháh Ḥusayn. In that battle the Persians are said to have lost all their artillery, baggage and
treasure, as well as some 15,000 out of a total of 50,000 men. On March 19 Mír Maḥmúd occupied the Sháh’s beloved palace
and pleasure-grounds of Faraḥábád, situated only three miles from Iṣfahán, which henceforth served as his headquarters. Two
days later the Afgháns, having occupied the Armenian suburb of Julfá, where they levied a tribute of money and young girls,
attempted to take Iṣfahán by

[page 129]

storm, but, having twice failed (on March 19 and 21), sat down to blockade the city. Three months later Prince Ṭahmásp
Mírzá, who had been nominated to succeed his father, effected his escape from the beleaguered city to Qazwín, where he
attempted, with but small success, to raise an army for the relief of the capital.
Soon after this, famine began to press heavily on the people, who clamoured to be led against the besiegers, but their
desperate sortie failed owing to the renewed treachery of Wálí of ‘Arabistán, who was throughout these dark days the evil
genius of the unhappy king. The Persian court, indeed, seemed to have been stricken with a kind of folly which was equally
ready to repose confidence in traitors and to mistrust and degrade or dismiss brave and patriotic officers like Luṭf-‘Alí Khán.
For three or four months before the end the sufferings of the people from famine were terrible: they were finally reduced to
eating dogs, cats, and even the corpses of their dead, and perished in great numbers. The pitiful details may be found in the
pages of Krusinski, Hanway, and the contemporary accounts written by certain agents of the Dutch East India Company then
resident at Iṣfahán, of which the original texts have been included by H. Dunlop in his fine work on Persia (Perzie, Haarlem,
1912, pp. 242-257).

261 See vol. ii of my Lit. Hist., p. 462, for the translation, and pp. 97-8 of Ahlwardt's edition for the text of this passage.
262 Revolutions of Persia (London, 1753), vol. i, pp. 104-5.
263 Maḥmúd the Afghán laid siege to Kirmán in January, 1722, and captured Iṣfahán in October of the same year. His cousin Ashraf, who
succeeded him, was killed by Balúchís in 1730.

At the end of September, 1722, Sháh Ḥusayn offered to surrender himself and his capital to the Afghán invader, but Mír
Maḥmúd, in order still further to reduce by famine the numbers and spirit of the besieged, dragged out the negotiations for
another three or four weeks, so that it was not until October 21 that Sháh Ḥusayn repaired on foot to Faraḥábád, once his
favourite residence, now the headquarters of his ruthless foe, to surrender the crown which Mír Maḥmúd assumed six days
later. When news of his father’s abdication reached

[page 130]

Ṭahmásp Mírzá at Qazwín he caused himself to be proclaimed king, but was driven out of that city on December 20 by the
Afghán general Amánu’lláh Khán, who on his way thither received the submission of Qum and Káshán.
Ṭahmásp was now reduced to the miserable expedient of invoking the help of Russia and Turkey, who had already fixed
covetous eyes on the apparently moribund Persian kingdom and had occupied Gílán and Tiflís respectively. On September
23, 1723, a treaty was signed whereby, in return for the expulsion of the Afgháns and the restoration of his authority,
Ṭahmásp undertook to cede to Russia the Caspian provinces of Gílán, Mázandarán and Gurgán, and the towns of Bákú,
Darband and their dependencies. Soon afterwards the Turks took Erivan, Nakhjuwán, Khúy and Hamadán, but were repulsed
From Tabríz. On July 8, 1724, an agreement for the partition of Persia was signed between Russia and Turkey at
Constantinople264.
Meanwhile Mír Maḥmúd was continuing his cruelties at Iṣfahán. In A.D. 1723 he put to death in cold blood some three
hundred of the nobles and chief citizens, and followed up this bloody deed with the murder of about two hundred children of
their families. He also killed some three thousand of the deposed Sháh’s body-guard, together with many other persons
whose sentiments he mistrusted or whose influence he feared. In the following year (A.D. 1724) the Afghán general
Zabardast Khán succeeded, where his predecessor Naṣru’lláh265 had failed and fallen, in taking Shíráz; and towards the end
of the year Mír Maḥmúd prepared to attack Yazd, which had hitherto remained unsubdued. The Muslim inhabitants of that
town, fearing that the numerous Zoroastrians dwelling

[page 131]

in it might follow the example of their co-religionists of Kirmán and join the Afgháns, killed a great number of them.
About this time Mír Maḥmúd, alarmed at the increasing insubordination of his cousin Ashraf, and, we may hope,
tormented by an uneasy conscience on account of his cruelties, betook himself to a severe course of self-discipline and
mortification, which did but increase his melancholy and distemper, so that on February 7, 1725, he murdered all the
surviving members of the royal family with the exception of the deposed Sháh Ḥusayn and two of his younger children.
Thereafter his disorder rapidly increased, until he himself was murdered on April 22 by his cousin Ashraf, who was
thereupon proclaimed king. Mír Maḥmúd was at the time of his death only twenty-seven years of age, and is described as
“middle-sized and clumsy; his neck was so short that his head seemed to grow to his shoulders; he had a broad face and flat
nose, and his beard was thin and of a red colour; his looks were wild and his countenance austere and disagreeable; his eyes,
which were blue and a little squinting, were generally downcast, like a man absorbed in deep thought.”
The death of Peter the Great about this period made Russia slightly less dangerous as a neighbour, but the Turks
continued to press forwards and on August 3, 1725, succeeded at last in capturing Tabríz. They even advanced to within three
days’ march of Iṣfahán, but turned back before reaching it. They subsequently (A.D. 1726) took Qazwín and Marágha, but
were defeated by Ashraf near Kirmánsháh. Negotiations for peace were meanwhile in progress at Constantinople, whither
Ashraf had sent an ambassador named ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz Khán, whose arrogant proposal that his master should be Caliph of the
East and the Ottoman

[page 132]

Sulṭán Caliph of the West caused great umbrage to the Porte. The war, however, was very unpopular with the Turkish
soldiers and people, who failed to see why they should fight fellow-Sunnis in order to restore a heretical Shí‘a dynasty,
though the ‘ulamá were induced to give a fatwá in favour of this course, on the ground that a divided Caliphate was
incompatible with the dignity or safety of Islám. Finally, however, a treaty of peace was concluded and signed at Hamadán in
September, 1727266.
This danger had hardly been averted when a far greater one, destined in a short time to prove fatal to the Afgháns,
presented itself in the person of Nádir-qulí, subsequently known to fame as Nádir Sháh, one of the most remarkable and
ruthless military geniuses ever produced by Persia. Hitherto, though he was now about forty years of age, little had been
heard of him; but this year, issuing forth from his stronghold, that wonderful natural fastness named after him Kalát-i-
Nádirí267, he defeated an Afghán force and took possession of Níshápúr in the name of Sháh Ṭahmásp II, at that time

264 For the contents of the six articles, see Hanway's Revolutions of Persia, i, pp. 200-1.
265 See p. 126 supra.
266 For its provisions, contained in nine articles, see Hanway, op. cit., i, pp. 254-5.
267 This fortress, which is jealously guarded, Lord Curzon attempted but failed to penetrate. See his Persia, vol. i, pp. 125-140, especially
the bird's-eye view on p. 134.

precariously established at Faraḥábád in Mázandarán, and supported with a certain condescending arrogance by the Qájár
chief Fatḥ-‘Alí Khán. After this success Nádir paid a visit to the fugitive Sháh, and, after insinuating himself into his favour,
contrived the assassination of the Qájár, against whom he had succeeded in arousing the Sháh’s suspicions. On May 15 of the
following year (1728) the Shih, accompanied by Nadir (or Ṭahmásp-qulí, “the slave of Ṭahmásp,” to give him the name
which

[page 133]

he temporarily assumed about this time), made a solemn entry into Níshápúr, amidst the rejoicings of the inhabitants, and
shortly afterwards occupied Mashhad and Herát. He also despatched an ambassador to Constantinople, whence in return a
certain Sulaymán Efendi was sent as envoy to Persia.
Meanwhile Ashraf, having taken Yazd and Kirmán, marched into Khurásán with an army of thirty thousand men to give
battle to Ṭahmásp, but he was completely defeated by Nádir on October 2 at Dámghán. Another decisive battle was fought in
the following year at Múrchakhúr near Iṣfahán. The Afgháns were again defeated and evacuated Iṣfahán to the number of
twelve thousand men, but, before quitting the city he had ruined, Ashraf murdered the unfortunate ex-Sháh Ḥusayn, and
carried off most of the ladies of the royal family and the King’s treasure. When Ṭahmásp II entered Iṣfahán on December 9
he found only his old mother, who had escaped deportation by disguising herself as a servant, and was moved to tears at the
desolation and desecration which met his eyes at every turn. Nádir, having finally induced Ṭahmásp to empower him to levy
taxes on his own authority, marched southwards in pursuit of the retiring Afgháns, whom he overtook and again defeated
near Persepolis. Ashraf fled from Shíráz towards his own country, but cold, hunger and the unrelenting hostility of the
inhabitants of the regions which he had to traverse dissipated his forces and compelled him to abandon his captives and his
treasure, and he was finally killed by a party of Balúch tribesmen. Thus ended the disastrous period of Afghán dominion in
Persia in A.D. 1730, having lasted eight years.

[page 134]

THE CAREER OF NÁDIR
UNTIL HIS ASSASSINATION IN A.D. 1747.

Although it was not until A.D. 1736 that Nádir deemed it expedient to take the title of King, he became from A.D. 1730
onwards the de facto ruler of Persia. Of his humble origin and early struggles it is unnecessary to speak here; they will be
found narrated as fully as the circumstances permit in the pages of Hanway, Malcolm and other historians of Persia. Sháh
Ṭahmásp was from the first but a roi fainéant, and his only serious attempt to achieve anything by himself, when he took the
field against the Turks in A.D. 1731, resulted in a disastrous failure, for he lost both Tabríz and Hamadán, and in January,
1732, concluded a most unfavourable peace, whereby he ceded Georgia and Armenia to Turkey on condition that she should
aid him to expel the Russians from Gílán, Shírwán and Darband. Nádir, greatly incensed, came to Iṣfahán in August, 1732,
and, having by a stratagem seized and imprisoned Ṭahmásp, proclaimed his infant son (then only six months old) as king
under the title of Sháh ‘Abbás III, and at once sent a threatening letter to Aḥmad Páshá of Baghdád, which he followed up by
a declaration of war in October.
In April of the following year (1733) Nádir appeared before Baghdád, having already retaken Kirmánsháh, with an army
of 80,000 men, but suffered a defeat on July 18, and retired to Hamadán to recruit and recuperate his troops. Returning to the
attack in the autumn he defeated the Turks on October 26 in a great battle wherein the gallant and noble-minded Ṭopál
‘Osmán (‘Uthmán) was slain. Having crushed a revolt in favour of the deposed Sháh Ṭahmásp in Fárs, he invaded Georgia in
1734, took Tiflís, Ganja and Shamákhí,

[page 135]

and obtained from Russia the retrocession of Gílán, Shírwán, Darband, Bákú and Rasht. In the following year (1735) he
again defeated the Turks near Erivan, and captured that city and Erzeroum.
On the following Nawrúz, or Persian New Year’s day (March 21, 1736), Nádir announced to the assembled army and
deputies of the nation the death of the infant Sháh ‘Abbás III and invited them to decide within three days whether they
would restore his father, the deposed Sháh Ṭahmásp, or elect a new king. His own desire, which coincided with that of most
of his officers and soldiers, was evident, and, the unwilling minority being overawed, the crown of Persia was unanimously
offered to him. He agreed to accept it on three conditions, namely: (1) that it should be made hereditary in his family; (2) that
there should be no talk of a restoration of the Ṣafawís, and that no one should aid, comfort, or harbour any member of that
family who might aspire to the throne; and (3) that the cursing of the first three Caliphs, the mourning for the death of the
Imám Ḥusayn, and other distinctive practices of the Shí‘a should be abandoned. This last condition was the most distasteful
to the Persians, and the chief ecclesiastical authority, being asked his opinion, had the courage to denounce it as “derogatory
to the welfare of the true believers” — a courage which cost him his life, for he was immediately strangled by Nádir’s orders.
Not content with this, Nádir, on his arrival at Qazwín, confiscated the religious endowments (awqáf) for the expenses of his
army, to whom, he said, Persia owed more than to her hierarchy. Towards the end of the year he concluded a favourable

treaty with Turkey, by which Persia recovered all her lost provinces; and in December he set out at the head of 100,000 men
against Afghánistán and India, leaving his son Riḍá-qulí as regent.
The next two years (A.D. 1737-9) witnessed Nádir Sháh’s

[page 136]

greatest military achievement, the invasion of India, capture of Lahore and Delhi, and return home with the enormous spoils
in money and kind which he exacted from the unfortunate Indians, and which Hanway268 estimates at £87,500,000. Having
taken Qandahár, Kábul and Peshawur in 1738, he crossed the Indus early in the following year, captured Lahore, and in
February, 1739, utterly defeated the Indian army of Muhammad Sháh, two hundred thousand strong, on the plains of Karnál.
Delhi was peaceably occupied, but a few days later a riot occurred in which some of Nádir’s soldiers were killed, and he
avenged their blood by a general massacre of the inhabitants which lasted from 8 a.m. until 3 p.m., and in which 110,000
persons perished. He never dreamed of holding India, and, having extorted the enormous indemnity mentioned above and left
the unhappy Muhammad Sháh in possession of his throne, with a threat that he would return again if necessary, he began his
homeward march in May, turning aside to chastise the predatory Uzbeks of Khiva and Bukhárá, which latter town he
captured on November 28, 1739.
During the absence of Nádir Sháh his son Riḍá-qulí had put to death the unfortunate Ṭahmásp and most of his family at
Sabzawár, and began to show signs of desiring to retain the powers with which he had been temporarily invested by his
father. Being suspected of instigating an unsuccessful attempt on Nádir’s life, he was deprived of his eyesight, but with this
cruel act the wonderful good fortune which had hitherto accompanied Nádir began to desert him. His increasing cruelty,
tyranny, avarice and extortion, but most of all, perhaps, his attempt to impose on

[page 137]

his Persian subjects the Sunní doctrine, made him daily more detested. His innovations included the production of Persian
translations of the Qur’án and the Gospels. The latter, on which several Christians were employed, he caused to be read
aloud to him at Ṭihrán, while he commented on it with derision, and hinted that when he found leisure he might (perhaps
after the model of Akbar) produce a new religion of his own which should supplant alike Judaism, Christianity and Islám269.
His military projects, moreover, began to miscarry; his campaign against the Lazgís in A.D. 1741-2 did not prosper, and in
the war with Turkey in which he became involved in 1743 he was unsuccessful in his attempt to take Mosul (Mawṣil).
Revolts which broke out in Fárs and Shírwán were only suppressed with difficulty after much bloodshed. However he put
down a rebellion of the Qájárs at Astarábád in A.D. 1744, defeated the Turks in a great battle near Erivan in August, 1745,
and concluded a satisfactory peace with them in 1746. In the following year Nádir Sháh visited Kirmán, which suffered much
from his cruelties and exactions, and thence proceeded to Mashhad, where he arrived at the end of May, 1747. Here he
conceived the abominable plan of killing all his Persian officers and soldiers (the bulk of his army being Turkmáns and
Uzbeks and consequently Sunnís), but this project was made known by a Georgian slave to some of the Persian officers, who
thereupon decided, in the picturesque Persian phrase, “to breakfast off him ere he should sup off them.” A certain Ṣáliḥ Beg,
aided by four trusty men, undertook the task270, and, entering his tent

[page 138]

by night, rid their country of one who, though he first appeared as its deliverer from the Afghán yoke, now bade fair to crush
it beneath a yoke yet more intolerable. At the time of his death Nádir Sháh was sixty-one years of age and had reigned eleven
years and three months (A.D. 1736-47). He was succeeded by his nephew ‘Alí-qulí Khán, who assumed the crown under the
title of ‘Ádil Sháh, but was defeated and slain by his brother Ibráhím in the following year. He in turn was killed a year later
(A.D. 1749) by the partisans of Nádir’s grandson Sháhrukh, the son of the unfortunate Riḍá-qulí and a Ṣafawí princess, the
daughter of Sháh Ḥusayn, who now succeeded to the throne. Youth, beauty and a character at once amiable and humane271
did not, however, secure him against misfortune, and he was shortly after his accession deposed and blinded by a certain
Sayyid Muḥammad, a grandson on the mother’s side of the Ṣafawí Sháh Sulaymán II. He in turn soon fell a victim to the
universal violence and lawlessness which now prevailed in Persia, and Sháhrukh was restored to the throne, but again
deposed and again restored to exercise a nominal rule at Mashhad over the province of Khurásán, which Aḥmad Khán Abdálí
(afterwards famous as Aḥmad Sháh Durrání, the founder of the modern kingdom of Afghánistán) desired, before leaving

268 Revolutions of Persia, ii, p. 188. The loss to India he puts at one hundred and twenty million pounds and the number of those slain at
200,000 (Ibid., p. 197).
269 See Sir John Malcolm’s History of Persia (ed. 1815), vol. ii, p. 104.
270 According to the Ta’ríkh-i-ba‘d Nádiriyya (ed. Oskar Mann, Leyden, 1891, pp. 15 et seqq.), which gives a very full account of the
matter, the four chief conspirators, Muḥammad Khán Qájár, Músá Beg Afshár, Qoja Beg Günduzlú and Muḥammad Ṣáliḥ Khán, were
accompanied by seventy young volunteers, but only four had the courage to enter Nádir’s tent. The assassination took place on Sunday,
11 Jumáda ii 1160 (June 20, 1747).
271 Malcolm’s History, Vol. ii, p. 111.

Persia, to erect into a buffer state between that country and his own. The remainder of the blind Sháhrukh’s long reign was
uneventful, and he survived until A.D. 1796, having reigned nearly fifty years.

[page 139]

THE ZAND DYNASTY (A.D. 1750-1794)

“The history of Persia,” says Sir John Malcolm272, “from the death of Nádir Sháh till the elevation of Áqá Muḥammad
Khán, the founder of the reigning family, presents to our attention no one striking feature except the life of Karím Khán-i-
Zand. The happy reign of this excellent prince, as contrasted with those who preceded and followed him, affords to the
historian of Persia that description of mixed pleasure and repose which a traveller enjoys who arrives at a beautiful and fertile
valley in the midst of an arduous journey over barren and rugged wastes. It is pleasing to recount the actions of a chief who,
though born in an inferior rank, obtained power without crime, and who exercised it with a moderation that was, in the times
in which he lived, as singular as his humanity and justice.”
Karím Khán, however, who fixed his capital at Shíráz, which he did so much to beautify and where he is still gratefully
remembered, never ruled over the whole of Persia and never assumed the title of Sháh, but remained content with that of
Wakíl, or Regent. Originally he and a Bakhtiyárí chief named ‘Alí Mardán Khán were the joint regents of “a real or pretended
grandson of Sháh Ḥusayn273” in whose name they seized Iṣfahán, where they placed him on the throne. Before long they fell
out; ‘Alí Mardán Khán was killed; and Karím Khán became the de facto ruler of Southern Persia. His rivals were the Afghán
chief Ázád in Ádharbáyján and the North-west, and in the Caspian provinces Muḥammad Ḥasan the Qájár, son of that Fatḥ-
‘Alí Khán who was murdered by Nádir at the outset of his career, and father,

[page 140]

of Áqá Muḥammad Khán, the actual founder of the Qájár dynasty.
Ázád was the first to be eliminated from this triangular contest. He defeated Karím Khán and compelled him to evacuate
not only Iṣfahán but Shíráz, but, rashly pursuing him through the narrow defile of Kamárij, fell into an ambush, lost most of
his followers, and finally, having sought refuge first with the Páshá of Baghdád and then with Heraclius, Prince of Georgia,
threw himself upon the generosity of Karím Khán, who received him with kindness, promoted him to the first rank among his
nobles, and treated him with so generous a confidence that he soon converted this dangerous rival into an attached friend274.”
In A.D. 1757, about four years after the battle of Kamárij, Karím Khán had to face a fierce onslaught by his other rival,
Muḥammad Ḥasan Khán the Qájár, who, after a striking initial success, was finally driven back into Mázandarán, where he
was eventually defeated and killed in A.D. 1760 by Karím Khán’s general Shaykh ‘Alí Khán. From this time until his death
in the spring of 1779 Karím Khán practically ruled over the whole of Persia except Khurásán, where the blind and harmless
Sháhrukh exercised a nominal sovereignty. The chief military exploit of his reign was the capture of Baṣra from the Turks in
1776, effected by his brother Ṣádiq, who continued to administer it until Karím’s death, when he relinquished it to the Turks
in order to take part in the fratricidal struggle for the Persian crown275.

[page 141]

“The most important, if we consider its ultimate consequences, of all the events which occurred at the death of Karím
Khán, was the flight of Áqá Muḥammad Khán Qájár, who had been for many years a prisoner at large in the city-of
Shíráz276.” As a child he had suffered castration by the cruel command of Nádir’s nephew ‘Ádil Sháh277, on account of which
the title of Ághá or Áqá, generally given to eunuchs, was added to his name. After the defeat and death of his father
Muḥammad Ḥasan Khán the Qájár in A.D. 1757, he fell into the hands of Karím Khán, who interned him in Shíráz, but
otherwise treated him kindly, and even generously, so far as was compatible with his safe custody. He was even allowed to
gratify his passion for the chase in the country round Shíráz on condition of re-entering the city before the gates were closed
at night-fall. Returning to the city on the evening of Ṣafar 12, 1193 (March 1, 1779), and learning through his sister, who was
an inmate of the Palace, that Karím Khán lay at the point of death, he suffered a favourite hawk to escape, and made its
pursuit an excuse for spending the night in the plain. Next morning, two hours after dawn278, having learned that Karím Khán
had breathed his last, he took advantage of the prevailing confusion to make his escape northwards, and travelled so swiftly
that he reached Iṣfahán on the third day279, and thence made his way into Mázandarán, which thenceforth became the base of

272 Op. cit., vol. ii, p. 115.
273 R. G. Watson’s History of Persia, p. 44.
274 Sir John Malcolm’s History of Persia, vol. ii, p. 125. The two preceding pages contain a graphic account of the battle of Kamárij, as
narrated to the author on the spot by persons who had themselves taken part in it.
275 See ‘Alí Riḍá’s Ta’ríkh-i-Zandiyya (ed. Ernst Beer, Leyden, 1888).
276 Sir John Malcolm, op. cit., ii, p. 157.
277 Ibid., p. 263.
278 Ta’ríkh-i-Zandiyya, p. 6, 1. I.
279 Sir John Malcolm’s History, ii, p. 158 ad calc.

those operations by which, fifteen years later, he accomplished the final overthrow of the Zand, dynasty and won for his own
house that supremacy over Persia which they hold to this day.
It is unnecessary to describe here the fratricidal wars

[page 142]

which during the next ten years (A.D. 1779-89) sapped the power of the Zand dynasty while Áqá Muḥammad Khán, with
incredible self-control and political sagacity, was uniting and consolidating the Qájár power. Within the year which witnessed
Karím Khán’s death four of his house had successively mounted his throne, to wit, his son Abu’l-Fatḥ, his nephew ‘Alí
Murád, his son Muḥammad ‘Alí, and his brother Ṣádiq. The last-named, together with all his sons except Ja‘far, was put to
death in March, 1782, by ‘Alí Murád, who thus regained the throne, but died at Múrchakhúr near Iṣfahán in January, 1785,
and was succeeded by Ja‘far, the date of whose accession is commemorated in the following ingenious chronogram by Ḥájji
Sulaymán of Káshán called Ṣabáḥí280:



“To record the year of the blessed and auspicious accession
Which is the initial date of the mirth of the age,
The pen of Ṣabáḥí wrote: ‘From the Royal Palace
‘Alí Murád went forth, and Ja‘far Khán sat’ [in his place].”

The letters composing the words Qaṣr-i-Sulṭání yield the number 550; from this we subtract (355) equivalent to ‘Alí
Murád, which gives us 195; to this we add the number equivalent to Ja‘far Khán (1004), which finally gives us the correct
date A.H. 1199 (A.D. 178 5).
Ja‘far Khán was murdered on 25 Rabí‘ ii, 1203 (January 23, 1789), and was succeeded by his son, the gallant and
unfortunate Luṭf-‘Alí Khán, of whose personality Sir Harford Jones Brydges has given so attractive an account. “The reader,
I hope,” he

[page 143]

says281, “will pardon me if I treat the reign and misfortunes of the noble Luṭf-‘Alí more in detail than usual. I received great
kindness and attention from him when he filled the throne; and under a miserable tent I had the honour of sitting on the same
horse-cloth with him when a fugitive! His virtues endeared him to his subjects; and the bravery, constancy, courage and
ability which he manifested under his misfortunes are the theme of poems and ballads which it is not improbable will last as
long as the Persian language itself. He was manly, amiable, affable under prosperity and, under calamities as great and as
severe as human nature can suffer, he was dignified and cool and determined. That so noble a being, that a prince the hope
and pride of his country, should have been betrayed by a wretch282 in whom he placed, or rather misplaced, his confidence —
that his end should have been marked by indignities exercised on his person at which human nature shudders — that his ~
little son should have suffered loss of virility — that his daughters should have been forced into marriage with the scum of
the earth — that the princess his wife should have been dishonoured — are dispensations of Providence, which, though we
must not arraign, we may permit ourselves to wonder at.”
It is fortunate that we possess such disinterested appreciations of poor Luṭf-‘Alí Khán, the last chivalrous figure amongst
the kings of Persia, for such of his compatriots as described his career necessarily wrote after the triumph of his implacable
rival and deadly foe Áqá Muḥammad Khán, and therefore, whatever their true sentiments may have been,

[page 144]

dared not venture to praise the fallen prince, lest they should incur the displeasure of the cruel Qájár. Short-lived as the Zand
dynasty was, it began and ended nobly, for its first representative was one of the best and its last one of the bravest of all the
long line of Persian monarchs.

280 Ta’ríkh-i-Zandiyya, pp. 24-25.
281 The Dynasty of the Kajars, etc. (London, 1833), pp/- cxx-cxxi. Sir H. J. Brydges “visited Shíráz for the first time in 1786.”
282 To wit, the notorious Ḥájji Ibráhím — “the scoundrel,” as Sir H. J. Brydges calls him (Account of … H.M.’s Mission, etc. vol. i. pp. 95-
96), “whose mad ambition and black heart brought ruin on his confiding King, and misery the most severe on his fellow-citizens.”

THE REIGNING QÁJÁR DYNASTY (A.D. 1796 ONWARDS).

The full and detailed accounts of the reigning Qájár dynasty already available to the English reader render any attempt to
summarize their history in this place quite unnecessary283. Áqá Muḥammad Khan was not actually crowned until A.D. 1796,
and was assassinated in the following year, so that he wore the crown of Persia for not more than fifteen months284, but his
reign practically began on the death of Karím Khán in A.D. 1779, though “he used to observe that he had no title even to the
name of king till he was obeyed through the whole of the ancient limits of the Empire of Persia285,” so that it was only after
he had finally subdued Georgia that he consented to assume the title of Sháh. His appearance and character are admirably
summarized by Sir John Malcolm in the following words286:

[page 145]

“Áqá Muḥammad Khán was murdered in the sixty-third year of his age. He had been ruler of a great part of Persia for
upwards of twenty years, but had only for a short period enjoyed the undisputed sovereignty of that country. The person of
that monarch was so slender that at a distance he appeared like a youth of fourteen or fifteen. His beardless and shrivelled
face resembled that of an aged and wrinkled woman; and the expression of his countenance, at no times pleasant, was
horrible when clouded, as it very often was, with indignation. He was sensible of this, and could not bear that anyone should
look at him. This prince had suffered, in the early part of his life, the most cruel adversity; and his future conduct seems to
have taken its strongest bias from the keen recollection of his misery and his wrongs. The first passion of his mind was the
love of power; the second, avarice; and the third, revenge. In all these he indulged to excess, and they administered to each
other: but the two latter, strong as they were, gave way to the first whenever they came in collision. His knowledge of the
character and feelings of others was wonderful; and it is to this knowledge, and his talent of concealing from all the secret
purposes of his soul, that we must refer his extraordinary success in subduing his enemies. Against these he never employed
force till art had failed; and, even in war, his policy effected more than his sword. His ablest and most confidential
minister287, when asked if Áqá Muḥammad Khán was personally brave, replied, ‘No doubt; but still I can hardly recollect an
occasion when he had an opportunity of displaying courage. The monarch’s head,’ he emphatically added, ‘never left work
for his hand.’”

Áqá Muḥammad Khán was succeeded by his nephew the uxorious and philoprogenitive288 Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh. He was

[page 146]

avaricious and vain, being inordinately proud of his handsome face and long beard, but not by nature cruel (at any rate
compared to his late uncle), and it is related that, though obliged by custom to witness the execution of malefactors, he would
always avert his face so as not to behold the unhappy wretch’s death-agony. He was something of a poet, and composed
numerous odes under the pen-name of Kháqán. Politically the chief features of his reign were the Anglo-French rivalry
typified by the missions of Malcolm and Harford Jones Brydges on the one hand, and Jaubert and General Gardanne on the
other (A.D. 1800-1808); the growing menace of Russia, resulting in the successive disastrous treaties of Gulistán (A.D. 1813)
and Turkmán-cháy (A.D. 1826); and the war with Turkey in A.D. 1821, concluded in 1823 by the Treaty of Erzeroum. Other
notable events of this reign were the disgrace and death of the traitor Ḥájji Ibráhím and the almost complete extirpation of his
family about A.D. 1800289; the massacre of Grebaiodoff and the Russian Mission at Ṭihrán on February 11, 1829290; and the
premature death, at the age of forty-six, of the Sháh’s favourite son ‘Abbás Mírzá, the Crown Prince, “the noblest of the

283 Sir Harford Jones Brydges’ Dynasty of the Kajars translated from the Original Persian Manuscript (London, 1833) opens with a
valuable Introduction (Preliminary matter) filling pp. xiii-cxci. The text of the original, entitled Ma’áthir-i-Sulṭániyya, was printed at
Tabríz in Rajab, 1241 (March, 1826) and comes down to that year, but-Brydges’ translation ends with the year 1226/1811-12, and, in the
latter part especially, differs very greatly from the printed text. Sir John Malcolm’s History ends with the year 1230/1814; R. G. Watson’s
excellent monograph with A.D. 1857-8. The latest History of Persia, by Sir Percy Molesworth Sykes (2nd edition, London, 1921), is
continued down to the actual year of publication.
284 Like Nádir, he was crowned by acclamation in the Plain of Múqán in the spring of 1796, and met his death on June 17, 1797.
285 Malcolm’s History, ii, p. 287.
286 Ibid., pp. 300-302.
287 The infamous traitor Ḥájji Ibráhím, who personally communicated to Sir John Malcolm the opinion here recorded.
288 According to the Násikhu’t-Tawáríkh, the issue of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh during the 47 years of his mature lifetime amounted to two thousand
children and grandchildren, and would, adds the historian, during the twenty-one years intervening between his death and the date of
writing, probably amount to about ten thousand souls. He enumerates 57 sons and 46 daughters who survived him, 296 grandsons and
292 granddaughters, and 158 wives who had borne children to him. R.G. Watson (History of Persia, p. 269) puts the number of his
children at 159. In any case the number was so large as to justify the well-known Persian saying Shutur u shupush u shahzáda hama já
paydá’st (“Camels, lice and princes are to be found everywhere”).
289 See R. G. Watson’s History of Persia, pp. 128-129.
290 Ibid, pp. 247-256.

Kajar race,” as Watson calls him291, in A.D. 1833. His heart-broken father only survived him about a year, and died at the age
of sixty-eight on October 23, 1834, leaving fifty-seven sons and forty-six daughters to mourn his loss.
Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh was succeeded by his grandson Muḥammad, the son of ‘Abbás Mírzá, who, ere he was crowned on
January 31, 1835, was confronted with two rival claimants to the throne, his uncle the Ẓillu’s-Sulṭán and his brother the
Farmán-farmá. These,

[page 147]

however, were overcome without much difficulty by Persian troops commanded by Sir Henry Lindsay Bethune, and though
the new Sháh had every reason to be grateful to England and Russia for assuring his succession, the fact that these two
powerful neighbours had for the first time intervened in this fashion was an ominous portent and a dangerous precedent in the
history of Persia. The same year witnessed the fall and execution (on June 26, 1835) of the celebrated Qá’im-maqám Mírzá
Abu’l-Qásim292, hitherto the all-powerful minister of the King, still regarded by his countrymen as one of the finest prose
stylists of modern times. He was succeeded as Prime Minister by the notorious Ḥájji Mírzá Ághásí, concerning whom many
ridiculous anecdotes are still current in Persia293. Of the protracted but fruitless siege of Herát by the Persians in 1838 and the
manifestations of Anglo-Russian rivalry for which it afforded occasion it is unnecessary to speak; nor of the withdrawal of
Sir J. McNeill, the British Minister (A.D. 1838-1841), from the Persian Court; nor of the Turco-Persian boundary disputes of
1842 and the Turkish massacre of Persians at Karbalá in the early part of 1843. From our point of view none of these events,
fully discussed by R. G. Watson and other historians of Persia, are equal in interest to the Isma‘ílí revolt of 1840 or
thereabouts, and the rise of the Bábí religion in 1844.
Of the origin and doctrines of the Isma‘ílí heresy or “Sect of the Seven” (Sab’iyya), some account will be found in the

[page 148]

first volume294 of this work, while their destruction by Húlágú Khán the Mongol in the middle of the thirteenth century of our
era is briefly described in the second295. But, though their power in Persia was shattered, they still continued to exist, and,
from time to time, to reappear on the pages of Persian history. In the volume of the Násikhu’t-Tawáríkh dealing with the
reigning Qájár dynasty several references to them occur. The first, under the year 1232/1817, refers to the death of the then
head of the sect Sháh Khalílu’lláh, the son of Sayyid Abu’l-Ḥasan Khán, at Yazd. Under the Zand dynasty Abu’l-Ḥasan had
been governor of Kirmán, whence on his dismissal he retired to the Maḥallát of Qum. There he received tribute from his
numerous followers in India and Central Asia, who, it is recorded, if unable to bring their offerings in person, used to throw
them into the sea, believing that they would thus be conveyed into the hands of their Imám; but, when possible, used to visit
him in his abode and deem it an honour to render him personal service, even of the most menial kind. His son, Sháh
Khalílu’lláh, transferred his abode to Yazd, but after residing there two years he was killed in the course of a quarrel which
had arisen between some of his followers and the Muslim citizens of Yazd, instigated by a certain Mullá Ḥusayn. The Sháh
punished the perpetrators of this outrage, gave one of his daughters in marriage to Áqá Khán, the son and successor of the
late Imám of the Isma‘ílís, and made him governor of Qum and the surrounding districts (Maḥallát).
We next hear of this Áqá Khán in 1255/1839 or 1256/1840296, when, apparently in consequence of the arrogant

[page 149]

behaviour of Ḥájji ‘Abdu’l-Muḥammad-i-Maḥallátí, instigated by the minister Ḥájji Mírzá Áqásí, he rebelled against
Muḥammad Sháh and occupied the citadel of Bam, but was obliged to surrender to Fírúz Mírzá, then governor of Kirmán,
who pardoned him and sent him to Ṭihrán. Here he was well received by Ḥájji Mírzá Áqásí and was presently allowed to
return to his former government in the district of Qum. Having sent his family and possessions to Karbalá by way of
Baghdád, so as to leave himself free and unencumbered, he began to buy swift and strong horses and to recruit brave and
devoted soldiers, and when his preparations were completed he set out across the deserts and open country towards Kirmán,
pretending that he was proceeding to Mecca by way of Bandar-i-‘Abbás, and that the government of Kirmán had been
conferred upon him. Prince Bahman Mírzá Baha’u’d-Dawla, being apprised of his intentions, pursued and overtook him as
he was making for Shahr-i-Bábak and Sírján, and a skirmish took place between the two parties in which eight of the Prince’s
soldiers and sixteen of the Áqá Khán’s men were killed. After a second and fiercer battle the Áqá Khán was defeated and fled

291 Ibid., p. 269.
292 His father, Mírzá ‘Ísá of Faráhán, bore the same title. Notices of both occur in vol. ii of the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, pp. 87 and 425. Some
account of his literary achievements will be given when we come to consider the prose-writers of the Qájár period in the penultimate
chapter of Part iii of this volume.
293 See Gobineau’s Les Religions et les Philosophies dans l’Asie Centrale (2nd ed., Paris, 1866), pp. 160-166; and my Year amongst the
Persians, pp. 116-117. A sketch of his character is also given by R. G. Watson, History of Persia, pp. 288-289.
294 Lit. Hist. of Persia, i, pp. 391-4 15, etc.
295 Ibid., ii, pp. 190-211; 453-460.
296 R. G. Watson in his History of Persia gives a fairly full account of the insurrection (pp. 331-334).

to Lár, whence he ultimately escaped to India, where his descendant, the present Áqá Khán297, lives a wealthy and spacious
life at Bombay when not engaged in his frequent and extensive travels.

The rise of the Bábí sect or religion, which began in the later years of Muḥammad Sháh’s reign, was an event of the most
far-reaching significance and importance, and forms

[page 150]

the subject of an extensive literature298, not only in Persian and Arabic, but in English, French, German, Russian and other
European languages. Since it would be impossible to give an adequate account of its eventful history and extensive
developments in this volume, and since ample materials for its study are already available even in English (indeed, thanks to
the success attained by its missionaries in America, especially in English), no attempt at recapitulation will be made here.
Sayyid ‘Alí Muḥammad the Báb has himself (in the Persian Bayán) fixed the date of his “Manifestation” (Ẓuhúr) as May 23,
1844 (5 Jumáda i, 1260), just a thousand years after the disappearance or “Occultation” (Ghaybat) of the Twelfth Imám, or
Imám Mahdí, to whom he claimed to be the “Gate” (Báb). Neither the idea nor the expression was new: the Imám Mahdí had
four successive “Gates” (Abwáb) by means of whom, during the “Lesser Occultation” (Ghaybat-i-Ṣughra), he maintained
communication with his followers; and the “Perfect Shí‘a “(Shí‘a-i-Kámil) of the Shaykhí School, in which the Báb pursued
his theological studies, connoted much the same idea of an Intermediary (Wásiṭa), or Channel of Grace, between the
Concealed Imám and his faithful people. Later the Báb “went higher” (bálátar raft), to use the expression of his followers,
and claimed to be first the “Supreme Point” (Nuqṭa-i-A’lá), or “Point of Explanation” (Nuqṭa-i-Bayán), then the Qá’im (“He
who is to arise” of the House of the Prophet), then the Inaugurator of a new Dispensation, and lastly an actual Divine
Manifestation or Incarnation. Some of his followers went even further, calling themselves Gods and him a

[page 151]

“Creator of Gods” (Khudá-áfarín) while one of them went so far as to write of Bahá’u’lláh299:



“Men say Thou art God, and I am moved to anger:
Raise the veil, and submit no longer to the shame of Godhead!”

Although the Bábí movement led to much bloodshed, this took place almost entirely after the death of Muḥammad Sháh,
which happened on September 5, 1848, though already the Báb was a prisoner in the fortress of Mákú in the extreme N.W. of
Persia, while in Khurásán, Mázandarán and elsewhere armed bands of his followers roamed the country proclaiming the
Advent of the expected Mahdí and the inauguration of the Reign of the Saints, and threatening those sanguinary encounters
between themselves and their opponents which were at once precipitated by the King’s death and the ensuing dislocation and
confusion.

Dark indeed were the horizons at the beginning of the new reign. The Walí-‘ahd, or Crown Prince, Náṣiru’d-Dín, was
absent at Tabríz, the seat of his government, at the time of his father’s, death, and until he could reach Ṭihrán his mother, the
Mahd-i-‘Ulyá, assumed control of affairs. Ḥájji Mírzá Áqásí, whose unpopularity was extreme, not only ceased to act as
Prime Minister, but had to flee for his life, and took refuge in the Shrine of Sháh ‘Abdu’l-‘Aẓím300. Disturbances broke out in
the capital itself, and more serious revolts in Burújird, Kirmánsháh, Kurdistán, Shíráz, Kirmán, Yazd and Khurásán. The
young Sháh, then only seventeen years of age301, finally

[page 152]

reached the capital on October 20, 1848, was crowned the same night, and immediately appointed as his Prime Minister
Mírzá Taqí Khán, better known as the Amir-i-Niẓám, who, notwithstanding his lowly origin (his father was originally cook to

297 Sulṭán Muḥammad Sháh, G.C.I.E., etc., born in 1875. See Who’s Who, s.v. “Aga Khan,” and the conclusion of Stanislas Guyard’s
entertaining article Un Grand Maitre des Assassins au temps de Saladin in the Journal Asiatique for 1877.
298 For a bibliography of the literature to 1889 see my Traveller’s Narrative written to illustrate the Episode of the Báb (Cambridge, 1890,
vol. ii, PP. 173-211; and for the subsequent literature, my Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion (Cambridge, 1918), pp. 175-243.
299 Cited in the Hasht Bihisht, f. 244a of my MS. The verse is ascribed to Nabíl of Zarand, who killed himself at ‘Akká on Bahá’u’lláh’s
death on May 28, 1892.
300 R. G. Watson’s History of Persia, pp. 357-8.
301 He was born on July 17, 1831.

the Qá’im-maqám)302, was one of the greatest men and most honest, capable and intelligent ministers produced by Persia in
modern times. “The race of modern Persians,” exclaims Watson303 enthusiastically, “cannot be said to be altogether effete,
since so recently it has been able to produce a man such as was the Amír-i-Niẓám”; and the Hon. Robert Curzon, in his
Armenia and Erzeroum, has described him as “beyond all comparison the most interesting personage amongst the
commissioners of Turkey, Persia, Russia and Great Britain who were then assembled at Erzeroum.” In the brief period of
three years during which he held the high office of Prime Minister he did much for Persia, but the bright promise of his career
was too soon darkened by the envy and malice of his rivals. The tragic circumstances of his violent and cruel death in his
exile at the beautiful palace of Fín near Káshán are too well known to need repetition304, but the admirable fidelity of his
wife, the Sháh’s only sister, can-not be passed over in silence. “No princess educated in a Christian court, says Watson305,
“and accustomed to the contemplation of the brightest example of conjugal virtues that the history of the world has recorded
could have shown more tenderness and devotion than did the sister of the Sháh of Persia towards her unfortunate husband.”
Her untiring vigilance was, however, finally tricked and out-

[page 153]

witted by the infamous Ḥájji ‘Alí Khán Ḥájibu’d-Dawla, who owed so much to the minister whose life he succeeded in
bringing to an end on January 9, 1852.
The Bábís, however, had no cause to love Mírzá Taqí Khán, whose death they had already striven to compass, and whose
ultimate fate was regarded by them as a signal instance of Divine retribution, since, apart from other measures which he had
taken against them, he was responsible for the execution of the Báb himself at Tabríz on July 9, 1850. The Báb indeed,
helpless prisoner that he was, had kindled a flame which proved inextinguishable, and which especially illumines with a lurid
glow the first four years of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh’s reign. The story of the almost incredible martial achievements of the Bábís
at Shaykh Ṭabarsí in Mázandarán, at Zanján, Yazd, Nayríz and elsewhere during the years 1849-1850 will never be more
graphically told than by the Comte de Gobineau, who in his incomparable book Les Religions et les Philosophies dans l’Asie
Centrale combines wit, sympathy and insight in an extraordinary degree. I personally owe more to this book than to any other
book about Persia, since to it, not less than to an equally fortunate and fortuitous meeting in Iṣfahán, I am indebted for that
unravelling of Bábí doctrine and history which first won for me a reputation in Oriental scholarship. Gobineau was for some
time a “prophet without honour in his own country,” but, while France long neglected him, Germany produced a “Gobineau-
Vereiningung306” and several important works307 on his life and writings. The militant

[page 154]

phase of Bábíism. culminated in the attempted assassination of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh by three members of the sect on August
15, 1852, and the frightful persecution which followed, wherein twenty-eight more or less prominent Bábís, including the
beautiful and talented poetess Qurratu’l-‘Ayn, suffered death with horrible tortures308. Most of the leading Bábís who
survived emigrated or were exiled to Baghdád, and thenceforth, though the sect continued to increase in Persia, the centre of
its activity, whether at Baghdád, Adrianople, Cyprus or Acre, lay beyond the frontiers of Persia.
It is unnecessary here to discuss the causes and course of the short Anglo-Persian War of 1856-7, brought about by the
seizure of Herát by the Persians. It began with the occupation by the British of the island of Khárak in the Persian Gulf on
December 4, 1856, and was officially terminated by the Treaty of Peace signed at Paris on March 4, 1857, by Lord Cowley
and Farrukh Khán, though, owing to the slowness of communications at that time, hostilities actually continued for another
month. They did not end a moment too soon for Great Britain, for almost before the ratifications were exchanged the Indian
Mutiny broke out. The need then experienced for better communications between England and India led in 1864 to the
introduction into Persia of the telegraph, to which further extension was given in 1870 and 1872, and this, as pointed out by
Sir Percy Molesworth Sykes (whose History of Persia309 is almost the only book which gives a continuous

[page 155]


302 Some account of the two celebrated men, father and son, who bore this title will be found in the account of modern prose-writers of note
in Part iii of this volume. See p. 147 supra, ad calc.
303 See Watson’s History, p. 264.
304 Ibid., pp. 398-406.
305 Ibid., p. 403.
306 Founded in 1894.
307 I possess two by Ludwig Schemann, Eine Biographie and Quellen und Untersuchungen (Strassburg, 1913 and 1914). The monthly
review Europe for October, 1923 (No. 7), has published a very important Numéro consacré au Comte de Gobineau, which contains (pp.
116-126) an excellent article by M. Vladimir Minorsky entitled Gobineau et la Perse, followed (pp. 127-141) by a list of his published
and unpublished works, a biography, and an account of Le mouvement Gobiniste en Allemagne et en France.
308 See my Travellers Narrative, vol. ii, pp. 326-334, and Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion, pp. 265-271.
309 I refer to the second and enlarged edition, published in 1921, in which (on p. 526 of vol. ii) March of that year is mentioned as the
current date at the time of writing.

and coherent narrative of events from 1857 to 1921), had far-reaching reactions310, and was one of the factors in the
modernization of Persia. Others were the extension of the Press (first introduced into Tabríz by ‘Abbás Mírzá about A.D.
1816) and consequent wider diffusion of literature; the slow growth of journalism since 1851311 down to its enormous
expansion during the Revolution of 1906-1911 and again after the Russian collapse; the foundation of the Dáru’l-Funún, or
Polytechnic College, at Ṭihrán in 1851, and the introduction of European science and instruction; and, in a lesser degree, the
Sháh’s three journeys to Europe in 1873, 1878 and 1889, though it is doubtful whether he or his attendants derived more
advantage from what they saw in the course of their peregrinations than Persian literature did from his accounts of his
experiences.
Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh was only a little over seventeen years of age when he was crowned on the 24th of Dhu’l-Qa‘da, 1264
(20 October, 1848), and would have entered upon the fiftieth year of his reign on the same date of the Muhammadan year
A.H. 1313, corresponding to May 5, 1896. Four days earlier, however, when all the preparations for the celebration of his
jubilee were completed, he was shot dead by Mírzá Riḍá of Kirmán, a disciple of that turbulent spirit Sayyid Jamálu’d-Dín
al-Afghán, in the Shrine of Sháh ‘Abdu’l-‘Aẓím a few miles south of Ṭihrán. Of the events which led up to this catastrophe
and their significance I have treated fully in my History of the Persian Revolution of 1905-1909, and will not attempt to
epitomize here matters which are fully discussed there, and which it would be a waste of space to

[page 156]

recapitulate. The seeds of the Revolution were sown, and even began to germinate, about the time of the Sháh’s third and last
visit to Europe, fruitful in ill-advised concessions, which (especially the Tobacco concession of 1890) were a potent factor in
stimulating the political discontents which found their first open expression in the Tobacco-riots of 1891 and culminated in
the Revolution of 1905. If we ignore the external relations of Persia with foreign Powers, especially England and Russia,
which form the principal topic of such political histories as that of Sir Percy Molesworth Sykes, we may say, broadly
speaking, that of the long reign of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh the first four years (A.D. 1848-52) were notable for the religious
fermentation caused by the Bábís, and the last six years Sháh’s reign. (A.D. 1890-6) for the political fermentation which
brought about the Revolution in the following reign; while the intervening period was, outwardly at any rate, one of
comparative peace and tranquillity. It was my good fortune to visit Persia in 1887-8 towards the end of this period, and, while
enjoying the remarkable security which then prevailed in the country, to see almost the last of what may fairly be called
mediaeval Persia. To this security I hardly did justice in the narrative of my travels312 which I wrote soon after my return, for
I hardly realized then how few and short were the periods, either before or after my visit, when a young foreigner, without
any official position or protection, could traverse the country from North-West to South-East and from North to South,
attended only by his Persian servant and his muleteers, not only without danger, but practically without the occurrence of a
single disagreeable incident. And if this

[page 157]

remarkable security, which compared favourably with that of many European countries, had originally been brought about by
frightful exemplary punishments of robbers and ill-doers, these were no longer in evidence, and during the whole of my time
in Persia I not only never witnessed an execution or a bastinado, but never heard of a specific case of either in any place
where I stayed, though the ghastly pillars of mortar with protruding human bones outside the gates of Shíráz still bore witness
to the stern rule of the Sháh’s uncle Farhád Mírzá, Mu‘tamadu’d-Dawla, whom I met only in the capacity of a courtly and
learned bibliophile. Yet withal the atmosphere was, as I have said, mediaeval: politics and progress were hardly mentioned,
and the talk turned mostly on mysticism, metaphysics and religion; the most burning political questions were those connected
with the successors of the Prophet Muḥammad in the seventh century of our era; only a languid interest in external affairs
was aroused by the occasional appearance of the official journals Írán and Iṭṭilá‘, or the more exciting Akhtar published in
Constantinople; while at Kirmán one post a week maintained communication with the outer world. How remote does all this
seem from the turmoil of 1891, the raging storms of 1905-11, the deadly paralysis of the Russian terror which began on
Christmas Day in the year last mentioned, and then the Great War, when Persia became the cockpit of three foreign armies
and the field of endless intrigues. The downfall of Russian Imperialism freed her from the nightmare of a century, and
seemed to her to avenge the desecration of the holy shrine of Mashhad in April, 1912, while the collapse of the Anglo-
Persian Agreement and consequent withdrawal of British troops and advisers has left her for the time being to her own
devices, to make or mar her future as she can and will.

[page 158]

Since Náṣiru’d-Dín fell a victim to the assassin’s pistol the throne of Persia has been occupied by his son Muẓaffaru’d-
Dín (1896-1907), who granted the Constitution; his grandson Muḥammad ‘Alí, who endeavoured to destroy it, who was
deposed by the victorious Nationalists on July 16, 1909, and who is still living in retirement in the neighbourhood of

310 Op. cit., ii, p. 369.
311 See p. 10 of my Press and Poetry in Modern Persia, where the whole subject is fully discussed.
312 A Year Amongst the Persians (London: A. & C. Black, 1893). This book has long been out of print and is now very scarce.

Constantinople; and his great-grandson Sulṭán Aḥmad Sháh the reigning monarch. It would be premature to discuss the reign
and character of the last, while the very dissimilar characters of his father and grandfather I have endeavoured to depict in my
History of the Persian Revolution. But since the death of Náṣiru’d-Dín-Din Sháh twenty-seven years ago it may truly be said
that the centre of interest has shifted from the king to the people of Persia, nor, so far as we can foresee the future, is it likely
that we shall see another Isma‘íl, another Nádir, or (which God forbid!) another Áqá Muḥammad Khán.



PART II.

PERSIAN VERSE
DURING THE LAST
FOUR CENTURIES



CHAPTER V.

SOME GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE LATER
AND ESPECIALLY THE RELIGIOUS POETRY OF
THE PERSIANS.

Four hundred years ago the Persian language (or at any rate the written language, for no doubt fresh colloquialisms and
slang may have arisen during this period) was to all intents and purposes the same as it is to-day, while such new literary
forms as exist go no further back, as a rule, than the middle of the nineteenth century, that is to say than the accession of
Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh, whose reign (A.D. 1848-1896) might not inappropriately be called the Persian Victorian313 Era. In the
three previous volumes of this book each historical chapter has been immediately followed by a chapter dealing with the
literature of that period; but in this volume, for the reason just given, it appeared unnecessary to break the sequence of events
in this way, and to be preferable to devote the first part of the volume to a brief historical sketch of the whole period, and the
second and third parts to a consideration of the literature in verse and prose, arranged according to categories.
How to arrange these categories is a problem which has cost me a good deal of thought. Nearly all those who have
written on Persian literature have paid an-amount of attention which I regard as excessive and disproportionate to poetry and
belles-lettres, and have almost entirely ignored the plainer but more positive fields of history, biography, theology,
philosophy and the ancient sciences. If we understand literature in the

[page 162]

narrower sense as denoting those writings only, whether poetry or prose, which have artistic form, there is, no doubt, some
justification for this view; but not if we take it in the wider sense of the manifestation in writing of a nation’s mind and
intellectual activities. Still, in deference to the prevalent view, we may begin this general survey of the recent literature of
Persia with some consideration of its poetry.
Here we have to distinguish some half-dozen categories of verse, namely (1) the classical poetry; (2) occasional or
topical verse; (3) religious and devotional verse, from the formal marthiyas, or threnodies, of great poets like Muḥtasham of
Káshán to the simple popular poems on the sufferings of the Imáms recited at the Ta‘ziyas, or mournings, of the month of
Muḥarram; (4) the scanty but sometimes very spirited verses composed by the Bábís since about 1850, which should be
regarded as a special subdivision of the class last mentioned; (5) the ballads or taṣnífs sung by professional minstrels, of
which it is hard to trace the origin or antiquity; (6) the quite modern political verse which has arisen since the Revolution of
1906, and which I have already discussed in some detail in another work314. In this chapter I shall deal chiefly with the
religious verse, leaving the consideration of the secular poetry to the two succeeding chapters.


(1) The Classical Poetry.

Alike in form and matter the classical poetry of Persia has been stereotyped for at least five or six centuries, so that,
except for such references to events or persons as may indicate the date of composition, it is hardly possible, after reading a
qaṣída (elegy), ghazal (ode), or rubá’í (quatrain), to guess whether it was composed by a contemporary of Jámí (d. A.H.
1492)

[page 163]

313 Náṣiru’d-Dín, indeed, approximately means “Victor” or “Defender of the Faith.”
314 The Press and Poetry of Modern Persia (Cambridge, 1914).

or by some quite recent poet, such as Qá’ání. Of the extremely conventional character of this poetry I have spoken in a
previous volume315, and of Ibn Khaldún’s doctrine “that the Art of composing in verse or prose is concerned only with words,
not with ideas.” Hence, even in the most recent poetry of this type, we very seldom find any allusion to such modern
inventions as tea-drinking, tobacco-smoking, railways, telegraphs or newspapers316; indeed several of the greatest modern
poets, such as Qá’ání, Dáwarí and the like, have chiefly shown their originality by reviving certain forms of verse like the
musammaṭ317 which had fallen into disuse since the eleventh or twelfth century.
Perhaps the statement with which the above paragraph opens is too sweeping and requires some qualification, for in
some of the later Persian poets Indian and Turkish critics do profess to discover a certain originality (táza-gú’í) marking an
epoch in the development of the art, and the rise of a new school. The Persians themselves are not addicted to literary
criticism; perhaps because, just as people only discuss their health when they are beginning to lose it, so those only indulge in
meticulous literary criticism who are no longer able, or have never been able, to produce good literature. According to
Gibb318, Jámí and Mír ‘Alí Shír Nawá’í, ‘Urfí of Shíráz (d. 999/1590-1) and the Indian Fayḍí (Feyẓí, d. 1004/1595-6), and
lastly Ṣá’ib of Iṣfahán (d. 1080/1669-70) were successively the chief foreign influences on the development of Ottoman
Turkish poetry, and a great deal has been written about them by the Turkish critics. The best and fullest

[page 164]

critical estimate of the leading Persian poets from the earliest times down to the latter part of the seventeenth century is,
however, so far as I can judge, a work written (most unfortunately) in the Urdú or Hindustání language, the Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam
(“Poetry of the Persians”) of that eminent scholar Shiblí Nu‘mání. The third volume of this work, composed in 1324-5/1906-
7, deals with seven Persian poets of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries of our era, namely Fighání (d. 925/1519), Fayḍí
(d. 1004/1595-6), ‘Urfí (d. 999/1590-1), Naẓírí (d. 1021/1612-3), Ṭálib-i-Ámulí (d. 1036/1626-7), Ṣá’ib (d. 1080/1669-1670),
and Abú’ Ṭálib Kalím (d. 1061/1651). All these were Persians, attracted to India by the liberal patronage of the Moghul
Court, except Fayḍí whom Shiblí regards as the only Indian poet except Amír Khusraw who could produce Persian verse
which might pass for that of a born Persian. ‘Urfí and Ṣá’ib were the most notable of these seven, but even they enjoy a
greater repute in India and Turkey than in their own country319. The explanation of this fact offered by some Persians of my
acquaintance is that they are easily understood and therefore popular with foreigners, who often find the more subtle poetry
admired in Persia beyond their powers of comprehension. I must confess with shame that in this case my taste agrees with the
foreigners, and that I find Ṣá’ib especially attractive, both on account of his simplicity of style and his skill in the figures
entitled ḥusn-i-ta‘líl or “poetical aetiology,” and irsálu’l-mathal or “proverbial commission320.” Nearly forty years ago (in
1885) I read through the Persian portion of that volume of the great trilingual anthology entitled Kharábát321 which deals with
the lyrical

[page 165]

verse of the Arabs, Turks and Persians, both odes and isolated verses, and copied into a note-book which now lies before me
those which pleased me most, irrespective of authorship; and, though many of the 443 fragments and isolated verses which I
selected are anonymous, more than one-tenth of the total (45) are by Ṣá’ib.
India, at all events, thanks to the generous patronage of Humáyún, Akbar, and their successors down to that gloomy
zealot Awrangzíb, and of their great nobles, such as Bayram Khán-Khánán and his son ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím, who succeeded to the
title after his father’s assassination about A.D. 1561, continued during the greater part of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries to attract a great number of the most talented Persian poets, who found there an appreciation which was withheld
from them in their own country. Badá’úní322 enumerates about one hundred and seventy, most of whom were of Persian
descent though some of them were born in India. Shiblí323 gives a list of fifty-one who came to India from Persia in Akbar’s
time and were received at court, and a long list is also given by Sprenger324. Shiblí quotes numerous verses showing how
widely diffused amongst Persian poets was the desire to try their fortune in India325.
Thus Ṣá’ib says:


315 Lit. Hist. of Persia, ii, pp. 83-9.
316 Cf. Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. iv, p. 4. Such allusions will, however, be found in the poem by Na‘ím quoted in the latter
part of this chapter, though in general it follows the orthodox qaṣída form.
317 Lit. Hist. of Persia, ii, pp. 41-2.
318 History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. iii, pp. 247-48.
319 Riḍá-qulí Khán explicitly says of both of them that their style is not approved by modern Persians.
320 See Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. i, pp. 113-14.
321 Compiled by Ẓiyá (Ḍiyá) Pasha, and published in three volumes at Constantinople in 1291-2/1874-5.
322 Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh (Calcutta, 1869), vol. iii, pp. 170-390.
323 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 5.
324 Catalogue of the Library of the King of Oude, vol. i, pp. 55-65.
325 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 10.

“There is no head wherein desire for thee danceth not,
Even as the determination to visit India is in every heart.”

[page 166]

And Abú Ṭálib Kalím says:



“I am the captive of India, and I regret this misplaced journey
Whither can the feather-flutterings of the dying bird326 convey it ?
Kalím goes lamenting to Persia [dragged thither] by the eagerness of his fellow-travellers,
Like the camel-bell which traverses the stage on the feet of others.
Through longing for India I turn my regretful eyes backwards in such fashion
That, even if I set my face to the road, I do not see what confronts me.”

So also ‘Alí-qulí Salím says:



“There exist not in Persia the means of acquiring perfection:
Henna does not develop its colour until it comes to India.”

The Persian dervish-poet Rasmí, commemorating the Khán-Khánán’s liberal patronage of poets, says327:



[page 167]


326 When a Muslim kills a bird for food by cutting its throat, he must pronounce the formula Bismi’lláh (“In the Name of God”) over it.
Such a bird, in its (lying struggles on the ground, is called Murgh-i-Bismil, or Nim-bismil.
327 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 13.

“Through auspicious praise of thee the fame of the perfection of that
subtle singer of Shíráz328 reached from the East to Rúm329.
In praising thee he became conversant with a new style, like the fair
face which gains adornment from the tire-woman.
By the grace (fayḍ) of thy name Fayḍí, like [his predecessor]
Khusraw330, annexed the Seven Climes from end to end with the Indian sword.
By gathering crumbs from thy table Naẓírí the poet hath attained a
rank such that other poets
Compose such elegies in his praise that blood drips in envy from the
heart of the singer.
Men of discernment carry as a gift to Khurásán, like the collyrium
of Iṣfahán, copies of Shakíbí’s verses.
By praising thee Ḥayátí found fresh life (ḥayát): yea, the substance
must needs strengthen the nature of the accident.

[page 168]

How can I tell the tale of Naw‘í and Kufwí, since by their praise of
thee they will live until the Resurrection Dawn?
Such measure of thy favour accrued to Naw‘í as Amír Mu‘izzí
received from the favour of Sanjar.”

These poets of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries produced what the late Professor Ethé has happily termed the
“Indian summer” of Persian poetry, and they had of course a host of Indian imitators and successors so long as Persian
continued to be the polite language of India. These last, who were at best skilful manipulators of a foreign idiom, I do not
propose to notice; and even of the genuine Persian poets, whether sojourners in India or residents in their own country, only a
limited number of the most eminent can be discussed in these pages. The eighteenth century of our era, especially the
troubled period intervening between the fall of the Ṣafawí and the rise of the Qájár dynasties (A.D. 1722-1795), was the
poorest in literary achievement; after that there is a notable revival, and several poets of the nineteenth century, Qá’ání,
Yaghmá, Furúghí and Wiṣál and his family, can challenge comparison with any save the very greatest of their predecessors.


(2) Occasional or Topical Verse.


328 I.e. ‘Urfí, as Shiblí notes.
329 I.e. Turkey. See above, p. 80, n. 5.
330 Cf. p. 164 supra.

Some of the most interesting pieces of poetry are those composed, not necessarily by professional poets, for some special
purpose or some particular occasion. These are not so often to be found in the regular díwáns of verse as in the pages of
contemporary histories. The following from the unpublished Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh may serve as specimens.
In the year 961/1553-4 died three Indian kings, Maḥmúd III of Gujerát, Islám Sháh son of Shír Sháh the Afghán of Dihlí,
and Niẓámu’l-Mulk of the Deccan. This coincidence, with the date, is commemorated in the following verses:

[page 169]



“In one year the [fatal] conjunction came to three princes by whose
justice India was the Abode of Security.
One was Maḥmúd331, the monarch of Gujerát, who was youthful as
his own fortune.
The second was Islám Sháh332, King of Dihlí, who was in India the
lord of a fortunate conjunction.
The third was the Niẓámu’l-Mulk333-i-Baḥrí, who ruled in royal state
in the kingdom of the Deccan.
Why dost thou ask of me the date of the death of these three Kings?
It was ‘the decline of the kings’ (
, = 961).”

The following verses by Mawláná Qásim commemorate the death of Humáyún in the succeeding year (962/1554-5):



“Humáyún, king of the realm of the Ideal, none can recall a monarch like him:

[page 170]

Suddenly he fell from the roof of his palace; precious life departed
from him on the winds.
Qásim334 thus ciphered the date of his death: ‘King Humáyún fell
from the roof’.”

The next piece, denouncing the people of Qazwín, is by the poet Ḥayratí, who died from a fall at Káshán in 961/1553-4:


331 See S. Lane-Poole’s Mohammadan Dynasties, p. 313.
332 Ibid., pp. 300 and 303.
333 Ibid., p. 320. I doubt if Baḥrí is a correct reading: it should perhaps be Burhán, the proper name of the second of the Niẓám Sháhs of
Aḥmadnagar, who reigned from 914 to 961 A.H. (1508-1553 A.D.).
334 My text has gáhí, which I have ventured to emend to Qásim. For the particulars of Humáyún’s death, see Erskine’s History of India
under the first two sovereigns of the House of Taimúr, Baber and Humáyún (London, 1854), vol. ii, pp. 527-8. The chronogram is
unusually natural, simple and appropriate.

[page 171]



“The time has come when the pivotless sphere, like the earth, should
rest under thy shadow, O Shadow of God!
O King! It is a period of nine months that this helpless one hath
remained in Qazwín ruined, weary, wounded and wretched.
I found the practices of the Sunnís in humble and noble alike: I saw
the signs of schism in small and great:
Poor and rich with washed feet at the Tombs: hands clasped in the
mosques to right and to left.
In the time of a King like thee to clasp the hands in prayer is an
underhand action, O King of lofty lineage!
The judge of this Kingdom is of the race of Khálid ibnu’l-Walíd;
the Muftí of this city is the son of the worthless Sa’íd.
By the sword of the victorious King the brother, father, friend,
kinsman and family of both have been slain together.
Say thyself, O wise King, whether now this group are the propa-
gandists of the enemy, or the clients of the victorious King.
If there cannot be a public massacre one might [at least contrive]
a private massacre for the special satisfaction of the Divine Majesty.
These are not subjects whose slaughter would cause a reduction of
the revenue or would check the spending power of the country;
Nay, rather each one of them consumes a quantity of the wealth of
the exchequer, for they are all fief-holders and pensioners.”

The worst of these “occasional verses” is that we seldom know enough of the circumstances under which they were
composed to enable us fully to understand all the allusions contained in them. What, for example, had the people of Qazwín
done to the author of the above verses to arouse in him such bitter anger? Who were the Qáḍí and the Muftí whom he
particularly denounces? How did their relatives come to be slain by the King, and of what enemy were they the
propagandists? The fact that we do not know at

[page 172]

what date the verses were composed, and whether in the reign of Sháh Ṭahmásp or of his father and predecessor Sháh
Isma‘íl, makes it harder to discover the answers to these questions, but it is interesting to learn how prevalent were the Sunní
doctrines in Qazwín at the time when they were written. Of course in the case of the modern topical verses which abounded
in the newspapers of the Revolutionary Period (A.D. 1906-1911 especially) the allusions can be much more easily
understood.


(3) Religious and Devotional Verse.

Of the numerous poets of the Ṣafawí period who devoted their talents to the celebration of the virtues and sufferings of
the Imáms, Muḥtasham of Káshán (died 996/1588) is the most eminent. In his youth he wrote erotic verse, but in later life he
seems to have consecrated his genius almost entirely to the service of religion. Riḍá-qulí Khán in his Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (vol.
ii, pp. 36-8) gives specimens of both styles, of which we are here concerned only with the second. The author of the Ta’ríkh-
i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí335 in his account of the chief poets of Sháh Ṭahmásp’s reign states that though in earlier life that king
enjoyed and cultivated the society of poets, in his later years his increasing austerity and deference to the views of the
theologians led him to regard them with disfavour as latitudinarians (wasí‘u’l-mashrab), so that when Muḥtasham, hoping for
a suitable reward, sent him two eloquent panegyrics, one in his praise and the other in praise of the Princess Parí-Khán
Khánum, he received nothing, the Sháh remarking that poetry written in praise of kings and princes was sure to consist
largely of lies and exaggerations, according to the

[page 173]

well-known Arabic saying, “The best poetry is that which contains most falsehoods,” but that, since it was impossible to
exaggerate the virtues of the Prophet and the Imáms, the poet could safely exert his talents to the full, and in addition would
have the satisfaction of looking for a heavenly instead of an earthly reward. Thereupon Muḥtasham composed his celebrated
haft-band, or poem of seven-verse strophes, in praise of the Imáms, and this time was duly and amply rewarded, whereupon
many other poets followed his example, so that in a comparatively short time some fifty or sixty such haft-bands were
produced. This poem is cited in most of the anthologies which include Muḥtasham, but most fully in the Kharábát336 of Ḍiyá
(Ẓiyá) Pasha (vol. ii, pp. 197-200). In this fullest form it comprises twelve strophes each consisting of seven verses, and each
concluding with an additional verse in a different rhyme, thus comprising in all ninety-six verses. The language is
extraordinarily simple and direct, devoid of those rhetorical artifices and verbal conceits which many Europeans find so
irritating, and shows true pathos and religious feeling. I wish that space were available to quote the whole poem, the
prototype of so many others of a similar character, but I must content myself with citing three of the twelve strophes (the
fourth, fifth and sixth).




[page 174]


335 Ff. 138a-139b of my MS. marked H.13. Unfortunately this very important history has never been published.
336 This excellent anthology of Arabic, Persian and Turkish poetry was printed in three volumes in Constantinople in A.H. 1291-2 (A.D.
1874-5). See p. 164, n. 3 supra.

[page 175]



“When they summoned mankind to the table of sorrow, they first
issued the summons to the hierarchy of the Prophets.
When it came to the turn of the Saints, Heaven trembled at the blow
which they smote on the head of the Lion of God337.

337 I.e. ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib, the Prophet’s cousin and son-in-law and the first of the Twelve Imáms.

Then they kindled a fire from sparks of diamond-dust and cast it on
Ḥasan338 the Chosen one.
Then they tore up from Madína and pitched at Karbalá those
pavilions to which even the angels were denied entrance.

[page 176]

Many tall palm-trees from the grove of the ‘Family of the Cloak339’
did the people of Kúfa fell in that plain with the axe of malice.
Many a blow whereby the heart of Muṣṭafá [Muḥammad] was rent
did they inflict on the thirsty throat of Murtaḍá ‘Alí’s successor340,
While his women, with collars torn and hair unloosed, raised their
laments to the Sanctuary of the Divine Majesty,
And the Trusted Spirit [Gabriel] laid his head in shame on his knees,
and the eye of the sun was darkened at the sight.

When the blood of his thirsty throat fell on the ground, turmoil arose
from the earth to the summit of God’s high Throne.
The Temple of Faith came nigh to ruin through the many fractures
inflicted on the Pillars of Religion.
They cast to the ground his tall palm-tree341 even as the thorn-bush;
a deluge arose from the dust of the earth to heaven.
The breeze carried that dust to the Prophet’s Tomb: dust arose from
Madína to the seventh heaven.
When tidings of this reached Jesus dwelling in the heavenly sphere,
he forthwith plunged his garments in indigo342 in the vat of heaven.
Heaven was filled with murmuring when the turn to cry out passed
from the Prophets to the presence of the Trusted Spirit.
Mistaken imagination fancied that this dust343, had [even] reached
the skirts of the Creator’s glory,
For although the Essence of the All-glorious is exempt from vexation,
He dwells in the heart, and no heart remains unvexed.

I am afraid that when they record the punishment of his murderer,
they may forthwith strike the pen through the Book of Mercy.
I am afraid that the Intercessors on the Resurrection Day may be
ashamed, by reason of this sin, to speak of the sins of mankind.
When the People of the House shall lay hands on the People of
Tyranny, the hand of God’s reproach shall come forth from its sleeve.
Alas for the moment when the House of ‘Alí, with blood dripping
from their winding-sheets, shall raise their standards from the
dust like a flame of fire!

[page 177]

Alas for that time when the youths of that Holy House shall dash
together their crimson shrouds on the Resurrection Plain!
That company, whose ranks were broken by the strife of Karbalá,
at the Resurrection in serried ranks will break the ranks of the uprisen.
What hopes from the Lord of the Sanctuary344 can those worthless
ones entertain who wounded with their swords the quarry345 of the Sanctuary?
Then [finally] they raise on a spear-point that Head346 from whose

338 ‘Alí’s eldest son, the second Imám, said to have been poisoned at the instigation of Mu‘áwiya.
339 The Prophet, his daughter Fáṭima and her husband ‘Alí and their sons Ḥasan and Ḥusayn once sheltered under one cloak, whence these
five most holy beings are often collectively called by this title.
340 I.e. his younger son Ḥusayn, the third Imám and “Martyr of Karbalá.”
341 I.e. stature, as in the fifth verse.
342 The colour of mourning in Persia.
343 I.e. sorrow and vexation.
344 God or His Prophet.
345 No game or wild animal or bird may be slain within a certain radius of Mecca.

locks Gabriel washes the dust with the water of Salsabíl347.”

Whether or no this be accounted good poetry (and of course it loses much of its beauty in a bald prose translation
encumbered with notes on expressions familiar to every Persian though strange to a foreigner and a non-Muslim) it at least
reveals something of that deep emotion which the memory of the unforgettable tragedy of Karbalá never fails to arouse in the
breast of even the least devout and serious-minded Persian. It has, like the poetry of Náṣir-i-Khusraw, who lived nearly five
centuries before Muḥtasham, the great merit of sincerity, and consequently has a claim to be regarded as genuine poetry
which we seek in vain in the elaborately artificial and rhetorical compositions of many Persian poets who enjoy in their own
country a far higher reputation.
One other marthiya, or elegy on the death of the Imám Ḥusayn, I cannot refrain from quoting, both on account of the
originality of its form and the generally irreligious character of its author, the poet Qá’ání (died A.D. 1853), one of the
greatest and the least moral of the modern poets of Persia.

[page 178]

The text is taken from a lithographed collection of such poems published, without title or indication of place or date, in
Persia, containing 220 unnumbered pages, and comprising the work of six poets, namely Wiṣal, Wiqár, Muḥtasham, Qá’ání,
Ṣabáḥi and Bídil.



[page 179]


346 I.e. the head of the Imám Ḥusayn.
347 One of the rivers of Paradise.

[page 180]

“What rains down? Blood! Who? The Eye! How? Day and Night! Why?
From grief! What grief? The grief of the Monarch of Karbalá!
What was his name? Ḥusayn! Of whose race? ‘Alí’s!
Who was his mother? Fáṭima! Who was his grandsire? Muṣṭafá!
How was it with him? He fell a martyr! Where? In the Plain of Máriya!
When? On the tenth of Muḥarram! Secretly? No, in public!
Was he slain by night? No, by day! At what time? At noontide!
Was his head severed from the throat? No, from the nape of the neck!
Was he slain unthirsting? No! Did none give him to drink? They did!
Who? Shimr! From what source? From the source of Death!
Was he an innocent martyr? Yes! Had he committed any fault? No!
What was his work? Guidance! Who was his friend? God!
Who wrought this wrong? Yazíd! Who is this Yazíd?
One of the children of Hind! By whom? By bastard origin!348
Did he himself do this deed? No, he sent a letter!
To whom? To the false son of Marjána!
Was Ibn Ziyád the son of Marjána? Yes!
Did he not withstand the words of-Yazíd? No!
Did this wretch slay Ḥusayn with his own hand?
No, he despatched an army to Karbalá!
Who was the chief of the army? ‘Umar ibn Sa‘d!
Did he cut down Fáṭima’s dear folk? No, shameless Shimr!
Was not the dagger ashamed to cut his throat?
It was! Why then did it do so? Destiny would not excuse it!
Wherefore? In order that he might become an intercessor for mankind!

348 Yazíd was the son of Mu‘áwiya, the rival of ‘Alí and the founder of the Umayyad dynasty, who was the son of Abú Sufyán and Hind
“the liver-eater” (Ákilatu’l-akbád). The term “bastard origin” should refer to Ibn Ziyád, not to Yazíd. See the Kitábu’l-Fakhrí, ed.
Ahlwardt, pp. 133-5.

What is the condition of his intercession? Lamentation and weeping!
Were any of his sons also slain? Yes, two!
Who else? Nine brothers! Who else? Kinsmen!
Had he no other son? Yes, he had! Who was that?

[page 181]

‘The Worshipper’ (Sajjád)349! How fared he? Overwhelmed with grief and sorrow
Did he remain at his father’s Karbalá? No, he went to Syria!
In glory and honour? No, in abasement and distress!
Alone? No, with the women of the household I What were their names?
Zaynab, Sakína, Fáṭima, and poor portionless Kulthúm!
Had he garments on his body? Yea, the dust of the road!
Had he a turban on his head? Yea, the staves of the wicked ones!
Was he sick? Yes! What medicine had he? The tears of his eyes!
What was his food after medicine? His food was heart’s blood!
Did any bear him company? Yes, the fatherless children!
Who else was there? The fever which never left him!
What was left of the women’s ornaments? Two things,
The collar of tyranny on their necks, and the anklet of grief on their feet!
Would a pagan (gabr) practise such cruelty? No! A Magian or a Jew? No!
A Hindoo? No! An idolater? No! Alas for this harshness!
Is Qá’ání capable of such verses? Yes!
What seeks he? Mercy! From whom? From God! When? In the ranks of recompense!”

Besides these maráthí (singular marthiya), or threnodies of the classical type, the contemplation of the sufferings and
misfortunes of the Imáms has inspired a copious literature, both in verse and prose, of a more popular kind. The mourning
proper to the month of Muḥarram finds expression not only in the actual dramatic representations of this cycle of tragedies,
of which there are at least forty (a few of which, however, are connected with prophets and holy men antecedent to Islám),
but in recitations of these melancholy events known as Rawḍa [Rawẓa]-Khwání. These latter are said to derive this name
from one of the earliest and best-known books of this kind, the Rawḍatu [Rawẓatu]’sh-Shuhadá (“Garden

[page 182]

of the Martyrs”) of Ḥusayn Wá‘iẓ-i-Káshifí350, so that these functions are called “Rawẓa-readings,” whether the readings be
taken from this or from some similar work, such as the Ṭúfánu’l-Buká (“Deluge of Weeping”) or the Asráru’sh-Shahádat
(“Mysteries of Martyrdom”). Such entertainments are commonly given in the month of Muḥarram by rich notables, nobles,
statesmen or merchants, who provide an adequate number of professional rhapsodists or reciters of this class, called Rawẓa-
Khwáns, and a more or less sumptuous supper to follow. I possess a copy of a curious little poem entitled Kitábu’s-Sufra fí
dhammi’r-Riyá (“the Book of the Table, censuring hypocrisy”)351 in which the ostentation of the host and the greed of the
guests is satirized with some pungency. The following lines describe how the word is passed round as to whose entertainment
is likely to prove most satisfactory to the guests:




349 ‘Alí ibn Ḥusayn, commonly called Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín (“the Ornament of the Worshippers”), who, on the death of his father at Karbalá,
succeeded him as the Fourth Imám.
350 He died in 910/1504-5. See my Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion, pp. 441 and 503-4.
351 The author’s name is given as Turkí of Shíráz, and the little book (48 pp.) was lithographed at Bombay in 1309/1891-2.

[page 183]



[page 184]

“Now hear from me a story which is more brightly coloured than a garden flower,
Of those who make mourning for Ḥusayn and sit in assemblies in frenzied excitement.

[page 185]

All wear black for Fáṭima’s darling352,
Establish houses of mourning and make lament for the King of Karbalá353.
In every corner they prepare a feast and arrange a pleasant assembly;
They carpet court-yard and chamber, they bedeck with inscriptions arch and alcove;
They spread fair carpets, they set out graceful furnishings;
A host of gluttonous men, all beside themselves and intoxicated with the cup of greed,
On whom greed has produced such an effect that, like the stamp on the gold354,
It has set its mark on their foreheads, make enquiry about such assemblies.
One of them says, ‘O comrades, well-approved friends, versed in affairs,
‘I and Ḥájji ‘Abbás went yesterday to the entertainment of that green-grocer fellow.
‘In that modest entertainment there was nothing but tea and coffee,
‘And we saw no one there except the host and one or two rawẓa-khwáns355.
‘To sit in such an assembly is not meet, for without sugar and tea it has no charm.
‘God is not pleased with that servant in whose entertainment is neither sherbet nor sugar.
‘But, by Him who gives men and jinn their daily bread, in such-
and-such a place is an entertainment worthy of kings,
‘A wonderfully pleasant and comfortable entertainment, which, I am
sure, is devoid of hypocrisy.
‘There is white tea and sugar-loaf of Yazd in place of sugar,
‘And crystal qalyáns with flexible tubes, at the gargle of which the heart rejoices.
‘The fragrance of their tobacco spreads for miles, and the fire gleams
on their heads like [the star] Canopus.

352 I.e. her son the Imám Ḥusayn. Jigar-gùsha (lit. “corner of the liver”) is an expression very similar to the Irish

353 Again Ḥusayn, “the martyr of Karbalá.”
354 e. its trace is ineffaceably stamped upon them.
355 The professional reciters or rhapsodists employed on these occasions.

‘No water will be drunk there, but draughts of lemon, sugar and snow.

[page 186]

‘One of the reciters is Mírzá Káshí, who, they say, is the chief of rawẓa-khwáns.
‘Another of them is the rhapsodist of Rasht, who is like a boat in the ocean of song.
‘From Kirmán, Yazd and Kirmánsháh, from Shíráz, Shúshtar and Iṣfahán,
‘All are skilled musicians of melodious and charming voices: they
are like the kernel and others like the shell.
‘In truth it is a wonderful entertainment, devoid of hypocrisy: by
your life it is right to attend it!’
When the friends hear this speech with one accord they assemble at that banquet.”

On the whole, however, the emotion evoked by these Muḥarram mournings, whether dramatic representations or
recitations, is deep and genuine, and even foreigners and non-Muslims confess themselves affected by them. “If the success
of a drama,” says Sir Lewis Pelly in the Preface to his translation of thirty-seven scenes from the Ta‘ziyas356, “is to be
measured by the effects which it produces upon the people for whom it is composed, or upon the audiences before whom it is
represented, no play has ever surpassed the tragedy known in the Mussulman world as that of Ḥasan and Husain. Mr
Matthew Arnold, in his ‘Essays on Criticism,’ elegantly sketches the story and effects of this ‘Persian Passion Play,’ while
Macaulay’s Essay on Lord Clive has encircled the ‘Mystery’ with a halo of immortality.” Even the critical and sceptical
Gibbon says357: “In a distant age and climate the tragic scene of the death of Hosein will awaken the sympathy of the coldest
reader.” Sayyidu’sh-Shuhadá (“the Chief of the Martyrs”) the Persians call their favourite hero, who is, indeed, in their eyes
more even than this, since his intercession will be accepted by God for his sinful followers even when the intercession of the

[page 187]

Prophet has failed. “Go thou,” says the latter to him on the Resurrection Day, “and deliver from the flames every one who
has in his life-time shed but a single tear for thee, every one who has in any way helped thee, every one who has performed a
pilgrimage to thy shrine, or mourned for thee, and every one who has written tragic verse for thee. Bear each and all with thee
to Paradise358.” To the Persian Shí‘a, therefore, Ḥusayn occupies the same position that Jesus Christ does to the devout
Christian, notwithstanding the fact that the doctrine of the Atonement is utterly foreign to the original spirit of Islám. To us
no Persian verse could well appear more exaggerated in its deification of a human being than this359:



Men say Thou art God, and I am moved to anger: raise the veil,
and submit no longer to the shame of Godhead!”

But I am not sure whether the following verse, ascribed to the Bábí poet Nabíl360, would not more greatly shock the
Persian Shí‘a:



“O witnesses of my aspect of fire, haste ye towards my home;
Make head and life my offering, for I am the Monarch of Karbalá!”

[page 188]


356 The Miracle Play of Hasan and Husain (2 vols., London, 1879).
357 Professor J. B. Bury’s edition of the Decline and Fall in seven volumes (London, 1898), vol. v, p. 391.
358 Sir Lewis Pelly’s Miracle Play, vol. ii, p. 347.
359 By an Azalí controversialist it is said to have been written of Bahá’u’lláh by one of his followers, but I have been told that it, or a very
similar verse, was really composed in honour of Ḥusayn.
360 Nabíl is a Bábí substitute for Muḥammad, the numerical values of both names being equivalent to 92. The poet Nabíl at one time after
the Báb’s death advanced a claim on his own behalf, and the verse here cited appears to have been composed at this period. Later he
became one of the most devoted adherents of Bahá’u’lláh, on whose death in 1892 he drowned himself at ‘Akká.

It would be an interesting study, but beyond the capacity of this volume, to trace the growth of the Ḥusayn-Legend from
its comparatively meagre historical basis, as given by Ṭabarí and the earlier Arab historians, to the elaborate romance into
which it has finally developed in the ta‘ziyas and rawẓa-khwáns. But the romantic element appears early, even in the
narrative of Abu’ Mikhnaf Lúṭ ibn Yaḥyá, who flourished in the first half of the second century of the hijra (circa A.D.
750)361, and it has even been suggested that Ḥusayn has been indued with the attributes of some far more ancient prototype
like Adonis. At any rate no one at the present day can see anything more like the performances of the priests of Baal than the
ghastly ceremonies of the ‘Áshúrá or Rúz-i-Qatl which take place on the tenth of Muḥarram (the anniversary of Ḥusayn’s
death at Karbalá) wherever there is a considerable Persian colony, but especially, of course, in Persia itself.
Certain episodes in the Ḥusayn-Legend would almost seem to indicate an unconscious sense of solidarity with the
Christians on the part of the Shí‘a Persians arising from their participation in the doctrine of the Atonement. The best-known
example of this is the conversion and martyrdom of the “Firangí ambassador” at the Court of Yazíd362, a very favourite scene
in the ta‘ziyas, and considered especially appropriate when European visitors are included in the audience. Another instance
occurs in the Asráru’sh-Shahádat, or “Mysteries of Martyrdom,” of Isma’íl Khán “Sarbáz363,” when Ibn Sa‘d invites certain
Christians to aid

[page 189]

him in killing the Imám Ḥusayn, but when the eyes of their leader fell upon him —



“He saw Karbalá as the Throne of Divine Majesty, he saw that
Throne wet with God’s blood364;
By the pen of imagination an impression grew in his heart, ‘Surely
this is God in such glory and splendour!
‘If he be not God, then surely he is Jesus,, the Sun of the Throne of our Faith.’”

Thereupon, being convinced of the truth of Islám and the sanctity of Ḥusayn —



“With a hundred frenzied enthusiasms he sought permission to engage
in the battle, and departed to offer his life as a sacrifice for Ḥusayn.”

Since, however, we also find stories of the conversion of an Indian king (presumably a pagan) and even of a lion, the
object may be to emphasize the cruelty and hard-heartedness of the professing Muslims who compassed the death of Ḥusayn
and his fellow-martyrs by depicting the sympathy evoked by their sufferings even in the hearts of unbelievers and savage
animals.
The librettos giving the words actually spoken by the

[page 190]

actors in the ta‘ziyas are not often met with, though lithographed copies exist, of which, by the kindness of my friend the late
George Grahame, formerly Consul in different parts of Persia, I possess half a dozen. As an example of their style I shall here

361 See Wüstenfeld’s Die Geschichtschreiber der Araber, No. 19 (pp. 5-6), and his translation of this work under the title of Der Tod des
Ḥusein ben ‘Alí und die Rache: ein historischer Roman aus dem Arabischen (Göttingen, 1883).
362 See Pelly’s Miracle Play, vol. ii, pp. 222-240.
363 Lithographed with crude illustrations at Ṭihrán in 1274/1857-58.
364 This expression in the mouth of a professing Muslim is extraordinary.

cite a passage from the “Martyrdom of Ḥurr ibn Yazíd ar-Riyáḥí365,” wherein an Arab from Kúfa brings to the Imám Ḥusayn
the news of the execution of his cousin Muslim ibn ‘Aqíl.



[page 191]


365 This constitutes a separate scene in Sir L. Pelly’s Miracle Plays, vol. i, pp. 171-189.

[page 192]



“How the Arab comes from Kúfa bringing news of the
martyrdom of Muslim ibn ‘Aqíl.

(Arab)
‘I whom thou seest coming with an hundred passionate strains
Am the hoopoe coming from Sheba into the presence of Solomon.
I come from Kúfa, having tidings of poor Muslim,
I come enlarging the spirit like the morning breeze.
In my head is a longing to meet the son of Fáṭima366,
I come as the remedy for the pain of a wounded heart.’

(‘Abbás) ‘To this gate, of whose pavilion the dust is camphor
And collyrium for the angels’ eyes, and its servants the Ḥúrís367.
By God, this gate is the qibla368 of all faithful folk,
And a house of healing to those stricken with sorrow!’

(Arab)
‘My salutation to thee, O exemplar of mankind;

366 I.e. the Imám Ḥusayn son of ‘Alí and Fáṭima the Prophet’s daughter.
367 The Ḥúru’l-‘Ayn, or black-eyed damsels of Paradise.
368 The point to which the worshipper turns in prayer in order to face Mecca-wards.

I come from Kúfa, O leader of the people of Paradise!
For God’s sake whither goest thou, O my lord?
Explain to me [I conjure thee] by the God of Jinn and men!’

(The Imám)
‘And on thee [be my salutation], O messenger of comely face!
Even now I am going to Kúfa in an agitated condition.
They have written to me letters of longing:
Heaven draws my reins towards the land of ‘Iráq.
Tell me, therefore, if thou hast news of Muslim:
Has any one in Kúfa loyally aided him?’

[page 193]

(Arab)
‘May I be thy sacrifice! Ask not of Muslim’s case!
Come, master, let me kiss thy hands and feet!
Go not to Kúfa, O King of the righteous!
For I fear that thou may’st become sorrowful and friendless.
Go not to Kúfa, O Lord! It were a pity!
Be merciful! ‘Alí Akbar369 is so young!
Go not to Kúfa! Zaynab370 will be humiliated,
And will be led captive through the streets and markets!’

(Together)

(Imám)
‘O Arab, make known Muslim’s condition!’
(Arab)
‘Lament for grief-stricken Muslim!’
(Imám)
‘Tell me, how fared it with Muslim in Kúfa?’
(Arab)
‘Know that Muslim’s fortune failed.’
(Imám)
‘Did the Kúfans drag his body through blood?’
(Arab)
‘They severed his innocent head from the kingdom of his body.’
(Imám)
‘Did they cut his body in pieces?’
(Arab)
‘They stuck his noble body on the headsman’s hook.’
(Imám)
‘Tell me, what further did these wicked people do?’
(Arab)
‘They dragged him through the city and market.’
(Imám)
‘Tell me, how fares it with Muslim’s children?’
(Arab)
‘They have become the guests of Muslim in Paradise.’
(Imám)
‘Who wrought cruelty and wrong on those children?’
(Arab)
‘Ḥárith severed their heads from their bodies.’
(Imám)
‘Alas for Muslim’s weeping eyes!’
(Arab)
‘These are the garments of Muslim’s children.’
(Both)371 ‘Alas that faithful Muslim has been slain by the cruelty of wicked men!’”

It has only been possible here to touch the fringe of this vast literature of what is commonly and not inappropriately
termed the Persian Passion Play, and I have had to content myself with a few specimens of the main types in which it is
manifested, namely the classical threnody or elegy (marthiya) of Muḥtasham and his imitators; the more

[page 194]

popular presentations of these legends in verse, prose, or mixed verse and prose, contained in innumerable and obscure
lithographed books, of which I have chosen the Asráru’sh-Shahádat as a type, not because it enjoys any supreme excellence,
but simply because it is one of those of which I happen to possess a copy; and lastly the actual librettos of the dramatized
ta‘ziyas, to be seen at their best at the Royal Takya of Ṭihrán during the first ten days of the month of Muḥarram. Manuscript
note-books for the use of rawẓa-khwáns on such occasions are commonly met with in collections of Persian books, and the
full description of one such (Add. 423) will be found in my Catalogue of the Persian HSS. in the Cambridge University
Library372. Most of these pieces are anonymous, but amongst the poets named are Muqbil, Mukhliṣ, Mawzún, Nasím, Shafí’í
and Lawḥí, of none of whom can I find any biographical notice.


369 The eldest son of the Imám Ḥusayn. His death forms the subject of Scene xvii of Pelly’s Miracle Play (Vol. i, pp. 287-303).
370 The daughter of ‘Alí and sister of Ḥasan and Ḥusayn.
371 It is not clear from the text whether this verse is uttered by one or both of the speakers.
372 No. LXVI, pp. 122-142. On this last page are given references to descriptions of other similar collections.

(4) Bábí Poetry.

One of my young Persian friends who, like so many of the rising generation, deplores the influence of the mullás and
rawẓa-khwáns and the religious atmosphere created by them, especially in connection with the Muḥarram celebrations,
admitted to me that at least the work has been done so thoroughly that even the most ignorant women and illiterate peasants
are perfectly familiar with all the details of these legends of martyrdom, however little they may know of the authentic
history of the events portrayed or the persons represented. Even the greatest mujtahids, like Mullá Muḥammad Báqir-i-
Majlisí, however little they might approve the exaggerations and even blasphemies which characterized the Passion Plays in
their final popular developments, were at great pains to supply their compatriots with popular and easily

[page 195]

intelligible religious treatises in Persian, so that a knowledge of these matters might not be confined to Arabic scholars or
professed theologians.
One effect of the ta‘ziyas has been to create amongst the Persians a widely diffused enthusiasm for martyrdom, of which
sufficient account is not taken by those who, misled by the one-sided portrait, or rather caricature, presented by Morier in his
famous Hajji Baba, deem them an essentially timid and even cowardly folk. The English missionaries in Persia, who in
sympathy for and understanding of the people amongst whom they work seem to me greatly superior to those whose labours
lie in other fields, know better, and no one has done fuller justice to the courage and steadfastness of the Bábí and Bahá’í
martyrs than the Reverend Napier Malcolm in his valuable book Five Years in a Persian Town (Yazd). Another told me an
interesting story from his own experience in Iṣfahán. One of the chief mujtahids of that city had condemned some Bábís to
death as apostates, and my informant, who was on friendly terms with this ecclesiastic, ventured to intercede for them. The
mujtahid was at first inclined to take his intervention very ill, but finally the missionary said to him, “Do you suppose that the
extraordinary progress made by this sect is due to the superiority of their doctrines? Is it not simply due to the indomitable
courage of those whom you and your colleagues condemn to die for their faith? But for the cruel persecutions to which the
Bábís have from the first been subjected, and which they have endured with such unflinching courage, would they now be
more numerous or important than a hundred obscure heresies in Persia of which no one takes any notice and which are
devoid of all significance? It is you and such as you who have made the Bábís so numerous and so formidable, for in place of
each one whom you kill a

[page 196]

hundred converts arise.” The mujtahid reflected for a while and then replied, “You are right, and I will spare the lives of these
people373.”
Many of these martyrs died with verses of poetry on their lips. Sulaymán Khán, with wicks flaming in his mangled body,
sang:



“In one hand the wine-cup, in the other the tresses of the Friend,
Such a dance in the midst of the market-place is my desire.”

One of the “Seven Martyrs” exclaimed, when the headsman’s sword, missing its stroke, dashed his turban to the ground:



“Happy that intoxicated lover who at the feet of the Friend
Knows not whether it be head or turban which he casts.”

Of the ancient Arabs Wilfrid Blunt well says374: “Their courage was of a different quality, perhaps, from that admired
among ourselves. It was the valour of a nervous, excitable people who required encouragement from onlookers and from
their own voices to do their best…,” and the same holds good to some extent of the Persians. Poetry is called “Lawful Magic”

373 A good instance of that sense of justice (inṣáf) which my talented friend and former pupil Mr W. A. Smart of the Consular Service
regards as one of the most admirable attributes of the Persians.
374 The Seven Golden Odes of Pagan Arabia (London, 1903), p. xii.

(Siḥr-i-Halál) because, in the words of the author of the Chahár Maqála375, it is “that art whereby the poet…can make a little
thing appear great and a great thing small, or cause good to appear in the garb of evil and evil in the form of good…in such a
way that by his suggestion

[page 197]

men’s temperaments become affected with depression or exaltation; whereby he conduces to the accomplishment of great
things in the order of the world.”
The Karbalá legend is a potent factor in producing in these martyrs the psychological state which makes them not only
endure with fortitude but glory in their sufferings. In one of the two celebrated poems ascribed to the Bábí heroine Qurratu’l-
‘Ayn376) who was one of the victims of the great persecution of August, 1852, occurs the verse377:



“For me the love of that fair-faced Moon who, when the call of affliction came to him,
Went down with exultation and laughter, crying, ‘I am the Martyr at Karbalá!’”

In its original and primitive form Bábíism was Shí‘ism of the most exaggerated type, and the Báb himself the ‘Gate’ to
the unseen Imám or Mahdí. Gradually he came to regard himself as actually the Imám; then he became the ‘Point’ (Nuqṭa),
an actual Manifestation of the Supreme Being, and his chief disciples became re-incarnations, or rather “returns” or
“recurrences” of the Imáms, and the whole tragedy of Karbalá was re-enacted “in a new horizon” at Shaykh Ṭabarsí in
Mázandarán. The nineteen chapters constituting the first “Unity” (Wáḥid) of the Persian Bayán (the most intelligible and
systematic of the Bib’s writings) are entirely devoted to the thesis that all the protagonists of the Islamic Cycle have
returned378 in this cycle to the life of the world,

[page 198]

and Ḥájji Mírzá Jání, the earliest Bábí historian and himself a victim of the persecution of 1852, gives a long comparison
between Karbalá and Shaykh Ṭabarsí, greatly in favour of the latter379.
In the eleventh and last section of my Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion (pp. 341-58) I published a selection of
Bábí and Bahá’í poems, and here I will only add to these a qaṣída comprising 133 verses composed in the spring of 1885 by
Mírzá’ Na‘ím380 of Si-dih near Iṣfahán, an ardent Bahá’í, whose son, as I lately heard from a friend in the British Legation at
Ṭihrán, is still resident there. Mírzá Na‘ím sent me an autograph copy of this poem in the summer of 1902 through my late
friend George Grahame, and in the concluding colophon he states that he was born at Si-dih in 1272/1855-6 and came to
Ṭihrán in 1304/1886-7. The poem is so long that I originally intended only to give extracts from it, but, finding that this could
not be done without injury to the sequence of ideas, I have decided to print it in full as a typical Bahá’í utterance having the
authority of an autograph.



[page 199]


375 E. J. W. Gibb Memorial Series, vol. xi, i (Text), p. 26; vol. xi, 2 (Translation), p. 27.
376 Both are given in full, with versified translations, in my Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion, pp. 347-51.
377 Compare the initial verse of the poem cited on p. 173 supra.
378 Concerning this typical doctrine of “Return” (Raj‘at) see my Materials etc., pp. 330, 335 and 338, and my translation of the New
History, pp. 334 et seqq.
379 Nuqṭatu’l-Káf (Gibb Series, vol. xv), pp. 404-5.
380 He is referred to in my Year amongst the Persians (p. 519), where he is wrongly described as a native of Abáda.

[page 200]

[page 201]


[page 202]

[page 203]

[page 204]

[page 205]

[page 206]



[page 207]

[page 208]



[page 209]

“HE IS GOD, EXALTED IS HIS STATE!

“Through the revolution of the Sphere I have a heart and an eye,
the one like the Tigris in flood, the other like a gulf of blood.
Why should I not mourn heavily, and why should I not weep bitterly,
since I cannot make my way out of the narrows of the world?
Within the circle I find not my object; I have neither foot to fare
forth nor place within.
What profiteth me if I be as Qâren381 in rank? What gain to me if I
be as Qárún382 in wealth?
What fruit do farms and estates yield, since I must lay them aside?
What effect have daughters and sons, since I must pass away?
What pride have I in drinking wine or rose-water? What virtue have
I in wearing silk or black brocade383?
Since dominion and wealth remain not, what difference between
wealthy and poor? Since time endureth not, what difference
between the glad and the sorrowful?
I take pride in my understanding while every animal is full of it;
I glory in spirit when every place overflows with it.
What is it to me that I should say what Alexander did? What is it
to me that I should know who Napoleon was?
What affair is it of mine that the moon becomes crescent or full

381 One of the seven great noble houses of ancient Persia. See Nö1deke’s Sasaniden, especially pp. 437 et seqq. These seven families
constituted the Bar-bítán of the Pahlawí inscriptions, the Ahlu’l-Buyútát of the Arab historians.
382 See Qur’án, xxviii, 76 and commentary thereon in Sale’s translation and elsewhere. He is identified with Korah of the Old Testament,
and amongst the Muslims is proverbial for wealth as is Croesus with us.
383 A short note on aksún, “a black brocade worn by the rich for ostentation,” will be found on p. 108 of my translation of the Chahár
Maqála (Gibb Series, xi, 2).

because it shows its face in proportion to the shining of the sun
upon it?
What advantage is it that I should know about the eclipses of the
sun and moon, or that the sun is darkened384 through the moon,
and the moon through the shadow of the earth?
What need is there for me to say that the fixed stars and planets are
all suns and spheres in the vault of heaven?

[page 210]

What do I gain by knowing that these spheres are poised and
revolving round suns, and are subject to two attractions?
What affair is it of mine that the wind, that undulating air, is light
and dry above, and dense and moist below?
What have I to say to this, that the moon marches round the earth,
the earth round the sun, and the sun in turn round another sun? 15
What should I say as to this ramal-metre being ‘sound’ or ‘apocopated,’
or this rajaz-metre maṭwí or makhbún385?
Or of accidence, syntax, the letters, the correct and solemn intonation
[of the Qur’án], or of the pauses of the Kúfans or the
junctions of the Baṣra school386?
Or of etymology, rhetoric, eloquence, style, expression, calligraphy,
prosody or the varieties of poetical criticism?
Or of biography387, jurisprudence, principles [of Law], controversy,
deduction, tradition, proof, exegesis, the Code and the Law?
Or of drawing, geometry, algebra, observations, chronology, arithmetic,
mathematics and geography in all their aspects?
Or of Politics, the Religious Law, agriculture, mining, philology,
National Rights, expenditure, taxation, loans and armies?
Or of medicine, symptoms, anatomy, the pulse and the stools, the
properties of all the drugs, whether simple or compound?
Or of talismans, incantations, interpretation of dreams, alchemy,
mechanics, astrology, ascendants, [magic] numbers, geomancy,
cyphers and spells?
Or of the philosophical sciences, and logic, ancient and modern, or
of cautionary glosses and the sophistries of texts?
O waste not the coin of your life on such sciences, for a whole
world of men have suffered disappointment through such trans-
actions!
Turn from these sciences to knowledge of the Religion of the Truth388,
for, save knowledge of the Truth, all is deceit and vanity.

[page 211]

Hearken not to the spells of Philosophy, which from end to end is
folly389; the themes of the materialist and the cynic are all
ignorance and madness.
Why dost thou consider the fancies of the naturalist as sciences?
Why dost thou assume the Divine sciences to be mere fancies?
What is the talk of these philosophers? All doubtful! What is the
speech of these ignorant men? All conjecture!
Their sciences are [designed] to dispose of modesty, sincerity and
purity; their arts are for [the promotion of] sin, mischief, guile

384 Literally, made the colour of indigo.
385 The full explanation of these terms will be found in Blochmann’s Persian Prosody, or in any book treating of the metrical systems of
the Arabs and Persians.
386 The two great rival philological schools of early Islám.
387 ‘Ilmu’r-Rijál (“the science of notable men”) means particularly the biography and authority of the transmitters of religious traditions.
388 Or God, which is the usual meaning of Ḥaqq amongst the Persians. Gibb (Ottoman Poetry, vol. i, p. 60, ad calc.) gives “the Fact” as a
translation suggested by one of his Muslim friends.
389 There is a word-play here, of the kind called tajnís-i-zá’id, between falsafah (philosophy) and safah (folly).

and wantonness!
Their whole [idea] is the socialization of the earth and the communizing390
of property; their whole [aim] is the diffusion of sin and
the filling of their bellies!
Their ideas are all short-sighted and their outlook narrow; their
arts are all phantasy, and their conditions vile!
Had it not been for the barrier of the Holy Law against this
Gog391, no one would have been secure of honour, property, or life.
By God’s Truth, the talk of this gang of materialists is the worst
pestilence in the body of the Nation and the Kingdom!
By the Divine Knowledge thou wilt become the choicest product of
the two worlds; by the cynic’s philosophy thou wilt become
the grandchild of an ape392!
Behold manifest today whatever the Prophet hath said, but whatever
the philosopher hath said behold at this time discredited!
All their sciences are [derived] from the Prophets, but imperfectly;
all their arts are from the Saints, but garbled.
But, regarded fairly, man in this world is distinguished by science
and knowledge from all beside.

[page 212]

By knowledge and learning he finds his way to the Eternal Essence;
by understanding and thought he attains to the Presence of the
Why-less393.
It is Study of which He says ‘It is the most excellent of actions’
it is Thought whereof an hour ‘is better than seventy [years].’
The great sages, such as Socrates, Hippocrates, Aristotle and Zeno,
confess His Eternal Essence,
And so also Abú ‘Alí [Avicenna], Euclid, Ptolemy, Thales, Plato,
Hermes and Solon394.
These sanctify Him at dusk and at dawn; these glorify Him in the
morning and in the evening.
The world is a head wherein the sage is the intelligence; time is a
body wherein the sciences are in place of the eyes.
But thou ridest with a slack rein, and the steed of the arts is restive;
thou art weak and inexperienced, and the dappled charger of
the sciences is vicious.
Not having read a line thou hast doubts as to the Eternal Lord:
wonderful the constitution in which antimony produces constipation!
‘Seek learning from the cradle to the grave, even in China395,’ from
the knowledge of God, whereon trust and reliance may be placed.
Sages are dumbfounded at His wise aphorisms; men of letters are
indebted to His pregnant sayings.
Natural laws are like bodies in manifestation and emergence;
Divine Truths are like spirits in occultation and latency.
In this illimitable expanse for lack of space illimitable worlds are
buried in one another.
Common people see ordinary things, and distinguished people
special things, according to their own measure: and He ‘knows
best what they describe396.’
A thousand Platos cannot fathom the essence of His humblest

390 The early Bábís were often accused of holding communistic views like the ancient Persian heresiarch Mazdak. Such views are here
explicitly repudiated.
391 Alexander the Great is supposed to have built the Great Wall of China (hence called Sadd-i-Sikandar, “the Barrier of Alexander”) to
prevent the tribes of Gog and Magog (Yájúj wa Májúj) from overrunning the world.
392 An evident allusion to the Darwinian theory.
393 God is so called (Bí-chún) because none may question Him as to the reason of His actions.
394 Doubtful. The original has Shílún, an evident error.
395 A well-known tradition of the Prophet.
396 Cf. Qur’án, xxiii, 98.

temporal work; how much less His own Eternal Essence?
The sphere and the stars move by the command of God: yea, the
eyes and eyelids are affected by the soul.

[page 213]

Through whom, if not by His command, is the movement of bodies
By what, if not by the water, does the mill revolve?
For once in the way of wisdom look with the eye of reflection on
this abode whereof but one quarter is habitable397.
In each one of the mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms are a
thousand unseen worlds, manifest and hidden.
Beyond thy intelligence is another over-ruling Intelligence; within
thy soul is another soul concealed.
Behold the grain, which stands shoulder to shoulder with past
Eternity: behold the egg, which is conjoined with Eternity to come!
Hidden yet manifest in this latter are a hundred worlds of fowls and
chickens; eternal yet temporal in that former are a hundred
groves of fruit and branches.
How canst thou pass through the street of Truth, thou, who comest
not forth from the mansion of Nature?
60,
Even as thou seest how the flow of life from this world reaches the
child’s inward parts through its mother’s aid,
So, if aid come not from the Supernatural to this world, by God,
this world will be ruined!
For within the narrow straits of this world God hath worlds from
the Supernatural beyond limit or computation.
Contrary to universal custom, behold a group of intelligent men
voluntarily and naturally plunging into blood398;
Contrary to nature, a company content with pain and grief; contrary
to nature, a party gladly enduring the cruelty of spite.
Behold a community renouncing the world by natural inclination;
see a people contentedly suffering exile from their native land!
Behold a party all slain eagerly and joyfully; behold a throng all
imprisoned with alacrity and delight;
A whole series [of victims] voluntarily enduring various torments;
a whole class by natural inclination [involved] in afflictions of
every kind;
All intoxicated and singing songs399, but not from wine; all self-
effaced and dissipated, but not from opium!

[page 214]

How hath Daniel given news of today! How hath the word of
Isaiah taken effect now400!
How hath the promise of all the Scriptures been fulfilled, precisely
in conformity with the Qur’án, the Pentateuch, the Books of the
Prophets and the Gospels!
Now in the Abode of Peace [Baghdád], now in Jerusalem, now in
Mount Carmel, now in Edom, and now in Sion,
The Holy and Fortunate Land hath been determined, the Blessed
and Auspicious Day hath been fixed.
‘How came the Truth [God] to us? Even as our Arabian Prophet
and our guides the Imáms indicated to us401.

397 I.e. the world, whereof but one quarter is supposed to be capable of sustaining human life.
398 This and the following verses refer to the readiness with which the Bábís suffer martyrdom.
399 Like Sulaymán Khán, for instance. See p. 196 supra, and my Year amongst the Persians, p. 102.
400 The fulfilment of these prophecies is especially discussed in a Bábí work entitled Istidláliyya addressed to the Jews, and in English by
Ibráhím Khayru’lláh in Bahá’u’lláh, the Splendour of God. To give only one instance, “a time and times and half a time” is explained as
three years and a half of 360 days each = 1260. Now A.H. 1260 (A.D. 1844) was the year of the Báb’s “Manifestation.”
401 This verse is entirely in Arabic.

How according to promise did the Eternal Beauty402 reveal His
beauty, from whose Blessed Beauty the whole world augured
well?
How did God become apparent in the Valley of ‘the Fig’? How
did He become visible in the Mount of ‘the Olive403’?
How does He conquer without an army while all [others] are conquered?
How does He triumph unaided while mankind are
helpless [before Him]?
Without the aid of learning He intones the sweetest verses404; without
the help of others He lays down the Best Law.
Why should we not see a hundred thousand souls His sacrifice?
Why should we not see a hundred thousand hearts bewitched
by Him?
By the movement of His Pen [men’s] hearts and breasts are moved;
by the calmness of His Glance cometh Peace without and
within

[page 215]

The turbans of the doctors405 did not extinguish His Torch; the
hosts of the captains did not overthrow His Standard.
Behold how His Word permeates the world as the soul the body;
behold how His Influence throbs in the spirit like the blood in
the veins!
The hostility of His foes does but [attempt to] crush water in a
mortar; the enmity of His rivals is but as wind in the desert.
The duration of His command in the heart keeps company with the
Spirit406; the continuance of His authority in the world is coeval
with the ages.
What a fire hath He kindled in [men’s] hearts, such that no water
can quench this furnace!
His authority comprehendeth the terrestrial and the subterranean
regions; His fame hath passed beyond China, India and Japan.
With one glance He hath conquered two hundred countries and
districts; with one [stroke of His] Pen He hath taken a
hundred castles and fortresses.
How by His summons to the Faith hath He established a Church
against whom until the Resurrection no opponent shall prevail!
He sought help from none to found His Law; yea, God did not
raise up the heavens on pillars407.
When, when wilt thou admit His Grace and Mercy? How, how
canst thou deny His Knowledge and Power?
Thou, who canst not order the affairs of a single household, do not
contend with Him who orders all the ages!
Thou, who knowest not what is expedient in thine own affairs, do
not obstinately strive with the Lord of the Kingdom of ‘Be and
it is408’!
Thou dost dispute with thy father about a farthing’s damage;
these409 surrender life and wealth for His sake, and deem themselves
favoured.
Alas a thousandfold that I have a thousand thoughts which I cannot
harmonize with these restricted rhymes!
Words have escaped my control, yet [the tale of] my heart’s pain is

402 I.e. Bahá’u’lláh, who was most commonly entitled by his followers Jamál-i-Mubárak, “the Blessed Beauty,” or “Perfection.”
403 The reference is to Súra xcv of the Qur’án, entitled “the Fig.”
404 Not, of course, verses of poetry (abyát), but the revealed “signs” (áyát) which constitute His credentials.
405 I.e. of Law and Religion. It is, I think, misleading to translate ‘Ulamá as “clergy.”
406 I.e. lasts as long as life endures.
407 See Qur’án, xiii, 2 and xxxi, 9.
408 Ibid., ii, 111; iii, 42, etc.
409 I.e. the followers of Bahá’u’lláh.

incomplete; now I return again to the same refrain.

[page 216]

In this chameleon-like410 age I have a heart led astray by all kinds of
trifles.
The time preens itself like a peacock in varied hues ; the sphere displays
its blandishments like a chameleon in divers colours.
Sufficient is thy burning, O Sun, for my heart is roasted! sufficient
is thy turning, O Heaven, for my body is ground to powder!
I have a head, but what can it do with all this passion? I have a
heart, but what can it do with all this trickery?
Where can the soul find endurance and steadfastness except in the
Beloved? Where can the heart find patience and rest save in
the Heart’s Desire?
At one time I say to myself, ‘Perfection is a disaster’411: at another
I laugh to myself, ‘Madness is of many kinds.’
At one time my fancy rushes through the plain like an engine; at
another my desire soars in the air like a balloon.
I have broken away from the body, but life will not leave the body;
I have abandoned life, yet the heart is not tranquil.
My heart is wearied of this ruined mansion of merit and talent
welcome the kingdoms of Love! welcome the realms of Madness412!
‘The hobble of understanding hath snapped on the leg of the dromedary
of my luck413: O God, where is my Laylá, for I have
become Majnún (mad)?
Save the Divine Will [exercised] through the channel of Omnipotence,
who can drag me forth from this whirlpool?
Behold, the Will of God is ‘He whom God willeth414,’ with whose will
the Will of God is conjoined;

[page 217]

The unique Servant of Bahá (‘Abdu’l-Bahá), made such by the Will
of God, Who ‘When He willeth aught, saith “Be!” and it is415’;
A King to whom God shows us the way; a Moon who guides us
towards God;
‘God’s Secret,’ the fortunate Pearl of the Ocean of Union, who is the
Pearl concealed in the shell of God’s Knowledge;
Beside his excellence, excellence lacks its excellency; beside his
bounty Ma‘n416 is a withholder of benefits.
His enemy is a foe unto himself whom even his friends renounce;. he
who obeys him is secure of himself and trusted by mankind.
In praise of the countenance of Him round whom the [Divine] Names
revolve I would sing psalms, were I granted permission by Him.
I continued to utter in praise of His Essence what God [Himself]
hath said, not the verse of ‘the poets whom the erring follow’417.
O Vice-gerent [Khalífa] of the All-merciful, O Ark of Noah, be not

410 I.e. ever changing, inconstant.
411 Perfection exposes the owner to special risks, and the Evil Eye is called by the Arabs ‘Aynu’l-Kamál because it especially menaces,
whatever is perfect of its kind. Cf. p. 117, n. 2 supra.
412 So Ḥáfiẓ: “If the understanding knew how happy the heart is under the locks of the Beloved, the intelligent would go mad for the sake
of our chains.” (Ed. Rosenzweig-Schwannau, vol. i, p. 28, ll. 7-8.)
413 It is impossible to render the word-plays between ‘aql (understanding) and ‘iqál (hobble, tether, shackle fastened round a camel’s knee
to keep it from straying), and bakhtí (dromedary) and bakht (fortune). Even when treating of the most solemn themes few Persian poets
can resist such echolalia.
414 This is one of the titles given by the followers of Bahá’u’lláh to his son ‘Abbás Efendí, also called Sirru’lláh (“God’s Secret“), and after
his father’s death ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
415 See the note on verse 92 above (p. 215, n. 4).
416 Ma‘n ibn Zá’ida is proverbial for his courage, virtue and generosity. For an account of him, see Zotenberg’s Chronique de Tabari
(1874), vol. iv, pp. 373 et seqq. This verse affords another instance of echolalia (Ma‘n, máni‘, má‘ún).
417 Qur’án, xxvi, 224, on account of which the whole Súra is entitled the “Chapter of the Poets.”

grieved because the Truth hath been weakened by violation [of
the Covenant].
In the Dispensation of Adam, Qábíl [Cain] cruelly and despitefully
shed his brother’s blood without fault or sin [on his part].
In the Dispensation of Noah, when Canaan418 broke his father’s
Covenant, by the disgrace of a repudiated affiliation he was
drowned in the Sea of Shame.
In the Dispensation of Jacob, Joseph the faithful was imprisoned
in the bonds of servitude by the wiles of his brethren.
In the Dispensation of Moses from amongst the children of Israel
one was such as Aaron and another such as Qárún419.
In the Dispensation of the Spirit of God [Jesus Christ] from amongst

[page 218]

the Disciples one in cruelty became like Judas [Iscariot] and
one in sincerity like Simon [Peter].
In the Dispensation of His Holiness the Seal of the Prophets
[Muḥammad] one of his people was in faithfulness Abú Dharr and
another Abú Sha‘yún420.
In the Dispensation of His Holiness the Supreme [the Báb] two
persons were [entitled) Waḥíd421; one was faithful and brave,
the other a cowardly traitor.
In the Dispensation of the Most Splendid Countenance [Bahá’u’lláh]
it must likewise needs be so, one faithful to the Covenant,
the other a vile violator thereof422.
I will not open my lips to curse, but God says, ‘Whosoever breaketh
my Covenant is accursed.’
This people wilfully shut their eyes to the Truth, for the Truth is
apparent from the False in all circumstances.
I swear by Thy Face, O Exemplar of all peoples! I swear by Thy
Hair, O Leader of all the ages!
I swear by Thy Substance, to wit the Majesty of the Absolute! I
swear by Thy Truth, to wit the Reality of the Why-less423!
I swear by Thy Countenance, to wit His [God’s] dawning Countenance!
I swear by thy Secret, to wit His Treasured Secret!
By the earth at Thy Feet, to wit the Alchemy of Desire! By the
dust on Thy Road, to wit the tutty of [our] eyes!

[page 219]

By the spot pressed by Thy foot in the Land of ‘the Fig’! By the
place of adoration of mankind adorned by ‘the Olive424’!
[By all these I swear] that my heart cannot remain tranquil without
praising Thee, for the debtor cannot lay his head tranquilly on
the pillow.
Yet how can Na‘ím utter Thy praises? [He is as one] unproved who
steps into the Oxus.

418 According to Muhammadan tradition, he was a son or grandson of Noah, who, on account of his unbelief, was not saved in the Ark, but
perished in the Flood. See Qur’án, xi, 42, and commentary thereon.
419 See the note on verse 4 of this poem (p. 209, n. 2 supra).
420 I can find no mention of such a person, and suspect that the reading is corrupt.
421 The title Waḥíd (“Unique”) appears to have been taken by the early Bábís as numerically equivalent to Yaḥyá, but this equivalency can
only be obtained by writing the letter yá (ى￿) in the latter name only twice instead of three times (    for     ). Thus misspelt, it,
like     و￿ would yield the number 28. At any rate, as we learn from Mírzá Jání’s Nuqṭatu’l-Káf (Gibb Series, vol. xv, pp. 243, 250,
257, 259) the title was first given to Sayyid Yaḥyá of Dáráb, the leader of the Nayríz rebellion, and on his death was transferred to Mírzá
Yaḥyá Ṣubḥ-i-Azal, the half-brother and rival of Bahá’u’lláh, who is therefore called “the Second Waḥíd” (   ا￿      و￿) It is, of
course, to him that Na‘ím applies the term “cowardly traitor.”
422 The allusion here is to Bahá’u’lláh’s sons (half-brothers) ‘Abbás Efendí ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Muḥammad ‘Alí, between whom arose the
same dispute about succession as arose in the previous generation between their father and his half-brother Ṣubḥ-i-Azal.
423 See p. 212, n. 1 supra.
424 See p. 214, n. 4 supra.

May he who obeys Thy command be secure from the deceits of the
Flesh! May he who is the captive of Thy thralls be protected
from the delusions of the time!”

Some apology is needed for quoting and translating in full so long a poem by an author so modern, so little known
outside the circle of his own coreligionists, and, as he himself admits (verse 94), so comparatively unskilful in the
manipulation of rhyme and metre. On the other hand the Bábí and the subsequent and consequent Bahá'í movement
constitutes one of the most important and typical manifestations of the Persian spirit in our own time; and this poem, wherein
an ardent enthusiasm struggles with a somewhat uncouth terminology, does on the whole faithfully represent the Bahá'í
Weltanschauung. The following brief analysis may help the reader better to understand the line of thought which it pursues.


Analysis of Na‘ím’s Poem.

Dissatisfaction of the author with the ordinary pursuits of life, and recognition of the vanity of worldly wealth, pomp and
learning (verses 1-25).
True religion celebrated as the only thing which can satisfy the human soul; and materialism, socialism and communism
condemned (verses 26-37).
True wisdom and its seekers and expounders, including the ancient Greek philosophers, praised (verses 38-48).

[page 220]

The wonder of the Universe, which is permeated throughout by God’s Spirit (verses 49-60).
Man’s need of Divine Revelation, which is as the need of a little child for its mother’s milk (verses 61-63).
Eagerness of the followers of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh for suffering and martyrdom (verses 64-69).
Fulfilment of former prophecies in this Dispensation (verses 70-74).
Proofs of the truth of Bahá’u’lláh’s claim (verses 75-94).

The poet resumes his theme with a new maṭla‘, or initial verse (95), and first speaks of himself and his own condition
(verses 95-105). He next passes to the praise of Bahá’u’lláh’s son ‘Abbás Efendí, better known after his father’s death (on
May 28, 1892) as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (verses 106-114), and offers consolation for the antagonism of his half-brother and the
Náqiẓín, or “Covenant-breakers,” who supported him, by numerous analogies drawn from previous Dispensations (verses
115-125). The last eight verses (126-133) constitute the peroration. The understanding of the poem, of course, presupposes a
fairly complete knowledge of the history, doctrines and spiritual outlook of the Bábís and Bahá'ís, and to render it intelligible
I have had to annotate the translation to an extent which I regret. It is, so far as my knowledge goes, the most ambitious
attempt to expound this doctrine and point of view in verse.

It might be expected that I should include in this section some account of the later mystical poetry of the Ṣúfís, but,
though such poetry continues to be produced down to the present day, I have met with none which attains the level of Saná’í,
‘Aṭṭár Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, Maḥmúd Shabistarí, Jámí, and the other great mystics discussed in the previous volumes of this
work. There was, perhaps, little new to be said, and little that could be better expressed than it had been already, while

[page 221]

under the Ṣafawís at any rate circumstances were particularly unfavourable to the expression of this class of ideas. The
beautiful Tarjí‘-band of Hátif of Iṣfahán, which will be given at the end of the next chapter, is the only masterpiece of Ṣúfí
poetry produced in the eighteenth century with which I am acquainted.


(5) The Taṣníf or Ballad.

This class of verse, ephemeral as our own topical and comic Songs, leaves far fewer and slighter traces in literature than
its actual importance would lead us to expect. A taṣníf about the Ṣáḥib-Díwán beginning:



(“He made [the garden of] Dil-gushá under ‘the Slide’;
He made Dil-gushá with the sticks and the stocks:

Alas for Dil-gushá! Alas for Dil-gushá!”)

was the most popular ballad when I was in Shíráz in the spring of 1888425, but it is probably now as little remembered as an
almost contemporary ribald English satire on a certain well-known Member of Parliament who “upset the milk in bringing it
home from Chelsea.” I have no doubt that the taṣníf or ballad sung by the troubadour and wandering minstrel existed in
Persia from very early — perhaps even from pre-Islamic-times. Bárbad and Sakísá may have sung such topical songs to
Khusraw Parwíz the Sásánian thirteen hundred years ago, as Rúdagí almost certainly did four centuries later to the Sámánid
prince who was his patron426; and a fragment of a

[page 222]

typical taṣníf (called by the curious name of ḥarára) sung in Iṣfahán on the occasion of the capture and execution of the
heretic and assassin Aḥmad ibn ‘Aṭṭásh427, is recorded in the history of the Saljúqs composed by Abú Bakr Najmu’d-Dín
Muḥammad ar-Ráwandí early in the thirteenth century of our era, under the title of Ráḥatu’ṣ-Ṣudúr wa Áyatu’s-Surúr.
The authorship of these taṣnífs is seldom known, and they are hardly ever committed to writing, though my friend the
late George Grahame, when Consul at Shíráz in 1905, very kindly caused a small selection of two score of those most
popular at the time in that city and in Ṭihrán, Iṣfahán, Rasht, Tabríz, and elsewhere, to be written down for me; and a
selection, adapted as far as possible to the piano, was published in or about 1904 under the title of Twelve Persian Folk-Songs
collected and arranged for voice and pianoforte by Blair Fairchild: English version of the words by Alma Strettell (Novello
& Co., London and New York). In this excellent little book the songs are well set, well rendered into English, and intelligibly
if not ideally transliterated, and the following sentence from the short prefatory note shows how sensible the compiler was to
the indescribable charm of Persian minstrelsy:

“But one needs the setting of the Orient to realize what these songs are: the warm, clear Persian night; the lamps and lanterns shining
on the glowing colours of native dresses; the surrounding darkness where dusky shadows hover; the strange sounds of music; voices,
sometimes so beautiful, rising and falling in persistent monotony — all this is untranslatable, but the impression left on one is so vivid and
so full of enchantment that one longs to preserve it in some form.”

Most of these taṣnífs are very simple love-songs, in which lines from Ḥáfiẓ and other popular poets are sometimes

[page 223]

incorporated; the topical, polemical and satirical class is much smaller, though in some ways more interesting as well as more
ephemeral. A parody or parallel of such a taṣníf may be produced to accord with fresh circumstances, as happens nearer
home with the Irish
and the Welsh mochyn du. An instance of such an adaptation is afforded by the
second poem cited in my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia (pp. 174-9). Of course in the taṣníf the air is at least as
important as the words, and a proper study of them would require a knowledge of Persian music, which, unhappily, I do not
possess. Indeed I should think that few Europeans had mastered it both in practice and theory, or could even enumerate the
twelve maqáms and their twenty-four derivatives (shu‘ba)428.


(6) Modern political verse.

Of this I have treated so fully in my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia (Cambridge, 1914) that it is unnecessary to
enlarge further on it in this place. It is a product of the Revolution of 1905 and the succeeding years, and in my opinion
shows real originality, merit and humour. Should space permit, I may perhaps add a few further specimens when I come to
speak of the modern journalism with which it is so closely associated, and which, indeed, alone rendered it possible. The
most notable authors of this class of verse include ‘Árif and Dakhaw of Qazwín, Ashraf of Gílán, and Bahár of Mashhad, all
of whom, so far as I know, are still living, while the two first named are comparatively young men. Portraits of all of them,
and some particulars of their lives, will be found in my book above mentioned.



CHAPTER VI.


425 See my Year amongst the Persians, p. 283.
426 Cf. vol. i of my Lit. Hist. of Persia, pp. 14-18.
427 Lit. Hist. of Persia, vol. ii, pp. 313-16; and Ráḥatu’ṣ-Ṣudúr (E. J. W. Gibb Memorial, New Series, vol. ii), pp. 161 and 497-8 (note on
ḥarára).
428 One of the clearest and most concise treatises on this subject which I have seen is contained in a manuscript from the library of the late
Sir A. Houtum-Schindler (now in my possession) entitled Bahjatu’r-Rawáj.

POETS OF THE CLASSICAL TRADITION.
PRE-QÁJÁR PERIOD (A.D. 1500-1800).

Almost any educated Persian can compose tolerable verses, and the great majority do so, while the number of those who
habitually indulge in this pastime on a considerable scale and have produced díwáns of poetry has been at all times fairly
large. Moreover this poetry is as a rule so conventional, and the language in which it is written so unchanged during the
period under discussion, that if a hundred ghazals, or odes, by a hundred different poets who flourished during the last four
centuries were selected, avoiding those which contained any reference to current events, and omitting the concluding verse of
each, wherein the poet generally inserts his takhalluṣ, or nom de guerre, it is extremely doubtful whether any critic could,
from their style, arrange them even approximately in chronological order, or distinguish the work of a poet contemporary
with Sháh Isma’íl the Ṣafawí from one who flourished in the reign of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh Qájár. Nor do the tadhkiras, or
Memoirs of Poets, give us much help in making a selection, for when discussing contemporaries the author is very apt to
make mention of his personal friends, and to ignore those whom he dislikes or of whom he disapproves. Thus influential or
amiable rhymsters of mediocre ability are often included, while heretics, satirists and persons distasteful or indifferent to the
author, though of greater talent, are often omitted. When Riḍá-qulí Khán “Hidáyat,” author of that great modern anthology
entitled

[page 225]

Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (“the Concourse of the Eloquent”)429, comes to speak of his contemporaries, we constantly come across
such expressions as



“He had a special connection with me, and I a sincere regard for him430”; “I saw him in Shíráz431”; I repeatedly called on him
and he used to open the gates of conversation before my face432”; “I sometimes get a talk with him433”; “for a while he
established himself in Fárs, where at that time the writer also was living; I used constantly to have the honour of conversing
with him, for he used to open the gates of gladness before the faces of his friends434”; and so forth. How many of the 359
“contemporary poets” mentioned in this work435 were included on such personal grounds rather than on account of any
conspicuous merit? I once went through the list with my excellent old friend Ḥájji Mírzá Yaḥyá Dawlatábádí, a man of wide
culture and possessing a most extensive knowledge of Persian poetry, of which he must know by heart many thousands of
verses, and asked him which of them he considered really notable. Out of the whole 359 he indicated five (Ṣabá of Káshán,
Furúghí of Bisṭám, Qá’ání of Shíráz, Mijmar of Iṣfahán, and Nasháṭ of Iṣfahán) as of the first class; two (Wiṣál of Shíráz, and
the author himself, Hidáyat) as of the second; and two (Surúsh of Iṣfahán and Wiqár of Shíráz) as of the third;

[page 226]

that is, he regarded about one out of every forty mentioned as having a claim to real distinction.
In any case, therefore, a very rigorous selection must be made, the more so when it is a question of poets whose beauty
does not depend solely on form, and can, therefore, be preserved in some degree in translation. In making this selection I
have included such poets as enjoy any considerable fame in their own country, and any others whom I happen to have come
across in the course of my reading (a mere fraction of the total number) who make any special appeal to myself. It is doubtful
how far a foreigner is competent to criticize; he may say that he personally admires or dislikes a particular poet, but I doubt if
he should go so far as to class him definitely on this ground as good or bad. The taste of even the Turks and Indians, who are
more familiar with Persian poetry than we can easily become, differs very considerably from that of the Persians themselves,
who must be reckoned the most competent judges of their own literature. In this connection I should like to direct the reader’s
attention to a very apposite passage in P. G. Hamerton’s Intellectual Life436. Speaking of a Frenchman who had learned
English entirely from books, without being able either to speak it, or to understand it when spoken, and “had attained what
would certainly in the case of a dead language be considered a very high degree of scholarship indeed,” he says: “His
appreciation of our authors, especially of our poets, differed so widely from English criticism and English feeling that it was
evident he did not understand them as we understand them. Two things especially proved this: he frequently mistook
declamatory versification of the most mediocre quality for poetry of an elevated order; whilst, on the other hand, his ear
failed to perceive the music of the musical poets, as

429 Composed in 1284/1867-8 and lithographed in 2 vols. at Ṭihrán in 1295/1878.
430 Vol. ii, p. 64, s.v. Ágah-i-Shírází.
431 Ibid., p. 67, s.v. Ázád.
432 Ibid., p. 68, s.v. Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim-i-Shírází.
433 Ibid., s.v. Ummíd of Kirmánsháh.
434 Ibid., p. 72, s.v. Ulfat of Káshán.
435 They occupy pp. 58-679 of vol. ii, but were not all strictly contemporary, a few being as early as the first half of the eighteenth century.
436 New ed., London, Macmillan & Co., 1890, pp. 86-94.

[page 227]

Byron and Tennyson. How could he hear their music, he to whom our English sounds were all unknown?” Transform this
Frenchman into an Indian or a Turk, and substitute “Persian” for “English” and “Qá’ání” for “Byron and Tennyson,” and the
above remarks admirably apply to most Turkish and Indian appreciations of Persian poetry.
Of the poets who died between A.D. 1500 and 1600 some ten or a dozen deserve at least a brief mention; of those
between A.D. 1600 and 1700 about the same number; between A.D. 1700 and 1800 only one or two; between A.D. 1800 and
1885 about a score. Those who outlived the date last-mentioned may be conveniently grouped with the moderns, who will be
discussed separately. The following are the poets of whom I propose to speak briefly, arranged in chronological order of their
deaths (the dates of birth are seldom recorded) in the four periods indicated above.


I. Between A.D. 1500 and 1600 (A.H. 906-1009).

Several of the poets who really belong to this period have been already mentioned in my Persian Literature under Tartar
Dominion, namely, Mír ‘Alí Shír Nawá’í, d. 906/1500-1 (pp. 505-6); Ḥusayn Wá‘iẓ-i-Káshifí, d. 910/1504-5 (pp. 503-4);
Banná’í, killed in the massacre at Qarshí in 918/1512-3 (p. 457); and Hilálí, killed by ‘Ubaydu’lláh Khán the Uzbek as a
Shí‘a in 936/1529-30 (p. 459). Of the last-named only need anything further be said here.

1. Hátifí (d. 927/Dec. 1520 or Jan. 1521).

Mawláná ‘Abdu’lláh Hátifí of Kharjird in Khurásán derives his chief fame from the fact that he was the nephew of the
great Jámí, who, according to the well-known story437, tested his poetical talent before allowing him to write by bidding him
compose

[page 228]

a “parallel” to the following verses in Firdawsí’s celebrated satire438 on Sulṭán Maḥmúd of Ghazna:



“A tree whereof the nature is bitter, even if thou plantest it in the Garden of Paradise,
And if, at the time of watering, thou pourest on its roots nectar and
fine honey from the River of Paradise439,
It will in the end give effect to its nature, and bring forth that same bitter fruit.”

Hátifí produced the following “parallel,” which his uncle Jámí approved, except that he jocularly observed that the
neophyte had “laid a great many eggs on the way440”:



“If thou -should’st place an egg of the crow compounded of darkness
under the Peacock of the Garden of Paradise,

437 See, besides the Persian tadhkiras, Sir Gore Ouseley’s Biographical Notices of Persian Poets (London, 1846), pp. 143-5.
438 The satire is given at the end (pp. 63-6) of the Persian Introduction to Turner Macan’s edition of the Sháh-náma (Calcutta, 1829). These
verses occur on p. 66, ll. 5-7.
439 Probably the celestial river of Salsabíl is intended.
440 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, vol. ii, p. 54. Hátifí’s verses are given on the last page (436) of vol. iii of Ẓiyá Bey’s Kharábát.

And if at the time of nourishing that egg thou should’st give it grain
from the Fig-tree of the Celestial Gardens,

[page 229]

And should’st water it from the Fountain of Salsabíl, and Gabriel
should breathe his breath into that egg,
In the end the crow’s egg will become a crow, and vain will be the
trouble of the Peacock of Paradise.”

Hátifí was one of the innumerable poets who strove to compose a “Quintet” (Khamsa) rivalling that of Niẓámí of Ganja.
Two of his five subjects were the same, the romances of Laylá and Majnún441 and of Shírín and Khusraw; the Haft Manẓar
formed the parallel to the Haft Paykar; while the Tímúr-náma442 formed the counterpart to the Sikandar-náma, except that, as
Hátifí boasts443, his poem was based on historical truth instead of on fables and legends. He also began, but did not complete,
a similar historical poem on the achievements of Sháh Isma‘íl the Ṣafawí, who paid him a surprise visit as he was returning
from a campaign in Khurásán in 917/1511-12. This poem is in the style and metre of the Sháh-náma of Firdawsí, and is
entitled Sháh-náma-i-Haẓrat-i-Sháh Isma’íl444.
Hátifí belongs essentially, like so many other representatives of Art and Letters in the early Ṣafawí -period, to the circle
of Herát formed under the liberal patronage of the later Tímúrids.


2. Bábá Fighání of Shíráz (d. 925/1519).

Fighání appears to be one of those poets who are much more highly esteemed in India than in their own country, for
while Shiblí in his Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam (vol. iii, pp. 27-30), like Wálih in his Riyáḍu’sh-Shu‘ará445, deems him the creator of a new
style of poetry,

[page 230]

Riḍá-qulí Khán only accords him a brief mention in his Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín446 and entirely omits him in his larger Majma‘u’l-
Fuṣaḥá, while the notices of him in the Átash-kada and the Tuḥfa-i-Sámí are very brief. He was of humble origin, the son of a
cutler447 or a vintner according to different accounts, and seems to have lived the life of a somewhat antinomian dervish. In
Khurásán, whither he went from Shíráz, he was unappreciated, even by the great Jámí, with whom he forgathered; but at
Tabríz he subsequently found a more appreciative patron in Sulṭán Ya‘qúb the Prince of the “White Sheep” Turkmáns. He
repented in later life and retired to the Holy City of Mashhad, so that perhaps this verse of his ceased to be applicable:



Stained with wine Fighání sank into the earth: alas if the Angels
should sniff at his fresh shroud448!”

The longest extracts from his poems are given in the Majálisu’l-Mú’minín, but these are all qaṣídas in praise of ‘Alí,
presumably composed towards the end of his life, and, though they may suffice to prove him a good Shí‘a, they are hardly of
a quality to establish his reputation as a great poet.


3. Ummídí (or Umídí) of Ṭihrán (d. 925/1519 or 930/1523-4).

Little is known of Umídí except that his proper name was Arjásp449, that he was a pupil of the celebrated philosopher


441 Published at Calcutta by Sir W. Jones in 1788.
442 Lithographed at Lucknow in Oct. 1869. It comprises about 4500 verses.
443 Rieu’s British Museum Persian Catalogue, p. 654.
444 There is another similar and homonymous poem by Qásimí. See R.M.P.C., pp. 660-1. The Library of King’s College, Cambridge,
possesses a MS. of this latter (Pote Collection, No. 238).
445 See Rieu’s Pers. Cat., p. 651.
446 Lithographed at Ṭihrán, 1305/1887-8, p. 122.
447 On this account he originally wrote verse under the “pen-name of Sakkákí.
448 Lest they should by the smell of the wine know him for the toper be was.
449 One is tempted to conjecture from this name that he may have been a Zoroastrian, but I have found no further evidence to support this
supposition.

[page 231]

Jalálu’d-Dín Dawání, that his skill was in the qaṣída rather than the ghazal, that he was on bad terms with his fellow-
townsmen, on whom he wrote many satires, and that he was finally killed in Ṭihrán in a quarrel about a piece of land, at the
instigation of Qiwámu’d-Dín Núr-bakhshí. Námí, one of his pupils, composed the following verses and chronogram on his
death:



“The much-wronged Umídí, wonder of the Age, who suddenly and
contrary to right became a martyr,
Appeared to me at night in a dream and said, ‘O thou who art
aware of my inward state,
Write for the date of my murder450: “Alas for my blood unjustly shed, alas!” ’ ”

Reference has already been made (p. 59 supra) to a qaṣída composed by him in praise of Najm-i-Thání, and probably his
poetry consisted chiefly of panegyrics, though he also wrote a Sáqí-náma (“Book of the Cup-bearer”) of the stereotyped
form. Manuscripts of his poems are very rare, but there is one in the British Museum451, comprising, however, only 17 leaves,
and even these few poems were collected long after his death by command of Sháh Ṣafí. Mention is, however, made of him
in most of the tadhkiras, and the Átash-kada cites 24 verses from his Sáqí-náma,

[page 232]

and 70 verses from his other poems. Amongst these are the following, also given in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (vol. ii pp. 7-8):



“If the College hall should be turned upside down it matters little;
but may no injury befall the halls of the Wine-houses of Love!
The College buildings, high and low, were destroyed, while the
taverns continued to flourish just the same.”


450 This chronogram gives A.H. 925 (A.D. 1519), but 930/1523-4 is the date given by Sám Mírzá, and 929/1522-3 in the Aḥsanu’t-
Tawáríkh, and, by implication, in the Haft Iqlím.
451 Or. 3642, ff. 180-197. See Rieu’s Persian Supplement, p. 269. The author of the Haft Iqlím, writing more than seventy years after the
death of Umídí, his fellow-townsman and apparently kinsman, says that in his day the well-known verses of the poet consisted of 17
qaṣídas, 3 ghazals, a few fragments and quatrains, and the Sáqí-náma.

[page 233]



Thou art a half-drunk Turk, I am a half-slain bird452; thy affair with
me is easy, my desire of thee is difficult.
Thou settest thy foot in the field, I wash my hands of life; thou
causest sweat to drip from thy cheek, I pour blood from my heart.
Behind that traveller in weakness and helplessness I rise up and
subside like the dust until the halting-place [is reached].
When shall the luck be mine to lift him drunken from the saddle,
while that crystal-clear arm embraces my neck like a sword-belt?
Thou bearest a dagger and a goblet: the faithful with one accord
drink blood beside thee and give their lives before thee.
Now that my scroll of praise is rolled up, hearken to the tale of Ray:
it is a ruin wherein a madman is governor:
A madman on whom counsel produced no effect; a madman whom
chains did not render sensible.
He is a madman full of craft, my old enemy; be not secure of him,
and be not heedless of me.
From the arbiter of eloquence this point is hidden, that a distracted
mind is not disposed to verse.
My genius would snatch the ball453 of verse from all and sundry, if
only the bailiff were not in my house!”


4 and 5. The two Ahlís.

These two homonymous poets, the one of Turshíz in Khurásán (d. 934/1527-8) and the other of Shíráz (d. 942/1535-6),
of both of whom the names are more familiar than the works, must, as Rieu has pointed out454, be carefully distinguished.
Both are ignored by Riḍá-qulí Khán, and both belong,

452 See p. 166, n. i supra.
453 This common simile is derived from the game of polo.

[page 234]

the former actually, the latter spiritually, to the Herát school which gathered round Sulṭán Ḥusayn and Mír ‘Alí Shír. This
school, to which also belonged Ẓuhúrí (d. 1024/1615), likewise of Turshíz, seems never to have been popular in Persia,
except, perhaps, in their own day in Khurásán, but enjoys a much more considerable reputation in India, where Ẓuhári, whose
very name is almost unknown in Persia, enjoys an extraordinary, and, as I think, quite undeserved fame, especially as a writer
of extremely florid and bombastic prose. Ahlí of Shíráz excelled especially in elaborately ingenious word-plays (tajnísát) and
other rhetorical devices.


6. Hilálí (killed in 935/1528-9).

Hilálí, though born in Astarábád, the chief town of the Persian Province of Gurgán, was by race a Chaghatáy Turk, and
was in his youth patronized by Mír ‘Alí Shír Nawá’í. His most famous poem, entitled Sháh u Darwísh, or Sháh u Gadá (“the
King and the Beggar”), has been harshly criticized by Bábur himself455 and in later times by Sprenger456, but warmly
defended by Ethé, who translated it into German verse457. He composed another mathnawí poem entitled Ṣifátu’l-‘Áshiqín
(“the Attributes of Lovers”) and a number of odes collected into a Díwán. Riḍá-qulí Khán says458 that in Khurásán he was
regarded as a Shí‘a, but in ‘Iráq as a Sunní. Unhappily for him ‘Ubaydu’lláh Khán, the fanatical Uzbek, took the former view,
and caused him to be put to death as a “Ráfiḍí.” It is curious, in view of this, that he is not mentioned in the Majálisu’l-
Mú’minín amongst the Shí‘a poets; and perhaps, as asserted in the Haft Iqlím, the

[page 235]

envy of two of his rivals at the Uzbek Court, Baqá’í and Shamsu’d-Dín Kúhistání, rather than his religious views, may have
caused his execution, which ‘Ubaydu’lláh Khán is said to have subsequently regretted. The following verses, however, seem
to indicate Shí‘a propensities:



“Muhammad the Arabian, the honour of both worlds: dust be upon
the head of him who is not as dust at his Door!
I have heard that his life-sustaining ruby lip uttered, like the Messiah,
this tradition:
‘I am the City of Knowledge and ‘Alí is my Door’: a marvellously
blessed tradition! I am the dog of his Door459!”


7. Lisání (d. 940/1533-4).

Lisání of Shíráz is the last of the twenty-two Persian Shí‘a poets mentioned in the Majálisu’l-Mú’minín and deserves
mention rather on account of his devotion to that faith than by reason of his poetic talent; for, although he is said to have
produced more than 100,000 verses, they are little known and seldom met with460, and, though mentioned in the Átash-kada
and the Haft Iqlím, he is ignored by Riḍá-qulí Khán. Most of his life was spent at Baghdád and Tabríz, in which latter


454 Persian Catalogue, pp. 657-8. See also Ethé’s India Office Persian Catalogue, col. 785, No. 1432, where a very valuable autograph MS.,
made in 920/1514, is described.
455 See my Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion, p. 459.
456 Oude Catalogue, p. 427.
457 Morgenländische Studien, Leipzig, 1870, pp. 197-282.
458 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, vol. ii, p. 55.
459 I.e. the dog of ‘Alí. Kalb-‘Alí is not uncommon as a name amongst the Shí‘a, and, as we have seen, the Ṣafawí kings gloried in the title
“Dogs of the Threshold of ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib.” These verses are taken from the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá.
460 There is a copy of his Díwán (Or. 307) in the British Museum. See Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, pp. 656-7.

[page 236]

town he died just before it was taken by the Ottoman Sulṭán Sulaymán. “On account of his devotion to the Twelve Imáms,”
says the author of the Majális, “Lisání would never remove from his head the twelve-gored kingly crown461 until, when
Sulṭán Sulaymán the Turk was advancing to occupy Tabríz, it happened that news of his near approach reached Lisání when
he was engaged in prayer in the great Mosque of Tabríz. On hearing this news, he raised his hands in prayer, saying, ‘O God,
this usurper is coming to Tabríz: I cannot remove this crown from my head, nor reconcile myself to witnessing his triumph,
therefore suffer me to die, and bring me to the Court of Thy Mercy!’ He then bowed his head in prayer, and in that attitude
surrendered his soul to the Beloved.” The following quatrain is characteristic:



“If the joints of Lisání break apart, and his needy body passes into the dust,
By God, from the horizon of his heart naught will appear save the love [or sun]
of ‘Alí and his eleven descendants!”

His poems, in the preservation of which he seems to have been very careless, were collected after his death by his pupil
Sharíf of Tabríz, but so slovenly was the compilation that, according to the Átash-kada, it was known as Sahwu’l-Lisán, or
“Lapsus Linguae.”


8. Fuḍúlí (Fuẓúlí) of Baghdád (d. 970/1562-3).

Fuḍúlí is reckoned amongst the Turkish rather than the Persian poets, and is fully discussed by Gibb in vol. iii of his
monumental History of Ottoman Poetry (ch. iv, pp. 70-107). That he became an Ottoman subject was due to the fact that
Baghdád,

[page 237]

where he was probably born, and where he spent nearly all his life, was taken from the Persians by the Turks in 940/1535;
but, as Gibb says462, “he composed with equal ease and elegance in Turkish, Persian, and Arabic.” He is described by the
same scholar463 as “the earliest of those four great poets who stand pre-eminent in the older literature of Turkey, men who in
any age and in any nation would have taken their place amongst the Immortals.” That his status in the Persian Parnassus is so
much lower is due rather to the greater competition and higher standard of excellence prevailing there than to any lack of skill
on his part in the use of the Persian language.464 That he was of the Shí‘a faith is clear from several of his verses, and from
his Ḥadíqatu’s-Su‘adá465, a Turkish martyrology modelled on the Persian Rawḍatu’sh-Shuhadá of Ḥusayn Wá‘iẓ-i-Káshifí.
As I have referred to Gibb’s great work on Ottoman Poetry, I may here express a doubt as to his claim466 that the kind of
poem entitled Shahr-angíz (or “City-thriller,” as he renders it) is a Turkish invention, and that “there is no similar poem in
Persian literature.” Sám Mírzá in his Tuḥfa-i-Sámí (compiled in 957/15 50) mentions at least two poets, Waḥídí of Qum and
Ḥarfí of Iṣfahán, who composed such poems, the former on Tabríz, the latter on Gílán, and though these were probably
written later than Masíḥí’s Turkish Shahr-angíz on Adrianople, there is nothing to suggest that they were regarded as a
novelty or innovation in Persia. Ḥarfi’s poem, called Shahr-áshúb (“City-disturber”) seems to have been bitterly satirical, for
the

[page 238]

unhappy poet was deprived of his tongue in consequence, as Sám Mírzá relates:




461 Concerning this distinctive head-dress, which gave to the Persian Shí‘a their name of Qizil-básh (“Red-heads”), see p. 48 supra.
462 Loc. cit., p. 72.
463 Ibid., p. 71.
464 He has a complete Persian Díwán, of which a MS. (Add. 7785) exists in the British Museum, and which has been printed at Tabríz. See
Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, p. 659.
465 See Rieu’s Turkish Catalogue, pp. 39-40.
466 Vol. ii, p. 232.

9. Waḥshí of Báfq (d. 991/1583).

Though born at Báfq, a dependency of Kirmán, Waḥshí spent most of his life at Yazd. His poetry, especially his Farhád
u Shírín and his ghazals, are highly praised in the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí, the Átash-kada, and the Majma‘u’l-
Fuṣaḥá467. He also wrote panegyrics on Sháh Ṭahmásp and his nobles, concerning which the author of the work last-named
remarks that in this branch of the poetic art none of the poets of the middle period can compare with the ancients. He did not
finish the Farhád u Shírín, which was completed long afterwards (in 1265/1848-9) by Wiṣál. He wrote two other mathnawí
poems, the Khuld-i-Barín (“Supreme Abode of Bliss”) and Náẓir u Manẓúr, besides ghazals (odes) and qiṭ‘as (fragments), a
large selection of which are given in the Majma’u’l-Fuṣaḥá and the Átash-kada (pp. 111-120)468. The following murabba‘, or
“foursome,” given in both these anthologies, is rather pretty and unusual.



[page 239]


[page 240]


467 Vol. ii, pp. 51-4.
468 See Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, pp. 663-4.

“O friends, hearken to the account of my distraction! Hearken to the tale of my hidden sorrow! Hearken to the story of
my disordered state! Hearken to my description of my bewilderment! How long shall I hide the account of this grievous
story? I burn! I burn! How long shall I refrain from telling this secret?
For a while I and my heart dwelt in a certain street: the street of a certain quarrelsome beauty. We had staked Faith and
heart on one of dissolute countenance; we were fettered in the chains of one with chain-like tresses. In that chain was none
bound save me and my heart: of all that exist, not one was captive then.
Her bewitching narcissus-eyes had not then all these love-sick victims; her curling hyacinthine locks held then no
prisoner; she had not then so brisk a business and so many customers; she was a Joseph [in beauty] but found no purchaser. I
was the first to become a purchaser; it was I who caused the briskness of her market.
My love was the cause of her beauty and comeliness; my shame gave fame to her beauty; so widely did I everywhere
describe her charms that the whole city was filled with the tumult of the spectators. Now she has many distracted lovers, how
should she think or care for poor distracted me?
Since it is so, it is better that we should pursue some other aim, that we should become the sweet-voiced songsters of
some other rose-bower, that we should become the nightingales of some other rose-cheeked beauty, that for a few days we
should follow some other charmer. Where is some fresh young rose whose eloquent nightingale I may become, and whom I
may [thus] distinguish amongst the youthful beauties of the garden?
Although the fancy for thy face hath passed away from Waḥshí’s mind, and the desire for thy charming figure hath
departed from his heart, and one vexed in heart hath departed in vexation from thy street, and with a heart full of complaints
hath departed from the displeasure of thy countenance, God forbid that I should forget thy constancy, or should listen to
man’s counsels of expediency!”

[page 241]

10. Maḥmúd Qárí of Yazd (d. 993/1585).
11. Muḥtasham. of Káshán (d. 996/1587-8).

Maḥmúd Qárí of Yazd, the poet of clothes, who died two years after Waḥshí and three years before Muḥtasham, was
mentioned in the preceding volume of this work469 in connection with the two earlier parodists ‘Ubayd-i-Zákání and Busḥaq
(Abú Isḥáq) of Shíráz; while the far more notable Muḥtasham has been already discussed at some length in the preceding
chapter470 in connection with the religious poetry on which his fame chiefly rests. Of the erotic verse of his early youth and of
his panegyrics on Sháh Ṭahmásp copious specimens are given in the Átash-kada, but these are neither so distinguished nor so
characteristic as his elegies (maráthí) on the martyrdom of Ḥusayn and the other Imáms, from which the extracts given in the
Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá471 are chiefly taken.


12. ‘Urfí of Shíráz (d. 999/1590-1) and his circle.

Though less highly appreciated in his own country than in Turkey and India, ‘Urfí is probably on the whole the most
famous and popular poet of his century472. Though born and brought up in Shíráz, his short life was chiefly spent in India,
where he died in 999/1590-1 at the early age of thirty-six, some say of dysentery, others of poison. He is one of the three
poets of this century (A.D. 1500-1600) discussed by Shiblí Nu‘mání in his Shi’ru’l-‘Ajam473, the other two being his

[page 242]

fellow-townsman Bábá Fighání, already mentioned474, and Fayḍí (Fayẓí), brother of Akbar’s celebrated minister Abu’l-Faḍl
(Abu’l-Faẓl), who, in Shiblí’s opinion, was one of the two Indian poets who wrote Persian verse which would pass as the
work of a genuine Persian475. ‘Abdu’l-Qádir Badá’úní says476 that ‘Urfí and Thaná’í were the two most popular Persian poets

469 Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion, pp. 257 and 351-3. Maḥmúd is not mentioned in the Átash-kada, the Haft Iqlím, or the
Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá; no particulars of his life are known to me, and the date of his death must be regarded as uncertain.
470 Pp. 172-7 supra.
471 Vol. ii, pp. 36-38.
472 See Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, p. 667.
473 Vol. iii, PP. 82-133.
474 Pp. 229-230 supra.
475 The other was Amír Khusraw of Dihlí.

in India in his time, and that manuscripts of their works were to be found in every bazaar and book-shop, while Fayḍí’s
poems, in spite of the large sums of money which he had expended in having them beautifully copied and illuminated, were
little sought after. Gibb says477 that, after Jámí, ‘Urfí and Fayḍí were the chief Persian influences on Turkish poetry until they
were superseded by Ṣá’ib, and that “the novelty in this style lay, apart from the introduction of a number of fresh terms into
the conventional vocabulary of poetry, in the deposition of rhetoric from the chief seat, and the enthronement of loftiness of
tone and stateliness of language in its stead478.” Ẓiyá (Ḍiyá) Pasha, in that portion of his metrical Introduction to the
Kharábát which discusses the Persian poets, after praising Jámí, proceeds to speak of ‘Urfí and Fayḍí as follows:



[page 243]

“Fayḍí and ‘Urfí run neck-and-neck; they are the leaders of the later time.
In Fayḍí is eloquence and freshness, in ‘Urfí sweetness and fluency.
In Fayḍí are fiery exhortations, while ‘Urfí is strong in elegies.
But if pre-eminence he sought, excellence still remains with Fayḍí.
Fayḍí is clear throughout: no dots need be added to his commentary.
But that paragon of excellence suffered martyrdom at his pupil’s hands.”

I can find no evidence in support of the last statement, which, indeed, is at variance with Badá’úní’s exultant
description479 of his painful and unpleasant death480, though perhaps the swollen face and blackened lips, which his bitter
enemy describes with unconcealed Schadenfreude, may have aroused suspicions of poison. The same fanatical writer gives a
series of most uncomplimentary chronograms composed by the orthodox to commemorate the death of an arch-heretic, such
as:



“When infidel Fayḍí died, Faṣíḥ said as the date of his death, ‘A dog
departed from the world in a foul fashion.’”

The simplest of them all are “Fayḍí was a heretic,”
“he died like a dog-worshipper”
and “the rule of heresy broke”
all of which yield the required date A.H. 1004 (A.D.
1595). Badá’úní also says that, with a view to restoring his shattered religious reputation, he composed a commentary on the
Qur’án consisting entirely of undotted letters, adding unkindly that he was drunk and in a state of legal uncleanness when be
wrote it. The author of the Majma‘u’l-

[page 244]

Fuṣaḥá481 in alluding to this book (which he only knew by repute) says that the author “troubled himself to no purpose”
, and has no word of praise for his poems, on which the author of the Átash-kada has the tepid
encomium that “they are not bad.” The fullest and most appreciative account of him which I have met with is that given by
Shiblí Nu‘mání in his Shi’ru’l-’Ajam482. He composed a Khamsa (“Quintet”) in imitation of Niẓámí, the titles of these five
poems being Markaz-i-Adwár, Sulaymán u Bilqís, Nal u Daman (the most celebrated), Haft Kishwar, and Akbar-náma, but

476 Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh, vol. iii, P. 285 (Calcutta, 1869).
477 Hist. of Ottoman Poetry, vol. i, pp. 51 127, 129.
478 Loc. cit. p. 129.
479 Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh, vol. iii, pp. 299-310, especially p. 300.
480 This took place on 10 Safar, 1004 (October 15, 1595). See Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, p. 450, where the chief sources are fully
enumerated.
481 Vol. ii, p. 26. This commentary was entitled, according to Shiblí Nu‘mání (loc. cit., p. 65), Sawáṭi‘u’l-Ilhám.
482 Vol. iii, pp. 31-81.

some of them remained incomplete. He also wrote many qaṣídas and ghazals, and produced several translations from the
Sanskrit. None of his verses quoted by Shiblí appear to me so affecting as the following on the death of his child



“O brightness of my bright eyes, how art thou?
Without thee my days are dark; without me how art thou?
My house is a house of mourning in thine absence;
thou hast made thine abode beneath the dust: how art thou?
The couch and pillow of thy sleep is on thorns and brambles:
O thou whose cheeks and body were as jasmine, how art thou?”

[page 245]

Fayḍí was a man of varied learning and a great lover of books. His library contained four thousand six hundred choice
manuscripts, mostly autographs or copied during the authors’ lifetimes483. He was generous and hospitable, and amongst
those who enjoyed his hospitality was ‘Urfí of Shíráz, to whom we now turn.
‘Urfí, whose proper name was Jamálu’d-Dín Muḥammad and whose father was named Badru’d-Dín, was born and
educated at Shíráz, but at an early age migrated to India, and, as already mentioned, attached himself to Fayḍí, with whom,
however, he presently quarrelled. Badá’úní says484 that one day he called on Fayḍí and found him caressing a puppy,
whereupon he enquired what the name of “the young master” (makhdúm-záda) might be. “‘Urfí,” replied Fayḍí, to which
‘Urfí promptly replied, “Mubárak báshad!” which means “May it be fortunate!” but may be taken as alluding to Fayḍí’s
father Shaykh Mubárak and as meaning, “It should be Mubárak!”
‘Urfí next won the favour of the Ḥakím Abu’l-Fatḥ of Gílán485, by whom he was introduced to that great nobleman and
patron of letters ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím, who succeeded to the title of Khán-Khánán borne by his father Bayram Khán on the
assassination of the latter in 96811560-1. In due course he was presented to the Emperor Akbar himself, whom he
accompanied on his march to Cashmere in 997/1588-9.
In spite of his opportunities and undoubted talents, ‘Urfí’s intolerable conceit and arrogance prevented him from being
popular, and made him many enemies. Riḍá-qulí Khán accords him but a brief notice486, and observes that “the style of his
poems is not admired by the people of this age.” Criticism

[page 246]

and disparagement are, indeed, courted by a poet who could write487:



“Wherefore did Sa‘dí glory in a handful of the earth of Shíráz
If he did not know that it would be my birthplace and abode?”

Nor is this an isolated example of his conceit, for in like fashion he vaunts his superiority to Anwarí, Abu’l-Faraj,
Kháqání, and other great Persian poets, and this unamiable practice may have conduced to his unpopularity amongst his
compatriots, who do not readily tolerate such disparagement of the national heroes. In Turkey, on the other hand, he had, as
we have seen, a great influence and reputation, and likewise in India, so that Shiblí devotes to him fifty-two pages (pp. 82-
133) of his Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, rather more than he devotes to Fayḍí, and much more than he gives to any other of the seven poets
he mentions in the third volume of his work. But even Shiblí admits that his arrogance made him generally unpopular, a fact

483 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, p. 50, and Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh, iii, p. 305.
484 Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh, iii, p. 285.
485 Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh, iii, p. 167. He died in 997/1588-9.
486 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, vol. ii, pp. 24-5.
487 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, p. 88.

of which he was fully aware, as appears from the following poem488, wherein he complains of the hypocritical sympathy of
the so-called “friends” who came to visit him when he was confined to bed by a severe illness:



[page 247]



“My body hath fallen into this state, and my eloquent friends stand
like pulpits round my bed and pillow.
One draws his hand through his beard and cocks his neck, saying,
‘O life of thy father! To whom is fortune constant?
One should not set one’s heart on ignoble rank and wealth: where is the
Empire of Jamshíd and the name of Alexander?’
Another, with soft voice and sad speech, begins, drawing his sleeve across his moist eyes:
‘O my life! All have this road by which they must depart: we are all travellers
on the road, and time bears forward the riders.’
Another, adorning his speech with smooth words, says, ‘O thou whose
death is the date of the revolution of news (inqiláb-i-khabar)!489

[page 248]

Collect thyself, and beware, let not thy heart be troubled, for I will with
single purpose collect thy verse and prose.
After copying and correcting it, I will compose an introduction like a casket of pearls
in support of thy claims;
An index of learning and culture such as thou art, a compendium of good qualities and
talents such as thou art,
I will pour forth, applying myself both to verse and prose, although it is not within
the power of man to enumerate thy perfections!’

‘May God, mighty and glorious, give me health again, and thou shalt see
what wrath I will pour on the heads of these miserable hypocrites!’490”


488 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, pp. 92-3.
489 I think the words
must be taken as a chronogram, giving the date 986/1578-9, in which case this cannot, as Shiblí suggests
(loc. cit., p. 92), have been ‘Urfí’s last illness, since he did not die until 999/1590-1.
490 This final verse is, of course, spoken by the poet himself.

Space does not allow us to follow in detail Shiblí’s interesting and exhaustive study of this poet, to whose verse he
assigns six salient merits, such as “forceful diction”
, new and original combinations of words, fine metaphors and
comparisons, and continuity or congruity of topics
. Except for a little-known prose treatise on Ṣúfíism
entitled Nafsiyya all his work was in verse, and included, according to Shiblí, two mathnawí poems in imitation of Niẓámí’s
Makhzanu’l-Asrár and Khusraw wa Shírín, and a Díwán, compiled in 996/1588, only three years before his death, containing
26 qaṣídas, 270 ghazals, and 700 fragments and quatrains. The following chronogram gives the date of its compilation491:



One of his most famous qaṣídas, given in the Kharábát (vol. i, pp. 169-I74), is in praise of ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib, and
contains 181 verses. It begins:

[page 249]



“I have wandered through the world, but alas! no city or country
have I seen where they sell good fortune in the market!”

‘Urfí is not, however, included amongst the Persian Shí‘a poets to whom notices are consecrated in the Majálisu’l-
Mú’minín.

Concerning the numerous Persians — theologians, scholars, philosophers and poets — attracted to Akbar’s brilliant
court, the third volume of Badá’úní’s Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh is a mine of information, but space will not permit us as a rule
to go beyond the frontiers of the Persian Empire. The late Mr Vincent Smith in his otherwise admirable monograph on
Akbar492 is perhaps unduly hard on, these poets when he says (pp. 415-6):

“The versifiers, or so-called poets, were extremely numerous. Abu’l-Faẓl tells us that although Akbar did not care for
them, ‘thousands of poets are continually at court, and many among them have completed a díwán (collection of artificial
odes), or have written a mathnawí (composition in rhymed couplets).’ The author then proceeds to enumerate and criticize
‘the best among them,’ numbering 59, who had been presented at court. He further names 15 others who had not been
presented but had sent encomiums to His Majesty from various places in Persia493. Abu’l-Faẓl gives many extracts from the
writings of the select 59, which I have read in their English dress, without finding a single sentiment worth quoting; although
the extracts include passages from the works of his brother Fayẓí (Fayḍí), the ‘king of poets,’ which Abu’l-Faẓl considered to
enshrine ‘gems of thought.’”

The third volume of Badá’úní’s Muntakhabu’t-Tawáríkh, which is entirely devoted to the biographies of the poets and
men of learning who adorned Akbar’s court, contains notices of 38 Shaykhs (religious leaders), 69 scholars, 15 philosophers
and phy-

[page 250]

sicians, and no fewer than 167 poets, most of whom, however, though they wrote in Persian and were in many cases Persians
by birth, are unknown even by name in Persia.
Amongst the most eminent names belonging, in part at any rate, to the century which we here conclude, are those of
Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín ‘Ámilí, Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ (Fayẓ) of Káshán, Mír Dámád, and Mír Abu’l-Qásim-i-Findariskí, who,
however, will be more suitably considered amongst the theologians or philosophers.


II. Between A.D. 1600 and 1700 (A.H. 1008-1111).

Four of the seven poets discussed at length by Shiblí in the third volume of his Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam fall within the period
indicated above. These are Naẓírí (d. 1021/1612-13), Ṭálib-i-Ámulí (d. 1036/1626-7), Abú Ṭálib Kalím (d. 1061/1651), and

491 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, p. 95.
492 Akbar the Great Mogul, 1542-1605 (Oxford, 1917).
493 “Á’ín(-i-Akbarí, translated by H. Blochmann and H. S. Jarrett, Calcutta, 1873-1894 in 3 volumes), vol. i, pp. 548, 611.”

Ṣá’ib (d. 1088/1677-8)494. Riḍá-qulí Khán in the enumeration of eminent contemporaries of the Ṣafawí kings with which he
concludes the supplementary eighth volume written by him in continuation of Mírkhwánd’s Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá mentions not
one of these, but, in the period now under consideration, names only Ẓuhúrí (d. 1024/1615) and Shifá’í (d. 1037/1627).
Another poet ignored by both these writers but highly esteemed in Turkey, where, according to Gibb495, “he continued for
more than half a century to be the guiding star for the majority of Ottoman poets,” being “deservedly famous for his
marvellous ingenuity and fertility in the invention of fresh and picturesque images and similes,” is Shawkat (or Shevket,
according to the Turkish pronunciation) of Bukhárá (d. 1107/1695-6). To these seven we may add, besides four or five496
who, though

[page 251]

they wrote occasional verse, were primarily philosophers, and will be discussed in connection with that class, the following
six, who were, perhaps, a trifle more distinguished than their innumerable competitors: Saḥábí of Astarábád (d. 1010/1601-
2), Zulálí of Khwánsár (d. about 1024/1615), Jalál Asír (d. 1049/1639-40), Qudsí of Mashhad (d. 1056/1646-7), Salím of
Ṭihrán (d. 1057/1647-8), and Amání of Mázandarán (d. 1061/1651). Although I think that Rieu497 goes too far when he
describes Ṣá’ib as “by common consent the creator of a new style of poetry, and the greatest of modern Persian poets,” he is
without doubt the greatest of those who flourished in the seventeenth century of our era, and, I think, the only one deserving a
detailed notice in this volume, notwithstanding Riḍá-qulí Khán’s remark that “he had a strange style in the poetic art which is
not now admired498.”
Here follows a list of these seventeen poets, arranged chronologically according to the dates of their deaths, with brief
references to the authorities who may be consulted for further particulars concerning them. These are, besides Rieu’s
incomparable Persian Catalogue, Shiblí’s Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii (Sh.), the Átash-kada (A. K.), the Haft Iqlím (H. I., available
in manuscript only), the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (R. I.), the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá (R. S.), the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (M. F.), and the
Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín (R. ‘Á).

(1) Saḥábí of Astarábád (d. 1010/1601-2). Rieu, p. 672; A. K., pp. 141-2, and H. I., s.v. Astarábád in both; M. F., ii, p.
21; R. ‘Á., pp. 85-6. He spent forty years of his life in tending the holy shrine of Najaf, and composed, besides ghazals, many
quatrains, of which 6000 are said to be extant.

[page 252]

(2) Naẓírí of Níshápúr (d. 1021/1612-3). Rieu, pp. 817-8; Sh. iii, pp. 134-64; A. K., pp. 131-3; H. I., s.v. Níshápúr (a
long notice); M. F., ii, pp. 48-9; R. ‘Á., pp. 236-7. The last thirty years of his life were spent in India, chiefly at Aḥmadábád in
Gujerát, where he died. He was one of the many poets who benefited by the bounty of ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Khán-Khánán, who
provided him with money to perform the pilgrimage to Mecca in 1002/1593-4, in response to a qaṣída beginning:




Through genius I cannot contain myself, like the Magian wine in the jar;
the very garments are rent on my body when my ideas ferment.
Through thy beneficence I experienced all the pleasure of this world:
what wonder if through thee [also] I should obtain provision for the other world?”

In matters of religion he was something of a fanatic, and wrote verses attacking “the heretic” Abu’l-Faḍl. He also wrote
verses in praise of tobacco, some of which are quoted by Shiblí (p. 134).

(3) Zulálí of Khwánsár (d. 1024/1615). Rieu, pp. 677-8; H. I., s.v. Khwánsár (a long notice). He was the panegyrist of
Mír Dámád, and composed seven mathnawís, of which that on Maḥmúd and Ayáz (begun in 1001/1592-3, and concluded in

494 Other dates, e.g. 1080/1669-70, are also given. See Rieu, op. cit., p. 693.
495 History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. i, p. 130. See also vol. iv, p. 95, of the same.
496 Namely, Mír Dámád, Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín, Abu’l-Qásim Findariskí, Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ and ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq-i-Láhijí, called Fayyáḍ.
497 Persian Catalogue, p. 693.
498 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, vol. ii, p. 24,

1024/1615), shortly before his death, is the most popular. Two others mentioned by Rieu are “the Wine-Tavern” (May-
khána), and “the Mote and the Sun” (Dharra u Khurshíd).

[page 253]

(4) Ẓuhúrí of Turshíz (d. 1024/1615, murdered in an affray in the Deccan together with his fellow-poet and father-in-
law Malik of Qum). Rieu, pp. 678-9; A. K., pp. 68-70; R. S., at end of vol. viii. He is, as Rieu observes, little known in Persia,
though much admired in India, especially as a writer of extremely florid prose. The author of the A. K. says that in his
opinion this poet’s Sáqí-náma (“Book of the Cupbearer”) has no great beauty, in spite of the fame which it enjoys.

(5) Bahá’u’d-Dín ‘Ámilí, commonly called Shaykh-i-Bahá'í (d. 1030/1620-1), was primarily a theologian, and to some
extent a philosopher and mathematician, but he wrote at least two short mathnawí poems, entitled respectively Nán u Ḥalwá
(“Bread and Sweetmeats”) and Shír u Shakkar (“Milk and Sugar”). Extracts from both are given in the M. F. (vol. ii, pp. 8-
10), besides a few ghazals and quatrains, and also in the R. ‘Á. pp. 45-9. Apart from his mathematical and astronomical
treatises, his best-known prose work is the Kashkúl (or “Beggar’s Bowl”), which has been printed at Buláq and lithographed
in Persia. This work, though written in Arabic, contains many Persian poetical citations, which, however, are omitted in the
Egyptian edition. The famous mujtahid Mullá Muḥammad Taqí-i-Majlisí (d. 1070/1659-1660) was one of the most eminent
of his disciples.

(6) Ṭálib-i-Ámulí (d. 1036/1626-7). Rieu, p. 679; Sh. iii, pp. 165-188; A. K., pp. 155-6, where it is said that “he had a
peculiar style in verse which is not sought after by eloquent poets.” In India, whither he emigrated in early life, he was so
highly appreciated that Jahángír made him his poet-laureate (Maliku’sh-Shu‘ará) in 1028/1619. He was far from modest, for
he

[page 254]

boasts that before he reached his twentieth year he had mastered seven sciences499:



“My foot is on the second step of the zenith of the decades, and behold
the number of my accomplishments exceeds the thousands!
In mathematics, logic, astronomy and philosophy I enjoy a proficiency
which is conspicuous500 amongst mankind.
When all these are traversed the savoury knowledge of the Truth501, which is
the Master of the Sciences, is added to the sum total.
In the concatenated description of my writing this is enough, that every dot
from my pen is the heart’s core of men of letters502.
I put on the attribute of poetry, for I know that thou knowest that this step is
to me the eighth of these ‘seven severe ones.’503”

In the following quatrain, also cited by Shiblí (p. 168), he alludes to his proposed journey to India and bids himself

[page 255]

“leave his black (i.e. bad) luck in Persia, because no one would take a Hindú as a present to India”:

499 The verses are given by Shiblí, op. cit., p. 166.
500 Literally “which has the White Hand,” in allusion to one of the miracles of Moses.
501 That is, Ṣúfíism, as explained by Shiblí.
502 The word-play between suwaydá and sawád cannot be reproduced in translation.
503 This expression occurs in Qur’án xii, 48, where it denotes the “seven lean years.”

He had an elder sister to whom he was deeply attached and after a long separation she came from Persia to Ágra to see
him. He thereupon sought leave of absence from the Emperor Jahángír in the following verses504:



“O Master, Patron of the humble505! I have a representation [to make] in eloquent language.
I have an old and sympathetic sister, who entertains for me a mother’s love.
Fourteen years or more have passed since my eyes were parted from the sight of her face.
I was removed from her service in ‘Iráq, and this sin is a grievous fault of mine.

[page 256]

She could not bear to remain far from me, for she is as a mother to me.
Lo, she bath come to Ágra, and in longing for her my heart flutters like a pigeon.
My heart craves after her: what can I do? Yearning impels me on the road.
If leave should be granted me to visit her, it would be worth a world to me.”

Of love-poems there are only too many in Persian, but poems such as this, testifying to deep and sincere family affection,
are rare enough to make them worthy of record.

(7) Shifá’í (d. 1037/1627). There exists in the British Museum (Or. 1372, f. 7a) a portrait of this poet, as well as one of
his satires, entitled Sízdah-band506 (Add. 12560, ff. 134-140): see Rieu, pp. 786 and 822. I cannot find in my manuscript of
the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí, either amongst the poets or the physicians of the court of Sháh ‘Abbás, the notice of him
to which Rieu refers, but there is a long account of him in M. F. (Vol. ii, pp. 21-23) and in the R. ‘Á. of the same author (pp.
213-218), as well as in A. K. (pp. 168-9). His proper name was Ḥakím (Doctor) Sharafu’d-Dín Ḥasan, and he was court-
physician and boon companion to Sháh ‘Abbás the Great. Riḍá-qulí Khán says that “his medicine eclipsed his scholarship, as
his poetry eclipsed his medicine”:



Besides satires and odes he composed a mathnawí poem entitled Namakdán-i-Ḥaqíqat in imitation of Saná’í’s Ḥadíqatu’l-
Ḥaqíqat.

(8) Mír Muḥammad Báqir-i-Dámád of Astarábád (d. 1040/1630-1). The title Dámád (“Son-in-law”) really applies to
his father, who was the son-in-law of the celebrated mujtahid Shaykh ‘Alí ibn Abdu’l-‘Al al-‘Ámilí. Mír Dámád, who wrote

[facing page 256]

[Picture: SHIFÁ’Í, POET AND PHYSICIAN]
1920. 9. 17-0298 [2] (Brit. Mus.)


504 Shiblí, op. cit., pp. 179-180.
505 Dharra means a mote, then metaphorically any very small thing or person, so that dharra-parwar is equivalent to the common Indian
gharíb-parwar, “protector of the poor.”
506 So called, I suppose, because it contains 13 strophes.

[page 257]

verse under the pen-name of Ishráq, was more notable as a theologian and philosopher than as a poet. See Rieu, p. 835; M.
F., ii, p. 7; R. ‘Á., pp. 166-7; Á. K., p. 159. There are long notices of him in the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (pp. 114-116), and in the
Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí, written in 1025/1616, while he was still living. He is there described as skilled in most of the
sciences, especially philosophy, philology, mathematics, medicine, jurisprudence, exegesis and tradition, and about a dozen
of his prose works are mentioned. He was one of the teachers of the great philosopher Mullá Ṣadrá of Shíráz.

(9) Mír Abu’l-Qásim-i-Findariskí (d. about 1050/1640-1) was also more notable as a philosopher than as a- poet, but is
mentioned in M. F., vol. ii, pp. 6-7; R. ‘Á., p. 165-6; A. K., pp. 143-4; and Rieu, pp. 815-816. One poem of his, written in
imitation of Náṣir-i-Khusraw, is cited in all the tadhkiras, and is therefore, presumably, his best known if not his, best
production. It begins:



“The heaven with these fair and pleasant stars should be beautiful;
it hath an aspect beneath, whatever there may be above.
If this lower aspect should ascend by the ladder of knowledge, it
would indeed be at one with its original.
No exoteric understanding can comprehend this speech, though it
be Abú Naṣr [al-Fárábí] or Abú ‘Alí [ibn] Síná (Avicenna).”

Abu’l-Qásim was extraordinarily careless of appearances, dressing like a darwísh, avoiding the society of the rich

[page 258]

and the respectable, and associating with disreputable vagabonds. One day Sháh ‘Abbás, intending to rebuke him for keeping
such low company, said to him, “I hear that certain students cultivate the society of vagabonds and look on at their degrading
diversions.” “I move constantly in those circles,” replied Mír Abu’l-Qásim, “but I have never seen any of the students there.”
He made a journey to India, and there, according to the Dabistán507, came under the influence of certain disciples of Ádhar
Kaywán and imbibed Zoroastrian and Hindú or Buddhist ideas which led him to declare that he would never perform the
pilgrimage to Mecca, since it would involve his taking the life of an innocent animal. Though his attainments are rated high
by Riḍá-qulí Khán, very meagre details are given concerning his life; perhaps because, while more a philosopher than a poet,
and more a darwísh than a philosopher, he does not exactly fall into any one of these three classes, and is consequently apt to
be omitted from the special biographies of each.

Among the better-known minor poets of this period are Jalál Asír (d. 1049/1639-40), Qudsí (d. 1056/1646-7), Salím of
Ṭihrán (d. 1057/1647-8), Abú Ṭálib Kalím and Amání of Mázandarán (both died in 1061/1651), Muḥammad Ṭáhir Waḥíd (d.
about 1120/1708-9), and Shawkat of Bukhárá (d. 1107/1695-6). Besides Ṣá’ib (d. 1088/1677-8), the greatest of them all, only
the fourth, the sixth and the last of these demand any separate notice.

(10) Abú Ṭálib Kalím (d. 1061/1651) was born at Hamadán, but, until he went to India, lived chiefly at Káshán (whence
he is often described as “Káshání”) and Shíráz. Riḍá-qulí Khán (M. F., ii, p. 28) gives a very meagre notice of him, but Shiblí
(Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, pp. 205-230) discusses him at some length.

[page 259]

About 1028/1619 he paid a visit to his native country, but after remaining there for about two years, he again returned to
India, where he became poet-laureate to Sháh Jahán. He accompanied that monarch to Cashmere and was so charmed with
that country that he remained there until his death. He was a man of genial disposition, free from jealousy, and consequently
popular with his fellow-poets, of whom Ṣá’ib and Mír Ma‘ṣúm were his special friends, so that Ṣá’ib says:


507 Shea and Troyer’s translation, vol. i, pp. 140-1.

Except Ṣá’ib, the epigrammatic Ma‘ṣúm, and Kalím,
who of all the poets are kind to one another?”

When the poet Malik of Qum died, Abú Ṭálib composed the following verses giving the date of his death:



“Malik, that king of the realm of ideas, whose name is stamped on the coin508 of poetry,
So enlarged the horizons of this realm of ideas that the frontiers of his domains extended
from Qum to the Deccan.
I sought for the date of the year [of his death] from the days: they said ‘He was the chief of
the Masters of Speech’” (ú Sar-i-ahl-i-sukhun búd = 1025/1616)509.

Most of the Persian poets who went to India to seek a fortune, or at least a livelihood, had, according to Shiblí510, nothing
but evil to say of the country, but Kalím speaks of it with appreciations511:

[page 260]



“One can call it the second Paradise, in this sense, that whoever
quits this garden departs with regret.”

On one occasion the Sulṭán of Turkey wrote a letter to the Emperor Sháh Jahán reproaching him with arrogance in
calling himself by this title, which means “King of the World,” when he was in reality only king of India. Kalím justified his
patron in the following verse:



“Since both Hind (India) and Jahán (world) are numerically identical512,
the right of the king to be called ‘King of the World’ [and not
merely ‘King of India’] is demonstrated.”

Shiblí discusses Kalím’s merits very fully, and cites many of his verses to illustrate them. He includes amongst them
especially novelty of topics
, original conceits
, aptness of illustration
. In this last
respect, illustrated by the following amongst other verses, Kalím resembles the more famous Ṣá’ib:



“Fate sets an ambuscade against our luck: the thief always pursues the sleeper513.”



508 Malik is, of course, the Arabic equivalent of Pádisháh, “king,” and one of the two distinctive symbols of kingship is the imposition of
the royal name on the current coin of the realm.
509 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, p. 209.
510 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, iii, p. 209.
511 He also learned more of the vernacular than most of his countrymen. See a poem full of Hindi words cited by Shiblí (op. cit., p. 211).
512 Both words yield the numerical equivalent 59.
513 Luck is called bídár (“awake”) when it is good, and khwábída (“asleep”) when it is bad.

“The heart imagines that it has hidden the secret of love: the lantern
imagines that it has hidden the candle.”

[page 261]



“He who has been raised up from the dust by fortune, like the rider
of the hobby-horse, always goes on foot, although he is mounted.”



“My desolate state is not mended by my virtues, just like the ruin,
which does not prosper through its treasure514.”




“The mean man does not acquire nobility by proximity to the great:
The thread does not become precious through its connection with the pearls.”



“What profits it that I, like the rosary, kissed the hands of all?
After all, no one loosed the knots of my affair.”



“Her converse with me is as the association of the wave and the shore,
Ever with me, yet ever fleeing from me.”



“Where there is power, the hand and heart are not able [to use it]:
The oyster-shell opens its palm when there is no pearl therein.”

(This last verse is very similar to one by Ṣá’ib which runs:



“Flowers and fruit are never found together in one place: it is
impossible that teeth and delicacies should exist simultaneously.”)

[page 262]



“He who has reached [the goal] shuts his lips on ‘Why?’ and ‘Wherefore?’

514 Treasures are popularly supposed to be found in ruins.

When the journey is finished the [camel-]bell becomes tongueless.”



“If thou art satisfied with thy portion, the more or less of the world is the same:
When the thirsty man requires but one draught, the pitcher and the ocean are alike.”



“We are without knowledge of the beginning and end of the world:
the first and last [pages] of this ancient book have fallen out.”



“He who becomes acquainted with the mysteries of the world soon departs:
Whoever does his work brilliantly leaves the school.”

The following ode, cited by Shiblí515, is typical of Kalím, and with it we may conclude this brief notice:



[page 263]



“Old age hath come, and the exuberance of the youthful temperament hath departed;
The weakness of the body can no longer support the heavy [wine-] cup.
The way of the world is not worth seeing a second time:
Whoever passes from this dust-heap looks not back.
Through the triumph of thy beauty over the army of Spring
The blood of the roses hath risen a fathom above the top of, the Judas-tree.
Acquire such a disposition that thou canst get on with the whole world,
Or such magnanimity that thou canst dispense with the world.
According to our creed the detachment of the ‘Anqá is not complete,
For, though it retains no sign, it continues to think of name516.
If one cannot travel the road without sight, then how
Canst thou forsake the world when thou hast closed thine eyes to it?
The ill repute of Life endureth no more than two days:

515 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 229.
516 The mythical bird called in Arabic ‘anqá and in Persian símurgh is often spoken of as “having name but not substance” (mawjúdu’l-ism,
mafqúdu’l-jism).

O Kalím, I will tell thee how these too passed:
One day was spent in attaching the heart to this and that,
And another day in detaching it from this and that.”

[page 264]

(11) Muḥammad Ṭáhir Waḥíd of Qazwín (d. 1120/1708-9)517 was an industrious rather than a great poet: he is said by
Riḍá-qulí Khán518 to have left a Díwán containing 90,000 verses, which, however, were for the most part “tasteless”
(maláḥatí na-dásht), and of which only six are quoted as “the best of his poetry,” amongst them the following quatrain
testifying to his Shí‘a proclivities:




“Whosoever’s nature is leavened with the love of ‘Alí,
Though he be the constant frequenter of church or synagogue,
Even if, for example, they should bring him into Hell
They would bear him thence to Paradise ere his place there had been heated.”

The main facts of Waḥíd’s life are given by Rieu519. He was secretary to two successive Prime Ministers of Persia, Mírzá
Taqiyyu’d-Dín Muḥammad and Khalífa Sulṭán. In 1055/1645-6 he was appointed court-historiographer to Sháh ‘Abbás II,
became a Minister in 1101/1689-90, retired eighteen years later into private life, and died about 1120/ 1708-9. Five
manuscripts of his historical monograph are described by Rieu, one of which (Or. 2940) comes down to the twenty-second
year of the reign, 1073-4/1663. The remark of the Átash-kada, that these poems were only

[page 265]

praised on account of the author’s rank, is probably justified. He was, according to Ethé, a friend of the poet Ṣá’ib.

(12) Shawkat520 of Bukhárá (d. 1107/1695-6) is at the present day almost unknown in Persia. He is not even mentioned
in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá and but briefly in the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín, where only two of his verses are cited, together with the
description of his eccentric demeanour given by his contemporary Shaykh Muḥammad ‘Alí Láhijí, called Ḥazín, who saw
him wandering about in mid-winter, bare-headed and bare-footed, with a piece of felt (namad-pára) over his shoulders and
his head covered with snow, which he did not trouble to shake off. Shawkat only deserves mention because of the reputation
which he enjoys in Turkey and the influence which he exerted over Turkish poetry, an influence which Gibb emphasizes in
several places in his History of Ottoman Poetry521.

(13) Ṣá’ib of Tabríz522 (d. 1088/1677-8) is considered by Shiblí523 as the last great Persian poet, superior in originality to
Qá’ání, the greatest and most famous of the moderns, whom he regards as a mere imitator of Farrukhí and Minúchihrí. Riḍá-
qulí Khán, on the other hand 524, says that Ṣá’ib has “a strange method in the poet’s path, which is not now admired.” He is,
in short, like ‘Urfí, one of those poets who, while greatly esteemed in Turkey and India, are without honour in their own
country. I have already expressed525 my own personal opinion as to his high merits.

[page 266]


517 The date of his death is uncertain. See Rieu’s Persian Supplement pp. 40-41, and Ethé’s India Office Catalogue of Persian MSS, cols.
900-1.
518 M. F., ii, p. 50.
519 Persian Catalogue, pp. 180-190, and the Supplement cited in the last note but one.
520 See Rieu’s Persian Cat., p. 698; Ethé’s India Office Persian Cat., cols. 891-2.
521 Vol. i, p. 130; vol. iv, pp. 96-7, 185. Cf. p. 250 supra.
522 Though he was born in Tabríz he was educated and grew up in Iṣfahán, and is therefore often called “of Iṣfahán.”
523 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 189.
524 M. F., vol. ii, p. 24. Cf. p. 251, n. 2 supra.
525 Pp. 164-5 supra.

According to the Átash-kada526, Ṣá’ib, whose proper name was Mírzá Muḥammad ‘Alí, was born in the village of
‘Abbás-ábád near Iṣfahán, whither his father’s family had been transferred from Tabríz by Sháh ‘Abbás. Having completed
his studies in Iṣfahán, he visited Dihlí and other cities of India at an early age, certainly before 1039/1629-30, and was
patronized by Ẓafar Khán and other nobles. He had only spent two years there, however, when his father, though seventy
years of age, followed him to India in order to induce him to return home, for which journey he sought permission from his
patron Ẓafar Khán in the following verses527:



[To face p. 266]



Autograph of the poet Ṣá’ib

526 Bombay lith. 1277/1860-1, pp. 30-31.
527 Shiblí’s Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 194.

Or. 4937 (Brit. Mus.), p. 472

[page 267]

“More than six years528 have passed since the passage of the steed of
my resolve from Iṣfahán to India took place.
The bold attraction of my longing has brought him weeping from
Iṣfahán to Agra and Lahore.
I your servant have an aged father seventy years old, who has countless
claims upon me by reason of the education [he gave me].
Before he comes from Agra to the flourishing land of the Deccan
with reins looser than the restless torrent,
And eagerly traverses this far road with bent body and feeble form,
I hope for permission from thy O thou whose threshold is
the Ka‘ba of the age’s hopes!
His object in coming is to take me hence, therefore cause thy lips
to scatter pearls [of speech] by [uttering] the word of permission,
And, with a forehead more open than the morning sun, raise thy
hand in prayer to speed me on my way.”

On his return to Iṣfahán, Ṣá’ib became poet-laureate to Sháh ‘Abbás II, but had the misfortune to offend his successor
Sulaymán. He died in Iṣfahán after an apparently uneventful life in 1080/1669-70. The words “Ṣá’ib found death”
give the date of his decease529.
Amongst the merits ascribed to Ṣá’ib by Shiblí is an appreciation of Indian poets rare with the Persians. Shiblí quotes
thirteen verses in which Ṣá’ib cites with approval, by way of taḍmín or “insertion,” the words of Fayḍí, Malik, Ṭálib-i-Ámulí,
Naw‘í, Awḥadí, Shawqí, Fatḥí, Shápúr, Muṭí’, Awjí, Adham, Ḥadhiq and Ráqim. In the following verses he deprecates the
jealousy which-too often characterizes rival singers:




[page 268]



“Happy that company who are intoxicated with each other’s speech;
who, through the fermentation of thought, are each other’s red wine.
They do not break on the stone [of criticism] one another’s pearls
[i.e. verses], but rather strive to give currency to the wares of one another’s shops.
They pelt one another with tender-hued verses as with roses, with
fresh ideas they become the flowers of one another’s gardens.
When they shape their poetry it is with blades like diamonds, and
when their genius tends to become blunted, they are each other’s whetstones.
Except Ṣá’ib, the epigrammatic Ma‘ṣúm, and Kalím, who of all the
poets are kind to one another530?”

Ṣá’ib was a great admirer of Ḥáfiẓ, and is also complimentary to his masters Rukná and Shifá’í. Of the latter he says


528 If, as Shiblí says, these verses were composed in or about 1041/1631-2, Ṣá’ib must have come to India about 1035/1625-6.
529 These words, however, yield the number 1081, not 1080.
530 Cf. p. 259 supra.

“Who will care for poetry in Iṣfahán, O Ṣá’ib,
Now that Shifá’í, whose discerning hand was on the pulse of poetry, is no more?”

He puts Naẓírí not only above himself but above ‘Urfí. “So far,” says Shiblí531, “no objection can be made, but it is a pity
that, yielding to popular approbation and fame, he makes himself also the panegyrist of Ẓuhúrí and Jalál-i-

[page 269]

Asír…. This was the first step in bad taste, which finally established a high road, so that in time people came to bow down
before the poetry of Náṣir ‘Alí, Bí-dil, and Shawkat of Bukhárá. ‘The edifice of wrong-doing was at first small in the world,
but whoever came added thereunto532.’”
Though Ṣá’ib tried his hand at all kinds of poetry, it was in the ode (ghazal) that he excelled. He was a ready wit. One of
his pupils once composed the following absurd hemistich:



“Seek for the bottleless wine from the wineless bottle.”

Ṣá’ib immediately capped it with the following:



“Seek for the truth from the heart which is empty of thought.”

On another occasion one of his friends produced the following meaningless hemistich and apparently invited Ṣá’ib to
complete the verse and give it a meaning:



Ṣá’ib immediately prefixed the following hemistich:



so that the completed verse runs in translation:

“Peace is in proportion to every pause: observe the difference between
‘to run, to walk, to stand, to sit, to lie, to die.’

Ṣá’ib was a very careful student of the works of his predecessors, both ancient and modern, and himself compiled a great
anthology of their best verses, of which, according to Shiblí533 , a manuscript exists at Ḥaydar-ábád in the Deccan, and which
appears to have been utilized by Wálih of Dághistán and other tadhkira-writers. Shiblí

[page 270]

compares Ṣá’ib to Abú Tammám, the compiler of the great anthology of Arabic poetry called the Ḥamása, inasmuch as his
taste is shown even more in his selective than in his creative powers. The following are the verses by Ṣá’ib which I selected
from the Kharábát and copied into a note-book many years ago534. They pleased me when I was a beginner, they still please
me, and I hope that some of them at any rate may please my readers.



531 Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 198.
532 This is a quotation from the Gulistán of Sa‘dí (ed. Platts, p. 32).
533 Op. cit., p. 201.
534 See pp. 164-5 supra. My copy of these selected verses was completed on Sept. 4, 1885.

“When poison becomes a habit it ceases to injure: make thy soul
gradually acquainted with death.”



“The roots of the aged palm-tree exceed those of the young one;
the old have the greater attachment to the world.”



“In this market every head has a different fancy: everyone winds his
turban in a different fashion.”



“What profit accrues from a perfect guide to those whom Fate hath
left empty-handed, for even Khiḍr brings back Alexander athirst
from the Water of Life?”



“The rosary in the hand, repentance on the lips, and the heart full of
sinful longings — sin itself laughs at our repentance!”

[page 271]



“The place of a royal pearl should be in a treasury: one should make
one’s breast the common-place book for chosen verses.”



“All this talk of infidelity and religion finally leads to one place:
The dream is the same dream, only the interpretations differ.”



“The tyrant finds no security against the arrows of the victim’s sighs:
Groans arise from the heart of the bow before [they arise from] the target.”



“The cure for the unpleasant constitution of the world is to ignore it:
Here he is awake who is plunged in heavy sleep.”

“Flowers and fruit are never combined in one place; it is impossible
that teeth and delicacies should exist simultaneously.”



“Ten doors are opened if one door be shut: the finger is the
interpreter of the dumb man’s tongue.”



“The simple-minded quickly acquire the colour of their companions:
The conversation of the parrot makes the mirror [seem to] speak.”

[page 272]



“The march of good fortune has backward slips: to retreat one or
two paces gives wings to the jumper.”



“The wave is ignorant of the true nature of the sea: how can the
Temporal comprehend the Eternal?”



“The touchstone of false friends is the day of need: by way of proof,
ask a loan from your friends.”



“The learned man is a stranger amidst the people of the world,
just as the ‘witness-finger’ [i.e. the index-finger] appears
strange on the Christian’s band.”



“What doth it profit thee that all the libraries of the world should be
thine? Not knowledge but what thou dost put into practice is thine.”

“The life of this transitory world is the expectation of death: to
renounce life is to escape from the expectation of annihilation,”



“O my dear friend! thou hast more care for wealth than for life:
Thy attachment to the turban is greater than to the head.”

[page 273]



“Our heart is heedless of the Beloved, notwithstanding our complete proximity:
The fish lives through the sea, yet heeds not the sea.”



“The weeping of the candle is not in mourning for the moth: the
dawn is at hand, and it is thinking of its own dark night.”



“To quit this troubled world is better than to enter it: the rose-bud
enters the garden with straitened heart and departs smiling.”



“If friendship is firmly established between two hearts, they do not
need the interchange of news.”



“When a man becomes old, his greed becomes young: sleep grows
heavy at the time of morning.”



“To the seeker after pearls silence is a speaking argument, for no
breath comes forth from the diver in the sea.”

“Not one handful of earth is wasted in this tavern: they make it
either into a pitcher, a wine-jar, or a wine-cup.”

[page 274]



“The enjoyments of both worlds will not satisfy the greedy man:
Burning fire has always an appetite.”



“The humá535 of happiness came to me in old age; the shadow of
fortune came to me at the time of [the sun’s] decline:
Heaven became kind to me at the close of my life: peaceful slumber
visited me at morning-time.”



“I talk of repentance in the days of old age; I bite my lip [in
remorse] now that no teeth remain to me.”



“When perfection536 is unduly increased it becomes the destroyer of life:
The tender branch breaks when it bears too much fruit.”



“If I am mad, then who on the face of the earth is sane? If thou art
sane, then there is no madman in the world.”



[page 275]

“The only thing which troubles me about the Resurrection Day is this,
That one will have to look once again on the faces of mankind.”


535 The humá is a mythical bird of whom it is supposed that if its shadow falls on anyone he will become a king.
536 As already pointed out, perfection is regarded as a danger because it is specially obnoxious to the Evil Eye, which the Arabs call
‘Aynu’l-Kamál, “the Eye of Perfection.” See supra, p. 117, n. 2, and p. 216, n. 2.

“Become placeless, for to change this place of water and clay is but
to move from one prison to another.”



“I do not bid thee detach thy heart from the sum of the world:
detach thy heart from whatever lies beyond thy reach.”



“In the end the idolator is better than the worshipper of self:
better be in bondage to the Franks than in the bondage of self.”



“If thou dost not trample under foot this world of form, then suffer
until the Resurrection the torments of this tight boot.”



“Within his own house every beggar is an emperor: do not overstep
thine own limit and be a king.”



“If I worship the rose according to the rites of the nightingale, it is
a fault — I, who in the worship of fire am of the religion of the moth.”

[page 276]



“Everyone who like the candle exalts his head with a crown of gold
will oft-times sit [immersed] in his tears up to the neck.”



“Formerly people used to grieve over the departed, but in our days
they grieve over the survivors.”

Either one should not avert one’s face from the torrent of vicissitudes,
Or one should not make one’s home in the plain of the Phenomenal World.”




“Every tombstone is a hand stretched forth from the house of oblivion
of the earth to search for thee.”



“The hair has become white through the squeezing of the sphere, and
the milk which I had drunk in the time of childhood has
reappeared [on my head].”



“If everyone could easily become honoured in his own country,
How would Joseph have passed from his father’s embrace to a prison?”

[page 277]

III. Between A.D. 1700 and 1800 (A.H. 1111-1215).

From the literary point of view this century is perhaps the most barren in the whole history of Persia537, so much so that
the only notable poem produced by it is, so far as I know, the celebrated tarjí‘-band of century. Hátif-i-Iṣfahání, of which I
shall speak presently. On the other hand we have two full and authoritative accounts of the period by two men of letters who
were personally involved in the disastrous events which befell Persia during and after the Afghán invasion, and who have left
us a fairly clear and detailed picture of that sad and troubled epoch. These men were Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín (b. 1103/1692, d.
1180/1766-7), and Luṭf ‘Alí Beg poetically surnamed Ádhar (b. 1123/1711, d. 1195/1781). Both were poets, and the former
even a prolific poet, since he composed three or four díwáns, but their prose writings are, from our point of view, of much
greater interest and value than their verse.

Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín, whose proper name was Muḥammad ibn Abí Ṭálib of Gílán, is best known by his “Memoirs”
(Tadhkiratu’l-Aḥwál), which he composed in India in 1154/1741-2, twenty years after he had become an exile from his native
land, and which are easily accessible to students in the text and English translation published by F. C. Belfour in 1830-31. He
was born, as he himself tells us, on Monday the 27th of Rabí‘ ii, 1103 (Jan. 19, 1692) at Iṣfahán, and was directly descended
in the eighteenth degree from the famous Shaykh Ẓáhid of Gílán, of whom some account was given in a previous chapter538.
The family continued to reside in Gílán, first at Astárá and then at Láhiján, until the author’s

[page 278]

father, Shaykh Abú Ṭálib, at the age of twenty, went to Iṣfahán to pursue his studies, and there married and settled. He died
there in 1127/1715 at the age of sixty-nine, leaving three sons, of whom our author was the eldest, to mourn his loss539.
Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín speaks in the highest terms of his father’s character and ability, and quotes a few lines from an elegy

537 Cf. p. 168 supra.
538 See pp. 38-43 supra.
539 A fourth son died in infancy. The mother survived the father by two years.

which he composed on this mournful occasion. He also mentions that, amongst other final injunctions, his father addressed to
him the following remarkable words540: “If you have the choice, make no longer stay in Iṣfahán. It were meet that some one
of our race should survive.” “At that time,” the author continues, “I did not comprehend this part of his address, not till after
some years, when the disturbance and ruin of Iṣfahán took place541.”
Since the “Memoirs” can be read in English by anyone interested in their contents, it is unnecessary to discuss or analyse
them here, and it will be sufficient to emphasize their importance as a picture of the author’s times, and to note a few points
of literary interest. In 1135/1722-3 he began to compile a kind of literary scrap-book or magazine (majmú‘a), probably
somewhat similar in character to the Kashkúl of Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín ‘Ámilí, and entitled Muddatu’l-‘Umr542 (“Lifetime”),
but it was lost with the rest of his library in the sack of Iṣfahán by the Afgháns a few months later, About the same time or a
little earlier he wrote, besides numerous philosophical commentaries, a book on the Horse (Faras-náma), and

[page 279]

published his second Díwán of poetry, and soon afterwards his third543.
The Afghán invasion and the misery which it caused, especially in Iṣfahán, put a stop to Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín’s literary
activities for some time. “During the latter days of the siege,” he says544, “I was attacked by severe illness; and my two
brothers, my grandmother, and the whole of the dwellers in my house died, so that my mansion was emptied of all but two or
three infirm old women-servants, who attended me till my disorder began to abate.” Being somewhat recovered, he escaped
from Iṣfahán early in Muḥarram, 1135 (October, 1722), only a few days before it surrendered to, and was entered by, the
Afgháns. During the next ten years he wandered about in different parts of Persia, successively visiting or residing at
Khurramábád in Luristán, Hamadán, Niháwand, Dizful, Shúshtar (whence by way of Baṣra he made the pilgrimage to Mecca
and on his return journey visited Yaman), Kirmánsháh, Baghdád and its holy places, Mashhad, Kurdistán, Ádharbáyján,
Gílán and Ṭihrán. From the last-named city he returned once more to Iṣfahán to find “that great city, notwithstanding the
presence of the King545, in utter ruin and desertion. Of all that population and of my friends scarcely anyone remained.” It
was the same at Shíráz, whither he made his way six months later. “Of all my great friends there,” he says546 “the greatest I
had in the world, not one remained on foot; and I met with a crowd of their children and relatives in the most melancholy
condition and without resource.” From Shíráz he made his way by Lár to Bandar-i-‘Abbás, intending to go thence in

[page 280]

a European ship to the Ḥijáz, “because their ships and packets are very spacious and are fitted up with convenient apartments,
and their navigators also are more expert on the sea and more skilful in their art than any other nation547.” He was, however,
prevented by illness and poverty (caused partly by the loss of his patrimony in Gílán, partly by the exorbitant and oppressive
taxation which now prevailed) from carrying out this plan. A subsequent attempt carried him in a Dutch vessel as far as
Muscat, which he found little to his liking, so that after a stay of rather more than two months he returned again to Bandar-i-
‘Abbás. He next visited Kirmán, but, finding “the affairs of that ruined country in utter confusion by reason of the
insurrection of a body of the Balúch tribe and other accidents548,” he returned thence after a few months’ stay to Bandar-i-
‘Abbás in the hope of being able to go thence once again to Baghdád and the Holy Shrines. Finding this impracticable owing
to Nádir’s operations against the Turks, and unable to endure any longer the sight of the misery prevailing throughout Persia,
he embarked on the 10th of Ramaḍán, 1146 (Feb. 14, 1734) for India, where, in spite of the deep dislike which he conceived
for that country, he was destined to spend the remaining forty-five years of his long life. “To me,” he says549, “who do not
reckon the time of my residence in this country as a portion of my real life, the beginning of my arrival on the shores of this
empire appears as it were the end of my age and vitality.” A little further on he says, “Altogether my nature had no agreement
with the fashions and manners of this country, nor any power of patiently enduring them,” and adds a few lines lower “the
sight of these dominions became more and more hateful to me, and being continually in hope of escape from them, I
reconciled

[page 281]


540 Belfour’s text, p. 16; translation, p. 14.
541 Compare text, p. 107; translation, p. 117.
542 See pp, 93-4 of Belfour’s translation, to which henceforth references will be given. There is a Ms. of this work in the British Museum.
See Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, p. 483, where two other works by the same author, one on wine and measures and another on beasts of
venery, are mentioned.
543 See Belfour’s translation, pp. 106 and 111, and for his fourth Díwán, which was published somewhat later, p. 176.
544 Ibid., p. 128.
545 Ibid., p. 205. This was after the expulsion of the Afgháns by Nádir.
546 Ibid., p. 207.
547 See Belfour’s translation, p. 215.
548 Ibid., p. 240.
549 Ibid, p. 253.

my mind to the incidents in the affairs of Persia, and bent my thoughts on my return thither550.” Although unhappily
disappointed in this hope, and compelled to spend the long remainder of his days in “a country traced…with foulness and
trained to turpitude and brutality551,” where “all the situations and conditions…are condemned by fate to difficulty and
bitterness of subsistence552,” he declined to include in his “Memoirs” any account of his personal experiences in India, save
in so far as they were connected with such important historical events as Nádir Sháh’s invasion and the terrible massacre he
made in Dihlí on March 20, 1739. So, though the “Memoirs” were penned at “the end of the year [A.H.] 1154553” (beginning
of A.D. 1742), they deal chiefly with the author’s personal history before he left Persia twenty years earlier. The accounts of
contemporary scholars and men of letters (many of whom perished during the siege of Iṣfahán in A.D. 1722) with whom he
was personally acquainted constitute one of the most valuable features of this interesting
book.
Eleven years later (1165/1752) Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín composed an account of about a hundred contemporary poets entitled
Tadhkiratu’l-Mu‘áṣirín, which is included in the lithographed edition of his complete works published at Lucknow in
1293/1876, and of which MSS. exist in the British Museum and elsewhere554.

[page 282]

Another and more accessible contemporary account of the poets of this period forms the last portion of the well-known
Átash-kada (“Fire-temple”) of Luṭf ‘Alí Beg Ádhar. The greater part of this book deals with the Persian poets who flourished
before the author’s time, arranged in alphabetical order under the various towns and countries which gave birth to them,
including Túrán and Hindustán. This is followed by an account of sixty of the author’s contemporaries, which begins with a
brief historical survey of the misfortunes of Persia during the fifty years succeeding the Afghán invasion down to the re-
establishment of security and order in the South by Karím Khán-i-Zand555. The author recognizes the dearth of poets and men
of letters during this period and ascribes it to the prevalent chaos and misery, “which,” he says, “have reached such a point
that no one has the heart to read poetry, let alone to compose it”:



To most of these poets the author devotes only a few lines. The longer notices include Mullá Muḥammad Mú’min,
poetically surnamed Dá‘í, who died in 1155/1742-3 at the age of ninety; Mullá Ḥusayn Rafíq of Iṣfahán; Sayyid Muḥammad
Shu‘la of Iṣfahán; Sayyid Muḥammad Ṣádiq of Tafrish; Mírzá Ja‘far Ṣáfí of Iṣfahán; a young friend of the author’s named
Sulaymán, who wrote under the name Ṣabáḥí, and to whose poems he devotes no less than thirteen pages; Mírzá Muḥammad
‘Alí Ṣubúḥ of Iṣfahán;

[page 283]

Áqá Taqí Ṣahbá of Qum; Sayyid ‘Abdu’l-Báqí Ṭabíb (“the physician”), whose father Mírzá Muḥammad Raḥím was court-
physician to Sháh Sulṭán Ḥusayn, as he himself was to Nádir Sháh; Ṭúfan of Hazár-jaríb, whose death was commemorated by
the author in a chronogram giving the date 1190/1776-7; Áqá Muḥammad ‘Áshiq of Iṣfahán (d. 1181/1767-8), to whom he
devotes eight pages; and his own younger brother Isḥáq Beg, who wrote under the pen-name of ‘Udhrí and died in
1185/1771-2, according to the chronogram:



Other poets noticed are Muḥammad ‘Alí Beg the son of Abdál Beg, a Frankish painter who embraced Islám, Sayyid
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Ghálib, who spent fourteen years of his earlier life in India and married the daughter of the Nawwáb
Sar-afráz Khán; Mír Sayyid ‘Alí Mushtáq of Iṣfahán; Sayyid Muḥammad Ṣádiq, nephew of the above-mentioned court-
physician Mírzá Muḥammad Raḥím, who, besides several mathnawí poems dealing with the somewhat threadbare romances
of Laylá and Majnún, Khusraw and Shírín and Wámiq and ‘Adhrá, was engaged on a history of the Zand dynasty; Mírzá

550 See Belfour’s translation, p. 255.
551 Ibid., p. 256.
552 Ibid., p. 261.
553 Ibid, p. 257.
554 See Rieu’s Pers. Cat., p. 372, and Sprenger’s Catalogue, pp. 135-141, where the contents are fully stated. Through the kindness of my
friend Professor Muḥammad Shafi‘ of the Oriental College, Lahore, I have recently (September, 1923) received a copy of the Kulliyyát,
or Complete Works, of Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín, lithographed at Kánpúr in 1893. It comprises 1032 pp., of which this Tadhkira occupies pp.
931-1025. I make the number of biographies contained in it 96, and of all these poets there are only about four of whom I ever heard even
the names, to wit, Ṭáhir of Qazwín, Shawkat of Bukhárá, Shafí‘á Athar of Shíráz, and Luṭf ‘Alí Beg Shámí.
555 “That peerless Prince of happy fortune Abu’n-Naṣr Sulṭán, Karím.”

Naṣír, son of the physician Mírzá ‘Abdu’lláh (d. 1192/1778); and Sayyid Aḥmad Hátif, the most notable of all these poets, of
whom we shall shortly have to speak.
Luṭf ‘Alí Beg concludes his Átash-kada with an autobiography of himself, from which we learn that he was born on the
20th of Rabí‘ i, A.H. 1123 (June 7, 1711) at Iṣfahán, but spent fourteen years of his earlier life at Qum, whither his family
migrated in consequence of the Afghán menace. At the beginning of Nádir Sháh’s reign his father was made governor of Lár
and the coasts of Fárs, and he resided in Shíráz. On the death of his father two years later he accompanied his uncle Ḥájji
Muḥammad Beg on the

[page 284]

pilgrimage to Mecca, and, after visiting that and the other holy places, returned to Persia, and was at Mashhad when Nádir’s
victorious army returned from India. After accompanying them to Mázandarán he returned to Iṣfahán, and, after the
assassination of Nádir Sháh, was attached for a while to the service of ‘Ali Sháh, Ibráhím Sháh, Sháh Isma‘íl and Sháh
Sulaymán. He then seems to have retired from public life and devoted himself to the cultivation of poetry under the guidance
and tuition of Mír Sayyid ‘Alí Mushtáq. With selections of this poetry, largely drawn from his Yúsuf u Zulaykhá, he
concludes the book556.
Of Sayyid Aḥmad Hátif of Iṣfahán, though he was the contemporary and friend of Luṭf ‘Alí Beg, no biographical
particulars are given in the Átash-kada, but only praises which appear somewhat exaggerated, since he is described as “in
Arabic and Persian verse and prose the third after A‘shá and Jarír, and second only to Anwarí and Ẓahír.” Nearly ten pages
are filled with citations from his poems, but of all these we need only concern ourselves with the beautiful and celebrated
tarjí‘-band by which alone Hátif’s name has been immortalized.



[page 285


556 I have used the Átash-kada in the Bombay lithographed edition of 1277/1860. It has three defects: the numeration of the pages stops at
189; the dates are often omitted; and the accuracy of the text leaves a good deal to be desired.

[page 286]



[page 287]

[page 288]

[page 289]



[page 290]

[page 291]

[page 292]



(Strophe I)

“O Thou to whom both heart and life are a sacrifice, and O Thou in
whose path both this and that are an offering!
The heart is Thy sacrifice because Thou art a charmer of hearts; life
is Thine offering because Thou art the Life of our lives557.
Hard it is to deliver the heart from Thy hand; easy it is to pour out
our life at Thy feet.
The road to union with Thee is a road full of hardships; the pain of
Thy love is a pain without remedy.
We are servants holding our lives and hearts in our hands, with eyes
[fixed] on Thy orders and ears [waiting] on Thy command.
If Thou seekest peace, behold our hearts; and if Thou seekest war,
behold our lives!
Last night, [impelled] by the madness of love and the impulse of
desire, I was rushing in bewilderment in every direction.
At last desire for the [Beatific] Vision turned my reins towards the
temple of the Magians.
Far from it be the Evil Eye! I beheld a secret gathering bright with
the Light of Truth, not with the Flames [of Hell].
On every side I beheld that fire which Moses the son of ‘Imrán saw
that night on Sinai.
There was an elder [busied] with tending the fire, round about whom
respectfully stood the young Magians,
All silver-skinned and rose-cheeked, all sweet-tongued and narrow-
mouthed.
[There were] lute, harp, flute, cymbals and barbiton; candles, desert,
roses, wine and basil;
The moon-faced and musky-haired cup-bearer; the witty and sweet-
voiced minstrel.

[page 293]

Magian and Magian boy, Fire-priest and High Priest, all with loins
girt up for His service.
I, ashamed of my Muhammadanism, stood there concealed in a
corner.
The elder enquired, ‘Who is this?’ They answered, ‘A restless and
bewildered lover.’
He said, ‘Give him a cup of pure wine, although he be an unbidden
guest.’
The fire-handed and fire-worshipping cup-bearer poured into the
goblet the burning fire.
When I drained it off, neither reason remained nor sense; thereby
were consumed both Infidelity and Faith.
I fell down intoxicated, and in that intoxication, in a tongue which
one cannot explain,
I heard this speech from [all] my limbs, even from the jugular vein
and the carotid artery:


557 It is impossible adequately to preserve in English the play between dil and dilbar, ján and jánán.

‘He is One and there is naught but He:
There is no God save Him alone!’

(Strophe II)

O Friend, I will not break my ties with Thee, even though with a
sword they should hew me limb from limb!
Truly a hundred lives were cheap on our part [to win] from Thy
mouth a sweet half-smile.
O Father, counsel me not against love, for this son [of thine) will
not prove susceptible [to counsel]!
People counsel these [others]: O would that they would counsel
me concerning Thy love!
I know the road to the street of safety, but what can I do? for I am
fallen into the snare.
In the church I said to a Christian charmer of hearts, ‘O thou in
whose net the heart is captive!
‘O thou to the warp of whose girdle each hair-tip of mine is sepa-
rately attached!
‘How long [wilt thou continue] not to find the way to the Divine
Unity? How long wilt thou impose on the One the shame of the Trinity?
How can it be right to name the One True God “Father,” “Son,”
and “Holy Ghost”?’
She parted her sweet lips and said to me, while with sweet laughter
she poured sugar from her lips:

[page 294]

‘If thou art aware of the Secret of the Divine Unity, do not cast on
us the stigma of infidelity!
‘In three mirrors the Eternal Beauty cast a ray from His effulgent
countenance.
‘Silk does not become three things if thou callest it Parniyán,
Ḥarír and Parand558.’
Whilst we were thus speaking, this chant rose up beside us from
the church-bell:

‘He is One and there is naught but He:
There is no God save Him alone!’

(Strophe III)

Last night I went to the street of the wine-seller, my heart boiling
and seething with the fire of love.
I beheld a bright and beautiful gathering presided over by the wine-
selling elder.
The attendants stood row on row, the wine-drinkers sat shoulder
to shoulder.
The elder sat in the chief seat and the wine-drinkers around him,
some drunk and some dazed,
With breasts devoid of malice and hearts pure, the heart full of talk
and the lips silent.
The eyes of all, by the Eternal Mercy, beholding the Truth, and
their ears hearkening to secrets.
The greeting of this one to that one, ‘Wassail!’ the response of that
one to this one, ‘Drink-hale’!
With ears for the harp and eyes on the goblet, and the desire of both
worlds in their embrace.
Advancing respectfully, I said, ‘O thou whose heart is the abode of
the Angel Surúsh559,

558 All these words, of which the first and last are Persian and the other Arabic, mean silk.

I am an afflicted and needy lover: behold my pain and strive to
remedy it!’
The elder, smiling, said to me mockingly: ‘O thou to whom the
Guide of Reason is a devoted560 slave!

[page 295]

‘Where art thou, and where are we561, O thou for shame of whom the
daughter of the grape562 sits with veiled face?’
I said to him, ‘My soul is consumed! Give me a draught of water,
and abate my fire from its vehemence!
‘Last night I was consumed by this fire: alas if my to-night be as
my yestere’en!’
He said smiling, ‘Ho! Take the cup!’ I took it. He cried, ‘Ha!
Drink no more!’
I drained a draught and became free from the pain of understanding
and the trouble of sense.
When I came to my senses I saw for a moment One, and all else
mere lines and figures.
Suddenly in the temples of the Angelic World the Surúsh563 whispered
these words into my ear:

‘He is One and there is naught but He:
There is no God save Him alone!’

(Strophe IV)

Open the eye of the heart that thou mayst behold the spirit, that
thou mayst see that which is not to be seen.
If thou wilt turn thy face towards the Realm of Love thou wilt see
all the horizons a garden of roses.
Thou wilt behold the revolution of the cycle of heaven favourable to
all the people of this earth.
That which thou seest thy heart will desire, and that which thy heart
desireth thou wilt see.
The headless and footless beggar of that place thou wilt see heavy-
headed with the dominion of the world564.
There also thou wilt see a bare-footed company with their feet set
on the summit of the Guard-stars565.

[page 296]

There also thou wilt see a bare-headed assembly canopied overhead
by the throne of God.
Each one at the time of ecstasy and song thou wilt see shaking his
sleeves over the two worlds566.
In the heart of each atom which thou cleavest thou wilt behold a sun
in the midst.
If thou givest whatsoever thou hast to Love, may I be accounted an
infidel if thou shouldst suffer a grain of loss!
If thou meltest thy soul in the fire of Love, thou wilt find Love the

559 Surúsh with the Zoroastrians, like Jibrá’íl (Gabriel) with the Muhammadans, is the Angel who brings revelation.
560 Literally “with a ring in the ear,” a sign of servitude.
561 That is, how far apart are we.
562 Wine, who must veil her face before the stranger (ná-maḥram).
563 See p. 294 supra, n. 2 ad calc.
564 I.e. even the veriest beggar in the Realm of Love exercises in this lower world such authority as do the kings and rulers of earth, and is
as much preoccupied by his responsibility as they are.
565 Farqadán, two bright stars in Ursa Minor, called “the Guards” or “Guardians” (from the Spanish word guardare, “to behold”) because
of their “singular use in navigation.” See vol. ii of my Traveller’s Narrative, p. 125, ad calc.
566 I.e. snapping his fingers at them, taking no account of them.

Alchemy of Life;
Thou wilt pass beyond the narrow straits of dimensions, and wilt
behold the spacious realms of the Placeless;
Thou shalt hear what ear hath not heard, and shalt see what eye
hath not seen;
Until they shall bring thee to a place where of the world and its
people thou shalt behold One alone.
To that One shalt thou make love with heart and soul, until with
the eye of certainty thou shalt clearly see

‘That He is One and there is naught but He:
There is no God save Him alone!’

(Strophe V)

From door and wall, unveiled, the Friend shines radiant, O ye who
have eyes to see!
Thou seekest a candle whilst the sun is on high: the day is very
bright whilst thou art in darkest night.
If thou wilt but escape from thy darkness thou shalt behold all the
universe the dawning-place of lights.
Like a blind man thou seekest guide and staff for this clear and level
road.
Open thine eyes on the Rose-garden, and behold the gleaming of
the pure water alike in the rose and the thorn.
From the colourless water [are derived] a hundred thousand colours:
behold the tulip and the rose in this garden-ground.
Set thy foot in the path of search, and with Love furnish thyself with
provision for this journey.
By Love many things will be made easy which in the sight of Reason
are very difficult.

[page 297]

Speak of the Friend in the mornings and the evenings: seek for
the Friend in the gloaming and at dawn.
Though they tell thee a hundred times ‘Thou shalt not see me567,’ still
keep thine eyes fixed on the Vision,
Until thou shalt reach a place to which the foot of Fancy and the
eye of Thought cannot attain.
Thou shalt find the Friend in an assembly whereunto not even
Gabriel the trusted hath access.
This is the Road, this thy Provision, this the Halting-place: if thou
art a roadsman, come and bring!
And if thou art not equal to the Road, then, like the others, talk of
the Friend and scratch the back of thy head568!
O Hátif, the meaning of the Gnostics, whom they sometimes call
drunk and sometimes sober,
[When they speak] of the Wine, the Cup, the Minstrel, the Cup-
bearer, the Magian, the Temple, the Beauty and the Girdle,
Are those hidden secrets which they sometimes declare in cryptic
utterance.
If thou shouldst find thy way to their secret thou wilt discover that
even this is the secret of those mysteries,

‘He is One and there is naught but He:
There is no God save Him alone!’



567 Lan tarání, the answer given to Moses when he desired to see God face to face. See Qur’án, vii, 139.
568 Like one bewildered or undecided.

CHAPTER VII.

POETS OF THE QÁJÁR PERIOD.

The Qájár rule was strong though severe, and, in spite of its harshness, was, perhaps, welcome on the whole to a country
which had suffered seventy years of anarchy and civil war. The brief and bloody reign of the eunuch Áqá Muḥammad
Khán569, who once more carried the Persian standards into Georgia and captured Tiflís, was followed by the milder
administration of his nephew Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh (A.D. 1797-1834), to whose influence Riḍá-qulí Khán, in the Introduction to his
Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, ascribes the revival of poetry and the restoration of a better literary taste. He himself wrote verses under
the pen-name of Kháqán, and gathered round him a host of poets to whose lives and work several monographs are devoted,
such as the Zínatu’l-Madá’iḥ, the Anjuman-i-Kháqán, the Gulshan-i-Maḥmúd and Safí-natu’l-Maḥmúd, the Nigáristán-i-
Dárá, and the Tadhkira-i-Muḥammad-Sháhí, all of which are described by Rieu in his Supplementary Catalogue of the
Persian MSS. in the British Museum (pp. 84-91), and most of which were utilized by the above-mentioned Riḍá-qulí Khán.
One of them, the Gulshan-i-Maḥmúd, contains notices of forty-eight of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh’s sons who wrote poetry, and at a later
date the Royal Family supplied Persia with another verse-making autocrat in Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh (A.D. 1848-1896), but these
kingly outpourings need detain only those who accept the dictum Kalámu’l-Mulúk Mulúku’l-Kálám (“the Words of Kings are
the Kings of Words”).

[page 299]

These poets of the earlier Qájár period might very well have been included in the preceding chapter, but for the
inordinate length which it has already attained. The only respect in which they differed from their immediate predecessors
was in their reversion to earlier models and their repudiation of the school typified by ‘Urfí, Ṣá’ib, Shawkat, and their
congeners. This fact is established from two opposite quarters. On the one hand Shiblí, as we have seen570, takes the view that
Persian poetry, which began with Rúdakí, ended with Ṣá’ib, and that Qá’ání and the moderns did but imitate the older
classical poets, especially Farrukhí and Minúchihrí. Riḍá-qulí Khán takes the same view of the facts, but puts on them a quite
different interpretation. According to him571, Persian poetry had long been on the decline and at the end of the pre-Qájár
period had become thoroughly decadent, so that the early Qájár poets did well to break away from the ideals of their
immediate predecessors and revert to earlier models, amongst which he especially mentions the poems of Kháqání, ‘Abdu’l-
Wási‘-i-Jabalí, Farrukhí, Minúchihrí, Rúdakí, Qaṭrán, ‘Unṣurí, Mas‘úd-i-Sa‘d-i-Salmán, Saná’í, Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, Abu’l-
Faraj-i-Rúní, Anwarí, Asadí, Firdawsí, Niẓámí, Sa‘dí, Azraqí, Mukhtárí, Mu‘izzí, Lámi‘í Náṣir-i-Khusraw and Adíb Ṣábir,
all of whom flourished before the Fall of the Caliphate and the Mongol Invasion in the middle of the thirteenth century. Of
the later poets Ḥáfiẓ was perhaps the only one who retained an undiminished prestige in the eyes of his countrymen, and it is
doubtful how far even he served as a model, though this was perhaps rather because he was inimitable than because he was
out of fashion, like Jámí, ‘Urfí and Ṣá’ib, who lost and never regained the

[page 300]

position they had once held in their own country. Henceforth, therefore, the divergence between Turkish and Indian taste on
the one hand and Persian taste on the other increases, while the action of the British rulers of India572 in substituting Urdú for
Persian as the polite language of that country in 1835-6 tended still further to cut off India from the intellectual and literary
currents of modern Persia.
It would be easy with the help of the Biographies of Poets mentioned above and others of a later period to compile a list
of a hundred or two more or less eminent poets of the Qájár period, but it will be sufficient for our purpose to mention ten or
a dozen of those who followed the classical tradition. Nor is it necessary to group them according to the reigns in which they
flourished, though it will be convenient to arrange them in chronological order. Of one great family of poets, the sons and
grandsons of Wiṣál (Mírzá Shafí‘, commonly called Mírzá Kúchuk) who died in 1262/1846, it was my privilege to meet
several, including the brothers Farhang and Yazdání, at Shíráz in the spring of 1888573. The latter was accompanied by his
own son and the son of his deceased brother who wrote under the pen-name of Himmat. Of the three elder brothers, sons of
Wiṣál, the eldest, Wiqár, was about forty-two years of age when Riḍá-qulí Khán574 met him in Ṭihrán in 1274/1857-8, while
the second, Mírzá Maḥmúd the physician, who adopted the takhalluṣ of Ḥakím, died in 1268/1851. Of the third, Dáwarí, a
specimen of whose work is quoted in translation in vol. ii of my Literary History, pp. 41-42, I do not know the date of
decease. As his poems have not, I think, been published, I here give the Persian text on which the trans-

569 Though practically supreme for eighteen years (A.D. 1779-1797), he was not crowned until 1796 and was assassinated in the following
year.
570 Pp. 164 and 265 supra, and Shi‘ru’l-‘Ajam, vol. iii, p. 189.
571 Fifth (unnumbered) page of the Introduction to the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá.
572 At or about the same time they ceased to subsidise the publication of Oriental texts, thus inflicting a great injury on Oriental studies.
573 See my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 267-8, and also p. 119.
574 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, vol. ii, p. 548.

[to face p 300]



Autograph of the poet Wiṣál

Or. 4936 (Brit. Mus,), 20

[page 301]

lation above mentioned is based. It is taken from a small manuscript selection of his poems575 given to me in Ṭihrán in the
winter of 1887-8 by my late friend the Nawwáb Mírzá Ḥasan ‘Alí Khán, one of his admirers and patrons.

Two stanzas of a musammaṭ by Dáwarí.





575 These selections are now bound up in my MS. bearing the class-mark Y. I. The whole musammaṭ contains eight strophes, of which only
the first two are here given.

This mention of my kind friend the Nawwáb reminds me of a quaint incident which occurred while I was his guest at
Ṭihrán in the early part of the year 1888, and which shows how relatively unprofitable is the profession of a Persian poet now
compared to what it was in the “good old days” when a poet’s mouth was sometimes filled with gold or pearls as the reward
of a successful poem which hit the taste of his patron. A minor poet, whose name I forget, if ever I knew it, came one day to
the Nawwáb’s house and

[page 302]

asked and obtained permission to recite a poem which he had composed in his praise. On its conclusion he received the sum
of one túmán (at that time worth about six shillings), with which he departed, apparently very well contented. But so far from
the gift being deemed insignificant, the Nawwáb was subsequently reproached by some of his friends for turning the poet’s
head and making him imagine that he could earn an honest livelihood by writing poetry!
This is no doubt one of the causes which are tending to put an end to the old style of poetry, especially the panegyric
qaṣída. Another still more potent one is the position attained by the Press since the Revolution of 1905-6, for the poet now
tends more and more to write for the people as a whole rather than for some special patron. The transition can be very well
seen in the case of poets like the unfortunate Mírzá Jahángír Khán of Shíráz, the proprietor and editor of that remarkable
product of the Revolution the weekly Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl, whose life, death, and literary activities in connection with that great
national upheaval are fully discussed in my previous works, the Persian Revolution and the Press and Poetry of Modern
Persia. As a poet and writer of the Revolution only did I know him until lately, when I received from my accomplished
friend and former pupil Mr W. A. Smart, one of the most sympathetic Consular officers ever sent to Persia from this country,
a large fragment (292 pages) of an untitled, anonymous, acephalous and incomplete Persian manuscript work576 containing
accounts of thirty-eight poets, mostly of Fárs, who were either still living in A.D. 1910 or who had died in the course of the
preceding forty years. Amongst these mention is made of Mírzá Jahángír Khán (pp. 74-77), and specimens are given of his
earlier pre-revolutionary poems, including one addressed to his friends at Shíráz from

[page 303]

Ṭihrán, which are quite in the classical style, and bear no traces of the modern peculiarities. Two other not less eminent
“transition poets” mentioned in this extraordinarily interesting volume are Abu’l-Ḥasan Mírzá, a grandson of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh,
born in 1264/1848, and commonly entitled Ḥájji Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís, chiefly known as a philosophical and political writer and a
strong advocate of Pan-Islamism, who also wrote poetry, mostly topical, but in the classical forms, under the pen-name of
Ḥayrat (pp. 102-121 of my MS.); and the eminent journalist Adíbu’l-Mamálik577 (born in 1277/1860-1), a descendant in the
third degree of Mírzá ‘Ísá the Qá’im-Maqám, who composed verse under the pen-name of Amírí of Faráhán (pp. 39-50 of my
MS.). The new poets of the Revolution were therefore, except in the case of the younger ones who have appeared since that
epoch-making event, to a large extent the poets of the old school who had sufficient enthusiasm and flexibility to adapt
themselves to the new conditions. But the transition itself is marked by as hard and fast a line as can mark any such historical
transition, that line lying in the years 1906-7. Of course an abundance of poetry of the old type is still being produced, and I
myself was gratified and honoured on the occasion of my sixtieth birthday (February 7, 1922) by receiving an album of
verses contributed by sixteen of the most notable contemporary poets, besides a separate qaṣída from ‘Imádu’l-Kuttáb, that
Benvenuto Cellini of contemporary Persia. Nor is there any reason to apprehend the early disappearance of the old verse-
forms. The panegyric (as opposed to the philosophical and didactic) qaṣída will probably become rarer for the reasons given
above, but the mathnawí, ghazal and rubá‘í will survive as long as mysticism, love and epigram continue to interest the
Persians.

[page 304]

After these preliminary general remarks on the poetry of the latest epoch, we may pass to the consideration of some of its
chief representatives. For information as to those who flourished before about A.D. 1870 my chief sources have been the
three works of that industrious writer Riḍá-qulí Khán, poetically surnamed Hidáyat, to wit the large general biography of
Persian poets entitled Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (“the Concourse of the Eloquent”); the smaller biography entitled Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín
(“Gardens of the Gnostics”), which deals chiefly with the mystical poets; and the Supplement to Mírkhwánd’s Rawḍatu’ṣ-
Ṣafá, which carries that well-known general history down to about 1857 and was already well advanced in 1272/1855-6,
when the author returned from the embassy to Khwárazm described in his Safárat-náma, of which the Persian text was
published by the late M. Ch. Schefer with a French translation in 1876-9578. At the end of the ninth volume of the Rawḍatu’ṣ-
Ṣafá (the second of the Supplement), which concludes the reign of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh, several pages (unfortunately unnumbered,
so that exact references are impossible) are devoted to the notable statesmen, poets, theologians and other eminent men of
that period which sometimes contain biographical material lacking in the two earlier monographs. From these three sources,

576 It bears the class-mark J. 19 in my library.
577 See pp. 37-39 of my Press and Poetry in Modern Persia.
578 Brief notices of these and other published works of the same author will be found in Mr E. Edwards’s excellent Catalogue of the
Persian printed books in the British Museum (London, 1922), columns 631-2.

so far as they extend, the following particulars are chiefly drawn, but I have also made use of a rare manuscript work
(possibly an autograph) entitled Tadhkira-i-Dilgushá, a biography of contemporary poets by Mírzá ‘Alí Akbar of Shíráz, who
himself wrote poetry under the pen-name of

[page 305]

Bismil, composed about 1237/1821-2. This fine MS., written throughout in a large, clear naskh with rubrications, formerly
belonged to the late Sir Albert Houtum-Schindler, and now bears in my library the class-mark J. 18. Mention is made of this
author and his work by Riḍá-qulí Khán (who in his youth used to see him at Shíráz) both in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (ii, pp. 82-
3) and the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín (pp. 243-4).


(1) Saḥáb (d. 1222/1807-8).

Sayyid Muḥammad of Iṣfahán, poetically surnamed Saḥáb, was the son of that Sayyid Aḥmad Hátif mentioned at the
end of the preceding chapter as almost the only notable Persian poet of the eighteenth century. Riḍá-qulí Khán (M.F., ii, 207-
11) says that he was held in high honour by Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh, for whom he composed, besides numerous panegyrics, a book of
memoirs (presumably of poets) entitled Rashaḥát-i-Saḥáb, which I have never met with, and that his Díwán comprises only
some five thousand verses. The following, censuring the conceit and arrogance of certain poets, are of some interest579:



[page 306]



“Wherein save in good nature lies anyone’s ‘perfection580,’ and what
‘perfection’ can there be to him who has not good nature?
Poetry is naught, and the poet’s vocation less than naught: I wonder
what is all this quarrel about nothing!
No one will ask about the arrangement of a few words: O fools
devoid of merit, what is all this talk?
On account of one or two hemistichs expressing some one else’s
ideas, what is all this thought of position and hope of wealth?
The root of poetry is phantasy, and its beauty lies in the impossible581:
what can result from the imagining of all these impossible ideas?
Whoever has discovered what shame and modesty are will not boast
of superiority on account of a few silly words.

579 M.F., ii, p. 211.
580 Kamál (“Perfection”) means especially literary attainments. Cf. pp. 26-7 supra.
581 The Arabs say “the best poetry is that which contains most lies,” and the exaggeration characteristic of most Persian panegyrists is
notorious. Cf. Lit. Hist. Persia, ii, pp. 69-70.

What in the eyes of men of judgment and sense are a hundred
sorts of such ‘perfection’ compared with the good nature of an
ordinary well-disposed man?
I grant that the naẓm (arrangement, or verse) of the ocean is pearls
and mines of precious stones: but what is it compared with the
ṇathr (scattering, or prose) of the pen of that Lord whose bounty
is as that of the ocean?”

[page 307]

(2) Mijmar (d. 1225/1810-11).

Sayyid Ḥusayn-i-Ṭabáṭabá’í of Ardistán near Iṣfahán, who earned the title of Mujtahidu’sh-Shu‘ará, is noticed by Riḍá-
qulí Khán in all three of his above-mentioned works. He owed his introduction to the Persian Court to his fellow-townsman
and fellow-poet Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-Wahháb Nasháṭ, who survived him by eighteen or nineteen years. He appears to have died
young, for Riḍá-qulí Khán, after praising his verse, of which but a small collection was left, says that “had he lived longer, he
would probably have attained the utmost distinction,” but even as it is he is one of the five poets of this period whom my
accomplished old friend Ḥájji Mírzá Yaḥyá of Dawlatábád placed in the first class582. Copies of his poems are rare, but the
British Museum possesses a manuscript of his Kulliyyát, or collected works583. I can find nothing very noteworthy in Riḍá-
qulí Khán’s selections, but the two following riddles, the first on the Wind and the second on the Pen, taken from the
Tadhkira i-Dilgushá, may serve as specimens of his work.



[page 308]



“What is that messenger of auspicious advent and fortunate presence
who is moving every day and night and hastening every year
and month?
Who carries musk-pods in his skirt and perfume in his collar,
ambergris in his pocket, and pure musk in his sleeve?
A traveller without foot or head, a madman without sense or reason,
a lover without abode or habitation, a wanderer without food or
sleep.
None knoweth for love of whom he is so restless ; none discovereth
through separation from whom he is so troubled.
Through him water becomes, like the hearts of lovers through the
tresses of their idols, now wreathed in chains, now twisted and
tormented.
Now the earth dies through him, and again the world lives through
him, like the faculties through old age and like the nature
through youth.”

582 See p. 225 supra. The others are Furúghí, Ṣabá (not Ṣafá), Nasháṭ, and Qá’ání in the first class; Wiṣál and Riḍá-qulí Khán Hidáyat in
the second; and Wiqár and Surúsh in the third.
583 Or. 3543. See B.M.P.S., No. 354, pp. 222-3.

“To the rose-bush of the garden of the reasoning faculty I am a cloud
raining down pearls,
Both pouring forth sugar and diffusing perfume [like] the darling’s
lips and the sweetheart’s tresses.
In scattering pearls and pouring forth jewels I am [like] the nature
of the Minister and the hand of the King.”

[page 309]

(3) Ṣabá (d. 1238/1822-3).

Fatḥ-‘Alí Khán of Káshán, with the pen-name of Ṣabá, was poet-laureate (Maliku’sh-Shu‘ará) to Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh. Riḍá-
qulí Khán, who mentions him in all three of his works, says that no poet equal to him had appeared in Persia for nearly seven
hundred years, and that some critics prefer his Shahinsháh-náma to the Sháhnáma of Firdawsí584. He also composed a
Khudáwand-náma, an ‘Ibrat-náma, and a Gulshan-i-Ṣabá, while his Díwán is said to comprise ten or fifteen thousand verses.
He was for a time governor of Qum and Káshán, but latterly devoted himself entirely to the Sháh’s service. In his youth he
was the pupil of his fellow-townsman the poet Ṣabáḥí, who was a contemporary of Hátif and Ádhar, and died, according to
the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, in 12006/1791-2. His eldest son Mírzá Ḥusayn Khán, poetically surnamed ‘Andalíb (“Nightingale”),
succeeded him in the laureateship. His poetry, being mostly panegyric, has little attraction for us, but is extraordinarily
melodious, as the following extract from a qaṣída quoted in the Tadhkira-i-Dilgúshá (which I think it unnecessary to
translate, since the beauty lies in the form only) will show:



[page 310]


584 Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín, p. 264. The Shahinsháh-náma was lithographed in Bombay in 1890.


[page 311]

(4) Nasháṭ (d. 1244/1828-9).

Passing over Mírzá Muḥammad-qulí Afshár Ulfat (d. 1240/1824-5) and Áqá ‘Alí Ashraf Ágáh (d. 1244/1828-9), the
younger brother of the poet Bismil, both of whom were personally known to Riḍá-qulí Khán, we come to Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-
Wahháb of Iṣfahán, celebrated as a calligraphist as well as a poet, and master of the three languages, Arabic, Persian and
Turkish. After nearly ruining himself by his prodigal hospitality and liberality to poets, mystics and men of letters, he gained
the favour of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh, who conferred on him the title of Mu‘tamadu’d-Dawla. He excelled in the ghazal, and his best-
known work is entitled Ganjína (the “Treasury”). The following chronogram gives the date of his death (A.H. 1244):



“Nasháṭ (joy) hath departed from the heart of the world.”


(5) Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Qá`im-maqám (put to death in 1251/1835).

Two eminent men, father and son, bore this title (of which the literal meaning is exactly equivalent to “lieutenant,” in the
sense of vicar or deputy), Mírzá ‘Ísá of Faráhán, called Mírzá Buzurg, who acted as Deputy Prime Minister to Prince ‘Abbás
Mírzá and died in 1247/1831-2; and his son Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim, who, on the death of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh, fell into disgrace, and
was put to death by his successor Muḥammad Sháh on June 26, 1835586. The latter was, from the literary point of view, the
more remarkable, but though he wrote


[page 312]

poetry under the pen-name of Thaná’í, he is more celebrated as a prose-writer, his numerous published letters being regarded
by his countrymen as models of good style. I possess a collection of his writings, both prose and verse, compiled at the

585 The “aged son of Barkhiyá” is Áṣaf, Solomon’s Wazír; the “noble son of Ábtín” is the legendary King Firídún. I have made a slight but
necessary emendation in the penultimate and antepenultimate words of this line.
586 See R. G. Watson’s History of Persia, pp. 271-2 and 287-8. His estimate of this Minister’s character differs very widely from that of
Riḍá-qulí Khán.

instance of the late Prince Farhád Mírzá in 1281/1864-5, and lithographed at Tabríz in 1282/1865-6, of which the letters,
addressed to various more or less eminent contemporaries but only occasionally bearing dates587, occupy by far the larger
portion. Many of them are diplomatic documents of some historical importance, e.g. the apology addressed to the Tsar of
Russia for the murder of the Minister Grebaiodoff and his staff at Ṭihrán on February 11, 1829588, which is here given as a
specimen of the Qá’im-maqám’s much admired style.



[page 313]



[page 314]



587 Shawwál, 1239 (June-July, 1823), is the earliest date I have noticed.
588 The circumstances are fully given by R. G. Watson, op. cit., pp. 247-57.

“The Royal Letter to the Most Great Emperor concerning the
reparations for the murder of the Envoy in such wise as was desired.

“The beginning of the record is in the Name of the All-Knowing God,
The Living and, All-Powerful Creator and Provider, —

— that Peerless and Incomparable Being, exempt from every ‘how’
and ‘how much589,’ Who is just and wise, and subdueth every wrong-
doer, Who hath set a measure and limit to the recompense of every
good and evil deed, and Who, by His far-reaching wisdom, reproveth
and punisheth the doers of evil, and rewardeth and recompenseth the
well-doers. And countless blessings be upon the spirits of the righteous
Prophets and beneficent Leaders590.
But to proceed. Be it not bidden and concealed from the truth-
discerning judgment of that most eminent, equitable, and just King,
that brilliant and glorious Sovereign, that Lord of land and sea, my
noble-natured and fortunate-starred brother, the Emperor of the
Russian domains and their dependencies, whose rule is mighty and
glorious, and whose standards are triumphant and victorious, that a
disaster hath overtaken the Envoy of that State in the capital of this,
by impulse of the vicissitudes of the time and the quarrels of his people
with certain ignorant townsfolk, for which it is incumbent and obli-
gatory on the acting officials of this Government to make reparation
and give satisfaction. Therefore, in order to express our preliminary
apologies and to satisfy the self-respect and honour of that esteemed
brother, I have sent my dearly beloved son Khusraw Mírzá591 to the
capital of the glorious Russian State. In the course of a friendly letter
we have expressed and explained the truth as to the suddenness of

[page 315]

this tragedy and the non-complicity of those responsible for the con-
duct of our Government; and secondly, having regard to the perfect
accord and agreement existing between these two Heaven-high Courts,
we have recognized it as incumbent on Our Royal Person to avenge
the above-mentioned Envoy, and, according to his deserts, have
chastised, punished or expelled from the country everyone of the in-
habitants and dwellers in our Capital who was suspected of having
participated in the slightest degree in this foul deed and improper
action. We have even reprimanded and dismissed the chief constable
of the city and the headman of the quarter, merely for the crime of
being informed too late and of not having established a firmer control
over the town before the occurrence of this catastrophe. Beyond all
this was the retribution and punishment which befel His Reverence
Mírzá Masíḥ, notwithstanding the rank of mujtahid which he holds in
the religion of Islám and the respect and influence which he enjoys
alike with gentle and simple, by reason of the assembly made by the
townsfolk in his circle. Having regard to the concord of our two
Governments, we have regarded as improper any overlooking of, or
connivance at, such matters, nor hath the intercession or intervention
of anyone been admitted in regard to him. Wherefore, since it was
necessary to make known this procedure to that brother of goodly
disposition, we have applied ourselves to the writing of this friendly
letter, committing the elucidation of the details of these events to our
divinely aided and favoured son Prince ‘Abbás Mírzá, our Viceroy.
The hope which we cherish from the Court of God is that every
moment the extent of the mutual affection of these two States of ancient

589 I.e. transcending quality and quantity.
590 As the letter is addressed to a Christian sovereign, the usual specific mention of Muḥammad is replaced by this more general phrase.
591 See R. G. Watson, op. cit., pp. 254-6. He was the son of ‘Abbás Mírzá and therefore the grandson of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh.

foundation may expand and increase, and that the bonds of friendship
and unity of these two Courts may be continually confirmed and multi-
plied by the interchange of messengers and messages: and may the
end be in welfare!
“Written in the month of the First Rabí’, 1245” (September, 1829).

This letter, although professedly from Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh, was, of course, really written by the Qá’im-maqám. It must have
been gall and wormwood to him to be compelled to write so civilly, indeed so humbly, to the Russians, of whom he says in a
poem commemorating a Persian victory by ‘Abbás Mírzá over them and the Turks592:

[page 316]



“The unlucky Turks and the ill-starred Russians on either side
attempted the subjugation of Ádharbáyján,”

and in one of his letters to Mírzá Buzurg of Núr, written after the conclusion of peace with Russia (probably in 1243/1828),
he laments that he no longer dares speak of the “Rús-i-manḥús” (the “sinister” or “ill-starred Russians”):



A later, greater, and more virtuous, but equally unfortunate, Persian Prime Minister, Mírzá Taqí Khán Amír-i-Kabír593,
still further simplified the style of official correspondence; but the Qá’im-maqám’s letters, though they may not strike one
unused to the flowery effusions of the preceding age as very simple, mark an immense advance on the detestable
rhodomontades which had for too long passed as eloquent and admirable, and probably deserve the high esteem in which, as
already mentioned, they are held by the best contemporary Persian taste and judgment. A critical annotated edition of these
letters would be of considerable literary and historical value, and might with advantage engage the attention of some Persian
scholar whose interests are not confined to a remote past.


(6) Wiṣál (d. 1262/1846) and his sons.

I have already mentioned Wiṣál, some of whose gifted sons and grandsons I was privileged to meet at Shíráz in the
spring of 1888. He is generally regarded by his countrymen as one of the most eminent of the modern poets, and both Riḍá-
qulí Khán who devotes lengthy notices to him in all three of his works:

[page 317]

and the poet Bismil, the author of the Tadhkira-i-Dilgushá, were personally acquainted with him, the latter intimately. His
proper name was Mírzá [Muḥammad] Shafí‘, but he was commonly entitled “Mírzá Kúchuk,” and he was a native of Shíráz.
Bismil speaks in the most glowing terms of his skill in calligraphy and music as well as in verse, wherein he holds him
“incomparable” (‘adímu’l-mithál), and praises his lofty character and fidelity in friendship, but describes him as “rather
touchy” (andak zúd-ranj), a description illustrated by Riḍá-qulí Khán’s remark (in the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá) that he was much
vexed when the Sháh, meaning to praise him, told him that he was “prodigal of talents594.” He is said to have written twelve
thousand verses, which include, besides qaṣídas and ghazals, the Bazm-i-Wiṣál and the continuation and completion of
Waḥshí’s Farhád u Shírín, described as “far superior to the original595.” He also translated into Persian the Aṭwáqu’dh-
Dhahab (“Collars of Gold”) of Zamakhsharí. Bismil, who professes to have read all his poems, only cites the relatively small
number of 213 couplets, of which the following are fairly typical, and afford a good instance of what Persian rhetoricians call
the “attribution of praise in the form of blame,” for the qaṣída begins:

“The sea, the land, heaven and the stars —
Each one of them declares the King a tyrant —


592 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, ii, p. 88.
593 For a most favourable sketch of his character, see R. G. Watson, op. cit., pp. 404-6.


an opening calculated to cause consternation to courtiers, until it is stated that the sea considers itself wronged by his
liberality, the mountain because he has scattered its hoarded gold like dust, the stars because they are eclipsed in number and
splendour by his hosts, and so forth. As

[page 318]

such far-fetched conceits can hardly be made attractive in translation, I again confine myself to quoting a few lines of the
original:



[page 319]



Wiṣál’s Farhád u Shírín has been lithographed, and ample selections from his poems are given by Riḍá-qulí Khán in his
Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín (pp. 337-50) and Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (ii, pp. 528-48), which latter work also contains (pp. 548-58) an ample
notice of his eldest son Wiqár, who was presented to Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh in 1274/1857-8 at Ṭihrán, where his biographer met
him again “after twenty years’ separation.” The same work contains notices of Wiqár’s younger brothers, Mírzá Maḥmúd the
physician, poetically named Ḥakím (d. 1268/1851-2: pp. 102-5), and Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Farhang, of whom I have already
spoken (p. 300 supra), but not of the three other brothers Dáwarí, Yazdání and Himmat. The following fine musammaṭ by
Dáwarí, describing one of the Sháh’s hunting parties, I copied for myself in the house of the late Nawwáb Mírzá Ḥasan ‘Alí
Khán at Ṭihrán early in the year 1888, and, as it has never been published, and I know of no other copy in Europe, I cannot
resist the temptation of here assuring a survival hitherto so precarious, for it was copied on a loose half-sheet of note-paper
which I only accidentally came across just now while searching for something else.



[page 320]

[page 321]

[page 322[



This poem is simple, sonorous and graphic; the court page, who has just returned from accompanying the Sháh on a
winter hunting-expedition, and is in so great a hurry to visit his friend the poet that he enters in his riding-breeches and boots
(bá chakma wa shalwár), with hair still disordered and full of dust, and eyes bloodshot from the glare of the sun, the
hardships of exposure, and lack of sleep, bringing only as a present from the journey (raháward-i-safar) roses and hyacinths
(his cheeks and hair), rubies of Badakhshán (his lips), and a casket of pearls (his teeth), is a vivid picture; and if a description
of the Royal massacre of game reminds us of the immortal Mr Bunker’s Bavarian battue596, we must remember that the
wholesale slaughters of game instituted by Chingíz Khán the Mongol in the thirteenth century, whereof the tradition still
survives to some extent, were on a colossal scale, altogether transcending any European analogy597.
In 1887, the year before I met Dáwarí’s brother Farhang at Shíráz, two of his unpublished poems were shown to and
copied by me in London. One was a qaṣída in praise of Queen Victoria, composed on the occasion of her Jubilee, which I
was asked to translate so that it might perhaps be brought to her notice, a hope not fulfilled. The other, composed in May of
the same year (Sha‘bán, 1304), contained a quaint description

[page 323]

of Paris, laudatory for the most part, but concluding with some rather severe reflections on the republican form of
government. It differs widely from the poems of Farhang cited in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (ii, pp. 384-8), is full of French
words, and produces, as was probably intended, a somewhat comic and burlesque effect. It contains 78 verses and is too long
to be cited in full, but I here give the opening and concluding portions:


596 See J. Storer Clouston’s Lunatic at Large (shilling edition, 1912, p. 241).
597 See Baron d’Ohsson’s Histoire des Mongols (the Hague and Amsterdam, 1834), vol. i, pp. 404-6; and p. 59, n. 2 supra.

598 599 600 601

[page 324]


[page 325]


598 Voiture.
599 Tramway.
600 Omnibus.
601 Boulevard.
602 Notre-Dame.

Lack of space compels me to pass over several poets of some note, such as Áqá Muḥammad Ḥasan Zargar (“the
Goldsmith”) of Iṣfahán, who died in 1270/1853-4603; Áqá Muḥammad ‘Áshiq, a tailor, also of Iṣfahán, who died at the age of
seventy in 1281/1864604; Mírzá Muḥammad ‘Alí Surúsh of Sidih, entitled Shamsu’sh-Shu‘ará, who died in 1285/1868-9605;
and Áqá Muḥammad ‘Alí Jayḥún of Yazd, of whose life I can find no particulars save such as can be gleaned from his
verses, but who composed, besides numerous poems of

[page 326]

various types, a prose work entitled Namakdán (“the Salt-cellar”) on the model of the Gulistán, and whose complete works
were lithographed at Bombay in 1316/1899, making a volume of 317 pp. Others who are reckoned amongst the poets were
more distinguished in other fields of literature, such as the historians Riḍá-qulí Khán Hidáyat606, so often cited in this chapter
(born 1215/1800, died 1288/1871-2), and Mírzá Muḥammad Taqí Siphir of Káshán607, entitled Lisánu’l-Mulk (“the Tongue
of the Kingdom”), author of the Násikhu’t-Tawáríkh (“Abrogator of Histories”) and of another prose work entitled
Baráhínu’l-‘Ajam (“Proofs of the Persians”); the philosopher Ḥájji Mullá Hádí of Sabzawár, who was born in 1212/1797-8,
wrote a small amount of verse under the pen-name of Asrár (“Secrets”), and died in 1295/1878608; and others. Of the
remaining modern representatives of the “Classical School” Qá’ání is by far the most important, and after him Yaghmá,
Furúghí and Shaybání, of whom some account must now be given.


(7) Qá’ání (d. 1270/1853-4).

Qá’ání is by general consent the most notable poet produced by Persia in the nineteenth century. He was born at Shíráz
about 1222/1807-8, for, according to his own statement at the end of the Kitáb-i-Paríshán, he completed that work on Rajab
20, 1252 (October 31, 1836), being then two or three months short of thirty years of age:

[page 327]


603 See Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, ii, pp. 151-2.
604 Ibid., pp. 346-9.
605 Ibid., pp. 184-95.
606 Hi autobiography concludes the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, ii, pp. 581-678.
607 Ibid., ii, pp. 156-81.
608 See my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 131-4; and the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín, pp. 241-2, which, however, puts his birth in 1215/1800-1, and
adds that he was sixty-three years of age at the time of writing (1278/1861-2).

[page 328]

His proper name was Ḥabíb, under which he originally wrote, and which he uses as his takhalluṣ, or nom de guerre, in
many of his earlier poems. Later when he and Mírzá ‘Abbás of Bisṭám, who originally wrote under the pen-name of Miskín,
had attached themselves to Ḥasan ‘Alí Mírzá Shujá‘u’s-Sulṭana, for some time Governor of Khurásán and Kirmán, that
prince changed their pen-names respectively to Qá’ání and Furúghí, after his two sons Ogotáy Qá’án and Furúghu’d-
Dawla609.
Qá’ání was born at Shíráz. His father, Mírzá Muḥammad ‘Alí, was also a poet who wrote under the pen-name of
Gulshan. Though Qá’ání was but a child when he died, his statement in the Kitáb-i-Paríshán610 that “though thirty complete
years have elapsed since the death of my father, I still imagine that it was but two weeks ago” cannot be reconciled with the
other statement quoted above that he was not yet thirty when he completed the book in question. The Tadhkira-i-Dilgushá
consecrates articles to both father and son, but unfortunately in my manuscript the last two figures of the date of Gulshán’s
death are left blank, while it is also omitted in the notice contained in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá611, which is very meagre.
About Qá’ání’s seemingly uneventful life there is not much to be said. He appears to have spent most of it at Shíráz,
where in the spring of 1888 I had the honour of occupying the room in the house of the Nawwáb Mírzá Ḥaydar ‘Alí Khán
which he used to inhabit and, as we have seen, he resided for some time at Kirmán. The latter part of his life, when he had
established himself as a recognized Court poet, was spent at Ṭihrán, where he died in

[to face p. 328]

[Ḥájji Mírzá Áqásí]

Or. 4938 [Brit. Mus.), 9

[page 329]

1270/1853-4. Two of his latest poems must have been those which he wrote to celebrate the escape of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh
from the attempt on his life made by three Bábís on August 15, 1852, quoted in my Traveller’s Narrative612.

609 Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, ii, p. 394.
610 Ṭihrán lithographed edition of Qá’ání’s works of 1302/1884-5, p. 35.
611 Vol. ii, p. 426.
612 Vol. ii, pp. 325-6.

Qá’ání’ is one of the most melodious of all the Persian poets, and his command of the language is wonderful, but he
lacks high aims and noble principles. Not only does he flatter great men while they are in power, and turn and rend them as
soon as they fall into disgrace, but he is prone to indulge in the most objectionable innuendo and even the coarsest obscenity.
In numerous qaṣídas he extols the virtues and justice of Ḥájji Mírzá Áqásí613, the Prime Minister of Muḥammad Sháh, but in
a qaṣída in praise of his successor Mírzá Taqí Khán Amír-i-Kabír he alludes to the fallen minister thus:



“In the place of a vile tyrant is seated a just and God-fearing man,
In whom pious believers take pride.”

Of his innuendo the following is a good specimen:



[page 330]



The beauty of Qá’ání’s language can naturally only be appreciated by one who can read his poems in the original, which
is fortunately easily accessible, as his works have been repeatedly published614. I have chiefly used the Ṭihrán lithographed
edition of 1302/1884-5, and in a lesser degree the Tabríz lithographed edition f 1273/1857, and the
“Selections…recommended for the Degree of Honour

[page 331]

Examination in Persian” printed at Calcutta in A.D. 1907. Like most of the Qájár poets, he excels chiefly in the qaṣída, the
musammaṭ and the tarkíb-band, but the following ghazal615 is extraordinarily graceful and melodious:


613 Ṭihrán ed. of 1302/1884-5, pp. 19, 35, 40, 41, 43, 70, 82, 94, 95, 115, 123, 130 etc.
614 See E. Edwards’s Catalogue of the Persian printed books in the British Museum, 1922, columns 237-9.
615 Ṭihrán ed. of 1302, p. 355.

[page 332]



Wonderful also is the swing and grace of the poem in praise of the Queen-mother (Mahd-i-‘Ulyá) beginning616:



[page 333]

616 Ṭihrán ed. of 1302, p. 309.

“Are these violets growing from the ground on the brink of the streams,
Or have the houris [of Paradise] plucked strands from their tresses?
If thou hast not seen how the sparks leap from the rock,
Look at the petals of the red anemones in their beds
Which leap forth like sparks from the crags of the mountains!”

Not inferior to this is another similar poem in praise of Mírzá Taqí Khán Amír-i-Kabír, beginning617:



Instead of the far-fetched and often almost unintelligible conceits so dear to many Persian poets, Qá’ání prefers to draw
his illustrations from familiar customs and common observances, as, for example, in the following verses618, wherein allusion
is made to various popular ceremonies connected with the Naw-rúz, or Persian New Year’s Day:


[page 334]

620 621

617 Ṭihrán ed. of 1302, p. 16.
618 Ibid., pp. 14-15.
619 Haft Sín. It is customary at the Naw-rúz to collect together seven objects whereof the names begin with the letter S, such as sunbul,
(hyacinth), síb (apple), súsan (lily), sím (silver), sír (garlic), sirka, (vinegar), and sipand (rue).
620 All the people put on new clothes at this great national festival, distribute sugar-plums amongst their friends, fill their hands with silver
and corn, eat pistachio-nuts and almonds, burn aloe-wood and other fragrant substances, and greet one another with kisses.

[page 335]

Qá’ání is also one of the very few Persian poets who has condescended to reproduce actual peculiarities of speech or
enunciation, as in his well-known dialogue between an old man and a child both of whom are afflicted with a stammer. This
poem, which may more conveniently be transcribed into the Roman character, is as follows622:

“Pírakí lál saḥar-gáh bi-ṭiflí alkan
Mí-shunídam ki badín naw‘ hamí-ránd sukhan:
‘K’ay zi zulfat ṣa-ṣa-ṣubḥam sha-sha-shám-i-tárík,
W’ay zi chihrat sha-sha-shámam ṣa-ṣa-ṣubḥ-i-rawshan!
Ta-ta-tiryákiyam, u az sha-sha-shahd-i-la-labat
Ṣa-ṣa-ṣabr u ta-ta-tábam ra-ra-raft az ta-ta-tan.’
Ṭifl guftá, ‘Ma-ma-man-rá tu-tu taqlíd ma-kun!
Ga-ga-gum shaw zi baram, ay ka-ka-kamtar az zan!
Mi-mí-khwáhí mu-mu-mushtí bi-ka-kallat bi-zanam,
Ki biyuftad ma-ma-maghzat ma-mayán-i-da-dihan?’
Pír guftá, ‘Wa-wa-wa’lláhi ki ma‘lúm-ast ín
Ki-ki zádam man-i-bíchára zi mádar alkan!
Ha-ha-haftád u ha-hashtád u si sál-ast fuzún
Ga-ga-gung u la-la-lálam ba-bi-Khalláq-i-Zaman!’
Ṭifl guftá: ‘Kha-khudá-rá ṣa-ṣa-ṣad bár sha-shukr
Ki bi-rastam bi-jahán az ma-la-lál u ma-miḥan!
Ma-ma-man ham ga-ga-gungam ma-ma-mithl-i-tu-tu-tú:
Tu-tu-tú ham ga-ga-gungí ma-ma-mithl-i-ma-ma-man!”

Besides his poems, Qá’ání wrote a collection of stories and maxims in the style of Sa‘dí’s Gulistán entitled Kitáb-i-
Paríshán, comprising one hundred and thirteen anecdotes, and concluding with thirty-three truly Machiavellian counsels to
Kings and Princes. This book, which contains a certain amount of autobiographical material, occupies pp. 1-40 of the Ṭihrán
lithographed edition of Qá’ání’s works, and numerous other editions exist, several of which are mentioned by Mr Edwards in
his Catalogue623.

[page 336]

(8) Furúghí (d. 1274/1858).

Mention has already been made of Mírzá ‘Abbás, son Áqá Músá of Bisṭám, who wrote verse first under the pen-name of
Miskín and later of Furúghí. He is said to have written some twenty thousand verses, of which a selection of some five
thousand is placed at the end (pp. 4-75) of the Ṭihrán edition (1302/1884-5) of the works of Qá’ání, with whom he was so
closely associated. Unlike him, however, he seems to have preferred lyric to elegiac forms of poetry; at any rate the selections
in question consist entirely of ghazals. According to the brief biography prefixed to them he adopted the Ṣúfí doctrine in the
extremer forms which it had assumed in ancient times with Báyazíd of Bisṭám and Ḥusayn ibn Manṣúr al-Ḥalláj, and so
incurred the suspicion and censure of the orthodox. Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh, in the beginning of whose reign he was still
flourishing, once sent for him and said, “Men say that like Pharaoh thou dost advance the claim ‘I am your Lord the
Supreme624,’ and that thou dost openly pretend to Divinity.” “This assertion,” replied Furúghí, touching the ground with his
forehead, “is sheer calumny…. For seventy years I have run hither and thither, and only now have I reached the Shadow of
God!625” The first three verses from the first ode cited seem to me as good and as typical as any others. They run as follows:




621 The first verse of a poem by Imámí of Herát cited on p. 116 of my Persian Literature under Tartar dominion contains a very similar
thought.
622 See my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 118-19, and pp. 345-6 of the edition of Qá’ání cited above.
623 Columns 237-9.
624 Qur’án, lxxix, 24.
625 I.e. the King.

[page 337]

“When didst thou depart from the heart that I should crave for Thee?
When wert thou hidden that I should find Thee?
Thou hast not disappeared that I should seek Thy presence:
Thou hast not become hidden that I should make Thee apparent.
Thou hast come forth with a hundred thousand effulgences
That I may contemplate Thee with a hundred thousand eyes.”


(9) Yaghmá of Jandaq.

Mírzá Abu’l-Ḥasan of Jandaq, chiefly celebrated for his abusive and obscene verses (Hazaliyyát), and commonly known,
from his favourite term of coarse invective, as Zan-qaḥba, is the last poet mentioned by the author of the Majma‘u’-
Fuṣaḥá626 before the autobiography with which he concludes. He was for some time secretary to a very violent and foul-
mouthed nobleman named Dhu’l-Fiqár Khán of Samnán, for whose amusement he is said to have written these offensive
poems, collectively known as the Sardáriyya627. Though he wrote a quantity of serious verse and a number of elegant letters
in prose, which are included in the large Ṭihrán edition of his works lithographed in 1283/1866-7, it is on his Hazaliyyát, or
“Facetiae,” that his fame or infamy is based. The author of the Tadhkira-i-Dilgushá628 devotes but three lines to him, and was
not personally acquainted with him, but had heard him well spoken of as “an amiable and kindly man and a good-natured and
eloquent youth, who did not believe in making a collection of his poems.” Qá’ání attacked him in his own style in the
following abusive verses629:



[page 338]



Yaghmá’s Kulliyyát, or Complete Works, as represented in the Ṭihrán lithographed edition above mentioned, comprise
the following:
A. Prose writings (pp. 2-145), consisting of numerous letters written to friends and acquaintances, unfortunately, so far
as I have seen, undated. A careful examination of these letters would undoubtedly furnish abundant materials for the poet’s
biography. Many of them are addressed to unnamed friends, acquaintances or patrons, but some were written to his sons,
Mírzá Isma‘íl who wrote poetry under the pen-name of Hunar, Mírzá Aḥmad Ṣafá’í, Mírzá Muḥammad ‘Alí Khaṭar, and
Mírzá Ibráhím. Dastán, while others were written to men of more or less note whose names are given. In many of these
letters he elects to write in pure Persian (Pársí-nigárí), avoiding all Arabic words, while others, called náma-i-basíṭ, are
written in a very simple style.

B. Verse.
1. Early odes (ghazaliyyát-i-qadíma), pp. 46-183.
2. Later odes (ghazaliyyát-i-jadída), pp. 184-203.
3. The Sardáriyya mentioned above (pp. 204-217), written in the ghazal form with the pen-name Sardár.


626 Vol. ii, p. 580.
627 These poems, which occupy pp. 204-217 of the Ṭihrán lithographed edition of 1283/1866-7, are, however, only a fraction of the
Hazaliyyát.
628 F. 53b of my MS.
629 P. 372 of the lithographed Ṭihrán edition of 1302/1884-5.

[to face p. 338]



Autograph of the poet Yaghmá

Or. 4936 (Brit. Mus.), 19

[page 339]

4. The Qaṣṣábiyya (pp. 218-231), similar to the last-mentioned work in form and contents, but with the pen-name
Qaṣṣáb (“Butcher”).
5. The Kitáb-i-Aḥmad (pp. 232-247), similar to the two last, but with the pen-name Aḥmad.
6. The Khuláṣatu’l-Iftiḍáḥ (“Quintessence of Disgrace,” pp. 248-265), an account in mathnawí verse of a scandalous
incident fully described in a marginal note on p. 248.
7. The Kitáb-i-Ṣukúku’d-Dalíl (pp. 266-280), another mathnawí in the metre of the Sháhnáma outwardly praising but
inwardly satirizing a certain Sayyid Qanbar-i-Rawḍa-khwán, entitled, by Yaghmá Rustamu’s-Sádát.
8. Maráthí or Elegies on the deaths of the Imáms (pp. 282-301).
9. Tarjí‘-bands and Tarkíb-bands (pp. 302-33 1), mostly of a ribald character.
10. Qiṭa‘át or Fragments (pp. 332-355), mostly ribald and satirical.
11. Rubá‘iyyát or Quatrains (pp. 356-389). also ribald.

The odes, old and new, and the elegies (Nos. 1, 2 and 8 in the above list) constitute the respectable, part of Yaghmá’s
verse, in all about one-third of the whole. As for the. rest, with the possible exception of No. 7, it is for the most part not fit to
print, much less to translate. The poet’s favourite term of abuse Zan-qaḥba, by which he himself is commonly known, is by
no means a nice expression, but, it is delicacy itself compared with much of the language he employs. On the other hand, his
serious odes and elegies show that he can write fine poetry, while his command of language is almost greater than that of

Qá’ání, even though the melody of his verse be less. He also appears to have invented a type of marthiya or elegy which he
calls Núḥa-i-Sína-zaní, or Lamentation accom-

[page 340]

panied by beating of the breast. This I supposed till lately to have been one of the new models which sprang into existence
after the Revolution of 1905-6, and I gave several specimens of it in my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia630. The following
are the initial lines of eight of Yaghmá’s elegies of this type:



[page 341]


630 See No. 19 (pp. 216-218) and No. 31 (pp. 246-248).

[page 342]

[Page 343]



This last poem in form most closely approaches No. 19 in my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia.
The above poems are interesting as regards their form. The following, an ordinary Núḥa, or “Lamentation,” without
refrain, partly in colloquial dialect, is simple and rather beautiful. I quote only the first six of the nineteen verses which it
comprises:



“My heart is very weary of life; however soon I die, it is still too late.
The women’s hearts are the abode of grief and mourning; the men’s
bodies are the target of swords and arrows.
Their sons welter in their blood; their daughters mourn; the brother
is slain; the sister is a captive.
The morsel in the mothers’ mouths is their own heart’s blood; the
milk in the children’s throats is liquid gore.

[page 344]

The captives, in place of tears and lamentations, have sparks in
their eyes and fire in their souls.
The outcry of the thirsty reaches down and up from the dark earth
to the Sphere of the Ether.”

It is curious to find in two such ribald poets as Yaghmá and Qá’ání631 so deep a religious sense and sympathy with the
martyrs of their faith as are manifested in a few of their poems. Verlaine, perhaps, offers the nearest parallel in modern
European literature.
Of the remaining poets who flourished during the long reign of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh, whose assassination on May 1, 1896,
may be regarded as the first portent of the Revolution which bore its full fruit ten years later, two, Mírzá Muḥammad Taqí of
Káshán with the pen-name of Sipihr, and Mírzá Riḍá-qulí Khán Hidáyat, are better known as historians and will be
mentioned as such in a later chapter, though notices of both are given by the latter in his often-quoted Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá632.
Another poet of some note is Abu’n-Naṣr Fatḥu’lláh Khán Shaybání of Káshán, a copious selection of whose poems was
printed by the Akhtar Press at Constantinople in 1308/1890-1633, and of whom a long notice (pp. 224-245) is also given in the
Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá. The list might be increased almost indefinitely, did space permit, but the most notable names have been
mentioned, and even to them it has been impossible to do justice.

[to face p. 344]

631 For his beautiful marthiya on the tragedy of Karbalá, see pp. 177-181 supra.
632 See vol. ii, pp. 156-181: for Sipihr, and pp. 581-678 for the autobiography of Hidáyat. This great anthology was concluded in
1288/1871-2.
633 It was edited by Isma‘íl Naṣírí Qarája-Dághí, published at the instigation of Mírzá Riḍá Khán, afterwards entitled Arfa‘u’d-Dawla, and
comprises 312 pp.

[MUẒAFFARU’D-DÍN MÍRZÁ (afterwards SHÁH) seated, with his tutor (Lala-báshí) RIḌÁ QULÍ KHÁN, poet and
historian, standing on his right (the reader’s left)]

Or. 4938 (Brit. Mus.), 14

[page 345]

Of the new school of poets produced by the Revolution in 1906 and the succeeding, years I have treated in a separate
work, the Press and Poetry in Modern Persia634, more fully than would have been possible in this volume. The most eminent
of these contemporary poets are, perhaps, Dakhaw (Dih-Khudá) of Qazwín, ‘Árif of Qazwín, Sayyid Ashraf of Gílán, and,
Bahár of Mashhad. Dakhaw is probably the youngest and the most remarkable of them, though I do not think he has
produced much verse lately. The versatility of his genius is illustrated by two of his poems (Nos. 3 and 14) cited in my
above-mentioned work, on the one hand the riotous burlesque of “Kabláy,” and on the other the delicate and beautiful In
Memoriam addressed to his former colleague Mírzá Jahángír Khán of Shíráz, editor of the Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl, of which the former
was published in that admirable paper on November 20, 1907, and the latter on March 8, 1909. Bahár, entitled Maliku’sh-
Shu‘ará, “King of the Poets,” or Poet Laureate, was the editor of the Naw Bahár (which after its suppression reappeared
under the title of Táza Bahár), and was the author of several fine poems (Nos. 20, 34 and 36-47) published in my book, while
‘Árif is represented by No. 33, and Ashraf by Nos. 4-7, 9-13, 16-19, and 27. I do not think that the works of these or any
others of the post-Revolution poets have been published in a collected form. They appeared from time to time in various
newspapers, notably the Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl, Nasím-i-Shimál and Naw Bahár, and must be culled from their pages. Many of the now
numerous Persian papers contain a literary corner entitled Adabiyyát in which these poems appear. The importance of the fact
that their aim must now be to please

[page 346]

the increasing public taste and reflect the growing public opinion, not to gratify individual princes, ministers and noblemen,
has been already emphasized635.
Of one other poet, lately deceased, who is very highly esteemed by his countrymen, but whose writings are not yet
readily accessible, something more must be said. This is Mírzá Ṣádiq Khán, a great-grandson of the celebrated Qá’im-
maqám636, best known by his title Adíbu’l-Mamálik, who died on the 28th of Rabí‘ ii, 1335 (Feb. 21, 1917). Three sources of
information about him are at my disposal, viz. (1) a notice in my MS. marked J. 19637 on modern Persian poets (pp. 39-50); (2)
an obituary notice in No. 20 of the old Káwa of April 15, 1917; and (3) a pamphlet published at the “Kaviani Press” in
1341/1922 by Khán Malik-i-Ḥusayní-i-Sásání, a cousin of the poet, announcing his intention of collecting and publishing his
poems, and asking help from those who possess copies of verses not in his possession. Some particulars concerning him are
also given in my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia in connection with the various papers he edited or wrote for at different
times, viz. the Adab of Tabríz (pp. 37-8)) Mashhad (p. 38) and Ṭihrán (p. 39), which extended over the period 1316-
1322/1898-1905; the Turco-Persian Irshád (p. 39), which he edited in conjunction with Aḥmad Bey Aghayeff of Qarábágh at
Bákú in 1323/1905-6; the Rúz-náma-i-Írán-i-Sulṭání (pp. 88-91), to which he contributed in 1321/1903-4; the ‘Iráq-i-‘Ajam
(pp. 118-19), which he edited in 1325/1907; and the Majlis (pp. 132-3), for

[page 347]

which he wrote in 1324/1906. One of the most celebrated of his poems is also given on pp. 300-302 of the same work.
The Adíbu’l-Mamálik was born in 1277/1860-1, and was a descendant in the third degree of Mírzá ‘Ísá Qá’im-maqám,
and in the thirty-fifth degree of the Imám Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín. In 1307/1889-90 he was at Tabríz in the service of the Amír
Niẓám (Ḥasan ‘Alí Khán-i-Garrúsí), in honour of whom he changed his pen-name from Parwána (“Moth”) to Amírí. In
1311/1893-4 he followed the Amír Niẓám to Kirmánsháh and Kurdistán. During the two following years (1894-6) he was
employed in the Government Translation Office (Dáru’t-Tarjuma-i-Dawlatí) in Ṭihrán, but in Ṣafar 1314/July-August, 1896,
he returned with the Amír Niẓám to Ádharbáyján, where, in 1316/1898-9, he adopted the turban in place of the kuláh,
became Vice-master of the Luqmániyya College at Tabríz, and founded the Adab newspaper, which, as stated above, he
afterwards continued at Mashhad and Ṭihrán. During the years 1318-20/1900-02 he travelled in the Caucasus and Khwárazm
(Khiva), whence he came to Mashhad, but at the end of A.H. 1320 (March, 1903) he returned to Ṭihrán, and for the next two
years, 1321-2/1903-5, was the chief contributor to the Rúz-náma-i-Írán-i-Sulṭání. In 1323/1905-6 he was joint editor of the
Irshád at Bákú; in 1324/1906 he became chief writer for the Majlis. edited by Mírzá Muḥammad Ṣádiq-i-Ṭabáṭabá’í; and in

634 Camb. Univ. Press, 1914, pp. xl + 357, with a Persian foreword of 5 pp. The poems (originals and translations) occupy pp. 168-308,
comprise 61 separate pieces, and can be obtained separately for 5s.
635 See p. 302 supra.
636 See pp. 311-316 supra.
637 See p. 302 supra. Since writing this, my attention has been called by my friend Mírzá Salmán-i-Asadí to an interesting article on the
Adíbu’l-Mamálik in the periodical entitled Armaghán (No. 1 of the third year, pp. 15-25).

1325/1907 he founded the ‘Iráq-i-‘Ajam. In July, 1910, he took part in the capture of Ṭihrán by the Nationalists, and
subsequently held the position of President of the High Court of Justice (Ra’ís-i-Adliyya) in ‘Iráq and afterwards at Samnán.
He lost his only daughter in 1330/1912. Two years later he was appointed editor of the semi-official newspaper Áftáb (“the
Sun”). In 1335/1916-17 he was appointed President of the High Court of Justice at

[page 348]

Yazd, but soon afterwards, as we have seen, he died at Ṭihrán, aged fifty-eight638.
The special value and interest of his poems, according to Khán Malik, his cousin and intimate friend, lie not only in their
admirable and original style, but in their faithful reflection of the varying moods of the Persian people during the fateful years
1906-1912. In satire it is said that no Persian poet has equalled him since the time of old Súzaní of Samarqand639, who died in
569/1173-4. In his pamphlet Khán Malik gives the opening verses of all the poems in his possession, with the number of
verses in each, and invites those who possess poems lacking in his collection to communicate them to him before Jumáda i,
1342 (December, 1923), when be proposes to publish as complete an edition as possible. The Káwa quotes the following
verses from one of his poems on the Russian aggressions in Persia, which it compares with the celebrated poems of Sa‘dí on
the destruction of the Caliphate by the Mongols640, Anwarí on the invasion of the Ghuzz Turks641, and Ḥáfiẓ on Tímúr’s
rapacity642:



[page 349]



“Since the poor lamb did not forgather with its shepherd, through
fear it neither slept nor rested in the plain.
A bear came forth to hunt, and bound its limbs: our lamb became
the prey of that high-handed bear.
Alas for that new-born and bemused lamb! Alack for that aged and
greedy bear!”

My manuscript J. 19643 (p. 44) enumerates twelve of his works, which include an Arabic and a Persian Díwán, a
collection of Maqámát, a rhymed vocabulary, a volume of travels, and several books on Astronomy, Geography, Prosody,
and other sciences.



PART III.

PERSIAN PROSE DURING THE
LAST FOUR CENTURIES



CHAPTER VIII.

THE ORTHODOX SHÍ‘A FAITH AND ITS EXPONENTS,

638 These dates are taken from Khán Malik’s pamphlet, pp. 4-6.
639 See Lit. Hist. Persia, ii, pp. 342-3.
640 Ibid., pp. 29-30.
641 Ibid., PP. 384-9.
642 The reference here is to the well-known verse —

It is, however, but a vague and casual allusion.
643 See p. 302 supra.

THE MUJTAHIDS AND MULLÁS.

One of the chief results of the Shí‘a revival effected by the Ṣafawí dynasty was the establishment of the powerful
hierarchy of mujtahids and mullás, often, but not very accurately, described by European writers as “the clergy.” This title is,
however, more applicable to them than to the ‘ulamá, or “doctors,” of the Sunnís, who are simply men learned in the
Scripture and the Law, but not otherwise possessed of any special Divine virtue or authority. The great practical difference
between the ‘ulamá of the Sunnís and of the Shí‘a lies in their conception of the doctrine of Ijtihád, or the discovery and
authoritative enunciation of fresh religious truths, based on a comprehensive knowledge of the Scripture and Traditions, and
arrived at by supreme effort and endeavour, this last being the signification of the Arabic word. One who has attained to this
is called a mujtahid, whose position may be roughly described as analogous to that of a Cardinal in the Church of Rome. No
such dignitary exists amongst the Sunnís, who hold that the Bábu’l-Ijtihád, or “Gate of Endeavour” (in the sense explained
above), was closed after the death of the founders of their four “orthodox” schools or sects, Abú Ḥanífa (d. 150/767), Málik
ibn Anas (d. circa 179/795), ash-Sháfi‘í (d. 204/820), and Aḥmad ibn Muḥammad ibn Ḥanbal (d. 241/855). Thus the “Gate of
Endeavour,” which, according to the Shí‘a view, is still open, has for the Sunnís been closed for more than a thousand years;
and in this respect the Shí‘a doctrine must be credited with a greater flexibility and adaptability than that of the

[page 354]

Sunnís, though in other respects narrower and more intolerant.
As will appear in the course of this chapter, the power and position attained by these prelates tended to divert the
ambitions of young men who possessed, or believed themselves to possess, the necessary intellectual qualifications from
poetry, belles lettres, and other forms of mental activity to theology, and from this tendency in part resulted the dearth of
poets and abundance of divines under the Ṣafawís. Those were spacious times for the “turbaned classes” (ahlu’l-‘amá’im)
and every poor, half-starved student who frequented one or other of the numerous colleges (madrasa) founded, endowed and
maintained by the piety of the Ṣafawí Sháhs, who delighted to call themselves by such titles as “Dog of the Threshold of the
Immaculate Imáms,” or “Promoter of the Doctrine of the Church of the Twelve,” dreamed, no doubt, of becoming at last a
great mujtahid, wielding powers of life and death, and accorded honours almost regal.
No class in Persia is so aloof and inaccessible to foreigners and non-Muslims as that of the mullás. It is easy for one who
has a good knowledge of Persian to mix not only with the governing classes and officials, who are most familiar with
European habits and ideas, but with merchants, tradesmen, artisans, landowners, peasants, darwíshes, Bábís, Bahá'ís, Ṣúfís
and others; but few Europeans can have enjoyed intimacy with the “clergy,” whose peculiar, exclusive, and generally narrow
life is, so far as my reading has gone, best depicted in an otherwise mediocre and quite modern biographical work entitled
Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (“Tales of the Divines”)644 by Muḥammad

[page 355]

ibn Sulaymán of Tanukábun, who was born in 1235/1819-20, wrote this book in three months and five days, and concluded it
on the 17th of Rajab, 1290 (Sept. 10, 1873). It contains the lives of 153 Shí‘a doctors, ranging from the fourth to the
thirteenth centuries of the Muhammadan (tenth to nineteenth of the Christian) era, arranged in no intelligible order, either
chronological or alphabetical. To his own biography, which he places fourth in order, the author devotes more than twenty
pages, and enumerates 169 of his works, besides various glosses and other minor writings. From this book, which I read
through during the Easter Vacation of 1923, having long ago made use of certain parts of it bearing on the Shaykhís and
Bábís, I have disentangled from much that is tedious, trivial or puerile, a certain amount of valuable information which is not
to be found in many much better biographical works, whereof, before proceeding further, I shall here speak briefly.
What is known as ‘Ilmu’r-Rijál (“ Knowledge of the Men,” that is of the leading authorities and transmitters of the
Traditions) forms an important branch of theological study, since such knowledge is necessary for critical purposes. Of such
Kutubu’r-Rijál (“Books of the Men”) there are a great many. Sprenger, in his edition645 of one of the most important of these,
the Fihrist, or “Index,” of Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan ibn ‘Alí of Ṭús, entitled Shaykhu’ṭ-Ṭá’ifa, who died in 460/1067, ranks with
it in importance four other works, the Asmá’u’r-Rijál (“Names of the Men”) of Shaykh Aḥmad ibn ‘Alí an-Najáshí646 (d.
455/1063); the Ma‘álimu’l-‘Ulamá of Muḥammad ibn ‘Alí ibn Shahr-áshúb of Mázandarán,

[page 356]

who died in 588/1192; the Íḍáḥu’l-Ishtibáh (“Elucidation of Confusion”) of Ḥasan ibn Yúsuf ibn Muṭahhar al-Ḥillí (b.
648/1250; d. 726/1326); and the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn647, a work of a more special character, dealing especially with the

644 I possess two lithographed editions of this book, the (second) Ṭihrán edition, published in Ṣafar, 1304 (Nov. 1886), and another
published (apparently) in Lucknow in 1306/1888-9.
645 Printed in the Bibliotheca Indica.
646 Lithographed at Bombay in 1317/1899-1900. In the Kashfu’l-Ḥujub (see pp. 357-8 infra) the date of the author’s death is given as
405/1014.
647 Lithographed in Bombay, n. d.

‘ulamá of Baḥrayn, by Yúsuf ibn Aḥmad ibn Ibráhím al-Baḥrání (d. 1187/1773-4). Another work, similar to the last in
dealing with a special region, is the Amalu’l-Ámil fí ‘Ulamá’i Jabal-‘Ámil, composed by Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan ibn ‘Alí…al-
Ḥurr al-‘Ámilí (b. 1033/1623-4) in 1097/1686. All these works are written in Arabic, but of the older books of this class there
is one in Persian (compiled in 990/1582) which must on no account be overlooked. This is the Majálisu’l-Mú’minín
(“Assemblies of Believers”) of Sayyid Núru’lláh ibn Sharíf al-Mar‘ashí of Shúshtar, who was put to death in India on
account of his strong Shí‘a opinions in 1019/1610-11. This book is both of a wider scope and a more popular character than
those previously mentioned, since it contains, in twelve chapters, notices of eminent Shí‘as of all classes, not merely
theologians, and includes not only those who adhered to the “Sect of the Twelve” (Ithná-‘ashariyya) but all those who held
that ‘Alí should have immediately succeeded the Prophet.
Of modern works of this class, composed within the last sixty years, three, besides the above-mentioned Qiṣaṣu’l-
‘Ulamá, deserve special mention. The most general in its scope, entitled Rawḍátu’l-Jannát fí Aḥwáli’l-‘Ulamá wa’s-Sádát
(“Gardens of Paradise: on the circumstances of Divines and Sayyids648”), was composed in Arabic by Muḥammad Báqir ibn
Ḥájji Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín al-Músawí al-Khwánsárí, whose auto-

[page 357]

biography is given on pp. 126-8 of vol. i, in 1286/1869-70. The biographies, which are arranged alphabetically, include
learned Muslims of all periods, and are not confined to theologians or members of the Shí‘a sect. Thus we find notices of
great Mystics, like Báyazíd of Bisṭám, Ibráhím ibn Adham, Shiblí and Ḥusayn ibn Manṣúr al-Ḥalláj; of Arabic poets, like
Dhu’r-Rumma, Farazdaq, Ibnu’l-Fáriḍ, Abú Nuwás and al-Mutanabbí; of Persian poets, like Saná’í, Farídu’d-Dín ‘Aṭṭár,
Náṣir-i-Khusraw, and Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí; and of men of learning like al-Bírúní, Thábit ibn Qurra, Ḥunayn ibn Isḥáq and
Avicenna, etc., besides the accounts of Shí‘a theologians down to comparatively modern times which give the book so great a
value for our present purpose.
Another important work, composed in the same year as that last mentioned (1286/1869-70) but in Persian, is entitled
Nujúmu’s-Samá (“Stars of Heaven”)649. It deals with Shí‘a theologians of the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth centuries of the
hijra (A.D. 1592-1882), and the biographies are arranged on the whole chronologically. The author was Muḥammad ibn
Ṣádiq ibn Mahdí. Like most of these books its utility is impaired by the lack of an Index or even a Table of Contents, but it
contains a great deal of useful information.
The third work of which I desire to make special mention here is primarily a bibliography, though it also contains a good
deal of biographical matter. It is entitled Kashfu’l-Ḥujub wa’l-Astár ‘an Asmá’i’l-Kutub wa’l-Asfár (“the Removal of Veils
and Curtains from the Names of Books and Treatises”), contains notices of 3414 Shí‘a books arranged alphabetically, and
was composed in Arabic by Sayyid I‘jáz Ḥusayn, who was born in 1240/1825, and died in 1286/1870. The editor,
Muḥammad Hidáyat Ḥusayn, discovered the manuscript in the excellent

[page 358]

Bankipore Library, and, encouraged by Sir E. Denison Ross, prepared the text for publication at the expense of the Asiatic
Society of Bengal650.
Mention must also be made of another Arabic work on Shí‘a poets entitled Nasimatu’s-Saḥar fí-man tashayya‘a wa
sha‘ar (“the Morning Breeze, on those who held the Shí‘a faith and composed poetry”) compiled by Yúsuf ibn Yaḥyá al-
Yamaní as-Ṣan‘ání, a rare book, hitherto, so far as I know, unpublished, of which I am fortunate enough to possess a
manuscript of the second half, containing the letters ط￿ to  651. Only poets who wrote in Arabic are noticed.
Of these books the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát is the most scholarly
and comprehensive, but those who read Persian only will derive much instruction and some amusement from the Majálisu’l-
Mú’minín, Nujúmu’s-Samá, and Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá. The older “Books of the Men,” such as the works of aṭ-Ṭúsí and an-
Najáshí, are generally very jejune, and suited for reference rather than reading. As it is with the theologians of the Ṣafawí and
subsequent periods that we are chiefly concerned here, a very few words about the older ‘ulamá of the Shí‘a will suffice,
though with their names, titles and approximate dates the student should be familiar. The most important of these earlier
divines are “the three Muḥammads652,” al-Kulayní (Muḥammad ibn Ya‘qúb, d. 329/941), Ibn Bábawayhi (Muḥammad ibn
‘Alí ibn Músá, d. 381/991-2), and the already-mentioned Ṭúsí (Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan, d. 460/

[page 359]

1067). Of these the first composed the Káfí, the second Man lá yaḥḍuruhu’l-Faqíh (a title which approximates in sense to our
familiar “Every man his own Lawyer”), and the third the Istibṣár and the Tahdhíbu’l-Aḥkám, which are known collectively

648 An excellent lithographed edition (four vols. in one, containing in all about 750 pp. and 713 biographies) was published at Ṭihrán in
1306/1888.
649 Lithographed at Lucknow in 1303/1885-6 (pp. 424).
650 It was printed at the Baptist Mission Press at Calcutta in 1330/1912, and comprises 607 pp.
651 For description of another copy see Ahlwardt’s Berlin Arabic Catalogue, vol. vi, pp. 502-3, No. 7423.
652 See the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, p. 221 of the Lucknow edition, s.v. Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí.

amongst the Shí‘a as “the Four Books” (al-Kutubu’l-arba‘a)653, and of which full particulars will be found in the above-
mentioned Kashfu’l-Ḥujub. More modern times also produced their “three Muḥammads,” namely Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan Ibn
‘Alí…al-Ḥurr al-‘Ámilí (author of the above-mentioned Amalu’l-Ámil); Muḥammad ibnu’l-Murtaḍá, commonly known as
Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayẓ (Fayḍ), who died about 1090/1679; and Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí (d. 1111/1699-1700)654. Each of
these also produced a great book, the first the Wasá’il, the second the Wáfí, and the third the Biḥáru’l-Anwár (“Oceans of
Light”), which constitute the “Three Books” of the later time. These seven great works on Shí‘a theology, jurisprudence and
tradition are, of course, like the great bulk of the works of the Muhammadan Doctors -and Divines, written in Arabic, which
language occupies no less a position in Islám than does Latin in the theological literature of the Church of Rome. Of them
space will not permit me to speak further; it is the more popular Persian manuals of doctrine, whereby the great theologians
of the Ṣafawí period sought so successfully to diffuse their religious teachings, which must chiefly concern us here, and even
of these it will be impossible to give an adequate account. According to the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát655, Kamálu’d-Dín Ḥusayn of
Ardabíl, called “the Divine Doctor” (al-

[page 360]

Iláhí), a contemporary of Sháh Isma‘íl I, “was the first to compose books in Persian on matters connected with the Holy Law
according to the doctrine of the Shí‘a”:



We have already seen656 what difficulty Sháh Isma‘íl experienced on his capture of Tabríz in finding teachers or books to
inculcate the doctrines of the creed which he was determined to impose throughout his dominions, and it is not strange,
though the fact is often overlooked, that it became necessary to introduce into Persia learned Arabs of the Shí‘a persuasion,
where such were obtainable. Two districts furnished the bulk of these: Baḥrayn, across the Persian Gulf, and Jabal ‘Ámil in
Syria657. To the divines furnished by each of these two localities a special biographical work has, as we have seen, been
devoted, namely the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn and the Amalu’l-Ámil. Some of them came to Persia totally ignorant of the Persian
language, like Sayyid Ni‘matu’lláh al-Jazá’irí, who, on reaching Shíráz with his brother, had to obtain from a Persian
acquaintance the sentence “Madrasa-i-Manṣúriyya-rá mi-khwáhím” (“We want the Manṣúriyya College”), and even then
each learned only half of this simple phrase and spoke alternately658.

[page 361]

It is the autobiography of this same Sayyid Ni‘matu’lláh, as given in the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, which furnishes us with so
unusually vivid a picture of the privations and hardships experienced by a poor student of Divinity. He was born in
1050/1640-1 and wrote this narrative when he was thirty-nine years of age659, “in which brief life,” he adds, “what afflictions
have befallen me!” These afflictions began when he was only five years old, when, while he was at play with his little
companions, his father appeared, saying, “Come with me, my little son, that we may go to the school-master, so that thou
mayst learn to read and write, in order that thou mayst attain to a high degree.” In spite of tears, protests, and appeals to his
mother he had to go to school, where, in order the sooner to escape and return to his games, he applied himself diligently to
his lessons, so that by the time he was aged five years and a half he had finished the Qur’án, besides learning many poems.
This, however, brought him no relief and no return to his childish games, for he was now committed to the care of a blind
grammarian to study the Arabic paradigms and the grammar of Zanjání. For this blind teacher he had to act as guide, while
his next preceptor

653 Or al-Uṣúlu’l-arba‘a (“the Four Principles”). See Nujúmu’s-Samá, p. 75.
654 See p. 120 supra.
655 Vol. i, p. 185.
656 Pp. 54-5 supra.
657 See G. le Strange’s Palestine under the Moslems, pp. 75-6 and 470.
658 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (ed. Lucknow, p. 229; ed. Ṭihrán, p. 333):



659 He died, according to the Kashfu’l-Ḥujub, p. 70, No. 328, in 1130/1718. Since writing this, I have found the Arabic original of this
autobiography in one of my MSS. (C. 15) entitled Kitábu’l-Anwári’n-Nu‘mániyya, composed by Sayyid Ni‘matu’lláh in 1089/1678. It
concludes the volume, and occupies ff. 329-34.

[page 362]

compelled him to cut and carry fodder for his beasts and mulberry-leaves for his silk-worms. He then sought another teacher
with whom to study the Káfiya of Ibnu’l-Ḥájib, and found an imposing personage dressed in white with an enormous turban
“like a small cupola,” who, however, was unable to answer his questions. “If you don’t know enough grammar to answer
these questions, why do you wear this great load on your head?” enquired the boy; whereupon the audience laughed, and the
teacher rose up ashamed and departed, “This led me to exert myself to master the paradigms of grammar,” says the writer;
“but I now ask pardon of God for my question to that believing man, while thanking Him that this incident happened before I
had attained maturity and become fully responsible for my actions.”
After pursuing his studies with various other masters, he obtained his father’s permission to follow his elder brother to
Ḥuwayza. The journey thither by boat through narrow channels amongst the weeds, tormented by mosquitoes “as large as
wasps” and with only the milk of buffaloes to assuage his hunger, gave him his first taste of the discomforts of travel to a
poor student. In return for instruction in Jámí’s and Járbardí’s commentaries and the Sháfiya, his teacher exacted from him
“much service,” making him and his fellow-students collect stones for a house which he wished to build, and bring fish and
other victuals for him from the neighbouring town. He would not allow them to copy his lecture-notes, but they used to
purloin them when opportunity arose and transcribe them. “Such was his way with us,” says the writer, “yet withal we were
well satisfied to serve him, so that we might derive benefit from his holy breaths.”
He attended the college daily till noon for instruction and discussion, and on returning to his lodging was so hungry

[page 363]

that, in default of any better food, he used to collect the melon-skins cast aside on the ground, wipe off the dust, and eat what
fragments of edible matter remained. One day he came upon his companion similarly employed. Each had tried to conceal
from the other the shifts to which he was reduced for food, but now they joined forces and collected and washed their melon-
skins in company. Being unable to afford lamps or candles, they learned by heart the texts they were studying, such as the
Alfiyya of Ibn Málik and the Káfiya, on moonlight nights, and on the dark nights repeated them by heart so as not to forget
them. To avoid the distraction of conversation, one student would on these occasions often bow his head on his knees and
cover his eyes, feigning headache.
After a brief visit to his home, he determined to go to Shíráz, and set out by boat for Baṣra by the Shaṭṭu’l-‘Arab. He was
so afraid of being stopped and brought back by his father that, during the earlier part of the voyage, he stripped off his clothes
and waded behind the boat, holding on to the rudder, until he had gone so far that recognition was no longer probable, when
he re-entered the boat. Farther on he saw a number of people on the bank, and one of his fellow-passengers called out to them
to enquire whether they were Sunnís or Shí‘a. On learning that they were Sunnís, he began to abuse them and invoke curses
on the first three Caliphs, to which they replied with volleys of stones.
The writer remained only a short while at Baṣra, then governed by Ḥusayn Páshá, for his father followed him thither to
bring him home, but he escaped privily with his brother, and, as already narrated660, made his way to Shíráz and established
himself in the Manṣúriyya College, being then only eleven

[page 364]

years of age. He found one of the tutors lecturing on the Alfiyya of Ibn Málik, who, on the conclusion of the lecture,
questioned him as to his aims and adventures, and finally, seizing him by the car and giving it a sharp twist, said, “O my son,
do not make thyself an Arab Shaykh or seek for supremacy, and do not waste thy time! Do not thus, that so perchance thou
mayst become a scholar.”
In this college also the life was hard and the daily allowance of food inadequate, and the writer’s brother wished to return
home, but he himself determined to remain, copying books for a pittance, and working almost all night through the hot
weather in a room with closed doors while his fellow-students slept on the roof. Often he had neither oil for his lamp nor
bread to eat, but must work by moonlight, faint with hunger, while in the winter mornings his fingers often bled with the cold
as he wrote his notes. Thus passed two or three years more, and, though his eyesight was permanently affected by the strain
to which it was subjected, he began to write books himself, a commentary on the Káfiya, and another, entitled Miftáḥu’l-
Labíb, on the Tahdhíb of Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín Muḥammad661. He now began to extend the range of his studies beyond
Arabic grammar, and to frequent the lectures of more eminent teachers from Baghdád, al-Aḥsá and Baḥrayn, amongst them
Shaykh Ja‘far al-Baḥrání. One day he did not attend this Shaykh’s lecture because of the news which had reached him of the
death of certain relatives. When he reappeared on the following day the Shaykh was very angry and refused to give him any
further instruction, saying, “May God curse my father and mother if I teach

[page 365]

660 P. 360 supra.
661 See the Kashfu’l-Ḥujub, p. 146, No. 725. The author died in 1031/1621-2. He was one of the most notable theologians of the reign of
Sháh ‘Abbás the Great, and is commonly called in Persia “Shaykh-i-Bahá'í.” See p. 407 infra.

you any more! Why were you not here yesterday?” And, when the writer explained the cause of his absence, he said, “You
should have attended the lecture, and indulged in your mourning afterwards”; and only when the student had sworn never to
play the truant again whatever might happen was he allowed after an interval to resume his attendance. Finally he so far won
the approval of this somewhat exacting teacher that the latter offered him his daughter in marriage; an honour from which he
excused himself by saying, “If God will, after I have finished my studies and become a Doctor (‘álim), I will marry.” Soon
afterwards the teacher obtained an appointment in India, at Ḥaydarábád in the Deccan.
Sayyid Ni‘matu’lláh remained in Shíráz for nine years, and for the most part in such poverty that often he swallowed
nothing all day except water. The earlier part of the night he would often spend with a friend who lived some way outside the
town so as to profit by his lamp for study, and thence he would grope his way through the dark and deserted bazaars,
soothing the fierce dogs which guarded their masters’ shops, to the distant mosque where he lectured before dawn. At his
parents’ wish he returned home for a while and took to himself a wife, but being reproached by a learned man whom he
visited with abandoning his studies while still ill-grounded in the Science of Traditions, he left his parents and his wife (he
had only been married for three weeks) and returned to the Manṣúriyya College at Shíráz. Soon afterwards, however, it was
destroyed by a fire, in which one student and a large part of the library perished; and about the same time he received tidings
of his father’s death. These two misfortunes, combined with other circumstances, led him to leave Shíráz and go to Iṣfahán.
During his early days at Iṣfahán he still suffered from the same poverty with which he had been only too familiar

[page 366]

in the past, often eating salted meat to increase his thirst, so that the abundance of water he was thereby impelled to drink
might destroy his appetite for solid food. The change in his fortune took place when he made the acquaintance and attracted
the notice of that great but fanatical divine Mullá Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí, perhaps the most notable and powerful doctor
of the Shí‘a who ever lived. He was admitted to the house of this famous man and lived with him for four years studying
theology, and especially the Traditions662. Yet in this case familiarity did not breed contempt, for, as the author mentions in
his Anwáru’n-Nu‘mániyya663, though specially favoured by this formidable “Prince of the Church,” he often, when
summoned to his library to converse with him, or to help in the compilation of the Biḥáru’l-Anwár, would stand trembling
outside the door for some moments ere he could summon up courage to enter. Thanks to this powerful patronage, however,
he was appointed lecturer (mudarris) in a college recently founded by a certain Mírzá Taqí near the Bath of Shaykh-i-Bahá’í
in Iṣfahán, which post he held for eight years, when the increasing weakness of his eyes and the inability of the oculists of
Iṣfahán to afford him any relief determined him to set out again on his travels. He visited Sámarrá, Káẓimayn, and other holy
places in ‘Iráq, whence he returned by way of Shúshtar to Iṣfahán. In 1079/1668-9 his brother died, and ten years later, when
he penned this autobiography, he still

[page 367]

keenly felt this loss. After visiting Mashhad he returned to Ḥuwayza, where he was living a somewhat solitary and
disillusioned life at the time of writing (1089/1678-9). Of his further adventures I have found no record, but his death did not
take place until 1130/1718, only four years before the disaster which put an end to the Ṣafawí Dynasty.
I have given in a somewhat compressed form the whole of this illuminating narrative, one of those “human documents”
which are so rare in Persian books (though indeed, as already noted on p. 361, it was originally written in Arabic), because it
throws so much light on the life of the Persian student of theology, which, for the rest, mutatis mutandis, closely resembles
that of the mediaeval European student. We see the child prematurely torn from the games and amusements suitable to his
age to undergo a long, strenuous, and arid course of instruction in Arabic grammar and philology, reading one grammar after
another in an ascending scale of difficulty, with commentaries, supercommentaries, glosses and notes on each; we see him as
a boy, now fired with ambition, pursuing his studies in theology and law, half-starved, suffering alternately from the cold of
winter and the heat of summer, ruining his eyesight by perusing crabbed texts by the fitful light of the moon, and his
digestion by irregular and unwholesome meals, varied by intervals of starvation; cut off from home life and family ties;
submerged in an ocean of formalism and fanaticism; himself in time adding to the piles of glosses and notes which serve
rather to submerge and obscure than to elucidate the texts whereon they are based; and at last, if fortunate, attracting the
favourable notice of some great divine, and becoming himself a mudarris (lecturer), a mutawallí (custodian of a shrine), or
even a mujtahid.
But if the poor student’s path was arduous, the possible prizes were great, though, of course, attained only by a few.

[page 368]


662 As has been already mentioned (p. 359 supra), this powerful prelate was one of the “three Muḥammads” of the later time, and his great
work on Shí‘a tradition, the Biḥáru’l-Anwár, is still accounted in Persia the most authoritative work on this subject.
663 See the Kashfu’l-Ḥujub, p. 70, No. 328. I have a MS. of this work obtained from the late Ḥájji ‘Abdu’l-Majíd Belshah and now bearing
the class-mark C. 15. As already noted (p. 361), it concludes (ff. 329-34) with the Arabic original of the narrative here given.

In the eyes of the Ṣafawí kings the mujtahid was the representative of the Expected Imám, whose name they never mentioned
without adding the prayer, “M ay God hasten his glad advent!” (‘ajjala ‘lláhu faraja-hu!). He had power of life and death.
Ḥájji Sayyid Muḥammad Báqir ibn Muḥammad Taqí of Rasht, entitled Ḥujjatu’l-Islám (“the Proof of Islám”), is said to have
put to death seventy persons for various sins or heresies. On the first occasion, being unable to find anyone to execute his
sentence, he had to strike the first ineffective blow himself, after which someone came to his assistance and decapitated the
victim, over whose body he then recited the funeral prayers, and while so doing fainted with emotion664.
Another mujtahid, Áqá Muḥammad ‘Alí, a contemporary of Karím Khán-i-Zand, acquired the title of Ṣúfí-kush (“the
Ṣúfí-slayer”) from the number of ‘urafá and darwíshes whom he condemned to death665.
Another, Mullá ‘Abdu’lláh-i-Túní, induced Sháh ‘Abbás the Great to walk in front of him as he rode through the
Maydán-i-Sháh, or Royal Square, of Iṣfahán666, with the object of demonstrating to all men the honour in which learning was
held.
Mullá Ḥasan of Yazd, who had invited his fellow-townsmen to expel, with every circumstance of disgrace, a tyrannical
governor, was summoned to Ṭihrán by Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh to answer for his actions, and threatened with the bastinado unless he
disavowed responsibility for this procedure. As he refused to do this, and persisted that he was entirely responsible for what
had happened, he was actually tied up to receive the bastinado, though it was not actually inflicted. That night the Sháh was
notified in a dream of the extreme displeasure with which the Prophet regarded

[page 369]

the disrespect shown by him to the exponent of his doctrine and law, and hastened next morning to offer his apologies and a
robe of honour, which last was refused by the indignant ecclesiastic667.
Mullá Aḥmad of Ardabíl, called Muqaddas (“the Saint,” died in 993/1585), being asked by one of the King’s officers
who had committed some fault to intercede for him, wrote to Sháh ‘Abbás the Great in Persian as follows668:



“Let ‘Abbás, the founder of a borrowed empire669, know that this man, if he was
originally an oppressor, now appears to be oppressed; so that, if thou wilt pass over
his fault, perhaps God (Glorious and Exalted is He) may pass over some of thy
faults.
“Written by Aḥmad al-Ardabílí, servant of the Lord of Saintship670.”

To this the Sháh ‘Abbás replied:



“‘Abbás makes representation that he accepts as a spiritual favour and has
fulfilled the services which you enjoined on him. Do not forget [me] your friend in
your prayers!
“Written by ‘Abbás, the dog of ‘Alí’s threshold.”

[page 370]

Another mujtahid of Ardabíl entitled Muḥaqqiq (“the Investigator” or “Verifier”) wrote on behalf of certain Sayyids to
Sháh Ṭahmásp, who, on receiving the letter, rose to his feet, placed it on his eyes, and kissed it, and gave the fullest
satisfaction to its demands. Then, because the letter addressed him as “O brother” (Ayyuha’l-Akh), the Sháh caused it to be

664 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (Lucknow ed.), p. 138.
665 Ibid., p. 210.
666 Ibid., part ii, p. 54.
667 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (Lucknow ed.), pp. 99-100.
668 This and the following anecdote are from the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (Ṭihrán ed., p. 260; Lucknow ed., p. 132).
669 Because it really belongs to the Expected Imám, and is only held by the Sháh as his trustee and vice-gerent.
670 I.e. ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib, the First Imám.

placed with his winding-sheet and ordered that it should be buried with him, “in order that,” said he, “I may argue with the
Angels of the Tomb, Munkir and Nakír, that I should not be subjected to their torment.”
Still more extraordinary is another anecdote in the same work671 of how Prince Muḥammad ‘Alí Mírzá gave a thousand
túmáns to each of two mujtahids in return for a paper, duly signed and sealed, promising him a place in Paradise. One of
them (Sayyid Riḍá ibn Sayyid Mahdí) hesitated to do this, but the Prince said, “Do you write the document and get the
doctors of Karbalá and Najaf to witness it, and I will get it (i.e. the mansion in Paradise) from God Most High.”
Many similar anecdotes might be cited, besides numerous miracles (karámát) ascribed to most of the leading divines, but
enough has been said to show the extraordinary power and honour which they enjoyed. They were, indeed, more powerful
than the greatest Ministers of State, since they could, and often did, openly oppose the Sháh and overcome him without
incurring the fate which would almost inevitably have overtaken a recalcitrant Minister. Nor is this a thing of the past, as is
abundantly shown by the history of the overthrow of the Tobacco Concession in 1890-1, which was entirely effected, in the
teeth of the Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh and his Court, and the British Legation, by the mujtahids, headed by Ḥájji Mírzá Ḥasan-i-
Shírází and Ḥájji Mírzá Ḥasan-i-Ashtiyání

[page 371]

inspired and prompted by that extraordinary man Sayyid Jamálu’d-Dín miscalled “the Afghán672.” Dr Feuvrier, the Sháh’s
French physician, who was in Ṭihrán at the time, gives a graphic account of this momentous struggle in his Trois Ans à la
Cour de Perse673. I have described it fully in my Persian Revolution of 1905-1909674, and also the still more important part
played by Mullá Muḥammad Káẓim of Khurásán and other patriotic mujtahids675 in the Persian struggle for freedom and
independence in the first decade of this century of our era. Mullá Muḥammad Káẓim, a noble example of the patriot-priest,
deeply moved by the intolerable tyranny and aggression of the then government of Russia, formally proclaimed a jihád, or
religious war, against the Russians on December 11, 1911, and was setting out from Karbalá for Persia in pursuance of this
object when he died very suddenly on the following day, the victim, as was generally believed, of poison676. He was not the
only ecclesiastical victim of patriotism, for the Thiqatu’l-Islám was publicly hanged by the Russians at Tabríz on the
‘Áshúrá, or 10th of Muḥarram, 1330 (January 1, 1912)677, a sacrilegious act only surpassed by the bombardment three
months later of the shrine of the Imám Riḍá at Mashhad, which many Persians believe to have been avenged by the fate
which subsequently overtook the Tsar and his family at the hands of the Bolsheviks.
The mujtahids and mullás, therefore, are a great, though probably a gradually decreasing force, in Persia and concern
themselves with every department of human activity,

[page 372]

from the minutest details of personal purification to the largest issues of politics. It is open to any Shí‘a Muslim to submit any
problem into the solution of which religious considerations enter (and they practically enter everywhere) to a mujtahid, and to
ask for a formal decision, or fatwá, conformable to the principles of Shí‘a doctrine. Such fatwá may extend to the
denunciation of an impious or tyrannical king or minister as an infidel (takfír), or the declaration that anyone who fights for
him is as one who fights against the Hidden Imám. The fact that the greatest mujtahids generally reside at Najaf or Karbalá,
outside Persian territory, greatly strengthens their position and conduces to their immunity. To break or curb their power has
been the aim of many rulers in Persia before and after the Ṣafawís, but such attempts have seldom met with more than a very
transient success, for the mullás form a truly national class, represent in great measure the national outlook and aspirations,
and have not unfrequently shielded the people from the oppression of their governors. And although their scholarship is
generally of a somewhat narrow kind, it is, so far as it goes, sound, accurate, and even in a sense critical. The finest Persian
scholar I know, Mírzá Muḥammad ibn ‘Abdu’l-Wahháb of Qazwín, is one who has superimposed on this foundation a
knowledge of European critical methods acquired in England, France and Germany.
On the other hand, apart from corruption, fanaticism and other serious faults, many of the ‘ulamá are prone to petty
jealousy and mutual disparagement. A well-known anecdote, given by Malcolm678 and in the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá679, shows that
great doctors like Mír Dámád and Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín al-‘Ámilí could rise

[page 373]


671 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, ed. Lucknow, p. 32.
672 For a full account of him, see my Persian Revolution, ch. i, pp. 1-30 etc.
673 Paris, n.d., ch. v, pp. 307-349.
674 Ch. ii, pp. 31-58.
675 Ibid., p. 262 etc. For facsimiles of fatwá and letter, see pp. 421-4.
676 See my Press and Poetry, of Modern Persia, p. 334.
677 Ibid, pp. 335-6, and also my pamphlet entitled The Reign of Terror at Tabríz (October, 1912).
678 History of Persia (ed. 1815), vol. i, pp. 258-9.
679 Lucknow ed., second part, pp. 26-7; Ṭihrán ed., p. 181.

above such ignoble feelings; but, as the author of the latter work complains, their less magnanimous colleagues were but too
prone to call one another fools and asses, to the injury of their own class and the delight of irreligious laymen. Nor was this
abuse rendered less offensive by being wrapped up in punning and pedantic verses like this680:



“Thou art not worthy to be advanced; nay, thou art nothing more
than half of the opposite of ‘advanced’!”

The opposite of “advanced” (muqaddam) is “postponed” (mu’akhkhar), and the second half of the latter word, khar, is
the Persian for an ass. This is a refined specimen of mullás’ wit: for a much coarser one the curious reader may refer to an
interchange of badinage between Mullá Mírzá Muḥammad-i-Shírwání the Turk and Áqá Jamál of Iṣfahán recorded in the
Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá681. That some mullás had the sense to recognize their own rather than their neighbours’ limitations is,
however, shown by a pleasant anecdote related in the same work682 of Jamálu’d-Dín Muḥammad ibn Ḥusayn-i-Khwánsárí.
As a judge he was in receipt of a salary of four thousand túmáns a year. One day four persons successively put to him four
questions, to each of which he replied, “I do not know.” A certain high official who was present said to him, “You receive
from the King four thousand túmáns to know, yet here to everyone who asks you a question you reply ‘I do not know.’” “I
receive these four thousand túmáns,” replied the mullá, “for those things which I do know. If I required a salary for what I do
not know, even the Royal Treasury would be unable to pay it.”

[page 374]

Jurisprudence (fiqh) and theology (‘aqá’id), with the ancillary sciences, all of which are based on a thorough knowledge
of the Arabic language, normally constitute the chief studies of the “ clergy,” though naturally there is a certain tendency to
specialization, the qáḍí, or ecclesiastical judge, being more concerned with fiqh, and the theologian proper with doctrine. We
must also distinguish between the prevalent Uṣúlí and the once important but now negligible Akhbárí school, between whom
bitter enmity subsisted. The former, as their name implies, follow the general “principles” (uṣúl) deducible from the Qur’án
and accredited traditions, and employ analogy (qiyás) in arriving at their conclusions. The latter follow the traditions
(akhbár) only, and repudiate analogical reasoning. Mullá Muḥammad Amín ibn Muḥammad Sharíf of Astarábád, who died in
1033/1623-4, is generally accounted the founder of the Akhbárí school, and was, according to the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn683,
“the first to open the door of reproach against the Mujtahids, so that the ‘Saved Sect’ (a1-Firqatu’n-Nájiya, i.e. the Shí‘a of
the Sect of the Twelve) became divided into Akhbárís and Mujtahids,” and the contents of his book al-Fawá’idu’l-
Madaniyya684 consist for the most part of vituperation of the Mujtahids, whom he often accused of “destroying the true
Religion.” A later doctor of this school, Mírzá Muḥammad Akhbárí of Baḥrayn, entertained so great a hatred for the
Mujtahids that he promised Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh that he would in forty days cause to be brought to Ṭihrán the head of a certain
Russian general who was at that time invading and devasting the frontier provinces of Persia, on condition that Fatḥ-‘Alí
Sháh would, in case of his success, “abrogate and abandon the Mujtahids,

[page 375]

extirpate and eradicate them root and branch, and make the Akhbárí doctrine current throughout all the lands of Persia.” The
Sháh consented, and thereupon the Akhbárí doctor went into retirement for forty days, abstained from all animal food, and
proceeded to practise the “envoûtement” of the Russian general, by making a wax figure of him and decapitating it with a
sword. According to the story, the head was actually laid before the Sháh just as the period of forty days was expiring, and he
thereupon took council with his advisers as to what he should do. These replied, “the sect of the Mujtahids is one which hath
existed from the time of the Imáms until now, and they are in the right, while the Akhbárí sect is scanty in numbers and weak.
Moreover it is the beginning of the Qájár dynasty, You might, perhaps, succeed in turning the people from the doctrine [to
which they are accustomed], but this might be the cause of disastrous results to the King’s rule, and they might rebel against
him. Moreover it might easily happen that Mírzá Muḥammad should be annoyed with you, arrive at an understanding with
your enemy, and deal with you as he dealt with the Russian ‘Ishpukhtur685.’ The wisest course is that you should propitiate
him, excuse yourself to him, and order him to retire to the Holy Thresholds (Karbalá or

680 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, Lucknow ed., second part, p. 165; Ṭihrán ed., p. 281.
681 ibid., Lucknow ed., second part, p. 52; Ṭihrán ed., pp. 200-1.
682 Ibid., Lucknow ed., second part, p. 50; Ṭihrán ed., p. 199.
683 Bombay lith., p. 122.
684 See the Kashfu’l-Ḥujub, p. 406, No. 2242. The author wrote the book at Mecca two years before his death.
685 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, Ṭihrán ed., p. 132; Lucknow ed., pp. 188-9. The Russian general is here called Ishpukhtur
which, as my friend
M. V. Minorsky informs me, represents “Inspector” (pronounced Išpeχtor), and is, perhaps, influenced in its form by the popular
etymology
(in Ottoman Turkish =
) invented by the Turkish- speaking Ádharbáyjánís, meaning “his work is dirt.”
M. Minorsky further informed me that this general’s real name was Tsitsianoff, that he was a Georgian, and that the phrase “Have you

[page 376]

Najaf) and stay there; for it is not expedient for the State that such a person should remain in the capital.” This advice Fatḥ-
‘Alí Sháh decided to follow.

The very dry, narrow and formal divines are called by the Persians Qishrí (literally “Huskers,” i.e. externalists), and to
these the Akhbárís in particular belong, but also many of the Uṣúlís, like Mírzá Ibráhím, the son of the celebrated Mullá
Ṣadrá, one of the teachers of Sayyid Ni‘matu’lláh Jazá’irí, who used to glory in the fact that his belief was that of the
common people, and Mullá ‘Alí Núrí, who used to pray that God would keep him in the current popular faith686. On the other
hand we have the more liberal-minded divines, whose theology was tinctured with Philosophy or Ṣúfíism, the Mutakallimún,
who strove to reconcile Philosophy with Religion and closely resemble the School-men of mediaeval Europe, and finally the
pure philosophers, like the celebrated Mullá Ṣadrá of Shíráz, who, however little their ultimate conclusions accorded with
orthodox theology, had generally had the training of the ‘ulamá and were drawn from the same class.
The literature produced by this large and industrious body of men, both in Arabic and Persian, is naturally enormous, but
the bulk of it is so dull or so technical that no one but a very leisured and very pious Shí‘a scholar would dream of reading it.
The author of the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá remarks687 that the ‘ulamá often live to a very advanced age, and as their habits are, as a
rule, sedentary and studious, and they devote a large portion of their time to writing, it is not unusual to find a single author
credited with one or two hundred books

[page 377]

and pamphlets. Thus the author of the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá enumerates 169 of his own works, besides glosses, tracts and minor
writings688; of those of Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ (Fayẓ), 69 by name, but he adds that the total number is nearly 200689; of those
of Muḥammad ibn ‘Alí…ibn Bábawayhi, entitled aṣ-Ṣadúq, 189690; and so on. Many of these writings are utterly valueless,
consisting of notes or glosses on super-commentaries or commentaries on texts, grammatical, logical, juristic or otherwise,
which texts are completely buried and obscured by all this misdirected ingenuity and toil. It was of this class of writings that
the late Grand Muftí of Egypt and Chancellor of al-Azhar Shaykh Muḥammad ‘Abduh, one of the most able and enlightened
Muhammadan divines of our time, was wont to say that they ought all to be burned as hindrances rather than aids to learning.
The works on jurisprudence (Fiqh) also, even the best, are as a rule very unreadable to a non-Muslim. What is taught in
English universities as “Muhammadan Law” is, of course, only a portion of the subject as understood in the Lands of Islám.
The Sharí‘at, or Holy Law, includes not only Civil and Criminal Law, but such personal religious obligations as Prayer and
the Purifications necessary for its due performance; Alms; Fasting; Pilgrimage; and the Holy War (Jihád), which subjects,
with their innumerable ramifications and the hair-splitting casuistry applied to all sorts of contingencies arising from them,
constitute perhaps one half of the whole. It is curious that, in spite of the neglect of Shí‘a theology by European Orientalists,
one of the best European books on Muhammadan Jurisprudence treats of Shí‘a Law. This is M. Amédée Querry’s Droit
Musulman: Recueil de Lois

[page 378]

concernant les Musulmans Schyites691; and the European reader who wishes to form an idea of the subject, with all its
intricate, and, to the non-Muslim mind, puerile and even disgusting details, cannot do better than consult this monumental
work, which is based on the Sharáyi‘u’l-Islám fí masá’ili’l-Ḥalál wa’l-Ḥarám692 of the celebrated Shí‘a doctor Najmu’d-Dín
Abu’l-Qásim Ja‘far ibn al-Ḥasan…al-Ḥillí, commonly called al-Muḥaqqiq al-Awwal (“the First Verifier” or “Investigator”),
who died in 676/1277-8. Other works of authority, enumerated in the Preface (vol. i, p. vii) were also consulted, as well as
leading contemporary Persian jurists, by M. Querry, whose twenty-five years’ sojourn in Turkey and Persia, where he
occupied important official positions, such as counsellor of the French Legation at Ṭihrán, singularly fitted him for the
arduous task which he so ably accomplished. An excellent Index of Arabic technical terms explained in the course of the
book greatly enhances its value.
Mention should be made in this connection of a Persian catechism on problems of jurisprudence (fiqh) entitled Su’ál u
Jawáb (“Question and Answer”), by the eminent mujtahid Ḥájji Sayyid Muḥammad Báqir, whose severity in enforcing the

brought the Inspector’s head?”
is still used proverbially to one who presents himself in great hurry and excitement, as
though in fulfilment of some very important commission.
686 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, Ṭihrán ed., p. 248; Lucknow ed., second part p. 107.
687 Lucknow ed., p. 65.
688 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, Lucknow ed., pp. 77-85.
689 Ibid., second part, pp. 112-16.
690 Ibid., second part, pp. 183-6.
691 Two vols. of pp. viii + 768 and 669 respectively (Paris, Maisonneuve, 1871-2).
692 See p. 54, n. 3, supra.

death-penalty in cases where it is enacted by the Ecclesiastical Law has been already mentioned693. This work, composed
subsequently to 1236/1820, was very beautifully printed in 1247/1832, apparently at Iṣfahán, under the supervision of Mírzá
Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín of Tabríz, “the introducer of this art into Persia.” It comprises 162 ff. of 29˙6 x 20˙5 c. and 28 lines, and the
letters س￿ (su’ál, “question”) and ج￿ (jawáb, “answer”)

[page 379]

are throughout inserted by hand in red. I possess only one volume, which was to have been followed by a second, but
whether this was ever completed I do not know694. The topics are arranged in the usual order, beginning with the personal
obligations of purification, prayer, alms, fasting and pilgrimage, and ending with the Kitábu’l-Wadí‘at, dealing with objects
deposited in trust in the hands of another. An Introduction on “Principles” (Uṣúl) is prefixed to the whole, and in each book,
or section, various problems connected with the topic in question are propounded, with the author’s decisions, the whole in
the form of dialogue. Thus the Introduction begins abruptly, without any doxology, with the following question:
Q. “If a person follows the opinions of one of the mujtahids (may God increase the like of them!) during the life of that
mujtahid, is it lawful after his death for that person to continue to follow him and act according to his sayings, or not?”
The answer, which fills nearly a page, is to the effect that it is not lawful so to do, and that the person in question should
transfer his allegiance to some other mujtahid. Numerous authorities are cited in support of this view, amongst them
Muḥammad Báqir (presumably al-Majlisí), Sayyid Muḥammad Mahdí, the “Second Martyr” (ash-Shahidu’th-Thání), and the
“Second Verifier” or “Investigator” (al-Muḥaqqiqu’th- Thání).
The “books,” or sections, are of very unequal length, that on Prayer occupying nearly 70 ff., and other “ books,”
including the last, on Trusts, only half a page. Of the latter, which contains only two questions and their answers, the full
translation is as follows:

[page 380]

Q. — “Zayd695 sends an article in trust to a trustee, bidding him give it to So-and-so. After the arrival of the article, the
trustee learns for certain that the article entrusted to him belongs to ‘Amr696, and that the hand of the sender, etc., is the hand
of borrowing and usurpation. Moreover ‘Amr lays claim to the trust. saying, ‘This trust committed to thee is my property.’
The trustee also admits the validity of his claim to the property, but says, ‘He sent it to me to give it to So-and-so; I will not
give it to thee.’ Has ‘Amr legally power to assume possession of the property and take it from the trustee, or not? And to
whom should the trustee surrender the trust, so that he may be cleared of all further responsibility?”
A. — “If what has been penned actually corresponds with the facts of the case, that is to say, if the trustee knows that the
property belongs to ‘Amr, and that the hand of the sender of it is the hand of usurpation and violence, it is incumbent on the
said trustee to surrender such property to its owner, whether the sender gives permission for such surrender or not. For such
trustee to say to ‘Amr, having knowledge of the fact that the said property really belongs to him, ‘I will not give it to thee, in
view of the fact that the sender of it bade me give it to So-and-so, not to thee,’ is incompatible with the functions of a trustee,
and is not conformable to the Holy Law.”
Q. — “If Zayd shall have deposited an article in trust with ‘Amr, and If nearly seventeen years shall have passed, and if,
notwithstanding ‘Amr’s urgent insistence with Zayd that he should remove the said article, he neglects to do so, and the said
article, without any excess or defect of action697 [on ‘Amr’s part], perishes, is ‘Amr liable to any penalty, or not?”
A. — “Provided the details as set forth in writing correspond with the facts, there will be no penalty.”

This sample of Shí‘a jurisprudence must suffice, but such as desire a further illustration of the matters which preoccupy
the minds of these jurisconsults and doctors may with profit read the narrative of the trial of the Báb at Tabríz for heresy
about A.D. 1848, of which an account,

[page 381]

based on the principal Persian narratives, will be found in vol. ii of my Travellers Narrative, pp. 277-90.

We turn now to the more interesting subject of Shí‘a theology, which has hitherto hardly attracted the attention it
deserves from European Orientalists, and can only receive brief and inadequate treatment here. It must suffice to sketch in
outline the current popular creed, without considering its evolution from early times, and to mention a few of the chief
doctrinal works written in Persian during or since the Ṣafawí period. For the purpose of this outline, however, I choose not

693 See p. 368 supra. His life is given very fully in the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá (Lucknow ed., pp. 129-78).
694 The British Museum Library also possesses only this one volume. See E. Edwards’s Catalogue (1922), col. 458. The Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá
gives 1227/1812 as the date of composition, but on f. 28b of the text, line 2, Muḥarram 1236/Oct. 1820 is mentioned as the current date.
695 ‘Amr and Zayd in Muslim jurisprudence correspond to “John Doe” and “Richard Roe” of English law-books; in grammar to Balbus and
Caius; and in common speech to “Tom, Dick, and Harry.
696 Ibid.
697 I.e. without any fault of commission or omission on his part.

one of the larger, more authoritative and more famous books like the Ḥaqqu’l-Yaqín (“Certain Truth”) of Mullá Muḥammad
Báqir-i-Majlisí, but a little manual entitled ‘Aqá’idu’sh-Shí‘a (“Beliefs of the Shí‘a”) composed during the reign of
Muḥammad Sháh Qájár (before the middle of the nineteenth century of our era) by a certain ‘Alí Aṣghar ibn ‘Alí Akbar, and
lithographed in Persia without indication of place or date. This work, comprising 438 (unnumbered) pages, consists of an
Introduction (Muqaddama), five sections called Mishkát, and a Conclusion (Khátima). The contents are briefly as follows:


Introduction (Muqaddama).

Sets forth that God has not created mankind in vain, but that they should worship and serve Him, and reap the
recompense of their actions in the next world. He has sent, to make known to them His Will and Law, numerous prophets, of
whom Muḥammad is the last and greatest. He left behind him the Scripture (the Qur’án) and his holy descendants and
representatives for the continued guidance of mankind. In these days of the Greater Occultation (Ghaybat-i-Kubrá)698
wherein we live, the true faith is deduced

[page 382]

from the Qur’án and the sayings and traditions of the Holy Imáms. According to these, three things are required of us: (1)
heartfelt belief; (2) oral confession; (3) certain prescribed acts. These are ascertained either by personal investigation and
“endeavour” (ijtihád), or by adopting the opinions of such investigator (mujtahid) by conformity to his authority (taqlíd). The
author concludes by enumerating a number of heresies to be avoided, such as Pantheism (waḥdatu’l-wujúd); Apotheosis and
Incarnation (ittiḥád wa ḥulúl); Determinism or Fatalism (jabr); Antinomianism(suqút-i-‘ibádát) consequent on self-
mortification and discipline (riyáḍát); Communism (ibáḥat)699; Deification and adoration of the Imáms; denial of the
Resurrection of the body, or of any future life; sanction of the use of musical instruments, and of narcotic or intoxicating
substances; Metempsychosis (tanásukh); Anthropomorphism (tashbíh), and the like.


Mishkát I (pp. 7-28), in four sections (Miṣbáḥ).
What is to be believed concerning the Essence and
Attributes of God.

Belief in the Unity of God (tawḥíd) is fourfold, namely:
Section i. Unity of the Divine Essence (Tawḥíd-i-Dhátí). God is One, without partner, peer or equal; Holy; Perfect; Free
from defect; not composite, or capable of being so conceived, imagined, or apprehended; neither Body, nor Light, nor
Substance, nor Accident; not located, nor born, nor producing offspring; Invisible both in this world and the next700, even to
the

[page 383]

Prophets, Imáms and Saints, but known to us only by His acts and the signs of His Power; neither eating, nor drinking, nor
clothing Himself; exempt from anger, vexation, pain, joy, height, depth, change, progression, or retrogression; Eternal and
absolutely independent of all else. His Attributes are identical with His Essence, not added to or superimposed on His
Essence. These Attributes are for the most part negative, and are called Ṣifát-i-Salbiyya or “Privative Attributes.”
Here again the author digresses to denounce various heresies of the Ṣúfís, especially the idea that beautiful persons are
especially the Mirrors or Tabernacles of God, and the doctrine of Pantheism (Waḥdatu’l-Wujúd), according to which the
relation of Phenomena to Absolute Being is similar to that between the Waves and the Sea, or to sunlight passing through
windows of variously coloured glass.
Section ii. Unity of the Divine Attributes (Tawḥíd-i-Ṣifátí). These Attributes are of several kinds, namely (1) “Essential
Attributes” (Ṣifát-i-Dhátí)701, to wit, Life, Power, with its derivative Speech, and Knowledge, with its derivatives Will and
Comprehension. To these six some theologians add Eternity and Truth, but these, like Speech, Will and Comprehension, are
Secondary Attributes, while Life, Power and Knowledge are primary. (2) The “Privative” or “Negative Attributes” (Ṣifát-i-
Salbiyya), also called the “Attributes of Glory” (Jalál) as opposed to “Perfection” (Kamál) and

698 This began in 260/873-4, when the Twelfth and last Imám disappeared, to return in “the Last Time.”
699 Communism was preached in Persia in Sásánian times (sixth Christian century) by Mazdak. From his time until that of the Bábís this
accusation has been brought against many heterodox sects.
700 Ḥáfiẓ has accordingly been blamed by one of his critics for the verse:


“This borrowed spirit which the Friend hath entrusted to Ḥáfiẓ,
one day I shall see His Face and surrender it to Him.”
701 Or “Positive” (Thubútiyya), or Ṣifát-i-Kamál, “Attributes of Perfection.”

[page 384]

“Beauty” (Jamál), are seven qualities from which God is exempt, namely, Compositeness, Corporeality, Visibility, Locality,
Association or Partnership, Unreality, and Need. (3) “Effective Attributes” (Ṣifát-i-Fi‘lí), or “Attributes of Beauty” (Ṣifát-i-
Jamál), are acts which may be ascribed or not ascribed to God at different times and in different circumstances, like “the
Provider” (Ráziq), “the Creator” (Kháliq), “the Merciful, the Compassionate” (Raḥmán, Raḥím), “the Bounteous” (Jawád),
and so forth. In this section reference is made to other views entertained by the Ash‘arís, the Mu‘tazila, the Kirámís, al-
Balkhí, an-Najjár, Ḥasan of Baṣra, etc.
Section iii. Creative Unity of God (Tawḥíd-i-Khalqí). God alone can create, and it is heresy to believe with the
Zoroastrians that God creates only what is good, and the Devil what is evil. But God can and does use means to this end, and
can delegate His creative powers to Angels or other agents. “The good or evil manifested through God’s plenipotentiary
servants702 is not God’s act but their act, wherefore they are the recipients of reward or punishment, by reason of the option
which they enjoy, so that they themselves, by their own

[page 385]

volition, do those things which God hath commanded or forbidden. For although they act by virtue of a power and strength
which they do not in themselves possess, but which God hath conferred upon them, yet, since He hath given them this option,
He hath also assigned to them rewards and punishments. Yet God is the Creator of Good and Evil, while His servant is but
the agent and doer thereof. Since, however, this treatise is designed for the common people, it would be out of place for us to
discuss this matter [more fully] here.”
The author next proceeds to refute certain opinions entertained by the extreme Shí‘a (Ghulát), such as that ‘Alí can
create, with or without God’s permission; or that he is the “Assigner of Daily Bread” (Qásimu’l-Arzáq); or that God obtained
his permission to create the universe; or that he put his hand under his prayer-mat and brought forth in it the heavens and the
earth. It may, however, be believed, as is implied in sundry traditions, that-on the Day of Judgement God will leave “the
Reckoning” with ‘Alí or other of the Imáms, and will accept their intercession, and the like. Hence ‘Alí is entitled “the Face
of God” (Wajhu’lláh), “the Hand of God” (Yadu’lláh), “the Gate of God” (Bábu’lláh), and the like.
It is also necessary to believe in al-Bidá, or God’s sovereign Will, that He does what He pleases; and that He can create
what He pleases “without material or period” (bilá mádda wa mudda), that is, from nothing in the twinkling of an eye.
Section iv. Unity of Worship (Tawḥíd-i-‘Ibádatí). Worship is the exclusive prerogative of God, and of the Divine
Essence, not of the Attributes. To worship an Attribute or Name (such as “the Word of God”) apart from the Essence is
unbelief, while to worship an Attribute in conjunction with the Essence is polytheism. This is of two sorts, patent and latent.
The

[page 386]

former includes the external worship of idols, trees, stars, the sun and moon, fire and human beings; or of symbols, such as
crucifixes or pictures of holy persons; the latter includes excessive devotion to wife or child, or worldly wealth, or ambition,
or hypocritical ostentation of piety. The visitation of the Ka‘ba at Mecca and the Tombs of the Holy Imáms is, however,
permitted; as also bowing down before kings or holy and learned men, provided there be not actual prostration (sujúd), and
that no worship be intended.


Mishkát II (pp. 28-31).
What is to be believed concerning the justice of God.

“It is necessary to believe that God is just, not a tyrant and that at no time hath He acted, or doth He or will He act,
unjustly towards any one. This is a fundamental article of our Faith, and whosoever holds the contrary is eternally damned.”
Thus begins this section, of which the most interesting portion again deals with the question of Free Will and Predestination.
“It is also necessary to believe that God neither compels His creatures to act in a given way (jabr, ‘compulsion’), nor allows

702 This passage is so important in connection with the doctrine of Free Will and Predestination that I give it in the original:

them unrestricted choice (tafwíḍ), but pursues a course intermediate between these two: that is to say that He has created
them equally capable of both good and evil, so that they neither act under such compulsion that their deeds are in reality
God’s deeds, nor can they do what they do by their own strength and power without God’s assistance. The former belief is
Determinism or Fatalism (jabr) and the latter Free Will (tafwíḍ). The correct view is that, whatever they do, they do
voluntarily, not by compulsion and constraint, although God furnishes them with the power, means, and instruments, and has
indicated to them the paths of good and evil, so that whoever elects to do good becomes deserving of reward, while he who
elects to do evil becomes deserving of punishment.”

[page 387]

The author illustrates this by the example of a carpenter’s apprentice, who, having been taught his craft and furnished
with the necessary tools, is bidden by his master to make a window of a certain size and description. If instead of this he
makes a door, he cannot excuse himself by pleading that his master taught him the craft and gave him the tools which
enabled him to make the door. Such is the case of man if he misuses the powers and limbs which God hath given him. Here
follows the well-known story703 of the sceptic whose three questions were answered by a darwísh who struck him on the head
with a clod, but here Abú Ḥanífa and Buhlúl (the “wise fool”) take the parts of the sceptic and the darwísh respectively.
The author’s theory that God created the hearts of believers, unbelievers, and waverers each from a different clay,
“Knowing before He created them that the believer by reason of his belief would be good, and the unbeliever by reason of his
unbelief bad, and so creating each of the appropriate substance, so that there might be no question of compulsion” (jabr), is
not very convincing.


Mishkát III (pp. 32-45).
On the Prophetic Function, general and special.

Section i. The general Prophetic Function (Nubuwwat-i-‘ámma). The number of the true prophets antecedent to
Muḥammad, “the Seal of the Prophets and the last of them,” is variously stated as from 140 to 124,000. It is necessary to
believe that these, whatever their actual number, were true and immaculate (ma‘ṣúm), that is, that during the whole of their
lives they were guilty of no sin, major or minor; that they all enunciated the same essential truths; and that the revela-

[page 388]

tions which they received were essentially identical, though in detail the later abrogate the earlier, to wit, the Qur’án the
Gospel, and the Gospel the Pentateuch (Tawrát) These three, together with the Psalms of David (Zubúr) and the Books of
Abraham (Ṣuḥuf), are the principal Scriptures, but the total number of revealed books is estimated by some as 104 and by
others as 124. Of the Prophets sent to all mankind (mursal) four (Adam, Seth, Enoch or ldrís and Noah) were Syrians; five
(Húd, Ṣáliḥ, Shu‘ayb, Ishmael and Muḥammad) were Arabs, and the remainder of the Children of Israel. The five great
Prophets called Ulu’l-‘Azm are Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Muḥammad.
Section ii. The Special Prophetic Function [of Muḥammad] (Nubuwwat-i-Kháṣṣa). It is necessary to believe that
Muhammad was the last of all the Prophets, and that anyone after him who claims to be a prophet is an unbeliever and should
be killed by the Muslims. Also that in every virtue and excellence he surpasses all other beings; that his “Light” (Núr-i-
Muḥammad) was created thousands of years before all other creatures; that he was sent not only to all mankind but to the
Jinn; and that his doctrine and law abrogate all preceding ones.
Section iii. What is to be believed touching the Qur’án. It is the last and greatest of revealed Scriptures, abrogating all
others, and is the miracle of Muḥammad, though not the product of his mind; it is temporal (ḥadíth), not eternal (qadím); was
revealed in the pure Arabic language (as were all the Scriptures, though each prophet received his revelation in the language
of his people), and was sent down on the Laylatu’l-Qadr (“Night of Worth”) in its entirety from the Preserved Tablet (Lawḥ-
i-Maḥfúẓ), but was revealed by Gabriel in instalments, as occasion arose, over a period of 23 years.

[page 389]

Neither men nor Jinn, though all should combine, can produce the like of the Qur’án, or even one chapter or verse of it. It
contains all truth and all knowledge, and the full interpretation of it is known only to God, the Prophet, and the Imáms, and
those “firmly established in Knowledge” to whom they have imparted it. The original Qur’án is in the keeping of the Hidden
Imám, and has undergone no change or corruption.
Section iv. The Prophet’s Attributes. He was “illiterate” (ummí). having never studied or received instruction from men
or Jinn; he cast no shadow; a cloud used to overshadow his head; he could see behind his back as well as before his face; he
was luminous to such a degree that in his presence on the darkest night his wives could find a lost needle without the aid of
lamp or candle. His birth was heralded and accompanied by miracles, enumerated in detail. He was immaculate (ma‘ṣúm),
and the most excellent of all beings. Gabriel was really his servant, and ‘Azrá‘íl (the Angel of Death) could not approach him

703 It is included in the extracts at the end of Forbes’s Persian Grammar, No. 67, pp.
.

to receive his soul without his permission. He was neither a poet (shá‘ir), nor a magician (sáḥir), nor a liar (kadhdháb), nor a
madman (díwána), and to assert any of these things is blasphemy. He had five souls or spirits, of which the first three (called
Rúḥ-i-mudraj, Rúḥ-quwwat, and Rúḥ-i-shahwat) are common to all men; the fourth, Rúḥ-i-ímán, “the Spirit of Faith,” is
peculiar to true believers; while the last, “the Holy Spirit” (Rúḥu’l-Quds), belongs to the Prophet alone, and his successors,
the Holy Imáms.
Section v. The Prophet’s Miracles. These included the Cleaving of the Moon (shaqqu’l-qamar); knowledge of the Past,
the Future, and the Unseen; raising the dead; knowledge of 72 out of the 73 Names of God, whereof not more than twenty
were known to any previous Prophet, and the like. He saw

[page 390]

Paradise and Hell with his own eyes, and ascended into Heaven in his material body, clad in his own clothes, and wearing his
sandals, which he would have put off on approaching God’s Throne, but was forbidden by God to
do so.
Section vi. The Prophet’s Ascension (Mi‘ráj). He ascended in his material body to the Station of “Two bow-shots or
less704,” a point nearer to God than that attained by Enoch or Jesus or any angel or archangel. To assert that this Ascension
was allegorical, or within himself, or spiritual and esoteric, is heresy.
Section vii. Sundry other beliefs concerning the Prophet. He was “a mortal man to whom revelations were made705” in
various ways mediate and immediate. He combined in himself the functions of Apostle (Rasúl), Prophet (Nabí), Imám, and
Muḥaddith, by which is here meant one who sees and holds converse with the Angels. His intercession for sinners will be
accepted in the Day of Resurrection and God has bestowed on him, within certain limits, authority to command and prohibit,
and to add to the obligations imposed by God in such matters as prayer and fasting. He explicitly appointed his cousin and
son-in-law ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib to succeed him; but to assert that Gabriel took the Revelation from a well in a plain, and,
receiving permission from God to see who was the author, looked into the well and saw that it was ‘Alí; or that Gabriel
mistook Muḥammad for ‘Alí and brought the Revelation to him by mistake, are blasphemous heresies.

[page 391]

Mishkát IV (pp. 45-71).
On the Imámate.

Section i. Enumeration of the Twelve Imáms of the Ithná-‘ashariyya or “Sect of the Twelve,” and refutation of the
Sunnís, who recognize Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán as the Khulafá, or successors and vicegerents of the Prophet; of the
Kaysániyya, who accept Muḥammad ibnu’l-Ḥanafiyya, a son of ‘Alí by another wife than Fáṭima, as Imám; of the Zaydiyya,
who accept Zayd ibn Ḥasan; of the Isma‘íliyya, who accept Isma‘íl in place of his brother Músá al-Káẓim; of the Aftaḥiyya,
who accept ‘Abdu’lláh al-Aftaḥ, another son of Ja‘far aṣ-Ṣádiq the sixth Imám, and so forth. The Kaysánís, Zaydís, Isma‘ílís,
Ṭá’úsís, Aftaḥís and Wáqifís all belong to the Shí‘a, but not to the “Sect of the Twelve,” and they will all be tormented in
Hell for their error, though they are Muslims, as are even the Sunnís, who are therefore pure, wherefore, according to the
prevailing view, it is not lawful to interfere with their lives, wives or property, though some Shí‘a doctors hold the contrary
view.
Section ii. Knowledge of the Prophet and Imáms. This section is entirely historical or quasi-historical, giving the dates of
the births, deaths, and chief events in the lives of Muḥammad and the Twelve Imáms.
The Prophet Muḥammad was born on Friday 17th (or 12th) of Rabí‘ i in the “Year of the Elephant,” in the year 1021
of Alexander, and in the Seventh year of the reign of Anúsharwán “the Just.” He lived 63 years, of which 53 were spent at
Mecca and ten at al-Madína, and his “Mission” began when he was forty years old. He had nine (or 12, or 15) wives and two
concubines; four sons, Qásim, Ṭáhir and Ṭayyib by Khadíja, and Ibráhím by Mary the Copt; and three

[page 392]

daughters, Fáṭima (who married ‘Alí), and Zaynab and Ruqayya, who were married to ‘Uthmán. He died (poisoned by a
Jewess of Khaybar, as asserted) on Monday the 27th or 28th of Ṣafar, and was buried at al-Madína.
‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib was the immediate legitimate successor of the Prophet and the First Imám though not formally
recognized as Khalífa until after the deaths of Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán (whom the Shí‘a regard as usurpers). He waged
three great wars, with the Qásiṭín (“wrong-doers”), i.e. Mu‘áwiya the Umayyad and his partisans; the Nákithín (“troth-
breakers”), i.e. ‘Á’isha, Ṭalḥa and Zubayr; and the Máriqín (“rebels”), i.e. the Khárijites. He was assassinated by Ibn Muljam
on Ramaḍán 21 at the age of sixty-three. He married twelve wives after the death of Fáṭima and had seventeen sons and
nineteen daughters. His father Abú Ṭálib was inwardly a believer, though he made no outward profession of Islám. ‘Alí is
supposed to have been the twelfth of the Awṣiyá (executors, trustees, or vicegerents) of Jesus Christ.

704 Qur’án, liii, 9.
705 Ibid., xviii, 110.

Fáṭima was the daughter of the Prophet by Khadíja, and the wife of ‘Alí, to whom she bore three sons (al-Ḥasan, al-
Ḥusayn and Muḥassin), and two daughters (Zaynab the elder and Umm Kulthúm). She died, aged about eighteen, on the 3rd
of Jumádá ii, A.H. 11 (26 August, 632).
Ḥasan ibn ‘Alí, the Second Imám, was born in Sha‘bán or Ramaḍán, A.H. 3 (January or March, 625), resigned the
position of Khalífa to Mu‘áwiya, to safeguard himself and his followers, after he had held it for ten years and a half, and died
of poison administered to him by Ja‘da the daughter of al-Ash‘ath ibn Nafís, known as Asmá, at the instigation of Mu‘áwiya,
nine years and a half later. He is said to have had 60 wives, besides concubines, but others say 300 or even 600,

[page 393]

of whom he divorced so many that he earned the nick-name of al-Miṭláq (“the great divorcer”); and to have had fifteen sons
and two daughters, though here again there is much difference of opinion. The best known of his numerous titles is al-
Mujtabá.
Ḥusayn ibn ‘Alí, the Third Imám, was born only six months (sic) after his brother Ḥasan; had five wives besides
concubines; six sons, ‘Alí Akbar, who succeeded him as Imám, ‘Alí Awsaṭ, ‘Alí Aṣghar, Muḥammad, Ja‘far and ‘Abdu’lláh;
and three daughters, Fáṭimatu’l-Kubrá, Sakína and Faṭimatu’ṣ-Ṣughrá. Account of his death at Karbalá on Muḥarram 10,
A.H. 61 (October 10, 680) with 72 of his kinsmen and partisans at the age of 56, 57 or 58. Of his titles the best known is “the
Chief of Martyrs” (Sayyidu’sh-Shuhadá).
‘Alí ibn Ḥusayn, the Fourth Imám, commonly known as Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín and Sayyid-i-Sajjád. His mother was the
daughter of Yazdigird, the last Sásánian King of Persia. Her name was Shahrbánú, or, according to others, Ghazála or
Saláma. He was born in 36/656-7 or 38/658-9. He had one wife, his cousin Umm ‘Abdi’lláh, daughter of al-Ḥasan, besides
concubines. He had sixteen children (seven or twelve sons, and nine or four daughters). One of his sons, Zayd, was killed by
the Umayyad Caliph Hishám ibn ‘Abdu’l-Malik, who is also said to have poisoned him in 94/712 when he was fifty-seven
years of age.
Muḥammad Báqir, the Fifth Imám, was born in A.H. 57 or 58 (A.D. 676-8), and is said to have been poisoned by the
Umayyads in 104/722 or 107/726-7. [From this point onwards there are so many discrepancies and conflicting statements that
a more rigorous abridgment seems desirable. Thus the age of this Imám is given as 57 or 58, or even 78, all of which,

[page 394]

especially the last, are absolutely incompatible with the dates given for his birth and death.]
Ja‘far aṣ-Ṣádiq, the Sixth Imám, born 80/699-700, poisoned by the ‘Abbásid Caliph al-Manṣúr in 148/765-6. He took
advantage of the internecine strife between the Umayyads and ‘Abbásids to carry on an active propaganda for the Shí‘a
doctrine, which is therefore often called after him “Ja‘farí.”
Músá al-Káẓim, the Seventh Imám, born 129/746-7, poisoned by Hárúnu’r-Rashíd in 180/796-7.
‘Alí ar-Riḍá, the Eighth Imám, poisoned by al-Ma’mún in 203/818-9, and buried at Mashhad.
Muḥammad Taqí, the Ninth Imám, born 195/810-11, poisoned by his wife at the instigation of the Caliph al-Mu‘taṣim
in 220/835.
‘Alí Naqí, the Tenth Imám, born in 212/827-8, poisoned in 245/868 at the instigation of the Caliph al-Mu‘tazz.
Ḥasan al-‘Askarí, the Eleventh Imám, born 232/846-7 poisoned in 260/873-4 at the instigation of the Caliph al-
Mu‘tamid.
The Imám Mahdí, also called Qá’imu ‘Alí Muḥammad, Ḥujjatu’lláh and Baqiyyatu’lláh, the Twelfth and last Imám,
born in 255/869 by Narjis Khátún to Ḥasan al-‘Askarí, disappeared in 260/873-4, is still living and will return “in the last
Days” to establish the Shí‘a faith and “fill the earth with justice after it has been filled with iniquity.”
Section iii. Attributes of the Imáms. It is necessary to believe that the Imáms were created from one pre-existing Light;
that all blessings and all knowledge of God come through them; that through them the universe lives and moves and has its
being; and that they are in every respect the most excellent of beings after the Prophet Muḥammad, and superior to all other
Prophets and to the Angels, though subject to all

[page 395]

human needs and functions. They are also immaculate (ma‘ṣúm), innocent of any sin, small or great, co-equal, endowed with
every virtue, knowledge and power. Their birth was not as that of ordinary mortals, and, like the Prophet, they were born a
circumcised. After many further amplifications of the Imáms’ perfections, the author proceeds to warn his readers against
certain opinions of the Ghulát, or most extreme Shí‘a, who would put them above the Prophet and even deify them.


Mishkát V706 (pp. 71-85).

706 Like so many Persian books, the actual divisions of this book do not correspond with the Table of Contents, which indicates five main
divisions, each called Mishkát, while only four such headings actually occur in the text. This section is described as Section (Miṣbáḥ) iv
of Mishkát IV, but it introduces a quite new topic and should, I am convinced, be called, as I have called it, Mishkát V.

Beliefs connected with Death, Judgement and the Hereafter.

Section i. Death. The Angels, the Prophet and the Imáms are present at every death-bed, whether of a believer or an
unbeliever. When the spirit leaves the body, it attaches itself to a subtle invisible body (qálib-i-mithálí-i-laṭíf) which is a
simulacrum of the material body in the intermediate world or “World of the Barrier” (‘Álam-i-Barzakh). To believe, as do
some of the common people, that these disembodied spirits enter the crops of green birds or lamps attached to the Throne of
God (‘Arsh) is an error. This disembodied spirit watches the body it has quitted and the preparations for its burial, urging
haste if it be a believing spirit, and delay if unbelieving, but none hears or heeds its appeal. It also sees its place in Heaven or
Hell, as the case may be. A believer’s death is not always easy, nor an unbeliever’s hard. The Prophet’s description of the
Angel of Death, whom he saw during his Night Ascent to Heaven.

[page 396]

Section ii. The Questioning of the Tomb. When the body has been buried and the mourners have dispersed, the spirit
returns to the body to undergo the Questioning of the Tomb (Su’ál-i-qabr) at the hands of the Angels Munkir and Nakír,
whose terrible aspect is described. If the deceased is a believer and gives satisfactory answers to their questions on his beliefs,
they leave him in peace, saying, “Sleep as the bride sleeps in her bridal chamber,” and they enlarge his Tomb as far as the eye
can see, and open from it a door into Paradise, so that the air of Paradise enters it and gladdens the occupant. But if he is an
unbeliever, they revile him and beat him with their clubs, and fill the tomb with fire; and he cries out in agony, so that if men
and Jinn could hear, they would die of terror. But the animals hear, and that is why a sheep grazing or a bird gathering grain
will suddenly stop and shiver and listen intently. Those of the Shí‘a who are buried at Karbalá are said to be exempt from this
Questioning, and some believe that the whole plain of Karbalá, rid of all impurities, including the bodies of unbelievers and
hypocrites, will be bodily transferred to Paradise. The good deeds and kindnesses of the dead may take the form of a
beautiful companion who will bear them company in the tomb and dispel their loneliness707.
Section iii. The Squeezing of the Tomb. It is not certain whether all are subject to this, or only the unbelievers. This
squeezing is not confined to those who are buried in the ground, for those who are hanged, drowned or eaten by wild beasts
are equally subject to it. After the Questioning and the Squeezing, the spirit again leaves the material body and reunites with
the subtle invisible body. Opinions differ as to whether this last always existed within the material body, or apart from

[page 397]

it in the “World of Similitudes,” or is specially created for each spirit at the moment of dissolution.
Section iv708. Concerning the Intermediate World (‘Álam-i-Barzakh). Barzakh means something intermediate between
two other things, in this case a state or world between this life and the next, more subtle than the former and more gross than
the latter. Some identify it with the World of Similitudes (‘Álam-i-Mithál), others believe it to exist in this world, but in a
Eighth Clime outside the Seven Climes, called Ard-i-Huwar-qilyá709. The Terrestrial Paradise is in the Wádí’s-Salám in the
western part of this region, and the Terrestrial Hell in the Wádí Barahút710, in the eastern part. In these places respectively the
souls of the Blessed and the Lost congregate and experience pleasure or pain, and when a new spirit arrives they let it rest for
a while to recover from the “Questioning” and the “Squeezing,” and then interrogate it as to the friends who survived them
on earth, whether they be still living or dead.
Section v711. The departed spirits visit their former homes on earth to watch their families and friends, some daily, some
weekly, some monthly, some yearly, some only once in several years. Some say they come in the form of green birds and
perch on the roof or walls of the house and talk, but the living do not notice or attend to them because of their preoccupation
with the things of this world. The spirits of the Blessed see only the

[page 398]

good things which befall, or are wrought by, their families and friends. Some say that they come on a particular day, on
Monday at noon, or on Thursday, or on Friday. If their friends remember them, offering good works, prayers or fasting as a
present to them, they are pleased; the happiness of the Blessed is increased, and the torments of the Lost alleviated thereby.
“Therefore, my dear friend,” says the author, “you must not forget the departed in this world, but must strive, so far as in you
lies, to send presents to them.” The Earthly Paradise (Bihisht-i-Dunyá) is a place of rest and peace, there is no sorrow or
weeping, nor any obligation to pray or fast.

707 This affords an interesting parallel to the Zoroastrian belief set forth in the Arda Viráf náma.
708 This is headed Miṣbáḥ v (of Mishkát IV), and the numbering of the sections begins again, but it appears to me really to constitute
Section iv of Mishkát V.
709 Cf. the Jism-i-Huwarqilyá’í of the Shaykhís, mentioned in my Traveller’s Narrative, vol. ii, p. 236.
710 See Qazwíní’s Átháru’l-Bilád, p. 25; also Halévy in the Journal Asiatique for Oct.-Dec. 1883, pp. 442-54; and Yáqút’s Mu‘jamu’l-
Buldán, vol. i, p. 598.
711 Entitled Section ii of Miṣbáḥ v (of Mishkát IV).

Section vi712. On the spirits of the wicked. These are also permitted from time to time to visit their homes, but they see
only the evil done by their friends, and strive warn them, but cannot, and return to the Earthly Hell more miserable than
before. Discussion as to the state after death of the children of believers and unbelievers, the ignorant and feeble-minded, and
the insane; and concerning the Recording Angels. According to some, the male children of believers are, after their death,
committed to the care of Abraham, and the female children to that of the Virgin Mary.


Conclusion (Khátima)713 (pp. 85-132).
Beliefs connected with the Return of the Twelfth Imám.

Section i. On his Occultation (Ghaybat). Three Occultations are distinguished, entitled “Lesser,” “Greater” and “Least.”
The “Lesser Occultation” (Ghaybat-i-Ṣughrá) began on the 8th of Rabí‘ i, 260 (Jan. 1, 874), lasted 69 years, and ended with

[page 399]

the death of the last of the four wakíls714 who maintained communication between the Hidden Imám and his followers in
329/940-1. Then began the “Greater Occultation” (Ghaybat-i-Kubrá), wherein no one has direct access to the “Hidden
Imám715,” and wherein we are now living. The “Least Occultation” (Ghaybat-i-Aṣghar) will last only from noon on the
Friday succeeding his “Return” (Raj‘at), when he will behead the preacher (Khaṭíb) at Mecca and forthwith disappear again,
until the morning of the next day (Saturday). The time of the Advent or “Return” of the Imám is known to God alone, but it
will be heralded by numerous signs, of which forty-eight or more are enumerated by our author, and of which the most
celebrated are the coming of the wicked and hideous Sufyání, whose army the earth will finally swallow up; the appearance
of a figure in the sun; the multiplication of misleading divines and lawyers and of poets; the abounding of tyranny and
oppression; the appearance of Antichrist (Dajjál) riding on his Ass; the assembling of 313 chosen supporters of the Imám in
Ṭáliqán of Khurásán, etc. After a “reign of the Saints” lasting seventy years, the Imám will die, poisoned by a woman named
Malíḥa, and the Imám Ḥusayn will return to earth to read the Burial Service over him. This is the beginning of what is called
the “Lesser Resurrection” (Qiyámat-i-Ṣughrá), when the

[page 400]

Prophet and all the Imáms, as well as their chief antagonists, shall return to earth for a while, and fight their battles over
again, but with a different result, since the unbelievers shall be uniformly defeated. In this first temporary Resurrection only
those who are purely believers or unbelievers (Mú’min-i-Kháliṣ or Káfir-i-Kháliṣ) will come to life. Then they will again
disappear from the face of the earth, and, after forty days’ anarchy and confusion, the tribes of Gog and Magog (Yájúj u
Májúj) will burst through the Wall (Sadd) which keeps them back, and will overrun the earth, and eat up all the grass and
herbs, and drink up the rivers.
The “Greater Resurrection” (Qiyámat-i-Kubrá), when all the dead shall be raised to life in the same bodies they had
while on earth, re-created by God’s Power as a broken brick can be re-made from its original materials, will be inaugurated
by the blast of Isráfíl’s trumpet, which shall draw into itself all the spirits of the quick and the dead, so that no living thing
shall remain on earth save the “Fourteen Immaculate Ones” (Chahárdah Ma‘ṣúm)716. Then, when their bodies have been re-
created, Isráfíl will again blow his trumpet, and the spirits will emerge from it like a swarm of bees, and fly each one to its
own body. All animals will also be raised to life to undergo the Reckoning and be judged for their acts of violence towards
one another. Then the Balance (Mízán) will be set up for the weighing of the good and bad acts of each soul, and the scroll of
each man’s deeds, written down by the Recording Angels Sá’iq and Shahíd, will be placed in his hand.
The Seven Hells (Jihannam, Sa‘ír, Saqar, Jaḥím, Laẓẓá, Ḥutama and Háwiya) are next enumerated, whereof the first is
for Muslims who died in sin without repenting, and who will be released when adequately punished; the second for the Jews;

[page 401]

the third for the Christians; the fourth for the Sabaeans; the fifth for the Magians; the sixth for the idolatrous Arabs; and the
seventh for the hypocrites. Unbelievers will remain in Hell for ever, but some, on account of their virtues, will remain there

712 Entitled Section iii etc., as in the preceding footnote.
713 This, I believe, is how the title should stand, but it is actually described as Miṣbáḥ vi of Mishkát IV. See p. 395, n. 1, supra.
714 I.e. Agents or Representatives, also called “Gates” (Báb, pl. Abwáb). The avoidance of this last title by the author is probably
intentional, for he wrote in 1263/1847, just when Mírzá ‘Alí Muḥammad’s claim to be the Báb was creating so great a stir in Persia. See
my Traveller’s Narrative, ii, pp. 226-34 and 296-8.
715 Many particulars concerning the “Occultations,” the “Gates,” and the claims to communicate with the Hidden Imám advanced by the
Shaykhís and Bábís, denounced as heretics by our author, are given in the notes (especially D, E and O) at the end of vol. ii of my
Traveller’s Narrative, to which the reader is referred.
716 I.e. the Prophet, his daughter Fáṭima, and the Twelve Imáms.

without suffering torment, as, for example, Khusraw Anúsharwán on account of his justice, and Ḥátim of Ṭayy on account of
his generosity.
Next follows a description of the Bridge of Ṣiráṭ, “finer than a hair, sharper than a sword, and hotter than fire,” which
spans Hell, and over which everyone must pass, even the Prophets and Imáms and Saints, to reach Paradise. A detailed
description of a very material Paradise succeeds, which in turn is followed by an account of the Purgatory or intermediate
state called al-A‘ráf. This is said to be a beautiful meadow or high ground situated on the Bridge of Ṣiráṭ, and peopled by the
spirits of the feeble-minded, illegitimate children, and those who are neither good enough for Heaven nor bad enough for
Hell. By the intercession of the Prophet or the Imáms some of these will be subsequently admitted to Heaven. Other heavenly
delights described, such as the Water of Kawthar, the “Lote-tree of the Limit” (Sidratu’l-Muntahá), and the Ṭúbá-tree. When
every soul has been assigned its place in Heaven, Hell or al-A‘ráf, Death will be led forth in the form of a black sheep and
slain, to show that henceforth there is neither fear nor hope of death.


Conclusion (Khátima)717 (pp. 132-138).

[Section ii.] On the meaning of Unbelief (Kufr) and Belief (Ímán). Five meanings of Kufr in the Qur’án are
distinguished, and three chief kinds in ordinary life, namely

[page 402]

spiritual (qalbí), verbal (qawlí), and actual (fi‘lí). Three kinds of Ímán are also distinguished, and Ímán is distinguished from
Islám. Sunnís and Shí‘a not of the “Sect of the Twelve” are believers (mú’min), but not Muslims; they are not unclean, but
will remain for ever in Hell-fire. The apostate (murtadd) from Islám is deserving of death, nor is his repentance accepted in
this world, though, according to some theologians, it may be accepted in the next. But from the convert to Islám who reverts
to his original faith repentance may be accepted; and a woman who apostasizes should not be killed, but imprisoned and
beaten until she repents or dies in prison. The book ends with a description of five kinds of
Faith and six kinds of Repentance.
Such in outline is the Shí‘a creed of contemporary Persia in its crudest and most popular form. It would be interesting to
trace the evolution of that creed from the earliest times of Islám, to compare (so far as the available materials allow) the
historical with the legendary Imáms, and to contrast in detail the beliefs, both doctrinal and eschatological, of the Shí‘a and
the Sunnís. This, however, transcends the scope of this book, even had the preliminary work indispensable to such a study
been adequately done. Even amongst the orthodox and formal (qishrí) mujtahids and mullás these doctrines must often have
been held in a form less crude and childish than that outlined above, though they may have deemed it wiser to leave the
popular beliefs undisturbed, and to discourage speculations which might become dangerous amongst a people only too prone
to scepticism and heresy. Taking only the broad divisions of theological and philosophical thought in Persia, we may
distinguish in each field three main types; amongst the theologians the Akhbárís, the Uṣúlís (or Mujtahidís), and the Shaykhís;
amongst the philosophers the Mutakallimún or School-men,

[page 403]

the Falásifa or Ḥukamá (Philosophers pure and simple), and the philosophical Ṣúfís. Of all these Gobineau’s718 account is
still the most clear, lively and concise which I have met with in any European language, though it cannot be certainly
affirmed that its accuracy is equal to its clarity. Thus he credits the Akhbárís, generally regarded as the straitest sect of the
Shí‘a, with a certain latitudinarianism to which they can hardly lay claim; and describes the Shaykhís as “not altogether
rejecting the idea of the Resurrection of the Body,” when it was precisely their doctrine of the “subtle body” (or Jism-i-
Huwarqilyá)719 which especially laid them under suspicion of heresy. The doctrines of the Shaykhís, moreover, definitely
prepared the way for the still more heretical doctrines of the Bábís, who were outside the pale of Islám while the Shaykhís
were just within it and counted many influential followers in high places. Of the Philosophers and Ṣúfís more will be said in
another chapter, but as to the theologians we shall do well to bear in mind Gobineau’s dictum720: “Il ne faut pas perdre de vue
que si l’on peut, approximativement, classer les trois opinions ainsi que je le fais, il est nécessaire pourtant d’ajouter qu’il est
rare que, dans le cours de sa vie, un Persan n’ait point passé de l’une à l’autre et ne les ait point toutes les trois professées.”
Mullá Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí, one of the greatest, most powerful and most fanatical mujtahids of the Ṣafawí period,
found it necessary to apologize for the tolerant and even sympathetic attitude assumed by his father Mullá Muḥammad Taqí-
i-Majlisí, not less distinguished than himself as a theologian, towards

[page 404]

717 This is so headed, but see pp. 381 and 398 supra. This section might be called “Epilogue.”
718 Les Religions et les Philosophies dans l’Asie Centrale (2nd ed., Paris, 1866), pp. 28-33 for the three theological parties, pp. 63-111 (ch.
iv) for the Ṣúfís and the Philosophers.
719 See my Traveller’s Narrative, vol. ii, p. 236.
720 Op. cit., pp. 32-3.

the Ṣúfís. “Let none think so ill of my father,” he says721, “as to imagine that he was of the Ṣúfís. Nay, it was not so, for I was
intimately associated with my father in private and in public, and was thoroughly conversant with his beliefs. My father
thought ill of the Ṣúfís, but at the beginning of his career, when they were extremely powerful and active, my father entered
their ranks, so that by this means he might repel, remove, eradicate and extirpate the roots of this foul and hellish growth (ín
Shajara-i-Khabítha-i-Zaqqúmiyya). But when he had extinguished the flames of their infamy, then he made known his inner
feelings, for he was a man of the utmost virtue and piety, ascetic and devout in his life,” etc.
Yet Mullá Muḥammad Báqir, in spite of his formalism and fanaticism, his incredible industry in writing books in simple
and easily intelligible Persian in order to popularize the Shí‘a doctrines, and his ruthless persecution of the Ṣúfís, is credited
with posthumous gleams of a higher humanity722. One saw him in a dream after his death and asked of him, “How fares it
with you in that world, and how have they dealt with you?” He answered, “None of my actions profited me at all, except that
one day I gave an apple to a Jew, and that saved me.”
The Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá contains 153 biographies of eminent divines, of whom the following twenty-five appear to me the
most interesting and important. They are here arranged, as far as possible, chronologically, the serial number of each
biography in the book being indicated in brackets after the name723.

[to face p. 404]



Autograph of Mullá Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí

Or. 4937 (Brit. Mus.), p. 105

[page 405]

I. Pre-Ṣafawí divines.

1. Muḥammad ibn Ya’qúb al-Kulayní (No. 96), entitled Thiqatu’l-Islám, author of the Káfí, d. 329/941.
2. Muḥammad ibn ‘Alí ibn Ḥusayn ibn Músá ibn Bábawayhi of Qum, called Ṣadúq (No. 95), d. 381/991-2. Of his works
189 are enumerated in the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, the most important being that entitled Man lá yaḥḍuruhu’l-Faqíh, which, like the
Káfí mentioned in the last paragraph, is one of the “Four Books.”

721 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, Lucknow ed., part ii, p. 19.
722 Ibid., part i, p. 216. The author discredited the tale, which is described as widely current. As regards this theologian’s literary activity, he
is said on the same page to have been accustomed to write 1000, “bayts,” i.e. 50,000 words, daily.
723 They are numbered in both editions in the abjad notation, e.g. Kulayní as
(96); Najjáshí as
(132), etc.

3. Muḥammad ibn Muḥammad ibn Nu‘mán ibn ‘Abdu’s-Salám al-Ḥárithí commonly called Shaykh-i-Mufíd (No. 97), d.
413/1022. The Qiṣaṣ enumerates 171 of his works.
4. Sayyid Murtaḍá, entitled ‘Alamu’l-Hudá (No. 98), d. 436/1044. He was the great-great-grandson of the Seventh
Imám, Músá al-Káẓim.
5. Aḥmad ibn ‘Alí an-Najjáshí (No. 132), d. 455/1063. He was a disciple of the Shaykh-i-Mufíd, and the author of the
well-known Kitábu’r-Rijál.
6. Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan ibn ‘Alí at-Ṭúsí, called Shaykhu’ṭ-Ṭá’ifa (No. 100), d. 460/1067. He was the third of the older
“three Muḥammads” (the others being Nos. 1 and 2 supra), and the author of two of the “Four Books,” the Tahdhíbu’l-
Aḥkám and the Istibṣár, and of the well-known Fihrist, or Index of Shí‘a books.
7. Naṣíru’d-Dín-i-Ṭúsí, entitled Muḥaqqiq (“the Investigator”), even more celebrated as a philosopher and man of
science than as a theologian (No. 90), d. 672/1274. His most famous works are the Akhláq-i-Náṣirí on Ethics, the
Astronomical Tables called Zíj-i-Ilkhání, compiled for Húlágú Khán the Mongol, and the Tajríd on Scholastic Philosophy, a
favourite text for the countless host of commentators and writers of notes and glosses.
8. Najmu’d-Dín Ja‘far ibn Yaḥyá, known as Muḥaqqiq-i-Awwal (“the First Investigator”), author of the Shará-

[page 406]

yi‘u’l-Islám (No. 89), born 638/1240-1, died Muḥarram 726/Dec. 1325. As a youth he showed some poetic talent, which was,
however, sternly repressed by his father, who told him that poets were accursed and poetry incompatible with a devout life.
9. Ḥasan ibn Yúsuf ibn ‘Alí ibnu’l-Muṭahhar al-Ḥillí, commonly called ‘Alláma-i-Ḥillí (“the Sage of Ḥilla”) (No. 83),
died in the same month and year as the above-mentioned Muḥaqqiq-i-Awwal, who was ten years his senior. Of his works 75
are enumerated in the Qiṣaṣ. ‘Alláma-i-Ḥilli came of a great family of theologians, which produced in a comparatively short
period ten mujtahids. His father was one, and his son, entitled Fakhru’l-Muḥaqqiqín (No. 86), another.
10. Shaykh Shamsu’d-Dín Muḥammad ibn Makkí … al-‘Ámilí, called Shahíd-i-Awwal (“the First Martyr”) (No. 82), was
put to death at Damascus about midsummer 786/1384724 by judgement of the two Qáḍís Burhánu’d-Dín the Málikí and Ibn
Jamá‘a the Sháfi‘í.


II. Ṣafawí and post-Ṣafawí divines.

11. Núru’d-Dín ‘Alí ibn ‘Abdu’l-‘Alí, known as Muḥaqqiq-i-Thání (“the Second Investigator”) (No. 84), came to Persia
from Karak, his native place, and was highly honoured and esteemed by Sháh Ṭahmásp I. He died in 940/1533-4.
12. Aḥmad ibn Muḥammad, called Muqaddas-i-Ardabílí “the Saint of Ardabil” (No. 83), was highly honoured by Sháh
‘Abbás the Great. He died in 993/1585.
13. Mír Muḥammad Báqir-i-Dámád (No. 77), the grandson of Muḥaqqiq-i- Thání (No. 11 supra), also stood high in the
favour of Sháh ‘Abbás, and died in 1041/1631-2.

[page 407]

Concerning his book the Ṣiráṭu’l-Mustaqím (“the Straight Path”) a Persian poet composed the following epigram:


He himself wrote poetry under the takhalluṣ, or pen-name, of Ishráq.
14. Shaykh Muḥammad Bahá’u’d-Dínal-‘Ámilí, commonly called Shaykh-i-Bahá’í (No. 37), was equal in fame,
influence and honour with the above-mentioned Mír Dámád, these two being amongst the men of learning who gave most
lustre to the court of Sháh ‘Abbás the Great. The literary activities of Shaykh-i-Bahá’í, who was born near Ba’labakk in
953/1546, and died in 1031/1622, were not confined to theology. In that subject his best-known work is the Jámí’-i-’Abbásí,
a popular Persian manual of Shí‘a Law, which he did not live to complete. He also compiled a great collection of anecdotes
in Arabic named the Kashkúl (“Alms-bowl”), a sequel to his earlier and less-known Mikhlát. He also wrote several treatises
on Arithmetic and Astronomy, and composed the Persian mathnawí poem entitled Nán u Ḥalwá (“Bread and Sweetmeats”).
15. Muḥammad ibn Murtaḍá of Káshán, commonly known as Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ (No. 76), though reckoned “a pure
Akhbárí”
and detested by Shaykh Aḥmad al-Aḥsá’í the founder of the Shaykhí sect, who used to call him Musí’
(“the Evil-doer”) instead of Muḥsin (“the Well-doer”), was in fact more of a mystic and a philosopher than a theologian. His
best-known theological work is probably the Abwábu’l-Janán (“Gates of Paradise”), composed in 1055/1645. Ten years later
he went from Káshán to Shíráz to study philosophy with Mullá Ṣadrá, whose daughter he married. He was also a poet, and in
the


724 This is the date given in the Qiṣaṣ, but the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn gives 780/1378-9.
725 “May the Musulmán not hear nor the unbeliever see Mír Dámád’s Ṣiráṭu’l-Mustaqím.”

[page 408]

Majma’u’l-Fuṣaḥá726 the number of his verses is said to amount to six or seven thousand.
16. Mír Abu’l-Qásim-i-Findariskí though omitted from the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, was accounted “the most eminent
philosopher and Ṣúfí of his time, and stood high in the estimation of Sháh ‘Abbás I, whom he is said, however, to have
scandalized by his habit of mixing with the lowest orders and attending cock-fights727.” He spent some time in India in the
reign of Sháh-Jahán and died in Iṣfahán about 1050/1640-1.
17. Mullá Ṣadru’d-Dín Muḥammad ibn Ibráhím of Shíráz, commonly called Mullá Ṣadrá, is unanimously accounted the
greatest philosopher of modern times in Persia. That in the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá no separate article should be devoted to one
whose life was a constant conflict with the “clergy,” and whose clerical disguise was even more transparent than that of his
teachers Mír Dámád and Shaykh-i-Bahá’í, is not surprising, but much incidental mention is made of him in this and other
similar works, like the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn, and his teaching affected theology, notably that of the Shaykhí school728, in no
small degree. His death is placed by the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát about 1070/1660729, but by the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn twenty years
earlier.
18. ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq-i-Láhijí, like Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ, was a pupil of Mullá Ṣadrá. His two best-known works, both in
Persian, are the Sar-máya-i-Ímán (“Substance of Belief”) and the Gawhar-i-Murád (“Pearl of Desire”). He

[to face p. 408]



Autograph of Mullá Ṣadrá of Shíráz, the Philosopher

Or. 4935 (Brit. Mus.), 1

[page 409]

shared with Shaykh Ṭabarsí, the author of the Majma‘u’l-Bayán, the curious belief in the “essential meaning” of words, by
which he meant that there existed a real relation between the sound and meaning of every word, so that having heard the
sound of a strange word it was possible by reflection to conjecture the sense730.

726 Ṭihrán lith. ed. of 1295/1878, vol. ii, pp. 25-6.
727 Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, p. 815. See also p. 258 supra.
728 Shaykh Aḥmad al-Aḥsá’í commentated his Mashá‘ir and other works (Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, p. 331), but, according to the Qiṣaṣu’l-
‘Ulamá (Lucknow ed., p. 48), regarded him as an infidel.
729 This is given by the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá as the date of his son Mírzá Ibráhím’s death. The earlier date 1050/1640-1 is therefore more
probable for the father.
730 Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, Lucknow ed., second part, p. 123.

The last six persons mentioned were all philosophers as well as, or even more than, theologians. The following, except
the last, Ḥájji Mullá Hádí, are all Shí‘a divines of the strictest type.
19. Mullá Muḥammad Taqí-i-Majlisí (No. 36) is said to have been the first to compile and publish Shí‘a traditions, which
he received from the Muḥaqqiq-i-thání, in the Ṣafawí period. Allusion has already been made to his alleged Ṣúfí proclivities.
He died in 1070/1659-60, a date expressed by the ingenious chronogram731:



“The crown of the Holy Law fell: scholarship become headless and footless.”

By removing the “crown,” i.e. the initial letter, of ع￿ ر￿ , and the “head” and “foot,” i.e. the initial and final letters of    ,
we get the three letters   ر￿ ع￿ = 800 + 200 + 70 = 1070.
20. Mullá Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí (No. 33), son of the above, who has been already mentioned repeatedly in this
chapter, was even more famous than his father. His great work is the Biḥáru’l-Anwár (“Oceans of Light”), an immense
compilation of Shí‘a traditions; but he composed many other works, of which the following are in Persian: ‘Aynu’l-Ḥayát
(“the Fountain of Life”); Mishkátu’l-Anwár (“the Lamp of Lights”); Ḥilyatu’l-Muttaqín (“the Ornament of the Pious”);
Ḥayátu’l-Qulúb (“Life of Hearts”),

[page 410]

not completed; Tuḥfatu’z-Zá’irín (“the Pilgrims’ Present”); Jalá’u’l-‘Uyún (“the Clearing of the Eyes”)732, etc. He died, as
already stated, in 1111/ 1699-1700.
21. Sayyid Muḥammad Mahdí of Burújird, entitled Baḥru’l-‘Ulúm (“the Ocean of Learning”) (No. 27), was born in
1155/1742-3, and appears to have died about 1240/1824-5.
22. Sayyid Muḥammad Báqir ibn Sayyid Muḥammad Taqí of Rasht, entitled Ḥujjatu’l-Islám (No. 26), has been already
mentioned for his severity in inflicting punishments for infractions of the Sharí‘at. He was wealthy as well as influential, and,
according to the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (p. 125), spent 100,000 “legal dinars733” in building a great mosque in the Bídábád quarter
of Iṣfahán. He was born about 1180/1766-7, went to ‘Iráq to pursue his studies at the age of sixteen or seventeen, returned to
Iṣfahán in 1216 or 1217 (1801-3), and died on Sunday the 2nd of Rabí‘ i, 1260 (March 23, 1844). According to his
namesake, the author of the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, his death was mourned for a whole year by the people (presumably the devout
and orthodox only!), because none after him dared or was able to enforce the rigours of the Ecclesiastical Law to the same
extent. By a strange coincidence, the “Manifestation” of Mírzá ‘Alí the Báb, and the subsequent rise of that heresy which did
so much to weaken the power of the orthodox Shí‘a faith, took place just two months after his death.
23. Shaykh Aḥmad ibn Zaynu’d-Dín ibn Ibráhím al-Aḥsá’í, the founder of the Shaykhí school or sect, spent most of his
life at Yazd, whence he went by way of Iṣfahán to Kirmánsháh. There he remained until the death of the

[page 411]

governor of that city, Prince Muḥammad ‘Alí Mírzá, son of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh, who favoured him and invited him to make his
abode there. He then retired to the Holy Shrines of ‘Iráq, where he composed most of his numerous works, of which the most
famous are the Sharḥu’z-Ziyárati’l-Kabíra and the Sharḥu’l-Fawá’id. He vehemently opposed Mullá Ṣadrá, Mullá Muḥsin-i-
Fayḍ, and the Ṣúfís, but was himself denounced as a heretic by Ḥájji Mullá Muḥammad Taqí of Qazwín, whose death at the
hands of a Bábí assassin about A.D. 1847 earned for him the title of “the Third Martyr” (Shahíd-i-Thálith). Shaykh Aḥmad
died in 1243/1827-8, being then nearly ninety years of age734.
24. Mullá Aḥmad-i-Niráqí, who died of cholera in 1244/1828-9, was a poet as well as a theologian, and composed a
Persian poem entitled Ṭáqdís in imitation of the Mathnawí of Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí. His poetical name was Ṣafá’í, and an article
is consecrated to him in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (vol. ii, p. 330).
25. Ḥájji Mullá Hádí of Sabzawár735, the last great Persian philosopher, also wrote poetry under the nom de guerre of
Asrár. He was born in 1212/1797-8 and died in 1295/1878.



CHAPTER IX.

PROSE WRITERS UNTIL A.D. 1850.

731 These data are from the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, pp. 129-31. The notice in the Qiṣaṣ is very incomplete.
732 Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, pp. 118-24.
733 The dínár in modern Persia is of merely nominal value, and 100,000 (= 10 Túmáns) are only worth £.2 to £.4, but originally the dínár
was a gold coin worth about 10 francs, and this latter is presumably what is here intended.
734 Most of these particulars are taken from the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, pp. 25-7.
735 For an account of his life furnished by one of his disciples, see my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 131-43.

Oriental writers on the art of rhetoric classify prose writings, according to their form, into three varieties, plain (‘árí),
rhymed (muqaffá), and cadenced (musajja‘). We may divide them more simply into natural and artificial. To us, though not
always to our ancestors, as witness the Euphuists of Elizabethan days, artificial prose is, as a rule, distasteful; and if we can
pardon it in a work like the Arabic Maqámát of al-Ḥarírí or the Persian Anwár-i-Suhaylí, written merely to please the ear and
display the writer’s command of the language, we resent it in a serious work containing information of which we have need.
It is a question how far style can be described absolutely as good or bad, for tastes differ not only in different countries but in
the same country at different periods, and a writer deemed admirable by one generation is often lightly esteemed by the next,
since, as the Arab proverb says, “Men resemble their age more than they do their fathers736.” But when a serious historian
takes a page to say what could be easily expressed in one or two lines, we have a right to resent the wilful waste of time
inflicted upon us by his misdirected ingenuity. Before the Mongol Invasion in the thirteenth century Persian prose was
generally simple and direct, and nothing could be more concise and compact than such books as Bal‘amí’s Persian version of
Ṭabarí’ s great history, the Siyásat-náma of the Niẓámu’l-Mulk, the Safar-náma of Náṣir-i-Khusraw, the Qábús-náma, or the
Chahár Maqála. Mongol, Tartar and Turkish influences

[page 413]

seem to have been uniformly bad, favouring as they did flattery and bombast. The historian Waṣṣáf, whose chronicle was
presented to Úljáytú in A.D. 1312737, was the first great offender, and unhappily served as a model to many of his successors.
In recent times there has been a great improvement, partly due to the tendency, already remarked in the case of verse, to take
as models the older writers who possessed a sounder and simpler taste than those of the post-Mongol period, and partly to the
recent development of journalism, which, if not necessarily conducive to good style, at least requires a certain concision and
directness. In point of style, arrangement, and, above all, documentation the quite recent but little-known “History of the
Awakening of the Persians” (Ta’ríkh-i-Bídárí-yi-Írániyán) of the Náẓimu’l-Islám of Kirmán (1328/1910), unfortunately
never completed, is incomparably superior to the more ambitious general histories of Riḍá-qulí Khán and the Lisánu’l-Mulk
(the Supplement to Mírkhwánd’s Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá and the Násikhu’t-Tawáríkh) compiled some fifty years earlier.
Of prose works written simply to display the linguistic attainments and rhetorical ingenuities of the authors I do not
propose to perpetuate the memory, or to say more than that, when they embody historical and other matter of sufficient value
to render them worth translating, they should, in my opinion, if they are to be made tolerable to European readers, be
ruthlessly pruned of these flowers of eloquence. As an instance I will take one passage from that very useful and by no means
very florid history of the early Ṣafawí period the Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh (985/1577-8), of which I have made such extensive use
in the first part of this volume. It describes the war

[page 414]

waged on the blind Sháhrukh Dhu’l-Qadar by Muḥammad Khán Ustájlú in the spring of 914/1508-9, and begins thus738:


“In the spring, when the Rose-king with pomp and splendour turned his face to attack the tribes of the Basil,
and, with thrusts of his thorn-spear, drove in rout from the Rose-garden the hibernal hosts —
A roar740 arose from the cloud-drums, the army of the basils was stirred;


737 See my Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion, pp. 67-8.
738 F. 75a of Mr A. G. Ellis’s MS.
739 This reading is conjectural. The MS. has ب￿    ر￿    ا￿, which is obviously wrong, since it is neither sense nor verse.
740 I.e. the spring thunder.

The cloud contracted its brows, and drew Rustam-bows741 for the contest;
The flowering branches raised their standards, the basils prepared their cavalry and their hosts;
The cloud in its skirts bore in every direction hail-stones for the head of Afrásiyáb —
Khán Muḥammad Ustájlú encamped in summer quarters at Márdín.”

[page 415]

All this could much better be said in one line:



“In the spring Khán Muḥammad Ustájlú encamped in summer quarters at Márdín.”

Graceful poetic fancies are all very well in their proper place, but in a serious history they are inappropriate and
irritating. The trouble is that, as has been remarked already, nearly all literary Persians, and consequently historians, are poets
or poetasters, and they unhappily find it easier and more entertaining to mix poetry with their history than history with their
poetry, even their professedly historical poetry. In discussing the later prose literature of Persia I shall therefore confine
myself to what has substantial value apart from mere formal elegance, and shall treat of it, according to subject, under the
five following headings:
(1) Theology.
(2) Philosophy.
(3) The Sciences — mathematical, natural and occult.
(4) History — general, special and local.
(5) Biography and autobiography. including travels.


1. THEOLOGY.

Theology in Persia during the period with which we are dealing, that is from the establishment of the Ṣafawí dynasty to
the present day, means Shí‘a theology, and by extension the semi-heterodox doctrines of the Shaykhís and the wholly
heterodox doctrines of the Bábís and Bahá'ís. A large portion of this theological literature — in older times almost all, and
even now a considerable amount — is in Arabic, the sacred language of Islám and of the Qur’án, and much of it in all
Muslim countries is almost unreadable, save for a few professional

[page 416]

theologians, and, it may be added, quite unprofitable. Some learned man writes a theological, philological, or logical treatise
which achieves renown in the Colleges where the ‘ulamá get their mediaeval training. Some one else writes a commentary on
that treatise; a third produces a super-commentary on the commentary; a fourth a gloss on the super-commentary; a fifth a
note on the gloss; so that at the end we are confronted with what the immortal Turkish wit Khoja Naṣru’d-Dín Efendí called
“soup of the soup of the soup of the hare-soup,” a substance devoid of savour or nutriment, and serving rather to conceal than
to reveal its original material. Shaykh Muḥammad ‘Abduh, late Grand Muftí of Egypt and Chancellor of the University of al-
Azhar, than whom, perhaps, no more enlightened thinker and no more enthusiastic lover of the Arabic language and literature
has been produced by Islám in modern times, used to say that all this stuff should be burned, since it merely cumbered
bookshelves, bred maggots, and obscured sound knowledge. This was the view of a great and learned Muhammadan
theologian, so we need not scruple to adopt it; indeed the more we admire and appreciate the abundant good literature of
Islám, the more we must deplore, and even resent, the existence of this rubbish. In reading the lives of the ‘Ulamá in such
books as the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát and the Qiṣaṣu’l-’Ulamá we constantly find a theologian credited with forty, fifty, or sixty
works of this type, which nobody reads now, and which, probably, no one but his pupils ever did read, and they only under
compulsion. Even to enumerate these treatises were it possible, would be utterly unprofitable.
The great achievement of the Shí‘a doctors of the later Ṣafawí period, such as the Majlisís, was their popularization of
the Shí‘a doctrine and historical Anschauung in the vernacular. They realized that to reach the people they must employ the
language of

[page 417]

the people, and that in a simple form, and they reaped their reward in the intense and widespread enthusiasm for the Shí‘a
cause which they succeeded in creating. We have already seen742 how few Shí‘a books were available when Sháh Isma‘íl first

741 The rainbow is called “Rustam’s bow” (Kamán-i-Rustam) in Persian.
742 Pp. 54-5 supra.

established that doctrine as the national faith of Persia, and, according to the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát743, Mullá Muḥammad Taqí
Majlisí was “the first to publish the Shí‘a traditions after the appearance of the Ṣafawí dynasty.” His even more eminent son
Mullá Muḥammad Báqir compiled on this subject the immense Biḥáru’l-Anwár (“Oceans of Light”) in Arabic, and in Persian
the following works744: ‘Aynu’l-Ḥayát (“the Fountain of Life”), containing exhortations to renunciation of the world;
Mishkátu’l-Anwár (“the Lamp of Lights”); Ḥilyatu’l-Muttaqín (“the Ornament of the Pious”), on example and conduct;
Ḥayátu’l-Qulúb (“the Life of Hearts”) in three parts, the first on the Prophets before Muḥammad, the second on the Prophet
Muḥammad, and the third on the Twelve Imáms, but only part of it was written and it was never completed; Tuḥfatu’z-
Zá’irín (“the Pilgrims’ Present”); Jalá’u’l-‘Uyún (“the Clearing of the Eyes”); Miqbásu’l-Maṣábíḥ, on the daily prayers;
Rabí‘u’l-Asábí‘ (“the Spring of Weeks”); Zádu’l-Ma‘ád (“Provision for the Hereafter and numerous smaller treatises. Oddly
enough one of the most notable of his Persian theological works, the Ḥaqqu’l-Yaqín (“Certain Truth”), which was compiled
in 1109/1698, and beautifully printed at Ṭihrán so early as 1241/1825, is omitted from this list. The late M. A. de Biberstein
Kazimirski began to translate this book into French, but abandoned his idea, sent his manuscript translation to me, and urged
me to continue and complete the work he had begun;

[page 418]

a task which, unfortunately, I have never had leisure to accomplish, though it would be well worth the doing, since we still
possess no comprehensive and authoritative statement of Shí‘a doctrine in any European language.
The basic works of the Shí‘a faith, namely the Qur’án (the Word of God) and the Traditions (the sayings and deeds of
the Prophet and the Imáms), are naturally in Arabic. The numerous Persian religious treatises may be roughly classified in
three groups — the doctrinal, the historical, and the legal. In practice doctrine and history are almost inevitably intermixed,
especially in the sections dealing with the Imámate, where attempts are made to prove that the Prophet intended ‘Alí to
succeed him; that Abú Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthmán were usurpers of his rights; that the Imáms were twelve in number, no more
and no less, and that they were the twelve recognized by the “Sect of the Twelve” (Ithná-‘Ashariyya) and none other. Thus
while the earlier sections of these doctrinal works dealing with God and His Attributes border on Metaphysics, the later
sections are largely composed of historical or quasi-historical matter, while the concluding portions, dealing with Heaven,
Hell, the Last Judgement, and the like, are eschatological.
The style of these books is generally very simple and direct, and totally devoid of rhetorical adornment, but commonly
affects an imitation of the Arabic idiom and order of words, not only in passages translated from that language, but
throughout, as though these theologians had so steeped their minds in the Qur’án and the Traditions that even when using the
Persian language the thought must follow Arabic lines. The following example, taken from the beginning of the second
volume of the Ḥaqqu’l-Yaqín745, will suffice to illustrate this peculiarity:

[page 419]



“Maqṣad IX: establishing the ‘Return’ (Raj‘at).

“Know that of the number of those things whereon the Shí‘a are agreed, nay, which are of the essentials of the
true doctrine of that Truth-pursuing body, is the ‘Return.’ That is to say that in the time of His Holiness the
Qá’im746, before the Resurrection, a number of the good who are very good and of the bad who are very bad will
return to the world, the good in order that their eyes may be brightened by seeing the triumph of their Imáms, and
that some portion of the recompense of their good deeds may accrue to them in this world; and the bad for the

743 Ṭihrán lithographed ed. of 1306/1888, p. 129.
744 Ibid., p. 119.
745 Ṭihrán printed ed. of 1241/1825, f. 142b.
746 “He who shall arise,” i.e. the Imám Mahdí or Messiah of the Shí‘a.

punishment and torment of the world, and to behold the double of that triumph which they did not wish to accrue to
the Imáms, and that the Shí‘a may avenge themselves on them. But all other men will remain in their tombs until
they shall be raised up in the general Upraising; even as it has come down in many traditions that none shall come
back in the ‘Return’ save he who is possessed of pure belief or pure unbelief, but as for the remainder of mankind,
these will [for the time being] be left to themselves.”

It is true that here the sentence most Arabian in construction may be the literal translation of a tradition not

[page 420]

given in the original Arabic, which must evidently run something like this:



but the influence of Arabian syntax is constantly apparent.
Another class of Shí‘a theological writings consists of polemical works directed against the Sunnis, the Ṣúfís, the
Shaykhís, the Bábís and Bahá’ís, and the Christians. The Sunnís are naturally attacked in all manuals of doctrine with varying
degrees of violence, for from Nádir Sháh downwards to Abu’l-Ḥasan Mírzá (“Ḥájji Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís”), an eager
contemporary advocate of Islamic unity747, no one has been able to effect an appeasement between these two great divisions
of Islám, and a more tolerant attitude in the younger generation of Persians, so far as it exists, is due rather to a growing
indifference to Islám itself than to a religious reconciliation. Attacks on the Ṣúfís, especially on their Pantheism (Waḥdatu’l-
Wujúd), are also often met with in general manuals of Shí‘a doctrine, but several independent denunciations of their doctrines
exist, such as Áqá Muḥammad ‘Alí Bihbihání’s Risála-i-Khayrátiyya748, which led to a violent persecution of the Ṣúfís and
the death of several of their leaders, such as Mír Ma’ṣúm, Mushtáq ‘Alí and Núr ‘Alí Sháh749; and the Maṭá‘inu’ṣ-Ṣúfiyya of
Muḥammad Rafí‘ ibn Muḥammad Shafí‘ of Tabríz, composed in 1221/1806750. The latter even has recourse to the Gospels to
prove his case, quoting Christ’s saying “Beware

[page 421]

of them which come to you in sheep’s clothing (ṣuf, wool), but within they are ravening wolves.”
The Islamo-Christian controversy has also produced a considerable literature in Persian, which has been discussed by
Professor Samuel Lee in his Controversial Tracts on Christianity and Mohammedanism (Cambridge, 1824). Several such
works were written in the first quarter of the seventeenth century by Sayyid Aḥmad ibn Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín al-‘Alawí, one in
refutation of Xavier’s Á’ína-i-Ḥaqq-numá (“Truth-revealing Mirror”), and another directed against the Jews. Later the
proselytizing activities of Henry Martyn the missionary called forth replies from Mírzá Ibráhím and others751.
The Shaykhí sect or school derived its origin and its name from Shaykh Aḥmad ibn Zaynu’d-Dín al-Aḥsá’í, a native not
of Persia but of Baḥrayn, who died, according to the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát752, at the advanced age of ninety in 1243/1827-8, and
was succeeded by Sayyid Káẓim of Rasht, who numbered amongst his disciples both Sayyid ‘Alí Muḥammad the Báb, the
originator of the Bábí sect, and many of those who subsequently became his leading disciples, and Ḥájji Muḥammad Karím
Khán of Kirmán, who continued and developed the Shaykhí doctrine. This doctrine, essentially a rather extreme form of the
Shí‘a faith, was accounted heterodox by several eminent mujtahids, such as Ḥájji Mullá Muḥammad Taqí of Qazwín, the
uncle and father-in-law of the celebrated Bábí heroine Qurratu’l-‘Ayn, whose hostility to the Shaykhís and Bábís ultimately
cost him his life, but earned for him from the orthodox Shí‘a the title of the “Third Martyr” (Shahíd-i-Thálith)753. Some
account of the

[page 422]

Shaykhís and their doctrines, sufficient for the ordinary student of Persian thought, is given in Note E (pp. 234-44) at the end
of the second volume of my Traveller’s Narrative754. Shaykh Aḥmad was the author of numerous works, all, I think, in
Arabic, of which the titles are given in the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (p. 25), which asserts amongst other things that he held the
Ṣúfís in great detestation, notwithstanding his own unorthodox views on the Resurrection. Naturally the pantheistic and
latitudinarian opinions of these mystics are distasteful to dogmatic theologians of every kind, whether orthodox Shí‘a or
Sunní, Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í, or Christian. Henry Martyn evidently felt that he had far more in common with the ordinary

747 His pamphlet on the “Union of Islám” (Ittiḥádu’l-Islám) was lithographed at Bombay in 1312/1894-5.
748 Composed in 1211/1796-7. See the full and interesting account of the work in Rieu’s Persian Catalogue, pp. 33-4.
749 For a full account of these events, see Malcolm’s History of Persia, ed. 1815, vol. ii, pp. 417-22.
750 Of this I possess a good MS. dated 22 Jumádá ii, 1222 (27 Aug. 1807).
751 See my Cat. of Pers. MSS. in the Camb. Univ. Library (1896), pp. 7-13.
752 Pp. 25-6, of the Ṭihrán lithographed edition of 1306/1888.
753 See vol. ii of my Traveller’s Narrative, pp. 197-8 and 310-12.
754 See also A.-L.-M. Nicolas, Essai sur le Cheïkhisme (Paris, 1910), pp. 72. A list of Shaykh Aḥmad’s writings is given.

fanatical mullá of Shíráz than with the elusive and eclectic Ṣúfí. The later Shaykhís and Bábís, though both derive from a
common source, hold one another in the utmost detestation; and at least one of the doctors of theology who examined and
condemned the Báb at Tabríz towards the end of the year A.D. 1847, Mullá Muḥammad Mámaqání, belonged to the Shaykhí
school755.
The Bábí-Bahá’í movement, of which the effects have now extended far beyond the Persian frontiers even to America,
has naturally given rise to a far more extensive literature, which forms a study in itself, and which I have discussed
elsewhere756. Of the Báb’s own writings the Persian Bayán and the Dalá’il-i-sab‘a (“Seven Proofs”) are the most important
of those composed in Persian757. Bahá’u’lláh’s Íqán (“Assurance”)

[page 423]

is the earliest reasoned apology, and was written before he advanced his claim to be “He whom God shall manifest.” His later
“Tablets” (Alwáḥ), many of which are in Persian, are innumerable; amongst them the “Epistles to the Kings” (Alwáḥ-i-
Saláṭín) are the most interesting and important. There is also an abundant Azalí literature, and each dichotomous schism has
given rise to a fresh crop of controversial pamphlets. Of systematic refutations of the Bábí and Bahá’í doctrines in Persian the
most elaborate are the Iḥqáqu’l-Ḥaqq (“Verification of the Truth”) of Áqá Muḥammad Taqí of Hamadán758, composed about
1326/1908; and the Minháju’ṭ-Ṭálibín759 of Ḥájji Ḥusayn-qulí, an Armenian convert to Islám, lithographed at Bombay in
1320/1902. The Bábís and Bahá’ís have developed a somewhat distinctive style of their own in Persian which possesses
considerable merits. Some of Bahá’u’lláh’s “Tablets” (Alwáḥ) addressed to Zoroastrian enquirers are even written in pure
Persian without admixture of Arabic. Their most important works, like the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (“Most Holy Book”), are, however,
written in Arabic. From the point of view of style, both in Persian and Arabic, an immense improvement was effected by
Bahá’u’lláh, for the style of Mírzá ‘Alí Muḥammad the Báb was, as Gobineau says, “terne, raide, et sans éclat,” “dull, stiff,
and devoid of brilliance.”


2. PHILOSOPHY.

Philosophy (Ḥikmat, Filsafa) is defined by the Muslims as “a knowledge of the true essence of things, as they really are,
so far as is possible to human capacity.” It is divided into two branches, the theoretical (naẓarí), and the practical (‘amalí).
The former comprises Mathematics (Riyáḍiyyát), Natural Science (‘Ilmu’ṭ-Ṭabí‘at), and Metaphysics (Má wará’ba‘d or fawq

[page 424]

aṭ-Ṭabí‘at); the latter Ethics (Tahdhíbu’l-Akhláq), Economics (Tadbíru’l-Manzil), and Politics (Siyasatu’l-Mudun). The three
best-known Persian treatises on Practical Philosophy, namely the Akhláq-i-Náṣirí, Akhláq-i-Jalálí, and Akhláq-i-Muḥsiní760,
all belong to the period preceding that which we are now discussing, and I do not recollect any important Persian work on the
subject which has appeared since. We may therefore confine our attention here to the first, or theoretical, branch of
Philosophy, and in this section to Metaphysics, which on the one hand borders on Theology, and on the other on Science. It is
generally admitted that a very close connection existed between the Shí‘a and the Mu‘tazila761 in early ‘Abbásid times, and it
is well known that the latter were the most enlightened and philosophic of the theological schools of Islám, and that in
particular they were the champions of Free Will against the rigid Determinism which subsequently triumphed, to the great
detriment of the intellectual development of the Muhammadan world. Those sections of Shí‘ite theological works which treat
of the Nature and Attributes of God are, therefore, of a more philosophical character than is commonly the case in Sunní
books of a similar type.
Muslim Philosophy, like Muslim Science, admittedly and avowedly owes almost everything to the Greeks. Its
development from the middle of the eighth century of the Christian era, when under the early ‘Abbásid Caliphs the work of
translating into Arabic the works of the most eminent and celebrated Greek thinkers began, down to the deadly blow inflicted
on Islamic civilization by the Mongol Invasion and the destruction of

[page 425]

Baghdád and the ‘Abbásid Caliphate in the middle of the thirteenth century, has been repeatedly traced by European scholars.
For a broad general view, characterizing the chief exponents of the different schools of Islamic thought, Dr T J de Boer’s

755 See Traveller’s Narrative, vol. ii, p. 278.
756 Travellers Narrative, vol. ii, pp. 173-211; Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion, pp. 17 5-243.
757 French translations of both have been published by the learned and impartial A.-L.-M. Nicolas.
758 Materials, pp. 189-90.
759 Ibid, pp. 196-7.
760 See my Persian Literature under Tartar Dominion, pp. 442-4.
761 See de Boer’s Hist. of Philosophy in Islam, translated by E. R. Jones (London, 1903), pp. 33, 43, 72 and 84; and Goldziher’s
Vorlesungen über der Islam (Heidelberg, 1910), pp. 234 et seqq.

History of Philosophy in Islam, translated into English by E. R. Jones, may be recommended to the general reader. It will be
observed that only one of the thinkers mentioned in that book, Ibn Khaldún (b. A.D. 1332 at Tunis, d. A.D. 1406 at Cairo),
flourished after the fall of the ‘Abbásid Caliphate, and he was a unique and isolated phenomenon, “without forerunners and
without successors762.” The question we have to answer here is, has Persia, which in earlier times produced so large a
proportion of the so-called “Arabian Philosophers763,” produced any metaphysician of note since the beginning of the
sixteenth century? To answer this question one would need to combine with a competent knowledge of Arabic and Persian a
grasp of the history and subject-matter not only of “Arabian” but of Greek Philosophy (and, indeed, of Philosophy in general)
to which I cannot lay claim. This, indeed, constitutes the difficulty of judging the value of the scientific literature of Islám.
How many of those who admire the Persian quatrains of ‘Umar Khayyám can follow M. Woepcke in the appreciation of his
Arabic algebraical treatises? A knowledge of Arabic does not suffice to enable us to decide whether ar-Rází or Ibn Síná
(Avicenna) was the greater physician. Much valuable work of this technical character has been done in Germany, by Dr E.
Wiedemann of Erlangen (Optics, Physics, etc.), Dr Julius Hirschberg of Berlin (Ophthalmology), Dr Max Simon (Anatomy),
and others, but very much remains to

[page 426]

be done, and few scholars are competent to undertake it. As regards Philosophy in Persia during the last three or four
centuries, all one can say is that half a dozen thinkers have established a great reputation amongst their countrymen, but how
far this reputation is deserved is a question which has not yet received a satisfactory answer, These thinkers are, in
chronological order, as follows: (1) Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín al- ‘Ámilí (d. 1031/1622); (2) Mír Dámád (d. 1041/1631-2); (3)
Mullá Ṣadrá (d. 1050/1640-1; (4) Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ (d. after 1091/1680); (5) Mullá ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq al-Láhijí; and, in
quite modern times, (6) Ḥájji Mullá Hádí of Sabzawár (d. 1295/1878).
Now Muslim philosophers are of two sorts, those whose philosophy is conditioned by and subordinated to revealed
Religion, and those whose speculations are not so limited. The former are the Mutakallimún or Ahl-i-Kalám, the Schoolmen
or Dialecticians764; the latter the Ḥukamá (pl. of Ḥakím) or Falásifa (pl. of Faylasúf), the Philosophers proper. Of the six
persons mentioned above, Mullá Ṣadrá certainly and Ḥájji Mullá Hádí possibly belong to the second class, but the four others
to the first. These four, however, if less important from the point of view of Philosophy, were in other ways notable men of
letters. Biographies of all of them except Mullá Hádí, who is too modern, are given in the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, or the Qiṣaṣu’l-
‘Ulamá, from which, unless otherwise stated, the following particulars are taken.
The first five were more or less contemporary, and are, to a certain extent, interrelated. Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín and Mír
Dámád both enjoyed considerable influence and stood in high favour at the court of Sháh ‘Abbás the Great, yet there was no
jealousy between them, if we may believe the pleasing anecdote about them and the Sháh related by Sir

[page 427]

John Malcolm765. Mullá Ṣadrá was the pupil of both of them766, while Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ and Mullá ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq al-
Láhijí were both his pupils and his sons-in-law.


1. Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín al-‘Ámilí.

Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín Muḥammad ibn Ḥusayn ibn ‘Abdu’ṣ-Ṣamad al-Ḥárithí al-‘Ámilí al-Hamdání al-Jab‘í was one of
the numerous Shí‘a doctors who came to Persia from Jabal ‘Ámil in Syria, whence he derived the nisba by which he is
commonly known, though by the Persians he is most often spoken of as “Shaykh-i-Bahá'í.” His father Shaykh Ḥusayn, a
disciple of Shaykh Zaynu’d-Dín “the Second Martyr” (Shahíd-i-Thání), came to Persia after his master had been put to death
by the Turks for his Shí‘ite proclivities, bringing with him the young Bahá’u’d-Dín, who applied himself diligently to the
study of Theology in all its branches, Mathematics and Medicine. His teachers included, besides his father, Mullá ‘Abdu’lláh
of Yazd, a pupil of Jalálu’d-Dín-i-Dawání, the author of the Akhláq-i-Jalálí, who was in turn a pupil of the celebrated
Sayyid-i-Sharíf-i-Jurjání. In Mathematics he studied with Mullá ‘Alí Mudhahhib (“the Gilder”) and Mullá Afḍal of Qá’in,
while in Medicine he was the pupil of ‘Alí’u’d-Dín Maḥmúd767. In due course he attained great celebrity as a theologian and
jurist, and became Ṣadr or Shaykhu’l-Islám of Iṣfahán. After a while he was possessed with the desire to make the pilgrimage
to Mecca, and on his homeward journey visited, in the guise of a darwísh, Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Ḥijáz


762 De Boer, op laud., p. 208.
763 So-called merely because they wrote in Arabic, at that time exclusively, and even now to a considerable extent, the learned language of
Islám, as Latin was of Christendom.
764 See de Boer, op. cit., pp. 42-3.
765 Hist. of Persia (ed. 1815), vol. i, pp. 558-9. The anecdote occurs in the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá and in the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, p. 115.
766 Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, p. 331.
767 Some account of him is given in vol. i of the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí amongst the notices of eminent men of the reign of Sháh
‘Abbás, whence some of the particulars here given concerning Shaykh-i-Bahá'í and Mír Dámád are also derived.

[page 428]

and Palestine, and made the acquaintance of many learned men and eminent doctors and mystics.
Shaykh-i-Bahá'í was born at Ba‘labakk in Syria on Muḥarram 17, 953 (March 20, 1546), and died on Shawwál 12,1031
(August 20, 1622). His principal works are the Jámí‘-i-‘Abbásí, containing legal decisions(fatáwá); the Zubda; the Miftaḥu’l-
Faláh; the Tashríhu’l-Aflák (“Anatomy of the Heavens”); the Khuláṣatu’l-Ḥisáb on Arithmetic; the Kashkúl (“Beggars’
Bowl”), a large miscellany of stories and verses, the latter partly in Persian768; a similar work called the Mikhlát; also a
Persian mathnawí poem entitled Nán u Ḥalwá (“Bread and Sweetmeats”) describing his adventures during the pilgrimage to
Mecca, and another entitled Shír u Shakar (“Milk and Sugar”). Extracts from these poems, as well as from his ghazals, are
given in the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá (vol. ii, pp. 8-10).


2. Mír Dámád.

Mír Muḥammad Báqir of Astarábád, with the pen-name of Ishráq, commonly known as Dámád (“son-in-law”), a title
properly belonging to his father Sayyid Muḥammad, whose wife was the daughter of the celebrated theologian Shaykh ‘Alí
ibn ‘Abdu’l-‘Alí, pursued his earlier studies at Mashhad, but spent the greater part of his life at Iṣfahán, where, as we have
seen, he stood in high favour with Sháh ‘Abbás the Great, and where he was still living when the author of the Ta’ríkh-i-
‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí wrote in 1025/1616. He died in 1041/1631-2. Most of his writings were in Arabic, but he wrote poetry
in Persian under the takhalluṣ of Ishráq. He seems to have had a taste for Natural History as well as Philosophy, for,
according to the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, he made an observation hive of glass in

[To face p. 428]



Autograph of Shaykh Bahá’u’d-Dín-i-‘Ámilí

Or. 4936 (Brit. Mus.), 15

[page 429]

order to study the habits of bees. It is stated in the same work that after his death his pupil and son-in-law Mullá Ṣadrá saw
him in a dream and said, “My views do not differ from yours, yet I am denounced as an infidel and you are not. Why is this?”
“Because,” replied Mír Dámád’s spirit, “I have written on Philosophy in such wise that the theologians are unable to
understand my meaning, but only the philosophers; while you write about philosophical questions in such a manner that
every dominie and hedge-priest who sees your books understands what you mean and dubs you an unbeliever.”


3. Mullá Ṣadrá of Shíráz.

768 These Persian verses are omitted in the Cairo ed. of 1305/1887-8, but are contained in the Ṭihrán lithographed ed. of 1321/1903-4.

Ṣadru’d-Dín Muḥammad ibn Ibráhím of Shíráz, commonly known as Mullá Ṣadrá, was the only son of an aged and
otherwise childless father. On his father’s death he left Shíráz and went to Iṣfahán, where, as we have seen, he studied with
Shaykh-i-Bahá'í and Mír Dámád, from both of whom he held ijázas, or authorizations to expound their works. He
subsequently retired to a village near Qum, where he lived a secluded and austere life, engaged in profound meditations on
Philosophy. He is said to have made the Pilgrimage to Mecca on foot seven times, and to have died at Baṣra on his return
from his seventh journey in 1050/1640-1, leaving a son named Ibráhím who did not follow his father’s doctrine but
denounced and controverted it, boasting that “his belief was that of the common people.” To these meagre particulars of
Mullá Ṣadrá’s life, derived from the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (pp. 331-2) and the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá, I can only add that it is clear
from some expressions in the Preface to his Asfár that he suffered a good deal at the hands of the orthodox divines, and that
Shaykh Aḥmad Aḥsá’í, the founder of the Shaykhí school, wrote commentaries on two of his works, the Ḥik-

[page 430]

matu’l-‘Arshiyya and the Mashá‘ir. Shaykh Muḥammad Iqbál is therefore probably right when he says769 that “the
Philosophy of Ṣadrá is the source of the metaphysics of early Bábíism,” and that770 “the origin of the philosophy of this
wonderful sect must be sought in the Shí‘a sect of the Shaykhís, the founder of which, Shaykh Aḥmad, was an enthusiastic
student of Mullá Ṣadrá’s philosophy, on which he had written several commentaries.”
The two most celebrated of Mullá Ṣadrá’s works, all of which, so far as I know, are in Arabic, are the Asfár-i-Arba‘a, or
“Four Books771,” and the Shawáhidu’r-Rubúbiyya, or “Evidences of Divinity.” Both have been lithographed at Ṭihrán, the
first in two folio volumes in 1282/1865, the second, accompanied by the commentary of Ḥájji Mullá Hádí of Sabzawár,
without indication of date or place of publication. Amongst his other works which I have not seen the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (p.
331) enumerates a Commentary on the Uṣúlu’l-Káfí, the Kitábu’l-Hidáya, notes on the metaphysical portion of Avicenna’s
Shifá, a Commentary on the Ḥikmatu’l-Ishráq (presumably that of the celebrated and unfortunate Shaykh Shihábu’d-Dín-
Suhrawardí, known, on account of his execution for heresy, as al-Maqtúl), the Kitábu’l-Wáridáti’l-Qalbiyya, the Kasru
Aṣnámi’l-Jáhiliyya, or “Breaking of the Idols of Ignorance,” several commentaries on various portions of the (Qur’án, etc.
Of Mullá Ṣadrá’s philosophical doctrines, in spite of their

[page 431]

high reputation in Persia, I know of only two brief and necessarily superficial accounts in any European language. The Comte
de Gobineau devotes several pages772 to them, but his information was probably entirely derived orally from his Persian
teachers, who were very likely but ill-informed on this matter, since he concludes his notice with the words “la vraie doctrine
de Moulla-Sadra, c’est-à-dire d’Avicenne,” while the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát773 explicitly states that he was an Ishráqí
(“Illuminatus” or Platonist) and strongly condemned the Aristoteleans or Peripatetics (Mashshá’ún), of whom Avicenna was
the great representative.
The other shorter but more serious account of Mullá Ṣadrá’s doctrine is given by Shaykh Muḥammad Iqbál, formerly a
pupil of Dr McTaggart in this University of Cambridge, and now himself a notable and original thinker in India, in his
excellent little book entitled Development of Metaphysics in Persia: a contribution to the History of Muslim Philosophy774, p.
175, but he devotes much more space (pp. 175-95) to the modern Ḥájji Mullá Hádí of Sabzawár, whom he regards as Mullá
Ṣadrá’s spiritual successor, and who, unlike his master, condescended, as we shall presently see, to expound his ideas in
Persian instead of in Arabic. It may be added

[page 432]

that Mullá Ṣadrá speaks with great respect of that eminent Maghribí Shaykh Muḥyi’d-Dín ibnu’l-‘Arabí, whose influence,
non-Persian though he was, was probably greater than that of any other thinker on the development of the extremer forms of
Persian philosophical-mystical speculation.

769 Development of Metaphysics in Persia (Luzac, London, 1908), p. 175.
770 Ibid., p. 187.
771 Gobineau has misunderstood Asfár (which is the plural of Sifr, “a book,” not of Safar, “a journey”) when he writes (Rel. el Philos.,
1866, p. 81), “Il a écrit de plus quatre livres de voyages.” In the same way he mistranslates the title of one of the Báb’s earlier works, the
Ziyárat-náma (“Book of Visitation”) as “un journal de son pèlerinage.”
772 Les Religions et les Philosophies, etc. (1866), pp. 80-92.
773 P. 331. The passage runs in the original:


774 London, Luzac and Co., 1908. Muḥammad Iqbál has set forth his own doctrines (which, as I understand them, are in the main an
Oriental adaptation of Nietzsche’s philosophy) in a short Persian mathnawí poem entitled Asrár-i-Khudí, lithographed at the University
Press, Lahore, and translated into English with an introduction and Notes by my friend and colleague Dr R. A. Nicholson (The Secrets of
the Self, London, Macmillan & Co., 1920).

4. Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ of Káshán.

Muḥammad ibn Murtaḍá of Káshán, commonly called Muḥsin with the poetical pen-name of Fayḍ, was a native of
Káshán, and, as already said, the favourite pupil and son-in-law of Mullá Ṣadrá. In the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát (pp. 542-9) and the
Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá much fuller notices of him are given than of his master, and, since he was not only a theologian and a
philosopher but likewise a poet of some note, he is also mentioned in the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín (pp. 225-6) and the Majma’u’l-
Fuṣaḥá (ii, 25-6). His literary activity was enormous: according to the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá he wrote nearly two hundred books
and treatises, and was surpassed in productivity by hardly any of his contemporaries or predecessors except Mullá
Muḥammad Báqir-i-Majlisí. Sixty-nine of these works, of which the last, entitled Sharḥu’s-Ṣadr775, is autobiographical, are
enumerated in the Qiṣaṣ, but fuller details of them are given in the Rawḍát (pp. 545-6), where the dates of composition
(which range between 1029/1620 and 1090/1680) are in most cases recorded. His age at this latter date, which is also notified
as the year of his death, is stated as eighty-four776, so that he must have been born about 1006/1597-8. Of one of his works,
the Mafátíḥu’sh-Sharáyi‘, I possess



Autograph of Mullá Muḥsin-i-Fayḍ

Or. 4937 (Brit. Mus.), p. 84

[page 433]

what appears to be an autograph copy, made in 1042/1632-3, now bearing the class-mark C. 18.
When Mullá Muḥsin wished to leave his home in Káshán and go to Shíráz to study under the celebrated theologian
Sayyid Májid of Baḥrayn, his father opposed this project, and it was finally agreed to take an augury (tafa’ul) from the
Qur’án, and from the poems ascribed to the first Imám ‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib. The former yielded the verse (ix, 123) “if a part of
every band of them go not forth, it is that they may diligently instruct themselves in Religion”; the latter the following lines
rendered particularly apposite by the words ṣuḥbatu Májidi, “the society of some noble one,” which might in this case be
taken as referring particularly to the above-mentioned Sayyid Májid:


775 It was written in 1065/1654-5. See Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, p. 546. It is wrongly entitled Sharḥ-i-Ṣuwar in the Indian lithograph of the Qiṣaṣ.
776 Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, pp. 542 and 549.

“Go abroad from the home-lands in search of eminence, and travel,
for in travel are five advantages:
The dissipation of anxiety, the acquisition of a livelihood, knowledge,
culture, and the society of some noble one (májid).
And if it be said, ‘In travels are humiliation and trouble, the
traversing of deserts and the encountering of hardships,’
Yet the death of a brave man is better for him than his continuance
in the mansion of abasement, between humiliation and an envious rival.”

[page 434]

After these clear indications, Mullá Muḥsin’s father no longer opposed his desire to go to Shíráz, where he pursued his
studies not only with the aforesaid Sayyid Májid, but also with Mullá Ṣadrá. It is difficult to accept the statement of the Qiṣaṣ
that this took place in 1065/1654-5, for this would make him nearly sixty years of age before he began his serious studies
with Mullá Ṣadrá or married his daughter.
Mullá Muḥsin is described in the Qiṣaṣ as a “pure Akhbárí” (Akhbárí-yi-Ṣirf), a Ṣúfí, and an admirer of Shaykh
Muḥyi’d-Dín ibnu’l-‘Arabí. Shaykh Aḥmad Aḥsá’í, who, as we have seen777, wrote commentaries on two of the books of his
master Mullá Ṣadrá, detested him, and used to call him Musí’ (“the ill-doer”) instead of Muḥsin (“the well-doer”), and to
speak of the great Shaykh as Mumítu’d-Dín (“the Slayer of Religion”) instead of Muḥyi’d-Dín (“the Quickener of Religion”).
According to an absurd story in the Qiṣaṣ, Mullá Muḥsin was chosen by Sháh ‘Abbás to confute a Christian missionary sent
by the “King of the Franks” to convert the Persians. The sign offered by this missionary was that he would specify any article
held in the closed hand of his opponent778. Mullá Muḥsin chose a rosary (tasbíḥ) made of clay taken from the tomb of the
Imám Ḥusayn. The Christian hesitated to speak, but, when pressed, said, “It is not that I cannot say, but, according to the rule
I observe, I see that in thy hand is a portion of the earth of Paradise, and I am wondering how this can have come into thy
possession.” “Thou speakest truly,” replied Mullá Muḥsin, and then informed him what he held, and bade him abandon his
own faith and accept Islám, which,

[page 435]

according to the narrator, he was constrained to do. Though extremely pious in most respects, Mullá Muḥsin scandalized the
orthodox by his approval and sanction of singing. His best-known Persian compilation is probably the Abwábu’l-Janán
(“Gates of Paradise”) composed in 1055/1645, on prayer and its necessity779, but few of his numerous writings have been
published or are now read and at the present day, at any rate, his name is more familiar than his works.


5. Mullá ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq-i-Láhijí.

The subject of this notice resembled Mullá Muḥsin in being a pupil and son-in-law of Mullá Ṣadrá and a poet, who wrote
under the pen-name of Fayyáḍ, but his writings, though much fewer in number, are more read at the present day. The best
known are, perhaps, the philosophical treatise in Persian entitled Gawhar-i-Murád (“the Pearl of Desire”), and the Sar-máya-
i-Ímán (“Substance of Faith”), also in Persian, both of which have been lithographed. The notices of him in the Rawḍátu’l-
Jannát (pp. 352-3) and the Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá are short and unsatisfactory. The latter grudgingly admits that his writings were
fairly orthodox, but evidently doubts how far they express his real convictions and how far they were designed from
prudential motives to disguise them, thus bearing out to some extent the opinion expressed by Gobineau780.

777 Pp. 429-30 supra.
778 This is called khaby, and thought-reading ḍamir. See my translation of the Chahár Maqála, p. 64 and n. 2 ad calc., and pp. 130-1.
779 Not to be confounded with a later homonymous work on Ethics.
780 Op. laud., pp. 91-2.

I have been obliged to omit any further notice than that already given781 of the somewhat elusive figure of Mír Abu’l-
Qásim-i-Findariskí, mentioned by Gobineau782 as one of the three teachers of Mullá Ṣadrá, because, apart from the brief
notices of him

[page 436]

contained in the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín783 and the Majma‘u’l-Fuṣaḥá, in both of which the same poem is cited, and the passing
reference in the Dabistán784 to his association with the disciples of Kaywán and adoption of sun-worship, I have been unable
to discover any particulars about his life or doctrines. He appears to have been more of a qalandar than a philosopher, and
probably felt ill at ease in the atmosphere of Shí‘a orthodoxy which prevailed at Iṣfahán, and hence felt impelled to undertake
the journey to India. He must, however, have subsequently returned to Persia if the statement in the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín that his
tomb is well known in Iṣfahán be correct.
Gobineau (op. laud., pp. 91-110) enumerates a number of philosophers who succeeded Mullá Ṣadrá down to the time of
his own sojourn in Persia, but most of them have little importance or originality, and we need only mention one more, who
was still living when Gobineau wrote, and whom he describes as “personnage absolument incomparable.”


6. Ḥájji Mullá Hádí of Sabzawár.

It is not, however, necessary to say much about this celebrated modern thinker, since his philosophical ideas are
somewhat fully discussed by Shaykh Muḥammad Iqbál at the end of his Development of Metaphysics in Persia785, while I
obtained from one of his pupils with whom I studied in Ṭihrán during the winter of 1887-8 an authentic account of his life, of
which I published an English translation in my Year amongst the Persians786. According to this account, partly derived from
one of his sons, Ḥájji Mullá Hádí the son of Ḥájji Mahdí was born in 1212/1797-8, studied first in his native town of
Sabzawár, then at Mashhad, then at Iṣfahán

[page 437]

with Mullá ‘Alí Núrí. Having made the pilgrimage to Mecca, he visited Kirmán, where he married a wife, and then returned
to Sabzawár, where the remainder of his life was chiefly spent until his death in 1295/1878. His best-known works, written in
Persian, are the Asráru’l-Ḥikam (“Secrets of Philosophy”) and a commentary on difficult words and passages in the
Mathnawí; in Arabic he has a versified treatise (Manẓúma) on Logic; another on Philosophy; commentaries on the Morning
Prayer and the Jawshan-i-Kabír; and numerous notes on the Shawáhidu’r-Rubúbiyya and other works of Mullá Ṣadrá. He
also wrote poetry under the pen-name of Asrár, and a notice of him is given in the Riyáḍu’l-‘Árifín (pp. 241-2), where he is
spoken of as still living and in the sixty-third year of his age in 1278/1861-2, the date of composition. Most of his works have
been published in Persia in lithographed editions.


3. THE SCIENCES — MATHEMATICAL, NATURAL AND OCCULT.

As stated above787, Mathematics (Riyáḍiyyát) “the Disciplinary” and Ṭabí‘iyyát the Natural Sciences, in conjunction with
Metaphysics (Má wará or Má ba‘da’ṭ-Ṭabí‘at), constitute the subject-matter of the theoretical or speculative branch of
Philosophy, of which, therefore, they form a part. It is probable that to this manner of regarding them is partly due the
unfortunate tendency noticeable in most Muslim thinkers to take an a priori view of all natural phenomena instead of
submitting them to direct critical observation. The so-called “Arabian,” i.e. Islamic, Science was in the main inherited from
the Greeks; its Golden Age was the first century of the ‘Abbásid Caliphate (A.D. 750-

[page 438]

850), when so much trouble and expense was incurred by the Caliphs, especially al-Manṣúr, Hárúnu’r-Rashíd and al-
Ma’mún, to procure good and faithful Arabic translations of the great Greek philosophers, naturalists and physicians; and the
great service it rendered to mankind was to carry on the Greek tradition of learning through the Dark Ages of Europe down to
the Renaissance.

781 See pp. 257-8 and 408 supra.
782 Op. laud., p. 82.
783 Pp. 165-6.
784 Shea and Troyer’s translation (London, 1843), vol. i, pp. 140-1.
785 Pp. 175-95.
786 Pp. 131-4.
787 Pp. 423-4 supra.

So much is generally admitted, but there remains the more difficult and still unsolved question whether the Arabs were
mere transmitters of Greek learning, or whether they modified or added to it, and, in this case, whether these modifications or
additions were or were not improvements on the original. This question I have endeavoured to answer in the case of medical
science in my Arabian Medicine788, but I was greatly hampered by insufficient acquaintance with the original Greek sources.
For such investigation, whether in the Medicine, Mathematics, Physics, Astronomy or Chemistry of the Muslims, three
qualifications not often combined are required in the investigator, o wit, knowledge of the science or art in question,
knowledge of Arabic (and, for later writers, of Persian and even Turkish), and knowledge of Greek. In the case of the
“Arabian” (i.e. Muslim) physicians the conclusion at which I arrived (already reached by Dr Max Neuburger in his
monumental Geschichte der Medizin789) was that Rhazes (Abú Bakr Muḥammad ibn Zakariyyá ar-Rází, i.e. a native of Ray
in Persia) was, as a physician, far superior to the more celebrated and popular Avicenna (Ibn Síná), and was, indeed, probably
the greatest clinical observer who ever existed amongst the Muslims. The notes of actual cases which came under his
observation, as recorded in parts of his great “Continens”

[page 439]

(al-Ḥáwí), have an actual and not merely a historical or literary value; and even from his methods of treatment it is possible
that here and there a hint might be obtained. Avicenna was more logical, more systematic, and more philosophical, but he
lacked the Hippocratic insight possessed by his great predecessor.
In my Arabian Medicine I sketched the history of the art amongst the Muslims from its beginnings in the eighth century
of our era down to the twelfth, but made no attempt to follow it down to the period which we are now considering. The
Mongol Invasion of the thirteenth century, as I have repeatedly and emphatically stated, dealt a death-blow to Muslim
learning from which it has not yet recovered. Medical and other quasi-scientific books continued, of course, to be written, but
it is doubtful if they ever approached the level attained under the early ‘Abbásid Caliphs and maintained until the eleventh,
and, to some extent, until the thirteenth century of our era. That they added anything which was both new and true is in the
highest degree improbable, though I cannot claim to have carefully investigated the matter. A long list of these books is given
by Dr Adolf Fonahn in his most useful work entitled Zur Quellenkunde der Persischen Medizin790, which has pointed the way
for future investigators. Of these later works the most celebrated is probably the Tuḥfatu’-Mú’minín, compiled for Sháh
Sulaymán the Ṣafawí by Muḥammad Mú’min-i-Ḥusayní in A.D. 1669. It deals chiefly with Materia Medica, and there are
numerous editions and manuscripts, besides translations into Turkish and Arabic791.
What has been said about Medicine holds good also of Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, etc., and in a lesser degree of
Mathematics, Astronomy and Mineralogy. Fine work

[page 440]

has been done in some of these subjects by experts who also possessed an adequate knowledge of Arabic. I will only instance
Woepcke in Algebra, Wiedemann in Mechanics, Hirschberg in Ophthalmology, and, amongst younger men, Holmyard in
Chemistry. All these, I think, have come to the conclusion that the standard attained by the best Muslim investigators
surpassed rather than fell short of what is generally supposed. Yet it is often difficult to assure oneself that direct observation,
which is the foundation of true science, has played its proper part in ascertaining the phenomena recorded. Dr Badhlu’r-
Raḥmán, now Professor of Arabic in the Oriental College at Lahore, when he was a Research Student in this University, took
as the subject of his studies the works of al-Jáḥiẓ, who, on the strength of his great book on animals, the Kitábu’l-Ḥayawán,
is often regarded as one of the leading naturalists of the Arabs792. At my request this able and industrious young scholar
devoted especial attention to the question whether the writings of this author afforded any proof that he had himself observed
the habits of any of the animals about which he wrote. A passage was ultimately found which seemed conclusive. In speaking
of instinct al-Jáḥiẓ says that when the ant stores corn for food it mutilates each grain in such a way as to prevent it from
germinating. After numerous fruitless enquiries as to the truth of this statement, I finally ascertained from Mr Horace
Donisthorpe, one of the chief British authorities on ants, that it was correct, and I began to hope that here at last was proof
that this old Muslim scholar had himself observed

[page 441]

a fact of Natural History apparently unknown to many modern Zoologists. Unhappily I subsequently discovered the same
statement in Pliny, and I am afraid it is much more likely that it reached al- Jáḥiẓ by tradition rather than by direct
observation.

788 Pp. viii + 138, Cambridge University Press, 1921.
789 Vol. ii, Part i, pp. 168 et seqq.
790 Leipzig, 1910, pp. v + 152.
791 See Fonahn, op. laud., pp. 89-91. See also B.M.P.C., pp. 476-7.
792 E.g. by Fr. Wüstenfeld in his Geschichte der Arabischen Aerzte und Naturforscher (Göttingen, 1840), pp. 2 5-6 (No. 65). Carl
Brockelmann’s view is correct (Gesch. d. Arab. Litt., i, p. 152), but his criticism of Dr L. Leclerc’s remarks on the subject (Hist. de la
Médecine Arabe, i, p. 314) hardly appears justified.

In each of the “Arabian” sciences the same question arises and demands an answer which only one thoroughly versed in
the scientific literature of the ancients can give. Does Ibnu’l-Bayṭár’s great Arabic work on medicinal plants, for example,
contain any information not to be found in Dioscorides? Be the answer what it may, it is doubtful whether the later Muslim
writers on these various sciences ever surpassed, or even equalled, their predecessors. In quite recent times, especially since
the foundation of the Dáru’l-Funún, or Polytechnic College, at Ṭihrán early in the reign of Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh, numerous
Persian translations or adaptations of European scientific works have been made, but these are entirely exotic, and can hardly
claim to be noticed in a work on Persian Literature. A number of them are mentioned in my Press and Poetry of Modern
Persia, pp. 154-66, under the heading “Modernising Influences in the Persian Press other than Magazines and Journals.” But
of those Persians who since the middle of the nineteenth century have successfully graduated in the European schools of
science, I know of none who has hitherto made a reputation for original research.
In conclusion a few words must be said about the Occult Sciences, excluding Astrology and Alchemy, which are in the
East hardly to be separated from Astronomy and Chemistry. Alchemy is called in Arabic and Persian Kímiyá, and the names
of four other Occult Sciences, dealing with Talismans, Necromancy, and the like, are formed on the same model, Límiyá,
Hímiyá, Símiyá, and Rímiyá, the initial letters

[page 442]

being derived from the words Kulluhu Sirr
“All of it is a Mystery.” The book entitled Asrár-i-Qásimí (“Secrets of
Qásim”)793 in Persian, and the Shamsu’l-Ma‘árif (“Sun of Knowledges”)794 of the celebrated Shaykh al-Búní in Arabic, may
be regarded as typical of this class of literature, but to the uninitiated they make but arid and unprofitable reading. Ibn
Khaldún is the only Muslim writer I know of who has sought to discover a philosophical and rational basis for these so-called
sciences, and his ideas have been collated with the theories of modern Psychical Research in a most masterly manner by
Professor Duncan Black Macdonald in his interesting and suggestive book entitled The Religious Attitude and Life in
Islam795. I have always kept an open mind as to the reality of the powers claimed by Occultists, and, when opportunity
offered, have always gone out of my way to investigate such manifestations. Disappointment has invariably been my portion,
save in two cases: a “magician” whom I met in Kirmán in the summer of 1888, who, amidst much vain boasting, did
accomplish one feat which baffled my comprehension796; and the late Shaykh Ḥabíb Aḥmad, author of an astonishing work in
English entitled The Mysteries of Sound and Number797, who, if nothing more, was an amazingly skilful thought-reader.


4. HISTORY — GENERAL, SPECIAL AND LOCAL.

It must be admitted, with whatever unwillingness and regret, that in the art of historical compilation the Persians

[page 443]

fall far short of the Arabs, who, indeed, excel in this branch of literature. The earlier Muslim annalists like Ṭabarí, with their
verbatim narratives by eye-witnesses of the events recorded transmitted orally through carefully scrutinized chains of
traditionists, are not only singularly graphic but furnish us, even at this distance of time, with materials for history of which,
thanks to these isnáds, it is still possible to estimate the authenticity, even if our judgement as to the strength of the respective
links in the chain does not always agree with that of Muslim critics. The later Arab historians selected, condensed, and
discarded these somewhat wearisome if valuable isnáds, but their narrative, as a rule, continues to be crisp, concise, graphic
and convincing. The best of the earlier Persian historians, down to the thirteenth century, though lacking the charm of the
Arabian chroniclers, are meritorious and trustworthy. The bad taste of their Tartar and Turkish rulers and patrons gradually
brought about a deterioration both of style and substance, very noticeable between Juwayní’s Ta’ríkh-i-Jahán-gusháy
(completed about 658/1260) and its continuation, the Ta’ríkh-i-Waṣṣáf (completed in 712/1312), which, as already
observed798, exercised an enduring evil influence on subsequent historians in Persia. Of later Persian histories I have met with
few equal to a history of the Caliphate by Hindúsháh ibn Sanjar ibn ‘Abdu’lláh aṣ-Ṣáḥibí al-Kírání, composed in 724/1324
for Nuṣratu’d-Dín Aḥmad the Atábak of Luristán, and entitled Tajáribu’s-Salaf (“Experiences of Yore”). This, however, is
entirely and avowedly based on the delightful Arabic history of Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín Muḥammad ibn ‘Alí al-‘Alawí aṭ-Ṭiqtaqí,
composed in 701/1302, commonly known

[page 444]


793 Lithographed at Bombay in 1885 and 1894.
794 I possess the lithographed edition of 1318/1900, but others have appeared in India and Egypt.
795 University of Chicago Press, 1909.
796 See my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 453-5.
797 London, Nichols & Co., 1903; pp. xiv + 211.
798 P. 413 supra.

as the Kitábu’l-Fakhrí799, but here entitled Munyatu’l-Fuḍalá fí Tawáríkhi’l-Khulafá wa’l-Wuzará (“the Desire of Scholars
on the History of the Caliphs and their Ministers”). That it never appealed to the debased taste which we are here deploring is
sufficiently shown by the fact that not only has it never been published, but, so far as I know, it is represented only by my
manuscript, G. 3 (copied in 1286/1870), and one other (dated 1304/1886-7) in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris800.
It would be a wearisome and unprofitable task to enumerate the many Persian historical works composed during the last
four centuries. Of the histories of special periods the most important have been not only described but freely quoted in the
first part of this volume, notably the Ṣafwatu’ṣ-Ṣafá for the life of Shaykh Ṣafiyyu’d-Dín from whom the Ṣafawí kings were
descended; the monograph on Sháh Isma‘íl described by Sir E. Denison Ross in the J. R.A.S. for 1896, pp. 264-83; the
Aḥsanu’t-Tawáríkh, completed in 985/1577-9 by Ḥasan-i-Rúmlú; and the Ta’ríkh-i-‘Álam-árá-yi-‘Abbásí of Iskandar
Munshi, composed in 1025/1616. There are other monographs on the later Ṣafawí period such as the Fawá’id-i-Ṣafawiyya
(1211/1796-7) and the Tadhkira-i-Ál-i-Dáwúd (1218/1803-4), which I would fain have consulted had they been accessible to
me. For the post-Ṣafawí period we have several excellent European accounts which render us less dependent on the native
historians, some of whose works moreover (e.g. the Ta’ríkh-

[page 445]

i-Zandiyya801 and the Mujmalu’t-Ta’ríkh-i-Ba‘d-Nádiriyya802) have been published in Europe, while others, such as the
Durra-i-Nádirí of Mírzá Mahdí Khán of Astarábád, are easily accessible in Oriental lithographed editions. These
monographs contain valuable material and are indispensable to the student of this period, but they are generally badly
arranged and dully written, and further marred by the florid and verbose style of which we have just been complaining.
For the general histories of our present period, from Khwándamír’s Ḥabíbu’s-Siyar (929/1523) at the beginning to Riḍá-
qulí Khán’s Supplement to the Rawḍatu’ṣ-Ṣafá and Lisánu’l-Mulk’s Násikhu’t-Tawáríkh at the end, with the very rare
Khuld-i-Barín (1071/1660-1) in the middle, there is even less to be said, since, though for events contemporary with their
authors they have the same value as the monographs just mentioned, for the earlier periods they are not even good or
judicious abstracts of the carelessly selected authorities from whom they derive their information. They are, moreover,
histories not of the Persian people but of the kings, princes and nobles who tyrannized over them and contended with one
another for the spoils; wearisome records of bloodshed, violence and rapine from which it is hard to derive any general
concepts of value803. Only by diligent and patient study can we extract from them facts capable of throwing any real light on
the religious, political and social problems which a historian like Ibn Khaldún would have handled in so masterly a manner.
There are, however, hopeful signs of improvement in

[page 446]

recent times. Poor Mírzá Jání of Káshán, though a merchant without much literary training wrote his Nuqṭatu’l-Káf804 on the
history of the Bábí sect, of which in 1852 he was one of the proto-martyrs, with violence and passion indeed, but with
knowledge, in plain and simple language without that florid rhetoric which we find so intolerable; while the unfinished
“History of the Awakening of the Persians” (Ta’ríkh-i-Bídárí-yi-Írániyán) of the Náẓimu’l-Islám of Kirmán805, with its ample
documentation and endeavour to estimate personal characteristics and influence on political events, seems to me to stand on
an altogether higher level than any preceding Persian historical work composed during the last six or seven centuries.


5. BIOGRAPHY, AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND TRAVEL.

Muslim writers have always evinced a great partiality for biography, which may be general, dealing with the lives of
eminent men of all sorts, like Ibn Khallikán’s Wafayátu’l-A‘yán (“Obituaries of Notable Men”) and the Rawḍátu’l-Jannát, of
which I have made such extensive use in the latter part of this volume, the former composed in the thirteenth, the latter in the
late nineteenth century, and both in Arabic; and the ambitious but unfinished modern Persian Náma-i-Dánish-warán (“Book
of Learned Men”) compiled by a committee

[page 447]

799 Originally edited by Ahlwardt from the Paris MS. 895 (now 2441) and published at Gotha in 1860. A revised text was published by H.
Derenbourg at Paris in 1895, and there are at least two cheap and good Egyptian editions. A French translation by Emil Amar has been
published by the Société des Études Marocaines (Paris, 1910).
800 See Blochet’s Cat. des Mscr. Persans etc. (Paris, 1905), vol. i, p. 251 (Schefer 237 = Suppl. Pers. 1552).
801 Ed. Ernst Beer, Leyden, 1888.
802 Ed. Oskar Mann, Leyden, 1891.
803 Compare Mr Vincent Smith’s judicious remarks on this subject in his monograph on Akbar, pp. 386-7.
804 Published in 1910 as vol. xv of the “E. J. W. Gibb Memorial” Series.
805 This work was published in lithographed fasciculi, and, so far as it has reached me, comprises the Introduction (Muqaddama) of 273
pp.; vol. i, completed on the 20th of Dhu’l-Qa‘da, 1328 (Nov. 23, 1910), which carries the narrative down to what is called the Hijrat-i-
Ṣughrá (December, 1905), and comprises 256 pp.; and vol. ii, completed at the end of Ṣafar, 1330 (Feb. 18, 1912), comprising 240 pp.
Whether there is any likelihood of the work being completed I do not know.

of some half a dozen scholars, of which the first volume was lithographed at Ṭihrán in 1296/1879 and the second in
1312/1904-5806. More often such works treat of the biographies of some particular class of men, such as Ministers,
Physicians, Poets or Theologians; or they follow a geographical or a chronological arrangement, merging on the one hand
into geography and on the other into history. Khwándamír’s Dastúru’l-Wuzará (“Models for Ministers”)807, composed,
according to the chronogram implicit in the title, in 915/1509-10, affords us a Persian example of the first type falling at the
beginning of the period reviewed in this volume. For the Physicians and Philosophers no Persian work approaches the level
of al-Qifṭí’s Ta’ríkhu’l-Ḥukamá808 and Ibn Abí Uṣaybi‘a’s ‘Uyúnu’l-Anbá fí Ṭabaqáti’l-Aṭibbá809 both composed in the
thirteenth century of our era, a period so rich in Arabic biographical works. Biographies of poets, on the other hand, abound
in Persian, especially in the later period, since Sháh Isma‘íl’s son Sám Mírzá set the fashion with his Tuḥfa-i-Sámí (a
continuation of Dawlatsháh’s “Memoirs of the Poets”) compiled in 957/1550. Eminent representatives of the Shí‘a sect, both
Arabs and Persians of every category from kings to poets, form the subject-matter of the very useful Majálisu’l-Mú’minín
(“Assemblies of Believers”), the author of which, Sayyid Núru’lláh of Shúshtar, was flogged to death in 1019/1610-11 by
order of Jahángír at the instigation of the Sunnís, and who is therefore called by his fellow-believers the “Third Martyr”
(Shahíd-i-Thálith)810.

[page 448]

Of the older geographico-biographical works the Átháru’l-Bilád (“Monuments of the Lands”) of Zakariyyá ibn Muḥammad
ibn Maḥmúd al-Qazwíní811, and the Persian Haft Iqlím (“Seven Climes”), composed in 1028/1619 by Amín Aḥmad-i-Rází,
are typical specimens812. Monographs on different provinces or cities of Persia are also fairly common, and generally include
notices of the more eminent natives of the region discussed. Of modern biographical works produced in Persia I have made
extensive use, especially in the chapter on the Theologians, of the Arabic Rawḍátu’l-Jannát fí Aḥwáli’l-‘Ulamá wa’s-Sádát
(“Gardens of Paradise, on the circumstances of Men of Learning and Leading”). This comprehensive work, which deserves to
be better known, contains some 742 notices of eminent Muslim scholars, saints and poets, ancient and modern, and was
compiled by Muḥammad Báqir ibn Ḥájji Amír Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín al-Músawí of Khwánsár in the latter half of the nineteenth
century. A good lithographed edition (except that, as usual, it has no Index) appeared at Ṭihrán in 1306/1888. The notices are
arranged in alphabetical order, not very strictly observed, under personal names, such as Aḥmad, ‘Alí, Muḥammad, etc.,
which, of course, are seldom the names by which those who bear them are commonly known. Thus the Muḥammads, who fill
the greater part of the fourth and last volume and comprise a hundred and forty-three articles, include the great Shí‘a
theologians generally referred to as al-Kulayní, Ibn Bábawayhi and

[page 449]

Shaykh-i-Mufíd; the historians Ṭabarí and Shahristání; the scientists Rází and Bírúní; the thinkers Fárábí, Ghazálí and
Muḥyi’d-Dín ibnu’l-‘Arabí; and the Persian poets Saná’í, Farídu’d-Dín ‘Aṭṭár and Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, nor is any subordinate
plan, chronological or other, discernible within these sections, so that the owner of the book who wishes to consult it
regularly is compelled to make his own Index or Table of Contents.
The other book which I have constantly consulted as to the lives of the theologians is the Persian Qiṣaṣu’l-‘Ulamá
(“Stories of the Doctors”) of Muḥammad ibn Sulaymán of Tanakábun, who wrote it in 1290/1873813. It contains about a
hundred and fifty biographies of Shí‘a divines, and is more readable, if less accurate, than the work previously mentioned.
Another useful Persian book on the same subject is the Nujúmu’s-Samá (“Stars of Heaven”) composed by Mírzá Muḥammad
‘Alí in 1286/1869-70814, dealing with the Shí‘a doctors of the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth centuries of the hijra
(seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth of the Christian era). There exist also two special monographs in Arabic on the Shí‘a
divines of Baḥrayn and Jabal ‘Ámil, the Lú’lú’atu’l-Baḥrayn (“Pearl of Baḥrayn”) of Shaykh Yúsuf ibn Aḥmad al-Baḥrání,
who flourished in the eighteenth century; and the Amalu’l-Ámil fí ‘Ulamá’i Jabal ‘Ámil (“the Hoper’s Hope, on the Doctors
of Mount ‘Ámil”), by Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan ibn ‘Alí...al-Ḥurr al-‘Ámilí, who belongs to the previous century.
Mention must also be made of another modern biographical work of a somewhat special character, which,

[page 450]

806 See my Press and Poetry in Modern Persia, pp. 165-6.
807 Compare Rieu (B.M.P.C.), p. 335. I have a good modern MS. professedly collated with the original in 1268/1851-2, now marked J. 11.
808 Edited by Professor Julius Lippert (Leipzig, 1903).
809 Printed in Cairo in two volumes in 1299/1882.
810 See Rieu (B.M.P.C.), pp. 337-8.
811 Edited in the original Arabic by F. Wüstenfeld (Göttingen, 1848), and followed in the succeeding year by the same author’s “Wonders
of Creation” (‘Ajá’ibu’l-Makhlúqát).
812 In the Haft Iqlím the biographical element preponderates. Unfortunately it remains unpublished, though a critical edition was begun by
Mawlawí ‘Abdu’l-Muqtadir, of which, so far as I know, only the first fasciculus (pp. x + ٤۱١۱١) has been printed at Calcutta in 1918.
813 I possess two lithographed editions, one, the second Ṭihrán edition, published in 1304/1886; the other, apparently at Lucknow, in
1306/1888-9.
814 Lithographed at Lucknow in 1303/1885-6.

though the work of a Persian, is written in Turkish. This is the Khaṭṭ u Khaṭṭáṭán (“Writing and Writers”)815, a history of the
art of Calligraphy and its votaries by the learned Mírzá Ḥabíb of Iṣfahán, who spent the latter period of his life in
Constantinople, where he was a member of the Anjuman-i-Ma‘árif, or Turkish Academy.
These are but a selection of the more useful or less known biographical works, of which many more will be found
described in Rieu’s, Ethé’s, and other catalogues of Persian manuscripts. Of autobiographies the most notable is that of
Shaykh ‘Alí Ḥazín, which contains one of the few first-hand Persian accounts of the Afghán Invasion and fall of Iṣfahán in
A.D. 1722. Travels are a special form of autobiography, in which His late Majesty Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh indulged freely. An
account of the mission of Farrukh Khán Amínu’l-Mulk to London and Paris at the close of the Anglo-Persian War in 1857-8
was written by one of his staff, Mírzá Ḥusayn ibn ‘Abdu’lláh, but has never been published816. It concludes with a description
of the French Departments of State and Public Institutions. More valuable and varied in its contents is the Bustánu’s-Siyáḥat
(“Garden of Travel”) of Ḥájji Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín of Shírwán817, who wrote it in 1247/1831-2. In a brief autobiography under
the heading Shamákhí he tells us that he was born in mid-

[page 451]

Sha‘bán, 1194 (August 15, 1780), and was taken to Karbalá, where he thenceforth made his home, when only five years old.
He travelled extensively in ‘Iráq, Gílán, the Caucasus, Ádharbáyján, Khurásán, Afghánistán, India, Kashmír, Badakhshán,
Turkistán, Transoxiana, the Persian Gulf, Yaman, the Ḥijáz, Egypt, Syria, Turkey in Asia and Armenia, and in Persia also
visited Ṭihrán, Hamadán, Iṣfahán, Shíráz and Kirmán. He ‘was a Shí‘ite and a darwísh of the Order of Sháh Ni’matu’lláh,
and in this double capacity made the acquaintance and enjoyed the friendship of many eminent doctors (‘ulamá) and
“gnostics” (‘urafá). The author, a man of intelligence and a keen observer, does not give a continuous narrative of his travels,
but arranges his materials under the following heads:
Chapter I. Account of the Prophet, his daughter Fáṭima, and the Twelve Imáms.
Chapter II. Account of certain doctors, gnostics, philosophers, poets and learned men.
Chapter III. On sundry sects and doctrines.
Chapter IV. Geographical account of towns and villages visited by the author in Persia, Turkistán, Afghánistán, India,
parts of Europe and China, Turkey, Syria and Egypt, the names of these places being arranged alphabetically.
Promenade (Sayr). Prolegomena on the arrangement of this Garden, and on certain matters connected therewith.
Rose-bed (Gulshan). Countries and persons to describe which is the ultimate object of the book, arranged alphabetically
in twenty-eight sections, corresponding with the letters of the Arabic alphabet.
Spring (Bahár), containing four Rose-bowers (Gulzár):
(i) On the interpretation of dreams;
(ii) Names of certain halting-places of the author on his travels;
(iii) Various anecdotes;
(iv) Conclusion.

[page 452]

The book contains a great deal of miscellaneous biographical and geographical information, which, owing to the
alphabetical arrangement generally observed, and the very full table of contents prefixed, is fairly accessible to the reader.
The author was full of curiosity, and, though unable to visit Europe, lost no opportunity of cultivating the society of European
travellers and acquainting himself with the peculiarities of their countries by hearsay. Under the article Firang (pp. 385-7) he
discusses the general characteristics of the chief European nations, amongst whom he puts the French first, the Austrians
second, and the English third ; and he gives a long account of his conversations with an Englishman whom he calls “Mr
Wiklís”
818 and with whom he became acquainted at ‘Aẓímábád. He also cultivated the society of the Austrian
ambassador at Constantinople, who invited him to visit his country, “but,” he concludes, “since there was no great spiritual
advantage to be gained by travelling in that country, I declined.” More valuable is his account of the various religions and
sects of Asia, in which he treats, amongst other matters, of the Zoroastrians, Mazdakites, Jews, Christians, Hindu’s, Ṣúfís and
Ghulát (extreme Shí‘a).

It would be impossible to notice here the many excellent books of reference, historical, biographical and geographical,
which have been produced in Persia since the middle of the nineteenth century. Many of them, it is true, are for the most part
compiled and condensed from older works, both Arabic and Persian, but some contain valuable new matter, not to be found

815 A very nicely printed edition of this book was published at Constantinople in 1305/1887-8.
816 My MS. K. 7, copied in 1276/186o for Prince Bahman Mírzá Bahá’u’d-Dawla, came to me amongst the Schindler MSS. Concerning
Farrukh Khán’s mission, see R. G. Watson’s History of Persia 1800-1858, pp. 456 et seqq.
817 Lithographed at Ṭihrán in 1310/1892-3. See Rieu (B.M.P.S.), pp. 99-101, Nos. 139 and 140, and B. Dorn Mélanges et Extraits, vol. iii,
pp. 50-59.
818 Perhaps a corruption of Wilkins

elsewhere. Something must, however, be said as to certain peculiarities connected with this later literature and with the world
of books in modern Persia.
European students of Persian are, as a rule, unless they have lived in that country, accustomed to think in terms of

[page 453]

manuscripts, and to turn to Dr Rieu’s admirable catalogues of the British Museum MSS. for information as to literary history.
But since the introduction into Persia of printing and lithography, especially since about 1880, the importance of the
manuscript literature has steadily diminished, the more important books written being either transferred to stone or set up in
type from the original copy. This printed and lithographed literature has not hitherto received nearly so much attention as the
older manuscript literature, and it is often impossible to obtain ready and trustworthy information as to the authors and
contents of these modern books. The recent publication of Mr Edwards’s Catalogue of the Persian printed books in the
British Museum819 marks a great step in advance of anything previously accomplished, but the notices are necessarily very
brief, and contain, as a rule, no particulars about the authors and only the most general indication of the character of their
works. What is needed is a catalogue raisonné of Persian books composed during the last century and lithographed or printed
in Persia, for it is much easier, for reasons which will be stated immediately, to ascertain what has been published in Persian
in Turkey, Egypt and India.
The fact is that the Persian book trade is in the most chaotic condition. There are no publishers or booksellers of
substance, and no book-catalogues are issued. Most books have no fixed price or place of sale; many have no pagination;
hardly any have indexes or tables of contents. Often books comprising several volumes change their size and shape, their
plan, and even their nature, as they proceed, while the author not unfrequently changes his title. Let us take as an illustration a
few of the numerous works of reference published under the name of Mírzá Muḥammad Ḥasan Khán, who successively bore
the titles of Ṣaní‘u’d-

[page 454]

Dawla, Mú’tamanu’s-Sulṭán, and I‘timádu’d-Dawla, and was the son of Ḥájji ‘Alí Khán of Marágha, originally entitled
Ḥájibu’d-Dawla and later I‘timádu’s-Salṭana. Now first of all it is very doubtful whether these books were really written by
Ṣaní‘u’d-Dawla at all; at any rate it is commonly asserted that he coerced various poor scholars to write them, and ascribed
the authorship to himself820, proceedings of which the latter must be regarded as wholly reprehensible, whatever may be said
in extenuation of the former. In 1293/1876 he published the first volume of the Mirátu’l-Buldán (“Mirror of the Lands”), a
geographical dictionary of Persian towns and villages, largely based on Yáqút’s well-known Arabic Mu‘jamu’l-Buldán,
containing the first four letters of the alphabet (ا￿ to ت￿). Of this volume, however, there appear to have been two editions, the
first ending with the notice of Tabríz and containing 388 pages, the second, published a year later (1294/1877), extending to
Ṭihrán, and containing 606 pages. Having reached Ṭihrán, however, the author, growing tired, apparently, of geography,
decided to continue his work as a history of the reigning king Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh, and to add at the end of each remaining
volume a Calendar and Court Directory for the current year. Vol. ii, therefore, comprises the first fifteen years of the Sháh’s
reign (298 pp.) and the Calendar (45 pp.) for the year of publication (1295/1878). Vol. iii continues on the same lines, and
contains the years xvi-xxxii of the current reign (264 pp.) and the Calendar (50 pp.). At this point, however, the author seems
to have remembered his original plan, and in vol. iv he continues the geographical dictionary with the next two letters of the
alphabet (ث￿ and ج￿), at which point he reverts to history, and gives an account of the events of the year of publication
(1296/1879), followed by the annual Calendar. More-

[page 455]

over, in order to celebrate this reconciliation of geography and history, the size of this fourth volume is suddenly enlarged
from 10½ x 6¾ inches to 13½ x 8¼ inches.
By this time the author appears to have grown weary of the “Mirror of the Lands,” for after a year’s rest he began the
publication of a new book entitled Muntaẓam-i-Náṣirí, of which also three volumes appeared in the years 1298-1300/1881-3.
Of these three volumes I possess only the first and the third. The first contains an outline of Islamic history from A.H. 1-656
(A.D. 622-1258), that is, of the history of the Caliphate (pp. 3-239), followed by an account of the chief events of the solar
year beginning in March, 1880, both in Persia and Europe (pp. 239-57), and the usual Calendar and Court Directory (42 pp.).
The third volume contains a history of the reigning Qájár dynasty from 1194/1779 to 1300/1882 (pp. 32-387), followed again
by the Calendar for the last mentioned year.
Next year the author began the publication of a new work in three volumes entitled Maṭla‘u’sh-Shams (“the Dawning-
place of the Sun”). This opens with a perfunctory apology for the incomplete condition in which the “Mirror of the Lands”
was left. However, says he, since the next two letters of the alphabet are ḥá (ح￿) and khá (خ￿), and since Khurásán is the most
important province beginning with the latter, and since His Majesty Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh, whose faithful servant he is, and to
whom this and his other works are dedicated, had recently made the journey thither in order to visit the holy shrine of the

819 London, 1922: 968 columns. The works are arranged under their authors, but there is a General Index of Titles and a Subject Index.
820 See my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia, pp. 156 and 164-6.

Imám ‘Alí Riḍá at Mashhad, he has decided to devote this book to an account of that province, which, since it lies to the East,
is hinted at in the title. In the first volume (published in 1301/1884) he accordingly describes the route to Mashhad by way of
Damáwand, Fírúzkúh, Bisṭám, Bujnúrd and Qúchán, giving a full account of each of these places and the intervening
stations.

[page 456]

The second volume (published in 1302/1885) contains a detailed description of Mashhad, its monuments, its history from
428/1036 to 1302/1885, the most notable men to whom it has given birth, a monograph on the eighth Imám ‘Alí Riḍá, and in
conclusion (pp. 469-500) a valuable list of the books contained in the Mosque library. In the midst of all this topographical
matter is inserted (pp. 165-216) the text of Sháh Ṭahmásp’s diary, of which such free use was made in a previous chapter821.
The third volume (published in 1303/1886) contains an account of the Sháh’s return journey by the ordinary Pilgrim route
through Níshápúr, Sabzawár, Sháhrúd, Dámghán and Samnán, with full descriptions of these and the intervening stations,
and biographical notices of eminent men connected with each. A Sál-náma, or Calendar and Court Directory for the current
year, completes each volume, and it is only fair to add that the price of each is stated on the last page as twelve qráns, at that
time about seven shillings.
Henceforward most of Muḥammad Ḥasan Khán’s numerous works included a Sál-náma, or “Year Book” for the current
year, placed at the end of each volume and having a separate pagination. His biographies of eminent Muslim women, entitled
Khayrátun Ḥisánun, published in three volumes in the years 1304-7/1887-90, lacks this addition, which is, however, found in
the Kitábu’l-Ma‘áthir wa’l-Áthár (published in 1306/1888-9), on the Memorabilia of forty years of the reign of Náṣiru’d-Dín
Sháh, an invaluable book of reference for students of the history, biography and evolution of modern Persia down to the date
of publication. The plan of a geographical dictionary was taken up by another writer, Muḥammad Taqí Khán called Ḥakím,
who in 1305/1887-8 published, under the title of Ganj-i-Dánish (“the Treasure of Learning”), a com-

[page 457]

plete Encyclopaedia of Persian place-names comprising 574 large pages. One welcome feature of this book is that the author
prefixes a long list of the authorities and books of which he made use in his compilation. This includes a number of European
(including ancient Greek) works.
These Persian lithographed books, notwithstanding their shortcomings, are, as a rule, pleasant to handle, well written,
well bound, and printed on good paper. Some of them, like the Khaṭṭ u Khaṭṭáṭán (“Calligraphy and Calligraphists”) of
Mírzá-yi-Sanglákh, and the excellent edition of the Mathnawí with Concordance of Verses (Kashfu’l-Abyát) associated with
the name of ‘Alá’u’d-Dawla, are really beautiful books, while almost all are far superior to the Indian lithographs. They are,
however, hard to obtain in Europe, and indeed anywhere outside Ṭihrán, Tabríz and perhaps Iṣfahán. Even the British
Museum collection is very far from complete, while my own collection, originally formed by purchase in Persia822, owes
much to the fact that I was able to add to it a number of volumes from two very notable Persian libraries, those of the late M.
Charles Schefer and of the late Sir A. Houtum-Schindler. As has been already said, few greater services could be rendered to
Persian scholarship than the proper cataloguing and describing of these lithographs, and the devising of means to place them
on the European book-market. Since lithography can be carried on with simple apparatus and without any great technical
skill or outlay of money, it is often practised by comparatively poor scholars and bibliophiles, who print very small editions
which are soon exhausted, so that many books of this class rank rather with manuscripts than with printed books in rarity and
desirability823.



CHAPTER X.

THE MOST MODERN DEVELOPMENTS
(A.D. 1850 ONWARDS).

I have endeavoured to show that under the Qájár Dynasty, especially since the middle of the nineteenth century, the old
forms of literature, both prose and verse, took on a fresh lease of life, and, so far from deteriorating, rose to a higher level
than they had hitherto reached during the four centuries (roughly speaking A.D. 1500-1900) with which we are dealing in this
volume. We must now consider three or four quite recent developments due in the first instance to what Mírzá Muḥammad
‘Alí Khán “Tarbiyat,” the real author of my Press and Poetry in Modern Persia (pp. 154-66), calls “Modernizing Influences
in the Persian Press other than Magazines and journals.” Amongst these he assigns an important place to the various scientific
text-books compiled by, or under the supervision of, the numerous Europeans appointed as teachers in the Dáru’l-Funún and
the Military and Political Colleges in Ṭihrán from A.D. 1851 onwards, and the Persian translations of European (especially

821 See pp. 84 et seqq. supra.
822 For a list of the books I bought in Persia in the autumn of 1888, see my Year amongst the Persians, pp. 554-7.
823 Compare p. 551 of the book mentioned in the preceding footnote.

French) books of a more general character,, such as some of Molière’s plays and Jules Verne’s novels, which resulted from
an increased interest in Europe and knowledge of European languages. Of such books, and of others originally written in
Persian in this atmosphere, he gives a list containing one hundred and sixty-two entries, which should be consulted by those
who are interested in this matter. The Revolution of A.D. 1906, with the remarkable development of journalism which it
brought about, and the increase of facilities for printing resulting from this, gave a fresh

[page 459]

impulse to this movement, which, checked by the difficulties and miseries imposed on Persia by the Great War, seems now
again to be gathering fresh impetus. What we have to say falls under three heads, the Drama, Fiction and the Press, of which
the first two need not detain us long.


The Drama.

The only indigenous form of drama is that connected with the Muḥarram mournings, the so-called “Passion Plays”
discussed in a previous chapter824, and even in their case it is not certain that they owe nothing to European influence. Three
at least of Molière’s plays (Le Médecin malgré lui, Le Misanthrope, and another entitled The Ass, which I think must be
intended for L’Étourdi) have appeared in Persian translations, but are seldom met with, and seem never to have attained any
great popularity. I possess only Le Misanthrope, printed at Constantinople in the Taṣwíru’l-Afkár Press in 1286/1860-70. The
title is rendered as Guzárish-i-Mardum-guríz (“the Adventure of him who fled from mankind”), the characters are
Persianized, and the text is in verse and follows the original very closely, though occasionally Persian idioms or proverbs are
substituted for French. Here, for instance, is the rendering — in this case a paraphrase — of the “Vieille chanson” in Act I,-
Scene 2:

“Si le roi m’avait donné
Paris, sa grand’ ville,
Et qu’il me fallût quitter
L’amour de ma mie,
Je dirais au roi Henri
‘Reprenez votre Paris,
J’aime mieux ma mie, o gail
J’aime mieux ma mie!”

[page 460]



The following Persian version of Act II, Scene 7, if compared with the original, will give a fair idea of the translator’s
method. The characters are Mú’nis (Alceste), Fatína (Célimène), Laylá (Éliante), Náṣiḥ (Acaste), Na’ím Beg (Philinte) and
Farrásh (un garde de la Maréchaussée):


824 Pp. 172-94 supra.

[page 461]



[page 462]

No indication of the translator’s identity appears on the title-page of my edition, nor is there any prefatory matter.
Curiously enough, in the very same year in which this Persian version of Le Misanthrope was published (1286/1869-70)
Aḥmed Vefíq (Aḥmad Wafíq) Pasha printed his Turkish translations of George Dandin, Le Médecin malgré lui, and Le
Mariage Forcé825, while Tartufe appeared in Turkish somewhat later826.
In 1291/1874 there was lithographed in Ṭihrán a volume containing seven Persian plays with an Introduction on the
educational value of the stage by Mírzá Ja‘far Qarája-dághí. These plays were originally written in Ádharbáyjání Turkish by
Mírzá Fatḥ-‘Alí Darbandí, and were published in Tiflís about A.D. 1861. Five of them have been republished in Europe, with
glossaries, notes and in some cases translations. These are (1) the Wazír of Lankurán, text, translation, vocabulary and notes,
by W. H. D. Haggard and G. le Strange (London, 1882); (2) Trois Comédies traduites du dialecte Turc Azeri en Persan et
publiées... avec un glossaire et des notes par C. Barbier de Meynard et S. Guyard (Paris, 1886); (3) Monsieur Jourdan, with
translation, notes, etc. Edited by A. Wahrmund (Vienna and Leipzig, 1889). The three comedies contained in No. 2 are the
“Thief-catching Bear” (Khirs-i-qúldúr-básán), “the Advocates” (Wukalá-yi-Muráfa‘a), and “the Alchemist” (Mullá Ibráhím
Khalíl-i-Kímiyá-gar). The two remaining plays, hitherto unpublished in Europe, are “the Miser” (Mard-i-Khasís) and “Yúsuf
Sháh the Saddler827.”

[page 463]

Three more plays, written at a date unknown to me, by the late Prince Malkom Khán, formerly Persian Minister in
London, were partly published as a feuilleton (pá-waraq) in the Tabríz newspaper Ittiḥád (“Union”) in 1326/1908. A
complete edition, from a copy in the library of Dr F. Rosen, the well-known scholarly German diplomatist, was published in
1340/1921-2 by the “Kaviani” Press in Berlin. These plays are (1) the “Adventures of Ashraf Khán, Governor of ‘Arabistán,
during his sojourn in Ṭihrán in 1232/1817”; (2) the “Methods of Government of Zamán Khán of Burújird,” placed in the year
1236/1820-1; and (3) “Sháh-qulí Mírzá goes to Karbalá and spends some days at Kirmánsháh with the Governor Sháh Murád
Mírzá.”
Finally in 1326/1908 there appeared at Ṭihrán a bi-weekly newspaper called “the Theatre” (Tiyátr) which published
plays satirizing the autocratic régime. I possess only a few numbers, containing part of a play entitled “Shaykh ‘Alí Mírzá,
Governor of Maláyir and Túlysirkán, and his marriage with the daughter of the King of the Fairies.”

These are all the Persian plays I have met with828. All are comedies, and all are satires on the administrative or social
conditions of Persia. In the “Wazír of Lankurán” a rather weak and common-place love-story is combined with the satire, but
generally speaking this element is lacking, and the object of the writer is simply to arouse dislike and contempt for the old-
fashioned methods of government. In other words, these productions, like the “Travels of Ibráhím Beg,” of which we shall
shortly have

[page 464]

to speak, are primarily political pamphlets rather than plays. Hardly one of them has ever been acted on the stage, and none
has produced an effect comparable to Kemál Bey’s Turkish play Waṭan, yakhod Silistra829. In short the drama has not
succeeded in establishing itself in Persia even to the extent which it has done in Turkey.


The Novel.

Of stories after the style of the “Arabian Nights” or the more popular and indigenous “Ḥusayn the Kurd” there is in
Persia no end, but of the novel properly so called there is even less to be said than of the drama. Two rather ambitious
attempts in this direction have recently come under my notice, and it is characteristic of recent tendencies to glorify
Zoroastrian Persia that both of them deal with pre-Islamic times, the one with Cyrus, the other with Qubád and his son and
successor Anúsharwán (Núshírwán) and the heresiarch Mazdak.
The former (or rather the first volume of it, which, to judge by the colophon, was intended to be followed by two more
volumes) was completed in 1334/1916, and printed at Hamadán in 1337/1919. It is entitled “Love and Lordship” (‘Ishq u
Salṭanat), and was written by a certain Shaykh Músá, Director of the “Nuṣrat” Government College at Hamadán, who was

825 E. J. W. Gibb’s History of Ottoman Poetry, vol. v, p. 14.
826 Ibid., p. 59 and n. 1 ad calc.
827 “The Alchemist” was translated by G. le Strange in the J.R.A.S. for 1886 (pp. 103-26); “Yúsuf Sháh” in the same journal for 1895 (pp.
537-69) by Colonel Sir E. Ross; and the text of the same was published in 1889 at Madras by E. Sell. See E. Edwards’s Catalogue of the
Persian Printed books in the British Museum, 1922, col. 207-8.
828 Since this was written I have come across a little comedy entitled “Ja‘far Khán comes from Europe”
by Ḥasan
Muqaddam, printed at Ṭihrán and actually performed there about two years ago.
829 Gibb (op. laud., vol. v, p. 15) alludes very briefly to the outburst of patriotic enthusiasm aroused by this play “Fatherland” when it was
first acted in the theatre of Gedik Pasha. Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz was highly displeased and alarmed, and banished Kemál Bey to Famagusta
in Cyprus.

good enough to send me a copy in January, 1920. It is described in the colophon as “the first novel (roman) composed in
Persia in the Western fashion”:



[page 465]

It aims at being a historical novel, but the proper names generally have their French, not their Old Persian, forms, e.g.
“Mítrádát” (correctly explained as Mihr-dád), “Akbátán” (Ecbatana, instead of Hagmatána, for Hamadán), “Agrádát,”
“Ispákú (Spako)” and “Siyákzar”“ (Cyaxares, for Huvakhshatara), though Cambyses (Kambújiya) takes the intermediate
form “Kámbúziyá.” The lengthy descriptions of the scenes and persons introduced into the story, and the numerous dialogues
are evidently copied from European models. The story itself, into which an element of love as well as of war is introduced, is
readable if not very thrilling, but is overloaded with dates, archaeological and mythological notes, and prolix historical
dissertations ultimately based for the most part on the statements of Herodotus mixed with information derived from the
Avesta. There is no attempt to make use of archaic language or to eschew the use of Arabic words, but the author has at any
rate avoided glaring anachronisms. The following short extract (p. 247) from the description of the preparations for the
marriage of Cyrus will suffice to show how far removed is the style of this book from that of the type of story hitherto current
in Persia:



“Yes! These preparations are the preparations for a wedding, and I do not think that it can be the
wedding of anyone else than Cyrus, the mighty King of Persia and Media, for today none but he commands
in so great a measure the affection of the people of Ecbatana, so that they regard his wedding as a great
festival, and have decorated the bazaars, and from the bottom of their hearts make manifest their joy and
gladness.”

[page 466]

I do not know what measure of success this “historical novel” has achieved in Persia, nor did I ever meet with more than
the one copy sent me by the author, accompanied by a letter dated 4 Ṣafar, 1338 (Oct. 30, 1919), in which he requested me to
review it in the Times. I hope he will accept this brief notice as the best I can do to make his book known in Europe as a
praiseworthy attempt to instruct while entertaining his countrymen, and to introduce a literary form hitherto unknown in
Persia.
The second of the two historical novels mentioned above was printed at Bombay in 1339/1920-1, was written by Ṣan‘atí-
záda of Kirmán, and is entitled “the Ensnarers: or the Avengers of Mazdak830.” Like the last it is incomplete, for it ends (on p.
110) with the words “here ends the first volume,” though how many more the author intended to add does not appear, nor do
I know whether any further instalment was actually published. In general style it much resembles “Love and Lordship,” but
presents more archaeological errors, as, for instance, where (p. 10) a portrait of the Sásánian king Bahrám Gúr is described as
bearing a label written in the cuneiform character (khaṭṭ-i-míkhí)!

Before leaving this subject I must at least mention a Persian translation of three episodes in the career of the immortal
Sherlock Holmes, translated from a Russian version by Mír Isma‘íl ‘Abdu’lláh-záda, and printed at the Khurshíd Press in
Ṭihrán in 1323/1905-6. They are entitled respectively the “Episode of the Gold Spectacles,” the “Account of Charles
Augustus Milverton831,” and “the Village Lords.” Holmes in passing through a Russian medium has been transmuted into
“Khums”
or “Khúmis”
: Dr Watson

[page 467]

has been more fortunate. The adventures are narrated in the simplest possible style, and would form an admirable reading-
book for beginners in Persian, if the book were obtainable in any quantity, which is unlikely. In Turkey Sherlock Holmes had
an enormous success, and I remember a news-vendor on one of the Bosphorus steamers offering me a Turkish version of the


831 The original is entitled “the Adventure of Appledore Towers.”

“Engineer’s Thumb,” while the late Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd was said to entertain the greatest admiration for Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle, and to desire above all things to put him in charge of his Secret Police.

It is hard to say whether Ḥájji Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín of Marágha’s fictitious “Travels (Siyáḥat-náma) of Ibráhím Beg,” which,
according to Mírzá Muḥammad ‘Alí Khán “Tarbiyat832,” had an appreciable effect in precipitating the Persian Revolution of
A.D. 1905-6, should be reckoned as a novel or not. The hero and his adventures are, of course, fictitious, but there is little
exaggeration, and they might well be actual. The book is a bitter satire on Persian methods of government and social
conditions, which are depicted in the most sombre colours, with the definite object of arousing discontent in order to bring
about reform. The Persians are very sensitive to ridicule, but on the whole bear it much better than most European nations,
and most Persian reformers have made extensive use of satire as a means of promoting their objects. This Siyáḥat-náma is
well and powerfully written in a simple yet forcible style, and I know of no better

[page 468]

reading-book for the student who wishes to obtain a good knowledge of the current speech and a general, if somewhat lurid,
idea of the country.
In this connection mention should also be made of the Persian translation made by the talented and unfortunate Ḥájji
Shaykh Aḥmad “Rúḥí” of Kirmán of Morier’s Ḥájji Bábá, published by Colonel D. C. Phillott at Calcutta in 1905833. This
book, like the last, is a clever satire on the Persians, the more remarkable as being the work of a foreigner; but it belongs
rather to the domain of English than Persian literature. All that I had to say about it is contained in the Introduction (pp. ix-
xxiii) which I contributed to the edition published by Messrs Methuen in 1895, and all that need be said about the Persian
translator and his work has been well said by Colonel Phillott in his Introduction to the Persian text.


The Press.

Of Persian journalism, which has been the most powerful modernizing influence in Persia, I have treated so fully in a
previous monograph on the subject834 that little need be said here, save by way of summary. Printing was introduced into
Persia about a century ago by ‘Abbás Mírzá, and the first Persian newspaper appeared about A.D. 1851, in the third year of
Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh’s reign. It was soon followed by others, but these early news-sheets, issued by the Government, were
entirely colourless, and even when I was in Persia in 1887-8 the only Persian newspaper worth reading was the Akhtar
(“Star”), published weekly at Constantinople. It was founded in 1875, and lasted about twenty years. Prince Malkom Khán’s
Qánún (“Law”)

[page 469]

appeared in 1890 and was printed and published in London, but in consequence of its violent attacks on the Persian
Government, the Sháh, and his Ministers, its circulation in Persia was prohibited. The Calcutta Ḥablu’l-Matín first appeared
in 1893, the Thurayyá (“Pleiades”) in Cairo in 1898, and the Parwarish, which replaced it, in 1900. These were the most
important Persian papers published outside Persia, and it was not until 1907, when the Revolution was an accomplished fact,
and the conflict between King and Parliament was at its height, that independent and influential newspapers began to appear
in Persia itself Amongst the most interesting of these from a literary point of view I should place the Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl (“Trumpet
of Isráfíl” — the Angel of the Resurrection), the Nasím-i-Shimál (“Breeze of the North”), the Muṣáwát (“Equality”), and the
Naw Bahár (“Early Spring”). The first, second, and fourth of these supplied me with many fine poems from the pens of
Dakhaw, Sayyid Ashraf of Gílán, and Bahár of Mashhad, for my Press and Poetry in Modern Persia, but the Charand-
parand (“Charivari”) column of the Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl also contained some excellent and original prose writing of which I shall
now give two specimens, since they are unlike anything else which I have met with in Persian. Both are by Dakhaw: the first
appeared in No. 1 of the Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl (May 30, 1907); the second in No. 2 (June 6, 1907).



832 See my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia, pp. 22 and 164. The Persian text was printed in three volumes, the first at Cairo without
date; the second at Calcutta in 1323/1905, though publication was apparently delayed until 1907; the third at Constantinople in
1327/1909. The name of the author appears only on the title-page of vol. iii. A German version of the first volume by Dr Walter Schulz
was published at Leipzig in 1903 with the title Zustände im heutigen Persien wie sie das Reisebuch Ibrahim Begs enthüllt.
833 See pp. vii-viii of the English Introduction. to this work, and also my Persian Revolution, pp. 93-6.
834 The Press and Poetry in Modern Persia, Cambridge, 1914.

[page 470]



[page 471]

[page 472]



Translation.

“After several years travelling in India, seeing the invisible saints835, and acquiring skill in Alchemy,
Talismans and Necromancy836, thank God, I have succeeded in a great experiment; no less than a method
for curing the opium-habit! If any one in any foreign country had made such a discovery, he would
certainly have received decorations and rich rewards, and his name would have been mentioned with
honour in all the newspapers. But what can one do, since in Persia no one recognizes merit?
“Custom is a second nature, and as soon as one becomes habituated to any act, one cannot easily
abandon it. The only curative method is to reduce it gradually by some special procedure, until it is entirely
forgotten.
“To all my zealous, opium-eating, Muslim brethren I now proclaim the possibility of breaking the
opium-habit, thus. First, they must be firmly determined and resolved on abandoning it. Secondly, one who,

835 The Abdál(“Substitutes”) and Awtád (“Pegs”) are two classes of the Rijálu’l-Ghayb, or “Men of the Unseen World,” who play an
important part in the cosmogony of the Mystics.
836 Concerning these Occult Sciences, see pp. 441-2 supra.

for example, eats two mithqáls837 of opium daily should every day diminish this dose by a grain (nukhúd)
and add two grains of morphine

[page 473]

in its stead. One who smokes ten mithqáls of opium should daily reduce the amount by one grain, adding
instead two grains of ḥashísh (Indian hemp). Thus he should persevere until such time as the two mithqáls
of opium which he eats are replaced by four mithqáls of morphine, or the ten mithqáls of opium which he
smokes by twenty mithqáls of ḥashísh. After this it is very easy to substitute for morphine pills hypodermic
injections of the same, and for ḥashísh ‘curds of Unity838.’ O my zealous, opium-eating brethren, seeing
that God has made matters so easy, why do you not save yourselves from the annoyance of men’s foolish
chatter, and the waste of all this time and money? Change of habit, if it be effected in this way, does not
cause illness and is a very easy matter.
“Moreover great and eminent men who wish to make people forget some evil habit act in precisely this
way. See, for example, how well indeed the poet says that intelligence and fortune are closely connected
with one another. For example, when our great men consider that the people are poor and cannot eat
wheaten bread, and that the peasant must spend all his life in cultivating wheat, yet must himself remain
hungry, see what they do.
“On the first day of the year they bake the bread with pure wheat-flour. On the second day in every
hundredweight (kharwár) they put a maund of bitter apricot stones, barley, fennel-flower, sawdust, lucerne,
sand — I put it shortly as an illustration — clods, brick-bats and bullets of eight mithqáls. It is evident that
in a hundredweight of corn, which is a hundred maunds, one maund of these things will not be noticed. On
the second day they put in two maunds, on the third three, and after a hundred days, which is three months
and ten days, a hundred maunds of wheat-flour have become a hundred maunds of bitter apricot stones,
barley, fennel-flower, sawdust, chaff, lucerne and sand, and that in such fashion that no one has noticed it,
while the wheaten bread habit has entirely passed out of men’s minds.
“In truth intelligence and fortune are closely connected with one another!
“O my zealous, opium-eating brethren! Assuredly you know that man is a little world, and has the
closest resemblance to the great world; that is to say, for example, that whatever is possible for man may
happen also in the case of animals, trees, stones, clods, doors,

[page 474]

walls, mountains and seas; and that whatever is possible for these is possible also for men, because man is
the microcosm, while these form part of the macrocosm. For example, I wanted to say this, that just as it is
possible to put a habit out of men’s minds, even so is it possible to put a habit out of the minds of stones,
clods, and bricks, because the closest resemblance exists between the microcosm and the macrocosm. What
sort of a man, then, is he who is less than even a stone or a clod?
“For example, the late mujtahid Ḥájji Shaykh Hádí839 built a hospital and settled on it certain
endowments so that eleven sick persons might always be there. So long as Ḥájji Shaykh Hádí was alive the
hospital was accustomed to receive eleven patients. But as soon as Ḥájji Shaykh Hádí departed this life, the
students of the college said to his eldest son, ‘We will recognize you as the Master only when you spend
the hospital endowments on us!’ See now what this worthy eldest son did by dint of knowledge. In the first
month he reduced the number of patients by one, in the second by two, in the third by three, in the fourth by
four ; and so in like fashion until the present time, when the number of patients has been reduced to five,
and gradually, by this excellent device, these few also will disappear in the course of the next five months.
See then how by wise management it is possible to expel habit from the minds of every one and every
thing, so that a hospital which was accustomed to eleven patients has entirely forgotten this habit without
falling ill. Why? Because it also forms part of the macrocosm, so that it is possible to drive a habit out of its
mind, just as in the case of man, who is the microcosm.”
“Dakhaw.”


837 The mithqál =4·60 grammes, and is divided into 24 nukhúd (“peas”), each of which consists of 4 grains or barley-corns (gandum).
838 Dúgh-í-Waḥdat, or Banjáb, is a mixture of ḥashísh and curdled milk similar to asrár, ḥabb-i-nasháṭ, etc. Búq-i-Waḥdat (“the trumpet of
unity”) is the name given by ḥashísh-smokers to a paper funnel through which the smoke of the drug is inhaled.
839 See my Persian Revolution, pp. 406-7.

[page 475]



[page 476]

[page 477]

[page 478]



Translation.

Charand-parand. City letter.

“Kablá’í840 Dakhaw!
“In old days you used sometimes to be a help to people: if any difficulty befel your friends, you used to
solve it. Latterly, there being no sign or sound of you, I kept telling myself that perhaps you too had taken
to opium and were lolling841 at the foot of the brazier in the corner of the room. Now don’t tell me that842
you, you queer mug843, quietly, without any one’s knowledge (I do not know whether in order to study

840 For the half slang use of “Kablá’í” (= Karbalá’í), see my Press and Poetry of Modern Persia, pp. 179-82.
841 Lam dádan (slang), “to loll, lounge.”
842 Equivalent to balki, “perhaps.”
843 Náquláy ḥuqqa, explained as equivalent to the French “drôle de type.”

Alchemy, Talismans and Necromancy, as you have written in the Ṣúr-i-Isráfíl) have cut and run to India.
Surely then you have found the key to a treasure also! At any rate, if I have entertained an unworthy
suspicion of you, you must

[page 479]

forgive me: I ask your pardon! Anyhow, praise be to God, you have got safely back, a lasting cause of
thankfulness, for you have come at just the right moment, seeing that affairs are all topsy-turvy.
“May God forgive everybody’s departed friends844! May the earth not whisper it to him! In Qáqázán
we had a certain Mullá Ínak-‘Alí845, a rawḍa-khwán846 and a very impudent fellow. Whatever may be the
case now, he was at that time very thick with me. When he went to recite a rawḍa, he used first of all to put
forward a long-winded prologue. He used to say (saving your presence)847, ‘In this way the matter will be
more ass-plain’ (no need to quarrel over a mere illustration). It occurs to me that it would not be a bad thing
if I too were to begin with a prologue for you, simply in order that you may get the hang of the matter.
“In olden days there was in the world one great Persian Empire with the State of Greece as its
neighbour. At that time the Persian Empire was puffed up with pride848. It was very well pleased with itself,
and, if you will pardon the expression, its pipe took a lot of filling849. Its ambition was the King-of-
Kingship of the world. Yes, there was then in Persia no ‘King’s Darling,’ ‘State’s Sweetheart,’ ‘Pet of the
Province,’ ‘Beauty of the Privy Chamber,’ ‘Charmer of the Presence,’ or ‘Minion of the Kingdom850.’ Nor
had they yet made ‘slides’ in their palaces851. Nor did the Mullás of that time include a ‘Club of the Canon
Law,’ ‘Chamberlain of the Canon Law,’ or ‘Park of the Canon Law.’ At that time, in short, there did not
exist a ‘Carriage of Islám,’ ‘Table

[page 480]

and Chair of the Faith,’ or ‘Russian Horse of Religion.’ Fine days were those indeed, which were in truth
the time of King Wizwizak852!
“But to be brief. One day the Persian Government collected its armies and quietly advanced to the back
of the wall of Greece. Now to enter Greece there was only one way, by which way the Persian army must
needs pass. Yes, but behind that way there was a lane like the Áshtí-kunán853 of the Mosque of Áqá Sayyid
‘Azízu’lláh, that is to say, there was another narrow lane, but the Persian army did not know about it. As
soon as the Persian army arrived behind the wall of Greece, they saw that these seven-fold rascals of
Greeks had blocked the road with troops. Well, what dust must Persia now scatter on her head? How, if she
would advance, should she advance, or bow, if she would retreat, could she retreat? She was left abased
and confounded. God have mercy on the poet who so well says, ‘Neither does my heart rejoice in exile, nor
have I any honour in my native land,’ etc. But, since things must somehow come right, suddenly the
Persian army saw one of those Ja‘far-qulí Áqás854, a son of the Begler-Áqá of Cossacks, in other words a
certain friend of the foreigner and hospitable humanitarian, gently detach himself from the Greek army,
and, stepping softly855, approach the Persian host. ‘Peace be upon you,’ said he; ‘Your arrival is fortunate!
You are welcome! Your visit is a pleasure! May your journey be without danger!’ All the while he was
quietly pointing out to the Persians with his forefinger that Áshtí-kunán lane. ‘We Greeks,’ said he, ‘have
no troops there. If you go that way, you can take our country.’ The Persians agreed, and by that road
entered the Greek land.
“This, however, is not the point…. By the bye, while I remember, let me mention the name of this
foreigner’s friend, though it comes a trifle heavy on our tongues; but what is to be done? His name was
Ephialtes…God curse the Devil856! I don’t know why it is that whenever I hear this name I think of some of
our Persian Ministers…. But let us return to the point.

844 This formula is common amongst the Zoroastrians. See my Year amongst the Persians, p. 375, Here it implies that the Mullá was dead.
845 Ínak is the Turkish for a cow. The name is, of course, meant to be ridiculous. Qáqázán may be a misprint for Qázán.
846 See pp. 181-2 supra.
847 Har chand bí-adabíst, “Although it be an incivility” to use such an expression. Khar-fahm (“ass-plain”) means comprehensible to the
greatest fool.
848 “To have wind in the brain,” a common expression for conceit.
849 Luláhingash khaylí áb mí-girift, “Its jug held a lot of water,” said of one who has a great capacity for self-esteem.
850 The innumerable titles conferred by the Persian Government form a constant subject of mockery. The fictitious titles here mentioned
are, of course, intended to be both barbarous in form and degrading in meaning.
851 The reference is to the sursurak in the Nigáristán Palace at Ṭihrán. See my Year amongst the Persians, p. 96.
852 An imaginary “good time” in the remote past, as we might say “in the days of good King Cole.”
853 I understand that this is the name of a narrow lane, or passage, in Ṭihrán. It means “Reconciliation Street.”
854 The name of a Persian officer in the Cossack Brigade.
855 Pá-war-chín, “picking up the feet.”
856 An expression used when some ill-natured or inappropriate idea occurs to the mind, as though it had been suggested by Satan.

“When His Excellency, that double-distilled essence of zeal and

[page 481]

sum of science and political acumen, Mírzá ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq Khán, engineer, and lecturer in the School of
the Cossack barracks, after a three months’ pedestrian tour drew for the Russians a military map of the road
through Mázandarán, we his friends said, ‘It is a pity that such a man of spirit should not have a title.’ So
some twenty of us sat for three days and nights considering what title we should obtain for him, but nothing
occurred to our minds. Worst of all, he was a man of taste. ‘Any title obtained for me,’ says he, ‘must be
virgin; that is to say, no one else must have borne it before me.’ We enquired of the State Accountants, who
said there was no ‘virgin title’ left. We opened our dictionaries, and found that neither in the languages of
the Persians, Arabs, Turks, or Franks from A to Z was there one single word left which had not been
employed as a title at least ten times over. Well, what were we to do? Would it be pleasing to God that this
man should thus remain untitled?
“However, since such things must come right, one day, being in a state of extreme dejection, I picked
up a history book which was at hand in order to distract my mind. No sooner had I opened the book than I
read in the first line of the right-hand page: ‘Ever afterwards the Greeks stigmatized Ephialtes as a traitor
whose blood might lawfully be shed.’ O you cursed Greeks, what had poor Ephialtes done to you that you
should call him a traitor? Is hospitality to strangers blasphemy in your creed? Do you not believe in
kindness to foreigners?
“In short as soon as I saw this name I said, ‘Nothing could be better than that we should adopt this
name as a title for Mírzá ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq Khán, both because it is “virgin,” and because these two persons
have the closest resemblance to one another. This one was kind to strangers and so was that one. This one
was hospitable to guests and so was that one. This one said, “Had I not acted thus, another would have done
so,” and so did that one. There was only one difference between them, namely, that the buttons of
Ephialtes’s coat were not made of native forest-wood. Well, supposing they were not, such trifles are
unworthy of consideration.’
“In short, we friends assembled and gave an entertainment and made great rejoicings. We also
instantly despatched a telegram to Káshán bidding them send quickly five bottles of Qamṣar rose-water and
two boxes of sugared walnuts, so that we might present them [to the Sháh] and secure the title. In the midst
of these proceedings Ḥájji Maliku’t-Tujjár857 conceded the Astárá road to the Russians.

[page 482]

I don’t know what scoundrel told him the history of this title, but he put his two feet in one shoe858 and
declared that he was a heaven-sent genius, and that this title was his rightful property. Now for some
months you don’t know what a hullabaloo is going on, with Mírzá ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq Khán on the one hand,
supported by his science of Geometry, and Ḥájji Maliku’t-Tujjár on the other with his persuasive eloquence
and his quotations from the poems of Imru’u’l-Qays and Náṣir-i-Khusraw-i-‘Alawí. O Kablá’í Dakhaw,
you don’t know in what toil and moil we are caught! If you can deliver us from this calamity it would be as
though you had freed a slave for God’s sake, and may God, if He will, forgive your sons!
“May God make one day of your life a hundred years! Today is a day for zealous endeavour. For the
rest, you are the best judge. I have nothing more to submit.
“Your faithful servant, GADFLY.”

It is difficult in a translation to do justice to these articles, which mark an absolutely new departure in Persian satire, and
are written in a style at once idiomatic and forcible. Though they appeared under various pseudonyms, I fancy they were all
written by Dakhaw, who, little as he wrote, on the strength of them and a few of his poems859 deserves, in my opinion, to
occupy the first rank amongst contemporary Persian men of letters. It is to be regretted that, though a comparatively young
man, he has apparently produced nothing during the last ten or twelve years.
Of the last twelve years I have little to say. The beginning of 1912 saw the culmination of Russian violence and
oppression in Persia, and, for the time being, the end alike of liberty and literary effort. Then came the War, when Persia
became the passive victim of three contending foreign armies,

[page 483]


857 This title, “King of the Merchants,” was at this time borne by Ḥájji Muḥammad Káẓim, whose accomplishments were reputed greater
than his honesty.
858 This means to stand firm, be obstinate.
859 Especially “Kabláy,” and his elegy on Mírzá Jahángír Khán, the latter a poem of rare beauty and feeling. See my Press and Poetry of
Modern Persia, pp. 179-82 and 200-4.

with little profit to expect from the success of any one of them, while there was scarcity everywhere and famine and
devastation in the western provinces. To Persia at least the Russian Revolution came as a godsend, while the subsequent
withdrawal of Great Britain after the failure of the Anglo-Persian Agreement left her at last more or less mistress in her own
house. How far she will be able to make use of the breathing-space thus accorded her remains to be seen.
Surprise has sometimes been expressed that during the War there should have existed in Persia a considerable pro-
German party, largely composed of prominent Democrats and Reformers. The explanation is simple enough. Imperial Russia
was hated and feared, and with good reason, and any Power which diverted her attention from her victim and threatened her
supremacy was sure of a large measure of popularity, while Persia had no reason to fear or dislike Germany, which lay
remote from her borders and had at no time threatened her independence. Germany, of course, took advantage of this
sentiment, and carried on an active propaganda, of which the curious history remains to be written. One of the chief organs of
the propaganda was the Káwa (Kaveh) newspaper published at Berlin, nominally once a fortnight, from January 24, 1916, to
August 15, 1919. There was a long gap between the combined Nos. 29 and 30, July 15, 1918, and Nos. 31 and 32, October
15, 1918; between No. 33, Nov. 15, 1918, and No. 34, March 1, 1919; and between this last and the final number of the old
series mentioned above, which appeared five months and a half later. On January 22, 1920, appeared the first number of the
New Series (Dawra-i-Jadíd), which definitely renounced politics in favour of literature and science, while keeping the same
external form and high

[page 484]

standard of style and typography. In this form the paper, now appearing only once a month, endured for two years more, the
last number (No. 12, Jahrg. 2, Neue Folge) being dated December 1, 1921, and containing no less than 33 large pages, closely
printed in double columns.
During its propagandist days the contents of the Káwa were, of course, chiefly political, and, though valuable for the
light they throw on events in Persia, and especially on the doings of the Nationalist “Committee of Defence,” have little
bearing on literary matters until after the armistice, though here and there exceptions to this rule occur. Thus No. 4 (March
14, 1916) contains a Kurdish poem860; No. 20 an obituary notice of that eminent man of letters Sayyid Muḥammad Ṣádiq
“Qá’im-maqámí861,” better known by his title of Adíbu’l-Mamálik, who died on the 28th of Rabí‘ ii, 1335 (Feb. 21, 1917);
No. 21 an account of some of the scientific results obtained by Captain Niedermayer’s mission to Afghánistán862; No. 23 an
article by Professor Mittwoch on the artist Riḍá-yi-‘Abbásí863; No. 26 an account of Persian students in Germany; No. 33
(Nov. 15, 1918), à propos of a new publication, which, though bearing the Persian title Ráh-i-Naw (the “New Road”), was
written in German, a brief sketch of various attempts to reform or replace the Persian alphabet; No. 34 (March 1, 1919) an
account of the foundation in Berlin of a Persian Literary Society, and a letter from Mírzá Muḥammad of Qazwín on a point of
Persian orthography; and No. 35 (August 15, 1919) a long and very interesting article by the writer last named on the

[page 485]

oldest recorded Persian verses subsequent to the Arab conquest in the seventh century after Christ864.
The Káwa of the New Series, which began on Jan. 22, 1920, is, on the other hand, almost entirely literary, and contains
numerous articles of the greatest value and interest. The Persian colony in Berlin, though comparatively small, included
several men of great intellectual distinction, and, though ardent patriots, keenly alive to the national faults, and eager to
absorb what was best of European learning. The special characteristic of the best German scholarship is its sobriety,
thoroughness, painstaking accuracy, and exhaustive examination of relevant material from all available sources. This
steadying influence is exactly what the Persians, with their tendency to ingenious but rash conjectures and premature
theories, most need. In the leading article which opened the New Series the editor, Sayyid Ḥasan Taqí-záda, thus defined his
aims:

“The Kawá [sic] newspaper was born of the War, and therefore its conduct was correlated with the
situations arising from the War. Now that the War is ended and International Peace has supervened, the Káwa
considers its War period as concluded, and now enters on a Peace period. It therefore adopts, as from the
beginning of the Christian year 1920, corresponding with the 9th of Rabí‘ ii, A.H. 1338, a new basis and line of
conduct. It has nothing to do with the former Káwa, and is, indeed, a new paper, the contents of which will for
the most part consist of scientific, literary, and historical articles. Above all else, its object will be to promote
European civilization in Persia, to combat fanaticism, to help to preserve the national feeling and unity of
Persia, to endeavour to purify and safeguard the Persian language and literature from the disorders and dangers

860 Reprinted from the Persian newspaper Rastakhíz (“the Resurrection”).
861 So called on account of his descent from the celebrated Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Qá’im-maqám. See pp. 311-16 supra.
862 Translated from the Neue Orient, Nos. 4 and 5, May, 1917.
863 Translated from No. 7 of Die Islamische Welt.
864 Two such early attempts are discussed, both taken from Arabic books of authority, such as Ibn Qutayba’s Kitábu’sh-Shi‘r wa’sh-
Shu‘ará, the Kitábu’l-Aghání, and Ṭabarí’s great history. The earliest goes back to the reign of Yazíd ibn Mu‘áwiya (A.H. 60-4 = A.D.
680-4).

which threaten them, and, so far as possible, to support internal and external freedom … In the opinion of the
writer of

[page 486]

these lines, that which is today in the highest degree necessary for Persia, which all patriotic Persians should
exert themselves to promote, literally, with all their strength, and should place before everything else, is
threefold.
“First, the adoption and promotion, without condition or reservation,
of European civilization, absolute submission to Europe, and the assimilation of the culture, customs, practices,
organization, sciences, arts, life, and the whole attitude of Europe, without any exception save language; and the
putting aside of every kind of self-satisfaction, and such senseless objections as arise from a mistaken, or, as we
prefer to call it, a false patriotism.
“Secondly, a sedulous attention to the preservation of the Persian language and literature, and the
development, extension, and popularization thereof.
“Thirdly, the diffusion of European sciences, and a general advance in founding colleges, promoting public
instruction, and utilizing all the sources of material and spiritual power … in this way ….
“Such is the belief of the writer of these lines as to the way to serve Persia, and likewise the opinion of
those who, by virtue of much cultural and political experience, share his belief.
“Outwardly and inwardly, in body and in spirit, Persia must become Europeanized.
“In concluding this explanation of fundamental beliefs, I must add that in the writer’s opinion perhaps the
greatest and most effective service of this sort which one could render would be the publication in Persia of
translations of a whole series of the most important European books in plain and simple language.”

In pursuance of this programme, there are a certain number of articles on the German system of education, the
proceedings of the Perso-German Society865, and the arrangements for facilitating the studies of Persian students in Germany;
but matters connected with the language and literature of Persia supply the subject-matter of most of the articles. Thus we
find in the year 1920 a series of admirable articles by Taqízáda [sic] (signed Muḥaṣṣil) on the most notable Persian poets of
early times866; an original article written in Persian by

[page 487]

Dr Arthur Christensen of Copenhagen on the existence of verse in Pahlawí867; a discussion on the evolution of the Persian
language during the last century868; articles entitled “Bolshevism in ancient Persia” on Mazdak869; comparisons between
Eastern and Western research and its results (greatly in favour of the latter), entitled Munáẓara-i-Shab u Rúz (“Dispute
between Night and Day”)870 ;the four periods of the Persian language since the Arab conquest871; “a Touchstone of Taste,” on
good modern Persian verse and what the writer calls “Karbalá’í verse”872; Pahlawí, Arabic and Persian sources of the Sháh-
náma873; ancient and modern translations from Arabic into Persian874; and a very interesting article on the “Sources of
eloquent Persian and ‘Khán-i-Wálida Persian””875, in which the writer ridicules and condemns the slavish imitation of
Turkish idiom and style practised by certain young Persians resident in Constantinople. These articles, in most cases, display
a wealth of knowledge, critical ability, and originality which I have nowhere else encountered in Persian, and deserve a fuller
analysis than can be accorded to them in this volume.
During the last year of its existence (1921) the Káwa maintained the same high standard, publishing many articles, both
historical and literary, which were fully up to the level of the best European scholarship. A series of important historical
articles on “the Relations of Russia and Persia during the period of the Áq-Qoyúnlú and Ṣafawí dynasties, down to the
beginning of the reign of Áqá Muḥammad Khán

[page 488]


865 Deutsch-Persische Gesellsehaft.
866 Káwa, Nos. 1, pp. 2-6; 4, pp. 15-24; 8, pp. 10-4; and 10, pp. 9-14.
867 Nos. 4-5, pp. 24-6.
868 Nos. 3, pp. 3-5; and 4-5, pp. 3-4.
869 Nos. 3, pp. 5-11, and 4-5, pp. 8-15.
870 Nos. 4-5, pp. 7-8; 6, pp. 3-6; 8, pp. 5-10.
871 No. 7, pp. 5-8.
872 No. 7, p. 4.
873 Nos. 11, pp. 7-12; 12 pp. 7- 12.
874 No. 9, pp. 4-5.
875 No. 12, pp. 3-5. The Khán-i-Wálida is where most of the Persian merchants in Constantinople live or have their offices.

Qájár,” written by Sayyid Muḥammad ‘Alí Jamál-záda, also appeared as a monthly supplement, and showed very wide and
judicious use of all available sources, both Eastern and Western. The sudden cessation of the paper after December, 1921,
was a great loss to Persian learning and scholarship.
In June, 1922, there appeared at Berlin a new Persian literary and scientific review entitled Írán-shahr, edited by Ḥusayn
Káẓim-záda, which, though described as a “Revue ... bimensuelle,” actually appeared only once a month. It is of a lighter and
more popular character than was the Káwa, and shows a more marked preference for matters connected either with pre-
Islamic Persia, or with the problems with which the progressive Persians of today are confronted. No. 7 (December, 1922)
contains a long article on the sending of Persian students to Europe, in the third section of which, “on the place and manner
of study” (pp. 162-4), the writer argues that such students should go to England or Germany rather than to France, for the
following reasons:
“We Persians (with the exception of the people of Ádharbáyján, whose nature and character agree better with those of
the Anglo-Saxons), in respect to character, nature, capacity and mental tendencies, more closely resemble and approach the
French, that is to say the Latin races, since quick and piercing intelligence, self-confidence, versatility of thought, wit and
acuteness of perception, sociability and amiability in intercourse on the one hand, and inconstancy, fickleness of character,
quickly-developed weariness and want of perseverance, recklessness, and lack of moderation in action on the other, are
characteristic of the nature and disposition both of ourselves and of the French.”
This view seems to have commended itself to the Persians generally, for while in August, 1922, there were seventy

[page 489]

Persian students in Germany, in the following December the number had increased to over 120876.
In Persia itself the Press, paralysed for a time after the Russian aggressions of 1912, has resumed its activities, especially
since the conclusion of the War; but owing to the badness of the communications and the irregularity of the posts one has to
be content with somewhat fragmentary information about it. No. 4 of the Káwa for 1921 (pp. 15-16) contained a brief list of
Persian papers and magazines which had come into being since the beginning of A.H. 1334 (November, 1915). These, forty-
seven in number, were arranged alphabetically, the place of publication, name of the editor, and date of inauguration, being
recorded in each case. Ṭihrán heads the list with eighteen papers, next comes Shíráz with seven, Tabríz and Rasht with four
each, and Iṣfahán, Mashhad, Kirmán, Kirmánsháh, Khúy, Bushire, Bákú, Herát, Kábul and Jalálábád (the last three in
Afghánistán) with one or two each. More than half of these-papers (twenty-five) first appeared in A.H. 1338 (began on Sept.
26, 1919). That the list is far from exhaustive is shown by the fact that of nine Persian magazines of which copies were sent
me by their editors or by friends, only two, the ‘Á1am-i-Niswán (“Women’s World”) and the Armaghán (“Gift”), appear in
the above list. The latter is one of the best, containing many poems, including some by the late Adíbu’l-Mamálik, and
accounts of the proceedings of the “Literary Society” (Anjuman-i-Adabí) of Ṭihrán. The others are the Bahár (“Spring”), very
modern and European in tone, but including some interesting poems; the Furúgh-i-Tarbiyat (“Lustre of Education”); the
Dánish (“Knowledge”), published at Mashhad; the Mimát u Ḥayát (“Death and Life”), entirely devoted to European
inventions and material progress; the Firdawsí, edited and written by diplomés of the American College at Ṭihrán; the Párs,
written half in

[page 490]

Persian and half in French, which first appeared at Constantinople on April 15, 1921; and the Ganjína-i-Ma‘árif (“Treasury
of Sciences”), of which the first number appeared at Tabríz on October 24,1922. None of these approach the Írán-shahr, still
less the Káwa, in excellence of matter or form. An exception should perhaps be made in favour of the Gul-i-Zard (“Yellow
Rose”), which appeared in Ṭihrán about the end of August, 1920, and in which the editor, Mírzá Yaḥyá Khán, used to publish
the poems he composed under the nom de guerre of Rayḥání.

The establishment in Berlin of the “Kaviani” Printing-press (Cháp-khána-i-Káwayání) owned and managed by Mírzá
‘Abdu’sh-Shukúr and other Persians anxious to meet the growing demand for cheap, correct, and well-printed Persian books,
marks another very important stage in the Persian literary revival; and at the present time there exists no other Press which
can rival it in these respects. Besides modern plays and treatises on Music, Agriculture and the like, and tasteful editions of
such well-known classics as the Gulistán of Sa‘dí and the “Cat and Mouse” (Músh u Gurba) of ‘Ubayd-i-Zákání, the
managers have had the spirit and enterprise to print such rare works of the great writers of old as the Zádu’l-Musáfirín
(“Travellers’ Provision”) of Náṣir-i-Khusraw, a book of which only-two manuscripts (those of Paris and King’s College,
Cambridge) are known to exist; and are now (November, 1923) printing the Wajh-i-Dín (“Way of Religion”) of which the
unique manuscript has recently been discovered at Petrograd, though books of this sort, recondite in character, costly to print,
and unlikely to command a large sale, must almost inevitably be published at a loss. In Mírzá Maḥmúd Ghaní-Záda the Press
possesses a most competent scholar, who carries on the high traditions of criticism and accuracy established by Mírzá
Muḥammad Khán of Qazwín.



876 Írán-shahr, No. 3, p. 55, and No. 7, p. 153.

INDEX

In the following Index where many reference-numbers occur under one heading the more important are printed in
Clarendon type, which is also used for the first entry under each letter of the alphabet. To save needless repetition, all
references to any name common to several persons mentioned in the text are brought together under one heading, the
individuals bearing this name being arranged either in chronological order, or in order of importance, or in classes (rulers,
men of letters, poets, etc.). The letter b. between two names stands for Ibn (“Son of…”), and n. after the number of a page
indicates a footnote. The addition in brackets of a Roman number after a name or book indicates the century of the Christian
era in which the man lived or the book was written. Prefixes like Abú (“Father of…”) and Ibn (“Son of…”) in Muhammadan,
and de, le, von in European names are disregarded in the alphabetical arrangement, so that names like Abú Sa‘íd, Ibn Síná, le
Strange, de Slane, etc., must be sought under S, not under A, I, L or D. Titles of books and foreign words are printed in
italics. A hyphen preceding a word indicates that the Arabic definite article al- should be prefixed to it.