THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-09-05

The launching of the Three year plan in 1993 marked the beginning

of a new stage in the promotion of international pioneering and travel-

time, which encouraged the friends to arise from any part of the globe to 343.1

343.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

750pioneer or travel-teach in any other part in need of assistance, resulted in

a massive movement of believers in the international field. No longer was

a distinction made between sending and receiving national communities,

rather the entire bahá’í world was asked to contribute to the expanding

pool of pioneers and traveling teachers. homefront pioneering, too, has

witnessed a dramatic upsurge in recent years. As the human resources of

each national community have grown through the instrumentality of the

training institute, those eager to serve on the home front have increasingly arisen. Simultaneous to these developments, the responsibilities of the con-

tinental pioneer committees have evolved. This statement of their present-

day purpose and character and the attached document, describing their responsibilities in some detail, have been prepared to reflect their current role and in anticipation of still greater accomplishments.

The members of the continental pioneer committees are invited to

years. while some of the committees are responsible for an entire continen-

tal area, others are zonally based within a continent. All committees oper-

ate under the supervision of the international Teaching center and serve

primarily as executive agencies that facilitate the movement of pioneers and traveling teachers. This they achieve through the efficient management of information and by acting as channels for the disbursement of the interna-

tional d eputization f und.

The continental pioneer committees obtain their information from

a number of sources, among them the National Spiritual Assemblies and

their committees, individual believers, reference materials containing gen-

eral information on various countries, as well as reports from pioneers and traveling teachers in the field. however, the continental counselors, with

whom the committees have a close relationship, constitute their princi-

pal source of information. Through consultation with the counselors, the

committees not only gain access to extensive experience and knowledge of the needs and potentialities of each country, but are also able to evaluate the information collected from various sources, set priorities, propose action,

and obtain a more accurate understanding of their role as facilitators of

pioneer and traveling teacher movement across the continent. it is hoped

that serious attention will continue to be given to maintaining efficient lines

of communication between the pioneer committees and the continental

boards of counselors. with this aim in mind, the full membership of each

continental pioneer committee, or at least the Secretary, should meet from 343.3

343.4

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

751time to time with the respective board of counselors for consultation re-

garding the needs and opportunities in the continent.

in general, the continental pioneer committees are concerned with

facilitating the movement of individual pioneers and traveling teachers. in

doing so, they can go far in seeing that those entering this field of service are

directed towards a destination where their services can best be utilized, thus

ensuring that the needs of the cause are adequately and swiftly met. There

will, however, be occasions when the institutions of the faith in a region or

country rich in human resources initiate projects designed to mobilize the

believers and deploy them for service in other areas where opportunities are

waiting to be optimized. here the committees will also have a vital role to

play in helping to maintain the steady flow of the friends from one area to

another.

in all that they do, the continental pioneer committees are expected

to be keen and alert. The institutions of the faith and individual believers

should be able to depend on the reliability, experience, and knowledge of the committees. pioneers and traveling teachers will continue to make a

valuable contribution to the advancement of the faith in the years ahead,

and the continental pioneer committees are one of the instruments placed

at the disposition of the bahá’í world to assist the believers who wish to serve

the cause in this field of endeavor.

344

Appointment of Continental Counselors

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]