VOYAGE
to the
HEART
of the
KORAN




THE HOLY BOOK OF ISLÁM
FOR THINKING MINDS

(BY A NON-MUSLIM)




WITH SPECIAL FOCUS:
HOLY WAR AND FIGHTING

This book, though in almost print-ready format in this 14.8 cm x 21 cm
format version, is not yet published and printed.  This is a free version
available from the author by file transfer (email attachments).  A format
version with A4 or 8½ in.  x 11 in. page size is also available.   There is no
copyright or restrictions on printing from these files.  Those interested should
feel free to share the book with others.  (This is not an invitation to plagiarism
or other forms of dishonesty.)  Rational comments, suggestions for
improvement, and requests for files can be sent the email address shown
below.

David Russell Garcia
San Miguel de Allende, Guanajuato, Mexico
dgarciaandrade@yahoo.com

October 5, 2003

Preface

PREFACE

The Seach for Salsabíl


Salsabíl, according to the Qur’án (Koran), is the name
of a fountain in Paradise that gives forth a delicious
ginger-flavored drink.  (Qur’án, Man, 76:17f)   To this writer,
who has a passion for ginger-flavored soft drinks, such a divine
drink symbolizes the satisfying of the deep yearning to know
what the Qur’án and other Holy Books are really saying deep
down.  Of course there are the outward stories and illustrations
that might appeal to many.  Those have some importance.  But
being satisfied only with that outward meaning is, perhaps, like
being satisfied with an unpeeled orange, or an uncracked nut.
The treasure is really in the nourishing fruit hidden within that
protective outer rind or shell.  How few struggle to get beyond
outer coverings and into the heart and core!


There are those who pride themselves on being, so to
speak, the owners of tall mounds of unpeeled oranges and large
bins of uncracked nuts, yet who never taste the fruit inside.  To
discover some deeper hidden meaning is like eating the fruit of
that orange or that nut.  This is what nourishes and sustains the
inner being of a human.  There are experts in religion, even
religious leaders, who have "all the facts", "all the answers", and
little real comprehension of a deeper and more satisfying kind.
They might even have memorized much of the Qur’án, or the
Bible, or whatever their Holy Book is.  And yet their grasp might
still be literal, material, superficial.  They are strangers to the
deeper meanings that God hides away behind those outward
meanings.  Some even recite the Holy Books like parrots,
understanding almost nothing of what they say – as though they
uttered magical incantations.  As the Qur’án suggests, one
should not be like a donkey carrying a load of books on its back.

Preface


It's not enough to sail across the Ocean of a powerful
revelation such as the Qur’án, like a sailor, never getting wet in
that Ocean.  One must dive into that Ocean, thoroughly
immersing oneself and plunge far enough down to pull up the
pearls of inner meaning.  It's not enough to know all the ports of
call and all facets of the nature of the ocean's surface.  The real
diver sees a world of awe-inspiring beauty that the superficial
sailor doesn't know about.  A person desperate with thirst in a
hot desert finally comes across a fountain of cool, sweet and
refreshing water.   Salsabíl symbolizes to this seeker the
ultimate quencher of the thirst for that deeper knowledge and
true understanding.  A fisherman or a painter might taste this
Salsabíl, eat the fruit of real deeper meaning and dive to the
depths of the Ocean of Revelation, before a priest, a theologian
or religious leader will.  This is a Search for Salsabíl.

Introduction

INTRODUCTION


The aim of this book is to take a journey with the author
through the Qur’án, the Holy Book of Islám, to get some
understanding of that religion.  We will try to be both sailor and
diver, looking at both literal outward and veiled inner meanings.
Jews and Christians do themselves a great service by trying to
understand a Faith that claims to be next in the line of the
revelations of God after their two revelations.  Muslims are
required to accept Moses and Jesus as being sent to Earth by
God and know something about these two prior Faiths.  So why
shouldn't Christians and Jews learn about Islám?  Bahá’ís are
urged to study the Qur’án and Islám as part of their deepening.
Islám and the Qur’án are the context in which their Holy
Scriptures are written.  And followers of the Buddhist, Hindu,
Zoroastrian and other religions can surely benefit by learning
something of a religion that they might have misunderstood.
Even the non-religious can benefit by learning about a religion.
At this moment in history, while there is so much confusion,
strife and misunderstanding between Muslims and others, a
knowledge of the spirit and teachings of the Holy Qur’án can
only be beneficial.

Another motive behind preparing this book is to take a
look at some of the reasons behind Islám's reputation among
many in the world as a fierce and warlike religion.   Some
modern-day Muslim fighters terrorize the world and leave quite
a number of people puzzled at how a religion claiming to be
from God could possibly be so violent.  The extreme devotion
with which Muslim warriors fight, even willingly sacrificing
themselves kamikaze style, seems to call for some kind of
explanation.  The national flags of many Islámic nations display
a large sword, leaving little doubt about the central position of

Introduction
battle in the religion – at least in the minds of many of its
followers.  Some have even called Islám, the Religion of the
Sword.   To those raised in cultures with earlier strong Christian
traditions, all this violence seems utterly ungodly and alien to
religion – notwithstanding that Christianity, in spite of its
exhortations to peace and gentleness, has also had a vicious
history of warfare, oppression and violence.

In order to get a better understanding of what is
motivating most Muslims, including those that the non-Muslim
world calls "fanatical" and "fundamentalist", and even arriving
at a larger perspective of Islám as one in a line of many religions,
it's necessary first to try to gain a rough understanding of the
spirit and intent of the Qur’án and see, as well, how it ties in
quite neatly with a number of other religions.  From this it can be
seen that the more warlike Muslims might not be grasping the
meaning of their own Holy Book in a reasonable way.  Like so
many members of other Faiths who wish to promote some
particular version of their religion, it seems some adherents
focus intently on certain passages in their Holy Book while
utterly ignoring other quite contrasting complementary
commands and admonitions that moderate or even forbid the
behavior they wish to adopt.

There are other writings in Islám, such as the Hadíth, a
collection of statements attributed to Muhammad and some
important figures in Islám.  But these lack the full authenticity
and authority of the Qur’án.  So the focus here will be on the
Qur’án itself.  This does not cover the history, laws and tenets of
Islám as actually practiced by Muslims, nor is it concerned with
the social and political concerns of modern Islámic peoples.
There are many other books that cover such topics.  This is a
concentrated look at the very heart of Islám – the Holy Qur’án –
since all else in Islám revolves around this central core.

Introduction
Since many of the concepts in this Holy Book are very
foreign and strange to modern non-Muslims, especially those of
the West, an attempt is made by the author to provide some kind
of explanation for many of these by drawing on notions from
modern science, philosophy and several other religions.  It's
possible that the readership of this book will be wide-ranging,
including perhaps some Muslims.  It's impossible to appeal to a
wide range of readers – agnostic or atheist thinkers who place
confidence in science, New Age enthusiasts, Christians and
Jews of all shades of faith, Bahá’ís, Hindus, Buddhists, Muslims
of fundamentalist or liberal strains, social activists, those who
study modern-day Muslim terrorism, or maybe those who are
not sure what they think and believe and are curious to find out
what the Qur’án is about – so a roughly middle course has been
chosen that ventures out here and there to approach various
temperaments and backgrounds.

It's not possible for a brief investigation like this to cover
everything in the Qur’án.  To do justice to a great Book even in a
very lengthy tome is surely impossible.  Some will note that
there are points and principles missing that they consider
important.  This is simply a description of the things that seemed
vital and very interesting to this student and which he felt might
be valuable for introducing modern non-Muslims to its ideas
and spirit.  Muslims also might benefit from considering the
points brought up that might shed a new light on their Holy
Book.  But this is for thinking and reasoning people; not for
those who are satisfied with
reciting
texts
without
understanding, like parrots, as though the words were some kind
of magical incantation, and mindlessly following whatever their
religious leaders tell them.


There is a clear distinction between the revelation of
God and the cultural ways in which it is expressed.  One
problem frequently seen in the history of religion is that the

Introduction
cultural expressions of the people to which a religion comes are
often taken to be just as important as the religion itself which of
course must transcend all cultural expression.  For example one
finds many Indian religions where one cannot become a
follower without adopting Indian cultural ways.  European
Christian missionaries unconsciously promoted their own
cultural ways in addition to the Christian Faith that they wished
to spread – all quite unaware that Christianity is not bound by
any particular culture.

Similarly, Muslims tend to believe that Arab culture,
language and ways are essential to Muslim belief and practice.
So great has been the reverence for the Arabic language among
Arabs, even long before the time of Muhammad, facility in the
use of this language being a sign of true ability and Arabness to
an Arab, that the custom has prevailed that the Qur’án must be
recited only in Arabic, the language of its revelation, and that
translations are not really translations but are rather
‘interpretations’.

In addition to this, the classical Arabic in which the
Qur’án was revealed is not the modern varieties of Arabic
spoken and written around the world today.  It’s an old classicial
language, like Old English to modern English, like Latin to
modern Italian.  So, even when modern Arabic speakers read
their Qur’án, they often don’t understand what they recite very
well.  And, of course, for those who don’t speak Arabic well,
there’s no understanding whatsoever.  This results in the same
problem that existed when the Bible of European Christians
existed only in its Latin translation – which only scholarly
priests could understand (though it appears that they didn’t
understand it too well either).

This condition makes it possible for Muslim clergy to
determine just what the Muslim flock believes and acts on.  And

Introduction
it is here that we find much of the cause for these interpretations
of the Qur’án and the Hadíth that result in such unabalanced
fanatical views that take verses out of the context of the whole
Qur’án.

The following analogy conveys an extremely important
point concerning the understanding of the spirit and letter of any
religion.  Consider a painting on which a very intelligent ant is
walking.  From such a very close perspective this ant cannot see
any of the meaning and purpose of that large picture.  It sees first
a spot of green paint, then a stroke of white, next a splotch of red
paint.  He can make no sense of the way these brushstrokes are
connected because he is unable to see the picture from a larger
scale and perspective.  But if that ant is a flying ant and flies up
and away from that picture, the meaning of these brushstrokes
becomes apparent as larger parts of the picture are seen.  But it is
only when that little ant flies far away enough from the picture to
see it in its entirety that all those little brushstrokes gain their
true meaning.

The Qur’án or any other Holy Book is like such a
picture.  It is a consistent whole whose real meaning becomes
apparent only when looking at the whole.  But this requires great
detachment from that picture.  Each verse of the Qur’án is like a
brushstroke of the Master Painter, Alláh or God.  Taken by itself
it has a certain meaning.  But the true meaning is revealed only
when this brushstroke is seen in the context of the entire Holy
Book, just as a green bit of paint in a painting has a meaning
only when it’s seen as a part of a leaf, say, on a tree in a garden.
By itself it has no essential meaning.

The spiritually blind among religionists are noted for
their inability to gain some objective detachment from the Holy
Book they study and so often see a verse only by itself.  So they
try to make deductions from this verse alone, without seeing its

Introduction
relation to other statements in that Holy Book.  And this is how
they come to such bizarre and irrational conclusions that so
often do so much harm to that religion and to our world.  And
what is to be said of a person who cannot even see a brushstroke
clearly let alone see how it fits into the picture as a whole – such
as a person who is unable to comprehend the meaning of what
they recite?  Well, that’s a recipe for trouble in our world.

Violent Muslims have been excellent in their ability to
consider verses urging Muslims to violence out of context while
ignoring other balancing verses that say such violence must only
be carried out in defense, and then only in certain conditions of
extreme danger to Islám and the community.


There are a number of English translations of the
Qur’án.   The modern English translation by N.J. Dawood
(dah-wooed = David in Arabic) of Baghdad and England will be
the one used if the particular translation is not specifically
stated.


It's possible for the more impatient reader who wants to
know why some Muslims war and fight to simply jump ahead to
the third chapter "War and Fighting" to gain a better
understanding of this warring attitude – if that is all the reader
wants to know.  But without reading the quotes and comments of
that chapter in the larger context of the central messages of the
Qur’án, as covered in the first chapters, and even seeing these
within the framework of a series of revelations, it's very possible
that understanding could go astray.  One of the points to be made
is that a proper grasp of the teachings of Islám on fighting and
war requires seeing them in the context of the whole Qur’án,
and as part of a series of revelations, not just as isolated
statements.

Introduction

The author is not himself a Muslim (nor a Christian or
Jew), though he is quite convinced that this Qur’án is not just a
product of some human mind, that it does indeed have a
superhuman origin, and that Muhammad truly did become the
instrument by which this transcendent revelation was conveyed
to humankind.  Furthermore, the author is no expert in Islámic,
Arabic or Middle Eastern studies.  (His background is focused
on
mathematics,
science,
philosophy
and
computer
programming.)  So it should be made clear that this is not a
scholarly study of the Qur’án designed for a small audience of
intellectuals or devotees.  Rather, it's one person's attempt, as an
outsider to the Islámic world, to share with the average reader, in
simple everyday language, the results of his own quest to learn
about the Qur’án, after going through that Holy Book from
beginning to end a few times, writing notes and collating
passages according to similar content, while comparing these
with the teachings of other Holy Books, and with notions in
modern philosophy and science.


It’s hoped that the reader doesn't mind quotations being
both paragraph-indented and having double-quotes.  The usual
custom is to use just one or the other.  For certain reasons, it was
decided to use both here.

DISCLAIMER

Aside from using many quotes from the Holy
Book of Islám, the writer had made a number of
comments drawn from his own studies of the
Holy Books of other Faiths as well as of
philosophy and some sciences.  If it appears at
times as though he is preaching, telling the reader
how he or she should think, feel or behave, it
should be pointed out that the aim is actually to
express his views of what the Qur’án could be

Introduction
saying.  It would be gross hypocrisy for the
writer to be preaching to readers while he is
himself so far below the high standard set by this
Qur’án and other Holy Books.  Let it be stated
clearly at the beginning that the writer is a seeker,
an explorer, an investigator, struggling to find the
deeper meaning of the religions of God.  He is
merely inviting the reader to join him on his
voyage of discovery – because it has proven to be
a most thrilling and beautiful discovery for him.
Let the reader decide for himself or herself how
he or she is to respond to the Qur’án or any other
Holy Writ or even the author's ideas as expressed
here; that's the reader's own business.  It is the
fervent belief of the author, anyway, that there is
really no place in the religious realm, no real
authority, for those who claim to be priests and
religious leaders, who insert themselves between
God and His creatures as though they were an
intermediate class of being above the rest of
humankind.

Secondly, all the ideas stated by the
author are his own personal views and not to be
directly associated with any religion or
philosophy.  They are necessarily imperfect and
in the process of development.  In a few years
time it's hoped that these ideas will change and
evolve – otherwise it could be said that his mind
and heart have stopped growing and stagnated.
Having views that do not change in some aspect
is an evidence of a lack of serious thought.
Expressing these views to others might be of
some aid in fostering their own ideas.

Introduction

So, welcome aboard!  Let's start this voyage of
discovery!  Before going to the words of the Qur’án itself, some
preparatory comments seem indispensable.

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin


CHAPTER 1

ISLÁM AND CHRISTIANITY -
TWO DIFFERENT SIDES OF THE
SAME COIN



Most Muslims have a rough idea of what Christianity is
about since the Qur’án speaks much of Christ and Mary and of
Christianity as bringing a genuine religion of God to the world.
But Christians, and those from cultures with an earlier Christian
tradition, sometimes find it difficult to grasp how Islám could be
a religion of God at all.  This misunderstanding has been
aggravated by unkind and unfair statements by Christians
concerning Islám and Muhammad that have no basis in reality
and are simply the product of religious prejudice and unjust
opposition.  Muhammad was meek and mild like Jesus, even
shy, quite illiterate, and at first very terrified at what he was
being asked to do.  He actually ran home and wrapped himself in
a cloak when the voice of the angel Gabriel first ordered him
with: "Recite!"


Moreover, many Christians do not give much thought to
the occasions when Jesus Christ became quite fierce and full of
divine wrath, as when he drove the money-changers and
salespeople out of the Temple in Jerusalem with a whip, turning
over their tables and speaking with great power and authority.
That is anything but meek and mild.  He also called the people
he was among a "generation of vipers", which is hardly polite
and gentle.  So, Christians sometimes neglect the reality that
Jesus displayed God's justice just as Muhammad often displayed

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
God's mercy and kindness.  One central point here, however, is
that Christianity focused very strongly on teachings of love,
mercy, kindness and compassion – "We gave him ['Jesus, the
son of Mary'] the Gospel, and put compassion and mercy in the
hearts of his followers." (Qur’án, Iron, 57:26) – while Islám
balanced it with an emphasis on justice, discipline, fear of God,
and submission – "Had God not defended some men by the
might of others, the monasteries and churches, the synagogues
and mosques in which His praise is daily celebrated, would have
been utterly destroyed." (Qur’án, Pilgrimage, 22:40)

JUSTICE OPPOSITE MERCY


Christianity originated in a society dominated by the
Roman Empire.  There was already an established social system
of justice in that empire – however astray of justice it sometimes
went.  Christ's teachings focused on the individual and said
almost nothing about the social order.  Jesus told his followers to
"Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the
things that are God's." (Bible, Mark, 12:17).  In contrast, Islám,
like Judaism, involved itself very much with the social order.
The primitive and brutal Arab tribes who were to receive this
revelation through Muhammad lived in a far less orderly social
system than the Roman Order where Christianity found its birth.
These Arabs were fierce, warlike and most difficult to control.
It's one of the miracles of the Islámic revelation that these tribes
were subdued and converted so quickly, and that Islám spread so
very fast.


Whereas we find repeated exhortations to love one
another in Christ's teachings, this is almost completely absent in
the Qur’án.  In contrast, this Holy Book focuses on justice, on
righteous behavior, on giving to the needy, on fighting for God's
cause.   There are many admonitions that can be followed only if
there is love and compassion in the heart of the believer, but

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
only rarely does it come right out and say this in the Qur’án.
Most chapters in it begin with the words, "In the Name of God,
the Compassionate, the Merciful", just as there are traces of firm
justice in Christianity.  (Modern Christian parents are starting to
realize that the justice of "tough love" is the only way to help
some of their more unruly children.)  But in general, it's not
difficult to see that Christianity had a focus on love, kindness,
mercy and forgiveness while Islám focused more on justice,
social order and submission.   This is to be expected since justice
is more to be applied in social circumstances while love and
kindness are more appropriate in dealings between individuals.


In the West, there has been a vague notion among many
that if we could only learn to love one another, then all the
world's problems would be solved.  A popular song of the
1960's, "All You Need Is Love", expressed the attitude well.
But this could be wrong.  Justice might be just as important, or
even more fundamental, if we give it a little thought.


Justice can be likened to the firm unbending bones
hidden within the human body.  Love, kindness and mercy can
be thought of as the soft, pliable and warm flesh that clothes
those hard bones.  Without this soft flesh, a set of rigid bones is
just a dead skeleton.  And without a firm foundation of those
rigid bones, the soft flesh is as formless, weak and helpless as a
jellyfish on land.   Muscles exert their great pull from one
unbending bone to another.  Though the bones are hidden within
the flesh, they are the actual foundation and basis.  Justice is the
real foundation of order in our societies.  Loving kindness,
which expresses itself between individuals, brings life, beauty,
harmony and productivity over this foundation.


Consider the fish in water in a glass fishbowl.  The glass
fishbowl is too brittle and inflexible to show the productivity of
life.  This glass fishbowl is like rigid unbending justice; it cannot

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
change and adapt for growth.  Pressure to change only makes it
break.  And the water in that fishbowl is too fluid, changeable
and formless to maintain enough structure and shape to manifest
the qualities of life.  The water is like gentle, flowing love and
mercy.  But the graceful fish swimming in that water beautifully
blends the rigidity with fluidity so that it has enough rigidity to
hold some kind of shape and yet enough flexibility to swim
about and grow.  It is only this balance between rigidity of
structure on the one hand, and flexibility for change, growth and
adaptability on the other hand, that allows the fish to express the
amazing attributes of life.  Similarly, it is only the beautiful
balance of merciful love with firm justice that enables a person
or a society to benefit and grow with all the qualities of life.


Love is the fire that fills the home with light and warmth;
justice is the fireplace that controls, restrains and moderates that
fire so that it doesn't burn that house to ashes or leave it cold and
dark.  Love is the bountiful flow of water that enables the farms
and orchards to thrive while justice is the regulated irrigation
that controls that flow -- because too little water is a killing
drought and too much water is a devastating flood that washes
away everything.  Justice is the regulator and moderator of
bountiful love.  Without the controlling justice of law, rules,
regulation, reward and punishment, the fire of love burns all to
ashes and the flood of mercy washes away all efforts. Without
justice, there is no order in an individual or a society.  Without
justice there's no way to moderate love and mercy so that they
are productive and fruitful.


So, all we need is love and justice!  The two complement
and balance each other.  Most in the West, because of the
Christian tradition behind their societies, do not yet appreciate
the value of justice, particularly where religion is concerned, and
easily mistake it for cruelty and revenge.  Many who espouse the
modern liberal philosophies of the West, and who hardly think

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
of themselves as Christians, are unaware of how very
profoundly their views are influenced by Christian notions that
once laid deep foundations in their culture.  They are unable to
distinguish between the society's right to exercise force with
constructive justice and the individual's misuse of such force in
destructive criminal ways.


Many from Christian-based cultures have felt quite
certain that if we could only apply Jesus' admonition to "turn the
other cheek" in all circumstances, that peace would envelop the
world.  But this is very unrealistic.  In fact, many Christian
missionaries living among fierce warlike people quickly learned
that "turning the other cheek" results in too many Christian
deaths and few conversions.  Historian R.A. Derrick, in his
Volume I of A History of Fiji (published by the Fiji Government
Press, 1950) writes:

In Bua [a province of the Fiji Islands at
the western end of Vanua Levu, the second
largest island of that nation], the tension between
Christians and heathen flared up in open
hostilities in September, 1850, when Christians
sheltering in the hill fortress at Nakorobase were
attacked.  On 1st December a party of Christian
chiefs – unarmed, and advancing to parley with
their opponents at Nawaca – were fired on, Ratu
George of Dama and some others being killed.
Too late the missionary [Williams] and his
people realized that a savage foe could not be
placated by 'turning the other cheek'; and, on 2nd
January, 1851, Williams armed his people.  This
was an extreme step for one who taught peace;
but that it was necessary few will doubt. (p 104)

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
Despite their principles, even Christian missionaries learned to
defend themselves and their communities.  Hard reality quickly
set in.   Turning the other cheek is appropriate for dealings
between individuals, which is where Christian teachings excel
and are appropriate, but the social group also has the right to
protect itself.  A community cannot be safe and survive without
the social requirements of justice in "that which is Caesar's", so
to speak, playing its vital role.  Jesus left this justice to the
institutions of the Roman Empire; but where such a system is
absent, or not able to come quickly to one's aid, then the
community must carry out this defensive justice themselves.
This principle of justice here involves the greatest good and the
least amount of destruction.


This is why we allow police to act with a certain degree
of violence, with controlled force.  It's for the protection of the
community.  Without this firm justice, the overall amount of
harm, suffering and injustice done is far greater.


Gandhi in India and Martin Luther King in the USA used
passive, non-violent resistance and succeeded only because it
was directed at the powers of cultures, British and American,
that had already been influenced by Christian values so that the
standards they held at a deeper level were cultural rather than
only religious.  This applied even where individuals in that
society had no intention of acting in accord with Christian
values.  They could eventually be shamed into doing the right
thing by appearing too much the oppressor, by seeming too
brutal and uncivilized, by stark contrast with the passive,
non-violent behavior.  But would such a tactic as Gandhi and
Martin Luther King used work among those for whom right
means total victory, domination and oppression over others?
Certainly not.  Turn the other cheek to a wild cannibal and you'll
soon be dinner for a man who thinks you're a fool.

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin

This idea is so little grasped by some of the more naive
who advocate peace, love, brotherhood and goodwill without
justice that it needs some thought and explanation.

"Thus when Christ said:  'Whosoever shall
smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the left
one also,' (Bible, Matthew, 5:39). it was for the
purpose of teaching men not to take personal
revenge.  He did not mean that, if a wolf should
fall upon a flock of sheep and wish to destroy it,
the wolf should be encouraged to do so.  No, if
Christ had known that a wolf had entered the fold
and was about to destroy the sheep, most
certainly He would have prevented it.
"As forgiveness is one of the attributes of the
Merciful One, so also justice is one of the
attributes of the Lord.  The tent of existence is
upheld upon the pillar of justice and not upon
forgiveness.  The continuance of mankind
depends upon justice and not upon forgiveness.
So if, at present, the law of pardon were practiced
in all countries, in a short time the world would
be disordered, and the foundations of human life
would crumble.  For example, if the governments
of Europe had not withstood the notorious Attila
[the Hun], he would not have left a single living
man.
"Some people are like bloodthirsty wolves:  if
they see no punishment forthcoming, they will
kill men merely for pleasure and diversion.  One
of the tyrants of Persia killed his tutor merely for
the sake of making merry, for mere fun and sport.
The famous Mutavakkil, the Abbasid, having
summoned his ministers, councillors and
functionaries to his presence, let loose a box full

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
of scorpions in the assembly and forbade anyone
to move.  When the scorpions stung those
present, he burst forth into boisterous laughter.
"To recapitulate:  the constitution of the
communities depends upon justice, not upon
forgiveness.  Then what Christ meant by
forgiveness and pardon is not that, when nations
attack you, burn your homes, plunder your
goods, assault your wives, children and relatives,
and violate your honor, you should be
submissive in the presence of these tyrannical
foes and allow them to perform all their cruelties
and oppressions.  No, the words of Christ refer to
the conduct of two individuals toward each other:
if one person assaults another, the injured one
should forgive him.  But the communities must
protect the rights of man. So if someone assaults,
injures, oppresses and wounds me, I will offer no
resistance, and I will forgive him.  But if a person
wishes to assault Siyyid Manshadi [a person
present during this recorded talk] certainly I will
prevent him.  Although for the malefactor
noninterference is apparently a kindness, it
would be an oppression to Manshadi.  If at this
moment a wild Arab were to enter this place with
a drawn sword, wishing to assault, wound and
kill you, most assuredly I would prevent him.  If I
abandoned you to the Arab, that would not be
justice but injustice.  But if he injure me
personally,
I
would
forgive
him."
('Abdu'l-Bahá'; Some Answered Questions, pp
170-71)


The principle is this:  kindness and mercy to the wolf is
cruelty to the sheep.  By restraining the wolf, the sheep are

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
protected.  The act of justice involved in preventing the wolf
from attacking the sheep reduces the overall amount of harm.
This defensive justice results in the least amount of harm.
Within justice there is a hidden mercy.  And within some
seeming mercy, there is injustice.


This means that the "liberal" tradition of being easy on
criminals, of showing them "unconditional love", mercy and
kindness, may end up being more cruel than kind and doing
more harm than good.   There are many who cannot respond to
love and kindness, who see it only as weakness to be ridiculed
and taken advantage of.  The least amount of harm is arrived at
by punishing a dangerous criminal so that this not only protects
others who might have been his victims but also dissuades other
criminals from thinking that they can "get away with it".  Again,
a little justice with the wolf protects a lot of sheep and minimizes
the harm done, whereas kindness and mercy to the wolf brings
about a greater measure of harm and is, from a larger view, more
cruel.


Regardless of what "Christian nations" have talked
about, this principle of justice in defense is the one they have
often claimed they are applying because without it, the wolves
among humankind would destroy everything.


This is precisely what the Qur’án teaches:  that the early
Muslims not only had the right but the duty to defend
themselves against the fierce Arabs who were intent on
attacking them and utterly annihilating them.  In the third
chapter, "War and Fighting," it will be shown that the Qur’án
supports very vigorous war and battle, but only in certain
circumstances of defense.  Offensive aggression and initial
attack are forbidden, and coercion in religion is prohibited by
God's command.   Muslims who do this – and they are many –
are flagrantly disobeying God's command to them in the Qur’án.

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
This will be discussed more thoroughly in that section with
many clear proofs from that Holy Book itself.


Once Christians, and those from cultures that once had a
strong Christian foundation, realize the extreme importance of
justice, discipline, firmness and submission, then it becomes
easier to see that this justice is not cruelty and brutality, that it
can indeed form a part of a divine religion.  Motivation and
control make the difference between a destructive act and a
constructive act -- even though the two appear the same
outwardly.  A gift is not a bribe even though the two acts look
outwardly the same.  The difference is the motivation and
purpose involved.  So a genuine gift of love and generosity
given without thought of return has an entirely different result
than a bribe – which is actually a form of purchase, not a gift.
Similarly, a forceful act of violent justice carried out by the
community, such as by the police, is quite different from the
violence carried out by criminals – even though outwardly they
appear similar.  One has the motivation and purpose of bringing
order, protection and safety to the community while the other
aims to subvert these.  Using explosives in a controlled way to
build a dam has constructive results while using those same
explosives in a criminal way to destroy people and buildings has
negative results.  The response of justice is controlled,
moderated and done without rage and hatred.  It's aim is not to
hurt the offender and get revenge against him but rather to
protect the entire society.  So the two actions have entirely
different results:  one is constructive, the other is destructive.


Of course, when a government, police, or system of
justice become corrupt and oppress others, this is no longer
justice; it is injustice.  It is the acts of justice, not just of wearing
the uniform of justice and being in institutions purporting to
bring justice, that brings the beneficial results.  Many tyrannical

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
and oppressive regimes have used the excuse of maintaining
"law and order" to justify their injustice.


Most teachers know that the temperaments and
personalities of their students can be very different, that a
method that works on one student will fail miserably with
another.  One student might be very sensitive and able to
respond to the most gentle prodding.  Just the slightest look of
displeasure by the teacher may result in an immediate response.
They are like violins that must be lightly stroked to make music.
Others are tough and barely responsive so that only the firmest
treatment has any helpful effect.  These latter are more like
drums that make music when pounded.  Gently stroke a drum
and nothing happens.  Pound on a violin and you break it!  The
gentle person needs a gentle touch while the rougher and less
sensitive one needs a firmer hand and real justice in order to
bring about improvement in behavior and learning.  It's a serious
mistake to believe that one method should apply to all.  Modern
Christians who now speak of "tough love" in bringing up their
children are beginning to get into reality and realize the extreme
importance of firm justice, particularly when dealing with the
less sensitive and responsive.  The coach who is soft and gives in
to the whining of his athletes does not produce winners and ends
up being disliked by his athletes.  The coach that does what is
good for them and pushes them to their limits produces winners
who love their coach for making them winners.


This same principle applies to entire societies.  A gentle
and loving approach with a society of very fierce, rough and
brutal people will probably result in greater harm than if a
stronger hand is applied.  The revelation that brought us the
Qur’án appeared among such a rough people.  (This describes
how they were one thousand four hundred years ago, not
necessarily how Arabs are today.  All humans were quite wild,
fierce and savage if we go back far enough in time.  And it

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
wasn't so long ago that Europeans were known to other more
civilized peoples of the time as crude and brutal barbarians who
never washed.)  The very strong language, stern warnings and
tough talk were precisely what was required to bring about that
magic transformation that happened throughout the Arabian
Peninsula and beyond.  The more gentle touch of Christianity
was more appropriate for other societies in a different condition
who were more amenable to awakening to the importance of
gentleness, love, kindness and mercy.


Secondly, it appears that entire societies go through
stages of infancy, childhood, youth, maturity and decline just as
individuals do.  As we go back in time we find a greater
occurrence of the traits of childhood, even of infancy, displayed
by most individuals and social groups.  Perhaps at the present
time many of us are like unruly adolescents on the verge of the
first stage of maturity.  Clearly, the way a parent or guardian
must speak to a child depends on that child's level of maturation.
One must speak and act differently with a small child than with a
more mature youth.  The powers of reason and strength of will in
a small child are not yet sufficiently developed to let one use just
logic and rationality to persuade the child to do what is right.
The rule of reward and punishment, pleasure and pain, operate at
this level of development while the higher rules of reason and
conscience must wait for the intelligent ego and the
conscientious highest self to become adequately strong.  The
Qur’án often speaks very sternly.  But the discerning heart
realizes that, in spite of this stern talk, a great deal of mercy and
kindness is what is actually carried out.


This, however, is only one way of looking at the matter.
From another perspective we could say that Muhammad's
revelation revealed a stern and just God because six hundred and
fifty years after the time of Christ humans had acquired the
strength to be able to take justice whereas maybe during Christ's

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
time that development was not there yet.  (Though the Jews were
sternly warned, they paid no heed at all, as the Old Testament
clearly tells.)  A tiny child cannot take justice.  It needs that
"unconditional love" that people in southern California are
always talking about (but less frequently demonstrating).  As
that child grows older and stronger, it reaches a point where it
can learn from the application of justice, from reward and
punishment.  So, perhaps this view can temper the first one
presented.


If the blended balance of justice and mercy produces the
best results, then it would seem that Islám balanced by
Christianity would make an excellent religion.  But it seems
unlikely that anyone would be open to this – unless it is God
Himself sending down a new revelation that brings such a
balance.


The Qur’án is not unique in encouraging certain kinds of
violence, even war, if it's a just and fair war.  The Bhagavad Gita
of Hinduism begins with Arjuna lamenting that he must kill
friends and relatives in a war of the forces of good against evil.
Arjuna sinks into despair saying he'd rather be killed himself.
Krishna counsels him to fight vigorously and not worry about
mere physical death.  He says there is no real death anyway.
There was a warrior caste, the Kshattriya, and their duty was to
fight.  Krishna urges Arjuna to fight in a war of good against evil
and that neglecting this is a sin.  This is reminiscent of the
Qur’án.  Sections from that Bhagavad Gita will be quoted in the
chapter "War and Fighting".


So, as we take a brief look at the Qur’án, please
remember that those powerful words coming through
Muhammad are not being addressed primarily to an educated
and moderately civilized people as we might see today.
Universal education is a thing of the present age; it simply did

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
not exist a thousand years ago.  Many of the words of the Qur’án
are strong medicine designed to shake and change a people who
knew little other than fighting, deceit and treachery, who even
buried their baby daughters alive on being disappointed that the
child was not a son.  It's not the gentle stroke of the violin seen in
much of Christ's teachings; it's the firm pounding of the drum of
justice and discipline.  We find some of the same in the Old
Testament of the Bible, perhaps for much the same reasons.  But
on looking closer the reader will also find, along with this strong
justice, the gentle touch so familiar to Christians that is often
given as a second and preferable option.  For example,

"Let evil be rewarded with like evil.  But he
that forgives and seeks reconcilement shall be
rewarded by God.  He does not love the
wrongdoers....
"To endure with fortitude and to forgive is a
duty incumbent on all.  He whom God confounds
has none to protect him." (Qur’án, Counsel,
42:41f)

The Qur’án has many statements like this permitting one
situation but encouraging a yet higher standard if the believer
has the inner strength of will to accomplish it.  For example, men
are permitted to have up to four wives on the condition that they
are fair and impartial with all of them, that all are treated
equally, otherwise it states that a man should have just one wife.
A while later in the same chapter of the Qur’án is the statement
that it is impossible for men to be impartial with several wives,
no matter how hard they try.  The logical implication is clear:
only one wife is allowed.  But this is not outwardly stated.  By
giving the law in this way it allows the taking of several wives,
up to four, for those with a loose interpretation of the Holy
Book, and who don't bother making logical inferences, or who
follow religious leaders who like to find ways to get around

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
God's Will and do their own will.  Stating the law in this way is a
mercy to the weak and protects them from the consequences of
disobeying the actual intention of the law which is to have just
one wife.  But it implies, for the believer with the more strict and
logical interpretation, that taking only one wife at a time is really
more in accord with the revelation of God through Muhammad.
In a warlike society where many men were killed off and there
was a surplus of women over men, survival for some unmarried
women meant that some had to share a husband with one or
more other women.  There's often a first choice followed by a
stricter more challenging choice for those of a deeper
understanding and greater spiritual development.


The Qur’án, however, is not only for the unsophisticated
and uneducated.  It also speaks to the spiritual seeker, the wise
philosopher and the virtuous saint.  It's not all fierce gales,
thunder and lightning.  Gentle breezes and soft showers are there
too.  The perceptive reader must look for these beautiful,
fragrant and delicate flowers growing in the cracks of the
ponderous rocks of divine command and fierce threat.

THE FEAR OF GOD VS. THE LOVE OF GOD


Most from cultures whose basic philosophies of life have
been influenced by Christian values and principles find the
somewhat harsh and stern tone of the Jewish Old Testament of
the Bible as well as the Qur’án to be too strong for their taste.  It
might seem cruel and unkind to them.  Some will say, "How can
a loving God speak like that to His creatures?"  This firm
attitude and stern justice is the other side of the coin of gentle
love.  Christians should not forget that Christ spoke with this
stern justice on a few occasions.


As already explained, there are many among the
immature who cannot respond to a loving approach.  They take

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
it for weakness, laugh at it and take advantage of it.  Without the
love of God they will never do what is right for themselves and
their society unless they are cautioned by the fear of God.  The
fear of God is really the fear of consequences.  If a father tells his
son not to jump off the roof, explaining how this will lead to him
getting hurt, that son, if of a rebellious nature, might go up to the
roof and jump off in sheer defiance.  After the fun on the way
down he hits the ground hard and injures himself.  The stern
warning of that father to his son is really informing him about
consequences of actions.  It's not just a way for the father to be
cruel and imperious over his son.  After the son experiences the
consequences of his unwise action, he will probably be more
heedful of what his father says after that – even if he has no real
love for his father.  He will trust that his father gives him good
advice for his own protection.  He obeys out of fear of
consequences.


As that young boy matures, however, he can start to obey
his father out of love for him rather than just fear of
consequences.  This is a more noble motive.  But there are very
many people in our world today who cannot do the right thing
out of love for their Creator.  Only the fear of a strong and fierce
God giving threats of horrible punishments and promises of
glorious rewards will restrain and train them.  And in past ages
there were surely many more who were immature and unable to
rise up to the heights of those few who obeyed God out of love
for Him.


Maybe it's best when we have both the fear of God, fear
of consequences, and the love of God – one from the attitude of
justice, the other from the spirit of love and mercy.


GOD'S WILL VS. HUMAN WILL

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin

The people of the Western world tend to be
individualistic.  Perhaps it's no accident that the Christian Faith,
whose teachings are directed to the individual rather than to the
social order, dominated Europe for quite some time.  After the
European Renaissance, a great feeling of confidence in
individual power and its success resulted from the consequences
flowing in from Western initiative and inventiveness.
Europeans moved out from their shores to explore and colonize
the world.  The stunning success they found in science and its
technological applications enabled them to become dominant in
battle, transportation, business and more.  Such a heady
experience easily leads to feelings of tremendous power of
human will and initiative to such an extent that one can soon
forget the hidden powers operating behind this that enable any
of it to happen at all.


Europeans told themselves, "I'm the captain of the ship
of my destiny, the master of my fate." and "Where there's a will
there's a way."  Only occasionally, when earthquakes and
hurricanes strike, when social strife explodes that government
cannot handle, when devastating wars set us back in our
development, and when the Hindenberg dirigible burns, the
"unsinkable" Titanic sinks, and the space shuttle Challenger
explodes – only briefly during such tragedies is this feeling of
individual omnipotence and invincibility shaken.  Then does the
human will begin to suspect that perhaps another Higher Will
also has a part to play in all of this.


In much of the East and elsewhere, however, the
tradition has been much different.  Overawed by the powers of
nature, and unable to adequately explain how misfortunes and
crises occur in their lives, these humans come to believe that
their fate is not held in their own hands but rather depends on
more powerful forces outside them.  They turn to gods and
spirits for help, trying to appeal to them through offerings and

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
sacrifices to be easy on us humans.  And those who learned that
there is just one God, a notion championed powerfully by
Abraham, Moses and Muhammad, learned that their fate was
held in this one God's hands.  This was taken to such an extreme
that it was often believed that God's Will and human will were
both operating on the same level and in competition with each
other, and that human will could not compete with the divine
Will.  They developed a sense of hopeless resignation, believing
that it doesn't matter what they try to do because God's Will is
going to triumph over puny human will.  This comes about by
thinking of God as little more than a superman who isn't so
much different from us, who is just smarter and more powerful.
Such a superman would be conceived of as having a will like us
humans but just stronger.  Such a fantasy leads to mistaken
notions about will – as will be argued later.


In parts of southern Asia during the 1980s one could find
people walking out in the middle of the road and refusing to
move aside though they heard cars approaching from behind
them because, to their way of thinking, any attempt to save
themselves from onrushing traffic is quite useless, that it is God
or the gods who will determine their fate.  (Others among these
were simply suicidal.)  If God or the gods had not decided that
it's their time yet, then nothing could kill or harm them.  And if
God or the gods had decided that their time had arrived, then no
efforts of human will could stop that from happening.  So they
didn't bother trying to exercise their free will.


There is much in the Qur’án that emphasizes the
dominance of God's Will, stating that nothing can happen
without it.  And many Muslims have adopted the fatalistic
approach to life.  But there are other statements in the Qur’án
making it very clear that human free will must be exercised.
How else can one obey the commands and laws of God without
using one's own human will?  What's the point of sending good

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin
advice to the human world, advice to shun evil and do what is
right, if human will has no part to play and is useless?  In fact,
the Qur’án tells us quite clearly that both the divine Will and
human will are essential for the success of human endeavors:

"This is an admonition to all men:  to those
among you that have the will to be upright.  Yet
you cannot will, except by the will of God, Lord
of the Universe."  (The Cessation, 81:28)

This clearly points out the importance of the human will to be
upright while emphasizing that this, however important,
depends on the will of God to drive it.  This is a difficult notion
for both viewpoints.  The East had difficulty seeing the
importance of human free will to the success of any enterprise
while the West had difficulty seeing the importance of the divine
Will that is hidden behind it.  Both have assumed that both kinds
of will operate on the same level and are in competition with
each other, that either one or the other must rule.   This needs
some explanation and will be given later towards the end of the
next chapter where quotes from the Qur’án stating the
importance of the divine Will are made.  The aim here in this
chapter is to show that Christianity and Islám complement and
balance each other in that Christianity, in its emphasis on the
individual, seems to have focused on the importance of the
exercise of individual human will while Islám has emphasized
the importance of the divine Will.  The reader will hopefully see,
when we discuss this further towards the end of the next chapter,
how these two kinds of will operate on different levels, and that
one, the human will, is derived as a partial expression of the
power of the divine Will.  That is, human will is created by the
divine Will and operates from it.  As a very brief and inadequate
explanation of this, let's just offer a couple of illustrations.

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin

If a person in an imprisoned situation survives by eating
the food cooked by a cook, and the cook brings the prepared
food to the dining table for this diner to eat, then it is up to this
diner to exert his own will to come to the table and to eat that
food which sustains him.  The very energy by which he is able to
eat comes from the food that he eats.  But this food would not be
available to him at all if the cook's will to cook the food and
bring it to the table were not involved.  If the cook were to stop
cooking and bringing the food to the table, then the person
dining would have nothing to eat and would eventually find no
strength even to be able to come to the table.  He wouldn't be
able to exercise his will to eat unless the cook exercises his will
to cook and serve.  And if the cook cooked and served the food
but the diner refused to exercise his will to come to the table to
eat – which is in his power – then he will soon starve and
become unable after a time to come to the table even if he
wanted to.  The points here are that

1) the will of the dining person to eat depends on the will of the
cook to cook and serve what he eats, and
2) this eating depends on the exercise of both kinds of will;
both cook and diner must exercise their wills in order for the
eating to happen.

The will of the cook and the will of the diner are not in
competition; it's not one or the other.  Rather, they must both be
put into action; and one will is dependent on the other.


Our own human free will must be exerted in order to "eat
the food" of developing spiritually by obeying the commands
and advice of God through the Holy Books.  But this human free
will cannot be exercised at all without the divine Will being
behind it and driving it.  "Yet you cannot will, except by the will
of God, Lord of the Universe."

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin

Here's a second example to convey the point that both
levels of will, divine and human, are required for human will to
operate.  The physical heavens, that is, the sky, is often used as a
symbol in the major religions for the spiritual heavens.
Consider the relationship between the sun up in the heavens and
an apple tree down on earth.  If someone were to ask what causes
the apples to appear on the tree, we might expect one person to
explain how the tree causes this fruit to appear.  Another person,
however, might claim that the sun up in the heavens is the cause
of the appearance of the fruit.  Then the two might argue over
this.


In reality, both are correct.  The tree grows and all parts
of it, such as the fruit, appear through photosynthesis.
Photosynthesis means that the energy in the sun's light is used to
combine water and the carbon dioxide animals and humans
breathe out to form the sugars and starches which are used to
build the materials of the tree.  Without sunlight the tree cannot
grow and bear its fruit.  In addition, it is the sun that evaporates
the water of the ocean to form clouds that have the rain that
waters the tree.  And it is the sun that creates the differences of
temperature between the air over the ocean and the air over the
land so that winds blow those clouds over to the land where they
can pour their water down on the land.  (It is even the suns or
stars that create all the elements that trees get from the soil,
water and air to grow.  These are created from simplest
hydrogen in thermonuclear reactions at the cores of stars and are
then showered out to the neighborhood when the star dies in an
explosive nova or supernova.)  So, it's quite true to say that the
sun, far away up in the “heavens”, is the cause of the apples
appearing on the tree (as well as all the rest of the tree too).  And
it's also true to say that it is the tree that brings forth the apples.
The tree is the immediate cause, and the sun is the more original
cause.

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin

The plant "will" to grow and bring forth its fruit cannot
operate unless the original "will" of the sun also operates.  It's
not a competition between the two "wills"; it's a matter of
cooperation between them.  Without the original "will" or
"cause" operating through the sun's light shining down from the
faraway "heavens", the more immediate "will" or "cause"
working at the level of the tree down on earth  cannot function.
The latter immediate cause and will is dependent on the former
original cause and will.


Perhaps the reader sees now that this illustration can be
an analogy where the apple tree represents a human down in this
material world and the sun stands for the Original Will which we
say derives from God.  We human trees must exert our will to
bring forth fruit in this life, and this will is able to function only
through the operation of the divine Will that shines down like
the sun on all humans and all things.


This idea still needs much more explanation, and this
will be offered later when we more carefully go over statements
in the Qur’án concerning God's Will and human will.  For now,
the point has been made that Christianity and Islám complement
each other in this respect, Christianity emphasizing the
importance of individual initiative and the exercise of human
free will, and Islám emphasizing the importance of the
all-powerful divine Will being behind and driving this human
free will.


Again, a religion that balanced the Christian emphasis on
individual will with the Muslim focus on God's Will would be
most realistic and bring about the most productive results.


BRACING FOR STERN WORDS FROM GOD

Chap. 1 – Islám and Christianity, Two Different Sides of the Same
Coin

The first reading of the Qur’án is often a shock and
produces a strong reaction of some kind or other in many readers
– at least for those from the West or from other non-Muslim
backgrounds.  There could be a temptation for the modern
educated person to make too quick a judgement, to judge it by
modern liberal (Western) standards, to dismiss it, and to put it
down and not read further.  But for some the soul somehow
adjusts and begins to grasp what it didn't before.  One begins to
get behind the outward manner of speech used to stir and
awaken a rebellious, immature and uneducated people to see
what is being said rather than how it is being said.  A second
reading often makes the reader realize the coherent integrity and
the majesty, grandeur, beauty and glory of this peerless work.
Those who read it only in a translation will, some say, be unable
to appreciate it as in the original Arabic where its true beauty
and power lie.  But the grandeur, majesty and wisdom are still
there in any translation.  Some readers will realize that it is not a
human literary effort at all, that it is exceedingly unlikely that an
illiterate and uneducated man, the Unlettered Prophet, produced
this remarkable Book of such incomparable power, beauty and
majesty.

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

CHAPTER 2

THE CENTRAL MESSAGES OF THE
QUR’ÁN



There are many items that could be included here.  These
are just some that seemed to the writer to be of value to modern
readers to give a feel for what the Qur’án is about.  The
messages concerning fighting and war are reserved for the
chapter after this entitled "War and Fighting".


Unless otherwise indicated, all quotations in this chapter
are from N.J. Dawood's translation of the Qur’án into modern
English.

The Holy Qur’án is From God (Alláh) Through the
Angel Gabriel To Muhammad


The Qur’án is a record of the words that the angel
Gabriel commanded Muhammad to speak.  These words claim
their source as God Himself, Who is called Alláh in Arabic.
"Al-láh" means "the (one) God".  "God" is the English
translation of "Alláh".

Some, confused by words, imagine that giving a
different name to something renders it different.  Whether the
sun is called "sol", "ilanga", "soleil", "shams", "Sonn" or "sun",
it is still the sun.  Putting a different label on it doesn't change
what it is.  Similarly, calling the Supreme Being by various
names in different languages doesn't change that one Supreme
Being in any way.  Some maintain that having the name "Alláh"

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
makes this Creator different from the God known to Christians
and others.  This, of course, is absurd.  So, N.J. Dawood simply
translates "al-láh", the God, as "God".

"This Koran could not have been devised by
any but God.  It confirms what was revealed
before it and fully explains the Scriptures.  It is
beyond doubt from the Lord of the Universe."
(Jonah, 10:37)

That is, it confirms that what was revealed to Abraham, Moses,
Jesus and many other Prophets of God, and it explains certain
matters that had confused the followers of the religions of these
Prophets.


The quote above is from the Chapter entitled “Jonah”
(the one swallowed by the whale).  Each Chapter is one session
of revelation through Muhammad.  These Chapters are usually
ordered with the longest first and the shortest at the end.  So this
quote from the Chapter Jonah is the tenth chapter of this usual
ordering.  Each Chapter is divided into verses.  These verses are
usually numbered.  So that quote above is in the 37th verse of
the 10th Chapter named "Jonah" of the Qur’án.  By looking
along the side of the pages of most translations of the Qur’án
one can find the numbering of the Chapters and verses, making a
verse easy to locate.  Some of the verse numbers shown here
may be off by one or two since the publication used mostly here
(Dawood's) does not show where verses begin.  The numbers
here are just a guide to help a reader find a quote.

"This Book is revealed by God, the Mighty,
the Wise One.  We have revealed to you the
Book with the Truth: therefore serve God and
worship none but Him."  (The Hordes, 39:1)

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
If the Qur’án Was Not from God, Men Could Have
Found Many Contradictions in It

"Will they not ponder on the Koran?  If it had
not come from God, they could have surely
found in it many contradictions." (Women, 4:82)

There Is Only One God


Throughout the Qur’án there is a persistent emphasis on
there being one God.  The story of Abraham, born into a
Mesopotamian Chaldean society that worshipped many gods by
means of idols, taught that these idols and gods were merely
human creations, that there is only one God Who is the Creator
and Lord of the Universe.   Aside from some people in India,
Africa and a few other parts of the world, few people still
worship idols and think in terms of many gods – though we see
some remnants of this in the Catholic Church in the adoration of
Mary and saints, and appeals to them through statues of them –
so for most modern people it would seem puzzling why there
should be such emphasis on there being only one God.  But the
people of the Arabian Peninsula of Muhammad's time were
quite thoroughly idolatrous and worshipped many gods.  Some
of the goddesses early Arabs turned to were believed by them to
be the daughters of God.


Abraham went into the temple where the idols were in
his town (Ur) and smashed them all except for the one
representing the main God, the God, Al-láh.  This justice
reminds one of Jesus driving out the money-lenders and
salespeople from the Temple of Jerusalem.  For his adamant
insistence on there being only one God to worship, he was
driven out of his land in Mesopotamia and went through what
are today Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
In the Arabian Peninsula, at Mecca,  he built the first Temple for

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
the worship of the one God.  This is the Ka'bah (cube), the Holy
House, which is the central object of Pilgrimage for Muslims.

"The first temple ever to be built for men was
that at Bakkah (Mecca), a blessed site, a beacon
for the nations.  In it there are veritable signs and
the spot where Abraham stood.  Whoever enters
it is safe.  Pilgrimage to the House is a duty to
God for all who can make the journey...."  (The
'Imráns, 3:96)


Those who make a Prophet equivalent to God, or who
add other gods or idols to God are said to be "joining partners
with God".

Muhammad Is Only An Apostle


If you turn on a radio and hear an announcer giving the
news, you probably  understand that this news is not coming
from the radio itself, that it is just relaying what that announcer
is saying in the radio studio far away.  Many different radios can
"reveal" the words of the one announcer who is unseen by the
radio's listeners.  Similarly, Muhammad is a Prophet of God, a
Messenger of God, the Apostle of God, who conveys the Voice
of God but who is not God Himself.  The words of the Qur’án do
not come from Muhammad, even though he is speaking those
words – just as the words of the announcer one hears on the
radio do not come from the radio itself.  In the case of divine
revelation, there is only one "radio" with this perfect reception
present at a time, and it appears with its announcement only
rarely in history.


There is much emphasis in the Qur’án on Muhammad
being only an apostle, a messenger.  This is possibly in response
to the tendency of believers in earlier religions such as

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
Christianity to make the Prophet of God almost equivalent to
God Himself, or even identical to Him.  The fervently defensive
efforts of many Christians to fend off Islám and possibly other
Faiths may have resulted in emphasizing one Christian
philosophy's insistence that Jesus was in fact God Himself (with
most bizarre logic and a puzzling refusal to acknowledge clear
statements by Jesus that he was not, that he could do only what
His Father in heaven instructed him to do).  In Islám this
equating of the Prophets with God is blasphemy.  We will see
later how the Qur’án very strongly repudiates this notion.

"Muhammad is no more than an apostle: other
apostles have passed away before him."  (The
'Imráns, 3:144)

Oneness of God's Messengers/Prophets


If there is only one God, then it is reasonable that there is
only one true Religion of God.  Why would one God create
many different conflicting religions?  Why would He be in
competition with Himself?  And this means that the many
different Prophets of God who appear at different times in
different parts of the world are all part of one great divine
Process designed to educate and train humankind.  This one
Religion of God has many different revelations, each with its
own name, occurring one after the other, just as a school has a
number of different teachers with different names teaching
different grades, yet all teaching part of one curriculum.  A
teacher teaches only what is appropriate for the grade of the
students.  To teach spherical trigonometry and calculus to first
grade students, who must learn addition and subtraction, would
not work any more than would teaching addition and subtraction
to those working towards advanced degrees in mathematics.
Each new revelation adds more of this great Curriculum of God
to the students of Earth.  Learning calculus does not mean that

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
what one learned in arithmetic is no longer true.  It just adds to
the truth.  And the inability of first graders to grasp the truth of
calculus doesn't mean that only the arithmetic they understand is
true.  There is only one Truth, one great Religion of God –
because there is only one God – but most of the Truth is far
beyond us.  So each revelation adds some more, as much as we
can take at any time.  This is reminiscent of Jesus Christ's
statement:

"I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye
cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when he, the
Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all
truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but
whatsoever he shall hear, {that} shall he speak:
and he will shew you things to come.  He shall
glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall
shew {it} unto you."  (Bible, John 16:12-14)


Many differences we find among the religions are due to
misunderstanding, to human corruptions of the meaning of the
revelations of God, and to human additions to what the Creator
has revealed.  In the Holy Books we don't find any competition
or essential differences between the religions and their Founders
or Prophets.  Jesus promoted the Old Testament of the Bible,
which includes the Holy Book of the Jews, the Pentateuch or
Torah.  He confirmed the divine missions of such Prophets as
Abraham and Moses as well as the reality of lesser prophets
such as Daniel and Isaiah.  Similarly, in the Qur’án there is
repeated reference to the divine station of Jesus and the old
Prophets of Judaism.  The Qur’án glorifies both Jesus and Mary
(though Mary was not a Prophet).


The disputes are between the followers of these
religions, not between their Founders or Prophets.  Though
some Muslims and Hindus of the same Indian racial background

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
be at each others' throats and glorify in murdering each other,
Muhammad and Krishna are in the utmost harmony and
agreement.  Again, there is one God, and therefore one Religion
of God.  And this one Religion of God is taught to us by different
Teachers of God, the Prophets or Messengers or Apostles of
God, each of whom teaches us more about this one Religion of
God.  There is a great wisdom in changing the name of each
revelation so that there is a new name for it each time –
otherwise we humans couldn't be tested to see who really
recognize God and who just follow names, labels and human
leaders.  Each revelation brings a Day of Judgement too!


Here is a story that expresses the basic idea of this
progressive revelation of God's one Religion.  Once there was a
dark cave in which a group of people had been trapped for a long
time.  Feeling pity for these people stumbling about in the
darkness, the Master of the Cave brought a Lamp and put it in
the center of the large cavern room in which these people were.
He called the lamp Moses.  Light shone out to every corner of
that room.  Those who were near to this lamp opened their eyes.
They were so thrilled by it that they excitedly told those around
them, "Open your eyes!  We can see now!  We don't have to
stumble around blindly in this cave any longer."   Soon many
opened their eyes and began to live a better life due to this Light.
So great was their adoration that some of them began to hammer
out small gold trinkets to hang on the Lamp.  Others made silver
trinkets.  Yet others draped the Lamp in a beautiful green silk
adornment.  And some covered it with red silk cover.  After a
time, all these additions by the people of the cave had covered
up the Lamp to such a degree that its Light no longer shone out.
And the oil in the Lamp ran out too.   Because it was dark again,
the people of the cave closed their eyes.   Those who loved the
gold ornaments felt these with their fingers and insisted that this
was the true Lamp.  Those who added the silver trinkets
maintained that these silver trinkets they worshipped were the

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
true Lamp of God.  The same applied to those with the green
silks and red silks.  Each worshipping different items that they
had placed their with their own hands, they began to fight and
argue again.  These additions and adornments are like the
philosophies, doctrines, theologies and additions that humans
add to God's Religion.


The Master of the Cave returned to see his people back
in their original condition again.  So He took the Lamp, picked it
up, and gave it a great shaking.  All the manmade trinkets, silks
and other adornments fell off.  Then He added new oil that burns
even more brightly, relit it, and the original Light shone out once
again.  Though it was the same Light as had shone before, He
decided to give the Lamp a new name, Christ, this time because
if He gave it the same name it had before, the blind ones who
loved the gold trinkets would think that the new Lamp was about
those gold trinkets, and the ones who loved the green silks
would think that the Lamp was about their green silks.   Again,
those who were near the Lamp began to open their eyes and see
the Light.  They realized there was no need to be arguing and
fighting over the Lamp.  It was just one Lamp.  Again, they
urged those around them to open their eyes and see the Light.
Some would reply:  "Light?  What does it feel like?  How heavy
is it?  Is it like those wonderful gold trinkets I used to know?"
"No, no!", the others would answer, "It's not material like that.
It's Light.  You need to open your eyes to know about it!"  And
soon many opened their eyes to realize that they no longer had to
fight over the Lamp and stumble about in the darkness of the
cave.


On and on it goes.  The Master of the Cave comes down
now and again to shake the Lamp free of human additions, add
new oil and relight that Lamp.  It's one Lamp, one Religion of
God.  This story isn't a perfect analogy for what actually
happens.  Each new revelation abrogates old social laws and

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
teachings and brings new ones.  But it does convey the idea that
there is just one Religion of God that is periodically renewed.


The Qur’án verifies the prophethood of a very large
number of men of God – Prophets such as Húd, Sálih, Shu'aib,
Idrís (Enoch or Hermes Trismegistus, the Father of Philosophy),
Noah, Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph and Moses.  It
also confirms the divine bestowals on David and Solomon.

"Say:  'We believe in God and that which is
revealed to us; in what was revealed to Abraham,
Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob and the tribes; to Moses
and Jesus and the other prophets by their Lord.
We make no distinction among any of them, and
to God we have surrendered ourselves.' " (The
Cow, 2:137)

Many statements in the Qur’án begin with the command, "Say".
This is the angel Gabriel telling Muhammad what to say.  It
reminds the reader that Muhammad is not making this up, that
he is saying what he is told to say, that it is from God – otherwise
Muhammad could have left out this instruction to him.

"We have revealed Our will to you as We
revealed it to Noah and to the prophets who came
after him; as We revealed it to Abraham,
Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, and the tribes; to Jesus,
Job, Jonah, Aaron, Solomon and David, to whom
We gave the Psalms.  Of some apostles We have
already told you, but there are others of whom
We have not yet spoken (God spoke directly to
Moses): apostles who brought good news to
mankind and admonished them, so that they
might have no pleas against God after their

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
coming. God is mighty and wise."  (Women,
4:163)  [emphasis mine]

"And tell of Our servants Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob: men of might and vision whom We made
pure with the thought of the hereafter.  They shall
dwell with us among the righteous whom We
have chosen.
"And of Ishmael, Elisha, and Dhul-Kifl
[Dawood: probably Ezekiel], who were all just
men." (Sád, 38:45)

"And [tell] of Idrís: he, too, was a saint and a
prophet, whom We hounoured and exalted.

Idrís = Enoch = Hermes Trismegistus was probably the
Founder of the Sabaean religion to which reference is made in
the Qur’án.  (This is the Enoch in the seventh generation after
Adam, not Adam’s son.) He is also believed by some to be the
founder of philosophy as we know it and is called "The Father of
Philosophy".  The secrets of His knowledge are said to have
been deciphered by Apollonius, or Balínús, and from there
many other philosophers gained much of their knowledge.


In view of this remarkable harmony between the major
revelations of that part of the world, one wonders at the
incredible hostility that exists between their followers today.
Here is an abridged sample of the stories told in the Qur’án
about the Prophets of old:

"Long ago, We sent forth Noah to his people.
He said: 'Serve God, my people, for you have no
god but Him.  Beware the torment of a fateful
day.'

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
"But the elders of his people said:  'We can see
that you are in palpable error.'
" 'I am not in error, my people,' he replied. 'I
am sent forth by the Lord of the Universe to
make known to you my Lord's will and to give
you friendly counsel, for I know that an
admonition should come to you from your Lord
through a mortal like yourselves, and that He
should warn you, so that you may keep from evil
and be shown mercy.'
"They did not believe him. So We saved him
and all who were with him in the Ark, and
drowned those that denied Our revelations.
Surely they were blind men.

"And to the tribe of 'Ad We sent their
compatriot Húd.  He said: 'Serve God, my
people, for you have no god but Him.  Will you
not guard yourselves against evil?'
"The unbelievers among the elders of his tribe
said: 'We can see you are a foolish man, and,
what is more, we think that you are lying.'
"Foolish, I am not, my people,' he replied.  'I
am sent forth by the Lord of the Universe to
make known to you His will and to give you
honest counsel.  Do you think it strange that an
admonition should come to you from your Lord
through a mortal like yourselves and that he
should warn you?  Remember that He has made
you the heirs of Noah's people and endowed you
with greater power than He has given to other
men.  Remember the favours of God, so that you
may proper.'
"They said:  'Would you have us serve God
only and renounce the gods which our fathers

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
worshipped?  Bring down the scourge you
threaten us with, if what you say be true.'
"He answered: 'Your Lord's punishment and
wrath have already visited you.  Would you
dispute with me about mere names which you
and your fathers have invented, and for which
God has revealed no sanction?  Wait if you will; I
too am waiting.'
"We delivered him and those who were with
him through Our mercy, and annihilated those
that disbelieved Our revelations.  They were
unbelievers all.
...
"And Lot, who said to his people:  'Will you
persist in these indecent acts which no other
nation has committed before you?  You lust after
men instead of women.  Truly, you are a
degenerate people.'
"His people's only answer was: 'Banish them
from your city.  They are men who would keep
chaste.'
"We delivered him and all his kinsfolk, except
his wife, who stayed behind, and let loose a
shower upon them.  Consider the fate of the
evil-doers. [surely a reference to the destruction
of Sodom and Gomorrah.]
...

"Whenever We sent a prophet to a city We
afflicted
its
people
with
calamities
and
misfortunes so that they might abase themselves.
Then We changed adversity to good fortune, so
that in the hour of prosperity they said:  'Our
fathers also had their sorrows and their joys.'

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
And in their heedlessness We suddenly smote
them.
"Had the people of those cities believed and
kept from evil, We would have showered upon
them riches from heaven and earth.  But they
disbelieved, and We punished them for their
misdeeds.
...

"After those We sent forth Moses with Our
signs to Pharaoh and his chieftains, but they too
disbelieved them.  Consider the fate of the
evil-doers. [Then follows a long story concerning
Moses and Pharaoh's sorcerers, the escape of
Moses' people, and the destruction of Pharaoh
and his people.] (The Heights, 7:59f)


Aside from the corruptions and additions humans make
to God's Faiths, there are differences in the social teachings in
each religion.  These are due to the varying requirements of the
people and times.  As stated, what a first grader needs to learn is
different from what a tenth grader should learn.  But it's all one
School of God with one Curriculum, one Truth, that is gradually
unfolded and progressively revealed.  Moses and Muhammad
needed to lay down strict laws required for the establishment of
order in primitive tribal conditions in the desert.  There is
certainly good sense in forbidding the eating of pork in the
sweltering desert where no refrigeration or other means of
preservation is available in order to avoid problems such as
trichinosis.  And there could be other reasons too, of which we
are now unaware, for why an all-knowing God would forbid
pork.  Moses and Muhammad could hardly explain the technical
details of all this to an ignorant and immature people; these
Prophets of old simply commanded their followers not to eat
pork.  And there are many other social teachings that are

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
required at the time that are appropriate to the people to whom
they come.  These will be different in each situation.


In contrast to these changing social situations and needs,
there are the more stable and unchanging spiritual laws brought
by all the Prophets – the commands to be fair and righteous, to
be truthful and honest, to pray to God with all one's heart and so
on.

The Divine Mission of Jesus


There is a Chapter, the 19th chapter, of the Qur’án,
entitled "Mary", that tells the story of Mary in some detail and
glorifies both Jesus and Mary.  One interesting part is that it
recounts how Jesus taught even as a baby in his cradle.  Here are
some other quotes concerning Jesus that correct some mistaken
notions of certain Christians concerning monkhood and
monasticism, the Trinity, the Sonship of Jesus, and the identity
of Jesus with God.  Mention is also made of some the miracles
that occurred through Jesus.

"We gave him ['Jesus, the son of Mary'] the
Gospel, and put compassion and mercy in the
hearts of his followers.  As for monasticism, they
instituted it themselves (for We had not enjoined
it on them), seeking thereby to please God; but
they did not observe it faithfully.  We rewarded
only those who were true believers; for many of
them were evil-doers." (Iron, 57:26)

"One day God will gather all the apostles and
ask them: 'How were you received?' They will
reply: 'We have no knowledge. You alone know
what is hidden.'  God will say: 'Jesus, son of
Mary, remember the favour I have bestowed on

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
you and on your mother: how I strengthened you
with the Holy Spirit, so that you preached to men
in your cradle and in the prime of manhood; how
I instructed you in the Book and in wisdom, in
the Torah and in the Gospel; how by My leave
you fashioned from clay the likeness of a bird
and breathed into it so that, by My leave, it
became a living bird; how, by My leave, you
healed the blind man and the leper, and by My
leave restored the dead to life, how I protected
you from the Israelites when you had come to
them with clear signs: when those of them who
disbelieved declared: 'This is but plain sorcery';
how when I enjoined the disciples to believe in
Me and in My apostle they replied: 'We believe;
bear witness that we submit.'
" 'Jesus, son of Mary,' said the disciples, 'can
your Lord send down to us from heaven a table
spread with food?'
"He replied: 'Have fear of God, if you are true
believers.'
" 'We wish to eat of it,' they said, 'so that we
may reassure our hearts and know that what you
said to us is true, and that we may be witnesses of
it.'
" 'Lord,' said Jesus, the son of Mary, 'send
down to us from heaven a table spread with food,
that it may mark a feast for us and for those that
will come after us: a sign from You.  Give us our
sustenance; You are the best provider.'
"God replied: 'I am sending one to you.  But
whoever of you disbelieves hereafter shall be
punished.'

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
"Then God will say: 'Jesus, son of Mary, did
you ever say to mankind: "Worship me and my
mother as gods besides God?" '
" 'Glory to You,' he will answer, 'how could I
ever say that to which I have no right?  If I had
ever said so You would have surely known it.
You know what is in my mind, but I know not
what is in Yours.  You alone know what is
hidden.  I told them only what You bade me.  I
said:  "Serve God, my Lord and your Lord." ' ... "
(The Table, 5:111f)

"People of the Book [Christians and Jews], do
not transgress the bounds of your religion.  Speak
nothing but the truth about God.  The Messiah,
Jesus the son of Mary, was no more than God's
apostle and His Word which He cast to Mary: a
spirit from Him.  So believe in God and His
apostles and do not say: 'Three.'  Forbear, and it
shall be better for you.  God is but one God.  God
forbid that He should have a son!  ..." (Women,
4:171)

This shows how the Qur’án strongly refutes the notions
of the Trinity [three gods in one:  Father, Son and Holy Ghost],
of Jesus literally being God's son and equivalent to God
Himself.  The Bible by itself is sufficient to show this quite
clearly.  Notions about the Trinity form no part at all of Christ's
teachings and seem to have been introduced from the religions
and philosophies extant at the time such as Mithraism,
Manichaeism, versions of Sabaeanism, Diana/Artemis worship,
and Alexandrian Greek philosophy.  (Many of the ceremonials,
sacraments, dress, priestly hierarchy, customs and trappings of
the Catholic and Orthodox Christian Churches entered from
these and other earlier popular Roman religions of the time.)

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án


This is most unfortunate since it was such extraneous
ideas that were the issues of dispute that divided Christianity
thus irreparably injuring it.  How interesting that non-Christian
teachings in Christianity were the cause of the divisions within
Christianity that damaged the spirit and power of that Faith so
horribly, rendering it incapable of truly making our world a
peaceful place.  What fruit can come from a once-living Tree of
God that has been hacked into many pieces at the hands of
foolish followers?   That blessed Tree once planted in our world
through Jesus Christ has now been cut up into thousands of
pieces.  How many sects and denominations there are, each
claiming to be the correct one!


As they say today, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to
figure these things out.  One simply needs to read and digest
what one reads in the Bible free of prejudice and the influence of
those who wish to do your thinking for you – though this often
doesn't qualify as thinking.  Indoctrination and prejudice blind
the heart and mind so that they can no longer reason and see the
whole picture.  Such blindness of heart and mind enable even the
most scholarly of people to be able to completely ignore
statements that are blatantly obvious to others while focusing on
just those that support what they wish to believe.

"Jesus cried and said,  'He that believeth on
me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.'
" (Bible, John 12:44)

" 'For I have not spoken of myself; but the
Father which sent me, he gave me a
commandment, what I should say, and what I
should speak.' " (John 12:49)

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
"And he [Jesus] said unto him, 'Why callest
thou me good? {there is} none good but one,
{that is}, God ... ' " (Matthew 9:17)

How can one reconcile such statements and so many
others like these by Jesus Christ Himself with the unsupported
claims of religious leaders that Jesus is God, and that Mary is
"the mother of God"?  Nowhere does He equate Himself with
God!  Or claim that His mother is God's mother.  What patent
irrationality and willful blindness!  What arrogant insolence
before God to add such unreasonable things to God's pure
revelation!  Imagine thinking that the infinite Creator is no more
than a mere superman who came from a mother he did not
create!  Is Mary the Creator?  God gave us these minds as
precious gifts.  This mind is what distinguishes us from the
animals.  Surely the Creator meant us to use the minds he gave
us and not just shut them down in the name of faith.  True faith is
not ignorant and blind.  And yet we find so many carrying on
with such insulting and belittling references to their Creator,
claiming the infinite, self-subsisting and unknowable Supreme
Being has a mother, an equal, a son.  This, from those who claim
to believe in Jesus' words as recorded in the Gospels as the Word
of God!  That anyone can accept such ungodly statements as true
is proof positive that many minds have been shut down and
ceased to think.


Such unreasonableness should form no part of religion;
there is nothing whatsoever in Christ's teachings, or the Bible in
general, to support it.  A faith built on sound reason, clear vision
and deep understanding is grossly preferable to the ignorant
blind faith that misleaders have claimed is a sign of true belief
and devotion.  As Jesus prophesied,  the blind lead the blind into
the ditch.

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
"But he [Jesus] answered and said, 'Every plant,
which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall
be rooted up.  Let them [Jewish Pharisees or
priests] alone: they be blind leaders of the blind.
And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into
the ditch.' " (Bible, Matthew, 15:13-14)

The authority of the Qur’án emphasizes what should be
obvious to anyone who can read the Bible with an open, thinking
and unprejudiced mind and heart.


According to the Qur’án, Jesus foretold the coming of
Muhammad.

"And [tell] of Jesus the son of Mary, who said
to the Israelites: 'I am sent forth to you from God
to confirm the Torah already revealed, and to
give news of an apostle that will come after me
whose name is Ahmad [another name of
Muhammad, meaning 'The Praised One'].' "
(Battle Array, 61:5)

Some interpret the Biblical prophecies of the coming of
the "Comforter" or "Paraclete" to be a reference to Muhammad.


Concerning the miracles that Jesus did:  many doubt
them and say that such things are not in accord with science.  In
fact, it is science that has brought about many technological
advances that would certainly be regarded as miracles by the
people of older times.  We even call them "miracles of science"
now.  Flying in an airplane would seem miraculous to the people
of just a couple of centuries ago.  Planes fly not because they
break the laws of physics to overcome gravity but because they
take advantage of these laws in new and unexpected ways.  And
what about "miracle drugs" that so quickly remove certain

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
ailments or symptoms?  If we could use a time machine to bring
a group of Isrealites of Jesus' time to our current time and show
them our airports, our factories, our hospitals full of fancy
devices, our nearly instant worldwide communication, our
televisions and telephones, and our astronauts flying to the
moon in spacecraft, they would think it miraculous.


We don't know that the miracles performed by Jesus
were contrary to the laws of science that we understand now; we
know only that we are not now able to do such things.  If the
Creator is the source of the rules by which our world works, then
He can probably do what we cannot through His Prophets.  If
one can create galaxies with suns and planets, one of which has
produced life that has culminated in us humans, then
materializing a table full of food and breathing life into a clay
bird and making a baby speak wisdom might be easy tasks.  But
for those who imagine that the laws of physics and logic, and a
realm of space, time and matter exist independently of a Creator,
that they "just are", that they are prior to a Creator and that such
a Creator is limited by the condtions of both what He did not
create as well as by what He did create (what confusion! what a
belittling of the Creator!), then of course there will be problems
coming to grips with the notion that what we don't expect and
are not accustomed to might happen through a superior power
implemented only rarely during the appearance of the Prophets
of God.  Unexpected, amazing and beyond our current
comprehension of science and the laws of nature?  Yes!  Against
the laws of science by which the Creator creates and maintains
His universe?  No!

"He [Jesus, Mary's son] is a portent of the Hour
of Doom." (Ornaments of Gold,  43:61)

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
This was added in preparation for the quotes concerning
the Hour of Doom, the Catastrophe, the Last Day, the Day of
Judgement, the Resurrection.



Glorification and Praise of Mary


Though Mary is not a Prophet or Messenger of God (and
hardly the mother and source of the Creator), it is very
remarkable how many pages of the Qur’án are devoted to her,
how much praise is lavished on her.  Jesus is usually referred to
as "son of Mary".  We quote only a small part of this.

"And remember the angels' words to Mary.
They said:  'God has chosen you.  He has made
you pure and exalted you above womankind.
Mary, be obedient to your Lord; bow down and
worship with the worshippers.'
"This is an account of a divine secret.  We
reveal it to you [Muhammad].  You were not
present when they cast lots to see which of them
should have charge of Mary; nor were you
present when they argued about her.
"The angels said to Mary: 'God bids you
rejoice in a word from Him.  His name is the
Messiah, Jesus the son of Mary.  He shall be
noble in this world and in the hereafter, and shall
be favoured by God.  He shall preach to men in
his cradle and in the prime of manhood, and shall
lead a righteous life.'
" 'Lord,' she said, 'how can I bear a child when
no man has touched me?'
"He replied: 'Such is the will of God.  He
creates whom He will.  When He decrees a thing

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
He need only say: "Be," and it is.'  ... "  (The
'Imráns, 3:43f)

Islám - Submission, Surrender


The name of the religion brought through Muhammad is
" 'Islám".  This means "submission" or "surrender".  The aim of
the Qur’án is that we humans should submit to God's Will – not
for God's benefit but for our own benefit.


When the Spanish first arrived on horseback in the
Southwest of the USA, the indigenous original Americans
("Indians") believed man and animal to be one large creature,
like a camel with a human hump, and ran away terrified.  They
were unable to distinguish between the human rider and the
animal on which he rode.  We humans often have a similar
difficulty in distinguishing between the animal nature of our
bodies and the human spirit that "rides" on it through this life.


If we move through time from those early days to the
past couple of centuries, we find the cowboys of that same
region of the American Southwest attending competitions called
rodeos.  One of the major parts of a rodeo is where cowboys try
to ride wild, bucking unbroken horses as long as they can.  It's a
very dangerous sport and can result in serious injuries to the
cowboy.  In this case there is little trouble distinguishing the
cowboy from the animal he rides;  the two are soon separated.


The pain and trouble involved in trying to ride a bucking
bronco is because the lower animal is in control of the higher
human trying to ride it.  When the lower is in charge of the
higher, chaos and trouble result.  When the lower part of our
being, the animal nature of our bodies with all its instincts, urges
and drives, dominates the higher part of us, then confusion,
disturbance, disorder and pain rule our lives.  This is also what

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
we see in our world in general – because the lower nature of so
many, particularly the leaders, is in charge of the higher truly
human nature.  (Please remember:  this isn't preaching to you;
it's an attempt to try to offer a rationale for the concept of
submission so central to Islám.)


When a wise parent or teacher tries to train and
discipline a young child, the result is not rarely a defiant and
rebellious resistance to being subdued – just like a wild horse
resisting being controlled by a cowboy mounted on it.  The same
is true when God sends a revelation to the immature in our world
– and we've been immature for thousands of years.  The child
and adolescent both rebel and resist being subdued.  As noted
above in the Qur’án's stories of the reception we humans have
given to God's Messengers and Prophets, we didn't want to
submit, to be suddued, tamed and trained.  We resisted fiercely,
like a bucking bronco.  And the results were disastrous.


When the intelligent cowboy finally "breaks" the horse,
when the horse finally submits to the will of that human trying to
tame and train it, then the relationship between the cowboy and
the horse, the human and the animal, changes radically.  The
horse is fed, cared for and loved by the cowboy.  The horse
submits to the cowboy's will and goes wherever the cowboy
directs it.  In return it is treated with the greatest care and
tenderness.  A new relationship develops between the intelligent
human and the submissive animal he rides.  When the higher is
in charge of the lower, then order, peace and productive results
follow.  The chaos, confusion, pain and trouble that exist when
the lower dominated the higher gives way to a far more beautiful
and fruitful development.


When humans learn to distinguish between the animal
nature of the body and the divine nature of the human spirit that
rides this animal in us, then we can begin to exercise the powers

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
of the higher part of us so that it can eventually dominate the
lower part of us.  We become more "civilized" and fruitful.  This
doesn't mean that the lower part is killed or injured; rather, it's
"broken", tamed and trained.


The spirit of the Qur’án is to tame and train the lower
nature of humans so that we can grow and develop as we were
designed to do.   The aim is to get us, like the wild horse, to
submit to a Higher Will, so that the higher will in us will
dominate the lower animal will in us in order that the best in us
will come forth.  Sometimes the cowboy has to be very firm,
stern and persistent in breaking and taming the wild horse.
Similarly, the Voice of God, speaking through the Qur’án 1400
years ago to rebellious and immature humans, had to be forceful,
stern and persistent – just like a father disciplining and training
his wayward child.  The idea is that an all-knowing and all-wise
Creator Who designed every aspect of us and this world we live
in surely knows better than we do what is best for our
development.


God is really speaking in such strong language to the
wild animal and selfish ego in us, the rebellious part of us that
isn't the real us at all.  To our true higher human nature, He can
speak more gently and wisely.  But so long as our consciousness
is focused in that animal in us rather than in our highest nature
that is still asleep, then that is what must be spoken to in terms
that lower part can understand.  It is only the higher human spirit
that continues life into the "next world" that the Qur’án speaks
of.  We get off the horse and continue free of it after death.  So
God speaks sternly to a rebellious animal part that isn't the real
human.  When we finally come to realize that we are not these
bodies, that we are not animals, that we are actually human
spirits riding on these animal bodies through this life, then we
realize that God is not speaking harshly and fiercely to us; He's
saying those stern things to the animal on which we ride, hoping

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
to get us to tame and train it to submit, so that our real self, the
human spirit, will prosper and develop well.  But most don't
realize that they are not their bodies, that they are not the animal
in them.  The illusions of materialism fool them into thinking
that they are their bodies, that the rider and the horse are one
being, just as the early indigenous Americans believed.


When the body dies, the intangible human soul no longer
rides it.  It continues to live without such a body.  We are not
these bodies.  They are the vehicles we drive through life – while
we're awake and alive.  During sleep and after death we get out
of these vehicles and function without them.  So death is not the
death of our human spiritual reality, the true and real human
identity; death is the dying off of the vehicle we drive through
life.

"Nay, but as when one layeth
His worn-out robes away,
And, taking new ones, sayeth,
'These will I wear to-day!'
So putteth by the spirit
Lightly its garb of flesh,
And passeth to inherit
A residence afresh."
(Hindu Holy Book, Bhagavad-Gita, Chapter 2)


Our growth and development in this life occur through
our struggle to break, tame and train this animal mount, this
vehicle.  The soul grows in strength through this struggle.  The
weightlifter gets strong because he struggles against the
resistance of gravity that pulls the weights downwards.  The
spiritual exerciser gets strong by struggling against the
downward pull of the animal he rides through life.  The human
spirit pulls upwards while the animal spirit pulls downwards.
Just as the fruitful tree grows up against the opposing force of

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
gravity, so also does the real human grow upwards against the
opposing force of the animal kingdom it rides.  The religions of
God have a major purpose in helping the soul develop with
strength by giving instructions as to how to break, tame and train
this animal so that when we leave it at the time of death, we will
continue with strength and freedom.


Whoever doesn't gain this strength and power, who
remains the helpless victim of the animal he rides through the
mistaken illusion that he is the animal, will certainly experience
tremendous remorse at having let the animal he rides dominate
him, leaving him weak and helpless.


The spirit of the Qur’án, and of the other Holy Books
that are somewhat in harmony with God's revelations, is to tame
the wild and immature animal and ego within us so that our
souls, our true realities, will rise with strength, power and
freedom at the conclusion of this earthly training session.  The
wise coach pushes his athletes hard, even putting weights and
other handicaps on them so that when they enter the competition
without these handicaps, they win easily.  The athlete that does
best is the one that submits to the instructions of his coach and
trainer.  The athlete that doesn't submit ends up losing when the
final competition arrives.  Islám is submission – for our own
lasting benefit.

"Nay, — whoever submits His whole self to
Alláh and is a doer of good, — He will get his
reward with his Lord; on such shall be no fear,
nor shall they grieve. (Yusuf 'Ali translation, The
Cow, 2:112)

"Indeed, those that surrender themselves to
God and do good works shall be rewarded by

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
their Lord: they shall have nothing to fear or to
regret. (Dawood translation, The Cow, 2:112)


Submission is also a major theme of much of the various
parts of Hinduism.  The word "Yoga" means "yoke".
Westerners think of Yoga primarily as the part that deals with
physical health, but there is much more.  The true follower of
Yoga is "yoked", like oxen, so as to submit to a higher will.


There is a very subtle difference between one Western
view of submitting to God's Will and one Eastern Muslim view
of this.  Perhaps it can be hinted at in the following.  The
Western follower of religion, accustomed to individualism and
personal initiative, prays:  "O God! Please help me with my plan
to help Your Cause!".  The Eastern follower of religion says:  "O
God!  Please help me with Your Plan to help Your Cause!
(Make me an instrument of Your will.)"   The first maintains a
full sense of self and ego in God's service while the second
submits and tries to become a selfless tool, an instrument, of the
Higher Will.  But it would be unfair to say that many Christians
do not also ask that God use them as He wishes and direct them
as He pleases.


The remainder of this section is for those who are
interested in carrying some of the ideas here a little further.
What has been said up to this point is perhaps adequate.  In order
to make this idea simple and not bring confusion through
complication, just two kinds of human self have been described
here:  a higher divine self that is our true reality, and a lower
animal self that is our temporary vehicle in this life.  In reality
it's probably a little more complex than that.  The highest self
meets the lowest self and where the two different realms of
consciousness meet and mix forms a third intermediate kind of
consciousness.  Like two beams of different colors of light
shining on a surface so that there there is an area of intersection

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
where they overlap, three regions with three colors result.
Similarly, the meeting of our true divine nature with the lower
animal nature of the body creates three distinct forms of
consciousness or self.  The lowest animal self might be likened
to the id that Freud described and which dominates in infancy
and childhood.  The intermediate self is the clever and
self-centred ego which, when dominant over the other two forms
of self, results in the appearance of the qualities, attitudes and
behavior of adolescence.  The highest self is something like the
superego Freud referred to which is moved by conscience and
the highest altruistic ideals.  (He was clearly seeing this
superego from the viewpoint of the intelligent ego, otherwise he
wouldn't have called it the superego.  This writer prefers the
term io for this highest self.)  The attributes of calm wisdom,
insight and stability that are characteristic of maturity appear the
moment this highest form of self or consciousness becomes
dominant over the other two.


From this it's clear that both the animal id and
intermediate ego are the lower nature that must eventually be
overcome by the highest nature.  Both of these lower forms of
conscious self are dependent on the animal nature for their
existence.  These are the two that must submit to the true highest
human nature.  Since the ego depends for its existence on our
animal body and nature (even though it also derives its powers
from the highest nature), it's consciousness disappears along
with the purely animal id consciousness when the body dies and
the true human reality is freed to go its way unencumbered by it.
An argument will be made later that Satan or "the Devil" is an
easily-grasped symbol to represent the powers of these lower
natures, animalism and egoism, as they work to hold back the
development of a human towards maturity where the highest
true self becomes dominant.  This needs much more explanation
which will be provided later (particularly in the section dealing
with Jinn, Satan, the Angels, Adam and the Garden of Eden in a

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
later chapter covering  "Other Interesting Matters in the
Qur’án").


There seem to be forms of social organization
appropriate to each stage of this psychological development.
The tribal order that enforces unquestioning conformity suits
collective childhood.  The "civilization" we've known for the
last 6000 years with its diversity of occupations and room for
individualism is appropriate to a society in which the
characteristic traits of adolescence dominate.  And a form of
social order that we have not yet seen, that will be as different
from the civilization we know now as it is different from the
tribal order, will be best suited to human collective maturity in
the days ahead of us.  Of course these stages of psychological
development described here as "childhood, "adolescence" and
"maturity" are not the same as the cultural, chronological and
physical definitions using these same words.   That is, one's age,
stage of physical development and social classification as a
child, youth or adult as recognized by one's culture are not the
same as these psychological stages defined by characteristic
attitudes and behavior.  There are 90-year old men who display
the atributes of children and 12-year olds who seem almost
mature and adult.   Different cultures experience the
psychological stages at different ages and have different criteria
by which they define one's stage.  (African Zulus and Swazis
with whom this writer lived for many years insisted that he was
still umfana, a youth or boy, not indoda, a grown man, even
though he was in his 30s, because he had not yet married.  One is
not a man whose opinions and views are worth listening to in
those cultures until one has a family.)


This point that a particular kind of social structure is
suited to each collective stage of psychological development has
a bearing on the laws and social standards brought with each
revelation of God.  Some revelations were clearly appropriate to

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
the child and the tribal order.  Others, such as Christianity and
Islám seem suited to life in a civilization.  A major world
religion that has appeared since Islám, in the mid 19th century,
that has over six million followers and which, after Christianity,
is the world's most widespread religion, the Bahá’í Faith, makes
a claim to be suited to a stage of human maturity that will appear
in the not too faraway future.  In fact, it claims to a means of
bringing about the "coming of age" of humankind, that first
phase of maturity.  The very remarkable Writings of such a
potent Faith can hardly be ignored here – they arose within the
context of Islámic culture and make frequent reference to the
Qur’án, very aptly explaining so many of its statements.  So,
along with the Holy Books of Judaism, Christianity and
Hinduism, the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith will also be quoted.

The Principle of Purity


A little thought reveals that the attribute of purity is
intimately related to justice.  The Qur’án is much concerned
with justice and purity.  This needs explanation.  Without such
explanation, it's difficult for the average Western person to grasp
the strict demands of the Qur’án to Muslims concerning who
they are to befriend and marry, and the degree to which purity
and holiness are expected of them.  For example, the following
sentence from the Qur’án might seem very unfriendly and
unkind to many from the West.

"Therefore shun those who turn away from
Our Message and desire nothing but the life of
this world."  (Yusuf 'Ali translation, The Star,
53:29)


Purity refers to separation of the components of things so
that the one which is to become pure is free of mixture,
association or connection with all other components –

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
particularly of lower components.  For example, purified gold
ideally has all parts that are not gold removed until only gold
remains.  When we wash our bodies, we are separating the
non-living things such as dirt from the body so that mostly the
living components that are genuinely part of the body remain.


The principle of mercy mixes components together
while the principle of justice separates them.      Mercy lets the
lower rise to a higher position.  Mercy lets the wolf mix with the
sheep while justice separates the two and protects the sheep.  An
illustration of this is appropriate here.  Consider how rocks and
soil tend to fall to the bottom of a body of water while air and
other gases go to the top.  The sun evaporates the water of the
ocean so that its moisture rises up into the air – which is not a
liquid's natural home.  This forms clouds that block out the light
of the very sun that lifted them up through its "mercy".  These
clouds threaten the land with fierce storms full of lightning and
thunder, and finally return "home" through "justice" by falling
as rain and running off in rivers back to the ocean.  Justice
returns the water to its ocean home and establishes purity by
separating the water from the air and the land.


Similarly, consider how the same sun, by creating
differences in the heating of the atmosphere, produces winds
that blow across the land to create dust and sand storms that
darken the sky and make it difficult to see.  Strong currents in the
water also stir up the mud at the bottom of seas, lakes and rivers
to cloud the water and make it difficult to see through it as well.
Mercy can bring temporary confusion, lack of clarity and
disorder because the lower rises and gains control over the
higher – just like the wild bucking horse dominating the higher
intelligent cowboy.


Justice brings about purity that separates the different
components of earth, water and air.  When this purity and

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
separation exists, the sun shines unimpeded, the air is crystal
clear, the water is also quite clear and pure, and all the dirt and
stones are at the bottom.  Order results.  Justice brings purity,
order, clarity.


We spoke earlier of how some humans are like wolves
that tear innocent sheep to pieces and devour them.  God's
attribute of mercy stirs up the world so that those whose natural
home is the lowest condition, rise to higher positions where they
don't really belong – just like the clouds being raised from the
ocean into the air where they block out the sun that raised them.
The lower who are raised by Mercy to a higher position in this
world aren't grateful for this.  Like the clouds, they block out the
very thing that lifted them up.  These lower kinds oppose the
very Source of Mercy that lifted them up.


We look at our world and see that tyrants, bullies,
troublemakers,
mischievous
souls,
corrupt
politicians,
unscrupulous businessmen, wealthy bribers and manipulaters,
selfish brutal chiefs, warlords, corrupt priests and other ungodly
religious leaders, and many others who are "evil" have in
general ruled the human world.  They are like clouds lifted up
through mercy so that they rule over the land and block out the
sun.  The history of divine revelation has been one of religious
leaders, raised up in the world by God's mercy, attacking,
rejecting and crucifying His Prophets and Messengers.
Wherever we look today, and over the past six thousand years of
human history, we see the lowest, the most unworthy, ruling
over the meek, the worthy, the wise, the honest, the altruistic, the
fair, the just.  This is really the product of God's mercy to the
wolves that they rule and control the sheep to a large degree.  In
our stages of immaturity, we cannot take justice, so mercy rules;
and this is the result.  Mercy is milk to the weak and immature;
justice is meat to the strong and mature.

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

In the previous section there was mention of what
happens when the lower is in control of the higher, when nothing
but chaos, destruction and ruin results.  Is it any wonder that
human history has been the story of one war followed by
another.  Many history books are mostly the recounting of one
war or battle after the next – when not telling of the folly of the
powerful and famous.  To many, history is war stories.  The
longest period of peace recorded in any society on Earth was
that amazing reign of three centuries of warless constructive
cooperation that took place in a large part of India after King
Ashoka accepted Buddha and his teachings of peace and
compassion.  King Ashoka said that he had conquered thousands
of others for so many years, that now he would accomplish the
far more difficult job of conquering himself through Buddha's
help.  What an immense outpouring of benefit followed from
that one beautiful act of submission to what was highest and
noblest in him!  What king or other ruler since him has acted
with such wisdom, courage, nobility and humanity?  Aside from
this excellent example, this shining light in a dark world of
foolish leaders, we've been at each other's throats like ravenous
wolves most of this time.  The wolves have been in charge.
Injustice has reigned supreme.  Consequently, chaos, trouble,
suffering, ruin, misery and confusion have filled our world.
This is all the consequence of our having ignored or rebelled
against the excellent advice given to us by our Creator through
His revelations.  The wild unbroken horse has dominated the
intelligent human rider and made it a very rough ride for us over
the past 6000 years!


Perhaps much of this is due to our immaturity, to our still
being in the stages of rebellious adolescence and foolish
childhood.  The lower has been in charge of the higher.  So
chaos, confusion, war, tyranny, trouble and endless ruin have
continually plagued us.  Not long after we go to immense trouble

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
to build up our cities others, or even we ourselves, work to tear
them down.


The principle of justice, however, separates the different
groups and returns each to its "home", to the place where it
really belongs.  Justice puts the wolf where it cannot harm the
sheep.  It returns the fierce stormclouds full of water vapor that
block out the sun to the ocean.  It lets the mud that clouds and
dirties the water settle through peace and tranquility so that it
becomes clear and pure.  What is highest remains pure and
undefiled by what is lower.


This is why, when the principle of justice reigns in our
future maturity "the meek shall inherit the earth".  The most
worthy will rise to the top.  The righteous will rule.  The wise
and intelligent will reign over those who are only clever and
crafty.  Then, order, peace and immense productivity will
appear.  The intelligent cowboy will have broken, tamed and
trained the wild horse of a lower nature and caused it to submit
to what is Higher.


The Qur’án insists that true Muslims must not marry
nonbelievers or associate with and befriend them.  The idea is
separation and purity.  Nonbelievers are not allowed in the
mosques.  To Western ideas conditioned by Christian notions of
love for all, this sounds very unfriendly and unloving.  But if we
look more closely, we find that there are similar exhortations in
Christianity and other Faiths to avoid the companionship of the
ungodly.  This justice brings order and purity to the world.

"Women impure are for men impure, and men
impure for women impure and women of purity
are for men of purity, and men of purity are for
women of purity: these are not affected by what

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
people say: for them there is forgiveness, and a
provision honourable. (Yusuf 'Ali, Light, 24:26)

"Give warning to the hypocrites of a stern
chastisement: those who choose the unbelievers
rather than the faithful for their friends.  Are they
seeking glory at their hands?  Surely all glory
belongs to God."  (Women, 4:137)

"Believers, do not choose the infidels rather
than the faithful for your friends.  Would you
give God a clear proof against yourselves?"
(Women, 4:135)


By itself such justice can become fanatical and harmful.
But when balanced by the more Christian ideals of love for all,
then the optimum good is attained.  Is there a religion
somewhere that balances and harmonizes these two opposed
principles? – that opens the door of friendship and fellowship to
all the peoples and religions of the world and yet moderates this
with a wise restraint in befriending the ungodly and others in a
low condition whose continued association would work to pull
us down?


These points are stated so that the modern Western
reader will not be too quick to judge the Qur’án by the standards
of his or her culture and background.  There's a great wisdom in
balancing separation and purity with friendly association and
love for all.  Consider how the atoms do not come apart to
dissolve into an amorphous mass in order to form molecules.
Rather, they maintain their integrity and purity while they
combine together to form molecules.  Similarly, molecules
maintain their integrity when they form into the cells, tissues
and organs of the human body.  The smaller parts join together
to form larger systems, but without losing their own integrity,

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
order and purity.  We don't have to take apart the family to put
humans into communities.  Cities and towns are not dissolved to
form nation states.  The countries of the world do not have to be
dismantled to become members of a world community.  The
smaller unit maintains its integrity and purity while becoming
part of the next larger unit.


Purity, sanctity and holiness of spirit mean that what is
lower in a person, the selfish and animal nature, is separated
from what is higher, which is the highest self which is the
expression of the divine in a human.  When this true human
nature is refined and purified from what is lower, then, like the
cowboy and the horse, great results are forthcoming.  The laws
and commands of God as expressed in the Qur’án and in other
Holy Writings of other religions are means of purifying a person
from what is lower.  When the person attains to purity and
holiness, it means she or he has purified himself or herself from
the lower nature so that this purified higher nature can act with
great power and effectiveness.  Knowledge and wisdom increase
greatly, and a person's influence in this world becomes great –
even though it might not be seen and acknowledged by most.
The Holy Books are a key to becoming truly human, truly the
master of this animal body on which we ride through life.  We
will speak later of how such purity and holiness also have their
greatest effect in the next life – which the Qur’án explains is the
real life, this life being just a brief preparation and prelude to
that next one.


Those who strive for spirituality know that much of what
they work for can be lost by associating with a person of low
habits and life.  It's as though this ungodly person robs them of
what they've worked for, and they degenerate.  Association with
those in a significantly lower condition of spirit may affect the
lower one to some degree, but the likelihood is much greater that
the lower person will adversely affect the higher one and bring

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
him down.  Poison works faster than nourishing food.  There's a
story about a very good and virtuous man who, sympathizing
with a man who was the slave of alcohol, drugs and a loose life,
appealed to him:  "Come and stay with me for a month.  Perhaps
association with me will change you and make you like me."
The other replied:  "Come and stay with me for just a few days,
and I will make you like me!"


The Qur’án contains many statements concerning the
desire of the unbelievers, the ungodly, to bring down the godly
and pure.   And envy is not rare.  As stated, the power of poison
in destroying the human body works far more quickly and
powerfully than the power of good food to nourish that body.
Fire burns down a house far more quickly and easily than it is
built.  The contagious spirit of rebellion and waywardness works
far more quickly than the influence of a good life – but the latter
is stronger in the long run because the former also works quickly
to destroy itself.  Cancerous cells multiply and spread quickly
through the body; but they also end up killing themselves by
killing the host on which such parasitical cells live.


Hopefully, this will give the reader some feeling for why
Muslims are encouraged to protect themselves against becoming
impure and getting pulled down spiritually by others.   The
actual details of the Qur’án's admonitions to purity and
separation from non-Muslims (infidels) will be dealt with later.
These words are said first, before quoting more from the
Qur’án, so that it will be easier to take them in and not resist
them so much because of seeming strange or too strong.  You'll
notice that there haven't been so many quotes from the Qur’án
yet.  It's been mostly preparation.  Later in this book the quotes
will appear in abundance.  A rain storm starts with a few
scattered drops, and then after that it really pours.

God Controls, Sees, Hears and Knows Everything

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án


The Holy Book of Islám repeatedly conveys the idea that
God is all-powerful, all-seeing, all-hearing and all-knowing, that
nothing whatsoever escapes His knowledge.  He made the entire
creation and He knows every tiny thing in it.

"God created you from dust, then from a little
germ.  Into two sexes He divided you.  No female
conceives or is delivered without His knowledge.
No man grows old or has his life cut short but in
accordance with His decree.  All this is easy
enough for God.  (The Creator, 35:11)

"Say: 'Would you tell God of your religion,
when God knows what the heavens and the earth
contain?  God has knowledge of all things.' "
(The Chambers, 49:16)

"Whether you speak in secret or aloud, He
knows your inmost thoughts." (Sovereignty,
67:13)

The Real Life is the Next One - This Life is Just a Test
and Preparation

"Know that the life of this world is but a sport
and a pastime, a show and an empty vaunt among
you, a quest for greater riches and more children.
It is like the plants that flourish after rain: the
husbandman rejoices to see them grow; but then
they wither and turn yellow, soon becoming
worthless stubble.  In the life to come a woeful
scourge awaits you – or the forgiveness of God
and His pleasure.  The life of this world is but a
vain provision."  (Iron, 57:20)

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

"The life of this world is but a sport and a
pastime.  It is the life to come that is the true life:
if they but knew it."  (The Spider, 29:64)

"We have decked the earth with all manner of
ornaments to test mankind and see who would
acquit himself best.  But We will surely reduce
all that is on it to barren dust."  (The Cave, 18:7)

It's all just a show, a test, a trial, a preparation for the
next real life.  But most are deceived, fooled.  It makes sense that
if this life and world were really important and of great value,
the Creator would not have  allowed the unworthy, the lower
kinds of humans, the wolves, to dominate the world.  That His
mercy during our immaturity allows the lowest to rise to the
highest positions makes it clear that this world is not of great
worth.  This is the realm of the animal, the beast, on which we
ride through this life.

"Woe to those who love this life more than the
life to come; who debar others from the path of
God and seek to make it crooked.  They have
strayed far into error."  (Abraham, 14:2)

"When evil befalls man he calls out to Us; but
when We vouchsafe him a favour from Ourself,
he says, 'It is my due.'    By no means! It is but a
test: yet most men do not know it."  (The Hordes,
39:49)

"Whoever seeks the harvest of the world to
come, to him We will give in great abundance;
and whoever desires the harvest of this world, a

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
share of it shall be his: but in the hereafter he
shall have no share at all."  (Counsel, 42:20)

"... We created man to try him with
afflictions."  (The City, 90:4)

But ...

"Every hardship is followed by ease.  Every
hardship is followed by ease."  (Comfort, 94:6f)

The "next life" cannot occur in this physical world
otherwise the Qur’án would not speak of "the world to come"
(in the quote just before the last one above) and it would not
speak of "the abode of the hereafter" (The Confederate Tribes,
33:28).  Clearly, the next life occurs in a "next world" that is
very different from this physical world we know now.
References to being able to bring these bones and flesh back to
life must surely refer to the spiritual "body", the spiritual reality
of a human, not to the physical reflection in matter – as we will
speak about shortly.  So, with this notion that the next life is an
entirely different and more real state than this life, and that it
occurs in another non-physical realm of which we are now very
little aware, let's look at the rewards and punishments of that
next life in a next world as described in the Holy Qur’án.

The Next Life:  Exquisite Rewards for the Good, and
Horrific Punishments for the Bad


One of the most dramatic, and to modern educated
readers, the most challenging aspects of the Qur’án are the very
vivid pictures of the heavenly Paradise that awaits the true
believer, and the ghastly punishments that are in store for the
wicked.  Before sharing some quotes on these, it's helpful to
remember that God is speaking to a wild and untamed people

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
with no education as we know it today.  They were like simple
and very unruly children.  Complex explanations of the
differences between spiritual reality and physical reality, of how
heaven and hell are spiritual rather than physical conditions,
would not be understood.  Vivid and powerful physical
representations of these spiritual conditions are therefore
required to make a deep and lasting impression.


It would be wrong to say that by depicting heavenly
gardens as physical places with running waters, beautiful young
ladies, couches lined up in rows, and delicious fruit within one's
reach, that God is telling lies and trying to deceive Muslims with
false pictures that cannot really be true.  It would be blasphemy
to say that the Lord of the Universe is deceiving and lying – even
when it is acknowledged that the Creator can do anything He
wants, that the laws and rules He requires of His creatures do not
have to apply to Him.  (Do the rules that a human applies to his
pet dog or cat, such as having to leave the house at night, apply
to the master too?  Of course not; and the Creator is not required
to abide by the rules for the development of His creatures.  The
Creator is not the created.)  But there is a way of looking at these
amazing promises so that they are not actually speaking of
physical realities – even though the words outwardly seem to
indicate this.  This needs some explanation.


If the reader will permit, let's take a look at some ideas of
Plato, an ancient philosopher living in Greece about 500 years
before Christ's time, and then take a brief journey into the world
of modern physics, in order to gather some clues as to how we
can interpret these physical descriptions of a future life in a
reasonable, scientific and realistic way.


First, let's speak briefly of Plato's Allegory of the Cave
since some quotes we will make from a great physicist and a
well-known biologist refer to this.  Plato describes a dark cave in

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
which a number of humans are chained along a row so that they
can see only their shadows as cast on the cave wall in front of
them.  The shadows are cast by a fire that burns behind them.
Since the enchained prisoners are unable to turn their vision
anywhere except towards the wall, they see only shadows, not
what casts those shadows.  When a person wills to move his
right arm, it is the shadow arm he sees move.  So, knowing
nothing of his own reality, he comes to the conclusion that he is
the shadow, that the shadow right arm is his real right arm.
There are other objects casting shadows as well.  Plato states that
this is an analogy for our entire world, that all physical objects
are really shadows in matter cast by more enduring and
permanent spiritual realities or essences.


When one of the prisoners in the cave breaks his chains
and frees himself, he suddenly becomes aware of his own true
nature and realizes that the shadows he took for reality are not
very real at all.  He gains a true knowledge of himself, of the
reality of others, and of the realities of all physical things.
Having freed himself from his chains, he turns around to see the
Fire that casts the shadows and even goes outside the cave,
where great adjustments to his vision are required to get used to
the bright light.  When he returns to the  prisoners chained along
the row and tells them about his discovery, they laugh at him and
ridicule the idea that the shadows are not reality – just as so
many modern worldly-wise materialists laugh at those who
insist that what is material is not the ultimate reality.


The Qur’án tells us something similar about this world
in its attempt to explain that it is the next life that is the real one.
Modern quantum physics also urges us to this notion.  Popular
science writer and biologist Lyall Watson quotes the great
physicist Sir James Jeans in the following:

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
"Physics deals with shadows.  It always
did, but the new physics has become aware of the
fact, while the old physics operated under the
illusion that it dealt with the world itself.  The
change is best expressed by another knight of the
new realm, Sir James Jeans:

'The
outstanding
achievement
of
twentieth-century physics is not
the theory of relativity with its
welding together of space and
time, or the theory of quanta  with
its present apparent negation of
the laws of causation, or the
dissection of the atom with the
resultant discovery that things are
not what they seem; it is the
general recognition that we are
not yet in contact with the
ultimate reality.  We are still
imprisoned in our cave, with our
backs to the light, and we can
only watch the shadows on the
wall.'   (Jeans, J. The Mysterious
Universe.
University
Press,
Cambridge,
1931)
[emphasis
mine]

"To most of us still, the shadows seem real
enough.  They appear to be the whole world,
unless something happens to make you doubt
your perceptions.  Jeans and other sensitive
physicists party to the complex mathematics
became aware of the shadowy nature of the

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
whole enterprise, and turned round to look at the
light.  They found, to their surprise, that even
their new physics could tell them nothing
whatsoever about the world outside the cave.  To
go beyond the shadows, they discovered, was to
go
beyond
physics
altogether
and
into
metaphysics.  With the result that every one of
them—Einstein, Schroedinger, Heisenberg, De
Broglie, Planck and Pauli included—became a
mystic."   (Lyall Watson, Beyond Supernature,
Bantam Books, USA, 1988)


Well, much of what these founders of quantum physics
thought is expressed in a book entitled Quantum Questions (ed.
Ken Wilber, Shambhala Press).  Though many of these pioneers
of physics were very quick to deny that their mystical interests
had anything to do with their physics, the simple reality that they
all immediately went to study "eastern religions" and mysticism
on discovering the implications of what they had discovered in
this new quantum physics says more than their words do.  Today
we find no small number of lesser physicists clinging to the old
materialist superstitions – in spite of the clear implications of
their own work.  But the founders and originators of modern
physics, the ones at the very forefront, who discovered these
things, who are not just followers, are anything but materialist in
their views.  The giants of physics, Kepler, Newton, Einstein,
Eddington for example, have all been quite spiritually-minded,
even religious (but not in a narrow social sense), while those
who have followed in their footsteps have all too often displayed
a narrow materialist view quite incompatible with both the
implications of modern theoretical physics and the expansive
teachings of the major religions.


The point is that this physical world is indeed the
material shadows of essential realities in a realm of "ultimate

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
reality" that our physical senses are not yet in contact with.  This
means that the human body is a material shadow or image of a
corresponding spiritual reality – just as in Plato's cave allegory.
Perhaps we could identify this reality with the human soul.  This
means that we are not actually our bodies, that when these
bodies die and decompose, the original essence or spiritual
human reality still exists – just as an object exists even when a
mirror reflecting an image of it is broken.


As mentioned earlier, the rider on the animal horse is not
the horse.  The driver of the vehicle is not the vehicle.  The
bodies exist in this material world while the souls that ride them
have their roots in a different world with different properties – a
world outside of space and time and matter.  We are intelligent
spirits whose consciousness operates within and through these
animal bodies while we are awake and alive.  When not awake
and not alive, we function without the animal body.


If each existing thing in the material world is a reflection
of a spiritual reality, then the entire physical realm is an image of
an intangible spiritual realm that is not available to our senses.
Jesus sometimes spoke of the higher parts of this world of
"ultimate reality" as "the Kingdom".  So, if the Qur’án and the
Bible speak of spiritual realities and principles using physical
models so that we can understand them, it does not necessarily
mean that it is actually these physical entities that are being
referred to.  The Garden of Eden, the Tree of the Knowledge of
Good and Evil, the Tree of Life, the gardens of Paradise, the
flames of Hell, the Catastrophe, the destruction of mountains to
dust, the cleaving of the sky, the return of Jesus in the clouds –
these may all be physical representations of spiritual realities.
Since we can grasp the physical things but find it difficult if not
impossible to speak of the spiritual realities that these represent,
the Holy Books speak of physical objects that we know.  But this
may not be the intent.   An insensitive and unaware person who

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
is utterly oblivious of anything spiritual at all will respond only
to what he can understand.  Hence the stories of a physical
Paradise and Hell in the Bible and the Qur’án.  It is very likely
that they represent spiritual realities appropriate to the spiritual
"ultimate reality" of that far more real world.  There is a spiritual
equivalent to gardens, to eating rich fruit, to drinking the
delicious, thirst-quenching ginger-flavored waters of the
fountain of Salsabíl, and to the fires and torments of Hell.


The teachings of the Bahá’í Faith, a religion born in the
midst of Islám in the middle of the 19th century but which is an
entirely independent and separate religion from Islám, has some
very beautiful and interesting ideas on this that confirm and
expand on what we've just explained from modern physics and
the ancient philosophers.  To be fair it is right to state that some
of the ideas put down here have some of the teachings of the
Bahá’í Faith as their inspiration – though it would be unfair to
claim with certainty that they precisely convey those Bahá’í
teachings.


As already stated, the "next life" in the "next world" is
not a variation of physical life in this world. It's a different
condition free from the limitations and restrictions of space,
time and matter.  The rewards and punishments of that "next
life" must be understood with this understanding – though it's
quite likely that God did not expect the early Muslims to grasp
this and simply wanted to encourage them, or rather strongly
urge them by threat and promise, to do what is right and good to
gain the rewards of the next life.


So, with this is mind, let's now look at the words of the
Qur’án concerning Paradise and Hell.

"They shall enter the gardens of Eden, where
they shall be decked with bracelets of gold and

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
pearls, and arrayed in robes of silk.  They will
say: 'Praise be to God who has taken away all
sorrow from us. Our Lord is forgiving and
bountiful in His rewards.  Through His grace He
has admitted us to the Eternal Mansion, where
we shall endure no toil, no weariness.
"As for the unbelievers, the fire of Hell awaits
them.  Death shall not deliver them, nor shall its
torment be ever lightened for them.  Thus shall
We reward the thankless.
"There they will cry out: 'Lord, remove us
hence! We will live a good life and will not do as
we have done.' But He will answer: "Did We not
make your lives long enough for anyone who
would be warned to take warning?  Besides,
someone did come to warn you: have a taste of it
then.  None shall help the wrongdoers.
"God knows the mysteries of heaven and
earth.  He knows the hidden thoughts of men."
(The Creator, 35:35)

The intelligent thinking reader needs to look behind
these words to see what they might really represent.  Clearly, a
physical body is eventually burnt up by physical fire.  So the
statements cannot refer to physical fire burning physical bodies;
rather they must refer to a spiritual counterpart of this physical
fire.  As we will learn later, the jinn of which the Qur’án speaks
so frequently are made of "smokeless fire" (in contrast to
humans who are made of "dry clay"), and yet they are to be
consigned in large numbers to The Fire.  How shall physical fire
burn physical fire?   Some careful thought helps us out of these
puzzles.  Please see the chapter on "Other Interesting Matters in
the Qur’án" for more on the jinn.

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

Space and time are attributes of this physical realm.  The
spiritual worlds that cast material shadows must be free of the
limitations of space and time.  There cannot be before and after,
that place and this place, in such an "ultimate reality".  How else
to refer to such a freedom from time than as "eternal",
"everlasting" and so on.  Not having any experience of such
spiritual worlds, we cannot even really talk about them – other
than by using physical analogies.  For example, we say a person
has a "broken heart".  But everyone would laugh if you
suggested that this person should see a cardiologist, a heart
doctor, to heal his broken heart.   The physical heart is used as a
physical description to represent the spiritual heart.  It's the
spiritual heart that gets broken in unrequited love, not the
physical heart – though there is surely a close connection
between the two, perhaps one being some kind of image of the
other, just as the physical brain and intangible mind are closely
connected.  We know our heart can "go through hell" during
hearbreak, grief, strife with those close to us, depression or some
kinds of mental illness.

"Here are two antagonists who contend about
their Lord.  Garments of fire have been prepared
for the unbelievers.  Scalding water shall be
poured upon their heads, melting their skins and
that which is in their bellies.  They shall be
lashed with rods of iron.
"Whenever, in their anguish, they try to escape
from Hell, back they shall be dragged, and will
be told: 'Taste the torment of the Conflagration.'"
(Pilgrimage, 22:19)

This is very strong language.  But if a simple person
takes it seriously and does all he can to avoid this Hell, and then
experiences great joy after death, he will be grateful even if he
had misunderstood this to refer to actual physical torments

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
rather than their spiritual equivalents which he could not
understand in his lifetime. We cannot expect the simple and
uneducated to always grasp spiritual subtleties.   It's the final
result that counts.  The all-knowing Father knows how best to
train his child to bring about the best results possible.  Those
with feeble powers of comprehension and extremely limited
knowledge must have things explained to them as clearly as
possible within the bounds of what they can grasp.

"The righteous shall dwell amidst gardens and
fountains, and shall receive what their Lord will
give them.  For they have done good works,
sleeping but little in the night-time, praying at
dawn for God's pardon, and sharing their goods
with the beggars and the deprived."  (The Winds,
51:17)

"Give no heed to the disbelievers: they desire
you to overlook their doings that they may
overlook yours.  Nor yield to the wretch of many
oaths, the mischief-making slanderer, the
opponent of good, the wicked transgressor, the
bully who is of doubtful birth to boot.  Though
such a man be blessed with wealth and children,
when our revelations are recited to him, he says:
'they are but fables of the ancients.' On the nose
We will brand him!"  (The Pen, 68:10)


Aside from being "attended by boys graced with eternal
youth, who to the beholder's eyes will seem like sprinkled
pearls" (Man, 76:14), the inhabitants of Paradise will also have
"high-bosomed maidens for companions." (The Tidings, 78:31)

Eventual Destruction of Nations Who Reject God's
Revelation

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án


Meanwhile, back on Earth in this life:

"How many cities, teeming with sin, have We
utterly destroyed! they lie in desolate ruin, their
wells abandoned and their proud palaces empty.
"Have they never journeyed through the land?
Have they no hearts to reason with, or ears to
hear with?  It is their hearts, not their eyes, that
are blind.
"They bid you hasten the threatened scourge.
God will not fail His promise.  Each day of your
Lord's is like a thousand years in your reckoning.
"I bore long with many nations, teeming
though they were with sin, and in the end I smote
them.  To Me shall all things return."
(Pilgrimage, 22:43f)

Humans Give No Heed to God's Revelations

"Yet every time a revelation comes to them
from their Lord, they give no heed to it.  Thus
they deny the truth when it is declared to them:
but they shall learn the consequences of their
scorn."  (Cattle, 6:4)

This means that, in general, the wild horse our souls ride
hasn't been broken and tamed yet.  It hasn't yet surrendered and
submitted.  We've still been defiant children and rebellious
adolescents.  But could it be that our collective maturity is near,
that the "Kingdom of God on Earth" foretold by Jesus Christ
could be a reality before too long?

Fate and Destiny:  God's Will Is Behind All Things --
Even Human Will

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án


An introduction to some of the principles here was given
in the previous chapter describing how the spirit and teachings
of Islám and Christianity complement and balance each other.
This will look at those ideas more closely.



Human Will Is Derived From God's Will

"This is an admonition to all men:  to those
among you that have the will to be upright.  Yet
you cannot will, except by the will of God, Lord
of the Universe."  (The Cessation, 81:28)

This quote (which was offered and considered in the
previous chapter) is very revealing and contains an ocean of
philosophy and wisdom in it.  Human free will is dependent for
its operation on a Higher Will.  Let's look at a system of
explanation that might make this clearer.


Here's another allegory that might be an aid in helping
the mind and heart get a deeper understanding of and feeling for
this.   Henry Ford was the first manufacturer of cars.  He
designed and built the earliest Ford cars by building a factory
that made car parts and assembled them.  If a person asks, "Who
built that car?", there are several possible answers, each of them
true.  One can reply:  "The factory workers who made and
assembled the car parts did."  They would be offering the
immediate cause.  And if another says:  "Henry Ford built it.",
this would also be correct.  He was the one who conceived of the
idea and brought together all the means for turning his plan into
reality.  Automotive designers and engineers, those who
designed and built the factory, those who bring in the raw
materials and other items to make the car parts, those who

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
assemble the cars, and those who test and return cars for final
touches, are all part of this large system that implements or
carries out Henry Ford's intention and will.  Henry Ford was not
the immediate cause behind those vehicles – he wasn't on the
assembly line putting those car parts together; he was the
original cause for those cars.  All these other workers are
instruments of his will and plan.  Any of these workers can do a
good job or a poor job, or even go on strike and not do the job at
all – all that lies within their own free will.  But they wouldn't be
able to do any of this at all if the source of the original cause,
Henry Ford, had not not hired and employed them to carry out
his will.  That is, their will to work well or work poorly is all
derived from Henry Ford’s will to make Ford cars using their
labor.  Without Henry Ford’s will to make this factory and use
them, they couldn’t do either.


In a similar way, we are empowered to use our free will
in this life in this world only because we are part of this great
"factory" of God which is this universe.  All of it is empowered
through the Creator's Will.  Our power to use our free will in
order to rise up to do what is right and good, or to refuse to use it
and collapse weakly into our animal and ego will, depends on
the power of the One Who conceived, designed, built and
maintains this creation.  Without that Power behind us we can do
nothing at all.  "Yet you cannot will, except by the will of God,
Lord of the Universe."


Now some might be offended here thinking that we
might be saying that Henry Ford is like God.  That would mean
that this analogy was not understood properly.  An analogy does
not say that two things being compared are equal or identical; it
merely uses something easily known in this world to help the
mind understand something quite different that is not easily
understood.  This analogy does not say that Henry Ford is like
God.  It is only using a parable, just as Jesus used the parable of

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
the vineyard and the return of the owner of the vineyard to
convey a great idea.  He was not saying that the owner of the
vineyard is God, or the Father, or anything like Him.  It just an
analogy to convey in terms that people easily understand what is
much harder to understand.


Let's probe even deeper now for the benefit of thinkers.
All force and action in the universe can be viewed as the product
of a manifestation of the Complete Will, the Total Will, the
Absolute Will, what we could also call the All-Powerful Will.
The nonliving mineral kingdom manifests or reflects this will
only to a small degree in the forces of gravity, magnetism,
electricity and other forces such as those within the atom.  Plants
show a yet greater expression of this Complete Will:  plants
grow up against the mineral kingdom force of gravity, and their
roots break through the cohesive bonds of that non-living realm
that hold rocks and soil together.  Above this, animals show a
remarkable degree of this Will in their ability to will to move
about in search of food, mates, play and so on.  Unlike the plants
which are rooted in one spot, the animals race across the ground,
swim through the seas and rivers and fly at great speed through
the air.  Human beings show yet a greater measure of reflection
of this Complete Will.  We can override our animal level of will
when we obey the commands of God and of the social order,
when we diet and fast, when we restrain ourselves from doing
what is wrong, when we decide to study instead of play, when
we resolve to accomplish some great project.  We can make
amazing technological devices such as jumbo jets that speed
hundreds of us at a time through the air.  We can even make
spacecraft to take some of us to the moon!


It's clear that this will of ours is not complete and
all-powerful.  The quote above applies the condition that it's for
"those among you that have the will to be upright".  Clearly

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
some lack that degree of strength of will.  The child cannot
discipline and control himself the way a mature adult can.


Some, such as Bahá’ís, say that the Prophets of God have
a higher level of will than ordinary humans, even though the
Qur’án tries to emphasize their human nature so as to downplay
the tendency to deify them.  This might be the means by which
they accomplish what look to us like miracles.  Remember that
the Qur’án repeatedly refers to the miracles of Jesus (which
have their ultimate origin in God's Will like all other forms of
will).


The point here, however, is that all these manifestations
of Will are partial reflections or expressions to various degrees
of that one great Complete Will.  Without that original Source
Will, none of these manifestations of will would work at all.
"Yet you cannot will, except by the will of God, Lord of the
Universe."


We might also consider God's attribute of Complete
Knowledge.  Each kingdom manifests a partial measure of this
Total Knowledge, the mineral kingdom expressing it the least,
and each kingdom above showing yet more of it.  (Non-local
interaction in modern quantum physics with the consequent
effect that the intention of an experimenter influences the
outcome of experiments suggests a low level of knowledge in
the non-living mineral kingdom.)  Plants also have a remarkable
ability to respond – even to human attitudes, as experiments
such as those by Backster have shown.  Electrodes attached to
plant leaves show them responding very dramatically to a
human who has been killing plants and significantly more gently
to those who have been helping them grow.   Plant roots seem to
be able to move towards water at some distance even when there
are no differentials in water concentration nearer to the plant.
These are indications of a low level of knowledge in the plant

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
kingdom.  Animal knowledge is seen in the physical senses of
sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch feeling.  Humans have a
knowledge that can comprehend and understand to a certain
degree.  The Prophets of God appear to have a much greater
measure of this Complete Knowledge.  The point is that all
knowledge that exists – all the way down to the non-living
mineral kingdom – is a partial expression of the Complete
Knowledge.  None of it can exist without the presence of this
Total Knowledge.


We know that such a Complete Knowledge and a
Complete Will must exist because we humans have only a
partial measure of knowledge and will – yet we can think of the
idea of there being a complete measure of these.  The existence
of a fraction or part of something implies the existence of the
entire thing.  For example, there can be no such thing as one-half
of a pie without there being a whole pie – otherwise the idea of
one-half of a pie could not exist.  So our recognition that we
have a partial degree of will and knowledge means that the
Complete Will and Complete Knowledge must exist.  This is
from the Creator.  This in itself establishes the existence of the
Supreme Being, the one God and Lord of the Universe.  And if
all expressions of knowledge and will seen in our world are
manifestations of a great Knowledge and Will, then these latter
can be thought of by us as being complete and total.  The
reflection or manifestation cannot exist without a source any
more  than a mirror image can exist without an object causing
that image.


The light of the sun is white light.  It's composed of all
the colors combined together.  Putting this white light through a
prism breaks up this light into its component colors of the
rainbow.  In fact, such a rainbow is the result of this light being
broken up by rain drops.  Each color can be likened to one of
these great universal attributes of God such as Knowledge, Will,

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
Beauty, Glory, Oneness, Justice and Love.  All together they
form the one "white light" of what shines forth from the Creator
to bring out His creation.  This one white light of all the
complete attributes, what can be called "universal attributes",
shines down like a light on the entire creation, each level
reflecting what it can of that light.   Some things barely reflect
anything at all, like a black rock – like the mineral kingdom that
barely manifests the qualities of life.   Other parts are like a
green leaf that reflects only the green part of the white light,
soaking up all the other colors.  Yet another thing is like a white
lily or piece of paper that reflects all the white light in a scattered
way.   But a mirror reflects all that light in a perfectly faithful
way so that we see the image of everything in it – even the image
of the sun that is the source of all that light.  Some, such as the
Bahá’ís, believe that the Prophets of God, though human in
appearance, actually express the full measure of these universal
attributes such as Knowledge and Will just as a mirror reflects
the one white sunlight.  So the Prophets are called
"Manifestations of God", meaning that they are like mirrors that
perfectly manifest or reflect the light of all the Divine attributes.
These Manifestations of God, of course, are not God.


This means that all things express these universal
attributes to various degrees.  Just as the green color of a leaf, the
red of a rose, and the white of a lily cannot exist at all without
the white sunlight which contains all those colors, the various
levels of will and knowledge cannot exist and operate without
the complete Knowledge and Will from which they derive.  In a
dark cave, the green of leaves, the red of roses and the white of
lilies is not seen.  Similarly, without the complete universal
attributes, those attributes of God, no partial expressions or
manifestations of them could exist and function.  The universe
cannot exist without this shining radiance of the "white light" of
the Primal Will radiating from the Creator.

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

Here's a principle for thought.  It could be that each level
of will is free in accord with the understanding of its
corresponding level of knowledge.  But a higher level of
knowledge understands that level of will to be destined,
constrained and predetermined.   These last two sentences
express a deep principle that needs some thoughtful
contemplation, perhaps even meditation, in order to fully
register and make sense.  For example, a person who is
completely the victim of his animal nature and utterly ruled by
the promptings and urges of his body, will believe and
understand himself to be completely free when he does as he
pleases, breaking laws and rules, doing whatever he wants,
stealing, fighting, raping and so on.  But to a person who lives in
a higher level of himself, who has conquered his animal nature
to some degreee, this supposed freedom of the criminal is seen
as enslavement to a lower part in him that is not his true self.
The higher kind of person sees the lower kind as being the
complete slave of his animal nature and will be able to predict
exactly what that criminal will do in any situation.  The higher
level of knowledge sees the lower level of will as being
constrained, destined, determined and not free at all, even
though the person on that lower level sees and understands it
with his lower kind of knowledge to be completely free.


Similarly, from the point of view of that higher kind of
human, his own kind of free will is seen to be completely free.
Yet, from the point of view of the Complete Knowledge, that of
God, this apparent freedom is constrained and completely
predetermined and predestined – just as the Qur’án says.   Our
minds cannot understand what that higher kind of knowledge
really is.  We can know that it exists, but we cannot know what it
is.  This is not the kind of predestination we can think of – this
kind doesn't exist for us – it's a higher kind of destiny that is
beyond our understanding.

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

This doesn't mean that it is useless to exercise our human
will.  Unless we do so we cannot develop and grow inwardly
strong.  Human will is real and very necessary.  The confusion
some minds find comes about only by seeing the Divine Will
and human will as separate and on the same level rather than one
deriving from the other.  To assume that the divine Will is on the
same level as human will, and thus separate and in competition
with it, is somewhat blasphemous and disrespectful to God.  It
fails to acknowledge that God's Will is far above anything that
human knowledge can understand.  The human will expresses a
partial reflection of that Complete Will.


These ideas are those of the author and are not from the
Qur’án or the teachings of Islám (so far as this writer knows).
The aim is to try to make some sense of what the Qur’án says.
Some of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Founder of the Bahá’í
Faith, however, appear to imply (at least to the author) the
validity of such an interpretation.   These views are offered here
in case a reader might be struggling to reconcile the seeming
conflict between the exercise of free human will and the
Complete Will in which all things are predetermined and
predestined (from the point of view of the Complete
Knowledge, not from the perspective of human knowledge).


The all-knowing Creator knows what we will do even
when we have all the free will that our limited kind of human
knowledge can comprehend.  To Him it is all fixed and
predestined.  He knows who will go wrong and who will end up
right.  But that's His Complete Knowledge.  To our limited
human knowledge, we don't know what we will do ten years
from now.


It is the answer to "But why do some people obey God
and other's rebel?" that is perhaps in a realm of knowledge above

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
what we can grasp that leads to a Higher Knowledge
understanding what we will do with our unpredestined free will.


We Are Not Our Own Masters

"Indeed, man transgresses in thinking himself
his own master: for to your Lord all things
return."  (Clots of Blood, 96:3)

As mentioned in the previous chapter, this runs counter
much of what the average person of the West believes:  "I'm the
captain of the ship of my fate".  "Where there's a will, there's a
way."  "I'm the one who worked hard for my money.  My
success depends only on my own will."  Well, according to the
Qur’án, human will cannot function at all without the Complete
Divine Will behind it empowering it.  It's like a delegate sent by
a king or president to represent that leader at a meeting.  The
delegate is permitted to express himself as the representative of
that leader.  Whether he does so in an excellent or a poor way, or
if he even refuses to do his job at all, is up to his own will.  But
he can do none of this without the king or president authorizing
this delegate to represent him.  The illustration of the cook
preparing and serving food for a diner who must do the work of
coming to the table and eating himself was given in the previous
chapter.  Whether the diner eats or not, and how he decides to
eat, is all dependent on the cook preparing and serving him the
food.


Another somewhat imperfect but simple analogy is
provided by a sailboat.  The person sailing the sailboat controls
the rudder to determine in which direction he will go.  But none
of this would be possible at all without the power of the wind
blowing into the sails pushing that boat forward.  When the wind
isn't pushing the boat forward, moving the rudder or wheel has
no effect.  This wind is like the Complete Will behind all other

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
forms of will.  This analogy is not perfect because it doesn't
show how the movement of the person directing the rudder is
determined by the same wind that pushes the boat forward – but
it might offer a vague help to understanding for some.


Here's another imperfect analogy that might explain the
matter a little more thoroughly.   Let's modify the Henry Ford
allegory a little.  Here, we will now liken the manufactured car
to a human body "manufactured" by a process whose immediate
causes are studied by modern biology and whose more original
causes are currently beyond the reach of our understanding.  The
Holy Books assure us that God is the ultimate original cause.
Our human spiritual reality or soul will be likened to the driver
of that vehicle. (One must have grasped the ideas presented in
Chapter 2 for this to make sense.)  The driver's will determines
where the car and driver together go.  But unless the car has fuel,
operating foot pedals, working steering and other essentials, the
driver can go nowhere.  Going someplace depends both on the
car and on the driver's will to drive somewhere.  And, most
importantly, it depends on whoever designed and built this
vehicle.  In the case of the vehicle of the human body, it's clear
Who its original Designer and Builder is.  Human free will,
operating through the vehicle of the human body, cannot
function without the Will that designed and built this vehicle in
the first place.


We can think of the car factory and all the resources it
requires as being like the world we live in..  The Owner of the
factory of creation is also the Designer and is in charge of all
those building the cars.  This is the Creator Who designed and
built us and all living things by using various intermediaries –
just as the factory workers fulfill the will of the factory owner
and car designer.  We can operate and drive these vehicles of our
bodies with free will.  We can choose to drive off a cliff, or crash
into the city dump, or go someplace useful and constructive.  It

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
all depends on our free will.  But none of it could happen if the
Designer and Maker of this vehicle hadn't built it perfectly and
arranged for a supply of fuel so that we can exercise our free
will.  We can choose to drive these bodies about and do either
what is good or what is bad only through the power of the great
Will that designed, built and fueled these bodies and this world.
Without that vehicle being designed and built with such
perfection by its Designer and Maker, we don't go anywhere at
all.  Just as all power and energy on our Earth come from the
sun, so also does all power and energy to do anything come from
God.


The West has excelled in the exercise of human free will
and initiative.  It hasn't been bound and crippled by the
misunderstanding of much of the East of an earlier time that the
exercise of human will is pointless since it will be overridden by
the Supreme Will.


The Qur’án speaks of the technology in which the West
so excels in the following:

"We have sent down iron, with its mighty
strength and diverse uses for mankind, so that
God may know those who aid Him, though
unseen, and help His apostles."  (Iron, 57:25)


We humans are tested to see how we use the gifts of the
Creator.  Sometimes we use these gifts in such a foolish way as
to devise means to destroy our fellow humans, our cities and
much of the planet.  We can use iron for weapons of justice or
injustice, or even for farming implements.   We can use
explosives to build dams or to destroy what we've built.   Even
atomic energy has constructive uses.  But foolish minds and
hearts fail God's test and use these gifts unwisely.  And we
punish ourselves by failing God's test to see how we use these

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
gifts.  The man who imagines himself to be the master of his fate
seems to end up destroying himself and his fellows, seemingly
helpless to act with true human maturity and wisdom.

God Gives and Takes Wealth

"God gives abundantly to whom He will and
sparingly to whom He pleases. ..."  (The Greeks,
30:37)

"Say: 'My Lord gives abundantly to whom He
will and sparingly to whom He pleases.  But most
men do not know it."  (Sheba, 34:36)

The rugged individualist of the West who is certain that
he is wealthy only because of his own hard work and efforts has
an entirely different view of this matter.  When misfortune hits
him and he loses everything, in spite of all his efforts and
struggle, he wonders what is wrong.  Many Americans of the
Depression Years of the 1930s felt certain, because of this
philosophy by which they had been raised, that they were
somehow wrong in being poor and desperate, that if they were to
struggle hard enough, they would be rewarded.  Human will and
struggle is essential; but so is the divine Will that is behind it.
God gives and God takes.  His Will is what determines whether
our efforts succeed or not.  And as will be shown later, it often
turns out that the one who becomes wealthy does so only
because God has abandoned him to this fate.

"But for the fear that all mankind might have
become one race of unbelievers, We would have
given those who denied the Lord of Mercy
dwellings with silver roofs, and gates and stairs
of silver; silver couches to recline upon and
ornaments of gold.  For all these are but the

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
fleeting comforts of this life.  It is the life to come
that your Lord reserves for those who fear Him."
(Ornaments of Gold, 43:33)

"When We give man a taste of Our mercy, he
rejoices in it; but when through his own fault evil
befalls him, man is ungrateful."  (Counsel, 42:48)

"... If God afflicts you with a misfortune none can
remove it but He and if He bestows on you a
favour, none can withhold His bounty.  He is
bountiful to whom He will.  He is the Forgiving
One, the Merciful."  (Jonah, 10:107)

Faith Is From God's Will

"None can have faith except by the will of
God.  He will visit His scourge upon the
senseless."  (Jonah, 10:100)

All That Happens to Us, Good or Bad, is
Pre-ordained by God.

"Say:  'Nothing will befall us except what God
has ordained.  He is our Guardian.  In God let the
faithful put their trust.' "  (Repentence, 9:51)

"The fate of each man we have hung about his
neck." (The Night Journey, 17:12)

"No one dies unless God permit.  The term of
every life is fixed.  He that desires the reward of
this world shall have it; and he that desires the
reward of the life to come shall have it also.  We

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
will surely reward the thankful."  (The 'Imrans,
3:145)

"Every misfortune that befalls the earth, or
your own persons, is ordained before We bring it
into being.  That is easy enough for God; so that
you may not grieve for the good things you miss,
or be overjoyed at what you gain."  (Iron, 57:22)

"No misfortune falls except by God's will.  He
guides the hearts of those who believe in Him.
God has knowledge of all things."  (Cheating,
64:11)

As already stated, even when our own free will is
completely involved, as it must be if we are to progress,
whatever we do is already pre-ordained by God.  But this is in
accord with His Complete Knowledge, not through our limited
human knowledge that is unable to see any such predestination
and fate.  In accord with all that we can know, there is no
predestination and the way is open for us to exercise our free
will. But we would still have to acknowledge that the
All-Knowing and All-Seeing One knows exactly what we will
choose through our free will.  And He does this through a
Knowledge that is utterly beyond our comprehension.

God Leads Believers and Misleads Unbelievers


This is a very frequent statement of the Qur’án.

"Had God pleased, He would have united you
into one nation.  But He confounds whom He
will and gives guidance to whom He pleases.
You shall be questioned about all your actions."
(The Bee, 16:93)

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án

"... None can guide those whom God has led
astray."  (Thunder, 13:34)

"None can guide those whom God confounds.
He leaves them blundering about in their
wickedness."  (The Heights, 7:186)

"You cannot make the dead hear you, nor can
you make the deaf hear your call if they turn their
backs and give no heed; nor can you guide the
blind out of their error.  None shall give ear to
you save those who believe in Our revelations,
and are submissive to Our will."  (The Greeks,
30:52)

"We have predestined for Hell many jinn and
many men." (The Heights, 7:179)  [The topic of
jinn will be covered in a later chapter.  For the
present, they are intelligent beings created of
"smokeless fire" who interact with us humans
who are created of "dry clay".  Some jinn are
good and others, such as Satan, are bad.]

This makes it clear that there are mysteries beyond our
understanding and grasp.  The infinite and All-Powerful God's
ways are necessarily far above what our minds and hearts can
comprehend.  Why would God create some people destined for
Hell, whom He misleads and confounds, and others fated to
enter Paradise, whom He guides and assists?  Why would some
parts of the tree be precious fruit and other parts bark that peels
away and leaves that dry up and fall?  Why would some parts of
the human body be as valued and precious as the eye while other
parts such as the finger nails and hair are clipped away and
discarded with little thought or concern.  Why are diamonds rare

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
while dull stones are abundant?  Why would some among
humankind be precious and valued and treasured while so many
others are heedless of their highest self and of God?  Why has
God created us differently?  There are wisdoms behind
everything.  But sometimes some things are difficult to
understand.  We don't have all knowledge.  Perhaps we will see
some of these things more clearly in the next life.  If we could
understand everything, then we would be all-knowing.  Indeed,
we are not!  There are things beyond our comprehension.

God Gives Wealth And Comfort to His Enemies
and Then Punishes Them Later

"We suffer them [that disbelieve] to take their
ease for a while, and will then subject them to a
grievous scourge."  (Luqmán, 31:24)

"Do they think that in giving them wealth and
children, We are solicitous for their welfare?  By
no means!  They cannot see."  (The Believers,
23:55)

Each Nation Has Its Appointed Time

"A space of time is fixed for every nation;
when their hour is come, not for one moment
shall they hold it back, nor can they go before it."
(The Heights, 7:34)

We Get What We Want (Deep Down in Our
Hearts) In This Life –
God Gives It to Us

"Those that desire the life of this world with all
its finery shall be rewarded for their deeds in

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
their own lifetime: nothing shall be denied them.
These are the men who in the world to come shall
have nothing but Hell-fire.  Fruitless are their
deeds, and vain are all their works."  (Húd,
11:15)

"There are some who say: 'Lord, give us
abundance in this world.' These shall have no
share in the world to come. But there are others
who say: 'Lord, give us what is good both in this
world and in the hereafter and keep us from the
torment of the Fire.' These shall have a share,
according to what they did.  Swift is God's
reckoning."  (The Cow, 2:201)

"When We resolve to destroy a city, We first
give warning to those of its people who live in
comfort.  If they persist in sin, judgement is
irrevocably passed, and We raze that city to the
ground.
"How many generations have We destroyed
since Noah's time!  Suffice it that your Lord is
well aware of His servants' sins: And observes
all!
"He that desires this fleeting life shall soon
receive in it whatever We will: We bestow Our
gifts on whom We please.  But then We have
prepared Hell for him, where he will burn
despised and helpless.
"As for him that desires the life to come and
strives for it as he ought to, being a true believer,
his endeavours shall be rewarded by God.
"On all - on these and those - We bestow the
bounty of your Lord: none shall be denied the

Chap. 2 – The Central Messages of the Qur’án
bounty of your Lord."  (The Night Journey,
17:16f)

Sometimes it's better to desire what the All-Knowing
and All-Wise Creator desires for us, instead of what we alone
desire for ourselves.  He knows better than we do what is good
for us.  After all, He designed and created us!  Shouldn't He
know best?


Perhaps this is an appropriate place to distinguish two
different meanings of "the will of God".  God's all-powerful
will, what we called the Complete Will, is one thing.  What He
wants us to do, also called "His will" for us, is a different thing.
The first is an actual will.  The second refers to His desire for us
to act well.  It refers to a set of commands and admonitions for
good behavior.  When we "do God's will", it does not mean that
we are in any way involved with the all-powerful Complete
Will.  It means that we're rising up to a higher level of will
within our own selves to carry out the wise advice of the Creator
for our development -- figuratively, to do what He wants us to
do.  English words can be used with different meanings in
different contexts.  To fail to look at meanings and simply focus
on the words easily leads one to confusion.  There is no way out
but to think carefully and deeply here.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting

CHAPTER 3

WAR AND FIGHTING



The Introduction stated that a proper understanding of
what is in this chapter is best found after reading the earlier
chapters.  Without this grasp of what justice really is, and how
fundamental it is to the establishment of order, safety and
security in the community, the following will possibly not be
understood well, or rejected outright as unacceptable.  The
reader is most strongly urged to first read the previous two
chapters, especially the parts dealing with justice, the different
emphases of Christianity and Islám, the afterlife, and the manner
in which the Creator speaks to His immature and unruly
children.

VERSES OF THE QUR’ÁN CONCERNING WAR AND
FIGHTING


As is implied in what was said earlier, there are two
different kinds of defense:  one in which an individual defends
himself, and another where a community defends itself.  Since
there were no clear-cut social institutions of justice among the
Arabs of Muhammad's time, statements in the Qur’án
concerning individual defense and the collective defensive
warring of Muslims in groups are not carefully separated.

Personal Defense

Here are some statements that seem directed primarily to
individuals:

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"Believers, retaliation is decreed for you in
bloodshed: a free man for a free man, a slave for
a slave, and a female for a female."  (The Cow,
2:178)

"If anyone attacks you, attack him as he
attacked you.  Have fear of God, and know that
God is with the righteous."  (The Cow, 2:194)

God lays down a method of defense here that restrains
the person on the defense from being excessive in his retaliation.
It insists that he match the violence of the attacker.  When there
is no well-founded institution to police the community, then a
person must defend himself against attackers.  Please note that
this is about defense, not offense.

"Men of understanding! In retaliation you
have a safeguard for your lives; perchance you
will guard yourselves against evil." (The Cow,
2:179)


Next, however, is a statement permitting personal
revenge and yet encouraging a higher standard of being patient,
forgiving and long-suffering:

"Let evil be rewarded with like evil.  But he
that forgives and seeks reconcilement shall be
rewarded by God.  He does not love the
wrongdoers.
"Those who avenge themselves when wronged
incur no guilt. But great is the guilt of those who
oppress their fellow men and conduct themselves
with wickedness and injustice in the land.  These
shall be sternly punished.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"To endure with fortitude and to forgive is a
duty incumbent on all.  He whom God confounds
has none to protect him." (Counsel, 42:41f)

So there are three levels of action described here:

1) Offense, oppression, injustice – that incur great guilt and a
stern punishment,
2) Defensive retaliation commensurate with the offense – that
incurs neither guilt and punishment nor reward, and
3) Long-suffering patience, forgiveness and attempts at
reconciliation – that brings reward.


Consider how easy it would be for a Muslim to focus his
mind only on the previous guidance that permits him to take
revenge and ignore the advice just above that it is better to
forgive, to seek peace, to reconcile, to "endure with fortitude" in
long-suffering patience.  God, in His mercy, permits the former,
knowing the weakness of so many men, and yet encourages the
latter higher standard of conduct that is forgiving, kind, and
inclined to peace.

Collective Defense


During the first 12 or 13 years of Muhammad’s Mission
in Mecca, the Muslims did not defend themselves.  They were at
the mercy of the extremely hostile Quraysh tribe all around
them.  There was no instruction through Revelation to defend
themselves.


Then, when the Quraysh of Mecca were plotting to kill
Muhammad in His home, He fled Mecca with His followers to
Medina, a town then known as Yathrib.  This date in 622 AD
marks the beginning of the Muslim lunar calendar.  It’s called

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
the Hijrih Calendar, “hijrih” referring to this “flight” from
Mecca to Medina.


So fierce was the opposition to Muhammad and His
Cause at this time that He, His followers, and the new religion
would have been completely extinguished if they didn’t defend
themselves.  So the commands came to do just that:

"Permission to take up arms is hereby given to
those who are attacked, because they have been
wronged.  God has power to grant them victory:
those who have been unjustly driven from their
homes, only because they said: 'Our Lord is God.'
Had God not defended some men by the might of
others, the monasteries and churches, the
synagogues and mosques in which His praise is
daily celebrated, would have been utterly
destroyed...." (Pilgrimage, 22:39)


Some of the followers of Islam were reluctant to fight.
The revelation told them that this defense was not optional:

"Fighting is obligatory for you, much as you
dislike it."  (The Cow, 2:216)

"Believers, why is it that when it is said to you:
'March in the cause of God,' you linger slothfully
in the land?  Are you content with this life in
preference to the life to come?  Few indeed are
the  blessings of this life, compared to those of
the life to come.
"If you do not fight, He will punish you
sternly., and replace you by other men...."
(Repentence, 9:38f)

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"When you meet the unbelievers in the
battlefield strike off their heads and, when you
have laid them low, bind your captives firmly.
Then grant them their freedom or take ransom
from them, until War shall lay down her burdens.
"Thus shall you do.  Had God willed, He could
Himself have punished them; but He has
ordained it thus that He might test you, the one
by the other.
"As for those who are slain in the cause of
God, He will not allow their works to perish.  He
will vouchsafe them guidance and ennoble their
state; He will admit them to the Paradise He has
made known to them." (Muhammad, 47:4f)

These are the verses of the Holy Qur’án that Muslim
fighters are taught.  They are told that they will be blessed in the
next life, that the war they are fighting is in defense of God's
cause.  It is a specific intention here to avoid any statements that
are even remotely political, that stray beyond what is in the Holy
Book itself.  But those who are informed and perceptive might
consider whether many of the causes in which Muslims have
fought and willingly given their lives are at least as much
political and cultural as religious.  Some modern-day Muslim
warriors of course insist that Islám is being attacked in various
ways and that their war is a holy war and is justified.  Some will
see these claims as being quite ludicrous while others might
believe that they have value.


This religious call to war in defense of what is right is not
unique to Islám.  Hinduism is a vast collection of religions and
traditions.  Within this vast body of Indian belief and folklore is
the central gem of the Bhagavad Gita.  It is surely one of the
most powerful religious writings in human history.  In it the
messenger of God, or avatar, Krishna, urges Arjuna, the

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
warrior, to fight valiantly in a war of good against evil.  Though
many understand this as only symbolic of a personal spiritual
battle that each of us must fight, it's also clear that Krishna is
speaking of real war inasmuch as he argues that the warrior (of
the Kshattriya caste) is not actually killing a person, that he is
only being the instrument of God in transferring a human from
the worldly condition to another condition of the next life.
Krishna compares the body to a house, and to clothes.  The
human being in the house, and in the clothes, is not the house or
the clothes; and the destruction of the house or clothes leaves the
human spirit untouched.  Let this Holy Book of the Hindus
speak for itself -

"... Birthless and deathless and changeless
remaineth the spirit for ever;

Death hath not touched it at all, dead though the
house of it seems!
Who knoweth it exhaustless, self-sustained,
Immortal, indestructible,- shall such
Say, 'I have killed a man, or caused to kill?'

Nay, but as when one layeth
His worn-out robes away,
And, taking new ones, sayeth,
'These will I wear to-day!'
So putteth by the spirit
Lightly its garb of flesh,
And passeth to inherit
A residence afresh.

I say to thee weapons reach not the Life;
Flame burns it not, waters cannot o'erwhelm,
Nor dry winds wither it. Impenetrable,
Unentered, unassailed, unharmed, untouched,

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
Immortal, all-arriving, stable, sure,
Invisible, ineffable, by word
And thought uncompassed, ever all itself,
Thus is the Soul declared! How wilt thou, then,-
Knowing it so,- grieve when thou shouldst not
grieve?
How, if thou hearest that the man new-dead
Is, like the man new-born, still living man-
One same, existent Spirit- wilt thou weep?
The end of birth is death; the end of death
Is birth: this is ordained! and mournest thou,
Chief of the stalwart arm! for what befalls
Which could not otherwise befall? The birth
Of living things comes unperceived; the death
Comes unperceived; between them, beings
perceive:
What is there sorrowful herein, dear Prince?

This Life within all living things, my Prince!
Hides beyond harm; scorn thou to suffer, then,
For that which cannot suffer. Do thy part!
Be mindful of thy name, and tremble not!
Nought better can betide a martial soul
Than lawful war; happy the warrior
To whom comes joy of battle- comes, as now,
Glorious and fair, unsought; opening for him
A gateway unto Heav'n. But, if thou shunn'st
This honourable field- a Kshattriya-
If, knowing thy duty and thy task, thou bidd'st
Duty and task go by- that shall be sin!
And those to come shall speak thee infamy
From age to age; but infamy is worse
For men of noble blood to bear than death!
The chiefs upon their battle-chariots

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
Will deem 'twas fear that drove thee from the
fray.
Of those who held thee mighty-souled the scorn
Thou must abide, while all thine enemies
Will scatter bitter speech of thee, to mock
The valour which thou hadst; what fate could fall
More grievously than this? Either- being killed-
Thou wilt win Swarga's safety, or- alive
And victor- thou wilt reign an earthly king.
Therefore, arise, thou Son of Kunti! brace
Thine arm for conflict, nerve thy heart to meet-
As things alike to thee- pleasure or pain,
Profit or ruin, victory or defeat:
So minded, gird thee to the fight, for so
Thou shalt not sin!"
(Bhagavad Gita, Chapter 2, transl: Sir Edward
Arnold)  [find a better translation; this one is hard
to read; it's trying too hard to sound like
difficult-to-read English poetry]

'Lawful war' gives an entrance to heaven, and failure of
the warrior to fight is a sin!  How reminiscent of the Qur’án!


Here is a very important point for the reader to ponder:  if
all that is of importance and value exists just in this material life,
if we are nothing more than just these bodies, then all this
violence and destruction, this killing and fighting, are pointless
and silly.  But if this life is just a show, just a test, just an illusory
realm that trains and schools us in preparation for a next life in a
next world that is far more real, then when God kills humans in
large numbers, even through his servants who believe that they
are obeying Him, it's not really bringing death; it's just bringing
about a transition from a less important preparatory world to a
more important and more real realm.  Transplanting of the
seedlings of trees may look like death to the seedlings that are

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
not yet transplanted (supposing that such trees could think like
humans), but to those growing in a new, more spacious and
fertile soil, it's not death at all.  There is a tendency to think of
the death of humans as a real death, as the end of it all – because
of a materialist and unreligious orientation to life.  But if what
all the Prophets tell us is true – and modern physics certainly
confirms it more than many people of science realize – then
what appears to be mass killing is really a hidden mercy.
Destroying a city of those who are injuring their souls by foolish
behavior simply puts an end to the destructive behavior and
permits the process of education and training to continue in a
different environment.  From a wider perspective than the
materialist one, this death is a mercy and a kindness.  But, of
course, this killing is legitimate only if in obedience to God’s
command and not merely the result of personal motives.


Here, in the next item, those Muslims who are afraid of
defending the Muslim community against its attackers are urged
to obey and not seek an easy way out:

"The faithful say: 'If only a Chapter were
revealed!' But when a forthright Chapter is
revealed and war is mentioned in it, you see the
infirm of heart looking towards you as though
they are fainting away for fear of death. Yet
obedience and courteous speech would become
them more.  Indeed, should war be decided upon,
it would be better for them to be true to God."
(Muhammad, 47:20)

"The believers who stay at home - apart from
those that suffer from a grave impediment - are
not equal to those who fight for the cause of God
with their goods and their persons.  God has
given those that fight with their goods and their

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
persons a higher rank than those who stay at
home.  God has promised all a good reward; but
far richer is the recompense of those who fight
for Him: ranks of His own bestowal, forgiveness
and mercy.  God is forgiving and merciful."
(Women, 4:95f)

The Muslim who fights defensively in the cause of God
is regarded as superior to those who, being able to, do not.  It's
very clear from these quotes that God is commanding the
Muslims – at least those of Muhammad's time – to fight in
defense of the Faith of Islám and to fight vigorously.   If one is to
fight, then one must fight fully and completely, not
half-heartedly.  And if one is not to fight, then one should also
do that fully and completely.


If we are to take these quotes above by themselves, in
isolation from the many other statements concerning war and
fighting, it would be easy to justify the most oppressive and evil
acts against others who don't share one's beliefs, and think that
one is very right in doing this:  "But Satan made their foul deeds
seem fair to them" (The Bee, 16:63).  No one is more sure that he
is right than the wrongdoer doing evil on a major scale, while he
who is more right worries about it and in his concern turns to
God pleading to be put on the right path.  The first sign that one
is astray and doing wrong is the complete conviction and
assurance that one can do no wrong.  Hitler, Stalin and others
like them seem to have had no doubts, no cause for deep
reflection and concern about what they were doing.   But let's
look now at other statements that very clearly tell a Muslim what
kind of war and fighting in the defense of Islám is acceptable:

Only Fighting in Defense Is Permitted

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"Fight for the sake of God those that fight
against you, but do not attack them first.  God
does not love the aggressors." (The Cow, 2:190)
[emphasis mine]

That's clear enough.  Fighting for the cause of God is in
defense only.  A Muslim is not permitted to "attack first".  "God
does not love the aggressors."  The next quote makes it clear that
the Arabs of that ancient time a millennium and a third ago
might like to use the excuse of insisting that others are
unbelievers to justify taking their belongings.  This is clearly
discouraged:

"Believers, show discernment when you go to
fight for the cause of God, and do not say to those
that offer you peace: 'You are not believers,' -
seeking the chance booty of this world; for with
God there are abundant gains.  Such was your
custom in days gone by, but now God has
bestowed on you His grace.  Therefore show
discernment; God is cognizant of all your
actions."  (Women, 4:94)

In the following, the one God makes it clear that the
motive of defense is not hateful revenge and angry retaliation
but rather firm justice.

"Do not allow your hatred for those who
would debar you from the Holy Mosque to lead
you into sin.  Help one another in what is good
and pious, not in what is wicked and sinful.  Have
fear of God; God is stern in retribution."  (The
Table, 5:2)

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting

The next quote emphasizes the vigor with which a
Muslim should defend his cause and his community and then
follows it with the condition of being peaceful with them if they
make peace with him.



Make Peace If Others Want Peace

"Let not the unbelievers think that they will
ever get away.  They have not the power so to do.
Muster against them all the men and cavalry at
your command, so that you may strike terror into
the enemy of God and your enemy, and others
besides them who are unknown to you but known
to God.  All that you give for the cause of God
shall be repaid you.  You shall not be wronged.
"If they incline to peace, make peace with
them, and put your trust in God.  He hears all and
knows all." (The Spoils, 8:59f)  [emphasis mine]


In addition to the restriction of not being permitted to
war offensively, but only defensively, there are also restrictions
on when one can fight.  War is not allowed during the sacred
month, Ramadan, except in the circumstances explained below:

When Fighting Is Not Permitted – With An
Exception

"They ask you about the sacred month.  Say:
'To fight in this month is a grave offense; but to
debar others from the path of God, to deny Him,
and to expel His worshippers from the Holy
Mosque, is far more grave in His sight.  Idolatry
is worse than carnage.'

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"They will not cease to fight against you until
they force you to renounce your faith - if they are
able...." (The Cow, 2:217f)

"Idolatry is worse than carnage."  This is most interesting.

Do Not Attack Those Who Repent, Who Honor
Their Treaties, Who Seek Asylum

"Proclaim a woeful punishment to the
unbelievers, except to those idolators who have
honoured their treaties with you in every detail
and aided none against you.  With these keep
faith, until their treaties have run their term.  God
loves the righteous.
"When
the
sacred
months
[Shawwal,
Dhul-Qu'adah, Dhul-Hajjah and Muharram] are
over slay the idolaters wherever you find them.
Arrest them, besiege them, and lie in ambush
everywhere for them.  If they repent and take to
prayer and render the alms levy, allow them to go
their way.  God is forgiving and merciful.
"If an idolater seeks asylum with you, give
him protection so that he may hear the Word of
God,and then convey him to safety.  For the
idolaters are ignorant men.
"God and His apostle repose no trust in
idolaters, save those with whom you have made
treaties at the Sacred Mosque.  So long as they
keep faith with you, keep faith with them.  God
loves the righteous."
...

Make War On Those Who Break Their Oaths
and Revile Islám

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting

But if those who appear to make peace later reveal that this
was false, then war is again enjoined:

"But if, after coming to terms with you, they
break their oaths, and revile your faith, make war
on the leaders of unbelief - for no oaths are
binding with them - so that they may desist.
"Will you not fight against those who have
broken their oaths and conspired to banish the
Apostle?  They were the first to attack you.  Do
you fear them?  Surely God is more deserving of
your fear, if you are true believers.
"Make war on them: God will chastise them at
your hands and humble.  He will grant you
victory over them and heal the spirit of the
faithful.  He will take away all rancour from their
hearts: God shows mercy to whom He pleases.
God is all-knowing and wise."  (Repentence,
9:4f)

Here is another in the same spirit:

"Others you will find who seek security from
you as well as from their own people.  Whenever
they are called back to sedition they plunge into
it headlong.  If these do not keep their distance
from you, if they neither offer you peace nor
cease their hostilities against you, lay hold of
them and kill them wherever you find them.
Over such men We give you absolute authority."
(Women, 4:91)

Dangerous Verses When Taken Alone and Out
of Context

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting


Some, however, will point to the following quotes and
insist that these justify attacking any unbelievers or infidels,
perhaps even justifying force in spreading the Faith of Islám.

"Prophet, make war on the unbelievers and the
hypocrites, and deal sternly with them.  Hell shall
be their home, evil their fate."  (Prohibition,
66:9)

"Believers, make war on the infidels who
dwell around you.  Deal firmly with them.  Know
that God is with the righteous."  (Repentence,
9:123)

Balancing Verses

These strong verses above must be understood in the
context of the whole of the Holy Book, not just by themselves.
The following quotes modify them very strongly:

"There shall be no compulsion in religion."
(The Cow, 2:256)

"We well know what they say. You shall not
use coercion with them.  Admonish with the
Koran whoever fears My warning."  (Qáf, 50:45)

"Call men to the path of your Lord with
wisdom and kindly exhortation.  Reason with
them in the most courteous manner.  Your Lord
best knows those who stray from His path and
those who are rightly guided.
"If you punish, let your punishment be
commensurate with the wrong that has been done

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
you.  But it shall be best for you to endure
your wrongs with patience."  (The Bee,
16:124f)  [emphasis mine]

"Be courteous when you argue with the People
of the Book [Jews and Christians], except with
those among them who do evil."  (The Spider,
29:46)

One can only conclude that some Muslims have been as
negligent of the commands of their own Faith as Christians have
been of their own teachings.  Both warred and oppressed in
direct disobedience to the teachings of their Holy Books. What
could be clearer than this next instruction from the Creator to
every true Muslim?

Muslims Can Be Kind and Fair To Those Who
Are Not Against Islám and Who Have Not
Driven Them From Their Homes

"God does not forbid you to be kind and
equitable to those who have neither made war on
your religion nor driven you from your homes.
God loves the equitable.  But He forbids you to
make friends with those who have fought against
you on account of your religion and driven you
from your homes or abetted others so to do.
Those that make friends with them are
wrongdoers.  (She Who Is Tested, 60:8f)

Taking Verses Out of Context


In the Introduction to this book, the analogy was given of
these verses of the Qur’an being like brushstrokes of a painting.
The brushstroke is meaningful only in the context of the whole

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
painting.  One verse must be understood within the meaning of
the entire Holy Book.


Here’s another analogy to convey what religious
fundamentalists do when they draw conclusions from a verse
without considering its meaning in the light of the entire
revelation.  I call it the error of Rodney King Videotape Lawgic.
Any small child can watch this famous videotape and tell you
clearly what is happening there.  A number of policemen are
standing over an African-American man on the ground and
beating him with their clubs.  No fair-minded person can watch
that and imagine that Rodney King was attacking the policemen
and that they were defending themselves against him.


There is one way, however, to escape this obvious
conclusion.  And that is the method the lawyers for the defense
of the policemen used.  What they did was try to avoid seeing the
whole running videotape as much as possible and instead focus
the attention of the jury on individual frames from that
videotape.  Then, by pointing to certain positions taken by
Rodney King, they tried to suggest that he was attacking the
officers and that they were defending themselves.  This is done
by trying to influence the minds of the jurors to imagine what
would be the following sequence of actions – extrapolating
actions from just one frozen frame.  Of course, the proper way to
know what was actually happening would be to watch the full
running videotape and make one’s judgement from that.  But by
using this tricky technique of letting the minds of the jurors
imagine were one position would lead, they were able to
override the obvious conclusion that the full running videotape
conveys and come to a quite different and unrealistic
conclusion.


Religious fundamentalists use the same trick.  They take
one verse from their Holy Book and look at it in isolation from

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
the rest of the verses.  Then they suggest meanings of it that go
in a direction that conflicts with other verses in that same Holy
Book.   This is what modern-day Muslim terrorists do.  There’s
no doubt that there are verses in the Qur’an commanding
Muslims to fight.  Again:

"Prophet, make war on the unbelievers and the
hypocrites, and deal sternly with them.  Hell shall
be their home, evil their fate."  (Prohibition,
66:9)

"Believers, make war on the infidels who
dwell around you.  Deal firmly with them.  Know
that God is with the righteous."  (Repentence,
9:123)

But these verses have meaning in the context of other verses
making it clear that this war in only in defense of Islam and
Muslims.  It applies to conditions where the Muslim
community’s existence and freedom to worship are threatened.
Again:

"Permission to take up arms is hereby given to
those who are attacked, because they have been
wronged.  God has power to grant them victory:
those who have been unjustly driven from their
homes, only because they said: 'Our Lord is God.'
Had God not defended some men by the might of
others, the monasteries and churches, the
synagogues and mosques in which His praise is
daily celebrated, would have been utterly
destroyed...." (Pilgrimage, 22:39)

This makes it clear that fighting in defense of Islám, as
the Qur’án commands, is an act of justice, not an act of revenge,

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
oppression and tyranny.  It's as different from aggression as the
giving of a gift is different from the giving of a bribe.  Outwardly
they look similar, but in reality they are quite different and have
entirely opposite results.  Oppression and aggression increase
the amount of harm while justice minimizes it.  As God says in
this quote, if some men had not risen up in justice to defend their
community against vicious aggressive attacks, the places of
worship of all the religions where God is worshipped would
have been "utterly destroyed".  The use of force in the service of
justice is constructive while its use in injustice is destructive.
Those from cultural backgrounds where Christian ideals were
once promoted and who feel that this is wrong must please read
or re-read the first chapter and think carefully over the
arguments made there in order to understand this point of the
legitimate and constructive use of forceful justice by a society.


So, when God says, "Seek out your enemies
relentlessly."  (Women, 4:104), it is clear that what the
All-Powerful and All-Knowing One means by "enemies" is
those who attack first, who drive Muslims from their homes,
who prevent them from worship, who do not incline to peace,
who do not have peace treaties which they keep faithfully.


Some Muslims war and fight these days with the most
horrible acts of oppression and evil imaginable.  And they
justify this by focusing only on the commands to fight, to war
against the infidels, and ignoring the other commands that make
it very clear that these apply only as acts of defense where others
are clearly opposing Islám, directly attacking Muslims, and
driving them from their homes.  If this is pointed out to them,
perhaps some will find ways to make it look as though they are
defending themselves.  And, of course, once those they attack
defend themselves, this can be viewed as offensive and then
justify a defense.  We humans are masters of rationalization and
can fool ourselves into justifying just about anything.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting


It would be easy to get drawn into the politics of current
Muslim warring against others.  But it's the express intention of
the writer to avoid that and stick strictly to the guidance of the
Qur’án, free from the interpretations of Muslim leaders/clergy,
politics, nationalism and other less central matters.

Muslims Are Forbidden to Intentionally Kill
Other Muslims

"It is unlawful for a believer to kill another
believer except by accident."  (Women, 4:92)

"He that kills a believer by design shall burn in
Hell for ever.  He shall incur the wrath of God,
who will lay His curse on him and prepare for
him a woeful scourge." (Women, 4:93)

When one sees the spectacle of horrible wars between
Muslims, such as that which occurred between Iran and 'Iraq,
one wonders how they justified it. God clearly desires that His
submissive servants survive, as the following quote shows.

"It was He who ended hostilities between you
in the Valley of Mecca after He had given you
victory over them.  God was watching all your
actions.
"Those were the unbelievers who debarred
you from the Sacred Mosque and prevented your
offerings from reaching their destination.  But for
the fear that you might have trampled underfoot
believing men and women unknown to you and
thus incurred unwitting guilt on their account,
God would have commanded you to fight it out
with them; but He ordained it thus that He might

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
bring whom He will into His mercy.  Had the
faithful stood apart from them, We would have
sternly punished the unbelievers." (Victory,
48:24f)


If two groups of Muslims do happen to fight, then
Muslims are commanded to try to make peace between them.  If
one of them is the aggressor, then they must first fight the
aggressors until they submit and then try to make peace:

"If two parties of believers take up arms the
one against the other, make peace between them.
If either of them commits aggression against the
other, fight against the aggressors till they submit
to God's judgement.  When they submit, make
peace between them in equity and justice.  God
loves those who exercise justice."  (The
Chambers, 49:9)


Though God encourages Muslim men to fight in defense
of Islám, it's clear that our Creator's deeper aim is to bring about
peace among humans.  The defensive fighting is justice, which
is only a means of minimizing the harm that is done by those
who violently attack and oppose Islám.

"That which is revealed to you from your Lord
will surely increase the wickedness and unbelief
of many of them.  We have stirred among them
enmity and hatred, which will endure till the Day
of Resurrection.  Whenever they kindle the fire
of war, God puts it out.  They spread evil in the
land, but God does not love the evil-doer."  (The
Table, 5:65)

Jihad

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting


There is much talk these days about jihad.  It has been
equated with holy war.  In reality, this Arabic word means
"struggle" or “effort” and is usually applied to struggle in and for
the Cause of Islám.  It can refer to the struggle to overcome one's
lower nature and obey the commands and laws of God.  But
most often it refers to the struggle to defend and advance Islám.
That is, jihad can be holy war in some circumstances but can
also have a wider meaning.


The quotes from the Qur’án here concerning war and
fighting are about all of them this writer could find in that Holy
Book.  There are a few others that repeat the points made in
these quotes.  This makes it clear that what is here is complete,
or nearly complete, and is not a biased covering of just some of
them.

PROBLEMS WITH MUSLIM WARRING IN THIS
MODERN AGE


Aside from the obvious point that some Muslims are
ignoring the parts of the Qur’án that insist that Muslim war is to
be defensive only, there are at least two problems with taking
these commands to war seriously in this modern age some one
thousand and four hundred years since the earliest days of Islám.
One of these is that there are many instructions in the Qur’án
that seem to apply only to the situation of Muslims in that very
early environment of the Arabian Peninsula and possibly
nearby.  Muslim holy war could be one of these.  The other is
that if a new revelation from God has occurred, then it is the
commands of the new revelation that must be put into practice.
The old laws and commands no longer apply unless they are
sanctioned by the new revelation.  Some of the commands and
laws of Islám might have been designed for more primitive
social conditions where there were no formal institutions for

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
carrying out justice such as courts and a police force.  Let's
consider this more closely.





Which Commands Apply Only to the Early Days of
Islám?


It is very clear that many instructions and statements
conveying information in the Qur’án apply only to the days
when Muhammad was alive, and only to the specific situations
found in the Arabian Peninsula.  Let's look at some of these.

Desert Arabs Surpass Others in Unbelief and
Hypocrisy

"The desert Arabs surpass others in unbelief
and hypocrisy, and have more cause to be
ignorant of the laws which God has revealed to
His apostle.  But God is all-knowing and wise.
...
"Yet there are others among the desert Arabs
who believe in God and the last Day ..."
(Repentence, 9:97f)

"The Arabs of the desert declare: 'We are true
believers.'  Say: 'Believers you are not. Rather
say: 'We profess Islám,' for faith has not yet
found its way into your hearts. ..."  (The
Chambers, 49:14f)

Can one truly say that this must be true now?  Or at least
a thousand years after the time of Muhammad?  Surely

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
conditions change over time and the desert Arabs (many of
whom have left the desert to work in modern cities) have less
cause "to be ignorant of the laws which God has revealed to His
apostle."  Can one really say that now, about 1400 years later,
the desert Arabs are mostly still without faith, that they only
profess Islám?


Don't Kill Your Children For Fear of Want

"You shall not kill your children for fear of
want. [Dawood:  An allusion to the pre-Islámic
custom of burying alive unwanted newborn
girls.] We will provide for them and for you.  To
kill them is a great sin."  (The Night Journey,
17:31)

Is this really applicable to any time after Islám was firmly
established in the Arab world?

Jews and Pagans Were "the most implacable of
men", Christians best

"You will find that the most implacable of men
in their enmity to the faithful are the Jews and the
pagans, and that the nearest in affection to them
are those who say: 'We are Christians.'  That is
because there are priests and monks among them;
and because they are free from pride.
"When they listen to that which was revealed
to the Apostle, you see their eyes fill with tears as
they recognize its truth...."  (The Table, 5:82)

This may have been true of the Jews, pagans and
Christians of the Arabian Peninsula in those days so long ago.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
But in a later age, in Europe, Christians were generally not
responsive at all to the revelation of Muhammad.  Sending
thousands of Christian men to the Holy Land during the
Crusades to fight against Muslims is a far cry from having "their
eyes fill with tears as they recognize its truth".  Islám did
conquer Spain and Sicily (with most civilizing, enlightened and
impressive results) but the rest of Europe fought vigorously
against the Muslims, particularly at the Pyrenees Mountains that
separate Spain from the remainder of Europe.  In Renaissance
times, Europe partook liberally of the intellectual and material
fruit of the Tree of Islám (all our knowledge of Greek
philosophy, mathematics and science came through the Arabic
translations), but it firmly rejected the Tree itself and the Seed,
Muhammad, from which it grew.  Clearly, this statement applies
to the times in which Muhammad lived.

Miscellaneous Advice Involving Muhammad, His
Wives and His Followers

"Prophet, say to your wives: 'If you seek this
life and all its finery, come, I will make provision
for you and release you honourably.  But if you
seek God and His apostle and the abode of the
hereafter, know that God has prepared a rich
reward for those of you who do good works.'
(The Confederate Tribes, 33:28)

"Prophet, We have made lawful to you the
wives to whom you have granted dowries and the
slave-girls whom God has given you as booty;
the daughters of your paternal and materanal
uncles and of your paternal and maternal aunts
who fled with you; and any believing woman
who gives herself to the Prophet and whom the
prophet wishes to take in marriage. [At that time

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
Muhammad had nine wives, apart from
slave-girls.]  This privilege is yours alone, being
granted to no other believer."  (The Confederate
Tribes, 33:50).

Again, a dog's or cat's master is not subject to the rules
imposed on his or her pets.  That all cats must go out of the
house at night does not mean that the master must also do this.
The Prophet of God doesn't take wives on consequent to lust and
greed.  Often, it was for the purpose of sheltering and uplifting
them.  Those who feel outraged that the Prophet of God is not
subject to the rules God imposes on the generality of humankind
have failed to realize the immense gulf that exists between a
Prophet of God and an ordinary person.  That the Prophet shares
a human station with us does not mean that that is all there is to
him.  There's something more -- something high above what any
human can comprehend.  Otherwise they would never be able to
endure the intense and persistent persecution with such courage
and unwavering principle.  We humans look something like apes
such as gorillas and orang utans, but there is a difference in spirit
that enables us humans to build civilizations and go to the moon,
something apes have not even started to do because the human
spirit simply does not exist in those animal bodies so similar to
our bodies.  We have something unseen, a comprehending
human mind and heart that the apes don't have, and the Prophets
of God have a spiritual Nature high above their human nature
that the human mind and heart cannot comprehend or sense in
any way.  Mere similarity of physical appearance is not a proof
of an identical nature.  It merely means that the Prophets and
humans share a human nature, just as humans and apes share the
animal nature.  Bahá’u’lláh has a most wonderful explanation of
this in the book referred to earlier, the Kitab-i-Iqan or Book of
Certitude.  But it would distract from our point here to divert too
much by quoting from it.  None of this means that the Prophets
are equal to God.  As they all confess, they are far, far below the

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
Creator.  That the Prophets of God are far above us and yet far
below God testifies to how far God is above us.  The Qur’án
emphasizes their human station, perhaps as a counterbalance to
a previous tendency of the religious to equate their Prophet with
God.  Here's another passage focused on the time of
Muhammad.

"Believers, do not enter the houses of the
Prophet for a meal without waiting for the proper
time, unless you are given leave.  But if you are
invited, enter; and when you have eaten,
disperse.  Do not engage in familiar talk, for this
would annoy the Prophet and he would be
ashamed to bid you go; but of the truth God is not
ashamed. If you ask his wives for anything,
speak to them from behind a curtain.  This is
more chaste for your hearts and their hearts.
"You must not speak ill of God's apostle, nor
shall you ever wed his wives after him; this
would be a grave offence in the sight of God.
Whether you hide or reveal them, God has
knowledge of all things.
"It shall be no offence for the Prophet's wives
to be seen unveiled by their fathers, their sons,
their brothers, their brothers' sons, their sisters'
sons, their women, or their slave-girls."  (The
Confederate Tribes, 33:53)

Instructions Concerning Dealing with Idolaters

"If an idolater seeks asylum with you, give
him protection so that he may hear the Word of
God, and then convey him to safety.  For the
idolaters are ignorant men.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"God and His apostle repose no trust in
idolaters, save those with whom you have made
treaties at the Sacred Mosque.  So long as they
keep faith with you, keep faith with them.  God
loves the righteous."

The Arabian Peninsula, and much of the world around it,
was filled with idolaters in those ancient times.  But few still
worship idols.  Surely this instruction is applicable primarily to
those early days of Islám.  Perhaps there is some stretch of
meaning by which we can call modern Westerners "idolaters",
as they "idolize" money and their pop-music and movie "idols".
Or we could refer figuratively to various modern materialist
ideologies such as communism, nationalism and racism as idols
of secular "faith" and devotion that have replaced genuine
religious faith.  But this is surely carrying the word "idolater" far
beyond the obvious meaning of the Qur’án here.

Slavery


Consider the laws and commands of the Qur’án
concerning slavery:

"It is not righteousness that ye turn your faces
to the East and the West; but righteous is he who
believeth in Alláh and the Last Day and the
angels and the Scripture and the prophets; and
giveth wealth, for love of Him, to kinsfolk and to
orphans and the needy and the wayfarer and to
those who ask, and to set slaves free; and
observeth proper worship and payeth the
poor-due. And those who keep their treaty when
they make one, and the patient in tribulation and
adversity and time of stress. Such are they who

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
are sincere. Such are the Alláh-fearing. (Pickthal,
The Cow, 2:177) [emphasis mine]

"... He that accidentally kills a believer must
free one Muslim slave and pay blood-money to
the family of the victim, unless they choose to
give it away in alms...." (Women, 4:92)
[emphasis mine]

"God will not punish you for that which is
inadvertent in your oaths.  But He will take you
to task for the oaths which you solemnly swear.
The penalty for a broken oath is the feeding of of
ten needy men with such food as you normally
offer to your own people; or the clothing of ten
needy men; or the freeing of one slave. ..."  (The
Table, 5:89) [emphasis mine]

"... As for those of your slaves who wish to
buy their liberty, free them if you find in them
any promise and bestow on them a part of the
riches which God has given you.
"You shall not force your slave-girls into
prostitution in order that you may make money,
if they wish to preserve their chastity.  If anyone
compels them, God will be forgiving and
merciful to them."  (Light, 24:33f)

"Those that divorce their wives by so saying,
and afterwards retract their words, shall free a
slave [Dawood: as a penalty] before they touch
each other again...."  (She Who Pleaded, 58:3)
[emphasis mine]

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"Ah, what will convey unto thee what the
Ascent is! -  (It is) to free a slave, And to feed in
the day of hunger, And orphan near of kin, Or
some poor wretch in misery, And to be of those
who believe and exhort one another to
perseverence and exhort one another to pity."
(Pickthal, The City, 90:12f) [emphasis mine]

Does the command to free a believing slave as a penalty
for certain offenses really apply to conditions today?   How
many Muslims have slaves today?  Can we still insist that
slavery is a valid institution?  Jesus and Muhammad never spoke
against the institution of slavery itself.  Rather, they urged us to
be kind to slaves, to treat them fairly and equitably.  But today
there is a feeling around the world, even among some Muslims,
that slavery is a thing of the past and is no longer appropriate to
our world now.  This should suggest to us that God might have a
new set of instructions now for the world.

The Inferiority of Women


Can we still insist that men have authority over women
and are inherently superior to females as the Christian and
Islámic revelations maintain?

"Men have authority over women because
God has made the one superior to the other, and
because they spend their wealth to maintain
them.  Good women are obedient.  They guard
their unseen parts because God has guarded
them.  As for those from whom you fear
disobedience, admonish them and send them to
beds apart and beat them.  Then if they obey you,
take no further action against them.  God is high,
supreme."  (Women, 4:34f)

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting

What has happened to our world that so many in even the
most remote corners of the planet feel strongly that in this day
society will be uplifted to a far greater degree when women
attain equality with men?  A thoughtful person would begin to
wonder if God had not sent a new revelation with new teachings
concerning the equality of the sexes, the abolition of the
institution of slavery, universal education, and so many other
high-minded ideals that have now encompassed all but the most
primitive, conservative and resistant regions of our world.  Has
not the glaring reality that a number of nations have had female
leaders of great ability stirred the minds to wonder what is really
happening in our world?  One of these female leaders even led a
Muslim nation!

An Ancient View of the Universe


The Qur’án speaks to humans in accord with the
understanding of the time.  If God spoke to peoples of ancient
times in accord with our modern more scientific view of what
the heavens and earth are, suggesting that the stars are giant suns
over a million times the size of the earth – which is a round ball
speeding through space around our sun – and that these stars are
scattered through a vast emptiness of outer space that stretches
far beyond our ability to imagine, those people would have
laughed and insisted that such an understanding was ridiculous.
How obvious it was to them that the earth is flat, that the sun and
moon are bigger than the stars, which are tiny little dots of light,
and that it is the sun which goes around the earth, not vice versa!
Perhaps the people of a time thousands of years from now will
laugh at our present view – which most of us see as unerringly
correct – and wonder that we could be so ignorant, just as we see
the views of the ancients.  So God must speak in accord with the
understanding of the time:

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"We spread the heavens like a canopy and
provided it with support; yet of its signs they are
heedless."   (The Prophets, 21:32)

"...If We will, We can cave in the earth under
their feet or let fragments of the sky fall upon
them...." (Sheba, 34:9)

Surely, if God were to send a new revelation closer to
our time now, He would speak in terms of ideas we now find
realistic and use a language suitable to this age.  Are these old
views of reality still to be held up as appropriate?


So, if it's clearly true that certain sections of the Qur’án
speak mostly to conditions prevailing in the days of
Muhammad, particularly in the Arabian Peninsula, can we not
suspect that there are other instructions given in that Holy Book
which, however fitting they were to life in the Middle Eastern
desert nations of that time, are not so apt and suitable to modern
life?  It's very difficult to read these quotations from the Qur’án
just above concerning war and battle without feeling that they
are dealing with situations concerning defiant idolatrous tribes
intent on erasing the Faith of Muhammad from their world, and
that they are not as well suited to our modern world 1400 years
later.  If one reads them with an unprejudiced and
unindoctrinated mind, surely this is the conclusion that one
comes to.


It's quite difficult to imagine that the command,
"Prophet, make war on the unbelievers and the hypocrites, and
deal sternly with them."  (Prohibition, 66:9) applies to anything
other than those early days.  "Hypocrites" were a particular
group of so-called Muslims who professed belief at that time but
who were inwardly opposed to it and had no faith or real belief
in the truth of Islám.  Every religion has its hypocrites.  Can it

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
also be that other statements concerning violent war against
unbelievers and hypocrites are also most appropriate to those
earliest days of Islám and far less suited to our modern world
now that we have institutions of justice working through our
governments that can defend the religiously oppressed?





Has a New Revelation with New Commands
Superseded the Revelation of Muhammad?


The mere suggestion of this is very dangerous talk in
many Muslim countries and areas.  To even acknowledge the
possibility that God has sent a new revelation to the world would
mean that Islám bears the same relation to this new Faith as
Christianity and Judaism do to Islám:  true for an older age but
outdated and no longer appropriate to the needs of a more
modern age.  There is nothing absurd or foolish about
investigating the possibility that the Creator of the Universe has
sent another Prophet to our world.  In fact, being on the lookout
for such an immensely important event seems to be a key
teaching of most of the religions.


As Jesus pointed out, when you see the signs of
springtime – the trees blossoming with flowers, the cold winter
giving way to warmer weather, the rivers filling with melted
water from the mountain snows – one knows that a new spring is
arriving.  When one sees the sky lightening after a dark night,
when the birds start singing and the roosters are crowing loudly,
one knows that a new day is about to begin.  Similarly, as we
look around our world we see so many signs of a new spirit
pulsing through the arteries of human life.  Slavery is no longer
accepted as a legitimate institution.   So many are now

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
recognizing that our societies benefit when women are
permitted to serve along with men and to use all the talents and
skills that have previously not been allowed to develop.
Science and technology are blossoming to an amazing degree
providing new means of transportation and communication that
have brought the world together into one home, however little
we've learned to live well with our new neighbors around the
planet.  Everywhere we look we see the signs of a new spirit that
is tearing down old notions and institutions and raising up new
ones.  Where is it all coming from?  Such things don't "just
happen".  They have causes.  A thinking person would certainly
be on the lookout for a new revelation from God.  There is not
one major religion that doesn't foretell the next revelation as
well as a great revelation that will bring about the Kingdom of
God on Earth.  As will be shown later in a chapter on the End
Times Metaphors, the Qur’án quite powerfully tells of that next
revelation – but in veiled and symbolic language.


As one surveys the new religions popping up all over
these days, there's certainly no shortage of claimants to being the
new revelation of God.  But it was the same in the days of the
appearance of Jesus and just afterwards:  so many mystery
religions and cults abounded.  Both Mithraism and
Manichaeism, very popular religions of the Roman Empire, had
their founders who were supposed to have had virgin births and
even resurrections after death.  Only a very discerning heart and
mind would have been able to recognize that one small, obscure
and unobtrusive religion would have conquered Europe while
all far more popular faiths of the time just disappeared (even
though many of their ceremonies, sacraments, priestly
hierarchies, garments, customs, habits and traditions still appear
live and well in the Catholic and Orthodox Christian Churches).
One seed among many has the potential for immense growth –
because it is from the Creator – while all the others wither away
because they are the product of human imagination and gall, or

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
are old religions that have outwardly died yet are still propped
up to give the appearance of life, having lost all ability to change
the world.  The world now is filled with claimants to this high
station.


The animal goes straight to the kind of plant that it needs
at the moment, its sense of smell directing it there.  It sniffs at
everything along the way but goes on until it detects the one it
really wants and needs. There's an inner spiritual sense in some
humans that leads them to the object of their quest.  They can
sniff out what is from God and what is not.  Humans who are, as
the Qur’án describes, "believers", are that way potentially even
before they ever hear of what their hearts are thirsting for.  They
sniff here and there among all the candidates and go on
disappointed until one day they hit Gold.  "This is what I was
looking for all the time!  I've always believed this!" they say.
The potential believer becomes the realized believer.  As the
Qur’án says repeatedly, God has guided them all the way, just as
He misguides the unbelievers.


And others are only looking for a convenient social
program of friends, comforting belief, and the feeling that one is
saved, special, chosen and selected so as to feel superior to
others.  There are countless religions and denominations of
religions around to satisfy their "religious needs" and let them
feel "chosen" and "saved".  Some of these religionists even
accidentally get into God's actual religion for the day because it
happened to come along and satisfy those "religious needs and
wants".  But they were never thirsting for the Truth, for reality,
for God; they were craving the fulfilment of their "needs and
wants".  They wanted something to make them feel good, to
fulfill their desires and assuage loneliness, to have a nice social
club with lots of nice friends to join for potluck dinners, social
outings, token service to the poor and needy, and so on.  They
want a "feel good" religion.  Some go for the denomination with

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
the best singing.  After sermons on Sunday or Saturday or
whenever, they feel good, holy and uplifted.  Then they go back
to their usual ungodly and worldly life.  Their religion isn't their
life; it's just one part of it that they make sure doesn't go too far
and dominate them.  They get what they want.  They make good
tests for the real believers.

"Avoid those that treat their faith as a sport and a
pastime and are seduced by the life of the world.
Admonish them with this lest their souls be
damned by their own sins...."  (Cattle, 6:70)


There are a thousand religions and cults, some of them
almost custom-tailored to special personal needs and desires,
just waiting for them.  But a person looking for God, for Truth,
for reality, is ready to go through Hell to get to this Heaven.
Nothing else will satisfy him!  His spiritual nose leads him or her
gradually, painfully, with struggle and search, to the Object of
his quest.  Such a person finds the one Faith that has come down
from God through a Revelation.  This writer has known people
who drove all over town for an hour looking for the exact food
they want, but can't quite find it.  Then they find it after some
search.  It's the same with finding the Truth that the heart of a
true seeker longs for.


These two general categories of seeker, however, still
comprise only a small minority of members of religious groups.
Many people are not seekers at all.  They just blindly follow
whatever religion they happened to be born into.  They get
indoctrinated at an early age and learn that the religion of the
people of their culture is the only correct one.  They don't
question this.  Which means that they don't think.   Very few
people actually think.  They just learn what to think, meaning
what to believe.  So, if the person happens to have been born in
Saudi Arabia or Syria, then he's a Muslim and cannot imagine

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
being anything else.  If she's born in Thailand, then she's a
Buddhist and is certain that this is the only valid and possible
religious truth.  If he's raised in a Christian family or
environment, then he feels assured, after all those years of
indoctrination as to what is true, that the particular version of
Christianity he has learned is the absolute and final truth, that he
is going to heaven as a saved favorite of God and everyone else
is destined to fry most painfully in the fire.


This is where most of the world is now, and where it has
been for thousands of years.  It's been a major cause of war and
bloodshed.  This is why Hindus and Muslims of India kill each
other in complete defiance of the spirit of their religions.  If they
had actually searched for the truth and not just blindly believed
in whatever religion they happened to be born into, they
wouldn’t disgrace their religions so horribly.  Krishna and
Muhammad are in complete harmony and love, while some of
their followers are like ferocious wolves.  Muhammad and
Krishna are surely ashamed of these followers of theirs.

Such humans are like computers or robots; all they need
is to be programmed, and off they go – without any doubts,
without any search for Truth, without any questions, without
even the slightest thoughts of their own!  (What did God give us
these minds for?)  And then, when they meet another person just
like themselves, but who has been indoctrinated to believe that
another religion is true, they argue and fight.  This is blind,
ignorant faith, and unworthy of anyone who claims to be
concerned about God and Truth.  In fact, it is unworthy of
anyone who can be described as human because the unique
characteristic by which a human is distinguished from all the
animals is his capacity to think, to reason, to search for Reality.
If we cannot think for ourselves and search on our own for what
is true, right and real, then what quality is it in us that
differentiates us from the animals?

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting


In contrast, when a group of true seekers meet, they are
in agreement and unity because they don't claim to have the full
truth; they are looking for it.  And since there is only one Reality
high above us all, whoever seeks the Truth will be moving closer
to everyone else seeking it.  It's just one Goal.  It's like hundreds
of people struggling to reach the top of a high mountain, each
following his own path.  The closer they get to their goal, the
closer they get to each other.  And when they finally do reach the
summit, they find themselves all together.  There's only one
God, only one Truth, only one Religion, only one Reality.  But
it's far above us.  Ignorant indoctrinated fanaticism breeds
disunity, strife and trouble while enlightened search for Truth
engenders harmony, love and unity.


This is why most Christians aren't really Christians, most
Hindus aren't really followers of Krishna and the other avatars,
most Buddhists don't really believe in Buddha, most Jews don't
really know Who Moses is, most Muslims aren't really Muslims,
and perhaps why many who call themselves Bahá’ís aren't really
Bahá’ís.  It's why so many of these religionists don't really
follow the teachings and commands of their religion, why they
fight and argue instead of following the teachings of Krishna,
Buddha, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad and Bahá’u’lláh to
cooperate, be humble and make peace.  It's not the same as
joining a club that your friends, relatives or neighbors belong to.
Precious diamonds are rare and hidden; dull stones of little value
are common and everywhere to be seen.


How interresting that most in Thailand are Buddhist,
most in Iraq are Muslim, most in India are Hindu.  Does such a
distribution suggest that humans are searching for what God's
Will is now?  How many of these have given any real thought to
the matter of religion – enough to wonder, to search, to ask
questions such as "What if I were born in Vietnam or China or

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
Tibet?  What would i believe in then?"  But such questions don't
occur to those who aren't seeking Truth, who never learned to
think or wonder or ask important questions.  They just want to
feel comfortable, fulfilled, satisfied.  They want a God who will
be submissive and obedient to their wishes and prayers.  They
pray and ask for a child, or scads of money, or to win at
gambling, or to be on their side to win a war or some battle, or to
capture a boyfriend, or whatever.   They expect an obedient God
to know who is boss.  They want a God that will humbly
surrender and give them whatever they ask for.

And if the All-Powerful and Majestic Lord of the
Universe decides not to answer their selfish and petty prayers, if
He decides that it is they who should obey and submit to His
Command, then they get angry and even threaten the God they
cajole, plead with, bargain with, and prod, with not doing His
Will.  Have you seen the angry man screaming and raging at the
statue of Mary near the cathedral for not letting him win at
gambling? – for not "coming through" on the "deal" he made
with the statue earlier?  Have you seen the lady making offerings
to some small shrine and speaking so sweetly hoping to coax
and cajole the Lord of the Universe into bringing her that nice
boy she likes? – or maybe a baby?  This is the selfish child who
wants to be satisfied, not the mature adult who longs for reality
and truth.


No human can lead another to Truth, or change any
person in a fundamental way.  Real religious efforts are a matter
of bringing out whatever potential exists in a person.  The
orange seed is not going to bring forth grapes or bananas.  The
watermelon seed will not produce apples – even through the
most ardent efforts.  Again:

"The fate of each man we have hung about his
neck." (The Night Journey, 17:12)

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting

"... None can guide those whom God has led
astray."  (Thunder, 13:34)

"You cannot make the dead hear you, nor can
you make the deaf hear your call if they turn their
backs and give no heed; nor can you guide the
blind out of their error.  None shall give ear to
you save those who believe in Our revelations,
and are submissive to Our will."  (The Greeks,
30:52)


So the true seeker, the potential believer, already has it in
him to search for God's Faith, while others have what they want
in religions others like them create themselves, or in religions
they've changed to suit themselves, or in religions that are God's
old revelation of ages past in which they've been indoctrinated.
We get what we want deep down in our hearts.  Those who want
this world and its life and wealth get it.  And those who want
Truth, Reality and God and the next life get that!  It's God or
gold.  Again:

"Those that desire the life of this world with all
its finery shall be rewarded for their deeds in
their own lifetime: nothing shall be denied them.
These are the men who in the world to come shall
have nothing but Hell-fire.  Fruitless are their
deeds, and vain are all their works."  (Húd,
11:15)


So, a person who truly desires God might hopefully find
this a stepping stone in that direction.  And another who has
been programmed to believe in the "correct" Faith of their
family, culture or group, and indoctrinated towards a fanatical
and unreasoning approach to religion, will reject the Truth,

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
whatever it is for this day and age, because it will conflict with
his prejudices, desires and indoctrination.  The potential believer
will develop into an actual realized believer because that is what
is hidden away within him.  And the one who is not a potential
believer can never be changed into one any more than an
appleseed can grow into a coconut tree.


This in no way changes or interferes with the principle
that the Prophet has an immense power working through him
that enables him to transform a person in the most radical way so
that satanic strength is converted to heavenly power.  The
transformation of the ugly caterpillar into the beautiful butterfly
after a period of time of utter formlessness in a cocoon is
remarkable.  (There is a stage in the cocoon where all the
substance of the caterpillar dissolves into a homogenous fluid
and then completely reorganizes and solidifies into the new
butterfly.)  But no matter how great this transformation, the truth
still remains that the butterfly can develop only from its previous
condition as a caterpillar.  Other wormlike creatures will not and
cannot be changed into butterflies.  There isn't the potential.

A Prime Candidate


As hinted at earlier, this writer feels that the religions of
the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths, which
appeared in Islámic Persia (modern-day Iran) of the 19th
century, don't have any real competition as candidates for being
the next revelation of God.  In fact, to him it's like the sun rising
after a dark night; the old stars are still there, but one just doesn't
notice them any longer because the light of this sun is so bright.
But no one can impose his faith on another.  As quoted, it's a gift
from God, the Creator.  Without this glorious gift, the mind and
heart will not see.  So it's for each seeker to investigate carefully
for himself.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
These are not the days of childhood any longer, where
one's powers of thought and comprehension are weak, where
one must be told what to do, what to think, what to believe,
where blind imitation and conformity are the rule.  We are
approaching maturity now, and maturity requires that faith be
built on rationality and the scientific approach.  A person must
genuinely seek out what is true, carefully going over proofs and
arguments until utterly convinced.  In fact, there's no harm in
even trying to prove a religion wrong – so long as one is being
fair and unprejudiced, and genuinely seeking what is true.  It's
the bad attitude of ignoring possible truth, or of opposing it
without investigating it, or of recognizing the truth, not liking it,
and then opposing it, that are unreasonable and harmful.  No one
can search for another.  Each person has his or her own path of
search to find the Goal of the heart's quest.


If it is true that a new revelation has come to our world
since the revealing of the Qur’án through the Prophet of God,
Muhammad, then this new Prophet will reveal new laws, new
commands, new exhortations and advice suited to this new age.
Bahá’u’lláh has certainly done that.  In fact, many of the
principles our world now takes for granted as the signs of
progressive society were first stated by the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
the abolition of slavery, the equality of men and women,
universal education for all (with a special preference for girls),
the full agreement and harmony of science and  religion, the
elimination of all forms of prejudice that separate one section of
humanity from another, the institution of a world government
(whose first stages we see in the League of Nations and the
United Nations) to protect us from international anarchy and
aggression by nations and peoples, the removal of the priesthood
and excessive ritual in religion, the establishment of a global
auxiliary language for the world by which all can communicate.
And, so important to our discussion here, the removal of the
institution of holy war and battle.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting

"O people of the earth!   The first Glad-Tidings
which the Mother Book hath, in this Most Great
Revelation, imparted unto all the peoples of the
world is that the law of holy war hath been
blotted out from the Book. Glorified be the
All-Merciful, the Lord of grace abounding,
through Whom the door of heavenly bounty hath
been flung open in the face of all that are in
heaven and on earth."  (Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh, p. 21)  [emphasis mine]

"O ye lovers of God! In this, the cycle of
Almighty God, violence and force, constraint
and oppression, are one and all condemned."
('Abdu'l-Bahá' quoted, Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 239)

"Sanctify your ears from the idle talk of them that
are the symbols of denial and the exponents of
violence and anger. The hour is approaching
when ye will witness the power of the one true
God triumphing over all created things and the
signs of His sovereignty encompassing all
creation."  (Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 73)

This is good news!  In addition, Bahá’u’lláh has
removed the requirement of not associating with those of other
religions.  There is no more shunning of "infidels".  He says,

"It is permitted that the peoples and kindreds of
the world associate with one another with joy and
radiance. O people! Consort with the followers
of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and
fellowship. Thus hath the day-star [sun] of His

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
sanction and authority shone forth above the
horizon of the decree of God, the Lord of the
worlds."  (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 22)


If this is true (and the writer finds it difficult saying this
conditionally since he is convinced that it is true), then the
current Muslim violence we see being perpetrated in the world is
against the command of God now.  If this is the next revelation
from God, then even Muhammad would now disagree with the
law of holy war and violence against others.  Those who reject
the new revelation and continue to abide by the old religion are
now no different from the people of Ur who opposed Abraham,
no different from Thamud who rejected Salih, no different from
'Ad who turned away from Hud, no different from Pharaoh who
opposed Moses, no different from the Jewish Sadducess and
Pharisees who were behind the crucifixion of Jesus, and no
different from the Christians, Jews and pagans who opposed and
tormented Muhammad.  All the horrific statements in the
Qur’án that apply to unbelievers, how their evil deeds seem
"fair" to them, how they will end up in Hell, now all apply to
those that reject the new revelation because now they are the
disbelievers; now they reject God in this Last Day, this
Resurrection, this great Hour of Doom, this Catastrophe, this
first and second blast on the Trumpet, this cleaving of the
heavens and destruction of the mountains, this Day of
Judgement.


Can we see the Qur’án's promise coming true that the
deniers will be given what they want in this life?  What great
material wealth, often through oil, has been showered on some!
But sooner or later, as that Qur’án says, the Day of Doom
arrives.


Consider the horrible fate of those who opposed the
Messengers of God in the past.  Consider what has happened to

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
India since the days in which this birthplace of Buddhism
rejected The Buddha and returned to old ways.  From the glory
of the days of King Ashoka, a truly wise king who accepted the
wisdom of Buddha and lifted up his land to well-being and
peace, India sank back to the misery, degradation and suffering
that we still see now.  Think of how severely the Jewish people
suffered for two thousand years so very shortly after the
crucifixion of the one who was their promised Messiah.  It
wasn't 40 years after Christ's crucifixion before the Roman
general Titus reduced Jerusalem to ruins and the Jews were cast
out of their own country to live persecuted in other nations
around the world for almost two millennia.  That was the result
of tormenting Jesus for three years.  If Bahá’u’lláh is indeed
"The Father", the "owner of the vineyard come to bring justice in
the vineyard", the Prince of Peace, the Lord of hosts, the Glory
of God foretold in the the holy Scriptures of all the major
religions, then those who tormented and opposed Him and His
Forerunner, the Bab, for almost half a century, will indeed have
a painful price to pay.  Is it any wonder that the Qur’án refers to
the Last Days as the "Hour of Doom", the "Catastrophe", the
"Earthquake" and so on?   (A later chapter will cover these Last
Day matters.)  The mercy of God extends for a long time; and
then the hour of justice arrives.  One can see the stage being set
for this already.


Muslim terrorists now plague the world believing that
they are being obedient to God through various rationalizations
and justifications.  Could it be that they are being used as tools to
discipline and train the true believers.  They think they are doing
right.  Their foul deeds seem "fair" to them.  They are so often
wilfully blind to a new revelation and feel dutybound to attack it
and its followers.  They've tortured and martyred over 20,000
followers of the new revelations so far and work diligently to
make the lives of Bahá’ís a nearly unbearable torment by
denying them the rights that other citizens have.  When the tool

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
has served its purpose, it will be over.  None can fight against
God – even those who vainly imagine that they defend Him.  If
God has indeed sent down a new revelation, then there is now no
justification whatsoever for those who claim to be Muslims and
yet do what is the shame and disgrace of Islám and Muhammad.

How would Krishna receive those who oppose the tenth
Avatar who is His return (or reincarnation as they would say)?
How would The Buddha receive those who work against the
Fifth Buddha, the Amitabha Maittreya Buddha of Universal
Peace?  How would Moses receive the Jewish priests who
arranged the crucifixion of the Messiah?  How would Jesus
receive Christians who opposed Muhammad?  How does
Muhammad receive Muslims who tortured and killed over
20,000 followers of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, who strung up that
Holy Báb and murdered him before the eyes of thousands, who
imprisoned and tormented Bahá’u’lláh, exiling him from Persia,
to Iraq, to Constantinople, to Palestine in the Holy Land (now
Israel) – how will these be received by Muhammad?

" 'O heedless one!'  He [Bahá’u’lláh] thus
addresses, in the Lawh-i-Burhán, a notorious
Persian mujtahid [priest], whose hands were
stained with the blood of Bahá’í martyrs, 'rely
not on thy glory and thy power.  Thou art even as
the last trace of sunlight upon the mountaintop.
Soon will it fade away, as decreed by God, the
All-Possessing, the Most High.  Thy glory, and
the glory of such as are like thee, have been taken
away, and this, verily, is what hath been ordained
by the One with Whom is the Mother Tablet.
"...Because of you the Apostle [Muhammad]
lamented, and the Chaste One [Fatimih] cried
out, and the countries were laid waste, and
darkness fell upon all regions.  O concourse of

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
divines! Because of you the people were abased,
and the banner of Islám was hauled down, and its
mighty throne subverted.  Every time a man of
discernment hath sought to hold fast unto that
which would exalt Islám, you raised a clamor,
and thereby was he deterred from achieving his
purpose, while the land remained fallen in clear
ruin.'
" 'Say:  O concourse of Persian divines!'
Bahá’u’lláh again prophesies, 'In My name ye
have seized the reins of men, and occupy the
seats of honor, by reason of your relation to Me.
When I revealed Myself, however, ye turned
aside, and committed what hath caused the tears
of such as have recognized Me to flow.  Erelong
will all that ye possess perish, and your glory be
turned into the most wretched abasement, and ye
shall behold the punishment for what ye have
wrought, as decreed by God, the Ordainer, the
All-Wise.' "   (Bahá’u’lláh quoted by Shoghi
Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, pp 88-89)


However, when one reads the powerful letters that
Bahá’u’lláh wrote to the Pope, and to kings and rulers of Europe
and the Middle East – Pope Pius IX, Napoleon III of France,
Alexander II of Russia, Franz Joseph of Austria-Hungary,
Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany-Prussia, Queen Victoria of
England, Násiri'd-Dín Sháh of Persia and ‘Abdu'l-‘Azíz, Sultan
of the Ottoman Empire – written, mostly while a prisoner in
Palestine, with such stupendous power and authority, "it is as if
the king of kings were issuing his behest to his humblest vassal
king, and regulating his conduct!"  (to use the words of the
Grand Vizir of Sultan ‘Abdu'l-‘Azíz).   Most sobering is the
realization that all the warnings and prophecies made by
Bahá’u’lláh to these kings, rulers and religious leaders have

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
come true.  There are no longer kings or queens in any of those
nations whose rulers arrogantly rejected Him.

Queen Victoria was the sole sovereign who did not
respond in a dismissive manner.  Bahá’u’lláh praised her that
England had abolished the slave trade and established
representative government.  The man who delivered
Bahá’u’lláh's stern condemnation of that cocky little emperor,
Napoleon III, while he was in his glory, later became a follower
of Bahá’u’lláh after seeing how His warning that a sudden and
most unexpected fall was imminent came true.  The Sultanate
and Caliphate of Islám have disappeared along with the Turkish
Ottoman Empire, and there is no Sháh of Iran on the throne.
Pope Pius IX was even taken prisoner and the temporal rule of
the Catholic Church over Europe was reduced to the Vatican.
"From two ranks amongst men power hath been seized:  kings
and ecclesiastics." said Bahá’u’lláh.  One needn't be an
accomplished historian to see that that has happened.  (There
will, however, He says, be a return to the institution of kingship
in a later age.  But the priesthood is finished and no longer suited
to a more mature humankind.)


No thinking, informed and intelligent person can study
this and not realize that something immense, something truly
stupendous, glorious and majestic is going on here.  This is no
mere human lusting for leadership starting up his little religion
filled with desperately insecure people who devour the first fruit
that suits their taste, however poisonous.  This new revelation is
prophesied in the Holy Books of all the major religions.  After
Christianity, it is the world's most widespread religion.  It now
has upwards of five million adherents, probably six million,
across the globe.  How strange that so many who hear of it
suddenly become silent, almost dumbfounded, instead of
making it the major news item of our day.  There's nothing to
compare with it.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting


Professor Edward G. Browne, a renowned scholar of
Middle Eastern studies from Cambridge University of England,
met Bahá’u’lláh in 1890 and had this to say:

"... my conductor paused for a moment while
I removed my shoes.  Then, with a quick
movement of the hand, he withdrew, and, as I
passed, replaced the curtain; and I found myself
in a large apartment, along the upper end of
which ran a low divan, while on the side opposite
to the door were placed two or three chairs.
Though I dimly suspected whither I was going
and whom I was to behold (for no distinct
intimation had been given to me), a second or
two elapsed ere, with a throb of wonder and awe,
I became definitely conscious that the room was
not untenanted.  In the corner where the divan
met the wall sat a wondrous and venerable figure,
crowned with a felt head-dress of the kind called
taj by dervishes (but of unusual height and
make), round the base of which was wound a
small white turban.  The face of him on whom I
gazed I can never forget, though I cannot
describe it.
"Those piercing eyes seemed to read one's
very soul; power and authority sat on that ample
brow; while the deep lines on the forehead and
face implied an age which the jet-black hair and
beard
flowing
down
in
indistinguishable
luxuriance almost to the waist seemed to belie.
"No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as
I bowed myself before one who is the object of a
devotion and love which kings might envy and
emperors sigh for in vain!

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
"A mild dignified voice bade me be seated,
and then continued: —  'Praise be to God that
thou has attained!
" '... Thou has come to see a prisoner and an
exile. ... We desire but the good of the world and
happiness of the nations; yet they deem us a
stirrer up of strife and sedition worthy of
bondage and banishment. ... That all nations
should become one in faith and all men as
brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity
between the sons of men should be strengthened;
that diversity of religion should cease, and
differences of race be annulled – what harm is
there in this? ... Yet so it shall be; these fruitless
strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and
the "Most Great Peace" shall come. ... Do not you
in Europe need this also?  Is not this that which
Christ foretold?
" '... Yet do we see your kings and rulers
lavishing their treasures more freely on means
for the destruction of the human race than on that
which would conduce to the happiness of
mankind. ... These strifes and this bloodshed and
discord must cease, and all men be as one
kindred and one family. ... Let not a man glory in
this, that he loves his country; let him rather
glory in this, that he loves his kind [i.e.,
humankind] ...'
"Such, so far as I can recall them, were the
words which, besides many others, I heard from
Beha.  Let those who read them consider well
with themselves whether such doctrines merit
death and bonds, and whether the world is more
likely gain or lose by their diffusion."
(Introduction to A Traveller's Narrative (Episode

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
of the Báb), pp. xxxix-xl; quoted in Esslemont,
Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, pp 39-40)

Peace!  The long-awaited Kingdom of God on Earth
foretold by Jesus Christ!  The Golden Age of humankind!  "Yet
so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass
away, and the 'Most Great Peace' shall come."  No more holy
war, or war of any kind!  The day when swords will be beaten
into plowshares, when men will learn war no more!  Is this good
news or what?


Imagine a world where the staggeringly huge amounts
budgeted in preparation for war and the threat of war (called
"defense") are instead applied to relieving problems of poverty,
hunger, lack of clean water and social justice, and towards the
development of science and other constructive uses.  War is a
process of wasting money, effort, time and resources with no
constructive end results; just the ruin of the character and spirit
of our children, the spread of disease and suffering, and the
destruction of what we've taken such pains to build.  It's the
cancelling out of each other's efforts.  How utterly foolish and
self-defeating it is!  No one wins any wars.  The one they call the
"winner" is in fact the loser that lost the least.  Only cooperation
brings a real winner.  This way all sides win.  And there is no
real winner unless all win!  For 6000 years or more we've been
like the man who tries to sink his fellow who is in the same boat,
like the fool who tries to burn down his brother's room in the
same house in which he lives.  What a glorious world this will be
when we wake up to see the gross stupidity and self-defeating
childish folly of the mutual destruction called war and fighting!
Perhaps we can be excused for acting like foolish children while
we are children.  But as our collective maturity approaches,
there's no longer any excuse for attacking our own human family
so brutally.  It's not sane or sensible for the human family to
attack and injure itself.

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting


This doesn't mean, however, that there is no place for the
just use of force in our nearer future.  So long as there are
immature humans who have no thought for the welfare of
others, there will be troublemakers and trouble.  While the
vicious wolf is still free to assault the sheep, a means of
protection is needed.  As stated, the optimum good and minimal
harm is done through the application of force with controlled
and disciplined justice.  So police forces at the civic, national
and global levels will surely be needed for a time.  Bahá’u’lláh
states:

"O kings of the earth!  We see you increasing
every year your expenditures, and laying the
burden thereof on your subjects.  This, verily, is
wholly and grossly unjust.  Fear the sighs and
tears of this wronged One, and lay not excessive
burdens on your peoples.  Do not rob them to rear
palaces for yourselves; nay rather choose for
them that which ye choose for yourselves.  Thus
We unfold to your eyes that which profiteth you,
if ye but perceive.  Your people are your
treasures.  Beware lest your rule violate the
commandments of God, and ye deliver your
wards to the hands of the robber.  By them ye
rule, by their means ye subsist, by their aid ye
conquer. Yet, how disdainfully ye look upon
them!  How strange, how very strange!
"Now that ye have refused the Most Great
Peace, hold ye fast unto this, the Lesser Peace,
that haply ye may in some degree better your
own condition and that of your dependents.
"O rulers of the earth!  Be reconciled among
yourselves, that ye may need no more armaments
save in a measure to safeguard your territories

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
and dominions. Beware lest ye disregard the
counsel of the All-Knowing, the Faithful.
"Be united, O kings of the earth, for thereby
will the tempest of discord be stilled amongst
you, and your peoples find rest, if ye be of them
that comprehend. Should any one among you
take up arms against another, rise ye all
against him, for this is naught but manifest
justice."  (Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, pp 253-54) [emphasis mine]

In explanation of this, 'Abdu'l-Bahá', his son and appointed
successor, said:

"True civilization will unfurl its banner in the
midmost heart of the world whenever a certain
number of its distinguished and high-minded
sovereigns – the shining exemplars of devotion
and determination – shall, for the good and
happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve
and clear vision, to establish the Cause of
Universal Peace.  They must make the Cause of
Peace the object of general consultation, and
seek by every means in their power to establish a
Union of the nations of the world.
"They must conclude a binding treaty and
establish a covenant, the provisions of which
shall be sound, inviolable and definite.  They
must proclaim it to all the world and obtain for it
the sanction of all the human race.
"This supreme and noble undertaking – the
real source of the peace and well-being of all the
world – should be regarded as sacred by all that
dwell on earth.  All the forces of humanity must
be mobilized to ensure the stability and

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
permanence of this Most Great Covenant. In this
all-embracing Pact the limits and frontiers of
each and every nation should be clearly fixed, the
principles
underlying
the
relations
of
governments towards one another definitely laid
down, and all international agreements and
obligations ascertained.  In like manner, the size
of the armaments of every government should be
strictly limited, for if the preparations for war and
the military forces of any nation should be
allowed to increase, they will arouse the
suspicion of others.  The fundamental principle
underlying this solemn Pact should be so fixed
that if any government later violate any one of its
provisions, all the governments on earth should
arise to reduce it to utter submission, nay the
human race as a whole should resolve, with every
power at its disposal, to destroy that government.
Should this greatest of all remedies be applied to
the sick body of the world, it will assuredly
recover from its ills and will remain eternally
safe and secure. (The Secret of Divine
Civilization, pp. 64-65)

The League of Nations and the present-day United
Nations are the first two faltering steps towards this great goal of
what Bahá’u’lláh has called The Lesser Peace.  In the Most
Great Peace, to come at a time when the generality of
humankind have at last attained our first stage of maturity (we're
in the adolescent stage now), there will be little need to worry
about leaders of nations being so mentally and spiritually
retarded as to imagine that there would be any benefit in
attacking and invading other nations and peoples. We will have
grown up by then and left the things of our immaturity behind.
The light of justice and peace will fill the world then.  But until

Chap. 3 – War and Fighting
that blessed and beautiful day, the wise and just application of
defensive force will be required for the protection of all.


The point is to convey the notion that if there is a new
revelation of God in our world, then these commands in the
Qur’án to fight and war are no longer appropriate to this day and
age.


Please forgive the writer if his enthusiasm has
overflowed a bit here.  How does one pretend that it's all just a
neat intellectual exercise?  Is such excited ardor really the same
as preaching?  No pressure is exerted here; the reader is free to
investigate for herself or himself and come to his or her own
conclusions.


At least you understand now why the writer said he is not
a Muslim and yet believes in the revelation of Muhammad.

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions

CHAPTER 4

LAWS, COMMANDS AND
ADMONITIONS



Though there is a great deal to be covered here, each
item will be given only a short space for consideration unless it
seems it might be of interest to non-Muslims.   (Otherwise this
book will become bigger than desirable.)  In some items quotes
will be used sparingly since some Muslim laws are derived from
numerous different passages in the Qur’án, as well as other
sources, with considerable interpretation made by religious
leaders.  Many would distinguish between Laws of God,
commands, admonitions and advice.  Here, they've been lumped
all together.  This book has the purpose of showing some things
of interest to the non-Muslim reader.  It's not a guide for
Muslims.  For more accurate details please consult one of the
many books giving information on Islám.


Any who have lived in a Muslim country or with
practicing Muslims will realize quickly that Muslims generally
abide by an understanding of Islámic law and command that
goes considerably beyond the obvious statements of the Qur’án.
This is due to various Muslim 'traditions' and beliefs about what
Muhammad said as well as a great deal of interpretation by
Muslim leaders.  Since the point of this book is to get to the heart
of what the Qur’án is about, not to describe Islámic practice,
only those laws spoken of clearly in the Qur’án will be included
here.

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
Prayer


Muslims pray regular obligatory prayers a number of
times each day, often five times daily.  As many know, these
involve various body positions signifying humility and
submission to accompany the recital of the prayer.  Those
praying the obligatory prayers are supposed to face the Ka'bah
in Mecca, called the Qiblah or Qiblih.  Before obligatory prayer,
ablutions, washing of the arms from hand to elbow and the head,
are done.   Certain situations of ceremonial uncleanness require
the complete washing of the body before obligatory prayer.  In
addition to this regular prayer believers are urged to make
sincere personal prayer in private to God.

"Attend to your prayers morning and evening,
and in the night-time too.  Good deeds shall make
amends for sins. That is an admonition for
thoughtful men."

That is, pray, but don't forget that prayer is no substitute for
action.  There's a story about two devout young girls who are
afraid of being late for school.  As they hurry along, one of them
says, "Let's stop and pray that we won't be late."  The other more
practical and sensible one replies:  "Let's pray while we're
running."

Privacy Required Three Times a Day

"Believers, let your slaves and those who are
under age ask your leave on three occasions
when they come in to see you: before the
morning prayer, when you have put off your
garments in the heat of noon, and after the
evening prayer.  These are the three occasions
when none may intrude upon your privacy.  At

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
other times, it shall be no offence for you, or
them, to go around visiting one another.  Thus
God makes plain to you His revelations: God is
all-knowing and wise."  (Light, 24:58)

Fast During Month of Ramadan

"In the month of Ramadán the Koran was
revealed, a book of guidance with proofs of
guidance distinguishing right from wrong.
Therefore whoever of you is present in that
month let him fast.  But he who is ill or on a
journey shall fast a similar number of days later
on.
"God desires your well-being, not your
discomfort.  He desires you to fast the whole
month so that you may magnify Him and render
thanks to Him for giving you His guidance.
...
"It is now lawful for you to lie with your wives
on the night of the fast; they are a comfort to you
as you are to them.  God knew that you were
deceiving yourselves.  He has relented towards
you and pardoned you.  Therefore you may now
lie with them and seek what God has ordained for
you.  Eat and drink until you can tell a white
thread from a black one in the light of the coming
dawn.  Then resume the fast till nightfall and do
not approach them, but stay at your prayers in the
mosques."  (The Cow, 2:184f)


Muslims are not permitted to eat, drink or smoke while
the sun is up during the 30 days of the holy month of Ramadan.
Eating, drinking and smoking are done before sunrise and after
sunset.  It's a time of devotion and prayer to God.

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions

Pilgrimage to Mecca

"The first temple ever to be built for men was
that at Bakkah [Mecca], a blessed site, a beacon
for the nations.  In it there are veritable signs and
the spot where Abraham stood. Whoever enters it
is safe.  Pilgrimage to the House is a duty to God
for all who can make the journey.  As for the
unbelievers, God can surely do without them."
(The 'Imrans, 3:96)  [This first temple, the
Ka'bih, was built by Abraham.]

Chastity and Restraint

"Enjoin believing men to turn their eyes away
from temptation and to restrain their carnal
desires.  This will make their lives purer.  God
has knowledge of all their actions.
"Enjoin believing women to turn their eyes
away from temptation and to preserve their
chastity; to cover their adornment (except such as
are normally displayed); to draw their veils over
their bosoms and not to reveal their finery except
to their husbands, their fathers, their husbands'
fathers, their sons, their step-sons, their brothers,
their brothers' sons, their sisters' sons, their
women-servants, and their slave-girls; male
attendants lacking in natural vigour, and children
who have no carnal knowledge of women.  And
let them not stamp their feet when walking so as
to reveal their hidden trinkets."  (Light, 24:30f)


Stay Away From Menstruating Women

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions

"They ask you about menstruation.  Say: 'It is
an indisposition. Keep aloof from women during
their menstrual periods and do not touch them
until they are clean again.  Then have intercourse
with them in the way God enjoined you.  God
loves those that turn to Him in repentance and
strive to keep themselves clean.' "  (The Cow,
2:222)

Fornication/Adultery

"You shall not commit adultery [fornication],
for it is foul and indecent."  (The Night Journey,
17:32)

"The adulterer [fornicator] and the adulteress
shall each be given a hundred lashes.  Let no pity
for them cause you to disobey God, if you truly
believe in God and the Last Day; and let their
punishment be witnessed by a number of
believers.
"The adulterer may marry only an adulteress
or an idolatress; and the adulteress may marry
only an adulterer or an idolater.  True believers
are forbidden such marriages."  (Light, 24:2f)

Condemnation of Homosexuality

" ... Lot's people, too, disbelieved their apostles.
Their compatriot Lot said to them: 'Will you not
fear God?  I am indeed your true apostle.  Fear
God and follow me.  For this I demand of you no
recompense; none can reward me except the
Lord of the Universe.  Will you fornicate with

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
males and abandon your wives, whom God has
created for you?  Surely you are great
transgressors.'
" 'Lot,' they replied, 'desist or you shall be
banished.'
"He said: 'I abhor your ways. Lord, preserve
me and my kinsfolk from their evil doings."
"We delivered Lot and all his kinsfolk, save
for one old woman who stayed behind, and the
rest We utterly destroyed...."  (The Poets,
26:160)  [Sodom and Gomorrah]

"His [Lot's] people, long addicted to evil
practices, came running towards him. 'My
people,' he said, 'here are my daughters: surely
they are more wholesome to you.  Fear God, and
do not humiliate me by insulting my guests
[messengers from God].  Is there not one good
man among you?'
"They replied: 'You know we have no need of
your daughters. You know full well what we are
seeking.' [the two messengers/angels]
"He cried: 'Would that I had strength enough
to overcome you, or could find refuge in some
mighty man!'
"They said: 'Lot, we are the messengers of
your Lord: they shall not touch you.  Depart with
your kinsfolk in the dead of night and let none of
you turn back, except your wife.  She shall suffer
the fate of the others.  In the morning their hour
will come.  Is not the morning near?'
"And when Our judgement came to pass, We
turned their city upside down and let loose upon
it a shower of clay stones bearing the tokens of

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
your Lord.  The punishment of the unjust was not
far off."  (Húd, 11:78f)


Fornication, that is, the fulfilment of the sexual urge
outside of a legitimate marriage between a man and a woman or
women, is forbidden.  Clearly, homosexuality falls in this
category.  All the major religions uphold the sacred nature of the
family.  It's not only the nest in which children are to be raised;
it's also the building block of society.  When the building blocks
fall apart, then the rearing of children goes astray; and the social
structure built up from these component families soon falls apart
too.  Fornication of all kinds undermines the stability of the
family.  So there's a great wisdom in prohibiting whatever works
to upset or erode the stability of the family.  Individual spiritual,
mental and physical health also depend on the careful and
disciplined use of the powerful drive by which new human
beings are created.  AIDS, syphilis, gonorrhea, herpes and other
sexually-transmitted
diseases
are
the
consequences
of
promiscuity.  If every person remained with just one partner,
then these diseases would disappear in a couple of generations.
Though it's not now popular to say so, promiscuity and
perversion of sexuality also have serious psychological
consequences.  This is quite obvious to those who are free of
these distortions and defects.  That it ruins spiritual development
goes without saying.  It's like submerging oneself in a sea of
mud; one becomes blind to the things of the spirit.  The Creator
appears to have designed all levels of the world – material,
mental and spiritual – so that immense benefit results from
obeying His laws, while harm and suffering, both individually
and socially, result from ignoring these laws.  Marriage between
a genuine female and a true male is the fireplace in which the
fire of sexual feelings is controlled and moderated.  Without this
controlling fireplace, the entire house of a human life and family
can be burnt to ashes.  The point is not the complete quenching

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
of this natural human fire but rather its careful control and
moderation within the institution of marriage.

Up to Four Wives Permitted - But Conditioned on
Fairness –  And No Man Can Be Fair

"Give orphans the property which belongs to
them.  Do not exchange their valuables for
worthless things or cheat them of their
possessions; for this would surely be a great sin.
If you fear that you cannot treat orphans [orphan
girls] with fairness, then you may marry other
women who seem good to you: two, three, or
four of them. But if you fear that you cannot
maintain equality among them, marry one
only or any slave-girls you may own.  This will
make it easier for you to avoid injustice.
"Give women their dowry as a free gift; but if
they choose to make over to you a part of it, you
may regard it as lawfully yours."  (Women, 4:3f)
[emphasis mine]

"Try as you may, you cannot treat all your
wives impartially."  (Women, 4:130) [emphasis
mine]

So, in reality, the Qur’án is actually saying that only one wife is
allowed.  But it gives some leeway for those who wish not to
make this obvious logical deduction.  They can have up to four
wives without breaking God's law if this is what they understand
of it.

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions

Believers Must Not Marry or Befriend Unbelievers or
Strangers

"Give warning to the hypocrites of a stern
chastisement: those who choose the unbelievers
rather than the faithful for their friends.  Are they
seeking glory at their hands?  Surely all glory
belongs to God."  (Women, 4:137)

"Believers, do not choose the infidels rather
than the faithful for your friends.  Would you
give God a clear proof against yourselves?"
(Women, 4:135)

Wine, Games of Chance, Divining Forbidden

"Believers, wine and games of chance, idols
and divining arrows, are abominations devised
by Satan. Avoid them, so that you may prosper."
(The Table, 5:90)

"They ask you about drinking and gambling.
Say: 'There is great harm in both, although they
have some benefit for men; but their harm is far
greater than their benefit."  (The Cow, 2:219)

The Sabbath


Jews regard the Sabbath, or day of rest, as being on
Saturday.  Many of the Latin-based or Romance languages use
some variation of the word for Sabbath for "Saturday".  In
Spanish and Portuguese, "Saturday" is "Sábado".  In Judaism the
Sabbath begins on Friday at sunset and continues until sunset on
Saturday since the day is regarded as beginning and ending at

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
sunset in the Hebrew Calendar (and in the Muslim and Bahá’í
Calendars as well).  Apparently Jesus changed the Sabbath to
Sunday.  This is not found in the Bible but is clear from the
simple reality that almost all Christians regard Sunday as the
Sabbath.  The Seventh-Day Adventists use only the authority of
the Bible in this respect and insist that it should be returned to
Saturday since this is what is given in the Old Testament to the
Jews.  Muslims regard Friday as the Sabbath.  The Qur’án states
that the only reason for establishing this is to stop the bickering
over which day of the week it is.

"The Sabbath was ordained only for those who
differed about it.  On the Day of Resurrection
your Lord will judge their disputes."  (The Bee,
16:24)


To those who can reason, it doesn't matter which day of
the week the Sabbath falls on.  What is important is only that one
day of the seven is set aside for this day of rest so that all in the
religion have the same day of rest.  These names, "Monday",
"Tuesday" and so on have arbitrarily been applied to the days.
There is no necessary connection between the name of a
particular day of the week and that day.  We could have started
naming the days of the week a day earlier or a day later.  It's
merely a human convention on which we agree.


In October of 1582, it was decided by the Pope to drop
10 days from the calendar because the mathematicians and
astronomers informed him that the Julian Calendar they were
using had gotten out of step with the actual year (the one defined
by one revolution of the earth around the sun with respect to the
stars) by these ten days.  To make the Calendar match this actual
solar year more closely, three leap years in a 400 year period
were dropped (those in century years not divisible by 400).  This
is the Gregorian Calendar that we now use.  Some of the

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
uneducated people did not understand that changing the
numbers that apply to a day is arbitrary, only a human
convention, and doesn't change the days themselves.  They
rioted in the belief that ten days had been stolen from them.

Those who believe that the names of the days of the
week belong inherently to certain days and are not just
conventions that we use make the same mistake.  Seventh-Day
Adventists need perhaps to focus more on the Advent and less
on the Seventh-Day in order to be reasonable and faithful.  (Like
Bahá’ís and the Millerites such as the early Jehovah's Witnesses
and other Adventists, they also believe that Jesus was to return
in 1844 in accord with Jesus' reference to Daniel's prophecy
about the Return but felt that it didn't happen physically – as
Bahá’ís do.)  It doesn't matter which day of the week is
proclaimed to be the Sabbath.  What matters is that all in one
religion agree on selecting the same day of each week.  The
Prophets have the authority to do this.  Jesus changed the day of
the Sabbath perhaps to distinguish Christians from Jews.  The
Qur’án did it to resolve the disputes about which day it fell on,
and, apparently, to distinguish the Muslim Sabbath from the
Jewish and Christian ones.  Bahá’ís do not have a particular day
of the week as a Sabbath perhaps because work done in the spirit
of service is regarded as a form of worship, meaning every day
is holy in this sense; and a far more advanced technology and
pattern of social justice in the future will greatly reduce
necessary human work hours.

Carrion, Blood and Flesh of Swine Prohibited

"He has forbidden you carrion [meat of an
animal found already dead], blood and the flesh
of swine [pork]; also any flesh consecrated other
than in the name of God.  But whoever is
compelled through necessity, intending neither

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
to sin nor to transgress,will find that God is
forgiving and merciful."  (The Bee, 16:115)

Stealing, Cutting Off of Thief's Hand

"As for the man or woman who is guilty of
theft, cut off their hands to punish them for their
crimes.  That is the punishment enjoined by God.
God is mighty and wise.  But whoever repents
after committing evil, and mends his ways, shall
be pardoned by God.  God is forgiving and
merciful."  (The Table, 5:39)

"No prophet would rob his followers; for
anyone that steals shall on the Day of
Resurrection bring with him that which he has
stolen.  Then shall every soul be paid what it has
earned: none shall be wronged."  (The 'Imrans,
3:161)

Alms

"Alms (charitable donations) shall be only for
the poor and the helpless, for those that are
engaged in the management of alms and those
whose hearts are sympathetic to the Faith, for the
freeing
of
slaves
and
debtors,
for
the
advancement of God's cause, and for the traveller
in need.  That is a duty enjoined by God.  God is
all-knowing and wise."  (Repentence, 9:60)

"Those that give alms, be they men or woemn,
and those that give a generous loan to God, shall
be repaid twofold.  They shall receive a noble
compensation."  (Iron, 17:18)

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions

"They will ask you about almsgiving.  Say:
'Whatever you bestow in charity must go to
parents and to kinsfolk, to the orphans and to the
helpless and to the traveller in need.  God is
aware of whatever good you do."  (The Cow,
2:215f)

"You shall never be truly righteous until you
give in alms what you dearly cherish."  (The
'Imrans, 3:92)

Tithing

"Know that one-fifth of your spoils (war
booty) shall belong to God, the Apostle, the
Apostle's kinfolk, the orphans, the needy, and
those that travel the road: if you truly believe in
God and what We revealed to our servant on the
day of victory, the day when the two armies met.
God has power over all things."  (The Spoils,
8:41)

Condemnation of Hoarded Riches

"Let those who hoard the wealth which God
has bestowed on them out of His bounty never
think it good for them: it is nothing but evil.  The
riches they have hoarded shall become their
fetters on the Day of Resurrection.  It is God who
will inherit the heavens and the earth.  God is
cognizant of all your actions."  (The 'Imrans,
3:181)

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions

Charging Interest on Loans (Usury) Forbidden

"God has laid His curse on usury [charging
interest on loans] and blessed almsgiving with
increase.  God bears no love for the impious and
the sinful."  (The Cow, 2:276)

"That which you seek to increase by usury will
not be blessed by God; but the alms you give for
His sake shall be repaid to you many times over."
(The Greeks, 30:39)

Bribery Prohibited

"Bestow no favours expecting gain.  Be patient
for your Lord's sake."  (The Cloaked One, 74:4)

"Do not devour one another's property by
unjust means, nor bribe with it the judges in order
that you may wrongfully and knowingly usurp
the possessions of other men."  (The Cow, 2:188)

Greed Censured

"... Those that preserve themselves from their
own greed shall surely prosper."  (Exile, 59:9)

Kindness to Parents

"... Your Lord has enjoined you to worship
none but Him, and to show kindness to your
parents.  If either or both of them attain to old age
in your dwelling, show them no sign of
impatience, nor rebuke them; but speak to them

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
kind words.  Treat them with humility and
tenderness and say: 'Lord, be merciful to them.
They nursed me when I was an infant.' "  (The
Night Journey, 17:23f)

"We have enjoined man to show kindness to
his parents.  But if they bid you serve besides Me
deities you know nothing of, do not obey them.
To Me you will all return, and I shall declare to
you all that you have done. ..."  (The Spider,
29:7)

Don't Divide Religion

"Do not split up your religion into sects, each
exulting in its own beliefs."  (The Greeks, 30:31)

On Muhammad's deathbed the first division occurred in
Islám.  Shi'ih Muslims (mostly in Iran and to a lesser extent in
Iraq now) accept Muhammad's appointment of his son-in-law
and nephew ‘Alí as his successor and first Imam.  The larger
division of Sunni Muslims derive from the rejection of this and
the choosing of a leader by the democratic principle to justify
their aims.

Only Believers May Enter Mosque

"None should visit the mosques of God except
those who believe in God and the Last Day,
attend to their prayers and render the alms levy
and fear none but God.  These shall be rightly
guided."  (Repentance, 9:18)

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
This suggests a very significant number of those who are called
Muslims may be entering the mosques in disobedience to the
command of God in the Qur’án.

Dress Well When Attending Mosques

"Children of Adam, dress well when you
attend your mosques."  (The Heights, 7:31)

Stay Away From Those Who Act as Though
Their Religion is a "Sport and Pastime".

"Avoid those that treat their faith as a sport and
a pastime and are seduced by the life of the
world. Admonish them with this lest their souls
be damned by their own sins...."  (Cattle, 6:70)

Keep Promises

"Keep your promises; you are accountable for
all that you promise."  (The Night Journey,
17:36)

Be Courteous In Speech

"Tell My servants to be courteous in the
speech.  Satan would sow discord among them;
Satan is the sworn enemy of man."  (The Night
Journey, 17:53)

Justice, Kindness and Charity Enjoined

"God enjoins justice, kindness and charity to
one's kindred, and forbids indecency, wickedness

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
and oppression.  He admonishes you so that you
may take heed."  (The Bee, 16:90)

Moderation and Balance.

"...
Do
not
squander
your
substance
wastefully, for the wasteful are Satan's brothers;
and Satan is every ungrateful to his Lord."  (The
Night Journey, 17:27)

"Eat and drink, but avoid excess.  He does not
love the intemperate."  (The Heights, 7:31)

"Be neither miserly nor prodigal, for then you
should either be reproached or be reduced to
penury.  (The Night Journey, 17:29)

Endure With Fortitude

"Say: ' ... Those that endure with fortitude shall
be requited without measure.' "  (The Hordes,
19:10)

"To endure with fortitude and to forgive is a
duty incumbent on all.  He whom God confounds
has none to protect him."  (Counsel, 42:43)

"We bestowed wisdom on Luqmán, saying:
'Give thanks to God. He that gives thanks has
much to gain ...
" 'My son, be steadfast in prayer, enjoin
justice, and forbid evil.  Endure with fortitude
whatever befalls you.  That is a duty incumbent
on all. ... ' "  (Luqmán, 31:12, 17)[Dawood

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
footnote:  Luqmán was 'A sage who, we are told,
was a grandson of a sister or an aunt of Job.']

Inquire Into Matters to Ascertain Truth

"Believers, if an evil-doer brings you a piece
of news inquire first into its truth, lest you should
wrong others unwittingly and then regret your
action."  (The Chambers, 49:6)

Defamation of Character

"Those that defame honourable women and
cannot produce four witnesses shall be given
eighty lashes.  Do not accept their testimony ever
after, for they are great transgressors -- except
those among them that afterwards repent and
mend their ways.  God is forgiving and
merciful."  (Light, 24:4)

Calling by Nickname, Defaming and Mocking
Prohibited

"Believers,let no man mock another man, who
may perhaps be better than himself.  Let no
woman mock another woman, who may perhaps
be better than herself.  Do not defame one
another, nor call one another by nicknames.  It is
an evil thing to be called by a bad name after
embracing the true faith.  They that do not repent
are wrongdoers."  (The Chambers, 49:11)

Avoid Suspicion, Spying and Backbiting

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
"Believers, avoid immoderate suspicion, for in
some cases suspicion is a crime.  Do not spy on
one another, nor backbite one another.  Would
any of you like to eat the flesh of his dead
brother?  Surely you would loathe it.  Have fear
of God.  God is forgiving and merciful."  (The
Chambers, 49:12)

Sorcery and Witchcraft Condemned, and a Prayer
for Protection

"Moses was much alarmed [by the sorcery of
Pharaoh's sorcerers] .  But We said to him: 'Have
no fear; you shall surely win. ... Sorcerers shall
not prosper, whatever they do."  (Tá' Há', 20:67)

"[Moses:]  'The sorcery that you have wrought
God will surely bring to nothing.  He does not
bless the work of those who do evil.  By His
words He vindicates the truth, much as the guilty
may dislike it."  (Jonah, 10:81)

"Say: 'I seek refuge in the Lord of the
Daybreak from the mischief of His creation;
from the mischief of the night when she spreads
her darkness; from the mischief of conjuring
witches; from the mischief of the envier, when he
envies.' "  (Daybreak, 113:1f)

A List of Virtues

"Indeed, man was created impatient.  When
evil befalls him he is despondent; but, blessed
with good fortune, he grows niggardly.

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
"Not so the worshippers, who are steadfast in
prayer; who set aside a due portion of their goods
for the needy and the deprived; who truly believe
in the Day of Reckoning, and the punishment of
their Lord (for none is secure from the
punishment of their Lord); who restrain their
carnal desire (save with their wives and
slave-girls, for these are lawful to them: he that
lusts after other than these is a transgressor); who
keep their trusts and promises and bear true
witness; and who attend to their prayers with
promptitude.  These shall be laden with honours,
and shall dwell in fair gardens."  (The Ladders,
70:21)

"Have you thought of him that denies the Last
Judgement? It is he who turns away the orphan
and has no urge to feed the poor.
"Woe to those who pray but are heedless in
their prayer; who make a show of piety and give
no alms to the destitute."  (Alms, 107:1-7)

Return Good for Evil

"Good and evil deeds are not alike.  Requite
evil with good, and he who is your enemy will
become your dearest friend.  But none will attain
this attribute save those who patiently endure;
none will attain it save those who are truly
fortunate."  (Revelations Well Expounded,
41:34)

Hypocrisy Condemned

Chap. 4 – Laws, Commands and Admonitions
"Believers, why do you profess what you
never do?  It is most odious in God's sight that
you should say one thing and do another."
(Battle Array, 61:2)

"... Do not pretend to purity.  He knows best
those who guard themselves against evil."  (The
Star, 53:34)

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles

CHAPTER 5

SOME SPIRITUAL AND SOCIAL
PRINCIPLES



In order to elucidate some of the principles quoted here,
the author offers some of his own thoughts.  The reader should
feel free to use them if they are of any value in gaining a better
understanding.  Otherwise, they can be discarded since they are
not necessarily directly derived from any statements in the
Qur’án or any other Holy Books.

Men Have Authority Over Women

"Men have authority over women because
God has made the one superior to the other, and
because they spend their wealth to maintain
them.  Good women are obedient.  They guard
their unseen parts because God has guarded
them.  As for those from you fear disobedience,
admonish them and send them to beds apart and
beat them.  then if they obey you, take no further
action against them.  God is high, supreme."
(Women, 4:34f)

Here is the same surih in a different translation.  Notice
how very different the interpretation is.

"Men are the protectors and maintainers of
women, because Alláh has given the one more
(strength) than the other, and because they

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
support them from their means. Therefore the
righteous women are devoutly obedient, and
guard in (the husband's) absence what Alláh
would have them guard. As to those women on
whose part ye fear disloyalty and ill-conduct,
admonish them (first), (Next), refuse to share
their beds, (And last) beat them (lightly); but if
they return to obedience, seek not against them
Means (of annoyance): For Alláh is Most High,
great (above you all). (Yusuf 'Ali, Women,
4:34f)


It would be wonderful to understand classical Arabic and
find for oneself what the Qur’án is saying independently of the
views and inclinations of the translators.  In either translation
(and in the other translations the author has read) this writer very
much fears that this principle will not be a big hit with modern
Western women – particularly those favorable to feminist
ideology.  But the Bible isn't that much different on this point
either.   There, the man is still dominant.


Perhaps it's wisest to understand that the social laws of
our Creator change in accord with the stage of development of
us humans.  In the stages of immaturity, equality cannot be
implemented; someone has to be the boss or there is too much
selfish wrangling and dispute.  To actually carry out real
equality requires real maturity.   Even most of those today who
claim to advocate equality of women and men seldom manage to
do this in their own private lives.  If it's not the husband
dominating and ruling over his wife, then it's the wife
imperiously reigning over her husband (something not rarely
seen in the West).  But a few of the more enlightened do manage
to struggle towards the ideal of equality between men and
women.

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles

This brings us to ask the question, If both Christ and
Muhammad reveal that God's Will is that the man is over the
woman, that wives must obey their husbands, then how is it that
the idea of the equality of the sexes is so powerfully moving
through our social orders?  Even the long-subdued women of
Africa, who are often little more than slaves of their husbands,
are now starting to realize that the days of male dominance over
women has come to a close, that it's now time for women to rise
up, to take leading roles in society, to act as equals with their
husbands.  In Swaziland the wives of traditional Swazi men bow
down to the ground in front of their husband in order to ask him
permission to speak to him.  And in that same nation educated
women fearlessly move forward to take on the responsibilities
and challenges they know are their right, working in
organizations for the advancement of women, and scolding the
men in letters to the editor in newspapers for not getting with the
times.  Where has this new notion of the equality of woman and
men come from?  It didn't exist in our world two centuries ago.


This certainly seems to suggest that a new revelation of
God has come which promotes the equality of the sexes.  As
readers will by now have realized, this author believes that this
is very much the case.  The dominance of one sex over the other
is no longer appropriate to our world; it's a feature of past ages
and revelations.  It was for our weak immaturity.  And this new
ideal of equality is the result of the diffusion of an idea
originating in a recent revelation of God.

Slavery


Like the Old and New Testaments of the Bible, the
Qur’án does not speak against the institution of slavery.  These
Holy Books do, however, encourage all to be kind and fair to
their slaves.  There are a number of punishments for various
offenses that involve the freeing of a believing slave.  It's clearly

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
regarded as a good thing for a slave, at least a believing one, to
be free.   It is clear that in God's eyes, from a spiritual standpoint,
a free person is not inherently better than a slave:

"... A believing slave is better than an idolater,
although he may please you."  (The Cow, 2:221)


The attitude that slavery is inherently wrong as an
institution is a fairly recent one – one not much older than the
idea of the equality of the sexes.  Where has it come from?  Has
there been a revelation of God since the revelation of
Muhammad that teaches that slavery is wrong?

No One Is Tested More Than He Can Bear

"God does not charge a soul with more than it
can bear."  (The Cow, 2:286)

God Forgives Those Who Repent

"If any one among you commits evil through
ignorance and then repents and mends his ways,
he will find God forgiving and merciful."
(Cattle, 6:54)

God sounds very stern and strict in the Qur’án, perhaps
with the aim of prodding rebellious and immature humans to do
what is best for themselves.  And yet, He is very quick to forgive
and be merciful with those who sincerely want to do what is
right but find themselves weak at times.

There Is No Compulsion in Religion


We've already gone over this one in the previous chapter
on war and fighting.  But it also applies to circumstances where

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
there's no physical battle.  There is also proselytizing, which
implies an attempt to push a person by various inducements and
pressures into a religion, perhaps with the idea of indoctrinating
the person into abandoning any independent thought of his own
and submitting entirely to some group's set of doctrines,
standards and social organization.  So let's look at the quotations
we selected previously in the the light of this new consideration.

"There shall be no compulsion in religion."
(The Cow, 2:256)

"We well know what they say. You shall not
use coercion with them.  Admonish with the
Koran whoever fears My warning."  (Qáf, 50:45)

"Call men to the path of your Lord with
wisdom and kindly exhortation.  Reason with
them in the most courteous manner.  Your Lord
best knows those who stray from His path and
those who are rightly guided.
"If you punish, let your punishment be
commensurate with the wrong that has been done
you.  But it shall be best for you to endure your
wrongs with patience."  (The Bee, 16:124f)

"Be courteous when you argue with the People
of the Book [Jews and Christians], except with
those among them who do evil."  (The Spider,
29:46)

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
Each Has His Own Spiritual Responsibility - No One
Bears Another's Burden

"No soul shall bear another's burden.  If a
laden soul cries out for help, not even a near
relation shall share its burden."  (The Creator,
33:16)

"... Has he ['who turns his back upon the Faith]
not heard of what is preached in the scriptures of
Moses and Abraham, who fulfilled his duty:  that
no soul shall bear another's burden, and that each
man shall be judged by his own labours ..."  (The
Star, 53:37)

"When they are asked: 'What has your Lord
revealed?' they say: 'Old fictitious tales!'  They
shall bear the full brunt of their burdens on the
Day of Resurrection, together with the burdens
of those who in their ignorance were misled by
them.  Evil is that which they shall bear."  (The
Bee, 16:25)

This admonition is helpful in any society where some
who are infantile or childlike (at any age – even in old age) will
wish to depend on others and childishly avoid any sense of
responsibility for their own acts.  Here are some of the writer's
ideas on this.  The reader is encouraged to judge them in accord
with his own reason, understand and experience and come to his
own conclusions.


This principle that, spiritually, we are each responsible
only for our own development and cannot rely on some
connection with another, doesn't necessarily mean that we
humans cannot help one another, particularly if a very immature

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
person person needs help.  Perhaps this is referring to a deeper
principle that the actual spiritual benefit accruing to a person
depends only on his own efforts.  For example,  a parent will
carry a child before it learns to walk.  And while it is learning to
walk, the parents might hold the small child's hand or prop him
up so that the child can feel a sense of help and victory, and
know how it should feel to be able to walk upright.  But the only
real benefit the child gets is from its own efforts and struggle.
The parent cannot walk for the child.  When the day of testing
comes, the child must be able to walk on its own and it is only
that child's own efforts that enable it to achieve that aim.  All the
carrying and support in the world cannot be a substitute for the
child's own struggle to walk.


Similarly, as so many Christians believe, there is succor
and help when one turns to Jesus in one's heart.  (Do Muslims do
the same with Muhammad?)  Or, since Bahá’ís will also be
reading this, they so often feel a deeply emotional relationship
with Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu'l-Bahá' for which they wouldn't trade
the whole earth.  They are much aware of being helped and
sustained through this connection of heart.  But this is like a gnat
getting a free ride on the back of a powerful eagle.  One learns
with the most exhilarating joy what it feels like to fly through the
realm of the spirit.  But no matter how uplifting and helpful all
this is, the only thing that is of lasting benefit to the believer is
his or her own efforts to learn to fly for himself through his own
will.  The experience on the back of the Eagle is like the
experience of the toddler being supported by his parents in his
efforts to walk:  it lets him know what it feels like and what he
should be aiming towards.  But sooner or later, the Eagle knows
that it's best if the person learns to start flying with the wings of
his or her own will power.  So the free rider gets bumped off
when it's time for weaning.   After a period of feeling great
distress and loss and perhaps much whining about "Bahá’u’lláh
doesn't love me any more!" or “Jesus has abandoned me!”, the

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
young human bird finally realizes that if it isn't to crash to the
ground, it had better start flapping those spiritual wings of one's
own free will and stay up.  And so strength is gained.


We can help each other.  In fact, it's a law of life that the
weak turn to the strong for help, that the immature lean on the
more mature for help, that the child turns to the parent in a sense
of clinging dependence.  But this help doesn't actually
strengthen the weak and immature one.  It only gives
encouragement and an example so that the weak one will know
what the goal is and how to reach it.  In the final analysis, it's
only our own efforts that make the real difference.


The teacher does not pour the cup of his knowledge into
the cup of a student's mind.  A good teacher can only work to
awaken the student's own mind so that this student will exert his
own powers of thought and comprehension.  As one ancient
philosopher said:  real education is not the pouring of the cup of
knowledge from one mind into another; it's the lighting of the
fire of a student's own mind from the fire of the teacher's love of
knowledge.  It's like the illustration of the diner and the cook
mentioned earlier.  The cook can prepare and serve the food, but
it is up to the diner to exert his own will to come to the table and
eat for himself.  The cook cannot eat for the diner.  In the final
analysis, it is only an individual's own efforts that really count.
During examination time, the teacher does not help the student.
The student is tested to see how well she or he does alone.  The
same applies spiritually.


Those who are weak throughout much of their lives and
give in to what the Holy Books refer to as evil, are like weak
birds that ride on the backs of others through life.  They are
always looking for someone to ride on.  They feel unhappy
unless there is someone to cling to and get a free ride from.  Such
dependent children are of all ages, from one to ninety-one.  They

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
don't learn to fly on their own.  When this life is over, it is an
individual's own Day of Judgement, his day of testing.  All are
tested to see how well they have learned to fly on their own.  It's
like a school examination; no one is permitted to help another.
Each is tested individually.  No one is allowed to ride on anyone
else's back.  So, the strong birds that have been carrying others
on their backs and gained much exercise and strength through
this, suddenly feel greatly lightened, and like athletes whose
heavy training weights and handicaps are taken off, fly with
power and ease up to the heights of joy and freedom.  It's pure
heaven!  And the weak ones who knew only how to ride on the
backs of others, never really growing up, find themselves unable
to fly and fall down into the lowest pits and swamps.  That is
hell!


Exerting great effort to obey the commands and advice
of our Creator brings strength – even though we might not feel
any exhilaration while we're carrying the burdens and loads of
troubles through life.  And simply riding on the backs of others
like babies, always looking for the free ride, might give the
immature and foolish person a sense of fun, of being gay and full
of energy and spirit in this life.  But when the Day of
Examination and Testing arrives at the end of this earthly lesson,
the freeloaders will fall and experience the greatest misery and
gloom.  There is no longer any one to ride on and support them.


Some will wonder how this works.  All humans are
connected by spiritual bonds that tie us together to some degree.
These bonds might be thought of as being like elastic cords.  The
connection is strongest with those closest to us but the bonds
reach out to some degree to all humans.

" ... Each man who is higher in the ascent of life
is the means of helping those who are lower, and
those who are the highest of all are the helpers of

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
all mankind.  It is as if all men were connected
together by elastic cords.  If a man rises a little
above the general level of his fellows, the cords
tighten.  His former companions tend to draw
him back, but with an equal force he draws them
upwards.  The higher he gets, the more he feels
the weight of the whole world pulling him back,
and the more dependent he is on the divine
support, which reaches him through the few who
are still above him.  Highest of all are the great
Prophets and Saviors, the Divine 'Manifestations'
– those perfect men Who were each, in Their
day, without peer or companion, and bore the
burden of the whole world, supported by God
alone.  'The burden of our sins was upon Him'
was true of each of Them.  Each was the 'Way,
the Truth and the Life' to His followers.  Each
was the channel of God's bounty to every heart
that would receive it.  Each had His part to play
in the great divine plan for the upliftment of
humanity."  (Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the
New Era, pp 203-4)

This analogy from Dr. Esslemont is quite illustrative.  It
explains the envy and jealousy that motivate those who are
lower for those who rise above them with excellence.  It explains
the tribal drive towards conformity, that attempt to keep
everyone down at the same low level, that attempt to cut down
any "tall poppies" (Australia), to hammer down any nail that still
sticks up (Japan), that watches out for anyone who "steps out of
line" and needs to be "cut down to size" and "put in his place"
(USA).  Every person who turns to God through a divine
revelation is lifted up to superior behavior and qualities that by
themselves challenge the status quo of those around them.  The
tribal spirit of conformity, still working quite powerfully even in

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
so-called civilized societies, then works to try to pull down that
outstanding person who "stands out", that exellent soul who
excels those around him.  And this stronger person, if she stands
firm,  exerts an equal and opposite force on those weaker ones
around.  A Being like Jesus fulfilled this principle so fully that
He was finally crucified, and yet, by staying firm and steadfast,
exerted an equal force back that worked to lift up so many others
for many centuries. The same applies to Muhammad and all the
Prophets of God.


But this aid and assistance is instruction and
encouragement.  Only when a person being helped actually
starts the struggle to rise himself, even carrying the helpless
babies, so to speak, does any real strength develop.   Let's alter
this analogy of the elastic cords somewhat to convey the point in
a new light.


We humans are like mountain climbers going up the
steep side of a mountain.  The bonds that tie us together are like
the ropes that hold that team of mountain climbers together.
Holding firmly onto the rock of the mountain face is like holding
firmly onto God's laws, commands and admonitions.  Some hold
on tight, and others are more careless about this.  And some
don't care at all and simply jump off.  Because of the bonds that
connect them to their fellows they don't yet fall into the deep
abyss below.  They are held up because those who still cling
firmly to the rock of the divine advice have to hold them up.
While the foolish swing free and easy, experiencing great
freedom, energy and gaity, those who hang on for dear life are in
great distress, drained, exhausted, praying, struggling, turning to
God with all their hearts.  While the wrongdoers feel great
exhilaration and freedom swinging so freely, the ones who hold
them up struggle and are in the greatest distress.  The Mercy of
God comes to the weak and foolish ones through their stronger
fellow humans.

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles


The reality of this situation is that those struggling to
hold on are gaining great strength through this trial; and those
who swing free and easy, become spiritually weak and flabby.
At the end of this life, everyone climbs separately and is judged
solely by what he or she can do.  The one who struggled
desperately to hold on, will find that the strength gained enabled
him or her to climb up with ease to the very summit of the
mountain.  And those who played in life and swung free and
easy while others held them up will find themselves unable to
climb.  They’ll be too weak in spirit to climb on their own.  And
with no one to hold them up, they will fall down into the dark
abyss far below and meet the destiny they prefer to imagine is
not real.  All this is about spiritual things, not physical things.


The higher a person is up the mountain, the greater is the
load of those below him he has to carry.  Those who are highest
carry the greatest loads.  And this makes them strongest.  This is
why the Prophets of God suffer more and carry heavier burdens
than all.


All of this becomes blatantly obvious once one's spiritual
vision is opened.  One sees and experiences all this as a daily
reality.  But so long as only the physical and mental vision work,
these things will not be clear and obvious.  The comforting
rationalization of the weak ones  would be that anyone claiming
this principle as true is the victim of imagination and delusion,
perhaps "crazy".  They turn the world upside-down in their
self-deluding minds in their effort to make bad look good and
good look bad.  How else can they make themselves right in
their own eyes?   "As for those that deny the life to come, We
make their foul deeds seem fair to them, so that they blunder
about in their folly."  (The Ant, 27:4)

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles

In summary, though there are burdens in life, and the
strong can help show the weak how to gain strength, it is only
each individual who can actually exercise to gain that strength.
No one else can exercise for us.  We're tested at the end of this
life, and even periodically through it, to see how well we've
learned to climb, or fly, on our own.  "No soul shall bear
another's burden."

Good Deeds Amend for Sins

"Attend to your prayers morning and evening,
and in the night-time too. Good deeds shall make
amends for sins. That is an admonition for
thoughtful men.  Therefore have patience; God
will not deny the righteous their reward."  (Húd,
11:114)


Prayer and meditation are preparation for action.  By
themselves they are like a blueprint for a house that is not yet
built.  Action without prayer is misguided and often harmful.
Prayer without action goes nowhere and is fruitless.  It is the
combination of the two, along with great faith, that produces
excellent results.  So, it is as though the Creator is urging
humans to pray and then making sure that this prayer finds
consequences in good deeds and actions by saying that it is good
deeds that make amends for sins, without saying that prayer will
do this too.  It's "an admonition for thoughtful men."

We Are Tests to One Another

"We test you by means of one another.  Will
you not have patience?"   (Al Furqán, 25:20)

"Believers, you have an enemy in your wives
and children: beware of them.  But if you

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
overlook their offences and forgive and pardon
them, then know that God is forgiving and
merciful."  (Cheating, 64:14)

Evil Deeds Cast a Veil Over the Heart

"No! Their [the disbelievers] own deeds have
cast a veil over their hearts."  (The Unjust, 83:6)


If a human wishes to see the Truth clearly, and to
understand Reality, free of all illusion and distortions, then the
heart must be purified and freed from all attachments, from all
loves and hates, all preconceived notions and ideas.  The cup of
the mind and heart must be completely emptied before the
crystal Water can be poured in.  In addition to the cleansing of
the mirror of the mind and heart so that they will be able to
reflect the Truth clearly, that mirror must be flat and free of all
warps and distortions created through injustice, prejudices,
biases and indoctrinated conceptions.  The warped mirror
distorts all that it sees.  When a person lies, cheats and acts with
dishonesty, he works to warp this mirror.  When he descends
into the kingdom of the animal within him and lets it rule his
life, then the dark, stinking mud of that swampy region cover up
the mirror of the heart until little is reflected in that mirror of the
mind and heart.  The words of the Holy Books can be put in front
of him and they mean nothing to him.  He will understand them
only literally and materially at best.  He becomes blind and deaf
to the world of the higher spirit.  As this quote says, those dark
deeds "have cast a veil over their hearts."  They don't see and
they don't understand.  They wander in a fog.


The eyes can be blinded by staring at the sun.  The ears
can go deaf by listening to extremely loud sounds.  The nose can
lose its ability to smell if ammonia overwhelms it.  The sense of
taste is deadened when too many hot chilli peppers kill the taste

Chap. 5 – Some Spiritual and Social Principles
buds and leave only the nerves that feel heat and cold, pain and
pressure, to send messages to the brain confusing this sensation
with tasting.  When very rough work callouses the hands, they
can no longer feel delicate silks.  Harsh emotions and bad deeds
work to draw the veil over the heart and prevent it from seeing
and understanding.


When a wind blows across the surface of a body of water
such as a pond or lake, it disturbs that water with waves,
turbulence and ripples.  When these winds are completely
calmed, then the surface of the body of water becomes like a
polished mirror and reflects all that is above it and around it with
perfect clarity.  The heart is like this lake.  When the winds of
passions, of loves and hates, of prejudices and biases, of
attachments to people and things, blow across the heart, nothing
is reflected at all.  The person who is attached to this world and
its people has a heart that is tossed this way and that by this
world.  But the one who finally achieves freedom is the one who
finally learns the pure joy of having a tranquil heart.  And this
makes inspiration easy.  The pictures of the heavens above
reflect on the tranquil mirror-like heart.  Then a person reads the
Holy Books and starts to understand the spiritual messages
behind the words, and these words start to make good sense.
The Prophets of God and the Holy Books contain the keys to
opening the door of the mysteries hidden away, that tell us what
this life is all about.


There are so many more principles and ideas revealed in
the Qur’án, but this book mustn't grow too big.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

CHAPTER 6

OTHER INTERESTING MATTERS
OF THE QUR’ÁN


After Death This Life Will Seem as Though It
Lasted Just a Very Short Time

"And He [God] will ask:  'How many years did
you live on earth?'
"They will reply: 'A day, or possibly less.  Ask
those who have kept count.'
"He will say: 'Brief indeed was your sojourn, if
you but knew it! Did you think that We had
created you in vain and that you would never be
recalled to Us?' "  (The Believers, 23:112)

"On that day We shall assemble all the
sinners.  Their eyes will turn blue with terror and
they shall murmur among themselves: 'You
stayed on the earth but ten days.'
"We know full well what they will say.  The
most upright among them will declare: 'You
stayed on the earth but one day.' " (Tá' Há',
20:104)

"... On that day He will summon you all, and
you shall answer Him with praises. You shall
think that you have stayed away but for a little
while.' "  (The Night Journey, 17:52)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"The day will come when He will gather them
all together, as though they had sojourned in this
world but for an hour. ... "  (Jonah, 10:45)

"On the day when the Hour strikes, the
wrongdoers will swear that they had stayed away
but one hour.  Thus are they ever deceived."
(The Greeks, 30:55)

"Bear up then with patience, as did the
steadfast apostles before you, and do not seek to
hurry on their doom.  On the day when they
behold the scourge with which they are
threatened, their life on earth will seem to them
no longer than an hour."  (The Sand Dunes,
46:35)


Einstein would have no problem with this.  Time and
space are the properties of the world of matter.  If a realm is
outside of what is material, and outside of space, then it will
probably be outside of time too.  Our bodies are material and
exist in space and time.  Our souls that ride on these bodies are
not material; so they cannot be in space and time.  So, when the
body dies and our soul is freed like a bird being freed from a
cage, we will live in a different condition that we cannot imagine
now (because we've never experienced it before) and this
condition is outside of space and time and not limited and
confined by them.  So, from the perspective of that other world,
without a physical body, while adjusting to a new condition, it
will seem as though time hardly existed.  Consider the
following:

"To God belong the secrets of the heavens and
the earth.  The business of the Final Hour shall be
accomplished in the twinkling of an eye, or in a

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
shorter time.  God has power over all things."
(The Bee, 16:77)


People who have had near-death experiences report time
seeming as if it had stopped.  They often review their entire lives
and go through a series of interactions with a Being of Light in
what later appears to be an instant.  An American friend of this
writer told him about falling from the top of a high waterfall and
feeling sure that he would die on hitting the bottom.  He said he
had a near-death experience at some point on the way down,
reviewing his entire life, interacting with the Being of Light and
having a number of other profoundly life-changing experiences.
Then, on learning that he would be continuing his life and not
dying, his bodily consciousness returned while he was still
falling.  He survived, changed his life completely, married a
wonderful Japanese woman and went to live and serve in
southern Africa.  The worlds outside of this physical world are
outside of time and space.  In fact, time and space may be
illusions foisted on life in a physical body.  Remember the
material shadows spoken of in an earlier chapter?  Space and
time may be like shadows, constructions based on far more real
spiritual essences.

The Righteous Will Inherit the Earth

"The righteous among My servants shall
inherit the earth.' "  (The Prophets,  21:106)


It's like the Biblical prophecy of the meek inheriting the
earth.  The clouds will return to the ocean, the mud will settle in
the waters, and the smoke will go back to the earth.  Justice will
reign and put in the highest place those whose home is in the
highest place; and those whose natural home is in the lowest
place will be returned to that home.  When the  higher is in
control of the lower, then peace, order and immense

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
productivity result.  It's the Kingdom of God on earth, the
Golden Age prophesied in all the Holy Books.

The Jinn, Angels, Satan (Iblis), Adam and the
Garden of Eden


This is a very interesting and wide topic, and it's one that
the writer has not come to any firm conclusions on yet.  He’s
still searching for the true meaning of these symbols and stories.
The reader might care to join him in his look into what the
Qur’án's very frequent reference to the jinn means.  Since it
seems very interesting, some space is devoted to this
exploration.  But please be advised that these are not final truths.

"He created man from potter's clay, and the
jinn from smokeless fire. ...."  (The Merciful,
55:14f)

Other translators (Yusuf 'Ali, Pickthal and Shakir) have
translated "smokeless fire" here as "fire free of smoke", "a flame
of fire", "the fire of a scorching wind", "essential fire" and
"intensely hot fire".  Now we know what jinn are made of – or
do we?  The Qur’án also states that we humans are made of "dry
clay, from black moulded loam" (Dawood, Al-Hijr, 15:26) or, in
another translation, of "clay that gives forth sound, of black mud
fashioned in shape" (Shakir, Al-Hijr, 15:26).  In yet another
place, the Qur’án states:   "Are the disbelievers unaware ... that
We made every living thing of water?"  (The Prophets, 21:29)


The Bible also says we are made of clay, or dust.  But
should these be taken literally?  Clay is used to represent in a
poetic way our body's material nature.  It contrasts with mind
and spirit.  We, like most living things are also mostly water; so
it's true that we are made of water.  But it's also quite clear that
we are not just water, nor are we literally made of clay.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
Similarly, the term "smokeless fire" that is used to describe how
the jinn were made is surely also a poetic or veiled and indirect
way of showing that the nature of the jinn is not fully material,
that they are what some would call spirits.  In fact, there is one
translation of the Qur’án that simply translates "jinn" as
"spirits".  The word "jinn" itself is derived from an Arabic word
meaning "hidden".  This suggests a being that is not outwardly
apparent, perhaps not fully material and visible.


The Arabs of Muhammad's time believed in the
existence of these jinn, and many turned to them for help, even
believing that they were associated with God.  (The story of the
jinnee or genie in Alladin's lamp is an example.)  They also
believed in many gods and idols.  It's very interesting that the
Qur’án and other Holy Books speak out very strongly against all
gods and idols and yet, in stark contrast, the Qur’án confirms the
reality of the jinn and speaks very frequently of them throughout
the Qur’án stating that they were created by God.


A few have occasionally translated "jinn" as "evil
spirits" or even "Satan".  But this seems to be an error, and this is
confirmed by most translators simply using the word "jinn".
Many statements in the Qur’án make it very clear that jinn, like
humans, range from good to bad.  The idea promoted by some
that they are always evil, or a symbol of evil, is clearly not
supported by the Qur’án.  Here are a few quotations that make
this clear and inform us a bit more of the nature of the jinn:

"Say: 'It is revealed to me that a band of jinn
listened to God's revelations and said: "We have
heard a wondrous Koran giving guidance to the
right path.  We believed in it and shall henceforth
serve none besides Our Lord.  He (exalted be the
glory of our Lord!) has taken no wife, nor has He
begotten any children.  The Blaspheming One

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
[Iblis, Satan] among us has uttered a wanton
falsehood against God, although we had
supposed no man or jinnee could tell of Him
what is untrue." '
"(Some men have sought the help of jinn, but
they misled them into further error.  Like you,
they thought that God could never resurrect the
dead.)
" ' "We made our way to high heaven, and
found it filled with mighty wardens and fiery
comets.

We
sat
eavesdropping,
but
eavesdroppers find flaming darts in wait for
them.  We cannot tell if this bodes evil to the
inhabitants of earth or whether their Lord intends
to guide them.
" ' "Some of us are righteous, while others
are not; we follow different ways.  We know
we cannot escape on earth from God, nor can we
elude His grasp by flight.  When we heard His
guidance we believed in Him: he that believes
in his Lord shall fear neither dishonesty nor
injustice.
" ' "Some of us are Muslims and some are
wrongdoers. Those that embrace Islám pursue
the right path; but those that do wrong shall
become the fuel of Hell." ' "  (The Jinn, 72:1f)
[emphasis mine]

"On the day He assembles them all together,
He will say: 'Jinn, you have seduced mankind in
great numbers.'  And their votaries among
mankind will say: 'Lord, we have enjoyed each
other's fellowship.  But now we have reached the
end of the appointed term which You decreed for
us.'

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"He will say: 'The Fire shall be your home, and
there you shall remain for ever unless God ordain
otherwise.' Your Lord is wise and all-knowing.
"Thus do We give the wicked sway over each
other as a punishment for their misdeeds.
"Then will He say: 'Jinn and men! Did there
not come to you apostles of your own who
proclaimed to you My revelations and warned
you of this day?"
"They will reply: 'We bear witness against our
own souls.' Indeed, the life of this world seduced
them.  They will testify against themselves that
they were unbelievers."  (Cattle, 6:128f)

"Thus have We assigned for every prophet an
enemy; the devils among men and jinn, who
inspire each other with vain and varnished
falsehoods."  (Cattle, 6:112)

"Tell how We sent to you a band of jinn who,
when they came and listened to the Koran, said to
each other: 'Hush! Hush!' As soon as it was
ended they betook themselves to their people and
gave them warning.  'Our people,' they said, 'we
have just been listening to a scripture revealed
since the time of Moses, confirming previous
scriptures and directing to the truth and to a
straight path.  Our people, answer the call of
God's summoner and believe in Him!  He will
forgive you your sins and deliver you from a
woeful scourge.  Those that give no heed to
God's summoner shall not go unpunished on the
earth, nor shall there be any to protect them
besides Him. Surely they are in evident error.' "
(The Sand Dunes, 46:29)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

"I created mankind and the jinn that they might
worship Me."  (The Winds, 51:59)


Let's save the discussion concerning whether jinn are
actually existent or not, whether they are just a symbol to refer to
a principle rather than to entities for a bit later.  For the time
being, let's just be like good scientists and not jump to
conclusions until we have enough information on which to base
those conclusions.  Let's just look at what the Holy Books say
first and try to suspend judgement rather than try to force
everything into some preconceived system of explanation that
our culture or subculture might have taught us is the only correct
and true one.


Since the subject of the jinn is intimately bound up with
those of Iblis (Satan), angels, Adam and the Garden of Eden,
let's now look at these others:

"We created you and gave you form.  Then We
said to the angels: 'Prostrate yourselves before
Adam.' They all prostrated themselves except
Satan [Iblis], who refused to prostrate himself.
"Why did you [Satan] not prostrate yourself
when I commanded you?' He [God] asked.
" 'I am nobler than he,' he replied. 'You created
me of fire, but You created him of clay.' "
"He said: 'Off with you hence!  This is no
place for your contemptuous pride.  Away with
you !  Henceforth you shall be humble.'
"He replied: 'Reprieve me till the Day of
Resurrection.'
" 'You are reprieved,' said He
" 'Because You have led me into sin,' he
declared, 'I will waylay Your servants as they

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
walk on Your straight path, and spring upon
them from the front and from the rear, from their
right and from their left.  Then You will find the
greater part of them ungrateful.'
" 'Begone!' He said, 'A despicable outcast you
shall henceforth be.  As for those that follow you,
I shall fill Hell with you all.'
"To Adam He said: 'Dwell with your wife in
Paradise, and eat of any fruit you please; but
never approach this tree or you shall both
become transgressors.'
"But Satan tempted them, so that he might
reveal to them their nakedness, which they had
never seen before.  He said: 'Your Lord has
forbidden you to approach this tree only to
prevent you from becoming angels or immortals.'
Then he swore to them that he would give them
friendly counsel.
"Thus did he cunningly seduce them.  And
when they had eaten of the tree, their shame
became visible to them, and they both covered
themselves with the leaves of the garden.
"Their Lord called out to them, saying: 'Did I
not forbid you to approach that tree, and did I not
warn you that Satan was your inveterate foe?'
"They replied: 'Lord, we have wronged our
souls.  Pardon us and have mercy on us, or we
shall surely be among the lost.'
"He said: 'Go hence, and may your
descendants be enemies to each other.  The earth
will for a while provide your dwelling and your
comforts.  There you shall live and there you
shall die, and thence you shall be raised to life.' "
(The Heights, 7:10)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
This is essentially the story told in Genesis of the Bible
about Adam, Eve, the Garden of Eden and Satan, the snake.  But
it tells more about the origin of Satan.

"When we said to the angels: 'Prostrate
yourselves
before
Adam,'
all
prostrated
themselves except Satan, who was a jinnee
disobedient to his Lord."  (The Cave, 18:30f)


This makes it clear that Satan (Iblis) was a jinnee who
was previously an angel.  As we saw earlier, some jinn are good
and others are bad.  Satan is, of course, a fallen angel, the worst
of the jinn.  The Qur’án retells this story time and again, but
each time with some different information.  Let's look at a few
more tellings of it:

"We made a covenant with Adam, but he
forgot,
and
We
found
him
lacking
in
steadfastness.  And when We said to the angels:
'Prostrate yourselves before Adam,' they all
prostrated themselves except Satan [Iblis], who
refused.
" 'Adam,' We said, 'Satan is an enemy to you
and to your wife.  Let him not turn you both out
of Paradise and plunge you into affliction.  Here
you shall not hunger or be naked; you shall not
thirst, or feel the scorching heat.'
"But Satan whispered to him, saying:  'Shall I
show you the Tree of Immortality and an
everlasting kingdom?'
"They both ate of its fruit, so that they saw
their nakedness and began to cover themselves
with the leaves of the Garden.  Thus did Adam
disobey his Lord and go astray."  (Tá' Há',
20:115)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


If this is a recounting of some actual happening, so that
these words are to be taken literally, then it's strange indeed that
God would want us to know such a story.  But there are ways of
understanding these characters and events as symbols that
explain the very meaning of life to those who really care to
know.


Since some might be interested in knowing of one of the
interpretations of the symbolism of Adam, Eve and Satan (or the
snake) in the Garden of Eden, the following explanation, based
on the Bible's Genesis version, is offered.  The English
translation of this might have a few problems.  There is some
difficulty in translating words into a very limited English
vocabulary where matters of soul and spirit are concerned.  In
the opinion of this writer, the words “spirit” should be “soul”,
the highest reality of a human, and “soul” should be “ego” or
“self” – the middle human self between our highest divine soul
and our lowest animal nature. Here it is:

"If we take this story in its apparent meaning,
according to the interpretation of the masses, it is
indeed extraordinary.  The intelligence cannot
accept it, affirm it, or imagine it; for such
arrangements, such details, such speeches and
reproaches are far from being those of an
intelligent man, how much less of the Divinity –
that Divinity Who has organized this infinite
universe in the most perfect form, and its
innumerable inhabitants with absolute system,
strength and perfection.
"We must reflect a little:  if the literal meaning
of this story were attributed to a wise man,
certainly all would logically deny that this
arrangement,
this
invention,
could
have

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
emanated from an intelligent being.  Therefore,
this story of Adam and Eve who ate from the
tree, and their expulsion from Paradise, must be
thought of simply as a symbol.  It contains divine
mysteries and universal meanings, and it is
capable of marvelous explanations.  Only those
who are initiated into mysteries, and those who
are near the Court of the All-Powerful, are aware
of these secrets.  Hence these verses of the Bible
have numerous meanings.
"We will explain one of them, and we will
say:  Adam signifies the heavenly spirit of Adam,
and Eve His human soul.  For in some passages
in the Holy Books where women are mentioned,
they represent the soul of man.  The tree of good
and evil signifies the human world; for the
spiritual and divine world is purely good and
absolutely luminous, but in the human world
light and darkness, good and evil, exist as
opposite conditions.
"The meaning of the serpent is attachment to
the human world.  This attachment of the spirit to
the human world led the soul and spirit of Adam
from the world of freedom to the world of
bondage and caused Him to turn from the
Kingdom of Unity to the human world.  When
the soul and spirit of Adam entered the human
world, He came out from the paradise of freedom
and fell into the world of bondage.  From the
height of purity and absolute goodness, He
entered into the world of good and evil.
"The tree of life is the highest degree of the
world of existence:  the position of the Word of
God, and the supreme Manifestation [of God, the
Prophet of God].  Therefore, that position has

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
been preserved; and, at the appearance of the
most noble supreme Manifestation, it became
apparent and clear.  For the position of Adam,
with regard to the appearance and manifestation
of the divine perfections, was in the embryonic
condition; the position of Christ was the
condition of maturity and the age of reason; and
the rising of the Greatest Luminary was the
condition of the perfection of the essence and of
the qualities.  This is why in the supreme
Paradise the tree of life is the expression for the
center of absolutely pure sanctity—that is to say,
of the divine supreme Manifestation.  From the
days of Adam until the days of Christ, They
spoke little of eternal life and the heavenly
universal perfections.  This tree of life was the
position of the Reality of Christ; through His
manifestation it was planted and adorned with
everlasting fruits.
"Now consider how far this meaning
conforms to the reality.  For the spirit and the
soul of Adam, when they were attached to the
human world, passed from the world of freedom
into the world of bondage, and His descendants
continued in bondage.  This attachment of the
soul and spirit to the human world, which is sin,
was inherited by the descendants of Adam, and is
the serpent which is always in the midst of, and at
enmity with, the spirits and the descendants of
Adam.  That enmity continues and endures.  For
attachment to the world has become the cause of
the bondage of spirits, and this bondage is
identical with sin, which has been transmitted
from Adam to His posterity.  It is because of this

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
attachment that men have been deprived of
essential spirituality and exalted position.
"When the sanctified breezes of Christ and the
holy light of the Greatest Luminary were spread
abroad, the human realities—that is to say, those
who turned toward the Word of God and
received the profusion of His bounties—were
saved from this attachment and sin, obtained
everlasting life, were delivered from the chains
of bondage, and attained to the world of liberty.
They were freed from the vices of the human
world, and were blessed by the virtues of the
Kingdom.  This is the meaning of the words of
Christ, "I gave My blood for the life of the world"
(John 6:51)—that is to say, I have chosen all
these troubles, these sufferings, calamities, and
even the greatest martyrdom, to attain this object,
the remission of sins (that is, the detachment of
spirits from the human world, and their attraction
to the divine world) in order that souls may arise
who will be the very essence of the guidance of
mankind, and the manifestations of the
perfections of the Supreme Kingdom.
"Observe that if, according to the suppositions
of the People of the Book, [Jews and Christians]
the meaning were taken in its exoteric [outward
and literal] sense, it would be absolute injustice
and complete predestination.  If Adam sinned by
going near the forbidden tree, what was the sin of
the glorious Abraham, and what was the error of
Moses the Interlocutor?  What was the crime of
Noah the Prophet?  What was the transgression
of Joseph the Truthful?  What was the iniquity of
the Prophets of God, and what was the trespass of
John the Chaste?  Would the justice of God have

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
allowed these enlightened Manifestations, on
account of the sin of Adam, to find torment in
hell until Christ came and by the sacrifice of
Himself saved them from excruciating tortures?
Such an idea is beyond every law and rule and
cannot be accepted by any intelligent person.
"No; it means what has already been said:
Adam is the spirit of Adam, and Eve is His soul;
the tree is the human world, and the serpent is
that attachment to this world which constitutes
sin, and which has infected the descendants of
Adam.  Christ by His holy breezes saved men
from this attachment and freed them from this
sin.  The sin in Adam is relative to His position.
Although from this attachment there proceed
results, nevertheless, attachment to the earthly
world, in relation to attachment to the spiritual
world, is considered as a sin.  The good deeds of
the righteous are the sins of the Near Ones.  This
is established.  So bodily power is not only
defective in relation to spiritual power; it is
weakness in comparison.  In the same way,
physical life, in comparison with eternal life in
the Kingdom, is considered as death.  So Christ
called the physical life death, and said:  "Let the
dead bury their dead." (Matt. 8:22)  Though those
souls possessed physical life, yet in His eyes that
life was death.
"This is one of the meanings of the biblical
story of Adam.  Reflect until you discover the
others.
"Salutations be upon you."  ('Abdu'l-Bahá',
Some Answered Questions, pp 122-26)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

That is, Adam symbolizes the highest divine nature of a
human, what other translaters would call the soul, and Eve
symbolizes the human nature or self that derives from the body
and which we might call the “ego” and “id”.


This would suggest that the story of Satan [Iblis] being
an angel who refused to bow down before Adam and who works
to lead the descendants of Adam (us) astray, should be
understood as symbolic as well.  One can understand Satan as a
general principle by which the lower works to pull down the
higher.  The spirit of plant growth causes the tree to rise up
against the gravity of the mineral kingdom below it.  This
gravity of a lower kingdom works in opposition to the plant
growth of a higher kingdom.  The spirit of animal will enables
the animal to roam, swim and fly free of  the limiting influence
of the plant world that would restrict it to one spot.  The human
spirit can struggle up against the opposed animal spirit of the
body it rides and drives.  The symbol of Satan provides a single
collective way of referring to the forces that work at a lower
level than the human one to pull us down and keep us from
developing as humans.  The seedling that doesn't grow up to
bear fruit, that is starved out by the weeds, that doesn't get the
sunlight and water it needs or is in a soil too rocky and lacking in
fertility; the animal that doesn't move about to find its food; the
human that remains the helpless prisoner of his lower animal
and ego nature and never grows with inner strength in his
spiritual reality – these are those that become the manifestations
of Satan, that symbol of the lower that resists the growth and
development of the higher.  People or intelligent beings who fail
to develop in their true spiritual reality, feeding only their
animal and ego nature, become "devils", "manifestations of
Satan" through their effect of exerting an influence to pull others
down to their own level.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

Criminals, tyrants, scoundrels and others we call "evil"
are actually just humans who are too immature and weak to
bring their higher free will into play in order to rise above the
drives, urges, instincts and promptings of the animal and ego
realm.  The highest expression of this human free will is
awakened through the influence of the Revelation of God and
the Prophet of God.  Faith and the full power to follow the
commands and advice of the Holy Books are a gift from God.


Is there some way in which the jinn, like Satan, are a
symbol of some principle?  Satan is clearly the symbol of evil.
But since some jinn are good, and others are bad, it wouldn't
make sense to apply anything similar here.  Could the jinn be a
reference, taken from old Arab beliefs, and applied in a new
meaning to a part of human nature that is not so material?  Or is
God simply using a belief with which the Arabs were familiar
and comfortable as an instrument for teaching some higher
principle?  If so, then what is this principle?


Some might point out that the Bible makes no reference
to jinn or similar beings.  This may be wrong.  Here is a quote
that the author got off the Internet Web and (for which he cannot
now find who it is attributed to).  It seems to point out something
very interesting and leads us to a fascinating discovery.

" 'And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats;
one lot for the LORD, and the other lot for the
scapegoat.' "   [Leviticus 16:8]

[drg:  God commanded Aaron, Moses' brother, to
ceremonially put the sins of Israel on this second
goat and then have a strong man take the goat out
into the wilderness and leave it to roam there.
The modern use of the word "scapegoat" – one

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
who is made to take the blame for the wrongs of
others – comes from this word.]

"This set of verses dealing with Aaron sacrificing
a bullock as a sin offering and then choosing
between two goats, has some very deep spiritual
implications.  What is important for this
discussion is the Hebrew equivalent for the word
'scapegoat.'  The word actually used is 'Azazel.'
[drg:  one of the goats is "for Jehovah" and the
other is "for Azazel" according to Jewish
tradition.]  Most people have never heard of the
word.  However, if you read the Book of Enoch,
you will discover that Azazel happens to be the
name of one of the leaders of the two hundred
angels which left their heavenly domain and
rebelled against God by making love to Earthly
women and teaching humankind other things as
well.

"As can be seen, were it not for the Book of
Enoch, this mention of Azazel in the modern
Bible would be completely overlooked...and
what is interesting is that this is the only verse in
our English Bible where there is even a shaded
reference to the sins of Azazel and his followers.
Could it be that this is just one that was
overlooked by those who so kindly purged the
Bible for us?

" 'For when for the time ye ought to be teachers,
ye have need that one teach you again which be
the first principles of the oracles of God; and are
become such as have need of milk, and not of
strong meat. For every one that useth milk is

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a
babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are
of full age, even those who by reason of use have
their senses exercised to discern both good and
evil.' "   (Hebrews 5:12-14).

The reference to the two hundred fallen angels in the
Book of Enoch is very interesting.  We'll look more closely at it
in a moment.  With this in mind, let's now look at an interesting
passage from Genesis in the Bible.

"And it came to pass, when men began to
multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters
were born unto them,
"That the sons of God saw the daughters of
men that they {were} fair; and they took them
wives of all which they chose.
"And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always
strive with man, for that he also {is} flesh: yet his
days shall be an hundred and twenty years.
"There were giants [Nephilim] in the earth in
those days; and also after that, when the sons of
God came in unto the daughters of men, and they
bare {children} to them, the same {became}
mighty men which {were} of old, men of
renown.
"And God saw that the wickedness of man
{was} great in the earth, and {that} every
imagination of the thoughts of his heart {was}
only evil continually.
"And it repented the Lord that he had made
man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart."
(Genesis, 6:1-6)  [emphasis mine]

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

The term "sons of God" comes from the Hebrew b'nai
Elohim.  Elohim is a plural form for God and may be a respectful
reference to Him.  Its literal translation is "gods".  There are
some who, taking this latter meaning, believe that this is a
reference to the technologically advanced occupants of UFO's
who have been meddling with humans for ages and are currently
occupied through abduction with another genetic mixing of
these "sons of gods" with humans.  But maybe a spiritual
meaning is more in line with what the Holy Books speak of.  The
Hebrew language is closely related to Arabic.  They are both
Semitic languages.  In both languages a group of people can be
referred to as "sons of X" where X is the common male ancestor
of all in the group.  For example all humans are often referred to
as bani Adam, the "sons of Adam".  This bani is the plural of bin
or ibn, meaning "son (of)", that we often see in the names of
Arabs.  In Hebrew b'nai is the plural of ben – as in "Ben Gurion"
(son of Gurion).  The Jewish organization B'nai Brith would
mean "Sons of Brith" and refers to all descendants of Brith, not
just the males.


Some will insist that sons of God here means nothing
more than Earthly men.  But why say “sons of God" but
"daughters of men"?  Who are the sons of God who saw the
"daughters of men", took them as wives, and bred a rebellious
race of humans who were giants or Nephilim?  Are these the
"two hundred angels" under Azazel referred to in the Book of
Enoch "which left their heavenly domain and rebelled against
God by making love to Earthly women and teaching humankind
other things as well"?


Well, as mentioned, some will maintain that sons of God
is just another way of referring to human men and little more.
But there is more evidence to suggest that this is not so.  There
are only three other references to b'nai Elohim, sons of God, in
the entire Old Testament, and all of these are in the book of Job:

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

"Now there was a day when the sons of God
came to present themselves before the Lord, and
Satan came also among them.
"And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence
comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord, and
said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from
walking up and down in it.
"And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou
considered my servant Job, that {there is} none
like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright
man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?"
(Job, 1:6-8)  [emphasis mine]

Satan suggests to God that Job is good only because his
life is blessed and asks if He won't afflict him with woes and
troubles, so long as his body is not troubled, to show that Job
will fail to show his love for God and curse Him.  But Job passes
his tests.  So, again these same sons of God accompanied by
Satan return to God.

"In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God
foolishly.
"Again there was a day when the sons of God
came to present themselves before the Lord, and
Satan came also among them to present himself
before the Lord." (Job, 1:22-2:1) [emphasis
mine]

This next time Satan suggests that by bringing troubles
to Job's body, Job will finally turn against his Lord.  Of course,
for those who know the story, Job comes out again in shining
colors.  These sons of God and Satan twice come before God.
Does this suggest that they are ordinary humans?  Do ordinary
men accompanied by Satan come to present themselves before

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
the Lord?   Why is Satan always in the company of the "sons of
God" here?  Is it that they are of the same nature, as Satan or
Iblis was one of the jinn?  The final reference to them in the
book of Job occurs in God's reply to Job and makes it quite clear
that these sons of God are not humans:

"Then the Lord answered Job out of the
whirlwind, and said,
"Who {is} this that darkeneth counsel by
words without knowledge?
"Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will
demand of thee, and answer thou me.
"Where wast thou when I laid the
foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast
understanding.
"Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou
knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it?
"Whereupon are the foundations thereof
fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof;
"When the morning stars sang together, and
all the sons of God shouted for joy?"  (Job,
38:1-7)  [emphasis mine]

God asks Job here if he was present when He created the
earth.  Clearly, being a human who was created later, he was not
present.  But the sons of God were present:  they "shouted for
joy" at this creation of the earth.  It is very difficult to interpret
this as saying anything other than that the sons of God are not
humans.  As the Qur’án points out, men were created after the
jinn.  Since the only other mention of these sons of God in the
Old Testament is in the Genesis passage quoted above, our
suspicion that sons of God are of a different nature than the
"daughters of men" seems to be confirmed.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

In the New Testament, the phrase "sons of God" is used
rarely only to refer to the true believers in Christ – or its
equivalent in Greek is translated as "demons".  Since this
terminology was used so much later, and is used so very
differently, it has little bearing on the Old Testament usage


The Book of Enoch was rejected by the early Church
fathers of Europe because of this reference to fallen angels
taking on a physical form so as to take earthly women as wives.
So they probably destroyed the copies they had.  But another
Christian Church, an Ethiopian one, retained it.  And it was so
commonly known to Jews in Jesus' time that Jude quotes from it
and the Revelation of St. John seems to copy its style.  Much of
its prophecies apparently refer to a distant time in the future as
the text itself says.  That time could be the days of the
appearance of the Messiah, Jesus, or Muhammad, or now. So,
for a thousand years the vast majority of Christians knew little of
it.


Then, since the middle of the 19th century we've starting
recovering it.  One Dr. Bruce came back from Ethiopia with
three copies of it. More recently, fragments of it – including
those dealing with these fallen angels taking earthly wives –
were found among the Dead Sea scrolls.  There's a Greek text as
well.  The sons of God are also referred to as zophim, meaning
"the watchers", and malakh, meaning "messengers" but the term
is usually translated as "angels" into English.  Here are some
relevant sections from that Book of Enoch translated from a
Greek text by R.H. Charles. (My comments are enclosed within
braces - {  }.)


[Chapter 6]
"And it came to pass when the children of men
had multiplied that in those days were born unto
them beautiful and comely daughters. And the

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
angels {the Aramaic Qumran texts (Dead Sea
scrolls) reads 'Watchers' here} , the children of
the heaven, saw and lusted after them, and said to
one another: 'Come, let us choose us wives from
among the children of men and beget us
children.' And Semjaza, who was their leader,
said unto them: 'I fear ye will not indeed agree to
do this deed, and I alone shall have to pay the
penalty of a great sin.' And they all answered him
and said: 'Let us all swear an oath, and all bind
ourselves by mutual imprecations not to abandon
this plan but to do this thing.' Then sware they all
together and bound themselves by mutual
imprecations upon it. And they were in all two
hundred; who descended in the days of Jared
{Enoch's father who was the sixth generation
from Adam} on the summit of Mount Hermon,
and they called it Mount Hermon [or Armon
from Hebrew herem meaning 'curse'], because
they had sworn and bound themselves by mutual
imprecations upon it. And these are the names of
their leaders: Samlazaz, their leader, Araklba,
Rameel, Kokablel, Tamlel, Ramlel, Danel,
Ezeqeel, Baraqijal, Asael, Armaros, Batarel,
Ananel, Zaqiel, Samsapeel, Satarel, Turel,
Jomjael, Sariel. These are their chiefs of tens.
{From the Ethiopic: Urakabarameel, Akibeel,
Tamiel, Ramuel, Danel, Azkeel, Saraknyal,
Asael,
Armers,
Batraal,
Anane,
Zavebe,
Samsaveel, Ertael, Turel, Yomyael, Arazyal; and
from the Aramaic of the Qumran texts:
Semihazah; Artqoph; Ramtel; Kokabel; Ramel;
Danieal; Zeqiel; Baraqel; Asael; Hermoni;
Matarel; Ananel; Stawel; Samsiel; Sahriel;
Tummiel; Turiel; Yomiel; Yhaddiel}.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


[Chapter 7]
"And all the others together with them took unto
themselves wives, and each chose for himself
one, and they began to go in unto them and to
defile themselves with them, and they taught
them charms and enchantments, and the cutting
of roots, and made them acquainted with plants.
And they became pregnant, and they bare great
giants, {One Greek manuscript adds, "And they
bore to them [the Watchers] three races—first,
the great giants. The giants brought forth the
Naphelim, and the Naphelim brought forth the
Elioud.  Some translations give 'slew' instead of
'brought forth'.  The apocryphal Book of Jubilees
has more on this.} whose height was three
thousand ells {1.25 km = 0.78 miles; another
version: 300 cubits =137 m = 450 ft.}: Who
consumed all the acquisitions of men. And when
men could no longer sustain them, the giants
turned against them and devoured mankind. And
they began to sin against birds, and beasts, and
reptiles, and fish, and to devour one another's
flesh, and drink the blood. Then the earth laid
accusation against the lawless ones.


[Chapter 8]
"And Azazel taught men to make swords, and
knives, and shields, and breastplates, and made
known to them the metals of the earth and the art
of working them, and bracelets, and ornaments,
and the use of antimony, and the beautifying of
the eyelids, and all kinds of costly stones, and all
colouring tinctures. And there arose much
godlessness, and they committed fornication, and

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
they were led astray, and became corrupt in all
their ways. Semjaza taught enchantments, and
root-cuttings,
'Armaros
the
resolving
of
enchantments, Baraqijal (taught) astrology,
Kokabel
the
constellations,
Ezeqeel
the
knowledge of the clouds {divining from the
clouds} , Araqiel the signs of the earth, Shamsiel
the signs of the sun, and Sariel the course of the
moon. And as men perished, they cried, and their
cry went up to heaven . . .


[Chapter 9]
"And then Michael, Uriel, Raphael, and
Gabriel looked down from heaven and saw much
blood being shed upon the earth, and all
lawlessness being wrought upon the earth. And
they said one to another: 'The earth made without
inhabitant cries the voice of their cryingst up to
the gates of heaven. And now to you, the holy
ones of heaven, the souls of men make their suit,
saying, "Bring our cause before the Most High."'
And they said to the Lord of the ages: 'Lord of
lords, God of gods, King of kings, and God of the
ages, the throne of Thy glory (standeth) unto all
the generations of the ages, and Thy name holy
and glorious and blessed unto all the ages! Thou
hast made all things, and power over all things
hast Thou: and all things are naked and open in
Thy sight, and Thou seest all things, and nothing
can hide itself from Thee. Thou seest what
Azazel hath done, who hath taught all
unrighteousness on earth and revealed the eternal
secrets which were (preserved) in heaven, which
men were striving to learn: And Semjaza, to
whom Thou hast given authority to bear rule over

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
his associates. And they have gone to the
daughters of men upon the earth, and have slept
with the women, and have defiled themselves,
and revealed to them all kinds of sins. And the
women have borne giants, and the whole earth
has thereby been filled with blood and
unrighteousness. And now, behold, the souls of
those who have died are crying and making their
suit to the gates of heaven, and their lamentations
have ascended: and cannot cease because of the
lawless deeds which are wrought on the earth.
And Thou knowest all things before they come to
pass, and Thou seest these things and Thou dost
suffer them, and Thou dost not say to us what we
are to do to them in regard to these.'


[Chapter 10]
"Then said the Most High, the Holy and Great
One
spake,
and
sent
Uriel
[Ethiopic:
Arsayalalyur] to the son of Lamech, and said to
him: 'Go to Noah and tell him in my name "Hide
thyself!" and reveal to him the end that is
approaching: that the whole earth will be
destroyed, and a deluge is about to come upon
the whole earth, and will destroy all that is on it.
And now instruct him that he may escape and his
seed may be preserved for all the generations of
the world.' And again the Lord said to Raphael:
'Bind Azazel hand and foot, and cast him into the
darkness: and make an opening in the desert,
which is in Dudael, and cast him therein. And
place upon him rough and jagged rocks, and
cover him with darkness, and let him abide there
for ever, and cover his face that he may not see
light. And on the day of the great judgement he

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
shall be cast into the fire. And heal the earth
which the angels have corrupted, and proclaim
the healing of the earth, that they may heal the
plague, and that all the children of men may not
perish through all the secret things that the
Watchers have disclosed and have taught their
sons. And the whole earth has been corrupted
through the works that were taught by Azazel: to
him ascribe all sin.' And to Gabriel said the Lord:
'Proceed against the bastards and the reprobates,
and against the children of fornication: and
destroy [the children of fornication and] the
children of the Watchers from amongst men [and
cause them to go forth]: send them one against
the other that they may destroy each other in
battle: for length of days shall they not have. And
no request that they (i.e. their fathers) make of
thee shall be granted unto their fathers on their
behalf; for they hope to live an eternal life, and
that each one of them will live five hundred
years.' And the Lord said unto Michael: 'Go, bind
Semjaza and his associates who have united
themselves with women so as to have defiled
themselves with them in all their uncleanness.
And when their sons have slain one another, and
they have seen the destruction of their beloved
ones, bind them fast for seventy generations in
the valleys of the earth, till the day of their
judgement and of their consummation, till the
judgement that is for ever and ever is
consummated. In those days they shall be led off
to the abyss of fire: and to the torment and the
prison in which they shall be confined for ever.
And whosoever shall be condemned and
destroyed will from thenceforth be bound

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
together with them to the end of all generations.
And destroy all the spirits of the reprobate and
the children of the Watchers, because they have
wronged mankind. Destroy all wrong from the
face of the earth and let every evil work come to
an end: and let the plant of righteousness and
truth appear: and it shall prove a blessing; the
works of righteousness and truth' shall be planted
in truth and joy for evermore.
"And then shall all the righteous escape,
And shall live till they beget thousands of
children,
And all the days of their youth and their old age
Shall they complete in peace.
"And then shall the whole earth be tilled in
righteousness, and shall all be planted with trees
and be full of blessing. And all desirable trees
shall be planted on it, and they shall plant vines
on it: and the vine which they plant thereon shall
yield wine in abundance, and as for all the seed
which is sown thereon each measure (of it) shall
bear a thousand, and each measure of olives shall
yield ten presses of oil. And cleanse thou the
earth from all oppression, and from all
unrighteousness, and from all sin, and from all
godlessness: and all the uncleanness that is
wrought upon the earth destroy from off the
earth. And all the children of men shall become
righteous, and all nations shall offer adoration
and shall praise Me, and all shall worship Me.
And the earth shall be cleansed from all
defilement, and from all sin, and from all
punishment, and from all torment, and I will
never again send (them) upon it from generation
to generation and for ever."

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


Here is a section from that same Book of Enoch that
refers to these fallen angels as "sons of God", b'nai Elohim:


[Chapter 69]
"And after this judgement they shall terrify
and make them to tremble because they have
shown this to those who dwell on the earth. And
behold the names of those angels [and these are
their names: the first of them is Samjaza, the
second Artaqifa, and the third Armen, the fourth
Kokabel, the fifth Turael, the sixth Rumjal, the
seventh Danjal, the eighth Neqael, the ninth
Baraqel, the tenth Azazel, the eleventh Armaros,
the twelfth Batarjal, the thirteenth Busasejal, the
fourteenth Hananel, the fifteenth Turel, and the
sixteenth Simapesiel, the seventeenth Jetrel, the
eighteenth Tumael, the nineteenth Turel, the
twentieth Rumael, the twenty-first Azazel. And
these are the chiefs of their angels and their
names, and their chief ones over hundreds and
over fifties and over tens]. The name of the first
Jeqon: that is, the one who led astray [all] the
sons of God, and brought them down to the
earth, and led them astray through the daughters
of men. And the second was named Asbeel: he
imparted to the holy sons of God evil counsel,
and led them astray so that they defiled their
bodies with the daughters of men. And the third
was named Gadreel: he it is who showed the
children of men all the blows of death, and he led
astray Eve, and showed [the weapons of death to
the sons of men] the shield and the coat of mail,
and the sword for battle, and all the weapons of
death to the children of men. And from his hand

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
they have proceeded against those who dwell on
the earth from that day and for evermore. And the
fourth was named Penemue: he taught the
children of men the bitter and the sweet, and he
taught them all the secrets of their wisdom. And
he instructed mankind in writing with ink and
paper, and thereby many sinned from eternity to
eternity and until this day. For men were not
created for such a purpose, to give confirmation
to their good faith with pen and ink. For men
were created exactly like the angels, to the intent
that they should continue pure and righteous, and
death, which destroys everything, could not have
taken hold of them, but through this their
knowledge they are perishing, and through this
power it is consuming me. And the fifth was
named Kasdeja: this is he who showed the
children of men all the wicked smitings of spirits
and demons, and the smitings of the embryo in
the womb, that it may pass away, and [the
smitings of the soul] the bites of the serpent, and
the smitings which befall through the noontide
heat, the son of the serpent named Taba'et. And
this is the task of Kasbeel, the chief of the oath
which he showed to the holy ones when he dwelt
high above in glory, and its name is Biqa. This
(angel) requested Michael to show him the
hidden name, that he might enunciate it in the
oath, so that those might quake before that name
and oath who revealed all that was in secret to the
children of men. And this is the power of this
oath, for it is powerful and strong, and he placed
this oath Akae in the hand of Michael."
{emphasis mine}

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

Could it be that, like the story of Adam and Even in the
Garden of Eden, the reference to the "sons of God" mating with
the "daughters of men" is symbolic and has some spiritual
meaning?  This is very possible, even likely.  If Eve symbolizes
the human self while Adam represents the higher human spirit
that illumines that self, then perhaps this mating of the "sons of
God" with the "daughters of men" is a similar reference to our
dual nature in this life, to the condition of a divine human soul
being entrapped in the mesh of desire in this world.


There are some parts of this that seem very unlikely,
such as the heights of the giants.  Different versions give very
different heights – all of them quite unbelievable if we are to
take them literally.  But that could be due to accumulation of
exaggeration.  Since these texts are probably very ancient,
tracing back to what could have been our infancy or early
childhood, the childlike tendency to exaggerate, each copier
outdoing the previous one, might have played a part here.  The
feats of mythic heroes may be an immense magnification of the
original deeds.  The original text might simply have referred to
giants and the myth makers might have felt a need to embellish.
Notice how different versions of the same text have significantly
different names for the fallen angels.  This strongly suggests that
some of the scribes might have been lacking in the discipline
required of that work.


And there is this statement in Genesis:    "And God saw
that the wickedness of man {was} great in the earth, and {that}
every imagination of the thoughts of his heart {was} only evil
continually.   And it repented the Lord that he had made man on
the earth, and it grieved him at his heart." (Genesis, 6:1-6)   If
humans were the victims of these fallen angels, then why should
humans be blamed completely here?  Why should the Lord
repent "that He had made man on the earth"?  These might be
giving hints to us that the story is like that of Adam and Eve and

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
the snake in the Garden of Eden.  There is surely a hidden
meaning here.


Let's recall here the statements made previously
concerning the true nature of a human being.  We are a soul
riding an animal vehicle through this life – like that cowboy on a
horse.  The soul lives in a spirit world, a world of mind and
spirit, while the body lives in the world of matter.  Matter is built
up in ever greater degrees of organization through evolutionary
processes – from the mineral to the plant to the animal – until it
attains to a form adequate to become the throne and vehicle for a
human soul.  Our animal bodies are the highest development of
the world of matter.  It's as though matter reaches up high
enough towards the worlds of spirit to be able to reflect what is
actually human.  The soul's powers are reflected in this body just
as the sun reflects its powers on the earth and brings forth life on
it even though it be millions of miles away.  That is, the soul isn't
in the body but is associated with it.  The death of the body is the
dissociation of the soul in its world of spirit from the body in its
world of matter.  The soul lives in that realm of "ultimate
reality" referred to by Sir James Jeans and reflects its power onto
the body like an object reflecting its image in a mirror.


This means that our human mind and its consciousness is
confined and restricted through the limitations of the brain and
body.  We have the illusion that our reality is here in this body
because the brain and body focus this consciousness through
their nature.  We think through this brain, see through these
eyes, hear through these ears, move through these legs, etc., and
this brings us the definite feeling that we are these bodies –
unless we have an out-of-body state of awareness such as a
near-death experience.  And when the death of the body arrives,
the soul's power no longer operates through the body.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

This means that our souls are, in one sense, in the
heavens and that we are spirits or even angels in a very general
sense of the word.  And these angelic realities of ours are born
into these animal bodies when conception occurs.  A link is
made between the angelic soul and the animal body.  We could
even say that the angel soul has descended into the physical
realm of the body.  And then the soul enters that realm of battle,
the lower animal pulling down and the higher soul pulling up –
unless a soul refuses to do this battle and gives in entirely to the
lower animal.


Small children often express the beauty, glory, joy and
spirit of the heavenly realm.  One poet has written that they
come into our world "trailing clouds of glory".  They are
wonderfully pure-hearted, sensitive and prone to saying wise
things sometimes while hardly knowing what they are saying.
This beauty and purity attracts our hearts strongly.  What normal
mother and father have not found their hearts thrilled beyond
description on gazing on their new-born child?  There's
something in young children that greatly attracts the heart.  But
all this lovable nature of babies and small children (before many
little boys turn into demons) is through weakness, not strength.
Purity of heart does not mean spirituality.


The moment the physical world tests the weak child, it
fails because of its weakness.  This failure gradually informs the
soul and mind of where it needs to work in order to get strong.
But the mind doesn't accept this information immediately.  It
plays games with itself and projects all its weaknesses and
shortcomings onto others so as to maintain a good self-image.
So, such children need to think they have an external cause of
their naughtiness or badness.  "The devil made me do it."
"Something possessed me."  "See what you made me do!?"  "It's
you! Not me."  Perhaps the revelation of God needs to use such

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
an external symbol of error and evil to communicate with the
child and adolescent.


According to one Jewish legend, before Azazel had
fallen he asked God why He didn't just destroy all the Jews since
they were disobedient to His command.  God answers Azazel by
asking him if he's sure he wouldn't fail as well if he were in the
position of humans.  Azazel overconfidently assures God that he
would continue to praise Him and obey Him under all
circumstances and then asks to be sent down to earth in order to
prove it.  No sooner is he on earth than he begins to fall.  This is
like those who are unaware of their own weakness because they
haven't yet been tested.  Then the tests reveal a different
condition.  Humans in the days after Adam were surely
immature and unaware of their weakness.


In order for the human soul to grow, it needs to struggle
against some form of resistance – just as a weightlifter gets
strong by struggling to lift heavy weights against the
downward-pulling gravity.  Without electrical resistance the
filament in a light bulb would not shine brightly.   The human
soul needs something to struggle against to give it the spiritual
exercise needed to develop spiritual "muscles".  The animal
condition of these bodies provides that opposed force.  This
resistance is collectively symbolized by Satan.  When these
spiritual muscles are strong enough, then the tests are passed
easily.  Infancy, childhood and adolescence are times of
weakness, of having difficulty acknowledging weakness.
Maturity is the condition of strength where the higher nature
dominates the lower.


The story of the Watchers, the angels who enter the
earthly world, is very much like the reality of the human soul
entering the animal body and, during the earliest stages is very
weak.  There has to be some attractive principle that brings the

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
soul to "descend" from its heaven and associate itself with these
bodies in this material world.  The simple story of the angels
lusting after earthly women neatly conveys in terms most
humans can grasp this notion of whatever it is that causes the
soul to link up with an animal body and live for a while within
its limitations.  Then the mission of the Prophets of God is to
bring us back up, the struggle to do so bringing us strength.


The animal id dominates in infancy and childhood.  The
statements about these fallen angels bringing so much
kmowledge to humans could illustrate the truth that the human
mind gains a knowledge that the animal condition can never
know.  Through the human mind, humans in these bodies
become mental "giants", learning of things that animals could
never know and using this to change the world – just as the
union of the angels with humans produced giants.  They ate of
the tree of knowledge and gained the responsibility that comes
with it.  Those without knowledge are not held responsible for
what they don't know – at least where spiritual matters are
concerned.  But being weak children, they don't know how to
use their knowledge wisely and well.  They do all the wrong
things first.


Children usually learn by doing the wrong thing first,
that is, by failing tests.  Gradually strength is gained.  The small
child tries to stand up and falls down a hundred times – just as
we humans have a 6000 year history of falling down so
repeatedly.  But the child never gives up trying and finally one
day stays up.  And eventually we  humans will finally stand up
and stay there, and even learn to walk, then run and dance.  This
story of the first days after Adam is the story of our early
weakness.


The leader of the fallen angels, Semyaza, finally
repented, realizing his weakness.   This is like a person who

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
comes to realize his weakness and wants to change and grow.
But Azazel did not and persisted in his waywardness.  There's no
improvement when one sees nothing wrong.


Such stories in the Holy Books can have many
meanings.  This might be one of them: a story whose purpose
was not understood by immature humans who imagined it to be
a tall tale and embellished it.  We may be like a tiny worm inside
a seed in an apple on a branch on a tree in an an orchard tended
by a Gardener.  We know a little about the seed and maybe just
the tiniest amount about the apple.  But we're ignorant of the
other apples on our branch, and utterly unaware of other
branches.  Then what do we know of the whole tree let alone the
orchard or the Gardener that tends it?

There was a time when we didn't realize that strange
peoples of other races in faraway lands are fellow members of
our one human species.  What do we know now of beings of the
planets of other star and planet systems and their relationship to
us?  What do we know of the connections and relationships
between galaxies?  What do we know of the interconnections
between vast realms of the spirit and this physical universe?  We
look at the small, narrow beliefs of the ancients who thought this
world was the center of everything as amusing.  But maybe the
people of a future age will see our current views in the same
light.  The revelation of God comes down to us from realms far
far above us in a form we can understand and digest.  The worm
in the seed of an apple might imagine that God's revelation
comes down from the branch to which that apple is attached and
may not comprehend that it has descended from a far higher
realm.

Consider how our dreams communicate to us deep truths
needed for our growth in a very symbolic form.  These symbolic
dreams communicate with our deepest mind, which is usually

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
below the level of our consciousness.  Why cannot these Holy
Books communicate with us in the same way? – speaking to our
deepest subconscious mind in symbolic form, even while our
waking consciousness may not grasp the meaning and
understand how to react.  As we mature, ever more of this that is
planted deep within in a symbolic form becomes available to our
conscious understanding.  We bite off as much as we can chew
and digest at any one time.


We are told what we need to know in accord with our
stage of development, and this might occur in a symbolic form
so that the more developed ones can progress too.  We tend to
reject and oppose whatever is too far beyond our comprehension
and can even damage ourselves through such opposition, so
certain truths are conveyed in a cryptic form so that the simple
will see them only as stories that literally happened – no matter
how bizarre and unlikely – while those who truly want to
develop are helped to see what some of the hidden meanings
might be.


Though the story of the Garden of Eden is surely
symbolic and has hidden meanings which are revealed only to
those who are close to God, it is also true that the human in it,
Adam, is quite real.  Humans are not merely symbols.  And it
could be that, since the Qur’án and Bible make other references
to jinn or spirits or sons of God where it seems they are not fully
material (at least to begin with), that the possibility does exist of
there being another type of being that is not fully physical as we
are.  But this writer has not come to any firm conclusions on this
– the matter is still open for him.  It simply seems to be a feasible
possibility.


Symbolic events can also be actual and vice versa.  For
example, Bahá’u’lláh was cast into a deep, dark dungeon in
Tehran, the capital of Persia (Iran) of that time.  That rat-infested

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
dungeon had a stench that was unbearable due to the lack of
sanitation.  An immensely heavy metal collar attached to huge
heavy chains was placed on his neck.  Not far away was the
palace of the tyrannical king, Násiri'd-Dín Sháh, who was
responsible for his being placed there.  At times the king heard
Bahá’u’lláh and those with him chanting prayers and was
puzzled as to it..   In a sense this is an outward symbol of what is
happening within the kingdom of each individual.  In
immaturity the tyrants of the id and ego, like the king and his
evil prime minister, usurp the throne of that kingdom.  The result
is chaos, disturbance and confusion.  The highest self is hidden
down in the dark dungeon of the subconscious and calls out in
distress now and then.  Finally, the tyrant is toppled from the
throne in maturity when the highest self finally dominates, the
true king then sits on the throne designed for him, and peace,
order, productivity and well-being appear in the kingdom.
When the inner kingdom of most people is ruled by the
tyrannical and unjust lower self, then this is reflected in the
larger kingdom or nation.  And when maturity arrives to the
individuals of a nation, then the entire society reflects this.


So, actual physical situations can symbolize spiritual
conditions.  So maybe there could also be some reality to this
story of the fallen angels and the giants they produced.


Could it be that there are "angels", maybe some of them
fallen, in the physical heavens too?—angels from other parts of
our galaxy who have interacted with us humans for many
millennia?  The idea seems strange to many, but there has been
an accumulation of evidence that this might be true.  It seems
very likely to this writer that there are intelligent beings on other
planets, that such beings might even be the very purpose and
fruit of a planet.  If this is true, there surely there are some who
have evolved beyond us and have the means to visit.  And it
seems likely that there is some kind of orderly development

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
among these many different species where they are to help the
immature in their development.  Perhaps there are even rogue
beings who fail their tests at some time and make trouble for
others.  But we, or at least this writer, are still greatly in
ignorance of most of this now and can only speculate what our
relationship is to these others in our galaxy.  And this stretches a
little too far beyond the intent of this book.


If such "angels", good or bad, do descend to our Earth to
visit and interact with us in certain ways (most of them
obviously subtle, evasive and hidden), this does not mean that
there are not other kinds of angels outside the material universe
who also play a profound role in human development.  "As
above, so below."  This story could have many meanings on
many different levels, a similar pattern appearing at each level.
It could be talking about our own human nature as souls
functioning through bodies, or about relationships between us
and those who are far in advance of us in this physical universe,
or about the deep ties that bind human souls with angelic beings
in other non-material realms.  Whatever the level, they are
zophim, Watchers, seeing how we're developing.


We see that there are similar angel-like beings in the
Holy Books of Judaism-Christianity and that, like the jinn they
can be either good or bad, that the jinn and angels were created
first, and that there seems to be a lot of interaction between the
two.  [I've just learned that there is a book by Jung entitled
something like Fallen Angels in Judaism, Christianity and the
Muhammadan Religion.   Must get a copy and read that.]


Some claim that the jinn, like Satan, are a symbol of the
"principle of evil".   It's difficult to understand the reasoning
behind this after reading the Qur’án's many statements about
jinn concerning some of them being good and others bad.  Satan,
who is one of the jinn, is certainly a symbol of evil.  But when

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
the Qur’án states that some of the jinn believed in the truth of
Muhammad's revelation and were Muslims, it's quite difficult to
accept that some of those who are Muslims and accept the
revelation of God could be a symbol of evil.  " ' "Some of us are
righteous, while others are not; we follow different ways." ' "
(Jinn 72, 1f)


There is another statement that the jinn represent a
particular type of human in whom the element of 'fire', among
the elements of fire, air, water and earth of which humans are
made, predominates.  Other humans made of 'clay' would have
the element of 'earth' dominant.  These elements might not refer
to what we normally think of as fire, air, water and earth but
might use these as symbolic of deeper-lying elements  not yet
fully-understood from which material things are built up.
Perhaps this is true.  The question arises as to why the Qur’án
would refer to the creation of jinn and men separately, also
saying that men were created after the jinn, suggesting that jinn
and men are two different kinds of creatures.  Why refer to "jinn
and men" if jinn are actually one kind of man?  How does this
accord with the translation of "jinn" as "spirits" in the same
context?  And how would such an understanding accord with the
common Arab understaing of jinn as somewhat intangible
creatures whose name derives from the word for "hidden"?
How does the statement that jinn are one kind of human accord
with -     " ' "We made our way to high heaven, and found it filled
with mighty wardens and fiery comets.  We sat eavesdropping,
but eavesdroppers find flaming darts in wait for them.  We
cannot tell if this bodes evil to the inhabitants of earth or whether
their Lord intends to guide them."...'..."  All these diverse
statements serve mostly to bring more questions than answers to
this writer.


The author's current understanding is that the words
"angel" and "devil" describe two opposite extremes on a scale

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
from very good to very bad.  This is a different distinction than
that between jinn and humans.  Some humans are good and
some are bad; and some jinn are good and some are bad.  Satan
is a symbol of the principle of evil.  But jinn, like humans, seem
to be creatures.  Both are created by God and can be either good
or bad.  Are jinn the same as the sons of God, the Watchers?


There are some other things written in the Qur’án as well
that the writer cannot yet make any sense of.  For example, why
would God explain to us that "He sends forth the angels as His
messengers, with two, three or four pairs of wings."?  What is
the meaning of having different numbers of wings?  (The
Creator, 35:1) Is it to classify the angels or messengers in accord
with their varying powers of spiritual "flight"?


For those who insist that no such things as ghosts or
spirits exist, who subscribe to the materialist perspective of the
modern Western or Western-educated worldview, it should be
stated that this is simply a matter of cultural belief.  It has little to
do with science, even if it's about science.  When science (i.e.,
scientists) has not investigated a matter, then it can say nothing
about it other than "We don't know yet; we haven't investigated
the matter adequately yet."  When people, including scientists,
insist that there are no such things as intangible beings, they are
simply making statements derived from articles of faith and
belief which their culture or subculture has taught them – even if
these doctrines are inculcated in our educational institutions.
There are secular items of belief just as there are religious
articles of faith.   Everyone has to believe in something – even if
it's something as shallow and temporary as a political ideology.


It's quite amazing that medical researchers and other life
scientists are moving to ever more anachronistic extremes of
materialist philosophy in the fundamental assumptions of their
work when the "hardest" and most rigorous of sciences, physics,

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
has been compelled to abandon that materialist philosophy as an
old superstition.  Science writer Arthur Koestler states:

"Thus for the last fifty years [written in 1978],
since the advent of quantum theory, it has
become a commonplace among physicists of the
dominant school (the so-called Copenhagen
School)
that
the
strictly
deterministic,
mechanistic worldview can no longer be upheld;
it has become a Victorian anachronism.  The
nineteenth century model of the universe as a
mechanical clockwork is a shambles and since
the
concept
of
matter
itself
has
been
dematerialized, materialism can no longer
claim to be a scientific philosophy."  (Arthur
Koestler; Janus, pp 249-50. [emphasis his])

Here's another statement conveying the same general idea:

"What has happened is that biologists, who once
postulated a privileged role for the human mind
in nature's hierarchy, have been moving
relentlessly toward the hard-core materialism
that characterized nineteenth-century physics.
At the same time, physicists, faced with
compelling experimental evidence, have been
moving away from strictly mechanical models of
the universe to a view that sees the mind as
playing an integral role in all physical events.  It
is as if the two disciplines were on fast-moving
trains, going in opposite directions and not
noticing what is happening across the tracks."
(Harold Morowitz, "Rediscovering the Mind,"
Psychology Today 14 (August 1980): 12) (p 226)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

This is a very bizarre situation, where so many scientists
themselves have failed to respond to the best of science, as
though different branches of science were different truths that
needn't match up and be consistent.  Even among so many
physicists, there seems to be a stubborn reluctance to face the
realities of what quantum physics implies.  So many of them
simply do not see what the founders of quantum physics saw and
resist the implications of the work of their fellows.  The world
didn't take too long to catch on to the notions of Einstein's
relativity – even if it didn't easily grasp its ideas.  But for some
reason the extremely revolutionary ideas of the new shift in
understanding brought by quantum physics never seemed to
have registered with the public – nor even with the subculture of
the educated in most of the world's universities.  It's no wonder
that so many of the educated still believe that for something to
be "scientific" it must be in accord with a materialist perspective
more appropriate to the 19th century, that lost its validity and
usefulness in science three-quarters of a century ago.  How very
strange indeed!  There's clearly something more than science
going on here.  It's a kind of wilfull blindness and ignorance.


As every student in a beginning course of university
philosophy learns during his study of the philosophy of science,
materialism is no longer a viable way of looking at reality.
Notwithstanding this, many scientists and the bulk of the
modern educated public still view reality in accord with the old
and most unrealistic materialist paradigm and believe that it is in
accord with good science.  This is not only unscientific; it is
irrational.


Consider how very difficult it would be to prove that
something does not exist.  How would one demonstrate
conclusively that ghosts or discarnate spirits such as jinn do not
exist?  It's easy to prove that something does exist; one just
shows an example.  To prove that an animal exists with a neck

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
longer than its back or a nose as long as its leg, one need only
point to a giraffe or an elephant.  But how does one prove that
there are no large sea serpents, leviathans, dragons, Bigfoot
ape-men, aliens from other parts of the galaxy, or unseen and
intangible beings such as angels or jinn?  The fact that most
people haven't seen one and that we have no specimens on hand
is no proof; they might just be very rare and avoid humans well.
New species of animals are being found all the time.  The
coelacanth, thought by scientists to have been extinct for
millions of years, suddenly turned up one day in a fisherman's
catch.  To prove that a sea serpent or leviathan does not exist we
would have to devise some outrageously difficult process such
as going carefully over every location in the ocean and then not
allowing any creatures back into the areas we've investigated –
which is most unworkable and an incredible waste of time and
resources.  So how would one prove that there are no intangible
spirits?  No scientist would be silly enough to even think of
trying such a thing.  When some with a little education state that
science doesn't believe in ghosts and spirits, they are simply
stating an article of cultural belief and faith that they have been
taught is true.  It's a cultural belief about science, not a belief of
science.  Neither they nor any scientists have demonstrated the
truth of it.


Of course, the progress of science has influenced some
modern subcultures of the world whose members consider
themselves educated.  We abandoned a lot of spiritistic
superstitions that were of no use to us during the Age of
Enlightenment.  And then we went to the opposite materialist
extreme.  Both extremes are superstitious; both are based on
untenable assumptions about reality.  Truth and reality are
somewhere between these two extremes of spiritism and
materialism – and high above them.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

This writer is quite convinced that entire worlds exist
that we are not aware of – even if it turns out that the jinn are a
symbol of something rather than actual beings.  Theoretical
physicists are no strangers to such ideas.   There's even one
theory that there are infinitely many universes; that each time
there's a choice to be made, one universe goes the way of one of
the choices and another universe goes the other way.  And many
physicists take it quite seriously (though this writer does not)
because the mathematics of it appears to work out well.  There is
no reason to suppose that our physical senses should be able to
respond to all that exists.  That would be presumptuous.  Our
eyes pick up only a small band of wavelengths along the
electromagnetic spectrum being quite blind to infra-red and
ultra-violet light and what is beyond them.  Our ears don't hear
sounds that dogs and bats hear.  Our noses are pitifully
insensitive compared to what so many animals such as dogs can
smell.  We don't sense x-rays or microwaves or radio waves or
any of a large number of things that do exist.  What presumption
is it that prompts a human to suppose that the realm of existence
is limited just to what these puny senses can respond to? – or to
what we can convert into what can be sensed?


What if there were other senses, such as those of the
heart, mind and spirit,  that could be awakened and refined so
that we come to learn of new realities?  Does our current lack of
ability in such areas prove that they don't exist?  The attitude that
something doesn't exist if you don't see it is how a tiny child
thinks!


Any who have read the many books on near-death
experiences, or who have actually had them, know that we are
spirits that can vacate these bodies and look at them from
outside.  Many have "out-of-body" experiences.  What always
fascinated this writer were the many who have had such
experiences who told of how revolting the idea of returning to

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
their clammy body was after experiencing the exhilaration, joy
and freedom of being disconnected from it.  Some were just
furious at having to be trapped back inside a body again and took
some time to overcome their anger and resentment at this.  If we
are spirits that can ride around in these bodies and occasionally
function independently of them, as when asleep or during an
out-of-body experience, then how should it be impossible that
there are beings that don't have material bodies at all?


This is not an argument that the jinn have an actual
existence like ours; it's an argument for the possibility of such a
thing, that there could be intangible beings.


The writer is convinced that the Holy Books inform us of
realms of existence, and of other beings and realities, that exist –
even if we cannot sense them now.  And he is also convinced
that many of the stories told in the Holy Books, if we can probe
back through mythic exaggerations and distortions to the
original, are really a coded form of conveying information to
those who have the key to the code through purifying the mirror
of the heart so that it will reflect the realities of the worlds of the
spirit, and through deep contemplation and meditation.


To repeat, the writer has not come to any solid
conclusions on the matter of the jinn of the Qur’án or the sons of
God of the Bible, and their possible symbolism.  He can only
conclude that he is not (at least yet) among the pure of heart, the
spiritual, the chosen few who have discovered the key to the
deeper meanings of these stories in the Holy Books.  This
doesn't mean he doesn't believe that there are many existing
beings of many different kinds who are not material.  He's
certain that each of us continues after the death of the body in
some non-material form.  It's just that he doesn't know where to
place the jinn among these, if the jinn are in fact actual beings
and not just symbolic of some principle.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


It's usually at this point that someone with utterly no
background of study, who has come to rock solid conclusions
based on some shallow indoctrinated cultural or religious
system of belief, and without that slightest real thought or
investigation, arises to declare precisely what the jinn are and
dismisses all else as pure superstition.  They then declare the
case closed and try their best to prevent any further investigation
of reality in the name of the absolute unquestioned and
uninvestigated truth of which they are the supreme custodians.
The thinking do well to circumvent such arrogant and
presumptuous ignorance.  Far better to say "I don't know" than
to state that one has certain knowledge when one doesn't in order
to prevent further consideration of the matter.


What has been stated so far is not a complete account of
all that the writer thinks about beings and influences that don't
seem to have a corresponding material body.  His experiences in
Africa and elsewhere have played a large role in his
understanding.  But it doesn't seem appropriate to discuss those
aspects here other than to say that most, but not all, of what
sensitive "people of the heart" experience may come from other
living human beings who are not physically present, who might
be dreaming, or who have not completed the process of dying
and are in a condition and world intermediate between this one
and the next.  But that is a very large topic and it's best left for
consideration elsewhere.  It seems unlikely that these are the
jinn referred to in the Qur’án.


But if no definite conclusions have been arrived at here,
these efforts are not lost.  A lot has been learned about other very
interesting matters in the process of trying to open this locked
box.  These are the thoughts at the present moment surrounding
his quest for a deeper understanding of this.  Some of this might
be used as tools for the reader's own search for meaning here.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
Readers can work out their own thoughts here or, like the writer,
simply leave the matter undecided until more information or
insight arrives.   God willing, as Muslims and Bahá’ís say, we
will some day get a clearer understanding of this mystery.

Changing People into Detested Apes and Swine


Let's now move from the sublime to the ridiculous, from
angels to apes, from saints to swine.

"... And when they scornfully persisted in their
forbidden ways, We said to them: 'Turn into
detested apes.' "  (The Heights, 7:166)

"Say: 'Shall I tell you who will receive a worse
reward from God?  Those whom God has cursed
and with whom He has been angry, transforming
them into apes and swine, and those who serve
the devil...."  (The Table, 5:60)

"You have heard of those of you that broke the
Sabbath.  We said to them: 'You shall be changed
into detested apes.'  We made their fate an
example to their own generation and to those
who followed them, and a lesson to the
righteous."   (The Cow, 2:65)


Many of us secretly or openly admit that we've seen
people who bear a resemblance to apes, swine and other
animals.  In China, where this writer once taught at university,
some students referred to a particular type of person whose
appearance bears some similarity to a caricature of a pig.  But
looking like an ape or a pig is quite different from actually being
one.  Maybe this has some spiritual meaning, that the person has
acquired the qualities and attributes of apes or swine.  Many of

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
us have known people with simian, swinish and bovine
characteristics.  It seems quite possible that it is this latter
meaning that might be intended.


This writer has a particular understanding of how
acquired traits can, over a period of a few generations, become
locked into a group of people genetically so that the trait now
becomes inherited and passed on automatically to the next
generation.  For example, people with light skin who stay out in
the bright sun much of their life, generation after generation,
might finally find that the trait becomes hereditary.  Most people
in the world cannot digest cow’s milk well.  But generations of
trying seems to bring the ability to do this and eventually it’s
sealed into the the genes.

A proper explanation of this requires an understanding
of biologist Rupert Sheldrake’s hypothesis of morphogenetic
formation that postulates the existence of intangible fields that
interact with our bodies and their genes, changes first getting
locked into something in the field before being reflected in the
material structure of body and its genes.  This isn’t the place for
a careful discussion of this idea.  Our suggestion here is that
groups of people who abandon their highest human nature and
let the animal nature rule them will, over a period of generations,
gradually change to look like those apes to whom we are so
closely related genetically.  Remember that the only real
difference between us and those apes is that our animal bodies
have a human soul associated with them whereas the apes do
not.  Biologists have also pointed out that we bear some strong
similarities genetically and otherwise to swine, to pigs.
Research that is investigating the possibility of using animal
organs to replace failing human organs currently looks to pigs
for this.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
This idea suggests that humans who manage to let the
highest nature in them dominate the lower for a number of
generations will, by the same process, gradually come to look
less like apes and swine.  This is merely a hypothesis, a
suggested explanation.

Creation

"Are the disbelievers unaware that the heavens
and the earth were but one solid mass which We
tore asunder, and that We made every living
thing of water?"  (The Prophets, 21:29)

"In six days He created the heavens and the
earth and all that lies between them, and then
ascended His throne."  (Al-Furqán, 25:58)

In the Holy Books the word "day" often represents a much
longer period of time:

"He is the Lord of the Ladders, by which the
angels and the Spirit will ascend to Him in one
day: a day whose space is fifty-thousand years."
(The Ladders, 70:2)

In other translations, this "day" is translated as "span" so
that "In six spans He created the heavens and the earth and all
that lies between them".  A span can refer to a long period of
time.  Our modern scientific understanding is that these "days"
of creation each took an immensely long period of time by our
time scale.


There are seven heavens and seven earths too:

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"It is God who has created seven heavens and
earths as many."  (Divorce, 65:12)

It would be wonderful to know what the meaning behind
this is.  Remember that in the days of the revelation of the
Qur’án the physical heavens included, aside from the relatively
fixed stars, the seven moving bodies of the sun, the moon,
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.  Earth was not
understood to be a planet.  What could the seven earths be?  This
writer's immediate and rather wild guess is that it refers
symbolically to seven material realms or kingdoms, the mineral,
plant and animal kingdoms being three of these.  Or maybe there
are actually seven different grades of worldly existence.
Biologist Lyall Watson states in his book on the process of
death, The Romeo Error, that death appears consecutively in the
various layers of our physical being.  First the grossly physical
body dies, then less tangible bodies die until the process is
complete.  Ghosts, by this understanding, could be people who
have not yet completed the process of dying and are somehow
stuck for a while at some point in this transition.  Some people of
ancient and modern India speak of these different layers of the
human body very matter-of-factly, giving each one names,
"astral body" being one of them.  Traditional and even modern
Chinese insist on the existence of these quasi-physical,
semi-tangible kinds of reality in the body.  The highly-effective
acupuncture is based on this idea of an invisible chi flow along
well-defined lines in the body.  Some Muslim philosophers and
mystics speak of various grades of spirit.  Shaykh Ahmad, head
of the Shaykhi School of Muslim theology, and announcer of the
coming of The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, refers to two physical
bodies (the visible one being dependent on the invisible one) and
two spiritual bodies in addition (with the same relationship of
one being dependent on the other for its existence), all four
being reflections of a soul or divine Spirit.  But this writer must
confess that all this raises more questions than answers for him.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


Maybe this is a way of referring to various levels of the
physical world as it exists in seven different layers.  Modern
materialist physics and the people of cultures that have learned
to see the world as strictly material will, of course, acknowledge
only the most tangible of these layers that they are able to sense
or measure.


A role played by the lowest heaven, which appears to be
a spiritual realm for which the night sky we see is a symbol, is to
provide means of pelting devils and eavesdroppers who try to
listen in on what is being said in the higher heavens (as we will
discover soon).

"He created seven heavens, one above the
other.  You will not see a flaw in the Merciful's
creation.  Turn up your eyes: can you detect a
single crack [flaw]?
"Then look once more and yet again: your eyes
will in the end grow dim and weary.
"We have adorned the lowest heaven with
lamps, missiles for pelting devils.  We have
prepared a scourge of flames for these, and the
scourge of Hell those who deny their Lord: an
evil fate!"  (Sovereignty, 67:2f)

It seems reasonable to understand that the seven heavens
use the notion of a physical "heavens" or sky as it was generally
seen in the days of the revelation of the Qur’án as a symbol for
spiritual heavens.


Some insist on interpreting creation as something
occurring at some particular time, that is, they believe that there
is a moment or time of creation.  But God and the other worlds
are surely outside of our world of space and time.  How can the

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
Creator be limited by the constraints and bounds of His
creation?  So His creation surely originates outside of time and
then, as it enters our physical realm appears as continuous.  That
is, it must be a continuous process, like the radiation of light
from the sun.  But there are also cycles of growth and
development in all things:  stages of conception, birth, growth,
maturity, decline and death.  The new seed grows in the fruit of
the old tree and starts the new life of a tree as the old tree dies.
The universe probably has such seed-stage "beginnings" too (as
in the Big Bang).  So creation might be thought of as a continous
process of renewal in one sense as well as the renewing of life
when each new thing is born, when each cycle starts over again.

"He conceives Creation, then renews it: that is
easier for Him."  (The Greeks, 35:27)

And it didn't tire Him either.  (He's all-powerful and almighty!)

"In six days We created the heavens and the
earth and all that lies between them; nor were We
ever wearied."  (Qáf, 50:38)

And the reason for building this huge structure of the creation is
to train and test us:

"Throned above the waters, He made the
heavens and the earth in six days, to find out
which of you shall best acquit himself."  (Húd,
11:7)

It took Him only two days to make the earth, and two days as
well to make the heavens.

"Say:  'Do you indeed disbelieve in Him who
created the earth in two days?  And do you make

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
other gods His equals? The Lord of the Universe
is He.'
"He set upon the earth mountains towering
high above it.  He pronounced His blessing upon
it, and in four days provided it with sustenance
for all alike.  Then, turning to the sky, which was
but a cloud of vapour, He said to it and to the
earth:  'Come forward both, willingly or
perforce.'
" 'We will come willingly,' they answered.  In
two days He formed the sky into seven heavens,
and to each heaven He assigned its task.  We
decked the lowest heaven with brilliant stars and
guardian comets.  Such is the design of the
Mighty One, the All-Knowing."  (Revelations
Well Expounded, 41:9)

"We have decked the lower heaven with
constellations.  They guard it against rebellious
devils, so that they may not listen in to those on
high.  Meteors are hurled at them from every
side; then, driven away, they are consigned to an
eternal scourge.  Eavesdroppers are pursued by
fiery comets.  (The Ranks, 37:8)


We explained earlier the possibility that the physical
realm is a kind of image of the spiritual realm.  So the physical
heavens can be an image of the spiritual heavens.  These
statements might be referring primarily to spiritual realities that
have counterparts in our physical world.

Whatever is Between the Heavens and the Earth


There is a typical phrase one often comes across in the
Qur’án:  "the heavens and the earth and all that lies between

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
them."  (e.g., The Ranks, 37:1)  This sometimes seems strange to
Western ears that think of there being just the heavens and the
earth.  Bahá’ís might notice that the prayers of The Báb,
particularly those for protection, often use this phrase.  Perhaps
this intermediate realm took two "days" or spans of time to
create as well, thus making the time of creation add up to six
days.


It helps in visualizing what lies between the heavens and
the earth if one first thinks of this in strictly material terms – as
the early Muslims might have understood this.  The earth in such
a view is a flat expanse of land and water, while the heavens are
a system of seven solid but see-through surfaces of rotating
spheres in which are embedded the sun, moon, planets and stars.
It's the air and its rain-bringing clouds that lie between that earth
and those heavens.


Now, with this physical picture in mind, let's try to
conceive of what these three realm could symbolize so that the
Qur’án's statements make sense, are logically consistent (i.e.,
have no contradictions), and are deeply meaningful.  The earth
can represent the material world; the heavens can stand for the
spiritual worlds of reality; and the air and clouds can match up
with an intermediate realm that shares the qualities of both.  The
reader might want to consider the analogy set up earlier
concerning how the attribute of mercy lifts the water up through
evaporation to become clouds and raises the earth through wind
and fire to become airborne dust and smoke.  Bahá’ís reading
this might recall reading about the "common faculty" by which
the five physical senses convey their data in the electrical
patterns of the brain to the intangible mind's powers of
imagination, thought, comprehension and memory.  The
references to the powers of the sympathetic nerve (autonomic
nervous system) as being neither wholly material nor wholly

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
spiritual, as well as the comments concerning the ether, suggest
the existence of such an intermediate realm.


This is merely speculation by the writer, but his current
view is that the intangible form of the human body that appears
to separate from the tangible body during out-of-body
experiences such as "near-death experiences belongs to this
intermediate realm since the attributes of space, time and shape
or form  of the physical realm are maintained while the material
component is lacking.  Those experiencing such near-death
experiences often tell of a river or some kind of barrier
separating them from the "next world". They say that they know
that if they go across that barrier there's no coming back.  Well,
if they aren't actually in the "next world" and "next life" yet, but
are clearly not in their physical bodies and bound by the laws of
physics that rule those  bodies, then where are they?  Perhaps
this is that intermediate realm of "and whatever lies between
them".


If the physical human body is an image in matter of the
human reality or soul, then perhaps there is also an image of that
human essence in the intermediate realm.  We've already stated
that biologist Lyall Watson made a study of the process of death
in a book entitled The Romeo Error.  He concludes what many
cultures have believed for centuries:  that there are stages of
death and that the process is not completed until all layers or
levels of the body, from the visible body to the least tangible
forms have all died.  Again, some suggest that ghosts are
nothing more than people who haven't finished the process of
dying yet, that their less tangible form or forms in the
intermediate realm have not yet died – perhaps through the
intense attachment of heart such people have to particular people
and places, or perhaps because they cannot handle the transition
too quickly and need time to adjust.  So, if this speculation is
realistic, then maybe the best response for those who sense the

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
presence of ghosts or even see them is to pray that they release
their strong attachments and complete the process of
"graduation" to the "next world".  For those who are afraid of
ghosts or what they cannot see, they might consider that such
people are possibly even more afraid and confused and are in
need of help in getting through to "the other side" by completing
the process of physical death and birth into awareness of a new
realm.


In quite a number of cultures around the world, there is a
fear that those who recently "died" will, in their confusion, cling
desperately in a ghost form to loved ones.  People in such
cultures may have ways of driving away such people who,
unlike ripe fruit, fail to be taken easily from the tree of material
existence in this life.  Firecrackers, clapping of hands and
various other activities are said to help the process of separation.
Many of these cultures have a ceremony 40 days or so after the
death to pray for and help the deceased person complete the
process of death.  A mature spiritualized person would have no
strong earthly attachments and would go through the death
process easily and quickly – like a ripe fruit falling from life's
tree.


Of course, to those who still see everything in accord
with the modern superstition of materialism, all this will be
nonsense and be dismissed as "unscientific".  That this item of
belief has little to do with science has already been explained.  In
fact, since this intermediate realm is so close to the physical
realm that physical instruments can detect, it might be possible
before long for scientists to begin discovering the realities of
such a realm and learning of its laws and principles, perhaps at
first indirectly through inferences from physical behavior – just
as we have deduced the mathematical laws of intangible
electric-magnetic and gravitational fields by analyzing the
behavior of physical objects in such fields.  In fact, maybe these

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
force fields of the non-living mineral kingdom as well as the
hierarchy of biological fields that bring about form and
differentiation in plants and animals – maybe these fields are
really part of that intermediate realm too.


It would even be possible that the jinn, if they have a real
existence as the Qur’án seems to emphasize and are not solely
symbolic, might exist in this intermediate realm since they seem
able to interact with humans and even do certain kinds of work.
Is their nature as "smokeless fire" the nature of that realm
between the heavens and the earth?  What about all these people
who do horrible deeds who claim that voices told them to do
these evil things?  Why do some others who are near them also
claim to hear those same voices?  Are these voices really just
manifestations of inner mental disturbance?  This writer has
seen these supposedly ill people display an astounding
knowledge of some things that is hard to explain by the usual
materialist system of rationalization.  Could they be reacting to
what they are sensing in this intermediate realm that most of us
do not sense?  Could this be why so many supposedly
mentally-ill people see what we don't see, hear what we don't
hear, and feel what we don't hear?


Well, all this is just speculation, just brainstorming about
possibilities.  The closed-minded cannot even tolerate that; one
isn't even permitted to muse and reflect on possibilities in the
simplistic strait-jacketed world of certain answers.  That's not
the way good science progresses.  One has to be open to new
ideas and possibilities – but without trying to freeze them into
immutable eternal truths.  As stated several times, this is a book
where the reader shares the writer's journey of exploration and
discovery.  There is nothing permanent about his ideas.  If his
mind is growing and developing, then surely these ideas must
grow and evolve.  This is where they are now.  Take what you
like; dispose of what you don't.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


Well, as long as we're venturing out onto a limb here and
saying what could be very challenging, let's go even further.
The writer lived for over 12 years in Africa and had intimate
contact with the African people living in traditional cultures for
much of that time.  What he saw and experienced very
frequently went so contrary to much of what he was taught in
university about how the world works that he finally had no
choice but to restructure the way he saw reality so that this new
evidence would fit into the picture.  The story of the amazing
things he saw and experienced is a book in itself and should not
fill up these pages.  He just wants to say that his African friends
taught him about a world of realities that he didn't know of
before.  And much of this seems to be related to this
intermediate realm.  He has no way to explain many of the
utterly unbelievable things that happened other than to suppose
that another unseen realm that is close to this material world
influences it quite strongly in many different ways.  I won't say a
word about witchcraft lest some readers be tested too much.  But
for those who have lived with Africans and other peoples who
know of these things (and we're not referring to those who live
in the towns and cities of Africa as part of an expatriate
community and who see African cultures from the outside), they
will probably agree that there is no other way to explain them
without recourse to such intangible realms.


In summary, the phrase that refers to the heavens and the
earth and whatever lies between them, so frequent in the Qur’án,
and in the writings of The Báb, is surely speaking symbolically
of three distinct realms: the material world, the spiritual worlds,
and an intermediate realm that shares some characteristics of
both
realms.

Frequent Reference to Signs

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"Do you not see how the ships speed upon the
ocean by God's grace, so that He may reveal to
you His wonders?  Surely there are signs in this
for every steadfast, thankful man.
"When the waves, like giant shadows, envelop
them, they pray to God with all devotion.  But no
sooner does He bring them safe to land than
some of them falter between faith and unbelief."
(Luqman, 31:31)

There are so many ways to interpret a physical thing or
situation as a sign or symbol of some spiritual principle.  For
example, in this example of a ship on the ocean, one could think
of the ocean as representing life in this material world where a
person could easily drown in a sea of materialism.  The ship
could symbolize the Religion of God that keeps a person high
and dry above that ocean.  Noah's Ark could symbolize God's
Refuge where He protects His more responsive servants and
leaves all those outside this "Ark of Salvation" to drown in the
the world, to die spiritually.  There are many other ways this
could be interpreted as well.

"We will show them Our signs in all the
regions of the earth and in their own souls, until
they clearly see that this is the truth."
(Revelations Well Expounded, 41:53)


The entire world is filled with signs and hints to teach us
about spritual realities, the real meaning of life, and how to
progress well through life.  How many lessons there are in a
simple tree, or a flower, or the fruit of that tree!  What an ocean
of the signs of wisdom there are in the human body!  It's the
ideal analogy.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án

Consider how a tree tells us about life:  it starts its life at
the boundary where earth meets air, symbols of material and
spiritual.  While it puts down its roots into the solid earth with
practicality and realism, it also grows upwards with detachment
from that earth into the atmosphere of the spirit which is the
realm of the soul.  The fruit appears in this realm of air, not
down in the dark and heavy soil of the physical animal and body.
How can a tree grow up with detachment from the earth unless it
first puts its roots down into that soil to provide a firm base from
which to grow up out of that soil?  How can a human gain true
detachment and freedom from bondage to this world of matter
and bodies without first living in worldly situations such as
families, work environments and so on?  The ascetic who
imagines that he will achieve detachment by leaving the arena of
daily life to spend his life away from society fools himself and
fails through weakness from lack of testing in that arena of daily
life the moment he is tested.  "We have made you to be tests for
one another; will you not have patience?".  How will one grow
strong without strugging against some opposed force?  How will
the weightlifter exercise and strengthen his muscles if there is no
force of gravity opposing his efforts?  How will the electric light
bulb shine with brilliance if there is no electrical resistance in
the filament through which the electricity is forced?  How will a
human gain inner strength of spirit without being tested in the
social arena?    The beautiful flowers of knowledge blossom
before the fruit of wise action appears.  The fruit of the tree is not
just for the tree itself but is given in service to a kingdom above
it.  The seeds of new life are in this fruit.


The wisdom and lessons of God are written all over
every created thing.  Our Creator speaks to us with a thousand
voices in all the things around us – if we have eyes to see and
ears to hear, that is, if our hearts and minds are not veiled.  How
many, even among the great scientists, see and hear nothing and
are like cows that recognize nothing in the world except what

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
satisfies their hunger.  Whether we see a glorious masterpiece of
perfect wisdom in the universe or not, or hear a heart-stirring
symphony of joyous beauty in the stars, the mountains, the
oceans, the singing and soaring birds, and the fragrant flowers or
not, depends on our own heart.  The more the mirror of the heart
is cleansed of all mud and freed from the distorting warps of
prejudices and passions, the more exhilarating and delightful are
the thousands of messages full of glorious music, perfumed
fragrances and joyous color that an all-wise and all-powerful
Creator has placed in all these things around us.  The placid
pond of the heart reflects the glorious images of the heavens
above it.


Will we listen to the deaf for a careful analysis of a
symphony based on his evaluation of the movements of the
musicians arms?  Shall we pay great heed to the blind man who
tells us of his study of a painted masterpiece by going over the
hardened paints with his hands?  Shall the blind in heart and
narrow of mind who claim to be scientists and thinkers be our
only guides to a clear understanding of the world around us?  Or
should we also take into account those who see and understand
what they do not?


It takes a certain condition of mind and heart to see these
messages from the Creator that are written all over His creation.
We humans are the highest form of life; our souls are created in
the image of God, potentially possessing all those divine
universal attributes we spoke of earlier.


Here's a quote from Bahá’u’lláh that quotes this same
passage above (in a different transation).  It refers to a revelation
from God that is different from the revelations of God that, from
time to time, come through the Prophets to humans.  This other
kind of revelation refers to that "white sunlight", here called
"that Most Great Light", of all the attributes of God combined

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
that shines out ceaselessly from the Source of Creation.  This
revelation is the source of all existing created things. The
following shows how the soul and reality of man is created in the
image of God.  (The translation is into older English to convey
the majesty, power and poetic formality of the Arabic original.)

“Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is
on  the earth is a direct evidence of the revelation
within it of the attributes and names of God,
inasmuch as within every atom are enshrined the
signs that bear eloquent testimony to the
revelation of that Most Great Light.  Methinks,
but for the potency of that revelation, no being
could ever exist.  How resplendent the luminaries
of knowledge that shine in an atom, and how vast
the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop!
To a supreme degree is this true of man, who,
among all created things, hath been invested with
the robe of such gifts, and hath been singled out
for the glory of such distinction.  For in him are
potentially revealed all the attributes and names
of God to a degree that no other created being
hath excelled or surpassed.  All these names and
attributes are applicable to him.  Even as He hath
said: 'Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.'
Manifold are the verses that have been repeatedly
revealed in all the Heavenly Books and the Holy
Scriptures, expressive of this most subtle and
lofty theme. Even as He hath revealed:  'We will
surely show them Our signs in the world and
within themselves.'  Again He saith:  'And also in
your own selves:  will ye not, then, behold the
signs of God?'  And yet again He revealeth:  'And
be ye not like those who forget God, and whom
He hath therefore caused to forget their own

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
selves.'  In this connection, He Who is the eternal
King—may the souls of all that dwell within the
mystic Tabernacle be a sacrifice unto Him—hath
spoken:  'He hath known God who hath known
himself.'
“... From that which hath been said it
becometh evident that all things, in their inmost
reality, testify to the revelation of the names and
attributes of God within them.  Each according to
its capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of, the
knowledge of God.  So potent and universal is
this revelation, that it hath encompassed all
things visible and invisible.  Thus hath He
revealed:  'Hath aught else save Thee a power of
revelation which is not possessed by Thee, that it
could have manifested Thee?  Blind is the eye
which doth not perceive Thee.'  Likewise hath
the eternal King spoken:  'No thing have I
perceived, except that I perceived God within it,
God before it, or God after it.'  Also in the
tradition of Kumayl it is written: 'Behold, a light
hath shone forth out of the morn of eternity, and
lo, its waves have penetrated the inmost reality of
all men.'  Man, the noblest and most perfect of all
created things, excelleth them all in the intensity
of this revelation, and is a fuller expression of its
glory.  And of all men, the most accomplished,
the most distinguished, and the most excellent
are the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth
[Prophets of God]. Nay, all else besides these
Manifestations, live by the operation of Their
Will, and move and have their being through the
outpourings of Their grace."  (Gleanings from
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,  pp 177-79)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
This passage contains a sea of wisdom that reveals its
hidden pearls only if one leaves all one knows behind and dives
into its depths. Real total immersion is required.  But we can also
skim its surface like sailors instead of divers and still gain a
superficial grasp of its main points.

"On earth, and in yourselves, there are signs
for firm believers.  Can you not see?"  (The
Winds, 51:19)

There are so many passages referring to signs.  Only a
few will be quoted here.  The topic could fill a large book or
more.  It's left to the reader to ponder the meanings and lessons
of these signs.

"In the creation of the heavens and the earth; in
the alternation of night and day; in the ships that
sail the ocean with cargoes beneficial to man; in
the water which God sends down from the sky
and with which He revives the earth after its
death, dispersing over it all manner of beasts; in
the disposal of the winds, and in the clouds that
are driven between earth and sky; surely in these
there are signs for rational men."  (The Cow,
2:164)

"He sends down water from the sky, and with
it We bring forth the buds of every plant.  From
these We bring forth green foliage and
close-growing grain, palm-trees laden with
clusters of dates, vineyards and olive groves, and
pomegranates, alike and different.  Behold their
fruits when they ripen.  Surely in these are signs
for true believers."  (Cattle, 6:99)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"Do they not know how many generations We
have destroyed before them?  They walk among
their ruined dwellings.  Surely in this there are
veritable signs.  Have they no ears to hear with?"
(Adoration, 32:26)

"So We sent (plagues) on them [Pharaoh's
people]:
"Wholesale death,
"Locusts,
"Lice,
"Frogs,
"And
"Blood:
"Signs openly self-explained: but they were
steeped in arrogance,— a people given to sin."
(Yusuf 'Ali, The Heights, 7:133)

"Surely in Joseph and his brothers there are
signs for doubting men." (Joseph, 12:7)

Frequent Reference to Two Seas, Pairs

"It was He who sent the two seas rolling, the
one sweet and fresh, the other salt and bitter, and
set a rampart between them, an insurmountable
barrier."  (The Poets, 25:53)

"He has let loose the two oceans [Dawood:
salt water and fresh water]: they meet one
another.  Yet between them stands a barrier
which they cannot overrun.  Which of your
Lord's blessings would you deny?
"Pearls and corals come from both.  Which of
your Lord's blessings would you deny?

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"His are the ships that sail like mountains upon
the ocean.  Which of your Lord's blessings would
you deny?"  (The Merciful, 55:19f)

"The two seas are not alike.  The one is fresh,
sweet, and pleasant to drink from, while the other
is salt and bitter.  From both you eat fresh fish
and bring up ornaments to deck yourselves with.
See how the ships plough their course through
them as you sail away to seek His bounty.
Perchance you will give thanks."  (The Creator,
35:12)

"Surely worthier is He who has established the
earth and watered it with running rivers; who has
set mountains upon it and placed a barrier
between the Two Seas."  (The Ant, 27:61)


Some say that the Two Seas represent the two realms of
the heavens and the earth, of the spiritual realm that is pure
sweetness and joy, and the earthly material realm that is the
source of suffering and pain, strife and grief.  Humans are the
point at which these two seas meet.  There is a barrier between
these two realms that prevents those in the lower realm from
knowing of the higher realm.  The human soul and reality is at
the lowest point of the world of spirituality.  The animal body of
a human is the highest point of evolution of the kingdoms of life
on earth.  The sweet ocean of spirit meets the salty ocean of the
world of matter.  The soul and reality of humans gets trained
through this experience while imprisoned within this animal
body.  At the death of the vehicle of the animal body, its driver,
the human soul, continues on completely free of any illusion it
had during life that it was that animal body.  The barrier might
be in that intermediate realm referred to in "and whatever lieth
between them [the heavens and the earth]".

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án


This meeting of the two worlds of spirit and matter
produces three distinct levels or areas of consciousness and self.
One derives from the animal body with all its instincts.  This is
somewhat like the id described by some psychologists.  Another
self, the highest self, perhaps something like the superego
referred to by Freud (this writer prefers the word io), derives
completely from the highest spiritual nature.  It knows
conscience and virtue.  Where the two meet and intersect a blend
occurs; this is the world of the clever ego.  This is like two
beams of different colored light shining on a surface so that
there is an area of partial overlapping.  Three areas of three
different colors are formed.  For example, if one beam is red and
the other is yellow, the overlapping area where they meet will be
orange.  So three colors, yellow, orange and red will appear in
three different regions.

In infancy and childhood the animal id dominates the
growing ego and highest self.  When the clever and self-centered
ego suddenly gains dominance over the id, then we see the
attributes of adolescence appear.  When the highest self is
dominant, then the qualities of wise, calm maturity make their
appearance.  Of course, most of the world is now in the stages of
immaturity – otherwise there would be wisdom, peace and
prosperity for all: the Kingdom of God on earth!


The human being starts with the animal self dominant,
then breaks through into an intermediate condition where the
two different natures, the divine and the worldly, are in great
tension and conflict, being about equal in strength, and then
finally achieves maturity with the highest nature dominant.  This
is like the cowboy breaking, taming and training the animal
horse he rides that we spoke about earlier.  First the animal is in
charge.  Then there's an intermediate stage where animal and

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
human battle to gain the edge over the other.  Finally, the human
gains full control.


The Yogis express this human development through the
analogy of the growth of a lotus plant in the lake.  It begins as a
tangle of roots in the dark mud of the lake bottom.  This is the
dark and ignorant world of the animal.  It has a closeness that is
primitive and blind.  Then, from this tangle of roots in the mud,
straight stems shoot up into the clear water.  The water
represents the world of the mind where the clever ego lives.
Like egos, the stems are separate, each going its own way to the
surface of the water.  At that surface, the bud of the flower opens
up and a beautiful lotus flower blossoms in the fresh sunlit air.
This air represents the spiritual realm.  So there are three realms:
the material, the mental and the spiritual, which are represented
by the solid, liquid and gas of the earth, water and air.  The id
knows the mud of the material animal, the ego knows the water
of ordinary human intellect, and the highest io knows the air of
the enlightened understanding.

HUMAN SOUL (SPIRIT)




STAGE      LOTUS ANALOGY
IO

———        ———————



MATURITY            FLOWER IN AIR



EGO
ADOLESCENCE    STEM IN WATER





CHILDHOOD      ROOTS IN MUD

ID

ANIMAL NATURE (BODY)


The intermediate realm of the ego exists only through
the interaction of the spiritual nature with the physical animal
nature reflecting in the body.  When the death of the body
arrives, both the id and ego consciousness disappear because

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
they depend on the world of the physical body, and only the
highest nature associated with the soul itself continues.  But the
mind that is associated with the soul, which is its radiance,
continues.  This is different from the ego manifestation of mind.


Again, it should be pointed out that these are the writer's
own ideas in his quest to find out the meanings of the words of
the Holy Books.  Others are not required to accept them.  They
are simply an attempt to make sense of what is there.  It could be
that there are many who won't find the writer's pathway
acceptable to them.  As they say in Australia, "No worries,
mate!"  Find a way that is suited best to yourself!


Another interpretation of the Two Seas suggests that
they represent the pairs in which God has made all things: male
and female.

"We built the heaven with Our might, giving it
a vast expanse, and stretched the earth beneath it.
Gracious is He who spread it out.  And all things
We have made in pairs, so that you may give
thought."  (The Winds, 51:47)

"He created you from a single being, then from
that being He created its mate...."  (The Hordes,
39:5)

Women tend to be sweeter, more loving and forgiving –
though many of us can think of some major exceptions here.
And men can tend to be more salty, aggressive and unpleasant –
though very kind and pleasant males do exist.   There must be
some reason why someone invented the rhyme:

"Little boys are made of rats and snails
And puppy dogs' tails.

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
But little girls are made of sugar and spice
And everything nice."

This has been around long before those in-your-face
“females” came thundering onto the scene to achieve equality
with men by showing that they could be made of rats and snails
and puppy dogs’ tails too.  So there must be something to it.
Isn't it men who are always starting wars in the world?  Maybe
it's an immature expression of justice.  Well, i suppose we’ve all
met salty women and sweet men, but, in general, maybe we
could think of the sweet water as representing females and the
salty water as standing for males.


There are Bahá’í prayers for marriage that use the quote
from the Qur’án concerning the two seas meeting.  The
implication seems to be that the two seas represent husband and
wife.

God Makes The Foul Deeds of the Deniers Seem Fair
to Them

"As for those that deny the life to come, We
make their foul deeds seem fair to them, so that
they blunder about in their folly.  Such are those
who shall be sternly punished and in the hereafter
lose most."  (The Ant, 27:4)

"By the Lord, We have sent apostles before
you to other nations.  But Satan made their foul
deeds seem fair to them, and to this day he is their
patron.  A woeful scourge awaits them."  (The
Bee, 16:63)

"Indeed, their foul devices seem fair to the
unbelievers, for they are debarred from the right

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
path.  None can guide those whom God has led
astray."  (Thunder, 13:33)

"Do not revile the idols which they invoke
besides God, lest in their ignorance they revile
God with rancour.  Thus have We made the
actions of all men seem pleasing to themselves."
(Cattle, 6:108)

"Is he whose foul deeds seem fair to him like
the man who is rightly guided?  God leaves in
error whom He will and guides whom He
pleases."  (The Creator, 35:8)


It was already mentioned how we humans have an
amazing power of rationalization by which to justify our unwise
and harmful actions.  This is characteristic of adolescence where
the clever mind knows how to find reasons that will lead to
desired conclusions but where the wisdom and conscience of the
highest self is not yet strong enough to make it clear to the
person that he is deceiving himself.  The mature person lets logic
work forwards, letting reason take him to conclusions.  But the
immature person in adolescence uses backwards logic, first
starting at the conclusion he wishes to be true and then moving
backwards to find reasons and excuses that will lead him to the
conclusions he has decided he wants to be true.  Then he uses
pressure on others to accept his "reasoning" to justify his unwise
behavior.  Rather than change himself to fit the reality of our
world, he tries to change everything and everyone outside
himself to justify and suit him.


What liar, scoundrel, cheat, thief, sexual deviant, corrupt
politician or terrorist doesn't have a system of rationalization to
justify his harmful actions?   And if they are a somewhat
organized group they work out standard doctrines based on false

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
information to justify their position to the liberal public – who
often swallow the nonsense.  Following fashions in thought is
not the same as thinking and being realistic.  Some have even
falsified scientific evidence to come to the conclusions they
want.  It appears in the newspapers and many accept it as true.
When other scientists state that they cannot duplicate the results
and there is suspicion of dishonesty, it appears in a small article
at the back of the newspapers and hardly anyone notices.  So the
public accepts the false story as true.  What a huge web of lies
and self-deception some groups with a common defect will
weave until they even manage to sway the society around them.
How many justify their horrid wars of destruction with their own
system of rationalization.  Humans in the stages of immaturity
are dragged down to act in a way harmful to themselves and
others, and then, not desiring the discomfort of feeling guilty,
work out a system of reasons to justify the behavior.  The signs
of this are all over our world.  But when maturity arrives, it will
be very easy to see through this self-deception, often collective
self-deception, to face the music and do the right thing.


The reason people who are converted break down in
tears, suddenly realizing their "sinfulness" and error, is because
the system of rationalization by which they've deceived
themselves to justify their wrongs suddenly breaks down and
they see the reality and truth about themselves that they were
trying to evade.  So many people are living a lie, fooling
themselves – because they haven't the strength yet to do the right
thing.  So, while they deceive themselves, their "evil deeds seem
fair to them".  It's Psychology 101A!   The Holy Books are full
of such insights into human psychology.

Honey is a Cure for Men

"Your Lord inspired the bee, saying: 'Make
your homes in the mountains, in the trees, and in

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
the hives which men shall build for you.  Feed on
every kind of fruit, and follow the trodden paths
of your Lord.'
"From its belly comes forth a syrup of
different hues, a cure for men.  Surely in this
there is a sign for those who would give thought."
(The Bee, 16:68f)

Revelation is a Cure for the Mind

"Men, an admonition has come to you from
your Lord, a cure for the mind, a guide and a
blessing to true believers.
"Say: 'In the grace and mercy of God let them
rejoice, for these are better than the worldly
riches they amass.' "  (Jonah, 10:57)

Spiritual honey to heal the soul!  It seems a tremendous
shame that those of us down here on Earth don't get to enjoy that
ginger-flavored drink that gushes forth from the fountain of
Salsabíl in Paradise.  Let us be resigned – sigh! – and appreciate
this Healing Honey until Heaven's Happy Hour arrives!

Good Deeds Repaid Tenfold

"He that does a good deed shall be repaid
tenfold; but he that does evil shall be rewarded
with evil.  None shall be wronged."  (Cattle,
6:160)

Only Those Who Disbelieve in God's Revelation Are
Liars

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"None invents falsehoods save those who
disbelieve God's revelations; they alone are the
liars."  (The Bee, 16:105)




Satan Seduces All Who Are Not Faithful Servants

"Lord,' said Satan, 'since You have thus
seduced me, I will tempt mankind on earth: I will
seduce them all, except those of them who are
your faithful servants.' "  (Al-Hijr, 15:37)

God's Justice Would Destroy the Earth

"If God punished men for their sins, not one
creature would be left alive.  He reprieves them
till a time ordained; when their time arrives, not
for one hour shall they stay behind: nor can they
go before it."  (The Bee, 16:59)

"If it was God's will to punish men for their
misdeeds, not one creature would be left alive on
the earth's surface.  He respites them till an
appointed time.  And when their hour comes,
they shall realize that God has been watching all
His servants."  (The Creator, 35:45)

God Sometimes Initiates Destruction With "The
(Dreadful) Cry"

"He [Lot] said [to the homosexuals]: 'Here are
my daughters: take them, if you are bent on evil.'

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
"By your life, they were blundering in
madness! At sunrise the Cry overtook them.  We
laid their town in ruin and let loose a shower of
clay-stones upon them.
"Surely in this there are signs for prudent men.
The road on which their city stood is trodden
still.  Surely in this there is a sign for true
believers."  (Al-Hijr, 15:73f)

"And Korah, Pharaoh, and Haman! Moses
came to them with veritable signs, but they
behaved with vainglory in the land, powerless
though they were to escape Us: and in their
sinfulness, one and all, We smote them.  On
some We sent down a violent whirlwind; others
we seized by the Dreadful Cry; some were
swallowed up by the earth, and yet others We
overwhelmed by the Flood.  God did not wrong
them, but they wronged themselves."  (The
Spider, 29:39)

"After him [a believer who told a city, possibly
Antioch, of God's revelation], We sent down no
host from heaven against his people: this We
never do.  There was but one shout - and they fell
down lifeless."  (Yá' Sín, 36:26)

"Thamúd and 'Ad [two tribes to which the
Prophets Sálih and Húd came] denied the Last
Judgement.  By a deafening shout was Thamúd
destroyed, and 'Ad by a howling, violent gale
which He let loose on them for seven nights and
eight successive days: you might have seen them
lying dead as though they had been hollow trunks

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
of palm-trees.  Can you see but one of them still
alive?"  (The Catastrophe, 69:3f)

The Flood Waters of Noah's Time Came from "The
Oven"

"So he [Noah] built the ark.  And whenever the
elders of his people passed by him they jeered at
him.  He said: 'If you mock us, we shall mock
you just as you mock us.  You shall know who
will be seized by a scourge that shall disgrace
him, and be smitten by a scourge everlasting.'
"And when Our will was done and water
welled out from the Oven, We said to Noah:
'Take into the ark a pair from every species, your
tribe (except for those already doomed), and all
the true believers.'  But none except a few
believed with him."  (Húd, 11:40)

Is this some reference to water coming up from the
heated interior of the earth – which is like an oven?  Geysers and
hot springs reveal boiling water that comes up from the very hot
innards of our planet.  Was there a very large deposit of such
water that was brought up to the surface?  How would one
explain what "the Oven" is?  The statement that it "welled out"
suggests something like this.  This is a topic for study by
geologists and vulcanologists and whatever one calls those who
study geysers and hot springs.

Each Person Has Guardian Angels

"It is the same whether you speak in secret or
aloud, whether you hide under the cloak of night
or walk about in the light of day.  Each has
guardian angels before him and behind him, who

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
watch him by God's command."  (Thunder,
13:10)

Devils Are Guardians Over Unbelievers

"We have made the devils guardians over the
unbelievers."  (The Heights, 7:27)

"He that does not heed the warning of the
Merciful shall have a devil for his companion
(devils turn men away from the right path,
though they may think themselves rightly
guided).  And when he comes before Us, he shall
say [to his companion]: 'Would that we were as
far apart as the East is from the West.' Truly, evil
is that companion."  (Ornaments of God, 43:34)

There Was Once Just One Religion and Nation on
Earth

"There was a time when men followed but one
religion.

Then
they
disagreed
among
themselves: and but for a Word from your Lord,
long since decreed, their differences would have
been firmly resolved."

How interesting:  it is the Word of God that kept the
differences going.  There must have been some wisdom in this –
such as the separation and diversification of humankind before
being reunited at a later time (in our future Golden Age).

Hypocrites

"When they meet you they say: 'We, too, are
believers.'  But when alone, they bite their

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
finger-tips with rage.  Say: 'May you perish in
your rage!  God has knowledge of your inmost
thoughts."
When you are blessed with good fortune they
grieve: but when evil befalls you they rejoice.  If
you persevere and guard yourselves against evil,
their machinations will nver harm you.  God has
knowledge of all their actions."  (The 'Imrans,
3:120)

Man Is Flagrantly Contentious

"Is man not aware that We created him from a
little germ?  Yet he is flagrantly contentious.  He
answers back with arguments, and forgets His
own creation...."  (Yá' Sín, 36:77)

Wrongdoers Will Be Known By Their Looks

"The wrongdoers will be known by their
looks; they shall be seized by their forelocks and
their feet."  (The Merciful, 55:37)

Our Good and Bad Deeds Are In The Books of Sijjin
and Illiyyun

"Truly, the record of the sinners is in Sijjín.
Would that you knew what Sijjín is!  It is a sealed
book."  (The Unjust,  83:3)

"But the record of the righteous shall be in
'Illiyyún.  Would that you knew what 'Illiyyún is!
It is a sealed book, seen only by the favoured."
(The Unjust, 83:21)

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
Much Reference to "Men of Understanding", "Men
of Knowledge

"Say: '... Are the wise and the ignorant equal?'
Truly, none will take heed but men of
understanding."  (The Hordes, 39:9)

"This is revealed by the Compassionate, the
Merciful: a Book of revelations well expounded,
an Arabic Koran for men of knowledge."
(Revelations Well Expounded, 41:1)

A Few Correspondences with Biblical Items

Destructiveness of Gog and Magog  (and Alexander
the Great)

"They will ask you about Dhúl-Qarnayn
[Alexander the Great].  Say: 'I will give you an
account of him.
"We made him mighty in the land and gave
him means to achieve all things. ...
" ...
" 'He [Dhúl-Qarnayn = Alexander the Great]
then journeyed along another road until he
reached the East and saw the sun rising upon a
people whom We had exposed to its flaming
rays.  So he did; and We had full knowledge of
all the forces at his command.
" 'Then he followed yet another route until he
came between the Two Mountains and found a
people who could barely understand a word.
"Dhúl-Qarnayn," they said, "Gog and Magog are
ravaging this land.  Build a rampart between us,
and we will pay you tribute."

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
" 'He replied: "the power my Lord has given
me is better than any tribute.  Lend me a force of
men, and I will raise a rampart between you and
them.  Come, bring me blocks of iron."
" 'He dammed up the valley between the Two
Mountains, and said: "Ply your bellows," And
when the iron blocks were red with heat, he said:
"Bring me molten brass to pour on them."
" 'Gog and Magog could not scale it, nor could
they dig their way through it.  He said: "This is a
blessing from my Lord.  But when my Lord's
promise has been fulfilled, He will level it to
dust.  The promise of my Lord is true." ' "

David and Goliath

"When they [Saul's army] met Goliath and his
warriors they cried: 'Lord, fill our hearts with
steadfastness.  Make us firm of foot and help us
against the unbelievers.'
"By God's will they routed them.  David slew
Goliath, and God bestowed on him sovereignty
and wisdom and taught him what He pleased.
Had God not defeated some by the might of
others, the earth would have been utterly
corrupted.  But God is bountiful to His
creatures."  (The Cow, 2:250f)

Noah Lived for More Than 950 Years

"We sent forth Noah to his people, and he
dwelt among them for a thousand years less fifty.
then in their sinfulness the Flood overwhelmed
them.  But We delivered him and all who were in

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
the Ark, and made the event a sign to mankind."
(The Spider, 29:14)

Special Gifts Given to David and Solomon

"On David We bestowed Our favours.  We
said: 'Mountains, and you birds, echo his songs
of praise.' We made hard iron pliant to him,
saying: 'Make coats of mail and measure their
links with care.  Do what is right: I am watching
over all your actions.'
"To Solomon We subdued the wind, travelling
a month's journey morning and evening.  We
gave him a spring flowing with molten brass, and
jinn who served him by leave of his Lord.  Those
of them who did not do Our bidding We shall
chasten with the torment of the Fire.  They made
for him whatever he pleased: shrines and statues,
basins as large as watering-troughs, and built-in
cauldrons.  We said: 'Give thanks, House of
David.' Yet few of My servants are truly
thankful.
"And when We had decreed his death, they did
not know that he was dead until they saw a worm
eating away his staff.  And when his corpse fell
down, the jinn realized that had they had
knowledge of the unknown, they would not have
remained in shameful bondage."  (Sheba, 34:10)

"Bear with what they [who deny their Lord]
say, and remember Our servant David, who was
both a mighty and a penitent man.  We made the
mountains join with him in praise evening and
morning, and the birds, too, in all their flocks; all
were obedient to him.  We made his kingdom

Chap. 6 – Other Interesting Matters of the Qur’án
strong, and gave him wisdom and discriminating
judgement."  (Sád, 38:17)

"We put Solomon to the proof and placed a
counterfeit upon his throne, so that he at length
repented.  He said: 'Forgive me, Lord, and
bestow upon me such power as shall belong to
none after me.  You are the Bountiful Giver.'
"We subjected the winds to him, so that it blew
softly at his bidding wherever he directed it; and
the devils, too, among whom were builders and
divers and others bound with chains.  'All this We
give you,' We said. 'It is for you to bestow or to
withhold, without reckoning.' In the world to
come he shall be honoured and well received."
(Sád, 38:34)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors

CHAPTER 7

END TIMES METAPHORS


SIGNS AND SYMBOLS OF THE LAST DAYS

The Resurrection

"God sends forth the winds which set the
clouds in motion.  We drive them on to some
dead land and give fresh life to the soil after it has
died.  Such is the Resurrection."  (The Creator,
35:9)

"We send down blessed water from the sky
with which We bring forth gardens and the
harvest grain, and tall palm-trees laden with
clusters of dates, a sustenance for men; thereby
giving new life to some dead land.  Such shall be
the Resurrection."  (Qáf, 50:9)

"Were We worn out by the First Creation?  Yet
are they in doubt about a new creation [Dawood:
The Resurrection]."  (Qáf, 50:15)


What is The Resurrection?  It means a bringing back up
again, bringing new life to what was dead.  The Qur’án could be
interpreted to have this make a reference to the new life each
believer will have after physical death.  It could also refer to the
new life that is breathed into the world when each new
revelation appears.  Islám was the resurrection of a dead
Christian Faith.  (Europe's plunge into its medieval "Dark Ages"

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
after Christian Byzantine civilization collapsed is sufficient
testimony to this.)  Christianity was the resurrection of the dead
Faith of Judaism.  Each springtime is the resurrection of the last
springtime after the cold, dreary and lifeless period of winter.
Each dawn is the resurrection of the day before after the long
dark, cold night.  The Qur’án asks us time and again to ponder
the sign of the day being followed by night.  What does it mean?
What else could it mean than that there is a resurrection of day
after the "death" of night?


Do all religions have life cycles from birth to maturity to
decline to death?  They certainly appear to.  The horrors of the
Spanish Inquisition and the crude Crusades are a far cry from the
pure and beautiful spirit of the Faith of Jesus during its earliest
days.  The spirit of Christianity had surely died in its old age.  Is
Islám unique among all religions in that it does not have such a
life cycle, that it doesn't have a decline and death requiring a
new Resurrection?  Is there anyone claiming that it has not gone
through the stages of birth, rise, maturity and decline?   If this is
acknowledged, then are any of these claiming that it can go
through all these stages without reaching a time of death when
the new birth of a revelation, a new Resurrection, is required to
adorn the world with a new springtime? Though each religion
tends to claim finality for itself as a defense against those who
say that another subsequent revelation of God has appeared, it
seems likely that it is not true that "the hand of God is chained
up" as the Jews complained to those who suggested that there
have been Prophets of God with new revelations since the days
of Moses.


Notwithstanding all the prophecies of both the Old and
New Testaments of the Bible concerning the appearance of the
Lord of Hosts, the King of Glory, the Glory of God, the
Comforter (Paraclete), sometimes cast as the return of Jesus
Himself, at other times stated as the return of another like Him,

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Christians too are found to be insisting that it all ends with Jesus,
that there will be no more revelations from God with a new
name:

"And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness,
and all kings thy glory: and thou shalt be called
by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord
shall name." (Bible, Isaiah,62:2).

"He that hath an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that
overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden
manna, and will give him a white stone, and in
the stone a new name written, which no man
knoweth saving he that receiveth {it}." (Bible,
Revelations, 2:17)

"Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in
the temple of my God, and he shall go no more
out: and I will write upon him the name of my
God, and the name of the city of my God, {which
is} new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of
heaven from my God: and {I will write upon
him} my new name." (Bible, Revelations, 3:12))


Now we find Muslims insisting on the same thing,
saying the equivalent of what the Jews and the Christians said,
claiming that the statement that Muhammad is the Seal of the
Prophets (The Confederate Tribes, 33:41) means that he is also
the last Messenger of God, not just the last of the prophesiers of
the Prophetic Cycle before the start of the Cycle of Fulfilment.
They confuse the term nabí (prophesier kind of prophet) with
rasúl (messenger of God).  Muhammad is the seal of the nabí
(the prophesiers), not the seal of the rasúl (the messengers of

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
God).  He closes the Prophetic Cycle and is the final revelation
before the opening of the Cycle of Fulfilment.


Please consider how very strange and bizarre it sounds to
a thinking person who has studied the various religions to say
that after God has sent down so many Prophets – the Qur’án lists
them one after another, tells their stories and insists that there are
even many others it hasn't mentioned – that after this very long
line of messengers of God's revelation, suddenly it's all going to
come to a stop, that God will finally close the door of His mercy
on the world and stop sending His messengers, that all these
appearances of a new springtime will suddenly stop, that the
rising of the sun of Truth will suddenly cease.  How strange that
each religion finds some pretext, some excuse, for claiming
finality for itself – in spite of protests against this in the Holy
Books.  It's even more interesting that God seems to actually
provide some kind of excuse or pretext for us, perhaps as a test
to see who uses it and who is reasonable.  How often He gives a
way out, an excuse, a pretext, a rationalization, for those who
cannot bear staying in.  He puts stumbling blocks and other tests
right in His own revelations to find out who truly recognize Him
and who are just along for the ride.


The Qur’án seems filled with statements hinting in
veiled and allusive language at the coming of a new revelation
after that which came through Muhammad.  In fact, the writer is
quite convinced that the process of progressive revelation will
never stop, that all the Prophets of God have verified and
confirmed the reality of the Prophets of the past, and most all of
them have told of the coming of the next one.  It is we very
rebellious humans, religious leaders in particular, who insist that
it all stops with our own Faith, whichever one it is, in order to
deny the validity of revelations that have appeared afterwards.

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"Woe on that day to the disbelievers! In what
revelation, after this, will they believe?"
(Those That Are Sent Forth, 77:50) [emphasis
mine]

“In what revelation, after this, will they believe?”  This surely
suggests a continuation of revelation.  Some understand the
"Resurrection", the "Day of Judgement", the Last Hour and so
on to mean both a "time" after physical death when a believer is
judged as to how he or she has conducted his or her life, and a
time when humans collectively are judged by how they respond
to the next revelation of God.  Weren't the Jews being judged by
God through the appearance of the Messiah, Jesus?  Whatever
their response was to him and what he says was in reality their
response to God because the Prophet of God carries the Message
of God.  Weren't the Christians and Jews of Muhammad's time
judged by their response to this next revelation from God?  If it
is true that a revelation of God has appeared in fulfilment of
these indications in the Qur’án (as well as so many prophecies
in the Bible, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism and elsewhere), then
surely the Muslims of today, and all others in the world, are
being judged by their response to it!


And if so many of the previous religion are the deniers of
the next revelation, then surely it is the  Hour of Doom, the
Catastrophe, for them as they fail to recognize it as their Day of
Judgement.

The Day of Judgement (Day of Decision or Day of
Sorting Out)

"When the stars are blotted out; when the sky
is rent asunder and the mountains crumble into
dust; when the apostles are brought together on
the appointed day - when will all this be?  Upon

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
the Day of Judgement!"  (Those That Are Sent
Forth, 77:2)

Here's another quote from the Qur’án with something very
similar:

"When the sun ceases to shine; when the stars
fall down and the mountains are blown away;
when camels big with young are left untended,
and the wild beasts are brought together; when
the seas are set alight and men's souls are
reunited; when the infant girl, buried alive, is
asked for what crime she was slain; when the
records of men's deeds are laid open, and heaven
is stripped bare; when Hell burns fiercely and
Paradise is brought near: then each soul shall
know what it has done."  (The Cessation, 81:1f)


Let's now look at something comparable from the
Christian New Testament of the Bible.  It gives a part of Jesus'
answer to His disciples' question: "Tell us, when shall these
things be? and what {shall be} the sign of thy coming, and of the
end of the world?" (Bible, Matthew, 24:3):

"Immediately after the tribulation of those
days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon
shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall
from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall
be shaken:
"And then shall appear the sign of the Son of
man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the
earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man
coming in the clouds of heaven with power and
great glory.

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"And he shall send his angels with a great
sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together
his elect from the four winds, from one end of
heaven to the other.". (Matthew, 24:29-31)

Consider how very similar this is to those passages from
the Qur’án, especially the first one.  Let's compare the first
Qur’án quote (Qur’án 1) in two different translations  (Dawood
and Shakir), and the second Qur’án quote (Qur’án 2) with this
passage from Matthew in the Bible:

Qur’án 1:
"When the stars are blotted out;"
[Shakir:
"So when the stars are made to lose their light,"]
Qur’án 2:
"When the sun ceases to shine; when the stars fall
down
Bible:
"shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall
not give her light, and the    stars shall fall from
heaven"

Qur’án 1:
"when the sky is rent asunder"
[Shakir:
"And when the heaven is rent asunder,"]
Qur’án 2:
"and heaven is stripped bare"
Bible:
"the powers of the heavens shall be shaken"

Qur’án 1:
"and the mountains crumble into dust;"
[Shakir:
"And when the mountains are carried away as
dust,"]
Qur’án 2:
"and the mountains are blown away"
Bible:
-

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors


Qur’án 1:
"when the apostles are brought together on the
appointed day"
[Shakir:
"And when the messengers are gathered at their
appointed time"
Qur’án 2:
-
Bible:
"they shall gather together his elect from the four
winds, from one end of heaven to the other - "

Qur’án 1:
"when will all this be?  Upon the Day of
Judgement!"  (Those That Are Sent Forth, 77:2)
[Shakir:
"To what day is the doom fixed?  To the day of
decision."]
[Yusuf 'Ali:  "To the day of Sorting out"]
Qur’án 2:
"when the records of men's deeds are laid open"
(The Cessation, 81:1f)
Bible:
"then shall appear the sign of the Son of man
coming in the clouds of heaven with power and
great glory"  (Matthew, 24:29-30)

This correlation is very remarkable!  The Qur’án and the
New Testament of the Bible are saying very much the same
thing in different language, using much the same symbols.  It
would almost seem as if they had the same author.  And indeed
they do; the Creator of the universe is their author!


The last verses match up the "Day of Judgement", "day
of decision" or "day of Sorting out" with the appearance of "the
sign of the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with
power and great glory" – which is not a correspondence but an
association.  The suggestion is that the appearing of the Son of
man is the Day of Judgement, "when the records of men's deeds
are laid open" on "the day of decision", "the day of Sorting out".
If this last line from the Bible seems not to correspond well with

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
either of the two quotes from the Qur’án, then let this next
Qur’án quote fill this lack:

"Are they waiting for God to come down to
them in the shadow of a cloud, with all the
angels?  Their fate will have been settled then...."
(Qur’án, The Cow, 2:210)

The Day of Judgement is the day when "their fate will
have been settled then".  And this is when God comes "down to
them in the shadow of a cloud, with all the angels".  This
confirms the strong association.


The real lack of correspondence  (between the first
Qur’án quote and the quote from Matthew in the Bible)
concerns the mountains that "crumble into dust".  There's
nothing corresponding to it in the Matthew quote.  We'll save a
more adequate discussion of this with a number of supporting
quotes from the Holy Books for just a little later.  For now, if we
go to the Old Testament of the Bible, we can find more
references to the rending of the heavens, the darkening of the
stars and the day of decision:

"Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that
thou wouldest come down, that the mountains
might flow down at thy presence,
"As {when} the melting fire burneth, the fire
causeth the waters to boil, to make thy name
known to thine adversaries, {that} the nations
may tremble at thy presence!" (Isaiah, 64:1-2)

"The earth shall quake before them; the
heavens shall tremble: the sun and the moon shall
be dark, and the stars shall withdraw their
shining:

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"And the Lord shall utter his voice before his
army: for his camp {is} very great: for {he is}
strong that executeth his word: for the day of the
Lord {is} great and very terrible; and who can
abide it?" (Joel, 2:10-11)

"And I will shew wonders in the heavens and
in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke.
"The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the
moon into blood, before the great and the terrible
day of the Lord come." (Joel, 2:30-31)

"Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of
decision: for the day of the Lord {is} near in the
valley of decision.
"The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and
the stars shall withdraw their shining.
"The Lord also shall roar out of Zion, and utter
his voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and
the earth shall shake: but the Lord {will be} the
hope of his people, and the strength of the
children of Israel. (Joel, 3:14-16)


If we are to interpret these images literally and
physically, it gives a dramatic picture.  But are such physical
events really so important that the Creator must speak only of
them in His Holy Book?  Even the statement that "the sky is rent
asunder" seems to suggest that perhaps there are other deeper
meanings behind such outward pictures of calamity.


The second quote (above) from Joel in the Old
Testament of the Bible mentions "pillars of smoke" that God
will display as "wonders in the heavens and in the earth."
Before commenting on these signs, let's supply a matching
statement from the Qur’án concerning this smoke:

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors

"Wait for the day when the sky will pour down
visible smoke, enveloping all men:  a dreadful
scourge...."

(Smoke,
44:10)

[Rodwell
translation:  "On the day when the heaven shall
give out a palpable smoke, which shall enshroud
mankind:  this will be an afflictive torment."]


Though there might be physical events that actually
demonstrate such things – we can easily imagine "pillars of
smoke" from powerful nuclear weapons, smoke and clouds
blocking out the light of the sun, moon and stars, mountains
being crumbled in mighty earth changes involving immense
earthquakes, etc. – the spiritual meanings behind these signs and
symbols might be far more important and much closer to the
point of what the prophets of old, of what Jesus and Muhammad,
have said.


In order to get a feeling for these much more important
spiritual meanings, let's first recall the illustration given earlier
(in the section discussing Purity in Chapter 2) of the three kinds
of matter – solid, liquid and gas, or earth, water and air.  What is
heaviest naturally falls to the lowest position, while what is
lightest rises to the top.  Recalling the Yogi lotus analogy, rocks,
dirt and mud can represent the lower aspects of the human
world:  our animal nature.  Water can symbolize the world of
selfish ego and clever mind.  Air can correspond to what is of the
spirit, what is highest and best in us.  The attribute of mercy lifts
up what is lower into the realm of what is higher and mixes the
earth, water and air.  The sun lifts up the water into the air
through evaporation to produce clouds that block out the light of
the sun that lifted them up.  The mud of the animal realm clouds
the water of intelligence so that it can no longer see and reason
well.  Smoke is the reduction of the solid world of earth into tiny
particles that are light enough to rise up into the air.  Consider

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
how smoke is the sign of fire, confusion, chaos and darkening of
the sky.  Volcanos belch out clouds of smoke, fine particles from
inside the earth, to fill the skies to such an extent that the sun,
moon and stars are dimmed.  When the mighty Krakatoa
(between Java and Sumatra in Indonesia) errupted, it was the
loudest noise ever heard and the smoke it poured into the
atmosphere caused the sun's light to be diminished, the moon to
appear dark and reddish, and the stars to be hardly seen.  What is
from the lower world rises up to the higher worlds to block out
the light, to bring horrible destructive storms and fill the world
with trouble.


Justice, as was explained, brings everything back to its
home.  The smoke particles eventually fall back to the earth –
often through the help of the rain which is in itself the falling
back to its home, the ocean of water, of what had been lifted up
from it.  Justice separates, purifies, and brings order, peace and
fruitfulness.


The Prophets of God each appear at a time when They
are most needed.

" ... When Righteousness
Declines, O Bharata! when Wickedness
Is strong, I rise, from age to age, and take
Visible shape, and move a man with men,
Succouring the good, thrusting the evil back,
And setting Virtue on her seat again."
(Hindu Texts, Bhagavad-Gita, Chapter 4)

The appearance of the Prophet with the new revelation
of God stings the worst of humans into such fierce opposition
that they become like the smoke that fills the air with darkness
and like clouds that loom dark and threatening, blocking out the
sunlight and filling the world with frightening storms.  But

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
eventually these storms must spend their energies.  In time, the
clouds rain their rain on the earth to let the sun shine brightly and
warmly once again.  This justice pulls down the mighty that
were once so high and returns them to their lower home.  And it
lifts up those who were "brought low in the land" and oppressed.
(The bubbles of gas rise through the water and up out of the
earth to return to their home in the atmosphere – if we need an
analog for this.)


Solid land, however, can rise up high even without
having to be ground up into a powdery dust to create smoke and
airborne dust.  Through powerful collisions between the
(tectonic) plates of solid earth that ride across the earth's surface,
mountains are built up.  The tallest mountains in the world, the
Himalayas, are the result of a big island, what is today the Indian
subcontinent, breaking off millions of years ago from Antarctica
and other pieces of land, travelling across the ocean and
colliding with Asia.  The highest mountain resulting from this
immense collision, Mt. Everest, has a summit almost nine
kilometres or five and a half miles above the level of the ocean.
The solid earth rises up to the high heavens without even leaving
its solid home behind!


Disturbances on the surface of the liquid ocean, seen
during fierce storms, cause the waves to rise up high.  Similarly,
even greater disturbances affecting the earth's crust cause rocky
mountains to pile up far higher.


But mountains also block the view – even if they don't
cloud the air.  There's a story about some American tourists from
the state of Kansas (most of which is very flat, with no
mountains) travelling to the Alps of Switzerland for a vacation
or holiday.  When asked how they liked their visit to
Switzerland, they replied:  "It was okay – except for the
mountains that kept getting in the way of the scenery."  When

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
there are no mountains or hills, when the land is as flat as it is in
most of Kansas, one can see for a very long way.  Vision is
unobstructed.  Such mountains and valleys can symbolize the
turbulence, the ups and downs of a disturbed life.  And as we
said, it was disturbances in the earth that caused such mountains
to appear.  The manic-depressive or bi-polar personality has an
emotional life that puts him or her at the mountain tops of joy,
excitement and enthusiasm for a while, and then into the dark
and gloomy valleys of despair, misery and depression after that.
Back and forth it goes.  The world is like that too.  One moment
our country is in the heights of supposed success, and the next
it's in the dark pits of ruin and failure, perhaps after a foolish war
or some natural calamity.  Flat land, a plain, can represent what
is smooth and free of disturbed extremes.  It's the product of
justice, while mercy brings about the mixing and disturbance.
As stated, acting with mercy to let the wolf free to mix with the
sheep is calamity.  Separating them with justice is peace.


This writer has just finished re-reading the words of
Bahá’u’lláh explaining the meanings of these signs of the Last
Days in his Kitáb-i-Iqán (Persian) or Kitábu'l-Iqán (Arabic) or
The Book of Certitude and is so overwhelmed at their power,
beauty and ability to make these ideas clear, that he feels it to be
silly to try to paraphrase these brilliant explanations.  Why
replace what is far superior with a far inferior rendition?  So
please permit Bahá’u’lláh himself to continue with this
explanation.  He interprets the meaning of this very same quote
from the New Testament of the Bible that was quoted above.
Since it matches up so closely with the Qur’án's similar
passages, it is appropriate to offer it here.


It cannot be emphasized enough that these ideas are not
comprehended by just simply scanning over them without
adequate thought and meditation.  For this reason, Bahá’u’lláh's
statements will be interspersed at periodic intervals with a brief

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
comment from this writer for little other reason than to
encourage the reader to give some time for what Bahá’u’lláh has
said to sink in and register consequent to some careful
contemplation.

"And now, concerning His [Jesus'] words —
'The sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall
not give light, and the stars shall fall from
heaven.'  By the terms 'sun' and 'moon,'
mentioned in the writings of the Prophets of God,
is not meant solely the sun and moon of the
visible universe.  Nay rather, manifold are the
meanings they have intended for these terms.  In
every instance they have attached to them a
particular significance.  Thus, by the 'sun' in one
sense is meant those Suns of Truth Who rise
from the dayspring  [place on the horizon where
the sun rises] of ancient glory, and fill the world
with a liberal effusion of grace from on high.
These Suns of Truth are the universal
Manifestations of God [Prophets of God] in the
worlds of His attributes and names. Even as the
visible sun that assisteth, as decreed by God, the
true One, the Adored, in the development of all
earthly things, such as the trees, the fruits, and
colours thereof, the minerals of the earth, and all
that may be witnessed in the world of creation, so
do the divine Luminaries, by their loving care
and educative influence, cause the trees of divine
unity, the fruits of His oneness, the leaves of
detachment, the blossoms of knowledge and
certitude, and the myrtles of wisdom and
utterance, to exist and be made manifest. Thus it
is that through the rise of these Luminaries of
God the world is made new, the waters of

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
everlasting life stream forth, the billows of
loving-kindness surge, the clouds of grace are
gathered, and the breeze of bounty bloweth upon
all created things.  It is the warmth that these
Luminaries of God generate, and the undying
fires they kindle, which cause the light of the
love of God to burn fiercely in the heart of
humanity.  It is through the abundant grace of
these Symbols of Detachment that the Spirit of
life everlasting is breathed into the bodies of the
dead.  Assuredly the visible sun is but a sign of
the splendour of that Day-star [Sun] of Truth,
that Sun Which can never have a peer, a likeness,
or rival.  Through Him all things live, move, and
have their being.  Through His grace they are
made manifest, and unto Him they all return.
From Him all things have sprung, and unto the
treasuries of His revelation they all have
repaired.  From Him all created things did
proceed, and to the depositories of His law they
did revert."  (p 34)

In this passage, he shows how the sun is a symbol of the
Prophets of God.  The sun is the cause of life on earth.  Without
the sun, trees cannot bring forth their fruit, plants will not grow,
the water isn't lifted up from the ocean to form clouds to water
these trees and other plants.  Just as clouds and smoke and high
mountains can block out the sun and prevent us from seeing that
sun, other kinds of clouds, which will be discussed soon, prevent
the people of the world from recognizing the revelation from
God.  He continues:

"The term 'suns' hath many a time been
applied in the writings of the 'immaculate Souls'
unto the Prophets of God, those luminous

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Emblems of Detachment. Among those writings
are the following words recorded in the 'Prayer of
Núdbih' ['Lamentation' attributed to the Twelfth
Imam]: 'Whither are gone the resplendent Suns?
Whereunto have departed those shining Moons
and sparkling Stars?'  Thus, it hath become
evident that the terms 'sun,' 'moon,' and 'stars'
primarily signify the Prophets of God, the saints,
and their companions, those Luminaries, the
light of Whose knowledge hath shed illumination
upon the worlds of the visible and the invisible.
(pp 35-36)


Here, the meaning of the symbolism is extended to
include the saints and holy ones.  These give light too – even
though it might be reflected.  But in the next section, another
meaning is added:

"In another sense, by these terms is intended
the divines [priests, clergy] of the former
Dispensation, who live in the days of the
subsequent Revelations, and who hold the reins
of religion in their grasp.  If these divines be
illumined by the light of the latter Revelation
they will be acceptable unto God, and will shine
with a light everlasting.  Otherwise, they will be
declared as darkened, even though to outward
seeming they be leaders of men, inasmuch as
belief and unbelief, guidance and error, felicity
and misery, light and darkness, are all dependent
upon the sanction of Him Who is the Day-star
[Sun] of Truth. Whosoever among the divines of
every age receiveth, in the Day of Reckoning, the
testimony of faith from the Source of true
knowledge, he verily becometh the recipient of

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
learning, of divine favour, and of the light of true
understanding.  Otherwise, he is branded as
guilty
of
folly,
denial,
blasphemy,
and
oppression. (p 37)


Leaders of religion have usually been the primary
opposers of the new revelation of God when it appears.  They
turn their unthinking followers away from the new revelation of
God.  The new Prophet of God challenges their authority.  They
don't wish to give it up.  (Their station as priests and leaders
usually has no basis in the words of the Prophets anyway!)
Aside from a handful who recognize the new revelation and
become its supporters and defenders, most tend to become
darkened, to lose their light, to lead their followers astray.  They
are like stars that become darkened or fall.  That they are said to
"fall on the earth" certainly means that, spiritually, their hearts
and minds may once have lived in the heavens of high ideals and
noble principles, close to the higher spirit of holiness, but
disobedience to God's laws and commands, corruption and
worldliness pull them down to the earth of animal and egoistic
qualities.  They were once in the "heavens" of their higher self,
and then they fall to "the earth" of their lower self.

"It is evident and manifest unto every
discerning observer that even as the light of the
star fadeth before the effulgent splendour of the
sun, so doth the luminary of earthly knowledge,
of wisdom, and understanding vanish into
nothingness when brought face to face with the
resplendent glories of the Sun of Truth, the
Day-star of divine enlightenment."  (p 37)

The moon and stars are very noticeable at night because they
stand out against the dark sky.  When the darkness of ignorance
is everywhere, then even those with a little knowledge and

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
understanding shine out in this darkness.  It's said that the
one-eyed is king in the land of the blind.  But when the dawn of
a new Day arrives and the Sun of Truth rises, then its light is so
powerful, so brilliant, that the light of the moon and stars fades
away into insignificance.  Who notices the stars in the middle of
the day?  What do human leaders, priests, preachers and other
clergy have to say when God sends His new revelation?  What
do the puny second-hand ideas of humans have to compare with
the fresh new revelation from our Creator?  What is the
one-eyed and half-blind compared to Him who sees with two
eyes as sharp as those of a hawk or an eagle?  The new
revelation is the rising of the Sun of Truth.  In the next section,
yet another meaning is given to the sun, moon and stars.

"In another sense, by the terms `sun', `moon',
and `stars' are meant such laws and teachings as
have been established and proclaimed in every
Dispensation, such as the laws of prayer and
fasting.  These have, according to the law of the
Qur’án, been regarded, when the beauty of the
Prophet Muhammad had passed beyond the veil,
as the most fundamental and binding laws of His
dispensation. To this testify the texts of the
traditions and chronicles, which, on account of
their being widely known, need not be referred to
here. ...  The traditions established the fact that in
all Dispensations the law of prayer hath
constituted a fundamental element of the
Revelation of all the Prophets of God—a law the
form and the manner of which hath been adapted
to the varying requirements of every age.
Inasmuch as every subsequent Revelation hath
abolished the manners, habits, and teachings that
have been clearly, specifically, and firmly
established by the former Dispensation, these

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
have accordingly been symbolically expressed in
terms of `sun' and `moon'.  'That He might prove
you, which of you excel in deeds.' (Qur’án,
Sovereignty, 67:2) "  (pp 38-39)


Fasting and prayer are compared to the sun and moon
because they are a "light" to the soul and spirit of humans.

"Moreover, in the traditions the terms "sun"
and "moon" have been applied to prayer and
fasting, even as it is said:  "Fasting is
illumination, prayer is light."  ...
"... We made reply [to a visiting Muslim]:
'Muhammad, the Seal of the Prophets, and the
most distinguished of God's chosen Ones, hath
likened the Dispensation of the Qur’án unto
heaven, by reason of its loftiness, its paramount
influence, its majesty, and the fact that it
comprehendeth all religions. And as the sun and
moon
constitute the brightest and most
prominent luminaries in the heavens, similarly in
the heaven of the religion of God two shining
orbs have been ordained—fasting and prayer.
`Islám is heaven; fasting is its sun, prayer, its
moon.' " (pp 40-41)

He summarizes now:

"This is the purpose underlying the symbolic
words
of
the
Manifestations
of
God.
Consequently, the application of the terms 'sun'
and 'moon' to the things already mentioned hath
been demonstrated and justified by the text of the
sacred verses and the recorded traditions.  Hence,
it is clear and manifest that by the words 'the sun

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give
her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven' is
intended the waywardness of the divines, and the
annulment of laws firmly established by divine
Revelation, all of which, in symbolic language,
have been foreshadowed by the Manifestation of
God.  None except the righteous shall partake of
this cup, none but the godly can share therein.
'The righteous shall drink of a cup tempered at
the camphor fountain.' (Qur’án, Man, 76:5) "


Bahá’u’lláh states here that these subtle spiritual ideas
cannot be understood without the help of God.  The
"disbelievers" will fail to grasp what is said here, misinterpret
and misunderstand in accord with the warped mirror of their
own minds and hearts, and complain about what they have
misunderstood.  Their protests all revolve about themselves and
never actually touch what God is trying to convey to
humankind.  In reality, they complain not about what God has
said but about their misunderstanding of it.  It is God that gives
faith and the light of illumined knowledge that sees behind the
outer meanings of words.  "None except the righteous shall
partake of this cup, none but the godly can share therein."  One
reader finds his heart and spirit opened with joy and illumination
while another is unable to reflect much of the light of revelation
and, like the bats of night, may even find the light offensive.


Bahá’u’lláh now explains how such a misunderstanding
of these terms by many Christians led them to fail to recognize
the light of the revelation of God through Muhammad.

"It is unquestionable that in every succeeding
Revelation the 'sun' and 'moon' of the teachings,
laws, commandments, and prohibitions which
have
been
established
in
the
preceding

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Dispensation, and which have overshadowed the
people of that age, become darkened, that is, are
exhausted, and cease to exert their influence.
Consider now, had the people of the Gospel
recognized the meaning of the symbolic terms
'sun' and 'moon,' had they sought, unlike the
froward and perverse, enlightenment from Him
Who is the Revealer of divine knowledge, they
would have surely comprehended the purpose of
these terms, and would not have become afflicted
and oppressed by the darkness of their selfish
desires.  Yea, but since they have failed to
acquire true knowledge from its very Source,
they have perished in the perilous vale of
waywardness and misbelief.  They still have not
awakened to perceive that all the signs foretold
have been made manifest, that the promised Sun
hath risen above the horizon of divine
Revelation, and that the 'sun' and 'moon' of the
teachings, the laws, and learning of a former
Dispensation have darkened and set."  (pp 41-42)


Concerning the "the sky is rent asunder" or "the heavens
are cleft asunder".  Bahá’u’lláh says:

"... strive thou to comprehend from these
lucid,
these
powerful,
conclusive,
and
unequivocal statements the meaning of the
'cleaving of the heaven'—one of the signs that
must needs herald the coming of the last Hour,
the Day of Resurrection. As He hath said: 'When
the heaven shall be cloven asunder.'  By 'heaven'
is meant the heaven of divine Revelation, which
is elevated with every Manifestation [Prophet of
God], and rent asunder with every subsequent

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
one. By 'cloven asunder' is meant that the former
Dispensation [of a revelation of God] is
superseded and annulled. I swear by God! That
this heaven being cloven asunder is, to the
discerning, an act mightier than the cleaving of
the skies! Ponder a while. That a divine
Revelation which for years hath been securely
established; beneath whose shadow all who have
embraced it have been reared and nurtured; by
the light of whose law generations of men have
been disciplined; the excellency of whose word
men have heard recounted by their fathers; in
such wise that human eye hath beheld naught but
the pervading influence of its grace, and mortal
ear hath heard naught but the resounding majesty
of its command—what act is mightier than that
such a Revelation should, by the power of God,
be 'cloven asunder' and be abolished at the
appearance of one soul? Reflect, is this a
mightier act than that which these abject and
foolish men have imagined the 'cleaving of the
heaven' to mean?


This was the point made earlier: that however dramatic
the physical darkening of the sun and moon and stars, the
rending of the sky and the destruction of the mountains into dust
might be, such physical events have nowhere near the
importance of the spiritual events that they symbolize.  For
astronomers and earth scientists such physical phenomena
would be of the greatest interest if they were to happen.  But in
the realm of  religion, it is the spiritual events that these
symbolize that are what is vitally important.  Bahá’u’lláh points
out how powerfully this darkening of the sun, moon and stars,
this cleaving of the heavens, affects the Prophets of God:

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"Moreover, consider the hardships and the
bitterness of the lives of those Revealers of the
divine Beauty. Reflect, how single-handed and
alone they faced the world and all its peoples,
and promulgated the Law of God!  No matter
how severe the persecutions inflicted upon those
holy, those precious, and tender Souls, they still
remained, in the plenitude of their power, patient,
and, despite their ascendancy, they suffered and
endured."   (Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Iqán, pp 44-45)


Consider how the stars have fallen.  Priests of all
past religions have been falling for quite some time.  But
now it is being made evident, clear and public.  How
many thousands of degraded priests and leaders of
religions around the world are being discovered to be
degenerate rather than holy, corrupt rather than godly,
worldly rather than heavenly!  The stars have fallen!


Let's now fulfill a promise made a little earlier and look
at the sign of the crumbling of the mountains into dust.  Here are
some more quotes from the Qur’án concerning this.  There are
others as well.

"The mountains, firm though you may think
them, will pass away like clouds.  Such is the
might of God, who has perfected all things.  He
has knowledge of all your actions."  (The Ant,
27:88)

"They ask you about the mountains.  Say: 'My
Lord will crush them to fine dust and reduce
them to a desolate waste, with no hollows nor
jutting mounds to be seen."   (Tá' Há', 20:105)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"And the day on which We will cause the
mountains to pass away and you will see the
earth a levelled plain and We will gather them
and leave not any one of them behind."  (Shakir,
Qur’án, The Cave, 18:48)

"When the sky is rent asunder, and hearkens to
(the Command of) its Lord, and it must needs (do
so);- and when the earth is flattened out, and
casts forth what is within it and becomes (clean)
empty, O thou man! Verily thou art ever toiling
on towards thy Lord- painfully toiling,- but thou
shalt meet Him." (Yusuf 'Ali, Qur’án, The
Sundering (Rending), 84:1f)


Some comments have already been made concerning
what mountains symbolize.  This writer has the greatest
confidence in whatever Bahá’u’lláh says concerning these
things, so let's look at what he has to say concerning the
flattening or levelling of the mountains  into a plain "with no
hollows nor jutting mounds to be seen".

"If the learned and worldly-wise men of this
age were to allow mankind to inhale the
fragrance of fellowship and love, every
understanding heart would apprehend the
meaning of true liberty, and discover the  secret
of undisturbed peace and absolute composure.
Were the earth to attain this station and be
illumined with its light it could then be truly said
of it:  'Thou shalt see in it no hollows or rising
hills.' " (Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, p 260)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
The quote from the Qur’án there uses another translation.  To
get some feeling for what this could mean, after the hint made
earlier, let's think for a moment of the fluid ocean for a moment
instead of the more solid land.  When the winds are calmed, the
ocean lies flat and undisturbed.  It's "undisturbed peace and
absolute composure".  But when the winds pick up and perturb
the ocean's surface, swells and waves build up.  As the winds get
even stronger, the peaks or crests of the waves tower high above
the dark troughs between them.  A boat caught on such a stormy
sea will be tossed from the highest points down to the lowest
points.  Storms are symbols of the disturbance that the lowest
among humankind bring about in our world – especially when
they occupy the highest positions.  They make life a rough ride
for everyone, especially the higher kind of person.

"Thus, for that they move on these three
differing planes, the understanding and the words
of the wayfarers have differed; and hence the
sign of conflict doth continually appear on earth.
For some there are who dwell upon the plane of
oneness and speak of that world, and some
inhabit the realms of limitation, and some the
grades of self, while others are completely
veiled.  Thus do the ignorant people of the day,
who have no portion of the radiance of Divine
Beauty, make certain claims, and in every age
and cycle inflict on the people of the sea of
oneness what they themselves deserve.  'Should
God punish men for their perverse doings, He
would not leave on earth a moving thing!  But to
an appointed term doth He respite them....'
(Qur’án, The Bee, 16:63)  (Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, p 21)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors

Solid land, even rocks, have some degree of fluidity and
changeability too.  But to see this one must look over a very long
stretch of time, even millions of years.  Geologists tell us that
there have been times in the Earth's ancient history when
immense mountain ranges were thrust up from the floors of the
oceans – that's how those sedimentary rocks got there – when
huge amounts of molten rock, lava, flowed out to build up the
land and even form volcanic mountains and ridges.  Over the
eons, rain and wind erosion slowly wear down these mountains
until they are like hills.  And then these are finally smoothed out
into more level land – unless catastrophic change again
suddenly intervenes.


Huge mountains have also been crushed and tumbled
down through immense forces.  These catastrophic events
happen infrequently on our human scale of time, but to a time
scale of the earth's lifetime, such great changes are quite regular.
Earth scientists have pointed out for quite some time that the
magnetic orientations of the cooling molten rock emerging from
the mid-oceanic ridges show us that the magnetic poles of the
earth suddenly flip roughly every 20,000 or 30,000 years or so.
Some have even suggested that this is due to an actual physical
flip.  One investigator calculated that huge islands of ice
breaking off of the Antarctic ice shelves and moving north might
be sufficient to initiate such a flip of the axis of rotation of the
earth.  (One such immense ice island was the size of the
European country of Luxembourg and began to travel
northwards towards South America.  This continues as the
global climate warms.)  Most people, including many good
scientists, just laughed at the idea.  But when it was brought to
the attention of Albert Einstein, he said that it was quite a valid
idea, mathematically and physically sound, and should be taken
seriously.  Einstein's reputation was such that it quickly put an
end to the snickers and ridicule of some.

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors

On a much larger scale, it appears that there are immense
catastrophes that happen very roughly about once every 26
million years to cause immense extinctions of so many species
of plants and animals on Earth.  These probably involve massive
changes on the earth’s surface.  Some of the larger of these
define the boundaries of the great eras and periods of the fossil
record.


Solid land, even solid rock, does indeed move – but
perhaps on a very large and slow scale.  The continent of Africa
is rising a few millimetres each year.  The continents of South
America and Africa are slowly moving apart.  And mountain
ranges are slowly worn down by rain and wind.  Periodically
there are immense catastrophic changes that could easily iron
out whole mountain ranges and even put them and other dry land
at the bottom of an ocean.


The point here, however, is not that such catastrophic
events will be happening in our lifetimes (though they
conceivably could), but rather that the shape of the land, whether
in the form of mountains and valleys or level plains, gives a
large-scale analogy (large in both size and time) for the same
changes we see on the much more quickly acting oceans.  The
level plain represents peace, calm, order and a long
uninterrupted vision – the result of justice.  And the mountains
and valleys represent disturbance and great change with a
shorter-range vision.


Mountains appear immense, strong, stable and firm.
Consider how passionately the followers of a religion cling to
their teachings for centuries.  As Bahá’u’lláh notes, consider
what an immense act of courage and power it is for a Prophet of
God to enter the world, change the old laws, institute new ones,
and challenge all that was held dear and precious by so many for
so long.  How violently did the inhabitants of Ur, including

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Abraham's own father, resist him when he told them that their
long-established religious habits of worshipping so many gods
was wrong!  How fiercely was Moses opposed by Pharaoh and
his people when he announced a new revelation of God!  Even
his own people resisted so powerfully, reverting to the worship
of the Golden Calf when he was absent for a while.  How
powerfully did the Jews resist Jesus Christ and condemn him to
be crucified!  How vigorously was Muhammad opposed and
persecuted by those who felt he had no right to change the old
ways!  And how very savage and brutal was the unbelievable
oppression, torture and mass-murder of over 20,000 followers of
the young Báb and Bahá’u’lláh in 19th and 20th century Persia
when these two saintly Founders of the Bábí and Bahá'í Faiths
claimed to bring the next twin revelation after that of
Muhammad!  To this day that oppression continues.  How
interesting that the Báb foretold the coming of Bahá’u’lláh, and
Bahá’u’lláh made it clear that there would be a long succession
of Prophets of God after Him, the next one to appear after one
thousand years.


The mountain can represent all that was once so solid,
established and secured in a society through its dominant
religion.  The appearance of the next revelation reduces it to
dust, just as it cleaves the heavens of religious truth asunder in
preparation for the next stage in the spiritual and religious
development of humankind.  It also has other meanings as
already offered earlier.


For those who might be interested, here are a few more
selections from the Bible that speak of the mountains being
brought down or changed, along with yet more references to the
darkening of the sun, moon and stars, that speak very much in
the same language as the Qur’án:

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"Behold, I will make thee a new sharp
threshing instrument having teeth: thou shalt
thresh the mountains, and beat {them}small, and
shalt make the hills as chaff.
"Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry
them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them:
and thou shalt rejoice in the Lord, {and} shalt
glory in the Holy One of Israel. (Isaiah,
41:15-16)

"I will make waste mountains and hills, and
dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers
islands, and I will dry up the pools. (Isaiah,
42:15)

"For, behold, the Lord cometh forth out of his
place, and will come down, and tread upon the
high places of the earth.
"And the mountains shall be molten under
him, and the valleys shall be cleft, as wax before
the fire, {and} as the waters {that are} poured
down a steep place. (Micah, 1:3-4)

"And I beheld when he had opened the sixth
seal, and, lo, there was a great earthquake; and
the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and
the moon became as blood;
"And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth,
even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when
she is shaken of a mighty wind.
"And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is
rolled together; and every mountain and island
were moved out of their places.  (Revelations,
6:12-14)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"And the seventh angel poured out his vial into
the air; and there came a great voice out of the
temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is
done.
"And there were voices, and thunders, and
lightnings; and there was a great earthquake,
such as was not since men were upon the earth,
so mighty an earthquake, {and} so great.
"And the great city was divided into three
parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and great
Babylon came in remembrance before God, to
give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness
of his wrath.
"And every island fled away, and the
mountains were not found.
"And there fell upon men a great hail out of
heaven, {every stone} about the weight of a
talent: and men blasphemed God because of the
plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was
exceeding great. (Revelations, 16:17-21)


We've spent some considerable time here because these
matters seem to be of the greatest importance.

The Trumpet

"On that day the Trumpet shall be sounded and
all who dwell in heaven and earth be seized with
fear, except for those whom God will choose to
spare.  All shall come to him in utter humility.
"The mountains, firm though you may think
them, will pass away like clouds, Such is the
might of God, who has perfected all things.  He
has knowledge of all your actions.

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"Those that have done good shall be rewarded
with what is better, and shall be secure from the
terrors of that day.
"But those that have done evil shall be hurled
headlong into the Fire.  Shall you not be
rewarded according to your deeds?"  (The Ant,
27:85f)

"They must be waiting for a single blast,
which will overtake them while they are
disputing.  They will have no time to make a will,
nor shall they return to their kinsfolk.
"The Trumpet will be blown and, behold, they
will rise up from their graves and hasten to their
Lord.  'Woe to us!' they will say.  'Who has
roused us from our resting-place? This is what
the Lord of Mercy promised: the apostles have
told the truth!'  And with one blast they shall be
gathered all before us.
"On that day no soul shall suffer the least
injustice.  You shall be rewarded according to
your deeds." (Yá Sín, 26:49f)

"The Trumpet shall be sounded, and all who
are in heaven and earth shall fall down fainting,
except those that shall be spared by God.  Then
the Trumpet will be blown again and they shall
rise and gaze around them.  The earth will shine
with the light of her Lord, and the Book will be
laid open.  The prophets and the witnesses shall
be brought in, and all shall be judged with
fairness: none shall be wronged.  Every soul shall
be paid back according to its deeds, for He best
knows all that they did."  (The Hordes, 39:68)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
In many statements involving "The Trumpet" they might
be taken to refer to a time facing each individual after physical
death, when each will be judged.  That fate occurs in what the
Qur’án calls "the abode of the hereafter" (The Confederate
Tribes, 33:28).  Clearly that abode is not the same as this
physical world otherwise the Qur’án would have spoken of it as
occurring here on Earth.  And a blast on a Trumpet surely
indicates something like a broadcast notice, a warning, an
announcement.  Surely such an announcement is more
appropriate to the Announcement of God in His next revelation.


The last quote, where there are two blasts on The
Trumpet, suggests that there is a meaning involving not just an
individual's fate but this life on this earth:  "The earth will shine
with the light of her Lord, and the Book will be laid open."  This
surely means that the veiled and mysterious language of the
Book will be explained through the new revelation.  It sounds
remarkably like the prophecies of the Old Testament of the
Bible:

"And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and
unto them that turn from transgression in Jacob,
saith the Lord.
"As for me, this {is} my covenant with them,
saith the Lord; My spirit that {is } upon thee, and
my words which I have put in thy mouth, shall
not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth
of thy seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seed's
seed, saith the Lord, from henceforth and for
ever.
"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the
glory of the Lord is risen upon thee (Isaiah,
59:20-60:1)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"And {it was} according to the appearance of
the vision which I saw, {even } according to the
vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city:
and the visions {were} like the vision that I saw
by the river Chebar; and I fell upon my face.
"And the glory of the Lord came into the house
by the way of the gate whose prospect {is}
toward the east.
"So the spirit took me up, and brought me into
the inner court; and, behold, the glory of the Lord
filled the house.  (Ezekiel, 43:3-5)

"Behold, {is it} not of the Lord of hosts that
the people shall labour in the very fire, and the
people shall weary themselves for very vanity?
"For the earth shall be filled with the
knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters
cover the sea.(Habakkuk, 2:13-14)

Here is another quote referring to two blasts on The Trumpet:

"By those who snatch away men's souls, and
those who gently release them; by those who
float at will, and those who speed headlong; by
those who govern the affairs of the world!  On
the day the Trumpet sounds its first and second
blast, all hearts shall be filled with terror, and all
eyes shall stare with awe."  (The Soul-Snatchers,
79:1)

This has great significance for Bahá’ís, who, as
mentioned, believe that there were two Messengers of God
appearing after Muhammad – first The Báb ["Gate"] and then
Bahá’u’lláh ["Glory of God"] – appearing in quick succession,
just 19 years apart, in 19th century Persia.  Ezekiel’s statement,

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
“And the glory of the Lord came into the house by the way of the
gate whose prospect {is} toward the east”, could just as well be
translated, using these Arabic titles, as “And Bahá’u’lláh came
into the house by way of The Báb in the East”.


What else could a reference to a blast on The Trumpet be
than a Great Announcement from God, and new revelation from
the Creator? And two blasts on the Trumpet certainly suggests
two revelations, one right after the other.


Here are some selections from the Bible that mention a
"trumpet" in this same context and that make it quite clear that it
denotes the Announcement of God, which is the revelation from
God.  The sections where mention of trumpets is made are
emphasized by the author.

"And it shall come to pass in that day, {that}
the great trumpet shall be blown, and they shall
come which were ready to perish in the land of
Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt,
and shall worship the Lord in the holy mount at
Jerusalem." (Isaiah, 27:13)

"And the Lord shall be seen over them, and his
arrow shall go forth as the lightning: and the
Lord God shall blow the trumpet, and shall go
with whirlwinds of the south." (Zechariah, 9:14)

"I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and
heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,
"Saying, 'I am Alpha and Omega, the first and
the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book,
and send {it} unto the seven churches which are
in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and
unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto
Laodicea.' "  (Revelations 1:10-11)

And yet again:

"Immediately after the tribulation of those
days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon
shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall
from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall
be shaken:
"And then shall appear the sign of the Son of
man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the
earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man
coming in the clouds of heaven with power and
great glory.
"And he shall send his angels with a great
sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather
together his elect from the four winds, from one
end of heaven to the other."  (Matthew, 24:29-31)
[emphasis mine]

The Hour of Doom, the Catastrophe


Did you think that that was all?  It goes on and on.  Here
is just some of what remains:

"He [Jesus] is a portent of the Hour of Doom.
Have no doubt about its coming and follow Me."
(Ornaments of Gold, 41:61)

"Wait for the day when the sky will pour down
visible smoke, enveloping all men: a dreadful
scourge.  Then they will say: 'Lord, lift up the
scourge from us.  We are now believers.' But
how will their new faith help them, when an

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
undoubted prophet had come to them and they
denied him, saying: 'A madman, taught by
others!' "  (Smoke, 44:12)

"On that day the heaven will shake and reel,
and the mountains move and pass away.  On that
day woe betide the unbelievers, who now divert
themselves with vain disputes."  (The Mountain,
52:8)

"When that which is coming comes – and no
soul shall then deny its coming – some shall be
abased and others exalted.
"When the earth shakes and quivers, and the
mountains crumble away and scatter abroad into
fine dust, you shall be divided into three
multitudes: those on the right (blessed shall be
those on the right); those on the left (damned
shall be those on the left); and those to the fore
(foremost shall be those).  Such are they that
shall be brought near to their Lord in the gardens
of delight: a whole multitude from the men of
old, but only a few from the later generations."
(That Which Is Coming, 56:1f)

"When the Trumpet sounds a single blast;
when earth with all its mountains is raised high
and with one mighty crash is shattered into dust -
on that day the Dread Event will come to pass.
"Frail and tottering, the sky will be rent
asunder on that day, and the angels will stand on
all its sides with eight of them carrying the throne
of your Lord above their heads.  On that day you
shall be utterly exposed, and all your secrets shall
be brought to light."  (The Catastrophe, 69:12f)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors


Again, it’s hard to read this without thinking of
the modern-day exposure of so many thousands of
leaders of religion who have sunk to the lowest depths of
disobedience to God’s Laws and utterly lost their
spiritual station.

"The
Catastrophe:
and
what
is
the
Catastrophe? Would that you knew what the
Catastrophe is!
"Thamúd and 'Ad [peoples to which the
ancient Prophets Sálih and Húd appeared] denied
the Last Judgement.  By a deafening shout was
Thamúd destroyed, and 'Ad by a howling, violent
gale which He let loose on them for seven nights
and eight successive days: you might have seen
them lying dead as though they had been hollow
trunks of palm-trees.  Can you see but one of
them still alive?"  (The Catastrophe, 69:1f)


The
Catastrophe,
the
Day
of
Judgement,
the
Resurrection, the Hour of Doom, the Trumpet, the cleaving of
the heavens, the blotting out of the stars, the destruction of
mountains, the shaking of the earth, the day when the sky will
pour down visible smoke – these all seem to be warning of an
extremely momentous time, a time of utter disaster for those
who don't pass the tests of the Day of Judgement, a time of
joyous victory for those who do.

Coming in the Clouds of Heaven


There's another symbol that has been left unexplained:
that referred to in -

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"... they shall see the Son of man coming in the
clouds of heaven with power and great glory"
(Matthew 24:30)


The thoughtful reader will probably have been able to
put together this statement with the frequent references to clouds
as being something of a lower realm being lifted up to a higher
realm where they block out the light of the sun.  The Prophet of
God appears amidst the ungodly of the time, even those such as
priests and other religious leaders who are lifted up high into the
heavens of the current religion, but who have become like dark
clouds.  But Bahá’u’lláh explains this far better and gives more
interpretations.  In the process, He also explains a few other
symbols as well.  The paragraphs from His Kitab-i-Iqan (Book
of Certitude) are broken by brief paraphrases of what He says,
again, not because these add anything of real value to what is
said but rather to give a pause and let the reader think about
about these very profound words.

"And now, with reference to His words:  'And
then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and
they shall see the Son of man coming in the
clouds of heaven with power and great glory.'
These words signify that in those days men will
lament the loss of the Sun of the divine beauty, of
the Moon of knowledge, and of the Stars of
divine wisdom.  Thereupon, they will behold the
countenance [appearance, face] of the promised
One, the adored Beauty, descending from heaven
and riding upon the clouds. By this is meant that
the divine Beauty will be made manifest from the
heaven of the will of God, and will appear in the
form of the human temple. The term 'heaven'
denoteth loftiness and exaltation, inasmuch as it
is the seat of the revelation of those

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Manifestations of Holiness, the Day-springs of
ancient glory.  These ancient Beings, though
delivered from the womb of their mother, have in
reality descended from the heaven of the will of
God.  Though they be dwelling on this earth, yet
their true habitations are the retreats of glory in
the realms above.  Whilst walking amongst
mortals, they soar in the heaven of the divine
presence. Without feet they tread the path of the
spirit, and without wings they rise unto the
exalted heights of divine unity.  With every
fleeting breath they cover the immensity of
space, and at every moment traverse the
kingdoms of the visible and the invisible. Upon
their thrones is written:  'Nothing whatsoever
keepeth Him from being occupied with any other
thing;' and on their seats is inscribed:  'Verily,
His ways differ every day.' (Qur’án, The
Merciful, 55:29) They are sent forth through the
transcendent power of the Ancient of Days, and
are raised up by the exalted will of God, the most
mighty King.  This is what is meant by the
words:  'coming in the clouds of heaven.'  " (pp
66-67)

The Prophet of God has a reality that is from "heaven"
though His human nature and body belong to this world of
matter.  The Qur’án has emphasized the human nature of the
Prophet so that ignorant humans will not identify Him with God.
These ignorant ones would do this because even their
conception of God greatly belittles the Creator; they would
imagine Him to be like a human.  But once we have recognized
the immense gulf between a finite and limited human being and
the infinite and unlimited Creator, there's room for Someone in
this vast stretch between humans and the Creator.  And this is

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
where the Prophet of God fits in.  The Prophets are far far above
us while being far far below God.  So there is no real
contradiction with the Qur’án.  Muhammad did indeed have a
human station, just like all the Prophets, and this is what was
referred to in the Qur’án, and which Jesus, in His great humility,
stressed at times to His followers by calling Himself the “son of
man”.  But these Prophets of God also have a station above the
human one – a station that we cannot understand at all because it
is high above us.  A careful reading of the Holy Books makes
this clear.  And Bahá’u’lláh's words make it crystal clear.  He
continues:

"In the utterances of the divine Luminaries the
term 'heaven' hath been applied to many and
divers things; such as the 'heaven of Command,'
the 'heaven of Will,' the 'heaven of the divine
Purpose,' the 'heaven of divine Knowledge,' the
'heaven of Certitude,' the 'heaven of Utterance,'
the 'heaven of Revelation,' the 'heaven of
Concealment,' and the like.  In every instance, He
hath given the term 'heaven' a special meaning,
the significance of which is revealed to none save
those that have been initiated into the divine
mysteries, and have drunk from the chalice of
immortal life. For example, He saith:  'The
heaven hath sustenance for you, and it containeth
that which you are promised;' (Qur’án, The
Winds, 51:22) whereas it is the earth that yieldeth
such sustenance.  Likewise, it hath been said:
'The names come down from heaven;' whereas
they proceed out of the mouth of men.  Wert thou
to cleanse the mirror of thy heart from the dust of
malice, thou wouldst apprehend the meaning of
the symbolic terms revealed by the all-embracing
Word of God made manifest in every

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Dispensation,
and
wouldst
discover
the
mysteries of divine knowledge.  Not, however,
until thou consumest with the flame of utter
detachment those veils of idle learning, that are
current amongst men, canst thou behold the
resplendent morn of true knowledge."  (pp
68-69)

The word "heaven" has many meanings in the Holy
Books, but one must throw away all one's "idle learning" that
humans so value and cleanse the mirror of the heart in order to
be able to see which meaning is intended.  A new eye, a new ear,
a new mind, a new heart, are needed to grasp these things.  They
are the gift of God to those who "have been initiated into the
divine mysteries" and who have "drunk from the chalice of
immortal life".  The Words of God themselves have the power to
bring about this transformation in a person so that she sees with
a new eye, so that he hears with a new ear.  Having made this
auxiliary statement, He now explains what "the clouds" of
heaven means.

"By these luminous, these conclusive, and
lucid statements, the meaning of 'heaven' in the
aforementioned verse hath thus been made clear
and evident.  And now regarding His words, that
the Son of man shall 'come in the clouds of
heaven.' By the term 'clouds' is meant those
things that are contrary to the ways and desires of
men.  Even as He hath revealed in the verse
already quoted:  'As oft as an Apostle cometh
unto you with that which your souls desire not,
ye swell with pride, accusing some of being
impostors and slaying others.' (Qur’án, The
Cow, 2:87) These 'clouds' signify, in one sense,
the annulment of laws, the abrogation of former

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
Dispensations, the repeal of rituals and customs
current amongst men, the exalting of the illiterate
faithful above the learned opposers of the Faith.
In another sense, they mean the appearance of
that immortal Beauty in the image of mortal man,
with such human limitations as eating and
drinking, poverty and riches, glory and
abasement, sleeping and waking, and such other
things as cast doubt in the minds of men, and
cause them to turn away.  All such veils are
symbolically referred to as 'clouds.'  (pp 71-72)

Clouds can symbolize whatever obstructs our vision and
understanding.  This obstruction and veiling is brought about
when God reveals what runs counter to our desires and pet
beliefs.  When we hear what we don't like and don't want to hear,
the clouds and veils may rise up in our minds and hearts.  We've
been taught for most of our life that some things are true and
then God arrives to tell us that the matter is different.  We are
taught that certain laws must apply for all time, and God reveals
in a new revelation that the laws are changed.  It's a big test.  We
might not want to accept such profound changes.  The clouds
and veils rise up and prevent us from seeing truth and living in
reality.  We would rather tell God how His revelation is to be
instead of humbly submitting and acknowledging that the
All-Knowing One Who created us surely knows better than we
do what is best for our development.  And the clouds also
symbolize the appearance of the Prophet in a human body with
all the limitations it has.  As Bahá’u’lláh states in the next
paragraph.  It is these clouds that cause the "heavens" of human
understanding  to be "cleft asunder".

"These are the 'clouds' that cause the heavens
of the knowledge and understanding of all that
dwell on earth to be cloven asunder.  Even as He

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
hath revealed: 'On that day shall the heaven be
cloven by the clouds.' (Qur’án, Al-Furqán,
25:25)  Even as the clouds prevent the eyes of
men from beholding the sun, so do these things
hinder the souls of men from recognizing the
light of the divine Luminary.  To this beareth
witness that which hath proceeded out of the
mouth of the unbelievers as revealed in the
sacred Book:  'And they have said:  "What
manner of apostle is this?  He eateth food, and
walketh the streets.  Unless an angel be sent
down and take part in His warnings, we will not
believe." ' (Qur’án, Al-Furqán, 25:7)  Other
Prophets, similarly, have been subject to poverty
and afflictions, to hunger, and to the ills and
chances of this world.  As these holy Persons
were subject to such needs and wants, the people
were, consequently, lost in the wilds of
misgivings and doubts, and were afflicted with
bewilderment and perplexity.  How, they
wondered, could such a person be sent down
from God, assert His ascendancy over all the
peoples and kindreds of the earth, and claim
Himself to be the goal of all creation, – even as
He hath said:  'But for Thee, I would not have
created all that are in heaven and on earth,' – and
yet be subject to such trivial things?  You must
undoubtedly have been informed of the
tribulations, the poverty, the ills, and the
degradation that have befallen every Prophet of
God and His companions.  You must have heard
how the heads of their followers were sent as
presents unto different cities, how grievously
they were hindered from that whereunto they
were commanded.  Each and every one of them

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
fell a prey to the hands of the enemies of His
Cause, and had to suffer whatsoever they
decreed."  (pp 72-73)

Some called to Jesus on the cross and taunted Him,
asking Him why cannot He save Himself if He is from God.  He
surely could have done so easily.  He did many miracles.  But
His purpose in coming to Earth was not to save Himself but to
save ordinary humans.  So He submitted to the suffering.  This
so disheartened the Christian believers that one could say that
Christ's Faith had also died for a few days.  It was Mary
Magdalene who understood the spiritual reality of Christ and
His Faith and started a new process that conquered a large part
of humanity with new standards and virtues.  There were also
times when Jesus was so poor, so rejected by people, that He had
to sleep outside in the fields and had very little to eat.  This must
have seemed very surprising to those who saw Him do the
miracles of providing a table full of food for others and making
the blind see.   The Prophet of God is not self-serving, even
when in dire need.  His vision is focused on the betterment of the
human world.  But those who live in those days and see the
Prophet of God being subject to such deprivations and
limitations might easily think that He should be like us and do all
He can to make life good for himself.  Seeing that He doesn't,
they wonder if He is really from God after all.  The clouds and
veils cover their vision.

"It is evident that the changes brought about
in every Dispensation constitute the dark clouds
that intervene between the eye of man's
understanding and the divine Luminary which
shineth forth from the dayspring of the divine
Essence.  Consider how men for generations
have been blindly imitating their fathers, and
have been trained according to such ways and

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
manners as have been laid down by the dictates
of their Faith.  Were these men, therefore, to
discover suddenly that a Man, Who hath been
living in their midst, Who, with respect to every
human limitation, hath been their equal, had risen
to abolish every established principle imposed by
their Faith—principles by which for centuries
they have been disciplined, and every opposer
and denier of which they have come to regard as
infidel, profligate and wicked,—they would of a
certainty
be
veiled
and
hindered
from
acknowledging His truth.  Such things are as
'clouds' that veil the eyes of those whose inner
being hath not tasted the Salsabíl of detachment,
nor drunk from the Kawthar of the knowledge of
God.  Such men, when acquainted with these
circumstances, become so veiled that without the
least question, they pronounce the Manifestation
of God an infidel, and sentence Him to death.
You must have heard of such things taking place
all down the ages, and are now observing them in
these days."  (pp 73-74)

It was mentioned in the preface of this book that Salsabíl
is the name of a fountain in Paradise that gives forth a
ginger-flavored drink.  (Man, 76:17f) .  Kawthar is a source of
abundance, like a fountain gushing forth, a cornucopia of
bounty, that was given to Muhammad.  (Abundance, 108:1)


These words are so clear.  It's pointless trying to
paraphrase them.  And it seems silly, maybe even irreverent and
full of gall, to intersperse what the author believes are the Words
of God, which seem like diamonds sparkling in the divine
sunlight, with his own words which are more like dull stones.
Hopefully the reader can see the vast difference between the

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
gold and the lead here and realize where the value lies.  But
fragrant and delicate flowers are separated by plain dirt, and
shining stars have vast stretches of black space between them.
Please understand that the writer's words are just meant to fill in
space and have no real value in themselves other than to give the
reader a chance to think over the words of Bahá’u’lláh here.

"It behooveth us, therefore, to make the
utmost endeavour, that, by God's invisible
assistance, these dark veils, these clouds of
Heaven-sent trials, may not hinder us from
beholding
the
beauty
of
His
shining
Countenance, and that we may recognize Him
only by His own Self.  And should we ask for a
testimony of His truth, we should content
ourselves with one, and only one; that thereby we
may attain unto Him Who is the Fountain-head
of infinite grace, and in Whose presence all the
world's abundance fadeth into nothingness, that
we may cease to cavil at Him every day and to
cleave unto our own idle fancy.
"Gracious God!  Notwithstanding the warning
which, in marvelously symbolic language and
subtle allusions, hath been uttered in days past,
and which was intended to awaken the peoples of
the world and to prevent them from being
deprived of their share of the billowing ocean of
God's grace, yet such things as have already been
witnessed have come to pass!  Reference to these
things hath also been made in the Qur’án, as
witnessed by this verse:  'What can such expect
but that God should come down to them
overshadowed with clouds?' (Qur’án, The Cow
2:210)   A number of the divines, who hold
firmly to the letter of the Word of God, have

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
come to regard this verse as one of the signs of
that expected resurrection which is born of their
idle fancy.  This, notwithstanding the fact that
similar references have been made in most of the
heavenly Books, and have been recorded in all
the passages connected with the signs of the
coming Manifestation."  (pp 75-76)

It's so dangerous to be a priest or religious leader.  The
temptation is to try to create a special station for certain humans
that is above the rest of humanity when there is nothing in any of
the Holy Books to justify this.  Then, when such a person
believes himself to be an authority and guide for others, he can
become puffed up with personal pride and want to lord it over
others.  This disease of the heart and spirit runs into extreme
trouble when it encounters the Prophet of God.  It opposes God's
Will.  What clouds result!  Since there were some quotes
concerning "smoke" from heaven or from earth, it's fitting to
continue this explanation from Bahá’u’lláh where He covers this
point.

"Likewise, He saith:  'On the day when the
heaven shall give out a palpable smoke, which
shall enshroud mankind:  this will be an afflictive
torment.'
(Qur’án, Smoke, 44:10)  The
All-Glorious hath decreed these very things, that
are contrary to the desires of wicked men, to be
the touchstone and standard whereby He proveth
His servants, that the just may be known from the
wicked, and the faithful distinguished from the
infidel.  The symbolic term 'smoke' denotes
grave dissensions, the abrogation and demolition
of recognized standards, and the utter destruction
of their narrow-minded exponents.  What smoke
more dense and overpowering than the one

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
which hath now enshrouded all the peoples of the
world, which hath become a torment unto them,
and from which they hopelessly fail to deliver
themselves, however much they strive? So fierce
is this fire of self burning within them, that at
every moment they seem to be afflicted with
fresh torments.  The more they are told that this
wondrous Cause of God, this Revelation from
the Most High, hath been made manifest to all
mankind, and is waxing greater and stronger
every day, the fiercer groweth the blaze of the
fire in their hearts.  The more they observe the
indomitable strength, the sublime renunciation,
the unwavering constancy of God's holy
companions, who, by the aid of God, are growing
nobler and more glorious every day, the deeper
the dismay which ravageth their souls.  In these
days, praise be to God, the power of His Word
hath obtained such ascendancy over men, that
they dare breathe no word.  Were they to
encounter one of the companions of God who, if
he could, would, freely and joyously, offer up ten
thousand lives as a sacrifice for his Beloved, so
great would be their fear, that they forthwith
would profess their faith in Him, whilst privily
they would vilify and execrate His name!  Even
as He hath revealed:  'And when they meet you,
they say, "We believe"; but when they are apart,
they bite their fingers' ends at you, out of wrath.
Say: "Die in your wrath!"  God truly knoweth the
very recesses of your breasts.' "  (Qur’án, The
'Imrans, 3:119)  (pp 76-78)

Bahá’u’lláh's explanation of "And then shall appear the
sign of the Son of man in heaven" hasn't been covered here.  The

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
reader is encouraged to read His Book of Certitude for beautiful
explanations of this and so many other matters.  (Very briefly, it
refers to the appearance of both a physical sign in the sky such as
a bright star or comet, as well as a human star such as John the
Baptist who foretells the near advent of the Prophet of God.)
This will close with a summary from that passage.

"Ere long, thine eyes will behold the
standards of divine power unfurled throughout
all regions, and the signs of His triumphant might
and sovereignty manifest in every land.  As most
of the divines have failed to apprehend the
meaning of these verses, and have not grasped
the significance of the Day of Resurrection, they
therefore have foolishly interpreted these verses
according to their idle and faulty conception.
The one true God is My witness! Little
perception is required to enable them to gather
from the symbolic language of these two verses
all that We have purposed to propound, and thus
to attain, through the grace of the All-Merciful,
the resplendent morn of certitude.  Such are the
strains of celestial melody which the immortal
Bird of Heaven, warbling upon the Sadrih [holy
tree] of Bahá’, poureth out upon thee, that, by the
permission of God, thou mayest tread the path of
divine knowledge and wisdom." (p 78)

This last predicts the Days of Victory, when "the signs of
His triumphant might and sovereignty" are "manifest in every
land".

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
The Days of Victory

"Tell the believers to pardon those who dread
the days of victory [Dawood: lit: the days of
God], when God will reward men according to
their deeds.

But why would there be such an emphasis on the
negative – all this doom and gloom?  Even the days of victory
are dreaded by some.  Could it be because those of the previous
religion are so opposed and ruin their souls by failing the test
and are judged negatively in the Day of Judgement?  Could it be
because only a small minority, a tiny handful actually pass the
test and are judged well?  Diamonds are few; worthless rocks are
many.  And why is it that these stern warnings have to be put in
very symbolic and veiled images?  These are things that a true
seeker might ponder carefully.

A POWERFUL REPLY


One of Pharaoh's kinsmen who was secretly a true
believer in Moses’ revelation said to Pharaoh:

"... Long before this, Joseph came to you with
veritable signs, but you never ceased to doubt
them; and when he died you said: 'After him God
will never send another apostle.'  Thus God
confounds the doubting transgressor...."  (The
Forgiving One, 40:34)

"The Jews say: 'God's hand is chained.'  May
their own hands be chained!  May they be cursed
for what they say!  By no means.  His hands are
both outstretched: He bestows as He will."  (The
Table, 5:64)

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors

So the Jews, believing that God cannot send another
Prophet, believe that He hasn't sent any more Messengers with
His revelation.  They won't accept Jesus, the Messiah; and they
won’t accept Muhammad.  And the Christians insist on the same
– that Jesus is their "Seal", the end of all of God's
Manifestations.  They utterly ignore Jesus' clear statement:

"Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is
expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not
away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but
if I depart, I will send him unto you.
"And when he is come, he will reprove the
world of sin, and of righteousness, and of
judgment:
"Of sin, because they believe not on me;
"Of righteousness, because I go to my Father,
and ye see me no more;
"Of judgment, because the prince of this world
is judged.
"I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye
cannot bear them now.
"Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come,
he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not
speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear,
{that} shall he speak: and he will shew you
things to come.
"He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of
mine, and shall shew {it} unto you.
(John, 16:7-14)

And, of course, so many Muslims, believing they are
being faithful to God, Islám and Muhammad, continue this same
tradition of denying the next revelation of God and insisting that
their Prophet is the final one.  They focus on the phrase "seal of

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
the prophesiers" and ignore the true meaning of the "Last Day",
the Day of Judgement", the "Resurrection", of the "cleaving of
the heavens, the darkening of the sun, moon and stars, the
crushing of the mountains to dust".  And so they themselves
fulfil the Qur’án's stern warning prophecies concerning the
"Catastrophe" and the Hour of Doom"

"Woe on that day to the disbelievers! Eat and
enjoy yourselves a while.  You are wicked
men....
"Woe on that day to the disbelievers! In what
revelation, after this, will they believe?"
(Those That Are Sent Forth, 77:43f) [emphasis
mine]

Concerning all these signs, here is Bahá’u’lláh's
powerful response:

"O thou who hast set thy face towards the
splendours of My Countenance!

"Vague fancies have encompassed the dwellers
of the earth and debarred them from turning
towards the Horizon of Certitude, and its
brightness, and its manifestations and its lights.
Vain imaginings have withheld them from Him
Who is the Self-Subsisting.  They speak as
prompted by their own caprices, and understand
not.  Among them are those who have said:

" `Have the verses been sent down?'
" Say `Yea, by Him Who is the Lord of the
heavens!'

" `Hath the Hour come?'

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
" `Nay, more; it hath passed, by Him Who is the
Revealer of clear tokens!  Verily, the Inevitable
is come, and He, the True One, hath appeared
with proof and testimony.  The Plain is disclosed,
and mankind is sore vexed and fearful.
Earthquakes have broken loose, and the tribes
have lamented, for fear of God, the Lord of
Strength, the All-Compelling.'

"Say:  `The stunning trumpet-blast hath been
loudly raised, and the Day is God's, the One, the
Unconstrained.'


"And they say:  `Hath the Catastrophe come to
pass?'
"Say:  `Yea, by the Lord of Lords!'

" `Is the Resurrection come?'
" `Nay, more; He Who is the Self-Subsisting hath
appeared with the Kingdom of His signs.'

" `Seest thou men laid low?'
" `Yea, by my Lord, the Most High, the Most
Glorious!'

"  `Have the tree-stumps been uprooted?'
" `Yea, more; the mountains have been scattered
in dust; by Him the Lord of attributes!'

"They say:  `Where is Paradise, and where is
Hell?'
"Say:  `The one is reunion with Me; the other
thine own self, O thou who dost associate a
partner with God and doubtest.'

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors

"They say:  `We see not the Balance.'
"Say: `Surely, by my Lord, the God of Mercy!
None can see it except such as are endued with
insight.'

"They say:  `Have the stars fallen?'
"Say:  `Yea, when He Who is the Self-Subsisting
dwelt in the Land of Mystery. (Adrianople or
Edirne in Turkey near the Greek border)  Take
heed, ye who are endued with discernment!'

"All the signs appeared when We drew forth the
Hand of Power from the bosom of majesty and
might.  Verily, the Crier hath cried out, when the
promised time came, and they that have
recognized the splendours of Sinai have swooned
away in the wilderness of hesitation, before the
awful majesty of thy Lord, the Lord of creation.

"The trumpet asketh:  `Hath the Bugle been
sounded?'
"Say:  `Yea, by the King of Revelation! when He
mounted the throne of His Name, the
All-Merciful.'

"Darkness hath been chased away by the
dawning light of the mercy of thy Lord, the
Source of all light.  The breeze of the
All-Merciful hath wafted, and the souls have
been quickened in the tombs of their bodies.
Thus hath the decree been fulfilled by God, the
Mighty, the Beneficent.

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"They who reject the truth have said:  `When
were the heavens cleft asunder?'
"Say:  `While ye lay in the graves of
waywardness and error.'

"Among the faithless is he who rubbeth his eyes,
and looketh to the right and to the left.
"Say:  `Blinded art thou.  No refuge hast thou to
flee to.'

"And among them is he who saith:  `Have men
been gathered together?'
"Say:  `Yea, by My Lord!  whilst thou didst lie in
the cradle of idle fancies.'

"And among them is he who saith:  `Hath the
Book been sent down through the power of the
true Faith?'
"Say:  `The true Faith itself is astounded. Fear ye,
O ye men of understanding heart!'

"And among them is he who saith:  `Have I been
assembled with others, blind?'
"Say:  `Yea, by Him that rideth upon the clouds!'

"Paradise is decked with mystic roses, and hell
hath been made to blaze with the fire of the
impious.

"Say:  `The light hath shone forth from the
horizon of Revelation, and the whole earth hath
been illumined at the coming of Him Who is the
Lord of the Day of the Covenant!'

Chap. 7 – End Times Metaphors
"The doubters have perished, whilst he that
turned, guided by the light of assurance, unto the
Dayspring of Certitude hath prospered.

"Blessed art thou, who hast fixed thy gaze upon
Me, for this Tablet which hath been sent down
for thee—a Tablet which causeth the souls of
men to soar. Commit it to memory, and recite it.
By My life!  It is a door to the mercy of thy Lord.
Well is it with him that reciteth it at eventide and
at dawn.  We, verily, heard thy praise of this
Cause,
through
which
the
mountain
of
knowledge was crushed, and men's feet have
slipped.  My glory be upon thee and upon
whomsoever hath turned unto the Almighty, the
All-Bounteous.  The Tablet is ended, but the
theme is unexhausted.  Be patient, for thy Lord is
patient."  (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh after Aqdas, pp
117-19)

Chap. 8 – Final Comments

CHAPTER 8

FINAL COMMENTS



The Revelation of Jesus Christ shed the light of a new
understanding on what the Revelation of Moses was really
about.  The Revelation of Muhammad enlightens us about the
Christian Faith, showing to us that the ideas of the Trinity, of
Jesus' equivalence to God, are incorrect  We get a better
understanding of Christianity and Judaism by adding the
Revelation of Muhammad to them.  Similarly, if it is true that the
Revelations of The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh are the next grade in
God's Curriculum for humankind, then it is reasonable to
suspect that gaining some understanding of the Bahá’í
Revelation is a key to understanding the Qur’án.  And even if
one does not believe that this is true, it's very difficult to deny
that the Writings of both The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh unfold the
meaning of the Qur’án, and the New and Old Testaments of the
Bible, to a degree that is simply stunning and awe-inspiring.


Therefore, this writer feels that just as the Qur’án is
essential in giving a fuller explanation of the Revelations of
Moses and Christ, the Bahá’í Revelation unfolds – even unseals!
– the meanings of the Qur’án and the older Holy Books to a
degree that is not merely stupendous but majestic and glorious!
Perhaps the reader catches the writer's inability to convey how
very greatly this new Revelation explains the previous ones.


Consequently, any complaints that a book about the
Qur’án should not bring in other Holy Writings, a subsequent
one in particular, are not justified.  All these Revelations are part
of one great Divine Process of educating the inhabitants of this

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
planet, and each stage explains yet more of the previous stages.
Clearly, to leave out the most recent stage in this majestic
Process would be unreasonable and leave this book incomplete.
Those who insist that this new Revelation is not from God and
does not thoroughly elucidate the meanings of the Qur’án and
other Holy Books would need to provide some sort of
reasonable argument to support their claim.  While they are at it,
they might also try proving that the sun doesn't give out any
light.  The blind might be convinced of it.  The Writings of The
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh more than superbly argue for their validity
in this long line of Revelations, sufficiently to convince this
writer, a one-time agnostic, anti-religious philosopher and
mathematician, that his attempt to find some flaws or
contradictions in them and thus prove this religion false was a
futile effort.  He was backed into a corner with nowhere else to
go but acknowledge that God's lastest Revelation is logically
solid and water-tight in every way.  And it was only by
accepting the Bahá’í Revelation that he was led to accept the
Divine Missions of Moses, Christ and Muhammad as well as of
those of Krishna, Zoroaster and Buddha.


The general Revelation of God that shines out from the
Creator is like a bright white light that shines down on the world.
Each thing reflects a part of this white light in accord with its
capacity.  Black tar soaks up all the frequencies of light and
reflects no light at all leaving the same impression on the eye as
what one sees in a dark cave where there is no light present.  A
green leaf soaks up all the colors and reflects only the green
frequencies or wavelengths of light.  A red rose reflects just the
red wavelengths of light.  A white piece of paper reflects all the
colors but in a scattered and irregular way.  And a polished
mirror reflects all that light in a very faithful and orderly way.
Each thing reflects that one complete and full light in accord
with its capacity.

Chap. 8 – Final Comments

When this Light of God shines down in some particular
Revelation, it takes a form that is suited to the capacity and
limitations of the people it comes to.  When it shone down on the
Hebrew slaves of Egypt through Moses, it took a form perfectly
suited to the requirements for their development.  When it shone
down on the people of India at one time through Krishna, it
appeared in one way, and when it came again through Buddha at
a later time it appeared in another way.  It took a form that we
see in the Teachings of Christ when applied to the people of that
time.  And when that Holy Light shone down with a central
focus on the people of the Arabian Peninsula of a time about
1400 years ago it took the form we see in the Holy Qur’án.


We could also compare the Revelation of God to an
ocean of liquid water, and the culture, temperament and stage of
development of a people to a container of some particular shape.
The Water takes the shape of whatever container it is poured in
to.  And the container does not hold the entire Ocean.


That this one Complete Light or Water takes different
forms limited by human conditions should not surprise us or
lead us to imagine that the religions of God have different
sources and are in conflict with one another.  This point is
expressed quite beautifully in the following:

"O Son of Beauty!   By My spirit and by My
favor!  By My mercy and by My beauty!  All that
I have revealed unto thee with the tongue of
power, and have written for thee with the pen of
might, hath been in accordance with thy capacity
and understanding, not with My state and the
melody of My voice."  (Hidden Words of
Bahá’u’lláh, Arabic #67)

Chap. 8 – Final Comments

So, one should not ask, "Why does God speak in such a
threatening way in the Qur’án, and in the Old Testament?"
Rather, one should ask, "Why were we humans in such a
condition that God had to speak to us in this way so that we
might grow and develop spiritually?"  We shouldn't ask why the
Water took some particular shape.  We should ask why we and
our society are receptacles of that shape and size.


When one looks behind the outward threats and great
sternness of the Voice of God in the Qur’án, one discovers that
it is compassion and mercy that dominates in actuality, that the
opening phrase "In the name of God, the Merciful, the
Compassionate" that starts most of the chapters of the Qur’án is
really the ruling principle of this Revelation.  Consider this
carefully:  God states quite clearly in that Qur’án that He does
not destroy those who defy and deny His Revelation until after
some time.  He gives them whatever they want in this world.
Mercy reigns during the lifetime of the wayward and foolish
until it is time for them to leave this life.  Only then does that
Justice take over from the Mercy.  And even then that "death" is
really just a transplanting of the soul from one realm to another.

"He that desires the reward of this world shall
have it; and he that desires the reward of the life
to come shall have it also."  (The 'Imrans, 3:145)

"... Alláh does not desire to put on you any
difficulty, but He wishes to purify you and that
He may complete His favor on you, so that you
may be grateful."  (Shakir, The Table, 5:6)

This is very merciful.  Those who submit and wish to
develop spiritually, to be purified, go through whatever
exercises and training are required for that.  Those that don't
want this get the things they want of this life – and then end up in

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
loss and regret after life's end when they discover that they
wasted their life.   Giving the wolf mercy is a means of training
the sheep who want to be purified, who want to fulfill life's
purpose.  The wolf does his dirty work and then, when that is
finished, he discovers to his utmost grief and loss that he had
wasted his life and ended up a loser, that all his evil had done
little other than train and discipline those who were wiser and
ended up winners.

"Whoso desireth the harvest of the Hereafter,
We give him increase in its harvest. And whoso
desireth the harvest of the world, We give him
thereof, and he hath no portion in the Hereafter."
(Pickthal, Counsel, 42:20)

Have you seen the person who follows his selfish desires
and laughs at the laws of God?  Have you wondered how it is
that he seems to get his way, that so much seems to come to
him?  Mercy surrounds him on every side.  Yet he feels no
gratitude.  The hope is that he will wake up and think instead of
making all the feeble rationalizations for not accomplishing
life's purpose.  Mercy surrounds him and he gets his wishes for
this life fulfilled because that's all he gets.  He's like the hungry
fisherman who has no patience and eats his bait fish.  He loses
out on the big fish he could catch by sacrificing the little fish as
bait and then waiting patiently.  Those who want to eat their bait
get mercy because "that's all they get".  They have deprived
themselves immensely.  When they see the wiser ones who
sacrificed the bait of their lower desires in this world and who
dine luxuriously on the much larger and tastier fish that comes to
those who do what is right and wait patiently, they will
understand their great loss.


This gives the appearance of there being no justice in this
world.  It seems so often that the bad ones have life their way

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
and the good ones suffer for it.  Apparently the Creator has left it
to us to be the instruments of bringing about that more
immediate justice in this world.  Until the present day, we have
gladly acted with injustice and oppression towards others and
left our world in chaos.  But when our maturity arrives, we will
at last recognize what is in our own best interests and establish
justice in this world so that the good are rewarded and the bad
are punished – finally!  What a change this will bring to our
bleeding, war-torn, strife-filled world!  God has left this part of
Justice in our hands, and it's up to us to establish it firmly.  God
is immensely merciful to His weak children.  Despite all the
stern language, justice only arrives as a final act, and even that is
seen to be merciful from a larger perspective.


Mercy and kindness flood over the ignorant losers who
seek only this world – as though they would live forever here –
because it's all they get.  They get to eat their bait.  The stern
words of the Qur’án are an attempt to awaken those who can be
awakened to fulfill life's purpose.  The world of the baby fetus in
the mother's womb is dark and confined.  It's all that new human
life knows.  If it had a choice as to whether it would grow its
eyes, its mouth, its arms and legs, it might decide not to since
these are of little or no use in that womb.  If these fetuses could
be told that there is a life after the death in the womb, that they
will live in a new condition after they leave that womb world
that is much wider and freer, and that they should develop their
eyes, ears, nose, mouth, arms and legs, perhaps some would be
heedful and others would not.  Maybe some would deny that
there is any truth to that message and insist that the life of the
womb is all there is and ridicule those who would prepare for a
future life outside that womb.  But the Day of Judgement arrives
when the baby dies to that womb world and is born into this
much larger world.  Those who chose not to grow eyes, ears,
nose, mouth, arms and legs would find themselves alive and yet
as though they were dead:  blind, deaf, unable to eat, unable to

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
walk anywhere or use hands and arms.  And those who did
prepare these things would find the new life exciting and
wonderful!  Hell and Paradise!


All the Revelations of God seem to suggest that this life
is a preparation for a "next life" in a "next world" that is much
"larger" and far more wonderful than this world, and that we will
need to develop here in this life the spiritual strengths and
powers needed in that next world.

"... The world beyond is as different from this
world as this world is different from that of the
child while still in the womb of its mother.  When
the soul attaineth the Presence of God, it will
assume the form that best befitteth its
immortality and is worthy of its celestial
habitation."  (Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, p 157)

"Say:  If ye be seekers after this life and the
vanities thereof, ye should have sought them
while ye were still enclosed in your mothers'
wombs, for at that time ye were continually
approaching them, could ye but perceive it.  Ye
have, on the other hand, ever since ye were born
and attained maturity, been all the while receding
from the world and drawing closer to dust.  Why,
then, exhibit such greed in amassing the treasures
of the earth, when your days are numbered and
your chance is well-nigh lost?  Will ye not, then,
O heedless ones, shake off your slumber?
"Incline your ears to the counsels which this
Servant giveth you for the sake of God.  He,
verily, asketh no recompense from you and is

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
resigned to what God hath ordained for Him, and
is entirely submissive to God's Will.
"The days of your life are far spent, O people,
and your end is fast approaching.  Put away,
therefore, the things ye have devised and to
which ye cleave, and take firm hold on the
precepts of God, that haply ye may attain that
which He hath purposed for you, and be of them
that pursue a right course.  Delight not yourselves
in the things of the world and its vain ornaments,
neither set your hopes on them.  Let your reliance
be on the remembrance of God, the Most
Exalted, the Most Great.  He will, erelong, bring
to naught all the things ye possess.  Let Him be
your fear, and forget not His covenant with you,
and be not of them that are shut out as by a veil
from Him." (Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, pp 127-28)


This is the message of the Qur’án in a new language
suited to our current age.  It's simple:  this life is only a
preparation for the real life once this brief training, preparation
and testing here is completed.  All the laws, commands and
admonitions are means of preparing the soul for that next
existence.  These also bring about well-being, order and
civilization in this world too.


A Bahá’í who studies the Qur’án and the Bible deeply
will find herself imbued with a profound new understanding of
her own Faith.  And the same will happen for a Jew, a Hindu, a
Buddhist,a Zoroastrian, a Christian, or a Muslim who studies the
immense Ocean of Revelation in the Writings of the Bahá’í
Faith.  Since all these religions are parts of one great Religion of
God, each revealed in accord with the needs and stage of
development of humans in some time and place, it is certain that

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
the more one learns of other portions of this one Religion of
God, the greater is one's understanding of it and the more likely
it will be that one accomplishes his life's purpose.

"By Him Who is the Great Announcement!
The All-Merciful is come invested with
undoubted sovereignty.  The Balance hath been
appointed, and all them that dwell on earth have
been gathered together. The Trumpet hath been
blown, and lo, all eyes have stared up with terror,
and the hearts of all who are in the heavens and
on the earth have trembled, except them whom
the breath of the verses of God hath quickened,
and who have detached themselves from all
things.
"This is the Day whereon the earth shall tell
out her tidings.  The workers of iniquity are her
burdens, could ye but perceive it.  The moon of
idle fancy hath been cleft, and the heaven hath
given out a palpable smoke.  We see the people
laid low, awed with the dread of thy Lord, the
Almighty, the Most Powerful. The Crier hath
cried out, and men have been torn away, so great
hath been the fury of His wrath.  The people of
the left hand sigh and bemoan.  The people of the
right abide in noble habitations:  they quaff the
Wine that is life indeed, from the hands of the
All-Merciful, and are, verily, the blissful.
"The earth hath been shaken, and the
mountains have passed away, and the angels
have appeared, rank on rank, before Us.  Most of
the people are bewildered in their drunkenness
and wear on their faces the evidences of anger.
Thus have We gathered together the workers of
iniquity.  We see them rushing on towards their

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
idol.  Say:  None shall be secure this Day from
the decree of God.  This indeed is a grievous
Day.  We point out to them those that led them
astray.  They see them, and yet recognize them
not. Their eyes are drunken; they are indeed a
blind people. Their proofs are the calumnies they
uttered; condemned are their calumnies by God,
the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  The Evil
One hath stirred up mischief in their hearts, and
they are afflicted with a torment that none can
avert.  They hasten to the wicked, bearing the
register of the workers of iniquity.  Such are their
doings.
"Say:  The heavens have been folded together,
and the earth is held within His grasp, and the
corrupt doers have been held by their forelock,
and still they understand not.  They drink of the
tainted water, and know it not.  Say:  The shout
hath been raised, and the people have come forth
from their graves, and arising, are gazing around
them.  Some have made haste to attain the court
of the God of Mercy, others have fallen down on
their faces in the fire of Hell, while still others are
lost in bewilderment.  The verses of God have
been revealed, and yet they have turned away
from them.  His proof hath been manifested, and
yet they are unaware of it.  And when they
behold the face of the All-Merciful, their own
faces are saddened, while they are disporting
themselves.  They hasten forward to Hell Fire,
and mistake it for light. Far from God be what
they fondly imagine! Say: Whether ye rejoice or
whether ye burst for fury, the heavens are cleft
asunder, and God hath come down, invested with
radiant sovereignty.  All created things are heard

Chap. 8 – Final Comments
exclaiming:  'The Kingdom is God's, the
Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.' "
(Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, pp
40-42)


drg - November 12, 2001 - Lesiaceva, Savusavu, Fiji Islands