DIVINE WISDOM
BRIEF EXCERPTS FROM
THE WRITINGS OF
BAHA'V'LLAH
AND
'ABDV'L-BAHA
BAHA'i PUBLISHING TRUST
(National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of the British Isles)
I VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S. W. I.

STEPHEN AUS'I'IN & SOKS, LTD., GEN"ERAL & ORIENTAL PRINTERS, HERTFORD.

CONTENTS
PAGE
INTRODUCTION :
The Baha'I Faith
V11
THE DAY OF GOD
Baha'u'llih
Z
'Abdu'l-Baha
WORDS OF WISDOM
Baha'u'llih
THE KNOWLEDGE OF GoD
FAITH
IMMORTALITY
Baha'u'llih
THE REALITY OF MAN
'Abdu'l-BaM
ON MEDITATION
'Abdu'l-Baha
THE WAY OF GOD
Baha'u'llih
'Abdu'l-Baha
•
KEY TO REFERENCES
v

INTRODUCTION
, ,
THE BAHA'I FAITH
The teachings of Bahi'u'llih are so universal that people
of all shades of religious and humanitarian belief find much
in them to ponder. This book has been compiled in the
hope that it will be found of value by others as well as by
declared Baha'is.
The editors feel certain that no one
will fail to find these brief excerpts helpful to their under-
standing of the problems of life.
Bahi'u'llih (Whose Name means the Glory of God) was
born in Persia in 1817, at a time when the country was in an
extremely degenerate condition, great power being wielded
by an exceedingly corrupt Shi'ih Muslim priesthood.
When Bahi'u'llah was twenty-seven years of age, the whole
country was thrown into tumult by the claim of a young
man named the Bab (the Gate), to be the Messenger of
God anticipated by Islam. Besides giving His own teachings,
He proclaimed the imminent appearance of "He whom
God shall make manifest", a great teacher for whom He
Himself was the Herald. In spite of the purity of His
teaching, and of His own life, He was thrown into prison
and eventually shot.
His followers were persecuted,
tortured, and martyred. Their steadfastness and the cruel
fate of their Leader recall the early history of Christianity.
•
Baha'u'llah was one of the few leading Babis who escaped
martyrdom; His life was always in danger, but always it
vii

passed Him by. In 186;, He declared that He was the One
whom the Bib had foretold, " He Whom God shall make
manifest."
He had come to unite all peoples in "one
universal Cause, one common Faith".1
The persecutions of the Baha'is continued after the
declaration by Bahi'u'llih of His mission. He Himself was
banished from one place to another, and finally to the prison
city of 'Akki. In 1892, He left this earthly life. In His
Will, He appointed His eldest Son, 'Abdu'l-Bahi (Servant
of the Glory), to be the Interpreter and Expounder of His
teachings.
'Abdu'l-Bahi brought no new revelation, as the Founders
of religions do.
His message was the message of His
Father, not His own. His word, however, was invested
with authority by Bahi'u'llih, and His writings and recorded
talks form part of Baha'i scripture.' Mter spending forty
years of His life in captivity, He was released after the
Young Turk revolution of 1908. In 19II-13, He toured
Europe and America, visiting Great Britain in both years.
Among the places at which He spoke are St. John's,
Westminster, and the City Temple. He left this life in 1921.
With the teaching of Bahi'u'llih and the Bib, concerning
progressive revelation, this book does not deal. It can be
stated briefly that all the Founders of the great religions were
intermediaries between God and man, showing to man
in their Persons the Divine perfections. Each has taught
the same basic truths adapted to the understanding and
needs of the men of His day. All these Manifestations of
God must be regarded as equally perfect; They are men,
and more than men, the Mirrors of God. But although no
Manifestation is superior in His essence to any other,
the capacity of man to receive revelation increases; and
now mankind approaches maturity.
Now it is possible
for the oneness of mankind to be effective in the world
1 Baha'u'llih's Tablet to 0.ueen Victoria.
viii

commonwealth, and for the one eternal religion to be the
mainstay of its life.
Although Bah:i'u'll:ih gave His teachings nearly a century
ago, the world needs His message, even more now than it
did then.
Progressive people have come to realize the
truth of much of what He taught, but His social and
spiritual teachings are still neglected by a world dying for
this very water of life.
In this book, only passages generally suitable for
meditation are offered, b~t even these fragments show the
calibre of the utterances of this Being, Who claimed to be
the Mouthpiece of God, and of His Son, the appointed
Expounder of His revdation.
ix

THE DAY OF GOD
BAHA'U'LLAH
'ABDU'L-BAHA
B

,
,
BAHA'U'LLAH
PEERLESS is this Day, for it is as the eye to past ages
and centuries, and as a light unto the darkness of the times.
(AD] 66)
THIS is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the
splendours of the Light that shineth from the face of thy
Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have
caused every soul to expire by virtue of Our irresistible and
all-subduing sovereignty. We have then called into being
a new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. I am,
verily, the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of Days. This is the
Day whereon the unseen world crieth out: "Great is thy
blessedness, 0 earth, for thou hast been made the foot-
stool of thy God, and been chosen as the seat of His mighty
throne I" The realm of glory exclaimeth: "Would that
my life could be sacrificed for thee, for He who is the
Beloved of the All-Merciful hath established His sovereignty
upon thee, through the power of His name that hath been
promised unto all things, whether of the past or of the
future." (\\lOB 206)
THROUGH the movement of Our Pen of Glory, We
have, at the bidding of the Omnipotent Ordainer, breathed

a new life into every human frame, and instilled into every
word a fresh potency.
All created things proclaim the
evidences of this world-wide regeneration. (AD J 67)
IF it be your wish, 0 people, to know God and to discover
the greatness of His might, look, then, upon Me with Mine
own eyes, and not with the eyes of anyone besides Me.
(GWB 272)
GOD'S purpose in sending His Prophets unto men is
twofold. The first is to liberate the children of men from
the darkness of ignorance, and guide them to the light of
true understanding.
The second is to ensure the peace
and tranquillity of mankind, and provide all the means
by which they can be established. (GWB 79)
KNow thou, of a truth, these great oppressions that have
befallen the world are preparing it for the advent of the
Most Great Justice. (ADJ 2;)
THE purpose of the one true God in manifesting Himself
is to summon all mankind to truthfulness and sincerity,
to piety and trustworthiness, to resignation and sub-
missiveness to the Will of God, to forbearance and kind-
liness, to uprightness and wisdom. His object is to array
every man with the mantle of a saintly character, and to
adorn him with the ornament of holy and goodly
deeds. (G\W 299)

THE Prophets and Messengers of God have been sent
down for the sale purpose of guiding mankind to the
straight Path of Truth.
The purpose underlying their
revelation hath been to educate all men, that they may, at
the hour of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and sanctity
and with absolute detachment, to the throne of the Most
High. (GWB 156)
IN this day the tastes of men have changed, and their
power of perception hath altered ... The contrary winds of
the world, and its colour, have provoked a cold, and
deprived men's nostrils of the sweet savours of Revelation.
(PDC Il9)
AND when the appointed hour is come, there shall
suddenly appear that which shall cause the limbs of man-
kind to quake.
Then, and only then, will the Divine
Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise
warble its melody. (AD] 69)
THERE is no place to flee to, no refuge that anyone can
seek, except Him. (GWB 203)
THE greatness of His mercy surpasseth the fury of His
wrath, and His grace encompasseth all who have been called
into being and been clothed with the robe of life, be they
of the past or of the future.
(GBW I30)
'*

THOUGH the wonders of My mercy have encompassed
all created things, both visible and invisible, and though
the revelations of My grace and bounty have permeated
every atom of the universe, yet the rod with which I can
chastise the wicked is grievous, and the fierceness of Mine
anger against them terrible. (GWB 325)
SET all thy hope in God, and cleave tenaciously to His
unfailing mercy. Who else but Him can enrich the destitute,
and deliver the fallen from his abasement? (GWB 323)
o SON of Being! My love is My stronghold; he that
entereth therein is safe and secure, and he that turneth
away shall surely stray and perish. (HW A 9)
E VERY good thing is of God, and every evil thing is
from yourselves. (GWB 149)
THE fear of God hath ever been the prime factor in the
education of His creatures.
(ESW 27)
o SON of Being! Love Me that I may love thee. If thou
lovest Me not, My love can in no wise reach thee. Know
this, 0 servant. (HW' A 5)

o PEOPLE 1 Let not this life and its deceits deceive
you, for the world and all that is therein is hdd firmly in
the grasp of His Will. He bestoweth His favour on whom
He willeth, and from whom He willeth He taketh it away.
He doeth whatsoever He chooseth. (GWB 200)
THE decrees of the Sovereign Ordainer, as rdated to
fate and predestination, are of two kinds. Both are to be
obeyed and accepted. The one is irrevocable, the other is,
as termed by men, impending. To the former all must
unreservedly submit, inasmuch as it is fixed and settled.
God, however, is able to alter or repeal it. As the harm
that must result from such a change will be greater than
if the decree had remained unaltered, all, therefore, should
willingly acquiesce in what God hath willed and confidently
abide by the same. The decree that is impending, however,
is such that prayer and entreaty can succeed in averting it.
(GWB 200)
o SON of Man 1 My majesty is My gift to thee, and My
grandeur the token of My mercy unto thee. That which
beseemeth Me none shall understand, nor can anyone
recount. Verily, I have preserved it in My hidden store-
houses and in the treasuries of My command, as a sign
of My lovingkindness unto My servants and My mercy
unto My people. (HWA 65)
REGARD thou the one true God as One Who is apart
from, and immeasurably exalted above, all created things.
The whole universe reflecteth His glory, while He is Himself

independent of, and transcendeth His creatures. This is
the true meaning of Divine Unity. He Who is the Eternal
Truth is the one Power Who exerciseth undisputed
sovereignty over the world of being, Whose image is
reflected in the mirror of the entire creation. All existence
is dependent upon Him, and from Him is derived the
source of the sustenance of all things.
This is what is
meant by Divine Unity; this is its fundamental principle.
(GWB 166)
THE signs of God shine as manifest and resplendent as
the sun amidst the works of His creatures. Whatsoever
proceedeth from Him is apart, and will always remain
distinguished.
(GWB 144)
WERE man to gaze with the eye of divine and spiritual
discernment, he will readily recognize that nothing what-
soever can exist without the revelation of the splendour of
God, the ideal King.
(KI 140)
GOD'S creation hath existed from eternity, and will
continue to exist forever.
Its beginning hath had no
beginning, and its end knoweth no end. His name, the
Creator, presupposeth a creation, even as His title, the
Lord of Men, must involve the existence of a servant.
(GWB 150)
HE is really a believer in the Unity of God who
recogniseth in each and every created thing the sign of

the revelation of Him who is the Eternal Truth, and not
he who maintaineth that the creature is indistinguishable
from the Creator. (GWB r89)
So perfect and comprehensive is His creation that no
mind or heart, however keen or pure, can ever grasp the
nature of the most insignificant of His creatures; much
Jess fathom the mystery of Him who is the Day Star of
Truth, who is the invisible and unknowable Essence. The
conceptions of the devoutest of mystics, the attainments
of the most accomplished amongst men, the highest praise
which human tongue or pen can render are all the product
of man's finite mind and are conditioned by its limitations.
HE ordaineth as He pleaseth, by virtue of His sovereignty,
and doeth whatsoever He willeth at His own behest. He
shall not be asked of the things it pleaseth Him to ordain.
He, in truth, is the Unrestrained, the All-Powerful, the
All-Wise.
(GWB 284)

I
,
,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
THE essence of all religions is the love of God, and it is
the foundation of all the sacred teachings. (PT 74)
WHEN you behold in existence such organizations,
arrangements, and laws, can you say that all these are the
effect of Nature, though Nature has neither intelligence nor
perception? If not, it becomes evident that this Nature,
which has neither perception nor intelligence, is in the
grasp of Almighty God, who is the Ruler of the world of
Nature; whatever He wishes He causes Nature to manifest.
(SAQ 4)
FORMATION is of three kinds and of three kinds only;
accidental, necessary, and voluntary. The coming together
of the various constituent elements of beings cannot be
accidental, for unto every effect there must be a cause. It
cannot be compulsory, for then the formation must be an
inherent property of the constituent parts and the inherent
property of a thing can in no wise be dissociated from it,
such as light that is the revealer of things, heat that causes
the expansion of elements and the (solar) rays which are the
essential property of the sun. Thus, under such circum-
stances the decomposition of any formation is impossible,
for the inherent properties of a thing cannot be separated

from it.
The third formation remaineth and that is the
voluntary one, that is, an unseen force described as the
Ancient Power, causeth these elements to come together,
every formation giving rise to a distinct being. (TF)
WHEN you look at man you see that he is weak. This
weakness of the creature is a proof of the power of the
Eternal Almighty One, because if there were no power,
weakness could not be imagined. Then the weakness of
the creature is a proof of the power of God; for if there
were no power there could be no weakness; so from this
weakness it becomes evident that there is power in the
world. (SAQ 5)
ALTHOUGH beings in relation to the existence of God
have no existence, but are like the mirage or the reflections
in the mirror, yet in their own degree they exist. (SAQ 3 z6)
As we reflect, we observe that man is like unto a tiny
organism contained within a fruit; this fruit hath developed
out of the blossom, the blossom hath grown out of the
tree, the tree is sustained by the sap, and the sap formed out
of earth and water.
How then can this tiny organism
comprehend the nature of the garden, conceive of the
gardener and comprehend his being? That is manifestly
impossible. Should that organism understand and reflect,
it would observe that this garden, this tree, this blossom,
this fruit would in no wise have come to exist by them-
selves in such order and perfection.
Similarly, the wise
and reflecting soul will know of a certainty that this

infinite universe with all its grandeur and perfect order
could not have come to exist by itself. (TF)
As the pure mirror receives light from the sun and
transmits this bounty to others, so the Holy Spirit is the
mediator of the holy light from the Sun of Reality, which
it gives to the sanctified realities. It is adorned with all the
divine perfections.
Every time it appears, the world is
renewed, and a new cycle is founded. The body of the
world of humanity puts on a new garment. It can be
compared to the spring; whenever it comes, the world
passes from one condition to another. Through the advent
of the season of spring the black earth and the fields and
wildernesses will become verdant and blooming, and all
sorts of flowers and sweet-scented herbs will grow; the
trees will have new life, and new fruits will appear, and a
new cycle is founded. The appearance of the Holy Spirit
is like this. W'henever it appears, it renews the world of
humanity and gives a new spirit to the human realities;
it arrays the world of existence in a praiseworthy garment,
dispels the darkness of ignorance, and causes the radiation
of the light of perfections. (SAQ 165)
IN every Dispensation the light of Divine Guidance has
been focused
upon
one central theme .... In this
wondrous Revelation, this glorious century, the foundation
of the Faith of God, and the distinguishing feature of
His Law, is the consciousness of the oneness of mankind.
(PDC 123)
THE holy realities of the Concourse on high yearn, in this
Day, in the Most Exalted Paradise, to return unto this world,

so that they may be aided to render some service to the
threshold of the 'Abba Beauty, and arise to demonstrate
their servitude to His sacred Threshold. (AD J 39)
CONSIDER the work of former generations.
During
the lifetime of Jesus Christ the believing, firm souls were
few and numbered, but the heavenly blessings descended
so plentifully that in a number of years countless souls
entered beneath the shadow of the Gospel. (AD J 47)
IN this holy dispensation, the crowning glory of bygone
ages and cycles, faith is no mere acknowledgment of the
unity of God, but rather the living of a life that manifests
the virtues and perfections implied in such belief. (SBS 332)

WORDS OF WISDOM
BAHku'LLAH
THE source of all good is trust in God, submission unto
His command, and contentment in His holy will and
pleasure.
THE essence of wisdom is the fear of God, the dread of
His scourge and the apprehension of His justice and decree.
THE essence of religion is to testify unto that which the
Lord hath revealed, and follow that which He hath ordained
in His mighty Book.

THE source of all glory is acceptance of whatsoever the
Lord hath bestowed, and contentment with that which
God hath ordained.
THE essence of love is for man to turn his heart to the
Beloved One, and sever himself from all else but God,
and desire naught save that which is the desire of his Lord.
TRUE remembrance is to make mention of the Lord, the
All-Praised, and forget all else besides Him.
TRUE reliance is for the servant to pursue his profession
and calling in this world, to hold fast unto the Lord, to
seek naught but His grace, inasmuch as in His hands is the
destiny of all His servants.
THE essence of detachment is for man to turn his face
toward the courts of the Lord, to enter His presence,
behold His countenance, and stand as witness before Him.
THE essence of understanding is to testify to one's poverty,
and submit to the will of the Lord, the Sovereign, the
Gracious, the All-Powerful.
THE source of courage and power is the promotion of the
Word of God, and steadfastness in His love.
... ~

THE essence of charity is for the servant to recount the
blessings of his Lord, ~nd to render thanks unto Him at all
times, and under all conditions.
THE essence of wealth is love for Me. Whoso loveth Me
is the possessor of all things, and he that loveth Me not is,
indeed, of the poor and needy.
This is that which the
Finger of Glory and Splendour hath revealed ....
THE essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance
of deeds; he whose words exceed his deeds, know verily
his death is better than his life ....
THE source of all evil is for man to tum away from his
Lord and set his heart on things ungodly.
THE most burning fire is to question the signs of God, to
dispute idly that which He hath revealed, to deny Him and
carry oneself proudly before Him.
THE source of all learning is the knowledge of God,
exalted be His glory, and this cannot be attained save
through the knowledge of His Divine Manifestation.
THE essence of abasement is to pass from under the shadow
of the Merciful, and seek the shelter of the Evil One.

THE source of error is to disbelieve in the one true God,
rely upon aught else but Him, and flee from His decree ..
TRUE loss is for him whose days have been spent in utter
ignorance of his true self.
THE essence of all that We have revealed for thee is
justice, is for man to free himself from idle fancy and
imitation, discern with the eye of oneness His glorious
handiwork, and look into all things with a searching eye.
THUS have We instructed thee, manifested unto thee
words of wisdom, that thou mayest be thankful unto the
Lord, thy God, and glory therein amidst all peoples.

THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD
FAITH
IMMORTALITY
BAHA'U'LLAH
c

THE beginning of all things is the knowledge of God and
the end of all things is strict observance of whatsoever hath
been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine Will
that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all that is on
the earth. (GWB 5)
o MY servants ! Were ye to discover the hidden, the
shoreless oceans of My incorruptible wealth, ye would, of
a certainty, esteem as nothing the world, nay the entire
creation. Let the flame of search burn with such fierceness
within your hearts as to enable you to attain your supreme
and most exalted .goal-the station at which ye can draw
nigh unto, and be united with, your Best-Beloved.
(GWB 324)
By self-surrender and perpetual union with God is meant
that men should merge their will wholly in the Will of God,
and regard their desires as utter nothingness beside His
Purpose.
Whatsoever the Creator commandeth His
creatures to observe, the same must they diligently, and
with the utmost joy and eagerness, arise and fulfil. They
should in no wise allow their fancy to obscure their
judgment, neither should they regard their own imaginings
as the voice of the Eternal. (GWB 307)

o SON of Man! Sorrow not save that thou art far from Us.
Rejoice not save that thou art drawing near and returning
unto Us. (HWA 35)
o YE lovers of the one true God! Strive, that ye may truly
recognize and know Him, and observe befittingly His
precepts. (GWB 5)
IMMERSE yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye
may unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom
that lie hid in its depths. (GWB 136)
THE understanding of His words and the comprehension
of the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise
dependent upon human learning. They depend solely upon
purity of heatt, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit.
(GWB ZII)
WE have decreed, 0 people, that the highest and last end
of all learning be the recognition of Him who is the Object
of all knowledge. (GWB 199)
KNOW verily that Knowledge is of two kinds: Divine
and Satanic. The one welleth out from the fountain of

divine inspiration; the other is but a reflection of vain
and obscure thoughts. The source of the former is God
Himself; the motive-force of the latter the whisperings of
selfish desire. (KI 69)
o SON of the Throne! Thy hearing is My hearing, hear
thou therewith. Thy sight is My sight, do thou see there-
with, that in thine inmost soul thou mayest testify unto
My exalted sanctity, and I within Myself may bear witness
unto an exalted station for thee. (HW A 44)
How great the multitude of truths which the garment of
words can never contain! (GWB 176)
o SON of Light! Forget all save Me and commune with
My spirit. This is of the essence of My command, therefore
turn unto it. (HWA 16)
THE abject beetIe can never scent the fragrance of holiness,
and the bat of darkness can never face the splendour of the
sun. (KI II 8)
o CHILDREN of the Divine and Invisible Essence!
Ye shall be hindered from loving Me and souls shall be

perturbed as they make mention of Me. For minds cannot
grasp Me nor hearts contain Me. (HW A 66)
o MY Son! The company of the ungodly increaseth
sorrow, whilst fellowship with the righteous cleaneth the
rust from off the heart. He that seeketh to commune with
God, let him betake himself to the companionship of His
loved ones; and he that desireth to hearken unto the word
of God, let him give ear to the words of His chosen ones.
(HWP 56)
THE faith of no man can be conditioned by anyone except
himself. (GWB 143)
WHOSO reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the
verses revealed by God, the scattering angels of the
Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of the words
uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every
righteous man to throb. Though he may, at first, remain
unaware of its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed
unto him must needs sooner or later exercise its influence
upon his soul. (GWB 295)
BLESSED is the spot, and the house, and the place, and
the city, and the heart, and the mountain, and the refuge,
and the cave, and the valley, and the land, and the sea, and
the island, and the meadow where mention of God hath
been made, and his praise glorified. (AD J 70)

[
,,
LET the flame of the love of God bum brightly within
your radiant hearts. Feed it with the oil of Divine guidance,
and protect it within the shelter of your constancy. Guard
it within the globe of trust and detachment from all else
but God, so that the evil whisperings of the ungodly may
not extinguish its light. (GWB 325)
IF anyone revile you, or trouble touch you, in the path of
God, be patient, and put your trust in Him Who heareth,
Who seeth. He, in truth, witnesseth, and perceiveth, and
doeth what He plea seth, through the power of His
sovereignty. He, verily, is the Lord of strength, and of
might. (ESW 24)
KNOW ye that trials and tribulations have, from time
immemorial, been the lot of the chosen Ones of God and
His beloved, and such of His servants as are detached from
all else but Him, they whom neither merchandise nor
traffic beguile from the remembrance of the Almighty,
they that speak not till He hath spoken, and act according
to His commandment. Such is God's method carried into
effect of old, and such will it remain in the future. Blessed
are the steadfastly enduring, they that are patient under ills
and hardships, who lament not over anything that befalleth
them, and who tread the path of resignation. (GWB 129)
I SWEAR by My life! Nothing save that which profiteth
them can befall My loved ones. To this testifieth the Pen

of God, the Most Powerful, the All-Glorious, the Best-
Beloved.
(AD] 60)
o SON of Man! If adversity befall thee not in My path,
how canst thou walk in the ways of them that are content
with My pleasure? If trials afflict thee not in thy longing to
meet Me, how wilt thou attain the light in thy love for
My beauty? (HWA 50)
GLORY to Thee, 0 my God! But for the tribulations
which are sustained in Thy path, how could Thy true lovers
be recognized; and were it not for the trials which are
borne for love of Thee, how could the station of such as
yearn for Thee be revealed? (ESW 125)
GOD hath never burdened any soul beyond its power.
(GWB 106)
KNOW thou that the soul of man is exalted above, and is
independent of all infirmities of body or mind. That a
sick person showeth signs of weakness is due to the
hindrances that interpose themselves between his soul and
his body, for the soul itself remains unaffected by any
bodily ailments.
(GWB 153)

o FRIEND! The heart is a store of divine mysteries;
make it not a receptacle for mortal thoughts; and consume
not the capital of this precious life by occupying thyself
with the evanescent world.
Thou art of the world of
holiness; attach not thy heart unto the earth. Thou art a
denizen of the court of nearness; choose not an earthly
home. (GWB 169)
THE whole duty of man in this Day is to attain that share
of the flood of grace which God poureth forth for him.
Let none, therefore, consider the largeness or smallness of
the receptacle. The portion of some might lie in the palm
of a man's hand, the portion of others might fill a cup,
and of others even a gallon-measure. (GWB 8)
THE sovereigns of the earth have been and are the
manifestations of the power, the grandeur and the majesty
of God. (ESW 89)
THERE lay concealed within the Holy Veil, and prepared
for the service of God, a company of His chosen ones who
shall be manifested unto men, who shall aid His Cause, who
shall be afraid of no one, though the entire human race rise
up and war against them. These are the ones who, before
the gaze of the dwellers on earth and the denizens of
heaven, shall arise and, shouting aloud, acclaim the name
of the Almighty, and summon the children of men to the
path of God, the All-Glorious, the All-Praised. (AD J 72 )

KNOW thou that all men have been created in the nature
made by God, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting.
Unto
each one hath been prescribed a pre-ordained measure, as
decreed in God's mighty and guarded Tablets. All that
which ye potentially possess can, however, be manifested
only as a result of your own volition. (GWB 149)
o SON of Being! Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for
My descent. Thy spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse
it for My manifestation. (HW A 59)
No man shall attain the shores of the ocean of true under-
standing except he be detached from all that is in heaven and
on earth. Sanctify your souls, 0 ye peoples of the world,
that haply ye may attain that station which God hath
destined for you. (KI 3)
o MY Servant! Thou art even as a finely tempered sword
concealed in the darkness of its sheath and its value hidden
from the artificer's knowledge.
Wherefore come forth
from the sheath of self and desire that thy worth may be
made resplendent and manifest unto all the world.
(HWP 72)
REGARD man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value.
Education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and
enable mankind to benefit therefrom. (GWB 260)

HAVING created the world and all that liveth and moveth
therein, He, through the direct operation of His uncon-
strained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the
unique distinction and capacity to know Him and to love
Him-a capacity that must needs be regarded as the
generating impulse underlying the whole of creation ....
Upon the inmost reality of each and every created thing
He hath shed the light of one of His names, and made it a
recipient of the glory of one of His attributes. Upon the
reality of man, however, He hath focused the radiance of
all of His names and attributes, and made it a mirror of
His own Self. Alone of all created things, man hath been
singled out for so great a favour, so enduring a bounty.
(GW13 65)
o SON of Man! Veiled in My immemorial being and in
the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for
thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee My
image and revealed to thee my beauty. (HWA ,)
VERILY I say, the human soul is, in its essence, one of the
signs of God, a mystery among His mysteries. It is one of
the mighty signs of the Almighty, the harbinger that
proclaimeth the reality of all the worlds of God. Within
it lieth concealed that which the world is now utterly
incapable of apprehending. (GW13 160)
CONSIDER thy state when asleep.
Verily, I say, this
phenomenon is the most mysterious of the signs of God

amongst men, were they to ponder it in their hearts. Behold
how the thing which thou hast seen in thy dream is, after
a considerable lapse of time, fully realized. Had the world
in which thou didst find thyself in thy dream been identical
with the world in which thou livest, it would have been
necessary for the event occurring in that dream to have
transpired in this world at the very moment of its
occurrence. Were it so, you yourself would have borne
witness unto it. This being not the case, however, it must
necessarily follow that the world in which thou livest is
different and apart from that which thou hast experienced
in thy dream. This latter world hath neither beginning nor
end. It would be true if thou wert to contend that this same
world is, as decreed by the All-Glorious and Almighty
God, within thy proper self and is wrapped up within
thee. It would be equally true to maintain that thy spirit,
having transcended the limitations of sleep and having
stripped itself of all earthly attachment, hath, by the act of
God, been made to traverse a realm which Heth hidden in
the innermost reality of this world. Verily I say, the creation
of God embraceth other worlds besides this world, and
creatures apart from these creatures. In each of these worlds
He hath ordained things which none can search except
Himself, the All-Searching, the All-Wise.
(GWB I 52)
KNOW thou of a truth that the soul, after its separation
from the body, will continue to progress until it attaineth
the presence of God, in a state and condition which neither
the revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and
chances of this world, can alter. It will endure as long as the
Kingdom of God, His sovereignty, His dominion and power
will endure. It will manifest the signs of God and His
attributes, and will reveal His loving kindness and bounty.

The movement of My Pen is stilled when it attempteth
to befittingly describe the loftiness and glory of so exalted
a station. (GWB 155)
IT is clear and evident that all men shall, after their physical
death, estimate the worth of their deeds, and realize all that
their hands have wrought. (GWB 171)
o SON of Man! Should prosperity befall thee, rejoice not,
and should abasement come upon thee, grieve not, for both
shall pass away and be no more. (HW A 3 z)
How often hath a sinner attained, at the hour of death, to
the essence of faith, and, quaffing the immortal draught,
hath taken his flight to the Concourse on high! And how
often hath a devout believer, at the hour of his soul's
ascension, been so changed as to fall into the nethermost
fire! (GWB z66)
KNow ye that the world and its vanities and its embellish-
ments shall pass away. Nothing will endure except God's
Kingdom which pertaineth to none but Him, the Sovereign
Lord of all, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the
Almighty. (GWB 1Z5)

o SON of the Supreme! I have made death a messenger of
joy to thee. Wherefore dost thou grieve? I made the light
to shed on thee its splendour. Why dost thou veil thyself
therefrom? (HW A 32)
2\.1

THE REALITY OF MAN
'ABDU'L-BAHA

As to the soul of man after death, it remains in the degree
of purity to which it has evolved during life in the physical
body, and after it is freed from the body it remains plunged
in the Ocean of God's mercy. From the moment the soul
leaves the body and arrives in the Heavenly World, its
evolution is spiritual, and that evolution is the approaching
unto God. (PT '9)
THE progress of man's spirit in the divine world, after the
severance of its connection with the body of dust, is through
the bounty and grace of the Lord alone, or through the
intercession and the sincere prayers of other human souls,
or through the charities and important good works which
are performed in its name. (SAQ 278)
THE very fact that our spiritual instinct, surely never given
in vain, prompts us to pray for the welfare of those, our
loved ones, who have passed out of the material world,
does it not bear witness to the continuance of their
existence? (PT 81)

THE wealth of the other world is nearness to God. Con-
sequently, it is certain that those who are near the Divine
Court are allowed to intercede, and this intercession is
approved by God. But intercession in the other world is
not like intercession in this world; it is another thing,
another reality, which cannot be expressed in words.
(SAQ 268)
THE rewards of the other world are the perfections and the
peace obtained in the spiritual worlds after leaving this
world; whilst the rewards of this life are the real luminous
perfections which are realized in this world, and which are
the cause of eternal life, for they are the very progress of
e.. .. dstence. It is like the man who passes from the embryonic
world to the state of maturity, and becomes the mani-
festation of these words: "Blessed be God, the best of
Creators." The rewards of the other world are peace, the
spiritual graces, the various spiritual gifts in the Kingdom
of God, the gaining of the desires of the heart and the soul,
and the meeting of God in the world of eternity. In the
same way, the punishments of the other world, that is to
say, the torments of the other world, consist in being
deprived of the special divine blessings and the absolute
bounties, and falling into the lowest degree of existence.
He who is deprived of these divine favours, although he
continues after death, is considered as dead by the people
of truth. (SAQ 261)
:MAN then is the perfect mirror facing the Sun of Truth,
and is the centre of radiation; the Sun of Truth shines in
D

•
this mirror. The reflection of the divine perfections appears
in the reality of man, so he is the representative of God,
the messenger of God. If man did not exist, the universe
would be without result, for the object of existence is the
appearance of the perfections of God. (SAQ 2.28)
THE animal creation is captive to matter, God has given
freedom to man.
The animal cannot escape the law of
Nature, whereas man may control it, for he, containing
nature, can rise above it. (PT;Z)
SHOULD anyone suppose that man is but a part of the
world of nature, and he being endowed with these perfec-
tions, these being but manifestations of the world of nature,
and thus nature is the originator of these perfections and
is not deprived therefrom, to him we make reply and say:
the part dependeth upon the whole; the part cannot possess
perfections whereof the whole is deprived.
(TF)
THE glory of humanity is the heritage of each one.
(PT 119)
As long as women are prevented from attammg their
highest possibilities, so long will men be unable to achieve
the greatness which might be theirs. CPT 123)

No mortal can conceive the union and harmony which
God has designed for man and wife.
(SBS 333)
IN man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher
nature and his material or lower nature.
In one, he
approaches God, in the other he lives for the world alone.
Signs of both these natures are to be found in men. In
his material aspect he expresses untruth, cruelty, and
injustice; all these are the outcome of his lower nature.
The attributes of his divine nature are shown forth in love,
mercy, kindness, truth, justice, one and all being expressions
of his higher nature. Every good habit, every noble quality
belongs to man's spiritual nature, whereas all his imper-
fections and sinful actions are born of his material nature.
If a man's divine nature dominates his human nature, we
have a saint. (PT 54)
SOME things are subject to the free-will of man, such as
justice, equity, tyranny, and injustice, as well as all the good
and evil actions; it is evident and clear that these actions
are, for the most part, left to the will of man. But there are
certain things to which man is forced and compelled, such
as sleep, death, sickness, decline of power, injuries and
misfortunes; these are not subject to the will of man, and
he is not responsible for them, for he is compelled to endure
them. But in the choice of good and bad actions he is
free, and he commits them according to his own will.
(SAQ 287)
3S

IN times of joy our strength is more vital, our intellect
keener, and our understanding less clouded.
We seem
better able to cope with the world and to find our sphere of
usefulness. But when sadness visits us we become weak,
our strength leaves us, our comprehension is dim and our
intelligence veiled.
The actualities of life seem to elude
our grasp, the eyes of our spirits fail to discover the sacred
mysteries, and we become even as dead beings. (PT 100)
IN creation there is no evil; all is good. Certain qualities
and natures innate in some men and apparently blame-
worthy are not so in reality. For example, from the
beginning of his life you can see in a nursing child the
signs of desire, of anger, and of temper. Then, it may
be said, good and evil are innate in the reality of man, and
this is contrary to the pure goodness of nature and creation.
The answer to this is that desire, which is to ask for some-
thing more, is a praiseworthy quality provided that it is
used suitably. So, if a man has the desire to acquire science
and knowledge, or to become compassionate, generous,
and just, it is most praiseworthy. If he exercises his anger
and wrath against the bloodthirsty tyrants who are like
ferocious beasts, it is very praiseworthy; but if he does not
use these qualities in a right way, they are blameworthy.
(SAQ 250)
Now regarding the question whether the faculties of the
mind and the human soul are one and the same. These
faculties are but the inherent properties of the soul, such
as the power of imagination, of thought, of under-
standing; powers that are the essential requisites of the

reality of man, even as the solar ray is the inherent property
of the sun. The temple of man is like unto a mirror, his
soul is as the sun, and his mental faculties even as the rays
that emanate from that source of light. The ray may cease
to fall upon the mirror, but it can in no wise be dissociated
from the sun. (TF)
THOUGHTS are inlinite as the sea, and the ways and
manners of life are like embankments and dykes against the
waves; and not until the sea moves do the waves rise up
and cast on shore the pearls of wisdom. (MFC 124)
IF a man's thought is constantly aspiring towards heavenly
subjects, then does he become saintly; if, on the other
hand, his thought does not soar, but is directed downwards
to centre itself upon the things of this world, he grows more
and more material until he arrives at a state little better
than that of a mere animal. (PT 13)
IT is easy to read the Holy Scriptures, but it is only with
a clean heart and a pure mind that one may understand their
true meaning. (PT 50)
THE essential purpose of faith and belief is to ennoble the
inner being of man with the outpourings of grace from on
high. If this be not attained, it is, indeed, deprivation. It

is the realization of this deprivation that is the true eternal
fire.
(SBS 33 I)
WHEN the spirit is fed with holy virtues, then is the body
joyous; if the soul falls into sin, the body is in torment.
CPT 58)
UNLESS the spirit be healed, the cure of the body is worth
nothing. (PT IS)
GRIEF and sorrow do not come to us by chance, they are
sent to us by the Divine mercy for our own perfecting.
(PT 45)
THOSE who suffer most attain to the greatest perfection.
(PT 44)
THE trials which beset our every step, all our sorrow,
pain, shame, and grief, are born in the world of matter;
whereas the spiritual kingdom never causes sadness.
A
man living with his thoughts in this kingdom knows
perpetual joy. The ills all flesh is heir to do not pass him
by, but they only touch the surface of his life, the depths
are calm and serene. CPT 101)

SAINTS are men who have freed themselves from the
world of matter and who have overcome sin. They live
in the world but are not of it, their thoughts being con-
tinually in the world of the spirit. Their lives are spent in
holiness, and their deeds show forth love, justice, and
godliness.
They are illumined from on high; they are
as bright and shining lamps in the dark places of the earth.
These are the saints of God. (PT 54)
WHEN a man turns his face to God, he finds sunshine
everywhere. (PT II)

ON MEDITATION
'ABDU'L-BAHA
BAHA:U'LLAH says there is a sign from God in every
phenomenon; the sign of the intellect is contemplation
and the sign of contemplation is silence, because it is
impossible for a man to do two things at one time-he
cannot both speak and meditate.
IT is an axiomatic fact that while you meditate you are
speaking with your own spirit. In that state of mind you
put certain questions to your spirit and the spirit answers;
the light breaks forth and the reality is revealed.

You cannot apply the name" man" to any being void of
this faculty of meditation; without it he would be a mere
animal, lower than the beasts.
THROUGH the faculty of meditation man attains to eternal
life; through it he receives the breath of the Holy Spirit-
the bestowal of the Spirit is given in reflection and medita-
tion.
THE spirit of man is itself informed and strengthened
during meditation; through it affairs of which man knew
nothin'g are unfolded before his view. Through it, he
receives divine inspiration, through it he receives heavenly
food.
MEDITATION is the key for opening the doors of
mysteries.
In that state man abstracts himself; in that
state man withdraws himself from all outside objects;
in that subjective mood he is immersed in the ocean of
spiritual life and can unfold the secrets of things-in-them-
selves. To illustrate this, think of man as endowed with two
kinds of sight; when the power of insight is being used
the outward power of vision does not see.
THE faculty of meditation frees man from the animal
nature, discerns the reality of things, puts man in touch
with God.

THIS faculty brings forth from the invisible plane the
sciences and arts.
Through the meditative faculty,
inventions are made possible, colossal undertakings are
carried out; through it governments can run smoothly.
Through this faculty man enters into the very Kingdom of
God.
NEVERTHELESS, some thoughts are useless to man;
they are like waves moving in the sea without result. But
if the faculty of meditation is bathed in the inner light and
characterized with divine attributes, the results will be
confirmed.

THE WAY OF GOD
BAHA'u'LLAH
'ABDU'L-BAHA

,
.
BAHA'U'LLAH
THE ordinances of God have been sent down from the
heaven of His most august Revelation. All must diligently
observe them. Man's supreme distinction, his real advance-
ment, his final victory, have always depended, and will
continue to depend, upon them.
Whoso keepeth the
commandments of God shall attain everlasting felicity.
(GWB 289)
WHATSOEVER instilIeth assurance into the hearts of
men, whatsoever exalteth their station or promoteth their
contentment, is acceptable in the sight of God. (GWB 206)
WE verily behold your actions. If We perceive from them
the sweet smelling savour of purity and holiness, We will
most certainly bless you. Then will the tongues of Paradise
utter your praise and magnify your names amidst them
who have drawn nigh unto God. (GWB 307)
. -

I
I
ONE righteous act is endowed with a potency that
can so elevate the dust as to cause it to pass beyond the
heaven of heavens. It can tear every bond asunder, and
hath the power to restore the force that hath spent itself
and vanished. (GWB 287)
o SON of Spirit! My first counsel is this: Possess a pure,
kindly, and radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty
ancient, imperishable, and everlasting. (HW A I)
How great the felicity that awaiteth the man that for-
saketh all he hath in a desire to obtain the things of God!
Such a man, We testify, is among God's blessed ones.
(GWB 214)
FORGET your own selves, and turn your eyes towards
your neighbour. (GWB 9)
o :MAN of Two Visions! Close one eye and open the
other. Close one to the world, and all that is therein and
open the other to the hallowed beauty of the Beloved.
(HWP 12)
o SON of Being! Bring thyself to account each day ere

thou art summoned to a reckoning; for death, unheralded,
shall come upon thee and thou shalt be called to give
account for thy deeds.
(HWA 31)
BESEECH ye the one true God to grant that all men may
be graciously assisted to fulfil that which is acceptable
in Our sight. (GWB 7)
BESEECH ye the one true God to grant that ye may
taste the savour of such deeds as are performed in His
path, and partake of the sweetness of such humility and
submissiveness as are shown for His sake. (GWB 9)
LAY not on any soul a load which ye would not wish to
be laid upon you, and desire not for anyone the things ye
would not desire for yourselves. This is My best counsel
unto you, did ye but observe it. (GWB Iz8)
OBSERVE equity in your judgment, ye men of under-
standing heart I He that is unjust in his judgment is destitute
of the characteristics that distinguish man's station.
(GWB 204)
o SON of Spirit I The best beloved of all things in My
sight is justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest

Me, and neglect it not that I may confide in thee. By its
aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes and not through the
eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge
and not through the knowledge of thy neighbour. Ponder
this in thy heart; how it behoveth thee to be. Verily,
justice is My gift to thee and the sign of My loving-kindness.
Set it then before thine eyes. (HW A 2)
WHOSO cleaveth to justice, can, under no circumstances,
transgress the limits of moderation. (GWB 342)
BEWARE lest the desires of the flesh and of a corrupt
inclination provoke divisions among you.
Be ye as the
fingers of one hand, the members of one body. (PDC lIS)
BLESSED are the learned that pride not themselves on
their attainments; and well is it with the righteous that
mock not the sinful, but rather conceal their misdeeds,
so that their own shortcomings may remain veiled to men's
eyes. (GWB 51 5)
o SON of Man! Rejoice in the gladness of thine heart,
that thou mayest be worthy to meet Me and to mirror forth
My beauty. (HWA 36)
4i

LET truthfulness and courtesy be your adorning.
(GWB 305)
CLEAVE unto that which draweth you together and
uniteth you. (GWB 2.17)
HE is the true servant of God, who, in this Day, were he
to pass through cities of silver and gold, would not deign
to look upon them, and whose heart would remain pure and
undefiled from whatever things can be seen in this world,
be they its goods or its treasures. I swear by the Sun of
Truth 1 The breath of such a man is endowed with potency,
and his words with attraction. (AD] 19)
SHOULD a man wish to adorn himself with the ornaments
of the earth, to wear its apparels, or partake of the benefits
it can bestow, no harm can befall him, ifhe alloweth nothing
whatsoever to intervene between him and God, for God
hath ordained every good thing, whether created in the
heavens or in the earth, for such of His servants as truly
believe in Him. Eat ye, 0 people, of the good things which
God hath allowed you, and deprive not yourselves from
His wondrous bounties.
Render thanks and praise unto
Him, and be of them that are truly thankful. (AD] 2.8)
God hath verily made chastity to be a crown for the

heads of His handmaidens. Great is the blessedness of
that handmaiden that hath attained unto this great station.
(AD] 27)
o EMIGRANTS! The tongue I have designed for the
mention of Me, defile it not with detraction. If the fire
of self overcome you, remember your own faults and not
the faults of My creatures, inasmuch as everyone of you
knoweth his own self better than he knoweth others.
(HWP 66)
o SON of Earth! Know, verily, the heart wherein the
least remnant of envy yet lingers, shall never attain My
everlasting dominion, nor inhale the sweet savours of
holiness breathing from My kingdom of sanctity.
(HWP 6)
o SON of My Handmaid! Guidance hath ever been given
by words, and now it is given by deeds. Everyone must
show forth deeds that are pure and holy, for words are the
property of all alike, whereas such deeds as these belong
only to Our loved ones. Strive then with heart and soul
to distinguish yourselves by your own deeds. In this wise
We counsel you in this holy and resplendent tablet.
(HWP 76)
THAT one indeed is a man who, to-day, dedicateth him-
self to the service of the entire human race. (G\W 250)
I,

-
By the righteousness of God! Whoso openeth his lips
in this Day and maketh mention of the name of His Lord,
the hosts of Divine inspiration shall descend upon him from
the heaven of My name, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
On him shall also descend the Concourse on high, each
bearing aloft a chalice of pure light. Thus hath it been
fore-ordained in the realm of God's Revelation, by the
behest of Him who is the All-Glorious, the Most Powerful.
(GWB 280)
IF any differences arise amongst you, behold Me standing
before your face, and overlook the faults of one another for
My name's sake and as a token of your love for My manifest
and resplendent Cause.
(GWB 3 15)
THE movement itself from place to place, when under-
taken for the sake of God, hath always exerted, and can
now exert, its influence in the world. In the Books of old
the station of them that have voyaged far and near in order
to guide the servants of God hath been set forth and
written down. (AD] 70)
o PEOPLE of God 1 Do not busy yourselves in your own
concerns; let your thoughts be fixed upon that which will
rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind and sanctify the
hearts and souls of men. This can best be achieved through
pure and holy deeds, through a virtuous life and a goodly
behaviour. (GWB 93)

BURN away, wholly for the sake of the Well-Beloved, the
veil of self with the flame of the undying Fire, and with
faces joyous and beaming with light, associate with your
neighbour. (GWB 316)
CONSORT with the followers of all religions in a spirit
of friendliness and fellowship. (GWB 95)
LET your vision be world-embracing, rather than confined
to your own self.
(GWB 94)
ARISE, 0 people, and, by the power of God's might,
resolve to gain the victory over your own selves, that haply
the whole earth may be freed and sanctified from its
servitude to the gods of its idle fancies-gods that have
inflicted such loss upon, and are responsible for the misery
of, their wretched worshippers.
These idols form the
obstacle that impeded man in his efforts to advance in the
path of perfection. (GWB 93)
THE well-being of mankind, its peace and security are
unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly established.
(WOB 203)

RELIGION is, verily, the chief instrument for the estab-
lishment of order in the world, and of tranquillity among its
peoples. (WOB zo,)
TRUSTWORTHINESS is the greatest door to the
security and tranquillity of mankind.
The stability of
every affair always depends on it, and the worlds of honour,
glory, and affiuence are illuminated by its light. (SBS 125)
ALL men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization. (GWB ZI 5)
EVERY age hath its own problem, and every soul its
particular aspiration. The remedy the world needeth in its
present-day afflictions can never be the same as that which a
subsequent age may require. Be anxiously concerned with
the needs of the age ye live in, and centre your deliberations
on its exigencies and requirements. (GWB ZI,)
IT is not for him to pride himself who loveth his own
country, but rather for him who loveth the whole world.
The earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.
(GWB Zjo)
IF the rulers and kings of the earth, the symbols of the
power of God, exalted be His glory, arise and resolve to
-?
~-

dedicate themselves to whatever will promote the highest
interests of the whole of humanity, the reign of justice will
assuredly be established amongst the children of men, and
the effulgence of its light will envelop the whole earth.
(GWB 2.13)
IT is incumbent upon them who are in authority to exercise
moderation in all things. Whatsoever pas seth beyond the
limits of moderation will cease to exert a beneficial influence.
(GWB 216)
THE structure of world stability and order hath been
reared upon, and will continue to be sustained by, the twin
pillars of reward and punishment. (GWB 2.19)
TRUE liberty consisteth in man's submission unto My
commandments, little as ye know it. Were men to observe
that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven
of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect
liberty.
Happy is the man that hath apprehended the
Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the
Heaven of His Will, that pervadeth all created things.
(GWB 336)
CLEANSE from your hearts the love of worldly things,
from your tongues every remembrance except His remem-
brance, from your entire being whatsoever may deter you

from beholding His face, or may tempt you to follow the
promptings of your· evil and corrupt inclinations.
Let
God be your fear, 0 people, and be ye of them that tread
the path of righteousness. (GWB 275)
THE virtues and attributes pertaining unto God are all
evident and manifest, and have been mentioned and
described in all the heavenly Books.
Among them are
trustworthiness, truthfulness, purity of heart while com-
muning with God, forbearance, resignation to whatever
the Almighty hath decreed, contentment with the things
His Will hath provided, patience, nay, thankfulness in the
midst of tribulation, and complete reliance, in all circum-
stances, upon Him. These rank, according to the estimate
of God, among the highest and most laudable of all acts.
All other acts are, and will remain, secondary and
subordinate unto them.
BE generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity. Be
worthy of the trust of thy neighbour, and look upon him
with a bright and friendly face. Be a treasure to the poor,
an admonisher to the rich, an answerer of the cry of the
needy, a preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge. Be fair
in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech. Be unjust to
no man, and show all meekness to all men. Be as a lamp
unto them that walk in darkness, a joy to the sorrowful,
a sea for the thirsty, a haven for the distressed, an upholder
and defender of the victim of oppression. Let integrity and
uprightness distinguish all thine acts. Be a home for the
stranger, a balm to the suffering, a tower of strength for the
fugitive. Be eyes to the blind, and a guiding light unto the

feet of the erring. Be an ornament to the countenance of
truth, a crown to the brow of fidelity, a pillar of the temple
of righteousness, a breath of life to the body of mankind,
an ensign of the hosts of justice, a luminary above the
horizon of virtue, a dew to the soil of the human heart, an
ark on the ocean of knowledge, a sun in the heaven of
bounty, a gem on the diadem of wisdom, a shining light
in the firmament of thy generation, a fruit upon the tree
of humility. (GWB 285)

»
'ABDU'L-BAHA
IT is clear that the honour and exaltation of man must be
something more than material riches; material comforts
are only a branch, but the root of the exaltation of man
is the good attributes and virtues which are the adorn-
ments of his reality. These are the divine appearances, the
heavenly bounties, the sublime emotions, the love and
knowledge of God; universal wisdom, intellectual per-
ception, scientific discoveries, justice, equity, truthfulness,
benevolence, natural courage, and innate fortitude; the
respect for rights and the keeping of agreements and
covenants; recritude in all circumstances; serving the
truth under all conditions; the sacrifice of one's life for the
good of all people; kindness and esteem for all nations;
obedience to the teachings of God; service in the Divine
Kingdom; the guidance of the people, and the education
of the nations and races.
This is the prosperity of the
human world! This is the exaltation of man in the world!
This is eternal life and heavenly honour! (SAQ 90)
THE only difference between members of the human
family is that of degree. Some are like children who are
ignorant and must be educated until they arrive at maturity.
Some are like the sick and must be treated with tenderness
t.

- 1
and care. None are bad or evil! We must not feel repelled
by these poor children. We must treat them with great
kindness, teaching the ignorant and tenderly nursing the
sick. (PT 138)
IF only men would search out truth, they would find them-
selves united. (PT lIO)
WHEN you meet those whose opinions differ from your
own, do not turn away your face from them.
All are
seeking truth, and there are many roads leading thereto.
Truth has many aspects, but it remains always and for ever
one. (PT 47)
WHEREVER you find the attributes of God love that
person, whether he be of your family or of another. Shed
the light of a boundless love on every human being whom
you meet, whether of your country, your race, your political
party, or of any other nation, colour, or shade of political
opinion. (PT 33)
RELIGIOUS, racial, political, and patriotic prejudice are
the destroyers of human society. As long as these prejudices
last the world of humanity will not attain to poise and
perfection. As long as these threatening clouds are in the
sky of humanity, the sun of reality cannot dawn. (SBS I91)

IF you desire with all your heart friendship with every
race on earth, your thought, spiritual and positive, will
spread; it will become the desire of others, growing
stronger and stronger, until it reaches the minds of all
men.
(PT 25)
THE diversity in the human family should be the cause of
love and harmony, as it is in music where many different
notes blend together in the making of a perfect chord.
If you meet those of different race and colour to yourself,
do not mistrust them and withdraw yourself into your
shell of conventionality, but rather be glad and show them
kindness. Think of them as different coloured roses growing
in the beautiful garden of humanity, and rejoice to be among
them.
CPT 47)
AT present, Universal Peace is a matter of great importance,
but unity of conscience is essential, so that the foundation
of this matter may become secure, its establishment firm
and its edifice strong. (BPP IZ)
WHEN travelling and journeying throughout the world,
wherever one finds construction, it is the result of fellow-
ship and love, while everything that is in ruin shows the
effect of enmity and hatred. CBPP 24)
A THOUGHT of hatred must be destroyed by a more
powerful thought of love. CPT 24)

"'"1
!
ESPECIALLY to those whose thoughts are material and
retrograde show the utmost love and patience, thereby
winning them into the unity of fellowship by the radiance
of your kindness. (PT 23)
LOVE is light in whatsoever house it may shine and enmity
is darkness in whatsoever abode it dwell. (BPP 30)
A HUMBLE workman who commits an injustice is as
much to blame as a renowned tyrant. (PT 141)
ALL effort and exertion put forth by man from the full-
ness of his heart is worship, if it is prompted by the highest
motives and the will to do service to humanity. (PT 165)
BE kind in truth, not only in appearance and outwardly.
(BPP 29)
Do not be content with showing friendship in words alone;
let your heart bum with loving kindness for all who may
cross your path. (PT I I)
A MAN who does great good and talks not of it is on the
way to perfection. (PT IZ)

THE wrong in the world continues to exist just because
people talk only of their ideals, and do not strive to put
them into practice. If actions took the place of words, the
world's misery would very soon be changed into comfort.
(PT 1Z)
TRUTHFULNESS is the foundation of all human virtues.
Without truthfulness, progress and success in all the worlds
of God are impossible for any soul. When this holy attribute
is established in man, all the divine qualities will also be
acquired. (AD] zz)
THE worst of qualities and the most odious of attributes,
which is the foundation of all evil, is lying. No worse or
more blameworthy quality than this can be imagined to
exist; it is the destroyer of all human perfections, and the
cause of innumerable vices. There is no worse characteristic
than this; it is the foundation of all evils. Notwithstanding
all this, if a doctor consoles a sick man by saying: "Thank
God you are better, and there is hope of your recovery,"
though these words are contrary to the truth, yet they may
become the consolation of the patient and the turning-point
of the illness. This is not blameworthy. (SA Q Z 5 I)
USE your knowledge always for the benefit of others.
CPT 37)
LET your ambition be the achievement on earth of a
Heavenly Civilization. CPT 90)

'1
"
HAPPY are those who spend their days in gaining know-
ledge, in discovering the secrets of nature, and in penetrating
the subtleties of pure truth! Woe to those who are contented
with ignorance, whose hearts are gladdened by thoughtless
imitation, who have fallen into the lowest depths of
ignorance and foolishness, and who have wasted their
lives! (SAQ In)
LEAVE all thought of self, and strive only to be obedient
and submissive to the will of God. (PT 48)
HE is a true Baha'i who strives by day and by night to
progress and advance along the path of human endeavour,
whose cherished desire is so to live and act as to enrich
and illumine the world; whose source of inspiration is the
Essence of Divine perfection; whose aim in life is to
conduct himself so as to be the cause of infinite progress.
Only when he attains unto such perfect gifts can it be said
of him that he is a Baha'i. (SBS 332)
ALL created things have their degree or stage of maturity.
The period of maturity in the life of a tree is the time of its
fruitbearing .... The animal attains a stage of full growth
and completeness, and in the human kingdom, man reaches
his maturity when the light of his intelligence attains its
greatest power and development .... Similarly, there are
periods and stages in the collective life of humanity. At
one time it was passing through its stage of childhood, at
another its period of youth, but now it has entered its
long predicted phase of maturity, the evidences of which
are everywhere apparent .... That which was applicable
to human needs during the early history of the race can
neither meet nor satisfy the demands of this day, this period
of newness and consummation.
Humanity has emerged

from its former state of limitation and preliminary training.
Man must now become imbued with new virtues and
powers, new moral standards, new capacities.
New
bounties, perfect bestowals, are awaiting and already
descending upon him.
The gifts and blessings of the
period of youth, although timely and sufficient during the
adolescence of mankind, are now incapable of meeting the
requirements of its maturity. (WOB I64)

!
t
ADJ
BPP
ESW
GWB
HWA
HWP
KI
MFC
PDC
PT
SAQ
SBS
TF
WOB
KEY TO REFERENCES
The Advent of Divine Justice. Shoghi Effendi.
Baha'i Peace Programme. 'Abdu'l-Baha.
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Baha'u'lhih.
Gleanings From the Writings of Baha'u'llah.
Hidden Words in Arabic or Persian. The numbers
refer to paragraphs, not pages, as in other
references.
Kicib-i-Iqan. Baha'u'lhih.
Mysterious Forces of Civilization. 'Abdu'l-Bahl.
The Promised Day is Come. Shoghi Effendi.
Paris Talks. 'Abdu'l-Bah:i.
Some Answered Questions. 'Abdu'l-Baha.
Selections from Baha'i Scripture. Compilation.
Tablet to Auguste Forel. 'Abdu'l-Bah:i.
The W orId Order of Baha'u'll:ih. Shoghi Effendi.