THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1973-10-07

To the Bahá’ís of the World

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

137.1  In order to meet the growing needs of an ever-expanding Bahá’í World Community we have taken two decisions designed to reinforce and extend the services of the Auxiliary Boards. 137.2 First, the number of Auxiliary Board members throughout the world is to be raised to two hundred and seventy, of whom eighty-one will serve on the Auxiliary Boards for the Protection of the Faith and one hundred and eighty-nine will serve on the Auxiliary Boards for the Propagation of the Faith.  In all there will be fifty-four Auxiliary Board members in Africa, eighty-one in the Western Hemisphere, eighty-one in Asia, eighteen in Australasia and thirty-six in Europe.

137.3 Secondly, we have decided to take a further step in the development of the institution by giving to each Continental Board of Counselors the discretion to authorize individual Auxiliary Board members to appoint assistants.  Such authorization does not have to be given to all the Auxiliary Board members in a zone nor does the number assigned have to be the same for all Board members; indeed certain Boards of Counselors may decide that the present circumstances in their zones do not require them to take advantage of this possibility.  Such matters are left entirely to the discretion of each Continental Board of Counselors.

137.4  The exact nature of the duties and the duration of the appointment of the assistants is also left to each Continental Board to decide for itself.  Their aims should be to activate and encourage Local Spiritual Assemblies, to call the attention of Local Spiritual Assembly members to the importance of holding regular meetings, to encourage local communities to meet for the Nineteen Day Feasts and Holy Days, to help deepen their fellow-believers' understanding of the Teachings, and generally to assist the Auxiliary Board members in the discharge of their duties. Appointments may be made for a limited period, such as a year or two, with the possibility of reappointment.  Believers can serve at the same time both as assistants to Auxiliary Board members and on administrative institutions.

137.5  It is our prayer at the Sacred Threshold that this new development in the institution of the Auxiliary Boards will lead to an unprecedented strengthening of the Local Spiritual Assemblies throughout the world.

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

198137.6 Numbers of Auxiliary Board Members by Zones

OCTOBER  1973

Auxiliary Board for ProtectionAuxiliary Board for Propogation Africa Northwestern 3 9 Central and East 13 19 Southern 2 8 18 36 Western Hemisphere North America 9 18 Central America 9 9 South America 9 27 27 54 Asia Western 9 18 South Central 3 15 Southeastern 3 15 Northeastern 3 15 18 63 Australasia 9 9 Europe 9 27

TOTAL 81 189

138 Request for Actions in Preparation for Launching Five Year Plan at Ri ḍván 1974

21 N OVEMBER  1973

To all National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 138.1  Five months separate us from Ri ḍván 1974 when the next global plan will be launched.  For a period of five years the attention, resources and energies of the Bahá’í World Community will be directed to achieving the aims of this plan.

199138.2  By Naw-Rúz 1974 you will have been notified of the overall goals of the plan and the specific tasks assigned to each of your national communities.  Each one of you is therefore urged to arrange for a meeting, at Naw-Rúz or soon after, to which you will invite the Board of Counselors in your zone to be represented and at which the plan can be considered and thorough consultation held on the manner in which each one of your communities will launch it. 138.3  You are asked to give careful consideration as soon as possible to the advisability of holding one or more conferences in conjunction with your Convention or soon after.  You may wish to consult the Counselors on this matter.  We believe that such conferences would greatly assist in acquainting the friends with the nature and aims of the plan and in enlisting their enthusiasm and resolution to achieve it.  All details as to the number of such conferences, their timing, their agendas are left entirely to your discretion, but we recommend that in planning them you attach great importance to the participation of youth so that they may feel wholly  identified with the tasks assigned and give their immediate and maximum support to their accomplishment. 138.4 Now is the time to begin directing the thoughts and plans of the friends to the next great demand which will be made upon them, and we assure you of our prayers at the Sacred Threshold that you may be guided and strengthened to take such decisions and make such plans as will enable your communities to anticipate with eagerness and receive with joy the new tasks to be offered them, tasks whose wholehearted and united accomplishment will raise the Community of the Most Great Name to a position where it may have far greater effect upon men's minds and prepare it for further thrilling and awe-inspiring achievements in the pursuit of its ultimate goal of the redemption of mankind.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

139 Extension of Gardens at Bahjí

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]