CONTENTS
PRAYERS..................................................................................i
MESSAGE FROM THE
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
OF THE BAHA’IS OF CANADA.......................................... iii
MESSAGES FROM THE GUARDIAN,
SHOGHI EFFEN D I..................................................................1
MESSAGES FROM THE
UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE ..................................... 9
PUBLISHED BY
THE NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
OF THE BAHA’IS OF CANADA

O loved ones of ‘Abdirl-Bahá!
Man’s life has its springtime and is endowed with marvel­
lous glory. The period of youth is characterized by strength
and vigour and stands out as the choicest time in human life.
Therefore you should strive day and night so that endowed
with heavenly strength, inspired with brilliant motives and
aided by His celestial power and heavenly grace and confirm­
ation, you may become the ornaments of the world of hu­
manity, and pre-eminent among those who are initiated into
true learning and the love of God. You must be distinguished
amidst men by your sanctity and detachment, loftiness of
purpose, magnanimity, determination, noblemindedness, ten­
acity, the elevation of your aims and your spiritual qualities;
that you may become the means of exaltation and glory for
the Cause of God and the dawning-places of His heavenly be­
stowals; that you may conduct yourselves in conformity with
the counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty - may
my life be offered up for His loved ones - and by reflecting
Bahà’i qualities and attributes, you may stand out distin­
guished from others, ‘Abdu'1-Bahá eagerly anticipates that
each one of you may become even as a fearless lion moving in
the pastures of human perfection and a musk-laden breeze
wafting over the meads of virtue.
The glory of glories rest upon you.
'Abdu 'l-Bahá
(from Universal House of Justice compila­
tion, “Prayers for Children ", 1975)
O Lord! Make this youth radiant and confer Thy bounty
upon this poor creature. Bestow upon him knowledge, grant
him added strength at the break of every morn and guard him
within the shelter of Thy protection so that he may be freed
from error, may devote himself to the service of Thy Cause,
may guide the wayward, lead the hapless, free the captives
and awaken the heedless, that all may be blessed with Thy
remembrance and praise. Thou art the Mighty and the
Powerful.
‘Abdu'l-Baha
(from Universal House of Justice compila­
tion, "Prayers for Children", 1975)

November 10,1975
To the Bahà’i Youth of Canada:
Since the earliest days of the Faith, youth have played a
vigorous and vital role in the development of the Cause. This
special responsibility will undoubtedly continue in the future.
It is the hope of the National Spiritual Assembly that these
messages to Bahà’i youth from the supreme and infallibly
guided institutions of our Faith will inspire you to realize
your potential, to take advantage of unique opportunities
which are yours, and to respond to the challenge which the
letters present.
We feel certain that you will find the excerpts contained in
this booklet a handy reference for conferences, deepening in­
stitutes, firesides, and personal deepening.
They come to you with our love and in the confidence in
your response which was expressed in the recent message of
the House of Justice: “Our expectant eyes are fixed on Bahà’i
youth!”
Faithfully,
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
OF THE BAHA’IS OF CANADA

MESSAGES
FROM THE GUARDIAN,
SHOGHI EFFENDI

This Cause, although it embraces with equal esteem people
of all ages, has a special message and mission for the youth of
your generation. It is their charter for their future, their hope,
their guarantee of better days to come.
(Letter dated june 16, 1942, written on behalf
of Shoghi Effendi to an Individual believer,
quoted in 'Baha'i News’, no. 161, March 1943,
PP. / - 2)
The problem with which you are faced is one which con­
cerns and seriously puzzles many of our present day youth.
How to attain spirituality is indeed a question to which every
young man and woman must sooner or later try to find a
satisfactory answer. It is precisely because no such satisfac­
tory answer has been given or found, that the modern youth
finds himself bewildered, and is being consequently carried
away by the materialistic forces that are so powerfully under­
mining the foundations of man’s moral and spiritual life.
Indeed, the chief reason for the evils now rampant in
society is the lack of spirituality. The materialistic civilization
of our age has much absorbed the energy and interest of man­
kind that people in general do no longer feel the necessity of
raising themselves above the forces and conditions of their
daily material existence.
The universal crisis affecting mankind is, therefore, essen­
tially spiritual in its causes. The spirit of the age, taken on
the whole, is irreligious. Man’s outlook on life is too crude
and materialistic to enable him to elevate himself into the
higher realms of the spirit.
It is this condition, so sadly morbid, into which society
has fallen, that religion seeks to improve and transform. For
the core of religious faith is that mystic feeling which unites
man with God. This state of spiritual communion can be
brought about and maintained by means of meditation and
prayer. And this is the reason why Bahà’u’ilàh has so much
stressed the importance of worship. It is not sufficient for a
believer merely to accept and observe the teachings. He should
in addition, cultivate the sense of spirituality which he can

acquire chiefly by means of prayer. The BaháT Faith, like all
other Divine religions is thus fundamentally mystic in char­
acter. Its chief goal is the development of the individual and
society, through the acquisition of spiritual virtues and pow­
ers. It is the soul of man which has first to be fed. And this
spiritual nourishment prayer can best provide. Laws and in­
stitutions, as viewed by BaháVUáh, can become really effect­
ive only when our inner spiritual life has been perfected and
transformed. Otherwise religion will degenerate into a mere
organization, and become a dead thing.
The believers, particularly the young ones, should there­
fore fully realize the necessity of praying. For prayer is abso­
lutely indispensable to their inner spiritual development, and
this, as already stated, is the very foundation and purpose of
the religion of God.
(Letter of Shoghi Effendi to Edris Rice-Wray
Carson, December 8, 1935, U.S. Bahà'i News,
August 1936, p. 3)
The Guardian has always advised young people to study
deeply such subjects as History, Economics and Sociology as
they are all related to the teachings and aid in understanding
the Faith.
(From letter dated March 12, 1944, written on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual be­
liever. )
Of these spiritual prerequisites of success, which constitute
the bedrock on which the security of all teaching plans,
Temple projects, and financial schemes, must ultimately rest,
the following stand out as preeminent and vital, which the
members of the American BaháT community will do well to
ponder. Upon the extent to which these basic requirements
are met, and the manner in which the American believers ful­
fill them in their individual lives, administrative activities,
and social relationships, must depend the measure of the
manifold blessings which the All-Bountiful Possessor can

vouchsafe to them all. These requirements are none other
than a high sense of moral rectitude in their social and ad­
ministrative activities, absolute chastity in their individual
lives, and complete freedom from prejudice in their dealings
with peoples of a different race, class, creed, or color.
The second is mainly and directly concerned with the
Baha’i youth, who can contribute so decisively to the virility,
the purity, and the driving force of the life of the BaháT
community, and upon whom must depend the future orient­
ation of its destiny, and the complete unfoldment of the po­
tentialities with which God has endowed it...
(Advent of Divine /ustice, p. 18)
As to a chaste and holy life it should be regarded as no less
essential a factor that must contribute its proper share to the
strengthening and vitalization of the Bahà’f community,
upon which must in turn depend tire success of any BaháT
plan or enterprise. In these days when the forces of irréligion
are weakening the moral fibre, and undermining the founda­
tions of individual morality, the obligation of chastity and
holiness must claim an increasing share of the attention of
the American believers, both in their individual capacities and
as the responsible custodians of the interests of the Faith of
BaháVlláh. In the discharge of such an obligation, to which
the special circumstances resulting from an excessive and en­
ervating materialism now prevailing in their country lend par­
ticular significance, they must play a conspicuous and pre­
dominant role. All of them, be they men or women, must, at
this threatening hour when the lights of religion are fading
out, and its restraints are one by one being abolished, pause
to examine themselves, scrutinize their conduct, and with
characteristic resolution arise to purge the life of their com­
munity of every trace of moral laxity that might stain the
name, or impair the integrity, of so holy and precious a Faith.
A chaste and holy life must be made the controlling prin­
ciple in the behavior and conduct of all BaháTs, both in their
social relations with the members of their own community,

and in their contact with the world at large. It must adorn
and reinforce the ceaseless labors and meritorious exertions
of those whose enviable position is to propagate the Message,
and to administer the affairs, of the Faith of Bahà’u’ilàh. It
must be upheld, in all its integrity and implications, in every
phase of the life of those who fill the ranks of that Faith,
whether in their homes, their travels, their clubs, their soci­
eties, their entertainments, their schools, and their universi­
ties. It must be accorded special consideration in the conduct
of the social activities of every Bahà’i summer school and any
other occasions on which Bahà’i community life is organized
and fostered. It must be closely and continually identified
with the mission of the Bahà’i Youth, both as an element in
the life of the Bahà’i community, and as a factor in the fu­
ture progress and orientation of the youth of their own coun­
try.
Such a chaste and holy life, with its implications of modes­
ty, purity, temperance, decency, and clean-mindedness, in­
volves no less than the exercise of moderation in all that per­
tains to dress, language, amusements, and all artistic and liter­
ary avocations. It demands daily vigilance in the control of
one’s carnal desires and corrupt inclinations. It calls for the
abandonment of a frivolous conduct, with its excessive at­
tachment to trivial and often misdirected pleasures. It re­
quires total abstinence from all alcoholic drinks, from opium,
and from similar habit-forming drugs. It condemns the prosti­
tution of art and of literature, the practices of nudism and of
companionate marriage, infidelity in marital relationships,
and all manner of promiscuity, of easy familiarity, and of
sexual vices. It can tolerate no compromise with the theories,
the standards, the habits, and the excesses of a decadent age.
Nay rather it seeks to demonstrate, through the dynamic
force of its example, the pernicious character of such theories,
the falsity of such standards, the hollowness of such claims,
the perversity of such habits, and the sacrilegious character of
such excesses.
(Ibid, pp. 24 - 25)

It must be remembered, however, that the maintenance of
such a high standard of moral conduct is not to be associated
or confused with any form of asceticism, or of excessive and
bigoted puritanism. The standard inculcated by Bahd’u’lldh,
seeks, under no circumstances, to deny any one the legitim­
ate right and privilege to derive the fullest advantage and ben­
efit from the manifold joys, beauties, and pleasures with
which the world has been so plentifully enriched by an All-
Loving Creator.
(Ibid, p. 28)
To the Bahd’i Youth of America, moreover, I feel a word
should be addressed in particular, as I survey the possibilities
which a campaign of such gigantic proportions has to offer to
the eager and enterprising spirit that so powerfully animates
them in the service of the Cause of Bahà’u’ilàh. Though lack­
ing in experience and faced with insufficient resources, yet
the adventurous spirit which they possess, and the vigor, the
alertness, and optimism they have thus far so consistently
shown, qualify them to play an active part in arousing the in­
terest, and in securing the allegiance, of their fellow youth in
those countries. No greater demonstration can be given to the
peoples of both continents of the youthful vitality and the
vibrant power animating the life, and the institutions of the
nascent Faith of Bahà’u’ilàh than an intelligent, persistent,
and effective participation of the Bahd’i Youth, of every
race, nationality, and class, in both the teaching and admini­
strative spheres of Bahd’i activity. Through such a participa­
tion the critics and enemies of the Faith, watching with vary­
ing degrees of skepticism and resentment, the evolutionary
processes of the Cause of God and its institutions, can best be
convinced of the indubitable truth that such a Cause is in­
tensely alive, is sound to its very core, and its destinies in safe
keeping. I hope, and indeed pray, that such a participation
may not only redound to the glory, the power, and the pres­
tige of the Faith, but may also react so powerfully on the
spiritual lives, and galvanize to such an extent the energies of
the youthful members of the Bahd’i community, as to em-

power them to display, in a fuller measure, their inherent
capacities, and to unfold a further stage in their spiritual evol­
ution under the shadow of the Faith of BaháVlláh.
(Advent of Divine Justice, p. 58)

MESSAGES
FROM THE
UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

The vast reservoir of spiritual energy, zeal and idealism re­
sident in Bahà’i youth, which so effectively contributed to
the success of the Nine Year Plan, must be directed and lav­
ishly spent for the proclamation, teaching, and consolidation
of the Cause. Spiritual Assemblies are urged to provide con­
sultation and the offer of guidance to BaháT youth who seek
to plan their lives in such a way as to be of utmost service to
the Cause of God.
(The Universal House of Justice, Canada
and the Five Year Plan , p. 7)
Give great attention and support to youth participation in
community life and to their teaching the Cause to their own
generation in high schools, colleges and elsewhere; encourage
and offer guidance to BaháT youth to plan their lives to be of
greatest service to the Faith, and provide means whereby
their offers of specific periods of teaching and other service
beyond normal teaching activities can be organized and used
to the best advantage.
(The Universal House of Justice, Canada
and the Five Year Plan, p. 14)
BaháT' youth should be encouraged to think of their stud­
ies and of their training for a trade or profession as part of
their service to the Cause of God and in the context of a life­
time that will be devoted to advancing the interests of the
Faith. At the same time, during their years of study, youth
are often able to offer specific periods of weeks, or months,
or even of a year or more, during which they can devote
themselves to travel teaching or to serving xhe BaháT' com­
munity in other ways, such as conducting children’s classes in
remote villages. They should be encouraged to offer such ser­
vice, which will in itself be admirable experience for the fu­
ture, and the National Assembly should instruct an appropri­
ate committee to receive such offers and to organize their im­
plementation so as to derive the greatest possible advantage
from them
(The Universal House of Justice in a letter to
all National Spiritual Assemblies, Naw-Rúz,
1974.)

In country after country the achievements of Bahà’i youth
are increasingly advancing the work of the Nine Year Plan
and arousing the admiration of their fellow-believers. From
the very beginning of the Bahà’i Era, youth have played a
vital part in the promulgation of God’s Revelation. The Báb
Himself was but twenty-five years old when He declared His
Mission, while many of the Letters of the Living were even
younger. The Master, as a very young man, was called upon
to shoulder heavy responsibilities in the service of His Faith
in ‘Iraq and Turkey, and His brother, the Purest Branch,
yielded up his life to God in the Most Great Prison at the age
of twenty-two that the servants of God might “be quickened,
and all that dwell on earth be united.” Shoghi Effendi was a
student at Oxford when called to the throne of his guardian­
ship, and many of the Knights of Bahà’u’llâh, who won im­
perishable fame during the Ten Year Crusade, were young
people. Let it, therefore, never be imagined that youth must
await their years of maturity before they can render invalu­
able services to the Cause of God.
A TIME OF DECISION
For any person, whether Bahà’i or not, his youthful years
are those in which he will make many decisions which will set
the course of his life. In these years he is most likely to
choose his life’s work, complete his education, begin to earn
his own living, marry and start to raise his own family. Most
important of all, it is during this period that the mind is most
questing and that the spiritual values that will guide the per­
son’s future behaviour are adopted. These factors present
Bahà’i youth with their greatest opportunities, their greatest
challenges, and their greatest tests - opportunities to truly ap­
prehend the Teachings of their Faith and to give them to
their contemporaries, challenges to overcome the pressures of
the world and to provide leadership for their and succeeding
generations, and tests enabling them to exemplify in their
lives the high moral standards set forth in the Bahà’i Writings.
Indeed the Guardian wrote of the Bahà’i youth that it is they
“who can contribute so decisively to the virility, the purity,

and the driving force of the life of the Baha’i community,
and upon whom must depend the future orientation of its
destiny, and the complete unfoldment of the potentialities
with which God has endowed it."
A CRITICAL PHASE OF TRANSITION
Those who now are in their teens and twenties are faced
with a special challenge and can seize an opportunity that is
unique in human history. During the Ten Year Crusade - the
ninth part of that majestic process described so vividly by our
beloved Guardian - the Community of the Most Great Name
spread with the speed of lightening over the major territories
and islands of the globe, increased manifoldly its manpower
and resources, saw the beginning of the entry of the peoples
by troops into the Cause of God, and completed the struct­
ure of the Administrative Order of BaháVUáh. Now, firmly
established in the world, the Cause, in the opening years of
the tenth part of that same process, is perceptibly emerging
from the obscurity that has, for the most part, shrouded it
since its inception, and is arising to challenge the outworn
concepts of a corrupt society and proclaim the solution for
the agonizing problems of a disordered humanity. During the
lifetime of those who are now young the condition of the
world, and the place of the Baha’i Cause in it, will change im­
measurably, for we are entering a highly critical phase in this
era of transition.
THREE FIELDS OF SERVICE OPEN TO YOUTH
Three great fields of service lie open before young BaháTs,
in which they will simultaneously be remaking the character
of human society and preparing themselves for the work that
they can undertake later in their lives.
First, the foundation of all their other accomplishments, is
their study of the teachings, the spiritualization of their lives
and the forming of their characters in accordance with the
standards of Bahà’u ’ilàh. As the moral standards of the
people around us collapse and decay, whether of the centur­
ies-old civilizations of the East, the more recent cultures of

Christendom and Islám, or of the rapidly changing tribal so­
cieties of the world, the Bahà’is must increasingly stand out
as pillars of righteousness and forbearance. The life of a BaháT
will be characterized by truthfulness and decency; he will
walk uprightly among his fellow-men, dependent upon none
save God, yet linked by bonds of love and brotherhood with
all mankind, he will be entirely detached from the loose stan­
dards, the decadent theories, the frenetic experimentation,
the desperation of present-day society, will look upon his
neighbours with a bright and friendly face and be a beacon
light and a haven for all those who would emulate his strength
of character and assurance of soul.
The second field of service, which is linked intimately with
the first, is teaching the Faith, particularly to their fellow-
youth, among whom are some of the most open and seeking
minds in the world. Not yet having acquired all the responsi­
bilities of a family or a long-established home and job, youth
can the more easily choose where they will live and study or
work. In the world at large young people travel hither and
thither seeking amusement, education and experiences. BaháT
youth, bearing the incomparable treasure of the Word of
God for this Day, can harness this mobility into service for
mankind and can choose their places of residence, their areas
of travel and their types of work with the goal in mind of
how they can best serve the Faith.
The third field of service is the preparation by youth for
their later years. It is the obligation of a BaháT to educate his
children; likewise it is the duty of the children to acquire
knowledge of the arts and sciences and to learn a trade or a
profession whereby they, in turn, can earn their living and
support their families. This, for a BaháT' youth, is in itself a
service to God, a service, moreover, which can be combined
with teaching the Faith and often with pioneering. The BaháT'
community will need men and women of many skills and
qualifications; for, as it grows in size the sphere of its activit­
ies in the life of society will increase and diversify. Let BaháT
youth, therefore, consider the best ways in which they can
use and develop their native abilities for the service of man-

kind and the Cause of God, whether this be as farmers, teach­
ers, doctors, artisans, musicians or any one of the multitude
of livelihoods that are open to them.
THE BASIS OF ALL KNOWLEDGE
When studying at school or university BaháT youth will
often find themselves in the unusual and slightly embarrass­
ing position of having a more profound insight into a subject
than their instructors. The Teachings of Baháulláh throw
light on so many aspects of human life and knowledge that a
BaháT must learn, earlier than most, to weigh the informa­
tion that is given to him rather than to accept it blindly. A
BaháT has the advantage of the divine Revelation for this age,
which shines like a searchlight on so many problems that
baffle modern thinkers; he must therefore develop the ability
to learn every thing from those around him, showing proper
humility before his teachers, but always relating what he
hears to the BaháT teachings, for they will enable him to sort
out the gold from the dross of human error.
FUNCTION OF YOUTH WITHIN THE COMMUNITY
Paralleling the growth of his inner life through prayer,
meditation, service and study of the teachings, BaháT' youth
have the opportunity to learn in practice the very functioning
of the Order of Bahà’u’llah. Through taking part in confer­
ences and summer schools as well as Nineteen Day Feasts,
and in service on committees, they can develop the wonder­
ful skill of Baha’i consultation, thus tracing new paths of
human corporate action. Consultation is no easy skill to learn,
requiring as it does the subjugation of all egotism and unruly
passions, the cultivation of frankness and freedom of thought
as well as courtesy, openness of mind and wholehearted ac­
quiescence in a majority decision. In this field BaháT youth
may demonstrate the efficiency, the vigour, the access of uni­
ty which arise from true consultation and, by contrast, dem­
onstrate the futility of partisanship, lobbying, debate, secret
diplomacy and unilateral action which characterize modern
affairs. Youth also take part in the life of the BaháT' com-

munity as a whole and promote a society in which all gener­
ations - elderly, middle-aged, youth, children - are fully inte­
grated and make up an organic whole. By refusing to carry
over the antagonisms and mistrust between the generations
which perplex and bedevil modern society they will again
demonstrate the healing and life-giving nature of their religion.
STEPS TO CONSIDER NOW
The Nine Year Plan has just entered its third year. The
youth have already played a vital part in winning its goals. We
now call upon them, with great love and highest hopes and
the assurance of our fervent prayers, to consider, individually
and in consultation, wherever they live and whatever their
circumstances, those steps which they should take now to
deepen themselves in their knowledge of the divine message,
to develop their characters after the pattern of the Master, to
acquire those skills, trades and professions in which they can
best serve God and man, to intensify their service to the
Cause of BaháVlláh and to radiate its Message to the seekers
among their contemporaries.
(Wellspring of Guidance, pp. 92-97)
PIONEERING AND EDUCATION
In the two years since we last addressed the youth of the
Bahà’i world many remarkable advances have been made in
the fortunes of the Faith. Not the least of these is the en­
rollment under the banner of Bahá*u’lláh of a growing army
of young men and women eager to serve His Cause. The zeal,
the enthusiasm, the steadfastness and the devotion of the
youth in every land has brought great joy and assurance to
our hearts.
During the last days of August and the first days of Sep­
tember, when nearly two thousand believers from all over the
world gathered in the Holy Land to commemorate the Cen­
tenary of Bahà’u’Uàh’s arrival on these sacred shores, we had
an opportunity to observe at first hand those qualities of
good character, selfless service and determined effort exem­
plified in the youth who served as volunteer helpers, and we

wish to express our gratitude for their loving assistance and
for their example.
Many of them offered to pioneer, but one perplexing
question recurred; Shall I continue my education, or should
1 pioneer now? Undoubtedly this same question is in the mind
of every young Bahà’i wishing to dedicate his life to the
advancement of the Faith. There is no stock answer which
applies to all situations, the beloved Guardian gave different
answers to different individuals on this question, Obviously
circumstances vary with each individual case. Each individual
must decide how he can best serve the Cause. In making this
decision, it will be helpful to weigh the following factors:
Upon becoming a Bahà’i one’s whole life is, or should be­
come devoted to the progress of the Cause of God, and
every talent or faculty he possesses is ultimately commit­
ted to this overriding life objective. Within this framework
he must consider, among other things, whether by contin­
uing his education now he can be a more effective pioneer
later, or alternatively whether the urgent need for pioneers,
while possibilities for teaching are still open, outweighs an
anticipated increase in effectiveness, This is not an easy de­
cision, since oftentimes the spirit which prompts the
pioneering offer is more important than one’s academic
attainments.
One’s liability for military service may be a factor in tim­
ing the offer of pioneer service.
One may have outstanding obligations to others, including
those who may be dependent on him for support.
It may be possible to combine a pioneer project with a
continuing education program. Consideration may also be
given to the possibility that a pioneering experience, even
though it interrupts the formal educational program, may
prove beneficial in the long run in that studies would later
be resumed with a more mature outlook.
The urgency of a particular goal which one is especially
qualified to fill and for which there are no other offers.
The fact that the need for pioneers will undoubtedly be
with us for many generations to come, and that therefore

there will be many calls in future for pioneering service.
The principle of consultation also applies. One may have
the obligation to consult others, such as one’s parents,
one’s Local and National Assemblies, and the pioneering
committees.
Finally, bearing in mind the principle of sacrificial service
and the unfailing promises Bahà’u’ilàh ordained for those
who arise to serve His Cause, one should pray and meditate
on what his course of action will be. Indeed, it often hap­
pens that the answer will be found in no other way.
We assure the youth that we are mindful of the many im­
portant decisions they must make as they tread the path of
service to Bahà’u’ilàh. We will offer our ardent supplications
at the Holy Threshold that all will be divinely guided and
that they will attract the blessings of the All-Merciful.
(Message dated October 9, 1968, to Baha'i
youth in every land, published in Wei!spring of
Guidance, pp. 152 - 154)
It is our hope that in the international travel teaching pro­
gram now being launched the youth will assume a major role
by devoting time during their vacations, and particularly dur­
ing the long vacation at the end of the academic year, to the
promotion of the teaching work in all its aspects, not only
within their own national communities but farther afield.
Some youth may have financial resources of their own, oth­
ers may be able and willing to work and save the funds neces­
sary for such projects, still others may have the financial
backing of their parents, relatives or friends. In other cases
the Bahà’i funds may be able to supplement whatever resour­
ces the prospective travelling teacher may be able to supply.
The endurance of youth under arduous conditions, their
vitality and vigour, and their ability to adapt themselves to
local situations, to meet new challenges, and to impart their
warmth and enthusiasm to those they visit, combined with
the standard of conduct upheld by Baha’i youth, make them
potent instruments for the execution of the contemplated
projects. Indeed, through these distinctive qualities they can

become the spearhead of any enterprise and the driving force
of any undertaking in which they participate, whether local
or national. Our expectant eyes are fixed on Bahà’i youth!
(Universal House of Justice, to all National
Spiritual Assemblies, May 24,19 75)

TABLE DES MATIERES
PRIERES......................................
i
MESSAGE DE L’ASSEMBLEE
SPIRITUELLE NATIONALE
DES BAHATS DU CANADA................................................ iii
MESSAGES DU GARDIEN,
SHOGHI EFFEN D I................................................................. 1
MESSAGES DE LA MAISON
UNIVERSELLE DE JUSTICE................................................9
PUBLIE PAR
L’ASSEMBLEE SPIRITUELLE NATIONALE
DES BAHATS DU CANADA

O bien-aimés ď‘Abdu’l-Baha!
La vie de l’homme a son printemps et est dotée d’une gloire merveil­
leuse. La période de la jeunesse est caractérisée par la force et la vigueur
et ressort comme le temps par excellence de la vie humaine. Par consé­
quent, vous devez vous efforcer, jour et nuit, afin que doués d’une force
céleste, inspirés par des motifs brillants et aidés par son pouvoir divin et
par sa grâce et sa confirmation célestes vous deveniez les ornements du
monde de l’humanité et proéminents parmi ceux qui sont initiés au
savoir véritable et à l’amour de Dieu. Vous devez vous distinguer parmi
les hommes par votre sainteté et votre détachement, l’élévation de votre
motivation, votre magnanimité, votre détermination, votre noblesse
d’esprit, votre ténacité, vos buts élevés et vos qualités spirituelles; afin
que vous deveniez des moyens d’exaltation et de gloire pour la Cause de
Dieu et les points d’aurore de ses divins bienfaits; afin que vous vous
conduisiez conformément aux conseils et exhortations de la Beauté
Bénie—que ma vie soit offerte pour ses bien-aimés—et qu’en reflétant
les qualités et attributs bahà'is vous vous distinguiez des autres. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahâ anticipe ardemment que chacun de vous devienne comme un lion
sans peur se mouvant dans les pâturages de la perfection humaine et une
brise chargée de musc soufflant sur les prés de la vertu.
Que la gloire des gloire soit sur vous.
'A bdu 'l-Bahà
(De "Prayers for Children”, recueil par la
Maison Universelle de Justice, 1975)
O Seigneur! Rends ce jeune radieux et confère ta faveur à cette pauvre
créature. Donne-lui la connaissance, accorde-lui une force accrue à
l’aube de chaque matin et garde-le dans le refuge de ta protection pour
qu’il soit délivré de l’erreur, qu’il se voue au service de ta Cause, qu’il
guide les égarés, conduise les infortunés, libère les captifs et éveille les
insouciants; afin que tous soient bénis de ta souvenance et de ta lou­
ange. Tu es le Puissant, le Fort.
‘Abdu’i-Bahà
(De "Prayers for Children’’, recueil par la
Maison Universelle de Justice, 1975)

le 10 novembre 1975
Aux Jeunes Bahà’is du Canada:
Depuis les premiers jours de la Foi, les jeunes ont joué un
rôle vigoureux et vital dans le développement de la Cause.
Cette responsabilité spéciale se poursuivra indubitablement
dans l’avenir.
L’Assemblée Spirituelle Nationale a l’espoir que ces mes­
sages, adressés aux jeunes Bahà’is par les institutions suprê­
mes et infailliblement guidées de notre Foi, vous inspireront
de réaliser votre potentiel, de prendre avantage des occasions
uniques qui sont vôtres, et de répondre au défi que ces lettres
présentent.
Nous sommes certains que vous trouverez que les extraits
contenus dans ce livret sont une référence commode pour les
conférences, instituts d’approfondissement, “firesides” et
l’approfondissement personnel.
Ils vous sont présentés avec notre amour et la confiance en
votre réponse qui fut exprimée dans le message récent de la
Maison de Justice: “Nos regards pleins d’attente sont fixés
sur les jeunes Bahà’is! ”
Avec foi,
L’ASSEMBLEE SPIRITUELLE NATIONALE
DES BAHA’IS DU CANADA

MESSAGES
DU GARDIEN,
SHOGHI EFFENDI

Bien qu’elle embrasse avec un égal estime les gens de tous
âges, cette Cause a un message et une mission spécifiques
pour les jeunes de votre génération. C’est la charte de leur
avenir, leur espoir, leur garantie de jours meilleurs à venir.
(Lettre datée du 16 juin 1942, écrite au nom
de Shoghi Effendi à un croyant particulier,
citée dans Bahá V News, No. 161, mars 1943,
PP■ 1-2)
Le problème qui vous confronte en est un qui préoccupe et
embarasse sérieusement beaucoup de nos jeunes aujourd’hui.
Comment acquérir la spiritualité est, en effet, une question à
laquelle tout jeune homme et toute jeune femme doit tôt ou
tard trouver une réponse satisfaissante. C’est précisément par­
ce qu’aucune réponse satisfaisante n’a été donnée ou trouvée
que la jeunesse moderne se trouve désorientée et, conséquem­
ment, est emportée par les forces matérialistes qui minent
avec tant de puissance les fondements des moeurs et de la vie
spirituelle de l ’homme.
En effet, la cause principale des maux qui sévissent main­
tenant dans la société est le manque de spiritualité. La civili­
sation matérialiste de notre ère a tellement absorbé l’énergie
et l’intérêt du genre humain que, dans l’ensemble, les gens ne
ressentent plus la nécessité de s’élever au-dessus des forces et
conditions de leur existence matérielle quotidienne.
La crise universelle qui affecte l’humanité est donc essen­
tiellement spirituelle dans ses causes. L’esprit de l’âge, pris
dans l’ensemble, est irréligieux. La façon qu’a l’homme de
voir la vie est trop grossière et matérialiste pour lui permettre
de se hausser aux plus hautes sphères de l’esprit.
C’est cet état, si tristement morbide, où la société est
tombée que la religion cherche à améliorer et à transformer.
Car, au coeur de la croyance religieuse est ce sentiment mys­
tique qui unit l’homme à Dieu. Cet état de communion spir­
ituelle peut être amené et maintenu par le moyen de la médi­
tation et de la prière. Et c’est pourquoi Bahà’u’ilàh a fait res­
sortir l’importance de la dévotion. Il ne suffit pas qu’un cro­
yant se contente d’accepter et d’observer les enseignements.

Il doit de plus cultiver le sens de spiritualité qu’il peut princi­
palement acquérir par le moyen de la prière. Tout comme
toutes les autres Religions divines, la Foi Bahà’ie a donc fon­
damentalement un caractère mystique. Son but principal est
le développement de l’individu et de la société par l’acquisition
de vertus et pouvoirs spirituels. C’est l’âme de l’homme qui
doit en premier lieu être nourrie. Et c’est la prière qui peut le
mieux fournir cet aliment spirituel. Les lois et les institutions,
telles que vues par Bahà’u’ilàh, ne peuvent devenir vraiment
efficaces que lorsque notre vie spirituelle intérieure a été per­
fectionnée et transformée. Autrement, la religion dégénérera
en une simple organisation, et deviendra une chose morte.
Les croyants, particulièrement les jeunes, doivent donc
prendre pleinement conscience de la nécessité de prier. Car la
prière est absolument indispensable à leur développement
spirituel intérieur et ceci, comme il a déjà été mentionné, est
le fondement et le but même de la religion de Dieu.
(Lettre de Shoyhl F.ffendi à Edris Rice-Wray
Canon, 8 décembre 1935, U.S. Baha'i News,
août 1936, p. 3)
Le Gardien a toujours conseillé aux jeunes gens d ’étudier à
fond les sujets comme l’Histoire, l’Economique et la Sociolo­
gie puisqu’ils sont tous reliés aux enseignements et aident à
comprendre la Foi.
(D'une lettre datée du 12 mars 1944, écrite au
nom de Shoghi Effendi à un croyant particu­
lier.)
Parmi les conditions spirituelles requises et préalables qui
constituent les assises sur lesquelles la sécurité des plans d’en­
seignement, des projets concernant le temple, et des plans
financiers, doit en fin de compte se baser, les conditions sui­
vantes sont prédominantes et vitales, et les membres de la
communauté bahà’ie américaine feraient bien de les méditer.
Selon le degré d’accomplissement de ces conditions de base et
la manière dont les croyants américains les réaliseront dans
leurs vies individuelles, dans leurs activités administratives,
dans leurs rapports sociaux, dépendra la mesure des bénédic-

tions multiples que le Possesseur munificent peut garantir à
eux tous. Ces conditions requises ne sont autres qu’un sens
élevé de droiture morale dans leurs activités sociales et admi­
nistratives, la chasteté absolue dans leurs vies individuelles et
la liberté complète de préjugés dans leurs rapports avec les
gens de différentes races, classes, dénominations ou couleurs.
La seconde concerne principalement et directement la
jeunesse bahà’ie qui peut contribuer de manière si décisive
à la virilité, à la pureté et à la force promotrice de la vie de la
communauté bahàïe, et de laquelle doit dépendre l’orienta­
tion future de la destinée et le déploiement complet du
potentiel dont Dieu l’a dotée...
(Avènement de la Justice Divine, pp. 32 -33)
Concernant une vie chaste et sainte, elle ne doit pas être
considérée comme un facteur moins essential qui doit contri­
buer pour sa propre part au renforcement et à la vitalité de la
communauté bahà’ie, desquels dépendra à son tour le succès
de tout plan ou de toute entreprise bahà’ie. En ces jours où
les forces de l’irréligion sont en train d’affaiblir la trame
morale et de miner les fondations de la moralité individuelle,
l’obligation de chasteté et de sainteté doit demander une part
croissante de l’attention des croyants américains, tant dans
leurs fonctions individuelles qu’en tant que gardiens respons­
ables des intérêts de la foi de Bahà’u’ilàh. Dans la réalisation
d’une telle obligation, à laquelle les circonstances particuliè­
res qui résultent d’un matérialisme excessif et énervant l’em­
portant alors dans leurs pays confèrent une signification par­
ticulière, ils doivent jouer un rôle marquant et prédominant.
Tous doivent s’arrêter, tant les hommes que les femmes, à
cette heure menaçante où les lueurs de la religion pâlissent et
ses barrières sont abolies l’une après l’autre, pour faire leur
examen de conscience, scruter leur conduite et avec leur réso­
lution habituelle se lever pour purger de la vie de leur com­
munauté toute trace de laxité morale qui pourrait souiller le
nom ou atteindre l’intégrité d’une foi si sainte et si précieuse.

Une vie chaste et sainte doit devenir le principe directeur
du comportement et de la conduite de tous les bahà’is, tant
dans leurs relations sociales avec les membres de leur propre
communauté que dans leurs rapports avec le monde en géné­
ral. Elle doit parer et renforcer le travail incessant et les ef­
forts méritoires de ceux dont la position enviable consiste à
propager le message et à administrer les affaires de la foi de
Bahâ’u’llâh. Elle doit être observée dans toute son intégrité et
toutes ses implications, à chaque phase de la vie de ceux qui
forment les rangs de la foi, soit clans leurs foyers, soit pen­
dant leurs voyages, aux réunions de leurs clubs et sociétés,
lors de leurs divertissements, à leurs écoles et à leurs univer­
sités. Une attention particulière doit lui être accordée lors de
la réalisation des activités sociales de toute école d’été bahâ’ie
et de toute autre occasion à laquelle la vie communautaire
bahà’ie s’organise et se développe. Elle doit être intimement
et constamment liée à la mission de la jeunesse bahà’ie, tant
comme facteur de vie communautaire bahà’ie que comme
facteur de futur progrès et d ’orientation de la jeunesse de
leur propre pays.
Une telle vie chaste et sainte, avec ses implications de
modestie, de pureté, de sobriété, de décence et de pureté de
pensée n’implique rien de moins que l’exercice de la modé­
ration dans tout ce qui sc rapporte aux habits, au langage, aux
distractions et à toute occupation artistique et littéraire. Elle
demande une vigilance journalière dans le contrôle des désirs
sensuels et des inclinations corrompues. Elle réclame l’abandon
d’une conduite frivole avec son attachement excessif aux
plaisirs futiles et souvent mal dirigés. Elle demande une abs­
tinence totale des boissons alcooliques, de l’opium et de pa­
reilles drogues entraînant l’accoutumance. Elle condamne la
prostitution de l’art et de la littérature, les pratiques du
nudisme et du concubinage, l’infidélité dans les rapports con­
jugaux et toutes sortes de promiscuité, de familiarité facile et
de vices sexuels. Elle ne peut consentir aucun compromis en­
vers les théories, les standards, les habitudes et les excès d’un
âge décadent. Non, bien plutôt, elle cherche à démontrer, par

la force dynamique de son exemple, le caractère pernicieux
de telles théories, la fausseté de tels standards, le manque de
sincérité de telles revendications, la perversité de telles habi­
tudes et le caractère sacrilège de tels excès.
(A vènement de la Justice Divine, pp. 43 - 44)
... Il faudrait, cependant, rappeler que le maintien d’une
norme morale si élevée ne doit pas être associé ou confondu
avec n’importe quelle forme d ’ascétisme ou de puritanisme
excessif ou bigot. Le standard inculqué par Bahà’u’ilàh ne
cherche, en aucune circonstance, à nier le droit légitime ou le
privilège de tirer le plus grand avantage et bénéfice des mul­
tiples joies, de la beauté et des nombreux plaisirs dont un
Créateur aimant a si abondamment doté le monde ...
(Avènement de ia Justice Divine, p. 47)
A la jeunesse bahà’ie d’Amérique, d’ailleurs, je sens qu’un
mot devrait être adressé en particulier, lorsque je passe en
revue les possibilités qu’une campagne de proportions si gigan­
tesques a à offrir à l’esprit zélé et entreprenant qui les anime
si puissamment pour le service de la cause de Bahà’u ’ilàh.
Bien que dépourvus d’expérience et face à des ressources in­
suffisantes, l’esprit d’aventure qui les anime et la vigueur, la
vivacité et l’optimisme qu’ils ont montrés conséquemment
jusqu’alors les qualifient pour jouer un rôle actif pour éveiller
l’intérêt et pour assurer l’allégeance de leurs camarades dans
ces pays-là. Aucune preuve plus grande ne peut être apportée
aux peuples des deux continents de la vitalité juvénile et du
pouvoir vibrant animant la vie et les institutions de la foi
naissante de Bahà’u’ilàh qu’une participation intelligente,
persistante et efficace de la jeunesse bahà’ie de toute race,
nationalité et classe, dans les deux sphères des activités
bahà’ies, tant de l’enseignement que de l’administration. Par
une telle participation, les critiques et les ennemis de la foi,
scrutant le processus évolutif de la cause de Dieu et de ses

institutions à divers degrés de scepticisme et de ressentiment,
peuvent être le mieux convaincus de la vérité indubitable
qu’une telle participation contribue non seulement à la gloire,
à la puissance et au prestige de la foi, mais qu’elle agisse si
puissamment sur la vie spirituelle et qu’elle galvanise à tel
point les énergies des jeunes membres de la communauté
bahà’ie qu’ils recevront le pouvoir de manifester, à un degré
plus ample, leurs capacités inhérentes et de déployer un stade
ultérieur de leur évolution spirituelle sons l’ombre de la foi de
Bahà’u’ilàh.
(A vènement de la Justice Divine, pp. 92-93)

MESSAGES
DE LA MAISON
UNIVERSELLE DE JUSTICE

Le réservoir vaste en énergie spirituelle, en zèle et en idéa­
lisme, résidant dans la jeunesse bahà’ie, laquelle a contribué si
efficacement au succès du Plan de Neuf Ans, doit être dirigé
et dépensé abondamment pour la proclamation, l’enseigne­
ment et la consolidation de la Cause. Les Assemblées spiritu­
elles sont instamment priées d ’offrir la possibilité à la jeunes­
se bahà’ie de les consulter et de lui donner des directives
lorsqu’elle cherche à organiser sa vie de manière à pouvoir
rendre le maximum de service à la Cause de Dieu.
(Le Canada et le Plan de Cinq Ans, p. 7)
Donner une grande attention et soutenir la participation
des jeunes à la vie communautaire ainsi que leur enseigne­
ment de la Cause à leur génération propre dans les écoles se­
condaires, les collèges et ailleurs, encourager et offrir des con­
seils aux jeunes Bahà’is dans la planification de leur vie en
vue d’être du plus grand service à la Foi, et pourvoir les
moyens par lesquels leurs offres de périodes spécifiques
d’enseignement et autres services en dehors des activités
normales d’enseignement puissent être organisées et utilisées
au meilleur avantage ...
(Le Canada et le Plan de Cinq Ans, p. 14)
Les jeunes Bahà’is doivent être encouragés à penser à leurs
études et à leur formation en vue d’un métier ou d’une pro­
fession comme faisant partie de leur service à la Cause de
Dieu et dans le contexte d’une vie entière qui sera vouée à
promouvoir les intérêts de la Foi. En même temps, au cours
de leurs années d’études, les jeunes sont souvent capables
d’offrir des périodes spécifiques de semaines ou de mois, ou
même d ’une année ou plus, pendant lesquelles ils peuvent se
consacrer à l’enseignement-itinérant ou à servir la communauté
bahà’ie d’autres façons, comme la conduite des classes pour
enfants dans les villages éloignés. Ils doivent être encouragés
à offrir un tel service, qui sera en lui-même une remarquable
expérience pour l’avenir, et l’Assemblée Nationale doit don­
ner instructions à un comité approprié de recevoir de telles
offres et d ’organiser leur mise en oeuvre de façon à entirer le
plus grand avantage possible.
(Maison Universelle de Justice à toutes les As­
semblées Spirituelles Nationales, Naw-Rùz 1974)

Dans un pays après l’autre les accomplissements de la jeu­
nesse bahà’ie font de plus en plus progresser le travail du Plan
de Neuf Ans et soulèvent l’admiration de leurs frères croyants.
Dès les tout débuts de l’Ere Bahà’ie, les jeunes ont joué un
rôle vital dans la promulgation de la Révélation de Dieu. Le
Báb lui-même n‘avait que vingt-cinq ans quand il déclara sa
Mission, alors que bien des Lettres du Vivant étaient encore
plus jeunes. Le Maître, alors qu’il n ’était qu’un très jeune
homme, fut appelé à endosser de lourdes responsabilités au
service de son Père, en ‘Iraq et en Turquie, et son frère, la
Plus Pure Branche, remit sa vie à Dieu dans la Très Grande
Prison à l’âge de vingt-deux ans pour que les serviteurs de
Dieu puissent “être ranimés,, et que tout ce qui vit sur la terre
soit uni.” Shoghi Effendi était étudiant à Oxford quand il fut
appelé au trône de son gardiennat, et bien des Chevaliers de
Bahà’u’ilàh, qui ont acquis un renom impérissable au cours de
la Croisade de Dix Ans, étaient des jeunes gens. Donc, qu’on
ne s’imagine jamais que les jeunes doivent attendre d’avoir
atteint la maturité avant de pouvoir rendre les services inesti­
mables à la Cause de Dieu,
UN TEMPS DE DECISION
Pour toute personne, qu’elle soit Bahà’ie ou non, ses
jeunes années sont celles où elle prendra bien des décisions
qui fixeront le cours de sa vie. Au cours de ces années, elle
choisira tout probablement le travail de sa vie, complétera
son éducation, commencera à gagner sa propre vie, se mariera
et commencera à élever sa propre famille. Plus important que
tout, c’est au cours de cette période que l’esprit est le plus in­
quisiteur et que les valeurs spirituelles qui guideront le com­
portement futur de cette personne sont adoptées. Ces fac­
teurs présentent aux jeunes Bahà’is leurs plus grandes chances,
leurs plus grands défis et leurs plus grandes épreuves - chances
de vraiment comprendre les Enseignements de leur Foi et de
les donner à leurs contemporains, défis de surmonter les pres­
sions du monde et de fournir des chefs á leur génération ainsi
qu’aux générations subséquentes, et des épreuves leur permet­
tant d’exemplifier dans leurs vies les hautes normes morales

énoncées dans les Ecrits Bahà’is. En effet, le Gardien a écrit
des jeunes Bahà’is que ce sont eux “ qui peuvent contribuer
de façon si décisive à la virilité, la pureté, et la force d’im­
pulsion de la vie de la communauté bahà’ie, et de qui dépend
l’orientation future de sa destinée, et l’épanouissement com­
plet des potentialités dont Dieu l’a dotée.”
UNE PHASE DE TRANSITION CRITIQUE
Ceux qui sont maintenant dans l’adolescence de la ving­
taine font face à un défi spécial et peuvent saisir une occasion
unique dans l’histoire humaine. Au cours de la Croisade de
Dix Ans - la neuvième partie de ce majestueux processus dé­
crit de façon si vivante par notre Gardien bien-aimé - la Com­
munauté du Plus Grand Nom se répandit à la vitesse de l’é­
clair sur les principaux territoires et des du globe, accrut par
plusieurs fois sa main-d’oeuvre et ses ressources, vit le début
de l’entrée en troupe des gens dans la Cause de Dieu, et com­
pléta la structure de l’Ordre Administratif de Bahà’uTlàh.
Maintenant, fermement établie dans le monde, la Cause, dans
les premières années de la dixième partie de ce même proces­
sus, émerge perceptiblement de l’obscurité qui, la plupart du
temps, l’a enveloppée depuis ses débuts, et se lève pour défier
les concepts usés d’une société corrompue et proclamer la
solution aux problèmes angoissants d’une humanité désor­
donnée. Pendant la vie de ceux qui sont maintenant jeunes, la
condition du monde, et la place qu’y tient la Cause Bahà’ie,
changeront incommensurablement, car nous entrons dans une
phase hautement critique de cette ère de transition.
TROIS CHAMPS DE SERVICE OUVERTS AUX JEUNES
Trois grands champs de service sont ouverts aux jeunes
Bahà’is, dans lesquels ils pourront, simultanément, refaire le
caractère de la société humaine et se préparer pour le travail
qu’ils pourront entreprendre plus tard dans leur vie.
En premier lieu, le fondement de tous leurs autres accom­
plissements est leur étude des enseignements, la spiritualisa­
tion de leurs vies et la formation de leurs caractères selon les
normes de BaháVlláh. Comme les normes morales des gens

qui nous entourent s’effondrent et tombent en décadence,
que ce soit celles des civilisations séculaires de l’Est, des cul­
tures plus récentes de la Chrétienté et de l’Islam, ou des socié­
tés tribales du monde qui évoluent rapidement, les Bahà’is
doivent de plus en plus se distinguer comme des piliers de
droiture et de longanimité. La vie d’un Bahà’i sera caracté­
risée par la franchise et la décence, il marchera intègrement
parmi ses frères, ne dépendant que de Dieu, mais quand
même lié par des liens d’amour et de fraternité à toute l’hu­
manité; il sera entièrement détaché des normes dissolues, des
théories décadentes, de l’expérimentation frénétique, de la
désespérance de la société actuelle, il regardera ses voisins
avec un visage radieux et amical et sera un phare et un havre
pour tous ceux qui voudront être ses émules par la force de
caractère et l’assurance de l’âme.
Le deuxième champ de service, qui est intimement lié au
premier, est l’enseignement de la Foi, particulièrement à
leurs confrères, parmi lesquels se trouvent quelques-uns des
esprits les plus ouverts et les plus inquisiteurs du monde.
N’ayant pas encore acquis toutes tes responsabilités d’une
famille ou un foyer et un emploi établis depuis longtemps, les
jeunes peuvent d ’autant plus aisément choisir ou ils vivront
et étudiront ou travailleront. Dans l’ensemble du monde,
les jeunes gens voyagent ça et là cherchant le divertissement,
l’éducation et les expériences. Les jeunes Bahà’is, porteurs
de l’incomparable trésor de la Parole de Dieu pour ce Jour,
peuvent harnacher cette mobilité au service de l’humanité et
peuvent choisir leurs lieux de résidence, leurs champs de
voyage et leurs types de travail ayant à l’esprit le but de:
comment ils peuvent le mieux servir la Foi.
Le troisième champs de service est la préparation par les
jeunes des années ultérieures. Un Bahà’i a l’obligation d’é­
duquer ses enfants; de même, il est du devoir des enfants
d’acquérir la connaissance des arts et les sciences et d’ap-
rendre un métier ou une profession par lesquels ils pourront,
à leur tour, gagner leur vie et pourvoir aux besoins d’une
famille. Ceci, pour un jeune Bahà’i, est en soi un service à
Dieu, un service qui, de plus, peut se combiner à l’enseigne-

ment de la Foi et souvent à l’état de pionnier. La commu­
nauté bahà’ie aura besoin d’hommes et de femmes possédant
plusieurs aptitudes et qualifications; car, à mesure qu’elle aug­
mentera de volume, la sphère de ses activités dans la vie de la
société croîtra et se diversifiera. Que les jeunes Bahà’is consi­
dèrent donc les meilleurs moyens par lesquels ils peuvent uti­
liser et développer leurs aptitudes innées au service de l’huma­
nité et de la Cause de Dieu, que ce soit comme fermiers,
enseignants, docteurs, artisans, musiciens ou l’une quel­
conque des multiples carrières qui leur sont ouvertes.
LA BASE DE TOUTE CONNAISSANCE
Quand ils étudient à l’école ou à l’université, les jeunes
Bahà’is se trouveront souvent dans la position inhabituelle et
légèrement embarassante d’avoir une perception plus pro­
fonde d’un sujet que leurs instructeurs. Les Enseignements de
Bahà’u’ilàh font la lumière sur tant d’aspects de la vie et du
savoir humains qu’un Bahà’i doit apprendre, plus tôt que la
plupart des gens, à peser l’information qui lui est donnée
plutôt que de l’accepter aveuglément. Un Bahà’i a l’avantage
de la Révélation divine pour cet âge, qui brille comme un
faisceau lumineux sur tant de problèmes qui déconcertent
les penseurs modernes; il doit donc développer la capacité de
tout apprendre de ceux qui l’entourent, montrant une humi­
lité appropriée devant ses professeurs, mais établissant tou­
jours le rapport entre ce qu’il entend et les enseignements
bahà’is, car ils lui permettront de séparer l’or des scories de
l’erreur humaine.
FONCTION DES JEUNES A L ’INTERIEUR DE LA
COMMUNAUTE
Parallèlement à la croissance de leur vie intérieure par la
prière, la méditation, le service et l’étude des enseignements,
les jeunes Bahà’is ont l’occasion d’apprendre en pratique le
fonctionnement même de l’Ordre de Bahà’u’ilàh. En prenant
part aux conférences et écoles d’été ainsi qu’aux Fêtes des
Dix-Neuf Jours, et en servant sur les comités, ils peuvent
développer la merveilleuse aptitude qu’est la consultation

bahà’ie traçant ainsi de nouveaux sentiers de l’action de
groupe humaine. La consultation n’est pas une aptitude fa­
cile à apprendre, puisqu’elle requiert la subjugation de tout
égotisme et des passions déréglées, de cultiver la franchise et
la liberté de pensée tout comme la courtoisie, l’ouverture
d’esprit et l’acquiescement de tout coeur à une décision
majoritaire. Dans ce domaine les jeunes Bahà’is peuvent dé­
montrer l’efficacité, la vigueur, l’accès à l'unité qui résultent
d’une véritable consultation et, par contraste, démontrer la
futilité de la partisanerie, de l’intrique, du débat, de la
diplomatie secrète et de l’action unilatérale qui caractéri­
sent les affaires modernes. Les jeunes prennent aussi part à la
vie de la communauté bahà’ie comme un tout et proclament
une société dans laquelle toutes les générations - âgée, d ’âge
moyen, jeune, effantine—sont pleinement intégrées et forment
un tout organique. En refusant de poursuivre l’antagonisme
et la méfiance entre les générations qui laissent perplexe et
tourmentent la société moderne, Us démontreront de nou­
veau la nature guérisseuse et vivifiante de leur religion.
MESURES A CONSIDERER MAINTENANT
Le Plan de Neuf Ans est tout juste entré dans sa troisième
année. Les jeunes ont déjà joué un rôle vital dans l’atteinte de
ses buts. Nous leur demandons maintenant, avec un grand
amour et les plus hauts espoirs et l’assurance de nos prières
ferventes, de considérer, individuellement et en consultation,
où qu’ils vivent et quelles que soient leurs circonstances, les
mesures qu.Ils devraient prendre maintenant pour approfon­
dir leur connaissance du divin message, pour développer leurs
caractères d’après le modèle du Maître, pour acquérir ces ap­
titudes, métiers et professions dans lesquels ils peuvent le
mieux servir Dieu et l’homme, pour intensifier leur service à
la Cause de Bahà’u’llâh et pour irradier son Message aux
chercheurs parmi leurs contemporains.
(Message daté du 10 juin 1966, à la jeunesse
Bahà'ie de tout pays, publié dans Wellspring
of Guidance, pp. 92-97)

ETRE PIONNIER ET EDUCATION
Pendant les deux années depuis notre dernier message à la
jeunesse du monde bahà’i, bien des progrès remarquables ont
été accomplis dans les destinées de la Foi. Parmi ceux-ci, et
pas le moindre, est Tenrôlement sous la bannière de Bahà’u’-
lláh d’une armée de plus en plus grande je jeunes hommes et
femmes avides de servir sa Cause. Le zèle, l’enthousiasme, la
fermeté et le dévouement des jeunes de tout pays ont apporté
beaucoup de joie et d’assurance à nos coeurs.
Au cours des derniers jours d’août et des premiers jours de
septembre, quand près de deux milles croyants du monde en­
tier se sont rassemblés en terre Sainte pour commémorer le
Centenaire de l’arrivée de Bahâ’u’llâh sur ces rives sacrées,
nous avons eu l’occasion d’observer sur le vif ces qualités de
bon caractère, de service altruiste et d’effort déterminé exem­
plifiées par les jeunes qui ont servi comme aides bénévoles, et
nous désirons exprimer notre gratitude pour leur aimable as­
sistance et pour leur exemple.
Beaucoup d’entre eux ont offert d’être pionniers, mais une
question perplexe revenait: Continuerai-je mon éducation, ou
devrais-je être pionnier maintenant? Indubitablement cette
même question est dans l’esprit de tout jeune Bahà’i qui dé­
sire vouer sa vie à l’avancement de la Foi. Il n’existe pas de
réponse toute faite qui s’applique à toutes les situations; le
Gardien bien-aimé a donné des réponses différentes à diffé­
rents individus sur cette question. Evidemment, les circons­
tances varient avec chaque cas individuel. Chaque individu
doit décider comment il peut le mieux servir la Cause. En pre­
nant cette décision, il sera utile de peser les facteurs suivants:
En devenant Bahà’i, notre vie toute entières est, ou devrait
être, vouée au progrès de la Cause de Dieu, et chaque ta­
lent ou faculté que l’on possède est en fin de compte con­
sacré à cet objectif de vie primordial. Dans ce cadre, Ton
doit considérer, entre autres choses, si en poursuivant son
éducation maintenant on peut être un pionnier plus
efficace plus tard, ou, dans l’alternative, si le besoin urgent
de pionniers, alors que les possibilités d’enseignement sont
encore ouvertes, contrebalance une augmentation antici­
pée dans l’efficacité. Ce n ’est pas là une décision facile.

puisque souvent l’esprit qui inspire l’offre pionnière est
plus important que les accomplissements académiques.
L’obligation du service militaire peut être un facteur dans
le choix du moment pour faire une offre de service pion­
nier.
L’on peut avoir des obligations importantes envers
d’autres, y compris ceux dont la subsistance dépendent de
nous.
Il peut être possible de combiner un projet pionnier avec
la poursuite d’un programme éducatif. L’on peut aussi
considérer la possibilité qu’une expérience pionnière, bien
qu’elle interrompe le programme d’éducation formelle,
puisse prouver être avantageuse à la longue en ce que les
études pourraient être reprises plus tard avec Une plus
grande maturité.
L’urgence d’un but particulier que l’on est particulière­
ment qualifié pour remplir et pour' lequel il n’y a pas
d’autres offres.
Le fait que le besoin de pionniers sera indubitablement
avec nous pour plusieurs générations à venir, et que, par
conséquent il y aura bien des appels au service pionnier
dans l’avenir.
Le principe de consultation s’applique aussi. L’on peut
avoir l’obligation de consulter avec d’autres, comme nos
parents, nos Assemblées locale et Nationale, et les comités
des pionniers.
Finalement, gardant à l’esprit le principe de service en
esprit de sacrifice et les promesses infaillibles de Bahà’u’-
lláh ordonnées pour ceux qui se lèvent pour servir sa Cause,
l’on doit prier et méditer sur ce que sera notre plan
d’action. En effet, il arrive souvent que la réponse ne soit
trouvée que de cette façon.
Nous assurons les jeunes que nous sommes attentifs aux
nombreuses décisions qu’ils doivent prendre au long du sen­
tier du service à Bahà’u’ilàh. Nous offrirons nos ardentes
suppliques au Saint Seuil pour qu’ils soient tous divinement
guidés et qu’ils attirent les bénédictions du Très Miséricor­
dieux.
(Message daté du 9 octobre 1968, à ta jeunesse
bahà'ie de tout pays, publié dans Wellspring of
Guidance, pp. 152 - i54)

Nous avons l’espoir que dans le programme international
d’enseignement-itinérant que l’on lance maintenant, les
jeunes assumeront un rôle de premier plan en consacrant du
temps au cours de leurs vacances, et particulièrement au
cours des grandes vacances à la fin de l’année académique, à
la promotion du travail d’enseignement sous tous ses aspects,
non seulement à l’intérieur de leurs propres communautés
nationales mais à l’étranger. Quelques jeunes peuvent avoir
leurs propres ressources financières, d’autres peuvent être
capables et consentir à travailler et épargner les fonds néces­
saires à de tels projets, d’autres encore peuvent avoir l’appui
financier de leurs parents ou amis. Dans d’autres cas, le fonds
bahà’i peut être capable de compléter les ressources que
l’enseignant-itinérant éventuel peut pouvoir fournir.
L’endurance des jeunes sous des conditions ardues, leur
vitalité et leur vigueur, et leur capacité de s’adapter aux
situations locales, de rencontrer de nouveaux défis, et de
transmettre leur chaleur et leur enthousiasme à ceux qu’ils
visitent, joints aux normes de comportement que les jeunes
Bahà’is pratiquent, en font des instruments puissants dans
l’exécution des projets comtemplés. En effet, par ces qualités
distinctives ils peuvent devenir de fer de lance de toute entre­
prise et la force d’impulsion de toute action à laquelle ils
participent, qu’elle soit locale ou nationale. Nos regards
pleins d’attente sont fixés sur les jeunes Bahà’is!
(Maison Universelle de Justice à toutes les
Assemblées Spirituelles Nationales, 24 mai
1975)