THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2001-01-14

To the conference m arking the i nauguration

of the i nternational Teaching center b uilding

dearly loved f riends,

we are filled with a sense of triumph as we reflect on the significance of

the occupation by the international Teaching center of its permanent seat 349.1

349.2

349.3

350.1

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

770on the mountain of the lord. This occasion marks the beginning of what

future generations will regard as a splendid chapter in the annals of our

faith.

what joy that the hands of the cause of god ‘Alí-Akbar furútan and

‘Alí-m u¥ammad varqá are able to participate in these proceedings! we ac-

knowledge the great debt of gratitude owed to them and to the departed ones of their exalted rank for so much of what we have come to celebrate.

And how fitting it is that the continental counselors and their deputies

from the five continents are here to witness such an auspicious beginning!

The attendance of the Auxiliary board members is so unusual a feature of

the gathering that we are impelled to address our remarks particularly to them. indeed, on no occasion in the past have the major constituents of the

institution of the counselors ever assembled in the h oly land.

with joyous hearts, we extend to every member of the Auxiliary boards

a special and loving welcome. we hail this opportunity to greet and thank

these officers of an institution the crucial importance of whose vital role in the progress of the cause of bahá’u’lláh is increasingly demonstrated as the

divine plan unfolds. may we not at such a moment invoke, above all, the

memory of him in whose divinely inspired mind the conception of Auxil-iary boards took shape? up until the time of his passing in 1957, Shoghi

effendi had called for the appointment of seventy-two such officers, who

were evenly divided between the two boards on each of the five continents;

with the institutional evolution that has taken place since then, the number has increased to nearly one thousand.

with the international Teaching center having settled into its position

at the heart of a ramified, global institution, we can readily recognize the fruition of the system set to extend into the future the specialized func-tions of propagation and protection originally assigned to the hands of the

cause—a system that has derived impetus from the guidance and example of these irreplaceable appointees of Shoghi effendi. This achievement is in

itself a thrilling indication of how well the cause is faring.

in you, the Auxiliary board members here assembled, is reflected the

whole world of humanity. you hail from far-flung geographic regions and

cultural backgrounds that make you truly representative of a cross-section of the human family. your coming here both reaffirms the existence of a

dynamic, global community and signalizes the possibilities for an advance in the process of entry by troops far beyond any record yet established. in 350.2

350.3

350.4

350.5

350.6

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

771this latter regard, the value of your immediate future services cannot be

overestimated.

The world’s crying need for the divine prescriptions is made plain by

the ills afflicting society at every level in all parts of the planet. we must be

swift in ministering to this need. doing so largely depends upon the revo-

lutionary vision, the creative drive and systematic effort of Auxiliary board

members and their assistants, who prompt and encourage individuals, insti-tutions and communities to act with dispatch, constancy and enthusiasm. Their operation at the grassroots, at the very wellspring, of individual and collective activity, makes manageable the fulfillment of this pressing need.

in contemplating the sublime purpose that has brought us together on

this day, we find ourselves without words to describe adequately our won-derment at the evidences of bahá’u’lláh’s handiwork. we stand too close to

the moment to comprehend the magnitude of what has been so amazingly accomplished. but to ponder the circumstances attending seminal happen-

ings of the past is to awaken in us all some sense of appreciation for their wonderful consequences in our time. The revelation of the Tablet of car-

mel, the interment of the remains of bahá’u’lláh’s martyred forerunner in

the mausoleum constructed by the beloved master, the creation by our dear

guardian of the Arc on the hill of god—reflections on just such historic

landmarks illumine our understanding and evoke gratitude in our hearts.

The journeys that brought you to these sacred precincts have launched

you on spiritual adventures that will be celebrated in times to come as hav-ing imparted a new impetus to the advancement of the cause. This is the

hope and expectation we cherish. for as you drink deep of the rarefied spirit

of the holy Shrines and imbibe the guidance that will flow from the con-

sultations in which you will participate, there can be no doubt that you will find yourselves endowed with a new confidence, a new power. with so rich

an endowment, how can your endeavors fail? most surely, you will bring

a rejuvenated fervor and a reconsecrated effort to the compelling civilizing tasks you have accepted to perform at this potent juncture in the evolution of our glorious f aith.

our supplications are intermingled with yours that the blessed beauty

may abundantly confirm you in h is service.

350.8

350.9

350.10

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

772351

Conference of the Continental Counselors

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]