THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1969-10-01

To the Continental Boards of Counselors and Nation

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

72.1 A number of questions have been raised concerning the work of the Counselors and Auxiliary Board members, and it has been suggested that Auxiliary Board members be permitted to work regularly with National Spiritual Assemblies and national committees.  We have carefully considered again the various factors involved and have decided that we must uphold the principle that such direct consultations should be exceptional rather than the rule. Spiritual Assemblies and Auxiliary Board Members:

A Clarification of Roles 72.2 It is the responsibility of Spiritual Assemblies, assisted by their committees, to organize and direct the teaching work, and in doing so they must, naturally, also do all they can to stimulate and inspire the friends.  It is, however, inevitable that the Assemblies and committees, being burdened with the administration of the teaching work as well as with all other aspects of Bahá’í community life, will be unable to spend as much time as they would wish on stimulating the believers.

72.3 Authority and direction flow from the Assemblies, whereas the power to accomplish the tasks resides primarily in the entire body of the believers.  It is the principal task of the Auxiliary Boards to assist in arousing and releasing this power.  This is a vital activity, and if they are to be able to perform it adequately they must avoid becoming involved in the work of administration. For example, when Auxiliary Board members arouse believers to pioneer, any believer who expresses his desire to do so should be referred to the appropriate committee which will then organize the project.  Counselors and Auxiliary Board members should not, themselves, organize pioneering or travel teaching projects.  Thus it is seen that the Auxiliary Boards should work closely with the grass roots of the community:  the individual believers, groups and Local Spiritual Assemblies, advising, stimulating and assisting them.  The Counselors are responsible for stimulating, counselling and assisting National Spiritual Assemblies, and also work with individuals, groups and Local Assemblies.

11572.4 It is always possible, of course, for Counselors to depute an Auxiliary Board member to meet with a National Spiritual Assembly for a particular purpose, but this should not become a regular practice.  Similarly, if the National Spiritual Assembly agrees, it may be advisable for an Auxiliary Board member to meet occasionally with a national committee to clarify the situation in the area and share information and ideas thoroughly.  But this also should not become regular. Were it to do so there would be grave danger of inhibiting the proper working of these two institutions, vitiating and undermining the collaboration that must essentially exist between the Continental Boards of Counselors and National Spiritual Assemblies.  It would diffuse the energies and time of the Auxiliary Board members through their becoming involved in the administration of teaching.  It could lead to the Auxiliary Board member's gradually taking over the direction of the national committee, usurping the function of the National Assembly, or to his becoming merely a traveling teacher sent hither and thither at the direction of the committee or National Assembly.

Sharing Information, Reports, and Recommendations 72.5 It is, of course vital that information be shared fully and promptly, as has been explained in the compilation on the work of Auxiliary Board members that was circulated on 25 March 1969. The ways of ensuring this should be worked out by the Counselors and National Spiritual Assemblies and methods may vary from area to area.

72.6 Reports and recommendations for action, however, are quite different.  Auxiliary Board members should send theirs to the Counselors and not to National Assemblies or national committees directly.  It is possible that the Counselors may reject or modify the recommendation; or, if they accept it and pass it on to the National Spiritual Assembly, the National Assembly may decide to refuse it.  For an Auxiliary Board member to make recommendations directly to a national committee would lose the benefit of knowledge and experience in a wider field than that of which the Auxiliary Board member is aware, and would short-circuit and undermine the authority of both the Counselors and the National Assembly. Advice—the Province of Counselors and Auxiliary Board 72.7 Similarly, although an Auxiliary Board member can and should receive information from the National Assemblies and national committees, his primary source of information about the community should be his own direct contacts with Local Spiritual Assemblies, groups and individual believers.  In this way the Counselors as well as the National Spiritual Assemblies have the benefit of two independent sources of information about the community:  through the Auxiliary Board members on the one hand, and through the national committees on the other. 72.8 Assemblies sometimes misunderstand what is meant by the statement that Counselors and Auxiliary Board members are concerned with the teaching work and not with administration.  It is taken to mean that they may not give advice on administrative matters.  This is quite wrong. One of the things that Counselors and Auxiliary Board members should watch and report on is the proper working of administrative institutions.  The statement that they do not have anything to do with administration means, simply, that they do not administer.  They do not direct or organize the teaching work nor do they adjudicate in matters of personal conflict or personal problems.  All these activities fall within the sphere of responsibility of the Spiritual Assemblies.  But if an Auxiliary Board member finds a Local Spiritual Assembly functioning incorrectly he should call its attention to the appropriate Texts; likewise if, in his work with the community, an Auxiliary Board member finds that the teaching work is being held up by 116inefficiency of national committees, he should report this in detail to the Counselors who will then decide whether to refer it to the National Spiritual Assembly concerned.  Similarly, if the Counselors find that a National Spiritual Assembly is not functioning properly, they should not hesitate to consult with the National Spiritual Assembly about this in a frank and loving way. 72.9 It is the Spiritual Assemblies who plan and direct the work, but these plans should be well known to the Counselors and Auxiliary Board members, because one of the ways in which they can assist the Assemblies is by urging the believers continually to support the plans of the Assemblies.  If a National Spiritual Assembly has adopted one goal as preeminent in a year, the Auxiliary Board members should bear this in mind in all their contacts with the believers and should direct their attention to the plans of the National Assembly, and stimulate them to enthusiastically support them.

72.10 The Counselors in each continental zone have wide latitude in the carrying out of their work. Likewise they should give to each Auxiliary Board member considerable freedom of action within his own allocated area.  Although the Counselors should regularly direct the work of the Auxiliary Board members, the latter should realize that they need not wait for direction; the nature of their work is such that they should be continually engaged in it according to their own best judgement, even if they are given no specific tasks to perform.  Above all the Auxiliary Board members should build up a warm and loving relationship between themselves and the believers in their area so that the Local Spiritual Assemblies will spontaneously turn to them for advice and assistance.

72.11 We assure you all of our fervent prayers in the Holy Shrines for the blessings of Bahá’u’lláh upon the strenuous and highly meritorious services that you are performing with such devotion in His path.

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

73 Appeal to Increase Teaching Efforts amidst Catastrophic Events of the Day

16 N OVEMBER  1969

To the Bahá’ís of the World Dear Friends, 73.1 In the worsening world situation, fraught with pain of war, violence and the sudden uprooting of long-established institutions, can be seen the fulfillment of the prophecies of Bahá’u’lláh and the oft-repeated warnings of the Master and the beloved Guardian about the inevitable fate of a lamentably defective social system, an unenlightened leadership and a rebellious and unbelieving humanity.  Governments and peoples of both the developed and developing nations, and other human institutions, secular and religious, finding themselves helpless to reverse the trend of the catastrophic events of the day, stand bewildered and overpowered by the magnitude and complexity of the problems facing them.  At this fateful hour in human history many, 117unfortunately, seem content to stand aside and wring their hands in despair or else join in the babel of shouting and protestation which loudly objects, but offers no solution to the woes and afflictions plaguing our age.

73.2 Nevertheless a greater and greater number of thoughtful and fair-minded men and women are recognizing in the clamor of contention, grief and destruction, now reaching such horrendous proportions, the evidences of Divine chastisement, and turning their faces towards God are becoming increasingly receptive to His Word.  Doubtless the present circumstances,  though tragic and awful in their immediate consequences, are serving to sharpen the focus on the indispensability of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh to the needs of the present age, and will provide many  opportunities to reach countless waiting souls, hungry and thirsty for Divine guidance. 73.3 It is these opportunities which we must seize before it is too late.  What is needed now is the awakening of all believers to the immediacy of the challenge so that each may assume his share of the responsibility for taking the Teachings to all humanity.  Universal participation, a salient objective of the Nine Year Plan, must be pressed toward attainment in every continent, country and island of the globe.  Every Bahá’í, however humble or inarticulate, must become intent on fulfilling his role as a bearer of the Divine Message.  Indeed, how can a true believer remain silent while around us men cry out in anguish for truth, love and unity to descend upon this world?

73.4 We all know how often the Master and the beloved Guardian called upon the friends to consciously strive to be more loving, more united, more dedicated and prayerful than ever before in order to overcome the atmosphere of present-day society which is unloving, disunited, careless of right and wrong and heedless of God.  “... when we see the increasing darkness in the world today,” the Guardian’s secretary wrote on his behalf, “we can fully realize that unless the Message of Bahá’u’lláh reaches into the hearts of men and transforms them, there can be no peace and no spiritual progress in the future.”

The Necessity of Individual Teaching Goals 73.5 The Nine Year Plan is the current stage in the achievement of that sublime objective.  It is now imperative for every Bahá’í to set for himself individual teaching goals.  The admonition of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to lead at least one new soul to the Faith each year and the exhortation of Shoghi Effendi to hold a Bahá’í fireside in one’s home every Bahá’í month are examples of individual goals.  Many have capacities to do even more, but this alone will assure final and complete victory for the Plan.

73.6 We call upon the friends to join with us in prayer during the Feast of Sultán that we will all become so imbued with zeal, courage and enthusiasm that from this day to the end of the Nine Year Plan nothing will be able to stay the victorious onward march of the followers of the Most Great Name.  May our efforts be worthy of the blessings and confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh. With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

11874 Acquisition of Property Adjacent to Bahjí

18 N OVEMBER  1969

To National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 74.1 Enclosed please find our letter of 16 November 1969 addressed to the Bahá’ís of the World. Please share this letter with all believers in your jurisdiction as soon as possible. 74.2 After several years of protracted negotiations with agencies of the Israel Government both in Jerusalem and Haifa, an important property adjacent to Bahjí and embracing the Master's teahouse has been acquired.  On 17 November we cabled the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States as follows:

74.2a WITH GRATEFUL HEARTS ANNOUNCE SUCCESSFUL CONCLUSION FORMAL

NEGOTIATIONS INITIATED NEARLY TWO DECADES AGO BY BELOVED GUARDIAN

WITH AUTHORITIES STATE ISRAEL RESULTING OWNERSHIP VITALLY NEEDED

PROPERTY SURROUNDING ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ’S TEAHOUSE IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD

MOST HOLY TOMB FOUNDER FAITH.  ACQUISITION MUCH DESIRED LAND

EXTENDING GARDENS BAHJÍ FACILITATED THROUGH EXCHANGE PROPERTY

DEDICATED SOME THIRTY-SIX YEARS AGO TO HOLY TOMB BAHÁ’U’LLÁH BY

DEVOTED SERVANT CAUSE HÁJÍ ‘ALÍ YAZDÍ.

UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

74.3 The successful conclusion of these negotiations initiated during the lifetime of the beloved Guardian was made possible through the acceptance by the Government, as even exchange, of an endowment property given to the Faith in 1933 by the late Hájí ‘Alí Yazdí.  The significance of the specific piece of land donated by this venerable soul becomes apparent when reading the following quotation from the IN MEMORIAM  article about him in The Bahá’í World , Volume 9 [624‒25]:

74.3a He will forever be remembered, amongst other things, as the establisher of Bahá’í endowments in the vicinity of ‘Akká through his gift of a tract of land dedicated to Bahá’u’lláh’s Holy Tomb in Bahjí. ...

74.4 It is a glowing tribute to the memory of this devoted servant of the Blessed Beauty that his gift should play such an important part in securing this valuable additional safeguard for the Most Holy Tomb.

74.5 Please also convey the news of this victory to the friends.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

11975 Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]