Eight Years Near
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

The Diary of Dr. Habíb Mú’ayyad




Translated and Annotated by
Ahang Rabbani
















Volume 3
Witnesses to Bábí and Bahá’í History

An eBook Publication
March 2007 Edition

Copyright and Distribution

© 2000 and 2007, Ahang Rabbani


This book was prepared for print publication by Ahang Rabbani. This
electronic edition has been produced to facilitate widespread distribution
and use of this study. This monograph may be freely redistributed in
electronic form so long as the following conditions are met:

1. The contents of this file are not altered.
2. This copyright and redistribution notice remains intact
3. No charges are made or monies collected for the redistribution

In addition, this electronic version may be printed for redistribution as a
printed document or as a book for non-commercial purposes for
personal or educational use so long as the above conditions are met with
the following qualifications and additions:

1. Charges may be made or monies collected only to recover the
actual costs of printing and distribution. No profit may be made,
or surcharge assessed, for the distribution of this work in printed
formats.
2. If printed in book form, five copies must be submitted for archival
purposes to the International Bahá’í Library in Haifa, Israel
(http://library.bahai.org/).

Any other reproduction or redistribution in any format is forbidden
without the expressed written consent of Ahang Rabbani or his
designated heirs. For the latest version of this study, visit:
http://ahang.rabbani.googlepages.com


Witnesses to Bábí and Bahá’í History series is a multi-volume
on-going project of Ahang Rabbani. For details on other volumes
see the above-cited website.

Translator’s Dedication











As a token of love and devotion,
this book is dedicated to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Contents




Translator’s Foreword ……………………………………….    1

Author’s Foreword …………………………………………..    9

1.  Journey to Beirut for Education ………………………….   13

2.  Further Notes on the First Pilgrimage ……………………   36

3.  Years of Study in Beirut ………………………………….  100

4.  Mission to Germany, Summer of 1914 …………………..   139

5.  Holy Land, Fall of 1914 ………………………………….  143

6.  Abu Sinan: November 1914 ……………………………… 194

7.  Abu Sinan: January 1915 ………………………………….  213

8.  Abu Sinan: February 1915 ………………………………..  236

9.  Abu Sinan: March 1915 ………………………………......  263

10. Abu Sinan: April 1915 …………………………………… 286

11. Haifa: March 1915 ……………………………………….  317

12. Notes on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Utterances ……………………..  355


Bibliography …………………………………………………  470

Translator’s Foreword


God gave us memories
that we might have June roses
in the December of our lives.






—James Barrie, a Scottish poet



Mírzá Habíbu’lláh was born into a Bahá’í family of Jewish
heritage on 19 January 1888 in Kirmánsháh, Iran, and the surname
“Mú’ayyad,” meaning “confirmed,” was later bestowed upon him by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He received his elementary education in the city of his
birth and continued his secondary education in a school founded by
American Presbyterian missionaries in Hamadán.1 His father,
Khudábakhsh, was a devoted Bahá’í who, when his eldest son Mírzá
Múrád was martyred because of his affiliation to the Bahá’í Faith,
went to the authorities and interceded on behalf of his son’s
murderer.

In October 1907, the young Habíb traveled to the Holy Land,
where he spent a month receiving wisdom from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Although the plan had been for him to proceed to the United States
to further his education, at the suggestion of an eminent Bahá’í,
Mírzá Hakím Hárún, and with the approval of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Habíb
instead directed his steps to Beirut. There he enrolled as a student at
the Syrian Protestant College2. During this period he had the bounty
of frequent association with Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl of Gulpáygán and
during regular visits to the Holy Land he sought spiritual knowledge
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and such outstanding Bahá’í scholars as Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí of Isfahán.
A portion of this period of tutelage in Beirut overlapped with

1 In Iran most of the missionaries were either American Presbyterians or from the
Church Missionary Society in England. The former established schools as well as
hospitals throughout Iran.
2 In 1922 renamed the American University of Beirut.

2  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


that of Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s grandson and future
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith. In Beirut, Habíb Mú’ayyad eagerly
engaged in serving his fellow Bahá’ís, corresponding with various
communities, extending hospitality to visitors and pilgrims, and
receiving and dispatching ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets to their ultimate
destinations.

Habíb completed his medical studies at the Protestant College
of Beirut in the Spring of 1914. In July of that year he and a
schoolmate, ‘Azízu’lláh Bahádur, were requested by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to
visit Germany to counter the activities of Dr. Amínu’lláh Faríd, who
had withdrawn from the Bahá’í Faith and was traveling in Europe in
defiance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s requests.

After completing this mission, Dr. Mú’ayyad returned to the
Holy Land. World War I had begun. From November 1914 to May
1915 he operated a medical dispensary that was open to all in the
Druze village of Abu Sinan [Abú-Sínán], northeast of ‘Akká, where
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had settled the Bahá’ís temporarily. The modest room
set aside for Dr. Mú’ayyad’s clinic also served as a school room for
the classes taught by Mírzá Badí‘ Bushrú’í. Although the world
during this period was greatly convulsed and troubles assailed the
small colony of Bahá’ís on every side, Dr. Mú’ayyad was often heard
to say in later years that this time spent near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the
Holy Family was among the sweetest and most memorable periods
of his life.

Dr. Mú’ayyad later returned to Haifa upon the instruction of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and, some weeks later, was instructed to proceed to
Iran. His final days with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Holy Land were blessed
with daily lessons in devotion to the Bahá’í Faith, which doubtless
served to fill his heart and soul with illumination and guidance,
directing his future endeavors in the Bahá’í Faith. On the occasion
of Dr. Mú’ayyad’s departure for Iran, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressed a
letter to Dr. Mú’ayyad’s father stating that he should thank God for
such a “worthy son” and describing Habíb as a “lamp enkindled
with the love of God” and as one “engaged in the service of
humanity.” The father should, in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, “infinitely

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   3


rejoice in beholding his countenance and in inhaling the fragrances
of his presence.”
Upon returning to his native land in spring of 1915, Dr.
Mú’ayyad settled in Kirmánsháh, where he married Zínát Dádvar
from a prominent Muslim family with considerable influence in
government and in the religious life of the region.3 They had seven
children, whom they named ‘Inayat, Manuchir, Bahieh, Lili,
Iskandar, Hushang, and Gity.
Pursuant of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s counsel, Dr. Mú’ayyad forged
personal ties with local government officials and with people of
every class and creed. While fully occupied with his medical practice,
he nevertheless found time, as circumstances permitted, to impart
the Bahá’í teachings to those whom he found to be responsive. He
always stood resolutely firm in the face of difficulties, a shield
protecting the Bahá’ís against periodic assaults by enemies of the
religion. He was a member of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of Kirmánsháh for some twenty-five years and also served on the
Spiritual Assemblies of Tihran, Qulhak, and Darús for a long period.
In April 1945 he was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of Iran, on which body he served for a number of years
with devotion and distinction.
Many times during the course of his professional career, Dr.
Mú’ayyad was offered prominent positions in the Iranian
government, including the directorship of various Ministries. He was
also urged to become a member of the National Parliament, but he
consistently refused these political posts and devoted himself to the
practice of medicine, as this had been ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wish. For two
years he headed the Bahá’í-owned Mithaqiyh Hospital, but he soon
returned to private practice, as he always preferred ministering
directly to his patients.

When informed of Dr. Habíb Mú’ayyad’s death, the Universal

3 She was the daughter of the Muntasur’l-Mulk Dádvar and a niece of the
Wuthúqu’s-Saltanih Dádvar, the war minister during the Constitutional Revolution
and a close alley of Reza Shah Pahlaví. Zínát’s mother, the Navábu’s-Saltanih,
descended from the royal family of Fath-‘Alí Shah Qájár.

4  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


House of Justice sent the following cable on 29 October 1971:

Grieved news passing faithful devoted steadfast
promoter Faith Habíb Mu’ayyad whose life enriched
through services rendered ministries Master Guardian
convey loving sympathy family advise hold memorial
meetings praying Holy Shrines progress his soul.


Dr. Mú’ayyad’s Diary
In his chronicle, Dr. Mú’ayyad writes that it was during his sojourn
in Germany that he learned how the Europeans kept diary records.
On his return to the Holy Land, he adopted this practice and kept
very close notes of his daily observations, particularly ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
utterances from September 1914 to May 1915. It has been noted
that he dearly treasured these precious notebooks during his years in
Iran.4

4 The present descendants of Dr. Mú’ayyad interviewed by the translator are
unaware of the whereabouts of these notebooks. It is likely that they are at the

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   5


On 11 June 1952, the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Iran, on which body Dr. Mú’ayyad was serving at the
time, wrote him the following letter:

No. 1226.
7 Núr 109 BE, corresponding to 21.3.1331 Sh. [11 June
1952]

[To] the honored Dr. Habíb Mú’ayyad, may the Glory of
God rest upon him.
We quote below a portion of a letter dated 23 May
[1952] from the honored Dr. Lutfu’lláh Hakím, upon
him rest the Glory of God, addressed to the
[undersigned] secretary of this Assembly and request that
you kindly advise us on this matter so that accordingly
we may submit a report to the sacred presence [of the
Guardian]:
“Today is 28 Sha‘bán.5 Yesterday afternoon, all the
friends of God gradually assembled in the pilgrim house
near the Shrine of the Báb, and it was nearly five past
noon when the beloved Guardian joined the gathering as
well. The Guardian’s address, which lasted about an
hour and a half, was all about the martyrdom of the Báb,
the construction of the Shrine of the Báb and the
diffusion of the blessed Cause of God. Afterwards a
portion of Nabíl’s narrative about the martyrdom of the
Exalted One6 was recited. Some poems of ‘Andalíb were
chanted as well, and a portion of the memoirs of Dr.

archives of the Bahá’í World Centre, although the translator has been unable to
establish that. If not there, then it is feared that the originals may have been lost in
recent tumults in Iran.
5 The Bahá’ís of the East observe the anniversary of the Martyrdom of the Báb
based on the Islamic (lunar) calendar, on 28 Sha‘bán. In 1952, that date occurred on
23 May.
6 A reference to the Báb.

6  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Habíb Mú’ayyad regarding the Shrine of the Báb, which
has been published in [the journal] Ahang Badí‘, were
read also.
The Guardian instructed me to write you to
request that Dr. Mú’ayyad provide your National
Assembly with a complete copy of the memoirs he kept
during the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, including His talks
about the Shrine and the martyrdom of the Báb and
other matters, for transmission to the Holy Land.
Therefore, please convey the warmest greetings of this
ephemeral servant to Dr. Mú’ayyad and ask that he
kindly prepare a copy and forward it [to the Holy Land]
at his earliest convenience, as the receipt of these records
would be most timely and beneficial.”
We pray that unceasing confirmations may
surround you.
[Signed] Secretary of the National Spiritual
Assembly, ‘Alí-Akbar Furútan.

In accordance with the above request, Dr. Mú’ayyad quickly
prepared a copy of his diary, which he supplemented with some
other reminiscences of his years in the Holy Land, entitling the
resulting memoir, Khátirát Habíb áz Bayánát Mahbúb7 [Habíb’s
Recollections of the Beloved’s Utterances]. This manuscript was
sent to the Holy Land in the same year. A few years later, in 1961, it
was published by the Bahá’í Publishing Trust of Iran, along with
several previously published articles by the diarist. This volume was
reprinted by the Bahá’í-Verlag of Germany in 1998, with an index.
Though it contains a number of typographical errors and suffers
from other deficiencies, it is this version that is used as the basis for
the present translation.
In 1972, Dr. Mú’ayyad published a second volume of his
memories, this being principally devoted to the notes he kept from

7 In subsequent footnotes, Khátirát Habíb is used as an abbreviation for this title.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   7


his mission to Germany in the summer of 1914. The present
translation of Dr. Mú’ayyad’s memoirs is a selection from the first
volume.
The following notations have been adopted throughout the
translation:

( )  parenthetical comments inserted by the diarist
[ ]  bracketed clarifying phrases supplied by the translator
< > page numbers of the 1998 edition of the Persian text are
indicated every five pages.

Footnotes contributed by the author are identified by the
initials (HM). Other footnotes are by the translator.
As Dr. Mú’ayyad has noted in several places in the text, the
remarks attributed to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in this diary represent the
author’s recollections after his return to the pilgrim house and often
provide merely an outline of the many themes addressed by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. Therefore, while these notes are most illuminating, it should
be understood that they carry no scriptural authority. The obvious
exceptions are the various Tablets quoted in the narrative, the
substance of which is translated in the present volume by the
undersigned. Unless an authoritative source (published by the Bahá'í
World Centre) is cited, these renderings pertain to the class of
“provisional translations.”
Occasionally, Dr. Mú’ayyad quotes words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or
certain events in Arabic. It is not clear to the present translator
whether the diarist originally noted them in Arabic or if they are
excerpts from other diary records, such as those kept by Dr. Zia
Baghdadi, and were included by Dr. Mú’ayyad for the sake of
completeness.
Various pictures have been added by the translator.


Acknowledgements
In 1997, after consultation with members of the Universal House of

8  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Justice about suitability of translating Dr. Mú’ayyad’s Diary and
identifying an appropriate translator, I was honored to be
approached by the family of Dr. Mú’ayyad to undertake this project.
In the process of rendering this translation, I have been greatly
encouraged by Dr. Mú’ayyad’s children, Mrs. Bahieh Moayyad-
Khademi and Drs. Iskandar and Houshang Moayyad. I wish to
hereby record my heartfelt gratitude to them for the bestowal of this
great honor and trust. Dr. Mú’ayyad’s granddaughter, Mona
Khademi, was helpful as my contact point with the family and ably
facilitated a number of important interactions.




Ahang Rabbani
Houston, Texas
February 1999


Note: While the original manuscript of this book was completed in
February 1999, its publication was obstructed due to factors beyond
my control. During this interval, I had the opportunity to reconsider
parts of translation and to add further research notes. The project
also greatly benefited from discussions on Tarikh Internet
Discussion group when portions of the monograph were posted in
installments in 2004. Subsequently, with great care and attention, my
learned friend Phillip Tussing read the manuscript and offered a
number of suggestions towards its improvement. All errors and
shortcomings, however, are mine.

AR
March 2007

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   9


Author’s Foreword


In the name of God,
the Glorious, the Most Resplendent!


In this monograph I will record selections from my diary that
pertain to the period of my education at the American University of
Beirut and the precious days I spent on the sanctified ground of
‘Akká and Haifa. Moreover, I will share certain notes from the
utterances I heard spoken by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá—may my spirit be a
sacrifice unto His steadfast Friends.8


Preamble and Exhortations
Unrestrained praise and salutation be upon that much-loved Creator
Who has brought forth humankind from absolute nothingness and
bestowed the robe of existence. God has provided humankind all
manner of sustenance, and arrayed the entire creation and creatures
to serve him, and to aid, educate, and edify him. He has assigned
man specific duties and service unto others. Moreover, He has
granted him a period of life consisting of a mix of sorrows and joys,
sullied by desires and egos, combined with ease and discomfort, and
joined by profit and loss – all of these coming to an end in an
instant, much as a scroll is rolled up or a spider’s web is smashed:
“And these are of Thy everlasting decrees beneath the Tree of Thy
Appearance, O my Lord.” For Him the hidden and primary mystery
[of creation] is evident and the ultimate purpose is achieved.
These struggles, fights for survival, tussles to earn daily bread,
and all the other efforts that man exerts unconsciously – much like
different parts of a mindless machine – these are necessary [for our
spiritual growth]. Parts of man’s character are his egotism,
selfishness, self-centeredness, pride and arrogance, which are all

8 “The Friends” was and continues to be a term used to refer to Bahá’ís.

10  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


signs of his ignorance and negligence. That is, had man understood
the divine purpose, comprehended the goal and objective of
creation, and was he not subject to various desires and lusts, and had
he humbled himself before the sacred laws and traditions, he would
never subjugate himself to these childish proclivities and behaviors.
He would instead consider himself part of a greater whole and
unworthy of such immature inclinations.
If man understood how completely bounded and ephemeral
he was, he would never allow himself the temerity to leave behind a
mark or a sign. If he thoroughly comprehended how passing and
unfaithful this world is, he would never be attached to this abode of
dust or this life filled with agonies. Instead, untroubled, he would
take refuge in fields and meadows, renouncing this world and
everything therein.
But since manifold mysteries are concealed in every part of
creation, therefore, this neglect and ignorance of man must also
enshrine great wisdom. That is, there are great mysteries and
wisdom behind this ignorance and disregard of man. And had it not
been such, the world be engulfed in disorder, societal structure
would be disrupted, and thorough confusion would result at every
level of the functioning of this world.
The utterance “Every name hath been created by His Word”9 is an
evident truth and no question, doubt or hesitation is permitted unto
it. Therefore, one must observe instant obedience and unreserved
submission.
One must be of benefit to society and at every hour be ready
to submit to the call of the Divine Creator. We must gather goodly
spiritual fruits for presentation to our Lord when we leave this plane
of existence. And upon you be peace!


Introduction
By the grace of God, this ephemeral servant, Habíbu’lláh (Dr. Habíb

9 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb Aqdas, K167.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   11


Mú’ayyad), son of Khudábakhsh Kirmánsháhí, was elected to the
National Spiritual Assembly of Iran in the spring of 1324 Sh [April
1945]. Since I was not otherwise occupied with work during the
morning hours, as an exhortation for [the edification of] my
descendants, I set myself to briefly writing my memoirs, describing
what I had observed and what had occurred, the difficulties and
tribulations that I had sustained in life, and to capture a general
record of my recollections, (as the past is a mirror for the future and
a guide for posterity). Inasmuch as what ultimately counts in life is
its quality rather than its quantity, and that life must serve a purpose
and bear fruit – regardless of the length of life in this transient world
– therefore the only times I found worth recording were those I
spent in the Holy Land in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and
associating with the friends, pilgrims and residents of that sacred
realm.




These events have penetrated my soul and being, have been
ever-inscribed on my consciousness and will be recorded in these
pages. The remainder of the events of my life will be written in a
separate book and will be removed from this notebook.

12  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá





Happy was the hour spent with friends;



the rest was pointless and expended fruitlessly.

It should not remain concealed that I have several notebooks
of memoirs and that I had wished to publish them all. However, my
intention was that prior to their publication and becoming available
to the general public, they first receive the approved of the beloved
Guardian of the Cause, so that I would not egotistically disseminate
records that might be incompatible with the interests of the blessed
Cause and have them fall into the hands of nonbelievers.
As such, I will not reproduce the remainder of these diaries in
this volume, but leave them instead for some future opportunity,
and here limit myself exclusively to giving an account of [‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s] blessed utterances. I will also describe the circumstances
associated with His heavenly words, so that matters are presented
clearly for the reader.







[Dr. Habíb Mú’ayyad]

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   13


Chapter 1

Journey to Beirut for Education


[Departure from Iran]
Together with the honored Mírzá Isháq Khán Haqíqí and his wife,
Firdaws Khánum, we left for the Holy Land in October 1907 by way
of Qum, Tihrán, Qazvín, Rasht, Anzalí, Bákú, Batum and Istanbul.
In Tihrán, we stayed with the honored Hand of the Cause Hájí
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar, known as Hájí Akhúnd. We had met him in Qum,
where he and some other [Bahá’ís] had come to pay homage at the
burial place of the honored Manuchihr Khán10 Gurjí.11
In Qazvín we were the guests of the most hospitable and
gracious Mírzá Músá Khán Hakím-Báshí [physician]. At that time
the entire transportation system of the region was under the control
of Siyyid Nasru’lláh Báqiroff, and he had instructed his men to
provide for our comfort and ease. All the inns on our route
belonged to him, and every two hours we reached a new rest station
where our carriage horses were changed and where we refreshed
ourselves. Each location was informed of our arrival in advance and
refreshments readied, and this allowed us to journey day and night
with great ease, never feeling fatigue along the way. Filled with joy
and elation, we constantly gave thanks for the divine grace that was
so abundantly showered upon us. With feelings of ecstasy and
rapture we pondered how, through God’s bounty, strangers were
turned into age-old friends, how the means for the universal unity of
men were provided and how spiritual brothers and sisters

10 The Mu‘tamidu’d-Dawlih. (HM)
11 For the story of the Báb’s stay in Isfahán with Manuchihr Khán see Nabil
Zarandí, The Dawn-Breakers, chapter 10. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has revealed a Visitation
Tablet (see, ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq-Khávarí, Risálih Ayyám Tis‘ih, p. 195) for
Manuchihr Khán and has noted that visiting his resting-place is exceedingly
meritorious. As such, when possible, Bahá’ís often visit his resting-place.

14  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


surrounded all His servants. How wondrous indeed was the field of
love and how vast the realm of fellowship spread before us! Exalted
be His Grandeur and exalted be His Sovereignty! “Exalted art Thou
to shine forth Thy eminent Effulgence over all created things!”
“Exalted art Thou Who hast revived the dead earth by Thy Love!”
“Exalted art Thou Who didst cause the water of unity to flow from
Thine Overflowing Stream!” “Exalted art Thou Who hast called into
being a new creation!” “Exalted be the Founder of this glorious
Age!”

In Bádkúbih we were able to visit the divine friends. The
honored Hájí Qalandar [served] in the [Bahá’í] guesthouse. Áqá
Músá Naqíoff would frequently come in his personal and luxurious
carriage. We learned from others that he was a man of great wealth
and immense affluence, and was overheard to remark that, single
and alone, he intended to use his fortune to raise a Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár in Bádkúbih, similar to the one constructed in ‘Ishqábád.
However, he procrastinated so long that he failed to make good use
of his wealth and eventually spent the last part of his life in abject
poverty and regret. Bahá’u’lláh has revealed:

No doubt hath there ever been or remaineth that whatever
ordinances or exhortations have been revealed by the Supreme Pen
are for the betterment of Our servants. Consider, for instance, that
the law of Huqúqu’lláh was revealed. Were the people <5> to
adhere to it, surely God would surround them with His bounties,
and bestow their sanctified possessions upon themselves and their
descendants. However, do thou observe that most of the people do
not benefit from their possessions, for God allows unbelievers to
take hold of them, or for them to be inherited by unbelievers in
preference to their descendants.12


In short, Naqíoff did not survive to fulfill his desire. Several
times, he was kidnapped by the riffraff who robbed him of his entire

12 The present translator was unable to locate the original of this statement
attributed to Bahá’u’lláh.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   15


estate. On these occasions, he was made to suffer various tortures.
For instance, [we later heard] he was hung by his arms over intense
fires, which compelled him to pay a ransom. His pitiful friends were
also forced to wear outworn clothing and sweep like janitors, until
eventually they all dispersed with no trace to be found.13 “Take notice,
O ye possessors of discernment!”14 Therefore, [as the poet states:]



Possessions can’t be taken to the next world,



give to charity before going.


In Istanbul, we confronted manifold difficulties. The principal
reason was that since the Iranian government had adopted
constitutional rule, fearing that such [liberal political] philosophy
would spill over to the Ottoman realm, the authorities, at the behest
of the monarch, Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II, barred entrance to all
Iranian [subjects at ports of the Eastern Mediterranean].

13 For a Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in this regard, see Ishráq-Khavarí, Má’idih Ásimání,
vol. 9, p. 44; and for more biographical details on Naqioff, see, Ishráq-Khavarí,
Yádgar, pp. 22-23, and Fádil Mázandarání, Táríkh Zuhúru’l-Haqq, vol. 8, part 2, p.
1057. In these two accounts, it is explained that Naqioff was in extreme poverty and
decided to rent some land from the Russian government and prospect for oil. His
initial diggings produced nothing and he wrote to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asking what he
should do. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá encouraged him to persevere and he eventually found oil in
such quantities that he went from poverty to being extremely rich in a short space of
time. When Hájí Amín came to Baku to collect the Huqúqu’lláh, however, Naqioff
wept profusely but handed over no money. (He appears to have been something of
a miser in that it is said that even after becoming wealthy he dressed worse than a
beggar did.)
When Hájí Amín reached the Holy Land, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked about Naqioff.
When Hájí Amín told him that, despite the fact that he was sitting on so much
money that he has to put it into storage, he had made no Huqúqu’lláh contribution,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá reportedly said, “Músá is of us but his wealth is not. If Hájí Músá gives
us money now, in the future it will be said that the religion of the Ancient Beauty
advance through the money of Hájí Músá … Bahá’u’lláh wants nothing to do with
such wealth.”
Hájí Músá died and his wealth went to people whom, during his life he had
so disliked that he would not let them into his house.
14 Qur’án 3:11

16  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Our ship carried about two thousand pilgrims [on their way to
Jeddah and Mecca] who had business and other financial dealings in
Istanbul, which required meeting with the Iranian merchants in that
city. However, when we arrived [at the harbor], our vessel was
immediately
surrounded
by
police
who
disallowed
any
disembarkation. Regardless of our repeated appeals, “By God, we
are not pilgrims!”, the Turks nevertheless responded, “You must
proceed at once to Jeddah, the port of Mecca!” Through my limited
knowledge of geography, I was able to convince Haqíqí that, in light
of the authorities’ refusal to permit landing at Ottoman ports, it was
best to proceed to one of the nearby harbors in the Mediterranean,
such as Greece, Italy, France, or others. From there, we could
continue to Beirut [and eventually to ‘Akká].

We purchased passage on a Greek vessel and a week later
arrived at the Aegean Islands. This freighter was used to transport
poultry, and during this journey, as we sailed to different islands, our
sole entertainment was to watch roosters and chickens play.
Eventually we reached the port of Pierre in Greece, where we
sojourned for a day and toured the renowned city of Athens.


[Visit to Alexandria]
Once again, we acquired tickets on a ship destined for Alexandria in
Egypt. When we arrived at Alexandria, inasmuch as neither Haqíqí
nor I spoke the language nor were we acquainted with the culture, a
strange thing occurred: thinking we had arrived at Alexandretta,
Haqíqí somehow managed to ask an Arab pedestrian if he knew
‘Abdu’l-Mihdí Hakkák. He responded, “Yes, indeed. He has a shop
near the harbor where he makes seals. Come, I will direct you to
him.” On hearing this, without the least reservation, Khán Haqíqí
immediately followed him. His wife and this servant, however, were
left behind in the ship with no money or passport and bereft of
acquaintances.
The whole day passed without any news from Haqíqí.
Meanwhile, hungry and tired, we were stranded on the vessel, not

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   17


knowing when he might return. Soon the sirens indicated that the
ship was pulling anchor and was ready to sail, but still there was no
sign of Khán Haqíqí!
As our ship began pulling anchor, Khán [Haqíqí] appeared
accompanied by an Effendi15 and when I asked where he had been,
he answered, “There is no time now for such discussions. Help me
with the suitcases as we must leave the ship.” I did as bidden, and
we immediately disembarked.

A short while later, we arrived at the residence of Hájí
Muhammad Yazdí, brother of Áqá Ahmad Yazdí, who, with the
utmost hospitality and joy, invited us to stay with him for a few days.
After a short rest, I asked Mírzá Isháq Khán [Haqíqí] the reason for
his delay [in returning to the ship]. He responded, “I had been in
correspondence with ‘Abdu’l-Mihdí Hakkák in Alexandretta and
mistakenly thought that this city of Alexandria is the same town.
Moreover, the Arab we met further misdirected me. Therefore, after
recognizing my error and having thoroughly searched the city [for
Hakkák], I decided to locate the Bahá’ís, knowing they would come
to our aid. Gradually, and after much inquiry and effort, I found the
shops of the Iranian merchants and some of the believers. However,
fearing my intentions and the possibility that I was one of the
Covenant-breakers, they decided to thoroughly interrogate me. In
the midst of the questioning, the renowned and courageous Hájí
Mírzá Hasan Khurásání, much like a graceful lion or sharp saber,
entered [the room] and, seeing that we were engaged in arguing and
that I was being examined, interrupted the discussions and asked me
directly, ‘Are you a thábit or a náqid16?’ In the same fashion, I
replied, ‘By your life, I am firm in the Covenant!’ He rejoiced aloud;
and with that, the interrogation was concluded and we all embraced
and kissed each other in love and fellowship. He soon sent one of
his experienced attendants with me to fetch you and our belongings
from the ship and direct us to this location.”

15 A term used in Ottoman Turkish for learned or prominent men.
16 Those faithful to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred to themselves as thábit [steadfast] and to
the followers of Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí as náqid [Covenant-breakers].

18  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



It was evident that the foul odor of Covenant-breaking had
reached that region and that the steadfast friends exerted much
caution in their associations, as bidden “Do not consider every speaker
truthful, nor every caller firm in the Covenant.17” Therefore, they thought it
prudent to investigate each visitor, which fortunately [in our case],
concluded quickly through the intervention of Hájí Mírzá Hasan,
and allowed the friends and us to come together in fellowship and
enjoy each other’s company and discourse.


[In Beirut]
In short, after a few days of rest in Alexandria, we acquired passage
and sailed towards Beirut. On this voyage, because of an epidemic
among the [Muslim] pilgrims, we were twice stopped and
quarantined: once at the port of Sinope, near the Tarabuzan
[Dardaneiles], on the shore of the Black Sea, and again at [the
Customs Office of] Beirut.
After release from quarantine, we met the honored Áqá
Muhammad-Mustafa [Baghdádí], who was numbered among the
firm and learned friends, possessed a poetic and cultured
disposition, and in service to the Covenant and Testament was like a
sharpened sword. This steadfast and brave soldier of the Faith was
the son of the honored Shaykh Muhammad Shibl, who in his youth
had accompanied the illustrious Táhirih [from ‘Atabát] to Iran and
had devoted his life to the service of the Cause in the proximity of
the Holy Land. He was a communications center for the friends and
would forward Tablets to their destinations across the globe.18

17 A similar statement attributed to Bahá’u’lláh is quoted in a letter of the Greatest
Holy Leaf (Bahiyyih Khánum, pp. 218-219): “Place not your trust in every new arrival, and
believe not every speaker.”
18 Muhammad-Mustafa Baghdádí had settled in Beirut in 1880, establishing a trading
business in that city, with a branch office in Alexandrine; see, Moojan Momen ed.
“Esslemont’s survey of the Bahá’í community in 1919-20: Part VII: Iraq by Mírzá
Muhammad-Husayn Wakil,” Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, vol 3, no. 3 (September 1985), pp.
5-6. Shortly after Baghdádí’s family, Siyyid Hasan Afnán settled in Beirut and thus
the nucleus of the first Bahá’í community was formed in that city.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   19


Moreover, he was specifically assigned to prevent dissemination of
the Covenant-breakers’ calumnies and to provide guidance to the
friends and pilgrims. He closely associated with prominent figures
and military generals of the Ottoman Empire and indeed served as
the frontline of defense for the Holy Land, and its foremost
protector.
In addition to shielding the Cause of God from various darts
and machinations from its enemies, he provided every possible
comfort and support to the Iranian students in that region, as well as
to visitors and pilgrims. He indeed served as a critical center of the
Cause and was its primary defense. He was a man of unique stature
who was deeply respected by friends and foes alike and in whose
presence no one dared insult the Cause or speak of it unjustly.
Indeed, meeting him has left an indelible impression on my soul.

The honored ‘Alí Ihsán made arrangements for our [travel]
papers, and soon we boarded a ship destined for Haifa. I should
note that toward the latter part of his life, although outwardly Áqá
Muhammad-Mustafa19 had lost his sight, yet through divine
confirmations, he possessed discerning eyes. He was blind, but light
filled his being. He was a lover of the Moon of the Covenant and
with great effect chanted verses he had composed. To this day, I
recall one or two verses of those lines, which I quote below, and
may the mercy of God be upon him:

O ‘Akká, indeed thou art the loftiest place for my Lord,
And thy Branch20 is my Master.
Thus the love of thy habitation is the ardent desire of my
heart,
But especially the love for Him Who dwelleth within
thee.


19 Muhammad-Mustafá had three sons who were all firm as a rock, and their names
were: Husayn Iqbál, ‘Alí Ihsán and Dr. Zia Baghdadi. (HM)
20 A reference to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who was styled the Most Mighty Branch by
Bahá’u’lláh.

20  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


And similarly:

O the Branch of My Lord, Bahá:

My heart is burned up by the fire of Thy separation,
The heat of Thy parting consumes my inner being!


[Arrival in ‘Akká]
At that time, Haifa was a small and insignificant port where only a
few families lived. One of the friends [from Yazd], known as Áqá
Nasru’lláh Cháí-Chí [tea-server], had a humble coffeehouse across
from the wooden landing-pier, and arranged the affairs of the
pilgrims with the utmost wisdom.













Bay of Haifa circa 1905

We stayed at Haifa’s shore for only a short while and then
departed for ‘Akká.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   21












Haifa Port

Our two-horse carriage journeyed the distance on the sandy beaches
and en route we sat quietly as we were wonder-struck by the beauty
of the sea, the majesty of God’s Mount Carmel and the approaching
city of ‘Akká. Our hearts quivered. As the city neared, our
trepidation and anticipation increased until we finally passed through
the iron city-gate and entered “The Strong City.”21 It was Friday, the
eighth of Dhi’l-Qa‘dih 1320 A.H.22 The streets of the city were very
narrow with exceptionally high walls made from limestone, which at
once evoked deep awe and wonder in us.

We arrived at a caravansary known as Khán-i ‘Umdán23, with a
courtyard filled with camels, horses and mules.24

21 Bahá’u’lláh in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 144, states: “Lend an ear unto the song of
David. He saith: ‘Who will bring me into the Strong City?’ The Strong City is Akka, which hath
been named the Most Great Prison, and which possesseth a fortress and mighty ramparts.”
22 As the text consistently refers to 1907 as the date of this pilgrimage, it is believed
1320 is a typist error and the correct date should be 8 Dhi’l-Qa‘dih 1325 A.H.,
which corresponds to 13 December 1907. Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 21, gives the
arrival date as “Friday 8 Dhi’l-Qa‘dih 1329 A.H. (1907)” which corresponds to
Tuesday 31 October 1911 and is clearly inconsistent with other chronological data in
this narrative. Therefore, “1329” is also considered a typist error.
23 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1, pp. 12 (and 1:9) incorrectly refers to it as Khán-i ‘Umrán.
This caravanserai is also known as Khán-i Avamid (the Inn of the Pillars) or Khán-i
Jurayni. For more details see Door of Hope, p. 38 and p. 75.
24 For a description see The Chosen Highway, pp. 230-231 and Door of Hope, pp. 75-76.

22  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá





Filth and dirt enveloped everything. Unwashed Arabs and
persistent mosquitoes were a source of great irritation. An inn,
known among the Arabs as Khán-i ‘Avámíd [the inn of the pillars],
was the stopping place for the caravans carrying goods, grains and
fruits. On the second floor, the friends of God had leased a few
rooms where they resided. They utilized one section as a pilgrim
house while the adjacent and connecting rooms were occupied by
such resident believers as the honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí25,

25 For autobiography see Stories from Delights of Heart.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   23


Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin26, Mishkin-Qalam27, and some others.
These souls had closed their eyes to all the pleasures of earthly
life, had forsaken all the comforts of present society, had renounced
all the ease of modern civilization, and had fixed their gaze solely on
the face of the Beloved. They consumed but little food, had
abandoned desires or attachments to worldly affairs, and longed to
attain [‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s] presence, hold fast to the hem of His
garment, hear His voice, partake of His bounties, and taste the joy
and wisdom of His sweet, heavenly utterances. Beholding His
countenance and hearing His eloquent words <10> was the source
of their satisfaction and hope, and allowed them to renounce every
regard and affection for this world.


‘Akká (Acre) circa 1900

What serene lives they led! What spiritual, resplendent and
unrestrained men they were! What tranquil and joyous atmosphere

26 For biography see Memorials of the Faithful, pp. 150-153.
27 For biography see Memorials of the Faithful, pp. 97-101.

24  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


they had created, causing one to forget all the affairs, the pains, and
the cares of this world! No sorrow, no anguish, no avarice, no greed,
no lust, no attachment, no anger, no dispute, no concern for today
or tomorrow, no political conniving, no craving for rank or position
– none of these were allowed into those hallowed and ethereal
surroundings. Indeed, it seemed as if the promised Kingdom had
materialized and the inhabitants of this celestial place had become
the embodiment of what Sa‘dí28, upon whom rest the mercy of God,
described:

If you grant me the choice on the Day of Resurrection,

friendship would suffice me, while I leave all the
bounties of paradise to you.

Through self-effacement, self-sacrifice and self-renunciation,
and through the breath of the life-generating Divine Breeze, they
had attained the station of the true seeker. Their ego had left and
spirituality had filled its place. They had indeed become spirit
reincarnated. [As the poet has versed:]

Man can reach a summit that beholds naught save God,

Lo, how lofty is the station of man!

The sight and insight of those that have witnessed the
instability and infirmity of this world and its dwellers, and have
comprehended the end of things, and determined the volatility of
the present order, and renounced all material desires is summed up
in [the Arabic proverb], “The sweetness of it is as tribulation, and its
reprimands like unto a passing cloud.” That is, earthly enjoyments
are mirage, not reality. They are ephemeral, not lasting. To those
endowed with understanding material pleasures are naught save
childish desires – a fleeing delight – followed by darkness and
gloom.

28 Sa‘dí is the famed writer of Shiraz whose prose and verse remain among the
foremost examples of Persian literary achievement.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   25


Therefore, these things were unworthy of their attention as
they did pass the stage of vain imaginings and arrived at certainty
and understanding of the purpose of creation.
How true indeed were the penetrating insight and faithful
sentiments of the renowned poet of Shiraz, Sa‘dí, upon whom rest
the mercy of God:

The world is not worth the envy that it produces in them,
they grieve for either its existence or its non-existence.
Indeed, one must admit that those who have the proper view,
are those who have not cast their vision at this heap of
dust.
Whatever the true knowers cannot find firm and permanent,
even if it is the entire kingdom of the world, they will not
pay anything for it.
Unless you disapprove of haughtiness and arrogance,
by God, in the kingdom there are many beasts like you.29


My God, what had these sanctified souls seen or experienced
that, in such wise, they had relinquished all the pleasures of the
world and had decided to remain in this prison-city of ‘Akká, with
its foul air and water, a citadel for the most criminally-minded, a
place more nefarious than any other?
This town was devoid of every merit or advantage. Even air
and sun were reluctant to approach it. It was a prison for the
enemies of the powerful monarchs of the Ottoman Empire, and the
permanent grave for murderers, thieves, highwaymen, rabble-rousers
and the most dangerous criminals of the realm. Anyone who
received the judgment of banishment from any part of the Ottoman
Kingdom – be it regions in Europe, Asia, or Africa – was sent to
this prison-city, whence no hope of return could ever be entertained.
It was a Bridge of Sighs30 that allowed no return.

29 The present translator is grateful to Prof Alan Godlas for his kind assistance in
rendering these lines by Sa‘dí.
30 The Roman Emperors in Venice, Italy, constructed the Bridge of Sighs, where

26  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


However, for discerning souls, it was a verdant and flourishing
orchard, with musk-laden scent. From the hair of its camels we
inhaled the fragrance of life, and from its fleas31 and flies we heard
the melody of divine verses. From its walls and owls we perceived
the Songs of David, and from its prison and captivity wafted the
sweet perfume of the garment of Joseph. Blessed are those who
come upon it, happy are those that attain unto it, and glad tidings be
upon them that visit it.


[First Pilgrimage]
During this first pilgrimage, I had the privilege of staying for nearly a
month, that is, nineteen days, while Mírzá Isháq Khán Haqíqí was
present, and then eleven more days with the Hamadání pilgrims [of
Jewish descent]. Day and night I had the bounty of beholding
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s countenance and drinking my fill of His engaging
utterances. Sometimes I was thrilled to the depths of my soul and at
other instances my tears flowed unceasingly. From the rapture of
this wine of union, I was so intoxicated that I beheld no world save
the realm of spirit and the paradise above.

Because of the provocations of the Covenant-breakers and the
machinations of the Ottoman authorities, pilgrims could not attain
the presence of the Master collectively. Often, two by two, we would
walk the narrow alleys from the pilgrim house to the Master’s
residence.32 These alleys were so narrow that if a pedestrian came

criminals sentenced to life-imprisonment would pass over on their way to
permanent captivity. (HM)
31 The congestion of ‘Akká’s fleas is well beyond the imagination of those that have
not experienced it. I recall that while in Khán-i ‘Umdán, my feet were covered with
them, much like wearing a black boot. In this regard, it is revealed in a hadith, “And
if you were bitten by one of its [i.e. ‘Akká’s] fleas, that would be more meritorious
before God than sustaining a severe injury by an arrow in the path of the Almighty.”
(HM) Compare with hadith cited in, Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 79,
“He that hath been bitten by one of its fleas is better, in the estimation of God, than
he who hath received a grievous blow in the path of God.”
32 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His family lived at that time in a spacious building known as the

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   27


from the opposite direction, we had to press our backs against the
wall to let him pass. However, when we arrived at the Master’s
house, particularly on the night that we gathered at His reception
hall, we would be galvanized by the vivifying atmosphere,
particularly when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá began to speak. His utterance had
such a profound effect on the audience that it seemed to penetrate
the very depths of one’s soul and being.




His words often centered on the harm and injury perpetrated
upon His Holiness the Exalted One [i.e. the Báb] and the Blessed

House of ‘Abdu’llah Pasha. It was in this building that the remains of the Báb were
secretly kept for a decade and that Shoghi Effendi was born.

28  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Beauty [i.e. Bahá’u’lláh] and the opposition of the wayward, the
sufferings the martyrs sustained at the hand of the ungodly and the
detachment of the Chosen Ones of God. Occasionally He would
speak of the infidelity of the followers of Yahya [Azal] and the
wickedness of the violators of the divine Covenant. Afterwards, a
Qur’án reciter would come in and, once he had received permission
to sit, would chant Qur’ánic verses in a Hijází or Egyptian style; and
when the Master said, “Sidq Alláh33”, he would immediately stop. At
that time, Áqá Husayn Ashchí34 would serve coffee, and
subsequently all would take their leave.

The tradition was that twice a week, on Friday and Sunday
afternoons, we visited the sacred Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, the Point of
Adoration of the dwellers of the Celestial Paradise. These visits were
always the same and consisted of Isfandíyár going back and forth
several times, taking the friends from ‘Akká to Bahjí in his carriage.

33 lit. Truthfully said God.
34 He joined Bahá’u’lláh’s household in Baghdad and remained with them
throughout various exiles.  He eventually passed away in the Holy Land in 1925. His
fascinating memories are available at: Áqá Husayn Ashchí, Táríkh Vaqá’i‘ Baghdad va
Istanbul
va
Edirne
va
‘Akká
(Lansing,
MI:
H-Bahai,
1997)
at
http://ahang.rabbani.googlepages.com/ and rendered into English by the present
translator at the same internet site.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   29



There was a small pilgrim house near the Shrine where the
believers would wash their hands and face, refresh themselves, and
perform their ablutions. They would also be served tea and chant
prayers, often led by Mírzá Mahmúd Káshí. When all the pilgrims
and some of the resident believers had assembled, calmly and
reverently, with hands folded over chest, we would walk to the
Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh; and afterwards, in the same manner, we would
return.

Once or twice during the week, we would visit the Ridván35
and the Firdaws36 Gardens, as well as Tellu’l-Hamrá [the crimson
hill] and ‘Aynu’l-Baqar [spring of the cow]37.

35 For description see, David Ruhe, Door of Hope, pp. 95-102.
36 For description see David Ruhe, Door of Hope, pp. 102-103.
37 The spring is named from the Muslim legend that Adam watered his ox here,
hence among other descriptions the spring-water is thought to be healing to oxen.
This spring is mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 178 and p.
180, and joining another spring, ‘Ayn’u-Sitt [the spring of women], it flows to the
east of ‘Akká, though their combined volume is inadequate for the city. For more

30  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


It continued in this fashion until our allotted period of
pilgrimage was concluded and instructions for departure were
received. Since the plan was for me to go to the United States, the
American pilgrims, such as [Helen] Goodall and [her daughter Ella]
Cooper of San Francisco, were informed; and even in a general
nightly meeting of the friends, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá specified that I should
travel with the American friends and in consultation with them enter
a university in America. He also remarked:

The Blessed Beauty has provided the means for
the unification of the world of humanity and has
removed religious and social conflicts. No longer is a
person to be defined by such labels as Jewish or
Christian. All are embraced by the effulgence of the
Faith, and all dwell beneath the tabernacle of unity.


What occurred at that time was: the honored Hakím Hárún
Hamadáni threw himself at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s feet and pleaded with
Him that I may be permitted to undertake the same study at Beirut
College [instead of going to the United States]. He entreated, “We
know him [i.e. Habíb Mú’ayyad] and are acquainted with his
background. We implore You to allow him to study in Beirut where
he can associate with other Bahá’í youth.” A little while later, I was
summoned into the presence [of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]. I went in, bowed
down and was greeted with the customary, “Marhabá38!” Afterwards
the billowing ocean of His utterance surged and His all-embracing
grace and compassion surrounded me. He remarked, “Your
honored friends have made such a request, but what do you say?”
“Whatever is Your good wish,” I responded. “The Blessed Beauty
has stated,” He commented, “‘My pleasure is in the pleasure of My
creatures.’”39

details see, David Ruhe, Door of Hope, pp. 125-126.
38 Lit. Well done, or welcome.
39 Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Hidden Words, no. 43, states: “O My Friends! Walk ye in the ways
of the good pleasure of the Friend, and know that His pleasure is in the pleasure of His creatures.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   31





[Visit to Jewish Holy Places]
In short, it was decided for me to go to Beirut. Therefore, the
American friends left and I remained for a few more days until the
Hamadání believers were also dismissed, at which time I
accompanied them. During this time, whatever He uttered and all
that He commanded regarding travel in the Holy Land, applied to
me as well. For instance, regarding the ancient holy places, He
remarked:

All of these were the dwelling-places of the
Prophets of old. All of them were blessed by the
footsteps of the Divine Manifestations, Who spent their
nights fervently praying and beseeching the Almighty for
the fulfillment of His promised redemption. All these
caves that you see, these are where the Prophets lived.
They have trod upon every spot of this land. Therefore,
every part of this land is hallowed and sacred.
All these Prophets and Chosen Ones also longed
to witness such a Day as this. They spoke of the Coming
of the Lord and the appearance of the Lord of Hosts.
They affirmed that the Tabernacle of the Lord would be
raised
on
Mount
Carmel,
beneath
which
the
representatives of the Most Great Peace would assemble
and from whence they would bestow a New Order upon
the world.
This land is Palestine.40 It is a Holy Land. Soon the
Jewish people shall return to this land, and once more

That is: no man should enter the house of his friend save at his friend's pleasure, nor lay hands
upon his treasures nor prefer his own will to his friend's, and in no wise seek an advantage over
him. Ponder this, ye that have insight!”
40 I should note that at that time, that is, in 1907, the word “Palestine” was not
commonly employed, as this area was under the Ottoman rule and was part of [the
province of] Syria. Some of the Ashkenazi Jews referred to it as “Palistin” or “The

32  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


David’s sovereignty and Solomon’s splendor shall be
made manifest. This is an explicit divine promise, and
there is no doubt therein. The Jewish people will be
made resplendent. They will gather under the banner of
the Cause. All of these barren fields will become fertile
and cultivated. The scattered tribes of the Jewish people
will be united. This region will become a center of
industry and commerce, and will be refined and
populated. Of this there is no doubt.
The Shrine of the Báb shall be raised in the most
excellent manner. The prayers and supplications of the
Prophets of old will not go unanswered! Every divine
promise will be fulfilled. <15> The banishment and
dispersion of the Jewish people shall be transformed into
evident glory and distinction. Even outwardly they will
attain high honor and eminence. The Blessed Beauty
prayed for the people of Israel in a supplication revealed
some fifty years ago, “O God, exalt and glorify the abased
House of Israel41 and assemble this people in the Holy Land.”
Certainly, these divine promises will be fulfilled. There is
no doubt about it.
You must go and with utmost reverence,
veneration and humility visit these holy sites.

Afterwards, I returned to the pilgrim house and was pondering
His words. Soon I was overcome with evil thoughts and was tested
spiritually. I thought – and I take refuge in God! – perhaps the
Master has erred and is not aware that I have come in this direction
to further my education and, since I missed the opportunity to leave
for America, I must now proceed to Beirut for this purpose.
Possibly He was thinking that I was part of the group of pilgrims of
Jewish descent and like them must now visit Jerusalem and other
sacred spots. It is likely that such a delay would prevent me from

Land of Israel.” (HM)
41 Israel means, “hasten unto God,” and was a title of Jacob, father of Joseph.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   33


enrolling in the university and cause irreparable damage to my
academic pursuits. Moreover, I do not have the funds for such a
journey, nor the desire to become a “Hájí”, and I do not think that
one who has visited Bahá’í Holy Places needs to see other spots. I
said to myself:

Hájí goes for the Ka‘bih and I too seek a pilgrimage,

he searches for the House, but I the Builder of the
House.

In short, such thoughts perplexed and disturbed me. In the
pilgrim house I was sharing these concerns with the honored Hájí
Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí when, suddenly, one of the attendants entered the
room and informed me, “You have been summoned [by the
Master].” Immediately I went to His sacred presence and bowed
down. He greeted me with “Marhabá!” and showered upon me
expressions of bounty and grace. He made further remarks, which
were approximately these:

All of this land is the Holy Land, and it bears
traces of the footsteps of the Divine Prophets.
Therefore, every grain of it is sacred and sanctified. The
Prophets spent the nights fervently supplicating and
praying in these mountains and caves, and the only
desire of all of them was to attain the presence of the
Blessed Beauty, and to behold such a Day as this! Now
you are My deputy in taking this pilgrimage. I am a
prisoner and not permitted to leave. My utmost wish is
for the freedom to go and visit these places, but I cannot
do so. Therefore, on behalf of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, you must
go. With the utmost reverence and humility, visit these
holy places, and pray for confirmation. I cannot go
because I am confined here, and the authorities will not
permit Me to make such a journey.

34  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



The Wailing Wall in Jerusalem

Together with the Hamadání pilgrims of Jewish descent, using
horses and mules, we set out on this journey and for the following
two weeks traveled from village to village.42 Nightly, as we visited
each place, we heard from the Jews wondrous and remarkable
stories pertaining to the miracles associated with each spot. With
utmost respect and admiration, we listened to these accounts and,
with hands extended beyond the sleeves of our ‘abás, we stood in
prayer by each of the sacred tombs, reverently kissing the holy
ground.


[In Beirut]
After a long journey to the Jewish sites, eventually I arrived at the
American University in Beirut and after taking an examination,
entered the fifth year of high school.43 I must note that I should

42 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 35, gives the duration of this journey as 20 days.
43 Fifth year of high school is equivalent to the eleventh grade.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   35


have been enrolled in college classes, but since my school
certification from the American school in Hamadán44 was not
authenticated, the school board consulted and decided that I should
write an essay of 500 words in English on the history and teachings
of the Bahá’í Faith. They determined to accept this paper in lieu of
the entrance test requirements. Fortunately, as I had studied various
[Bahá’í] pamphlets and booklets received from the United States, I
was familiar with such big and prestigious words as “Manifestation”
and “Divine Civilization”, and some others.45
At the appointed time, I quickly penned a section on the
history of the Cause, the Most Great Manifestation, and sacrifices of
the martyrs in Iran, and devoted another section to whatever of the
teachings I recalled. In all, two full pages were written and presented
to Professor Hull, the chairman of the department. He was very
impressed by my composition, which saved me a myriad troubles
and allowed me to enter the final year of high school. From that
date, which was early 1908, I enrolled as a boarding student in the
S.P.C. [Syrian Protestant College]46 and began to attend regular
classes.






44 Because of religious impediments and socio-economic factors, many Iranian
Bahá’ís sent their children to the primary and secondary schools of Protestant
missionaries – which the diarist attended – or to those of Alliance Israelite
Universelle, or the Zoroastrian Amelioration Society, which also had Western
curricula; see, John Elder, Tarikh Misiyun Amrikai dar Iran, (Tehran: 1966); Mary
Boyce, “Maneckji Limji Hataria in Iran,” Cama Oriental Institute Jubilee volume
(Bombay: 1969) pp. 19-27.
45 The language of instruction at the Protestant missionary schools in Iran was
English; see, John Elder, Tarikh Misiyun Amrikai dar Iran, p. 36.
46 Since 1922, the Syrian College is known as the American University of Beirut. For
a study of Bahá’í students in this college see the forthcoming article by Richard
Hollinger, “An Iranian Enclave in Lebanon: Bahá’í Students in Beirut, 1906-1940”

36  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá












Haifa 1912

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   37


Chapter 2

Further Notes on the First Pilgrimage47


Second Preface [By the Author]
It should not elude men of insight that it was in my youth that I was
granted the privilege of attaining the presence of His Holiness
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. At that time, I was neither overly concerned with
spiritual issues, nor with matters pertaining to the world hereafter.
My sole desire was to behold the luminous countenance of the
Master, and, in a state of rapture, listen to Him speak. Hence, being
unaware of their future significance, the notes I kept were very
abbreviated, intended principally to aid me to remember the events
of those days and the sweetness and joy of being in His presence.
With pen or pencil, I recorded the essence of whatever I perceived
to be important or beneficial in a small pocketbook that I always
carried with me. Therefore the utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
[presented in this diary] are not His exact words, but rather, what I
recalled after I had returned to the pilgrim house, when I committed
them to paper, often using my own inadequate expressions.
Little did I imagine that one day these [records] would be of
interest to the friends or be worthy of submission before the sacred
presence of the Guardian of the Cause of God. Had I anticipated
such an eventuality, I would have prepared several mighty books of
the utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and recorded the very words as
spoken by Him, as each of those words is endowed with a myriad
spiritual potentialities. Alas, this thought occurred too late to me,
and the little that could be assembled and copied from my various
scattered papers is mostly from the time shortly after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had returned from His European and American travels. I, as well, at

47 This chapter represents diary notes kept by Dr. Mú’ayyad during his first visit to
‘Akká from 13 December 1907 to 13 January 1908 and reproduced in Khátirát, vol.
1, 25-81 (17-58).

38  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


His bidding, had sojourned in Europe and learned modern customs
from the Europeans, including the keeping of notes on important
matters.







[Dr. Habíb Mú’ayyad]


Utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá During My First Pilgrimage
to ‘Akká, Dhi’l-Qa‘dih 132948 A.H./1907
in the House of ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá Jazzár




When I first attained ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence, I threw myself
at His feet and was about to kiss them, when His blessed hands

48 As noted in the earlier chapter, 1329 is a typist error and the correct year should
be 1325 A.H. Dhi’l-Qa‘dih 1325 A.H., which corresponds to 6 December 1907
through 4 January 1908.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   39


lifted me, saying, “Astaghfuru’lláh, astaghfuru’lláh!49 We will
embrace, we will hug!” After He had lovingly inquired of the journey
and our difficulties en route, He spoke of the Blessed Beauty’s visit
to Kirmánsháh [on His way to Baghdad]. He remarked:

How bitterly cold was that winter! We arrived at a
caravansary located by a moat. The journey was full of
sufferings and difficulties, but since it was in the path of
God, it was filled with joy and delight, and we were so
happy. In Asadábád it was particularly cold. The
temperature was 38 degrees below zero. My socks were
wet, which caused my feet to be frostbitten. That
evening we were to eat some halvah. By mistake,
however, pepper had been added in place of sugar,
which severely burned our mouths and throats. That
night we did not sleep, and constantly drank water. From
the blessings of those adversities, those banishments,
now the banner of the Divine Faith is hoisted most high!

A picture of the believers of Qazvín was presented, which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá kissed several times and said, “These resplendent
friends;” “countenances illumined by the light of Bahá;” “well-
pleasing gift;” and “with bright faces they fix their gaze on their
Lord!”


[Hardship Endured by the Prophets]
Regarding the many exiles of Bahá’u’lláh and His banishment from
Iran to ‘Iraq, Constantinople, Adrianople, and eventually to ‘Akká,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

Abraham’s
migration
precipitated
the
manifestation and appearance of Moses, Christ,

49 Lit. God forbid!

40  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Muhammad, the Exalted One [i.e. the Báb] and
Bahá’u’lláh.50 Ponder what mighty influences and
stupendous consequences will appear in the contingent
world as a result of the exiles, hardships, and
banishments of the Blessed Perfection. Of a certainty, it
is difficult to imagine its full effect at the present, but for
those endowed with discernment and possessing
absolute certitude, such a concept poses no obstacle and
[its realization] is manifest as the sun.
At one time during His migration journey, while
surrounded by enemies who were exerting their utmost
in killing the believers and in this regard were
succeeding, the Prophet Muhammad ordered a trench to
be dug so they could hide therein.51 As they dug, they
came upon a large boulder that they found themselves
unable to remove. With His stick the Prophet tapped on
the rock and said, “Khusraw52 is conquered!” Once more
He tapped on the rock and proclaimed, “Constantine53 is
conquered!” The lukewarm companions were puzzled,
but later witnessed the truth of those words and testified
to their veracity.

Regarding the migration of one of the Páshás who had been
killed in the Arab-French war, He commented:

It caused his demise, because he was fighting for
soil, which is the least worthy thing in creation.
However, the migration and wandering of Abraham

50 See Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 281.
51 This incident took place in March 627 AD and the purpose of the moat was to
discourage the enemies from using their camels and horses to overrun Medina. See
Hasan Balyuzi, Muhammad and the Course of Islam, pp. 93-95.
52 The seat of the Sassanian Empire in Iran, situated outside of the present Baghdad.
The demise of the Sassanian Empire was precipitated by the eastward expansion of
Islamic rule.
53 Seat of the Byzantine Empire.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   41


resulted in the guidance of the entire world and
precipitated the Manifestation of Isaac, Ishmael, Jacob,
Joseph, Moses, David, Solomon, Christ, Muhammad and
the Exalted One [the Báb]. Verily, Our exile and
banishment also resulted in the proclamation of the
Cause of God.


In another instance, He spoke the following comments:

Being thoroughly surrounded by enemies, in the
course of the Battle of the Trench, known as Harbu’l-
Ahráb [the Battle of All Battles], His Holiness
Muhammad and His companions were so starved that
they tied stones to their stomachs [to lessen the pain of
hunger]. When in accordance with His instructions they
were digging a trench, they came upon a boulder and
were unable to dig further. His Holiness grew perturbed
and with His staff hit the rock, proclaiming, “Verily, we
have vanquished the sovereign of Constantine!” Once
more He tapped the rock, announcing, “Verily, we have
vanquished the king of Khusraw!” The companions
were perplexed, and the lukewarm Hypocrites54 were

54 Munáfiqín is a reference to those who outwardly professed beliefs in Islam, but in

42  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


quietly ridiculing and mocking Him.
However, it was not long until His promises were
fulfilled and Islam stood victorious. Then the Hypocrites
were humbled and the enemies reduced, and they
recalled the words of His Holiness. <20> The
opponents of [His] Cause came from such tribes as Baní
Kananih, ‘Atfán, Nazarih, Khazráj and Quraysh. When
His Holiness was striking the boulder with His staff,
some of the Hypocrites were remarking to their
lukewarm friends [among the believers], “Out of fear,
without trace of courage, we wet ourselves. Therefore,
how can He speak so boldly?”55 Which is why the
following verse has been revealed, “God shall mock them,
and keep them long in their rebellion, wandering in perplexity.”56
In this battle the number of defenders were seven
hundred, of which nearly three hundred were either of
the Hypocrites or lukewarm in their convictions. But
when they reached the Ayván-i Khusráw57 and saw the
divine prophecies fulfilled, they were all ashamed and
remorseful.


[Spiritual Orientation]
After we returned from visiting the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and
attained the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, He remarked:

Pilgrimage has to do with one’s soul and,
depending on one’s approach, one benefits accordingly.

reality opposed the Faith.
55 A well-known hadith.
56 Qur’án 2:15
57 A reference to the legendary arch of the Sassanian palace. In 1915, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
prophesized that a Mashriqu’l-Adhkar will be raised over the same spot which will
incorporate the restored arch of the royal palace. See, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials of the
Faithful, p. 20.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   43


If one were to approach pilgrimage with the utmost
devotion and consecration, then spiritual rapture would
appear and benefits would be manifested. Otherwise, it
is of no use.

Heart yearns for the abode of peace,

Where the wall builder resides.
But my longing is not for the city,

Nay, it is for the dwellers of the city.



Some come to this Land and are awakened and
enkindled [with the love of God]. Others come and
return in the same state as before. How often persons
like Jamál Burújirdí and Khurtumí came and visited, but
eventually lost all faith. Almighty God placed a
resplendent crown upon the head of the center of
sedition.58
However,
as
he
was
not
worthy,
confirmations were cut and he was deprived of divine
bounties. Shaykh Fadlu’lláh (Núrí) also rose in
opposition to the Cause, which only resulted in his own
downfall and demise.59

58 Markaz-i Naqd [center of sedition] is a reference to Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí.
59 Shaykh Fadlu’lláh was a Shi‘ite cleric from Mázandarán. He was ashamed that the

44  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




[Bahá’í Hostels]
My father, the late Hájí Khudábakhsh Mú’ayyad, had built a hostel in
the village of Sahnih60 for the comfort of travelers and, to the extent
of his abilities, showed hospitality to both Bahá’í and non-Bahá’í
wayfarers. When his name was mentioned was made in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s sacred presence, He remarked:

This is very wonderful! The friends of God must
do the same in every town and hamlet and provide a
befitting place for the comfort of the itinerant believers
so that when they go from town to town, they know that
in a fixed location such hospitality is provided for them.
It would be as if they had a personal residence in that
spot and thereby would enjoy its comfort and be
surrounded by tranquility. However, the friends must
first build a Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, and only then a hostel.
‘Ishqábád’s Mashriqu’l-Adhkár was built in the midst of
tumult and turmoil, and yet it is a mother that will
constantly give birth. The Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is a magnet
that attracts divine confirmations and draws divine
assistance.


[Arrival of the Vakílu’d-Dawlih]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke ceaselessly in praise of Hájí [Mírzá Muhammad-
Taqí] Vakílu’d-Dawlih Afnán61, and further remarked, “They wanted
to take the honored Afnán directly to Jeddah. In these days, travel is
extremely difficult. The [Iranian] travelers are not permitted to

Blessed Perfection was also from Núr and because of this rose in fierce opposition.
Eventually, the constitutionalists hanged him during the Constitutional Revolt. (HM)
60 A small village in the proximity of Kirmánsháh.
61 For a biography of Hájí Muhammad-Taqí Vakílu’d-Dawlih see In the Land of
Refuge, translated by Ahang Rabbani.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   45


disembark in any of the Ottoman harbors, but instead are taken
directly from Batum to Jeddah.”
At the time of the arrival of the honored Hájí Vakílu’d-Dawlih
Afnán, the sea was turbulent; and when he was going from the ship
into a boat, the waves overwhelmed the boat, and the honored
Afnán fell into the sea. With great difficulty, the sailors rescued him.
Upon his arrival in ‘Akká, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said to us, “Let
us go and visit the honored Afnán.” When he saw the Master, with
trembling body, he threw himself at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s feet. The Master
tenderly inquired of him, “Illustrious Afnán, today was most
arduous on you. How are you?” The Afnán burst out weeping
uncontrollably as pearl-like tears flowed down his white beard. Then
with a broken and weak voice, he recited a verse, “Thy presence I
craved, to unburden to Thee my heart,” but the outpouring of tears
did not allow him to say the second verse of the couplet as he
unceasingly and bitterly wept. Witnessing his condition, all those
present were overcome with emotions and wept profusely.


[A Humorous Story]
Today, the Master was very cheerful and jubilant and wished for all
the friends to be joyful as well. For this reason, He told us a story
about Jamál Burújirdí:

‘Alaviyyih Khánum, the wife of the martyred Mullá
‘Alí Jan [Mafuzaki], had a dream which she recounted to
Jamál Burújirdí.62 She said, “I dreamt that Jamál Mubárak
[the Blessed Beauty] came to this room and graciously
spoke in praise of me.” In response, Jamál Burújirdí had
remarked, “Yes, this is a true dream, for I have now
come and am showing kindness to you!”

62 Áqá Jamál Burújirdí was among the most prominent believers in the time of
Bahá’u’lláh, who had a strong base of support in such places as Qazvín, Tihrán and
Mázandarán, including Mafuzak a village near Sari of Mázandarán. After Burújirdí’s
rebellion against ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he lost his following and prestige.

46  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


It would have been good if she had dealt with
Jamál Burújirdí the same way that the Princess dealt with
a homely suitor. One time, the Princess had fallen in love
with Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Khán Núrí. She was informed
that a visitor had come and was sitting in the guestroom.
Thinking that this was the same Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Khán
Núrí, she had taken a lantern and quickly entered the
room only to find a homely and sickly-looking man
sitting there. With both hands she had hit him in the
head such that his hat was torn, and loudly she had cried,
“Is this you Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Khán Núrí? Is it really you
Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar? How despicable you look, Mírzá ‘Alí-
Akbar!”


[‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Bounties]
Afterwards, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá summoned me alone into His presence

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   47


and, after showering His infinite bounties upon me, remarked:

Marhabá! Praise be unto God that you traversed
the lands, the seas, the islands, the meadows, the hills
and the valleys until at last you arrived at this resplendent
realm and attained this spiritual gathering! This is naught
but a sign of the purity of your motive!
All the people of the world arose to exterminate
the descendants of Abraham63, but they failed. Truly, this
is by reason of your faith and fidelity. “He bestows
God’s bounties upon whomsoever He wishes.”
I am well pleased with you since in the Abhá
Kingdom you have brought joy and felicity to the spirit
of your illustrious Ancestor, Abraham. The prophecies
of the Prophets were foretold for your time.

I stated, “I spent four years of my elementary education
[living] in the home of the honored Hájí Músá Kalímí [Jewish],
whose immense kindness constantly surrounded me and who
exerted much effort for my sake. He has offered the gift of a silver
candelabrum for Your august presence and has beseeched divine
confirmations.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá replied, “Very well. For a few nights, I
will keep the candelabrum on my nightstand. Afterwards, you are to
take it to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and, with your own hands, place
it there. This bounty is being bestowed upon Hájí Músá for the
generosity he has shown you.” He also revealed a Tablet in his
honor that is quoted below:

Through the honored pilgrim, Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh, son
of Khudábakhsh, [for the attention of] the honored Áqá Músá
Kalímí, upon whom rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious!

He is God.

63 A reference to the Jewish people who are descendants of Abraham.

48  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


O thou tree of the orchard of His Holiness Moses!64, The
honored Áqá Habíbu’lláh hath arrived at the Refulgent Land,
attained unto the Sacred Threshold and partaken of spiritual
reunion. Meeting him hath brought the utmost cheer and vitality.
He hath written a letter and therein hath spoken glowingly and
most appreciatively of thy abounding kindness and benevolence in
raising him. Indeed, I was deeply thrilled and happy that, praise be
unto God, thou didst show him such favor and generosity. You
have been kinder than a father and truer than a brother! Verily,
the service that thou hast rendered for his sake is a service that thou
hast rendered to the Abhá Kingdom and is an act of servitude that
thou hast manifested before the Sacred Threshold.
Since thy conduct, deeds, spirit and efforts have brought me
such deep delight, I have sent the candelabrum thou didst donate to
the Sacred Shrine, that a sign from thee may be preserved at that
Blessed Threshold. This bounty is on account of the kindness and
generosity thou hast shown this youth.
Upon thee rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘A ‘A.

In a general meeting of the friends, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated the
following:

It rained all last night, which kept Me up. Farmers
must be thankful for the divine bounties that help them
reap the fruits of their labors. People should likewise be
grateful that the outpourings of divine grace cause
verdant greens and choice fruits to come from their
efforts. However, this end is attainable if the process is
allowed to run its course to its conclusion, free of
plagues that damage crops. Otherwise all efforts are
wasted.

64 A reference to the Jewish people; the author was of Jewish heritage.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   49




[Dealing With Opposition]
For some time I had benefited from the tutelage of the American
Mr. N. L. Euver, the principal of the American school in Hamadán,
where I had completed my primary education.65 He had had high
hopes to baptize me and convert me to Christianity. When he heard
that I was leaving for ‘Akká, he wrote me, expressing great regret
[for this decision], and referred to me as “a follower of the false
Christ.” With much sympathy, he had lamented over my
“waywardness.” This letter and the painful thoughts it evoked

65 As noted earlier, this was a small Presbyterian school established in early 1900’s
which grew from a home school to a formal school. In 1930s it moved to Tihrán
and was absorbed by the Tehran American School. For details see:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_High_School_Tehran,_Iran

50  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


continued to agitate me. Throughout the entire course of the
journey [to the Holy Land] and whenever I had a spare moment, I
had been composing a response filled with verses from the Bible,
proving that indeed it was he who was the antichrist for having been
so heedless towards the Person of the Manifestation.
I presented my thick proof-treatise to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and shared
the details of the situation with Him. “Nay, nay!” He advised, “You
are not to send this treatise. Do not write such things to the
Americans. It will cause rancor. It will suffice to write, ‘Since you
have been my teacher, I will never forget your efforts and your
kindness. You are my spiritual father and will remain forever in my
prayers.’ This should be enough.” I wrote according to His
instructions and destroyed the treatise I had composed.
Regarding a polemic pamphlet that was published in Tihrán,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated:

People are exerting [great efforts] to extinguish the
Light of God. They have written and will write many
polemics, as they recently wrote in Tihrán. However,
they do not understand that these polemics will only
serve to propagate the Word of God. They will not be
able to deny the Sun its radiance. If the entire world were
to unite, it could never stop the surging billows of this
ocean. With but one wave, it will discard all the froth and
deadwood. Of course, the believers are vigilant to deal
with such accusations convincingly. Those that serve the
Cause, according to the explicit Text, are promised
ultimate victory: “We… shall aid whosoever will arise for the
triumph of Our Cause with the hosts of the Concourse on high and
a company of Our favored angels.”66 That is, with invisible
hosts, the Almighty will support and preserve the
servants of the Cause.


66 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb Aqdas, K53.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   51


<25> Addressing Mírzá Mihdí Rashtí, Mashhadí Bába and
Karbalá’í ‘Umrán Bádkúbih’í, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

Mírzá Mihdí, how is your health? I am sure you
have endured much hardship? It is most befitting to
suffer troubles in the path of the Beloved. Consider the
animals. The more delicate they are, the more their labor.
Stones and rocks are given no burden. But the trees are
assigned relatively more responsibilities. And yet more is
expected of the animal, particularly those with a voice,
and beyond them, man, who has more strain than all the
rest. There is a Turkish poem that conveys this
concept.67 It is:

Collyrium must endure great hardship,
Be burnt, and crushed and mixed with dye
Before it is worthy of the beloved’s eye.


[Benefits of Public Institutions]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá further noted:

Whatever is public is divine, and whatever is
private is devised of man.68 Therefore, whatever is
established by the friends of God must be public,
whether a Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, or other institutions.
Whatever is public is divine, and whatever is private is
manmade. The efforts of the friends must benefit all
people. Recently, [the Bahá’ís] have founded a school
and plan to build a hospital associated with the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár [of ‘Ishqábád]. If the believers
undertake philanthropic efforts, it must be public and

67 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes two Turkish couplets.
68 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and Testament, p. 13, reveals, “Universality is of God, and all
limitations earthly.”

52  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


not exclusionary against anyone. For instance, if they
establish a school, none must be denied entrance. It
pleases Me when the friends show utmost charity in all
that they build, as in the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár of
‘Ishqábád, which is firmly established in that region. His
Holiness the Exalted One [The Báb] has revealed,
‘Whatever is built on a firm foundation will receive
God’s confirmations and blessings.’


The Incident of the Rabid Dog
Very quickly a dog entered the reception hall and hid under the
chairs. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá commanded, “Chase out this untamed dog! It
is dirty and unsightly. Chase it out!” Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh Qumí
went to chase the dog outside when the dog bit him. The Master
ordered, “Slay him! Slay the dog!” Quickly the attendants rushed
forth and with sticks and shovels attacked and killed the dog. Then
it was discovered that it was rabid and had already bitten a few other
people who had contracted the disease.69 In front of the door of the
inner quarters, the dog was killed, and Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh Qumí
was instructed to proceed to Constantinople for a remedy.
Immediately, this wise old man departed for Constantinople, where
he stayed for two months until he was cured.70


The Bahá’í Mr. Dodd71
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]


The Reuters news agency telegraphed that a Bahá’í

69 It should be noted that at the time rabies was a death sentence – that is, incurable.
70 At that time, ‘Akká was a particularly polluted city, with people living in close
quarters, and special care had to be taken to protect the population. As there were
no facilities for quarantine of sick animals, there was no alternative but to put a
dangerous animal to death quickly.
71 A likely reference to Arthur Dodge, a prominent Bahá’í of a prominent family.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   53


by the name of Mr. Dodd was proceeding to India.
Reuters only sends telegrams for such prominent
personages as the Prince of Germany, and the like.
Sanctified is God! What bounty, what beneficence, what
light, what spirit, what brilliance, what sun is this?! The
[Iranian] authorities thought that once they exiled the
Blessed Beauty, the matter would be concluded and [the
Faith] would be eradicated and erased, without any trace,
and this Light would be extinguished. Shortly after the
ascension [of Bahá’u’lláh], when the difficulties had
reached their zenith, I wrote a poem, which included
these two verses:

In the Orient scatter perfumes,
And shed splendors on the West.
Carry light unto the Bulgar,
And the Slav with life invest.72

In a letter I wrote, “Soon will the East and the
West embrace each other like two lovers.” Some of the
lukewarm believers laughed [at this sentiment]. I
responded, “It is revealed in the Qur’án, ‘Though ye
scoff at us now, we will scoff at you hereafter even as ye
scoff at us. In the end ye shall know.’73” Praised be God
that now, not long after that event, great victories have
been won [for the Cause] in the East and the West, and
confirmations from on high surround all unceasingly.


72 Translation from Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 270. The Master in
the same Tablet confirms that this poem was composed a year after the passing of
Bahá’u’lláh.
73 Qur’án 11:38. Translation as given in the Kitáb-i Iqán, p. 7.

54  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




[Ever-Advancing Process]
In a gathering hosted by Mírzá Mihdí Áqá Akhaván-Safa and Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh Samímí and held in ‘Akká’s pilgrim house, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
remarked:

The Ottoman Ambassador in America has written
the Mutasarrif [governor] of ‘Akká to investigate the
Bahá’ís and to report the results [to him]. The Mutasarrif
responded, ‘These people (that is, the Bahá’ís) never
involve themselves in political matters, and the stories
about them vary considerably. Therefore, the truth is not
known. But what is clear is that they will surely perish
after His passing (that is, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá).’ I liked what he
reported, but his last remark is illogical and he has erred.
The Cause of God is not dependent on My person. Hájí
Mírzá Aqásí stated the same about Exalted One [the
Báb], namely, ‘If we kill Him, then all this noise would
subside.’ They have said the same about the Ancient
Beauty, ‘If we banish Him from Iran, then the Cause will
perish.’ They do not realize that whatever they do will be

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   55


of benefit to the Cause of God and will exalt the Faith.
Though we are captive in their hands and they may do as
they wish, yet they will not hear us complain.


The Honored Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl


Regarding the honored Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá commented
as follows]:

Even though he is old and very frail, Mírzá Abú’l-
Fadl devotes night and day to the service of the Cause of
God and the diffusion of the divine fragrance. He is very
weak and delicate. America’s climate was too cold and
unsuitable for him. Mírzá is old and bent. He is broken
and suffers from chest pains. He could not survive in
those conditions, otherwise he would not have returned.
He has served the Faith most diligently and has
sustained much hardship.
They have sent a photograph of him [from
America] that is very interesting. With his turban and
walking stick, Mírzá is sitting in the midst of these
Westerners as they circle him. It is wonderful to see. Lua
[Getsinger] and Laura C. Barney have written, “Mírzá

56  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


does not eat anything we cook. Today, all three of us
went into the kitchen to prepare a special meal, hopefully
to his liking, but even that was not to his taste.”
The people of Iran are malicious; otherwise I
would send several [teachers] for them to provide
education and edification. That would have been very
good. But, alas, Iran is not at ease, and her people are
prejudiced. They have inflicted several damaging blows
to the body of God’s Faith and have slowed its progress.
The body of the world is ill, and even a well-trained
physician would not be able to easily remedy these ills
and reverse the damage. It is as if the doctor is busy with
treatment, but they pour a pitcher of cold water over his
head or feed him poison. This will not have a permanent
effect though it will delay recovery. The thickest clouds
are unable to prevent the sun from shining, but
eventually the clouds will dissipate by the heat of the
sun. The world-embracing sun gives light and energy.
“When truth is manifest, falsehood is destroyed.”
In short, in all their undertakings, the friends of
God must consider the common good. For instance, in
their business and commerce, [they must] allow for the
profit of others and not just focus on their own gain.
The Exalted One [The Báb], may My spirit be a sacrifice
unto Him, has said, “When at a very young age, I was
assigned to write the merchants’ names on their
commodities, or recite the list of names, I would bow
My head and praise God, so that even during this small
undertaking, I would remember Him. My purpose was
God, and under all circumstances, He was before My
eyes.” The friends must also remember God in all their
undertakings.


[On Divinity]

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   57


Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván-Safá asked, “In the Qur’án it is revealed,
‘Uzair [Ezra] a Son of God.’”74 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá interpreted:

There were certain tribes in the old times, which
no longer exist, such as Samaris or Pharisiyan. Another
such tribe was Uzairiyh [who are no longer extant], and
in much the same way that the Christians today refer to
Christ as the Son of God, they referred to Uzair [Ezra]
as the Son of God.
The background is that the people and the chiefs
of Nijran and Fady came to Medina and attained the
presence of the Prophet, arguing and debating with Him.
At that time the mubahilih75 verse was revealed, “Had we
laid down such a law ...”76
These people believed that the Logos of that
peerless Essence had been made flesh. That is, lahut had
become nasut.77 And this is the present belief of the
Catholics who claim that the Word was incarnated and
that this Being [i.e. Jesus Christ] is God Himself. They
maintain, “Prophethood is temporal”; meaning the body
of Christ is derived from the Invisible Essence and has
been materialized. This concept, however, is false and
evident error.
It is clearly evident that the sanctified reality of
Godhead is beyond any description and incomparable to
any attribute. No matter how exalted human conception
may be, it can never aspire to gain a glimpse into that
sacred Realm, much less gain an understanding of its

74 The complete Qur’ánic verse (9:30) is: The Jews call Uzair a son of God, the Christians
call Christ a son of God. That is a saying from their mouths; (in this) they but imitate what the
unbelievers of old used to say. God’s curse be on them: how they are deluded away from the truth!
75 Lit. “mutual cursing”.
76 Qur’án 4:69
77 Láhút is a reference to the divine world and Násút represents the world of
humanity.

58  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


reality. Nevertheless, these people [i.e. the Catholics]
believe that the incomprehensible and indescribable
Divine Essence, that Supreme Heavenly Reality, has
been materialized in a body, made to suffer trials and
tribulations, had died and then once more had risen.
However, hardships are limited to this plane, and
the Almighty God is sanctified beyond such afflictions.
There is no path to that Supreme Reality. “The way is
barred, and all seeking rejected.”78 “This proof is His Word; His
own Self, the testimony of His truth.”79 Whatever is subject to
change and is temporal is of this plane. The Divine
Reality is sanctified from all attributes, descriptions and
praise. There is no admittance unto that Court and this
world has no relation to that Dominion. All attributes
are embodied in the Manifestations of God Who appear
among the people. “No vision taketh in Him, but He taketh
in all vision: and He is the Subtle, the All-informed.”80
<30> It is evident and manifest that what can be
conceived by the mind of man is limited and of course,
the all-compassing Divinity is greater than that which is
limited. The Sacred Reality can never be imagined.
People envision an illusion, consider it God, and
worship it. However, the Sacred Reality is above all
imaginings and sanctified beyond all thoughts, and the
only path [to Him] is by way of the Manifestations.
Beyond Them is naught but mere invention.
These people [i.e. the Christians] think that the
Divine Reality has been incarnated and appears in three
parts, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Such
attributes pertain to the Manifestations. “Whosoever
believes in Them, believes in God; and whosoever
separates himself from Them, has separated himself

78 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i Íqán, p. 141.
79 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i Íqán, p. 92.
80 Qur’án 6:103

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   59


from God. Whosoever obeys Them, has obeyed God
and whosoever denies Them, has denied God.” None
are allowed access unto that Divine Reality. “He who
soars on the bird of his own rational faculty in the
exalted heaven will return to the same station whence he
was created.” When a person dies, he ascends to that
station which is enshrined within his essence.
Consider minerals that are but one of the effulgent
rays of creation and constitute the lowest level of this
world. No matter how they are perfected, they can never
hope to attain unto the station of vegetables. And
similarly, vegetables can never develop senses, nor can
animals ever aspire to gain rational faculties and
command exhibited by men. All the attributes of
minerals are limited to the world of minerals, and the
vegetables are bounded by their own limitations, as are
the animals. They are all confined within the scope of
their category of existence. Therefore, creation is
hierarchical, and each level is incapable of understanding
the higher realm. Now, it is evident how far apart man is
from his Creator.
The purpose of these talks and these sentiments is
to stir the heart, to rejuvenate the spirit, to deepen the
faith, and to bring forth ecstasy, certitude and love for
the Cause of God.
These people think that Ultimate Divine Reality
has appeared in the contingent world and consists of
flesh and bone, whereas His Holiness Christ has said,
“The flesh is agitated, yet the spirit is in ecstasy.”81


[A Teacher for India]

81 Matthew 26:41 reads, “Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the
spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.” Mark 14:38 states essentially the same.

60  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Áqá Mírzá Mihdí Rashtí departed for a teaching trip to India, and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [wished him well and] stated, “Honored Áqá Mírzá
Mihdí:

The Indian parrots will become sweet-toothed,

from this Pársí sweet going to Bengal.82

God willing, you will be confirmed, successful and triumphant.
There was an Áqá Muhammad Javád of Turkish background who
would recite this poem with his delightful accent.”


‘Akká’s Pilgrim House
The pilgrim house of ‘Akká consisted of a large room facing the sea
and was on the eastern side of the city (located in Khán-i ‘Avámíd or
otherwise known as Khán-i ‘Umdán). Two rooms with stone walls
were built on its western flank where the honored Hájí Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí and the esteemed Mishkín-Qalam resided. There was
another room on the eastern side, which opened into the hallway
and served as the kitchen, where visitors removed their shoes.
A parrot lived in a cage and whenever ‘Abdu’l-Bahá entered
the room, in a loud and clear voice the parrot would say, “Allah-u-
Abhá!” He would say this with such resonance that it could be heard
from a considerable distance. Occasionally he would say,
“Marhabá!” and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would smile and respond “Allah-u-
Abhá!”

82 The poem is by Háfiz and was composed when he planned a journey to India – a
journey that he never completed. The same verse appears at the beginning of
Bahá’u’lláh’s renowned Lawh Shikar-Shikan Shavand (The Bahá’í World Volume, vol.
18, p. 11) revealed in response to the Iranian Foreign Minister, Mírzá Sa‘íd Khan,
who had suggested that Bahá’u’lláh leave Baghdad in favor of India – a scheme that
Bahá’u’lláh foiled and rejected. “Pársí” means Zoroastrian, and some modern
scholars (e.g. Du Guftar by Delárám Mashhúrí) have argued that Háfiz was a
Zoroastrian.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   61




The honored Áqá Muhammad-Hasan Khádim [servant], who
was corpulent but very agile and efficient, arranged all the affairs of
the pilgrims. Single-handedly, he prepared the pilgrims’ meals three
times a day, cleaned the rooms, shopped for provisions, cooked,
washed the dishes, set the sufrih83, served tea, and even occasionally
washed the pilgrims’ clothing. The meals were very simple and
unceremonial. They typically consisted of a simple broth, at times
served with yogurt.
[In the mornings,] he would bring water, fire up the samovar
and serve breakfast that consisted of some pure wheat bread with
one or two cups of sweetened tea. Then he would go to the bazaar
and purchase meat, potatoes, onions, and other necessities. Once he
had returned, he would commence making the broth. Afterwards, he
would bring wheat flour, make the dough, and by late morning
would carry a large pan of dough, often over his head, to the bakery.
Once the bread was made, he would bring it back to the pilgrim
house wrapped in a white tablecloth and would begin his other
work. Very calmly, about an hour past noon, sometimes two, when
all were hungry, he would spread the sufrih and place on it plates of
raw vegetables and cheese. Each pilgrim was served some broth that
contained one or two pieces of meat, about two pieces of potatoes
and an occasional tomato.
All the pilgrims were the same and considered equal. All types
of backgrounds, rich and poor, young and old, urbane and villager,

83 Tablecloth, typically spread on the floor at mealtime.

62  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


and people of various religious descents could be found among the
pilgrims. However, there was no favoritism or discrimination in their
ranks whatsoever, nor was there any luxury or self-indulgence. In
fact, during their free time, the pilgrims were asked to assist in sifting
wheat. Each person would pour about a pound of wheat on a paper
or a tray and, seed by seed, separate good seeds from the rejects.
Áqá Muhammad-Hasan would take the good seeds to the mill, and
then bring back bags of flour to the pilgrim house where he would
make the dough. After he made bread with it in the bakery, the
pilgrims themselves enjoyed the product. What wonderful taste and
what great joy were concealed in this collaborative effort. Nothing
else could compare with it. With utmost eagerness and delight the
pilgrims, often numbering in excess of thirty or forty, ate this bread
all by itself, and such joy would overcome them that it can never be
described. Another reason why the bread was so satisfying was that
Áqá Muhammad-Hasan was unable to serve lunch or dinner at the
standard mealtime. Therefore, being very hungry, we pilgrims ate the
bread with the greatest pleasure and enthusiasm. Indeed, no food
can ever hope to rival the delight of that bread!
Day and night the pilgrims were in the utmost ecstasy and
rapture, their spirits soaring to the Supreme Concourse, thoroughly
oblivious to worldly concerns and such mundane things as food.
Rich and poor were one and the same. All were profoundly devoted
to the Beloved and adored His heavenly, moon-brilliant
Countenance. Neither superiority nor inferiority existed among the
pilgrims. Rich or poor, we all sat at the same table, enjoyed the same
food and drank from the same chalice of love. “How magnificent is
that assemblage of love where the deprived sits equal to the king!”
To cheer the friends, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often came
and joined us in meals. After inspecting the kitchen and the situation
of the pilgrims, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would provide the necessary
instructions for improvements.
In addition to his services at the pilgrim house, which included
cooking meals and arranging the affairs of the pilgrims, the honored
Áqá Muhammad-Hasan greatly loved to engage in discussions and

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   63


discourse, and offering detailed opinions accompanied by historical
deductions. If anyone raised a question, he would provide a long
explanation that would thoroughly and completely explore all
aspects of the subject matter. He was truly learned, particularly in the
areas of mysticism, philosophy and proofs. He also had a deep
knowledge of the Faith’s history.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Utterances in the Pilgrim House of
‘Akká

Since I had not seen the friends all day, I decided
to come to the pilgrim house and visit you. The weather
was stormy, I had the lingering trace of an illness and,
therefore, thought it best not to leave the house so that
my condition would not worsen. This was in accordance
with the command of Bahá’u’lláh, Who has enjoined
upon us the observance of wisdom. Consequently, I
rested. Under all circumstances, we must be prudent, as
the Sacred Text has explicitly ordained wisdom upon us
all.
It was in accordance with this ordinance [of
Bahá’u’lláh] that I sent Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh to Istanbul
to remedy (the bite of the rabid dog) so that it would
serve as an example to the friends. Whenever sickness
prevails and health is disturbed, seek the counsel of a
competent physician. Protection of one’s well-being and
health is repeatedly enjoined in the Qur’án.84 However,
the Muslims do not follow the laws of the Qur’án and
are unaware that it states fate is of two kinds,
irrevocable85 and alterable. It is revealed that one must
guard against the alterable. Consider a lantern in which

84 For example, the Qur’án 2:191 states: “... throw not yourself with your own hands into
ruin.”
85 The original term is “hatami”, which implies being preordained.

64  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


the owner has deposited fuel and wick sufficient for ten
nights. If no interference occurs, it burns brightly for ten
nights. But with the gust of a strong wind, it will be
extinguished, which is why it is revealed that one must
guard against sudden gusts.86
Similarly, it is revealed, “The knowledge of bodies
and the knowledge of religions.”87 Notice that the
knowledge of the body is given preference over the
knowledge of religion. Consider: A Christian has three
children and exerts the utmost care in guarding their
well-being and health. But a Muslim has twenty offspring
and as he is careless in their affairs, they all roam the
streets, expire and die.
A cholera epidemic broke out in Tripoli, and since
the Christians were vigilant, only two of them died;
whereas two thousand Muslims perished due to their
lack of attention and safekeeping.
It was for this reason that I sent Áqá Siyyid
Asadu’lláh so that none would speak critically. In truth,
the root of wisdom is with God – He gave wisdom to
the Prophets, and the physicians have inherited the same
from Them.

86 The Gleanings, LXVIII, p. 133, states: “Know thou, O fruit of My Tree, that the decrees of
the Sovereign Ordainer, as related to fate and predestination, are of two kinds. Both are to be
obeyed and accepted. The one is irrevocable, the other is, as termed by men, impending. To the
former all must unreservedly submit, inasmuch as it is fixed and settled. God, however, is able to
alter or repeal it. As the harm that must result from such a change will be greater than if the decree
had remained unaltered, all, therefore, should willingly acquiesce in what God hath willed and
confidently abide by the same. The decree that is impending, however, is such that prayer and
entreaty can succeed in averting it.” Regarding “gusts” and predestination, the Qur’án 77
states, “By the (Winds) Sent Forth one after another (to man's profit); which then blow violently
in tempestuous Gusts, and scatter (things) far and wide; then separate them, one from another, then
spread abroad a Message, whether of Justification or of Warning – assuredly, what ye are promised
must come to pass.”
87 This is a well-known hadith, attributed to Prophet Muhammad. Bahá’u’lláh evokes
the same tradition; for example, see Tablet to Mírzá ‘Alí-Muhammad Ibn-Asdaq
quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq-Khávarí’s Ganjinih Hudud va Ahkam, p. 244.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   65




Unclad, Dark-skinned Arab
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá related the following story:]

One day in Baghdad, I went hunting with two or
three of the friends. Riding a camel, an unclad Arab
Bedouin came towards us. In jest, one of the friends
raised his gun to scare the Arab, but another one
prevented him. The Arab came, dismounted and asked
for bread; we gave him some. He asked for tobacco and
pipe, which we also gave. He asked for ammunition, and
we provided it. But we had no coffee to give him.
Pleased with us, eventually he left.
<35> The friend who had prevented the mock
shooting said, “Do not be deceived by the appearance of
this unclad, skinny and dark-skinned Arab. He is the
chief of a large tribe and commands many men. If
anyone were to attack him, he would raise a cry, which
would summon multitudes of supporters to his aid. A
huge commotion would ensue, and his men would exact
severe revenge.”
Now, our condition is much the same as that dark
Arab’s. Outwardly we seem naked and alone, with no
support or champion, standing single and alone. But in
reality, the invisible hosts of the Supreme Concourse are
our aid, and whenever they see us attacked or threatened,
They immediately rush forth to our assistance.

66  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá





[Diffusion of the Faith]
Regarding the fact that each day the call of the Cause of God was
raised in yet a new location, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked one-day:

When He had returned to Baghdad, one day the
Blessed Perfection was passing over a bridge and
someone mentioned to His blessed Person that a letter
was received from Mosul in which reference had been
made to Bahá’u’lláh. With greatest excitement and joy,
the Ancient Beauty cried out, “Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-
Qulí, Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Qulí88, come quickly and

88 A younger brother of Bahá’u’lláh, he was raised by the Latter, shared all His exiles
and hardships, and most devotedly served Him throughout his life.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   67


hear the glad-tidings that the fame of the Cause has
reached Mosul!”


Regarding Tihrán
[About Tihrán, and the effect of the Constitutional Revolt, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá noted:]

Tihrán is in great agitation. In truth, the late
Muzaffaru’d-Din Sháh did all he could for his subjects.
But it would have been better to have first educated the
people of Iran, and then have given them liberty. It is
like many well-fed and trained horses that have been
raised on a ranch and then all of a sudden released and
set free. The result is chaos and disorder.
Now in Tihrán they are beating, killing and cursing
each other. They desire civilization, and indeed civil
society is a good thing: but it must depend on spiritual
education. Otherwise, the outward evidences of
civilization are the Krupp cannons, Henry Martin guns
and other destructive weapons. This is not civilization.
In former Ages, at a time when no such notion as
civilization existed, when a king decided to wage war
against another monarch, at most two or three thousand
would be killed. But now that [material] civilization has
appeared, each hour hundreds, nay, thousands perish [on
the battlefield]. When divine civilization is established,
then out of necessity, material civilization will follow as
well.
Ponder this: Amru’l-Qays had entrusted Samuel
the Jew, who lived in the Island of Barlsham, with five
bags of coins. The Isle’s ruler heard of this and
surrounded Samuel’s fort, demanding the coins. Samuel
refused on the grounds that they were a trust, and
eventually the two sides came to blows, in the course of

68  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


which a son of Samuel was killed. But the trust was not
violated. At last, a son of Amru’l-Qays came, and the
bags were returned to him. Now, in which European
country can a similar civilization be found? Nevertheless,
the Europeans consider these people as animals and
barbarians, whereas today, in truth, in none of the [so-
called] civilized countries of the world can a similar
civilization be seen.
My point is that the Bahá’ís of Iran live in peace
because I have repeatedly written that they should not
interfere in political matters. Praise be unto God that
they never intervened and are now in safety. And if some
did meddle in politics, then they alone suffered the
consequences. Repeatedly and successively, I have
written to the friends of God in Iran not to breathe a
word about politics, even should they be slaughtered. I
am well pleased with them and grateful that they have
not entered into politics.
Anyhow, such affairs are not our concern; ours is
to bring about spirituality and morality.


[On Satan]
The honored Akhavan-Safá inquired of the nature of Satan89 and
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s] response was:

Satan is the base self, which provokes destruction
and impetuosity. Outwardly some individuals are refined
and presentable, but in their essence they remain base.
That is, externally they appear like others, but they
harbor sordid intentions and designs.


89 The Hebrew word “‘izazil” is used in the original. Izazil is equivalent to Lucifer, or
to Arabic Iblis; see Isaiah 14:12.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   69


Izazil, however, is the name of a person.


Utterances for the Pilgrims of Jewish Descent
[Addressing the pilgrims of the Jewish descent, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
remarked:]

You must be thrilled that on such a Day you have
come to the Holy Land. Truly, it is because of your
sincere intentions and pure hearts that in this Day you
have heard the divine call and have immediately
recognized it. How great are the tribulations that you
have sustained at the hands of the Romans and the
Muslims and others, and yet you have persevered. At
last, the promise of the Prophets regarding you has been
fulfilled. Soon, when others accept the Faith, you will be
the source of great pride, and many will claim that they
too were of Jewish descent and speak of you with
admiration and praise. You must be very, very happy
that in the Day of the Manifestation you were not
deprived, but indeed attained unto it and came before
the Sacred Threshold, arrived at the Sacred Land of
Palestine and enrolled under the banner of the Lord of
Hosts. This is an explicit promise and clearly enunciated
by the Divine Prophets. They have foretold that even
outwardly, the Jews will come to the Holy Land and
once more reclaim their ancient splendor. I am very
pleased with you. You have gladdened the spirit of your
illustrious Ancestor, Abraham, in the Abhá Kingdom.
Be under the protection of the Blessed Beauty.
Marhabá, fi ámáni’lláh90.

On another occasion, He remarked:

90 Lit, Welcome, be under the protection of God.

70  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



No other spot in the world is as pleasant and
vivifying as this realm, nor can any rival it in beauty and
majesty. On this mountain (Carmel), the Prophets of
Israel spent Their nights in prayer and supplication. Its
soil has been blessed by the footsteps of the Prophets.
Soon will the Jewish people return to the Holy Land, and
even in outward appearance, they will be exalted. They
will then be so glorified that they will be the object of
the enemies’ envy. This is naught but a divine decree,
and nothing can impede its fulfillment. The sovereignty
of David and the splendor of Solomon will once more
be manifested. This land will be the envy of the world. It
will be the center of industry and sciences. ‘Akká and
Haifa will be connected, and all this land will be fertile
and developed.














He is God.

O God! In the Sacred Books and Scriptures, revealed
through Thy Messengers, Thou didst give the Israelites the glad-
tidings and promise that the Day would come when despondent
Jews would prosper, and this captive and abased people would be

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   71


granted everlasting glory. This dispersed nation would enroll under
the banner of the Lord of Hosts and would attain to abundance in
the Holy Land. From lands far away, they would come together in
Zion;91 and the outcast would be glorified, the needy would become
affluent, the unknown would gain renown and the forsaken would
become the beloved of the world.
Now praise be unto Thee that the Day of that promised
comfort hath come and the means for joy and happiness are made
evident. Israel will soon be exalted, and this scattering will be
transmuted into unity. The Sun of Reality hath appeared and
shone its guiding rays over Israel, so that with the utmost bliss from
far away places they may gather together in the Holy Land.

O Lord, make evident Thy promise and glorify the
descendants of Abraham. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful,
and Thou art the Seer, the Hearer and the All-Knowing.

‘A ‘A.


Regarding the publisher of the Egyptian newspaper al-
Mú’ayyad
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá commented:]


91 In Qur’án 17:104 it is stated: “And We said unto the Children of Israel after him: Dwell
in the land; but when the promise of the Hereafter cometh to pass, We shall bring you as a crowd
gathered out of various nations.”

72  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


This man thinks that he is uprooting the Tree of
the Cause and does not see that he is promoting the
Divine Faith. The Ancient Beauty has stated,
“Whosoever arises to harm us is indeed a teacher of the
Cause of God.” This newspaperman writes, “Alas
Muslims! With utmost audacity, these people [i.e.
Bahá’ís] have built their mosque in Chicago and erected
their Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in the mid-heart of America! Is
there not a Muslim left, or has Islam been robbed of its
courage to protest?” Because of his articles, so far, two
individuals have embraced the Faith! Such attackers are
the propagators of the Cause, and yet they do not know
they can never hope to harm the Tree of the Cause.
However, they can perpetrate what they wish upon My
person.
Shaykh Mahmúd, the Mufti of Egypt, has written a
polemic [against the Faith] and therein has noted, “None
can deny or doubt His (‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s) humility and
spirituality.” I wanted to write him and say, “Yes, there is
a denier; he is My own brother!” Consider how the
banner of the Cause of God has been hoisted upon the
apex of the world, and yet the honored Mírzá
Muhammad-‘Alí wants to bring it down. Truly this is
humorous! By God, besides Whom there is no god, they
will never be able to harm the Cause in the least, but if
they wish, they can injure Me any way they like.
Insha’lláh, they will devise the means for Me, too, to
drink from the chalice of martyrdom. I will be very
grateful if they do such a thing. This is My highest
aspiration.
At the time of the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, as we
were
otherwise
occupied,
I
gave
him
[Mírzá
Muhammad-‘Alí] for safekeeping two boxes containing
divine Writings. He has concealed them. He has kept
them so that after my passing he might bring them out

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   73


and use them in accord with his personal inclination. By
God, besides Whom there is no god, each of these will
only greatly harm his own self. Consider how, out of My
sincerity, I entrusted him with two boxes of divine
Writings, and instead he behaves in such a manner. He
will not be able to do anything but bring complete ruin
and regret upon himself. A wave of the Most Great
Ocean will brush aside the froth and residue. Marhabá, fí
ámánu’lláh.


[General Exhortations]
On the occasion of the arrival of Áqá Mírzá Mihdí, son of Hájí
Hakím Hárún Hamadáni, who had come from Beirut, the latter
organized a feast in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who remarked:

Earlier I was speaking with Áqá Mírzá Mihdí, and I
said to him: You must be very happy as you have a
father who is a believer. If you had been a son to the
most powerful monarch on earth, you would not have
attained such an exalted station. This is because we see
that the kings of the realm perish completely and
without trace, but the believers in the Day of the <40>
Manifestation live forever. For instance, now, nearly
thirty-five hundred years have passed since the
Manifestation of Moses, and I am presently proving the
truth of His Cause. Yesterday, incidentally, I was writing
to a philosopher who maintained that the Prophets are
barriers to progress, and I proved his error. I wrote him
about the truth of His Holiness Moses. Consider how
lofty is His sovereignty!
Conversely, consider the case of Pharaoh. There is
no sign of him, no name of him, no trace of him. The
little name that remains of him is because he was a
contemporary of His Holiness Moses. Otherwise,

74  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


pharaohs were many.
Insha’lláh, Áqá Mírzá Mihdí will complete his
studies, for I have much work for him. The friends of
God are confirmed under all conditions if they do not
merely busy themselves with their own concerns, seeking
only wealth and position, saying, “I have become a
doctor and must therefore lead an easy life, and do this
or that.” They must have good intentions and consider
themselves the servants of the world of humanity. They
must endure hardship and seek comfort for others. If
they succeed in attaining such an attitude, they will be
confirmed, and divine assistance will surround them. No
fruits whatsoever will be manifested from those who are
educated in worldly things and remain unaware of
spiritual matters. However, those among the believers
who live in accordance with the divine teachings,
ordinances and exhortations, shall be confirmed.
In science and acquisition of knowledge, the
friends of God must excel over all people and rank first.
If they study medicine, they must become teachers, so
that others are taught the same science. They must
endeavor to pass this learning to many others, because
becoming a physician is not sufficient. This is how
believers must act. They must remain focused on the will
of the Blessed Beauty and not on the promptings of
others. For instance, they must say, “Since the Blessed
Beauty has willed that I be a servant of the world of
humanity, then I will serve this patient, remedy his ills,
soothe his pains, treat his injuries, and give him all the
comfort he needs.” The friends of God must act in such
wise; otherwise, their efforts will be of no benefit.


[‘Alíyu’lláhís]
Áqá Akhaván-Safá asked of the prominent figures of the

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   75


‘Alíyu’lláhí92 faction, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá commented:

We have nothing to do with the past. “What has
passed is past. And what is to come has not appeared.
Therefore do not compare two vacuities.” If any of them
becomes a believer in this Day, then he is considered the
essence of the world of humanity. If a tree was fruit-
bearing in the past but is now dead, then it is no longer a
tree. Today, it must manifest harvest and fruit. In short,
there must be benefits in our endeavors, and we must
consider each moment precious. We must remain joyful
and radiant in this divine springtime.


Yahyá in Cyprus
[Regarding Mírzá Yahyá Azal in Cyprus, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]

Repeatedly the illustrious American believers send
missives, desiring to go to Iran and visit the native land
of the Blessed Beauty. I reply, “Now is not the time as
Iran is in turmoil and there is no security. Insha’lláh, you
will go later. It is amazing and most remarkable.”
Yahyá is in Cyprus and his son, Ridván-‘Alí93, has
joined a [Christian] church. His other son, Ahmad, has

92 ‘Alíyu’lláhís or ‘Alí Iláhís, is the name often incorrectly ascribed to a Sufi order
known as Ahl-i Haqq. The latter order traces its original to the tribes in Qara-
Quyunlu Empire in the 15th century and constitutes a loose network of groups, each
with their own set of beliefs. While the Twelver Shi‘í Imams are revered by them,
They are not central to their convictions. The ‘Alíyu’lláhís on the other hand
maintain the supremacy of ‘Alí and believe in certain other extremist and skewed
views. For details see, Moojan Momen, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam, pp. 46-7 and
Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís at the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 314.
93 He is remembered for having devoted much time to transcribing Bábí writings,
particularly many manuscripts for Prof E.G. Browne. A number of Writings of the
Báb and other prominent figures of that Dispensation, such as Quddús, have
survived in the hands of Ridván-‘Alí.

76  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


become Protestant. His other children are all immersed
in troubled waters of their own and have become a cause
of embarrassment. It is good for you to go and witness
the misfortune and remorse that is their lot. Even
though a government such as the British, with all its
might, is supporting him, yet he wallows in the depth of
misery.
However, while laden with manifold tribulations in
the Most Great Prison, we have managed to advance our
purpose.
Divine
confirmations
have
ceaselessly
surrounded us. The fiercer the troubles and difficulties,
the more intense the divine succor. What rapture, what
light, what spirit!
Once in a gathering in Tihrán, the British
Ambassador had said, “There is One in ‘Akká, in the
Ottoman prison, Who appears with majesty, splendor
and glory. And yet there is another in Cyprus who
evinces the utmost incompetence and ineptitude.”
Regardless, it is good to go and see for yourself.
Cyprus is near, not far. See under what conditions he
lives.


[Service to the Cause]
In the course of our journey from Tihrán to ‘Akká, the Holy Land,
wherever we met the friends of God, they implored us to mention
their names in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s august presence. We had made a list
of these names and one day, the honored Mírzá Isháq [Haqíqí] and I
presented it [to the Master]. He commented, “You are always
present and observe how many letters I have penned for you.
Despite all the work that I have – of which you are well-aware – I
have written a very long Tablet, nay, a book.94 Send it to Tihrán so

94 This long Tablet is printed in Makátib ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, volume 2, pages 105[-112].
(HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   77


they can transcribe and send it to all communities. It is very
comprehensive. Insha’lláh, you will go and revive the world for the
body of mankind is dead.”
Mírzá Isháq Khan Haqíqí responded, “By the grace of God,
we will do so. Otherwise we have no such worth!” “Consider this
tree,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “If it only focuses on its own merits,
then it will have no hope, and will be deprived. However, if its hope
is on the billowing waves of the sea of nature that send forth clouds,
rain, merciful breezes and nourishment, the tree will eventually grow
green and verdant, with leaves and blossoms. The sun will shine on
it, and it will bear fruits and bring forth goodly results. It is the same
as you have stated. If a person does not sense the same, remains
unaware of his shortcomings, and exerts no efforts to improve
himself, then he is no better than a stone. When a person is humble
and becomes selfless, then he grows hopeful [of divine assistance].
We, too, are confident of the bounties and confirmations of the
Blessed Beauty. Insha’lláh, you will also be fruitful and productive.
Be confident.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then brought a bottle of pure attar [of rose] and
anointed our faces. “I wish to perfume your faces much the same as
in past ages, when people cleansed and perfumed themselves, so
that, God willing, you will be confirmed and successful and, through
consultation with the friends of God, will try to exert your utmost.”
Afterwards, He turned to me and said, “You have many
brothers and sisters there, and I wish to send a few of the Iranian
[Bahá’ís] to America. For now you may take your leave. Marhabá, fí
ámánu’lláh. Be under the protection of the Blessed Beauty!”

78  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá





[Dr. and Mrs. Krug]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had revealed a Tablet for someone in Canada.
(Apparently, this person was Mrs. Krug, wife of Dr. Krug. When
she embraced the Cause, her husband protested and disapproved of
the Bahá’ís frequenting his house or for the gatherings to be held
there. He was also unhappy that she was spending most of her time
in the service of the Cause and less on household matters or on him.
Eventually, their differences deepened and precipitated certain
difficulties about which she wrote to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and beseeched
His prayers so that either her devotion [to the Cause] would be
lessened, or her husband would be enabled to recognize the Faith
and no longer be in conflict with her. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed a Tablet
and gave certain instructions, and eventually her husband embraced
the Cause and attained a distinguished station in the Faith.95

95 Initially Dr. Florian Krug of New York was not a Bahá’í, but his wife, daughter
and son were. He met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on His journey to the United States in 1912.
Eventually he became a Bahá’í and went on pilgrimage in late 1921. He was there
when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá passed away and since he was a physician, was summoned by the
family. Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant, p. 452, states that it

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   79


Because he ranked among the philosophers and the learned,
had mastered the natural sciences and was a man of liberal
proclivities with great influence and power, who initially disapproved
of his wife’s religious tendencies, whenever he conversed with his
friends after his conversion, he would remark, “The path we took
was not the path of righteousness, but we thought it was.”96 And
also, “We must seek the right path in the same way that it was
sought by the righteous and mend our own ways.”97)
On this occasion ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

Consider the majesty of the Word of God! This
girl came here when she was engaged to an American
who was a very learned and prominent scholar of that
land. All spoke highly of him. When she came here, she
grew very spiritual. She wrote Me a letter stating that she
deeply loved him, but asked that I pray so that this love
would end; for he was not a Bahá’í, and in no wise did
she wish to marry a non-Bahá’í. The parents of the
fiancée also wrote Me. Firmly, I wrote her that she must
show affection to her husband. That is, I said, she was
most definitely to marry him. Eventually, they married
and afterwards he embraced the Faith. Now both reside
in Canada and are engaged in service to the Cause.



was he who closed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s eyes. There is also a short biography of Dr. Krug
in Marzieh Gail, Arches of the Years, starting page 106.
96 The statement could be a reference to the following verse of the Bible (Romans
10:3): “For they being ignorant of God’s righteousness, and going about to establish
their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of
God.”
97 It seems the following verse of the Bible (Isaiah 55:6-7) is being echoed: “Seek ye
the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near; Let the wicked
forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the
Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly
pardon.”

80  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Lunch in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s House
All the pilgrims and a large number of the resident believers were at
the house of the Master for lunch and benefiting from His
utterances. A pitcher of warm water had been placed on the table
from which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá poured so that the guests could wash both
hands with soap. Standing next to the Master was Shoghi Effendi
who would hand each guest a clean, white towel. Some of the
friends were clever and also washed their face with the warm water
and soap.


With Shoghi Effendi on his way to England

After we sat around the table, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá served food for
everyone, looked after their needs, and commented:

Praise be unto God that through the generosity
and benevolence of the Blessed Beauty, we have come to
this resplendent spot and are assembled under the
canopy of Bahá’u’lláh’s bounties. Such gatherings are
held solely through divine grace and favor, and,
therefore, we must be thankful for them. With deep
devotion and longing, each of us has come from some
distant land and has no purpose except the good

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   81


pleasure of God. It is a feast of love and fellowship.
The believers must be servants to the world of
humanity. They must be kind to one another, nay
sacrifice themselves for others. They must not just love
their friends but should also be kind to their enemies and
indeed count them as friends. Since these people have
not drunk from the chalice of divine love, they know not
[such sentiments]. But since you have been raised under
the shadow of the bounties of the Ancient Beauty, <45>
you must befriend all the peoples of the world. You
must be a true servant to each member of humanity, not
just by your words, but, verily, by your conduct and from
the depth of your soul, heart and belief. You should do
so not because people may recognize your good deeds,
but because the Blessed Beauty has wished it and it
meets His good-pleasure.


[Duty of Bahá’ís]
On the occasion of the departure [for Iran] of Mírzá Isháq Khan
Haqíqí, Áqá Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván-Safá and Mírzá Habíbu’lláh
Samímí, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá said]:

The spirit of the world is dead. Each of you, in
accordance with your own capacity, must arise in service
and sacrifice. Insha’lláh, with utmost joy and well-being,
rejuvenated and renewed, and by the life-giving Most
Great Spirit, in felicity you will return to serve the Cause
of God. God willing, you will be confirmed and
successful. Tell the friends of God in Iran that, at
present, the government and the people have arisen to
destroy one another. Now is your time: Arise and win
the prize of everlasting happiness! You must guide the
people. Each Bahá’í must teach at least one soul each
year. Each believer can revive another soul during the

82  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


year, even through praise and prayers. And if a greater
number is taught, so much the better. However, at least
one person must be taught by each Bahá’í [every year].
Each night that I cannot sleep, I implore and
beseech the Sacred Threshold of the Blessed Beauty with
utmost intensity and fervor to confirm His divine friends
under all conditions. Of a certainty, He will do so. If it
had not been for My supplications, no trace could be
found of My bones or those of the friends. Therefore,
with fervent supplication, the friends must ask for
whatever they desire from the Threshold of the Ancient
Beauty.
When you go to ‘Iraq, convey my earnest greetings
to each and every one of the divine friends and tell them
that I was greatly perturbed and saddened by their
differences. Praise be unto God that the news of their
unity and peace was received and brought much joy to
My heart. At the beginning, I was so grieved that I
terminated My correspondence with them, but now I am
very pleased and joyful with them.
In truth, if, God forbid, the slightest dust of
disagreement clouds the relationship between two of the
friends, others must quickly arise and do their utmost to
settle the dispute and reestablish love and unity. Even if
one or two days pass with an unresolved difference, it
will become firmly rooted and animosity will develop.
The friends of God must be peacemakers and in matters
of common good, promote the general well-being. They
must consider Bahá’ís and nonbelievers as one and the
same. We have been created for the betterment of all
people and nothing else!

When
these
friends
were
departing,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
affectionately embraced each and said, “The same way that I have
embraced and kissed you, you must embrace and kiss each and every

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   83


one of the friends of God that you meet. Fí ámánu’lláh. Marhabá!”
After their departure, He noted, “Saying farewell is a bad
thing, but what can we do? It is a tradition. It would be good to
remove it from our ways because it brings sadness.”


[Husayn Sádiqí]
The story of the honored Husayn Sádiqí is very interesting and
worth telling. I first met him in Haifa’s Rahmání pilgrim house.98
During the First World War, 1914-18, I returned to Iran and, on a
postal card, received a Tablet which contained the news of [the
imminent] arrival of Husayn Sádiqí. I waited for some time, but
there was no sign or news of Sádiqí. Eventually in 1919, when Iran
was embroiled in total turmoil, discord and disorder ruled the land
and murder and chaos were at their height, one day I saw a very
unkempt man with tribal headwear approaching me. I recognized
him to be the long-expected Husayn Sádiqí, who had been in the
Ottoman military and who had crossed the border of Iran, walked to
Kirmánsháh and had now found me.
Since he was a soldier and a guard in the Ottoman army, he
preferred sleeping during days and staying awake at nights, guarding
our residence. I took advantage of his availability and gave him a
gun, and all night he would pace the courtyard and protect us, while
we slept at ease. At that time, midnight thieves would often attack
homes and rob them of everything. It seemed that this heavenly
guard was sent to me by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for my protection and safety.
After a few months with me, he left to teach the Cause in the
surrounding regions, and wherever he went, he left behind
unforgettable memories. The mercy of God rest upon his departed
soul.
It is befitting to quote at this juncture a Tablet sent to
Baghdad and revealed in honor of Husayn Sádiqí, son of Mírzá

98 The pilgrim house of Haifa was built by Mírzá Ja‘far Rahmání of Shiraz, known as
Hádíoff, and in the early days was known by his name.

84  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Músá Harf Baqá [the letter of eternity], which speaks about the
differences among the believers of that region. The original of this
Tablet I have sent to the [International] Archives on Mount Carmel.

He is the All-Glorious!
O ye eager souls trembling with the breezes of the love of
God wafting from the meads of the Kingdom of the All-Glorious
One! I swear by the one True God! Verily the Sacred Concourse,
those essences of certitude in the divine unity, those temples of God’s
singleness, all yearn for you, especially this pitiful servant, a
stranger in this land, humble, broken, and lowly. I beseech God
that “He may dispose of our affairs in the right way,”99 and that
He might ordain for me the joy of beholding the faces of the loved
ones of God and associating with those dawning places of light in
the assemblage of faithfulness. O my Lord! Grant me this bounty,
inebriate me with this mystic wine and illumine mine eyes with the
light shining from the faces of Thy righteous loved ones. Verily
Thou art the Most Bountiful, the Giver, the All-Merciful.
Praise be unto God, the Provider of Divine Bounty and
Nourishment, He Who is the Inscriber of the Point from which the
letter Ha’ is derived, He Who turneth the luminous Day Star in
the apex of the heavens, He Who casteth forth meteors dispersing
the assemblages of selfish desire, He Who ignites incandescent lights
in the globes of faithfulness, making them to be stars of His Abhá
Kingdom. Salutations, glory, and praise be upon those holy souls
who have humbled themselves, prostrated, and brought themselves
low before the dust trodden by the footsteps of the beloved ones of
God.
O ye chosen ones of God! It is incumbent on you to attain
unity and concord and at all times to eschew dissension and
estrangement, and to avoid hypocrisy. Be as one single cord,
heavenly and united, and as the arrayed hosts of the concourse on
high, a unifying force, that perchance in such wise God might assist

99 Qur’án 18:10

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   85


you beyond all the peoples and nations and may raise your call
amidst all the communities, tribes and sections of humankind, that
He may send forth to you victory and success from the Realm of
Abhá, and support you with the spiritually marshaled and engaged
armies and regiments of the Sublime Concourse.
But if ye be divided and be afflicted with dissension, grace
and bounty will vanish from your midst, the floods of divine
generosity will be impeded, your Heavenly Beloved will show His
wrath towards you, your portion of divine grace will diminish, and
the Divinely ordained Physician will flee your company, your
adversaries will defeat you, and they that hate you will achieve
domination over you, your assemblage will disperse, your company
will fragment, your lights will be darkness, your scintillating star
will set, and your gathering will be scattered, your flowing water
will completely ebb away, the fire of your spiritual torment will
blaze deep, and you will become as bodies without spirit, as cups
bereft of  mystic wine, a bulb of glass without a light, lost in your
ways, without any means of ascent.
I supplicate God, however, that He may open unto you the
portals of unity under all conditions, sanctified from all limitations
and imitations, that at all times ye may cling to the hem of
singleness and detachment. I swear by the righteousness of God that
the heart of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá will never be joyous but in the unity of
the friends, and love among the chosen ones of God. I beg God that
He may vouchsafe this joyous bounty unto me.
‘A. ‘A.100


Áqá [Muhammad-]Ridá Qannád101

100 Translation by Dr. Khazeh Fananapazir.
101 Originally of Shiráz, Áqá Muhammad-Ridá had a confectioner’s shop in
Baghdad, which earned him the title of Qannád. When Bahá’u’lláh left Baghdad,
Muhammad-Ridá accompanied Him to ‘Akká. After the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, he
continued to serve ‘Abdu’l-Bahá until his passing in about 1912. His son, Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh, was a secretary of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during the first phase of His ministry

86  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The late Áqá Ridá Qannád Shirází was a sincere and devoted
servant. Though he was very old and broken, day and night he
served with utmost diligence and obeyed the wishes of the Master
with all his heart. In truth, whenever he was sent [by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]
on an errand, he would run the whole way, much like someone who
was being chased. Most of the external affairs of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
household and transmission of messages were conducted through
him. He had a particular affinity for reading newspapers, and when
Iranian newspapers subscribed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in ‘Akká, he
would read the whole thing and, in a few words, report the contents
to the Master.
This day, like other days, he gained admittance to the presence
[of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá] and reported on the news of Iran, the
Constitutional Revolt and the present government.102 [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]
remarked:

We desire neither absolute despotism, nor
unbounded liberty. We are concerned with the spiritual
teachings and matters pertaining to the world above. If
in Iran they grant absolute liberty with no opposition
against the Faith, it would not be of benefit to us. This is
because in the path of the Blessed Beauty we must
endure a myriad injuries, insults and indignities and
sustain every manner of harm and persecution. If we
were at ease like the others, then we would not be able
to propagate the Cause or achieve anything of merit.
Today, the Muslims are free, but what benefit appears
from them? Nay, freedom makes people lazy. We wish

and a strong defender of the Covenant. Later he sought service in the diplomatic
field and became the Iranian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia and Yemen. His son,
Amír-‘Abbás Huvaiyda, served as the Prime Minister of Muhammad-Reza Sháh
Pahlaví for some 15 years, while he always insisted on his Muslim identity..
102 On history of the Constitutional Revolt in Iran see E.G. Browne, The Persian
Revolution 1905-1909, Janet Afary, The Iranian Constitutional Revolution 1906-1911, and
in Persian, Ahmad Kasravi, Inqiláb Mashrútiyat Írán.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   87


neither the pogroms, the imprisonment, the beatings of
the past, nor the complete freedom given in other
countries.
Under all conditions we must remain evanescent in
God. Some are immersed in contention. That is, they
devote all their energy and time to disputes and conflicts.
Others are engrossed in education and are busy at all
times reading and studying, devoting their days and
nights to the acquisition of knowledge. And yet another
group is wholly absorbed in their profession or
proclivities. But we are evanescent in God and remain
oblivious to all save Him.





Mírzá Mihdí, Son of Hakím Hárúm
After the departure of Mírzá Mihdí, (who was a student of medicine

88  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


in the French University in Beirut,) son of Hakím Hárún, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá said, “When he left, he was very happy, better than when he
came. It is certain that divine exhortations are like the spring breeze,
which generates joy and longing, and rejuvenates the soul. However,
the discourse of others is like the fall’s blast, causing sadness and
weariness. Praise be unto God that the divine breeze wafted over
him and gave him joy and felicity. Surely it will have an effect.”


Situation in Iran
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá said,] “Presently, Iran is in turmoil, but it will be
better later. Consider: First the wind blows, then the sky becomes
cloudy which causes rain, hail and snow to descend, which in turn
results in the ground being covered with ice and sleet. But then the
springtime emerges. We too are hopeful that after these turbulences,
the veils will be lifted and we will witness the emergence of the life-
giving spring.”
In the midst of His utterances, the Iranian Consul came in and
after the exchange of pleasantries, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá commented, “Yes,
about four months ago I wrote that until the government and the
people are mixed like milk and honey, <50> the desired benefit
would not be realized. Did you see with what vulgarity and
impudence the Rúh-i Nahs103 (Rúhu’l-Quds Newspaper is intended)
has loosened its tongue to criticize the king?104 When they try to

103 Lit, the ill-omened spirit.
104 Rúhu’l-Quds or Rúhu’l-Qudus [the Holy Spirit] was the name of a newspaper
printed in Tihrán under the editorship of the Sultánu’l-‘Ulamá of Khurásán. It
printed a total of 26 issues from 5 August 1907 to 20 May 1908. This newspaper
achieved special notoriety due to its extraordinary boldness, and published in its 13th
issue a personal attack on Muhammad-‘Alí Sháh and his anti-constitutional actions,
threatening him with the fate of Louis XVI, King of France, and recalling the
French Revolution. In consequence of this article it was suppressed, but after a
while resumed publication. E.G. Browne in his The Press and Poetry of Modern Persia,
pp. 87-88, notes: “The editor of this newspaper was a man of extraordinary
conviction and zeal, and took a personal share in the National efforts to defend the
Constitution. Thus he participated vi et armis in the struggle between the Nationalists

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   89


force and pressure the monarch into concessions then how can they
hope for royal bounties and support? Praise be to God that Bahá’ís
are completely uninvolved in these affairs and are safe. These
revolutions are for the enemies of the Cause. They do not realize
that they are paving the way.”
Subsequently the Master instructed Mírzá Muhsin Afnán,
“Take the Hamadání pilgrims (of Jewish descent) to meet the
American pilgrims, Mrs. Cooper and Mrs. Goodall.”
Shortly before dusk, we collectively went to visit the
Americans, and after the usual exchange of pleasantries, they asked
the Bahá’ís of Jewish descent, “How did you come to be Bahá’ís?
Did you first become Christian, then Muslim and then Bahá’í, or
was it in some other manner? Please do tell.” “We were first
Jewish,” was our response, “and unwilling to even hear the names of
Christ and Muhammad, much less declare the truth of Their
missions. However, once we became Bahá’ís, then we attained the
shores of certitude regarding Them as well. Therefore, our belief in
Them is through the teachings of His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh, which
has rent asunder the veils before us and has given sight to our blind
eyes so we can discern the truth of Their claim.”


The American Pilgrims and the Feast at the Master’s
House
[In a feast held in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s house, He remarked:]

This feast belongs to the illustrious pilgrims of
Jewish descent. Through the favors of the Blessed
Beauty, many diverse people have gathered in this

and the troops of Muhammad-‘Alí Sháh on the occasion of the Reactionary Coup
d’Etat of 23 June 1908, and fought valorously in defense of the Majlis [parliament].
Finally he was taken prisoner, was confined in chains in the Bágh-i-Sháh, and
ultimately suffered a martyr’s death, and was thrown into a well. The politics of the
paper were Revolutionary.” The text of the issue 13, alluded to by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
appears in Browne’s Persian Constitutional Revolution, pp. 156-161.

90  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


assembly and partaken of this spiritual sustenance –
Jewish, Christian or Muslim descendents, and friends
from both the East and the West – each coming from a
different locality arriving at this Land. It is naught but
heavenly confirmation that has enabled you to gather
and be united in this Most Great Prison. This assembly
is an example of how in the future, the whole of
humanity will enter beneath the tabernacle [of the
Cause], rest under the shadow of a single tree, drink
from the same chalice and be sated from the same
fountainhead. The effect of such gatherings will be
manifested at a future time and will attract divine
confirmations.
In the East it was prohibited for men and women
to assemble in the same room. However in this
Dispensation, the women have the same rank as men,
and there is not the least difference between the two. In
former Ages, equality and unity were limited to only one
or two groups. However, this Supreme Dispensation has
brought forth the unity of the whole world, and is not
limited to any one group. The call [of the Kingdom] is
for all, and the entire earth is invited to oneness.


One of the Renowned ‘Ulamá of Khurásán has Died
The honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí remarked that one of the
renowned ‘ulamá of Khurásán had passed away. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked,
“In what way do they acquire learning and become recognized as
scholars? By study of jurisprudence and scripture?” “By offering
obligatory prayers,” the Hájí responded, “Whoever among them
observes this law more frequently, he is more learned than the rest.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

These people study for fifty years to learn the signs
of Return, and yet on the Day of the Manifestation, they

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   91


have remained deprived. Conversely, see how the
unlettered and uneducated have attained unto this
summit of glory. And it is because of this that
[Bahá’u’lláh] has revealed, “The abased amongst you, He shall
exalt; and they that are exalted, He shall abase.”105
Consider how one person has labored hard as a
merchant, knows all the details of trade, is experienced in
maintaining accounting books and transactions, and yet
his business remains unprofitable and bereft of
expansion, while another who has no experience enters
the field and quickly achieves success. There was a very
wise person here, and I asked him, ‘How is our friend?’
He replied, ‘He is unlettered and unrefined.’ I asked,
‘How is his work?’ ‘Very profitable,’ was the reply. ‘And
how is your own work?’ I inquired. ‘I do not know
where I will get money for tonight’s bread.’
Nevertheless, such people are many, but divine
confirmations must follow unceasingly and surround us,
otherwise there is no lasting success.


Tea must be Good in Every Way
I took tea into the blessed presence [of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá], two serving
pots on a clean tray. In one pot was tea, in another was boiling
water. There were also two cups, one filled with hot water and the
other empty and covered with a white cover. Next to these was a
small crystal bowl of sugar lumps. He said, “This is very good. Tea
must be like this: good sugar, excellent tea, purified water, clean cup
and in every way neat and organized. Otherwise, it is better not to
drink it. ‘What is not cared for at the beginning cannot be remedied
at the end.’”
He continued: “The Egyptian chiefs want to become Wahhábí
and promote Wahhábí convictions. Perchance they hope to resist

105 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i Íqán, p. 146

92  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


European expansion through wars, violence, confrontations and
slaughter. However, they are increasingly powerless and ineffective.
They use this as a distraction. ‘A drowning man will cling to
anything.’ But it will bear no result, none whatsoever, since its
foundation is infirm and not based on divine teachings. These very
designs will cause their own division and demise. They must first
understand what brought about the progress of Islam and then
follow suit. Their goals will not be achieved through political
methods or nationalistic sentiments, especially when they are
imitating others. The initiator is of course superior to the imitator.
‘And they who were foremost on earth – are the foremost still.
These are they who shall be brought nigh to God.’106 ‘And God will
never forget the one who has rendered victorious His cause. There is
no demise for him, and the converse holds as well. These people will
not become righteous at the end unless they become righteous at the
beginning.’”


[The Situation in Russia]
Addressing the honored Áqá Ridá Qannád, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired,
“What news do you have?” He described whatever he had read in
the newspapers about the turmoil in Russia, the killings of the Jews
and the imprisonment of people from the Duma. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
replied:

After these occurrences, it will be better. There was
an incident that greatly saddened Me. They had written
some time ago that two youths entered a hotel in
Moscow, a boy and a girl. The receptionist was puzzled
by their activities, as they never seemed to sleep. Being
suspicious, he investigated the matter and reported the
situation to the authorities who ordered the youths to be
seized and searched. Their papers showed that there was

106 Qur’án 56:10-11.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   93


a slight difference of opinion between the two: one
wanted to be the first in throwing a hand-grenade, while
the other wanted also to be the first in this deed. In
short, it was determined that these youth planned to
oppose the Czarist monarchy and favored the
establishment of an elected107 government by throwing
hand-grenades [as a prelude to a revolt]. It was ruled that
they were to be imprisoned in Siberia. On the way they
cried, “People, we are sacrificing ourselves for you!”
Consider how they gloried in sacrificing themselves for a
piece of soil, and how much more one should pride
himself in sacrificing for the Lord of Hosts!
At one time [Count Leo] Tolstoy wanted an
elected form of government in Russia, yet he acted in
such wise that his actions did not provoke opposition.
Through deeds he awakened the people, and not by
mere rhetoric. He owned several villages, each with
many inhabitants. He divided these estates among their
dwellers in equal portions, giving himself a portion
similar to theirs. Through this action, he made everyone
equal, as he desired to demonstrate democracy through
deeds, thereby rendering all the same and so to establish
equity among all.
Tolstoy is a deeply learned man. I wanted him to
embrace the blessed Cause and, therefore, I wrote him.
His wife was very pleased with the letter I sent. Once I
intended for the woman who gave drama-plays on His
Holiness the Exalted One [i.e. the Báb] and the honored
Tahirih to go and visit him.108 However, during

107 The word used in the original text is jumhúrí, which suggests a representative
government elected by the general population.
108 The woman who wrote about the Báb and Tahirih was Izabella Grinevskaya: 1) A
Tragedy Named “Bab” and, 2) a poem named “Bahá'u'lláh”. Her drama on the Báb
was published in May 1903 and was played in St. Petersburg in January 1904. It was
this drama that brought Leo Tolstoy a knowledge of the Bahá’í teachings. After

94  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


[Tolstoy’s] journey to Istanbul, Áqá Khan and Shaykh
Ahmad109 caused him to change his mind. These two
related so many lies, falsehoods and accusations that he
changed his mind and lost all interest in the Faith.110
Consider how through their negative words, some
can change an eager seeker into one disinterested and
indifferent. Yet sometimes, just a single word causes
guidance and the awakening of a multitude. At times a
medicine can cure a patient, and at other times, the same
can cause his demise. Sometimes, it is the words of
Abraham, at other times, the exhortations of Moses, or
perhaps the teachings of Christ, or the words of
Muhammad, or at times the sacred fragrance of
Bahá’u’lláh that can influence and revive.


‘Akká’s Fleas
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated:]

So, tell me, Hakím Hárún, how are you coping
with ‘Akká’s fleas?111 These fleas help a person remain
awake through the night to pray and meditate. Some

three decades from these dates Martha Root researched this subject thoroughly and
wrote about it in several publications. For a short introduction by Martha Root see
Bahá’í World, vol. 6, p. 707. Other references are: Bahá’í World, vol. 12, p. 632; Star of
the West, 1#19:12 Persian; and “Isabel meeting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Alexandria 1911” in
Stories of My Heart, p. 20, by ‘Alí-Akbar Furutan.
109 Áqá Khán Kirmání and Shaykh Ahmad Rúhí were the two sons-in-laws of Yahyá
Azal and his chief promoters. Both were highly political and were killed in the
course of the demise of Siyyid Jamálu’d-Dín Afghání.
110 See Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís at the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 185-190, on the
mission of Áqá ‘Azízu’lláh Jadhdháb to Tolstoy on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s bidding.
111 These fleas are renowned and until a person has experienced them, one finds it
hard to believe how terribly plentiful and bothersome they are. I remember that
once I walked into a room and immediately my two feet were covered by them to
near my knees, much like wearing a pair of black socks. (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   95


parts have fleas, as well as flies and ticks, which like the
Covenant-breakers, will trouble, bite and cause one to
flee.


[Consecration to the Cause]
Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí remarked, “My Master, I have found the
Tablet addressed to Mírzá Yúsuf Khán.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá replied:

May God increase your good deeds and multiply
your blessings! In truth, Mírzá Yúsuf Khán’s is an
exemplary story. He converted a prominent personage
through his pure deeds, which is why the Blessed Beauty
revealed, “Verily, We behold you from Our realm of glory, and
shall aid whosoever will arise for the triumph of Our Cause with
the hosts of the Concourse on high and a company of Our favored
angels.”112
<55> Today, each believer must arise to teach the
Faith and speak of it to seekers. We must rescue the
world of humanity from all dangers that threaten it and
sacrifice our own comfort for our Divine Beloved.
Iranians have a saying, ‘The wasted oil is bequeathed to
Sháh-Chiráq [mosque].’ This transitory existence and this
temporary, illusory comfort must be devoted to the
service of the Cause and be made a sacrifice unto its
altar. Anything else is utter loss. This dead shrub must be
sacrificed for that luscious Lote-Tree and this
insignificant drop must be offered for the waves of His
Ocean.

112 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i Aqdas, K53

96  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




Charity to the Poor113
Once or twice a week, the poor received their allotment, which was
distributed by His blessed hand. Most of them were disabled and
would encircle the Master’s house in a single row. When all had
assembled, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would emerge and with His own hand give
to each as he deserved. Some would receive the alms, but then they
would circle the line and stand at the end so that they might receive
an additional share. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called each by name, and when
someone tried to get money a second time, He would say, “I have
already given you some, but come and get some more.”
This time, the school children and the poor came and ‘Abdu’l-

113 These were professional beggars who regularly received governmental welfare
and also alms from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. However each dawn, the Master would visit the
homes of those that were truly destitute and give them whatever sum they needed.
Each day, He visited a different street. In addition, every year, he distributed two or
three hundred sets of clothing, several ‘abás, and other provisions and gave each
needy person what he required. The entire city of ‘Akká, whether rich or poor,
Jewish, Christian or Muslim, was a recipient of special bounties of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and
each received His generous care and compassion. (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   97


Bahá said, “Give Me some money so I can distribute it among them
and enjoy so doing.” He went and distributed the alms among the
needy.


[Various Notes]
Each Friday morning, Bahá’í children attained the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and presented their weekly studies and exercises. He
reviewed and corrected most and gave each student a prize. The
children did their work in nasta‘líq calligraphy, taught by Mishkín-
Qalam and, because of him, all Bahá’í students had exquisite
handwriting. This pattern in the Holy Land is now the model for all
Bahá’í children’s classes.
Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí inquired, “Áqá Siyyid Nasru’lláh
Baqiroff has asked if Doctor Mírzá Muhammad Khán [Mahallatí]
should stay with Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh [in Constantinople], or if he
should return.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded:

Why would he not stay? He has a merry time and
in addition will complete his studies. However, he may
not have sufficient funds, for when he left here, he
stated that he had the necessary money for only four
months of living. But when a person is confident and
assured of divine confirmations, then the entire earth
and heaven will serve him.
It is impossible to study medicine in Iran, since
they teach [traditional] Iranian medicine, which is
obsolete. It is the modern techniques of medicine that
must be acquired. For that purpose, Europe is better.
The Faith of God has not penetrated Paris and the
fire of the love of God has not enkindled her people to
the depth it should. Of a certainty, there is wisdom in
this. One reason is that, so far, a competent translator
has not been found who not only can speak, but also has

98  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


a thorough command of the language.114 Sometimes, a
translation is better than the original. A translator must
fully comprehend the meaning [and the context] of the
words. For instance, some citizens of Iran can read,
write and even compose poetry, but do not have a
thorough command of the Persian language. When
competent translators are found who can proficiently
translate into French and English, much benefit will
appear and great tasks may be completed.

About that time the Qádí of ‘Akká and some other non-
Bahá’ís entered and went directly upstairs to the second floor of the
Master’s residence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said to us, “The friends must
excuse me. If I delay meeting these visitors, they will be annoyed.
Forgive me.” With that, He left.


The Shrine of the Báb – Mount Carmel
The following comments of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are recorded [in Arabic] in
the diary of Dr. Zia Baghdadi:

Consider the foolishness of the governments of
Iran and the Ottoman Empire, how they banished
Bahá’u’lláh from Iran to Baghdad and Constantinople,
and from there exiled Him to ‘Akká. They perpetrated
this deed in the hopes of destroying the foundation of
the Luminous Cause, but they were not cognizant of the
fact that by so doing they were rendering the greatest
service to the Faith of Bahá, disseminating and spreading
its benefit to the whole of the earth. They did not know
the effect of their own deeds. Perchance it is because of
this that Jewish people will embrace the Cause, since

114 On deficiencies of translations into French, see, Ahang Rabbani, Two Prominent
Iranians Meeting with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, World Order magazine, winter 1998 (also available
at: http://ahang.rabbani.googlepages.com/

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   99


there is no other course left for them.
However, regarding the future of Carmel, I now
behold the whole of this mountain basking in brilliant
lights and the Haifa harbor as the anchor point of
thousands of steam ships. I see the monarchs of the
earth, having removed their crowns, reverently,
submissively and humbly, with tears flowing, carrying
baskets of colorful flowers on their heads, approaching
the Shrines of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb. Much in the
same way that Christ wore the crown of thorns on His
head, the kings of earth will carry flowers to the Shrines.
However others are not endowed with this insight.
Likewise verily I see and behold the future
effulgence of hospitals, schools and sanatoriums and the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár established on this mountain.

On another occasion, when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was strolling in the
garden115, He paused and for awhile looked out to the sea at ‘Akká,
and after a few minutes of silence, said:

I have seen many places, but none has the vivifying air
and the beauty of the Shrine of the Báb. Ere long this
mountain will be developed. Many fine buildings will be
raised upon it. The Shrine of the Báb will be constructed
in the best possible way and most majestically. It will be
surrounded with many gardens, displaying multitudes of
flowers. Nine terraces will be constructed from the
bottom of the mountain to the Shrine of the Báb, and
nine more will be above it to the summit of the
mountain. A boulevard will connect the seafront to the
foot of the mountain, and it too will have gardens filled
with flowers. Pilgrims who arrive by vessels will be able
to see the dome of the Shrine of the Báb from afar. The

115 Presumably, a reference to the garden of the Shrine of the Báb in Haifa.

100  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


kings of earth, bareheaded, and the queens, will walk up
the boulevard of the Shrine of the Báb carrying bouquets
of flowers. They will prostrate themselves, kiss that
Sacred Threshold and place their crowns on that
ennobled earth.116



He then said to Áqá Rahmatu’lláh Khádim, “Send two or
three of the squashes you have planted to the house so they can
make Me a broth with them.” He left afterwards.

116 Previously a translation of this paragraph has appeared in Adib Taherzadeh, The
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 225-226.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   101


Chapter 3

Years of Study in Beirut


I completed the last year of high school and received my diploma. I
then spent the spring of 1908 in Beirut and that summer in ‘Alíyyih
in Lebanon with Mírzá Ridá Khán Tahmasb who [years] later in
Tabríz received the title of Shamsu’l-Atibbá [The sun of physicians].
He was a nephew of Najif Áqá, one of the chiefs of the ‘Alíyu’lláhí
[Sufi] order, and was my roommate and classmate. He was a
wonderful and upright youth, and we spent two or three years
together. Most of the time, he would associate with Protestants and
had developed inclinations towards Christianity. When he met the
believers, saw their ways and attitudes, and heard them speak of the
Faith, he was enchanted by the Cause and would speak of it in
meetings of the Protestants.


[The Brilliant Proof]
One day117 Mírzá Ridá Khán came to me and had brought along a
repudiatory pamphlet written by [Reverend] Peter Z. Easton, one of
the Protestant Missionaries in Tabríz. He said, “The Protestants
gave me this pamphlet.”118
I took it to the esteemed Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl and explained the
situation to him, briefly outlining the content of the pamphlet.
Residing in a hostel, the honored Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl was ill and bed-
ridden, but immediately rose, placed his ‘abá over his shoulders, and
instructed me to take pen and paper to take down dictation of his

117 This incident must have taken place on 27 December 1911 and seems to be
reported by Dr. Mú’ayyad out of chronological sequence.
118 This essay was published in Evangelical Christendom. Easton’s attack followed a
meeting between him and the Master in September 1911 in London. For details see
Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 149-151.

102  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


rebuttal. For about one hour he dictated, and I wrote. It was not
finished, but he grew very tired and had to return to bed, saying, “Fi
ámánu’lláh. You go now and when I feel better, I will finish
composing the reply.”

The following day, I went to the hostel [to visit Mírzá Abú’l-
Fadl] and he informed me, “I have completed the reply to Peter Z.
Easton. Submit it by post to the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to do
with it as He deems appropriate.” <60> I mailed the treatise to the
United States and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá instructed that both the Persian and
the English translation be published in the United States. He titled
this document Burhán-i-Lámi‘ [The Brilliant Proof] and today is a
well-known treatise among the friends.119


[Medical School]
Once more the academic year commenced [in Fall 1908], and I
started as a freshman in the [Syrian Protestant] College. At the
completion of the year and the beginning of the summer [1909], I
went again to ‘Alíyyih in Lebanon and spent that season in ‘Aynu’s-
Siyyidih, a very pleasant village located between ‘Alíyyih and Súqu’l-
Gharb. This village has a vivifying air and most agreeable
atmosphere.

After my sophomore year, I spent the summer [1910] in the
company of Dr. Yúnis Khán Afrukhtih and Badí‘ Effendi Bushrú’í
(a very bright young man whose studies were being financially
supported by Miss Barney. She later became known as Madam
Dreyfus and published Kitáb-i Mufávidát [Some Answered Questions
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]). We went to Haifa and spent the summer [of
1910] on Mount Carmel, under the shadow of the Shrine of the Báb.





119 First published in 1912 by Chicago’s Bahá’í News Service.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   103













Haifa’s City Hall, 1910

Occasionally, we would go to ‘Akká, and at times, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá would come to visit the Shrine of the Báb. It so happened that
one time when He came, I was sick and in bed.120 He visited me and
offered me the remaining grapes that He was eating. I ate the grapes
and a few hours later regained my perfect health! That illness was a
thousand times sweeter than any state of well-being, and for the rest
of my life, I will never forget their wonderful taste. What other fever
brought such unceasing rapture and what other illness caused such
perpetual joy and happiness! I have always wished for its recurrence,
and many a night have I dreamt of its delights, that perchance it
would revisit me and reunite me once more with my Beloved!


Shouldst Thou come by my bed as healer,


For its delight I would not barter both worlds.


But, alas, “take ye joy in the beauty of the narcissus of Najd,
for night will fall and it will be no more.”121 Never again will I
behold that experience, nor attain unto that longing [to see ‘Abdu’l-

120 I had a fever for several days and those who were around me later said that it was
very severe. (HM)
121 This is part of a well-known Arabic couplet; translation in: Selections from the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 258.

104  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Bahá].

When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá visited the Shrine of the Báb, He always
spoke of the sufferings and hardships sustained by the Blessed
Perfection and the martyrdom of His Holiness the Exalted One [i.e.
the Báb]. He praised the invigorating air of Carmel and emphasized
how richly the divine favors had surrounded these unworthy
servants and how we stood under the shadow of the beneficence of
His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb]! He would say:


Attaining unto this Mountain was the ultimate
desire of the Prophets, and it is the point of adoration of
the Supreme Concourse. All the past Manifestations
have given glad-tidings regarding this place and this
Dispensation, and their highest aspiration was to witness
such a Day and to behold and take part in such
happenings. Here the tabernacle of the Most Great
Peace will be hoisted and the foundation of the
wondrous Divine Order will be established. All this land
will be built and developed.
After two thousand years of wandering, the Jewish
people will return to the Holy Land and embrace the
Cause of God. From here divine civilization will be
propagated unto the whole of the world and provide it
with serenity and comfort.
Know the preciousness of this favor! Inhaling this
air and being in such a place was not granted to others
or decreed for them. It is only out of the grace and
beneficence of the Blessed Beauty that we have attained
unto this mercy and become the recipients of “He
bestows His bounty upon whomsoever He wisheth.”


The First Two Years of Medical School in Beirut
With hardship and hard work, I completed the first year of medical
school, and during this time rendered some services to the Cause

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   105


not worthy of mention.122 Whatever the Holy Family requested, or
the pilgrims to the Holy Land required, or other students in Beirut
needed, I would gladly attend to and carry out. I would also
disseminate to the surrounding communities whatever Tablets and
correspondence were received from the Holy Land and dispatch the
friends’ missives, including the letters and writings of the illustrious
[Mírzá] Abú’l-Fadl.123 To the extent of my abilities, I saw to the
comfort of the pilgrims by securing their visas or passports,
purchasing their travel tickets and guiding visitors.124 Fortunately,
these insignificant gifts were accepted by the pilgrims, and for that, I
always thank God’s favors.
The second year of my medical studies was filled with
difficulties. First, I was required to pass the mid-studies examination
by the medical faculty in addition to another test administered by an
examining board of the Ottoman government, which came from
Constantinople. Second, since there was a delay in the arrival of my
stipend, my [financial] situation was growing critical, and I did not
even have the twenty-five liras needed for the examination fee.
Third, because of my immense workload, I became very ill, requiring
hospitalization and medical attention.
During my hours of solitude, I supplicated ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in my
heart and fervently besought His assistance. With tearful eyes and
soul on fire, I would compose supplications and submit them unto
His august and sanctified presence. Indeed, it was a strange year.

122 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 36, notes that during this period the diarist was
associated with such believers as, Áqá Muhammad-Mustafá Baghdádí, Dr. Berkat,
Anton Haddád and ‘Ináyatu’lláh Cháí-Chí.
123 Several Bahá’í communities in the Near East served as conduit for
communication between ‘Akká/Haifa and Bahá’í communities of Iran. On general
migration patters of Iranian Bahá’ís see, Moojan Momen, “The Bahá’í Community
of Iran: Patterns of Exile and Problems of Communication” in Asghar Fathi, ed.
Iranian Refugees and Exiles Since Khomeini; (Costa Masa, CA: Mazda Publishers, 1991)
pp. 21-36.
124 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 36, notes that with the departure of Áqá Muhammad-
Mustafá Baghdádí for Alexandretta, the diarist became responsible for seeing to the
needs of pilgrims and resident believers.

106  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


From every direction, troubles and difficulties beset me and I was
overwhelmed by their stress and gravity. Every time a letter arrived
from my father, it was filled with grievous and most unhappy tidings
and lamentations. He informed me of the plunder of our house by
the Sáláru’d-Dawlih and many other troubles that unceasingly
surrounded them. My nerves were fatigued, my body weak, and my
spirit depressed. All strength was drained from my being.
Below is a section that I recall from a poetic-missive that I
composed at that time, which to some degree conveyed the intensity
of the tribulations and the fire of misery, pain, depression and
paralysis that had engulfed me, and yet I had to advance my studies
and continue with life’s struggles:

O Hadrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
O Center of the Covenant of Bahá,
O builder of the House of God,
Hold Thou my hand, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, have mercy on me,
Sacrifice my life for Thee,
Sacrifice it for Thy locks,
Hold Thou my hand, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Thou art aware,
Thou art life-taker and life-giver,
Thou art the guide of every wayward,
Hold Thou my hand, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, I am wretched,
I have no hope and am lost,
Like a babe in the cradle,
Hold Thou my hand, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
O Jehovah, resplendent Lord,
Have mercy on this ill one,
O promise of the tribe of Abraham,
Hold Thou my hand, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.125

125 ‘Ali Nakhjavani is thanked for the rendering of this poem.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   107



In response to my supplication, a Tablet was revealed that was
the cure of all my ills. All my sorrow and melancholy vanished
completely. I forgot every pain that had ever afflicted me and with
new vigor and infinite enthusiasm resumed my studies and activities.
A few days later, yet another Tablet was received that redoubled my
joy and brought me an even larger measure of delight and felicity. I
quote both Tablets:

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Thy letter arrived. A
brief reply will be written, as there is no time. Do not be saddened
by the occurrences in Kirmánsháh. God willing, thy health will
return. I hope that thou remain protected in the face of trials.

And in the second Tablet it was revealed, exalted is His
station:

O thou who art firm in the Testament! Thy mellifluous
poems were most sweet, endowed with eloquent and fluent
expressions. Talent is like unto a spring: from some will flow sweet
streams, while from others naught save bitter, salty water is tasted.
Praise be unto God that from the gifted faculty of that friend who
stands steadfast in the Covenant such clear water issues forth. You
must give thanks that thy talent billows forth and thy spirit is
confirmed by the grace of the Almighty.
However, thou must employ this pure water in praise of our
loving Lord, the Ancient Beauty and the Greatest Name [i.e.
Bahá’u’lláh] – may My spirit be a sacrifice unto His friends.
You must sing His laudation since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is but a drop,
but the Greatest Name is the mighty Ocean. When you have
praised the ocean, it will also encompass the drop.
Convey my warmest greetings to the friends of God. Upon
thee rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘A ‘A.

108  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



It was not long thereafter that my versed-missive became an
anthem of the [Bahá’í] students in the [Syrian] College and was often
sung in the gatherings, which brought great excitement and joy to
all. The honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, that love-intoxicated elder
believer, would be filled with delight by hearing this chant.
Since during this time ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was on a journey to Egypt,
Europe and America, Beirut had become an important center for
the Cause. Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl, that ocean of knowledge and sincerity,
was in Beirut, and Bahá’í travelers always frequented the city.
Despite the lack of funds, whatever was needed would be arranged.
I would convey ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s telegraphs and Tablets to the
illustrious Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl. Some of my time was devoted to my
studies and the rest to the service of the Faith, even during the hours
of leisure. Indeed the conditions of Beirut and the activities of the
friends attracted the repeated attention and the infinite bounties of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who sent many Tablets in honor of the students who
regularly kept coming there.
In a blessed Tablet received in honor of another student in
Beirut, Áqá ‘Abbás Khán, son of Sa‘ídu’l-Mulk Rashtí, known as
Akbar, the following was revealed:

O honored Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh! The son of the
illustrious Sa‘ídu’l-Mulk is in Beirut, and you must make every
effort to ensure his well-being. Of course, from the outpouring of
celestial favors, all the trees of the Abhá paradise in Beirut are
verdant and flourishing splendidly.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.

It was in the summertime [1911] that the illustrious Dihqán
family came to Beirut, while I was in the mountains of Lebanon.
The honored Mírzá Muhammad-Báqir Khán Dihqán126 arranged for
his children to remain in the mountains of Lebanon and he took me

126 A prominent Bahá’í of Shiraz and an important governmental official of Fárs;
see, Ahang Rabbani, In the Land of Refuge.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   109


to Damascus and ‘Albak for a few days of sightseeing. We
subsequently returned to Lebanon.


<65> The Illustrious Abú’l-Fadl in Beirut
The number of students and visitors in Beirut had grown
considerably when the illustrious [Mírzá] Abú’l-Fadl arrived to settle
here. At first he rented a very modest house, but later moved to a
hostel. During that period, the number of visitors was increasing
each day, and many groups of friends visited in wave after wave.
Whoever had heard that the esteemed Abú’l-Fadl was in Beirut
eagerly came to benefit from seeing him. With a bent back and
trembling hands, this learned and renowned philosopher would
receive them and provide hospitality. He insisted on doing all the
work himself and never allowed anyone to help. For instance, when
guests visited him, he would go and fetch the water, place the kettle
on the kerosene-burner, wash the cups, dry them with a silk
handkerchief, place a lump of sugar in each and personally serve
each person. When we implored him to at least allow us to serve tea,
he would not consent to it and would devote two or three hours of
time to this task. He never permitted anyone to serve him, and in
fact, always insisted on serving others. We repeatedly entreated and
beseeched him for permission to do his regular shopping or attend
to his other needs, but even this he would refuse. With the utmost
fervor we would beg him, “Your time is so precious and must not
be wasted on mundane household chores. It is best if you spend
these hours writing for the Cause, even if it is only a short piece.”
Yet he was insistent in his refusal.
We reported the situation to the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
thinking that perchance He would instruct Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl to
accept the services of an attendant. He instead commanded,
“Absolutely do not disturb him, or interfere in his affairs. Leave him
to do as he pleases, as he is thus inclined.” Even in a blessed Tablet
addressed to this servant:

110  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Find a residence in Beirut for the illustrious Abú’l-Fadl in
an upper apartment that receives adequate sunlight and air. None
is permitted to interfere in his affairs.


Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl’s conversion is among the most astounding
teaching stories of all time and was precipitated by Karbalá’í Husayn
Na‘lband [the farrier], who was an unlettered and ordinary man. The
late Ustád Husayn, otherwise known as Karbalá’í Husayn, had a
humble [black-smith] shop near the entrance of [the shrine of Sháh]
‘Abdu’l-‘Azím, where he proclaimed the Faith to his customers, who
brought him their horses and mules to be shod. He would
commence his task by tying down the animal’s legs, busy the
customer with holding the bridle, and immediately engage him in
teaching discussions.
One day, as was his custom, the honored [Mírzá] Abú’l-Fadl
was going on pilgrimage to the [Sháh ‘Abdu’l-‘Azím] Shrine, when
he had to stop by Na‘lband’s shop for some repair. Ustád Husayn
warmly greeted him and while engaged in the repairs, he inquired,
“My master, I have a question.” [Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl] signified his
permission for the query to be presented to him. The farrier asked,
“I have heard that there is a hadith [i.e. Islamic tradition] indicating
that angels do not visit a home wherein a dog dwells. Is this true?”
“Yes, it is correct,” was Mírzá’s reply. “O honored Shaykh,” the
shoe-smith responded, “now the matter becomes complex.”
“Why?” asked Mírzá. “I have also heard that there is another true
tradition that states that each raindrop is carried by an angel. Is this
also correct?” “Yes, indeed,” Mírzá replied. “Well, your answer has
added to my confusion, since in that case, rain should never fall on
homes in which a dog is kept, whereas we see that it rains uniformly,
regardless of the existence of pets.” Perplexed, the Mírzá
admonished him and walked away. Later, he asked a companion as
to the convictions of the farrier and was told, “Do not listen to him.
Áqá Husayn is a well-known Bábí and not worthy of attention.” But
this very comment impelled the honored Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl to take
up a serious investigation of the Faith which eventually resulted in

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   111


his conversion by Áqá Muhammad-‘Alí Máhút-furúsh [a broadcloth
salesman].

In short, the illustrious [Mírzá] Abú’l-Fadl remained in Beirut
and made a proof copy of his magnum opus for which he had
previously completed all the required research. This book was in
response to all the polemics against the Faith, and one part, which
by itself was a mighty tract, was in response to Athím ibn Athím127.
Another part, in itself a thick book, was a response to the Azalís and
outlined irrefutable proofs for the validity of Bahá’u’lláh’s claim.
Another section addressed materialists and opponents of the Cause,
while yet another was devoted to the Covenant and the activities of
the violators of the divine Testament.

As was my habit, each day after completing my studies and
finishing at the hospital, I would attain his presence and present him
with telegrams, correspondence and any other Bahá’í news that was
received, including news of the arrival or departure of visitors. In
particular, when newspapers or periodicals mentioned the Faith, I
would share with him an outline of the article and other pertinent
details.
One day in the college library, as I was looking through
various magazines and journals, I saw an advertisement in a Jesuit
magazine published by the renowned Catholic scholar, Louis
Shaikhuan, regarding the Kitáb Nuqtatu’l-Káf published by Prof.
Browne. When I informed the honored [Mírzá] Abú’l-Fadl, without
the least pause, he said, “Go immediately to Beirut Jesuit Publishing,
inquire for the representative of Louis Shaikhuan128, the owner of
the publishing house, and ask the cost of printing a book, about one
thousand pages, on good quality paper and large fonts, so that I can
start composing it and give it to him section by section for printing.”
He also instructed, “Write this question, have it signed by all
the students in Beirut and send it to Prof Browne, the instructor of

127 Athím [sinner] was a penname of Hájí Mírzá Karím Khán Kirmání, the self-
proclaimed head of Kirmání Shaykhís. His son, Hájí Muhammad, also adopted the
same epithet.
128 The original text gives the name as Shaikhu.

112  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Eastern Languages in Cambridge University, asking for the favor of
reply.”129 I did as bidden and with registered post sent the notarized
petition to Prof. Browne. Twelve days later, I received a reply in
Prof Browne’s own hand in Persian. This in truth was the best and
most precious document in refutation of the Nuqtatu’l-Káf and the
fraudulent attempt to tie it to the martyred Hájí Mírzá Jání [of
Káshán]. When the late Mírzá [Abú’l-Fadl] saw this letter, he was so
jubilant that he nearly started dancing and was constantly laughing
and immensely delighted. Indeed his state of joy [over this
admission] can never be described. With this irrefutable document,
which Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl considered the best lightning rod against the
enemies of the Cause, the decision to publish a response was
finalized.
Often he would say, “As the Faith gains strength and as its
influence is extended, its enemies will grow more determined and
exert their utmost evil against it, resorting to any means, lies, or
slanders to attack and eradicate the Tree of God. Even if our
enemies are in disagreement [over ways to oppose the Cause], they
will gain synergy from other camps attacking the Faith and will be
united in their purpose.” In this regard, he often recited this verse:

Verily they have plotted their plot, and their plot is with
God, though their plot were one whereby the mountains should be
moved”130 and “Had We sent down this Qur'án on a mountain,
verily, thou wouldst have seen it humble itself and cleave asunder
for fear of God.131


In short, while we awaited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s approval, final

129 The question posed to Prof Browne by Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl through the students of
Beirut was about the source and authenticity of the book [The Nuqtatu’l-Káf]. He
replied that he had acquired it from the library of [Comte Joseph A.] Gobineau. It is
evident that Muhammad Khan Qazvíní had interpolated the text and deposited it in
the library. (HM). [For Qazvíní’s own admission see, “‘Abdu’l-Bahá Meeting with
Two Prominent Iranians”, Ahang Rabbani, World Order magazine, Fall 1998.]
130 Qur’án 14:47
131 Qur’án 59:21

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   113


copies of his various notebooks containing his rebuttal were
prepared and readied for submittal to the publisher. We telegraphed
America, asking for the Master’s permission, and He immediately
cabled:

From New York. The Iranian Khudábakhsh.132
American College in Beirut.
Imperative publish book with great haste. Print in Egypt.
‘Abbás.


Upon the receipt of the above telegraph, Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl left
for Cairo and, after a while, passed away in that realm, attaining his
permanent place in Almighty’s Grace, with the book remaining
incomplete. [During his final days,] when he was not well and
unconscious, a section of this manuscript was stolen by Dr.
Amínu’lláh Faríd, son of Mírzá Asadu’lláh Isfahání, who wished to
publish it in his own name and thereby gain universal notice. This
unscrupulous act, which severely harmed the Cause of God, greatly
perturbed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Who expelled him from the Faith. The
Master stated, “This thievery will result in his defeat and ruin. ‘Soon
the tyrants will know of their doing. Where art Thou, O Reformer of
upheavals? Verily, thy Lord is the One Who schemes.’”

In short, in addition to his worldly achievements, the
illustrious Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl possessed outstanding heavenly
qualities. He was polite, unassuming, jovial, serene and spiritual.
Those who had seen him in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would
readily testify to his utter humility and discerning eyes. On such
occasions, he would leave his walking stick outside, and with hands
folded over his chest and trembling body, would enter [the room].
He would then bow all the way down and, after receiving permission
would sit, keeping his hands over his chest, his eyes cast downward
and his body motionless. He never spoke in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, and when a response was required of him by the Master, he

132 Cable-address for me. (HM)

114  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


would immediately stand and with a few words provide a sufficient
reply, then once more regain his previous posture. In His presence,
he was all ears and was, in truth, a manifestation of this verse of
Hafiz <70>:


One cannot speak in the chambers of the Beloved,


As all faculties must become eyes and ears.


Most reverently, he would ponder every word spoken by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. At leave-taking, he would back away towards the
door, never turning his back to the Master. Once outside, he
radiated immense joy, delight and rapture and at all times praised the
bounties of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and divine favors, reciting this verse, “They
taunt thee with having embraced Islam. Say: Taunt me not with your having
embraced Islam; God rather taunteth you with His having guided you to the
faith -- acknowledge this if ye are sincere.”133

Though Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl was only a seminary student, yet the
power of the Word of God and the influence of Divine Sovereignty
can make a heap of dust the envy of the heavens and breathe a new
spirit into moldering bones. This effect had transmuted this small,
frail man into the envy of the world, whose writings shine
resplendently as a sun in both the East and the West, guiding the
seekers of the Beloved to their ultimate goal and diffusing his
sanctified fragrance throughout the world.

If anyone spoke his praise, Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl would become
very embarrassed and only speak of his own shortcomings,
particularly expressing his immense regret over his weakness and ill
state. He would note that because of these infirmities, he was not
able to serve the Faith the way his heart demanded. He used to say,
“My earnest desire is to be granted a thousand lives a day so I could
sacrifice them all in the path of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá!” In all gatherings, his
sole expression was that of abject humility and nothingness. I take
refuge with God, never was he heard to say, “I”, or in any way speak

133 Qur’án 49:17.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   115


of himself. He was the quintessence of lowliness and humility, and
his tongue always turned in praise of God and the infinite bounties
bestowed by the Author of Revelation. He repeatedly stated, “If it
had not been for the divine grace, I would now be but a seminary
student in a corner of a mosque.”
When we asked him how it was that he had acquired such
immense knowledge, depth of learning, complete mastery of the
most abstruse subjects, and become a true mystic, he would say, “I
learned everything in the school of God’s Faith. I have partaken of
the spiritual feast of the Center of the Covenant, as I have no
powers or abilities of my own. The likes of me are many in Iran
though because of their lack of recognition, they have come to
naught. However, solely from the Grace of God, rays of the divine
effulgence of our Sanctified Beloved shine unceasingly upon the
believers and bestow on them manifold bounties. The heavenly feast
is spread, and the door to the Lord’s House is flung wide open.
Under the standard of the Cause anyone can be a teacher to Abú’l-
Fadl. Abú’l-Fadl is nothing! Abú’l-Fadl is most insignificant!”

The illustrious [Mírzá] Abú’l-Fadl always warned us and would
exhort, “The enemies of the Faith and the evildoers are constantly
scheming and poised to attack. You must be vigilant and not fall
prey to the words of [ill-meaning] people. Our opponents will first
approach you in the guise of friends so that they can subtly win your
sympathies. Once they have gained your confidence, then they will
sow the seeds of doubt in the soil of your heart and take an axe to
the root of the Faith. The enemies of the Faith are not one or two
or just a few thousand. All the diverse denominations and religious
factions will arise in opposition to God’s Faith.”
Repeatedly, he recited this verse, “Had we sent down this Qur’án
on some mountain, thou wouldst certainly have seen it humbling itself and
cleaving asunder for the fear of God.”134 and would recite this verse of
Sa‘dí:


134 Qur’án 59:21

116  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Snake will bite man’s foot,

When he fears that he would be killed.

He would also say, “The whole of mankind is trembling and
fearful of the influence and the penetration of the Cause.”


The Reasons for the Expulsion of Dr. Amínu’lláh Faríd,
son of Asadu’lláh Isfahání135
For twenty years, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá funded the studies of this person
[Faríd] and eventually he became a physician. [Having been
showered with all these bounties,] it was hoped that he would
become a sincere servant of the Cause, would grow as a fruitful and
fertile tree under the canopy of the Faith and would devote his life
to its service, thereby repaying all the effort of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on his
behalf. Regrettably, egotism and self-indulgence, coupled with the
lack of religious and spiritual conviction, finally brought out his true
self and, for him, made materialism victorious over spirituality. His
satanic self was ultimately triumphant and caused him to perpetrate
such deeds that caused his expulsion from the Faith, earning an
eternal curse. O Lord, save us all from ourselves!

On the occasion of the expulsion of Dr. Amínu’lláh Faríd,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá summoned me one day and instructed me to travel to
Europe. He spoke with great pain, and he paced back and forth with
His headdress removed. He made His remarks with such incredible
force and conviction that they truly made me tremble uncontrollably
to the point that I nearly fainted. He said:

Do you know why His Holiness the Exalted One [the
Báb] was martyred and the Blessed Beauty sustained
such life-long hardships and sufferings? Do you

135 Dr. Faríd’s mother was the sister of Munírih Khánum, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wife. Mírzá
Asadu’lláh was the emissary who had taken the remains of the Báb from Iran to the
Holy Land. For details see “Efforts to Preserve the Remains of the Báb: Four
Historical Accounts”, Ahang Rabbani, Bahá’í Studies Review, 2003, pp 83-95.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   117


understand why such a large multitude of martyrs gladly
drank from the chalice of sacrifice and closed their eyes
to the pleasures of the world and the comforts of life?
The reason is so that the rest of us would serve this
world of humanity, detached from all considerations,
and not follow the dictates of our carnal desires or seek
worldly opulence, contentment and enjoyment.

He spoke of Faríd and said, “Never argue with anyone,” and then
added:

Is it rational for us to aid him? If a thief wants to enter a
house and rob it, should we help him? Judas sold Christ
for a trifling thirty coins and Dr. Faríd has sold us for
four or five dollars. This foundation has been laid
through the sufferings and blood of many sacred souls;
therefore, is it equitable of us to allow it to be
demolished by the treachery of an ill-wisher?
From the time that he was very young, I raised him
[Faríd] in the hope that someday he would serve the
Cause. Conversely, through mendicancy and hoarding
money, he has caused destruction. Several times, I
concealed his misdeeds as I wished not to witness his
abasement. Now he says that he was wronged and that
the friends around Me were jealous of him and caused
sedition, whereas the truth is that all were his well-
wishers. Even his parents feel aversion towards him. He
stole My seal, and I said nothing.136 With immense
hardship and despite his physical infirmities, the
illustrious Abú’l-Fadl penned a book in proof of the
Faith and for three nights, on the pretext that his house

136 Prior to this incident, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s seal was square and the verse “Yá Sáhibu’s-
Sijn” was engraved on it. He would sign the Tablets “‘Ayn ‘Ayn” and seal them on
the upper right corner. Afterwards, He commenced signing, “‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.”
(HM)

118  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


was cold, Faríd slept in Abú’l-Fadl’s residence and
destroyed those precious papers. When I admonished
him, he arose in opposition, ignoring the fact that the
Blessed Beauty has established a Testament with each
believer to turn to the Center of the Covenant and not
to cause division. We live with such sanctity and
detachment, and he begs for five dollars here and five
dollars there. And now this is his letter.
Ask Mr. Kinney137 in New York to tell you what
large sums he [Faríd] collected, first saying that he
wanted to build a hospital, then saying that the building
had a mortgage and he needed more money, thereby
receiving another sum. Presently that house is leased in
Haifa. Despite this, from Egypt he wrote that he had
established his medical practice and needed money. In
New York he swindled some people and claimed that he
possessed the secrets of the Cause.
In short, this was a brief outline of his deeds. Since
we will not join him in destroying the Cause, nor will
ever do so, then the good Doctor is unhappy with us. If
anyone harms Me a thousand times, I will not
reciprocate in the least, and in fact, will never even make
mention of it to the point that he can mistakenly claim,
“I was so clever that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá did not perceive my
deception.” No, I see everything, but conceal it [with a
sin-covering eye]. However, if anyone arises to harm the
Cause, then I will no longer remain patient and will
announce it publicly.
Ask Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání to tell you each of his
[Faríd’s] actions and you inform the friends.

That afternoon, in accordance with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instructions,
Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání came to see me and said:

137 The first meeting of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá with the American Bahá’ís took place on 11
April 1912 at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. Kinney of New York.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   119



In America, particularly in New York, His Holiness
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was fully aware and constantly admonished
Faríd [in private], but when we entered [the room], He
would cease His exhortations.
1.
Faríd wanted to have a separate residence where
he would live alone as he committed unseemly
acts, incongruent with the teachings of the
Faith, and no one was aware of his doings.
2.
Faríd would forward his translation of the
blessed Tablets that were revealed in honor of
the believers in Washington [D.C.] without first
presenting [a draft] to the Master or attaching
the original Text and the signature of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. It was heard that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
admonished him, “Was it not better for the text
to bear My signature instead of yours? It is
evident that you have evil intentions!”138
3.
Late one night, when Mrs. Pinchot139 was
resting, Faríd had gone to her claiming, “We
need money for doctors and as we are leaving in
the morning, there is no time.” She was deeply
perturbed and through her attendant sent a
message [to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá], “I have no time to

138 The implication is that by not showing a draft to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and not enclosing
the original Tablet, Faríd was mistranslating the Text and passing his own writings as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s.
139 Gifford Pinchot (11 August 1865, Simsbury, Connecticut – 4 Oct. 1946, New
York City), American conservationist and politician, was the first Chief of Forest
Service, 1905-10 and later Governor of Pennsylvania. He invited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
His travel-companions to his estate on 3 June 1912 in Milford, Pennsylvania. His
mother was Mary Jane (Eno) Pinchot, (1838 New York City – 1914 Simsbury,
Conn.). She was the wife of James Pinchot (1831 -1908) and in 1900 moved from
New York City to Washington, DC. It was in the latter city that she met ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá on 10 May 1912.

120  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


meet You in the morning”, meaning ...140 The
next morning, the Master had given a gratuity to
all her servants and en route when He saw green
fields, remembering the sufferings of His
Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] and the
Blessed Beauty, had sobbed, remarking, “What
grievous stages has the divine Faith gone
through and now how the disloyal misbehave so
waywardly!”
4.
Faríd corresponded with the violators of the
Covenant, such as [Dr. Ibrahim George]
Kheiralla and some others.
5.
Everywhere Faríd had spread the rumor that he
was the guardian [of the Cause] and the Master’s
successor.
6.
He had stolen ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s seal with the
inscription,
“Yá
Sáhib’s-Sijnih”141,
which
resulted in the Master changing His signature to
“‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás”, <75> and soon it was
learned that, with this seal, Faríd was issuing
receipts to Bahá’ís for the funds he had
[inappropriately] solicited.
7.
In the name of the Cause, but in fact for his
personal gain and the benefit of his private
hospital, he wanted to name several people as
staff of the hospital, which greatly perturbed
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Latter protested, “God
forbid, God forbid! I have always protected the
friends. Dispense with this idea, or blood will
flow!”
8.
Faríd had announced everywhere that he was
the successor of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and for this
reason, one day, he invited the honored [Mírzá]

140 Left blank by the author.
141 Lit, O my Two Fellow Prisoners, a phrase found in the Qur’án 12:39 and 12:41.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   121


Valí’u’lláh Varqá to sit near him. With utmost
affection, he had said, “You must know that if
there is one person whom I dearly esteem and
honor, it is you.” ([Zarqání] then told the history
of the honored Mullá Muhammad-Mihdí, and
the martyred Varqá and Ruhu’lláh.)
9.
He stole papers of the illustrious [Mírzá] Abú’l-
Fadl, intending to later publish them in his own
name.


[Bahá’ís of Beirut]
During the years 1910-12, the city of Beirut had emerged as an
important post for the Cause and through an increase in the Bahá’í
students our number had grown to about forty. As they witnessed
the joy, sincerity, humility, and unity of the friends, non-Bahá’ís also
joined us and discontinued their association with other Iranians in
Beirut. These included: Dr. Ridá Khán Tahmasb, Mahmúd Khán
Fátih and Ya‘qub Khán Armaní [Christian] Urúmíyyih.
From the port of Naples in Italy, the illustrious Shoghi
Effendi, who was scheduled to leave with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for Europe,
returned and joined us at Beirut University. Because of their
conflicts with the Turks, the Italians in Naples had been dithering
[thinking ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His entourage were Turks]. Dr.
Amínu’lláh Faríd had taken advantage of the situation and, under
the pretext that they had an infection of the eyes, prevented the
illustrious Shoghi Effendi, Mírzá Munír Zayn142 and Khusraw
Khádim [attendant] from joining ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. It was divine
wisdom that brought Shoghi Effendi to the College at Beirut and
bestowed this honor upon the American University.


142 A son of Zaynu’l-Muqarribín, he was one of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s two secretaries. The
other was Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání.

122  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




During his years at College, Shoghi Effendi conducted himself
like any other student, without demanding the least preferential
treatment or privilege. No one was aware of his future [office], and
he himself did not expect any special consideration from anyone.
Several times, the honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí remarked, “This
old servant has said to Shoghi Effendi, ‘It is sufficient for you to
attend the school of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and to wear a garb like His,’ but
he paid no attention.” We heeded not such talk as our sole focus
was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and we saw none besides the Master. All the rest,
we considered to be different than Him, and if anyone spoke
otherwise, we viewed it as disunity in the Cause. Even once, my
father, the late Hájí Khudábakhsh, who for a second time had come
to the Holy Land and attained the blessed presence, was critical of
our behavior towards Shoghi Effendi. Several times he exhorted me,
“Change your ways towards the eminent Shoghi Effendi and know
that this wondrous youth is the Master’s successor.” But we had
been so concerned with the Covenant and the Testament that we
were uninterested in all else. When I heard my father’s words, I
protested vigorously, saying, “What manner of talk and speech is

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   123


this? Discard such notions and thoughts! Despite [Bahá’u’lláh’s]
explicit commands and exhortations [to remain focused on the
Master], you wish to name a successor for the Master?” My father
remained silent, and only at the end he said, “By God, this youth will
be the successor of the Master as his eyes are like the eyes of the
Master and his manners are like His.” He said this and no more, and
I too thought it best not to pursue the matter, as my father was my
guest for only a few days in Beirut. But now, I testify to my own
spiritual blindness and my father’s sagacity. Indeed it was the same
discerning eyes [of my father] that, when the whole of mankind was
heedless, upon hearing the Call of the Beloved, “Am I not thy
God?” responded, “Yea, yea!” and ranked among the believers of
the first epoch of this Cause, faithful to the very last breath.
During these years the number of students in Beirut had
grown considerably, and the majority were enrolled at the
[Protestant] College. Ghulám-Husayn Ibtiháj and Abú’l-Hasan
Ibtiháj, two sons of the honored Ibtiháju’l-Mulk Rashtí, who were in
Paris, were dispatched to Beirut by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá with instructions
for me to serve as their guardian. Soon thereafter, through the
national bank, the honored Ibtiháju’l-Mulk sent me a check for sixty
pounds. Though I was thoroughly destitute, I sent it back to him in
accordance with the [Persian] saying, “Treasure in sleeve with pocket
to let, rejecting the offer.” I also enclosed a harshly worded letter.
However, the Ibtiháju’l-Mulk did not heed my objection and, once
more, sent the same sum in the care of Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí,
asking him to appeal to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that I be compelled to accept
this sum. However, as the Master was aware of my inner thoughts,
He revealed the following Tablet in honor of Hájí Mírzá Haydar-
‘Alí:

The honored Áqá Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, upon whom rest the Glory
of God.
O thou who art firm in the Covenant! The letter thou hast
written for Mírzá Munír has been perused and despite the shortage
of time, a brief reply is provided.

124  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The response offered by Mírzá Habíbu’lláh [Mú’ayyad] is
praiseworthy. Of a certainty, the honored Ibtiháj will need to
expend this sum on other requirements of the Divine Path. That
is, it must be sent to Dr. Muhammad Khán Mahallátí in Paris,
because he had previously supervised Ibtiháj’s sons and for this
service had received an annual stipend from the honored Ibtiháj.
However, since I sent the sons to Beirut, this salary arrangement is
terminated, but as means of uplifting his spirit, send him this
money because he is in need. I was deeply delighted with the
magnanimity of the honored Mírzá Habíbu’lláh. This way is the
best of ways.
Regarding the repairs of the House in Madínatu’lláh143,
this is most important and were a person to succeed in attending to
this, he would attain unto the greatest of divine bounties and that
blessed person would shine resplendently on earth and among the
Supreme Concourse like a brilliant star over the horizon of
sanctity.
The sums that the illustrious Afnáns and others have
contributed and you have spent towards the costs of the Shrine of
the Báb and the pilgrim house are most acceptable. ...144


My Third and Fourth Years of Medical School in
Beirut, 1913-14
Overcoming various hardships and difficulties, I managed to
complete the third and fourth years of my medical studies and, by
divine grace, received a diploma from the Ottoman and American
governments. I sent the following telegram to the sacred presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá:

Haifa.
Hadrat
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
‘Abbás.
Successfully
completed. Habíb.

143 Lit. the City of God, a reference to Baghdad; see Arabic Tablet of Ahmad.
144 The remainder of the Tablet not quoted by the author.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   125



Praise be to God that under the shadow of the Master’s
guidance, I was able to complete my medical studies though I had
no will of my own, and indeed had not thought about becoming a
physician, but ‘Abdu’l-Bahá guided and encouraged me to enter this
profession. In a Tablet, He had revealed:

Since Iran is in need of physicians, it is best and of prime
importance to study medical sciences.

Therefore, despite my own shortcomings and lack of ability,
but through obedience to His wishes, this servant studied as bidden.
Day and night, I was busy with my schoolwork, and when there was
a little time left to me – moments when other students played,
relaxed or swam – I devoted it to meeting Bahá’ís and being in their
service. I spent the summers under the shadow of the Shrine of the
Báb on Mount Carmel – an immense bounty that bestowed untold
benefits on me.


[‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt]
During the time that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sojourned in Alexandria145, on
two occasions I attained His august presence with other students
and for several days partook of the divine feast spread for the
friends, gaining much from His heavenly teachings.146 Rank upon
rank of the friends and nonbelievers also attained the Master’s
presence and benefited from His association. His sun of glory
radiated most brilliantly, and the billowing ocean of His utterances
surged forth mightily, and the feast of His bounties was spread most
abundantly, enthralling and captivating each listener. To the extent

145 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was in Alexandria from October 1910 to 11 August 1911, from
December 1911 to March 1912, and from 17 July 1913 to 2 December 1913. For
details see, Ahmad Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt.
146 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt 329 records that Dr. Mú’ayyad and eight other Bahá’í
students arrived at Ramleh, Egypt, on 18 September 1913.

126  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


of his own capacity, each person benefited from these heavenly
words and stored those spiritual gems for future times. Spirits were
filled with joy and delight, and tongues turned in praise and gratitude
to God.
One day ‘Abdu’l-Bahá summoned this unworthy servant, and
in His presence, we walked the busy streets of Alexandria. As He
walked, He described for me the glory, the majesty, the might and
the splendor of the Imams of Islam, upon Whom rest God’s peace.
He said that the martyrdom of each One was in the path of God
and He particularly showered His praise and tribute on His Holiness
‘Alí and Husayn, peace be upon both. He then recited the following
verses, and line by line translated them [from Arabic into Persian],
interpreting each phrase. He explained and interpreted these with
such potency that the sweetness of His words and the effect of that
experience will never be erased from memory. Every time I am
overwhelmed with sorrow and sadness, I recall those verses and that
celestial scene, and instantly I am transported to a state of joy and
bliss.147
<80> During one of the nights that I was in His presence, He
spoke about the enemies of the Cause:

They wanted to obliterate the name of the Faith
from the pages of history. They killed, harmed,
imprisoned, exiled and did what they could in
murdering, plundering, injuring and banishing the
believers; and no one was shown mercy, not even

147 The poem in Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1, pp. 111-113 (79-80), is not translated in the
present volume. The present translator is grateful to Omid Ghaemmaqami for
noting, “All of the verses are actually from one and the same poem. The ode can be
found in the diwan that is attributed to Imam ‘Alí. The full citation is: Diwan Amir al-
Mu’minin wa-Sayyid al-Bulagha’ wa-al-Mutakallimin al-Imam ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib. Beirut: Al-
Maktaba al-‘Asriya, 2004. The poem is found on pages 78-82 of the diwan with the
abyat recited by the
Master being on pages 78-80. There are a couple of discrepancies between the
poem as recorded in the Diwan and as it has been mentioned by Dr. Mu’ayyad in his
diary.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   127


infants, pregnant women, or the disabled. They
committed such heinous deeds that history has never
witnessed their like, and in no other age had the
persecutions been so intense. However, despite the
opposition of the people, the banner of God’s Faith is
hoisted most high and the sovereignty of the Cause and
its divine splendor has enveloped the world.
His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] was
martyred, though He was the quintessence of meekness.
With bare head and feet, under a scorching sun, the
Blessed Beauty was forced to walk from Niyávarán to
Tihrán. He was held captive in the Síyáh-Chál, where His
neck was made to bear the weight of the Qará-Guhar
chain, and where He lived among thieves, murderers and
criminals. The blood of many innocents was spilled. The
Blessed Beauty was banished a number of times and
eventually exiled to the Most Great Prison where every
minute of His life was in peril. Nevertheless, under the
sword of persecution, the call of the Kingdom reached
the whole of mankind and the standard of the Cause was
planted upon the highest peaks of the world.
Now, they still say the same things and think that if
they slay Me, the divine light will be extinguished. God
forbid! They inflicted the same upon His Holiness the
Exalted One [the Báb] and had the same purpose for the
Blessed Beauty, but it only had the opposite effect. The
lamp of God’s Faith grew brighter, and the fragrance of
divine love perfumed the horizons of the world. This is
precisely why you see that the cry of “Yá ‘Alíyu’l-A‘lá!”
has reached every hearer, and the call of “Yá Bahá’u’l-
Abhá!” has penetrated every heart.
Now is but the beginning of the Dispensation. The
springtime of the Faith is yet to come. We have only
seen the break of the dawn. Soon the sun of the Cause
will rise, and its effulgence will envelop the whole earth,

128  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


bestowing life and energy.
If the intention of these people [i.e. the enemies] is
[to harm] Me, I have repeatedly said that they may do
unto Me as they desire; and if so inclined, they may slay
Me, bury Me in the depths of the sea or crucify Me on a
cross. But if their purpose is to extinguish the light of
the Faith, “though they hate it, God will protect His
light, despite the hatred of the infidels, hypocrites and
violators of the Covenant.”148 …149

He then recited several verses of poems of Abú’l-Hasan
Muhammad ibn ‘Umrán ibn Yaqúb al-Anbárí composed in memory
of Abú-Táhir Muhammad ibn Baqíyyih bin ‘Alí, surnamed the
Násiru’d-Dawlih, the vizier of ‘Azu’d-Dawlih.150 When He recited
these lines, He expressed His longing for martyrdom and said, “I
want to give a sermon when I am crucified,” and with both hands
raised heavenward, He said,

Verily, thou rose to what thou didst preach,
And all rose to prayer.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey to Egypt, Europe and America
Once when we were in His presence in ‘Akká, the Master suddenly
said, “Let us go to Haifa and visit the Shrine of the Báb.” In several
carriages, all the pilgrims accompanied Him to Haifa and stayed in
the pilgrim house on Mount Carmel.

148 An expansion of Qur’án 61:8 and 9:32.
149 Left blank by the author.
150 This poem is anthologized in many sources and a discussion can be found in
Mansur Ajami, “Death transformed: a counter reading of crucifixion (Ibn al-
Anbari’s elegy of the vizier Ibn Baqiyya)” Journal of Arabic Language 21 (1990) 1-
13. Original text in Ibn Khallikan, ed. I. ‘Abbas, Beirut 1977, vol. 5, pp. 120-121, and
Táríkh Bayhaqí (ed. Khatib Rahbar, vol. 1, pp. 242-243). It is reported that the
powerful ‘Azu’d-Dawlih had said that he wished he had been killed instead and this
fine poem was composed for him.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   129














Haifa

That night151, we saw a ship leaving the harbor going south.
Some said that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was onboard. Soon afterwards, it was
confirmed that indeed He had departed on that steamer, known as
Manyih152 Khadivi. The next vessel took the illustrious Shoghi
Effendi, the honored Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh Qumí, the esteemed
Mírzá Núri’d-Dín Zayn and Áqá Khusraw Khádim [attendant] to
the presence of our Beloved in Port Said. We spent that summer [of
1910] in Haifa under the shadow of the Shrine of the Báb.
The story of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s journey to Egypt, Europe and
America is, by itself, a massive account. Each day of it opened a new
vista in the history of the Faith. It has been thoroughly covered by
Bahá’í chroniclers, and therefore this servant will refrain from
further mention.153
We spent the holidays near the Shrine of the Báb and both
outwardly and spiritually partook of the heavenly feast of the Primal
Point. All the students [from Beirut] were present, and in every way

151 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left Haifa late August 1910.
152 Name was left blank in the original, but description given in Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1,
p. 133, n.1.
153 One such account was kept by Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání and published under the
title of Badíy‘u’l-Áthár, translated as Mahmud’s Diary.

130  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


we had a marvelous time. The glad-tidings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá were
continually pouring forth from Egypt, Europe and America. Also at
all times we attained the presence of the illustrious Mírzá Haydar-
‘Alí, that sage philosopher, and immensely benefited from his sweet
utterances and learned counsels. We had no thoughts except singing
the praise of the Beloved, meeting the friends, visiting the Shrines of
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb, enjoying the Garden of Ridván and
climbing Mount Carmel. At every moment we chanted Bahá’í
anthems and had no care or sorrow, nay, it was all bliss and felicity.
We were completely unconcerned with the world and all that is
therein. This ephemeral servant had composed one or two paeans;
and with utmost joy and elation, we sang these hymns, and our
voices echoed throughout the mountain and the town of Haifa.
Frequently, non-Bahá’ís came to watch us, and beholding our joy,
they too became elated. This is the text of two of the humns:

With melodies, music and aria,
sing out the people of Bahá!

From beyond, cometh nigh this utterance:
lo, shineth forth the sun of His presence;

From the Countenance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Grief and sorrow; anguish and ferocity,
fade to naught by His awesome majesty!

Do thou tell me, what sorrow now?
for hath spread the Cause of Bahá;

Through the efforts of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

The wolf and the flock graze with amity,
while eagle and dove fly in harmony!

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   131


From the serpent cometh no harm;
for Isaiah’s promise, fulfils this Dawn154

Through the might of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Sayeth the world with abundant gaiety,
with melody, joy and ecstasy!

Dominion is His, the All-merciful God,
for He has vanished the burden of our wrongs;

Through the grace of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Once there appeared the Moon, the All-glorious,
the world turned into a paradise all wondrous!

Hail to ye, all dwellers of the earth,
for heavenly hath become this black turf;

Through the appearance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Afflicted since it was with ills and pains, our globe,
filled with evil and vice, this, our world!

A banner was raised of God’s glory,
for manifested was the age of grandeur and
majesty;

In the person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Time has come now for peace and unity,
so, do thou spread this tiding to humanity!

154 Isaiah 27:1 states: In that day the Lord with his sore and great and strong sword
shall punish leviathan the piercing serpent, even leviathan that crooked serpent; and
he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea. (King James)

132  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



Evident it is to the entire world,
that hast perished tyranny and woe;

Through the majesty of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Witness the world so enthralled and rapturous,
with thy soul, behold His Covenant, so wondrous!

Every lover’s desire, do thou see,
now the very self of Bahá

In the vesture of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

And this is the hymn that was sung at the dinner table in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá residence:

O ye band of lovers,
melting away in separation’s pain!

Sing ye this song: for lo,
life hath been bestowed anew!

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Darksome night of separation hath come to pass,
for the Sun of Glory hath dawned at last!

To abyss, hath perished every wicked;
for His Covenant hath now appeared!

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   133


The Light of Truth is shining bright,
the Sun of Reality is radiating light!

To sing His praises, we must;
for life hath been breathed into dust!

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


From the West, each and all,
those with woes, travails and trials;

be they Jews or gentiles;
have arrived jubilant and joyous!

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Baha

The Messiah of the Age,
for the healing of the ails;

with the panacea of love and grace,
hath graciously arrived to grant benevolence!

<85> Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Baha

Our Commander and Master He is;
our Judge and Saintly Father He is!

Manifestation of the Lord of Hosts;
hath arrived like the King of the worlds

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal

134  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Baha

Merrily, with glory and splendour;
He hath come in the garb of servitude!

The Centre of the Lord’s Covenant;
The Beloved of our soul; so resplendent!

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Baha

O, Thou majestic Beauty;
Manifestation of the essence of glory;

Fixing our gaze on Thy munificence;
We have gathered round Thy table of benevolence!

Let Him live forever this Branch Eternal
our Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá155


‘Abdu’l-Bahá from the Author’s Perspective
While I was in the Holy Land, people from all strata, races,
ethnicities and backgrounds, whether visitors, resident believers,
easterners or westerners, would attain the presence of the Master.
Each would ask his questions, which hardly ever resembled the ones
posed by others. One inquirer had materialistic tendencies, another,
philosophical proclivities. One would be religious and deeply
attached to his convictions, while another was afire by the love of
his country or was universalistic in his approach, and considered all
people equal and the same. Some were black, others white, some
from Asia, and some were European. While one talked of feminist

155 Translation of the above two hymns composed by the diarist were graciously
contributed by Gloria Shahzadeh for this monograph.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   135


movements and advocated women’s emancipation, another spoke of
the subjugation of women and the advantages of multiple wives.
One spoke of the needs of the proletariat, while another would ask
the Master of communism. One wished to know about literature
and poetry, another, about history and philosophy. One would ask
about the traditions and prophecies, and sought solutions to
complex problems, while another inquired about the meanings of
abstruse passages in the Sacred Books – passages that had perplexed
him for some time. One was Arab and would present the problem
of Arab liberation, inquiring of its solution; another was Jewish and
wished to know of the future of Palestine.
In short, hundreds of people attained His sacred presence, and
each had his own questions and inquired about matters that
interested him, whether in the field of religion, science or spirituality.
In every instance, they would depart from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence
with the utmost joy and tranquility, praising and glorifying Him.
They were all captivated by His charm and personality and
considered Him an utmost expert and authority in their field of
interest.
In addition to such inquirers, there were many with material needs
and difficulties and they too approached ‘Abdu’l-Bahá with hope of
a solution. Whatever their troubles or material worries, or problems
with adversaries in the governmental agencies or the military
establishment, they considered the Master to be their sole support
and confidant.
In turn, with utmost compassion, He would listen to their
problems, heed their requests, solve their difficulties and, with words
of encouragement and comfort, send them away happy and hopeful.
When poets, scholars, scientists and men of letters attained ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s presence, they would instinctively began to extol and exalt
the Center of the Covenant. In particular Arab poets – whether
Muslim, Druze156 or Christian – would spontaneously compose

156 Founded in the eleventh CE by the Persian immigrant Hamza Ibn ‘Alí Ibn
Ahmad, it is a sect of Islam which reveres the Fátimid caliph al-Hakím, and
incorporates elements of Christianity and Greek philosophy.

136  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


elegant verses extolling the Master. At times, these poems exhibited
the highest degree of eloquence and beauty, and were read by them
in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and then decorated and given to
Him with great respect. He always graciously received such papers
and when they had left, would tear the papers up and throw them
away.
In summary, He was a spiritual teacher for the world, and His
sacred teachings were universal and of great benefit to all people.
His knowledge was innate, not acquired. Despite the onrush of
troubles and the onslaught of enemies, He was never gloomy or
disconsolate. Each moment He was brighter and happier than the
instant before and easily communicated His joy to others who were
touched by His delight, elation and humility. His words penetrated
the very core of one’s being and would even humble His most
resolute adversaries. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s spiritual teachings were firmly
founded on the basis of justice, the elimination of differences, the
resolution of difficulties, the unification of men, the establishment
of universal peace and the inauguration of a new divine order. He
exerted great efforts to bring about spiritual and physical comfort,
and material and eternal happiness to the grief-stricken inhabitants
of this world, and give hope and courage to every despondent and
desolate hearer of His words. Truly, His ways caused one to become
detached from worldly cares, bestowed immense serenity and
enabled one’s soul to ascend to higher planes.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s eating habits were most amazing and
noteworthy. Often at the dinner table, holding a pitcher of water
and speaking, He would serve food and assure the comfort of His
guests. He would eat only after everyone had dined. His bites were
very small, less than the size of an almond, and would be chewed
very well. He ate extremely slowly, did not like meat, nor cared very
much for fruits, but occasionally took a tangerine or a sweet lemon.
Most of the time His food was bread, milk, cheese, and raw
vegetables, particularly mint, tarragon and sweet basil. Altogether,
He ate little and drank very hot tea, which towards the end of His

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   137


life was changed to herbal tea157. He ate and slept very little.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Eyes of Others
Many eastern and western observers and European and American
travelers have written extensively about their experiences of attaining
the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and their feelings during such
encounters. Moreover, there are many oral accounts about the
influence and the majesty of His blessed Person, or which share
delightful memories of hours spent with Him. Nevertheless, no
discerning writer has been able to befittingly sculpt words and
phrases to describe the qualities and attributes that defined ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, nor has any skilled painter been able to befittingly capture His
myriad expressions. However, if we were to carefully consider these
accounts and to deeply reflect on the reports of those who attained
His presence, we would arrive at the irrefutable conclusion that each,
in his own limited way, has spoken of His majesty, splendor, power
and perfection.
Before the august presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, each visitor
considered himself most insignificant, his own thoughts flawed, his
own pen erring and his understanding inadequate, testifying to his
own inability to fully grasp the Master’s essence and attributes. For
instance, one has likened Him to a powerful monarch with a
corresponding measure of radiance and glory, Who was also the
embodiment of humility, compassion and modesty, and saw himself
as unimportant and petty in relation to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Another has
described Him as an accomplished, true mystic, while another has
emphasized His generosity and was awed by the Master’s depth of
commitment to charity. Yet another has seen Him as an elderly man,
but possessing utmost power and strength, while another has viewed
Him as a prisoner, yet with sovereign might and unbounded
grandeur. One has called Him a pillar of light, and another has

157 The original refers to the use of the Hyssop (Hyssopus officinalis), a member of the
mint family.

138  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


referred to Him as a manifestation of pure spirit. One has become
self-renouncing upon meeting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, has testified to his own
nothingness and poverty, and spoken of the wonder of His person.
One has bowed before the heavenly radiance of His person, and
considered Him the possessor of unimpeachable and trenchant
judgment, life-giving breath and magnetic and wondrous spirituality.
One has noted that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was unrivaled in the religious
realm and sciences, likening Him to a teacher who has taught those
subject matters for a great many years, possessing innate knowledge
of all the Sacred Books of the past and capable of their absolute and
total recall, able to discern and expatiate their innermost meanings
and mysteries.
Yet another, out of prejudice and ignorance, has attempted to
dispute with Him. For instance, there was a certain Sunni by the
name of Hájí Sádiq Afghání who was deeply biased, odious, fanatical
in religious matters, and antagonistic towards ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the
extent that every time he saw the Master, he turned, looked the
other way and changed his course. One day he became ill and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá told Áqá Ridá Qannád to arrange for a doctor to visit
this man each morning and evening and to charge the cost to the
Master’s account. <90> Moreover, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasized that all
his medications be provided and that Áqá Ridá check and arrange
for whatever provisions or funds this man’s family required. It
proceeded thus for a while and the physician regularly visited him
until the Afghání became well. He never forgot this compassionate
charity of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and was frequently heard to remark,
“Except for ‘Abbás Effendi, no one came to my rescue or saw to my
needs. How am I to forget this immense kindness?!” From then on,
his behavior and attitude completely changed, and whenever he saw
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he would rush forth and kiss the Master’s hands and
express his obedience and servitude.158

Another was the chief minister of education of Beirut, a
thoroughly irreligious man, bent on dispute and contention. When

158 A somewhat different version of the same incident is told in Myron H. Phelps,
Life and Teachings of Abbas Effendi, pp. 8-10.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   139


he arrived in ‘Akká and attained ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence, he heard
Him speak on such topics as divinity, oneness of God, and belief
and certitude in the Authors of the sacred religions. However, he
began to argue and rejected everything spiritual. No amount of
exhortation had the least effect. He departed the following day for
Beirut and assumed his previous post. But two or three days had
hardly passed when he sent a telegram to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Turkish,
stating, “I deeply regret my words and the manner of my conduct,
and humbly kiss the hem of Your garment.  Once more I apologize
for what transpired and seek Your forgiveness.”

In sum, in the course of the very first meeting with the Master
and hearing His short and wise discourse, and witnessing His
sanctified manners and conduct, the visitor would be overcome with
awe and wonder and testify to His majesty and might. For instance,
I remember well that at that time a very learned woman from
England by the name of Miss [Alice] Buckton159 came carrying a
large case of books for the sole purpose of converting the Master to
Christianity. However in the course of her first interview she was so
impressed and enchanted with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that without ever
opening the suitcase of books, she returned to England filled with
profound love and admiration for the Master and for many years
wrote of Him in various journals and spoke glowingly of the Cause
of God, serving it with great distinction.
A philosopher would speak of sciences with the Master and
[afterwards] would describe Him as superior in knowledge to all
natural scientists of the past or contemporary philosophers. And
when he had heard full and sufficient response to his complex
scientific queries, he would express gratitude and praise and leave in
a state of utmost joy and felicity.

There was a professor of literature who, after engaging
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in matters of interest, had declared himself an
unlettered child and had professed immense respect and humility for

159 She was the author of the Christmas mystery play, Eager Heart, the Dawn of Day,
and other plays. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá saw this play on 22 December 1912 in London’s
Church House, Westminster.

140  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


the Master. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá interpreted this Arabic poem:

The delicacy of glass and the grace of wine
are opposite yet similar,
As if there were wine but no cup,


or there were chalice but no wine.

He spoke in Turkish in exposition of the works of Sa‘dí and
others.

A teacher of history spoke in the Master’s presence of the
evolution and conflicts of history, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, much like a
skilled painter, outlined for him a lively and meaningful perspective
that truly evoked the wonder and admiration of the listeners,
prompting everyone to testify to His all-encompassing knowledge
and erudition.
Another was a physician who in the Master’s presence spoke
of issues related to medicine and remedies. Like a seasoned
physician and a highly trained specialist with years of experience
who was singularly recognized for his learning and discoveries,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá commenced to discuss the minute details of medicine
and anatomy. One by one, He explained the function of each organ
and disclosed before our astonished eyes the hidden secrets of the
body and the wisdom of creation behind various parts. In a state of
wonder and utter astonishment, we bowed our heads in respect and
exchanged words in praise of His greatness.
The words He spoke and shared were indeed but a drop from
the infinite ocean of God’s knowledge, and represented a brief
effulgence from the immense divine resplendence. In truth, what He
uttered during this time is well beyond the comprehension of man in
the present age and is meant for as yet unborn and distant
generations that will benefit from them for at least a thousand years!
His immense learning was not limited to one or two subject matters,
but encompassed the whole range of knowledge, including science,
literature, history, religion, philosophy, social issues, economics, and
the reform and administration of the world. He spoke of and

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   141


exemplified things that are essential for happiness, promote spiritual
growth and assure progress and attainment for humanity, and cause
nearness to God. Whatever question or topic was presented to Him,
without the least hesitation, He would provide sufficient and
complete answers, causing amazement in the inquirer, who would
readily testify to His superior knowledge and insights and share
these sentiments openly.

What was even more bewildering was that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
not studied in any school. Everyone testifies that banishment, exiles,
confinement in prisons, never-ending trials and tribulations, and the
assault of unrelenting enemies consumed His life. Therefore, one
may ask: From where did He acquire such refined moralities, the
knowledge of the secrets and mysteries of nature and the world
above? The answer is simple: for Him, there was no school but
divine inspiration and no training except the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh.

With such power, majesty, mastery of knowledge and grasp of
topics, every thought and moment of His precious life was
consecrated to the service of others, the promotion of spirituality,
the promulgation of divine teachings, the education of people in the
fundamental doctrines of the Faith, reform and the betterment of
the society of men and the universal brotherhood of mankind. His
tongue and pen moved unceasingly to educate and exhort men and
women to moral and ethical standards and the attainment of
perfection. He labored until a large multitude from diverse
backgrounds and races were enrolled under the banner of the Cause
of God and were illumined by the recognition of the Divine Being,
and became endowed by celestial attributes and human perfections.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá called them “the Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh”.160

Despite all the troubles, difficulties, injuries, imprisonment,
opposition, hostilities, and threats that surrounded every instant of
His life, which gave no opportunity for a moment’s respite, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá was never fatigued or depressed and was never heard to

160 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often referred to the Bahá’ís of North America as “the Apostles of
Bahá’u’lláh”; see, for example, Tablets of the Divine Plan, p. 49.

142  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


complain or show remorse. He was always happy and jubilant in the
midst of difficulties and tribulations, and, unperturbed by the onrush
of obstacles, would share humorous anecdotes to lighten the
moment. In fact, during such times, He would engage in trimming
flowerbeds, renovating the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and other Bahá’í
Holy Places, and even organizing weddings and feasts. He was never
saddened or depressed, except when the violators of the Covenant
had caused the betrayal of a believer or news of disunity among the
friends was received.
In short, from the beginning of His life until the very end,
through divine bounties, He was joyful and confident in the ultimate
triumph and victory of the Faith – a confidence that was
communicated to all those around Him with great facility. During
the height of difficulties and the assault of diverse troubles, He often
recited these verses:


O that life was sweet, instead of bitter,


O that people were agreeable, instead of wroth.

O that it was peace between you and me,


Even if there was ruin between the world and me.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá slept very little, and at nights when He retired,
instead of resting, He prayed and supplicated to the Threshold of
Almighty God. Some nights, along with a few friends, I would
quietly go near His room, and we would hear the murmur of His
voice in meditation and, though we could not recognize the hushed
prayers, nevertheless could make out the words, “O my God, my
Beloved!”

Nevertheless, He was very strong and often walked long
distances. When we went to visit the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, for nearly
twenty minutes He would pump water without any rest.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   143


Chapter 4

Mission to Germany, Summer of 1914


After I received my diploma from the American College of Beirut, I
went to Haifa for a few days where I enjoyed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
immense hospitality, both outwardly and spiritually.161 Frequently, I
attained His presence and was enraptured and enthralled by His
soul-stirring utterances.


19 July 1914, Haifa
Today, without any prior notice, I was summoned to the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá where for over an hour I had the honor of being the
only one in attendance. I stood at attention as He paced and spoke
about the martyrdom of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb]
and the exiles, banishment and tribulations of Bahá’u’lláh. He
repeatedly emphasized that the purpose of sustaining all these trials
in the path of the Divine Beloved was for the people to become
repentant, awakened and detached, to walk in the ways of God and
to grow in spirituality and sincerity. He then removed His táj162,
allowed His hair to fall over <95> His jubbih163 and in a resonant
and clear voice said to me:

I want to send you to Europe. I wish for you to perform
miracles in that land; give eloquent talks. Never consider

161 Bushrú’í, p. 23, states that he, Dr. Mú’ayyad and Ridá Khán Tahmásb, a non-
Bahá’í Iranian student, graduated in June 1914. Bushrú’í, p. 44, states that the author
arrived in the Holy Land on 22 June 1914. It is very likely that Badí‘ Bushrú’í was
traveling with Dr. Mú’ayyad and both arrived at the same time.
162 Tall brimless conical hat, worn as a sign of prestige (from Persian word for
“crown”).
163 A long cloak with open sleeves worn over the shirt, but under the ‘abá.

144  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


your own shortcomings, but fix your gaze on the
bounties and the favors of the Blessed Beauty that
transforms a drop into a mighty ocean and a speck into a
brilliant sun. For the first few minutes, focus your
thoughts on the Abhá Kingdom as I do and implore
grace and aid. You will see that confirmations will surge
forth. We are servants of the Ancient Beauty and the
revivers of moldering bones.

Twice more I was summoned that day into His presence and
each time became the recipient of His special bounties and received
His instructions for the [forthcoming] journey.

Together with Mírzá ‘Azízu’lláh Bahádur164 we left for
Europe.165 Hájí Siyyid Yahya166 and Mírzá Asadu’lláh Isfahání167 also
joined us, destined for London, where they planned to speak with

164 Bahádur was a fellow student at Syrian Protestant College where Dr. Mú’ayyad
had just graduated.
165 The Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab (Star of the West, issue 17 May 1916) quotes
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s comments “to two young college men from the orient as they started
west to ‘promote the glad tidings of the Kingdom of good-will and peace.’” Given
the date of the diary entry, it is clear that the two young men were Mú’ayyad and
Bahádur. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words were:
You are the angels of the Kingdom of Abhá; guide the people. You
are the rays of the Sun of Reality; bestow upon them light. You are
the trees of the orchard of God; produce loving fruits. You are the
water of eternal life; allay the thirst of mankind. You are the guides of
the royal path of the Kingdom; lead the wandering ones back to the
fold. On this trip, through the assistance and providence of God, you
must perform miracles. Your speeches must be delivered with the
utmost spirituality ... Speak in public meetings. God will support you.
Deliver talks on universal love of Bahá’u’lláh, the penetration of the
Word of God, and the general principles of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh. I hope you will fill the minds with the tumult and
acclamation of the kingdom, set aglow the hearts with the fire of
reality and spread far and wide the good news of the King of eternal
life ...
166 Munírih Khánum’s brother.
167 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s brother-in-law and Dr. Faríd’s father.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   145


and admonish Dr. Faríd.168 Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání left for India as
well, and Mrs. [Emogene] Hoagg was sent on a mission to Italy.169
We attained ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence several times that day and
in the gatherings [of the friends] received His special and infinite
blessings. Afterwards we departed on the Egyptian sailing vessel
Monya.170 The Master sent the illustrious Shoghi Effendi and a
number of other friends aboard the ship to bid us farewell once
more and to convey His bounties.171 Shoghi Effendi had brought for
us the following Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as a means of introducing
us to the European Bahá’í community:

Europe.
For the purpose of the diffusion of divine fragrances and to
visit the friends of God, the honored Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh
[Mú’ayyad] and Áqá Mírzá ‘Azízu’lláh Khán [Bahádur] are
permitted to journey to Europe that they may befittingly sacrifice in
the path of God.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.

In short, we traveled to France, Italy, Switzerland and

168 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 407, has recorded the following:
By the middle of the year [1914] the defection of Dr Faríd had come
into the open, and the Bahá’ís of the West had to be protected. Faríd
was travelling in Europe in defiance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, announcing his
arrival beforehand so that meetings would be organized for him. In
London, the King’s Weight Hall had been booked and the meeting
was advertised. It was summer-time and Lady Blomfield was not in
London. However the timely intervention of Dr Lutfu’lláh Hakím
prevented Faríd from speaking. Some of the Bahá’ís were badly
shaken by the incident and a few fell away.
169 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 407, informs that Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Nakhjavání
was sent at that time for Caucasus.
170 The Egyptian Monya Khedive is the same ship that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá used for His
journey from Haifa to Port Said [in August 1910]. (HM)
171 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 42, gives the name of those sent to the ship to bid the
travelers farewell as: Shoghi Effendi, Badí‘ Effendi Bushrú’í, Mrs. Sanderson, Mírzá
Ahmad Sohrab, Áqá Ahmad Yazdí and Husayn Áqá.

146  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Germany and in Germany witnessed the onset of the First World
War, 1914-18. In addition, the honored Mr. [Charles Mason] Remey
and Mr. [George] Latimer came to Stuttgart, and we had many warm
and wonderful gatherings, and were able to propagate the divine
teachings. I have recorded the details of this journey in three
separate notebooks and, should the Almighty grant me time, I will
publish these notes and make them available to all.172

It was then that the following telegram was received from the
Master:

Through Consul Schwarz:
Remey, Latimer, Habíb and ‘Azíz must come to Haifa.
‘Abbás.

In light of this cable, therefore with the honored Mr. Remey and
Latimer, we returned to ‘Akká and Haifa.

172 Dr. Mú’ayyad was able to publish some of these notes and they appear in Khátirát
Habíb, vol. 2, pp. 43-227.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   147


Chapter 5

Holy Land, Fall of 1914


28 September 1914, Customs [Office] in Alexandria
We were distraught all day. They questioned us extensively, and
closely searched our belongings, checked and rechecked our
passports and scrutinized everything. Meticulously, piece by piece,
the officials went through our papers and inspected every page and
all of our possessions. They even confiscated the missives that Mr.
Latimer was carrying [for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá].173 All of our pockets, the
linings of our clothes and every conceivable nook and corner were
very closely examined. Never in the past had we been subjected to
such exact inspections or made to endure such inconvenience.
When we left the Customs area, it seemed as if we were freed from a
prison or had been cured of a severe illness.
We rested a little and then proceeded to the [train] terminal for
Egypt174, where we were welcomed by the honored Áqá
Muhammad-Taqí
Isfahání,
Hájí
Niyáz,
[and
Abú’l-Qásim]
Gulistánih, dining in the residence of the esteemed Áqá
Muhammad-Taqí. Then we left for the Hotel Bristol to retire for the
evening.


29 September 1914, Cairo
Hájí Niyáz came early in the morning, and together we went to visit

173 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 229, states that the package of letters for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
was stolen by the secret police in the Custom Office, and only after the travelers had
reached Haifa had they realized that this package was missing. Some time later, these
letters arrived for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, all opened and stamped by the censor’s office. A
few of them, however, never arrived.
174 Presumably meaning Cairo.

148  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Dr. Sálih175. Afterwards we went to see the editor of the Chihrih-
Namá Newspaper.176 That night over fifty of the divine friends were
gathered in the home of the honored Hájí Mírzá Hasan Khurásání,
and the honored Mr. [Charles Mason] Remey and the esteemed Mr.
[George] Latimer gave extensive talks, translated by this servant. The
friends wished me also to speak, so I told them about the amazing
progress of the Cause of God in Germany. We went to our hotel
afterwards.177


30 September 1914, Cairo
Today, together with our American brethren, we went to see the
Pyramids and the Sphinx [near Giza]. Then, in the company of Dr.
Sálih, we went to the resting-place of the illustrious [Mírzá] Abú’l-
Fadl – may my spirit be a ransom for his remains – and when a súrih
of the Qur’án was recited [in his memory], it seemed as if the spirit
of Abú’l-Fadl had transformed the atmosphere.178 A deep serenity
and an overwhelming spirituality enveloped us and profoundly
touched and affected our traveling party.
That night, a number of friends and seekers were present in
the home of the honored Khurásání, and eloquent talks were
offered. The honored Mírzá Ridá Gulistánih and Shaykh Hasan also
spoke, focusing on proofs about the Manifestation of the Great
Announcement [Bahá’u’lláh].


175 Dr. Sálih was Egyptian and became the first Bahá’í to study in the Syrian
Protestant College of Beirut in 1901; See, “Dr. M. Sálih,” Bahá’í World, vol. IX, p.
606.
176 Chihrih-Namá was a Persian weekly, and its editor was Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-
Muhammad Irání, the Mu’addibu’s-Saltanih, who in the past had been antagonistic
towards the Faith, but upon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to Alexandria had a change of heart
and became very friendly. With great admiration, this paper reported ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
travels.
177 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 2, p. 229, suggests that the night was spent in the home of
Áqá Muhammad-Taqí Isfahání.
178 Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl’s death took place on 21 January 1914.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   149



1 October 1914, Cairo
Today was the day of farewells. A large number of the friends came
to the [train] station and, unlike the time of our departure in
Germany, great joy and spirituality surrounded all as we said our
good-byes. What was most wonderful was the loving and
affectionate exchange of farewell between the eastern and western
believers, which made for a striking and heart-warming scene. This
marvelous display of love attracted the attention of other travelers
who were observing this heavenly scene, as the spirits in utter
wonder exclaimed, “Sanctified art Thou, Founder of this
resplendent Age!” I recalled vividly that in Stuttgart, when we were
exchanging good-byes, tears streamed forth like spring rain, but now
what an amazing difference!

On the express train, we journeyed from Cairo to Port Said in
four hours, one of which was spent crossing the Suez Canal. In Port
Said we stayed in the Hotel de la Poste [on Al-Gumhúríya Street].


2 October 1914, Port Said
Today we met the honored Hájí Siyyid Javad, Dr. Bashír and
Ibráhím Effendi179. In the afternoon we had a meeting, then visited
the statue of De Lesseps180, and that evening went to the home of
Dr. Bashír where some thirty new converts were present. These
friends had embraced the Faith about a year ago as a result of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s journey and stay in that region. Even though
[Bahá’ís] were not permitted to openly teach the Cause in Egypt, yet
these friends had investigated [and converted] and now, through the
love of God, blazed like towering, flaming conflagrations. They hold
regular unity meetings and when a disagreement appears among
them and a problem comes up at the gatherings, they sit together on

179 He was the first Egyptian in Port Said to convert to the Faith; see, Ahang
Rabbani, In the Land of Refuge: The Genesis of the Bahá’í Faith in Shiraz..
180 Ferdinand de Lesseps (November 19, 1805 - December 7, 1894) was a French
engineer who built the Suez Canal and started building the Panama Canal.

150  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


the sands of the shore, speak of their peerless Beloved and resolve
their differences with utmost love and affection. They had decorated
and framed verses testifying to the appearance of the Great
Announcement and placed them prominently in their shops. What
warmth, what rapture and what devotion!
About a month earlier, two of them had been assaulted with
watermelon rinds and [subjected to] insults and abuse, and the
Shaykh of ‘Abbásí Mosque had cursed and slandered them from the
pulpit, labeling them infidels and heaping all manner of slander and
slurs upon them. Yet these sanctified souls had remained steadfast
as a rock and radiant in the face of all tribulations. Their meetings
were joyful, and they prayed for the guidance of their adversaries.
Indeed, this is naught but the miracle of divine teachings!


3 October 1914, ‘Akká and Haifa
Boarding the Italian ship Strakoz we departed for the Ka‘bih of the
Beloved. The sea was angry on the fourth of October, and at a port
near Jaffa, everyone in the third class cabins was quarantined, except
us. Before the arrival of the Health Department’s agents, someone
had locked the entrance to our accommodation and opened it only
after the agents had left the ship, and thereby we were spared [from
this inconvenience]. We never learned who this person was, but he
must have been sent from the invisible realm as his action rescued
us from an enormous waste of time – perhaps this divine bounty
was bestowed upon us because we had been frugal with the Faith’s
funds and had obtained lower class passages. The Almighty must
have assisted!

That night, our ship anchored at the port of ‘Akká, where we
learned that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had gone to Abu Sinan.181 The next

181 By this time, the situation all across the Ottoman Empire and the Middle East
had become perilous with the British occupation of Egypt, the repressive measures
of Jamal Pasha and the spread of the World War I to the region. In order to protect
the Bahá’í community, some time around September 1914, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá withdrew
them all to the Druze village of Abu Sinan, situated to the east of ‘Akká. In this

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   151


morning, we disembarked at the port of Haifa and spent the fifth of
October visiting the friends of God. On the sixth, once more, the
city was blessed with the presence of the Master.182



In the afternoon we all gathered in His presence. Describing
the effect and positive influence of this journey, He stated, “It was
from God and unto Him it returned. It was a very productive
voyage. Its full effect will only become manifest in the future.”

period, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself stayed in ‘Akká with one attendant and occasionally
spent a night or two in Abu Sinan. In the past, Bahá’u’lláh had once stayed with
these friendly people for three months in the foothills of Galilee. See, Hasan
Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 410-411, and subsequent chapters of the present volume.
182 Bushrú’í, p. 39, confirms that Charles Mason Remey and George Latimer arrived
in Haifa on 5 October 1914 and stayed for 14 days, leaving on 19 October.

152  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


I asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about the insidious rumors spread by the
violators of the Covenant, that He was ill, bed-ridden and that
others were administering the affairs of the Cause. He responded,
“Those that spread such slanders know not that they are causing
their own demise and destruction. Each word revealed by the
Supreme Pen is endowed with a myriad hidden wisdoms and will
cause worlds of good for the benefit of the Faith. Whatever I say is
for their gain. However, their enmity prevents them from discerning
this truth. This is their test! ‘Blackened will be the face of the one
who is impure!’”
After the meeting, He summoned us and asked of the
condition of the War in Europe. He said, “They asked a German
woman if any news had reached her about her son in the battlefield.
She responded, ‘I have no news. Should he be killed, what good
would it do me if they gave me France in its entirety?!’” Then He
added, “Soon all the ethnic conflicts will be alleviated. National
differences will be no more, and all will be considered one and equal.
<100>Had it not been for the spirit of the Cause of God, by now,
the people would have become so savage that not a single family
could have been seen on the face of the earth!”


7 October 1914, Haifa
Early in the morning I attained ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence. He inquired
of the condition of the believers in Germany, particularly of Consul
Schwarz and his esteemed wife, and expressed His pleasure.183 He
prayed for the protection and safety of Mr. Eckstein’s184 sons and
smilingly said, “At times of trouble, hearts are softened and turn to
God. It is then that people develop capacity to hear [of God].” He
added, “Your journey was good. It served both to spread the Faith

183 In April 1913, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had met Consul and Frau Schwarz in Germany.
184 Herr Eckstein had served as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s translator on at least one occasion.
On 3 April 1913, the Master addressed a large audience in Stuttgart’s upper hall of
the City (Burger) Museum. Ahmad Sohrab translated into English and Herr Eckstein
then into German. See, Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 380-1.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   153


and to inspire the friends.”
Once more that afternoon in the German colony and under
the olive trees, I attained ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence, and He again
inquired of our mission. “The friends in Germany have written,” I
responded, “and have asked, ‘O beloved Master! How can vicious
wolves find their way to the lambs of the Kingdom when we have a
kind Shepherd like You!’”












German Colony 1900

I reported on the sincere assistance of Mr. Eckstein, and the
Master offered many affectionate words [for him]. I shared, “A large
and wonderful gathering of the German friends was organized that
was possible only through the power of God! One of the believers
and I were speaking and saying, ‘If we were now in the presence of
the Master, we would boldly implore, ‘O Thou Founder of the
Celestial Sovereignty! Do not allow Thy heart to be perturbed by the
actions of two or three violators of the Covenant.’’” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
responded:

Astaghfuru’lláh! I desire for them everlasting glory.
I educated this youth (Dr. Faríd) so that he would be of
benefit to the Cause, would render service to the Sacred
Threshold and give light as a bright candle. However,

154  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


carnal desires and love of money prevented him and
prompted him to rebel. He has always deceived the
friends and through various means has extracted money
from them. He spent seven hundred lira to acquire some
land near here. He brought with him to America the
Blessed Beauty’s Persian rug and sold it at an extravagant
price. He sold a number of silk handkerchiefs for
substantial sums claiming they came from the Greatest
Holy Leaf.
Mrs. [Phoebe] Hearst is an affluent woman and
was very sympathetic to the Cause. Yet Faríd’s father,
Mírzá Asadu’lláh [Isfahání], caused her enthusiasm to
diminish and die. And this occurred when he was
receiving a stipend of fifty dollars a month from her, and
since other [Bahá’ís] were also receiving a salary from
her, he wrote her and complained that fifty dollars was
insufficient. She then terminated all stipends. In my
journey to America, I never spoke of her [Mrs. Hearst],
and when others spoke of her, I maintained silence so
that no one would think that we had an eye on her
money. Upon arrival in California, Goodall and Cooper
asked that I meet with her [Mrs. Hearst]. But after our
meeting, that evening Faríd had tried to bilk a huge sum
from her. In the next morning’s public meeting, I had
Faríd serving as my translator and announced, “If
anyone tries to elicit money from others, he is not a
Bahá’í and not of the Kingdom. We reject such
individuals, and the friends must beware such people.”
Faríd understood My meaning and never again spoke of
money [to Mrs. Hearst], but through various means and
tricks, he extorted money from other believers.
People like Faríd destroy themselves and cause us
trouble. With great difficulty I have brought seekers into
the Faith, and how unabashedly he turns them away! We
plant trees to blossom and bring forth goodly fruits, and

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   155


he cuts them down. The reason is that his heart desires
deadwood. He wants to extinguish the light because it is
only then that he can steal. That is why he does not want
light.

I remarked, “The Bahá’ís of Germany have said, ‘Never has
history recorded that One of the Sacred Personages Himself travels
from East to West to propagate the Message and to raise the Call of
the Kingdom. However, since the Master was all too aware of the
need to exhort people to adhere to the divine teachings and could
discern the perils that lay ahead for humanity, He Himself rose in
this path so that the proof could be made complete.’”
“A year and half ago,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded, “I penned a
general Tablet, and Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Milání published and
disseminated it. Therein I spoke of all these matters and raised the
call of the Great Announcement for the East and the West. Thus
the proof is complete, and none may complain. Seek this Tablet and
ponder upon it carefully.” He walked a few more paces and then
said, “Locate the verses in the Bible that prohibit associating with
the munáfiqín [hypocrites], as they will be necessary at the
appropriate time.” Later with much care I read the whole of the
Bible, extracted those verses and have kept them since.
Mention of the Lamparter185 family was made to the Master,
and He revealed the following Tablet, which was sent for them:

Stuttgart. Mrs. Lamparter, Friedrich Lamparter [and]
Otto Lamparter, upon all rest the Glory of God, the Most
Glorious.

He is God.
O seekers of the Divine Kingdom! Happy are ye that ye
have turned to God and have lifted your vision from this material
world onto the realm above. This indeed is by reason of your high

185 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.

156  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


mindedness and lofty aspirations. I cherish the hope that ye will
remain firm and steadfast in this path.
The Greatest Name ringstones that ye had requested are
enclosed.
Upon ye rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.

That night we attained His presence in a general meeting of
the believers in His residence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

These honored friends have brought many glad-
tidings from Germany. Twice I was in Stuttgart; once on
my return [to the Holy Land]. The believers in that city
are indeed sincere, true and virtuous. The purpose of the
divine teachings and exhortations is precisely this: to aid
us to become perfect people. It is not given merely for
reading.
When after two years the Blessed Beauty returned
from Sulaymáníyyih, He was wearing a dilapidated coat,
a vest with no sleeves and a cotton headgear. The Kurds
used to recall that each night Bahá’u’lláh’s voice was
raised high in prayer and, though they could not make
out the actual words, they could hear His supplications
and invocations. It is good to ponder on the sufferings
of the Blessed Beauty.
Áqá Siyyid Qásim, chant a prayer.


9 October 1914, the Sorrowful Incident of Bashír
Bashír was a sincere, faithful and hardworking servant in the
Master’s house, and one of his responsibilities was to oversee the
security of the house during the night hours.186 Unsure of the night-

186 Bushrú’í, p. 41, notes: “During the days of the Blessed Beauty, Jamál Effendi,
known as Sulaymán Khán Tankábání, who was teaching the Cause in India [i.e.
Burma], brought several youth of that land to the Holy Land for service in the Holy

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   157


guards’ vigilance in their duties, he had awaken one night, circled the
courtyard a few times and then had hid. One of the Bahá’í guards
had inquired, “Who goes there?” But Bashír had given no response.
A second time it was asked, and yet no response. The guard then
had fired his gun and the bullet had struck Bashír in the midsection,
causing severe injuries. No one dared report the incident to the
Master, so I went into His presence and informed Him of the
situation. He instructed, “Inform the police inspector, the public
prosecutor and the medical examiner to come and investigate the
matter.” Immediately, His instructions were carried out, and the
officers prepared a report of the incident. Bashír confessed to his
own fault saying, “No other person is responsible, as I had no
enemies. This injury was due to my own negligence.”
Soon the internal inflammations, pain, fever and vomiting
worsened, and his condition became critical. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá came by
his bedside and, for about ten minutes, stood there in silence.
Suddenly Bashír opened his eyes and saw the Master standing over
him. He extended his hand and said, “Allah-u-Abhá!” The Master
replied, “Alláh-u-Abhá!” Then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá placed His hand on his
brow and heart and left. Pausing by the entrance, He turned and
said, “It was a divine decree, a divine decree.” He then mounted His
donkey with Badí‘ Effendi [Bushrú’í] holding the bridle and Ustád
Muhammad-‘Alí and another believer walking on either side. I
followed from behind. It was a dark night with the sky dazzling with
stars. Total silence had enveloped us and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was also
completely quiet. When we were near the Shrine of the Báb, He said,
“The injuries of Bashír greatly saddened Me. Although the ascension
of such holy personages is their ultimate bliss because they will soar
like free birds into the heavens, yet their separation is very painful.”
On reaching the home of the honored ‘Abbás-Qulí, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]
said to me, “Áqá Mírzá Habíb, you worked very hard. May God
grant you a befitting reward.” A few minutes later Khusraw brought

Household. These included, Bashír, Khusraw and Isfandíyár, who all remained
faithful in the Covenant to their last breath and were most devoted to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.”

158  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


the news of Bashír’s ascension.187


10 October 1914
The morning was devoted to meeting the friends. The honored Hájí
Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí spoke of the history of the martyrdom of the
King and the Beloved of Martyrs.188 That afternoon I was
summoned into ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence, and He kindly assured me,
“You had a good and enjoyable journey. If you had traveled to
London, it would not have been as pleasant. All the believers in
Germany are firm, steadfast, faithful and sincere. Today, it is the
spirit of the Covenant that animates the world. Wherever the
believers are firm, there is a spirit, and that spirit stems from the
Covenant. It is this spirit that gives life to all. Wherever doubts and
misgivings are experienced by the friends and the odor of Covenant-
breaking is inhaled, that place is dead and barren.”
He then added, “Health-wise I am well. Today I read about
one hundred letters. I am well, but some nights I cannot sleep. Last
night I slept two hours, from four to six. If I stay in a place more
than a few days, then I become sleepless. Nevertheless I am happy
with this condition as I can pray and supplicate to the Abhá
Kingdom, thinking of the friends and pondering the affairs of the
Cause – all of which make Me happy.”
Regarding Freud von Schwarz, I mentioned that his younger
brother had received a Tablet, but he had remained deprived of a
similar bounty. The Master responded, “Very well, I will write.
However all the communications have now been cut off. Foreign

187 The accidental death of Bashír was reported in the Persian section of the Star of
the West, issue dated 12 December 1914.
188 The martyrdom of these two brothers, Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Husayn, the
Mahbúbu’sh-Shuhadá [the Beloved of Martyrs] and Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Hasan,
the Sultánu’l-Shuhadá [the King of Martyrs], took place on 17 March 1879 in Isfahán.
For details see: ‘Abdu’l-Hamid Ishráq-Khavárí, Kitáb Nurayn Nayyirayn; ‘Izzatu'llah
Nur, Khátirát Muhájíriy az Isfahán; Fadil Mázandarání, Táríkh Zuhúru’l-Haqq, vol. 5, pp.
242-8; and in English, Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís at the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 33-
51.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   159


post offices are closed, and there are no other dependable means.
<105> Besides, Europe is not at safety, and letters are lost. But I
will write.”
Regarding the death of the late Bashír, He said, “There was a
wisdom in this. Even in the minute details, there is a larger wisdom.
And when I consider the divine wisdom, then I am comforted. In
truth, he was honest, sincere, uncomplicated and faithful. He served
with utmost devotion and earnestness. However, divine wisdom
decreed it thus.”
That night, when we attained His presence, He showered this
evanescent servant with much kindness and said, “You were tired
and I sent you into town, which made you even more tired.”

He then inquired, “Did you use to ride automobiles in Germany, or
did you walk?”
I said, “There were no cars as all were confiscated for military use.
At times we used the metro; otherwise we walked.”
He responded, “It is evident that you are used to walking.”
He asked of the honored Consul Schwarz and remarked, “He had a
nice automobile. He took us one day to [Bad] Mergentheim where
there are warm-water springs.189 For about four hours we were in his
car.” I said, “That whole area is now made into a hospital.” “That is
amazing,” He responded, “the [potency of the] blood of a single
martyr will influence affairs until the end of time; yet the blood of so
many innocent millions is spilled, and no one is there to protest. All
of these wars are for the eternal graves. They remain here for a few
days and then go to their everlasting tomb. This [war] is naught but
for carnal desires. Otherwise, these few days of life are not worth
such blood and carnage.”
He asked if many of the letters [intended for Him] were
confiscated at the borders.

189 In Germany, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wished to travel to Budapest on 7 April 1913, but
Consul Albert Schwarz persuaded Him to visit Bad Mergentheim, about sixty miles
distant from Stuttgart, where the Consul owned the hotel and the mineral bath.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá stayed there for one night and left on 8 April.

160  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


“Three or four letters at the German border and one or two in
Alexandria were confiscated,” I replied.
“It is very difficult to communicate now. How about using post
cards for My correspondence?”
“It will reach them. The Tablets reached them as well,” I suggested.
[He instructed,] “It will reach its destination. Perhaps they will
open some of the envelopes. Write to [Herr] Eckstein, [Consul]
Schwarz, Koestlin190 and others and assure them that their many
kindnesses are always remembered by Me and that at the Sacred
Threshold I will pray for the bestowal of divine bounties upon them.
When it is wise, I will write Myself. There is no harm in [writing]
such things.”


11 October 1914
A memorial meeting was organized in the Shrine of the Báb for the
late Bashír Effendi, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke the following:

The tragic passing of Bashír was indeed sudden. Therein
lies a great wisdom that will only become apparent at a
later time.
He was brought here as a child and was raised in
our house. He was a good-natured lad, and all enjoyed
his company. In ‘Akká, while still very young, he once
fell from a high roof, but no harm came to him.
Immediately he rose and walked away. Indeed, destiny is
an amazing phenomenon. In truth, he was a good youth
and his death was noble too.
Length or brevity of life is of little consequence.
What difference does it make to live for a hundred years
or just a few years? This is a relative matter and is of no
importance. What matters is the result of life. If a person

190 In early April 1913, while in Esslingen, Germany, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá attended a
festival organized by Anna Koestlin for the children, which He enjoyed very much;
see Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 382-383.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   161


derives benefit from his life, then dying sooner or later is
the same because he has realized the benefits. However,
if one’s life has not borne fruits, then even if he lives for
a thousand years it matters not. Consider this rock which
has lived for twenty or thirty thousand years, but to what
avail? One strives for a whole year as a merchant but
gains no profit, while another goes for only a day and
accumulates considerable wealth! That is, in a short time,
one gains substantially, but another over a long span has
seen naught but loss.191
Praise be unto God that Bashír profited
handsomely from his life. When I went to visit him, he
was unconscious. Suddenly he opened his eyes and
looked at Me and said, “Alláh-u-Abhá!” I replied, “Alláh-
u-Abhá!” God doeth what He willeth, ordaineth as He
desireth, and none may question His choice!
What a fine youth! How good natured, righteous

191 A slight variation of these remarks is reported in the diary of Mírzá Ahmad
Sohrab (Star of the West, issue 9 April 1917) and is quoted below for ease of
reference:
The length and shortness of life is not considered important.
Whether man lives a few years or a hundred years, the purpose of life
is to achieve some definite results. If the tree of his life does not yield
those luscious fruits, the purpose of his existence has not been
accomplished even if he has lived many, many years. But if he has
lived only a few years and the tree of his life has attained to fruition,
he has obtained spiritual success. Consequently the duration of life is
a conditional matter subject to the will of God. For example, this
stone has existed 10,000 or 20,000 or 30,000 years but it has not
advanced beyond the mineral kingdom. It has not achieved its final
result. Again a merchant goes to his office every day in the year; he
plans commercial enterprises, undertakes vast schemes, organizes
large companies but at the end of the year he has not gained any
profit. On the other hand another merchant through one stroke of
good luck gains large profits in one day. Now the former merchant,
although he worked harder all through the year, did not achieve any
success, while the latter although he worked only one day yet the
outcome of his activity was prosperous.

162  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


and happy he was! He was a friend to all and exerted his
utmost to serve everyone. I troubled him greatly, yet he
never became sorrowful. I even physically punished him
because it was necessary for his training, and still he was
not saddened. Sanctified be God! The more he was
harassed, the greater was his love. That is astonishing.
Now, there are others that if I greet them with slightly
less regard than before, they become displeased. I
punished him, and he remained jubilant. It is here that
steadfastness and firmness is made evident, namely, in
the chastisement of a person and his subsequent growth
in constancy. In Baghdad, the Blessed Beauty threw
Mírzá Mustafá192 on the ground and severely punished
him with His feet, and all the while he was kissing
Bahá’u’lláh’s blessed feet.
If you show kindness to anyone, he will reciprocate
with affection. However, this response is not important.
It is at the time of trials that the true nature of a person
is made apparent, which is why the Imam ‘Alí has
declared, “O God, if Thou wert to harm me for a
thousand years, my longing and love for Thee would not
diminish.”


13 October 1914
Last night, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked to Áqá Siyyid Husayn Afnán193:


192 Also known as Abú-Hurayrih, he was a son of Mírzá Mustafá Naráqí and became
a servant of Bahá’u’lláh after his father’s martyrdom in Tabríz. He and his mother,
Sáhib-Ján, accompanied the Holy Family throughout the various exiles. However,
subsequent to Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, he became a follower of Mírzá Muhammad-
‘Alí and lived towards the end of his life near Tiberias, on a property belonging to
Mírzá Madji’d-Dín.
193 Most likely a reference to a son of Siyyid ‘Alí Afnán. The latter had married
Bahá’u’lláh’s daughter, Furughíyyih in 1886. Eventually, the entire family was
expelled from the Faith because of their allegiance to Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   163


Praise be unto God that not once did I rest in the
bed of comfort. At the time of His ascension to the
Abhá Kingdom, His Holiness Christ had nearly sixty
believers. However after our passing, there will be in
excess of one hundred thousand believers. If the Blessed
Beauty were in this world and I presented Him these
letters from the believers in Germany, how jubilant
would He be! Wherever We go, We kindle a light. Our
enemies, the violators of the Covenant, however, exert
themselves to extinguish that light. Wherever We plant a
tree, our rebellious acquaintances try to uproot it. It
would be good if they would go to a place where I have
not been, not one that has already been illuminated.
Mírzá Áqá Khán Núrí, known as the I‘timádu’d-
Dawlih, was the Prime Minister of Iran. There was a
disagreement between his son, Mírzá Kázim Khán, the
Nizámu’l-Mulk, and the Blessed Beauty. In an attempt to
resolve this problem, he gave his daughter in marriage to
our uncle, Mírzá Músá [Kalím]. Even though the discord
was not completely alleviated, outwardly there was
peace. Mírzá Áqá Khán was related to all the viziers of
Iran and, therefore, he virtually ruled over the whole
nation. One night, the Nizámu’l-Mulk said, “The future
influence of our family is destroyed because of our
kinship to Mírzá Husayn-‘Alí [Bahá’u’lláh].” The
I‘timádu’d-Dawlih overheard this comment and noted,
“No, the families that are established on the foundation
of religion endure forever. It is ours that is lost!”194

194 The following is reported in the diary of Ahmad Sohrab to be the words of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoken on this day (Star of the West, 21 March 1918):
But now after the lapse of many centuries, his highness, the
Almighty, has again looked upon them with the glance the
mercifulness, and the cup-bearer of celestial bestowals became
manifest in the land of Persia. The Sun of Reality shone forth, casting
the effulgences of graces upon that country. He proclaimed the
heavenly teachings and instituted the religion of the clement Lord...

164  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




14 October 1914
The departure of the students for Beirut elicited these comments
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:


I have been informed that you are leaving today,
and thus, I have come to bid you farewell. In every
regard, you have had a wonderful summer, surrounded
by the vivifying air of the Shrine of the Báb and its
spacious rooms, orchards, flowers and greenery.
One must always try to bring comfort and well-being to
others; otherwise, bringing comfort to oneself alone is
easy and can be readily achieved.

When the Commission of Inquiry came [in 1904],
they made matters difficult for us. They closed the roads,
installed a magistrate, guards and gendarmes and made
us the object of their slander and calumny. All of our

But, alas, alas! Still the majority of the inhabitants of Persia are
in sound sleep and have not heard, neither are they informed of the
most eminent bestowal. The owner of the house has come to the
door, but the dwellers in the house have shut the door and do not
desire to let him in. They have treated the friend as though he were
the stranger, and the known as though he were unknown. They seem
to say: “We are satisfied with this degradation. We are comfortable
amidst all these distractions, dissipations, groveling in dirt and
uncleanness. We do not want the owner of the house. We are not
seeking his faith. We loath him and are holding aloof from his favor
and grace. This is not the kind Father but a foreigner. Even though he
may be the beloved one of all nations of the world, his renown world-
conquering, the fame of his grandeur reaching the ears of the rich and
the poor alike, others from different parts of the world entering under
the shade of his sacred tree by cohort and cohort, accepting his
teachings and receiving a share from the table of his sustenance.
Following are the reported words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab,
(Star of the West, 21 March 1918):
The Cause of Bahá’u’lláh is the fulfillment of all the prophecies in all
the books of the religions of the world.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   165


enemies in or outside ‘Akká now became informants,
preparing reports to send to Constantinople. The very
people who had instigated this event were now
appointed as investigators and inquisitors. It should be
obvious what was wrought by these people. For
instance, they wrote that I had established a new
sovereignty in ‘Akká and had built a fortress on Mount
Carmel. They accused Me of raising the banner [of the
Greatest Name], circulating it in ‘Akká and then
exporting it to the various Arab tribes and factions195
through Mírzá Dhikru’lláh196 in Galilee and Shaykh
Mahmúd [‘Arabí]. The illustrious personages [i.e.
members of the Commission] announced this as a
grievous matter. Our enemies then wrote them that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had raised the standard of “Yá Bahá’u’l-
Abhá197” and then appeared before the Commission of
Inquiry to testify to the validity and accuracy of this
charge. To affirm this falsity, they even arrayed a range
of other witnesses. Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí had the
Greatest Name inscribed by someone on a piece of
white cloth which he presented to the Commission of
Inquiry [as evidence]. The chief of the Commission198
announced, “Sultán ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd has promised me the
governorship of Beirut199, and my first act will be to
crucify ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at the gate of ‘Akká!” Then by
telegraph they inquired if an uprising did ensue should

195 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 113, has interpreted this to refer to the Bedouins
beyond Jordan.
196 Son of Mírzá Muhammad-Qulí, the faithful half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh, who had
staunchly upheld the Covenant and stood firm by the side of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. By this
date, Mírzá Muhammad-Qulí was deceased.
197 lit. O Glory of the Most Glorious.
198 It seems at this point in His talk, the Master had proceeded to tell of the events
of the winter of 1907 as the threat of banishment to Fízán belonged to that
Commission of Inquiry – a four-man Commission, chaired by ‘Árif Bey.
199 ‘Akká was under the lordship of the Valí of Damascus.

166  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


‘Abdu’l-Bahá be sent to Fízán200? The reply was negative.

My point is that in the midst of this commotion, I
sent seventy of the believers [to Egypt], including Mírzá
Asadu’lláh and his wife and provided them all with
sufficient funds that I had borrowed from an American
in Paris. My point is that I accepted a great burden [to
secure the well-bring of the friends]. Then a cargo boat
came to take Me. The owner of that ship is present at
the gathering.201 I asked a number [of the friends] to
assemble. [They included:] Siyyid ‘Alí-Akbar, Siyyid
Yahyá, Mírzá Asadu’lláh, Áqá [Muhammad-]Ridá
[Qannád Shírází] and Áqá [Mírzá] Mahmúd [Káshí]. I
then asked them to consult on the situation, since the
boat was ready to take Me. These honored personages
sat and consulted. Unanimously, they concluded that this
departure was the best way out and that I should accept
it. Included in their number was also this Áqá Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí. After they informed Me of their unanimous
decision, I replied, “No, this would not be good for the
Cause. I must do what exalts the Faith.” <110> The
Commission
of
Inquiry
had
not
yet
reached
Constantinople when God’s cannon fired and all these
people were dispersed. Two hundred people were killed

200 A vast expanse of desert in Tripolitania.
201 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 121, reports the following:
One night a man drove from Haifa to ‘Akká in a covered carriage. He
was an Italian who acted as Consul for Spain. Members of his family
had the agency for an Italian steamship company. Taking great care
not to be noticed and recognized he managed to reach the house of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and asked to meet Him immediately. In the bay was an
Italian cargo boat which this man, in his great love and regard for
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, had kept waiting, moving it from one end of the bay to
the other to avert suspicion; and now he had come to offer Him a
safe passage to any port of His desire.
Bushrú’í, p. 12, gives the name of this man as Scopinoj and states that he was from
Spain and the ship brought by him was from Italy.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   167


near the mosque [in Constantinople]. When the
illustrious personages [i.e. the Commission members]
reached Constantinople, they were told that other
matters had taken priority.

The essence of My words is that, at all times, a
person must be thinking of protecting others and not
concerned merely with himself.

Now, once more you return to your school in
Beirut. Glorified be God that the Bahá’í students are
renowned in that city for their righteous ways, upright
character and honest deeds. Everyone speaks your
praise. It is naught save the bounties and favors of the
Blessed Beauty that have made you shine so brilliantly in
all eyes. Verily, you have behaved in a manner that brings
prestige to the Cause of God. The Blessed Beauty is
pleased with you; people are pleased. I too am pleased,
as are the friends of God. This is a divine favor. Seldom
does it happen that both God and the people are pleased
with someone. If you ask anyone, they would say, “The
Bahá’í students are indeed wise, perfect and well-
behaved. They devote all their time to their studies,
never wasting their time on unworthy affairs.” Everyone
will testify to this.
I cherish the hope that, through the bounty and
kindness of the Blessed Beauty, the grace of the Primal
Point and the spirit of the Shrine of the Báb, the
confirmations of the Abhá Kingdom will surround you,
and that, befittingly, and congruent with your station as
Bahá’ís, day by day, your characters may grow more
resplendent. Insha’lláh, in every way you will become
perfect and complete and cause the illumination of
Iran.202

202 The following is recorded in the diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab (Star of the West,
issue 20 August 1918). Sohrab’s entry is dated 12 October 1914, two days earlier
than Dr. Mú’ayyad’s:

168  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The character of the general public is very dark,
and I pray that each of you will shine like a sun giving
light to Iran; not like one man, but like a thousand.
Insha’lláh, each of you by yourself will be like a hundred
thousand others. Never be astonished by the divine
munificence and grace. When His confirmations
descend, the insignificant ant is transformed into
Solomon, the lowly plant transmuted into a fruit-bearing
tree and the transient speck into a brilliant sun. Never
consider your own situation. Fix your gaze upon the
bounties and the grace of the Blessed Beauty.
A shepherd was made Abú-Dharr Ghifárí, a date-
dealer became ‘Ammár [ibn] Yásir, a prisoner became

Praise be to God, that the Bahá’í students in Beirut are well
known for the beauty of their character, the purity of their deeds, and
the loftiness of their morality. From whomsoever one inquires about
the Bahá’í students, one will hear unstinted praise. This is through the
favors and bounties of the Blessed Beauty, Who has assisted you to
attain such a high station. For you have lived in a manner conducive
to the glorification of the Cause of God. Bahá’u’lláh is pleased with
you; all the people are pleased with you; I am pleased with you, and
the friends of God are pleased with you. This is the special divine
bounty, which is being realized at rare intervals. If one asks any
person concerning the Bahá’í students, he will answer: “In reality they
are intelligent, sober, industrious, diligent, displaying good manners
and behavior and concentrating all their attention on their
acquirement of knowledge. They do not spend their time in frivolous
amusements and distracting recreations.” Even the enemies testify to
your spotless character. I hope that through the favor and bounty of
the Blessed Beauty, His Holiness the Báb, and the ineffable blessings
which hallow this Holy Shrine, the confirmations of the Kingdom of
Abhá may encircle you, and that you may be characterized with the
shining qualities and brilliant attributes of the Bahá’í life. May your
faith and assurance be increased day by day! May your attraction to
the kingdom of Abhá be intensified day by day! May your attainment
in sciences and arts become more universal day by day! Perchance,
God willing, you may become perfect and accomplished from every
standpoint and be the means of the enlightenment of Iran.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   169


Salmán Fárs203, a fisherman was elevated to become the
great Peter204, and there are many others like them.
These are among the uncommon characters of the
time of the Manifestation, for such things do not occur
at other times. Such days only come at the beginning of
the Dispensation. “The abased amongst you, He shall
exalt; and they that are exalted, He shall abase.”205 The
“mystery of the Great Reversal in the Sign of the
Sovereign,”206 “And we were minded to show favor to
those who were brought low in the land, and to make
them spiritual chiefs, and to make them Pharaoh’s
heirs.”207 These people are weak; I wish to create men
out of them. These are among the prodigies and miracles
of each Manifestation.

Praise be God that, from an early age, each of you
were under the shelter of the divine tree and drank from
the sweet wine of the Lord. Marhabá, fí ámánu’lláh.


15 October 1914
‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired if news had been received of the students’
arrival at Beirut. “No,” I replied, “but their principal has sent a letter
stating that they will be accepted despite the fact that their tuition
will arrive late.” The Master remarked:

They have trust in us. When we first came to
‘Akká, we behaved in such wise that everyone trusted us.

203 Abú-Dharr Ghifárí, ‘Ammár ibn Yásir, Salmán Fárs and Miqdád ibn ‘Amr were
close companions of Muhammad who, after Prophet’s ascension, refused to give
their allegiance to anyone but ‘Alí. These four are acclaimed by Shi‘is as the first four
of their number.
204 The foremost apostle of Christ.
205 Kitáb-i Íqán, p. 146.
206 Kitáb-i Aqdas, K157.
207 Qur’án 28:4

170  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


There was a certain Qásim of Nayríz who was very weak.
He was exiled from Baghdad to Mosul, and from there
he walked to ‘Akká. He then went to Beirut but had no
money. He noticed that a tobacco shop was selling
Shírází tobacco in place of tobacco from Káshán. Shírází
leaves were much more expensive. He bought one
hundred and sixty bags of [Shírází] tobacco, and since he
had no money, went to Matifarah and said, “I am of the
Bahá’ís of ‘Akká and have made a purchase. I request
your surety on my behalf.” The banker telegraphed
‘Akká and asked [‘Abbúd] if this was true. ‘Abbúd came
to Me and inquired if Qásim Nayrízí was a Bahá’í, and I
responded affirmatively. On hearing this, the banker
[had such trust] that he advanced the entire sum for the
bags of tobacco. Qásim then brought the bags to ‘Akká,
Haifa and Jaffa. After selling them he made a
considerable profit and immediately reimbursed the
original loan.
On the other hand, after Qásim then came a
certain merchant by the name of ‘Abdu’l-‘Ahd who
borrowed a very large sum, never paid it back, and
completely ruined our good name. If he had not done
so, the entire trading business of the province of
Damascus would now be in the hands of Bahá’ís.

The Master then addressed the American pilgrims:

Know this, that whosoever in America claims he is
collecting funds in My name has no association with Me.
Whoever has attachment to money is remote from the
Kingdom. Whoever separates himself from money will
experience nearness to the Kingdom. A person must be
detached; he must be generous to others and never ask
charity from anyone.
When I was in New York, I told the friends: His

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   171


Holiness Christ said when you leave a city, shake off the
dust of that city from your feet208, but so far no one has
been able to do so. I desire to attain this goal. Through
Mírzá
Ahmad
[Sohrab],
the
American
friends
contributed thirty-two hundred lira to Me, but I did not
accept. Friends must become detached and separate
themselves from worldly inclinations. I never tell anyone
to give money to a certain person or to accept a reward
for the performance of a particular action, as it is the
responsibility of the friends themselves to help one
another and to aid the needy.209

208 Matthew 10:14 states, “And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your
words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet.”
209 A slight variation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk for Charles Mason Remey and George
Latimer is given in the diary of Ahmad Sohrab (Star of the West, issue 4 November
1916):
When you return to America say to all the believers in my
behalf that whenever a person comes to that country, no matter to
what nationality he may belong, and tries to collect money in my
name, know that it has no connection with me. I am free from it.
Whosoever asks for money for me, does so of his own volition. There
are some people who desire to collect money under all kinds of
pretexts. I desire to impress upon your minds that I have nothing to
do with such affairs. I never ask anyone to send me money.
Whosoever loves money does not love God and whosoever loves
God does not love money.
On the other hand, if some of the believers voluntarily desire
to help and assist one another or some philanthropic institutions,
whose objects are for the pubic welfare and progress, it is very good
and praiseworthy. I do not desire that anyone shall ask money in my
name for any affair. The souls must be detached from the world.
Those souls who are attached to this world and its wealth are deprived
of spiritual advancement. The believers must live such an independent
life that if one comes and begs them to accept money, they should
refuse him. As long as the souls are not severed, how do they expect
to journey along the ideal path?
On the eve of my departure from New York, I told a number
of believers that His Holiness Christ has stated that “When you leave
a city, shake its dust from off your feet.” So far, very few people have

172  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




18 October 1914
From afar, steam from a ship’s engine became visible, and some
thought it was a warship. The Master remarked:

Why are they perturbed? They are restless. This is a sign
of faithlessness. It is revealed in the Qur’án, “They think
that every shout is against them.”210 Every noise that is
raised, they think it is the enemy. Like a thief who thinks
every sound forebodes his arrest, they are disturbed and
distraught. The hearts of believers are serene. They have
a thousand enemies, yet they stand firm. The greatest of
divine bounties is certitude of heart that one is protected
from harm. Then whatever occurs, one is at ease, even if
outwardly he be in a prison.211

lived according to this behest, but it is my will to live accordingly.
Before coming to America, the believers of God, through Mírzá
Ahmad Sohrab, offered for my travelling expenses $16,000 but I did
not accept one cent. Man must live in the utmost sanctity and purity
and we must ever think to assist others and not beg assistance from
them.
In short, may you ever be confirmed and assisted. May you
ever be illumined; may you ever be the means of the guidance of the
people; may you ever breathe the breath of life in the hearts; may you
be the signs of mercy to all mankind; may you be the shining lamps of
severance and detachment in this dark world.
210 Qur’án 63:4. The full verse is: “They think that every shout is against them. They are
enemies – beware of them then – God do battle with them!”
211 The following version of the same talk is recorded in diary of Mírzá Ahmad
Sohrab (Star of the West, 2 March 1918):
These people who called on us today were in a state of fright.
They are expecting daily the bombardment of Haifa by the foreign
warships. As soon as they see a little moving speck in the horizon of
the sea, they look through their glasses, anxiously scanning to see
whether there are the expected cruisers. Their hearts are in a state of
anxiety. They are terror-stricken. They have no peace of mind. This is
one of the signs of absence of faith. It is stated in the Qur’án, "They

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   173



Hájí ‘Alí mentioned the school in Abu Sinan, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
responded:

There is no benefit in these [secular] schools. In Bahá’í
schools children learn not only sciences, but also moral
rectitude and are well protected. In such schools,
however, the teachers must be Bahá’ís so that children
are nourished with divine teachings. Teachers are
exceedingly important [in the upbringing of children].
They are like gardeners raising a young plant.212

One of the friends213 came into His presence carrying a bundle of

imagine every cry raised is an enemy unto them.” For example, when
a thief enters a house, the least noise causes his flight. He trembles
and quakes.
But the hearts of the people of faith are assured. If they are
surrounded by a thousand enemies they stand firm on their ground.
The greatest divine bounty is a confident heart. When the heart is
confident, all the trials of the world will be as child’s play. Should they
throw him into prison, should they cast him into a black well, should
they heap upon him all manner of afflictions, still his heart is content,
peaceful and assured.
212 The following version of the same remarks is recorded in the diary of Mírzá
Ahmad Sohrab (Star of the West, 12 December 1916 and 1 August 1918):
The children must receive divine and material education at the
same time, and be protected from temptations and vices. How
wonderful will it be when the teachers are faithful, attracted and
assured, educated and refined Bahá’ís, well grounded in the science of
pedagogy and familiar with child psychology; thus they may train the
children with the fragrances of God. In the scheme of human life the
teacher and his system of teaching plays the most important role,
carrying with it the heaviest responsibilities and most subtle influence.
A teacher is like unto a gardener. Just as a gardener sows the seeds
and watches carefully over their sprouting, looks after their growth
and development – so also a teacher must watch over the education
of the children and inculcate in their young lives the highest ideals of
truth and justice, etc.
213 Most likely, Muhammad-Ridá Qannád Shírází.

174  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


newspapers. The Master inquired, “What news do you have of the
war?” He reported some of the events of the day. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then
shared some humorous stories and laughingly stated that once there
were three passengers on a ship: a Muslim, a Christian and a Jew.
The Muslim prayed, “O God, take the life of this Christian!” The
Christian prayed, “Lord, slay this Muslim.” Then they asked the Jew
why he was not saying anything, so he prayed, “O God, accept the
prayers of both of them!”214


22 October 1914
Today the Master came to the pilgrim house. Greeting Hájí Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí, He inquired of his health. The Hájí responded, “If Your
blessed Person is well, then everyone is well.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “I
am well, too. I have been in many places, but never inhaled an air as
vivifying as in this place. If the people of this region were not so
deeply immersed in the acquisition of worldly riches, this entire
mountain would have been developed. However, their sole objective
is to acquire earthly wealth, and of what use, since at the end they
will leave these riches for others and depart with a world of regret.”
He then said to the honored Hájí [Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí], “I have asked
for homemade bread to be baked.” The Hájí inquired, “With sesame
seeds?” “Yes, I have requested that they put sesame on it as well.”
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá continued His remarks:]

214 The following version of the same story is recorded in the diary of Mírzá Ahmad
Sohrab (Star of the West, 7 February 1919), but is attributed to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
comments on 20 October 1914:
It is said that once a Mohammadan, a Christian and a Jew were
rowing in a boat. Suddenly a tempest arose and the boat was tossed
on the crest of the waves and their lives were in danger. The
Mohammadan began to pray: “O God! Drown this infidel of a
Christian!” The Christian supplicated the Almighty: “O Father! Send
to the bottom of the deep this Moslim!” They observed the Jew was
not offering any prayer, and therefore asked him: “Why do you not
pray for relief?” He answered, “I am praying. I am asking the Lord to
answer the prayers of both of you!”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   175



Áqá Haydar-‘Alí always served chilu-kabob215, and
once accompanied by Hájí Amín, I was visiting him. He
served sesame bread. Hájí Amín remarked that such
bread did not require another dish. Therefore, he did not
serve the customary chilu-kabob. In Baghdad when we
had sesame bread or poppy-seed bread, we were
delighted, as it was the best of meals.
Faith and certitude are solidified in times of trials
and tribulations. In Tihrán, all manner of comforts were
available to us. However, during that storm, all was
plundered, and nothing was left to us.216 The Blessed
Beauty was in prison, under chains, and we were forced
to disperse. Anyone, anywhere, suspected of being
among the friends [i.e. a Bábí], was seized and torn into
pieces. There was a sixteen or seventeen year old lad by
the name of ‘Abbásí who was an attendant of the late
Sulaymán Khán. He knew all the believers and, together
with seventy or eighty farrashes and an equal number of
artillery-soldiers, searched for the friends of God. When
one was spotted, he was immediately seized and
martyred. Such misery can never be described. Our
hardship had reached so severe a state that if we had
only bread for meals, it was considered heavenly
sustenance.
<115> In short, at the height of the bitter cold of
winter, barely clad and alone, we were banished from
Iran. The cold, snow and ice caused such misery and
hardship that [the experience] remains beyond words. In
such a state, we reached Baghdad. Such a winter has not
been seen since. In Baghdad, we did not possess
anything. The Blessed Beauty was gone, and we had no

215 Rice with kabob.
216 A reference to the aftermath of the assassination attempt on Násiri’d-Dín Shah
which resulted in a Bábí pogrom and complete confiscation of Bahá’u’lláh’s estate.

176  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


news of Him. In the streets, we were the targets of the
curses and abuses of every passerby. Our spirits,
however, were high. Hardship had no effect on us.
When
the
Blessed
Beauty
returned
from
Kurdistan, we were still immersed in difficulties, though
the situation was somewhat improved. My only garment
was a cotton shirt that was washed so many times that it
had become threadbare. In the winter, that shirt was my
sole attire, with no other protection. Nonetheless, our
spiritual joy was so complete that it can never be
described. A small piece of meat was made into a broth
for some fifty or sixty people. The late Mírzá Javád217
could not eat the broth, so each day he was given five
spoonfuls of yogurt. Among us, he received the most
food. All the friends were happy. Thus, during hardship,
one’s faith becomes reinforced and manifest.
There was a certain Hájí Muhammad-Taqí of
Nayríz,218 a man of immense wealth whose possessions
were plundered [in 1850]. This old man walked the entire
distance from Nayríz [to Baghdad]. This distinguished
old man was most steadfast in his convictions and
beliefs, and became an attendant to Mírzá Hasan Shírází,
known as Gul-i Guláb219. He barely earned bread money,
but was profoundly happy and joyful. Each day he
would come from Kázimayn to Baghdad to attain the
presence [of Bahá’u’lláh]. He had a son named Mírzá
‘Alí, who lost conviction in his beliefs. Hájí Muhammad-

217 Mírzá Javád was a believer in His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] and had
been a teacher to the ‘Imádu’d-Dawlih. He disliked Azal and Mírzá Áqá Ján and
would often curse them, which caused the other believers to be annoyed with this
behavior. He wrote a book on abrogation of traditions, and when he grew ill, the
Blessed Beauty said to him, “Your remedy is to wash off that book.” He did as
bidden and regained his health. (HM)
218 For a detailed biography of Hájí Muhammad-Taqí, surnamed Ayyúb [Job], see
Ahang Rabbani, The Bábís of Nayríz: History and Documents.
219 Lit. the flower of the rose-water.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   177


Taqí protested and demanded that his son should
change his ways. He warned, “You are not my son and
can come here no more!” [After his son was shot in the
palm-groves of Baghdad,] I sent after Hájí with the
message, “Mírzá ‘Alí is here and is wounded. Come and
attend to him.” He responded, “You want me to see
Mírzá ‘Alí?! Because he recanted his faith, I despise him.
I will not come.” No matter how I pleaded, he did not
consent. Finally, he declared, “The only way that I would
again accept him is for him to repudiate his actions and
for such repentance to meet with acceptance in the sight
of the Blessed Beauty, earning His pardon. Then I will
consent to meet him.” I appeared before the Blessed
Perfection and presented the situation to Him. He
forgave the lad, and Mírzá ‘Alí abandoned his past ways.
Such was the lofty height of the Hájí’s faith! In truth,
beholding the Hájí washed away every trace of sadness
and replaced it with joy. What sanctified personages have
belonged to this Faith!

‘Abdu’l-Bahá then pointed to me and asked about Germany. I
made a few remarks about the believers in Weibkin and Kunstadt220,
and shared the story of Mrs. Schwarz and the fact that she used to
say, “I will make the German believers like a magnet, attracting
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to our land.” The Master said:

The power and the efficacy of the Word of God
has produced such an influence that, when one considers
it closely, one becomes astonished. From Iran to
Germany! It is all miracles. Certain wronged souls were
banished from Iran, but this exile resulted in the
construction of the Shrine of the Báb and the pilgrim

220 The present translator was unable to verify the correct spelling of these German
towns. It is also possible that these are names of families among the early Bahá’ís of
Germany.

178  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


house on Mount Carmel! This exile resulted in the
establishment of the Faith in America and in Germany!
This exile resulted in the propagation of the Cause
throughout both the East and the West. This exile
resulted in the diffusion of the Word of God and the
divine fragrance throughout all corners of the globe!
With all his pomp and ceremony, Násiri’d-Dín
Shah died in the utmost misery, but this band, without
any help or succor, became the recipient of infinite
divine favors and confirmations. Indeed, the situation
has reached such a state that when any of the friends
travel to other parts of the world, they are received as
beloved kinsmen and feel that they have loving relations
everywhere.
I noticed that some Iranians and wayward
friends221 went [to Germany] and pretended to be
believers. In turn, the [western] Bahá’ís accepted them
with the utmost sincerity and love. These imposters
caused considerable difficulties, and therefore, I wrote
that those not bearing My notice and signature should
not be received [as Bahá’ís].
Germany is now at war with all nations and has
conquered them all. But we have conquered Germany. Is
this conquest not the source of her everlasting glory?


23 October 1914
‘Abdu’l-Bahá came to the pilgrim house and inquired of the status of
the students’ meals. He remarked:

Dinner must be ready soon after dusk so that it
may be served whenever is desired. The best time for
supper is right before sunset. It is good for breakfast to

221 Presumably a reference to the Covenant-breakers.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   179


be eaten two or three hours after sunrise, and for dinner
to be served at dusk. One must go to bed early but rise
in the final third of the night. This final third of the night
is the best time for devotions as one’s thoughts are
concentrated and untroubled by worries; this meditation
causes great ecstasy. However, since most are taught
differently, changing habits is hard. Nighttime is for
resting and comfort, and the day must be devoted to
work, industry and earning a living. All animals sleep
after sunset. Children, following their innate nature, go
to sleep as soon as they drink their evening milk or eat
their supper. What God has created has the utmost
balance, but man corrupts His ways. “There does not
exist in the contingent world better than what is
created.”
Consider this clock, how much trouble it requires
to wind, repair, maintain, and so forth. However, despite
their nomadic nature, the Bedouin Arabs accurately
determine the time of the day using the stars at night
time and shadows during the day. Traveling in whatever
direction, be it Mecca, Baghdad, Damascus or Basra,
they use the stars and find their way. It is a marvel how
they determine their path.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá then asked me, “Any news of your father?” I
replied, “In Germany, I received his letter. He wrote about the
opposition of the Jews of Hamadán, who are in concert with
Muslims and Christians against the Bahá’ís, not accepting them in
businesses or allowing them in the public baths or schools.”
Addressing the honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, the Master
said, “And now the Jews are causing us trouble. Let us wait and see
what happens. Indeed this feast of tribulation is bountiful and
presents all manner of heavenly nourishment. This last one is
needed too. Is it possible that all would mean us harm and the Jews
would refrain?”

180  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The honored Hájí responded, “I have written them (meaning,
the Jews of Hamadán222) that the friends of God must ponder what
they have done that they are no longer confirmed. When there were
only two or three of them, they were triumphant over all others.
Now that they are the majority, they are no longer successful. They
must understand the underlying reasons and find solutions.”
The Master declared, “Whatever we endured must now be
endured by them. Now the Christians and the Jews have arisen in
opposition to us. Initially the Bábís were prepared to be torn into
pieces for their convictions, but now they have no patience for the
slightest guidance. We must deal with them [i.e. the opposition] with
patience. The contentiousness of the Muslim clergy is due to their
fear of losing [the position of] leadership.”
The Hájí said, “During the days of Bahá’u’lláh, wherever the
Muslim divines protested against the Faith, the Blessed Beauty
would say, ‘Give them some food. They want food.’” Smilingly,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá shared:

The late Mírzá Ridá-Qulí had an argument with his
maternal cousin. The cousin bribed Mírzá Ismá‘íl
Savihchí with a meal, inducing him to present false
testimony to the ‘ulamá, and thereby winning his case.
One day Mírzá Ridá-Qulí was walking by Tihrán’s moat
when he saw Mírzá Ismá‘íl, who said to him, “Why do
you look at me so angrily? Your cousin fed me and
tricked me into testimony. Now, if you feed me, instead
of him, I will support you!”
Shaykh Báqir, father of [Áqá] Najafí, had asked
one of the believers, “What do the Bábís say about me?”
“Áqá, I am ashamed to say,” was the response. “No, do
tell,” insisted the Shaykh. “They consider you the
antichrist.” The Mullá had responded, “If they would

222 The intent of the author seems to be the Bahá’ís of Jewish descent. It is also
possible that the author means the Jewish people who had grown to majority in
Hamadan and were persecuting the Bahá’ís.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   181


not say such things and would be more considerate, then
such disturbances would not occur.”


24 October 1914
Today the honored Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí shared a few stories which I
committed in my diary and record below:

First story: Mírzá Mihdí Rashtí was the Iranian Qádí [jurist] in
Constantinople. Previously he had been a friend of the esteemed
Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, but then had become a dervish though he
never adopted the accessories that this cast is wont to display. After
a time, the honored Hájí said to him, “Our ways are very different,”
and thus each went his own way. Arriving in Constantinople, the
Mushíru’d-Dawlih223 had appointed Mírzá Mihdí the Qádí. Soon
Siyyid Muhammad Isfahání224 befriended him and said, “Previously
everyone drank wine, but in secret. His Holiness the Exalted One
[the Báb] came and discarded all these superstitions and proclaimed
complete liberty. Therefore, should not wine be included among the
allowed ordinances?” Mírzá Mihdí liked this reasoning and therefore
became an Azalí, and was greatly aided by the Azalís. He then sent a
polemic to the Blessed Beauty. Bahá’u’lláh, in the name of Áqá
Muhammad-‘Alí Tanbákú-furush (tobacco trader), revealed a 410-
page reply known as the Kitáb-i Badí‘. All the Azalí objections are
answered therein.

Second Story: Until God manifests a certain attribute, it is hard to
imagine it. But once it is made apparent, its effulgence will emanate
from minds and spirits. It is revealed in the [Persian] Bayan by the
Báb, “You must recognize Man-Yuzhiruhu’lláh225 through your

223 Mírzá Husayn Khán was the Iranian Ambassador to the Ottoman court and at a
later time was appointed the Prime Minister of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh for three years.
224 He was one of the most venomous enemies of Bahá’u’lláh and the main inciter of
Azal. (HM)
225 Lit. Him Whom God will make manifest, a Bayánic term referring to all the

182  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


heart, never seeking proof of Him, and immediately accept His
Cause.” Though the Ancient Beauty had privately declared His
Mission in the year nine226, a few of the friends saw in themselves
such spirituality, <120> discernment and attainment that they
proclaimed themselves to be the [awaited] Man-Yuzhiruhu’lláh. [For
example,] Mírzá Músá Qumí in Tafrish declared himself the bearer
of this Office. In his meetings, one side would be served tea and the
other side would drink wine. [Eventually] the inhabitants of Tafrish
raided their homes, plundered their possessions and banished [the
Bábís]. Thereafter, Mírzá Músá declared his intention to proceed to
Baghdad to convert the head of that faction, Jináb-i Bahá227. He
came, attained His presence, and was so transformed that with his
turban and beard, he used to sweep the entrance of [Bahá’u’lláh’s]
house and serve all the friends of God. He was an old man of frail
stature, and when the believers came out of the house, he would
wash their clothing and serve them in many other ways.

Third Story: Nabíl Zarandí came to the Abode of Peace [Baghdad]
to convert the Ancient Beauty, but when he attained His presence,
he was so overwhelmed that he repented. Then he cut his beard and
used it to sweep the entrance of Bahá’u’lláh’s abode. He used to
wear a cotton headdress and serve by the door until the Ancient
Beauty departed for Constantinople. In Adrianople, when [the
Great] Separation took place [between Bahá’u’lláh and Mírzá Yahyá
Azal], Nabíl went to Tihrán and then, each day, proceeded to a
different destination in Iran for [the purpose of] propagating the
Cause.


25 October 1914
This afternoon Haifa was engulfed by the fire of separation and

future Manifestations of God.
226 A reference to Bahá’u’lláh’s prophetic experience in October 1852 in the Síyáh-
Chál.
227 Bahá’u’lláh was known in the early years as “the honored Bahá”.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   183


‘Akká illumined by the beauty of the Beloved of the Horizons.
“Sorrow hath enveloped this land, whilst another land rejoiceth.”228


26 October 1914
In accordance with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instruction, a number of us
joined Him in the carriage, went to ‘Akká and remained under His
sacred shadow. In the afternoon, He came to our room, inspected
our situation and arranged for our bedding and other provisions.
The evening meal was taken in His presence.


27 October 1914
In ‘Akká, the blessed house [of Bahá’u’lláh] was known as the Bayt
‘Abbúd. The Blessed Beauty spent two years, two months and
eleven days in [the upper chambers of] the city’s Prison. Friends
coming to see Him journeyed for several months. They would tarry
in the surrounding regions of ‘Akká waiting [to see Bahá’u’lláh].
Their sole delight was to behold the Blessed Beauty waving His
hand or handkerchief from the window of His prison cell and
uttering words of greeting. With gladdened spirits, the friends would
then return to their native homes.

After the Ottoman authorities permitted [the Holy Family] to
leave the prison and reside in the city, they changed two or three
homes during a short period of time229 until they were eventually
established on the eastern side of the house of [Ilyás] ‘Abbúd. The
Kitáb-i Aqdas was revealed in an eastern room of this house.230
When the time came for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wedding, the landlord,

228 Slight modification of the translation in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 227.
229 After the barracks, Bahá’u’lláh lived in the house of Málik for three months,
house of Mansúr Khavván for a few months, and four more months at the house of
Rábi‘ih.
230 This house belonged to the Christian merchant ‘Udí Khammar. Only later when
this house was joined to the house of ‘Abbúd was the totality referred to as the
house of ‘Abbúd.

184  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


‘Abbúd, opened a new entrance connecting the eastern and the
western portions of the house and prepared a special room for
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.231
During the early days, ‘Abbúd was not very happy that his
house was occupied by the Holy Family, but as he witnessed ever-
increasing kindness and consideration, his resentment and enmity
gradually subsided. In later years, he gave the entire western section
of the residence to the Holy Family. In all, the Blessed Beauty lived
in this house for twenty years232. Even when the Blessed Beauty
resided in the Mansion of Mazra‘ih or in the Mansion of Bahjí,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá continued to live in this house and, from this location,
organized the affairs of the Cause.
Today, while pacing in the hallway [of the house of ‘Abbúd],
the Master remarked:

This room was the kitchen. The smoke bothered
the Blessed Beauty, so I changed its location. For twenty
years, the Blessed Beauty resided in this house, and for
nine years, He did not descend these stairs. It is well
evident how He suffered!
Good or bad, compared to other locations, this
house was a royal palace for us. Whoever became ill, I
would send them to this house because its air was
relatively pleasing. Nevertheless, the enemies of the
Cause, these inequitable people, who in order to
undermine the truth of the Faith will stoop to spreading
any and all lies, have written that despite all the
complaints by the Blessed Beauty of the conditions of
the Most Great prison, He lived in gardens and orchards.
Consider how unfair! The Blessed Beauty always said –

231 The marriage of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá took place in late August or early September 1872.
232 The last nine years of those twenty years, Bahá’u’lláh resided almost exclusively in
the Mansion of Bahjí. During this period, two of Bahá’u’lláh’s wives and their
children were with Him at Bahjí, while Ásíyih Khánum, known as Navváb, and her
children lived in the House of ‘Abbúd.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   185


even during the height of our tribulations in the prison –
that this captivity would not last very long and gave hope
and promise for victory that soon both our sufferings
and the glory of the foes would end. When Professor
Browne came, there were days of comfort for the
friends. They were days of happiness.

That night we all assembled in His blessed room and He sweetened
our soul with heavenly utterances:

Pilgrimage must take place in a state of utmost
entreaty and fervent supplication, otherwise it is not
pilgrimage and merely a tour. In reality, all these people
that go to Mecca and Medina do so for sightseeing.
Pilgrimage must be in a condition of supplication for it
to have benefit and influence. Many came and attained
the hallowed presence of Bahá’u’lláh, witnessed His
heavenly ways, the warmth of His smile, His divine
attraction and His infinite bounties, yet they would leave
the same way that they came, unchanged. However,
others, upon their very arrival, would gain a new life and
be thoroughly transformed.
Jamál Burújirdí, and two others from his native
town, attained the august presence of Bahá’u’lláh in
Adrianople. One of these [travel-companions] was Mírzá
‘Abdu’r-Rahím. He was among the Mírzás of Burújird.
He observed the celestial attraction and beauty of
Bahá’u’lláh and was profoundly moved and completely
recreated. Later the Blessed Beauty commented, ‘During
his ten minute visit, he stepped from this ethereal world
unto the realm of immortality.’233

233 The following version of the incident, based also on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s comments, is
reported by Dr. Zia Baghdadi (Star of the West, 27 September 1918 issue, notes from
27 June 1914): “During the last days in Adrianpole, Agha Djamal and Agha Mírzá
Abdul-Rahim Boroodjerdy, twice came to the Most Holy Threshold. After their first

186  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Now, receptive souls are needed. What pleasure is
there if beautiful songs are sung but a listening ear is not
to be found? No matter how fragrant the flower, the
person sick with a cold cannot partake of its fragrance. If
the sun shines and the breeze blows and the rain falls,
but the soil is salty, naught but weeds will grow.
Receptivity of soul is needed.
Some of the chieftains of the Jáf tribe, who had
gained deep esteem for Bahá’u’lláh in Sulaymáníyyih,
were moved to Baghdad on the orders of the Valí of that
city. While in Baghdad, they would attain Bahá’u’lláh’s
sacred presence after first beseeching His permission.
Then, with utmost reverence and humility, they would sit
before Him. There was a Kurd who was truly enamored
of Bahá’u’lláh. He said to me, “Once previously did I
meet Shaykh Muhammad (that is, the Blessed Beauty). I
earnestly desire to once more behold that luminous
Visage.” When I saw how he longed to see the Blessed
Beauty and how truly he adored His sacred
Countenance, I did not want him to wait and guided him
directly into Bahá’u’lláh’s presence. He went in, and the
Blessed Perfection warmly welcomed him, designating a
place of honor for him to sit among the chiefs of the Jáf
tribe, and He then showered the Kurd with His infinite
bounties.
Were all the divine confirmations to descend, yet a
soul not be receptive, no result will be forthcoming.
There was a certain Muhammad-Ridá who, each
morning and evening, would attain the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh either in Qahvih Sálih or in His house. After
we left Baghdad, he would boast, “I associated with
these people for ten years, but it had no effect on me!”


visit with Baha’o’llah [He] said: “When Agha Mírzá Abdul-Rahim entered he was a
person, when he left he was transformed.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   187



28 October 1914, Corresponding to 10 Dhi’l-Hajjih 1332,
‘Íd-i Qurbán234
Early this morning, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá went to the Jamí‘ al-Jazzár
[Mosque of Jazzár], and from there, proceeded directly to the Shrine
of Bahá’u’lláh.


Masjid al-Jazzár

Soon thereafter, His carriage returned, and the honored
Isfandiyár, the carriage driver, informed us of the joyous news that
we had been summoned [to Bahjí]. We immediately proceeded to
the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.


234 Literally “Feast of Nearness [to God]”. Another name for ‘Íd al-Adhá, the
Islamic “Feast of Sacrifice” of a lamb at the end of the month of pilgrimage.

188  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




It was in the flower gardens around the Shrine that the beauty
of the Master illumined our eyes. Indeed, the beauty of the Adored
One had robbed the flowers of their charm! That luminous Person,
with His celestial traits, clothed in a completely white garment, with
white headdress, white shirt and white outer garment, stood out
amidst the multitude of jasmine and multicolored flowers.
As He paced, we entered His presence, bowed down and were
warmly greeted. My God, what immense bounty this is! Are we
asleep or conscious, intoxicated or sober? How truly exalted are the
divine favors bestowed so graciously upon us! How magnificent the
feast spread before us and how profound is such delight! How truly
fortunate we are!

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   189



May 1921 in Bahjí’s Garden

With His own hands, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was trimming and pruning
trees and blossoms and tending to the needs of the gardens. The
flowerbeds and fragrant plants on the path had perfumed the air so
profusely as can never be adequately described. The sun shone most
pleasantly. On the horizon, the brilliantly clear sky had embraced the
blue of the sea, creating flawless harmony and accord. The sea was
perfectly clear, transparent and calm, with the blue sky displaying no
clouds or blemishes. The trees perfectly framed the image of our
divine Beloved, and were anyone to behold this portrait that was
indeed a reflection of the high heavens, crazed, enchanted and
bewildered he would cry out in joy and take leave of his senses. O
Lord! My tongue is speechless to adequately thank Thee for Thy
manifold bounties, so plentifully conferred upon us! Praise be to
God! Praise be unto Him!

190  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


<125> Soon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá went to the hand-pump and began
to vigorously pump. By our watches, He pumped for nineteen
minutes, and the gardeners used a large quantity of water for the
flowerbeds and trees. It so happened that one of the friends, Áqá
Badí‘ Bushrú’í, kept a close count and informed us that the Master
pumped 361 times, that is, 19 x 19 times.
Previously, there had been no wells at Bahjí. It was very
difficult to water the shrubs, which had only recently been planted
around the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and regularly required watering.
Early in the evenings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and some faithful friends would
fill copper buckets with water and placing these on their heads,
would walk from ‘Akká to Bahjí, to water the plants.235 Along the
way, those with melodic voices would chant prayers and
supplications. In the utmost reverence and humility, the beloved
Master, carrying a bucket of water on His head, led the procession.
As He proceeded, He quietly uttered prayers and holy verses until
arrival at the Shrine. This is what they did every night! Eventually, a
well was dug which supplied water to the gardens, and thus the
believers no longer needed to transport water to Bahjí.
It should be noted that carrying water from ‘Akká, which was
the sole means of providing much-needed water to the newly
planted shrubs, also served as a method of protecting the faithful
believers within the fortress of the Covenant. In addition, it
demonstrated sacrifice, selflessness and readiness for martyrdom in
the path of the Blessed Beauty. In the dark of night, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
dressed in white attire, would lead the procession to Bahjí. As such,
He was a target for the enemies as this was at a time when,
exhibiting their full-blown hatred and opposition, the violators of
the Covenant were most active, and constantly watched for
opportunities to harm and injure the Master. While He remained an
easy target, the denizens of the supreme concourse, the dwellers of
the celestial paradise and the angels of the exalted realm above, were
the protectors of the Covenant and did not allow the least harm to

235 The distance between ‘Akká and Bahjí is about five kilometers.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   191


befall ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. They rendered the enemies of the Cause
impotent and defeated, and put fear in the hearts of the violators
and the hypocrites.
In short, after attaining the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we
followed Him reverently to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, where we
prostrated ourselves before the sacred Threshold and listened to the
Master chant the Tablet of Visitation with His heavenly and
melodious voice. I must confess that His celestial intonation on that
day has never left me in all these years. O Lord, how inestimable are
Thy bounties and how unworthy and wicked are Thy servants.


Bahjí 1918

We then proceeded to the pilgrim house of Bahjí where a
room next to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s room was given to us. Only a single
wall separated us from Him. A sufrih was spread for the meal, and
unleavened bread was also included. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “Bread is
more important than any other dish. Anything that the body
requires can be found in bread and also in milk. The body needs
elements that are absorbed easily. These are readily available in bread
and milk. If good bread is not available, nothing else will take its
place. Good bread can be eaten with all other things, but stew
cannot be eaten with bad bread. That is why Christ declared, ‘I am

192  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


the bread.’236”
At night, after another visit to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, the
Master spoke in gratitude about the manifold bounties of the
Blessed Beauty and the fact that the invisible hand of destiny had
assembled us all in this resplendent spot. Praised be God, praise be
unto Him!237


Friday, 30 October 1914, the Pilgrim House of Bahjí
Inasmuch as the Mansion of Bahjí was in the possession of the
Covenant-breakers, who exerted every effort, both secretly and
outwardly, to destroy the Cause of God and harm the blessed
person of the Master, the friends avoided meeting and confronting
them to the extent possible. Nevertheless, for the purpose of
ablutions, washing of hands and face, short rests, shaking off the
dust of the journey, praying and drinking tea, the friends tarried in
this spot [the pilgrim house] for a short time. Afterwards, from a
narrow passageway on the western flank of the Shrine, we would
walk to the Point of Adoration of the Supreme Concourse in the
utmost reverence, respect and attention.
This small building (the pilgrim house of Bahjí) connected to
the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and was comprised of three or four rooms
with a hall situated in the middle of the building. At the rear of the
building, there was a small courtyard. The washroom and kitchen
were on the north side of the building. For now this location serves
as the pilgrim house. Later, we shall see what God decrees.
Undoubtedly, in the near future, the situation will change.238
We spent our days and nights in this pilgrim house under the

236 John 6:35 states, “And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that
cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth in me shall never thirst.”
237 Bushrú’í, pp. 52-3, has a diary entry for 29 October and indicates that it was on
this date that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá came to Bahjí.
238 A spacious and modern pilgrim house was constructed under the supervision of
the Universal House of Justice in the 1990s, and presently serves visitors to the
Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   193


shadow of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and in the proximity of the
room where the Master resided and rested, and where we benefited
from His divine favors. There was only a thin wall between our
room and the Master’s. Every night, we would hear the murmur of
His prayers and the melody of His supplications.
Twice a day, in the mornings and the afternoons, we would
visit the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. The Master would chant the Tablet of
Visitation with such reverence, humility and longing that all who
were present would be profoundly moved. May my life be a sacrifice
for the Master! May it be a ransom to this peerless Servant! He
teaches us the lessons of servitude and modesty, sets the example
for humility and altruism, instructs selflessness and self-annihilation,
proclaims the ways of meekness and consecration, and embodies the
meaning of certitude and worship. He has no desire for praise and
recognition, and only seeks to manifest the true nature of obedience
and love –physically and spiritually, outwardly and inwardly, as an
expression of His very essence. He lived in utter love and absolute
adoration of the Blessed Beauty. Truly, the Ancient Beauty was well
served in such a magnificent Son and such a verdant Branch. And
such a beloved Son well beseemed such a glorious Father! That is,
the Father was to be praised and recognized for such a Son, and the
Son was befitting and worthy of the trust of such a Father! Father
and Son are connected by one sanctified Spirit, and may my soul be
a sacrifice unto Both!
We tarried at this sacred spot for three days and three nights in
the presence of the Friend, away from the commotion of life and
daily routine. Led by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we frequently attained the honor
of visiting the Shrine, and afterwards spent time in His presence and
enjoyed the feast of His manifold bounties. Both spiritual and
material sustenance were provided. How many among the people of
bygone centuries and ages have prayed, meditated, fasted, longed
and implored to attain unto this Day, and yet perished without
beholding a glimpse. However, undeservedly, the infinite grace of
God surrounded these insignificant servants of His Threshold.
Indeed, we were not worthy of even a small drop of this ocean of

194  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


bounty. Whatever we saw, heard or witnessed, was naught but a sign
of His munificence and sovereignty, and an image of heaven above.
Methinks this was paradise, and save for gratitude, my tongue
should hold its peace.
In the course of a meal, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked on an article
[written] by Archibald239:

My purpose is this: others testify that the Cause of
God is universal, that it contains the reality of all
religions of the world and will be spread throughout the
globe.  Now consider this testimony by a westerner.
When a westerner so testifies, it is worth repeating.
Never will a Christian praise the religion of Islam in this
manner, nor a Jew testify similarly to the validity of the
message of Christ. Now all other faiths will affirm that in
this new age this religion will embrace all past
Dispensations. All the newspapers in Europe and
America have testified that the teachings of the Blessed
Beauty shall penetrate the world of humanity.


<130> 31 October 1914, Bahjí
We woke early and following ablutions and offering supplications
unto the Threshold of the Almighty, Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab and I
walked to the beach and on our return attained the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. His utterances were about His unfaithful kinsmen:

I gave a Tablet to Jamál Effendi240 and instructed
that traveling through certain cities and following an
unfrequented route he should reach Qum and deliver the
Tablet to the Sadr A‘zam [Prime Minister]. He was to

239 Bushrú’í, p. 54, identifies the article published by Plain Dealer in 18 August 1914
issue of Cleveland’s newspaper, which has been in continuous circulation since
1842.
240 His given name was Sulaymán Khán.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   195


win an audience with the vizier, and exhibiting utmost
courtesy, respect and submission present him, in private,
the Tablet. I had told him to refuse any gratuity if his
host offered it, nor to attempt a second visit, but if he
were to insist on such a meeting, then to visit him once
more at the time of his departure from the city.
He carried out the mission as instructed, but
afterwards, upon arrival at Tihrán, revealed the details of
his successful mission to Jamal Burújirdí. Jamál and his
son subsequently began to visit the vizier, frequently
demanding money, until at last, resenting the situation,
he refused them further audience.241

At lunchtime, the Master noted, “Presently the ravages of war
are unfolding [in Europe], but we are at ease. We are under the
shadow of the protection of the Blessed Beauty.” In the afternoon,
regarding the Ottoman-Russian war, He said, “Constantinople is in
turmoil.” Then He said to this ephemeral servant, “All roads are
closed, especially to Germany. No mail is delivered.”

241 The mission spoken by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá took place in 1898 and the vizier in
question was Mírzá ‘Alí-Asghar Khán, the Amínu’s-Sultán. Two years earlier, at the
time of the assassination of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh in 1896, the Amínu’s-Sultán was the
Grand Vizier. Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh King of Glory, p. 393, n.1, states: “It was his
stratagem which saved the day and prevented the outbreak of disorder. Some
modern writers have made the ridiculous suggestion that Amínu’s-Sultán himself
was implicated in the murder of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh.” The Amínu’s-Sultán retired to
Qum after his dismissal by Muzaffari’d-Din Sháh. The fallen Minister had previously
spoken in favor of the oppressed Bahá’ís and Jamál Effendi’s mission was to win his
further sympathy which he initially promised. Once he regained office, however, he
soon forgot his pledge, apparently as result of Jamál Burújirdí’s misbehavior.

196  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Chapter 6

Abu Sinan: November 1914


1 November 1914, Bahjí
Today marked the third day that we dwelt under the shadow of the
sacred Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and partook of both the material and
the spiritual feast of His beneficence. Each morn and eve, we were
blessed with paying homage at the Shrine and enjoying the Visitation
Tablet chanted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which enthralled and enchanted
every soul and being.
Twice daily, each time for about twenty minutes, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
pumped water for the trees and plants. This watering of the shrubs
by the Shrine was much the same as nourishing the souls of the
sincere servants of God by the divine teachings and regular reading
of the Writings.
It was two hours after noon when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá suddenly
instructed us to prepare to leave for Abu Sinan. We boarded His
carriage; He sat up front, and the rest of us in the back, as we
proceeded towards Abu Sinan. A gentle breeze passed over Him.
His hair flowed softly over His shoulders, and the scent of His rose-
perfume was delightfully sweet and fragranced the nostrils of us in
the back seat.

The perfume which emanated from that hair,


Was sweeter than the smell of flowers.

En route we stopped at a military camp, and, while we waited
in the carriage, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá went to meet the commander. The
commander had recounted the following to the Master: “There were
seventy thousand of us in the Battle of Sarab, and yet we were
defeated. During our retreat, soldiers would steal each other’s
clothing.” [In sharing this] ‘Abdu’l-Bahá smiled and said, “Witness

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   197


their condition!” He then added:


The Blessed Beauty journeyed to the village of
Yirka three times.242 On the first visit, I walked at the
side of Bahá’u’lláh’s steed until the proximity of Abu
Sinan. Those days were marvelously pleasant! Turks have
a saying, “The memory and reminiscence of those days
are worth the world!”

At one time, after eight or nine years of
confinement in ‘Akká, [my uncle] the late Mírzá
Muhammad-Qulí and I came out to explore the
countryside. The trees had only recently blossomed, the
countryside was most enchanting, and we immensely
enjoyed the scenery. There, the late [Mírzá Muhammad-
Qulí] encountered a friend and inquired about his
destination. The friend responded, “I am going to Abu
Sinan and Yirka.” My late [uncle] sighed in sadness, and
I said to him, “Do not be sad, for one day we shall do
the same.” Now, every time I visit this village, I think of
him.


Along the way, wherever we encountered groups of people,
men or women, young or old, they would immediately rise to their
feet and with great humility, would greet the Master. They would
approach Him and kiss His hands with utmost reverence and
affection. In this manner, we made our way to Abu Sinan.

We were guests of Shaykh Sálih243, and on that evening he
organized a large feast in the main hall of his residence, where a

242 Abu Sinan is a village on the eastern side of ‘Akká and the village of Yirka is
situated to the east of Abu Sinan. Most of their inhabitants are Druze and have an
affinity towards the Cause. They are not Bahá’ís, but are devoted to the Center of
the Faith. (HM)
243 Bushrú’í, p. 36, indicates that in accordance with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s encouragement,
Shaykh Sálih had served in ‘Akká as the Iranian Consul.

198  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


number of the friends of God as well as non-Bahá’ís were present.
Speaking on the raging World War ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:


In these days, wise and sound policies are needed
in political affairs, but leaders are not prudent. In the
Russian-Iranian War, Iran was defeated; and, afterwards,
seventy-six of the victors were assigned to settle various
affairs and to dispatch the [Iranian] captives to Russia.
There was a woman who had two children, whose
husband had resisted arrest and avoided being sent [to
Russia]. As a result, the Russians kept the wife under
surveillance, and, once having discovered her in the
public bath, seized her as she emerged. A tremendous
commotion broke out in which the entire group of
Russians perished.
This incident had grave repercussions on Iran’s
position.
[The
Prime
Minister]
Qá’im-Maqám244
promised to find an amicable solution and prevent
further fighting. He wrote a long letter to [St.]
Petersburg, and explained the critical importance that the
Iranian people place on womanly virtues of chastity and
honor. In fact, he went so far as to say that such
conviction had become a blinding prejudice to the
Iranian population. He expressed his deep regret, nay,
profound shame, over the incident and suggested that if
they wished to exact revenge, instead of offering a few
rebels to be killed by the Russians, he would send a
greatly admired prince to be slain, in hopes that this act
might lessen the burden of remorse suffered by the

244 Mírzá Abú’l-Qásim Farahání, the Qá’im-Maqám, (d. 1835) became the Prime
Minister of Fath-‘Alí Shah in 1821 and was one of the ablest statesmen and authors
of modern Iran. He was a close friend of Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, Bahá’u’lláh’s father.
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have frequently honored him with such expressions as,
“the Prince of the City of Statesmanship and Literary Accomplishment” (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh,
p. 65.)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   199


Iranians.
When the prince was sent to St. Petersburg, the
Russian Czar grew fond of him. He said to the prince,
“You are like my own son” and did not harm him.
Indeed, he showered the prince with his favors.
At the present, the world needs such wise and
prudent men.


Abu Sinan
Day by day, the situation of the war grew worse and intensified.
Correspondingly, the means to acquire daily necessities and
provisions became more difficult and restricted. With the passage of
each day, worries and apprehensions grew more desperate. Power
rested in the hands of a number of ruthless military men who did
not consider themselves accountable to anyone. It was a day of
mayhem and plunder by the Ottoman officials. They caused
difficulties for whomever they chose and destroyed the innocent
with the most meager charges. No one had the least control over his
possessions or life. The government was in the control of a number
of faithless, bloodthirsty and cruel men who were truly the
embodiments of “He doeth whatsoever He willeth and ordaineth
whatsoever He pleaseth.”245 Gallows were active in every town, and
all prominent citizens were eliminated.


245 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 109; also Gems of Divine Mysteries, p. 62.

200  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


It was a time for Pashas to settle accounts with their opponents and
to exact revenge [through hanging]. As soon as the smallest
complaint was raised against anyone, immediately a file would be
prepared for him and his demise was assured. Complete and
absolute power was in the hands of the military commanders, and
not a breath was left of anyone.246
Jamál [Cemal] Páshá was an independent-minded military
commander and a man of truly ruthless character. He would
instantly kill anyone whom he discovered to have a prominent
reputation.

Jamal Pasha and his officers


246 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 409 notes: “War had come to Europe, and Turkey
[i.e. Ottoman Empire] was about to commit herself to the cause of the Central
Powers: Germany and Austria-Hungary. Although she had had successive and
decisive defeats in Tripolitania and in the Balkans, within the previous three years,
her rulers, the Young Turks, and particularly the triumvirate of Enver (Anvar)
Pasha, Tal‘at Pasha and Jamál Pasha, forced her into another trial of strength, the
outcome of which must have seemed hazardous and uncertain. By the end of
October 1914 the die had been cast, and in the first week of November, Russia,
Great Britain, and France found themselves obliged to declare war on Turkey, which
was followed on November 14th by Turkey’s declaration of holy war. That
declaration was wrested from the Caliph, Sultan Muhammad V, by the reckless
directors of the destinies of the Ottoman Empire.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   201


As one of the highest army generals, he had assembled an
enormous force to attack and reduce Egypt and [capture] the Suez
Canal. Tens of thousands of camels were arrayed solely for the
transportation of the army’s water rations. His agents had
confiscated whatever food, clothing, weapons, money, surplus and
stored grains they could find. Thoroughly desolate, the citizens were
left without the most basic provisions as the realm was cleansed of
everything useful for the needs of the military. If anyone protested,
hanging was the immediate response. They would perpetrate
whatever act of tyranny, oppression, injury, calumny, murder,
treachery and sedition that was needed to achieve their end under
the umbrella of the Committee for National Defense.



Taking advantage of this most perilous situation, the spiteful
Covenant-breakers came up with a new way each passing day to
provoke Jamál Páshá against the Faith and further agitate him in this
regard. Sometimes they went to Damascus and provoked the
enemies of the Cause [into action]. At other occasions they sought
the help of Jerusalem, presenting such extravagant gifts as the tent
of the Blessed Beauty, which was the tabernacle of the Most Great
Peace and a precious memento of Bahá’u’lláh’s days. In addition,
they offered whatever sacred [Persian] carpets had remained from

202  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


His time.
When giving these gifts, they always registered a complaint
against ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, appearing as the wronged and the victimized.
At times, they depicted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as a political mischief-maker
and a religious rabble-rouser, thereby sowing seeds of sedition. At
other times, they accused the Master of having designs to inaugurate
a new monarchy and described His communications with the East
and the West as a means for inciting political chaos; or they accused
Him of being a foreign agent. In other instances, the Shrines of
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb were presented as military forts, and at other
times, as the [new] Mecca and Medina. To confuse and provoke
[Jamál Páshá], they had painted the Greatest Name on a flag and
presented it as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s new “Standard of Monarchy.”
In response, in a meeting of the ‘ulamá in Jerusalem, Jamál
Páshá, being a ruthless and rash man, had promised to slay ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and to level both the Shrines of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb. This
had greatly excited the Covenant-breakers, giving them courage to
redouble their efforts against the Master.
This time, they submitted another written complaint, outlining
various charges against ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In this appeal they noted:
‘Previously, every time that the government has tried to adjudicate,
we (i.e. the Covenant-breakers) have also suffered bitterly [in the
process]. Therefore, we now proclaim, loudly and clearly, that we are
not associated with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. [We] ask not to be entangled in
any investigation of Him, and to be left secure in the course of
whatever transpires.’
Clearly, the friends of God needed to avoid troubles during
such a time when the entire Ottoman Empire was in turmoil and
revolution, the government in disorder and unsettled, when blood
was being spilled at every turn, when no accountability or
responsibility was assumed by anyone, and the Covenant-breakers
unceasingly appealed to this ruthless man (Jamál Páshá) for action.
However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s method was always to make His own
breast the target of His enemies’ darts, thereby shielding the friends
of God from hardships and sufferings. <135> That is, He would

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   203


present Himself to danger, to protect the friends from abuse.
Particularly during this perilous period when horizons were
dark with enmity and everyone feared the imminent bombardment
of the port cities, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sent every member of the Bahá’í
community of ‘Akká and Haifa in a different direction, far away
from trouble. [During this interval,] He closed the door of
association to all and would neither meet with anyone, nor receive
any correspondence. Of the entire Bahá’í community, only the
Master and a single servant remained in ‘Akká. The honored Hájí
Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí was the sole occupant of the Haifa pilgrim house.
All other believers – men and women, young and old alike – were
sent to Abu Sinan where, for six months, they remained far from the
turmoil. This precaution was particularly necessary since, in addition
to other considerations, it silenced the mouths of the enemies of the
Cause.
For instance, it was said that people were summarily hanged
merely for having had their lights on at night, because they were
suspected of being spies, engaged in preparing reports. As a result,
everyone spent the evenings in total darkness in order not to evoke
the suspicion of the secret police, winning a spot on the hanging
row. The Bahá’í community’s departure for Abu Sinan also allowed
the Master to distance the friends of God from the constant barrage
of rumors about the imminent bombardment of the port cities and
allow them to live in peace and tranquility.
The village of Abu Sinan was a hamlet on the eastern side of
‘Akká, situated on a choice hill, with pleasant and vivifying air and
water. The people cultivated fig and olive trees and grew grapevines.
The inhabitants were mostly Druze, with a few Catholic or Jewish
residents, all of whom were engaged in farming.

204  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




The Druze are mostly robust people adapted to mountain life.
Though their religious convictions are not known with any degree of
certainty, they consider themselves monotheistic; that is, they
believed in a single, all-powerful Omnipotent One Who revealed
Himself through His manifestations. [They traced their origin to]
one of these manifestations, al-Hakím, the sixth Caliph of the
Fatimid dynasty [and believed that] at the end of time, when the
world was filled with tyranny and oppression and believers were
surrounded by repression and hardship, then, once more, al-Hakím
would appear and establish justice and equity throughout the world

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   205


and his religion would then be triumphant.247 They believed he
would then reassemble the dispersed Druze tribe in Syria and then,
when the standard of his faith was hoisted over Mecca and
Jerusalem, he would bring the whole of the earth under his own rule
and establish justice throughout the realm.
The Druze of Abu Sinan had a particular affinity and
attachment towards the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and considered
‘Abdu’l-Bahá as one of God’s chosen ones. When one of them fell
ill, they would have him circumambulate the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh
and give the ill one food leftover from the Master’s plate. They
showed great consideration and attraction [to the Bahá’ís]. Since the
old days, all their chiefs and shaykhs had profound affection [for
Bahá’ís], because from the time of the Blessed Beauty they had only
experienced love, sincerity and spirituality. With great devotion and
sincerity, they sought the presence of the Master.



For three months, Bahá’u’lláh had stayed in the village of
Yirka, in the home of Shaykh Marzúq. The sons of the late Shaykh

247 For further details on the Druze history see Moojan Momen, An Introduction to
Shi‘i Islam, p. 55.

206  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


[Marzúq], Shaykh Sa‘íd and Shaykh Salmán, had shown great
devotion to Him and dealt with the believers with utmost affection.
They considered Bahá’u’lláh’s room [during His sojourn] as a sacred
shrine, illuminating it each Friday night with a candle. They never
allowed anyone into that room, nor furnished it in any way; and
indeed considered it a sanctified spot. During three months,
Bahá’u’lláh’s tent was pitched in the hills of Yirka.
The house of Shaykh Sálih in Abu Sinan displayed the same
respect, and the Shaykh and his sons eagerly, humbly and warmly
welcomed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. They considered His presence in their
midst a profound source of bounty, honor and distinction, and His
shadow, the fount of their everlasting happiness and salvation.


2 November 1914, Abu Sinan
This morning, once more, a group of Druze and their chiefs attained
the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Their chief, Shaykh Sálih, was a
sincere old man who considered himself but a servant at the
threshold of the Master. When the Shaykh was expressing his fear of
the war, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] said [to him]:

You have not experienced genuine difficult times,
for if you had, such occurrences would not perturb you.
One night we owned a vast estate and possessed all
manners of comfort, but in the morning we were evicted
and deprived of all belongings. Not even a coat was left
to us. In the midst of the most agonizing cold, we were
banished from one country to another. I went to my
mother, asking for some food, but she had none to give.
I asked for some flour and ate it in place of food. En
route, in the hope of a good meal, I purchased syrup,
flour and oil [to make halvah]. Instead, they mistakenly
added a large quantity of pepper to it, which severely
burned our mouths and insides.
One of our friends was branded seventy times.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   207


Others had their noses cut off. Yet others were hanged
upside down, until all their intestines fell out.
We have weathered such storms. I pray that
everything goes well and that God will protect all.

At lunchtime, Shaykh Sálih gave a magnificent feast with a
variety of dishes. He had invited fifteen of the Arab chiefs and,
indeed, had exerted much effort for this event. Before lunch, when
all were assembled in the large guestroom of Shaykh Sálih, the
Master stated:

There was a fanatical Protestant minister that
always wanted to argue. One time he came to Me and
said, ‘Given His large body and girth, with what kind of
ladder did Muhammad ascend to heaven?’ I responded,
‘With the same ladder that Christ used [to reach
heaven].’ He became angry and said to Me, ‘I will
eventually make a Christian out of You!’ A short while
later, he became ill and the doctors instructed him to be
circumcised.248 Afterwards, I went to visit him, and he
was worried that I might say something; but I did not
embarrass him.249

Someone asked about Manes, the Painter250. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
responded:

Without [the aid of] a compass, he could draw circles.
He did this using two equal, perpendicular lines and like

248 The law of circumcision is enjoined on all Muslim males.
249 Implying that since the minister had spoken critically of the Prophet Muhammad,
divine retribution had decreed for him to be subject to an Islamic law.
250 Manes, or Mani, or Manichaeus (210-276 CE) was the Iranian founder of
Manichaeism and he resided in Babylon, which at the time was one of the many
provinces of the Persian Empire. The religion he founded is essentially extinct
today.

208  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


a ruler or a compass would draw [a circle]. He had drawn
four hundred sketches on a single skin of a gazelle,
which was kept in the Kasra palace. His designs were
inscribed on the jeweled carpet and taken from Kasra
palace to Medina [by conquering Arabs]. One piece of
this carpet was sold for twenty thousand dinars.



[Our Residence]
This servant, working as a physician, and Badí‘ Effendi Bushrú’í, as a
teacher, remained in Abu Sinan while the blessed person of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá returned to ‘Akká. Our home was a small, mud-walled room
with a low ceiling and a warped door. When we were cold, we would
light a fire, although the smoke was most bothersome, but opening
the door meant letting in the bitter cold. I treated Bahá’í or non-
Bahá’í patients who came to me251, and in the meantime Badí‘
Effendi taught both boys and girls.
In reality, our room was my dispensary, my office, Badí‘

251 Sitt (an honorific meaning “lady”) Lua Getsinger was my aid and assisted me in
all surgeries, which were plenty. (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   209


Effendi’s school and the pilgrim house of the Master. And yet, I can
state unreservedly that never in my entire life had I experienced such
joy and tranquility, nor do I anticipate ever again tasting such
sweetness. The reason was, while the war had deprived us of all
means of comfort, yet our spirits were elated and, falcon-like, soared
to the heavens. Outwardly we were on earth, but in truth we resided
in the pavilions of the Supreme Concourse. Unceasingly we would
chant prayers and, since our room was only seven or eight meters
away, our voices and laughter carried to the next house where the
Holy Family resided. All of our meals were prepared and sent by the
Holy Family and, once or twice a day, we would receive greetings
and words of comfort from the Greatest Holy Leaf.



We were submerged in a sea of bounty and free from all earthy
attachments. However, the news of the War, the worries they
generated and the absence of food and other provisions consumed
people everywhere.


[Bahá’ís of Abu Sinan]
During our sojourn in Abu Sinan we were in the company of the

210  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


entire Holy Family and the whole of the Bahá’í communities of
‘Akká and Haifa. Only ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and one or two servants had
remained behind. People were deeply perturbed over the possibility
of bombardment of the port cities, the constant preoccupation with
which had deprived them of a moment’s rest. Consequently,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had sent all the Bahá’ís to Abu Sinan so that they
would be away from the turmoil.
Moreover, the inhabitants of Abu Sinan and Yirka were Druze
and for years had shown deep affection towards the Faith.
Whenever one of them fell ill, they would take him to
circumambulate the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and give him a little of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s leftover food. They believed that such remedies
could cure afflictions. Often they [would visit] the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh and, having removed their shoes, would enter and pay
their homage. Even in Yirka, they would not allow the room once
occupied by the Blessed Beauty to be used by anyone else, and
would light a candle in there every night, considering it a hallowed
precinct.
Shaykh Sálih was the chief of the Druze and his two sons,
Shaykh Salmán and Shaykh Yúsuf, also ranked among their notables.
Once every few days, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would come to Abu Sinan to
visit the friends and oversee affairs. After a stay of one or two
nights, He would return to ‘Akká.


Pilgrim House of Abu Sinan
Most of the dwellings in the village of Abu Sinan were dilapidated
farmhouses, which the Bahá’ís temporarily rented, with the Holy
Family residing in the home of Shaykh Sálih. Once or twice each
week, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would come and stay for one or two nights. He
would then attend to the needs of the believers, arrange their affairs,
uplift their spirits, <140> and generally give them a new lease on
spiritual life, and thereafter returning to ‘Akká or Haifa.
The Greatest Holy Leaf, the Holy Mother [Munírih Khánum]
and others, such as the American Miss [Edith] Sanderson and Lua

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   211


Getsinger (Sitt Lua), were residing in Abu Sinan in the same home.


Lua Getsinger

To keep us from being idle, we (Áqá Badí‘ Bushrú’í and
myself) were given certain duties: Badí‘ Effendi taught the children
and I engaged in the practice of medicine.
Since all the Ottoman physicians were taken to the battlefront
by the military, there was an acute shortage of medical personnel.
Therefore, day and night, this servant was busy performing surgery
and other medical procedures for both the Bahá’ís and non-Bahá’ís.
Often I was taken on horseback to nearby villages to attend to the
sick and do what I could for them. Sometimes the patients would
first go to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, seeking His handwritten instructions for
me to remedy their ills. He would write with His blessed hands:

Áqá Mírzá Habíb, heal this person.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.

Obedient to His wish, I would then examine the ill person and
treat him with a little medication, and within a short time the person

212  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


would always recover. Since no physicians were left in this region
and it was very difficult for the sick to go to Damascus or Beirut [for
treatment], they all came to me, and I always did my utmost to help
[and treat] them.
In addition to practicing regular medicine, I occasionally
performed surgery, during which Lua Getsinger acted as the
anesthetic technician.252 At times, Badí‘ Effendi would help by
providing anesthetics. The wonder of it was that all of these
operations were successful, and I often performed surgeries that I
had never performed before, particularly because I had only recently
completed medical school and did not have much experience, nor
adequate surgical supplies. Nevertheless, the results were most
satisfactory, and everywhere I was known as the “Tabíb-i ‘Abbás
Effendi” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s doctor].
One hundred percent of my practice was successful and never
once did I lose a patient. Despite the lack of medication and proper
instruments, I attempted every necessary procedure and the
Almighty always granted the healing. During every operation, I
whispered prayers and supplicated God for divine assistance:

If Thou wishest me to live


Through me blow Thy holy breath.
The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give


To me, who’ve lain an age in death.253

Indeed, if His grace surrounds us, every undertaking will be
adorned with brilliant success. But if carnal desires motive us, then
naught but loss and regret results. O God, save us all from the evil
of the self!



252 According to Bushru’i, p. 42, Lua Getsinger had arrived in January 1915 from
India and stayed for seven months with the Holy Family, first in Abu Sinan and later
briefly in Haifa.
253 Translation of poem from The Memorials of the Faithful, p. 31.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   213


[Our Room in Abu Sinan]
Our room was at street level and its walls were made from clay
bricks. It was seven or eight meters long and three or four meters
wide and had the same height. The ceiling’s only supports were four
bent and termite-infested beams. The room had a single door and
window. When closed, it was totally dark, and when opened, the
unbearable cold, particularly during cloudy or rainy days, cut through
us. In fact, when it rained, it flooded the room, and we had to find
ways to keep the water out.
There was a spot about two square meters in front of the
entrance that was lower than the rest of the ground. There, several
baskets of dried figs were placed, and through the sale of these our
landlord made his living. That is, our room, in addition to all its
other purposes, including serving as the pilgrim house, was also the
place of business of our landlord!
Even though all the roads were closed and no communication
was possible, we occasionally had two or three visitors, so that, in
total, five or six people lived in our room.
All of our meals were prepared graciously by the Greatest
Holy Leaf with her own hands. Though we lacked basic food
ingredients and people were in dire straits, we had no worries. There
was plenty of bread and most food items were made from groats.
We had an adequate supply of bread, cheese, olives and figs, and
could comfortably live on those. Occasionally, meat would become
available, and the Greatest Holy Leaf would make kabob, which we
would eat with indescribable joy, praising Almighty God. It was
most bewildering that all around us people were dying of bullet
wounds, and yet we enjoyed heavenly nourishment!
At nighttime, we placed the bedding very tightly next to each
other on the floor and, with much difficulty, made enough room for
five or six of us. However, we were so thoroughly filled with joy and
ecstasy that most evenings we only slept two or three hours, or not
at all, particularly during the nights that we had guests. Praise be
unto God! While people on the outside were overwhelmed with
sorrow and grief, had no hope of survival and constantly feared for

214  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


their very lives, we in turn were filled with joy and bliss, our spirits
soaring to the heavens, and had no care for the world and its
worries. At all times we sang Bahá’í songs, chanted poems and our
sole yearning was to know when the Master would visit [us again].
As we chanted prayers, our voices would reach the Holy Family:


What use ‘tis at springtime,


To tell a nightingale to remain silent.

It was truly amazing, but all who came to Abu Sinan soon
became like us, carefree. Even when old men came to our pilgrim
house, they would become unconcerned with all else and, like us,
would be filled with joy and delight. In the evenings, as soon as
someone suggested that he was tired and wished to sleep, all others
protested that we should not waste precious hours in slumber, and
considered sleep a manner of loss and regret. Indeed, we devoted
every minute of the evening to chanting and singing.
That bright old man, Hájí Siyyid Javád Yazdí, was the source
of constant amusement and ceaseless laughter. He rolled over the
beddings and made us happy by constant brief jests. At times he
pretended to be a Qur’án reciter and chanted verses [of the Holy
Book] as they would by the gravesites; at other times he raised the
[Islamic] call to prayer in a loud voice; and yet on other occasions he
retold the story of Áqá Zaynu’l-‘Abidín Shikárchí [the hunter] and
prevented us from falling sleep. In short, through various
entertaining acts, he would urge us to stay awake.
In this same pilgrim house, Áqá Badí‘ Bushrú’í, who was
accomplished in the field of education and child development,
conducted daily classes for the Bahá’í children. He exerted his
utmost to properly train the youngsters and was very successful in
his efforts.254 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would say, “Every time I remember that

254 Bushrú’í, p. 37 states that after a short while, a location other than their bedroom
was assigned for the Bahá’í school. Twenty-five students, consisting of children of
the Holy Family, Bahá’í residents and Druze chiefs, were enrolled at the new
location.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   215


in that environment we had such a school, I am exceedingly
overjoyed and praise the Blessed Beauty.”
In reality, this clay room was our pilgrim house, children’s
school, my office, an operating room and also our landlord’s shop
for dried figs – all of these took place in that single room.255

255 Bushrú’í, pp. 55-56, has an entry for 4 November 1914 which indicates that some
remnant Bahá’ís in Haifa came to Abu Sinan and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left for ‘Akká on this
date. Also, according to Bushrú’í, p. 56, it was during this period that the box
containing Tablets and holy relics were sent to Abu Sinan for safekeeping. Bushrú’í,
pp. 56-57, indicates it was during this time that Prince Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís arrived in the
Holy Land and the Birth of the Báb was observed on 19 November 1914 at Bahjí.
With utmost joy and excitement, all the Bahá’ís residing in Abu Sinan walked to
Bahjí where a feast was given by Áqá Mírzá Siyyid Husayn of Haifa. Twice the
friends visited the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and before dusk returned to the village of
Abu Sinan. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís returned to ‘Akká. The following day,
the Birth of Bahá’u’lláh was celebrated in Abu Sinan where 19 Bahá’í children sang
songs and engaged in a period of questions and answers. Bushrú’í, pp. 57-58, has
detailed entries for 21 and 22 November.

216  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Chapter 7

Abu Sinan:  January 1915


<145> 9 January 1915
Today the land of Abu Sinan was blessed by the footsteps of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. At night, a number of Bahá’ís and certain Arabs
attained the Master’s presence, and all [His] utterances concerned
the situation of the war. He stated:

This war is indeed ruinous and devastating in its effects.
However, afterwards, the number of peace-loving people
will grow considerably, and these commotions, uproars
and the mighty tumult will precipitate [universal] peace.
For the West, the most important thing is the war. If
Germany is victorious, then the Ottoman Empire will be
triumphant as well. Otherwise, if the Ottoman army
advances into Egyptian territory, it will not be lasting.
May God deal justly with those who caused these
wars and conflicts which have caused so much
bloodshed and trouble. Indeed they have undermined
the prosperity of the people.


10 January 1915
This morning a number of non-Bahá’ís attained the presence of our
heavenly Beloved [in Abu Sinan]. All His utterances were formal and
magisterial. In the afternoon, Shaykh Salmán said to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
“My Guide, my brother Shaykh Yúsuf and I have been discussing a
certain point and as yet, have not arrived at an agreement. My view
is that children must be educated through modern means, whereas
my brother states that most schoolchildren are ill-mannered. From
Your speech it can be concluded that my brother is correct. I say

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   217


this because earlier You stated, ‘Druze in this region are better
behaved than the Druze in Lebanon since they are simpler people.’
From this it can be surmised that the more civilized the people, the
greater is their degeneracy.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded:

It is universally recognized that evil is stronger than
good. Evil has rapid influence, where good is slow in its
impact. If a trustworthy person and a thief were
together, the thief would never become righteous, but
the converse may occur. Because of their association, a
truthful person may become a liar, but it is rare for the
perjurer to become truthful, or for the penurious to
become generous by reason of his association with the
charitable, or for the wicked to become virtuous, and so
forth. This is because evil is stronger and its influence is
more penetrating. This issue does not require proof, as it
is evident like the sun at noontime.
If there were a thousand healthy men, but one
among them had a contagious disease, the thousand
would have no effect on the ill, but the illness of that
one would spread to the remaining thousand. For
instance, if a person is afflicted with smallpox and comes
in contact with many healthy children, all will be
infected, while it is not possible for the healthy to
influence the sick. It is similar with the black plague or
leprosy, where the healthy may be affected, but the
converse would not hold.
Consider how much time it takes to raise a
building, but dynamite can destroy it in blink of an eye.
It takes five years to build an armored ship, but only a
minute for a torpedo to sink it to the bottom of the
ocean. It takes twenty years to raise a person to maturity,
but he perishes in an instant by the assassin’s bullet.
Therefore, if you desire for your children to be
raised properly and remain protected, then they must be

218  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


cared for adequately. You must ensure that they do not
meet or associate with ill-mannered persons. Either
establish your own schools or do as we are doing. We
have many students in the [Beirut] University. Last year
there were thirty of them. They associate only with each
other [i.e. other Bahá’ís] and at the time of instruction
attend classes. Therefore they are well-protected.
However, there are other [Muslim] Iranians in Beirut and
they are all vagabonds. Even the teachers despise them,
to the point that they are expelled from school. It is
amazing! Most bewildering!
The Iranian children in ‘Akká were like angels, but
alas, some of them associated with the Arabs or with ill-
mannered children. When they argued, all their speech
was in Persian, but then they would curse in Arabic since
they were not taught similar words in Persian. When
they became youth, they associated with non-Bahá’ís and
became totally corrupt. Soon I had no choice but to
expel them all.
There is a story of a Shaykh meeting a Bektashi256
and saying to him, “Why do you continue causing
mischief and spending your time gratifying your carnal
desires? Come with me and pray, meditate, fast for forty
days, fear God and become righteous. Once you have
become accustomed to praying and fasting, then you will
no longer commit unseemly acts.” The Bektashi
responded, “There is no need for forty days of prayer.
You stay with me for just one night and all religion will
be forgotten to you!”
Therefore I exhort you to protect your children
from the evil influence of the wayward.


256 The Bektashis were the followers of the Bektashiyya Order named after the semi-
legendary Sufi Haji Bektash Khurasani (died circa 1337 CE). The order associated
with the Janissaries until their fall in 1826.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   219


At nighttime, they told us that His blessed person would not come
in to our midst and consequently we began singing hymns and
poems. When we had finished, they gave the glad tidings that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá would come and visit us. That night, He spoke of
European prejudice: “When we arrived at the port of Naples in Italy,
they thought we were Turks and intensified their mistreatment.
Therefore, I told Shoghi Effendi, Mírzá Munír and Kusraw to
return.”257 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then said to Shaykh Yúsuf:

Our companions in Europe report that some people
have been killed there. In France they killed Monsieur
Bernard nearly a month ago. This person never even
harmed an ant. He despised war and confrontation so
much that it is beyond description. He greatly disdained
even the mention of the word ‘war.’ If there was ever a
person who truly loved peace, it was he. His contempt
for war was not because he desired to protect his own
self, but was due to his hatred of conflict and killing. In
truth, he was unique in all human perfections and
spiritual attributes. He was a well-wisher to everyone.
One of his philanthropic efforts was that he had
brought a number of Indian children [to Paris] and
provided for them to grow and be educated. One of
them became a doctor, another an engineer and yet
another a teacher. At the dinner table, there was no
difference among any of them, and he loved them all like
his very own. Despite this, he was sent to the battlefront
and, in the end, was killed. In Europe, the situation is
such that if a person pays a million lira in ransom, they
are still not exempt from military service.

257 In 1912, the blessed person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá journeyed to Europe and America.
Italy was at war with the Ottoman government. Therefore, due to this enmity, they
caused difficulties [for those traveling from Ottoman controlled regions]. Therefore,
certain companions, like the illustrious Shoghi Effendi, Munír Zayn, and Khusraw
Khadím, returned. Dr. Faríd had a hand in this mischief. (HM)

220  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Also yesterday, report was received that another
one of our friends was killed.

Shaykh Yúsuf said, “the Matran258 of ‘Akká was dismissed from
office and all his possessions were confiscated. He is not planning to
stay in ‘Akká any longer.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded:

Indeed, in Paris he had given talks to five hundred of the
Ottomans saying that Syrian Christians are oppressed,
the government is tyrannical and does not grant them
the least bit of freedom, but the Bahá’ís are free! Each
year this person (Matran) would go and, on behalf of the
Syrian Christians, collect large donations, [bringing the
funds with himself to ‘Akká]. When he saw that this
melody had receptive ears, and this policy worked, he
began to give speeches to generous Christians, urging
them against the Ottoman government and enmity
towards her. Then the matter was reported in the
newspapers,
and
authorities
confiscated
all
his
possessions.
Each year this man would deposit all the funds he
had collected under various pretexts with the haddad
[ironworker] and charge interest. At last, the Christians
learned of the details and protested, ‘You collect funds in
our name, but instead of spending them on charitable
ends, you deposit them with Fu’ád Effendi and
personally benefit from the interest?!’ Indeed, “It is
evident that God manifests what He has decreed.”

I should explain that I asked Áqá Siyyid Husayn Afnán259 the details

258 Matran (or Metropolitan in Western usage) is a title used in the Assyrian, or
Chaldean Church, designating a rank above archbishop and below patriarch. In the
Western Church, it refers to a rank equivalent to archbishop.
259 Siyyid Husayn Afnán was the older brother of Nayyir Afnán, and both were sons
of Siyyid ‘Alí Afnán, and grandsons of the Blessed Beauty. With ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   221


of this Matran, and he wrote the following description in my
notebook:

The Matran of ‘Akká was one of the entrenched enemies
of the Faith and a close companion of the arch-
Covenant-breaker [Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí] and Siyyid
Mihdí Dahají. He always exerted efforts to sow the seeds
of doubt and tried to precipitate all kinds of injuries,
desiring to eradicate the blessed Tree of the Cause. The
violators of the Covenant had given him most of the
Tablets260, and he always warned that he had written a
book of refutation and threatened to perpetrate various
things.
Among his dealings with the arch-Covenant-
breaker [Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí] was the following
incident: one time when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had left Haifa for
Egypt, the arch-Covenant-breaker [Mírzá Muhammad-
‘Alí] immediately informed the deposed and despised
Matran that the Master – and I take refuge unto God! –
had escaped. At once, the Matran telegraphed a certain
Christian associate in Jaffa who had gone to the vessel
[carrying the Master] and inquired [of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá],
“Are You ‘Abbás Effendi?” “Yes, it is I,” was the
response, “What do you want?” “I had heard of Your
fame and came to see You,” the Christian replied. After
returning to Jaffá, one of our friends followed the
Christian and noted that he had gone directly to the
telegraph office and cabled the Matran, “The Gentlemen
is on a ship.”
Similarly, in Alexandria, another person came and

financial support, both completed their studies at Beirut College, but satanic
thoughts caused them to leave the straight path of the Cause, to discard their
everlasting crown of glory and to die as violators of the Covenant. (HM)
260 Presumably a reference to the Tablets stolen by Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí on the
night of the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh.

222  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


inquired, and as in Jaffá, cabled the Matran of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s arrival.
The point is that the enemies, together with the
arch-Covenant-breaker [Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí], were
constantly conniving and spreading false rumors among
the people.
This was a short glimpse of the many mischiefs
caused by this wicked man. “For thy Lord standeth on a
watch tower.”261
([Written by] Siyyid Husayn Afnán.)


<150> 11 January 1915
In the afternoon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá went to ‘Umqih and returned near
dusk. Praise be unto God that His health was in perfect order and
He often smiled, laughed and shared humorous stories. Shaykh
Salmán said [to the Master], “An order has been issued for a trench
to be dug in Súr and Saydá262 to serve as a defensive measure against
the enemy’s attacks.” Smiling and pointing to Shaykh Sálih, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá said, “They should have taken Shaykh Sálih since, for such
projects, an engineer is needed, particularly an accomplished one.
Therefore, they have erred by not taking Shaykh Sálih. But in truth,
your father is even scared of the sound of trumpets and horns; how
much more the roar of cannons!” [Addressing Shaykh Sálih,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá humorously said,] “How about if you go to the border
and become the army’s commander?” The Shaykh responded, “I
abhor [war]. Even in my sleep I dread such frightening things. Last
night I dreamt that they had fired a cannonball into the village of
Abu Sinan. With much anxiety I awoke immediately.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
stated:

Because you are so frightened, your dreams are also

261 Qur’án 89:13.
262 Súr and Saydá are Tyre and Sidon, two large and important towns in southern
Lebanon.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   223


disturbed. Your situation is like the story of the man
who attended rawdih-khánís263 and, as soon as he heard
the sermon and the story of the martyrs of Karbalá,
would pull out his handkerchief and cry profusely. He
would pray, “O that we had been with you and had won
a great victory!” He always wished to be present on the
plain of Karbalá. It so happened that one night he
dreamt that Yazíd and his many men had attacked the
camp of the Imám Husayn and he was among the
defenders of the Prince of the Martyrs. First, ‘Alí-Akbar
came and asked the Imám for permission to die and then
went into the field and was martyred. Then Qásim came,
likewise asking for permission, and then went into the
field of sacrifice. Gradually, one by one, all the Imám’s
men came and then went out to become martyrs, and he
was the only one left.
The Imám said to him, “Go forth and fight.”
“But I have no horse,” he replied.
“Take mine,” the Imám offered. He took the horse and
mounted. Then he complained, “I have no sword.”
“Take mine,” once more the Imám offered.
Having taken His horse and sword, the man realized that
it was actually best to escape, so he abandoned the Imám
standing there with no horse or saber and quickly fled
the area.

When he awoke in the morning, he told this story
to his household and friends. Soon it reached the Válí’s
ear, who summoned him forthwith. The Válí said, “I
have heard that you had an interesting dream. Pray do
tell it, as it is amusing.” The man described his dream
from the beginning to the end. Then the Válí asked,
“What would you estimate to be the worth of that
horse?”

263 Meetings for the recital of the tragedies of Karbalá and the martyrdom of the
Imám Husayn.

224  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


“At least, four hundred tumáns.”
“What about the sword?”
“Another three hundred tumáns,” confessed the man.
The Válí ordered the man fined seven hundred
tumáns and then dismissed. He said to him, “O
iniquitous man! Not only did you not aid the Imám, you
stole His horse and saber! While surely they are more
precious than this amount, I will let you go with a fine of
seven hundred tumáns.”

Now (addressing Shaykh Sálih), you also always
speak of war and battle, but in reality you fear even the
sound of a trumpet, never mind cannons and artilleries!
However, I had a dream the night before that the
Páshás264 arrived and told the Bahá’ís of this dream. Is
this not true? (‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired of us and we all
bowed down in affirmation.) And my dream was this:

I saw a mighty and straight highway opened up in
‘Akká and, at its entrance, a cannon was discharged. All
the city’s inhabitants, including Myself, leaned to one
direction and the shell passed by without injuring
anyone. However, a great commotion ensued among the
people because, as the cannon-shell passed, red objects
similar to birds were discharged from the shell. People
said these were dynamite and, if struck, would explode
and cause damage. But none of them struck anything
and no harm was done.265

I related this dream to My friends, and the

264 A reference to the four members of the Commission of Inquiry who came in
1907 to investigate the Master. For details see Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 118-
122.
265 Bushrú’í, p. 10, states that the Commission of Inquiry headed by ‘Árif Bey arrived
at the beginning of the winter of 1907 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had a dream which He
shared with the friends: “I dreamt that a ship had anchored in the bay of ‘Akká and
several doves that were like dynamite flew from the ship towards ‘Akká. They
circled me as I was standing amongst the deeply frightened citizens and then
returned to the vessel without causing any harm.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   225


following day the illustrious Páshás arrived. I told [My
companions], “An immense storm will blow, but it will
be of no consequence as it will subside with no harm.”
When the gentlemen [Páshás] came, they connived with
our enemies, and I was aware of all their doings though I
did not heed them. You are aware that the commotion
reached a point where no one could come or go. No
matter how hard they tried to convince Me to go and
visit these [Páshás], I refused and said, “Perhaps they
wish to report on a truthful and accurate matter, and it is
best for Me not to go see them so that our enemies
would not be able to say, ‘He has connived and bribed
the investigators, thereby derailing their purpose.’”
Because of this, no matter how they pleaded, I declined
to go [visit the Páshás]. My very refusal added to their
enmity and malice because they had said, ‘There is no
insult greater than this! We represent the Sultán and bear
a royal mission, and He [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] does not even
come to see us and inquire about our comfort. What a
great insult!” Despite this, I did not go and continued to
ignore them.266
They sent the chief of the court267 to Me. He was
with them and on their side, but feigned friendship with
us. He said, “I deeply regret Your inattentiveness. At

266 “I did not consent to their request for a meeting. Yet Hikmat Bayk came to me
and implored – indeed even cried in conniving – saying, ‘O my Master, I am
honored to have attained your presence even if briefly. They have come for
investigation, and it is best that you refused to meet them.’ Afterwards, the Valí of
Beirut issued commands, and his vizier, ‘Abdu’r-Rahmán al-Hút, thought the
commission had reduced their indictment and had dismissed charges through some
bribery [on My part]. However, I wrote him, ‘My dearest wish is to be crucified, so
they would subside [in agitation], much like pouring cold water on fire.’” (HM) [This
footnote is given in Arabic and may represent an extract from the memoirs of
someone else, perhaps Dr. Zia Baghdadi.]
267 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 120, has understood this to be a reference to
Shaykh Muhammad who was the presiding judge of the Criminal Court.

226  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


least meet them for a brief session to lessen their enmity
and to bridge this divide. They rank as viziers and have
come on behalf of the Sultán. It is not good to remain so
heedless of them and ignore them so thoroughly. I am in
pain for You.” I responded to him, “Convey my
greetings to the Páshás and say, ‘If you had come to
‘Akká to investigate some other issue or problem, then
unhesitatingly and with great pleasure I would come and
see you, and eagerly welcome you and give feasts in your
honor. However since you are the investigators of the
government and have come to investigate My doings,
then it is not prudent of Me to visit you as some would
claim that I was currying favors.’”
The news of My sentiments had greatly fueled their
animosity and malice. They had said, “When we return
to Constantinople and the Sultán asks us, ‘What does
‘Abbás Effendi look like?’ what are we to respond? We
must see Him at least once!” I did not even agree to this
[one meeting] and relied upon God, continuing to
thoroughly ignore them.
However, during this time, our enemies were most
jubilant and happy. ‘Árif Bek268 had said, “Upon my
arrival in Constantinople, I will be immediately named
the Válí of Beirut and the very first order of business will
be to crucify Him [i.e. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá] by the gate of
‘Akká.” The court’s chief had taken this news to My
brother, Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí, who was forgathered in
the shop of [Muhammad-]Javád Qazvíní. He had
become so thrilled with the prospect that he had quickly
served lemonade to the messenger of this wonderful
tiding; and not just once, but twice he served him
lemonade!
From another direction, Khalíl Páshá, the Válí of

268 In Turkish, his name is spelled ‘Árif Bey.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   227


Beirut, had ordered his deputy, ‘Abdu’r-Rahmán al-Hút,
to write, “Interrogate ‘Abbás Bahá’í.”269 I said to the
Mutasarrif of ‘Akká, “Firstly, I am very pleased that he
referred to Me by My given name [‘Abbás], thereby
placing Me in the same category as the Prophets. Has
anyone ever heard of Moses Bek, Moses Áqá, or Moses
Effendi? Or perhaps Jesus Bek, Jesus Áqá, or Jesus
Effendi? Or heard of Muhammad Bek, Muhammad Áqá,
or Muhammad Effendi? Never! When they wish to
speak reverently of Them they say, Moses son of
‘Amram, Jesus son of Mary, or Muhammad son of
‘Abdu’llah. Therefore I am very grateful that he has used
My real name and nothing else. Secondly, know that
God has not created abasement for Me. You may think
that beating, slaying, murder, pillaging are abasement, or
you may consider being dragged in mud, compelled to
sustain the weight of a heavy chain around one’s neck,
receiving injuries in the head, or being crucified is
abasement, but in truth, these things will be My
everlasting glory!270 ‘I am exalted in life and in death, and,
in truth, this is one of the miracles.’”
He said, “They271 claim that two Europeans – one
an Austrian and the other a German – have come to
You, are presently in hiding, [and that You are aware of

269 When I was alone with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, He showed me the official telegraph which
said, “‘Abbás Bahá’í,” without any title. (HM)
270 “Know that the most beloved of all is the one who will imprison or crucify Me,
much the same that My Murshíd, His Holiness the Báb, was dealt with. Upon the
cross I will give a sermon, speaking what He spoke, saying, ‘There is no need for
twin witnesses and you are free to perpetrate on Me whatsoever harm you desire.
However, know of certainty, that God has not created abasement or humiliation for
Me, and no one is able to deprecate Me. This telegraph is the cause of My boundless
gratitude for they have placed Me in the rank of the Prophets.” (HM) [Presumably
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as recorded in an Arabic diary accessible to Dr. Mú’ayyad –
likely the diary of Dr. Zia Baghdadi.]
271 Presumably a reference to Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí and his collaborators.

228  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


their whereabouts]. They also claim that You received
seditious documents.272”
I responded, “Last year, twenty-five of our friends
came, visited and left. However, this year, no Austrian or
German [Bahá’ís] have come. Besides, I am a Bahá’í and
therefore do not interfere in the affairs of politics.”
“What if we arrayed witnesses who testified otherwise,”
he said.
I responded, “I say that no Austrian or German has
come this year and that’s that! But if you want to
establish a case against Me, I am willing to write, sign
and seal whatever you dictate and give you the
document. Whatever your accusation, be it murder,
theft, embezzlement, infidelity, whatever you want, I will
write and give you. But you must dictate the precise text
so I may write and sign it. However, if you ask me, I will
say that no German or Austrian has come and that I do
not interfere in political affairs.”

The honored Páshás left ‘Akká with books filled
with lies, and My brother [Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí] sent
them an elegantly scribed emblem of “Yá Bahá’u’l-
Abhá,” claiming it was the same standard that I had
raised in order to establish my monarchy. At this time
our enemies were jubilant, but we relied upon God.

<155> However, I offered defense. That is, when
Constantinople sent Me the original of the accusatory
indictment, I vigorously responded.273 [In My defense] I

272 Apparently a reference to correspondence received by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá from the
Bahá’ís of Europe, which, at the instigation of the Covenant-breakers, had attracted
the suspicion of the Ottoman secret police.
273 The diarist has provided the following footnote, which appears to be words
spoken by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
I forwarded my written defense through Shaykh Badra’d-Dín
to Sultán ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd and told the Bahá’ís to consult as to the
course we should take. They consulted and decided that it was best
for Me to flee onboard an Italian ship that had been waiting for this

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   229


wrote, “The honored investigators have indicted Me on
four counts:
Firstly, [they claim] I have established a new
sovereignty. I thank the honored gentlemen for this
accusation since therein lies a great compliment for Me.
How can a prisoner, banished from His land, without
any succor or friend, single and alone, forsaken by the
entire world, forgotten and disregarded by all the
peoples, and at most being called Qazal-básh274, make a
claim to the throne? Indeed if such a person harbors this
ambition, he is a most distinguished, powerful and
mighty man. Therefore, in reality, the gentlemen have
not condemned Me; nay, they have greatly honored Me,
and I am most grateful to them.
Secondly, they have claimed275 that I raised an
evident standard, hoisted it over ‘Akká and surrounding
villages, and subsequently sent it to Badíyatu’l-‘Arab
[Lebanon] by Shaykh Mahmúd, inciting all the Arabs [to
insurrection].
Have
the
investigators
seen
this

purpose in the bay for three days. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then smilingly turned
to Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí and said, “Mírzá, you wanted Me to
escape?!”
Bushrú’í, p. 12, indicates that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá instructed nine Bahá’ís to consult on this
issue.
274 Lit “red hat.” It became the designation of a section of the Sháh Ismá‘íl’s army
who were of Shí‘í religion and protected the Safavid dynasty. They were called
Qazal-básh because of the red hats they wore and eventually the entire Safavid army
acquired this epithet. By evoking this appellation, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in effect is calling
Himself a soldier in Bahá’u’lláh’s army.
275 “What is promoting my gratitude and thanks to the honored Commission is that
in their charge they have prominently accused Me of being the center of
acclamation, praise and honor, and have attributed great miracles to Me. How can a
prisoner in a strange land, desolate, single and alone manifest such powers that
defeat the influence of mighty governments and be able to inaugurate a new
sovereignty? If he is able to do so, then he deserves the reward. I say, by God, they
have understood incorrectly.” (HM) [Presumably extracted by Dr. Mú’ayyad from
someone else’s Arabic diary.]

230  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


standard?276 The people have never seen this standard,
nor have any of the spies, nor has mention of it been
made in the newspapers277, nor has Rashíd Páshá or
anyone else become aware of it. Consequently, it is a sign
of might and power for an imprisoned man that a
company of angels came down from the sky, seized the
standard on earth, ...278 blinded everyone of their sight,
and even erased memories of this evident standard
which has been waved above the heads of divers Arab
tribes!279 Therefore, this is an irrefutable miracle and
testifies to my might and power. Consequently, the
gentlemen have praised me and I thank them for it.
Thirdly, they have said that I have raised a
fortress.280 Once more, this accusation testifies to My
might, and for that I thank them.
Fourthly, they have accused Me of having acquired
three or four parcels of land, which again speaks to My
influence and standing. However, should you by

276 The viziers had complained to ‘Árif Bey, “Where is this evident standard? Where
is it located?” (HM)
277 Due to the prevalence of spies during [Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd’s rule, and various
conniving, intrigues and settlings of personal accounts, one of the Páshás one day,
after drinking wine in a tavern and being intoxicated, had stated the known adage,
“Give me one more glass of wine, O bartender, as every two must become three.”
His meaning was that after two drinks, he wanted a third, but the spies interpreted it
to mean that now that Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíd and Sultán ‘Abdu’l-Majíd had died,
Sultán ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd would perish as well. This very comment resulted in the death
of that wretched man. (HM)
278 Left blank by the diarist, Dr. Mú’ayyad.
279 The last two sentences are in Arabic and may be excerpts from another diary,
such as the one composed by Dr. Zia Baghdadi.
280 “Again I repeat that indeed I am grateful for this third complaint as it indicates
My great might and power, nay, My ability as a prisoner to cause great miracles! It
requires great influence to raise a fort despite an immense naval presence. Therefore
any prisoner that can manifest such might deserves any laurels they bestow upon
him. By God, amazing is their understanding!” (HM) [These words are given in
Arabic in the original text.]

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   231


telegraph designate someone, I am willing to sell him
[the properties] for two thousand lira.
Let this serve as your response.”
When they [i.e. Páshás] reached Constantinople,
God’s cannon roared. When [Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd was
going to the mosque [for Friday’s congregation prayer],
someone threw a bomb that killed and maimed two
hundred people. Constantinople was in turmoil. ‘Abdu’l-
Hamíd pronounced, “Now is not the time [for the
prosecution of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]. You must search and
identify the authors of this mischief and revolt. This is
far more important.” With that, our trial ended.
Sometime later, when the armies of Niyází Bey and
Enver Bey conquered Constantinople and declared
martial law281, ‘Árif Bey was passing through the streets
at night when he was ordered three times to stop by a
gendarme. Out of his pride, he did not heed the order
and, with three bullets, was sent to hell. His friend
[another colleague on the Commission] escaped and
perished. Faríq, [the third member of the Commission,]
was inflicted with typhoid and died shortly thereafter.
[The final member of the Commission], Míraláy Adham
Bey, the Damascene, fled to Alexandria where he was
safe, but his servant stole his bag and all his money and
then disappeared. Having lost hope for aid from every
quarter and having no means of support, in desperation,
he went to Áqá Siyyid Yahyá282 in the business-house of
Mírzá Hasan Khurásání, known as Hájí Sharif. To his
question, “Do you know me?” he received a negative
response. He said, “I am Adham Bey, the Damascene,
and I went to ‘Akká as a member of the Commission of
Inquiry. Out of enmity, I, in truth, did all I could [against
‘Abdu’l-Bahá]. However, now I need your help. My

281 “Qánún-i ‘Urfí” can also mean military law, which is a form of martial law.
282 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s brother-in-law.

232  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


servant has taken all my money and possessions and has
fled. I am without funds and desperate. Without even a
coin for the train to Cairo, my hope lies in your charity.”
Hájí Siyyid Yahyá gave him thirty qárúsh and wrote of
the situation to Me. I sent ten lira for him since that
wretched man had worked hard for us. So many nights
he had been deprived of sleep, filling books with lies
against us! Now to give him only thirty qárúsh was
unfair! He deserved more. So I sent him another ten
lira.283 He subsequently left Alexandria and perished.284
They martyred His Holiness the Báb in Tabríz and
pierced His blessed breast with thousands of bullets. His
Holiness Bahá’u’lláh was compelled to sustain the weight
of chains on His sanctified neck. Am I, who consider
myself a Bahá’í and a servant of that Threshold, afraid of
similar trials?!

After this fervent presentation, with an excited visage that was filled
with joy and energy, He arose and left. The influence of this amazing
spectacle indeed would penetrate even a dark stone!

283 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 317, notes: “The four members of the ill-fated
Commission of Inquiry, dispatched from Constantinople to seal the fate of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, suffered, each in his turn, a humiliation hardly less drastic than that which they
had planned for Him. ‘Árif Bey, the head of the Commission, seeking stealthily at
midnight to flee from the wrath of the Young Turks, was shot dead by a sentry.
Adham Bey succeeded in escaping to Egypt, but was robbed of his possessions by
his servant on the way, and was in the end compelled to seek financial assistance
from the Bahá’ís of Cairo, a request which was not refused. Later he sought help
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who immediately directed the believers to present him with a
sum on His behalf, an instruction which they were unable to carry out owing to his
sudden disappearance. Of the other two members, one was exiled to a remote place,
and the other died soon after in abject poverty.”
284 Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh had given a promissory note to [the chief of police] Yahyá Bey
Tábúr Áqásí that if they exiled ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Fízán he would receive 1200 pounds.
[Even though ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was not banished] Tábúr Áqásí received this sum owed
him. (Based on comments of Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí) (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   233




12 January 1915, Abu Sinan
We boarded ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s carriage and went to Haifa to
accompany Miss [Edith] Sanderson for her departure. We stayed in
Haifa on the 13th and 14th [of January].285 We tarried for one more
day after Miss Sanderson’s departure onboard an Italian ship.


[14 January]
At about one hour after noon, we arrived in ‘Akká and came to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s house. He inquired, “Did Sanderson leave?” We
responded positively. “Praise be to God that she left [safely]. Truly
she is a peerless woman. May she always remain under the

285 Bushrú’í, p. 64, has recorded more details on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s utterances on that
day.

234  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


protection of the Blessed Beauty.” Then we left for Abu Sinan.
In the course of my medical practice in Abu Sinan, I had
earned thirty bishlak and presented this [to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá] with a
request that flour be purchased and distributed among the poor.
This entreaty was graciously accepted, and He instructed the
honored [Druze] Shaykhs to inform the needy of Abu Sinan to
gather that afternoon by the entrance of the residence [of Shaykh
Sálih]. Because of their affection and goodwill, the Shaykhs had
responded, “Out of the benevolence of our Guide, the Effendi
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá], everyone in Abu Sinan has his annual food and
provisions,” and consequently they did not inform the people.
That afternoon none of the poor came, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
irritated. Angrily, He protested to the Shaykhs, “Every time I want
to give alms, you find some excuse to prevent Me! The good doctor
has raised this money from seeing patients, and now he wishes to
distribute it among the needy. Take it and disburse it between the
Druze and the Christian poor.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá added to my
contribution a sum from His own pocket, and the whole amount
was given to the Catholics.
Praise be unto God that this insignificant gift received the
honor of acceptance at His threshold. And this is naught save by the
grace and the favor of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who rejects the immense
contributions of the affluent, but graciously accepts these most
negligible gifts from the likes of me.


19 January 1915
Today was my birthday.286 In the years past, particularly during the
time that I had been working hard outside the Holy Land on my
studies, I never celebrated my birth. However, this year, having the
incomparable bounty of being under the canopy of the favors of the
Beloved, and partaking of both material and spiritual feast of His
kindness, I thought to mark this day by giving thanks. Though

286 Dr. Mú’ayyad gives his birth date as 19 January 1888.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   235


[because of the war] not a soul in the East or the West was at ease,
we were spending our time here in such marvelous happiness,
drinking our fill from the wine of the Almighty’s love.



Today was a truly festive day. With gifts such as a bottle of
perfume, silk handkerchiefs, sweetmeats and expressions sweeter
than honey, the Greatest Holy Leaf – may my spirit be a sacrifice
unto her bounties – and the blessed Holy Mother converted the
earth of my heart into a mirror of the heaven above!


<160> 22 January 1915
Together with some of the friends we went to the village of Yirka
today. This hamlet is located on top of a hill and has about one
thousand inhabitants who are all Druze. This is one of the sacred
spots sanctified by the footsteps of the Ancient Beauty Who tarried
here for three months. To this day, His blessed room is kept the
same way in the home of Shaykh Sa‘íd and Shaykh Salmán (sons of
the late Shaykh Marzúq), who consider their village hallowed

236  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


because at one time it received Bahá’u’lláh, His tent was pitched
there and its soil was blessed by His footsteps. They have the
greatest affection for the friends of God [Bahá’ís] and regard them
in high esteem. As a sign of their great fondness, after having
warmly welcomed us and most affectionately offered hospitality to
our party, they prepared several Arabian horses for our journey back
to Abu Sinan. They even placed several of their servants at our
disposal for this journey.
Except for the original carpets on which He walked, the
honored Shaykhs have placed no other furniture in this room
[occupied by Bahá’u’lláh]. They regard this place as highly sanctified
and light a candle in it every Friday night.


30 January 1915
A number of notables and affluent citizens of ‘Akká came to Abu
Sinan, including, Nazmy Bey Báshí, Alay Amíní, Jawdat Bey,
Yuzbáshí Nazmy Effendi Bey and the city’s physician, Dr. Táhir
Bey. The honored Druze Shaykhs had prepared a dinner feast, and
Badí‘ Effendi and I were invited as well. Before dinner, the guests
had gone to another house and were engaged in drinking wine.
When Áqá Mírzá Tarázu’lláh, son of Áqá Mírzá Mahmúd
Káshí, went to guide the guests to the dinner hall, the ranking
member of these military officers, Bey-báshí Nazmy Effendi had
said to Mírzá Tarázu’lláh, “Today in ‘Akká, a feast was held in front
of the spruce-fir trees.” This feast was organized by Mírzá
Badí‘u’lláh, the violator of the Covenant, who had invited the
military commanders of Haifa and ‘Akká, especially Haydar Bey, the
chief of gendarmes. The guests were entertained with great
quantities of food and [alcoholic] drinks, and then [Mírzá
Badí‘u’lláh] adorned his daughter, Sadhíjih, and sent her in for the
men’s entertainment. His intention was, while they were engaged in
drinking and dance, for her to ask a favor from Haydar Bey that
would result in either imprisonment, exile or murder of the blessed
Person [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]. He knew that Haydar Bey and Mahmúd Bey

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   237


had complete control over the administration and military forces of
the region. Whatever they did could not be questioned by anyone
else, particularly during the state of war and martial law, which
rendered them thoroughly omnipotent and unrestricted. Therefore
with this sordid scheme, which cost the Covenant-breakers their
worth and chastity, they were trying to attack [the Master]. Alas, they
did not recognize that even if the Holy Ghost materialized and
rebelled against the divine Covenant, it would be lifeless and
impotent [to do so], much less such men who place no value on
their own honor.
Once the news of this feast in ‘Akká had spread, there was a
huge uproar among all the diverse creeds of people saying, “Mírzá
Badí‘u’lláh’s perfidy has deeply disgraced all Iranians, robbed them
of honor and stained them with grievous shame. How is it possible
for someone to attack his own Benefactor in such ways and even be
willing to sacrifice the virtue of his own daughter and wife?
Sanctified be God, what enmity and malice is this?” Openly the
city’s physician, Táhir Bey, would say [regarding the Covenant-
breakers], “Satan must have been incarnated in their human temple
to sow seeds of infidelity.” [He would add about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,]
“But praise be unto God that a diamond shines amidst all the coal
surrounding it. Good deeds will glow like the brilliant sun and
likewise evil deeds and base conduct will manifest their true
character. From their doings it is now clear why His Holiness
[‘Abbás] Effendi has separated Himself from them and expelled
them from the community. Such incidents must occur so that no
one could be critical of the esteemed Effendi for having severed His
relation with them.”
Sanctified is God! Nonbelievers speak with such clarity of
vision of the ascendancy of the Center of the divine Covenant and
the degeneracy of the enemies of the Cause! Even though Truth
cannot be compared with its opposite, nor the heavens above with
mere soil, thankfully there are those who have perceived the essence
of this situation. “Take ye notice, O men of understanding!” Yea, it
is stated that history repeats itself. In place of the appointed Yúshí‘

238  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


ibn Nún they place man-carved idols.
The entire world is seized in the grasp of His [i.e. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s] sovereignty. This is a flawless gem nurtured in the bosom of
the Blessed Perfection. This is a peerless plant watered by the blood
of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb]. This is a matchless tree
raised by the blood of thousands of martyrs. These clouds of enmity
and hatred can never hope to cover the brilliance of this sun, nor
can this tree be barred from bringing forth everlasting fruits. This is
an impossibility, which the honored gentlemen [i.e. Covenant-
breakers] should recognize.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   239


Chapter 8

Abu Sinan: February 1915


7 February 1915
I went to Haifa and in the streets beheld the moon of the orb of the
Covenant.















Haifa 1915

He greeted me with these words, “Marhabá, marhabá! Áqá
Mírzá Habíb, you are welcome. When did you come?” I said that I
had just arrived. “How are the friends?” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired, “I
hope all are happy, delighted, consecrated and joyful.” “By Your
grace,” I responded, “all are well and long for Your arrival.” “I have
some work to do now,” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] said. “Once my work is
completed, then I will come. But I have much to do. What is
happening there?” I informed Him, “Áqá Mírzá Munír [Zayn] had
come and told us that, in case of the arrival of battleships and the

240  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


bombardment of the city, the Master had designated a safe haven
for the friends. I have come to retrieve my diplomas.” He
responded, “There are no worries, but I did this so that whenever
there is a difficulty, the friends would know how to deal with such
contingencies, how to prepare for such events so that if they do
transpire, they will not be agitated or confused. The remedy for
illness must be ready beforehand. Because of this, I prepared that
haven. What you are planning to do is very good. Take your
documents with you. Caution must be observed.”
He then went to the home of one of the Turks and assured me
of a second meeting [that day]. Soon, in fact, He returned, and we
boarded His carriage. Áqá Mírzá Ahmad [Sohrab] was also
summoned, and together we went sightseeing. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “I
go to dangerous places by myself, but for sightseeing, I like to take
the friends with Me. Today I want to take you on this excursion. Tell
Me, how do you spend your time in Abu Sinan?” I replied, “By
performing surgeries, and at night responding to polemics and
reading books. I spend the afternoons doing operations and the
evenings outlining [responses to] polemics of [Muhammad-]Javád
Qazvíní. He has translated A‘zam as ‘Great’ and Akbar as ‘the Most
Great’ whereas it should be the reverse.287 (‘Abdu’l-Bahá smiled.)
Among his base accusations is that instead of bringing unity, the
Master separated men from their wives, fathers from sons, and
daughters from their mothers.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “I never caused
their separation. They separated themselves. The Blessed Beauty
established a Covenant and they broke it, therefore, separation took
place. If they obey and remain firm, there will be unity. The Cause of
God has united easterner, westerner, southerner, northerner, Turk,

287 It is most likely that the issue had to do with the translation of “Ghusn-i A‘zam”
(the Greater/Greatest Branch, referring to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá) and “Ghusn-i Akbar” (the
Larger or Greater/Greatest Branch, referring to the Covenant-breaker Muhammad-
‘Alí). Both A‘zam and Akbar are strictly speaking comparative, but are often used in
the superlative sense in Arabic.  Because Bahá’u’lláh stated in the Book of His
Covenant (His last Will and Testament) that He had chosen Akbar after A‘zam,
Bahá’ís rank A‘zam over Akbar and the former is therefore translated "Most Great"
and the latter “Greater.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   241


Arab, Indian and American. All are united and would give their lives
for one another. The ones that were far became near; the enemies,
became brothers. But he who violates the Covenant, be it one’s
brother, sister, father or mother, naturally a firm believer will sever
his relations with him.”
I said, “I take refuge with God for saying this, but even if it
was the Master’s fault, then the Blessed Beauty would have done the
same. The very first person that He expelled was His own brother
and His kinsman. Similarly His Holiness Muhammad dealt with
Quraysh in this manner. His Holiness Christ said, ‘I have brought a
sword.’288 He also said, ‘In the latter days, God will separate father
from son and mother from daughter.’289 And ‘He shall separate
them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the
goats.’290 Moreover, [Qazvíní] claims that Badrí [Bedri] Bey was
present, but that the Master instructed the American [visiting] ladies
not to speak French and to say that they did not know that
language.” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] said:

This is sheer calumny. Badrí Bey was my translator and
always spoke with them in French. And how is this issue
related to anything? Repeatedly, I told Mírzá Ahmad
[Sohrab] not to speak English. This is because of the
requirements of the time and the conditions of that
place. No one listens to such unfounded attacks
anymore. People want something that will benefit them
and solve their difficulties. The most such people [as
Qazvíní] can do is to inject doubt into some of the
believers. These polemics are written by Mírzá

288 This is a paraphrase of Matthew 10:34, “Think not that I am come to send peace
on earth; I came not to send peace, but a sword.”
289 Luke 12:53 reads, “The father shall be divided against the son, and the son
against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the
mother; the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law
against her mother-in-law.”
290 Matthew 25:32.

242  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Muhammad-‘Alí, circulated in the name of Javád
[Qazvíní], and four or five of our foes have published
them. <165> Another time Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí
wrote similar things and disseminated them in the name
of Mírzá ‘Abdu’lláh. These very papers will cause their
eternal damnation. Today the ultimate judge in the world
is the power of the Covenant. At nights, you should
discuss such things, because it is better than to speak
about politics and who has done what and said which.

Badrí291 Bey, who later became Badrí Páshá, was one of the
prisoners of ‘Akká who was extremely bright and well educated.
Frequently he attained the presence [of the Master], and
subsequently he became a believer. One time an English doctor292,
who had his office in the front rooms of the house of ‘Abdu’llah
Páshá, invited the Master to dinner. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said to Badrí Bey,
“You come as well, but if you see something that you do not like,
tolerate it and say nothing. These people have peculiar habits.” He
responded, “Whatever is Your will, I will obey.” At the dinner table
that night, all of the doctor’s attention was focused on the well-
ornamented [western] ladies, who were acting like proud peacocks.
He had showered the ladies with his lavish praise and esteem, but
had paid very little attention to His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Badrí
Bey. The latter was greatly perturbed and agitated, but the Master
motioned him to remain calm and jovial. The night passed, and
Badrí Bey had a miserable experience.
A few days later, three carriages arrived bringing American
visitors, both men and women. The English doctor came forth
thinking that the visitors had come for him, since typically he had

291 Bedri is the Turkish spelling.
292 This English doctor was with the Church Missionary Society, a British missionary
organization. In 1897, Dr. Cropper was stationed in ‘Akká. The British missionaries
rented the rooms that are to the right of the entrance of the main building of the
House of ‘Abdu’llah Pasha on the ground floor. These are the rooms now used as
the pilgrims’ rest area and dining-room.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   243


western guests. But the Americans told him that they had come to
pay homage to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. A few days later the Americans went
to Bahjí for a visit to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. They were secretly
followed by the English doctor who saw them prostrating on the
ground and singing such hymns as “Nearer my God to Thee.” Then
they returned to ‘Akká, where they attained the presence of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. Badrí Bey was serving as their translator. The English doctor
came by the door and sent in his business card with a request to
meet the visitors.
The American pilgrims gave the card to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá saying,
“We do not know this person, but will follow whatever You guide.”
The Master responded that this was their decision to make in
accordance with their custom. The Americans said, “When we are
ill, we need a doctor. However, praised be God, since we are now
under Your shadow, we are well and have no need for a doctor.”
They sent the card back, refusing to meet. Badrí Bey announced that
he had then understood the full wisdom of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ways and
gained a deeper appreciation for the majesty of the Faith, and had
become filled with joy.
I said to the Master, “God, verily, doeth what He willeth, and
ordaineth what He pleaseth. The Blessed Beauty has revealed verses
in refutation of such polemics of the violators. His Holiness the
Exalted One [the Báb] has said in one place, ‘David appeared after
His Holiness Moses. And none is permitted to question this
matter.’” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded, “He has revealed, ‘He appeared
before Moses.’” I said, “Yes, ‘before Moses’ is revealed. I stated it in
error.”293
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s carriage at that point reached the cave of Elijah,
and about two hundred needy women and children were on hand.

293 The Báb refers to David coming before Moses in Dala’il Sab‘ih [The Seven
Proofs], but at least two Azali transcriptions of this work have the order reversed.
Bahá’u’lláh was asked about this and He responded that even though it is contrary to
our understanding of the Qur’an and other Scriptures, that the Báb is the
Manifestation of God and His words are divine wisdom.  One of the texts which
refer to this is in Fadil Mázandarání, Amr va Khalq.

244  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The Master said, “Take this money, Isfandiyár294, and distribute it
among them. But do not allow them to receive a second time.”
About one hundred of them were given alms, but the money ran
out. We then boarded the carriage and went about one hundred
steps further when the Master, and His beauteous Countenance, also
boarded. We returned to His residence.














Cave of Elijah on Mount Carmel in 1893

About thirty of the believers were assembled that night in the
house of the Master. He said to the honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí,
“Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh cures the ills of all, except he does not
examine Me. Praised be God that out of the favors of the Blessed
Beauty, I am well and healthy. Indeed, I am very well. After such an
arduous journey [to Europe and America], I needed a repose. Now I
am forced to rest a little, otherwise I would not relax. Ustád
Muhammad-‘Alí, chant a prayer!”



294 Isfandiyár was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s coachman and had written this verse above his
carriage, “I am Isfandiyár, servant of the Threshold, assured of Thy favor and
bounty.” (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   245


8 February 1915, Haifa
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was sitting by the entrance, under the sun. Áqá Mírzá
Fadlu’lláh Banán Shírází295 was present as well. The Master said,
“The call of the Supreme Concourse and the fame of the Cause of
God has enveloped the whole earth, but the Iranians have not yet
awakened to it.” A Christian entered, carrying a basket. When he
saw the Master, he was overwhelmed and quickly dropped the
basket, saying, “There was no porter, so I was forced to carry the
basket myself.” “A person must be proud of his labor,” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá said, “and only ashamed of his sins, not of his work and
service.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Residence in Haifa

A shining cat was sitting next to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and constantly
pressed herself against the Master’s ‘abá. He said, “This cat has such
bliss that none of earth’s monarchs can rival her. She has no fears or
worries and is completely protected and cared for by God!” About
this time, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s gaze fell upon a donkey belonging to the
son of Áqá Nasru’lláh. He said, “It is amazing that in America I did
not see any donkeys. They have zebras, but only in zoos. They are

295 A prominent believer, who served as the secretary of the Spiritual Assembly of
Shiraz during 1930s and 1940s; see Ahang Rabbani, In the Land of Refuge, chapter 15.

246  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


truly remarkable animals, displaying beautiful stripes. It is marvelous
that in all the museums they have collected various items and kinds
of animals, particularly birds. It takes a month to completely tour the
whole place. Consider how they have tamed wild beasts. They have
caged and trained remarkable lions and spectacular bears; but they
have not been able to edify a single human being! In Paris, at a
certain location, they had caged a polar bear and people would come
and mockingly watch him. The bear would also look back at them
amusingly, probably thinking, ‘What happened that I was seized by
these people? What am I doing here?’” He then laughed.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá at His Residence in Haifa circa 1915

Then, several Ottoman soldiers came and attained the
presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. After a while, they sought permission to
leave and left. The Master said, “At least these Ottomans [make
good soldiers]! I saw several Iranians in Paris. One of them was a
young man and had studied military science for a few years in
France. Afterwards, he had spent a few more years in Germany.
Iranians wanted to enlist him in the war and spoke highly in his
praise, emphasizing the excellence of his education in the military.
When he came to me I tested him and realized that he was

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   247


particularly ignorant of the science of war and that the only thing he
was able to take back to Iran was syphilis, which had already
consumed half of his throat. Ottomans are better.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Residence in Haifa

In the afternoon we had tea in the presence of the Master. He
said, “Bring my overcoat so we can walk to the Shrine of the Báb.” I
accompanied Him, and soon a number of other friends joined us.
His carriage was coming from behind. En route, He rested on two
locations and called each the first and the second rest area. On the
way, He asked this servant, “Are you practicing medicine for free?” I
said, “For the needy.” “Do you give them medicine too?” I replied,
“To those who cannot afford it.” We reached a location where the
road bent, and He spoke of the benefit of paved roads. He noted,
“This is indeed an amazing mountain and now has good roads as
well.” (He meant that the large boulders had been removed.)
Hájí Siyyid Javád asked, “Will there be a time when electricity
will be available on this mountain?” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “Without a

248  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


doubt! But not so soon. Eventually this mountain will be filled with
light.”
Then we reached a particular location, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said,
“I purchased this parcel of land in order to make the road wider.
The wretched Matran seized it and fenced it with a wall; but he
eventually lost it as well.”
Midway through, His carriage arrived and He boarded. He
spoke most appreciatively of the almond blossom, saying how it had
adorned the mountain. After He chanted the Tablet of Visitation,
we returned. In the pilgrim house He said to the resident believers,
“Plant fruit trees since they are productive. I am very fond of fruit
trees, though I never eat fruits, except an occasional sweet tangerine.
Nevertheless, I love for the tree to bear fruits. Similarly I like people
that produce goodly results. Otherwise it is of no use.”


Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel

That night some of the friends were gathered in the house of
the Master when, all of a sudden, the sound of two gunshots was
heard. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   249


The people in this region express their joy by firing
their guns. One time we were guests in Nahariyya296 and
they fired their guns so much that eventually I had to
protest and say, ‘This is not a sign of jubilation. It is
enough.’ Then the guns became silent. It was like this in
Iran as well. There would be a huge commotion during
Naw-Rúz. Indeed, they observed it well. The Europeans
also
observe
festivities
appropriately,
especially
Christmas. They are joyous and festive, and send gifts or
congratulatory cards to one another. In short, they
celebrate such festivities well. But the true festival is
Ridván. It is of long duration, in the midst of spring, and
in utmost refinement. It has been a few years that we
have not observed it properly. Insha’lláh, this year we
will celebrate it befittingly.
In Iran, rooms are filled with the smoke and the
filth of cigarettes and water-pipes, which greatly lessens
the joy of the festivities.

Hájí Siyyid Javád said that people in Egypt use a considerable
amount of tobacco products. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded:

Filth seeks filth. Cleanliness has a profound effect
on the spirit. Even though cleanliness is related to
worldly affairs, yet its effect is manifested in the soul.
Now the Cause of God is not established, but when it is,
you will see that cleanliness and refinement is one of the
foundations of God’s religion. <170> Sometimes I am
invited to places that serve wonderful food, but since it
is not made in sanitary ways, I hesitantly partake of it.
And actually there is no choice but to eat it.
People in this region are relatively cleaner than
Egyptians. Christians, though outwardly cleaner than

296 A popular tourist town midway between Haifa and the Israeli-Lebanese border at
Rosh ha-Niqra.

250  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Muslims, are in reality less so. In Iran, once I passed by a
restaurant serving chelo-kabob. The cook’s clothing was
so filthy that never again did I desire that dish.

The honored Hájí Siyyid Javád said, “The shops that fry
poultry’s hearts and livers are very dirty.” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] remarked:

Unlike the East, chefs in Europe are distinguished
by their white clothing. They must be clean and spotless
from head to toe, wearing white, otherwise they are not
permitted to do their job. In fact, chefs are known by
their white hats.
Even though some things are earth-bound, they
have great effect on the soul, such as cleanliness or a
good voice. Voice is no more than airwaves that reach
one’s ear and cause the vibration of the eardrums. Yet,
consider its profound effect on the spirit. Similarly,
cleanliness effects the soul.
Ustád Muhammad-‘Alí, chant a prayer.


9 February 1915, Haifa
Early in the morning I had tea in the presence of the Master. He
remarked, “Tell the friends to pray that I may soon conclude these
affairs and be able to join them [in Abu Sinan]. I am surrounded
with difficulties; roads are closed and no news reaches Me.
However, unceasingly, glad tidings are pouring forth from the
Supreme Concourse.” I said, “If You are well and in good health,
then the whole world is well.” “Out of the Blessed Beauty’s grace
and bounty,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded, “I am well and happy. If
some illness sets, it is superficial and has no lasting effect. It is like
the ocean’s froth: it comes and then disappears. The surface may be
in turmoil, but the depth of the ocean is calm and tranquil. Fí
ámánu’lláh. Go and catch the carriage.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   251




It was nearly noon when I reached ‘Akká and saw the friends
deeply perturbed and agitated. The violators of the Covenant had
falsely spread the news that the Prince of the Friends [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]
was exiled to Damascus. This news was circulating in ‘Akká; but
when I left ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence and Haifa two or three hours
ago, such a rumor was not heard there. God’s curse be upon the
Covenant-breakers! I feared that this falsity would reach Abu Sinan
and would disturb and upset the Holy Family.
Therefore, despite heavy rains and muddy conditions, I
hastened to Abu Sinan with the utmost speed to refute this rumor.
However, I was late, and this disturbing news had reached there
ahead of me. They thought that perchance after my departure [from
Haifa] this had happened.
Later it became clear that in order to upset and perturb the
friends, the violators of the Covenant had spread such news. “The
hand of God was over their hands!”297 Whatever hole they dig, God will
throw them in the same pit. “Fain would they deceive God and those who
have believed; but they deceive themselves only, and know it not.”298 And “God

297 Qur’án 48:10
298 Qur’án 2:8

252  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


shall mock them, and keep them long in their rebellion, wandering in
perplexity.”299
The German Mr. Rothschild300 was a competent artist and had
skillfully drawn a portrait of the Master. He presented this drawing
to Him and asked that a few words be inscribed below the picture so
that a German translation of them would further adorn the portrait.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:

Man is created in the image of the Merciful [God], with
spiritual attributes. Therefore, the human temple will perish, but
his heavenly character will endure. The soul is an effulgence of the
divine, while the human body is of the earth. Upon thee be the
spiritual attributes.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


Illness of the Honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí
The pillar of the Covenant, Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, was among the
last of the teachers of the Faith’s first epoch and faithfully served
until his last breath. He had no thought other than the diffusion of
the heavenly teachings and promotion of the divine Covenant. The
friends of God for the most part are well acquainted with his
heavenly character and spiritual demeanor. His letters, like life-giving
water, are in the hands [of Bahá’ís] in diverse regions. These very
papers and writings testify to his humility, sincerity, knowledge,
wisdom, piety, detachment, sacrifice and the self-abnegation of this
pearl of creation. His politeness, humanity, good-natured discourses,
profound knowledge of Sacred Books, ready mind, witty speech,
and amusing, brief and convincing replies to various questions are
well renowned among all.
Nevertheless, it is inconceivable that one can fully appreciate
and describe his qualities and manifold characters. Indeed the only

299 Qur’án 2:14
300 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   253


way that one can gain insight into his God-given traits of this most
illumined man is to attain his presence and in person behold his
heavenly attributes. His vast quantity of writings include: Dalá’ilu’l-
‘Irfán; Istidlálíyyih Gílán, which is most eloquently composed; a
response to Mírzá Abú-Turáb Badkúbi’í; an autobiography; a
biography of Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl; History of Bahá’í martyrdom in
Yazd; Risálih Leon301; and many more. All of these are potent proofs
of the power of the divine teachings and the influence of the
sanctified Covenant, which recreates people, renews their spirits,
edifies the wayward, causing them to shine everlastingly like brilliant
stars in the heaven of the Faith. The weak is transformed into might,
near-ones and inheritor of the Eternal Kingdom. Indeed, the very
verse, “Most blessed is God, the best of creators”302 is actualized.
Indeed, this is naught save of the bounties of the Exalted One [the
Báb] and of the special character of the manifestation of the
Glorious One [Bahá’u’lláh]. In each age, the eternal robe is placed
on shoulders of certain dejected ones, who are adorned with the
everlasting crown of glory. A fisherman is made the mighty Peter,
Abú-Dharr becomes a great minister, ‘Ammar ibn Yásir turned into
a eminent commander, Abú’l-Fadl Gulpáygání converted into the
celestial Abú’l-Fadl, and this illustrious personage [i.e. Hájí Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí] is elevated to the height of spirituality and faithfulness.
“And this is naught save divine favor in this Day, decreed by God,
the Generous, the Mighty”.
The honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí was more than eighty-
five years old303, but his bright visage, happy disposition, heavenly
smiles, delightful humor and integrity of life suggested he was a
youth in the celestial Kingdom. Moreover, he captivated and
profoundly attracted all who met him. Since my purpose, however,
is to describe the incident of his illness, I will now proceed to
describe that occurrence.

301 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.
302 Qur’án 23:14
303 Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí was born in 1832.

254  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


On 15 February 1915, because of the humidity and the cold,
Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí contracted severe fever and unrelenting
cough. When one of the friends suggested to him that a doctor
should visit, he refused. Instead, he indicated his desire to be
examined by me. On the 17th of February, the honored Afnán
informed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and instructions were issued for me to leave
for Haifa, which I did on the following day, the eighteenth.


[18 February 1915]
Upon my arrival at the pilgrim house, a number of the friends were
gathered around the Hájí’s bed. As soon as I entered, one of the
friends said to him, “Our own doctor is here!” As the Hájí had no
news of the Master for a few days, he began to cry profusely out of
excitement. Tears poured out from his eyes as he held my hand in
his feverish hand, saying, “You are most welcome, welcome! ‘If the
physician has drunk of the wine of faith, beholding him is the
cure.’304” He cried with such intensity that all around him wept with
a great weeping. After he had calmed down, I examined him and
noted he had pneumonia and a weakened heart. I began treatment
and, for the next six days, remained in Carmel’s Rahmání pilgrim
house attending him. The first night he had a very high fever and
was unconscious; but by the second evening it was reduced and he
was able to speak.
I informed him, “Mírzá Núri’d-Dín [Zayn] is writing a rebuttal
in response to the polemics of the expelled [Muhammad-]Javád
Qazvíní. Since the violators of the Covenant have given up on
misleading the tested believers in the East, now they are
concentrating on sowing seeds of doubts among the western
Bahá’ís. Their intention is to thoroughly uproot these newly planted
trees, and their evil essence has no other concern except

304 “Merely attaining the presence of the physician who has drunk of the Wine of My
Love confers healing and his mere breath brings mercy and hope.” Bahá’u’lláh,
Lawh-i-Tibb, Verse VII, line 2, translated by Stephen Lambden.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   255


demoralizing these friends. With satanic character, they seek to
destroy. Even though at the time of the appearance of the sun of the
Covenant, the learned in the Cause and the steadfast friends
responded with brilliance, eloquence and convincing proofs to each
one of these charges, yet divine wisdom dictates that whenever an
illness occurs we must respond to the extent necessary. That is, one
must cleanse an impurity with robbing alcohol and replace a foul
odor with the fragrance of musk. <175> Therefore, during the
evenings we gather and, to the extent of our own understanding,
attempt to write responses so that the American friends are
informed.”
Hájí said, “On my behalf, tell Mírzá Núri’d-Dín that each son
must be better than his father. Therefore he should exert efforts to
bring gladness to the spirit of the honored Zayn[u’l-Muqarrabín] in
the Abhá Kingdom. In my London treatise, I have written that the
Blessed Beauty stated, ‘If it was possible, We would forbid the
friends of God from entering the cities where even a single Azalí
dwelled, since their very breath is a deadly venom.’ Now consider
that the violation of the Báb’s Covenant resulted in such a grievous
statement by the Blessed Beauty. Therefore how dejected and
shameful must be the violators of Bahá’u’lláh’s own Covenant,
particularly in the presence of such irrefutable statements [revealed]
in the Kitáb-i ‘Ahd[í]. Is it not true that in many Tablets Bahá’u’lláh
spoke most condemnatory words of those who violate His
Covenant, stating, ‘Accursed be they in both this world and the
next’? Ponder then how vulgar and indecent are such attacks on the
Covenant!”


[21 February 1915]
By 21 February, Hájí had become well enough that he was able to
bathe. All day he related many sweet and virtuous stories of which
here are three:

256  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


First story: Once a king asked his vizier to explain to him, on the
following day, how God is occupied, what He wears and what He
does. Sad and downcast, the vizier came home perplexed as to how
he would be able to answer the king’s questions. Seeing his
condition, his servant said, “Master, tell me your problem, perchance
I can be of some assistance.” The vizier explained the questions
posed by the monarch. The servant replied, “I will tell you two of
the answers now and the third on the day when the robe of honor is
offered. The first answer is that God is occupied with worrying
about His creation. The second is that God wears a sin-covering
robe for His servants.” Armed with these two responses, the vizier
sought the king and presented the answers to the first two questions.
The monarch was absolutely astonished. He said, “These answers
are brilliant and could not have been worked out by you.” The vizier
told him what had happened, so the king immediately summoned
the servant and made him and the vizier switch ranks. As the robe
of honor was being placed on the new vizier, he turned to his old
master and said, “And the answer to the final question as to what
God does: well, He takes from one and bestows it upon another!”

Second story: There was a king who showed great affection and
consideration to his vizier. The vizier consequently felt very close to
him and would show less formality and respect. One time, however,
his servant shared this poem with the vizier and won a handsome
prize:

Though the king may show immense favors,

The minister must know his own place.

Third story: Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh gave a promissory note of twelve
hundred lira to Yahyá Bey, the Damascene, known as Tábur Áqási,
for him to arrange the exile of the Master to Fizan [Fezzan in
Tripolitania].305 However, after their plans fell apart through the

305 In a Turkish poem (Ma’idih Asimání , v. 9, pp. 74-76), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “Your
nest is once Iraq, then Rumelia and at another time the fortresses; But the lovers

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   257


Almighty’s intervention, Yahyá Bey enforced the payment of the
note. Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh was compelled to sell two pieces of land for
six hundred lira and to sell the ownership of one-third of the
Mansion of Bahjí [to Tábur Áqási] for the remainder of the debt.306
In contra-distinction [to the plotters’ plans], shortly thereafter, with
the utmost majesty, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá traveled to Europe and America
to demonstrate that “God is the best of plotters”.307


22 February 1915, Pilgrim House of Haifa
Because of the coldness of the air and his general weakness, once
again the honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí was not feeling well and
even had difficulty turning on his side. As he laid in bed, he was
gently moaning, “Yá ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, yá ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, yá ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá!” Without ever complaining or showing sorrow or pain,
expressions of gratitude and prayers, intermixed with “Yá ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, yá ‘Abdu’l-Bahá!” streamed from his lips. At times, he spoke
of the grandeur of the Cause and told of his own shame for not
having served the Faith in ways more deserving. Tenderly he would
recite the following verses which profoundly effected me, and it
seemed as if a powerful current had passed through my being,
electrifying my entire soul. I leave it to the esteemed reader to
imagine the efficacy of these lines by Sa‘dí as recited by Hájí Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí from memory:

A man began to carp at the emperor of Ghazna:
‘Ayáz, for a wonder, wants for any beauty:

journey is but from ‘Akká to Fizán.” It may be that this poem was written in 1905
when Sultan Abdulhamid was about to decree His exile to Fizan, after the
investigations of the Commission of Inquiry in the same year.
306 The Guardian purchased one-sixth of the Mansion from the descendents of
Tábur Áqási and it is presently in the possession of the Cause. (HM)
307 Qur’án 8:29. The full verse is: “And call to mind when the unbelievers plotted
against thee, that they might detain thee, or slay thee, or expel thee. Yea, they
plotted; but God plotted likewise. And God is the best of plotters.”

258  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Yet when a rose wants color and also scent,
Strange is the nightingale’s melancholy for it!’
This tale was told by someone to Mahmúd,
Who much did writhe in his concern:
‘My love, good master, is for his nature only,
Not for his height and goodly stature!’
I’ve heard that in a defile once a camel
Fell and smashed a chest of pearls,
The king cast wide his sleeves that all might share,
And then drove hence his mount in haste.
The riders went off after pearls and coral both,
Scattering from the ruler in search of spoil:
Of all those neck-lifting henchmen there stayed
Not one at the king’s nape but Ayáz.
Mahmúd then looked at him and said: “Heart
taker, devious one!
What did you get of spoils?’ He answered:
‘Nothing!
I was all the while in a gallop at your nape,
Not neglecting service for the sake of enrichment!’
If yours be proximity in the hall of audience,
Ignore not the emperor for robes of honor’s sake
Such procedure violates the Way, for saints
Do naught desire of God but God;
If to your friend’s beneficence you have an eye,
and not to him,
To self you are in bondage, not bound by the
friend.
So long as your mouth stands open for greed,
No secret will reach your heart’s ear from the
World Unknown
Truth is a mansion, all decked out
Fancy and appetite are but the dust arising
See you not that where dust rises

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   259


The sight sees not although a man be sighted?308


23 February 1915
Today, the honored Hájí [Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí] summoned me and
said, “On my behalf go and attain the presence of the Master and
say, ‘I was suppose to die twenty years ago, but You kept me alive.
Now the angel of death is circling my bed and awaits Your
permission. I too am resigned to go and the rest is in Your hands.
We shall do as bidden.”
I left him and together with Áqá Mírzá Jalíl and Áqá Mírzá
Husayn Yazdí went to ‘Akká and came into the presence of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. An Egyptian youth had come from Switzerland and was with
the Master, discussing the World War. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:

In the loudest voice, I cried in all the synagogues,
and churches: O people! The world of humanity is in
peril and Europe is like a barrel of gunpowder waiting
for a single spark for it to explode. You must endeavor
to prevent this occurrence. You must protect humanity.
For six thousand years people have been afflicted with
ills and prejudices in religious, temporal, national and
political realms. Have you not discerned that it has come
to naught? Come, embrace divine politics, that is, the
politics of love. This is an easy matter. Is it not better for
us to embrace divine teachings over human conceptions?
If God was indeed heedless of man, then He would not
have created him in the first place, provided
nourishment for him or educated him. Therefore God
loves man.
Similarly, I announce: Religion must be the
promoter of science and civilization. Otherwise, its

308 Translation by G.M. Wickens, Morals Pointed and Tales Adorned, E.J. Brill, Leiden
1974, pp. 111-112.

260  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


absence is preferable. Why do we have inequality of
sexes? We all are children of the same father and the
same mother.
Presently, different groups of people in the world
have made claims to various portions of the earth and
have drawn lines around it, considering it to be solely
theirs. They say, “This is my nation and that is yours!”
On this side of one line is a friend, on the other they see
an enemy. We behave like dogs, considering a corner of
a street to be ours, and, as soon as another dog
approaches our territory, we attack. The only earth that
belongs to man is the one that will ultimately be poured
over him. Is it not a waste for so much bloodshed for
this unworthy soil?
When they asked me about the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh, I would tell them:
At a time when the East was immersed in diverse
forms of bigotry, when blood flew readily in the streets
and the world of humanity was surrounded by the
thickest clouds, at such a time, His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh,
like the morning star, shone over the horizon of Iran. In
His dazzling brilliance, all manners of intolerance and
prejudice disappeared to the point that diverse people
from the East, West, North, South, Jewish, Christian,
Muslim, Zoroastrian, all embraced each other with the
utmost spirituality and fraternity, considering each other
as members of the same family. They dealt with each
other with the utmost equity, to the point that when
someone enters their gathering, they see no difference
whatsoever among all assembled.
Also, among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh are the
unity of the world of humanity and the establishment of
universal and eternal peace.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   261


28 February 1915
Today ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ennobled the earth of Abu Sinan by His arrival.
In His company were a number of military officers, such as
Kúmándán [commander], Nazmí Bey and Jawdat Bey. In the other
carriage rode Dr. Finkelstein, who was a German and the principal
of the German Polytechnic in Haifa, his sister and three other
Germans.309 <180> As soon as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s carriage came into
view over the horizon, [the Druze] took four horses for the guests
to ride. However, out of deference to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and with His
permission, Kúmándán preferred to walk. However, he insisted that
the Master should ride since it was uphill and difficult for Him.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá mounted a donkey and slowly came from behind,
ordering all others to accompany Kúmándán.


309 This school was a German language secondary school in Haifa, and Dr.
Finkelstein was most likely a German Jew. For more details on the school see, Jacob
M. Landau, “Culture, religion and language in Middle Eastern universities”, Judaism,
Issue No. 178, Volume 45, Number 2, Spring 1996.

262  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




That night, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke in the gathering [of the
villagers] and I served as the translator. Some of that discussion is
briefly as follows:

‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “How are you? Hopefully the journey from Haifa
did not cause you too much fatigue.”
Dr. Finkelstein: “We are exceedingly happy and joyous that we
have won the bounty of being in the Master’s presence, which is the
ultimate desire of so many people. I too have always longed for a
day such as this and for beholding an assemblage like this.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Such gatherings are only possible through the
divine bounties and favors. Otherwise, how could the two of us ever
hope to meet? A gathering such as this, in such a location, at a time
when no one draws a breath of comfort, is not possible unless
decreed through God’s benevolence.”’

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   263



Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Throughout all of Europe, a meeting similar to
this, with such depth of love and spirituality, is never seen. Even
among the same family members, such affection is not experienced.
We have much to learn from the East, especially, culture, humanity
and spirituality. In its place, we can offer science, technology and
industry.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Yes, indeed. The relationship between the East and
the West must be like that, otherwise it is of no benefit.”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Before this War, the Germans were busy among
themselves and for this reason did not send explorers and seekers to
the various parts of the orient to obtain new perspectives and to
bring them back to our country. However, we hope to do so after
the War and to learn and emulate Your teachings.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “After this War, the minds and understandings [of
people] will have expanded. Peace-lovers and peace-makers will
grow throughout all corners of the globe.”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Everyone knows of the evil of war. But peace-
makers are few.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Everything has its own time and has a prescribed
period. That is, its occurrence is ordained beforehand. Until the pre-
ordained time has arrived, nothing can be achieved. Yesterday I
received a letter from Philadelphia stating that they have increased
the number of Bahá’ís and have assembled and published My talks.
During these days, the promises of the bygone Prophets are being
fulfilled and Isaiah’s prophecy stands manifest.”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “This War is the harbinger of universal peace.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “It is the greatest instrument of universal peace, its
greatest catalyst. In the course of My journey in the western
countries, in all the synagogues and churches, I cried out that
Europe was in grievous danger. It was like a barrel of gunpowder
that with the least spark would explode and scorch everything in its
grasp. I said to them, ‘People, exert your efforts to protect humanity
from this peril. You have tried all manner of politics, now come try
divine politics. If it does not have desirable results, you can quickly

264  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


abandon it and return to your former ways.’ Has anyone seen harm
in affection? What evil is there when the people of the world learn
to love and care for one another as this assemblage does?”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “This gathering is indeed a brilliant example of
the mighty institutions and momentous movement of ‘Abbás
Effendi which in the future will unite the world. I sincerely hope
that all would embrace these lofty goals.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Bravo, bravo! This is an effulgence of that
imminent movement which hopefully will soon take place.”
The Master then spoke in Turkish with Kúmándán for some
minutes.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Where did you journey today and what did you
observe?”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Some of the ancient ruins and old synagogues
and cemeteries. If one were to scientifically study the cemeteries, he
would learn a great deal about history, with beneficial results.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “I own some properties in Ghúr310 and ‘Adasíyyih
which contain many ancient artifacts. Insha’lláh, whenever I go to
[Lake] Tiberias311, I will take you as well.”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Very well.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Germans were very kind to us. I am well-pleased
with Germans. The spiritual future of Germany is very glorious. The
word German in Persian means, ‘Our kinsmen!’ I was happier in
Germany than anywhere else.”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Presently the relationship between the Ottoman
Empire and Germany is very strong.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Muslims cherish Germans during such times.”
Dr. [Finkelstein]: “I hope that the relationship between Iran and
Germany will also grow and become stronger. At the time when our
ancestors in Europe were like beasts of burden, were naked and
covered themselves with sheepskin, Iran enjoyed a tremendous
civilization. It has only been in the past few centuries, that Europe
has experienced such rapid progress. I pray that Germany will bring

310 Better known as Samrah.
311 Sea of Galilee

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   265


Iran material progress, and Iran will teach us culture, humanity and
spiritual civilization.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “You and Iranians are from the same root, of
Aryan312 descent. Germans and some other European tribes lived on
the shores of the River Ganges. When their number had grown
considerably, they came to Iran. They continued to grow, hence
some went to Caucasia and from there to Europe. However you and
Iranians are from the same branch, and many of your German
words are the same in Persian: for instance, mother, father,
daughter, and some others.”



312 The word Iran means, “the people of Arya.”

266  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Dr. [Finkelstein]: “Yes, indeed, we are of the same branch [of
evolution] and when we want to study many of the German words,
we consider their Sanskrit root.”

At night, the German visitors stayed in Abu Sinan and, on the
following day, had lunch with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. After receiving their
leave, they returned to Haifa. At the time of his departure, Dr.
Finkelstein said to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “These two days in Your august
presence were the sweetest time of my life.” The Master responded,
“I hope you will never forget them and that we have opportunities
for many more conversations. Fí ámánu’lláh.”313

313 Since the issue of Bahá’í interactions with German residences of Haifa may be
subject of further research, the following references are cited to facilitate such
studies. Translator is grateful to Peter Terry for this information:
• Brugger, Hans; Die deutschen Siedlungen in Palaestina, Bern, 1908
• Carmel, Alex; Palaestina-Chronik, I, 1853-1882, Ulm, 1978
• Carmel, Alex; Palaestina-Chronik, II, 1883-1914, Ulm, 1983
• Goetz, K., “Das Deutschtum in Palaestina”, Mitteilungen der Akademie zur
wissenschaftlichen Erforschung und zur Pflege des Muenchen, 1931
• Grothe, H., “Die deutschen Ansiedlungen in Palaestina”, Asien, Organ der
Deutsch-Asiatischen Gesellschaft, I, Nr.4, 1902
• Haas, R.; Der Orangenpflanzer von Sarona, Reutlingen, 1930
• Hanauer, J.,E., “The History of Modern Colonization in Palestine”, Palestine
Exploration Fund Quarterly Statement,3, 1900, pp. 126-127
• Hardegg, G., Reflections on the Temple at Jerusalem and the Colonization of Palestine,
New York, 1922
• Hoffmann, Christoph, Occident und Orient, Stuttgart, 1875
• Imberger, Karl, Die deutschen landwirtschaftlichen Kolonien, Palaestina, Tuebinger
geographische und geologische Abhandlungen,  Reihe II, Heft 6, Oehringen, 1938
• Kark, R., “Millenarism and Agricultural Settlement in the Holy Land in the
Nineteenth- Century”, Journal of Historical Geography, 9, 1983,  pp. 47-62
• Lange, Dietrich, Die schwaebischen Tempelkolonien in Palaestina, Bibliothek der
Unterhaltung und des Wissens, Bd. 9, Stuttgart, 1926
• Kolb, Chr., “Der deutsche Tempel”, Realencyclopaedia fuer protestantische
Theologie und Kirche, von A. Hauck, Bd.19, Leibzig, 1907
• Lange, Hans, (ed.) Damals in Palaestina, herausgegeben von der
Tempelgesellschaft in Deutschland, Stuttgart,1990
• Lange, Friedrich, Geschichte des Tempels, Stuttgart, 1899
• Lorch, Fritz, “Die deutschen Tempelkolonien in Palaestina” Mitteilungen
und Nachrichten des deutschen Palaestina-Vereins, 15, 1902, pp. 44-55, 65-

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   267



• Marquardt, Fr., “Christoph Hoffmann und sein Tempel”, Kirchen und
Sekten der Gegenwart, herausgegeben von E. Kolb,Stuttgart, 1905
• Marchtaler, K., E., von, “Die deutschen Templerkolonien in Palaestina”,
Archiv fuer Sippenforschung und alle verwandten Gebiete, 6, 1929, pp. 430-
• Mille,P., “Colonie Juives et Allemandes en Palestine”, Annales de
Geography, 8, 1899, pp-160- 169
• Minzenmay, Karl, Erlebnisse und Erfahrungen bei der Kolonisation der
Tempelgesellschaft in Palaestina, Palaestina, Haifa,1929
• Paulus, P.F., “Die Tempelgemeinden in Palaestina”, Zeitschrift des Palaestina
Vereins (ZDPF), 6, 1883, pp. 31-42
• Rabenau, E.F.; Die Tempelgesellschaft, (Dissertation),  Manuskript,Muenster,
• Rohrer, Christian, Die Tempelgesellschaft oder ein neuzeitlicher Versuch zur
Verwirklichung der Verkuendung Jesu von Nazareth, Stuttgart, 1920
• Sauer, Paul, Beilharz – Chronik, Ulm, 1975
• Sauer, Paul, Uns rief das Heilige Land, Stuttgart, 1985
• Saad, Lamec, “Die deutschen und juedischen Kolonien in Palaestina”,
Koloniale Rundschau, Berlin, 1918, pp. 160-171
• Seibt, Hans; Moderne Kolonisation in Palaestina, I. Teil: Die  Kolonisation der
deutschen Templer, Jerusalem,1933
• Schoelch, A. “The economic development of Palestine 1856-1882”, Journal
of Palestine Studies, 10, 3, 1981,pp. 35-58
• Scheurlen, Paul, “Die Tempelgesellschaft”, Sekten der Gegenwart, Stuttgart,
1923, mit Bibliographie
• Thalmann, N.; Introducing Modern Agriculture into Nineteenth Century Palestine: The
German Templers, The Land that became Israel, Kark, Ruth, (ed), Magnes Press,
The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 1989, pp. 90-105

268  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Chapter 9

Abu Sinan: March 1915


1 March 1915, Abu Sinan
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instruction was for me to travel in His carriage to
Haifa and visit Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, and then to return the
following day. At dusk, I was summoned into His presence for a
meeting, which lasted for about a quarter of an hour. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
spoke about Dr. Finkelstein and other guests, remarking, “Consider
what immense love and devotion governs our relationship and how
devotedly we cherish them. They have no prejudice; they eat
everything, unlike the Jews in this land. The Jews in America have
similar traits and listen attentively.” He then added, “All of our
troubles rest with Áqá Mírzá Habíb. Is it possible that you sustain
everyone’s burden, but not ours? God wanted your efforts of the
past few years not to go to waste; therefore, He provided you this
opportunity of serve. Prepare some [ethyl-carbonate of] quinine for
me. My nerves are tired. My fever is because of My nerves and not
some illness. In Europe they examined Me. It is nothing and only
due to the sustained waves of troubles and tribulations. My nerves
are tired. But out of the grace and bounties of the Blessed Beauty,
My spirit is in the utmost joy and happiness.”
That night in the home of Shaykh Sálih, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
remarked:

Piety is the mother of all goodly characters, and its
absence is the mother of all evil. In ‘Akká, there was a
certain man by the name of Tawfíq. He had taken so
much money from people that, when he was departing
[for Constantinople], his son was unable to lift his
luggage. He went to Constantinople and after awhile
wrote Me, saying, “I have a parcel of land in Haifa that I

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   269


bought for a thousand qurush. I give You the power of
attorney to do with it as necessary. But now I need one
hundred lira and, if this fund reaches me [in time], I will
be appointed the trustee of the grounds of Mecca.
Through whatever means possible, kindly ensure that I
receive the required funds.” I sent him one hundred lira
and after a while auctioned the land, which earned three
hundred and twenty lira. I took the one hundred lira
owed to Me and told Mírzá Muhsin to send the rest, plus
extra ten liras, to Tawfíq in care of a certain believer. It
was not long thereafter that he received his commission
in Mecca and, en route, came here and expressed his
gratitude. For a while we had no news of him. I asked
Nusúhí Bey if he had heard of him. Six months later I
received a letter from Nusúhí Bey saying that such a
person was not in Constantinople. Sometime later, I had
a second letter from him saying, “Recently I was on a
vessel and it so happened that mention of Tawfíq was
made. The old man that was the spiritual leader of our
neighborhood said, ‘In fact, such a person lives in our
area and is blind in both eyes. Each day, his daughter
brings him to the coffeehouse, where he begs, and then
takes him home.’314 Because of Your instructions, I went
and saw him.” I sent him forty lira and some olive oil
(which I bought from you, Shaykh Sálih). It was not long
after that Tawfíq perished in a fire in that section of
Constantinople.
History records that during the time of ‘Abdu’l-
Málik315, son of Marwán, there was a lewd person that
freely gave in to his carnal desires. His son always
admonished him, but it was of no use. Eventually he

314 For an informative discussion of the role of coffeehouse in the Middle East
society see, Ralph Hattox, Coffee and Coffeehouse: The Origin of a Social Beverage in the
medieval Near East; Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1985.
315 A powerful ruler of the Umayyad dynasty in the late seventh century.

270  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


died of the effects of his doings, but was survived by his
son who was renowned in piety. Soon the blaze of war
raged and a brave soldier, who owned much and who,
out of wisdom and farsightedness, knew that a day
would come when his children would need his estate,
went to this pious man. He said, “I am going to the
battlefield and may not return. Therefore, I entrust you
with this sum of ten thousand dinárs which is the trust
of God. If I return safely, then restitute it to me less one-
tenth. And if I perish, then give it to my children when
they are in need, keeping one-tenth for yourself.” He
went to war and was killed. Soon his children were in
great need, even deprived of daily bread. The eldest
came to the pious man and said, “We are in such
deprivation that we do not even have paper to send an
appeal to the Caliph. I ask for your help.” <185> The
pious man, as requested, gave him a little money. The
son sent the appeal to the Caliph, but his response was,
“Were we to honor such solicitations, soon the treasury
would be empty.” This rejection further depressed the
children. When they were in great want, the pious man
said to them, “Your father has left a trust with me. If
you give me one-tenth, that is fine. Otherwise, it is well
too.” The youth said, “Take two-tenths,” but he took
only one-tenth and gave the children the money. Soon
news of this incident reached the Caliph. Mention was
also made of the bravery and services of the fallen
soldier. He said, “Since previously his son asked for help,
it is well if we favor him with a gift of money.” His
viziers responded, “He is now rich and is no longer in
need.” The Caliph asked for the details and then
summoned both the youth and the pious man. He asked
for both to tell him the story, and then instantly gave the
key of the treasury to the pious man, rejecting his many
appeals to be excused from this, saying, “I can find none

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   271


better than you for this trust.” Thereby he was made the
treasurer of the realm.
One time in ‘Akká, fifty Christians were
imprisoned. Their [Muslim] jailer beat and tortured
them, considering this a meritorious deed before God.
Through various injuries, he would also exact money
from the prisoners and, when they did not pay, beat
them even more severely, claiming, “This is jihad!”
Eventually one of them came to me. I complained to the
governor, “Though the prisoners are Christians, such
treatment is unwarranted. If any Muslim wishes to wage
jihad, let him go to the battlefield and fight against the
Russians. Otherwise, what is the point in beating
defenseless prisoners?!” The governor summoned the
jailer and ordered him to receive fifty beatings by stick.
Eventually the situation of the jailer deteriorated so that
he came to Me, asking for alms for his needy wife and
children. He became a beggar.


‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa

272  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



2 March 1915
I was summoned early in the morning into ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence
and had tea with Him. He said, “When you go to Haifa [today], give
My greetings to that Egyptian youth and tell him that his letter was
received. However, for his protection, I will not reply, since they
closely search all the papers. Through divine bounties, without need
for paper and pen, our spiritual communion will be everlasting.” He
added: “I use hyssop. Is it used in modern medicine?” I responded:
“I do not know its chemical composition.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:

It has a diuretic effect, and therefore it is beneficial.
Also it is very useful for curing shortage of breath. It has
an indirect influence. The root of corn316 and the bark of
cherry are also diuretic. But all healing resides with God.
These are all instruments.
For healing, two causes are necessary: physical and
spiritual. For a material remedy, physicians and medicine
are needed. For the spiritual cure, confirmations and
divine healing are required.
Similarly for commerce, two causes have been
decreed. The material cause is possessing capital and
expertise, and the spiritual cause requires divine
confirmation. If the material means are not ready, then
all efforts are squandered. Should divine confirmations
accompany a deed, however, then its benefits will be
immense and universal. If both are present, then there
will be light upon light. Otherwise, efforts will be wasted.
Confirmation
and
divine
affirmation
must
surround all undertakings – this is true even in war.
Consider the Russo-Japanese war. A country as powerful
as Russia must at least be able to win a small victory, [yet

316 The original term is zurrat, which may not necessarily be corn, or maize, as we
know it at the present; or it may refer to corn silk.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   273


they were completely denied.] They had mined the sea
expecting to sink Japanese warships, but instead the
same mines sank the largest Russian ship, carrying her
highest-ranking Captains and military officers. Notice
that their plans were not in congruence with the
predestined decree and, no matter how well plans are
drawn, preordained destiny is supreme. In one of the
newspapers in America they printed a funny caricature of
a huge, tall Russian standing by a petite, weakly Japanese.
The Japanese tries to beat the Russian, but is
unsuccessful. So she climbs over his shoulders and hits
him in the head.
Go to Haifa and on My behalf greet Hájí Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí. Stay for one night and return tomorrow
with some good news. Fí amánu’lláh. Remain safe and
protected. Ask of the condition of Áqá ‘Abdu’r-Rahím
as well.

I went to Haifa. Praised be God, Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí was
well and busy telling parables. As a memory of him, I record one of
them in these pages:317

Ayáz was deeply enamored by the character and
attitude of [Sultán] Mahmúd and was always vigilant and
conscious not to be overcome with neglect [of his ethical
duties] and ego, lest riches and rank would conquer him
and cause him to forget his true self. Therefore, he had
placed his old, coarse clothes in a satchel and each
morning and eve would look at them to remind himself
of his background and roots. In so doing, he continually
taught himself the lesson of awareness [of the Sultán’s
generosity.]

317  An alternative translation of this story appears in G.S. Davie, Garden of Fragrance,
1882, or A.H. Edwards, 1911, translation by the same title.

274  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The jealous court staffers, who were constantly
envious of him, considered this affair propitious and
accused him before the Sultán of embezzlement,
suggesting that despite the monarch’s unbounded
kindness to him, he was dealing traitorously with the
treasury. The king ordered the matter investigated. Upon
a thorough search, his satchel of old clothing was found.
When Ayáz was asked the purpose of it, he said, “I have
kept these so I will never forget my beginning.”

If thou gain renown in the court,
By this honor don’t become neglectful of the king.


3 March 1915
The carriage was ready and I went with it from Haifa to ‘Akká. Badí‘
Effendi and Sháhriyár came as well. We went first to ‘Akká, then to
the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and then to Abu Sinan. The honored Hájí
Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí had sent a missive to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that was
presented to Him. It read:

251318
May my life be a sacrifice unto the dust of the feet
of the friends of Your sacred threshold.
An old lamb is not worthy of sacrifice. Praise and
salutations be unto Your favors that, out of benevolence,
He accepted my sacrifice and out of sheer munificence,
testified to my martyrdom.319 Though thoroughly
unworthy of any purpose, out of Your bounties, I have
been preserved until now. We are all utterly incapable of
understanding Your manifold favors and profound

318 251 correspond to the letters B, H and A, which represents the word Bahá.
319 A reference to a Tablet of the Blessed Beauty [addressed to Hájí Mírzá Haydar-
‘Alí] that states, “All atoms testify to thy martyrdom.” (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   275


wisdom, not even able to number them befittingly, much
less to give adequate thanks and gratitude.
Áqá Muhammad-Hasan says that I must organize a
feast because of the benefaction of becoming well. Áqá
Rahmatu’lláh and others of Your servants have similarly
advised me. I said to them that one of them was like a
kind mother, staying with me throughout the evenings,
and the other was like an affectionate brother who
looked after me. Áqá ‘Abbás-Qulí also showed great
consideration and love. Therefore it is incumbent upon
them to give two feasts: One for not having to bear my
illness any longer and the other in anticipation of my
passing to the next world as a believer, having sustained
myriad of trials.
The servant of the servants of Your threshold,
Haydar-‘Alí.

That night when we attained the blessed presence [of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá], He asked about the Hájí’s health. I reported that, out of
divine bounty, he was well and earlier today was able to leave the
bed. He replied, “‘Glad tidings that God is merciful!’ The honored
Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí is among those who have sacrificed all
possessions in the path of God’s Cause. Even one hour of his life is
precious. When he first came here twenty years ago, he was very ill.
But God preserved him.” I said, “News has been received that the
son of Hájí Mírzá Yahyá Dawlatábádí320 has died.” The Master
remarked:

“There is no censure in death.” His father caused
much mischief. Wherever I went and won people to the

320 Yahyá Dawlatábádí was a son of Hájí Hádí Dawlatábádí and after the passing of
Mírzá Yahyá Azal, successively, both father and son laid claim to leadership of the
Azali community in Iran. Yahyá Dawlatábádí became politically influential and his
three-volume autobiography details much of the political intrigues of modern Iran.
His daughters financed publications of many of the Writings of the Báb.

276  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Cause, he would go and sow seeds of doubts. He had
even gone to Miss Sanderson, hoping to cause trouble.
Sanctified be God! Such people show enmity, but to
One like the Blessed Beauty!
Mírzá Yahyá [Azal] was hiding in a thousand holes
causing the Faith of God to be completely lost. Two
Mílání youth came to Baghdad and asked about the
Blessed Beauty. I was a child and went and opened the
door and said, “The Blessed Beauty is not here.” The
two youth cried profusely: Their expression was beyond
description. They left and it was never known what
became of them. The point is that no trace of the Cause
[of God] had remained. In Baghdad, Mírzá Yahyá was
busy selling silk in the Bazaar of the Shuyúkh. He wore a
turban larger than Mount Abú-Qabys and changed his
name to Hájí ‘Alí Lás-furúsh [mortar seller]. Is it not so
Áqá Husayn? (Áqá Husayn bowed in affirmation.) They
asked him, “Why do you change your name and your
outfit every day?” He replied, “So that people would not
recognize me.” With such timidity and feeble-
mindedness they wanted to confront the Blessed Beauty.
One day when Bahá’u’lláh had returned from
Sulaymáníyyih, He was walking in the street with the late
Áqá Mírzá Muhammad-Qulí. A kabob-maker had
whispered, “Once more the Bábís have come into the
open.” The Blessed Beauty told Mírzá Muhammad-Qulí,
“Rebuke him appropriately!” Mírzá Muhammad-Qulí
grabbed his beard and punished him. The Kabobí took a
complaint to the constable, but was thrown in jail and
told, “Obviously you must have grievously insulted them
for the Bábís to have punished you in such manner!”321

321 Shaykh Salmán wished to meet Azal. The latter had replied, “Come to the hilltop
for a meeting.” When he had come, Azal asked, “How far apart are the telegraph
posts?” At first Shaykh Salmán had thought that by this question Azal was intending
to test him, but then after being with him for a few days he realized that all his talks

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   277


<190> My point is when the Blessed Beauty
returned [to Baghdad] a new life was breathed into the
Faith of God. He began to meet with the ‘ulamá, the
notables and the learned and the situation changed
completely.
How incredible that now these people wish to
oppose the Blessed Beauty. Several times in Isfahán,
Hádí
Dawlatábádí
had
recanted
his faith, but
[afterwards] every time he would claim affiliation.322 In
Switzerland, [his son] Hájí Mírzá Yahyá, had an illicit
relation with the wife of his landlord, which resulted in
his expulsion from his residence. Mr. Dreyfus had asked
him, “Why did you do this?” His response was, “It was
the call of nature!”

Shaykh Yúsuf and Mírzá Tarázu’lláh, son of Mírzá Mahmúd
Káshí, reported, “The governor is preparing for defensive measures
and predicts that warships will bombard the city.” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]
remarked:

In these days, it is time for calm and dignity; it is
time for confidence and assurance. We must rely upon
God. Be most vigilant so that you do not grow
perturbed and perplexed. They say that when Napoleon
was writing a letter, an enemy’s artillery exploded near
his tent and dirt fell over his letter. He was not perturbed
in the least, and paused for a minute to say, “I am
thankful to our foes for helping me in my work. I was

were childish and that he was incapable of even sustaining a normal conversation.
He therefore left him. (HM)
322 Hádí Dawlatábádí visited Baghdad, most likely during Bahá’u’lláh’s sojourn to
Sulaymáníyyih. Bahá’u’lláh writes of him in Tarázát (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 43): “O
Hádí! Thou hast not been in Our company, thou art therefore ignorant of the Cause. ... Thou has
been there (Cyprus) and hast seen him (Mírzá Yahyá). Now speak forth with fairness. Do not
misrepresent the matter, neither to thyself nor to the people. Thou art both ignorant and
uninformed.”

278  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


going to pour some dust over this letter to dry the ink,
but now our enemy has helped so that I can finish this
task and issue the command for attack.” With that, he
ordered his men into the field with trumpet blasts. It so
happened that they were victorious.
May God provide the means for our succor.
Presently the situation is very troublesome. Some things
can be tolerated, but others cannot. For instance, when
we arrived in ‘Akká, the situation was very difficult. We
were imprisoned, and two of our friends passed away.
Funds for their burial were not available. There was a
small carpet which we sold for a few qurush, which we
gave to the Imám-Jum‘ih, who placed these two in a
ditch and poured a little dirt over them. We had to feed
one hundred and fifty people.
Thinking about troubles is more difficult than the
actual experience. How wonderful it would be if man
were like the birds of the heavens, which are carefree and
never save for their next meal. I hope that soon God will
fling open the gate of His mercy before His servants. It
has been very difficult for people. Before My journey to
America, I knew two or three hundred of the poor. But
now, save a handful, the rest have perished.


4 March 1915
In the evening, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá came to the home of Shaykh Sálih and
shared the story of ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá:

It was in the middle of the night when they
informed Me that a local Arab wished to see Me for the
delivery of a message. When he came in, I recognized
him as the servant of ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá. He said, “Páshá
is gravely ill and wishes to see You.” I left immediately
that night and saw that indeed Páshá was in a bad

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   279


situation. With an excuse, he sent his servant out of the
room and said [to Me], “I have a nephew and a daughter.
My nephew is an entrenched enemy of mine. My
daughter lives in Qamran in Yemen, in the midst of the
tribes of Arabia. I have eighteen hundred Majídí coins
which I want to bequeath her.” I gave some excuse that
I had no way of reaching the deserts of Arabia, but he
said, “I implore You to accept this mission before my
servant returns. Take this money as I have no means
other than You.” I took the money and that very night
‘Abdu’lláh Páshá passed away.
The following day I said to the Qádí that the estate
of ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá must be sold and spent towards his
funeral expenses. That very day the Qarághúl323 came
and sold everything and raised a thousand and some
qurush. There was a certain Ibráhím Effendi who
wanted to buy the fur coat of the deceased, but I did not
let him. Later I paid for the coat and gave it to him.
Repeatedly he said, “O Effendi! We were waiting for his
day,” but I heeded him not. I then said to the city’s
treasurer that ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá’s stipend had not been
paid for several months and asked if it was possible to
collect it and spend it for his funeral and other of his
expenses. He replied negatively. I told him to check with
his accountant who said, “Yes,” and therefore we used
the back salary of the previous several months for the
funeral.
Subsequently I sent the eighteen hundred Majídís
with which I had been entrusted to Yemen with Darvísh
Muhammad-‘Alí. I also sent ‘Abdu’lláh Páshá’s servant
with him saying that his expenses would be covered, but
did not tell him of the purpose of journey. I sent a letter
with Darvísh Muhammad-‘Alí for Muhammad Bey in

323 Police Station. (HM) [Perhaps a better definition is “road police”. The Turkish
spelling is Karakol.]

280  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Yemen to aid in this mission. He helped by appointing
two porters to direct the Darvísh to Qamran where the
money was given to the orphaned daughter.
At a later date, when ‘Akká’s authorities learned of
these details, they were annoyed with Me, complaining
that I had not engaged them in this affair.



5 March 1915
The news of the passing of Áqá ‘Abdu’r-Rahím was received today,
and, for this purpose, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left for ‘Akká. He said to me,
“Today I was not feeling well and everyone in the household asked
me not to leave. It is also rainy and very cold, but I want to go to

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   281


‘Akká and from there to the resting-place of Áqá ‘Abdu’r-Rahím and
then to Haifa. What do you think?” I said, “Whatever is Your august
will.” He replied, “Confident of the bounties and favors of the
Blessed Beauty, I will go and will complete this journey in good
health. Áqá Mírzá Habíb, you do not know how pleased I am with
you! I am very happy with all your hard labor. Fí amánu’lláh.” He
then left, and with His departure, life seemed to have left me too.




20 March 1915, corresponding to 5 Jamádiyu’l-Avval
1333 [A.H.]
Praised be God that this year we were able to complete the fast,
particularly since all of our meals were prepared by the blessed hand
of the Greatest Holy Leaf – may my spirit be a sacrifice unto her
favors! And this is due to naught save the grace of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
otherwise we are and will ever be thoroughly unworthy of mention.
O God, my God! Fasting and praying, and indeed all goodly
deeds and charities are conditioned upon Thy acceptance or
rejection. If the deed of an unlearned sinner is accepted before Thy

282  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Threshold in the Kingdom and the Concourse, it stands supreme
over the doings of a thousand pious men and martyrs. And if
conversely, Thou wert to reject the deeds of a worshipper, its effect
can never be told. “Thy acceptance is the greatest of all bounties.”
Therefore, graciously accept this humble deed of Thy servant. Thou
art the Merciful, the Clement, the Bestower.





Today marked the anniversary of the [Báb’s] Declaration and
the Birth of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which took place in 1260 AH,
[corresponding to] 1844 AD.324 What immense influence will this
year [1844] have on the future of the world and the edification of
humanity! What marvelous discoveries, breathtaking developments
and revolutionizing events are associated with it! What stupendous
prophecies have the Prophets of old uttered about the appearance of
this mighty Day! How many men have, in anticipation of this
Manifestation, worn the white garb of sacrifice, secluded themselves
in mountains or caves, praying fervently and fasting unceasingly for
the early appearance of “the Lord of Hosts”! How many young and
old have sacrificed their all since that year [1844] testifying to its
truth and ascendancy!

324 In the East, the celebration of the Declaration of the Báb and some other Holy
Days are observed in accordance with the lunar reckoning.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   283


Prior to noon we left for ‘Akká so that on this blessed Day,
this Holy Day, we would have the bounty of visiting the sanctified
presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Praise be unto God that with the utmost
joy and felicity we received this divine grace and, after paying
homage, returned to Abu Sinan. We had tea with the blessed person
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He inquired about the condition of the ill left in my
care as well as my own health. Then He spoke of the trenches dug
on the shores:

With these trenches, the Ottoman government thinks
they can stop armored warships! During the reign of
[Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd [II], when the irregulars decided
to fight Russia, each soldier was given a gun and two
hundred bullets. There was a certain Shakír Páshá who
used to relate, “A number of the ‘ulamá were enlisted
among the men assigned to my troop. As we left
Constantinople, they began to fire on every bird, vulture
or fox that they came upon. No matter how I pleaded
with them to save their ammunition for the real battle,
they would not listen and shot everything in sight –
actually never hitting anything at all! In fact by the time
we reached the battlefield by the border, all of our
bullets and powder were consumed. Our mission was to
ascend a hill on that border location and establish our
fortifications. But the illustrious ‘ulamá said that they
would stay down below and refused to climb. Soon
Russians conquered the hill, established their positions
and from the higher elevations began to bombard us. I
said to my men, ‘Let us proceed from the right side and
gain positions overlooking the Russians.’ But they
refused, saying, ‘We will stay here.’ Eventually, the
regular army advanced, defeated and captured the
Russians. When we returned to Constantinople, the
command was issued to throw out the incompetent
irregulars by the butt of our guns! <195> No matter

284  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


how they pleaded, it had no effect, and we threw them
out disgracefully.”
And now, with these ditches, they hope to fend off
huge warships!




Praise be to God that the gates of mercy and favors were flung wide
open, particularly as I was the recipient of the following Tablet
which was the greatest gift of that day. It made my spirit ecstatic and
I take refuge with it whenever I have a difficult medical case.
Through it I supplicate for remedy and healing:

Abu Sinan. The honored Doctor Áqá Mírzá Habíb, upon
him rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.

He is God.
O God, my God! I have turned to Thee, supplicating
bounties from the ocean of Thy healing. O God, enable me to serve
Thy servants and assist in their healing. Confirm that my medicine
may be a remedy for every sickness and ailment, infirmity and cold,
and every other affliction. If Thou wert to refuse confirmation, then
in no wise would my medication be a remedy for illness.
O God, my God! Aid and assist me through Thy healing
grace. Thou art the Healer, the Self-Sufficient, the Remover of

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   285


every adversity and illness. And Thou art, verily, supreme over all
things.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


21 March 1915, Naw-Rúz
Today was a historic and wonderful day. All the believers in Abu
Sinan, ‘Akká, Haifa, the Gardens325 and Bahjí were present, and they
numbered about seventy men and undoubtedly the same number of
women.326 What a magnificent day and delightful morning! All
heavenly bounties were arrayed: The grace of beholding the visage
of the Beloved; the visit to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh; meeting the
friends; the colorful and vivifying flowers; the luscious fruits; the
sweetmeats and confections; the tea; and two cooked lambs which
were purchased on the Master’s instructions. Early in the morning
‘Abdu’l-Bahá came from ‘Akká to Bahjí and in the kitchen prepared
food for the friends. Consider how He teaches humility, service and
sacrifice to His sinful servants who have not inhaled the perfume of
detachment and how the clouds of His bounties shower down the
rain of grace, though naught save motes and specks grow in the soil
of our hearts!

325 Ridván and Firdaws Gardens. (HM)
326 In conformity with the exigencies of the time, the Bahá’í gatherings in the Holy
Land were conducted separately for men and women until the ministry of Shoghi
Effendi.

286  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



After ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had seen to all the work [and supervised
the preparation of food], He joined the gathering of the friends and
instructed that appropriate prayers, Tablets and poems be chanted.
Afterwards, for the occasion of this great festival, these remarks
streamed forth from the Tongue of Grandeur [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]:

Each year the sun has two points of equipoise.
One commences the season of spring when the year
enters the zodiac sign of Aries, and its beginning is
marked by Naw-Rúz. The second brings about the
season of fall, and the year enters the sign of Libra,
known as Mihrigán327. During these two times, the sun
appears in equal portions, dividing the earth into two
equal hemispheres. The whole of creation, such as
meadows, orchards, greens and fields are revived and
renewed in this season, and whatever was dead or
withering is regenerated and refreshed. What refinement,
what sweetness, what brilliance and what spirituality are
attained!

327 Or Mihrján. (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   287


In truth, they observed Naw-Rúz properly in Iran,
and it is evident that the celebration was not just in name
and form. When I was in that land, they would hold
immense festivities, particularly in the villages where all
manners of celebration and joy would be displayed.
Even though presently they have reduced the festivities
somewhat, it is still observed befittingly.
From ancient times, this festival [Naw-Rúz] has
been a source of celebration. After Zahhák’s reign,
Jamshíd came to the Throne on Naw-Rúz. To mark the
joyous occasion, they inaugurated a great [Zoroastrian]
temple and therein raised the sacred fire. Subsequent
monarchs continued with this tradition until it was fully
embraced as the national and state festival. It so
happened that all the means of joy and celebration
would come together on such a day. For instance, if they
were in war, they would be victorious on this day. Every
important undertaking was initiated on the day of Naw-
Rúz. His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb], may My
spirit by sacrificed unto Him, renewed this festival, and
the Blessed Beauty, may my soul be a ransom unto His
friends, established and confirmed it in the Kitáb-i Aqdas.

288  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



‘Abdu’l-Bahá at Bahjí

Friday, 26 March 1915
The land of Abu Sinan was once more blessed by the footsteps of
the Moon of the Covenant [‘Abdu'l-Bahá], and one of His talks is
recorded below:

Through the power of the Kingdom, man is saved
from the grasp of nature by the sanctified Manifestations
of God and is illumined by the light of divinity. That is,
he is released from the clutches of the animal world and
guided to the highest pinnacle of humanity. The state of
man’s nature is injustice, butchery, tyranny, treachery,
lechery, achievement of selfish motives, neglect of God
and fulfillment of carnal desires. The sanctified
Manifestations of God rescue humanity from this black
pit and guide them to the highest stations of spirituality.
Thereupon, man gains faith, attraction to the divine
fragrance, the ability to discover mysteries, divine

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   289


recognition,
knowledge
of
hidden
secrets,
trustworthiness, fidelity, charity, nobility and spirituality.
However, after the passage of time, once more
man returns to his base nature and is seized in the grasp
of darkness and unfaithfulness. His original condition is
reinstated, the bright day is darkened, the world of
humanity becomes the animal world, splendor is
transmuted to obscurity, and heavenly attraction turns
into fulfillment of carnal desires. Indeed, if we were to
closely consider this, we would see that older societies
are completely unaware of religion and are captives of
nature. No sign of divine bounties is discerned, nor is
any heavenly fragrance inhaled from them. They are
governed by certain traditions and customs and follow
the ways of their forefathers.
Thus, day is followed by night and the night-
season overtaken by day. After a period of time, a new
Dispensation of Reality dawns and divine effulgence
shine forth from the horizon of truth. Spring then
becomes summer and then fall and eventually winter.
After winter, once more, the spiritual spring is born.
This is how divine bounties are propagated forevermore.
Some negligent men think that the spring season
has concluded and nothing but winter remains. They are
immersed in their own vain imaginings.


27 March 1915
To our regret, today the friends did not attain the presence of the
Beloved. Only when He was departing He passed by our room and
said, “I must go. Do not trouble yourself. Be under God’s care.”
And with that, He left.

290  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá





28-30 March 1915
An amazing locust attack took place during this period. Like a thick
cloud, they came, blocked the rays of the sun, and when they landed,
were several layers on top of each other. In no time, even the finest
farms were reduced to desolate barren land. No one had ever seen
or heard of similar swarms of locusts in the past.


31 March 1915
Today Abu Sinan was blessed by the footsteps of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Each day until the fifth of April328, the friends attained His august
presence. Most of His talks were about locusts: “Each being has the
right to sustenance. ‘Are they then the distributors of the Lord’s Mercy? It is
we who distribute their subsistence among them in this world’s life.’329 They are
our new guests who have tasted breakfast and now have come for
lunch and dinner. The Arabs in the Arabian Peninsula and Yemen
greatly enjoy the coming of locusts [and capture] and save them for
the future. They say locusts are celestial sustenance, descended from
the heavens above, and they eat and relish them.”

328 As later diary entries indicate, it seems that this stay of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Abu Sinan
lasted until 17 April 1915. However, the diary entries of Badí‘ Bushrú’í suggest that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá may have visited ‘Akká and Haifa for a portion of this period.
329 Qur’án 43:32.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   291

292  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Chapter 10

Abu Sinan: April 1915


The Evening of 6 April 1915
Some of the friends and non-Bahá’ís were gathered in the guest-hall
of Shaykh Sálih, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá adorned the assemblage with His
presence. Shaykh Salmán remarked, “Soon Italy will enter the War.”
The Master replied:

So far it is only a rumor. Italy wants to support the
victor and, whichever direction the wind blows, so will
Italy’s support. Consider how foolish people are: They
discard God Who is supreme over all things and follow
the dictates of subservient mankind. <200> Now they
say America wants to mediate peace, because in truth
their Foreign Minster, Mr. Bryan330, does not even want
the word “war” to be mentioned in his presence. People
have left God and are attacking one another. They are
puny and have clung to even weaker beings, whereas
they should follow God, and be on the side of God!
They should cling to: “Hand of God is over their
hands.”331
Presently in Europe there is a great deal of rain and
mud, but by the end of Niysán [spring] and the
beginning of Ayár332, the great convulsion will begin. All
of these tribulations are because they have separated
themselves from the shadow of the Lord’s All-

330 William Jennings Bryan (1860-1925) was a supporter of President Wilson and
was appointed Secretary of State in 1914. He resigned his post in 1915 over Wilson’s
pro-Allied policies.
331 Qur’an 48:10.
332 The end of the second month of spring and the beginning of the third; means
circa May 21.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   293


Conquering Canopy of Will. Italy is waiting to see which
side is triumphant so she will support them.
Anticipation is in the essence of man. Man is
always waiting for the future, thinking perchance it might
be better than today. All the world’s religions are also
waiting and expectant for a Peacemaker to come and
repair all affairs.


Shaykh Sálih suggested, “Except for the materialists.” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá responded:

Even the naturalists [are expectant]. However, their
expectation is not like the religionists who claim, ‘He will
come from some unknown city, accompanied with many
men and arms.’ Instead they maintain that at times
nature breaks with its pattern and a courageous,
powerful, peace-loving Man appears Who is a prodigy
with exceptional foresight and abilities above and
beyond the normal human beings, and He is able to win
primacy over others. They maintain that [when
appeared], He would effectively establish universal peace.
The Shi‘ites who follow the Imamate of ‘Alí ibn
Abú-Tálib have certain other convictions. They consider

294  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


‘Alí sinless and an inspired Imam Who after the Prophet,
had the highest station and [after Whom] leadership
resided with His sons and descendents. They claim that
the twelfth Imam disappeared and now resides in the
twin cities of Jabulqa and Jabulsa, one in the East and
the other in the West. Each city has twelve thousand
gates and the expected Imam spends six months [of the
year] in each city. He will reappear in the Latter Days,
when the earth is filled with injustice, wrong, tumult and
chaos, and will illumine the world with the light of His
justice and bounties. He will come accompanied by
unnumbered hosts, will conquer the earth, and enlist all
the people under His own banner. With His breath, He
will slay the infidels.
There is another faction, known as Kaysaniyya,
that awaits the reappearance of Muhammad ibn al-
Hanafiyya, presently living in the Mount Ridva, similar to
Mount Ridván, who will come in the Latter Day in the
company of a great army and will remedy the world.333
The Sunnis believe that at the end of time and
from an unknown place, the Mihdí will appear in Mecca
with a large number of men and hosts and, with His
sword, will conquer the world and establish His
sovereignty.
The Zoroastrians hold the exact same belief in that
the Promised One will appear from an undisclosed place.
They only have changed His name and call Him
Kaykhusraw. In truth, the story is the same even though
they consider His abode to be an unknown location,
calling it Mount Unknown334.

333 This faction commenced after the martyrdom of Imam Husayn by a certain
Mukhtar ibn Abu ‘Ubayd ath-Thaqafi, claiming to represent Muhammad ibn al-
Hanafiyya, son of Imam ‘Alí by a Hanafi woman; see Moojan Momen, Introduction to
Shi‘i Islam, pp. 47-49.
334 Mount Shazand. (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   295


The Christians also maintain that His Holiness
Christ will appear accompanied by a large host of angels
and for now lives in the heavens, the vast space above.
Similarly the Jews believe that the promised Messiah
must be a descendent of Moses and offspring of
Karshun, and presently resides in the city of Sabbath335,
surrounded by moving sands, preventing entrance or exit
from the city. On Saturdays this river of sand stops its
circulation, but all the gates are locked. They maintain
that at the End of Time, the Promised One will appear
with a large army, filling the world with justice and
equity, such that wolf will lie with the sheep, the tiger
with the lamb, and the cobra with the infant.
When a person closely considers these stories it is
clear that all these expectations are one and the same,
only differ in the names and locations – but the essence
is the same.

Shaykh Salmán inquired, “Do the differences stem from the
Founders of Dispensations, or are they attributed to the religious
leaders?” The Master replied:

335 Or the City of Ben Mushih. (HM)

296  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



The Founders of religions have not said anything
that causes differences, but people have vain imaginings
and follow their own dictates, considering them to be
the truth. For instance, His Holiness Moses has declared,
“After Me, will appear another like Me.”336 His Holiness
Christ proclaimed, “The Separator of truth from error
will appear.”337 However, the followers of diverse
religions create confusions, propagate their own
imaginings and cling tightly to these misconceptions.
The entire creation is undergoing change and
revolution, and this change is an essential attribute of
creation. Similarly, man is constantly changing and
evolving, and centuries and ages cannot be compared
against one another. For instance, in a particular age, a
Prophet sent by God appears for the edification of man
and establishes the foundations of the happiness and
well-being of the people. But then through the
appearance of the next Prophet, changes are manifested
in accordance with the age’s requirements – and these
changes are due to the Second Teacher. This is necessary
because after the sun has dawned and given light to the
world, then the darkness of night is spread. If the sun
does not dawn again on the following day, the whole
world is laid to waste and destruction. Therefore it is
essential for the sun to appear once again. If a wise and
complete philosopher has established a foundation that
is ruined over time, then it is required for another one to
come and reconstitute this foundation. Is it possible for

336 Deuteronomy 18:15 states, “The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet
from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken.”
337 1 John 4:6 states, “We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is
not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of
error.” Fariq [separator] is closely related to Faraquilit, which is the Arabicised of
Paraclete (Comforter); see John 15:26.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   297


any structure not to be destroyed or for any building not
to experience decay? When a building is ruined, then a
new builder will come and will either build one like it or
a better one in accord with the time’s exigencies.
When a discerning man considers the evolution of
humanity and studies pages of the book of creation, it is
evident that the world is not limited to six thousand
years.338 The divine truth is an everlasting cause. The life
of divinity if infinite. Is it possible for His eternity to
come to an end? Sovereignty requires subjects,
attendants, armies, courts, soldiers and people. Is it
meaningful to claim that one is a king without having an
army? Light and warmth are the essential attributes of
the sun. Therefore, is it possible to say that at one time
sun did not have light or energy, or perhaps it does not
have these qualities now? Nay, it is impossible. Such a
thing is not the sun. It is evident error. Consequently,
one cannot claim that God existed at one time but had
no eyes or ears. If it were so, then it was not God, but
rather a blind and deaf creature. Therefore for as long as
God has existed, so has man. Thus, the world cannot be
limited to six thousand years. If a person considers
attentively, it is clear that this world is older than six
thousand years for the divine names and attributes may
not be suspended without creation. Astaghfuru’lláh! A
creator requires a creation. There is no suspension in
divine bounties. Man’s thought must be expansive and
evolving, not frozen in time. Is it possible to constrain
this infinite creation to a limited number of days?
If through his vain imaginings man limits the
scope of divinity and gives it a beginning and an end,
then it is no longer divinity. “Whatever is created perfect
is by God; all else is not of Him.” Could we seize God

338 Most fundamentalist Christians believe in literal reading of the Book of Genesis,
which seems to suggest that the world was created in approximately 4000 BC.

298  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


under chains and fetters and limit Him by our
boundaries, laws and limitations? Astaghfuru’lláh! He is
sanctified above every description and condition. If we
look at the world, we behold it to be the Preserved Book
and Resplendent Text, which must be read and studied.
Man must close his self-seeing eye and open his God-
seeing vision. Everything in this Book is hidden and
mysterious.
These topics can readily be spoken of in Europe
since they have no prejudice. For instance, if you ask
someone, “What is heaven?” He will respond, “A never-
ending space with each star traversing its own trajectory
and through the effect of gravity maintaining equilibrium
in the cosmos.” However such discussions cannot take
place in this realm.
His Holiness Christ says, “No one came from
heaven, except the Son of Man who is in heaven.”339
Notice that Christ came from the womb of His mother,
and while He was of earth considered Himself heavenly.
Therefore by heaven is not meant this never-ending
space, but the immense station and spirituality of Christ.


6 April 1915
‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived at the guest-hall of Shaykh Sálih where a
number of non-Bahá’ís were present. The entire conversation
surrounded everyday topics and was in accordance with the aptitude
and interest of the nonbelievers, who had the pleasure of attending.
Regarding people’s fear of the locust attacks, the Master said:

It is amazing that people are afraid of physical
plagues, but have no worries of spiritual calamities. They

339 John 3:13 states, “And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came
down from heaven, [even] the Son of man which is in heaven.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   299


are heedless of being inflicted with a myriad of spiritual
catastrophes, but do not desire the least harm to come to
this transient body or be exposed to any jeopardy. They
say whatever may happen to our soul, let it happen; but
nothing less than utmost comfort for our body!



7 April 1915
It was a rainy day. I returned from Bahjí and twice attained ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s presence in Abu Sinan. The Master stated:

Consider man’s infidelity. With a thousand worries,
troubles and tears he raises a child. Then, he readily puts
thousands upon thousands of them to the sword’s blade.
It takes twenty years for a person to grow to maturity
and full strength, but in an instant, these people
massacre tens of thousands of men and allow them to
perish. How many cities are thoroughly destroyed, how
many villages are reduced to heaps of dust, how much
blood reddens the soil and how immense are the
properties that are plundered and wrecked! And yet,
there is no benefit in any of this! Their purpose is to be
victorious. At one time, France was triumphant over

300  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Germany, and, at another time, the converse stood true.
None of these victories are lasting and no good will
come of them, much as they did not benefit them in the
past.
Now, if they were to set aside these acts of carnage
and butchery, and to deal with one another in accord
with the divine will, showing love and affection to each
other, tell me Áqá Mírzá Habíb, is it not better? Consider
how much trouble it is to cure a single patient, and yet
these governments slaughter millions and millions.
<205> Is it not true that you exert great efforts to heal
just one sick person? Indeed, we save one by one, and
they annihilate ranks upon ranks.


8 April 1915, Abu Sinan
It was a cold and rainy day, and until about dusk the friends did not
have the bounty of coming into ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence. Early
evening, the Master summoned me and asked of the condition of
the honored Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím.340 Then He also called forth
to His presence his brother, ‘Abdu’l-Ghaffar, and said:

Know that the Blessed Beauty has explicitly
commanded consultation with physicians. A person
must even ask every minute detail from his physician.
Let me illustrate this point by an example. If we want to
make a window, we must ask a carpenter, as he is more
experienced in this field. In like fashion, if we want to
raise a building, we must consult a builder, as he knows
the requirements better than others. In fact in each
respective field of industry and enterprise, the experts

340 Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím, [son of] ‘Abdu’l-Fattah, was of the Bahá’ís of ‘Akká
and inflicted with pneumonia. His kinsmen would prescribe various remedies and
would not follow my prescriptions. A large number of them would come and visit
him and cause further complications. (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   301


know more about it than others. Therefore you must
follow all details in accord with the instructions of Áqá
Mírzá Habíb [Mú’ayyad] and allow the sick to be cured
through his remedy. And if the ill desires a particular
thing, such as an orange, he must first consult his doctor.
Furthermore, do not allow too many people to frequent
his bedside, and let only a single person remain in the
room to nurse the ill. Let the ill rest. The very air of
tranquility will affect a cure. That is, once calm, serenity
and peace have surrounded the ailing, they will greatly
benefit his condition. Conversely, if many come, each
visitor speaking his opinion, tarrying for a while,
engaging the ill in conversation, then, obviously, he will
be fatigued. There is nothing better than calm and quite.
Moreover, such excessiveness is not conducive for them
either. Consider the gatherings of the Arabs. Rank upon
rank of them come to visit the ill, sit, tell tales, smoke
pipes and other tobacco, to the point that the
atmosphere of the room becomes foul.
Europeans act properly. As soon as one of them is
ill, he is taken to the hospital where visiting is essentially
forbidden. Once every so often the family goes and
inquires about the condition of the loved one from a
receptionist or attendant.
In London, one of the Bahá’ís was ill and, in tears,
some of the other friends came to Me saying that the
ailing person wished to meet with Me. I went to his
hospital but was prevented from visiting. With a great
difficulty, the friends convinced the hospital authorities
that My meeting with him would result in his cure.
Therefore, they allowed Me to enter his room, and God
cured him.
My point is that excessively visiting the ailing has
no benefit. Ensure that others understand this.

302  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


I inquired from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá of His health and general
condition, and He stated:

I am well. There is no illness. Only My nerves are
shattered, and this is because, after Bahá’u’lláh’s
ascension, I was surrounded with a depression and grief
that words cannot describe. Now, when I work hard or
speak extensively, My health is effected. The burdens of
the recent journey [to Europe and America] ruined My
health and melted My bones. My feeble temple was not
able to withstand such difficulties.


I said, “A few days ago when we went to Yirka, it was a most
pleasant and invigorating location. It would seem to be most suitable
for Your well-being if You would go there and rest under its trees.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “Of what use is good health to Me! I want
to wholly sacrifice Myself in the path of the Blessed Beauty and give

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   303


no thought to commerce, farming, or possessions. Only through
absolute sacrifice and detachment can one be faithful to the love of
the Ancient Beauty. There should be no other thoughts besides
service to His Threshold. I hope that you will attain unto this
station. The Cause of God is immensely stupendous!”

Áqá Mírzá Tarázu’lláh Káshí said that the violators of the
Covenant had given a feast for Mutasarrif of ‘Akká who was here on
Sunday. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded:

I wish the end of My life to be musk-laden. That is,
I wish to drink from the chalice of martyrdom in the
path of the Blessed Beauty. I cherish no other desire
than this. It would make no difference for Me, for I have
no comfort to miss or happiness to grieve over. I have
no joy, so I will not be saddened by its absence, and I
have no delight to lament over its loss. Whatever
happens is of no difference to Me. However, these
people (the Covenant-breakers) exert efforts night and
day, to cause tumult in ‘Akká. And if there is turmoil in
that city and it results in My capture, imprisonment and
death, it is of no consequence!
Insha’lláh, they will crucify Me! Or pierce My chest
with a thousand bullets!
However, if there is commotion in ‘Akká, both the
steadfast believers and they [i.e. the Covenant-breakers]
will suffer. And that is why in hiding and in secret they
carry out mischief. Now they have given the tent of the
Blessed Beauty to this man (Jamal Pasha) when I had not
allowed a single soul to use it. They gave the rugs of the
Ancient Beauty to Hasan Effendi, where every night
wanton women dance on them. In this manner, they deal
with the relics of their Lord!

304  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


They [i.e. the Covenant-breakers] sent Mírzá
Majdi’d-Dín341 to Jamál Pasha claiming that I am against
[the Committee for] Union and Progress.342 They
advanced many calumnies, including: “Whenever there
has been a problem or disturbance, we have become
entangled with it. Therefore, now, in order to protect
our lives and possessions, we are presenting a deposition
that it was He [i.e. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá] Who committed these
deeds. So, if a difficulty occurs, we are not to blame.”
Yahya Bey in Damascus exerted great efforts to
turn Jamal Pasha against us. (The previous matters have
been testified in great detail by Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh in his
treatise.343) They think that once I am eliminated, things
will be better for them. I pray that in the path of the
Blessed Beauty, My breast will be the target of a hundred
thousand bullets. When the Pashas were here [in 1907], I
said to Vakíl, “My Murshid344 [the Báb] sustained a
thousand bullets on the gallows of Adharbayjan. What
greater bounty is there to follow the example of My
Murshid! Martyrdom is my ultimate desire.”

341 A son of Mírzá Musa Kalím and a determined enemy of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
342 The governing body of the Ottoman Empire at that time. The Young Turk
“Committee of Union and Progress” (Ittihad ve Terakki Cemiyeti) or CUP, was
established in 1889 by four young students of the Military Medical Academy in
Istanbul as a secret non-political society against Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II. The initial
aim of educating Muslims with Western liberal ideas and culture changed after 1902
when a political program appeared and the radicals took over, who initiated the
1908-1909 Revolution, and the CUP ruled and brought about the disintegration of
the Ottoman Empire between 1908 and 1918. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá highly praised the CUP.
It can be said that He was stating his appreciation for His liberation in 1908 and
before it was clear that the military wing of the CUP had taken over or what that
would mean. It seems that His ties were to the civilian, parliamentarian wing.
Perhaps some of the officials posted to Palestine were Young Turks, with whom he
made contact. (Dr. Necati Alkan, 2004, private communications.)
343 See Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh, An Epistle to the Bahá’í World, translated by Dr. Ameen
Ullah Fareed, Chicago, 1907.
344 Murshid is a term used by mystic to designate their guide and spiritual leader.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   305


When a person has an heirloom of his father, it is
difficult for him to part with it. This tent belonged to the
Blessed Beauty. Wherever He went, this tent was
pitched, and the friends would come attain His august
presence within it. The mention of this tent has been
made in the Holy Scriptures. It is written, “The
Tabernacle of the Lord will be pitched on Mount
Carmel.”345 They give away this tent so that their written
declaration will find a ready ear.
My trust unto you is this: Never forget the
bounties and favors of the Blessed Perfection. Never
forget His admonishments and exhortations. Not for a
moment should you neglect your fidelity to Him. You
and I must ceaselessly be thinking of His ordinances,
inattentive to any other thought or consideration. We
must consecrate all our thoughts on His affection. Know
that, by God, besides Whom there is no other God, all
existence is not worth the skin of a peanut. It will give
no benefit or reward. The only thing that remains is
service to His Cause, exaltation of His Faith and
diffusion of divine fragrance. Fi amanu’lláh.


9 April 1915
Regarding [Lake] Tiberius, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

His Holiness Christ spent most of His time on the
shores of Lake Tiberius, but, alas, none of His sacred
fragrances have remained. Sanctified is God! Near the
lake’s mineral waters, I saw the European pilgrims had
prostrated themselves over the shore’s pebbles and were
kissing them, some weeping profusely. I inquired, “Why

345 The present translator has been unable to find a Biblical reference for this
statement.

306  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


this lamentation and crying?” They said, “At one time
Christ walked over these shores and with His Apostles
may have sat on these rocks. It is in His memory that we
kiss and savor this ground, and circumambulate these
rocks.”
Consider how they prostrate themselves on the
sands that at one time may have been honored by the
footsteps of Christ and His Apostles, but are now
heedless of the Lord of Hosts! Amazing, amazing,
amazing!


10 April 1915
Today ‘Abdu’l-Bahá came to visit the honored Áqá Muhammad-
Ibráhím who was ill in bed. The latter said:

How agreeable if I die,

You come by my grave.
I raise my head from eternal bed,

Crying, “Welcome, O my Beloved!”

In accordance with the Master’s instructions, I began
examining the ill [i.e. Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím] and subsequently
reported the results to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   307


Together we then went to the [Bahá’í] school where the
students immediately arose and bowed down. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “It
thrills Me immensely every time I think that in such a village we have
established a school. Please do sit. May God reward your effort.”
That afternoon we went to Bahjí and, in the evening, attended
a gathering in the guest-hall of Shaykh Sálih. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
discourse covered ordinary topics in response to various questions
put to Him by the Shaykhs.



11 April 1915, Abu Sinan346
Until about the evening hour we were deprived of the bounty of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence. At nighttime He came to the guest-hall of
Shaykh Sálih and since Ahmad Sohrab had arrived, the Master
inquired: “Áqá Mírzá Ahmad, how long has it been since we left
America?” He responded, “Two and a half years.” <210> ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá continued:

Truly this period has not been productive. At least
when we were in the America, we were busy and
constantly met with people and corresponded with the

346 Bushru’i, pp. 62-3, states that the Master was in Haifa on this evening and gives a
summary of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk which differs considerably from Dr. Mú’ayyad’s
diary.

308  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


friends. But now, time goes by unprofitably: no
meetings; no communication; no travels; no service. It
would have been better if we had gone directly to India.
But what can we do? Such are God’s decrees. He has not
created us for comfort. My weakness and illness is
because I am not occupied. What a wonderful time we
had in America, all spent in the service of the Cause and
every minute of it filled with delight and high spirits.
How much better it would have been if we had not
returned here, had stayed there serving the Faith of God
and day and night raising the cry of the divine Kingdom.
Here we are wasting our lives. I am very sad that the
means of service to the Cause are not presently available.
My happiness resides in serving the spiritual friends and
elevating the Word of God. All of these are presently
absent and, therefore, we are deprived of all bounties.

[Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab] responded, “Insha’lláh after the War,” and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded:

Indeed at that time [in America] every means of
felicity and blissfulness were prepared. Joy and happiness
are the cause of cures, and no joy can ever hope to rival
service to the Cause of God. When a person is truly
sacrificial, then he thoroughly forgets himself, dedicates
his all in the path of the Blessed Beauty and arises in

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   309


servitude in His love. No exultation and delight can ever
be greater than this.
A person serving the Cause is like a lamp, which
has no joy and happiness greater than being kindled. The
ultimate satisfaction of the lamp is to be lit, to give
illumination and to brighten the whole of the
surrounding field. Similarly our ultimate joy is in
servitude to the sacred Threshold. And that servitude
requires that with a brightened face, unsullied heart,
illumined spirit and sanctified presence, we arise and
teach His Cause. The Blessed Beauty did not create and
educate us for the comfort, the joy and the cares of this
world. He endured all these trials and tribulations so that
we would be edified and enlighten the world.

At this point a number of non-Bahá’ís arrived and the
utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá changed from spiritual to conventional
themes. For instance, someone asked when gunpowder was
invented and He responded, “In the Seventh century.” He spoke of
the ways of war in the modern times and praised Arabs for bravery:
“The present war is not a war, it is a deceit. It is bloodshed using
deception and trickery, because all the battles are fought with
equipment and machinery. If battles were still fought with sabers,
then Islam would be victorious over the world. The bravery of
Muslims is legendary. But now man does not fight; all the bloodshed
is through various devices and machines. In the American-Spanish
War not one American was killed. In fact, they warred, and were

310  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


even victorious, even though not one of them was injured.”
Afterwards He related the story of Zenubia347, the queen of [the
oasis city] Palymra [Tadmor], as a prime example of bravery.348


The Evening of 12 April 1915, Abu Sinan349
One of the friends said, “From the bounties of the Master’s
teachings, the Iranians in Beirut are submissive.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
responded:

People do not become submissive because of
virtuous dictums; but rather, when they observe
righteous deeds, they grow submissive. By God besides
Whom there is no God, if the friends were to follow the
teachings and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty, then
the necks of the kings of the earth would be humbled.

347 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells of her story on other occasions; see, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, pp.
103-104; and The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 135-136.
348 She was the wife of Odanatus [Odeinats], the governor of Athens. Some forty
years before Christ, Romans had conquered this region and it was under the rule of
the Romans, when Odanatus passed away in the year 266 AD. Since Zenubia was
known for her wisdom, abilities and statesmanship, the Roman parliament
appointed her the governor of the region. Soon she decided to win her
independence and planned on conquering Egypt, Syria and some other parts of
Asia. She raised a fort in Palymra. The ruins are evident to this day. It was sustained
by 69 pillars. She defended her nation for two years from within this castle. With
long hair flowing over her shoulders, wearing the crown of sovereignty and a purple
dress, several times she fought the Romans and was victorious. Eventually Orlian
came to the battle and assumed the command of the Roman armies. After two years,
food ran out in the fort and their farming was insufficient. They ate all the animals
but, after some time, were forced to surrender. Orlian offered to marry her but she
refused, as he had been an adversary at one time. Orlian was angered over this
rejection and decided to belittle her by having circus animals leading the parade
bringing her to Rome, bound by a gold chain. This occurred in 273 CE. Orlian did
not kill her and she spent the rest of her days in a palace with her children. (HM)
349 Bushru’i, p. 63, indicates that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was in Haifa on this occasion and
gives a synopsis of His talk which considerably augments Dr. Mú’ayyad’s diary.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   311


Consider the difference between one who speaks
of generosity and the one who is generous; between the
one who claims justice and equity, and the one who is
just and equitable. Or how significant is the contrast
between the one who speaks of light, and the one who is
illumined. If we were to follow the teachings and
dictums of the Blessed Beauty, even stones and plants
would be affected.
The Blessed Beauty sustained all these trials and
tribulations so that we would succeed in our deeds, not
so that we would only make mention of our intentions.
The sun dawns so that people are able to perform their
duties, not merely speak of them. It is revealed, “Adorn
thyself by deeds, if thou art of the righteous” and not
“Adorn thyself by words, if thou art of the righteous.”
How many people exist who constantly state their
readiness for self-sacrifice. Several thousand times they
state: “May my life be a sacrifice unto you!” Forfeiting
possessions, rank and name in the path of Love is the
first station.350 They express their desire for sacrifice, and
perhaps it is based on truth. But how different it is to say
such a thing and to actually be sacrificed on the field of
martyrdom! That is why deeds have an effect.

350 Bahá’u’lláh has revealed (Seven Valleys, pp. 8-9):  “In this station the lover hath no
thought save the Beloved, and seeketh no refuge save the Friend. At every moment he offereth a
hundred lives in the path of the Loved One, at every step he throweth a thousand heads at the feet of
the Beloved.”

312  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



Shaykh Salmán said, “Today the [Newspaper] Azhans
Telegraph reported that in the fort of Berzmesil, which the Russians
had conquered from the Austrians, they only found one cannon.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

Why do they feel compelled to spread false
rumors? If they do not possess accurate news, there is
no need to print anything. When they report
inaccurately, then no one will believe them when they are
actually reporting the truth.
It is said that Nadir Shah once advanced a claim to
Baghdad, and, since the Válí of Baghdad did not have
sufficient men and arms, he promised to surrender the
city on a specified day. While Nadir Shah was proceeding
towards Baghdad, eight thousand cavalrymen under the
command of ‘Uthmán Pasha came from Istanbul to the
aid of the Válí of Baghdad, and Nadir was defeated
decisively and took refuge into the mountains. He said to
his secretary, “Write that we have been defeated, give the
number of injured, the dead, and the men lost as
prisoners, and request the arrival of fresh troops to come
to our aid.” The secretary wrote [instead], “Out of divine

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   313


bounties and favors, we thoroughly reduced the Arab
army, killed several thousand of their men, injured many
more, and seized many prisoners, completely uprooting
their positions. Since we have decided to expand our
victories to other places, we need soldiers and
provisions.”
When Nadir saw the text of this royal command
he was angered and said, “Draft the command as I
dictated it to you. Inform them that because of the
fewness of our numbers, the enormity of the enemy’s
army and the addition of eight thousand mounted men
that came to their aid, we failed to conquer the city [of
Baghdad]. Tell them that, in fact, we have lost the battle
and then give the number of the dead, injured and
otherwise lost men. Forthrightly admit that we are
presently hiding in the mountains and, after the passing
of winter, during the beginning of spring, we plan to
attack for a second time. However we need additional
provisions, battle arms and many soldiers so that, God
willing, we will succeed in this goal.” It so happened that
the matter came to pass as Nadir had anticipated;
namely, they were victorious that spring. Thereupon he
said to the same scribe, “If I had hidden the truth at that
time and had not informed accurately, then no one
would believe me now when I announce this victory.”

Shaykh Salmán remarked, “It is said, ‘Truth is the
deliverance!’351” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá replied:

Yes, indeed. His Holiness (Imam ‘Alí, son of Abí-
Tálib) was surrounded by enemies and wished to take
refuge elsewhere. He said to one of His companions
(Salmán, the Persian), “Place me in this basket and carry

351 John 8:32 states, “And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you
free.”

314  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


it over your head, escaping through this trench. If they
asked, ‘Where is ‘Alí?’ respond, ‘He is in this basket.’”
Salmán did as bidden and when he was asked of ‘Alí’s
whereabouts he would say, “In this basket over my
head!” In this manner, His Holiness was rescued.
It is said that at the time of Amín and Ma‘mún,
sons of Hárún ar-Rashíd of the ‘Abbasid Caliphate, there
was a certain righteous man by the name of ‘Alí who had
advanced considerably. Ma‘mún and his great army came
towards Baghdad, and Amín decided to send ‘Alí to the
opposing camp as a spy. When the two camps came
within a farsang of each other and while inspecting his
troops, Táhir, the general of Ma‘mún’s army, noticed
that a man was coming towards them in great haste
riding a camel. When he came near, Táhir asked, “What
is your name?”
“‘Alí,” was the response.
“Why have you come here?”
‘Alí responded, “For spying.”
“Who sent you?”
“‘Isá, the commander of Amín’s army,” said ‘Alí.
“What is your mission?”
“To completely survey your camp and report back to
my commander.”

Táhir allowed him into the general camp, assigned
a guide and instructed that he was permitted to inspect
without hindrance any part of the camp and talk to
anyone he wished. When ‘Alí returned from his survey,
Táhir asked, “What did you see?”
“I completely inspected the whole camp. I learned the
number of your soldiers, the attitude of your captains,
studied their strategy and training, estimated the
magnitude of your ammunition and provisions,
determined the psychological state of the men, and in

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   315


short, learned everything about your camp. And now I
will happily return to my own army.”

Táhir was deeply astonished at this man’s veracity
and amazed at his candor. He gave a feast in his honor
and invited him to rest for the night. After the feast they
retired for the evening. Táhir noticed that ‘Alí repeatedly
brought his head out of the blanket and was restless. So
he inquired, “Why are you sleepless?” ‘Alí responded, “I
am waiting for you to sleep so I can escape.” Táhir said,
“I will now sleep and you may go. Fí amanu’lláh.” He
put his head under the blanket, closed his eyes and ‘Alí
left quickly.

<215> It so happened that in the battle Ma‘mun
was completely victorious. After conquering Baghdad,
Táhir inquired of ‘Alí’s whereabouts. They said he was in
hiding. They searched and eventually found him and he
was appointed the vizier of the treasury. Táhir said to
him then, “If you were not righteous, I would have killed
you when I first saw you. But since you were truthful
and firm in your convictions, you are therefore worthy to
be in charge of the treasury.”


13 April 1915, Abu Sinan
The following Tablet was revealed today [by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá] in honor
of Dr. Bercot352:

He is God!
O thou who art suppliant towards the Presence of the All-
Merciful, who has humbled herself before His divine Might. I too
supplicate to the Lord of the Kingdom, He Who possesses all might
and dominion, that He may make of thee and of thy dear consort
to become as two signs of concord and unity and that He may bless
you both in this union to all eternity, and that He may further

352 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.

316  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


keep you safe in the sanctuary of His protection, and that He may
cast the glances of His loving kindness and providence upon you.
Thus may your hearts be gladdened with His hidden bounties, and
your eyes be solaced with His divine gifts, that His glorious
rewards, and heavenly blessings ever abide with you both. Upon
you both greetings and praise.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás


That night we attained the presence of the Master. His
remarked included, “Greed and avarice are ingrained in human
nature. However divine teachings will change these attributes. The
Prophets and chosen ones have not appeared so that people will
worship them and shower them with praise and laudation. They
have sustained all their trials so that they may guide and educate
people.”


14 April 1915, Abu Sinan
Today ‘Abdu’l-Bahá came by the bedside of Áqá Muhammad-
Ibráhím. Because of his illness, he was not able to talk, but when he
opened his eyes and saw the countenance of the Master, he said,
“How sweet to expire in the arms of the Beloved!”
Soon afterwards he sent Áqá Muhammad-Mihdí to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and asked permission to leave this nether world. The Master
spoke many expressions of bounties and affection for Áqá

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   317


Muhammad-Ibráhím. When the messenger returned to his bedside,
Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím said, “May I be a ransom for the Master.”
Then thrice he uttered, “Master, Master, Master” and passed on.
Thus after twenty-one days of illness and confinement in bed,
the honored Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím Mashhadí Fattah left the
world of dust for the celestial abode.353 All during his period of
ailment, this illustrious person spoke prayers and would say
constantly, “O Beloved of the World, O the Great Mystery of God,
O ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás!”


15 April 1915, Abu Sinan
There was an amazing scene today. Two warships of the French
armored naval division came into the bay, one towards Haifa and
the other to ‘Akká. At the same time a locust attack, like a dark,
thick cloud descended.354 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “No one has seen
or heard of so many locusts, nor does history record anything like it.
They are the army of God!” He even took the binoculars from me
and surveyed each direction. As we were standing there in deep
thought over locusts, and watching “the army of God”, we suddenly
heard the roar of the cannons of the warships. They succeeded in
destroying the steel bridge between Haifa and ‘Akká.355 In all,
twenty-six shells were fired, of which one of them fell in the Garden
of Firdaws, but did not explode. The people of ‘Akká were greatly
perturbed and worried. Women and children were permitted to
leave [the city], but the men were barred. After an hour, the warships
left and disappeared in the haze of dark smoke.
At that time, the carriage arrived from ‘Akká to take back the
coffin of the honored Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím to its eternal burial

353 See Memorials of the Faithful 140-1 for a eulogy given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
354 Today completed the eighteenth day of locust attack. Earth and air was so
densely filled that no one ever recalled a similar incident. (HM)
355 Known as the Bridge of Na‘min. Mírzá Nuri’d-Din Zayn would recall: One day
humorously ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “On the day of creation when God said, ‘Am I
not thy Lord?’ this bridge replied, ‘Yea, yea!’” (HM)

318  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


site. The entire village, rank upon rank of Christians, Muslims,
Druze and Bahá’ís gathered, waiting for the arrival of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Like a luminous moon, He appeared and came forth, bending to lift
a corner of the coffin. A number of the friends rushed forth and
lifted the coffin in His place.
After returning from the funeral procession, many gathered in
the guest-hall of Shaykh Sálih, and the chiefs of the Christians and
Druze gave eloquent talks, praying for the Master’s long life and the
prosperity of the friends.



16 April 1915, Abu Sinan
We were in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for sometime before noon.
Afterwards, He walked around the village of Abu Sinan and since
there was so much talk of locusts and their raid, humorously said to
Shaykh Salih, “Do you not honor the guest? These are your guests.
Imam ‘Alí was fond of three things: ‘fasting in the summer, the blow
of the sword and generosity to one’s guest.’”
At noontime, Kumandan and some others attained the
presence of the Master. In the evening, a number of non-Bahá’ís and
believers were with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the guest-hall of Shaykh Sálih,
and the beauteous countenance of Covenant and Testament spoke
for two hours. Regarding the Egyptian Pyramids He said:

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   319


Harum ar-Rashid wanted to excavate [the Pyramids] but
was unsuccessful. [His son] Ma‘mun then decided to
carry out the same task and, after much effort and many
searches, they found a tablet in the hieroglyphs script.
There was someone in Europe who could read
hieroglyphs. Upon the tablet was written the identity of
the king-builder and the fact that it was so strongly built
that no one could open it until the end of time. With
this, Ma‘mun discarded his plans.
The Pharaohs raised the Pyramids. Rameses [I]
built one, the construction of which lasted ten years,
each day using ten thousand workers. He raised a city of
six sides, divided into two halves.356 The Palaces of the
king and the homes of the government chiefs and the
prominent merchants and some of the poor were on the
eastern flank with their resting-place on the western side.
Similarly the [homes of the] chief religious figures and
places of worship were situated on the western side as
well. Every king or notable that raised a palace or a
home would also build a grave [for himself], for they
believed that the soul would last for as long as the body
endures. Therefore they discovered a chemical agent that
allowed preservation of bodies.357
Hindus, on the other hand, believe in the exact
opposite and say that the sooner the body is destroyed,
the greater the glory of the soul. Consequently, they burn
their dead.

356 For a reference to this store city see Exodus 1:11.
357 One technique was to mummify. However presently the detailed chemical
process of this technique is lost and can be numbered among the forfeited sciences.
When the [Egyptians] mummified, the remains would last for many centuries, never
decaying. Examples of these presently can be seen in various museums. (HM)

320  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



Shaykh Yúsuf asked, “How was Heliopolis built?” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá answered:

In those days, they had good cranes and therefore
were able to place large stones above others. And now in
New York they have built a hanging bridge. (He then
proceeded to expand considerably about the roads built
on this bridge and the many vehicles that pass over it.
Then He told of a certain person that had said, “We do
not know how to deal with easterners. We have built
large ships that traverse oceans carrying much products
and goods, trains that journeys enormous distance,
planes that fly like a bird, and many other things, and yet
they continued to call us, ‘goatee.’358”)
One thing that has enabled the Europeans to
advance so considerably is their aptitude to accept the
truth. After investigation and research, even if it is
against their previously held notions, they do not reject
the truth and testify to its veracity.
I gave a talk for the professors at the renowned
Oxford University, which ranks foremost in the world.359
They published My talk at the university’s newspaper

358 A racial slur used against the Europeans.
359 Lady Blomfield, The Chosen Highway, p. 168, gives reference to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
having met Professor TK Cheyne at Oxford University.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   321


and in the Christian Commonwealth. Many things were
spoken in this talk. For instance, I told them about the
fact that all things are captive in the hand of nature. With
all its majesty, our sun is governed by certain universal
laws, which it cannot deviate by a hair’s breath. However
man has seized the sword from nature and with it is
beating nature back. For example, the natural law is for
man to remain on earth. Yet, he swims in the sea like a
fish or flies in the air like a bird. Or the law of nature is
for electricity to flow freely. But we see that man has
captured this power in the confines of a bulb. The nature
of man is to see for a proscribed distance and to hear
only over a limited space. However, man has devised
means to observe the heavens above and to
communicate with every corner of the globe. Nature is
tyrannical; uninformed of the past or the future. But
man is not like that. Therefore, is it proper for man to
continue thinking of himself as captive in the grasp of
nature?

<220> ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then told of the story of Shaykh
Muhammad ‘Abduh and how he had met Him in Beirut and wished
to journey with Him to ‘Akká.360 ‘Abduh had made all his
preparations but ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had prevented him by saying, “It is
not wise for you to come with Me. Moreover it is not sensible for
you.” Then because of his excommunication, the Shaykh had to
return to Egypt from Beirut. [The reason for this expulsion was]
they asked him, “Is it permissible to marry a Christian?” He had

360 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 38, notes: “In Beirut, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá met, apart
from Midhat Pasha, many of the notables of the Arab world, among them the
celebrated Shaykh Muhammad ‘Abduh, future Grand Mufti of Egypt. This learned
and noble Shaykh had been an associate of Siyyid Jamalu’d-Din al-Afghani, the
standard-bearer of pan-Islamism and an inveterate opponent of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh. Yet so fervent was his admiration for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that he intended to
go to ‘Akká in His company. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá dissuaded him because such action
would have harmed him and his standing.”

322  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


answered positively. They also asked him, “Is it sanctioned to wear
European hats?” and he said, “Yes, in warm places.”


17 April 1915
Today the honored Mírzá Husayn Yazdí came from Haifa and
attained the presence [of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]. After inquiring about
certain matters, the Master decided to leave for Haifa. At the time of
bidding the friends farewell, the topics of the war, the onslaught of
the locust, famine and various illnesses were discussed, and He said,
“These tribulations matter not and will pass by. The true calamity is
being far and removed from the divine fragrance.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa in 1913

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   323


Chapter 11

Haifa:  May 1915


5 May 1915, Abu Sinan
The days of our stay in Abu Sinan had come to an end, an
astonishing experience that had passed like a vision. Believers had
now started to return to their homes. Thank God that during these
days of upheavals, storms, trials, tumults, and the associated
vicissitudes of the World War, the friends of God remained safe and
guarded under the canopy of divine favors. They partook of the
evident and heavenly feast of His bounties and remained secure
through His exhortations and guidance. Now that a relative calm
and tranquility had settled in again, the Bahá’ís of ‘Akká and Haifa
were [permitted] to return to their home. Badí‘ Effendi and I too
closed our dispensary and school and proceeded to Haifa. Today,
the two of us carried the box containing the pictures of the Blessed
Perfection and the Primal Point – may my spirit be a sacrifice unto
Them both – to Haifa, the blessed house [of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,] and
conveyed them safely to the Greatest Holy Leaf.361

Were I to give life for this bounty,

it would be fitting.


In the afternoon, we left ‘Akká for Haifa. There, we were
summoned into the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá a few minutes after
our arrival and the Tongue of Grandeur spoke thusly:


361 Bahiyyih Khánum, surnamed the Greatest Holy Leaf, was the custodian of the
Holy Relics throughout ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry.

324  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


I wish for you consecrated service to the Cause of
God. I wish for you to manifest radiant attributes under
all conditions and to raise the Word of God.
All that you have seen or experienced, all that
exists in the world of humanity, [is transitory and
fleeting,] much like a picture reflected on water.
Consider how many men are engaged most devotedly in
the present War; how they sacrifice and give their lives
and possessions; how great is the number of soldiers
among them. They are commanded by men who have
dedicated their lives to the study of the science of war.
They are all ready to sacrifice themselves in an instant.
And yet their sacrifice has no benefit. [It is transient,] like
a picture reflected on water. The most they can hope for
is to have the names of the most prominent among them
recorded in history, remembered for loving their nation
and sacrificing their lives and possessions for its sake.
However, for those that sacrifice in the path of the
divine Cause and exert every effort to raise the Word of
God, their glory is everlasting. It will not change nor be
forgotten over the passage of time, and their effulgence
will remain ever-resplendent.
A person must exert his very best in every
undertaking and in all fields of endeavor and must
employ the means and techniques of that field;
otherwise, there will be no benefit. For instance, a
person who arises to diffuse the divine fragrance in the
path of the Blessed Beauty must be completely detached.
He must be attracted, sanctified, righteous, itinerant and
consecrated. Otherwise, the desired results will not be
wholly achieved. In fact, great efforts may be lost
through the slightest negligence.
I will pray for you and fervently supplicate the
Abhá Kingdom to perfect you in every way.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   325



6 May 1915 – Abu Sinan362
Like a merchant vessel, a large British warship came into the harbor
of Haifa and anchored a mile or two from the shore. She sent an
airplane to survey the nearby military installations, which returned to
the carrier a few minutes later.



We met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by the orchard of His house. He
inquired from Hájí Muhammad Shushtarí363, “Have you invited the
honored gentlemen364?” “Yes, I have.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked, “With

362 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1, p. 310 (222), titled this section “Abu Sinan” but most likely
it is a typist error as the described events occurred in Haifa.
363 Hájí Muhammad Shúshtarí was a most sincere, devoted and attracted believer
who was engaged as a patcher. On the occasions that he gained the presence of the
Master, he was singularly and most fondly focused on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, never deviating
his gaze in any other direction. However, he always murmured something. Once
‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired, “Hájí, what do you whisper?” He replied, “I pray and give
thanks and gratitude for this august bounty.” The Master said, “When you wish to
pray, do so at home.” He responded, “My Master, I do not know why when I see
You, my lips begin to move and pray. I cannot help it. I loose all consciousness.”
(HM)
364 Mírzá Badí‘ Bushrú’í and myself. (HM)

326  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


what did you serve them?” “With oranges,” was the reply. The
Master said, “A feast to the love of God is worthy, otherwise there
is no benefit in these everyday invitations and parties. They may
have a temporary effect, but not a lasting one. Oranges are good to
serve and are inexpensive.”



In the afternoon, in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s company and in His
carriage, we went to [the Cave of] Elijah by way of the German
Colony. Since the wind was blowing from the eastern direction, the
Master remarked, “For a few days I wanted to come visit the
countryside but refrained due to the weather. The wind is northerly
and would cause illness. How was the weather in Beirut?”
I replied, “The breeze from the North brought cold fronts, but the
eastern wind impaired health.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “If wind blows over delicate places, such as seas
or orchards, then it is vivifying. But it becomes polluted if it blows
over cities and populated places and may cause illness. The western
wind of Haifa is very pleasant as it comes over the water; the
northern air of Istanbul was agreeable as well.” He then looked at
me and inquired, “You were busy in Abu Sinan. But what do you do
presently?”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   327


“I am not engaged with anything now and await Your direction,” I
replied.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “You can practice medicine here as well. All the
physicians have been taken away and few are left.”
“The ones that have remained are Damascus educated and are not
surgeons.”
The Master inquired, “Is the College365 the same as before or has it
changed?”
“It is the same curriculum as before with no change.”
“They have, however, closed the Jesuit school.”
I replied, “Yes, there were many British- and French-sponsored
schools, but they have been shut. Only the American schools and
the institutions associated with the [American] College are left
functioning.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “It would be very good if the friends of
God would exert efforts to establish a College of Divinity in the
proximity of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh or on Mount Carmel. This
facility can then teach both secular sciences and spiritual topics.”
“Perhaps the American friends could undertake this effort.”
“The aspiration of the Eastern friends is greater. A tree that has
deep roots and is firmly established can better withstand the tests of
various winds than those newly-planted ones. The Americans will
become very good, but it will take more time.”
“We do not have teachers,” I said.
“There is no harm in having non-Bahá’í teachers. Eventually the
[Bahá’í] students will develop and will take their place.”
I said, “The theologians are raising certain issues that are
against rational thought and science.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:


Spiritual teachings are completely consistent with
rational thought and science, but it is a question of how
they are presented. An interpreter is needed. The same
issue can be presented in multiple ways. For instance, in

365 The American College [in Beirut], which later was named the American
University. (HM)

328  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Europe and America, I never said, “People, the
Promised One of all ages has appeared. Come and speak
His praise!” If I had done that, from the very beginning
they would distance themselves and not listen. Instead,
in all the gatherings, I cried forth, “At a time when the
East was immersed in absolute darkness, the fire of
bigotry was causing rivers of innocent blood to flow and
ignorance had reached its lowest ebb, at such a time, His
Holiness Bahá’u’lláh, like a morning star, dawned over
the horizon of Iran. He brought forth many spiritual
teachings. For instance, His first counsel is that God is a
loving Shepherd to all. If He were not a compassionate
Guide, then He would not have created man or given
him sustenance and education; [whereas we see that He
provides for man.] Is it then better to follow His
guidance or to adhere to human-made conceptions?
Another teaching of Bahá’u’lláh is the unity of the world
of humanity.” And likewise, I would speak of many
other teachings.366

366 Shoghi Effendi has echoed a similar teaching method in a number of his writings,
including the following (Guidance for Today and Tomorrow, pp. 232-233):
They must be neither provocative nor supine, neither fanatical nor
excessively liberal, in their exposition of the fundamental and
distinguishing features of their Faith. They must be either wary or
bold, they must act swiftly or mark time, they must use the direct or
indirect method, they must be challenging or conciliatory, in strict
accordance with the spiritual receptivity of the soul with whom they
come in contact, whether he be a nobleman or a commoner, a
northerner or southerner, a layman or a priest, a capitalist or a
socialist, a statesman or a prince, an artisan or a beggar. In their
presentation of the Message of Bahá’u’lláh they must neither hesitate
nor falter. They must be neither contemptuous of the poor nor timid
before the great. In their exposition of its verities they must neither
over stress nor whittle down the truth which they champion, whether
their hearer belong to royalty, or be a prince of the church, or a
politician, or a tradesman, or a man in the street. To all alike, high or
low, rich or poor, they must proffer, with open hands, with a radiant

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   329



Similarly, [I would explain other themes. For
example,] I would say, “Divine Sovereignty is not limited
to six thousand years, and this world was not created
only six millennia ago. Sovereignty needs an army and a
realm. One cannot maintain that God was there but had
no creation. This is human limitation and not divine.”
<225> Furthermore, I never would tell them that these
honored men [i.e. Bahá’ís] have left their own religion
and have become Bahá’ís. Instead, I would say, “In a
single
gathering,
Jews,
Christians,
Muslims
and
Zoroastrians are assembled in utmost fraternity and
compassion, like the members of one loving family.”

It is all in how one says something. They say that
Hárún ar-Rashid had a dream that all his teeth had fallen
out. He called forth an interpreter who said, “The
meaning of this dream is that all your children,
descendents and kinsmen will die, and then you will die.”
Hárún ar-Rashid was most disturbed by this comment
and ordered the interpreter imprisoned. He summoned
another dream interpreter and shared the vision with
him. The new interpreter said, “The meaning of this
dream is that Your Majesty will live longer than all
others.” Hearing this, the Caliph was most pleased and
gave him a handsome reward.

You see both interpretations were the same, but
presented differently. Similarly, if spiritual teachings are
also offered in an agreeable way, then they will not cause
setbacks and retribution, nay, they will indeed guide large
multitudes.

heart, with an eloquent tongue, with infinite patience, with
uncompromising loyalty, with great wisdom, with unshakable courage,
the Cup of Salvation at so critical an hour, to the confused, the
hungry, the distraught and fear-stricken multitudes, in the north, in
the west, in the south and in the heart, of that sorely tried continent.

330  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá






We went a bit further and saw that about two or three
hundred desolate and poor people had congregated, waiting for the
arrival of the Master. He said:


Once divine teachings are diffused, even outwardly
there will not be any poor or needy left [in the world].
Presently there are groups organized in America and
Europe called Socialists. They say, “Why are there so
many people in need of daily bread when there are
certain other men with such immense fortunes that they
cannot even count them? The sweat of the brow of our
working class has brought about this wealth. This is
product of the labor of the wretched workers. Why
should we allow someone to use a business scheme and
accumulate an enormous estate as a result of the
suffering of so many destitute workers? All must be
equal.”

It is impossible for all to be equal. If there is no
worker and proprietor, and all possess wealth, then the
world will fall into complete chaos. Then no one will
work as builder, carpenter or butcher. There is a story
told by Muslims. They say that once His Holiness Moses
was praying, “O Lord, why hast Thou not bestowed
riches and wealth on everyone? I supplicate Thee to
grant affluence and abundance to all.” His prayer was

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   331


immediately fulfilled. That night, Moses needed some
repairs on His home. He sent after a builder, but the
builder refused to come and said, “I no longer need to
work.” The carpenter and the bricklayer replied similarly.
His Holiness Moses was perplexed about what to do. A
revelation descended, “Moses, divine wisdom decreed
that there be differences in people’s rank; otherwise, the
world’s equilibrium would be perturbed.”

Society is like an army: It requires generals;
commanders; a cavalry; soldiers; captains; privates; and
many other levels. It cannot function when all are equal
and the same. The best arrangement allows but a scant
few to remain poor and needy, as each person must live
comfortably within his rank, without allowing all
fortunes to be accumulated in the hands of only a few.
For instance, let every village establish a commonwealth
and a council composed of a number of trustworthy
men of the village for its administration. Divide the
incoming wealth into seven parts and, similarly, the
expenses into seven:

Incoming:
1. One-tenth of the farming [income];
2. Zakát367 from livestock and cattle;
3. Mines;
4. [Buried] treasures;
5. [Unclaimed] inheritance;
6. Donations;
7. Unexpected income, such as objects discovered.

Expenditures:
1. One-tenth of income to the central authorities;
2. Zakát [to the central government];

367 Islamic religious tax, also known as obligatory alms. Kitáb Aqdas, K146, calls for
eventual administration of this tax in the Bahá’í community.

332  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


3. Expenses for the disabled;
4. Orphanages;
5. Welfare for those whose income is less than
their expenses and who have suffered a loss in
their possessions;
6. Schools;
7. Public health service and general expenses, with
the residuals being deposited into the public
treasury.368

Some steps further, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s carriage reached a thriving,
verdant farm that was most productive and green. The wheat plants
waved in the breeze, creating an enchanting scene. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
jubilant, smiling broadly and radiating joy. He said, “Consider how
delighted the farmer must be to see his efforts have not been in vain
and his seeds have grown into such luscious crop, with full harvest
and free of disease. In like manner, when the divine teachings are
sowed in the field of pure hearts, they bring forth fruits, flowers and
blossoms. They bring an indescribable sweetness to taste.”

368 On 14 August 1912 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave a talk in Dublin, New Hampshire, which
concerned economics. Subsequently He revealed a Tablet for His hostess, Mrs.
Agnes Parsons, which outlined His previous talk. In this Tablet He revealed, “In
every village a council of wise men of the village should be established, and the whole village should
be placed under its jurisdiction. In addition, a public treasury should be established with its own
administrators. At harvest time, a specific quantity of the general produce of the village should be
appropriated for the treasury. This treasury will have seven sources of income, namely: tithes; taxes
on livestock; unclaimed inheritance; property that has been found but that has no owner; buried
treasures (if found, one third of it should be paid to the council); mines (one third of the natural
resources taken should be levied by the council) and donations. Likewise, there are to be seven
categories of expenditures: first, moderate public expenditures such as the expenses of the council and
maintenance of public health; second, payment of government taxes; third, payment of taxes on
livestock to the government; fourth, care of orphans; fifth, providing for the disabled; sixth,
management of schools; and seventh, providing the necessary means of livelihood for the poor.”
(Cited in Mahmud’s Diary, pp. 206-207). The same Tablet goes on to provide a
detailed exposition of tithes and administration of orphanage and other welfare
systems.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   333



‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Residence in Haifa

7 May 1915
Today we attained the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by the gardens of
His house. He said:

Now that I am waiting and expectant, I bear no
blossoms, leaves, fruits or benefits. I wonder for what
purpose the Ancient Farmer planted me! If the means
were available for Me to be engaged [in some service], it
would have been much better. I would teach and go
from village to village, hamlet to hamlet, to all the places
that I have never gone before. That would be truly
wonderful.
When a person is engaged in the mention of divine
teachings and propagation of the Faith, great spirituality
and attraction develop. Conversely, when one is speaking

334  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


of worldly affairs, depression and sorrow result. Talking
about temporal concerns consumes the life. The vernal
breeze wafts over nature to give it life and energy; but
the autumnal wind causes nature to pale and wither. I do
not have the same joy and rapture that was experienced
during the [American and European] journey. Even
though it was a very difficult period, each day being
spent in a different place, it was filled with ecstasy and
happiness, spirituality and confirmation.


That night a copy of the Star of the West was read at the
Master’s house and the program of a Bahá’í gathering in San
Francisco was mentioned before ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He said:

Every instrument that has its own source of power
will propel itself forward. Though I am here and all
doors and paths are closed to Me, yet the Cause of God
in the East and the West is progressing unceasingly, with
the friends propagating the Word of God and raising the
banner of the divine Faith. Rumí has versed:

The hand is invisible and yet,
Behold the pen that scribes

The dust is evident and yet,

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   335




The mount is indiscernible.


Indeed the hand is not evident, but the pen
continues to flow. In similar fashion, the standard of the
Faith is now hoisted across the globe though no
standard-bearer is manifest; the Call of the Kingdom is
raised without the crier; and the divine lamp is lit in
absence of the niche. This is the power of the Cause and
the reason why the Blessed Beauty, through the
renowned Mírzá Safa, sent word to Mírzá Husayn Khan
Mushíru’d-Dawlih, the [Iranian] Ambassador to Istanbul:
“What is your purpose? If your intent is Me, I am in
your hands, and you can perpetrate whatever harm and
injuries you wish. But if your objective is to destroy the
Faith of God, you will never succeed. You shall never be
able to extinguish the lamp of the Cause, even should
you combine with one another. This fire will
communicate itself to all the horizons of the world, and
therefore I have no worries!”


Preparation for Return to Iran
The period of our stay at Abu Sinan had now concluded. It was
about six months that we resided there under the shadow of our
Beloved. During this time we had no concern, sorrow or worry.
Every two or three days we would attain ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s august
presence, drink our fill from the billowing ocean of His utterances
and be intoxicated by the wine of the joy of His nearness.

336  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




Since the situation had returned to a relatively normal state and
the commotion and tumult of the early days of the War had
subsided, the Master instructed all the believers to return home.
Naturally, we369 were also no longer needed in Abu Sinan and,
consequently, closed the [Bahá’í] school and dispensary and returned
to Haifa.
Each of the few days that we were in Haifa, in a special way,
we received ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s bounties and favors. Because [the
Master] would say, “In Abu Sinan you practiced medicine and must
engage in that same service here,” I was under the impression that I
would remain in that city for some time. At other times, I was told,
“Extract statements from the letters of the Apostle Paul regarding
the prohibition to associate with the munáfiqin, and make a
compilation of them.”370 At other instances I would hear the rumor
that Áqá Ahmad Yazdí was instructed to purchase a ticket for me to
leave for America on a ship. In short, there were many ideas, but
eventually the divine plan and decree, and the heavenly will became
evident. “Whatever a person does not wish, is placed on him; much
like the wind pushing the sailboat in whatever direction it decrees.”


369 A reference to Badí‘ Bushrú’í and Dr. Habíb Mú’ayyad.
370 Some of the statements in Paul’s epistles dealing with avoidance of those
promoting heresies and those with bad qualities can be found in: I Timothy 1:18-20;
II Timothy 2:14-21; Romans 16:16-18; I Corinthians 5:9-13; and II Thessalonians
3:6-15. Of interest may also be: Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History, III.28.6.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   337


God will direct the boat where He wants,

Even if the captain protest most vigorously.


One day I was summoned into ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence where
I received His abundant blessings and favors. This was an indication
that the day of my departure was fast approaching. He said:

I had wished for you to practice [medicine] in
Haifa so that you would gain further expertise. However,
I see that your work has concluded and your father is old
and bent. He has suffered terribly, particularly after the
martyrdom of your brother. From seeing you, he will
gain new vigor and spirituality.

<230> Similarly He spoke of my future success in Iran. He
gave instructions pertaining to my residence in Kirmánsháh and the
necessity of observing great wisdom in all undertakings. He also
gave instructions for stay in Tihran and said, “Do as is appropriate.”

338  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The following day He again spoke in a manner that confirmed
I would soon be leaving. For example, He said, “The best course is
to leave since your father is expecting you. Be assured of divine
bounties. Celestial confirmations will surround you. But you must
follow My instructions and do not allow yourself to become well-
known.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá by the Shrine of the Báb

8 May 1915
‘Abdu’l-Bahá summoned me and spoke the following exalted words
as we walked the streets and alleys:

You truly worked hard in Abu Sinan this year. You
had no other purpose save the good-pleasure of God.
Planting such seeds will assuredly give results. I hope
that your efforts in Beirut and the Holy Land will not fall

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   339


by the wayside. If they do not bear fruit today, then they
will tomorrow; and if not tomorrow, then definitely the
next day. It is not possible for someone to sow pure
seeds and then harvest weeds. Insha’lláh, great benefits
will appear from your work in Beirut. Always rely on
God. Ceaselessly His divine confirmations will pour
forth. Your services in Beirut and here will have great
results. It was very necessary to organize the gatherings
of the [Bahá’í] students in Beirut and see to their needs.
Insha’lláh it will have great gains.
I wanted you to stay here and practice medicine
since all the doctors have been taken away and a vast
field for practice is available. I once asked a British
physician, “Why do you not practice medicine in your
own country?” He responded, “I do not have the same
opportunities for practice. Several doctors must gather
and consult for every surgery. Then they closely
scrutinize to see if the primary physician has committed
an error or not. There are also many other obstructions.
But here I perform twenty surgeries every day [without
any interventions].” Therefore, I wanted you to practice
here for your own development and advancement.
However, on the other hand, I see that your work
here is completed for some time and your father is old
and bent. He especially suffered after the martyrdom of
your brother. From seeing you, he will gain new
spirituality and vitality.
Also, consider that Iran is an important field.
There is much work to be done there. Many wondrous
men will appear. They desperately need physicians,
especially like you, who are a spiritual healer and
attracted to the divine fragrance. Your life-giving breath
will bring healing.
I desire for you to raise the standard of guidance
and meet with prominent men. Since you are a physician,

340  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


all doors will be open to you, but your focus must be
solely the prominent figures. If you are well-known [as a
Bahá’í], then you will be unable to render service. When
you are remedying certain prominent citizens and discern
in them a hearing ear, share the Word of God. However,
all your teaching must be through deeds. [Teaching] a
prominent person is equivalent to a thousand others. If
two or three of the notables of Kirmánsháh embrace the
Cause, great results will appear. When men like them
accept the Faith, keep it secret and do not introduce
them to the believers, as the foolish will be the cause of
trouble.
My point is to ensure you do not become well-
known [as a Bahá’í]. Teach by deeds only. Praise be unto
God that your intentions are sanctified and that you
desire naught save service to the Cause of the Almighty.
This will indeed attract divine confirmations.

I said, “My Master, tyranny [in Iran] has reached a state that is
well beyond endurance.” He responded, “Since it occurs in the path
of God, then it has a sweetness of its own. Truly your brother was
raised and developed well, but the ungodly were jealous and
martyred him. Now, it is best for you to go for your father is
expecting you.”
Once more that afternoon in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s company we
went strolling. He remarked:

Your journey is indeed a blessed one because, for
many years, you were in Holy Land and its vicinity, able
to visit the Shrines of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb, and
engaged in service. Even though you were acquiring
education, truly you and other students devoted your
time to the service of the Cause of God. Your behavior
in school was a service to the Faith and a source of its
exaltation. Now you are departing. Insha’lláh you will be

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   341


enabled to guide sanctified souls so that the fire of God’s
love will engulf that region. However, you must be
careful that once notables embrace the Faith, their
affiliation does not become public knowledge since
others will then cause difficulties for them.
The Prime Minister Mírzá ‘Alí-Asghar Khan had
embraced the Faith, but when it became public, he
withdrew. The reason is: when the friends see that
someone prominent has become a Bahá’í, they spread
the news, which causes complications for the new
convert and results in the authorities, the ‘ulamá and the
people arising against him. You must explain to the
community not to announce the names of such men.
This problem has prevented the diffusion of the Cause
of God.
The friends of God must teach by deeds and
conduct so that all will testify that verily their behavior
and manner is a reflection of the heaven above. At
worst, it may be said of them, “Alas, they are Bahá’ís!”
Although under all conditions, with utmost earnestness,
it would be testified on their behalf that they are
manifestations of sanctity, purity, piety, and sagacity.
Friends should regularly recite the Persian and Arabic
Hidden Words and behave in accordance with them. If
we live for only one day in conformity with those divine
edicts, it will have a profound effect in all corners of the
earth. Once a lamp is lit, it will instantly give brilliance to
all its surroundings.
Consider these nuns. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá pointed to
several nuns that were passing by.) They are not aware of
the teachings of Christ, nor of His ordinances, and
indeed are ignorant of everything. But in following their
own vain imaginings are in fact performing these
sacrificial deeds. They withdraw from society and normal
life and live in these convents. Some perform useful

342  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


services, such as nursing of the injured and sick or
educating children. Now, we must ask ourselves, we who
stand as believers in the Blessed Beauty, who have
understood the reality of His revelation and have borne
witness to His days, what behaviors are incumbent upon
us?


‘Abdu’l-Bahá then came to pace by the flower gardens of His
house when a number of impoverished people and nuns rushed
forward asking alms. The Blessed Tongue uttered these exalted
words:

From every direction destitution has surrounded
man. Our affairs are presently such that we cannot offer
substantial help. “God will not burden any soul beyond

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   343


its power.”371 Charity to the poor and needy is the best
of all deeds. Similarly, providing welfare to the elderly,
the disabled and orphans is the greatest service in the
world of humanity. Its effect is like giving water to the
thirsty soil, or bestowing life and spirit on the dead or
granting the perfect healing medicine to the ill. The poor
are the trust of God. Although they appear destitute
before men, they are glorified in the Kingdom. And that
is why the Blessed Beauty adopted the title Darvish,
meaning, the poor:

Darvish, world is consumed by God’s blazing
flame,
It’s time to breathe life through Thy Hidden
Melody.

Or

Darvish, do not utter too many words,
Since of a word came forth this world.

His Holiness Christ lived in destitution, which is
why He revealed, “Blessed are the poor.”372 However the
wealthy person who is not held back by his riches,
provides charity to the needy and spends generously in
the path of God, he is preferred to the patient poor.
That is because such a wealth is the manifestation of
divine benevolence and the wellspring of good to the
whole of humanity.
We have been by this orchard for a while. Let us
go for a walk.


371 Qur’an 2:286.
372 This appears to echo Luke 6:20, “And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and
said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the  kingdom of God.”

344  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Together we went to the house used by the Ancient Beauty
and, from there, to the house employed after His ascension and then
to a well in the German Colony. The Master said:

They have capped this well so that others would
not benefit from its drinking water. Sanctified is God!
What gain or profit do they expect by showing such
iniquity towards others? Some people are unable to hide
the secrets of their hearts and inner thoughts, and they
are incapable of not perpetrating harm. In this regard,
the Iranians are better. In Tihrán we had a neighbor by
the name of Hájí Muhammad-‘Alí who was extremely
frugal. Each day he would only give a piece of bread and
a coin to his wife and children. After he died, however,
he left behind one hundred thousand tumáns373 and
willed that an aqueduct be constructed in his name.
Accordingly, a quarter of his estate was spent on this
charity, and now that aqueduct is known by his name.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa circa 1915

9 May 1915, Haifa

373 A considerable fortune at that time.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   345


This afternoon once more I was summoned into ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
presence. From His comments it was clear that I would soon be
leaving and that what lied ahead for me was the fire of separation
and the yearning to behold His countenance once again. But what
can one do except readily embrace His will! The Master said:

It is best for you to leave as your father expects
your return. Be assured of divine bounties. His celestial
confirmations will pour forth, and they are conditioned
only on following My instructions. The confirmations of
the friends reside solely in teaching the Cause. To the
extent of his own abilities, each person must exert
efforts in the field of teaching. Naturally, all major
undertakings have their share of troubles and difficulties,
but you must not be discouraged, perturbed, dismayed,
wearied, or fatigued. I am certain that you will be able to
render great victories. Be assured!


10 May 1915, Haifa
Today I attained the presence of the Master by the flower gardens of
His house, where He inquired, “Áqá Mírzá Habíb, are you ready to
leave? We are in suspense and waiting [for further events], but you
can leave. Perchance through the attraction of the divine fragrance,
illumination of heavenly tidings and profusion of sacred scents, you
will be able to sow pure seeds.”

346  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



‘Abdu’l-Bahá at His Residence on Haparsim Street in Haifa

He then left for the Shrine of the Báb, and this ephemeral
servant was summoned to enter His presence.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá on His way to the Shrine of the Báb

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   347


<235> For a while He sat in front of the pilgrim house;
afterwards, He proceeded to the Shrine of the Báb to pay homage.
He chanted the Tablet of Visitation in a manner very different from
all previous occasions. His tone echoed a longing and inner yearning
that could melt the sturdiest stones and cause every sinful heart to
ascend unto the summit of glory. It profoundly touched all the
listeners.


11 May 1915, Haifa
Today, two or three times, either with others or alone, I attained
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence, but He did not say very much and was
silent, reflective and melancholy most of the time.

What immense loss for the ear,

and what regret for the eye!


12 May 1915, Haifa
This morning, in the company of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we went strolling
through the street by the foot of the Mount Carmel. It was a clear
and brilliant morning. A vivifying breeze was gently blowing, and the
rhythmic sound of the waves of the azure sea was echoing in the

348  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


background. Birds were singing their carols of thanksgiving to the
Beloved and flying from one branch to the next. Besides these, no
other being or sound could be heard or seen in any direction.
Absolute serenity had filled the air, and except for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
I, no one else was around. Over the far away horizon, farmers could
be seen spreading seeds and attending to their fields. Ah, what a
magnificent morning!
O thou, lover of the flowing locks of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá! Imagine
yourself, with a heart overflowing with longing and yearning, single
and alone, with Him; no noise, no commotion, no worries, no
interruptions, on a brilliant morning, in the midst of vast and green
fields. Then you can conceive the effect of that scene on my soul!
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:


You are the evident book. The Commander of the
Faithful374 has said, “You are the perspicuous Book,
through whose words will appear that which is hidden.”
A journey by you to Tihrán to interject a new vigor in
the friends of God would be very good. You must meet
with the believers in Hamadán and Kirmánsháh in
private, but in Tihrán, do as is prudent.

I asked, “My Master, might I once again attain Your august
presence in this world?” He replied:

Insha’lláh, but mortal bodies may remain separated
from one another. If we do not meet again in this world,
then assuredly we will meet in the Abhá Kingdom,
surrounded by the bounties of God, where we will
partake of the feast of union and togetherness. So long
as hearts are pulsating with the love of God, they are
connected. That connection and meeting is everlasting.

374 A title of Imam ‘Alí.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   349


Convey to your esteemed father my greetings and
say, “Do not be saddened because of the martyrdom of
your son.375 Do not be sorrowful. Your son did not
perish. All the worlds of God belong to you. Like a
brilliant star, he is shining in the Abhá Kingdom. To
whom has this world shown fidelity, that you expect
any? God be praised that He has given you a son like
Mírzá Habíb who is foremost in service to the Cause and
foremost in service to the world of humanity. Praise
unto God that you have such blessed family. Do not
despair.”
God is with you. You are under the shadow of the
bounties of the Blessed Beauty. Do not be sorrowful.
These people who are unaware should be sad. (He
pointed to an Arab woman who was carrying a heavy

375 When my brother, Mírzá Múrád, was martyred, my father went [to the
authorities] and intervened for the release of his murderer. A long Tablet of
Visitation was revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for my brother:
O God, my God! Thou seest Thy devoted servants athirst of the cup of mighty martyrdom
in Thy path, hastening to the field of sacrifice. They are enamored by Thy Beauty and longing to
behold Thee. Of these sacrificial, one is named Múrád and the other is called Bába Jan and verily
they have sought martyrdom in Thy path. They sipped from the chalice of sacrifice in Thy way and
hastened unto Thee and offered up their soul as a ransom for nearness to Thy Court. O Lord,
accept from them this great gift and make these two deliverance for those lost in the wasteland of
waywardness, aid them reach the dawning-place of Thy effulgent, enter them into the celestial
paradise of Thy union in all the worlds of light and abide them in Thy resplendent Kingdom. O
Lord, verily, these two were evident signs of Thy love and conspicuous words on the Tablets of Thy
Oneness. They were two sanctified souls amongst Thy friends, two radiant stars on horizon of
faithfulness and certitude of the heaven of Thy servitude. O Lord, bestow upon them through Thy
generosity and grace all that Thou has decreed in the Kingdom of Thy Light and grant patience
upon those related to them.
Verily Thou art the Clement, the Glorified, and the Munificent, and Thou art the
Benevolent, the Merciful and the Compassionate.
‘A ‘A.
The late Bába Jan Gawhar was one of the Bahá’ís of Jewish descent of
Kirmánsháh that was martyred by the Kurds, who robbed him of his possessions as
well. (HM)

350  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


backpack and whose donkey was loaded with
brushwood.)


13 May 1915, Haifa
This morning, I was summoned by myself into the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and together we went to the street of the German
[Templars]. He remarked:

Leave tomorrow assured of the bounties and the
favors of the Blessed Beauty. Insha’lláh with the breath
of the Holy Spirit, illumined by the divine teachings and
renewed by the celestial fragrance, you will encourage the
friends to be steadfast, firm, engaged in service and
detached.
I have wanted to share a secret with you but was
unable to do so [earlier] at My home and, therefore, I
disclose it now: These days, I am in the utmost danger.
Perhaps I will be martyred. Tell the friends not to be
saddened or perturbed. I eagerly desire to quaff from
this chalice of sacrifice in the path of the Blessed Beauty
and thereby attain unto my highest aspiration. That
would allow My end to be perfumed like musk. What
bounty is greater than hastening to the immortal abode
through crucifixion? Being permitted to drink from this
sweet cup and to surrender life on a cross is the greatest
divine favor that can be bestowed upon Me. How much
more glorified to die at the hands of the executioner and
in the path of God, than to die of various ailments in
one’s bed! I pray that, insha’lláh, I may attain unto this
most beneficent bounty.
Presently Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí is associating with
our most inveterate enemies in ‘Akká and is exerting to
cause a great commotion in the Holy Land. He has
arrayed several others against us and has also leagued

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   351


with the ‘ulamá of Jerusalem.376 They have sent certain
letters to Jamal Pasha claiming that I have uprooted faith
and convictions and have established a new religion.
Even prior to his campaign against Egypt377, they gave
him documents filled with slanders [against Me]. In the
gatherings of the ‘ulamá, he [i.e. Jamal Pasha] had
promised that, on his return from the conquest of
Egypt, he would slay Me; but God protected Me, and he
was not victorious in that campaign.378
However, in these days, they have devised new
schemes and connived with the ‘ulamá of Jerusalem.
Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí has given to this man [Jamal
Pasha] a large tent belonging to the Blessed Beauty [as a
ransom] to slay us. This tent was meant to be the canopy
of the universal peace and is repeatedly mentioned in the
Sacred Books which foretell the raising of the tabernacle
of God on Mount Carmel and the gathering of the
representatives of the Great Peace beneath it. My point
is that this person [Jamal Pasha] is a cruel, boisterous,
impetuous and barbarous man beyond any description.
They constantly provoke him against us, never leaving
him alone, ceaselessly sowing seeds of doubt.
My purpose is for the friends of God not to be
perturbed should something happen [to Me]. With

376 See the interesting account by Lady Blomfield in Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá -
The Centre of the Covenant, p. 413.
377 Meaning the Ottoman attack for the capture of the Suez Canal. (HM)
378 With the encouragement and provocation of the Germans, for over six months,
the Ottomans prepared for the Egyptian campaign and the conquest of the Suez
Canal, which was serving as the artery of the British forces in the region. Whatever
the people of the nation possessed was seized forcibly for this campaign. Nearly
sixty thousand camels were arrayed for carrying weapons and other provisions,
particularly water. They attacked from the direction of Bathru’l-Sab‘. When they
came close, they were confronted with the opposing army who, in only 24 hours,
decisively defeated them. Jamal Pasha retreated to Damascus in the hopes of
preparing for yet a second campaign. (HM)

352  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


utmost firmness and resolve, they should arise in the
service of the Cause. Eventually at some point I must
bid them farewell, but I hope to do so on the field of
martyrdom, quaffing from the overflowing cup of self-
renunciation, allowing the end of my earthly life to be
musk-laden. This is My highest aspiration! I said to the
Mutasarrif of ‘Akká, “Tell Khalil Pasha, the Válí of
Beirut, that God has not decreed abasement for Me. The
Válí thinks that if I was compelled into manual labor,
beaten in the head, made the target of various sufferings,
imprisoned or killed, that would be My humiliation.
Astaghfuru’lláh! That would be My greatest glory! I pray
to God to hasten such a blessed day! In Adhirbayjan, the
blessed breast of My Murshid was made the target of a
thousand bullets. Therefore, how can I, Who follow in
His footsteps, be perturbed by the threat of injury,
captivity or death?”
The friends of God should not be disturbed by the
occurrences in the Holy Land. They must continue with
their work and propagation of the Cause of God. The
Tree of Faith is watered by the blood of martyrs. I
cherish the hope of winning this prize in the path of the
Blessed Beauty. The Imams in Islam were twelve in
number; but since He drank from the chalice of sacrifice,
it is the Prince of the Martyrs379 Who shines like a
brilliant sun in the Abhá Kingdom. I pray that out of the
bounties and favors of the Blessed Beauty, this sweet
cup be bestowed upon Me as well.
Since you are consecrated and devout, your words
will have an effect. The teacher must be constant and
dedicated for his words to have an influence on his
listeners, otherwise if he is not constant, it will bear no
results.

379 A reference to third Imam, Husayn son of ‘Alí.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   353



Afterwards I was permitted to take my leave, and He left to
visit Zeki Bey.380 A number of dignitaries were with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at
lunchtime, and these included: the Qá’im-maqám of Haifa;
Kumandan of the military; Zeki Bey, the previous Kumandan; and
the city’s physician. After lunch, the party retired to the flower
garden. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was exceedingly happy and told several stories
of the convictions and deeds of Bektáshis381.

In the evening’s public meeting, a long Tablet was revealed in
honor of the soldiers in Nazareth. <240> Further, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
arranged for the release of an old man by the name of ‘Alí, who had
fallen on hard times and had previously appealed to the Master.
His especial favors are the garment of my being

for all to say: He is my God!


13 May 1915, Haifa
I was scheduled to leave today, but since one of the friends had
given a feast in my name, my departure was postponed to the
following day. In ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s company, we went to the German
Colony. He first showered His immense bounties on this ephemeral
servant by saying:


You gave us the education you had acquired and in
turn we gave it to the poor. Now they think it will be
continued!

Your journey is of great importance, much like the
journeys of Isaiah. The Prophet Isaiah traveled

380 The following telegraph was sent to Jerusalem three days earlier: “Jerusalem. The
previous Kumandan, Zeki Bey. On your visit to Haifa, I wish to give a feast in your honor.
‘Abbás.” (HM)
381 A Sufi Order that traces its origin to Hájí Bektash Valí of the Islamic eighth
century. Initially of Khurásán, he settled in Istanbul, where he propagated his
teachings which are a mixture of Christianity, Shi‘ism, Sufism and the Sunni sect.
They deeply revere the Twelve Imams, particularly the Sixth Imam, Ja‘far Sádiq.

354  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


throughout the length and breadth of the Holy Land and
bestowed a new vitality to the Israelites. I cherish the
hope that you too will revive the friends through the
breath of the Holy Spirit. When a person is consecrated
and devout, his influence will even penetrate stones and
hard rocks, causing great miracles. Consider what
immense effect resulted from the nightingale of love
going to Sheba, and by nightingale is meant a spiritual
person. Whenever I go to the Cave of Elijah, a new
vivacity is wafted over Me. This is because the life-
generating spirit of Elijah envelops that Cave, though
outwardly it is a ruin in comparison to this place (the
German Colony). That is, notwithstanding the fact that
it has no scenery, streets, trees or buildings, it has a spirit
that is absent here. A person who is surrounded with
divine confirmations is also able to render deeds that
otherwise seem supernatural.












The Carmelite Monastery, on Mount Carmel, 1877

At lunchtime we went to the home of our host, where a
spiritual feast was magnificently spread. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá took His place
at the seat of honor and in His presence were such guests as: the
former Kumandan; ‘Abdu’l-Fattah Effendi, the Sa‘dí Mab‘uth [the

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   355


parliamentarian] and his son; and Muhsin Bey Kurdí. In the
afternoon we had tea in the presence of the Master and subsequently
went to the Cave of Elijah in His carriage, accompanied by the
honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí and Mírzá ‘Inayatu’lláh Isfahání.
Upon our departure from His residence, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

Today I had some yogurt. Since I am fond of Áqá
Mírzá Habíb, I listen to whatever he prescribes.
Normally I do not eat yogurt, as I dislike it. There are
many things that a person may not like, and this very
dislike may be a sign that the particular item is harmful
to the person. For instance, while in Edirne, at a time
when Mírzá Áqá Jan had raised the standard of rebellion
and enmity and had spoken most presumptuously in
Bahá’u’lláh’s presence, I rebuked him one day. I did not
wish to rebuke him; but he had greatly exceeded his
bounds, and My reprimand was necessary. Afterwards, I
ate a pear, and immediately My body began to severely
ache. All My nerves were in pain and I grew very ill.
Moreover, a considerable inner turmoil and convulsion
overcame Me. I sensed that I desired some salt, so I had
some. It helped. I had another piece, and then another,
and soon I were well. My point is that whatever a person
dislikes is probably not good for him. ...382
God forbid if a person is overtaken with pride.
During His last days, the Blessed Beauty was greatly
annoyed [with Mírzá Áqá Jan] to the point that I wanted
to punish him physically. When a person becomes
prideful, first he becomes self-centered. That is, he
believes all his doings are correct and the best way.
Secondly he causes dissension. His inner thoughts are
then in conflict with his behavior, and this results in his
quick demise. Mírzá Áqá Jan did not have a good end.

382 Left blank in Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1, p. 337 (241).

356  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


There is a story that someone went to a psychiatric
ward and noticed that a man was sitting there with great
dignity. He asked him, “What do you do here and why
were you brought to this place?”
He replied, “I had many enemies. Since I was an expert
masseur and the Caliph was fond of me, my enemies
became jealous and accused me of mental disturbance.
They spoke of this matter so much that it reached the
Caliph, and eventually they conspired together and sent
me here.”
The questioner decided to test him, so he asked, “How
do you shave heads?”
The inmate replied, “I place a towel around the client’s
neck, sharpen my blade, wet and shampoo his hair, and
then I shave him.”
“Very well. How do you perform phlebotomy383?”
“I tie a knot around the veins, then massage the vein
for it to be ready and then with my sharpened knife stab
him in the stomach!” As he raised his hand to
demonstrate, the questioner said, “Never mind, I
understand. You almost had me convinced, but at the
end you ruined it!”

They say that when the scribes excel in their craft,
they begin to forge money, as they consider this the
height of their skills.

Yesterday, you were such that none was like you,


Today, you have become such that none
should be like you!

‘Abdu’l-Bahá then turned to me and said:

Áqá Mírzá Habíb now you are leaving and will
surely give a breath of joy to the friends. Move forward

383 As part of their service, if requested, the masseurs working in the public baths
would draw blood from the clients for medicinal purposes.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   357


with celestial fragrance, heavenly attraction, divine
undertakings, reliance on the Almighty, and assured of
confirmations from on high. Although you will pour
water on barren land, know of a certainty that
affirmations of the Abhá Kingdom will surround your
deeds. Be assured that, until a person has not
concentrated all his energies on a particular effort, it will
not bear results. “And even make my supplications, my
prayers, my entreaties, and my remembrance as one.”

The honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí said, “Teaching through
deeds is far more effective than through words.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá replied, “If both words and deeds were
congruent, then it would be much better. It would be light upon
light.”
Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí remarked, “Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh
Baqiroff wrote a letter and supplicated prayers. I responded, ‘Praying
will have no effect, even the prayers of the Chosen Ones, until a
person begins to carry out the intended deed. Notice that the
Blessed Beauty prayed that the Arch-Covenant-breaker [Mírzá
Muhammad-‘Alí] be confirmed in “that which is of nobility”, yet we
saw that it was not fulfilled. The confirmations attracted by deeds
are far greater than prayers offered in this regard.’ His response was,
‘One must have lived a worthy life to win an eternal reward.’ I
replied, ‘This world is school for acquiring spiritual qualities and
attributes. Therefore, sow worthy seeds so that you harvest
accordingly.’
‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded, “People are like trees and plants.
Similar to shrubs, the ones that seek worldly attainments will grow
and will have an attraction, but it will last only a few days. Whereas
sanctified souls are like these trees which are always flourishing,
lively, blossomed and fruitful. Consider this tree (He pointed to a
large and old olive tree): It has been here for at least two thousand
years, withstanding many assaults, and yet it continues to blossom
and be productive. It is astounding: People that are godly typically

358  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


become prosperous as well. But people that go after worldly
attainments lose both this world and the next.”

In His residence that evening, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá briefly remarked:
“The Blessed Beauty sent word to Mushíru’d-Dawlih, ‘What do you
hope to achieve with your enmity? If your target is Me, I am in your
hands. You can harm Me, imprison Me, bury Me in the depth of the
ocean, or crucify Me! But if your purpose is the Cause of God, then
know that you will assuredly fail in harming it in the least. All by
itself and without anyone’s help, the Faith of God will envelop the
horizons of the world. ‘To the regret of all enemies!’’”
The gathering concluded with a prayer.


14 May 1915, Haifa
The plan was for me to leave today, but ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s instruction
was to remain one more day as He wished me to convey a Tablet to
my father. In the afternoon, without my request and solely out of
His benevolence, He bestowed the following perspicuous Tablet:

Kirmánsháhan. The honored father of Áqá Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh, upon him rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.

He is God!
O servant of Abhá! It has been some time since I wrote you
a letter and this delay was due to myriad trials; otherwise, the shrill
of the pen and the melody of the dove has been unceasing. As
presently the Lord’s bestowal384, Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh, is
returning, therefore, it was incumbent upon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to write
and to send you a letter.
Praise unto God that with utmost spirit and vitality, faith
and fidelity and with absolute firmness in the Covenant, Áqá
Mírzá Habíbu’lláh was able to complete his education and learn
sciences, and indeed excelled above all the other students at his

384 “Lord’s bestowal” is a play on the name of the Tablet’s recipient, Khudá-Bakhsh.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   359


school. While at the university, ceaselessly he served the sacred
Threshold and embraced the students and the friends with love and
affection. He received his certificate for the completion of his studies
and afterward spent some time serving these dispersed ones [in the
Holy Land]. He is presently leaving for your direction. Of a
certainty, on beholding his countenance and seeing the excellence of
his character, you will be filled with joy and bliss. Therefore, render
thanks unto God for having such a remarkable son who is bright
with the love of God and engaged in service to the world of
humanity.
Convey my warmest greetings to all the divine friends. Do
not be saddened or grieved over the martyrdom of thy young and
auspicious son. Though outwardly that bright candle left the trials
of this world, he is shining brilliantly in the Kingdom; and though
that morning bird departed from his mortal earth, he soared
heaven-wards to the orchard of the Merciful. Know that Áqá
Mírzá Habíbu’lláh is like a hundred sons unto you.
Upon thee rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


[Departure from the Holy Land]
With tearful eyes and broken heart, on 15 May 1915 I bade the
friends farewell and left for ‘Akká. I spent the 16th in Sur and the 17th
in Sayda, and since I was traveling with a leased horse, I had to
change the mode of transportation. I arrived in Beirut on 18 May
and for a day or two visited with the friends and students in that city
and said my goodbyes. <245> I left Beirut on 20 May and, by way
of Baghdad, proceeded to Iran.
The details of the journey and the rest of my life’s story are
recorded in other volumes of my memoirs.385



385 As noted earlier, the present translator has been unable to obtain information on
whereabouts of the diary notebooks.

360  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   361


Chapter 12

Notes on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Utterances


In the name of the Almighty!


Several selections from the public or private utterances of the
Master that were on various scattered papers, post cards, or
elsewhere, and I feared may otherwise be lost, I now record in this
notebook, which is more secure. It should be noted: (1) I have
collected the personal Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a separate,
ornamented volume and hope that my descendants would preserve
them like sweet life itself and consider this collection a source of
blessings and honor for the Mú’ayyad family; (2) the majority of the
following notes are extracted from my pilgrimage notebooks,
recorded mostly at a time when I was in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence. I
have also augmented these with several extracts from the notebooks
of Dr. Zia Baghdadi and others and have deposited them in this
treasure house.


Extract 1:386 [‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]

In truth, the honored Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh [Mú’ayyad]
is a bright candle of the Cause of God. I love him from
the depth of My heart, and I have always wanted to
render him service. Not only did he never cause troubles,
in fact, he was the source of My comfort and great joy.
My ultimate desire is to render a befitting service to the
devoted believers of the Blessed Beauty, to prepare food
for them with My own hands and to circle them

386 Author unknown.

362  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


butterfly-like in adoration. I wish to give My life in the
path of our spiritual friends.
Praise be unto God that Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh
has been able to serve the Cause and the divine friends
until now, and I am certain that in the future he will
exert even more and will ascend to greater heights in this
regard, thereby attracting divine confirmations and
celestial blessings.

Additionally, the Master summoned me in the morning into His
presence and stated:

Write to Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh [Mú’ayyad] to readily
prepare for his journey so that he would meet with his
father, gladden his heart and that of other kinsmen.387
However, the honored Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís388 will not go to
Baghdad directly as he wishes to proceed from here to
Damascus, Beirut, Aleppo, Constantinople, and once
more return to Aleppo and then to Baghdad. Hence,
Áqá Mírzá Habíb should go directly by way of Baghdad.
In the next two or three days, we too will go to Abu
Sinan and will, therefore, see him there.


Extract 2: Copied from a card-postal of Mírzá Badí‘ Bushrú’í,
dated 17 Muharram 1334 A.H. [25 November 1915]:


387 After my return from the mission to Europe, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had wished for me to
go to America and had given complete instructions in this regard. However,
suddenly He dismissed me [from the Holy Land] and sent me instead to Iran. I
suspect that the martyrdom of my brother, Múrád, and the resultant sorrow, anguish
and wailing of my parents had prevented me from this service and had changed the
course of my life. “God knows best!” (HM)
388 I traveled with the honored Prince Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís when he was at Bahjí, and his
devotion, humility, faith and consecration to the Cause are a source of deep joy and
will never be forgotten. “Blessed is he and good was his end.” (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   363


Last week, the following was revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and the original text will be sent at the first opportune
moment as soon as my mind is at ease. The original
Tablet is in the hand of Áqá Mírzá Ahmad [Sohrab]:

Kirmánsháhan. The honored and distinguished Dr. Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh.

He is God!
O faithful friend! Your two letters were received, both
overflowing chalices of the wine of fidelity; and therefore, they caused
great joy and exultation. I pray that divine confirmations and
blessings will surround all the friends and will also render you
triumphant and victorious. However, prudence must be observed in
all undertakings, as the unwise are watchful.
Convey my warmest greetings and affections to the true
friends. During these days, love, fidelity and utmost constancy will
protect, save and safeguard all. Peace.
9 Muharram 1334389. ‘A ‘A.


Extract 3: Copied from the notebook of the honored Áqá Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh Ahmadoff.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s utterances in a feast organized by the
honored
Hájí
Khudábakhsh,
father
of
Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh390, by the Shrine of the Báb:
I said to Myself that today is the feast of the
friends, especially given by the honored Abú-Habíb, and
therefore I must attend. In truth, the honored Mírzá
Habíbu’lláh has greatly pleased Me by taking care of the
[Bahá’í] students in Beirut by spiritual means; and this is

389 17 November 1915.
390 After the martyrdom of my brother, Mírzá Múrád, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] never again
referred to my father as Khudábakhsh, but instead he was called Abú-Habíb. (HM)

364  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


because he is focused and devout. In Paris I saw some
students who desired naught but self-pleasure and
decadence. And, in reality, Paris provides the means for
all manner of such carnal indulgences, unless a person is
deeply pious and refrains from partaking in such matters.
Once a certain person came to ‘Akká [on pilgrimage] and
then went to Paris. For a while he sent letters, but then
he stopped corresponding and became corrupt.


Extract 4:391 4 Sha‘bán 1332 A.H. [28 June 1914]:
O my beloved and my friend! Mention of the [Bahá’í]
students of Beirut was made in His resplendent presence
and He showered them all with His outpouring
affection, and said:
In truth, under all conditions, Mírzá Habíbu’lláh
[Mú’ayyad] vivifies the students in Beirut much like fresh
and verdant flowers; through the love of the Cause of
God, he makes them thriving like luscious gardens and
greens, and with utmost detachment and piety, he is
engaged in increasing love and fellowship. The fragrance
of Beirut perfumes My nostrils.392


Extract 5: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk on 1 Muharram 1332 A.H. [30
November 1913]:

It is good that we are all assembled in the Shrine of the
Báb under the canopy of the Blessed Beauty’s bounties.
Never did anyone think that such a gathering and
meeting could be held in such a location, but praise be
unto God that, out of the beneficence of the Blessed

391 Author unknown.
392 See Arohanui 98.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   365


Perfection, it has been made possible.393 If for the rest of
our lives we were to give thanks for this mighty favor
and stupendous generosity, it would not be enough and
we would not be able to render it befittingly. This is
because such gatherings are organized solely out of His
grace; if we were to desire to render adequate
appreciation of the Blessed Beauty, we would assuredly
fail. However, to the extent of our abilities we must be
grateful. “The whole of it cannot be comprehended, nor
be dissolved.” Under all conditions and at all times offer
thanks and servitude unto His sacred Threshold. We
must recognize that no attainment, no glory and no
earthly sovereignty can ever hope to surpass the summit
of servitude unto His bounteous Threshold – a true
servitude that is unconditioned.
Servitude unto the Threshold means propagating
the Words of God, diffusing the divine fragrance and
teaching the Cause of the Almighty. It means not resting
for a moment and not remaining still for an instant. With
our words, conduct and deeds we must exert efforts to
spread and teach the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. This is the
greatest bounty; this is the mightiest favor. I pray that all
may succeed in this attainment.
Consider how the enemies have surrounded the
temple of the Cause from every direction: Muslims from
one direction, Christians from another, Azalís394 from yet
another and the infidels from all points. They all have
circled the Faith of God and, with utmost determination,
are working to eradicate this blessed Tree and totally
obliterate its name. Therefore, it is evident how sacrificial
we must be, with what detachment we must proceed,

393 In the East, the Holy Day celebration of the Birth of the Báb is observed on 1
Muharram.
394 The original word used by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is Yahyá’ís, but a more common
appellation, “Azalí,” is employed in translation.

366  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


and what sincerity must propel our deeds. We must try
to exert our utmost to ensure that, in the face of the
onslaughts of these resolute enemies, the impenetrable
fortress of the Cause of God remains safe and secure.
Consider how persistently they are striving. The
Christians are unceasingly publishing their polemics in
newspapers and presenting arguments. Even though in a
Jewish Synagogue I proved that Christ was the Logos of
God and that Muhammad was God’s Messenger,
nevertheless these unfaithful priests in America have
spread the claim that Bahá’ís are the enemies of Christ.
This is despite the fact that, until now, no one had been
able to prove that Jesus was God’s Logos and Spirit in a
Jewish Synagogue. Consider how unfair they are. Our
lives, our spirits, our souls are all fleeting before the
station of Christ or that of Muhammad, and we long to
sacrifice ourselves in Their path. Yet these people who,
with the slightest injury would repudiate all and who, if
made to sustain the least harm would deny their faith,
have the temerity to proclaim that Bahá’ís are the
enemies of Christ and have arisen to destroy the
foundation He laid and obliterate the religion of God!
I hope that, inshá’lláh, with absolute evanescence
and humility, with utmost fervor and enthusiasm, with
meekness and submissiveness, we will all serve the
sacred Threshold and with such spiritual efficacy will
remain fast and firm in His Cause until our very last
breath. This is our ultimate aspiration.


<250> Extract 6: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk at a feast organized by the
honored Áqá Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Nakhjavaní on 5 Sha‘bán 1332 A.H.
[29 June 1914]:395

395 Dr. Zia Baghdadi provides a slight variation of this talk; see Star of the West, 27

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   367



During the days of Bahá’u’lláh, I always longed for the
day that, inshá’lláh, I could travel in some direction and,
to the degree of my abilities, render service in the path of
God’s Cause, however insignificant. But, as we were
prisoners, those days passed in regret. The fruits of life
are the spiritual benefits that appear from a person.
Therefore, he must not remain immobile but should be
itinerant; not motionless but soaring heavenwards. In the
entire creation, stillness is the cause of death, and
movement is the source of life. The difference remains
in the form of movement, which includes such
movements as: essence, being, qualitative, quantitative,
physical, spiritual and divine.396 In short, movement
causes life, and stillness results in death. During that
period [of imprisonment], I was deeply grieved and
depressed because I could see that I was not confirmed
and successful in serving the Threshold. However, when
I considered the impediment, that my obstacle was
imprisonment in the path of God, then I would be
comforted and not be sorrowful.
After the ascension [of Bahá’u’lláh], the depth of
my anguish and sadness was so profound that it can
never be described. I was thoroughly overwhelmed with
sorrow and distress to the point that no thought,
emotion or will was left to Me. For a while I remained
thunderstruck with this bereavement. Afterwards, as you
all know, the flame of infidelity blazed all around Me,
and this became another barrier. Then I saw that the
Cause of God was in great peril, so I decided to travel.
But the government prevented Me. All the enemies of
the Blessed Beauty attacked from every direction. They
considered the ascension of the Ancient Beauty as an

September and 16 October 1918 issues.
396 The original terms are: jawharí, wujúdí, kayfí, kammí, ‘ayní, rúhání, and illáhí.

368  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


opportunity to assail [Me] with utmost might and
efficacy. From every corner, our foes, fully armed and
united, rose in opposition and enmity. In particular, after
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, the followers of [Mírzá] Yahyá,
who were always hiding in various holes and previously
had no name, fame, or notice, grew hopeful that they
might penetrate and cause division and disunity in the
blessed Faith. They therefore began to exert great
efforts. Moreover, news was received that, from one
direction, the ‘ulamá and divines had taken advantage of
the situation and had launched further assaults while,
from another direction, the government had commenced
persecution and caused enormous difficulties, such as
the incident at Yazd397, which in truth melted my bones.
Though I did not complain, for days and nights, I was
consumed with sorrow and grief. It is well evident what
befell Me during this period.
All of these impediments prevented Me from
journeying, until our freedom was proclaimed and the
shackles of imprisonment were broken. Upon gaining
this liberty, I decided that it was time to travel, despite
the consequences. Though I was ill, of a sudden, without
anyone being told, I boarded ship and, relying upon
God, left this region. The illustrious kinsmen-turned-
strangers [i.e. the violators of the Covenant] in ‘Akká
claimed that, fearing the Committee of Union and
Progress, I had fled and – I take refuge to God! – I had
perpetrated treason, which required my flight.398

397 Presumably a reference to the Bahá’í pogrom in Yazd which took place in the
summer of 1903 at the instigation of the governor of that city and resulted in the
loss of over 100 Bahá’ís.
398 The Arch-Covenant-breaker [Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí] had spread the rumor – I
take refuge with God – that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had escaped. He insisted that ‘Akká’s
Matrán send his agents in Jaffa and Alexandria to investigate the matter and they
telegraphed, “The renowned Gentleman is on the ship.” (HM)

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   369


During the reign of [Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd, the
enemies of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá constantly circulated written
accusations that I was scheming with the freedom
fighters399 and that I regularly communicated with them
against the government. When [national] liberty was
proclaimed, they completely changed the content of their
slanders and disseminated written imputations that in my
letters I referred to [Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd and to the
Shah of Iran as wronged and meek, and had urged the
Bahá’ís to take refuge with the Russians. Sanctified be
God! For twenty-five years ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd imprisoned
the Blessed Beauty and Me. Bahá’u’lláh explicitly wrote
of his tyranny: “O Spot that art situated on the shores of two
seas! The throne of tyranny hath, verily, been established upon
thee.”400
There are many cities situated by the sea, such as
Gibraltar or Báb al-Mandab401, and many others.
However since it is decreed that the Faith must be
proclaimed through the hand of its enemies, in order to
provoke ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd and some others, Mírzá Mihdi
Hikmat, known as Za‘ím402, wrote of this verse in his
newspaper. He has given an exposition of the above
verse of the Aqdas, stating that by it is meant
Constantinople, and has further claimed that the
Committee of Union and Progress arranged for My
release.403 Therefore, with this, how am I to call him [i.e.
Sultán ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd] wronged and meek?
Many such difficulties surrounded us, but since my

399 Young Turks is intended.
400 Kitáb-i Aqdas, K89.
401 Located at the southern tip of the Red Sea.
402 Starting in 1893, Mírzá Mihdí of Tabríz, entitled Za‘ímu’d-Dawlih and Ra’ísu’l-
Hukamá, edited the newspaper Hikmat in Cairo. In Arabic, he also wrote a history
and refutation of the Bábís and Bahá’ís entitled Miftáhu Bábi’l-Abwáb [the Key of the
Gate of Gates].
403 See also Ma’idih Asmání, vol. 5, pp. 129-130.

370  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


intent was that, God willing, I would be able to render
some service to the sacred Threshold, I never heeded
these attacks. Therefore I went to Europe and America,
journeyed its length and breadth, and out of the bounty
and favor of the Blessed Beauty, was able to raise the call
of the Kingdom in every city and hamlet, widely
proclaiming its purpose in all churches, synagogues,
universities and societies. Although I was extremely ill
and frail, there was not a spot left unvisited. Divine
confirmations unceasingly came to our aid. Though I
would be weak at home, when I arrived at an assemblage
or synagogue and had fixed my attention on the Abhá
Kingdom, confirmations of the Blessed Beauty would
immediately descend, and for one or two hours I would
be able to speak unceasingly.
Although we are but specks of dust, the effulgence
of the bounties of the Blessed Beauty are like the rays of
the sun, and every speck in the path of such rays will
shine with brilliance. Therefore our splendor is like the
radiance of a speck under the luster of the sun. That is,
the grace and bounties of the Blessed Beauty are so
immense that they can never be described. How well it is
written:

O Love, who sellest me this wine,
O Love, for whom I burn and bleed,
Love, for whom I cry and pine—
Thou the Piper, and I the reed.
If Thou wishest me to live,
Through me blow Thy holy breath.
The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give
To me, who’ve lain an age in death.404


404 Translation of poem from Memorials of the Faithful, pp. 30-31.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   371


My “holy breath” was the confirmations of the Blessed
Beauty that were influencing and giving tranquility to
hearts and were gladdening people with the divine
tidings. I was but a humble instrument. Praised be God
that, in the soil of hearts, goodly seeds were sown that
will grow forever. Blessed souls were inflamed,
consecrated and arose to serve the Cause. Afterwards,
with utmost joy and happiness, I returned to the sacred
Threshold.
Praise the Lord that the friends of God came from
all directions to offer homage at the Sanctified Shrines.
Meeting and associating with them and through the
brilliance of their faces, my heart was gladdened and
assurance was gained that they were sacrificial in the path
of the Blessed Beauty. They had no purpose other than
His good-pleasure and no thought other than the
diffusion of divine fragrance. With consummate
devotion they circumambulated the point of adoration
of the Supreme Concourse and prostrated themselves at
the sacred Threshold and the Exalted Shrine of the Báb.
Then they returned to their homes. I remain hopeful that
great achievements and resplendent effects will result
from their return. Similarly, now you return and must
likewise journey by the divine splendor, heavenly tidings
and celestial attraction.
While I was not here, the friends-turned-strangers
[i.e. the Covenant-breakers] exerted efforts and
established, either outwardly or in private, relationships
with some of the friends. Upon My return, they
congregated and, once more, similar to the time of
[Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd, wrote certain documents and
issued slanders. They presently have sent these to
Constantinople, thinking that they would persuade the
government to arise against Me, and to imprison, banish
or slay Me.

372  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



However, the friends of God must not fix their
gaze on Me. This Cause is immensely great. It is the
Cause of the Blessed Beauty. Thousands like Me will
come and go, or never leave a trace. Our existence or
absence is not important; what matters is the blessed
Faith. The friends of God must remain firm, steadfast
and constant. It is evident that I have always been in
danger and will continue to remain in harm’s way;
moreover, I will not be in this world forever, as a day
will come when I desire to gain my eternal abode of the
Merciful. The friends of God must remain absolutely
loyal and not be perturbed in the least. Nay, day-by-day
they must grow in certitude, firmness, and constancy.
Consider how one by one the Disciples of Christ
left this world because they fell martyred. Others, greater
than they, arose in service to the Faith and manifested
mightier efficacy, until the light of guidance illumined the
horizons of the world. You must do likewise and be
assured that the confirmations of the Blessed Beauty will
pour forth. By God besides Whom there is no other
God, if on this day the least of men was to arise in
service to the Cause, divine confirmations and
affirmations would surround him from every direction.
May you always remain protected under the
shadow of the Blessed Beauty. May you remain
confirmed and successful, and may each of you become
a heavenly standard in His path. May you be illumined
and attracted, revived by His hallowed breath.
Do not consider whether I am with you or not,
whether I exist or not. Busy yourself with service to the
Cause and fix your gaze on the Blessed Beauty. He will
enable you to succeed without anyone’s aid. Seek
assistance solely from Him. Remain firm in His Cause.
Be a servant unto Him. Protect His Threshold and serve
it well. Be suppliant of His favors. Be illumined by His

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   373


bounties and radiant by His light. Be safe and secure
under His care and protection. Remain assured. “Verily,
We behold you from Our realm of glory, and shall aid whosoever
will arise for the triumph of Our Cause with the hosts of the
Concourse on high and a company of Our favored angels.”405
Such is true happiness.
For instance, consider Áqá Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl.406
How many victories he won! How in every situation,
under all conditions, he was confirmed. By God besides
Whom there is no God, <255> if one attains
sovereignty over the East and the West, it would not
profit him in the least. In the end, it is naught but
immense regret. Where is Násiri’d-Dín Shah? Where is
Muhammad Shah? Where is ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd? Where is
‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz? Where is ‘Abdu’l-Majíd? Where is
Napoleon? Where is Guillaume407? No trace or sign of
them has remained. Though they were monarchs and
reigned in utmost splendor, their end was naught but
eternal regret. We see this all around us.
Therefore, arise to remain constant in service to
the sacred Threshold. This is the everlasting glory. This
is the eternal bounty. This is the cause of the
illumination of our souls in the Abhá Kingdom. This is
the cause of our growth in the boundless realms of God.
Upon you rest the Glory of God, the Most
Glorious.

To explain:  ‘Akká’s Matrán, who was one of the enemies of

405 Kitab-i Aqdas K53.
406 A poem in memory of Mírzá Abú’l-Fadl was recited in this gathering of the
friends in the house of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa. As a eulogy for the illustrious Abú’l-
Fadl, this poem was composed by Hájí Fasihu’l-Mulk Shirazi, known as Shuridih,
and sent by Mírzá Muhammad-Baqir Khan Dihqan. (HM) [The two opening lines of
the poem are quoted by the diarist.]
407 French reference to Kaiser Wilhelm.

374  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


the Cause and an associate of the Arch-Covenant-breaker [Mírzá
Muhammad-‘Alí], telegraphed one of his colleagues in Jaffa, asking
him to go and investigate – and I take refuge with God! – if ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá had fled onboard a ship. That Christian went onboard the boat
and inquired, “Are you ‘Abbás Effendi?” “Yes, I am”, responded
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “I have heard of Your fame”, stated the man, “and I
have come to attain Your presence.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá answered, “I
know you.” When someone had followed the man, they had noticed
that he had gone directly to the post office, telegraphing, “The
renowned Gentleman is on the ship.”


Extract 7: The original of the following Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is
scribed by the Guardian of the Cause of God and is presently in my
possession, bearing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s signature. Since it contains
important details about the defection of Dr. Faríd, I will record its
text in this notebook:

Paris. The illustrious Mr. and Mrs. Dreyfus[-Barney],
upon them rest the Glory of God.

Telegraph regarding your arrival in New York was received
and we were immensely gladdened that, praised be God, you
arrived in good health. We hope that by now you have returned to
Paris safe and secure and that you remain safeguarded and
protected there as well.
In these days your presence in Paris is especially necessary
since the violators of the Covenant in London have succeeded in
precipitating the fall of certain believers and have arisen in utmost
enmity and rancor. Dr. Faríd has sent Mrs. Chevalier as his
emissary to journey throughout America to undermine the firmness
in the Divine Covenant of those she meets. Because of my trust and
confidence in you, while in Paris, I briefly shared an account of Dr.
Faríd and further details are enclosed. You will see for yourself how
patient I have been and how indefatigably I have endured this

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   375


iniquitous man. With utmost love and care, I raised him for twenty
years and bestowed every favor upon him and his parents, so that
he would mature and serve the Cause of God. But now he is the
arch-antagonist.
However, such incidents have been many. All those who
arose in opposition to the Covenant have been reduced and
destroyed. No power can subvert the efficacy of the Covenant. As
experience has proven, all violators will ultimately be shattered and
wrecked.
Áqá Jamal Burujirdí was the foremost Bahá’í and like
Judas Iscariot was the chief of the Apostles. However, because of
his break with the Covenant, he was destroyed and annihilated.
Similarly, there were others, all of whom sank into the depths of
regret. These new violators will have the same fate as the earlier
transgressors, each of whom were more prominent, renowned and
esteemed than Dr. Faríd and his associates, but all fell into the pit
of remorse and regret.
The power of Covenant is like the brilliant sun, and its
violation like dark clouds. Eventually, however, the warmth of the
sun will dissipate the black clouds and will shine forth
resplendently.
I am confident about Paris and know that he will not be
able to cause any sedition in that city because you are there. Of a
certainty, your firmness will prevent violators of the Covenant from
causing mischief.
Today the world pulsates by the power of the Covenant.
Experience has proven that the firmer a person, the more his
radiance, his confirmation and his success.
Inasmuch as Miss Knobloch408 was firm in the Covenant,

408 Miss [Alma] Knobloch was German-born and residing in Canada. She embraced
the Faith when the standard of the Cause was raised in the United States and this
prompted her return to Germany for the purpose of teaching the Faith. Though she
was 60 or 70 years old, she was very petite, and was often lifted and placed on a
table to deliver talks at the Bahá’í gatherings. However, once she commenced
talking, like a billowing ocean, profound thoughts poured out, and the audience was

376  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


she became exceedingly successful in Germany, and yet Ibráhím
Khayru’lláh, despite his great fame, was obliterated. Faríd and his
supporters will be like him as well. This is an unerring balance.
In Paris, exert yourselves so that [Faríd’s] satanic
whisperings will have no effect. Engage all the friends of God in
propagating the Faith since, after this War, Paris will develop
great receptivity towards the Cause. Take advantage of this
opportunity.
Upon you rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


Extract 8: [An extract from a diary:]

Today the honored gentlemen409 left with the Austrian
liner. Also the devoted maidservant of God, Mrs.
Emogene Hoagg, who is among the inflamed American
believers who for nine months had resided with the Holy
Family, left with them for London. With the same vessel,
Mírzá Mahmúd Zarqání departed for India. Each of
these friends were summoned by themselves into the
presence [of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá] and encouraged and
reminded: “You are the denizens of the Abhá Kingdom
and must guide people through illumined discourse. You
are the recipients of the rays of the Sun of Reality and
must bear luscious fruits and sweeten all tastes. You are
the life-giving water of the rivers of eternal paradise and

deeply affected by her expositions. Repeatedly ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would comment in
humor, “Germany has made the world tremble and has gained immense victories.
However, through a small woman we have conquered Germany!” (HM) [Alma and
her sister Fannie from Washington, D.C., not Canada. Their third sister was Pauline
Hannen, whose husband Joseph was a disciple of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Alma was born in
Germany, but her two sisters were born in the United States.]
409 A reference to Dr. Faríd’s father, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Isfahání, and Hájí Siyyid
Yahyá.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   377


must quench the need of the thirsty. You are the
heavenly sustenance of the concourse above and must
feed the hungry. You are the guides of the celestial
highway and must lead the wayward to the essence of
truth.”

Similarly, the Master said to Áqá Mírzá Habíbu’lláh [Mú’ayyad]:

“Through divine bounties and favors, you must perform
miracles on this journey. Your discourse must be the
essence of spirituality. Say to them: ‘The Blessed Beauty
has established this Covenant so that everyone’s focus is
on a singular point. If He had not done so, by now a
thousand different sects would have been established
among the Bahá’ís. We have no concern with anyone.
Our purpose is to safeguard the fortified fortress of the
Cause
of
God.
Consider
how
many
different
denominations and divisions were formed after the
ascension of Christ. Now the Blessed Beauty has
established a single point so that no division would
occur among people.’ ...410
Give talks in public meetings. Speak of the love of
God, the influence of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh and the
penetration of the Word of God. Encourage and excite
people. Ignite their hearts and inspire and awaken their
minds. Night and day I will pray for you so that in every
way you will be confirmed and successful.”

Elsewhere it is recorded that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:411

These issues (violations of the Covenant) are like the

410 Apparently a portion is left out from the diary notes.
411 From the information in Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 402, it can be surmised
that this talk was given during the closing days of 1913 while the Master resided in
Egypt.

378  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


froth of the sea – they come and then disappear. You
must remain assured of divine confirmations. When the
friends of God have firmly and steadfastly stood by the
Covenant, then heavenly outpourings will surround
them. A day will come when no mention of them [i.e.
Covenant-breakers] will remain. Do not be saddened.
Do not grieve. Arise with utmost vigor. These people are
like jackals and the servants of the Blessed Beauty are
like unto conquering lions. Soon this will become
evident and manifest.

A certain person protested why I had expelled
Tamaddunu’l-Mulk412 when we must love and cherish all
the inhabitants of the world. However, this friend did
not consider that His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh Himself had
expelled certain individuals and that in the Hidden
Words, He emphatically warned against association with
the munáfiqín413. We must in truth have utmost affection
for all the kindred of earth, but in no wise is it
permissible to associate and fraternize with the
munáfiqín because it will injure the Cause and will enable
them to penetrate the community and to completely
uproot the Faith from within. Associating with the
munáfiqín is the same as a person nurturing a snake in
his shirt or giving home to a scorpion in his sleeve.

All the Disciples of Christ severed their
relationship with Judas Iscariot. Consider attentively
what has been written in the Letters of Paul regarding
prohibition against association with the munáfiqín.
When a person has venomous breath, is it better to

412 He was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s translator and traveled with Him. Eventually because of
the troubles he caused in Iran, he was expelled from the Faith. For further reference
to him see, Ahang Rabbani, “‘Abdu’l-Bahá Meeting with Two Prominent Iranians”,
Fall 1998, World Order magazine.
413 As noted earlier, munáfiqín referred to the hypocrites in Islam; in the Bahá’í
Writings it may be understood as a reference to the violators of the Covenant.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   379


associate with him, or to protect people from fellowship
with such a man?

We must embrace all the kindred of earth with
utmost love and affection. That is, the people who do
not show enmity, but not the munáfiqín, as the latter will
cause great mischief and irreparable division, resulting in
complete chaos in the Cause.

We have no quarrel with anyone. Tamaddunu’l-
Mulk caused mischief among the friends of God and
perpetrated such disunity that the foundation of the
divine Faith was nearly destroyed. He repented on
numerous occasions, and yet after every repentance, he
would cause further mischief. Eventually I telegraphed
that Tamaddun was expelled and association with him
not permissible. Had I not done so, the foundation of
the Faith in Tihran would have been thoroughly ruined.
The purpose of the Covenant is naught but the good of
the whole of humanity. However when a snake like
Tamaddunu’l-Mulk attacks the Faith, then of necessity, I
must awaken the friends of God, because if I do not,
then I stand responsible before God and His creation.
However, if someone harms My own person and not the
Cause, even should he cut off a part of My body, I will
instantly forgive him and will embrace him with utmost
love and affection. That is, I consider all My enemies as
<260> My kind friends. But if a person harms the Cause
of God, then I will no longer consider him a friend and
will not count him as such. And should he persist in
injuring the Faith of God, of a certainty, I will not
conceal it.


Extract 9: [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] remarked:

380  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


The honored Áqá Mírzá Habíb is indeed confirmed.414
He will become very renowned. He is verily a devoted
servant of the Blessed Beauty. He is sacrificial, devout,
has deep conviction in the Faith and does all he can for
the friends of God. He diligently served the believers
that passed through Beirut, out of his love for God and
in His path and not to gain favor or friendship. He
showed them kindness because he is devoted to the
Blessed Beauty.
Kindness is of two types: a kindness that is offered
because of the recipient and one that is independent of
the recipient. For instance, there is much love and
affection among the people, but this is of the first type.
It is because of some worldly consideration or is
associated with some expectation that comes with
rendering this kindness. Such affections will eventually
come to an end. But there is a love that is offered for the
sake of God. For example, you may love someone
because he is a believer and has faith in God, and not
because you want to use him for some purpose or
receive some gain. This affection is lasting and is of God
and unto Him it returns. If one manifests the first type
of kindness, this is attachment and not affection. When
the Seven Martyrs were being executed, each would
implore to be martyred first. He would say, ‘Slay me first
so that I would not witness the martyrdom of others.’
This is true affection. This affection is light. This
affection is life.


Extract 10:  Addressing the Bahá’í students of Beirut [vacationing
in Haifa], ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke the following words in a gathering in

414 As noted earlier, Dr. Mú’ayyad adopted this surname, “confirmed”, because of
the oft-repeated appellation by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   381


the Shrine of the Báb on 11 July 1914:

When I was in America, the maidservant of God, Mrs.
[Agnes] Parsons, invited Me to her vacation home in
Dublin, New Hampshire. While there, a school
headmaster came for a visit and invited Me to his school
in the countryside.
When I went to this place, I saw the school had
been established in the woods, with vivifying and
refreshing air. It was located on top of a green and
luscious hill, surrounded with beautiful trees. They had
pitched tents by the lake and every several students had a
tent of their own. Their teacher had prescribed a
schedule that called for certain hours devoted to studies
and some others for athletic practices. They wore thin
clothing and slept in the open air.
During the hours of the day, they ran, practiced
swimming in the sea and were fed generously. A humble
building was raised for their gatherings, studies and for
meals. Individually they studied diverse sciences by
repetition. They were physically very strong and could
withstand any manner of hardship. Their affairs were
arranged so that no time was wasted during their three-
month stay that was devoted to studying and acquiring
physical endurance. Being robust, bare headed and bare
footed and wearing flimsy garments, they would run in
the woods, learning to cope with nature, in the event
they ever needed to solely depend on her. Indeed, they
treated the outdoors as if they were at home, and lived
like all other creatures of the field. They were one with
nature, like gazelles, mountain goats or birds, and truly it
was an amazing scene. They had cut branches from trees
and with them had made natural beds.
I spoke with them at length about material and
spiritual education. Their headmaster was a good man

382  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


and was exceedingly kind and generous to us.415
Are the teachers in Beirut satisfied with your

415 A slight variation on the same talk of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is noted in the diary of Mírzá
Ahmad Sohrab (Star of the West, issue 20 August 1918) and is quoted below for ease
of reference:
When I was in Dublin, the professor of the out-door school
invited me to visit the pupils. The school is in the mountains of New
Hampshire, built among the woods. All around there are green
valleys, verdant palms and blue lakes. They have a large cabin and
have pitched several tents. Their supreme object is to promote the art
of beauty and gracefulness and the science of strength. For this reason
the practice calisthenics and athletics and exercise bodily training.
They are thinly clad and often sleep in the open air. They go bathing
and during certain hours they study. Fresh air, outdoor exercise,
wholesome food, clean sports, uplifting ideals and regular training of
body, mind and spirit build up their constitutions and give them
strong muscles, sterling characters and robust manhood. They have a
school room and dinning-room and except the hours of study and
meals they spend their time entirely out in the pen air, learning many
excellent lessons from the book of nature. I saw there a very young
lad who, I was told by the teacher, was very thin and emaciated when
he was brought to the camp, but during his four weeks’ stay he was
completely changed, having gained flesh, health and color, so that he
could take part in the vigorous exercises. The professor of this
twentieth century school was one of the most refined and cultured
men that it was my pleasure to meet in America, and he showed me
much love, hospitality and affection. The boys were most polite and
decorous and although some of them were very young yet they stayed
through the talk and listened most attentively. I was very pleased with
all of them. Resourcefulness and self-control are the two lessons
taught to these boys through words and deeds – so that if in the
course of their lives through an accident of checkered fortune they
should be thrown on an uninhabited island in the midst of the sea,
they would master the situation calmly, control themselves and
provide through their own ingenuity and inventiveness the essential
means of livelihood. After all, this is the greatest lesson that any
highly-evolved civilization can teach us. They are so taught that when
the proper time arrives, they will shun the dangers and risks or life;
that like unto the birds of the fields and the animals of the woods they
may be able to procure their sustenance and protect themselves from
the encroachments of the enemy.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   383


progress? (The students responded positively.) “It is best
when others testify [to one’s virtues].” Indeed, the
Bahá’ís, and especially the youth, must conduct
themselves in such wise that everyone would testify to
the excellence of their character and qualities. There is a
great joy in this. Every time I see you, I am filled with
delight. Praised be God that it is so.
A person must live in a way that can win the praise
of God, His chosen ones and the society. If he is able to
achieve this, utmost happiness is his. One’s heart is filled
with joy when one has won the good-pleasure of the
sacred Threshold. It is then that the heart overflows with
happiness. And no matter what may befall a person then,
no matter what trials and tribulations beset him, his heart
will remain joyful. He will then be like a sea that while
experiencing storms and thunders on the surface, yet
remains calm and serene at its depth. Otherwise, man
cannot become happy with anything else, and if he does,
it is transient and passes in a day or two.
For instance, if a person discovers a treasure, his
happiness is temporary, but his troubles are endless.
Should he win the good-pleasure of God, the praise of
the chosen ones and the approval of people, this is a
treasure that has joy upon joy. No loss or regret will
come from this, and he will always remain energized,
happy, joyful and thankful.
In this world there is no bounty greater than
spiritual joy. Such a joy is the supreme favor bestowed
upon man. For instance, when a person solves a
scientific problem, an immense joy comes to him. Or
similarly when he is able to do a humanitarian act or
achieve a great undertaking, his heart is filled with elation
and satisfaction.
It is written that Khawjih Násiru’d-Dín Túsí was a
skilled mathematician. He would spend his nights on the

384  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


roof of his house observing the movement of stars and
making astronomical discoveries. Every time he solved a
difficult problem in astronomy, he would be so thrilled
that he would begin dancing, saying, “Where are the
kings to see what true joy consists of, and where are the
monarchs of the earth to comprehend the meaning of
true bliss!”
It is because of this fact that in the divine Tablets
of the Blessed Beauty so much praise has been bestowed
on the arts and crafts. Everyone is urged and counseled
to acquire them since they are the sources of eternal
happiness.
Praise be unto God that you have come in good
health and in safety, and I was able to meet with you.
And now you are under the shadow of the Shrine of the
Báb. The air here is most vivifying. This place is the
heavenly orchard, the hallowed ground, the sanctified
Threshold and the fount of divine bounty.


Extract 11: 13 July 1914 - After Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Rafsanjáni
chanted a prayer in a gathering of the friends in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
house in Haifa, the Master recounted the following:416

His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] – may My
spirit be a sacrifice unto Him – stated that one word or
one verse of “Him Whom God shall make manifest” is
sufficient proof unto the whole of the earth. Now
consider how immense are the verses, commentaries,
homilies, scientific treatises and prayers that have
streamed forth from [Bahá’u’lláh’s] blessed lips. Is there
any room left for denying? Despite this, certain people

416 Two excerpts from the diary of Ahmad Sohrab pertaining to the words of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoken on this day appear in Star of the West, issues 19 January and 21
March 1918.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   385


want to equate [Mírzá Yahyá] Azal with the Blessed
Beauty. Everyone will testify that Azal was bereft of any
qualities whatsoever. His writings, which are now
assembled in London417, are so coarse and devoid of
meaning that even schoolchildren would refuse to have
any of it ascribed to them. That is, from the beginning of
time until this very day, writings so indecent have not
been seen. After the martyrdom of His Holiness the
Exalted One [the Báb], Mírzá Sa‘íd Khán418 wrote a
letter, stating, “This movement has ended and none are
left except the Blessed Beauty.” He wrote this when
Mírzá Yayhá was around.
The Blessed Beauty exalted the Cause in Baghdad.
Manifestly and boldly, He stood before the whole of
mankind and peoples, and subsequent to those
bewildering occurrences and upon the arrival of the royal
decree, Bahá’u’lláh departed from Baghdad with utmost
majesty and splendor.
However, after the martyrdom of His Holiness the
Exalted One [the Báb], what did Azal accomplish? He
did not edify or teach a single soul, nor did he render the
slightest service [to the Cause]. The only thing he did
was to increase the number of his wives and spend all his
time with them. He even grew so shameless as to take
the wife of His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] as
his own – an act that was specifically forbidden in the
Bayán.419 He lived in Cyprus for forty years, and yet he
failed to teach a single person. Now, someone so inept

417 A number of the Bábí, Azalí and Bahá’í manuscripts are deposited with the
archives of the British Museum of London and at E.G. Browne’s collection at the
Cambridge University.
418 The Foreign Minister of Iran during 1850’s. In later years, he became a believer
in Khurasán.
419 A reference to the short marriage of Mírzá Yahyá Azal with Fátimih Khánum,
the second wife of the Báb from the Isfahán period. By the Bayán, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is
referring to the general exhortations of the Báb and not His book of laws.

386  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


desires to advance such a claim! It is like a dust-particle
claiming to be the brilliant sun. How incredibly
presumptuous! Contrast the martyrdom of the Exalted
One with these flagrant and shameless acts! How
astounding is the difference!
After His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb],
while in chains, the Blessed Beauty edified men, and
under the sword of the enemy, sang verses of guidance.
All the while, Azal remained hidden in a thousand holes,
fearfully seeking to preserve himself.

Elsewhere ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated (regarding Azal):

Praised be God that you have now understood the
reality of Azal. You must assuredly strive to propagate
this truth so that dark clouds of ignorance are removed
from all eyes and the sun of truth is permitted to shine
forth. The incident of Azal was unimportant and was an
ordinary occurrence, therefore, I did not desire to spend
our time discussing such an insignificant issue. I wished
to speak of important matters with you, which were the
foundation of teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.
Azal had no name or fame. At all times, because of
his cowardice, he remained in hiding. No one had any
news of him. He did not teach the Cause to anyone in
his entire life. Despite forty years of support from the
British government in Cyprus, he did not edify a single
soul in that region to the religion of the Báb. His days
and nights were consumed with those women who
mothered those unworthy children that you saw in
Cyprus. He even took the wife of His Holiness the
Exalted One [the Báb] and saw no shame in that act,
though the explicit text of the Bayán forbids this very
act. He committed this heinous act at the time when the
Blessed Beauty was absent [from Baghdad]. After a few

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   387


days, he gave this woman to another420. The service that
he rendered the Báb was: After the breast of His
Holiness the Exalted One was made the target of a
thousand bullets, instead of spending his days grieving,
wailing and crying over this terrible loss, he multiplied
the number of his wives! Of the ones known, altogether
he had eleven421 wives: Hájíyyih; sister of Hájí; Rúqíyyih;
daughter of ‘Abdu’l-Fattáh [Núrí]; Rúqíyyih [daughter of]
A‘rij [Isfahání]; daughter of [Mírzá] Haydar-Qulí [Núrí];
mother422 of [Mírzá] Ahmad; Badrí-Ján [Tafarrují]; Nísá
Ján423 in Tihrán; Qanitih [Núrí]; An Arab girl; the wife of
[Mullá Muhammad Núrí, known as] Mu‘allim; and the
wife of the Primal Point424.
Notice that this man spent his entire life chasing
after women and brought forth these unfit and dull-
witted children, which you met. Has he rendered any
other service to the Báb? <265> Has he converted
anyone, or spoken at an assemblage?
In contrast, under all circumstances, the Blessed
Beauty, evincing absolute might and majesty, stood
gallantly and manifestly before all the enemies. Everyone
testifies to His courage and nobility, even the entrenched
foes. While in chains and fetters, He proclaimed the
Word of God and, in the Prison of ‘Akká, addressed the
kings and monarchs of the globe.


Extract 12: 11 November 1914 – [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] sat under the rays
of the sun and said, “The warmth of the sun is pleasant.” He was

420 A reference to Siyyid Muhammad Isfahání.
421 The diarist gives the name of 13 wives and the family tree at the conclusion of
Muhammad-‘Alí Malik-Khusraví, Iqlím-i Núr, gives a total of 14.
422 Her name was Málikih Khánum Shirází.
423 She was known as Nísá Khánum Tihrání.
424 Her name was Fátimih Khánum Isfahání.

388  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


asked about ‘Ád425 and Thamúd426. The Master responded:

There were [certain tribes] prior to the time of Moses
who numbered among the Arab clans that are no more,
that is, no sign of them has remained. Mention is made
of them in the history of Islam, but they are not
referenced in the Torah. They came from the city of
Ahqáf and certain evidences, such as, wells, caves, and
other things, were present at the time of the Prophet
Muhammad. In the ancient times, on the ancient route
to the hajj, they had excavated many caves, which were
used as their dwelling. Europeans have written about
them; some of their marks and writings have survived.
They disappeared as a result of floods, storms and
earthquakes.
By the Náqih [She-camel427] is intended the
Prophet Sálih428. They injured Him and decided to slay
Him. However those who planned to destroy the Faith
of God, were themselves destroyed by God. “So their
Lord destroyed them for their crime, and visited all alike:
Nor feared he the issue.”429

We came before His house in ‘Akká where an unkempt Arab beggar
with filthy clothes and dirty, uncombed hair came to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
With utmost affection the Master caressed his face and beard and
spoke many words of encouragement and humor to him: “May God
grant you bounties. May God gladden your heart. What a wonderful
chin! How is your health?” After the Arab beggar left, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
said:


425 Qur’án 11:62, 26:123, 41:14, 54:18 and 69:6.
426 Qur’an 11:98 26:141, 41:16, 54:23, 69:54 and 91:11.
427 Qur’an 7:73.
428 Qur’an 7:73, 7:75, 7:77, 7:79, 11:66 and 54:27.
429 Qur’an 91:14-5.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   389


When it is revealed, “Consort with all the religions,”430
the intention is association with such people. Although
there is no connection between us, I have served him for
twenty years. [The intention of Bahá’u’lláh’s exhortation]
is not to associate with a Covenant-breaker or those who
curse the Blessed Beauty, or the likes of Hájí
Muhammad-Karím Khán who wrote in refutation of His
Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb].
The intention is to consort with such people that
are not antagonistic, or two-faced, or conniving, or
hypocritical431. Such people [as this poor Arab] are not
believers, and there is no harm in that; let him believe in
his own convictions. It is exhorted that if we disfavor
someone, it should not be over his religion. For instance,
we should not avoid a Christian because of his beliefs.
However, we should eschew people with abhorrent
behavior, such as a thief, or philanderer, or a murderer.
“Consort with all the religions” does not apply to such
people. That is, if you know that someone sows the
seeds of rebellion and enmity against the Blessed Beauty,
then you should not associate with him. We have no
relation with these people and leave them to their own
devices.

A large, beautiful rooster was walking under the sun and picking
seeds, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “If roosters were rare, people would
go from city to city to see and admire them. However, their
abundance has prevented an increase in their value.”
We strolled to the seashore in His blessed presence. When we
first reached the shore, portions of the seawall looked in utter
disrepair. The Master said, “This world is the plane of combination
and dissolution. The process never stops: On one side it creates new

430 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 95.
431 The original is “munáfiq” which may be understood in this context to refer to
those who rebel against the Covenant.

390  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


people, and on the other it destroys what she has created. The world
will not grow tired. How numerous are the days witnessed by the
world! They had buildings along this section [of the walls] and in
front of them they had built a bathhouse. With these rocks they had
made a natural pool and therein would wash their cloths.”
When we reached a fork in the road, the Master asked, “Which
way should we go?” Ustad Muhammad-‘Alí Banná [master-builder],
who at times chanted prayers in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
suggested, “Going right is better.” The Master remarked, “Indeed,
right is more desirable and left is not. Even the right hand is
stronger than the left and it does all the work: It writes and performs
various tasks. But when the right-hand is tired, engaged, injured or
paralyzed, then the left hand does its work. In Arabic, right [yamín]
is pleasant. It has two meanings: right and oath.”
We came near a young boy selling oranges. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
inquired, “Do you like oranges?” We responded that we did, and He
purchased ten oranges. Meanwhile two Arab girls approached and as
they were looking at us, the Master said to them, “You each take five
oranges as well.” One of them responded, “But we have no money.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “No problem. I shall pay for them.” When the
little girls took the oranges to their mothers, they realized that the
fruit-seller had taken more money than he should have. So, they ran
after him to take more oranges, as he fled while being chased. It was
an entertaining scene as the Arab women pursued the young orange
merchant!
Afterwards, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá instructed this ephemeral servant to
report about my visit to Germany. He said, “German means ‘Our
kinsmen.’432”
I asked, “Would it be possible for the Master to once more bless
the western world with His footsteps?”
He replied, “Europe is far. I wish to go to Jerusalem and Medina

432 In Persian, German can be read as “Ál-i man” meaning, our clan, our family.
Interesting enough, german seems to have the same meaning, “of the same parents or
grandparents,” c.1300, from germanus “of brothers and sisters,” related to germen (gen.
germinis) “sprout, bud.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   391


since these cities are near.”
I said, “Herr Galtsiner433 would cry and say, ‘Tell ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that
I want to sacrifice myself for Him!’ as he was being taken to the
battlefield.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “Yes, Monsieur Bernard was also taken to
the battlefield, but if there was a single person in the world who was
against war, it was he. He detested it most intensely and was so
utterly against it that I am unable to describe it for you. However, he
was forced into joining the combat. For those who have sacrificed
themselves in the path of God, it is difficult to sacrifice instead for
mere soil, which is the least worthy [reason for sacrifice] in all
creation.”
I said, “In Germany, nationalistic slogans and patriotic military
marches are heard from one direction, and from another, talks given
in the Bahá’í gatherings and the voices of prayer and supplication to
God are heard. Indeed it seems that the believers have no cares
about these ominous affairs, and are solely occupied with the
mention of God and spiritual matters.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “Verily, it is most astounding to raise the
divine call in the midst of such commotion and chaos. In truth,
during our seven or eight days in Stuttgart, the light of God’s love
was so brilliantly aglow that the friends were exceedingly joyful and
happy. Good seeds were planted.”
I said, “These friends are indeed righteous and their Bahá’í teachers
must, of a certainty, have been devoted and firm in the Covenant
and Testament, and had been pious and righteous, which is why the
Cause of God is progressing so remarkably.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “Yes, from the very beginning, good seeds were
planted.”
I related, “Miss Schwarz434 brought two books to her mother, one
by [Leo] Tolstoy and the other by Victor Hugo. She asked, ‘My
teacher gave these to me to read. Are they appropriate readings for

433 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.
434 Presumably the daughter of Consul and Alice Schwarz – the most eminent of the
Stuttgart Bahá'ís.

392  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


me?’ Her mother replied, ‘My darling, they have no benefit to you
insofar as the Faith is concerned and may even dampen your
devotion. Whatever reduces your love for the Cause is harmful to
you. Therefore take these back.’ She immediately returned them to
the original owner.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “Marhabá [welcome]! Well said. Yes, it is
indeed so. While in Europe, I always proclaimed, ‘The Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh embraces all the past Dispensations and manifests all
their benefits to human society. It is like a tree that has many strong
branches. The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh contains all the teachings
beneficial to the world of humanity and will profit every segment of
society. For instance, the New Testament speaks of compassion,
kindness, forgiveness and clemency. These same teachings exist in
the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. The Qur’an speaks of justice and
punishment, and these same concepts are preserved in the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh. In short, whatever good and productive precepts exist
among the diverse groups of humanity are all present in the Cause
of God. In addition, the Faith offers certain principles which others
lack. For instance, [the principle of] the oneness of humanity;
religion must be cause of love and fellowship; religion must be in
accord with reason and science; proclamation of universal peace;
equality of men and women; promotion of learning and spirituality;
and many others.’”
I shared a few short anecdotes related to the Bahá’ís of
Stuttgart and made loving mention of Herr Grunsuik435, who had
composed many poems about the Faith. I also related the story of a
[German] soldier who treated the French prisoners of war as
brothers. Moreover, I noted, “Recently Professor [Heinrich] Jaeger,
his wife and daughters embraced the Faith, and, every time we spoke
of the Cause or mentioned the martyrs of Iran and the sufferings
endured by the believers in that land, this old and spiritual man
would cry profusely with tears flowing over his white beard.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá warmly encouraged me to say more, remarking,

435 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   393



“Tell more of the faith and the faithful,


as it brings joy to the world and heart.

Your words are indeed pleasing! You speak of the friends of
God!” I related, “Each day we would talk of such things and remind
ourselves: ‘Who would have thought from the period that the
Blessed Perfection was taken barefoot and bareheaded from
Niyávarán to Tihrán until the time that the Commission of Inquiry
planned to send the Master to Fizan, such remarkable victories
could be won? Who would have predicted such a majestic day as
today?’”
We continued walking in the company of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the
cemetery where a number of the early believers were buried. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá stood by the graves and, with hands raised heavenwards,
whispered prayers and supplicated divine mercy for those resting in
their eternal abode. The experience was so profound that we all
yearned to have been buried there and with our hearts proclaimed:

Shouldst thou pass by my grave even in a hundred years,


I will tear open the shroud and start life anew.

When we left the cemetery, we continued strolling to the train
station where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sat in the terminal and said to this
ephemeral servant, “Now that you have become a physician, come
and take my pulse.” As soon as I checked His blessed pulse, I was
shocked and reported, “Your pulse is very slow, but regular. The
arteries seem to have the proper flow.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked,
“From the age of thirty, I have had a slow pulse. All others have a
pulse rate of about 75 to 80 [per minute] and therefore greatly
wonder about my pulse rate. What rate did you measure?” I said, “I
did not count the rate, but suspect that it is about forty [per
minute].” He responded, “No, it is 45 to 46. Count for yourself.” I
closely counted with my watch and it was 45. So I reported the
result. He stated, “If I have a fever, it goes up to 50.”

394  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



<270> Side notes: It is natural for everyone to wonder and have
this curiosity to ask: In what way is the human temple of the chosen
ones different from us mortals? This question was particularly
pertinent for someone [like me] who was a trained physician and
who, for some time, had been in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence and had
observed His ways, talks, manners, qualities, attributes and majesty –
characteristics that completely distinguished Him from all others.
Whatever effulgence radiated from His sacred self was truly unique
and peerless. None reflected such light or manifested these qualities.
And if curiosity prompted certain observations, these conclusions
were limited to the understanding of the observer and not reflective
of His mighty station, as no other is permitted into that hallowed
realm. This is because the lower creation is not permitted unto the
higher and is defined by its own limitation. And if this ephemeral
servant commits certain recollections to paper, it only stems from
my own limited perspective and is not reflective of His lofty station.

There was a particular wish that was always present in my
thoughts, but I would not be presumptuous enough to speak of it. I
always wanted to perform a physical examination of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and know the details of His condition. I wanted to closely examine
His internal organs, to determine the state of each of the principal
bodily systems at His age, and establish which one, if any, was not
functioning properly and if He suffered from any ailment. In short,
this was my long cherished desire and this thought never left me.
Indeed, day-by-day, it grew stronger and had enveloped my
thoughts. However, every time I thought of actually suggesting this
idea to the Master, a great turmoil would overwhelm me: my heart
would beat loudly, I would gasp for breath, my throat would dry and
my whole being would shake. Therefore, I would remain silent and
not speak of this idea. It was like this for a while, but this wish never
left me.

One day without any prior discussion, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said,
“Mírzá Habíb, God wanted your labor not to go to waste and
therefore enabled you to serve the divine friends and now you

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   395


remedy their ills. Come remedy Me as well. I want you to give Me a
thorough physical examination. You cannot just cure all others
except Me!” I realized that in that instant my long cherished hope
had materialized and my prayers had been answered. I was so
thrilled that I was shaking, my heart was palpitating, and my tongue
was tied. Nevertheless, I began the examination.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá removed His clothes and shirt and, with the
utmost care, I examined every organ and vital part from the tip of
His head to His toes. His hair was thick and flowing. His eyebrows
were thick and all His fingernails were white, bright and shiny. All
His teeth were in perfect condition, with no sign of cavity or
disorder. His eyes and auxiliary organs were in their natural state, but
the eye-lens was showing evidence of advanced age.436 No signs in
His throat, ears or nose indicated a pathological condition. I checked
His nose and tonsils and found no inflammation or polyp. Though
‘Abdu’l-Bahá often suffered from a cold, I did not see anything out
of the ordinary in His nose.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá only complained of insomnia and an occasional
“fever of nerves”, which were due to depression, sorrow and
anguish. His beard was thick and His hair full, soft and strong. (I
have kept some of His hair strands as a memento, and they are like
white silk threads.) His cardiac rhythm was regular, but very slow.
His arteries were well flowing, pulsating and full, and showed no
sign of blockage. His blood pressure was normal and the blood
vessels manifested no evidence of arching. All the internal organs
seemed healthy with no pain or discomfort in the liver, spleen,
kidneys, appendix, intestines or the bladder. His reflexes were
normal.

In short, I found nothing abnormal in my examination and
reported the results to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, saying, “I did not note anything
that could be a cause of illness.” He replied, “When the doctors in
Europe examined Me, they too did not find anything wrong.437 My

436 Sometimes, but not always, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would use corrective glasses for reading
and writing. However, He often read and wrote without the aid of glasses. (HM)
437 Since my examination was taking place during World War I, I did not have access

396  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


fever is a fever of the nerves. It is not related to any bodily organs.
My nerves are tired, since waves of tribulations do not cease to waft
over Me. However, through the bounties and favors of the Blessed
Beauty, My spirit is refreshed and cheered. Bring Me some [ethyl
carbonate of] quinine438. My nerves are tired. Now all our troubles
rest with you, Mírzá Habíb. Is it possible for you to shoulder
everyone else’s burden and not ours? God did not wish your years
of study to go to waste and, therefore, provided you with this
service.”

In my medical books I have not located a reference to the
“fever of nerves” which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentioned, but it is clear that
whenever He was beset by sadness, or by the news of disunity
among the friends, or differences and discord among the believers,
or by the receipt of letters which contained grievances regarding
certain dealings or transactions, or when the Covenant-breakers and
the munáfiqín had injured the Faith of God and caused certain
believers to grow doubtful, then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s temperature would
instantly rise and He would develop several degrees of fever.
Conversely, whenever joyous news were received indicating that the
Faith had taken yet another step forward, or one of the believers had
performed a humanitarian deed, or a philanthropic institution was
established at a particular place, evidence of joy and happiness
would instantly appear on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s visage, and His fever
would subside. Because of this, the Greatest Holy Leaf and the
honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí often tried to convey glad tidings to
the Master, thereby causing pleasure and delight in His person.

In the Streets of ‘Akká:439 We were strolling in the company of the

to a laboratory to perform various tests in addition to clinical examination. It so
happened that none were needed anyway since in Paris and London, through the
insistence of certain Bahá’ís, laboratory tests had been performed and everything
was found to be in the normal range. (HM)
438 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1, p. 380 (272), gives the chemical name also as sulphate
which may be a short for Quinine Sulphate.
439 This section seems to be a continuation of the 11 November 1914 diary entry.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   397


Master in the streets of ‘Akká. When we reached the gate by the
Qaraghul-Khanih,440 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “First they wanted to
imprison us here, but we refused.441 Consequently, they took us to
the citadel.” Along the way, wherever the people of ‘Akká were
congregated or were sitting, at the sight of the Master they would
rise in full height and greet Him affectionately. Soldiers, notables,
divines, pilgrims, shopkeepers, mendicants and in short, whoever we
passed by, would instantly bend low with hands reaching the soil
and then bring it over their head, thereby offering the customary
expressions of submissiveness, reverence and humility before
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Children playing in the streets would quit their play
and run up to the Master and kiss His hands, and then return to
their games. Sanctified is God! What manner of Prisoner is this
Whose might and sovereignty has humbled all who see Him! What
influence is this that has so deeply penetrated and enveloped both
friends and foes! Is He a captive and a prisoner, or is He the most
powerful and supreme monarch of the time?!

En route someone came and implored ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to
temporarily lease the rooms of the Mansion [of Bahjí] so that, during
the disturbances in ‘Akká, he and his family could take refuge there.
The Master responded, “For the sake of your grandfather I will
permit you. I can never forget your grandfather. Yes, I will let you,
but it is for his sake.” When he left, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “This
person was a grandson of Mahmúd Effendi Safadi442. The late
Mahmúd Effendi was a believer and a wonderful man. But after his
passing, because of the gossip mongering of the Covenant-breakers
against us and the doubts that they instilled in them, his family
completely severed their ties with us. <275> This man was a friend

440 A Turkish word, meaning police station. When the exiles Arrived in ‘Akká in
1868, they were taken to this building which is still there in the middle of ‘Akká and
were told that this is where they would be kept. But Bahá’u’lláh refused to accept
this as it was far too small. So they were taken to the citadel.
441 Presumably a reference to the arrival of Bahá’u’lláh and His entourage in late
August 1868.
442 For a brief description of the conversion of Shaykh Mahmúd ‘Arrabí, the Mufti
of ‘Akká, see Hasan Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh the King of Glory, pp. 337-8.

398  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


of Faríq443 and truly adored him, and the Covenant-breakers were
constantly provoking him to harm us and cause mischief at an
opportune time.”

Mírzá Núri’d-Din Zayn related that the late Mahmúd Effendi,
the Mufti, was a courageous man from ‘Arrabí, one of the villages of
‘Akká, and the people of the region greatly respected him. After he
became a believer, he would go into the countryside at nights to see
if a [Bahá’í] pilgrim had arrived. He would carry a lantern with him
and, when he had encountered a pilgrim and had ensured that
indeed he was a Bahá’í, he would give him the lantern to carry in
front of him. People seeing Shaykh Mahmúd coming from behind
would think that it was his servant who carried the lantern for him
and in this way the pilgrim would gain admittance into the city. After
the pilgrim had attained the presence [of Bahá’u’lláh], he would, in
the same fashion, be conducted outside the city [of ‘Akká], and told
by the Shaykh, “God is most sovereign!” Thus, the Shaykh was
instrumental in bringing the pilgrims into the sacred presence.444
Upon him rest the mercy of God!


Extract 13:  For some time the citizens of the coastal region did
not have a moment of rest and were constantly worried and agitated
by the authorities. Everyone was expecting the worst and predicted
imminent bombardment of the port cities by [foreign] warships. In
fact, one day a warship bombarded the steel bridges between Haifa
and ‘Akká, and an artillery shell landed in the Ridván Garden, but it
did not explode and caused no harm. The Ottoman soldiers had dug

443 Faríq was a member of the Commission of Inquiry who had come with ‘Árif Bey
and Miralay Adham Bey, the Damascene, for the purpose of investigating and
persecuting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Faríq died of typhoid. Three bullets of a sentry in
Constantinople killed ‘Árif Bey. And Adham Bey fled to Egypt, went to Hájí Siyyid
Yahyá begging for money, and eventually perished. (HM)
444 The same story is told in Hasan Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh the King of Glory, p. 338, where
it is attributed to a memoir of Mírzá Núri’d-Dín Zayn – a document which the
present translator has been unable to locate.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   399


trenches and therein had readied defenses. It was stormy for a few
days, but soon it became sunny again.

30 November 1914 was a clear, bright day with a calm sea and
no waves disturbing the water, nor could any tide be discerned.
From afar, the Zeeb underwater rifts, which were typically covered
by the waves, were now seen, and the people of ‘Akká mistook them
for armored warships. Therefore the entire city of ‘Akká fled in fear,
leaving behind only a few handicapped, such as the blind or
crippled. People commandeered whatever mule, horse, donkey or
camel they could find and with them hastened their families’ flight
to the outskirts. The entire city was evacuated. Doors and windows
were left open and, if anyone had come to rob the whole city, there
would not have been a soul left capable of preventing him. Under
such conditions, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stayed in ‘Akká with
Áqá Asadu’lláh Káshí445 in His service, and none other. The
Mutasarrif of ‘Akká had cabled Beirut that four enemy warships
were fast approaching the city, and this news had further perturbed
the citizens of ‘Akká.

I was in Abu Sinan when all this was occurring, and the
handmaiden of God, Mrs. Sanderson, came with Isfandiyár’s
carriage and informed me that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had summoned me.446 I
immediately went to ‘Akká. Even though I arrived at a time when
people had began to return to the city, it was evident that a major
commotion was still stirring. Like a scene from the Day of
Resurrection, the whole population of the city was in exodus into
the fields and the surrounding regions. With indescribable fear they
had taken flight, convinced that life and possessions were lost for

445 In fact there were two Asadu’lláh’s [God’s lion] residing in the house of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and the believers humorously called one of them the “He-lion” and he was
Áqá Siyyid Asadu’llah Qumí and the other, Áqá Asadu’llah Káshí, was called the
“She-lion.” The latter was short in stature and most humble and remained with the
Holy Family to the end of his life. About him ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would say, “Despite his
small stature, Áqá Asadu’lláh would wear a large dagger and accompany the Blessed
Beauty in Baghdad, and the enemies of the Cause would not dare be
presumptuous.” (HM)
446 Bushrú’í, p. 58, indicates this occurred on the following day, 1 December 1914.

400  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


certain.

In the evening, when I attained the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
at His residence, a number of the believers were present as well.
Because of the day’s occurrences, the Master spoke the following
words on the night of 1 December 1914 in the house of ‘Abbúd:

Today a number of people came to Me and asked, “Why
do You not leave the city?” They protested our decision
to stay in ‘Akká amidst so much commotion and
confusion! I said to them that I had seen days which
made these insignificant in comparison. I have seen a
storm like the incident of the assassination [attempt] on
the [Násiri’d-Dín] Sháh. Truly it was a storm that can
never be described. Whatever is said about it will surely
fail [to convey the depth of its terror]. I have seen days
like that.
There was a certain ‘Abbás who was an attendant
of Mírzá Sulaymán Khán, and he knew all the believers.
Together with gunners and farrashes, he roamed the city
in search of the friends of God and found them
wherever they had taken refuge. Seven hundred
mounted soldiers were out in search of the believers. On
all roads, the Ákhunds would raise the cry, “O people, if
ye desire God’s pleasure, kill the Bábís! If ye love the
Prophet, kill the Bábís! If ye support the Shah, kill the
Bábís! If ye want faith and religion, kill the Bábís! If ye
want to protect your lives, possessions and families, kill
the Bábís! If ye want to preserve your wife and children,
kill the Bábís!” In such wise they cried out everywhere.
As soon as the injured Sháh suspected that someone was
a Bábí, he would be arrested. Suddenly, we would hear a
bugle-blast, and upon inquiry would learn that one of the
friends had been captured.

Sulaymán Khán and Mírzá Fathu’lláh were candle-

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   401


pierced447, that is, they were pierced with bayonets and
burning candles inserted in their wounds. Soldiers were
arrayed on both sides in front of them with dancing
bears and monkeys, as the sound of tambourines,
kettledrums and trumpets filled the air. In such wise they
were paraded in the streets of the city until the nightfall.
As they walked, they were compelled to dance by the
force of sickles and hooks, but (in saying “but” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá raised His voice so resonantly that all in His
presence trembled), but Sulaymán Khán, may the spirit
of the world be a sacrifice unto him, was in utmost
rapture and ecstasy! The night before, he had said to the
executioner, “Mír Ghazab, bring me a cup of tea, as
tonight I am your guest and tomorrow I will be God’s!”
In the morning when he was brought out from the
prison he looked around and, witnessing the excitement
and commotion in the streets, which was filled with
soldiers, music, bands, bears, monkeys and throngs of
onlookers, he said, “Our killing did not require so much
ceremony!” Then he added, “It is well. This will be my
wedding feast, my wedding feast!”448
And with that, he commenced his journey. He was
paraded in the streets of the city. At the end, both of
them were cleft in half and each half was suspended
from one of the four city gates.

Each group and strata of society was given one of
the believers to martyr. For instance, the gunners were

447 An extremely barbarous manner of execution in which lighted candles are
inserted into incisions made in the victim’s body, who slowly burns and bleeds to
death.
448 Certain prominent Bábí martyrs have likened their scene of martyrdom to a
nuptial feast. For instance, it is reported that when Quddús’ stepmother insisted that
he marry, he promised that in a few years she would witness his glorious wedding
feast, to be held on the city’s main square. It was on that exact spot that, after a trial
by forty of the leading ‘ulamá, Quddús suffered a most horrible martyrdom,
witnessed by the whole city.

402  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


given one; the Zanburak-chiha449 were given another to
kill; the ‘ulamá were given one to kill; the Mustawfis were
given yet another; carpenters had their believer to kill;
grocers were given one; butchers were given one; and to
a thousand horsemen one was given. In fact, after these
thousand soldiers had attacked the Bábí [victim] with
unsheathed sabers, Mír Ghazab cried out, “Gentlemen,
you have cut him into so many pieces! How am I to bury
him?” Despite this appeal, they continued to shred the
victim when a cook came forth and said, “I will collect
him.” Then he collected the pieces of the body and took
them to his shop where he burned them.
It is indeed impossible to recount what took place
in those days. However, the friends of God were very
joyful and firm, and remained devoted and enkindled
with God’s love, constantly praying and meditating. But
those that were not firm and steadfast decided to flee,
and it was a flight that still continues. Those that were
constant in the Cause of God, however, remained
immovable as a mountain.
There was a Mírzá Sulaymán who was the Shátir-
báshí’s450 brother. The Shátir-báshí had deflected the
hand of the would-be assassin causing the bullet to miss
the monarch. He was therefore greatly esteemed by the
Sháh and the viziers. Indeed, had Shátir-báshí failed in
that attempt, the Sháh would have surely been killed.
Because of this great service, the king said, “Due to his
brother’s service, I hereby pardon Mírzá Sulaymán.”
However, Shátir-báshí appealed to the Sháh, “O pivot of
the universe! If you permit, I will slay Mírzá Sulaymán

449 Zanburak (also zumbooruk, zamburak, zenbourek) was a light cannon used
during the Safavid and Qájár periods and typically was carried on the back of
camels.
450 During the Qájár era, the Shátir was a special attendant of the Sháh who walked
before the royal party.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   403


with my own hands.” And he stood there as his brother
was martyred. He proclaimed, “I will not allow the
Sháh’s enemy to remain alive!” When Mírzá Sulaymán
was seized, he was placed on top of a mule with sixty or
seventy soldiers on either side of him. He cried out this
verse:

If swords rains blows in the path of that Moon451.
I will present my neck as commanded by
God!

In short, he was taken away and martyred. The
Blessed Beauty was in prison, under chains, and no hope
whatsoever remained for His release. Indeed it was
miraculous that He was freed. The friends of God
imprisoned in the Siyáh-Chál were enjoined by Him to
sit in two rows, occupied with the mention of God. The
two rows faced each another. One group would chant,
“God is sufficient unto me; He verily is the All-
sufficing!” while the second row would intone in
response, “In Him let the trusting trust!”452
How blessed were those days! How illumined!
How filled with joy and happiness! These friends of God
walked on earth, but traversed the Supreme Concourse.
All of them were martyred, except a few who had taken
refuge and would not associate with other believers,
though secretly and from a distance professing their
belief. For instance, there was Siyyid Muhammad
Isfahání who did not associate with the friends and
never attended any of their gatherings. He was in the
home of the Imám Jum’ih and remained under his care
and protection. Similarly Mírzá Husayn Kirmání was
instructed to remain in the Madrisih Sadr, and therefore

451 A reference to the Báb.
452 Translation of verses from Nabíl Zarandí, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 632.

404  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


he survived as well. <280> One or two others also
survived, but all the rest were martyred.
The point is that I told these people of ‘Akká what
days we had witnessed, and that the threat of warships in
comparison is like the sweetness of halvah. Indeed one
cannot even call them threats.

The following excerpt, from an article in Tihrán Musavvir journal,
no. 339, dated 14 Bahmán 1328 Sh [3 February 1950], and written by
the enemies of the Cause regarding the incident of the assassination
attempt on the Sháh, is related to the talk of the Master recorded
above:453

When Násiri’d-Din Sháh came to the throne, Amír
Kabír was placed in charge of all affairs. The Siyyid-i Báb
was brought from Chihríq and Máh-Kú to Tabríz and
executed by firing squad. Mullá Shaykh ‘Alí Turshizí (the
illustrious ‘Azím) devised a plan that on a certain Friday,
he would first kill Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim, Tihrán’s Imám
Jum‘ih, then together with his followers he would attack
the worshippers and subsequently with drawn swords
and raising the cry of “Yá Sáhibu’z-Zamán454!” assault
the royal palace. ...455
Amír Kabír’s spies reported the matter to him and
he quickly summoned to the Prime Minister’s office the
I‘tidádu’s-Saltanih, son of Fath-‘Alí Sháh, who was the
education minister. The I‘tidádu’s-Saltanih has recorded
the conversation that took placed between him and the
Prime Minister in his book, Rijál-i Fakhrí, which is
inscribed with exquisite Naskh handwriting and is

453 Clearly this newspaper clipping was added to the diary notes at a later time,
perhaps when Shoghi Effendi requested them or when they were readied for
publication.
454  Lit. O Lord of the Age, the standard formula for the battle cry of the Bábís.
455 Left blank in the original.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   405


presently housed at the Kitábkhanih Millí [Iranian
National Library]. Therein he reports that Amír Kabír
had ordered, “I want you to search and find these people
...456”
He had become afraid and had written to all the
officials and the darughihs [magistrates], demanding that
they search and locate all the Bábís. By the royal
command of the Sháh and the Prime Minister, several
criminals and some others were executed on the
Maydán-i Ark. Subsequently, Amír Kabír was banished
to Káshán where he was killed in his bathhouse in Fín.457

On 18 Shavvál 1268 [5 August 1952] the monarch
had gone hunting in Niyávarán when three Bábís
assaulted him with pellet pistols. At this time Mírzá Áqá
Khán Núri was the Prime Minister. Since in Iran
customarily during grievous times personal animosities
surfaced, this incident was also attributed to certain
individuals who were then deprived of support from the
upper echelon of the state. For a while the Prime
Minister was out of the Sháh’s favor.
Meanwhile, Mahmúd Khán, the Kalantár, and his
policemen commenced a systematic search of the
neighborhood and twelve days later, that is, on 30
Shavvál [17 August 1952], Hájí ‘Alí Khán, the Hájibu’d-
Dawlih, learned that the home of Hájí Sulaymán Khán
was the gathering site of the Bábís. Mírzá Áqá Khán
Núri, the Prime Minister, issued instructions for that
house to be surrounded on a certain night and for the
Bábís to be seized and brought to him in chains to
Niyávarán.
When the Prime Minister saw him [Hájí Sulaymán
Khán], he protested most vigorously, saying, “All your

456 Left blank in original.
457 For comprehensive discussions of these events see, Abbas Amanat, The Pivot of the
Universe.

406  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


bounties are because of the Sháh. Instead of avenging
the blood of Farúkh Khán by killing the Bábís, why have
you made your home the sanctuary of the Bábís and the
site of their congregations?” Afterwards he was ordered
to be imprisoned, tortured and interrogated.
Hájí ‘Alí Khán, the Hájibu’d-Dawlih, succeeded in
arresting ‘Azím in Ivín. In the presence of the Prime
Minister and using his pocket knife, he cut off Mullá
Shaykh ‘Alí’s [‘Azím’s] ears, saying, “You sent those
foolish people to be slaughtered, promising them a new
life! Therefore I have cut off your ears! If what you claim
is true and you can perform miracles, grow new ears!”
Subsequently, ‘Azím was chained and imprisoned in one
of the palace chambers.
Since
Mírzá
Husayn-‘Alí
[Bahá’u’lláh]
was
apparently uninvolved in this incident, or His connection
was not proven, He was imprisoned while the rest were
killed most brutally. The ‘ulamá concluded that it was
imperative to put Mullá Shaykh ‘Alí [‘Azím], who
considered himself the successor of the Báb, to death.
This order was subsequently carried out.
With their swords, guns, knives and daggers,
princes killed Siyyid Husayn Khurasání. At the very
outset, because of religious prejudice and the protection
of the government, the Muqarrabu’l-Khaqán, the
Mustawfiu’l-Mamálík, killed Zaynu’l-‘Abidín Yazdí with
his pistol. Afterwards the Mustawfís and secretaries of
armies, collectively attacked his remains and with their
guns, knives, daggers and sabers shred it into pieces. Áqá
Hasan, the deputy of Farash-khánih, took Hájí Sulaymán
Khán458 and Hájí Qásim Nayrízí, inserted burning

458 Regarding the late Mírzá Sulaymán Khán, some historians have written that when
he saw the approaching crowd, accompanied by bands and music, he began dancing
and recited these lines:

With one hand I hold the wine cup,

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   407


candles into cuts in their bodies and, in this manner,
paraded them in the streets and bazaar, accompanied by
the sound of kettledrum and horns and merrymaking.
Outside the Sháh ‘Abdu’l-‘Azím Gate they were torn
into four pieces by the farráshes who hung them on the
four city gates. The I‘tidádu’s-Saltanih writes in Rijál-i
Fakhrí that, while dancing, Sulaymán Khán recited this
verse:

I pray veils be sundered from Thy Visage459,


So all would behold Thy beauty.460

Áqá Mihdí Máliku’t-Tawjar and some other merchants
killed Hájí Mírzá Jání [Kashi]. Mírzá Nabí Damavándí
was given to teachers and instructors of the Dáru’l-
Funún, who killed him by swords, bayonets and knives.
In short, each of the Bábís were given to a different
group of citizens to be killed in whatever manner that
people preferred.


Extract 14: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s address to the students of Beirut
university given in the Shrine of the Báb on 30 August 1914:461

This is a delightful gathering. It is very spiritual and is
well-organized and orderly. Many gatherings are held in
the world, but they do not have order and design and


With another the lover’s hair,

So all would hold this Visage! (HM)
459 A reference to the Báb.
460 The renowned historian of the Faith Hájí Mu‘ínu’s-Saltanih reports the same in
his unpublished history of the Bábí movement.
461 Since Dr. Mú’ayyad was in Germany on that date, this talk must have been
transcribed from the diary of someone else, possibly notes kept by Mírzá Ahmad
Sohrab.

408  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


suffer from disunity of thought. Praised be God that the
hearts of those assembled here are united and everyone’s
purpose is one and the same, with no trace of disunity in
thought. I cherish the hope that day by day this
gathering will grow and develop considerably, and will
excel in every walk of life. May it mature in its attraction
to God, in attainment of spiritual qualities, in acquisition
of sciences and other fields of learning. May it never
suffer from divergence of opinions or convictions.
All problems are rooted in differing views,
selfishness and egotism. Indeed, selfishness and egotism
are the cause of all problems. No other plague in the
contingent world has the same harm as selfishness,
which is for a person to be unsatisfied with another and
prefer himself. Selfishness causes ego, vanity, conceit
and remoteness. If you closely consider every calamity in
the contingent world, you will note that it is firmly
rooted in selfishness. We must not prefer ourselves, but
rather, regard others better than our own selves, even
those that are not believers [in Bahá’u’lláh]. This is
because our end is not disclosed. So many who are not
believers at the present may one day grow in certitude
and render great services. And many who presently rank
among the believers may at the end of life repudiate the
Truth. Therefore we must prefer all others to ourselves
and consider them perfect and flawless in comparison to
our own selves.
At the instant that we perceive ourselves superior
to others, we lose our path to salvation and deliverance.
This happens because we promote our base self, which
shows everyone’s faults but our own, thereby allowing us
to descend into the bottomless pit of remorse. It
presents our tyranny as justice, our utter abasement as
the height of glory and a great calamity as never-ending
bliss. When we closely consider man’s affairs, we see that

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   409


selfishness is man’s pit of darkness. This is because a
selfish person does not regard the deeds, behaviors and
sayings of other people, but rather approves of his own
self.
God forbid that any of us become selfish. God
forbid! God forbid! God forbid! When we look at our
own selves, we must see ourselves as coarser, humbler,
lower than any other. And when we look at others, we
must see in them the essence of perfection, attainments
and knowledge. That is, we must look at others through
the eye of God. We must see them as distinguished and
our own selves as inferior. Whatever faults we see in
others, we must see them also in our selves, because if
we were not faulty, then we would not see that fault. A
person must always see himself as deficient and others as
perfection.
There is a story – though it did not occur in
actuality – that I share as a means of furthering our
contrition. They say that one day His Holiness Christ –
may My spirit be a sacrifice unto Him – and His Apostle
passed by a dog that had died and was decaying. One of
the Apostles said, “How odorous!” Another remarked,
“How he has decomposed!” The third said, “How
offensive!” But Christ said, “What shiny, bright teeth he
possesses!” Notice that His Holiness Christ did not see
any of his faults. He looked closely until He found the
white teeth to comment on and disregarded all else.
Know that a heart that is brightened by the
effulgence of the Blessed Beauty would never utter the
word “I.” It is this word “I” that proves selfishness: I
did this, or I did that; I did well and the other did poorly.
This word “I” is a darkness that extinguishes the light of
faith. This one word will cause complete remoteness
from God!

410  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



Extract 15: [‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]

A person grows tired of unfruitful and frivolous talk.
Often what these people462 that visit talk about is trivial
and unimportant. They cause weariness, but there is no
choice other than associating with them. A person came
today and spoke for about an hour, without saying
anything of significance.
Man’s speech is a mirror of his heart. He speaks
from whatever plane his heart is. Therefore, from one’s
conversation it can be discerned in what plane he dwells,
whether his concern is with the world below or the
realm above, and whether he is heedless or aware,
awakened or in slumber. The Imam ‘Alí stated, “Man is
hidden, but his tongue reveals him.” That is, one speaks
of whatever he finds important.
There are people who rejuvenate the spirit when
one associates and converses with them. <285> If one
was previously depressed, he becomes refreshed; if dead,
new life is breathed into him; if sad, great joy is gained; if
lifeless, a new fire is blazed; if immersed in doubts,
certitude is renewed; if attached to this contingent world,
he becomes celestial; and if submerged in wrongdoing,
then he is embraced with goodly qualities. In contrast to
the above, there are people whose breath will extinguish
the fire of devotion, who will turn steadfastness into
waywardness and beguile those focused on the Abhá
Kingdom, which is why it is revealed, “Do not associate
with stonehearted.”
Most people behave thusly. When a person in a
bazaar reaches the attar [perfume essence], he inhales
fragrant scents. Similarly, there are people who are the

462 Presumably a reference to the non-Bahá’í locals.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   411


essence of spirit and cause the enlightenment of the
heart, manifesting most excellent heavenly tidings. That
is why it is revealed, “Their visage radiates the
resplendence of paradise, their countenance manifests
signs of prostration and their gaze is fixed upon the all-
seeing God.”
When one walks in a rose garden, he inhales the
scent of perfume, and in a morgue, naught but the odor
of death. Therefore, when you see a person illumined by
celestial virtues, attracted to the sanctified breath,
detached from all besides God, making mention of the
Lord, heedless of this nether world, his thoughts
heavenly, his talk spiritual, and his speech sweetened by
divine exhortations, then know that this person is a
manifestation of the Merciful and a teacher unto the
nations. This is the station of man and the cause of
people’s happiness.463

463 Diary of Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab records a slight variation of the same talk, given
on 25 July 1914 (Star of the West, 9 April 1917) and for ease of reference is noted
below:
Profitless discussions fatigue and weary a person. People who call on
me almost every day carry on a stream of profitless, unspiritual talk
and I must listen to them with patience. We are commanded to
associate with all the people. Today three persons called and they
talked for one hour without any definite result.
Man’s speech is the revealer of his heart. In whatever world
the heart travels, man’s conversation will revolve around that center.
From his words you can understand in what world he is traveling,
whether he is looking upward toward the realm of light of downward
to the nether world, whether he is awake or asleep, whether he is alive
or dead. For this reason, his holiness Ali says, “Man is hidden behind
his tongue. Out of the abundance of his heart does man speak.”
There are persons with whom you associate and converse
whose utterances are life-imparting, joy-giving. The withered and
faded are refreshed, the joyless become happy, the extinct become
enkindled and the lifeless are quickened with the breaths of the Holy
Spirit. The one drowned in the sea of hesitation and doubt is saved by
the life-boat of certainty and assurance; the one attached to this

412  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




Extract 16A: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired of the condition of the
honored Hájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí and then remarked:

He is at an advanced age and possesses utmost
spirituality. He has spent all his energy in the path of
God. How blessed is he who devotes his life to the
Cause instead of spending his days in satisfying his
carnal desires, which produce no results, end in absolute
nothingness and in utter loss! If a life is consecrated to
God, then it is all benefit.
Observe the ones who are devoted to the Cause,
dedicated to the sacred Threshold, with no other
purpose save servitude to the Blessed Beauty: How
spiritual and illumined they are! How resplendent,
detached and faithful they remain! In contrast, imagine a
person who is appointed the monarch of a realm. At the
end of his life, it will be of no profit to him, as if he
never came into this world and gained nothing from his
life. Like other animals, he ate, slept and walked and

material world becomes severed and the one steeped in blameworthy
deeds is adorned with praiseworthy attributes. On the other hand
there are some persons whose very respiration extinguishes the light
of faith; whose conversation weakens firmness and steadfastness in
the Cause of God; whose company diverts one’s attention from the
kingdom of Abha.
The souls who are rejoiced with the glad tidings of God,
attracted to the fragrances of holiness, severed from aught else save
God, who are commemorating the name of God are withdrawn from
the world of darkness their thought permeated through and through
with spiritual vibrations and their messages consisting of divine
advises [sic.] and exhortations; such souls are the manifestors of
God’s mercy, the educators of nations and the vivifiers of the world
of humanity. They are guardian angels, the cause of human progress
and the spiritual guides of the wandering children of men. Glory be
unto them!

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   413


bore no fruits from the tree of his life.
When one considers the life of sanctified souls,
this issue becomes indubitably clear. For example, Christ
and the Prince of Martyrs – may My spirit be a sacrifice
unto Them – spent all Their days in service to God and
at the end quaffed from the chalice of martyrdom. Now,
were Their lives more beneficial, or the rule of Yazíd and
Mu‘áwiya, who acquired naught but eternal damnation,
everlasting rebuke, and deprivation from the grace of
God? Outwardly They were immersed in great afflictions
and surrounded with tribulations, while sovereignty,
glamour, comfort, joy and ease embraced [Yazíd and
Mu‘áwiya]. However the truth is the opposite of what is
outwardly manifest.
These sanctified Beings gave illumination to the
nations, bestowed spirituality on the world of humanity,
revived the hearts, conferred divine tidings upon people,
advanced human qualities, manifested heavenly bounties
and dispensed celestial favors. What immense benefits
became apparent from Them and how great the fruits
left by Them! And these are only what are evident in this
world, so you can imagine how much greater are the
effects in the Kingdom.
For instance, was it better if His Holiness the
Exalted One [the Báb] – may My spirit be a sacrifice
unto Him – had spent His days busy with transitory
worldly concerns or that He dedicated His life to God
and spent His days in suffering, tribulation and affliction,
at the end drinking from the cup of self-renunciation?
Sanctified souls and divine Prophets sustained immense
suffering, but it was only for a period. For example,
Yahyá ibn Zakaríya languished for a few days. Christ’s
suffering was for three years: days of trials and
tribulations, followed with the exalted station of
martyrdom. Most resplendent of all was the feast of

414  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


suffering spread before the Prince of the Martyrs [Imám
Husayn]. Indeed it was a feast filled with every kind of
bounty: from one direction, exiled from home; from
another plundered and pillaged; from yet another, his
family and all kin held captive after His martyrdom; and
from another direction, the martyrdom of some
prisoners. In short, it was a feast in which every manner
of delicacy and goodly food was available. Then they
seized the blessed widow of the Imám and raised the
severed heads of the martyrs above lances, leading this
procession from city to city. All the suffering of the
Imám was from morning to noon, though no greater
sacrifice can be conceived than His. That is, no example
can be offered greater than His sacrifice and self-
renunciation on the field of martyrdom.
Nevertheless, from the dawn of His Manifestation,
His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] was always
imprisoned, and until His martyrdom seven years later,
He was banished from one prison to the next, each day
enduring a fresh wave of afflictions and hardship.
Similarly, the sufferings of the Blessed Beauty lasted fifty
years, during which he endured multitudes of adversities,
difficulties, insults of enemies, injuries from foes, pillage
and plunder, imprisonment and captivity, beating and
abuse. Then He was crowned with banishment to
foreign lands, first to Iraq, then to Constantinople, to
Adrianople, and eventually to the Prison City of ‘Akká
where criminals and murderers were confined. For fifty
years, each day had a new trial. ...464
Now that the sanctified Manifestations of God
have sacrificed in such wise, if we indeed hold a particle
of fidelity, how great should be our sacrifice by this
sacred Threshold! How immense should be our

464 Left blank in original text.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   415


renouncement of worldly attachment! How readily we
must abandon comfort and ease! How cheerfully we
must offer life in this path! How immediately we must
arise in service to these Sanctified Beings!
Therefore we must be constantly exerting efforts,
never remain still until we have drunk at least a drop
from the ocean of servitude unto the Manifestations. If
we are deprived of the ocean, we must not remain
deprived of the drop, since servitude unto these Sacred
Manifestations is like a sun and we are but a speck. The
speck only appears in the presence of the light of the
sun. Similarly, we become visible only in servitude unto
the Threshold. Were it not for the ray of sun, the speck
would remain invisible.


Extract 16B: [‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]

Together with Áqá Mírzá Haydar-‘Alí, we went for a
stroll. We saw a large multitude going up the mountain,
as the next evening was a festivity in honor of Saint465
Elijah. Rank upon rank of people ascended the
mountain. That whole night, men, women and children
did not sleep, drank wine and danced until the morning.
It is astounding that people are so inclined to lewd and
indecent behavior. They even try to change worship into
this mold. If they are mystics, they play tambourine and
dance and call this worship and supplication unto God.
When we were in Adrianople, I went to Takyih
Qádirí466 and saw many Shaykhs, wearing massive
turbans, engaged in conversation, and I listened to them.
One of them asked, “What is the meaning of the word,

465 Translator is grateful to Khazeh Fananapazir for pointing out that the original
“mar” in Syriac means Saint.
466 Takyih is a place of worship for the mystic orders, such as, Qádirí Sufis.

416  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


‘Musáfir467’?” Another responded that in Turkish it
meant a guest. Yet a third replied, “This is evident, and
there is no need to ask. Musáfir is a derivative of Isráf468.
That is, when a musáfir comes, then one’s expenses will
increase.”469
I went into the other room and saw them busy
with dancing and playing music. One of them was
playing reed-flute. I asked him what it was, and he said,
“It is the noble flute!” Another was playing the
tambourine and called it, “the noble tambourine!” And
yet the third was playing the drum and called it, “the
noble drum!”
The point is that people have such great inclination
to indecent behaviors and even change worship into the
garb of such obscenities.
With utmost detachment, His Holiness Elijah
rescued the Israelites from idol worship and immersed
them in the ocean of divine effulgence. He renewed the
religion of God and established its foundation on firm
ground. And when He had organized their affairs and
edified the people, He withdrew into solitude, which is
why it is revealed in the Qur’án, “And we uplifted Him to a
place on high.”470


Extract 17: On the occasion of someone meeting with one of the
Covenant-breakers, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] remarked:

Through the tongue of His Manifestation, God has

467 Lit. traveler, wayfarer.
468 Lit. lavishness and prodigality.
469 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s point is to show the absurdity of discourse among these so-called
seekers of truth.
470 Qur’án 19:58. This verse of the Qur’án is revealed in honor of Enoch and
appears in several prayers of Bahá’u’lláh (e.g. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 25).

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   417


revealed: “O Son of Spirit! The best beloved of all things in My
sight is Justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and
neglect it not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see
with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of others, and shalt
know of thine own knowledge and not through the knowledge of thy
neighbor.”471
Therefore a person must see things through his
own eyes and not through the eyes of others and
investigate the truth of all matters by himself and not
rely on the words of others. Every group has its own
claim, and each nation has its own proclivities. If people
would consider matters with equity and investigate the
veracity of things by themselves, then no discord would
remain, and all would embrace one another in unity and
oneness.
For instance, how did it come to pass that certain
of the Prophet’s disciples, His travel companions, and of
the Ansár, rose with such fierce indignation to slay the
Prince of the Martyrs [Imám Husayn] – may My spirit be
a sacrifice unto Him? It was all based on false and ill-
intended stories and rumors. For instance, it was voiced
among people that this Person [i.e. Imám Husayn] “had
made lawful that which was forbidden by God and made
prohibited that which God had allowed, and that He had
abandoned fasting, obligatory prayers, jihad, and had
discarded the religion of His Grandfather.” And it is for
these reasons that in His Tablet of Visitation,
[Bahá’u’lláh] reveals, “I testify that Thou didst observe
obligatory prayers and zakat.”472
In short, seven hundred notables fixed their seal
on a document testifying that [Imám Husayn] had
repudiated the Faith of His Grandfather and, therefore,

471 Arabic Hidden Words, no. 2.
472 Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Visitation for Imám Husayn is found in ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd
Ishráq-Khávarí. Durj-i La’áli-i Hidáyat, vol. 3, pp. 422-427.

418  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


in the eye of Islam, was deserving of death. Notice how
they had succeeded in spreading falsities! Had He, and I
take refuge unto God, discarded the Faith of His
Grandfather, or was He dedicated to the propagation of
the religion of His Grandfather and willing to sacrifice
His life in the path of God? It is always such rumors that
cause dissension, especially when they are bereft of any
reason or proof. Upon repeated hearing of these
calumnies, people naturally believe them. <290> For
instance, consider [the role of] ‘Umar473 ibn Sa‘d ibn
Waqqás. He was the son of Sa‘d [ibn] Waqqás who
conquered the whole of Iran with his sword. Or the
transmitter of hadíth (stories of the Prophet) Anas ibn
Málik who ranked among the closest companions of the
Prophet. How grievously they erred by listening to
hearsay.
However, people that investigate claims for
themselves learn the fundamental truth. We walk in a
path that has no interest in other people’s affairs.


Extract 18: Regarding war, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] remarked:

These are God-sent calamities for man so that people
will grow repentant and contrite. However, these people
are like children in the cradle -- the more you rock them,
the sleepier they get. The affairs of men have been
thrown in confusion in both the East and the West. We
must wait and see what God has decreed. Pray for the
means of comfort and the bestowal of happiness upon
people. Many are presently in great difficulty. From all
directions, trials and afflictions have surrounded them.

473 He was the commander of the army of 4,000 strong that surrounded and
martyred the Imám Husayn and His party.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   419


Perchance, God willing, they will become repentant and
remorseful, be rescued from negligence, abdicate tyranny
and oppression, and embrace one another in justice and
equity. Our hope is that they be delivered from the
clutches of their carnal desires and emancipated from the
bondage of self and passion. Our desire is for them to
grow focused on God, for hearts to shine with radiance,
for thoughts to be expanded, for them to become
informed of heavenly realms, for greed and avidity to be
erased, for reliance on God to be universal, and for
people to be satisfied with their status and not invade
other people’s possessions.
God willing, whatever has caused these maladies
and afflictions will be completely eradicated. Presently,
people deserve these trials that have appeared and these
tribulations that have surrounded them. Comfort and
happiness must be removed, and tumult and gloom must
take its place. People must grow in perturbation. That is
what people deserve. No benefit is seen when God
bestows His infinite bounty and grace upon them, and
indeed they become more heedless. That is the time
when calamities surround them, that perchance they may
become repentant. That is the last remedy. They say that
the last cure is to burn the malady, as there is no other
remedy. This is because the greater the profusion of
divine compassion, the deeper are people’s neglects; the
more protective the grace of God, the more determined
is people’s rebellion and denial.
Pray for these people, perchance they may become
repentant, spiritual, turn to God and be rescued from the
passion of self and desire.474

474 The following version of the same talk is recorded in the diary of Mírzá Ahmad
Sohrab (Star of the West, 16 October 1914) and attributed to the words of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá spoken on 8 August 1914:
These dreadful events are as warnings on the part of God, so

420  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá




Extract 19A: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk on 3 August 1914:475

A great tumult is ensuing. The whole world is in
cataclysm. They are determined to cause universal
upheaval. I spoke of these matters in various gatherings,

that they may quicken the people and make them mindful. But the
majority of mankind are like unto the children, who are being rocked
in a cradle. The harder they are rocked to be awakened, the deeper
they fall into sleep. East and West the affairs of the people are in utter
confusion and the markets of the world are afflicted with lethargy.
The wheels of international transactions are at a standstill. We shall
wait and see what God has decreed to be the outcome of this
universal upheaval. As for you, pray meanwhile in behalf of the
people, so that the forces of Peace may gain ascendancy over the
powers of war. They are now in great distress. From all sides they are
surrounded with difficulties and hardships. Perchance, God willing,
they may become mindful and aware, be released from negligence,
abandon tyranny and oppression, treat each other with justice and
fairness, and give up the dictates of selfishness and personal interest.
Our hope is that they may be freed from the cruelty of passion and
egoism: that these wicked powers may not overmaster them; that they
may turn their faces toward God; that they hearts may become
illumined; that the sphere of minds be extended; that avarice and
covetousness may not remain; that truth in God and self-reliance may
take possession of their beings that they may be satisfied with their
own rights and that they may not rise in aggression to trample under
their feet the rights of others. May all of the causes of war and
conflict, hardships and sufferings, be entirely removed! ...
In short, pray and supplicate at the Threshold of the Almighty
on behalf of the heedless souls; for they know not what they are
doing! May they be imbued with the qualities of the heavenly angels!
May they give up ferocity and be characterized with the attributes of
the Merciful. May they ever live in accord with the good-pleasure of
the Lord of mankind! May they become the guardians of the rights of
the oppressed and downtrodden! May they be the real servants in the
Palace of Universal Brotherhood!
475 Dr. Mú’ayyad was in Germany on this date and therefore he must have copied
this talk from someone else’s diary.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   421


churches and assemblies in America and Europe, telling
them, “The present situation is most dangerous. Europe
is like a powder keg, short of a spark. While there is time,
come, aid and extinguish this fire, that perchance War
may be prevented.” But they heeded not My counsel.
Now this is the result; whereas, they should know that
war is the destroyer of the human foundation. It ruins
the world and has no benefit whatsoever. Both the victor
and the vanquished suffer. It is like two ships colliding.
If one sinks the other, the one remaining will suffer
perilously as well.
The most that can be expected is that one
government will temporarily prevail over another. But
this victory is transient. A few days later, the vanquished
will become the victor. How many times has it been that
France has overcome Germany, only for Germany to
come back and overcome France!
How amazing the effect of vain imaginings when
truth has no influence! How truly amazing! For instance,
the belief in the difference of races is pure imagination,
and yet it exerts great sway. Though all are human,
nevertheless, some have named themselves Slavonic,
others German, Chinese, French or British. But this
difference of races is pure fantasy. Yet how powerful is
its effect and sway! In reality though we are all one and
the same! It is clearly evident that the whole of humanity
is one, but this truth has no currency, whereas racial
difference, which is fiction and illusory, has great
predominance.
So many wars have been fought, so much blood
has been shed, so many homes have been ruined, so
many cities have been destroyed, and yet, they are not
tired of war. Hearts are still hard like stone. People have
not grown repentant. They have not awakened. This
enmity and rancor is the obliterator of the human

422  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


foundation, and love and fellowship, the cause of
people’s ease and happiness.
How people are agitated! How many fathers will
spend this very night in lament and sorrow! How many
mothers will spend it in sobbing and wailing, to a point
that is indescribable! What has motivated governments
to behave thusly? The instigators of war are in their
homes enjoying utmost comfort while these wretched
men are fighting one another, forced to tear into each
other on the battlefield. How utterly unfair! The authors
of this ordeal are unwilling to suffer the least loss, but
they are ready to sacrifice thousand of others on the field
of battle. Of what use is this?
Presently, there are difficulties between Austria and
Serbia. They should submit these issues to a supreme
tribunal476, which would investigate the details. Should it
find that the fault lies with Austria, then it will rule
accordingly; and if with the other side, then likewise.
There is no need for war. The supreme tribunal will
solve such difficulties. When differences appear among
people, they turn to courts for resolution of these
differences. Similarly, a supreme tribunal must be
formed to resolve international differences among the
nations. What can be better than this? What harm is in it!
The governments and the nations will be at great ease
and will know the utmost happiness.
Since the time when history was first recorded
until the present, truly no instance is known where love,
fellowship, affection and peace have caused injury.
Indeed, they have brought widespread joy and comfort.

476 Original term is “mahkamih kubrá”. According to the text of this talk, apparently
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke both “mahkamih ummumí” and “mahkamih kubrá”. The
present translator is not familiar with the use of “mahkamih kubrá” in the Writings
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  However, “mahkamih ummumí” appears in His Will and
Testament and has been translated as “Supreme Tribunal” by Shoghi Effendi.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   423


On the other hand, war has brought great harm to
everyone. Despite this, humanity is deep in the ways of
war and strife and constantly pursues this path. It is a
wonder that these people think the foundation of divine
Faith is based on waging war.
How neglectful! How foolish! It seems as if there is
no trace of good-will left in hearts. It is the human who
is the savage yet lays this at the door of animals. The
beast of burden may attack another for food, but only
one, and not of his own kind. For instance, they call
wolfs savage. The poor wolf attacks only a single sheep
for his food; and if he does not do so, he will die of
hunger, since he is carnivorous. But a single person can
cause the death of a million others. Yet they call animals
savage! How can a person cause the death of so many
and then claim to be victorious, triumphant, brave and
courageous? Is there pride in these killings? It is amazing
that they call the wolf and the bear beasts!


Extract 19B: [A talk by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:]

Today I was pondering the deeds of certain people. The
heavenly Farmer comes and clears the earth of
deadwood and debris. The divine Cultivator withstands
every grievous trial and tribulation that the world may be
cleansed and sanctified. Then He ploughs the land and
sows pure seeds that gradually begin to grow and
flourish. His purpose is to raise harvests, rank upon
rank, through divine favors; therefore, He plants young
trees, the spring breeze wafts over them, clouds of
bounties rain upon them and the warmth of the sun
gives them life. He selects certain people and asks them
to serve these plants with all their heart and soul so that
they grow and flourish and produce good harvests. He

424  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


instructs them how to water the farm and how to ensure
the cultivation of the crops until they come to fruition.
Now, some people wish to harvest this plantation
[pre-maturely]. You ask them, “Why do you harvest
now, when it is the Divine Cultivator Who is raising
these plants to give goodly results and luscious fruits?”
They say, “I am in haste and have no interest in such
matters. I want wood to burn for my immediate desire.”
And no matter how one pleads with them, “Friend, there
is much wood in the jungles; go cut those and leave
these newly-planted shrubs alone,” their response is, “I
do not understand such things.” ...477
While the Divine Educator has illumined many
lamps, these others extinguish them, one by one. When
one inquires about the purpose of their doings, they
respond, “I desire darkness in order to steal; darkness is
necessary for a robbery.” Consider how unfair, how
oppressive, how reckless, how cruel it must be for a
person to completely uproot these verdant young trees
planted by the Divine Cultivator!
My point is that His Holiness the Exalted One [the
Báb] – may My soul be a sacrifice unto Him – and the
Blessed Beauty – may My spirit be a sacrifice unto His
friends – sustained all these trials and tribulations,
imprisonment and banishment, insults and slanders, in
order to prepare this earth, plough its soil, sow goodly
seeds and, with a myriad difficulties and injuries, water
the plants. Therefore, we too must exert every effort to
safeguard this plantation from thieves, and to water and
serve these newly rooted shrubs so that great results and
benefits will come from this harvest. Those that are
detached from all else save God, believe in divine signs,
and are firm in their convictions, will exert themselves

477 Left blank by the diarist.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   425


day and night for the development of this heavenly
harvest and celestial orchard. And when they see that
their sacrificial efforts have brought about wonderful
results, they will be filled with joy and delight.


<295> Extract 20: In Abu Sinan, on the occasion of the
martyrdom of the honored Shaykh ‘Alí-Akbar Quchání [in
Khurásán], ‘Abdu’l-Bahá commented on 9 April 1915:

These wretched soldiers die for the sake of some soil,
which is the lowest form of creation, and do not know
why they are slain. Consider how some are refined and
how some abase themselves. In the world of humanity,
some sanctified souls appear in human temple that are
revered by the whole of creation, while some others
appear that worship soil and give their life in the path of
dirt and rock. The latter are the abased! And yet there are
some others who readily give their all – their lives,
possessions, comfort and position – in the path of the
Blessed Beauty. How vast is the difference between
those who sacrifice in the path of the soil and those that
sacrifice in the path of the Blessed Beauty! The former is
inferior to soil, while the latter has won the eternal
crown of glory. The former will gain naught but grievous
loss, but the latter will give life to the world by their
sacrifice.
Similarly to the honored Shaykh ‘Alí-Akbar, many
have quaffed from the chalice of martyrdom at the time
when they were raising the call of the Abhá Kingdom,
guiding others to the religion of God, giving existence to
others, sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, a voice to
the mute and life to the dead. In such a state, in utmost
detachment, they drank from the cup of renunciation.

426  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Thousands upon thousands of people are presently
being killed on the battlefield, though their deaths will
bear no fruit or benefit whatsoever. But one sanctified
soul is martyred in the path of God and thousands of
others are given life. They water the tree of God with
their own blood. Though they close an eye to this mortal
life, they open another to everlasting existence. They will
shine resplendently like a morning star in all the worlds
of God and, even on earth, their fame shall be exalted,
their mention magnificent and their fortune vast. The
spiritual fragrance wafted from their direction will be a
sweet perfume. Consider how vast is the difference,
which is why it has been revealed, “And repute not those
slain on God’s path to be dead. Nay, alive with their Lord, are
they richly sustained.”478
This sanctified soul, the honored Áqá Shaykh ‘Alí-
Akbar, embraced the Faith some time ago and attained
certitude. He was instrumental in guiding others as well.
He traveled frequently to Iran, Caucasus and India and,
in most instances, left behind radiant evidences and
enrolled others under the banner of the Cause. The end
of his life was musk-laden. With the utmost sanctity,
purity and attraction to God, thrilled by divine promises
and enflamed by the love of God, he drank from the
mighty chalice of martyrdom in the path of the Beloved.
What a hallowed personage he was! Blessed were he and
his end. His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] has
revealed, “Those that seek martyrdom in God’s path do so by the
grace of God. He bestoweth upon whosoever He willeth and is the
possessor of great bounties.”
Out of divine bounty and favor, I implore that we
too partake of this overflowing cup and this life-giving
chalice so that, with the utmost joy and spirit, and

478 Qur’an 3:169.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   427


enthralled by the breeze of the Merciful, we too would
hasten to the field of martyrdom of love and sacrifice
this drooping life in the path of the Almighty God.
How cruel are the Iranians! They have not eased
their oppression. So many calamities and adversities have
befallen them and yet they continue with their former
persecutions. But they must pay someday. It is revealed,
“God gives them time and does not give them time.”479

‘Abdu’l-Bahá telegraphed the following cable: “Mashhad. Mírzá
Ahmad Qa’iní. May My life be a sacrifice unto ‘Alí-Akbar. I am well and in
good health. ‘Abbás.”480
I remember that some years earlier the late Shaykh ‘Alí-Akbar
had come from India to ‘Akká and had brought an Indian traveler
with him. One day in Bahjí, with His own hands, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
prepared Quzi-pulau for lunch and served each one of the friends in
attendance, including this Indian traveler. He quickly ate some of the
meat, but it was not long thereafter that he had to leave the room
and vomit his lunch. It then became clear that after his conversion
to the Faith, he had broken with two of his past practices: sea
journey and eating meat. Apparently his stomach was not used to
meat, which forced his vomiting. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “If
someone is not used to eating meat and not accustomed to it, and
passes by a butcher shop, then the foul odor of the meat will harm
him and he will become ill. But those that regularly eat meat do not
sense this odor. In consideration of the fact that people have
developed the habit of eating meat and by now are used to it, the
Blessed Beauty did not prohibit meat eating, but man is not created
carnivorous.”
Similarly in another instance it was noted:481

479 This verse is an allusion to the Qur’án 86:17, “Deal calmly therefore with the infidels;
give them awhile alone.”
480 A picture of Áqá Shaykh ‘Alí-Akbar Quchání is on the page opposite the first
page of the Star of the West, 13 July 1915.
481 Khátirát Habíb, vol. 1, p. 414 (297) offers an Arabic paragraph, presumably

428  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá



Regarding the eating of animal flesh and abstinence
therefrom, know thou of a certainty that, in the beginning of
creation, God determined the food of every living being, and to eat
contrary to that determination is not approved. For instance, beasts
of prey, such as the wolf, lion and leopard, are endowed with
ferocious, tearing instruments, such as hooked talons and claws.
From this it is evident that the food of such beasts is meat. If they
were to attempt to graze, their teeth would not cut the grass, neither
could they chew the cud, for they do not have molars. Likewise,
God hath given to the four-footed grazing animals such teeth as
reap the grass like a sickle, and from this we understand that the
food of these species of animal is vegetable. They cannot chase and
hunt down other animals. The falcon hath a hooked beak and
sharp talons; the hooked beak prevents him from grazing, therefore
his food also is meat.
But now coming to man, we see he hath neither hooked teeth
or sharp nails or claws, or teeth like iron sickles. From this it
becomes evident and manifest that the food of man is cereals and
fruit. Some of the teeth of man are like millstones to grind the
grain, and some are sharp to cut the fruit. Therefore he is not in
need of meat, nor is he obliged to eat it. Even without eating meat
he would live with the utmost vigor and energy. For example, the
community of the Brahmins in India does not eat meat;
notwithstanding this they are not inferior to other nations in
strength, power, vigor, outward senses or intellectual virtues. Truly,
the killing of animals and the eating of their meat is somewhat
contrary to pity and compassion, and if one can content oneself with
cereals, fruit, oil and nuts, such as pistachios, almonds and so on,
it would undoubtedly be better and more pleasing.


representing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words. However, it appears to be a summary of an
unidentified Persian Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that appears in The Compilation of
Compilations 1:1028. Therefore, the Arabic paragraph has been replaced with a
translation of this previously published Tablet.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   429



Extract 21:  On Monday, 6 Muharram 1333 AH [24 November
1914], Áqá Mírzá Núri’d-Dín Zayn came from ‘Akká to Abu Sinan. I
asked him, “Since you just returned from the Master’s presence,
what news do you have? What did He talk about?” He replied,
“Today ‘Abdu’l-Bahá told amazing stories regarding the World War
and the proclamation of jihád by the Muslims, and He remarked, ‘If
the Covenant-breakers had not frustrated My efforts, I would have
assembled some of the Muslim and Christian chiefs and exhorted
them to disallow internal conflict [in the nation]. However, the
violators of the Covenant resisted and blocked Me.’ He also related,
‘Once at a wedding in ‘Akká, when the bridal party reached the
residence of the groom, as is customary, the Arabs played fencing
games as they chanted songs in praise of the Blessed Beauty. They
sang:

O Bahá’u’lláh, Thou art the sovereign of the land and sea,
Thou art the ruler of the Arabs and Persians
Thou art the king of Damascus,
Sovereignty is deserving of Thee.

As they sang, a number of soldiers were sitting next to Me, who did
not dare protest and only spoke in affirmation of the songs.
Consider the influence [of Bahá’u’lláh]! What troubles we endured
during the reign of [Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd, but they passed. The
present way is agreeable as well. Alas, the Covenant-breakers did not
allow it and ruined [the opportunity].’ And this is the exact story [as
told by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]:

There was a certain Mustafá Effendi in charge of the
newspaper, who persistently caused us difficulties and
incited people against us, including the Mutasarrif
Kurdih who had risen with the utmost determination to
destroy us. The more kindness we showed the
Mutasarrif, the more he grew in his animosity. One day

430  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


he gathered in his house all the notables, the Qádí
[judge] and the Muftí of ‘Akká and anyone else who was
hostile towards us, planning to create great mischief on
that day and to slay and plunder us.
One of the friends of the Mutasarrif, a certain
Sa‘du’d-Dín Ramadán, who was the chief of the
merchants, left the gathering in its midst and came to
our residence. First, he knocked on the door very loudly,
but I instructed that it should not be opened. He
persisted in knocking and insisted on entering, saying he
was carrying an important message and that he only
wished to say a few words and then leave quickly.
Eventually, he was allowed in. Once inside, he
began to insult and curse the Mutasarrif, while I kept
silent and did not utter a word. After he had said all he
wished, he commented, ‘Effendi, it is best if You
mitigate the tension and make peace with the
Mutasarrif.’ I replied, ‘Peace? That is an excellent and
most wonderful idea, but how?’ He said, ‘The
Mutasarrif’s purpose is money. That is what he wants. It
is best if You do not deny him and give him some
money.’ I remarked, ‘Very well, that is easy. Wait till I go
get some.’ Sa‘du’d-Dín Ramadán was thrilled, thinking
that I was about to go fetch a bag of gold coins.
Instead, I went inside, performed My ablutions and
stood for prayer. With the utmost concentration and
reverence, I offered two repetitions of the obligatory
prayer, and afterwards recited a long prayer. Meanwhile,
Sa‘du’d-Dín Ramadán was becoming impatient and I
could hear him say, ‘Hurry, Effendi! Hurry, Effendi!’ He
was in a great hurry, growing impatient, as he had
promised his friends he would return quickly, which is
why he was insisting that I should hurry and give him
the money. However, with great deliberation, I was
engaged in prayer. He kept pleading for Me to make

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   431


haste, saying, ‘Hurry, Effendi, it is best not to delay this
matter!’ I asked, ‘Which matter?’ He replied, ‘The issue
of the money!’ ‘The money was sent a while ago. Why
are you here?’ I told him. ‘How was it sent? By whom
was it sent?’ he inquired. I said, ‘By now it has reached
the Mutasarrif. Go quickly!’
He rose and began to put on his shoes; and, when
he turned back towards Me, I slapped him hard and was
about to slap him again, but he fled and went to the
Mutasarrif who had inquired, ‘Why did it take you so
long? Where is the money?’ He replied, ‘By God, I went
to them, but all I received was a hard beating. Look, my
face is still quite red! These people are very tough!’
This incident further deepened the enmity, rancor,
animosity and hatred of the Mutasarrif who arose with
the utmost determination and haste to cause us injury.
Instead, he received a telegram dismissing him and his
entire administration – both religious and secular – from
office. Until then, it was unheard of that a whole
municipal administration should be dismissed at once
and without exception.
The Mutasarrif discovered the source of his
troubles, so he sent the Muftí with a thousand liras to
Beirut, charging him to present the gift to the Valí with a
request for a new post. The Muftí proceeded to Beirut;
but, when the Valí learned that he was carrying a gift of a
thousand liras for him, he became very angry and did not
allow the Mutfí to sit in his presence, and instead had
him stripped of the thousand liras and thrown into
prison.
From Beirut, the Muftí wrote Me. <300> He
appealed in the Name of the Blessed Beauty, so I would
intercede on his behalf: He had written, “By His
Threshold.” When I saw the misery and wretchedness
that had befallen him, I agreed to release him. In utter

432  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


despair and gloom, he returned to ‘Akká, but everyone
abandoned him. Eventually he came to Me, fell at My
feet and expressed his regret and remorse. I lifted him up
and forgave him. I then wrote to the Valí, who was
Nusvahíy Bey, recommended him, and said that he had
not perpetrated any harm or injury against us. In short,
this Muftí, whose name was Shaykh ‘Alí Mírí, embraced
the Faith.482
Soon thereafter, the Mutasarrif also came to Me,
threw himself on the ground and pleaded for
forgiveness. He implored, ‘This evil man, Mustafá
Effendi, the newspaper editor, was the perpetrator of all
the mischief and machinations!’483 After him came
Mustafá Effendi asking for forgiveness and expressing
his regret. He claimed it was the Mutasarrif who had
caused the conflict and that, ‘It was he, this greedy man,
who brought about these events. I was a mere
servant.’484
Not long thereafter, orders were issued for the
Mutasarrif to be exiled to Damascus. I paid all his
expenses in that city as well as for his family in ‘Akká.
After three months, I sent his family to him in
Damascus and paid for their journey.
In short, Mustafá Effendi was the one who caused
and provoked the Mutasarrif into enmity towards us and
continued to oppose us to the point that he wanted to
forcibly seize the residence of the Blessed Beauty in
‘Akká because of its refreshing climate and pleasant
view. He continued with his harassment and wrote a
complaint to Constantinople, claiming: “The Blessed

482 It was because of the pleading of this Muftí that Bahá’u’lláh agreed to leave the
city of ‘Akká for the Mansion of Mazra‘ih; see Hasan Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh, the King of
Glory, pp. 358-359, 361 and Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 40-1.
483 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes him in Arabic.
484 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes him in Arabic.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   433


Beauty and his followers are mischief-makers. They
interfere in matters of politics, have gained immense
influence, and, therefore, I wish to seize the center of
this sedition (meaning the house of Bahá’u’lláh).”485
They sent investigators to ‘Akká, including the
secretary of Beirut’s Valí. It so happened that prior to
their arrival, I met the secretary [of the Valí of Beirut] in
a gathering, and, in the course of conversation, he asked,
“What is the difference between ‘In the Name of God,
the Compassionate, the Merciful’ and ‘In the Name of
the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.’” I explained
the station of divinity and prophethood in detail. He was
absolutely astounded and enchanted with these
expositions and explanations. Afterwards in Turkish I
wrote a short letter to the Valí of Beirut, Nusvahíy Bey,
alerting him to more closely mind the situation of ‘Akká.
The Valí issued immediate instructions for an
investigation, in the course of which, much corruption in
the administration of ‘Akká was discovered.486
And this was the account of Mutasarrif Kurdih,
Mustafá Effendi and their collaborators.


Extract 22: In 1927, when I attained the presence of the Guardian
of the Cause of God – may my spirit be a sacrifice unto him –
mention of Iran was made. He stated, “There is a Text in the blessed
handwriting of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, but it is not known for whom it was
revealed. I give you a photocopy to take to Iran so that the friends
of God will behold it and become aware of the future of Iran.” That
Text is as follows:

A thousand years must pass ere Iran can by the aid of

485 Ottoman law prohibited political dissent and agitation for civil liberties.
486 Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 115-116 suggests this incident occurred during
the time of Bahá’u’lláh.

434  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


material means gain parity with the peoples and the governments of
Europe. Bahá’u’lláh, however, has illumined Iran and will raise
her high in the eyes of the entire world. That country shall so
advance as to excite the envy and admiration of the East and the
West.
The land of Hijáz, though deserted and sterile in its soil
and its tribes in the depth of ignorance, savagery and perversion, yet
the power of the Cause of God transformed it to become the Qiblih
of the world and the focal-center of the planet’s devotion.
The people of the East are presently unaware that they have
incarcerated for well-nigh fifty years the like of that glorious
Personage! But for His chains and prison, Bahá’u’lláh by this time
would have gained ascendancy over the thoughts of the peoples of
Europe, would have made of Iran the garden of Paradise, would
have made Iran distinguished before all of mankind, nay He would
have made her such that all peoples and governments would seek
enlightenment from that land.
Consider the results of my few days’ stay in London and the
profound effect it has had there and in the surrounding regions.
Ponder then, what the coming of Bahá’u’lláh would have achieved.
Had He appeared in Europe, its people would have seized their
opportunity, and His Cause, by virtue of the freedom of thought,
would by this time have compassed the earth. But alas! This
Cause, though it first appeared in Iran, yet eventually it shall be
seen how the peoples of Europe have wrested it from the hand of
Iran and Iranians. Take note of this and remember it in the
future. Ultimately you shall see how it has come to pass. And yet
behold! how the Bahá’ís are sill slain by the people of Iran!487


Extract 23: [A Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, likely revealed in the fourth
quarter of 1914:]


487 A slight modification of a translation in The Bahá’í World, vol. 3, p. 75.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   435


London. The honored Mírzá Lutfu’lláh [Hakím], upon him rest
the Glory of God.

He is God!
O thou firm in the Covenant! Thy long letter was perused.
Some people’s remarks are excessive and unworthy of response. The
honored Áqá Siyyid Yahyá488 has reached Egypt. You must take
firm and determined steps in the Cause. These transient black
clouds will soon dissipate and the sun of reality will shine forth in
utmost resplendence.
Write the handmaiden of God General Jack489 not to return
to Europe but to proceed to Toronto, Canada, and also St. John’s
for the purpose of the propagation of the Cause of God. From
Germany, the honored Mr. Remey and Mr. Latimer, accompanied
by Áqá Mírzá Habíb, have arrived in the Holy Land and, after
a most delightful and reinvigorating period of stay, have now
returned to America.
Convey ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s warmest greetings to all the firm
believers and upon you rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


Extract 24: On Thursday, 4 December 1914, at the beginning of
my stay in the village of Abu Sinan, I was summoned to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s presence alone in ‘Akká and He spoke the following words.
He also gave me a mission that required going to Beirut by way of
Damascus. The Master remarked:

Áqá Mírzá Habíb, we have already given you many
burdens and now another task must be entrusted to you.
What can we do! Proceed to Beirut by way of Damascus
and bring back a check. (The check was sent by Áqá

488 A brother-in-law of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
489 Originally of Canada, she was a stalwart pioneer to the end and passed away in
Bulgaria, March 1954.

436  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Siyyid Nasru’lláh Báqiroff, and apparently the funds were
for his children.)
However, regarding your own situation: The
believers [of this region] greatly need you. I have sent
them to Abu Sinan. You can stay there and spend some
time in utmost happiness and spirituality, or do you
prefer to leave? It may be several months, but it is would
be a great bounty for the friends if you were to stay. I am
greatly burdening you. I hope that these burdens will
become a source of your everlasting honor and merit in
both worlds. To those I love, I entrust work. It is not to
everyone that I give work.


Extract 25: In response to a letter from one of the American
friends who had complained of loneliness, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:


O believer in God! Thy letter arrived, and therein thou had
complained of lonesomeness. Do not be sad. You are not alone;
God is your companion and your friend. Lonely is the one who is
distant from God. But if one is aware of God, though he be in the
midmost-heart of a vast and desolate desert, he is not alone: God is
with him.
This world of soil always has a dark sky, filled with black
clouds. Each instance brings thunder, lightning, snow, storms, or
raging floods from high grounds. Therefore, do not think that it is
solely you who are surrounded by trials and agonies. In truth, all of
creation is enveloped in these miseries so that man will not grow
attached to this world but instead will discover ease and comfort in
the heavenly realm and the celestial kingdom.
Therefore thou must be joyous and glad because of the divine
promises. Upon thee rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   437


Extract 26: In a Tablet addressed to one of the believers in
Bádkúbih, it is revealed [by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]:

O flower of the orchard of His Holiness Christ! When
Christ – may My spirit be a sacrifice unto Him – appeared
heavenly with a brilliant Visage and a beauteous Countenance
amidst the Jews, the Israelites believed that, out of divine
beneficence, their land had become a flower garden. However it
became clear and manifest that it was still naught but a barren
wasteland, save for a few that, out of the favors of the Holy Spirit,
emerged verdant and fresh like blossoms. Indeed they were the
flowers and fruits of His Holiness Moses.
Now, in the orchard of Christ, you too are a lovely and
enchanting flower, and by the grace of Spring, shine with the utmost
refinement and beauty. Render thanks unto God that you have
witnessed the effulgence of the Kingdom of Mystery. I cherish the
hope that you will diffuse these must-laden mysteries throughout the
world. Praise be to God that, rank upon rank, the bounties of the
Kingdom of Light have shone forth and the [true] spirit and being
have been rescued from all veils and vain imaginings. If you desire
illumined eyes, fragrant nostrils and a heart made resplendent by
the bounties of the Holy Spirit, then know the merits of this mighty
beneficence and gracious favor, and by heavenly strength, celestial
tokens and divine confirmations, proceed to guide others.


Extract 27: In one of His Tablets, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of
believing and non-believing women:


Since they failed to recognize the Truth, the ladies of the
world were reduced to maidservants, and the handmaidens of the
Blessed Beauty, through the bounties of the Ancient Beauty,
became the foremost ladies of the world. The proof of this is Shírín,
the queen of Iran, or Sudabeh, the Zoroastrian, another of her
queens, or similarly the Queen Victoria, the Great, or Isabella, the

438  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


queen of Spain, through whose efforts America was discovered and
conquered, or Empress Fran Eugenie490, who became one with the
soil. They were exalted, but became maidservants; renowned, but
were reduced to the black earth. However, Ásiyyih, Sarah, Mary,
Fátimih and Táhirih, though outwardly poor, won the everlasting
throne of glory.

Consequently, it is evident that the great ladies of the world
were reduced to handmaids, while the maidservants of the Blessed
Beauty gained exaltation and glory. Therefore render thanks that,
praise unto God, you are associated with this sacred Threshold and
rank among the divine handmaidens.


<305> Extract 28: In a Tablet to the friends in Tiflis, [‘Abdu’l-
Bahá] revealed:

You had expressed joy over ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s return to Haifa
and ‘Akká. Indeed, for some time, because of the burden of the
journey to the West and the weight of sorrowful trials, My being
was in peril. However, praise God, recently, out of the bounty and
favor of the Blessed Beauty – may My spirit be a sacrifice unto His
friends – My health and comfort have been quickly restored. Night
passed in the utmost frailty, but morning brought complete ease,
well-being and soundness. And this is naught save divine charity

490 Maria Eugenia Ignacia Augustina de Guzman y Palafox was born on 5 May 1826
in Grenada, Spain, but spent much of her life in Farnborough, Hampshire. In 1849
she met Napoleon III, the Emperor of France, and in 1853 they were married.
Three years later they had a son named Napoleon Eugene Louis Jean Joseph -
Prince Imperial and heir to the Napoleon Empire.  In 1870 France declared war on
Prussia and Louis went to war with his father. At the battle of Sedan Napoleon III
was captured but Louis was helped to escape. Following the war, there was a revolt
in Paris and Eugenie was forced to flee. The Emperor was eventually released and
joined his family at Camden Place in Kent where he died in 1873. Two years later,
his son, Louis, passed away. In 1881, Empress Eugenie bought the mansion at
Farnborough Hill and greatly expanded it. She died in 1920 and is laid to rest
alongside her husband and son in the Imperial Crypt of the Abbey Church.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   439


and swift healing. In the morning, when I arose, I began to write
and correspond. No one had thought such speedy recovery would
occur, with no medicine, no remedy, and no vivifying air. One night
in Haifa I turned to the Abhá Kingdom and then went to bed.
When I awoke at dawn, I noticed that a new vigor and strength
had been gained and that my will power had exerted such influence
that all parts of my body and nerves were in the utmost state of
relaxation and serenity.


Extract 29: On 28 July 1914 a Tablet was revealed in honor of
Reverend [J. W.] Van Kirk, the American priest who had twice
circled the globe and presented a seven-color standard, signifying
the Most Great Peace, to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:491

O thou respected truth seeker!
Thy letter was received. It reflected the sentiment of the
oneness of the world of humanity. The flag that thou hast
forwarded was in reality the foreshadowing symbol of Universal
Peace. Today all the nations of the world are filling their military
storehouses, inventing infernal machines and perfecting their man-
killing engines, so that their martial powers may destroy each other;
especially the Continent of Europe has become an arsenal of
combustible materials. It needs only one tiny spark to set that hell
into a worldwide explosion. It will be then such a titanic
conflagration that its lurid flames shall blazon all the horizons.
Hence the ‘Anthem of Universal Peace’492 has still no charm in
their ears. Their universally-accepted political axioms are that the
greatness and prosperity of a nation depends on her military and
naval powers. The more elaborate these preparations, the better
protected and secured the well-being and happiness of that
government and nation. The kings and rulers of the world are not

491 For the text of the letter to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, see Star of the West, 16 October 1914,
pp. 182-3.
492 For the text of this Anthem see Star of the West, 16 October 1914, p. 182.

440  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


yet ready to acknowledge that Universal Peace is conducive to the
life of the world of humanity. In a similar strain the nobles, the
demagogues and those in authority find their glory and reputation
in naval and military preparedness.
Consequently it is impossible that ‘economic contentment’ be
realized by the people of the world save through the transforming
Power of Faith. For Faith is the solver of every problem. Therefore
you must strive to strengthen the foundation of Religion of God.
Through the Power of the Religion of God every difficulty will be
disentangled. The Power of the Religion of God will humble the
kings and set at naught the crooked motives of those who are in
supreme authority. Then endeavor ye that the Power of True
Religion which breathes the Spirit of Life into the dead body of the
world of humanity, may be promulgated. This is the antidote for
the poisoned body of the world and a quick-healing remedy for the
rancorous disease of man. For this reason, diffuse thou as much as
thou art able the sweet Fragrance of the Holy Spirit, teach the
people the Divine advice and exhortations and spread far and wide
the heavenly teachings.493
I have great affection towards you and was delighted with
our meeting; cherishing the hope that we will meet again.


Extract 30: After a journey to Beirut in fulfillment of a mission
which included meeting with the students and the friends, I returned
to ‘Akká. I was summoned forthwith to the presence of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, Who remarked: “Marhabá, you are welcomed, marhabá! Truly
you carried a great burden. God has created us for service to others,
but if a person is detached and devoted, then for him, comfort is
pain and service like great ease.” He inquired of the students and I
said, “Through Your favors and grace they are well. In one of their
gatherings it was suggested that a missive be submitted expressing
their praise and gratitude for Your manifold bounties, but the
majority thought that this very act would express vanity and ego and

493 Translation by Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab; Star of the West, 16 October 1914.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   441


therefore decided against it.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá smiled. I said, “One of
the friends has asked in a letter, ‘Where is the Master presently?’” He
responded, “In front of a cannon, in front of a cannon!”

I reported on the Iranian students in Beirut and Professor
Chirdagh494, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired, “Are there many [non-
Bahá’í] Iranians in Beirut?” I replied, “Most have gone, and only a
few remain.” He remarked, “It is good that they leave as they are the
cause of much embarrassment!”

I said, “Mr. Zimmer, one of the believers of Stuttgart, has
been killed on the battlefield.” The Master replied, “Indeed, the
harm of this World War has reached us too. One of the French
Bahá’ís, Monsieur Bernard, was killed as well. If there was one
person in the world who despised war, it was he.”

In the midst of this conversation, an Arab entered and said,
“Áqá Mihdí’s cow has died, and I implore You to intervene with
Áqá Mihdí so he will not charge me for the cost.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
remarked, “I am poor like you. If you have to win bread for two
people, I have to shoulder the expenses of at least fifty people! I am
neither a landlord, nor a merchant, nor a financier, nor do I have an
income. All roads are closed, and none have been left open to us. I
am but a stranger. Each year I would give away to the needy two or
three hundred sets of clothing, but this year affairs have been so
perturbed that I have not succeeded in giving even one.
Nevertheless, take this money and buy food, sweets and other
necessities for your family. I will do my best as well.”


Extract 31: 31 December 1914: Before the noon hour, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá was pacing in the garden and this ephemeral servant was in
attendance.
“To what should I devote my time in Abu Sinan?” I asked.
“I wish for you to go to Iran,” the Master replied. “Presently,
however, remain in Abu Sinan and for the good-pleasure of God

494 The present translator is uncertain of the correct spelling of this name.

442  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


cure the ailing. Also read from the proof treatise as well as Ishráqát,
Kalimát [Firdawsíyyih] and Tarázát, and memorize them.”
“Should I also tend to the non-Bahá’ís?” I asked.
“Yes, indeed,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked, “We too are devoted to the
poor. By all means, attend to all, particularly the needy.”
I remarked, “Áqá Shaykh Badríu’d-Dín has said, ‘Shaykhu’l-Islám
wants to proclaim jihád!’”
The Master replied, “Shaykhu’l-Islám is a simple, common man
with no religious convictions. He is utterly ignorant of the religion of
God. Jihád had an effect at a time when people were devoted to
God’s Faith, but now that spirit is completely gone. They themselves
do not believe what they say. They claim this issue is a global war
and jihád must be a matter of national concern. If in truth these
people believed in religion, by now the world would have become
the Abhá paradise. If you offer them a bribe, they would say the
exact opposite of what they ruled earlier. No trace of spirit, sincerity,
faith, certitude or firmness has remained in Islam. Only mere words
have survived.”

At lunchtime in the house of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, He remarked: “I
have always created work for Myself and this long journey has
greatly dissipated My vitality and tired My nerves. Now the bounty
of rest has been forced upon Me. Although during these days I
continue to remain active, but it is not like before. God has brought
about these events so that I may rest a little and be at ease. Now My
health is good and I shall sleep well.”495


Extract 32: Text of a Tablet revealed for one of the handmaidens
of the Merciful:

O maidservant of God! Thy letter was received and therein was a
question that others have previously asked and that hath been

495 Bushrú’í, pp. 59-62 offers several entries for December 1914 which augment the
information given by Dr. Mú’ayyad.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   443


replied in great detail. This response will be brief. The multiple
marriages of Bahá’u’lláh occurred prior to the revelation of the
Kitáb-i Aqdas. At the time of Abraham, Moses, David and
Solomon, multiplicity of wives was permitted. Therefore, in
consideration of the past Dispensation and in view of many other
factors, Bahá’u’lláh, prior to the revelation of the Kitáb-i Aqdas,
acquired two wives. Jacob had four, Abraham had several and
David had ninety-nine wives. Bahá’u’lláh, however, in accordance
with the laws of the previous Dispensation, acquired two wives and,
when one passed away, another marriage occurred. However, after
the revelation of the Kitáb-i Aqdas, this matter was concluded, and
no other marriages took place. And the multiplicity of His
marriages was in accord with certain wisdom. But everyone must
now turn to the Kitáb-i Aqdas and do as bidden therein.
Convey my heartfelt greetings to all the friends. Upon you
rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


Extract 33: [A Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:]496

New York. To the noble personage, his excellency, Mr. Andrew
Carnegie, May God assist him!

He is God!

O thou illustrious soul! O thou great pillar of the palace of
universal peace!

It is some time since I intended to correspond with thee, but
there was no intermediary between us. Now that his excellency,
Mr. Topakyan, has made this possible through his kind
suggestion, I write thee this epistle; for truly I say thou art a lover of
humanity and one of the founders of universal peace.

Today the most great service to the kingdom of God is the

496 The 12 November 1912 entry in Mahmud’s Diary indicates that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá met
Andrew Carnegie in New York.

444  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


promotion of the principle of the unification of mankind and the
establishment of universal peace. A number of souls who were
doctrinaire and unpractical thinkers have worked for the cause of
international arbitration and general conciliation through deeds,
words, self-sacrifice and the generous donation of wealth and
property. Rest thou assured that through the confirmations of the
Holy Spirit thou wilt become confirmed and assisted in the
accomplishment of this most resplendent service, that in this mortal
world thou shalt lay the foundation of an immortal, everlasting
edifice, and that, in the end, thou wilt sit upon the throne of
incorruptible glory in the kingdom of God.


All the leaders and statesmen of Europe are thinking on the
plane of war and the annihilation of the mansion of humanity, but
thou art thinking on the plane of peace and love and the
strengthening and reinforcement of the basis of the superstructure of
the human world. They are the heralds of death, thou art the
harbinger of life. The foundations of their palaces are unstable and
wavering and the turrets of their mansions are tottering and
crumbling; but the basis of thy structure is firm and unmovable.
While I was journeying throughout America and Europe, I
cried before all the meetings, conventions, and churches:  “O ye
noble friends! The world of humanity is facing in the future a most
portentous danger and supreme calamity. <310> The continent of
Europe has become like unto arsenals, under which are hidden
combustible materials of the most inflammatory nature. Its
combustion will be dependent upon the sudden and unexpected
enkindlement of one tiny spark which shall envelop the whole earth
with a world-wide conflagration, causing the total collapse of
European civilization through the furious, wild, raging, fiery
tongues of war. Therefore, O ye well-wishers of the world of
humanity, endeavor by day and by night so that these flammable
materials may not come in touch with the burning fires of racial
antipathy and hatred!”

Today the life of mankind and its attainment to everlasting

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   445


glory depend on its display of effort and exertion in accordance with
the principles of his holiness Bahá’u’lláh; for His first and foremost
teaching consists of the oneness of the world of humanity. He says:
“We are all the sheep of God. His Highness, the Almighty, is the
real Shepherd and is kind to all the sheep. Why then should we be
unkind toward each other?” Another of his most great principles
deals with the subject of universal peace, the establishment of which
would be conducive to the well-being, progress and tranquility of the
world of man.
Other precepts of Bahá’u’lláh address the identity of the
underlying foundations of the religions of God, the original oneness
of the nations, the adoption and general practice of a universal
auxiliary language and the inculcation of the ideal of
cosmopolitanism and world-patriotism among the children of men;
consequently, in the future, His teachings will act as a deterrent
and prevention from the occurrence of the most great danger, i.e.,
universal war.

Today the most important object of the Kingdom of God is
the promulgation of the cause of universal peace and the principle of
the oneness of the world of humanity. Upon whomsoever arises in
the accomplishment of this pre-eminent service will descend the
confirmations of the Holy Spirit.

Now, all that has been predicted has come to pass, and the
lurid flames of this war have emblazoned the horizon of the East
and the West, causing a reverberating social earthquake throughout
the foundations of the earth. After this war, the workers for this
cause of universal peace will increase day by day; the pacific party,
with a better advantage, will array its forces, displaying great
activity; and in the end, it will gain a permanent triumph and
eternal victory over all other parties. The realization of this matter
is incontestable and irrefutable.

Therefore, ere long, a vast and unlimited field will be opened
before your view for the display of your powers and energies. You
must promote this glorious intention with heavenly power and the
confirmations of the Holy Spirit. I am praying on thy behalf that

446  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


thou mayest erect a pavilion and unfurl a flag in the world of peace,
love and eternal life.
I beg you to accept the consideration of my highest and
deepest respect.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.497


Extract 34: [A Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Dr. Howard Bliss, the
President of the American University of Beirut:]

Beirut, the honored Dr. Bliss, the President of the American
school.
O esteemed and loved friend! Thy letter arrived, and since its
essence testified to thy affection, fidelity and constancy in our
spiritual connection, it sweetened my taste like heavenly honey and
brought immense joy. I cherish the hope that this friendship may
remain firm forever.
Shoghi Effendi and other Iranian students are greatly
pleased with all of you and even have spoken your praise to all the
visitors traveling from Iran to Haifa, who in turn have taken this
news back to Iran. They have widely spread that the illustrious
President is exceedingly compassionate and exerts great efforts
towards the advancement of students.
I pray that you excel in service to the world of humanity and
become peerless in the training and education of youth.
Upon you rest praise and salutations.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


Extract 35: Together with all the pilgrims and some of the resident
believers, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá went to visit the Shrine of the Báb.
Afterwards, He spoke of the hardships suffered during the early
days of the Dispensation and the afflictions perpetrated upon the

497 A modification of the translation on 1 May 1915 by Mírzá Ahmad Sohrab,
printed in Star of the West, vol 6, no. 11, pp 82-3.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   447


Blessed Beauty. As He spoke, tears, like spring showers, began to
pour forth from His eyes. From His condition, all the listeners were
profoundly moved and affected. He said, “During the entire time
that His Holiness the Exalted One [the Báb] – may My spirit be a
sacrifice unto Him – was confined in Mah-Kú, He did not have any
light and spent His nights in total darkness.”

After the friends had taken their seat, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá continued
remarking:


Praised be God that under the shadow of the
bounties of the Ancient Beauty such heavenly gatherings
are now held. Presently the benefits of these assemblages
are not evident. If a person is endowed with the least
equity or discernment, he would understand how
immense and prevailing is the might of the Blessed
Beauty. Outwardly, His sovereignty is manifest.

At the beginning of our arrival at ‘Akká, we had
gatherings, but very secretly. None of the pilgrims were
permitted entrance into the city. They would be
discovered by the gate and would be made the subject of
contempt, and then banished away. The honored Nabíl
came by the city’s gate and fell into trouble. They would
place such pilgrims in prison and then exile them. With
utmost difficulty, the honored Mullá ‘Alí Qá’iní came,
but was seized and banished to Nazareth. The honored
Muhammad-‘Alí Dahájí came and no matter how he
tried to gain entrance into the city, he could not succeed.
Therefore, from a distance he stood in the fields and
fixed his gaze on the prison cell of Bahá’u’lláh, beat
himself on the head, cried profusely and then left.
Similar experiences transpired for many other friends of
God.
Through planning and giving gifts to the officers, I
was able to win the entrance of some of the believers
and bring them into Bahá’u’lláh’s presence. With great

448  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


kindness I dealt with a certain Bayk-báshí498 – may God’s
bounties surround his departed soul – and also won the
affection of some other officers. At nights they would go
and secretly bring in the friends. For instance, there was
Ustád Ismá‘íl Mi‘már499 [the builder-master] who was
eighty years old and had walked from Mosul to ‘Akká.
With much effort, I was able to arrange for his entrance.
He stayed here for several days; but then I saw that the
munáfiqín500 had commenced their activities and,
through Muhammad Isfahání, had secretly reported the
matter to Áqá Ján Káj-kuláh [skew-cap]. I was forced to
send Ustád Ismá‘íl to Haifa where he lived in a cave.

During such times, divine Tablets were revealed
that emphatically promised, “Do not be grieved. The doors of
union will be flung open. Despite the efforts of monarchs, I will
come forth from this Citadel.”

In short, these are the sufferings that must be
sustained in the path of the Beloved. The point is that
God is not impotent. He is perfectly able and sovereign.
He is able to remove all barriers; capable of answering
any supplications; supreme over all creation. However,
great wisdom is concealed in these sufferings that naught
but the pure-hearted will discern. ...501

Praise be unto God that presently the situation has
come to a point where we gather with spirituality and
love, under the shadow of the Blessed Beauty, on Mount
Carmel and in the Shrine of the Báb, with utmost
fellowship and affection, engaged in singing the praise of
God, with no fear, no danger, no difficulty, no
harassment, no opposition, no persecution. This is the
power of God. All the monarchs and the nations of the

498 Prison-warden or army commander. (HM)
499 For a eulogy see Memorials of the Faithful, pp. 29-32.
500 In this context it refers to Azalís.
501 Left blank in original text.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   449


world were our enemies, but now with utmost
spirituality and radiance, we are assembled beneath the
bounties of Bahá’u’lláh.


Extract 36: [‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]

Mecca is situated in midst of a hot, sterile, mountainous
desert, yet it is sought after with great joy and bliss.
Praised be God that this realm is perfect in every respect:
Mount Carmel with its view of the sea, the green fields
and the verdant, luscious trees are assembled together.
No other spot can hope to rival the beauty, the majesty
and the splendor of this mountain.
We have built the Shrine of the Báb in such a way
that it consists of sections; thereby visitors may come
directly from the bay and proceed to the Shrine.
Walkways and flower gardens, filled with luscious trees,
will surround it. The German Colony will also be the
flower garden of the Shrine of the Báb.
This Shrine was built despite the efforts of [Sultán]
‘Abdu’l-Hamíd, his viziers and ministers! Where is
Násiri’d-Dín Sháh to raise his head from the grave and
see what we have done! He wanted to destroy the Cause
with his sword. He had told [Hájí Muhammad-]Karím
Khán [Kirmání], “Your book is a waste. My sword will
uproot the Bábís and not your book.”
There is a story told by Hájí Amín502 that the
farmers in Yazd each had access to the main waterline
one or two or three hours [a day], depending on [the size
of] their spread, to feed their orchards and gardens. One
night one of the Zoroastrians took all the water to
himself and saturated his farm. In the morning people
complained to the governor, who then ordered the

502 Hájí Abu’l-Hasan Ardikání, known as Hájí Amín. (HM)

450  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


farmer’s feet beaten by bastinado. As he was receiving
the beating, he cried out, “O Governor, I watered my
farm and it’s done! My gardens are watered and it’s done!
My orchard is watered and it’s done!” Now we have built
the Shrine of the Báb, interred His sacred dust, and it’s
done! Whatever happens, happens. Praise God that we
remained alive and were able to raise this Shrine. And
now with the utmost joy and spirit and under the
shadow of the Blessed Beauty’s bounties we are able to
visit this sanctified Site.


Extract 37: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá related:

With the utmost enmity, Haifa’s Qá’im-maqám arose to
prevent the construction of the Shrine of the Báb. The
official in charge of the Land Registry received
instructions that this building on Mount Carmel and in
the south of the city was “unapproved,” “against military
objectives” and, since it was outside the city limits,
required the Sultán’s sanction. This official wrote a
notice that certain political considerations were involved
[and therefore a construction permit could not be issued.
I appealed the matter to] ‘Akká’s Mutasarrif who
appointed Sálih Effendi, the city’s architect and who was
related to us503, along with another official in the city
counsel of Haifa to come and investigate the issue and
report their findings.
They came, collected information and then
prepared a report that stated that no harm was involved
[in building the Shrine]. They said, “This is only a six-
room building, and there are other structures on Mount
Carmel, including a large monastery on the shoulder of

503 Presumably meaning he was a Bahá’í.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   451


the mountain and some other buildings raised by the
Germans. No political threat is involved.” They sent this
report to Mutasarrif, who in turn forwarded it to the
Qá’im-maqám. However, the latter rejected it and
insisted that the issue be investigated directly from
Constantinople. [Upon their approval], he said, he would
issue the permit.
<315> They wrote to Constantinople and stated,
“‘Abdu’l-Bahá is planning to built a Shrine for the Báb.”
Soon the issue became enormously important since
[Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd was our determined enemy and
was constantly vigilant for an opportunity [to cause
harm].
I decided that in whatever way possible I should
win the approval of the Qá’im-maqám. I tried very hard.
He said, “I have no enmity and only fear accepting a
responsibility that might bring me difficulty.” I asked,
“What difficulty?” He said, “Difficulties that I am aware
of.” I pressed, “What harm is in this undertaking?” He
replied, “Harms that I am aware of.” Together we left
his office and he said that we should walk to his
residence, perchance he would reconsider and I would
attain our purpose. We reached his house, and I noticed
that his mind had remained the same. We entered the
building and, as he began to walk up the stairs, by the
time he reached the third stair, he collapsed and died. I
called out, “O Qá’im-maqám, O Qá’im-maqám, O
Qá’im-maqám!” but it was of no use since he was dead.
“There is no rejoicing in another’s death.”
Thereupon I began the construction work. There
was no access road to the Shrine of the Báb, and as the
existing pathway was dreadful, I decided on building an
access road. However, the owner [of the strip of land],
provoked by the enemies of the Cause, would not give
consent. Eventually, after two months of striving, he

452  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


agreed, but the Qurdachi who was working for the
Germans went to him and incited him to change his
mind, saying, “Repudiate your agreement because
Bahá’ís will pay handsomely for the building of this
structure.” Greed overtook him, and this caused another
delay of two or three months. It was very difficult.
Eventually he agreed, but once more our foes managed
to cause this man to change his mind and advance new
claims. This time he wanted the trees on the land. I
immediately responded, “Fine, you can have the trees!”
Then he said, “You must partition the land with a
barbed wire fence so that the rest of my property is not
encroached.” I replied, “If you want, I am prepared to
build a wall for you, but I must have your agreement.”
Once more he withdrew and said, “I will not consent
until you bring a reliable surety. For instance, I will
consent if Sádiq Páshá504 serves as Your guarantor. I will
give my consent then and will no longer withhold
permission.”
We agreed to meet at the home of Sádiq Páshá. At
the appointed time, I went to his home, but the
landowner never came. We waited for some time, but
there was no sign of him. Though it was cloudy and
rainy, Sádiq Páshá went out to fetch him. He returned,
dripping wet and muddy, and reported that the
landowner’s household had told him that he was not
home and had gone out after some business. Sádiq
Páshá was very angry.
I returned home extremely depressed. That night I
did not sleep. I neither drank tea nor did I touch food. I
met with no one. I sat in my dark room and softly
recited a prayer of His Holiness the Exalted One [the
Báb]. I did not sleep the whole night until the hour of

504 According to Hasan Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 128, “a highly-respected magnate.”

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   453


dawn. Eventually I fell sleep and arose before noon; I
was told by Ustád Muhammad-‘Alí505, “From early
morning until now the dragoman of the German
Consulate and the nephew of the Consul have been
waiting to see You.” The Consul’s nephew said, “There
is a piece of property belonging to a German woman.
Whatever of this land that is needed for Your purpose,
You may have.” As deeply as I was grieved before, I was
now elated!
Together we went to the Land Registry, and there I
saw the authorization letter signed and sealed by the
[German] Consul. The property’s title, without the least
hint of any conditions or hindrance, was ready for
transference to Me. I said to them, “I must pay you for
this land.” They replied, “We have come to be of service
to You and not for profit or greed. Our intention is to
alleviate Your difficulties, not for gains or dividends. We
had heard that Your work had encountered certain
obstacles, therefore we came to help!” In short, the
transaction was concluded.
I told the workers, “Raise a wall and open an
access road. Whatever is the cost, I will bear it.” The
pathway was built and despite ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd’s enmity,
the Shrine of the Báb was raised. From Bombay arrived
the marble sarcophagus on which the Greatest Name
was engraved in gold letters. When it arrived, I did not
wish for the container to be opened in the Customs
Office, and it was not.
Then the Commission of Inquiry came and made
the accusation that a new Ka‘bah and Mecca were raised.
...506

505 Ustád Muhammad-‘Alí was a builder from Yazd and, for many years, lived in the
Holy Land. With his melodious voice, he often chanted prayers or Bahá’u’lláh’s
Mathnaví in the presence of the Master. (HM)
506 Portions left unrecorded in the original text.

454  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Where is Násiri’d-Dín Sháh to come and see that,
because of his animosity, for fifty years, the blessed
remains of the Báb were not allowed a bed of rest?!

Regarding the Shrine of the Báb, on another occasion the Master
remarked:

We are now under the shadow of the Shrine of the Báb.
It is worthy that we fully appreciate the enormity of this
bounty and loosen our tongue in gratitude and praise
because of it. During Their days, the station of the
Blessed Beauty and His Holiness the Exalted One [the
Báb] – may My spirit be a sacrifice unto Both – was not
evident, but in the future it will become apparent.
In the future, on foot and holding bouquets of
flowers above their heads and carrying wreaths, the
monarchs of the earth will come on pilgrimage to the
Sacred Shrines. “And will raise to the Supreme
Concourse the voice of their fervent supplications and
will lift to the Abhá Kingdom the tone of their prayers
that, ‘They endured banishment, imprisonment and
martyrdom for the comfort of the friends! In the past,
with the utmost difficulty and trial, the believers came
from the far corners of the earth to circumambulate the
Shrine, which with ease and happily we circle. Therefore,
verily, this is worthy of our unceasing gratitude and
thanksgiving.’”507
His Holiness Moses had a stammering speech508
and asked [God], ‘I am slow of speech, and of a slow
tongue. Grant me [the aid of] Aaron, my brother.’ And
His wish was granted. However, Pharaoh spoke
mockingly to Him, ‘You are a murderer and claim to be
a Prophet?!’ Behold now that in America, after 3000

507 This section is in Arabic.
508 Exodus 4:10.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   455


years, they raise temples in the name of Moses. Upon the
cross, Christ could see the establishment of divine
sovereignty. Where is Pharaoh now to behold the
majesty of Moses?
With
the
utmost
eloquence,
glory
and
resplendence, the Blessed Beauty testifies – and even His
enemies testify to the truth of this saying – that soon the
monarchs of earth will come, walking on foot and with
the greatest reverence, carrying bouquets and flowers
over their heads.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá then added, “I know that which will soon be.”509


Extract 38: Jamál Páshá was one of the bloodthirsty and reckless
military generals of the Ottoman realm. For nearly a year, he worked
to assemble the necessary provisions to attack the Suez Canal and
conquer the region of Nile [Egypt]. As a consequence, almost half of
the population of the Ottoman Empire suffered bitterly and lost all
their possessions and livelihood. Forcibly, he confiscated all the
belongings of the helpless under the pretext of “war expenditures.”
His most notable trademark was that when he entered a city, he
would raise gallows, execute anyone that offered the least resistance
to his tyranny and thereby advance his heinous and ignominious
goals. Constantly the Covenant-breakers would provoke him and
sow the seeds of doubt in him, to the point that, at public
gatherings, Jamál Páshá had promised to eradicate and expunge the
Cause and sunder ‘Abdu’l-Bahá into two pieces. However, God
protected His Cause, and this savage man failed in his campaign in
the Suez Canal. He was eventually killed in the Caucasus by
Armenian revolutionaries.
The following two historical extracts appear in my diaries and

509 Most of the above two paragraphs are in Arabic and it is likely that they reflect
entries in Dr. Zia Baghdadi’s memoirs.

456  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


are recorded herewith. “Take notice, O men of understanding.”

Jamál Páshá – First Extract: Wherever the ruthless and irresponsible
Jamál Páshá went, he would, before all else, raise the gallows and
execute anyone he desired. He would then perpetrate whatever else
he wished. He was not afraid to plunder, destroy, bombard and kill.
Because he had often heard ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s blessed name and saw
many reports about Him, when he arrived in ‘Akká, he summoned
the Master. Riding His donkey, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá went to his military
tent. Jamál Páshá greeted Him, came close and invited the Master to
come sit near him. Then he immediately roared, “You are a religious
mischief-maker and, for this reason, the government has exiled
You.” Later, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would relate, “I realized that he was
drunk and prideful to such a point that if a chain or a piece of metal
was handed to him, he would tear it apart. Therefore, I thought that
since he was a Turk, it was best for me to reply in such a way that
would make him laugh and would also, of necessity, quiet him. I
replied to him, ‘There are two kinds of troublemakers: Political and
religious. (Then before the audience I pointed to him and
continued:) Praised be God that so far no harm has come from the
political mischief-makers. (During the reign of [Sultán] ‘Abdu’l-
Hamíd, Jamál Páshá was known as a political troublemaker.)
Inshá’lláh, no harm will come from this religious mischief-maker.’
With that, Jamál Páshá burst into loud laughter and joyfully said, ‘By
God, You are right!’”
He then asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Who has built the German
Colony?” The Master replied, “The grandfather of the present
German Consul was living in Haifa, and he inaugurated a religion
that prophesizes the near-return of Christ. They built this colony so
that when Christ reappeared, they would succeed in attaining His
presence.” With utmost anger and fury, Jamál Páshá responded, “A
new religion? If he was alive I would instantly order his death.” For
a few minutes everyone was silent. Then Jamál Páshá asked, “What
is the cause of the Ottoman Empire’s weakness?” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
responded, “The existence of diverse religions.” He asked, “What is

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   457


the remedy?” The Master replied, “That the leaders of all religions
and denominations existing within the Ottoman Empire and Islamic
lands gather in Constantinople and, after consultations, agree on a
single and unifying religion.” Once more, Jamál Páshá said, “By
God, You are right!”
[Thus through the Master’s logical conclusion,] the Páshá’s
anger and enmity subsided, and he expressed a desire for a second
meeting. <320> He said, “I am now proceeding to Egypt to
conquer that region and to drive the enemy into the sea and the
Suez Canal. After my return, I will take You to Constantinople.
There I will gather the religious leaders and force them into unity
and agreement in one religion. Here Your station is not evident!”
...510

[Jamál Páshá – Second Extract:] Of the pride and vanity of Jamál
Páshá, prior to his arrival in Haifa, without disclosing the number of
men accompanying him, he merely telegraphed the Mutasarrif,
“Tonight, I am arriving in Haifa.” The Mutasarrif ordered dinner
preparations for forty to fifty people, but, when Jamál Páshá arrived,
he had four hundred men with him. Angrily, he protested to the
Mutasarrif, “Do you expect my soldiers to go to bed with no
dinner?” With great difficulty and haste, the Mutasarrif and his
attendants prepared dinner for the soldiers, which was subsequently
served by midnight.
When Jamál Páshá arrived in Jerusalem, through the repeated
provocations of the Covenant-breakers and the enmity of a certain
Yásín, the investigator, he was thoroughly agitated [against the
Faith], promising, “If I conquer Egypt soon, on my return I will
crucify ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.” Mockingly, he added, “I will obey the wish of
‘Abbás Effendi: death by hanging or death by firing squad.
Whichever He selects, I will carry out.” The German Consul had
come before the Master saying, “I am deeply saddened. I am very
frightened and worried. Jamál Páshá has promised that on the way

510 Left blank in original text.

458  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


back he will crucify You and he has sent instructions for me to keep
an eye on You until his return.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá replied, “This issue is
not a cause of sorrow or worry. Very well, I have no problem with
his plan. However, he has conditioned his action by the word ‘if.’
That is, he had said, ‘if’ he returns victorious, if he is triumphant in
the Egyptian campaign, and if he forces the British into the Suez
Canal. If he is successful, then I too am ready and willing to give My
life.”
Two days later the German Consul came into the Master’s
presence in great haste and once more expressed his concerns and
anxieties. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá inquired of the cause of his apprehensions,
and the German replied, “Yesterday, the army of Jamál Páshá was
fighting hand to hand with the British near the Suez Canal. But
today, his telegraph came from Ba’ru’s-Sab‘. The fact that he is so
far away from the battlefield is greatly confusing and agitating for
me.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded, “This is a very simple matter, and you
should not be distressed. I will explain it to you. When the Páshá
confronted the British forces, he must have found them able
adversaries. Therefore, he fled the scene and with great haste
reached Ba’ru’s-Sab‘.” The German Consul pondered this comment
for a minute and then said, “Yes, I believe You must be correct.
There can be no other explanation.”511

Afterwards, Jamál Páshá perished and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked,
“The wise perceive the ends of deeds, but foolish see only the
present. Verily, I did not heed Jamál Páshá, as I was aware of his
end.”


Extract 39: [‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:]

Murshid was close to the notables and the prominent
figures of Tihrán. He embraced the Faith and became
one of companions at the fort [Tabarsí]. On the day that

511 This remark is given in Arabic.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   459


the enemies sealed the Qur’an with their promise of
safety and the companions left the fort, Murshid came
out as well. He was taken to [the camp of] Mihdí-Qulí
Mírzá512 and one of the chief officers, Sulaymán Khán,
recognized him. Greatly surprised, he came forth and
inquired loudly, “Is it you Murshid? What are you doing
here?” Murshid responded, “Such turns the wheel of
time!” Sulaymán Khán said to him, “Go thank God that
He sent me here to rescue you; otherwise you would be
drinking from the goblet of death.”
With a voice penetrating every heart and soul,
Murshid responded, “O my friend, O Sulaymán Khán! If
you want to express your long friendship to me, then I
beg of you not to intercede on my behalf. Through your
intercession, I will be deprived of the bounty of
martyrdom, will fall behind my companions, and remain
in the clutches of this ephemeral world. I have seen the
good and the bad, the rich and the poor, the warmth and
the cold of this world, and no longer do I have an
attachment to it. Our group that you have captured is a
band of intoxicated lovers who have come together,
have embraced each other in devotion to our Beloved,
and now desire to go hand in hand to our eternal
abode.”
Soon he was martyred.


Extract 40:513 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke in Arabic; the following is the
essence of His remarks:

Consider the foolishness of the governments of Iran and
the Ottoman Empire in how they banished His Holiness

512 He was the general in charge of the Shah’s armies against Quddús and other Bábí
besiegers.
513 See a similar entry in Chapter 2, under “Shrine of the Báb.”

460  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Bahá’u’lláh from Iran to Baghdad and then to
Constantinople, Rumelia, and ‘Akká. Their purpose was
to obliterate the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh; yet, they
performed the greatest service to His Faith by
surrendering the Holy Land to Him, without recognizing
it. It is the destiny of the Jewish people to embrace the
Cause – a fact of which there is no doubt.
The future of [Mount] Carmel is exceedingly
glorious. I can see now that the entire Mount Carmel is
filled with light and a thousand ships are anchored in the
Port of Haifa. I can see the kings of the earth, carrying
wreaths of flowers, prayerfully, with great humility, and
with utmost consecration, walking on foot to the Shrines
of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb.
At the time that they placed the crown of thorns
on His blessed head, Christ, with His discerning eyes,
could see the [eventual] submission of the kings of the
earth. But no other person could see what His Holiness
saw. Now, in addition to the myriad powerful lamps that
will floodlight this mountain brightly, I can see that
Mashriqu’l-Adhkárs, hospitals, schools, homes for the
handicapped, orphanages, and all other humanitarian
enterprises will be erected on Mount Carmel.514


514 A similar translation of this extract has previously appeared in Adib Taherzadeh,
The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 226.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   461



A gathering in 1919 (Shoghi Effendi is seated, 2nd from R)

Extract 41: [‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s remarks about] the Holy Land:515

The temperature in the Holy Land does not exceed 33
degrees [Celsius] and in the coldest season, it is
approximately
four
degrees
above
zero.
In
Constantinople I remember temperatures as low as 20
degrees below zero and in the summer as high as 38.
When a person journeys through Syria and the
Holy Land, it is like journeying throughout the entire
world. For instance, there are vast plains in the world;
and similarly from Huran to Baghdad is entirely flat as
well. There are many mountains in the world, and the
mountain above Tripoli, in Mizab, has an elevation of
2,800 meters. There are many seas in the world, and for
Palestine, the Holy Land and Syria there are two seas,
one in the north, the Mediterranean, and one in the

515 Since the text of this talk is in Arabic, it is likely that Dr. Mú’ayyad copied it from
the diary of Dr. Zia Baghdadi.

462  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


south, the Red Sea. In this part of the world there are
saltwater and freshwater lakes, such as the sweet-water
lake of Tiberius, and the Dead Sea, which is salty. Such
trees that grow in cooler climates, like walnuts, exist here
as well. Also, the ones that are indigenous to a tropical
climate, like palm trees, pomegranates, bananas, grow
here in the mild atmosphere of the western part.
The distance between the hottest point, which is
the edge of Lake Tiberius and has air like the Hijaz and
Sudan, to the coldest point, which is Mount Shaykh, is
18 hours. In a single day and night, a person could travel
from the hottest to the coldest point.

This land is preferred over the rest of the world,
since it is the geographic center of the globe: it is located
at the end of Asia, at the beginning of Africa and is close
to Europe. It is sovereign over the whole earth. Since
ancient times, when the Persians conquered this land, as
well as its conquest by the Romans, Greeks and Arabs,
they discovered that there was no land like or equal to it.
When Abraham was exiled from His home, God
spoke to Him, “Do not be sad. I will give You the
choicest land in the entire world.” And if there were a
land better than here, God would have given it to
Abraham.
The Holy Land is the center of light and the
dawning place of revelation and the birthplace of Christ,
where Moses, Muhammad and Bahá’u’lláh came.
Her hills are covered with flowers, vast sections
coated with roses, irises, sweet basil and Narcissuses.
Christ spread His bed on this land. There are rivers in
this part of the world, like the River Jordan and the ‘Ásí
(Orontes). Alexander was in the Holy Land for eight
years.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   463


Extract 42:  [Not translated in the present edition.]


<325> Extract 43: [Portions not translated in the present edition.]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remarked:

The Covenant-breakers seized the flower gardens
adjoining the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh from us, but some of
the friends and I would carry soil and water on our
shoulders for that garden and tend to its beauty. I said,
‘It matters not. The important thing is for the gardens to
be maintained.’ However, soon these people realized that
much expense and work was required for this, so they
discarded their claim to the gardens.


Extract 44: [Not translated in the present edition.]


Extract 45: In New York, Denur, the manager of one of the
hotels, had become attracted [to the Cause] and, having attaining the
presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, implored the Master to stay at his hotel,
even without payment. Because of his insistence and invitation,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá went. While there, a Catholic priest entered the
premises and spoke in such way that caused the manager to have a
change of heart. Thereupon the Master left the hotel and departed
for Washington. [While there,] the Master spoke in churches and
Jewish synagogues on the validity of Christ and Muhammad. This
fueled the enmity of the priests. They published certain polemics,
calling ‘Abdu’l-Bahá “the false prophet and antichrist.” One cardinal
even followed the Master to Denur. The cardinal traveled under the
pretext of inaugurating a new church; in reality, his intention was to
assail the Cause, for he spoke against it. The Master remarked:

464  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


I heard that here they have had a great religious
procession with much pomp and ceremony: a procession
the likes of which has not been seen before. This
ceremony of the honored cardinal is like that of Christ’s
in Jerusalem. However, there is a slight difference. In
Christ’s divine ceremony, He had a crown, but it was
made of thorns, while this cardinal wears a crown
adorned with lustrous jewels. Christ had garments, but
they were torn, while in this ceremony, the cardinal’s
robe is made of the finest brocade. In that ceremony,
those that followed Christ were objects of [people’s]
contempt and abuse, while those that were with cardinal
walked in great honor, pomp and glory. Christ was the
target of people’s insults and harm. In this procession,
people showered the cardinal with their praise, salutation
and support. Christ’s procession was the manifestation
of humility, reverence, hardship, spirituality and divine
attraction, while the cardinal’s is the display of might,
wealth and power. Christ’s throne was upon a cross,
while this cardinal’s place is upon a much adorned
pulpit. So, there are some differences!
Consider how ignorant and neglectful people are.
They say what a wonderful procession this was. Christ
spent His days in sorrow, sustaining every manner of
trial, tribulation, hardship and affliction. Day and night,
single and alone, He roamed in the deserts, His food
being no more than weeds and thorns of the field. His
night’s lamps were the stars of heaven, and in daytime
He walked in solitude. Now, these honored gentlemen,
in utmost majesty and grandeur, live in the most
splendid mansions, enjoying their comfort and claiming
to be the Disciples of Christ. A disciple must follow the
example of his master so that all his deeds and ways
reflect that of the master. But these men have immense
estates, with immense endowments and properties. They

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   465


spend their days and nights in lust, deprived of the
slightest breath of detachment manifested by Christ.516

The aforementioned cardinal stopped his opposition and
remained silent.


Extract 46:  On 9 May 1915, I was alone in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
presence and most of His discourse was about the many qualities
and services of the German believers. I thought it propitious, out of
my fidelity to them, to ask the Master, “For some time now, the
German Bahá’ís have had no news of Your blessed well-being, nor
are they informed of the occurrences in the Holy Land. In the past,
they have always benefited from Your sanctified confirmations and
presently the postal services are functioning. Therefore, if it is Your
august will and should a Tablet may be revealed for them, it can
readily be forwarded to uplift their spirits and gladden their hearts.”
Immediately the following Tablet was revealed and sent for them:

German Bahá’ís, may their lives be filled with gladness.

He is God!
O true friends! Although for a while no letters have been
sent in your direction, be assured that you are always in my
thoughts. I supplicate the confirmations of the Kingdom of God for
you and entreat the life-giving breath of the Holy Spirit. Divine
bounties are boundless; they have no beginning and no end. The
gates of the Kingdom are flung wide open; the melodies of the Lord
of Hosts enthrall the spirit.
The glad news of the German friends are received, and
praised be God that you manifest the utmost firmness and fidelity,
and remain attracted to the Kingdom of the Lord. I cherish the
hope that the efficacy of the Holy Spirit will transform that realm

516 A different version of this talk is given in Mahmud’s Diary, pp. 356-357.

466  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


into a resplendent heaven, the effulgence of the Sun of Reality will
brighten that nation and enable it to develop spiritually in every
way. May the light of guidance shine brightly upon you, may the
breeze of the divine paradise gently waft over you and may the cloud
of bounties generously pour over that realm, causing that region to
be revived and refreshed.
Convey my utmost affection to each one of the friends. Upon
you rest praise and salutations.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.


Extract 47: While in the Holy Land, the gardener of the Ridván
Garden, the honored Abú’l-Qásim Yazdí, bestowed on me the gift
of a pocket notebook containing many Tablets addressed to him and
his family. For many years this believer served in the Ridván Garden,
tending to the flowers and orchards, and striving to bring about the
enjoyment and comfort of visitors and pilgrims.
One of his innovations was the way he prevented entrance of
Arabs to the blessed Ridván Garden. Whenever he had gone to
attain the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or purchase provisions in ‘Akká,
he would lock the entrance gate and would not let anyone open it
until he returned. [On his return], if no one was by the gate and it
seemed safe, he use the code phrase: “Shukkru’lláh”, meaning,
“Thank God that an unwanted person is not by the entrance”, and
they would immediately open the gate and let him in. However, if
there were any undesirable individuals, instead he would yell,
“Hasan, hasan”, signaling for the gate not to be opened, and the
unwanted people would think that he had called on his attendant,
Hasan, who had failed to open the door. In this instance, the word
“hasan”, meant, “They are here,” and would indicate [to those inside
the Garden] that he was accompanied by undesirable elements, who
would wait a while, and when they realized that the gate was not
being opened, leave. By this method, the late Abú’l-Qásim protected
fruits and flowers from the aggression of Arabs.
This illustrious man was tall and well-built, and in one of His

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   467


Tablets to Abú’l-Qasim’s brother, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá humorously and in
jest stated, “If you do not testify to his might, consider his mane and mace and
then you would know of certainty that he is either Rustam Tahamtan517 or
Gudarz Lashkár-shikán518.”
In short, in this notebook several important Tablets were
recorded, including the one that named the doors of the Shrine of
the Báb in honor of certain distinguished believers. That Tablet is as
follows:

He is God!
A copy of this Tablet should be bestowed upon each of the
mentioned personages and the original must be kept in the
Hádiratu’l-Quds519.

He is God!
O God and my Beloved! Praise be upon Thee for Thy
greatness and thanks be unto Thee for Thy generosity. Thou
grantest what Thou dost wish, Thou willest what Thou desirest,
and enablest whosoever Thou inclinest in whatsoever Thou
ordainest. All things are in Thy grasp and destiny resides in Thy
hand. Thou bestowest honor on whomsoever Thou wishest,
endowest sustenance on anyone Thou desirest and deniest it to
whom Thou willest. All goods are in Thy hand and Thy station is
benevolence. Thou art the All-Bountiful, the All-Giving, the

517 Lit. powerful, robust, strong; title of the legendary Rustam of Firdawsi’s
Sháhnamih.
518 Lit. Destroyer of armies; title of mythological Iranian Gudarz Sháh.
519 Lit. paradise, it has a numerical value of 1327, which is the year that the remains
of the Báb were interred in His permanent Shrine. The term Hádiratu’l-Quds is
translated in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p.7, as the habitations of holiness. Fadil
Mazandarani (Asráru’l-Áthár, vol. 3, pp. 116-117) notes that this phrase was used in
the writings of Bahá’u’lláh to refer to the innermost Sanctuary of Paradise, and that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Tablet of Visitation of the Vakílu’d-Dawlih used this expression
as a reference to the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel. This term has been
employed by the Prince Shaykhu’r-Ra’ís in a poem marking the occasion of the
Naw-Rúz 1909 interment of the Báb.

468  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Compassionate, and the Merciful.
A number rose in service of the Hádiratu’l-Quds and with
utmost devotion and spirit exerted much effort. Some others had
spiritual attachment and profoundly desired to aid in the labor and
work of that sacred Shrine. Therefore the water-cistern is named
after the illustrious Afnán of the sacred Lote-Tree, the honored
Mírzá Báqir. The first entrance on the eastern side is named the
Báb-i-Bálá, and the second door on the east named the Báb-i-
Karím, named after Ustád ‘Abdu’l-Karím. The northern door is
the Báb-i-Ashraf; and the first door on the western side is to be
known as the Báb-i-Fadl, while the second on the same side will be
the Báb-i-Amín. By these names are meant: Áqá ‘Alí Ashraf,
Áqá Ustád ‘Abdu’l-Karím, Áqá Bálá, the illustrious Abú’l-
Fadl and the honored Amín. These designations must endure
forever.
Thus the Almighty inspired Me by the earth of the point of
adoration of the Supreme Concourse.
‘A ‘A.520


Extract 48: From Germany, I brought a large quantity of missives
from the friends in that realm for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, all testifying to their
readiness for sacrifice, their humility, devotion to the Faith and their
firmness and steadfastness in the divine Covenant and Testament,
and I submitted these to His sacred presence. Although because of
the War all these letters had gone through the censor and had their
postal stamp, nevertheless, several of them were confiscated at the
German border, and a few more were stolen at the Customs in
Alexandria, Egypt. Notwithstanding, I presented the rest to the
Master Who spoke most glowingly in praise and approval of the
German believers, unceasingly showering His admiration and
affection on them, and speaking of the brilliant future of the friends

520 After the completion of Shrine of the Báb by Shoghi Effendi, he named the
remaining doors and a complete description is provided in, Ugo Giachery, Shoghi
Effendi’s Recollections, pp. 214-216, Appendix IX.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   469


in Germany. About that time, a Tablet was revealed in honor of
Mírzá ‘Azízu’lláh Khán Varqá – upon him rest the Glory of God –
which I record below in this notebook:

He is God!

O thou who art firm in the Covenant! Thy letter of 2
Ramadán 1332 [A.H.]521 was received, testifying to thy humility
and reverence before the Abhá Kingdom. Its essence spoke of thy
faith and fidelity in the Cause of God. Praised be God that the son
of the martyr is sacrificial in this path like unto his illustrious
father522 and, with modesty and meekness, devotion and attraction,
serves this mighty Cause. Thy example is worthy of a station
similar to thy father’s in the Abhá Kingdom!
Thou had written about your meetings with prominent and
esteemed personages in Iran, and this is most agreeable. These
people are not presently aware of the great influence of the Faith
and know not how it has inflamed the horizon of the world. A few
days ago many letters were received from Germany. It would be
good if the well-wishers of Iran would see these missives. God
willing, they will be sent by a trusted emissary. Thou wilt then note
that, at this time, when the entirety of Germany – men, women
and even children – spend night and day consumed by the thought
of war and tumult and, with great commotion, the shrill voice of
killing is raised, at such a time the nightingale of the orchard of
oneness sings melodies of spirituality in that garden and meadow.
How brilliant glows the flame of the love of God and how
resonantly is raised the cry of “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá”, reaching the
highest pavilions of the Supreme Concourse! Each day a number
embrace the Divine Lote-Tree, and the Sun of Reality shines forth
brilliantly.
At any rate, be constantly attentive and mindful that some
of the ‘ulamá’ and prominent citizens may awaken to the Cause.

521 25 July 1914.
522 Varqá’s father and brother, Ruhu’lláh, were martyred.

470  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


Tell the distinguished person, “Those two lions are the north and
south neighbors, and it was Iran that they were carrying in their
mouths. I cherish the hope that it will be thy lot” As I stated
explicitly in Paris, even though Iran is filled with turmoil, the
future of other nations is perilous as well. Perchance he remembers
this remark.
My point is that no other salvation and safety is possible
today save adhering to the divine teachings and exhortations. It is
these heavenly pronouncements that will revive Iran, but they must
be faithfully embraced.
Consider that presently Iran is a small country and its
diverse creeds deal with one another with the utmost enmity and
rancor. Merchants are without trade, industries are in ruin,
agriculture is destroyed, and the only things that are plentiful are
the mischief-makers who attempt, through various connivances, to
destroy the foundation of Iran. In this light, what hope is there for
salvation and liberation? Her sole remedy is to succeed in a cause
that would bring her distinction in the world, and indeed make
other countries humble before her. Without this, this withered
nation would not be renewed and revived, and the realm of Iran
would not be developed and advanced.
In Germany, many assemblies have been organized. On one
side the flag of Germany is hoisted and on another side the blessed
ensign of Iran, and attendees truly adore the latter standard and
show it utmost respect and veneration.
Upon thou rest the Glory of God, the Most Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás


Extract 49: On 14 May 1915, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá graciously gave me this
Tablet to take to Iran, to make copies and disseminate among the
friends.523 A copy is recorded in this notebook to give a good end to
the chapter:

523 The original Text also appears in Makátib ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 4, pp. 114-
118.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   471



The Divine Friends, upon them rest the greetings of their Lord, the
Compassionate, the Merciful.

He is God!

O ye the beloved of my heart and soul!
The world of being is encompassed by mankind’s
heedlessness, and all horizons are hidden by dark clouds. The
world of humanity has become afflicted by hardship and mourning
and all the tribes of the world of humanity are lost and bereft of
guidance. From the beginning of human history until now such a
world devouring fire has not been ignited and such a conflagration
has not been lit, destroying all horizons. All eyes are in tears, all
hearts are burning sore.
The continent of Europe is all a field where blood is being
shed, and it is the veritable arena of atrocity. In the words of the
poet:
”There is no blade of grass or thorn that is not red with the
blood of martyrs.”
Cries and lamentations are rising to high heaven and tears
of orphans flow like unto a torrent. All one sees is the sadness and
sorrow of fathers who are mourning their sons. All one can hear is
the lamenting of mothers, which affects one’s soul and heart. From
all sides sighs, regrets and lamentation and the cry of pain can be
heard emanating from bereaved hearts. In all corners the wolves of
hatred and rancor are hiding in ambush. This weakling, the
human species, is surrounded by these calamities. Despite this they
are all asleep with the sleep of heedlessness, they have all alienated
themselves from any fellowship or love. There is no reflection, there
is no meditation, there are no deep thoughts or delving as to the
cause of events. No one prays in an earnest communion; no one
seeks from God the remedy of these afflictions. There is no remorse,
no supplication, no repentance, no turning back to the threshold of
the Creator.

472  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


All this in spite of the fact that in my journeys and travels
in Europe and America, in all their Churches, assemblages and
meeting places, crying aloud I warned them, I admonished them in
these words:

“O revered people in these assemblies! Unstop your ears.
There is a great danger ahead. A most afflictive catastrophe is
impending. The whole continent of Europe has become a storage
house of weapons and explosives. Inflammable material is hidden
in every nook and cranny. It is all waiting for one spark so that a
great flame may reach the heights of heaven. Through a single
explosion all things will be turned upside down. O people present
here, strive with the entirety of your endeavor that these fires be
extinguished, so that ye may be the instruments of prevention of this
great earthquake. Otherwise this calamity like a deafening
lightening, will hit the children of humanity from all sides. All
countries will be destroyed. All cities will become bereft of security
and tranquility. All nations will witness the fire of hell. All
countries will have exhibitions of dust and ashes. Humanity will
become dispersed then, but what benefit would remorse and regret
achieve then?
“It is better that you learn the heavenly Teachings now, that
you may chant the divine melodies in all parts of the world now.
You should raise the banner of the Oneness of humanity that you
may become occupied in the promulgation of universal peace. From
the inception of history nearly six thousand years there has been
warfare, belligerence, manslaughter, atrocity and bloodshed. The
children of men have not had a moment of rest or tranquility, but
praise be to God that this century is the century of light, this age is
that in which truth is revealed and the mysteries are unraveled. It is
also most evident and clear that enmity and hatred destroy the
foundation of the world of humanity, and that love and faithfulness
give eternal life. Conflict is the most afflictive torment and death
itself, whereas peace is the fountain wherefrom the water of life
flows. Hostilities uproot institutions, whereas peace causes
reconstruction where there was destruction before. Wars result in

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   473


sorrow and regret, but peace and reconciliation result in joy and
exhilaration. Killing and slaughter is sadness and bereavement, but
concord and reunion result in great festivity. As much as in your
power, strive and exert yourselves so that the flag of the oneness of
the world of humanity may wave in the midmost center of existence,
and the Son of Truth may illuminate with the light of love. Swords
and arrows may be put aside and the life-giving breeze of
agreement, fellowship and affection may give new life. This
darkness of the human tragedy may be dispelled, and heavenly light
may shine over both East and West. The thorn bush of existence
may become a rose garden, and the wasteland may become the
meadow of the merciful. The season of autumn may finally end,
and the life-giving breeze of springtime may establish itself over
mountain and mead.”

All those present would agree with me that this should be
the case, but they were asleep in the couch of heedlessness. No one
gave it a deep thought, no one tried hard, and consequently this
spark and conflagration has started to burn the foundation of
humanity. Now East and West are in the great commotion, and
this devastating tornado has uprooted all the fresh trees of existence.
Glory be to God! What manner of ignorance is this, what manner
of negligence and inattention?

“The well is on the path, and the wayfarer knows and is
conscious of it. I am amazed, though, at how veiled are the
wayfarer’s eyes.”

Human beings with their own feet, of their own volition,
have entered the midmost fire. Humanity is capable of sullying the
pure choice wine, of transforming the sweet fountain of water into a
brackish and salty pool. They wish to extinguish a lighted candle to
darken the luminous dawn, to exchange the honey of faithfulness
for the lethal poison of unfaithfulness, and at the same time they
desire glory in this achievement.

At any rate, the teachings of the Blessed Beauty – may my
life be a sacrifice unto Him – were all spread and were proclaimed
openly in America, Britain, France and Germany, in all their

474  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


large meetings and in their church gatherings. Haply after this
Great War eyes may yet see, ears may yet hear, the banner of the
oneness of the world of humanity may yet be uplifted in the center of
existence, the canopy of Universal Peace may yet overspread East
and West, the Blessed Tree may yet grow and give branches and
the admonitions of the Blessed Beauty may be promulgated. I am
certain that after this Great War these teachings will be upraised
in all regions, this life-giving breeze will cause a vibration in the
entire world.
The friends of God must now prepare themselves so that the
moment the fire of this war is stopped they may raise the melody of
the kingdom of Abhá and they may stir the ears and hearts of all
those who seek the kingdom in their spiritual assemblies, singing
these divine melodies. Praise be to God that through the protection
and safekeeping of the Most Great Name all the friends in the
Holy Land are in a state of radiance and spirituality. This is
through naught except His bounty, grace, and generosity. I yearn
for all the friends with all my heart and soul, and send the
handmaidens of the All Merciful my most wondrous Abhá
greetings. Upon you all be the Glory of the Most Glorious One.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás.524

524 This translation was contributed by Dr. Khazeh Fananapazir.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   475


Bibliography


‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makátíb ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. 3 vols. Cairo: Matba‘a Kurdistán
al-‘Ilmiyya, 1910–1921.

_____. A Traveler’s Narrative. Trans. Edward Granville Browne.
Amsterdam: Philo Press, 1891.

_____. Memorials of the Faithful. Trans. Marzieh Gail. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1971.

Bahá’u’lláh. Áthár Qalam A‘lá. 7 vols. Tihrán: Mú’assasih Millí
Matbú‘át Amrí, 1963–1968.

_____. “Kitáb-i-‘Ahd” (Book of the Covenant). In Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. 217–23.

_____. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1992.

_____. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Trans. Shoghi Effendi.3d ed.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.

Bahíyyih Khánum: The Greatest Holy Leaf: A Compilation. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1982.

Balyúzí, Hasan M. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1980.

_____. The Báb. London: George Ronald, 1977.

_____. Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith. London: George
Ronald, 1970.

476  Eight Years Near ‘Abdu’l-Bahá


_____. Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh: With Some Historical
Background. Oxford: George Ronald, 1985.

Bámdád, Mahdí. Sharh Hál Rijál Iran dar Qarn 12, 13, 14 Hijrí. 4 vols.
Tihrán: Kitábfurúshí Zuvvár, 1347–1353 Sh. [1968–1974].

Ishráq-Khávarí, ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd, eds. Má’idih Ásmání. 9 vols. Tihrán:
Mú’assasih Millí Matbú‘át Amrí, 128–129 BE [1971–1973].

_____. Ayyám Tis‘ih. Tihrán: Mú’assasih Millí Matbú‘át Amrí, 1947
and 1974.

_____. Gangínih Hudúd va Akhám. 2d ed. India: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1980.

_____. Núrayn Nayyirayn. Tihrán: Mú’assasih Millí Matbú‘át Amrí,
123 BE [1966].

Mázandarání, Fádil Mírzá Asadu’lláh. Táríkh Zuhúru’l-Haqq (History
of the Manifestation of Truth). Vols. 1–9. Digital facsimile. East
Lansing,
Mich.:
H-Bahai,
1998–1999.
http://www.h-
net.org/~bahai/index/diglib/mazand1.htm.

Momen, Moojan. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844–1944: Some
Contemporary Western Accounts. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.

_____. An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam: The History and Doctrines of Twelver
Shi‘is. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1987.

Nabíl A‘zam (Mullá Muhammad Zarandí). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated and edited
by Shoghi Effendi Rabbani. 2d ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1974.

Habíb Mu’ayyad / Ahang Rabbani   477


Nur, ‘Izzatu‘llah. Khátirát Muhajirí az Isfahán dar Zamán Shahádat
Sultán ash-Shuhadá va Mahbúb ash-Shuhadá. Tihrán: Mú’assasih Millí
Matbú‘át Amrí, 128 BE [1972].

Rabbani, Ahang. The Bábís of Nayrís: History and Documents. Houston:
E-Book, http://ahang.rabbani.googlepages.com/, Feb 2007.

_____. In the Land of Refuge: The Genesis of the Bahá’í Faith in
Shiraz. Houston: E-Book, http://ahang.rabbani.googlepages.com/,
Feb 2007.

Rabbání, Ruhiyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1969.

Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Rev. ed. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1974.

Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1992.