THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

4 October 2009

To the National Spiritual Assembly

of the Bahá’ís of Bolivia

With heavy hearts we received the news of the passing of Eloy Anello, indefatigable and valiant servant of Bahá’u’lláh. Nearly forty years ago, as the Nine Year Plan was drawing to a close, we urged the friends everywhere to emulate the Bahá’í youth, “whose recent surge forward into the van of proclamation and teaching” was “one of the most encouraging and significant trends in the Faith” and who stormed “the gates of heaven for support in their enterprises by long-sustained, precedent and continuing prayer.” Among those who had stepped into the vanguard was dear Eloy, who, as a young man, left the United States and settled in Bolivia in the early 1970s, making it his home and dedicating himself to the upliftment of its people. No one who crossed his path could fail to be touched by his unbounded energy, by his sincere love of humanity, which he brought to every enterprise he undertook in service to the Faith. Especially noteworthy were the valuable contributions he made to the progress of the Cause as a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors in the Americas for two decades. How many young people were awakened to the crying needs of humanity as a result of his efforts in this capacity. How many were galvanized to arise and serve the Cause. So dedicated was he to nurturing young minds that he co-founded Universidad Núr in Santa Cruz—an institution striving to apply Bahá’í principles to higher education and to programs for the advancement of the indigenous populations.

May his life of consecration to the Cause serve as an inspiration to those laboring to meet the requirements of the current stage of the Divine Plan. To his family and many friends, we extend our loving condolences. Our most fervent prayers at the Sacred Threshold join yours for the progress of his noble soul throughout the realms of God. We call on all National Spiritual Assemblies in the Americas to hold memorial gatherings in his honor.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]