THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-12-25

To the friends gathered at the National b aháí y

in dallas, Texas

dear f riends,

we send you our warmest greetings and deepest love.

your conference coincides with the counselors’ conference which has

drawn 78 counselors from the five continents to the holy land for discus-

sions with the international Teaching center concerning the provisions of

the next global teaching and consolidation plan to be launched at ri¤ván

1996. you may well draw inspiration from this coincidence as you take ad-

vantage of your togetherness to contemplate during the next few days the opportunities available to the bahá’í youth both to bend their efforts towards

great achievements in the teaching field during the remaining months of the

Three year plan and to ensure through such achievements a fitting initiation

for the new plan, which will be in operation during the closing years of the

unique T wentieth century.

The threat of disintegration and chaos, on the one hand, and the

promise of unity and peace, on the other, flash intermittently as pros-

pects at this time of great transition for the entire human race. unity

and peace will triumph, we know; but until then humanity will surely

experience trials and turmoil. Amid these can be found the countless opportunities to teach those, especially among your peers, who seek un-

derstanding and hope. The perspective which enables us to see clearly

during this time of great perplexity is provided in the Sacred writings

of our faith and in the life and deeds of our true exemplar, ‘Abdu’l-

bahá; these are abundant resources to which the followers of the blessed 209.1

209.2

209.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

58beauty, young and old alike, can turn time and again for knowledge,

inspiration and assurance.

may your collective and individual capacity for action increase as you

take occasions such as this conference both to obtain a deeper understand-

ing of your purpose and goal in life and to mobilize your efforts, in word and deed, to spread the glad tidings and demonstrate the revolutionizing

effects of the appearance of the lord of hosts. being among the ones who

will increasingly be shouldering the responsibilities for the evolution of the

order of bahá’u’lláh, the very pattern of future society, you, like the bahá’í

youth in every other land, can do no less than consider seriously what each

and all of you will do now towards victoriously meeting the challenges and

opportunities of these troubled but dynamic times.

we shall continue to pray ardently in the holy Shrines for your success

in every respect.

210

Message to the Conference

of the Continental Boards of Counselors

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]