THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1988-12-13

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

to inform you that two believers who had been imprisoned in iran for some

time, have recently been executed.

mr. bihnám páshá’í, a resident of Simnán and member of the local

Spiritual Assembly of that city, had been arrested on 19 November 1983 in Tehran. in the summer of 1988 he was transferred to evin prison and his

family has not been permitted to see him since july 1988. The news of his

execution was communicated to his family on 3 december 1988. he was

49 years old.

mr. páshá’í was from a muslim family and accepted the faith some years

ago, the only member of his family to do so. i t is assumed that this was the

reason for his execution, for the authorities in iran are known to be very

severe on those who independently accept the faith, considering them to be

apostates according to i slamic law.

The other bahá’í recently executed was mr. íraj Afshín. he was arrested

late in 1986 and his family has not been allowed to see him since 17 july 58.3

58.4

59.1

59.2

59.3

59.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

1021988. News of his execution was given to his family on 26 November 1988.

he was 55 years old.

mr. Afshín was a colonel in the iranian Air force, and the authorities

maintain that his execution was on political grounds due to his connec-tions with royalists, members of a group opposed to the government. it is

established, however, that mr. Afshín had not engaged in political activities,

that he firmly maintained his faith throughout his imprisonment, and that he was assigned to a prison ward where other b ahá’ís were kept.

To date, neither the exact charges, nor the dates of execution nor the

places of burial are known for these two latest victims.

it was also reported that 36 bahá’í prisoners had recently been in great

danger of execution. They were housed in a prison ward together with many mujaheddin and communists. one night, when their fellow prisoners

were rounded up for execution, the 36 bahá’ís were also taken out with

them, blindfolded and lined up to be shot. Among them were two very old bahá’ís, mr. vafá’í of isfahan and mr. maµlúmí of Sangsar. casually,

one of the guards asked these two men what they had done at their age to

deserve being shot. They answered that they were bahá’ís, whereupon their

executioners said that they had no orders to shoot bahá’ís. fortunately, the

other bahá’ís overheard these remarks and all stepped forward identifying

themselves as such and, in this way, they were spared. . . .

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

60

Individual Rights and Freedoms

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]