',\IllHS EFENDl
GENBR£L EDITOR
.1:5'" :1\&.. cr.a.... S&lI. '"J) '"J)
-
....
"
•
..."...efL':l\.S.
BAHAISM

~
BAHAISM
BY
THE REV. CANON SELL,
D.D.,
M.R.A.S.
nLLOlt' 0' ma tTlfIV.UITT OP
1lUJ)JU.1
.AUTHOR OP 'THE FAITH OF ISLAM,' 'THE RELIGJOUSORDERS OF
ISLAM, I ':ESSAYS ON ISLAM,' 'ISLAM: ITS RISE AND PROGRESS,'
'THE HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE QUR'AN'; AND
'THE RECENSIONS OF THE QUR' AN'
THE CHRISTIAN LITERATURE SOCIETY
FOR INDIA
LONDON, MADRAS AND COLOMBO

PRINTED AT THE
S. P. C. K.
PRESS, VEPERY.
MADRAS
PREFACE
THE recent visit of 'Abbas Efendf, son of the late
Baha'u'lIah, and now leader of the Baha'I community, to
, London and Paris has drawn public attention to the
religious system known' as Bahaism.
It is hoped that this historical account of the rise of
the sect may be of some use in counteracting the extraor-
dinary claims now made for Baha'u'llah and his teaching
,and tbe assumption that 'Abbas Efendf is the prophet of
a new era.
For typographical reasons the dots and dashes used
in the transliteration of certain Arabic and Persian
letters are omitted in the notes.
.
MADRAS,
October 1, 1912
EDWARD SELL

This book may be obtained at any of the following
addresses :-
C.L.S.,
"
"
"
"
Post Box 3, Madras;
46 Dharamtala Street, Calcutta;
18 Clive Road, Allahabad;
Dam Street, Colombo;
3S John
Street, Bedford Row, London,
W.C.
,
BAHAISM
THE Musalmans of Persia belong to the Shi'ah sect
which, itself formed by a revolt from orthodox Islam,
has been, more than any other section of the Mui,Jam.
madan people, subject to divisions.
This is partly due
to the character of the Persians, and partly to a some·
what freer spirit, which, as compared with the Sunnis,
the Shi'ahs cultivate.
Outwardly, it is true, there is
·not much difference, and the freedom is only a relative
one;
but, under the garb of faultless profession, the
Shi'ahs have always held many esoteric doctrines and
have secretly taught them.
The Siifls, or Mystics, are
the best example of this tendency.
The Persians are
not
naturally a
narrow-minded
: people.
In the past, they have shown considerable
· freedom of thought.
It is true that the first great
··revolt against orthodox Islam was largely influenced by
political motives, but it was not altogether free from
doctrinal reasons.
This revolt led to the formation of
: the Shi'ah sect to which the Persians belong.
The
Persians no longer lead in literature and philosophy,
·. but some of the old traditions remain, and they are
'open to varying impulses and modes of thought, of

',.
~~-...
~,
-~
.'. "2
",-':.
.
~ ;
....
BAHAISM
,
THE ABWAB
which the most remarkable instance in re'cent· years is
the rise of Bahaism, a development of the earlier system
of Babiism.
The origin of Bahaism is to be found far back in the
Shi'ah doctrine of the Imamat. 1
The tragic end of
'AIr the fourth Khalifa, and his two sons, l;Iasan and
l;Iusain', called forth a deep affection for their memory.
They were looked upon as the true and rightful Imams,
the only legitimate successors of Mul:tammad, the great
Arabian Prophet.
According to the Isma'H1ans,3 one of
the two main subdivisions of the ShI'ah sect, there
were twelve Imams, the last of whom, Abu'I-Qasim,
who succeeded his father in A. H. 260,
is supposed
to be still alive, though he is now quite concealed
from human eyes.
After duly performing the funeral
ceremonies for his father, he secluded himself entirely.
He is called al-Mahdi, the guided one, who is, therefore,
able to be a guide to others.
The Imams are believed
to be immaculate and infallible.
Their authority is
the authority of God, their work the work of God.
As mediums between God and man they hold a far
higher position than the prophets.
It is further an
article of belief
that the earth
is
never without a
ISe. The Faith of Isldm (S.P.C.K.), pp. 108-13; 117-18.
'The Imams were descended from ai-Husain who is said to
have
married a
captive lady,
the daughter 01 Yezdigird III,
the last Sassanian king.
They were thus descendants 01 the royal
house of Persia, which may account for the lact that the Persians
be=e and remain Shi'ahs.
It also explains in part their intense
devotion to the Im~m9_
3 See The Cult of 'AU (C.L.S.), pp. 11-12 and The Faith of
llldm (S.P.C.K.), pp. 113-5.
living Imam, though according to the Shl'ahs, he
IS
now concealed.
AI-Mahdi is said to have disappeared
in the year A. H. 329 = A. D. 940, and to be now living in
one of the mysterious cities-Jabulka and Jabulsa.
In
due time he is to reappear, his advent being heralded
by Jesus Christ.
Then injustice and misery are to be
banished, the true (Shi'ah) faith will prevail and a
millenium of happiness will be ushered in.
Meanwhile
he is invisible and inaccessible to the great mass of
his followers.
For a time, however, he seems in some
mysterious way to have held intercourse with a select
few, who became the channels of communication be·
'. tween himself and the large body of believers.
These
intermediaries were called Abwab or gates.
These men
were four in Dumber, and for sixty-nine years they
were, one after another, the gates through which the
concealed Imam made known his will.
This period
(A. H. 260 to :i29) is called the ghaibat·i-sughra, or the
lesser seclusion.
When AbU'I-l;Iasan, the last Bab
(gate), carne to the end of his life, the people begged
him to appoint a successor, so that they might still
learn the Imam's will
and so be able to obey his
commands.
He, for some reason or other, absolutely
. refused to do this, alleging as his reason that' God hath
.a purpose which He will accomplish.'
Now the faith-
ful were sad, for all intercourse with the concealed
Imam was at an end.
This period is known as the
ghaibat.i.kubra, or the greater seclusion.
We have in
this curious belief the origin of
Babiism, of which
Bahaism
is
a
later
development.
The
importance
which
the
Babis
attached
to
these
gates is
seen

..
,
BAHAISM
-
THE SHAIKH IS
from the following statement about them made many
centuries after they had passed away: 'For God has
associated refuge in Himself with refuge in His Apostle
(Mul,1ammad) and refuge in His Apostle with refuge in
his executors (the Imams), and refuge in his' executors
with refuge in the Abwab (gates) of his executors ..•
for refuge in the Apostle is the same as refuge with
God, and refuge in the Imams is the same as refuge
in the Apostle, and refuge in the Abwab is identical
with refuge in the Imams.' I
We must now pass over many centuries until we
come to the time of Shaikh Al,1mad (A. D. 1733 to 1826)
the founder of the Shaikhi sect.
He was a devout
ascetic and a man of independent thought.
He had a
profound belief in 'All.
The memory of the Imams
was dear to him.
He looked upon them as creative
forces, arguing from the text, 'God the best of Creators',I
that, if He is the best, He cannot be the only one.
One of the earliest writers on the Babl movement,
Mirza Ka~im Beg, in the Joumal Asiatique 3 describes
him as a celebrated teacher, who by his virtues, austerity
and erudition attracted a large body of disciples.
The
special point of his teaching is thus described: 'God
is immanent in the universe, which proceeds from Him.
All the elect of God and all the Imams are personifica-
tions of the divine attributes,"
Thus, the twelve Imams
I Epi.ock of the Bdb, p. 233.
I S6ratu'l-Mu'min6n (xxiii) 14.
SJournal A$iatique, Sixi~me S~rie. tome vii, p. 458.
~According to Mirza Kazim Beg, the doctrine 01 the Shaikh!
school was that the attributes of God proceed Irom the Supreme
Existence, and by His own wilt become personified in blending with
the human soul and spirit which also emanate from God.
. from 'AU downwards to al·Mahdi were personifications
of the attributes of God.
'AU is the chief of these and
holds higher rank than Mul,1ammad.
The successor of Shaikh Al,1mad was I:Iaji Sayyid
Kazim, a young man so mysterious in his actions that
many of the worldly.minded Persians looked upon him
as foolish, but his followers called him 'the Enlightened'.
Through his ministrations the Shaikhi doctrines spread
, rapidly, and it is said that there were soon a hundred
thousand disciples in 'Iraq.
This does not appear to
have called forth any opposition from the Mullas, or the
political chiefs, for among the admirers of the Shaikh
.were a number of State officials and of the clergy;
all proud of his name and enthusiastic about his philoso-
,
phy.
The I:Iaji died in the year A.D. 1843 and left
no
successor.
Apparently
he
and
his
predecessor
looked upon themselves, at least so the Babi writers
say, as forerunners of one who would shortly appear,
and whom they called the' Promised Proof' the' Master
of the dispensation' and by other such like terms.
To
Mulla I:Iusain, one of his followers, he is reported to .
have said: 'From whatever quarter the" Sun of Truth"
shall arise, it will irradiate all horizons and render the
mirrors of the hearts of the believers capable of receiv-
'jng the effulgence of the lights of wisdom.'
The Shaikhis, being now left without a leader, and
bearing in mind the expressions used by those who had
been their
late leaders, began to look about
for a
. spiritual director.
Mulla I:Iusain proceeded to Shlraz
and there met with a young man, named Mirza 'Ali
. Mui,lammad, an ardent enthusiast who claimed to have

,
BAHAISM
THE SHAIKH! CREED·
'received a call to a divine miSSion.
Mull! 1;Iusain
thought him too young for such leadership.
Then one
day Mirza 'All said:
'~y what signs canst thou recog-
nize the Master?' Mulla Husain replied: 'By the posses-
sion of the" Point of Knowledge", which is the source
and centre of all the wisdom of past and future prophets
and saints.'
MIrza 'All then proceeded to give a mar-
vellous exposition of many abstruse questions as proof
that he possessed the' Point of Knowledge '.
Mull!
1;1 usain pondered over this extraordinary occurrence for
several days, and at last became convinced that in the
young man before him he had found the 'Sun of Truth',
the' True One', to whose advent 1;Iaji Sayyid Ka?;im had
looked forward.
He had no longer any doubt and wrote
to his friends at Kerbela that he had found at last a
man worthy to be their Murshid.
This readiness to
espouse the cause of the new leader and to recognize in
him the Bah or gate, brought great honour to Mull! .
1;Iusain who received the titles of Babu'l-Bab-' Gate
;" of the gate'; the 1;Iarf-i-Awwal-the 'First Letter'; the
Awwal man amana-the' First to believe '.
Then arose
a great dispute.
Many of the Shaikhis refused to receive
the Bab,1 as we shall now call Mirza 'Ali MUl;1ammad,
and became his bitter enemies, but in time the great
majority accepted him, and he became the real founder
of the Babi sect.
The Shaikhis rejected two of the five articles of the
Shi'ah creed-'adl, or justice of God, and ma'ud or the
I They followed Hajl Muhammad Karim Khan, a member of the
royal lamily.
The Shaikh!s, such as there are, still accept his
descendants as their leaders.
resurrection.
They said that there was no sufficient
reason why justice alone of all the attributes of God
should be selected as an article of belief, and that His
wisdom, power, or any other attribute had just as good
a claim to be inserted in the creed.
They objected
to the resurrection being made a special article on the
ground that its acceptance is implied in the belief in
prophetship, for to believe in a prophet means to accept
his teaching about the resurrection.
Having thus de-
pleted the creed, it was necessary to a~d som~thiDg to
it.
They invented a new article of faith, which they
called the Rukn-i-Rabi', or
the Fourth Support or
Pi1lar.
This is interpreted to mean that there must al-
ways be amongst the believers a perfect man-Shi'ah-i-
kamil-who can be the channel of grace-wasita-i-fai<;l-
between the absent Imam and his people.
The term is
thus primarily applied to the dogma that the absent
Imam, now somewhere concealed, must always have
me one on earth who possesses his entire confidence,
W
.
d
to whom he imparts special spiritual instructIon, an
who is thus qualified to impart to the whole company of
believers the wishes and wisdom of their invisible head.
Thus the name' Fourth Support' came to be applied to
the person who fulfils this office.
The Bab at first
claimed this position, and thus to occupy the place
held by the gates, or intermediaries, between the absent
I
am and his followers.
Thus Bablism is connected
:th the central dogma of the Shi'ahs, the belief in
the Imamat; still it has so far departed from accepted
. Muslim ideas in other matters as to form a new sect
altogether.

,
BAHAISM
,
THE BAB
The Bab was born in Shlraz on October 9, 1820.
At an early age he lost his father, and then under the
charge of an uncle engaged in mercantile pursuits, but
for these his habit of religious meditation and his love
of speculative thought unfitted him.
He gave them up
and proceeded to Kerbela where his zeal for learning
and his austere life soon brought him into notice.
His
earliest written work was a commentary on the twelfth
chapter of the Qur'an known as the Suratu yusuf.
This was followed by commentaries on other Suras and
also by an edition of some prayers.
These he called
asha'if.i-ilhamiyah, or inspired pages; kalam·i·fitra, or
word of conscience, but he made no claim to the highest
form of inspiration (wa!)i), which Muslims hold to be
that of the Qur'{m.
Count Gobineau says: 'In the
first of these books, he was pious and a mystic: in the
second polemic and dialectic occupy a large space, and
his hearers noticed with astonishment that he unfolded
new meanings which no one had hitherto thought of in
the chapter of the Book of God which he had chosen,
and that he deduced from it, above all, doctrines and
teachings absolutely unexpected.' 1
Whilst some persons were displeased with him, many
were attracted to him, but, as his views became more
generally known, he became bolder in the assertion of
his claims.
On May 22, 1844, when about twenty·four
years of age, he openly declared himself to be an au-
thorized teacher of divine truth and assumed the name
1 Les rcligiotU!s ct les Philosophies dans L'Asic Centrale.
p. 147 (I shall refer in future to this work under the name of
i~s
author, Gohineau).
of the Bab, and said:
I Whosoever wishes to approach
the Lord his God and to know the true way that leads
'to Him must do it through me.'
This was a bold
challenge to the Muslim Mullas, but, according to Ka;>;im
Beg, his followers increased day by day.
Many were
dreamers and mystics, of whom there has always been
a number in Persia, who thought the teaching accorded
with their own pantheistic views; there were others
who, dissatisfied with the condition of life in Persia,
thought that his system might lead to reforms, and some
were drawn to him by his attractive personality.
In
any case, success began and soon after Mulla I;Iusain
cast in his lot with the Bab.
There is some difference of opinion as to the reason
which led him to adopt the title of Bab.
The most ac·
curate account seems to be: 'He (Mirza 'Ali MuJ:mm.
mad) now gave out that, as 'All had been the gate by
which men entered the city of the Prophet's knowledge,
even so he was the gate through which man might
attain to the knowledge of the twelfth Imam (al.Mahdi):l
Later on he discarded the name of Bab, and called
himself the Qa'im, or the expected Imam.
His followers
gave him the titles of I;Iazrat, or Holiness; I;Iazrat·i.
nuqta-i·bayan, or His Holiness the Point of Revela·
.lion;
I;Iazrat.i.Rabbiyu'I-A'!a, or
His
Holiness
the
Lord Most High; I;Iazrat·i·nuqta·i.ula, or His Holiness
the First Point.
Gobineau says:
'Mirza 'All Mu!)am·
mad said he was not the Bab in the sense in which
they (his followers) had believed, and as he himself had
1Watson, His/ory of Persia. p. 348.

•
BAHAISM
PUBLIC DISCUSSIONS
thought, that is to say, the gate of the knowledge of
truth; but that he was the Point (nuqta), or the origi.
nator of truth, a divine appearance, a powerful manifes·
tation.'1
It will be seen that he now. claimed to be
more than a medium of information, and assumed to
himself the position of one who could lay down as exact
truth what his followers should believe.
Having thus
put forth his claim to be a recognized leader with divine
authority, he
proceeded to make the pilgrimage to
Mecca in the year 1844.
He duly performed all the
ceremonies of the I;Iaii, but it does not appear to have
brought him back to orthodox Islam, nor did it post·
pone the opposition of the Mul1as, who now became
alarmed at the growing veneration in which many people
held him.
A little later on he was brought as a prison-
er to Shlraz, though liberty of speech and action was
given to him.
He avoided attacks on the dogmas of
Islam, but severely rebuked the Mul1as.
His general
topic was the sad and distressed state of men generally.
Obscure al1usions in his speeches awakened an interest
amongst the curious, and delighted those who had been
initiated into his teaching.
He taught openly and had
frequent discussions with the Mulhis; but according to
Ka~im Beg, one ended disastrously.
The 'Ulama as-
sembled.
The governor, I;Iusain Khan, who had assumed
the character and position of a learner, humbly suggested·
that the Bab should demonstrate that his doctrines were
superior to those of MuQammad.
The Bab answered
boldly: 'Take my Qur'an, compare it with that of your
1B~Wld4 oj tlse Bal>, p. 230.
,Prophet and you will be convinced that my religion is
the preferable one.'
The governor was offended and
the Bab was bound and beaten.
An attack was made on
.the house in which the Bab dwelt, but he was al10wed to
escape and make his way to
I~fahan.
The governor,
Minuchir Khan, a Georgian eunuch, was kind to him and
.gave all the needed protection and invited the learned
Mu1las to a discussion with the Bab.
According to the
NasiBhu't-Tawarikh, the Bab was not able to answer
,·satisfactorily the questions put to him.1
The account
given in the TariBh·i·Jadid l shows that at first the
Mullas accepted the invitation,
but soon withdrew
.
,
'
saylDg:
If there be any doubt in the matter there is
need for a meeting and discussion; but, as the person's
disagreement with the most luminous law is clearer than .
the Sun, the best possible thing to do is to put into prac-
.tice the sentence of the law.'
The governor, a sincere
and true friend to the Bab, was much displeased at the
decision arrived at, and protected him as long as he
lived.
After Minuchir Khan's death in 1847, the Bab
was removed to the castle of Mliku, a fortress on the
north-west frontier.
Here also he was allowed free
intercourse with his followers, both in person and by
correspondence.
He occupied his time in writing reli.
gious books.
An insurrection then broke out at Mazan-
daran which led the authorities to place the Bab in
closer confinement, and to restrict the privilege of
1 Notes of tbis discussion will be found in The Episode oj the
Bdb. pp, 266-1.
I Ibid., pp. 264-5.

,
BAHAISM
- -
MASSACRE OF BABIS
•
intercourse with his friends.
His new place of imprison-
ment was the citadel of Chihriq.l
He was then taken
to Tabrlz to undergo his first examination.
The Mul:lam-
madan version of it is that the Bab showed himself
foolish and ignorant.
The Babl account is that he
advanced in a successful manner his claim of Mahdl-
hood, which caused a tumult. g
Up to the present time
he seems to have been treated by men in authority ,,!ith
kindness and consideration; but now he was beaten and
sent back to confinement in Chihriq.
The reason for
this probably was the new attitude taken by the Mullas,
who, in addition to the charge of religious error, main-
tained that the Bab and his followers were a danger
to the State.
The King, MUQammad Shah, however,
t Many curious expedients were resorted to for the purpose of
conveying lellers to the Bab (el. The Episode of the Bdb, p. 276).
The confinement at Maku lasted six months and at Chihrlq two
and a half years.
~ The wbole examination was naturally unfavourable to the Bab
(c!. Th. EpiSOde of the Bdl>, pp. 279-89).
His claim to be
at Mahd! is sbown in the following :-
Bab.-· I am that person for whose appearance you have waited
a thousand years.'
Hajf Mulli. Mahmud.-' Tbat is to say you are the Mahdf, the
Lord of Religion.'
Bl.b.-' Yes.'
Hajr Mulla Mahmud.-· The same in person or generically.'
Bab.-' In person.'
This marks a distinct advance. for he was no longer merely the
gate of entrance to the concealed Imam, the medium of intercourse
between that revered person and the faithful, but the twelfth Imam,
al-Mahdf, come back to live
amongst men and
to claim the
allegiance of all good Sbf'ahs.
declined to interfere on the ground that the public peace
had not
been
so
disturbed as to
warrant
extreme
measures.
In the year 1848, Nasiru'd-Dln Shah was crowned
at Tihnln and the position of the Babis became more
critical.
The Prime Minister, Mirza Taqi Khan, was
entirely opposed to them and showed much cruelty in
all that he did concerning them.
This led to a civil
war, but the power of the Babis was broken by the fall
of the fort of Shaikh Tabarsi, and the slaughter of its
garrison in 1849.
The commander of the royal forces,
Prince Mahdi Kuli Mirza, was guilty of a great act of
treachery.
He invited the Babl leaders to his camp,
giving them assurances of personal safety.
They were
received with much courtesy, but, when they were at
their ease and had laid aside their weapons, the Prince
gave a signal and the unsuspecting Babls were seized
and put to the most cruel tortures.
Some three hundred
men were smeared with naptha and burnt alive.
Still
the Babls remained true to their leader.
Persecution
seemed to have no effect on them, and so Taql Khan
saw that he must put the Bab himself out of the way.
He sent an order to his brother, who had charge of the
captive, in these terms: 'Obtain a formal and explicit
sentence from the learned doctors at Tabriz, who are
the firm supporters of the Church of la'far (the sixth
of the twelve Imams) and the impregnable stronghold
of the Shl'ah religion.
Summon the troops, suspend
the Bab before all the people and give orders for the
soldiers to fire a volley.'
On the following day the Biib and one of his youthful

-
BAHAISM
•
BURIAL OF THE BAB
disciples, Aqa Muqammad 'All,·
were condemned by
the Mullas and then (July 9, 1850), handed over to
the Colonel of the regiment appointed to carry out.
the sentence of death.
Mirza
Ka~im Beg gives the
following account of what took place.
'The roads
which led to the court of the barracks were crowded
with people.
At a military execution in Persia, the
condemned are tied together with their backs towards.
the firing party.
Aqa Muqammad 'All begged to be
allowed to tum his face towards the people, and then
in a loud but calm voice, he began to say some prayers
which had been composed by his master.
The Bab
kept perfectly silent.
His solemn demeanour and atti-
tude aroused
the sympathy and
compassion of the
spectators.
The governor and the Mullas tried to allay
this by preaching loudly against the Babi doctrines,
and setting forth in an exaggerated form the evils of the
system.
They succeeded with difficulty in checking the
pity of the spectators.
Then, after two volleys had
been fired, the deed was done and the Bab and his
young disciple met their fate.' •
There were no politi.
cal grounds for this execution of the Bab, for though,
dri ven to it by persecutions, the Babls had been in
revolt, there is no evidence to show that the Bab, then
• Aqa Muhammad 'All was urged by his brotber to give up the
Bab and so to save his life.
His reply shows the remarkable
power the Bab had over his followers and how devoted they were
to him and bis cause.
He met bis death witb complete resignatioo.
Tbe letter he wrote to his brotber is an exceedingly toucbing one.
SeeJRAS. October 1889, p. 992.
• Journal Asiatique. Sixi~me S~rie. tome vii, p. 377.
a prisoner, had any part in it or even encduraged it.
This is the opinion of Count Gobineau, a great authority
on Bablism.
The corpses were cast out of the city near the moat to
be devoured by dogs and jackals, but after a little time
were conveyed away by the Babis, who, by bribes or the
influence of powerful friends, obtained possession of
them.
'They were wrapped in silk, placed in one coffin
and sent to Tihran where, by the order of Mirza Yaqya
(Subl,t·i.EzeJ) who, though but twenty years pld, had
been chosen to succeed the Bab, they were deposited in
a little shrine called Imam-zada·i·Ma'sum.
Here they
remained for seventeen or eighteen years, till the schism
. originated by Baha'u'llah deprived his half·brother Subq·
i.Ezel of the supremacy in the Babl sect which he had
hitherto
enjoyed.
Then they were removed by the
Baha'is to a shrine at 'Akka (St. Jean d'Aere).'
The Prime Minister fondly hoped that all trouble was
at an end now that the Bab was no more, and that peace
and quietness would ensue; but he entirely miscalculated
the strength of the movement and the devoted ardour of
the Babis.
So far from the loss of their leader putting
a stop to the growth of the sect, it only increased its
numbers.!
The Bab does not appear to have been a political
agitator, and politics had nothing to do with the inception
of the movement.
His desire was to introduce religious
reform, but he did not see that in a land where Church and
State were so closely connected this must eventually
! Gobineau, p. 271.

•
BAHAISM
CRUEL TREATMENT OF B..\BIS
lead to p"litical complications.
Still he was not a
fanatic either in religion or politics.
He was a mystic,
with all the unworldliness of a man devoted to medi-
tation on abstruse subjects.
His followers, however,
soon found that the Mullas opposed all reforms, and that
the government stood by them.
Then the movement
became political and the
troubles began.
The Bab
remained passive, but the chief men amongst his follow-
ers did not.
They accepted the new departure and so
the death of the Bab did not, as the government ex-
pected, render them despondent.
On the contrary, it
exasperated them and made them the determined enemies
of the Shah and his government.
The next historical event of importance is the attempt
to assassinate the Shah of Persia,
Na~iru'd-Din, on
August 15, 1852.
It does not appear to have been an
act determined on by the Babi leaders, but the work of
a few who desired to avenge the execution of the Bab.
If this is the case, the relentless persecution which
followed was not
justified.
The
conspirators were
twelve in number, but only three were actually engaged
in the attempt.
They contrived to be engaged as
gardeners in a garden in which the Shah sometimes
walked, and one day approaching him, on pretence of
having a petition to deliver, they fired three times at
him, the last shot
inflicting a
slight wound.
One
assassin was killcd on the spot, the other two were
arrested.
At their examination before the Council of
Ministers, they declared that they had no accomplices
and said: •you can torture us till the day of judgement,
we shall say no more.'
The most active measures were now taken against
the Babis, a number of persons, probably fifty, were
arrested, of whom about twenty-eight were condemned
to death.
The sentence was carried out in September
IS, 1852.
The authorities were alarmed and deter-
, mined to make a terrible example.
The prisoners, says
Mirza
Ka~im Beg, •were tortured in the most odious
, manner, with an unheard of refinement of cruelty.'
An
, English traveller says: 'Tow steeped in oil was inserted
between their fingers and behind their shoulder blades,
,leaving portions banging down which were lighted, and
, in this condition the unhappy wretches were led, as long
as they could walk, through the principal streets of the
capital.
No time was lost between apprehension and
execution, death was the only punishment known.
The
headless bodies lay in the streets for days, the terrified
relatives fearing to give them burial, and the dogs
.fought and growled over the corpses in the deserted
thoroughfares.' •
Count Gobineau says: •children and
women with lighted candles stuck into their wounds
were driven along by whips, and as they went they
sang, "we came from God, to Him we return," when
the children expired, the executioners threw the corpses
beneath the feet of their fathers.' 3
Suleyman Khan's
1 Some of these persons, such as Qurratu'l-'Ayn, and 'Aqa Seyyid
Husain of Yezd were in strict confinement at the time of the
attempt in the Shah's life and, therefore, could not possibly have
had anything to do with it.
Their execution was due to their
religious opinions and in order to strike terror ioto the hearts
of the Bahls.
• Ussher, Diary of a jourtUJy from London to Persopoli., p. 628.
3 Gobineau, p. 302.

,
BAHAISM
QURRATU'L-'AYN
execution is thus described: 'At first four knife wounds
were made in his breast, into which lighted candles
were placed.
Red hot horseshoes were fastened to his
feet, and he was then led round the streets of the bazaar.
His teeth were then torn out of his mouth and arranged
as a crescent on his head.
He then died.' I
This man
bore his tortures with great heroism, and sang verses
showing happy he was to give his life for his faith.
In order to avert from the Shah and his ministers any
special hatred of the Babls, and to minimize the possibi-
lity of retaliation, the prisoners were divided amongst
different classes of persons, who were responsible for the
execution of the victims allotted to them.
Thus the
'Ulama representing the clergy; the princes, the nobi-
lity; military officers; professors and merchants-all
had to take their part in the executions.
The punishment was for a political offence, though
dislike of a sectarian movement may have had its share
in the action 6f the government.
The Babls, however,
looked upon it as a religious persecution and so far from
suppressing the movement it led to a large increase in the
number of the secret followers of the Bab.
Persecution
had failed hitherto also for it is said that, 'in a very
, few years (1847 to 1852), this religion spread through-
out Persia, and counted innumerable devotees.
It was
not an ignorant population that was stirred up, but lead-
ing members of the clergy, persons of good education,
women belonging to important families, philosophers
and Sufis.
Even Jews were affected."
Persecution
I Vambiry. Wanderungen uml Erlelmtsse in Persien, p. 299,
• Gobineau, p. 308.
continued to fail for later on Lord Curzon I considered
. them to number nearly one million, drawn from men
.in every walk of life.
One of the most noted persons put to death in 1852
'was Qurratu'l-'Ayn, a learned lady of great intelligence
)and strong personality, who had embraced with heartfelt
devotion the teaching of the Bab.
At Kerbela she gave
a public address to the Shaikhls, but the governor made
her go away.
She went to Baghdad but was again made
to move on.
So she wandered from place to place,
~verywhere preaching and making converts.
Some of
the BahlS were not well pleased that a woman should
do this; but the Bab supported her and gave her the
title of Janab.i.Tahira, or Her Excellency the Pure.
After the insurrection at Mazandaran she was taken
, . prisoner and sent to Tihran.
The Shah having seen her
said he liked her looks and that she should be left
quiet.~
Her imprisonment was not, therefore, rigorous,
,and she was allowed to have occasional intercourse with
her Blibi friends.
Her marvellous beauty, enthusiasm
and eloquence won for her the regard of her custodian
Ma\:J.mud Khan, who did all that his duty allowed him to
soften the rigour of her captivity.
Her life was in no
danger, until the attempt to assassinate the Shah was
1Pe.,.sia, vol. i. p. 499.
It is difficult to arrive at any certainty,
but the numbers seem to bave been exaggerated in the past.
The
Bah"'ls themselves claim that their lollower in Persia now number
between two and three hundred thousand. but Dr. J. D. Frame. a
resident in Persia, considers that there are not more than one
hundred thousand,
Cf. The Moslem World. vol. ii, No.3. p. 238.
,'-Iolj ..}~ olt' ~ ,..,. ~J I

,
BAHAISM
THE PRIMAL WILL
made.
Even then she was offered her freedom if she
would deny that she was a Blibl, live quietly and cease
to teach.
She reCused life on such terms.
She had no
connexion whatever with the attempt on the life of the
Shah, and so her execution which now took place was a
crime and a political blunder.
She was the most re-
markable of all the followers of the Bab.
Highly edu-
cated from an oriental point of view, eloquent, fearless,
she had marvellous power over an audience.
She threw
her whole soul into the cause she advocated and inspired
with perfect confidence all whom she influenced.
She
was a mystic, for her poems have the Sufi element in
them, I yet she was a practical woman who saw much in
the social and political life around her which needed reo
form, and she was not afraid to let her views be known.
The manner of her death cast a halo of glory round her
short and active career.
The teaching of the Bab is contained in his book
called Bayan, composed in 1848, a name sometimes
applied to his collective writings, sometimes to a parti·
cular book.
A good deal of the Blib's teaching is very
mystical and fanciful, but the following is a summary
of the more important dogmas: God is eternal and
unapproachable.
All things come from Him and exist
by Him.
Man cannot approach Him except through
some appointed medium.
So, distinct from God there
IThe country of 'I' and 'We' forsake; thy home in annihila-
tion make,
Since fearing not this step to take, thou shalt gain the highest
felicity.
This is pure SCtllism.
is a
Primal Will, I or Mashiyyat·i.tili', who becomes
I There is
an evident connexion between this dogma of the
~abIs and the Sufi system. in which the 'First Intelligence', or
.
Primal Element' is represented as a manifestation of God.
To
the Sufi, as to the Babf. God is ' sterile in His inaccessible height.'
Men can never be more than slaves. nearness to Him is impossible.
But men longed for communion with some one or something above
them.
They felt the need of some intermediary and found it in a
revival of the old Gnostic notions of the lEons, forms of mani-
'festation of the Ineffable and Incomprehensible.
Neander thus
describes the Gnostic view:
. Self-limitation is the first beginning
of a communication of life from God, the first passing of the
hidden Deity into manifestation, and from this proceeds all further
. self.-developing manifestation of the divine essence.
Now, from
this primal link in the chain of life there are evolved, in the first
place, the manifold powers or attributes inherent in the divine
· essence, which, until that first self-comprehension, were all hidden
in'this abyss of His essence.'
This intermediary is the Primal
Will of the Babl and the Primal Element of the Sufi, who also
calls it by the names of the Pen, the first principle, the spirit of
Muhammad, Universal Reason, or 'Aql-i-Kull.
God's voice is
heard through it, by it material strings were brought into existence.
It works in prophets and saints.
The Imam is closely connected
with it.
I am not able to find out whether the Blob taught that
the Primal Will was created or not.
In Sufi theology it certainly
is, for in the Akhlliq-i-JalAll it is written: 'It is admitted. equally
by the masters of
perception and
conception, that the First
Principle which, at the mandate, "Be and it is", issued, by the
ineffable power and will, from the chaotic ocean of inexistence,
· was a simple and luminous essence which, in the language of
philosophy, is termed the Primary Intelligence, and the great
fathers of mysticism and investigation call it the Muhammadan
Spirit.'
It is to this and not to the inaccessible and incompre-
.. hensible God that the Imam seeks to return.
When his work in
\. life is done. then 'his end is joined to his heginning-Ba aghaz
· girdad b&z anjm.'
It is a curious phase of human thought whic!l

-
BAHAISM
DEVOTION TO THE IMAM
.'
incarnate in the prophets,
This Primal Will which
spoke in all the prophets of the past, spoke also in
the Bah who is the Nuqta-i-Bayan, or the 'Point of
Revelation' and will speak in 'Him whom God shall
manifest'.
This is apparent from the following texts
of the Bayan: 'The whole Baycfn revolves round the
saying of .. Him whom God shall manifest ".'
'A thou·
sand perusals of the Baycfn are not equal to the perusal
of one verse of what shall be revealed by .. Him whom
God shall manifest ".
'The Bayan is to·day in the
stage of seed, but in the day of .. Him whom God shall
manifest", it will arrive at the degree of fruition:'
It
ust be remembered that Baba'u'llah afterwards claimed,
:nd is allowed by his followers, this exalted position.
The following are some of the expressions used of Baha'·
u'llah by his followers.
'Baha'u'llah has come for the
perfecting of the law of Christ, and his injunctions are
in all respects similar.
For instance, we are commanded that we should
prefer that we should be killed rather than th,at we
should kill.
It is the same throughout, and mdeed
could not be otherwise, for Baba'u'llah is Christ re-
turned again, even as He promised, to perfect
th~t
which He had begun.
Christ returns to you as Baha .
u'llah with
angels, with clouds, with the sound of
the Sufis evidently borrowed from the Gnostics, and, the Babls
from Ihe SuHs.
This earnest longing for communIOn· wIth a
manifestation 01 God we can sympathize wilh,. and only
~egret
that in their ignorance or repudiation of the Chrlsuan d~ctr1De of
the incarnation, hath Sufi and BlIbi have so sadly mISsed the
mark,
trumpets.
His angels are his messengers, the clouds
are the doubts which prevent you recognizing him; the
sound of the trumpets is the sound of the proclamation
which you now hear, announcing that He has come
once more from heaven, even as he came before.' I
Each dispensation of the Primal Will thus become
incarnate supersedes a preceding one, and so Islam has
ceased to be the true religion for to-day.
, It has already been shown that devotion to the Imam
. was a very prominent point in the teaching of the Bab..
In one of the earliest of his writings we read, 'When
thou wishest to visit the friend of God, or one of the
Imams of the faith, first purify thy body. from every.
thing which thy heart dislikes; then wash thyself with
seven handfuls of water upon thy head.'
Then follow
the directions how to approach the Imam with humility
.and the prayer to be said.
He addresses the Imams as
effulgences of the divine glory, manifestations of God,
intercessors with Him for sinful men.
He longs for
. communion with them.' Thus: 'Where are the days of
your manifestation that I may be independent of all
except you? and where are the days of the appearance
of the signs of your Lordship, that by your permission,
I .may say to whatsoever I will, .. Be," and it shall
become existent before you.'
These are the enthusi-
astic utterances of a devout Shi'ah, and represent the
feelings of the
Bab before he felt conscious of any
special mission.
But this constant dwelling on the
glory of the Imams, the dispensers of God's will and
'favour, gradually led to the formation of the idea that
I Browne, A Yea,. among the Persians, pp.308-9,

,
BAHAISM
THE NUMBER NINETEEN
2S
he had special communication with them and was, In
fact, the Bab.
At this stage, the usual Mu~mmadan customs were
not set aside.
The month of RamaQAn was observed
as a fast;
but the 'Ulama were bitterly reproached
for opposing this new revelation.
Thus the Bab says:
'0 people of the earth, give thanks to God, for verily we
have delivered you from the doctors of doubt.'
For a more complete exposition of the Babl dogmas,
Professor Browne, to whose valuable researches we are
chiefly indebted for the best information on the subject,
refers to the Persian
Bayat~, from which quotations
have already been made.
This work brings out more
fully the theory of a Primal Will and declares that,
'That which spoke in Adam, Noah, Moses, David, Jesus
and MuJ:iammad I was the one and the same Primal Will.
In each manifestation news has been given of the fol-
lowing one.
Thus the Jews were told to expect a
Messiah, but they rejected him; the Christians to expect
MuJ:iammad but, as a rule, they did not accept him;
so the MuJ:iammadans are taught to look out for Imam
Mahdl.
Yet now he has come (i.e. in the Bab) they
persecute him.'"
The chapters of the Bayan are arranged in groups
of nineteen, a number which has a peculiar significance
with the Babls.
Each letter of the Arabic alphabet has
a numerical value, and so dates can be given by words
or sentences.
Alif, the first letter, stands for God,
and the word for one is wal;iid.
The numerical value
ITbese are Ibe Anbiya'ulu'l-'Azm of Islam.
See Faith 01
•JRAS, vol. xxi, pp. 914, 925.
[Is/<lm (3rd. ed.), p. 239,
of the letters in this word is nineteen.
God is absolute
Being, or wujud, the value of the letters of which also
comes to nineteen.I
The names of one of the attributes
of God is I;Iayy, or the living one.
The sum of the
letters of I;Iayy is eighteen, to which, if we add the
letter Alif,
the One which pervades all, the sacred
number nineteen again comes out.
Nineteen, then, reo
presents the manifestation of the unknowable essence,
and 19 X 19 (= 361) represents the manifested universe
or
all
things, expressed by the term 'Kulu Shey':
T~e numerical value of 'Kulu Shey' is 360, to which
Ahf, the One pervading all, is added, and we again get
361, or 19 X 19,
.
In this world, God is represented by MIrza 'All
M~mad, the Bab who is called the Nuqta, or Point,"
I~hi~ is i? accord with the second canon of the Cabbalistic system
of Blbhcal Inter,pretallon IU the thirteenlb century, which is called
Ghemattla, or
the use of the numerical value of the letters of a
word for purposes of comparison with other words which yield
the same or similar combination of numbers' (Dr. Briggs in Bibli-
cal St~dy, p. 307).
I am nOI prepared to say that there is any
conneXlon between the Cabbalists and the Persian mystics.
t There is a connexion between the BabC use of the term Point
and the sacred number nineteen.
According to a Shf'ah T ad' .
'Alf
'd
h
r
Ilion,
~
t at the whole Qur'an was implicitly contained in the
Silratu I-F&llha (I) and lbat
this again was contain d'
h
B'
·n."
e
IU
t e
lsml .... at the head of it.
This in turn was conw ed'
h
"iall
()
n
lUte
lUlt
etter b
......
and tbis in tnm in the dot or point under the
...... :
To this, 'All added
th~ words:
'I am the point (nuqta)
under the .......
Tbere are nlUeteen letters in the Arab'
f
'1'1 cllll
IC ormu a.
r-r .~r
~-In the name of God, the merciful, the
forglvl.ng.
These nineteen letters then are the manifestation of
lbe POlOt under the b or .......
Etlcycloj>cedia 01 Religion and Ethics, vol. ii, p. 306.

,
BAHAISM
and his eighteen disciples.
I These eighteen are called
the hurofat·i.Qayy, or letters of the living, because by
them the Bab bestowed life upon the world.'
These
again with their leader form the number nineteen, and
thus constitute a w~id, or complete unity, and, as each
disciple was to have nineteen under him, we again
arrive at 361, which represent the numerical value of
the letters in • Kulu Shey' or the number of all things.
On this same ground the Bayan has nineteen parts,
and each part has nineteen chapters.
The Babi year
has nineteen months of nineteen days; each day has
nineteen hours and each hour nineteen minutes.
The
same principle was adopted to regulate measures of
distance and of weight;
law and commerce were to
come under its influence.
' Organize,' said the Bab all
things under the number of the unity, that is to say,
by a division into nineteen parts.!
Another point on which the Bayan lays much stress
is that no revelation is final.
This is entirely opposed
to the ordinary Mu!}ammadan view, which is that as
MubAmmad was the K!latamu'I·Anbiya " or •the Seal of
the Prophets,' his revelation closed the series.
The
Bab taught that, as the human race progresses, the
Primal Will, the teacher of men, speaks in each new
revelation more fully and more clearly."
All these
1Gobineau. p. 322.
• • He said that he (the Bab) came'only for the further develop-
ment of the knowledge of the divine nature; that all the prophets
in succession had said more about this than their predecessors
were called upon to do. and that it was simply as a consequence
of this regular progress that to him had been assigned the task to
REVELATION NOT FINAL
successive and progressive revelations and dispensations
were not for the purpose of abrogating·preceding essen·
tiallaws, but to complete them and especially to prepare
the world for the fuller teaching of 'Him whom God
shall manifest'.
The Bab taught that men who looked upon revelation
as final had gone astray.
The Jews looked forward to
the advent of the Messiah, yet when he came they
rejected him.
The Christians were told that the Parae·
lete would come, yet, when MubAmmad, the promised
comforter, arrived, they would not accept him.
The
Shi'ahs pray for the coming of al·Mahdi, but when
he appeared as the BAb they put him to death.
So the
Bab insisted on the fact that
he was not the last
manifestation, and referred to •Him whom God shall
manifest'.
Baha'u'llah claimed to be that person.
As·
suming that his claim is valid, which the Ezelis deny,
still according to Babi, teaching he will not be the last,
and some other claimaut may arise to supersede him.
No doubt, the Bab expected that long ages would inter·
vene, and the condition of the world would change
before the appearance of a new manifestation.
By his
action Baha'u'llah has taught that only a few years are
required and has thus prepared the way for constant
change, when some one strong enough to make his way
shall appear.
He thus set a precedent for his son,
•Abbas Efendl, to follow.
As against this theory the
. Bab's position is clear.
•A new religion is not sent
be more complete than Muhammad, who
himself was
more
complete than Jesns, as Jesus in tum was more complete than his
predecessors,'
Gobineau, p. 317.

,
BAHAISM
THE COMING ONE
until the development of the human race renders this
necessary.
A revelation is not abrogated till .it is no
longer sufficient for the needs of mankind.
There is no
disagreement between the prophets: all teach the same
truth, but in such measure as men can receive it.
As'
mankind advance and progress they need further in-
struction.
The
instruction given' by
Abraham was
suitable and sufficient for the people of his day, but
not for those to whom Moses was sent, whilst this
in tum had ceased to meet the needs of those to whom
Christ was sent.
Yet we must not
say that their
religions were opposed to one another, but rather that
each manifestation is more complete and more perfect
than the last.' I
The great point in the Babi theology is that the
teacher is one and the same, though he manifests him-
self according to the capacity and needs of those to
whom he is sent.
The outward form changes but the
Universal Spirit remains.
It then follows that •since
this Universal Spirit is absolute good, we must believe
that it always has a manifestation in the world ...
hence during the long intervals which separate one
prophetic dispensation from the next, there must be in
the world silent manifestations of the spirit, intrinsically
not less perfect than the speaking manifestations whom
we call prophets.' 2
Such persons would seem to be
those who in $6fl phraseology had annihilated self,
escaped the delusions of plurality and realized the unity
1 Browne, A Yea,. among the Persians. p. 303.
"Ibid., p. 327.
of True Being.· They differ in degree but not in kind
from the prophets.
The Biib was a prisoner when he showed such in-
terest in preparing the mind of his followers for this
•Coming One'.
The Bayan is full of it.
It is laid
down that in every assembly of believers a vacant place
must be left for him.
When his name is mentioned
all must rise up.
In any case, the ground was all
prepared for BaM'u'lliih when he made his claim.
The Bayan speaks with confidence of the success of
Biibiism.
The future Bab, community is to form a
perfect Utopia and its governments are to be tolerant.
The kindly nature of the Bab is seen in the fancy
sketches he draws of the future.
At the day of judge-
ment, • He whom God shall manifest' will preside.
All
the good people will be praised for their works, their
piety, their obedience.
Evil men will be annihilated.
Thus the good will return to God and dwell in Him;
the bad will pass away and be no more.
The Mu!,lammadan doctrines of the examination of
the dead 'in the graves, the resurrection,
~irat, heaven,
hell, are all treated allegorically.
The first is really a
summons to the people to believe in the next mani-
festation of the Primal Will, the resurrection is the
appearance of this manifestation.
$irat, or the bridge,
is the belief in the prophet of the age, a matter difficult
to the self-willed, but easy to the seeker after God.
.Hell is ignorance and denial of the last manifestation
of God, through the Primal Will incarnated in tbe
prophet, whilst heaven is
joy in it.
The views of
. the Bab on a future life are not very clear,
Speaking

,
BAHAISM
LAWS AND CUSTOMS
of barzakh 1 he says, •What is intended by barzakh is
merely the interval between two manifestations, and not
that which is commonly known amongst men, for none
knoweth what shall be decreed unto them after death
except God.'
The hope of a future reward was not
placed be(ore his followers as an inducement to accept
him, and this is in direct contrast to the conduct and
teaching of Mui:lammad.
In the Bayan the Bab wrote
the following striking words:
•So worship God that, if
the recompense of thy worship of Him were to be the
fire, no alteration in thy worship of Him would be
produced.
If you worship from fear, that is unworthy
of the threshold of the holiness of God, nor will you
be accounted a believer; so also, if your gaze is on
Paradise, and if you worship in hope of that, for then
you have made God's creation a partner with Him.' t
The great festival is that of the Persian Nauruz or
New Year's day.
Instead of the M$mmadan fast of
RamaQ.an of thirty days, a month of nineteen days, the
last month of the BaM year, is appointed.
Images
and pictures are not allowed in places of worship; but
music and singing are lawful in such buildings for
purposes of devotion.
A belief in the efficacy of talis-
mans and charms is encouraged. 3
Each man constantly
carries on his person a charm in the shape of a star,
the rays of which are formed of lines containing the
name of God; the women carry one made in the form
of a circle.
No encouragement is given to mendicants.
1 See Faith ojlsldm (3rd ed., S.p.e.K.), p. 233.
• JRAS October. 1889, p. 931.
a Gobineau. p. 336.
It is said: •The most hateful of mankind before God
is he who sits and begs; take hold of the rope of
means, relying on God, the Causer of Causes.'
The
traffic in slaves is forbidden, and there are laws about
great criminal offences, and civil matters, such as in·
heritance, endowments and so on.
Shaving the head is
not allowed, but the beard may be cut off.
Legal
impurity is abolished and intercourse wilh persons of
aU religions is enjoined.
Music is permitted, wine and
opium are prohibited.
The furniture of houses should
be renewed every nineteen years.
It is recommended
that chairs should be used.
No one must carry arms
except in times of tumult or war.
Circumcision is
treated as a matter of indifference.
The Bab allowed
a second wife to be taken, but prohibited concubinage.;
All are to read the sacred books regularly, to be kind
and courteous in their conduct, to give alms, to approve
for others what they would like themselves, and to
forgive their enemies.
Instead of the Mnl;tammadan
salutation, 'As·salama 'alaikum and alaikumu's-salam'
or 'peace be upon you' and 'upon you be peace,'
the Babis amongst themselves say, on meeting one
another, Allihu abha-' God is most bright,' to which the
response is the same.
After the death of the Bab, the chief interest in the
movement circles round Mirza YaQya and his elder.
half·brother Mirza I;Iusain 'Ali, known as Baha'u'Uah,
who became the respective leaders of the two sects, into
which the Babis soon became divided, the Ezelis and
the Baha'is.
There seems no doubt that the Bab in
the year 1849 nominated the former, whom he named

,
BAHAISM
,
,
BABIS IN BAGHDAD
Sub1;ti·Ezel (Morning of eternity), as his successor, and
who for a short time really held an undisputed position
as the spiritual head of the Babi community.
His claim
to
this office
is
based on the
document, of which
Professor Browne gives the following translation :_1
This is a letter from 'All before Nabil,' the remem-
brance of God unto the worlds,
Unto him whose name is equivalent to the name of
One,3 the remembrance of God unto the worlds.
Say, 'Verily all originate from the Point of revela-
tion' (nuqta-i.Bayan).
a name of the One, keep what hath been revealed in
the Bayan,
And what hath been commanded, 'Verily thou art
a mighty way of truth.'
Professor Browne says: 'In my opinion it is proved
beyond all doubt that the Bab, ere his death chose him
as his successor.' •
In 1852, when the attempt on the life of the Shah was
made, the Babls were bitterly persecuted, and Subl;t-i-
Ezel escaped to Baghdad, which then became the head-
quarters of the sect.
Baha'u'lIah, who had been im-
prisoned in Tihran for four months, joined him some
years after.
I The New History of the Bdb, p. 426.
• A name of the Bab.
3 Wahid, one.
The numerical value of the lellers in Wahid is
18, which is also Ihe value of the lellers in the word Yahya, one
of the names 01 Subh·i-Ezel.
It is thus clear Ihat the Bah meant
Subh-i-Ezel and not Baha'u'llah 10 succeed him.
• The Episotk of the Bab, p. 350.
They remained quietly at Baghdad for eleven or
twelve years, directing a cautious and steady propa-
ganda.
In the early part of this period
BahA'u'll~
retired for two years into Turkish Kurdistan, which the
Baha'is say was a period of purification and preparation
for his great office; but the Ezelis say that he went
away, because he was annoyed at the opposition he met
with. t
..
The Persian government, stirred up by the orthodox
Mullas, at length objected to the residence of the Babis
in Baghdad, and prevailed on the Turkish authorities
in 1864 to deport them to Constantinople, from whenc~
a few months later on they were sent to Adrianople.
SubQ-i-Ezel led a very secluded life in Baghdad, and
the correspondence was carried on and other matters
attended to by Bahli'u'lIah, a man of resolute will and
ambitious character.
At first he acted in the name ~f
SubQ-i-Ezel, and professed to do all he did under his.
instructions; but in time the idea gradually formed it-
self in his mind that he should become actually, ~
indeed he was already virtually, the head and leader
of the Babis.
Thus the influence of Baha'u'lllih grew,
and ft last in 1866-7 he began to advance claims which
afterwards culminated in the assertion that he was the
person to whom the Bab referred in the expression, ' He
whom God shall manifest."
It required great firmness
of purpose to withstand such a claim made by such a
man, and 'such firmness Subl;t·i·Ezel, a peace-loving,
I Hasht Bihisht, cf. Episotk of the Bdb. p. 356.
•.ll1 a~ ~ •

,
BAHAISM
CLAIMS TO LEADERSHIP
cOntemplative, gentle soul, wholly devoted to the me·
mory of his beloved master, caring little for authority;
and incapable of self·assertion, seems to have altogether
lacked.'\
The Ezelis did not admit the claim made by BaM'-
u'llah and maintained that before the person of whose
advent the Bab had spoken could come, Babiism must
obtain general currency, and the laws laid down by the
Bab in his books must be accepted by most of the·
nations of the world.'
They further added to their
reply that it was not to be supposed that two manifesta·
tions, that of the Bab, and that of 'Him whom God shall
manifest' could take place with so short an interval
between them.
The Baha'is, who admitted that Subi:J·
i-Ezel was the first vice-regent of the Bab, to all the
objections alleged against Baha'u'llah replied that Subi:J-
i·Ezel's rule was only to last until the manifestation of
•
the new leader, who was to come suddenly, and the
time of whose advent was known only to God; that the
Bab had stated that the new prophet come suddenly,
and that it could not happen that anyone should falsely
claiD;l
the honour of
being
the
new manifestation.
They also used an
argument well
known amongst
Mui:Jammadans, an argument hased on the literary style
of.the books given hy means of a divinely-appointed mes-
senger.
They asserted that the Laul,J-i-Na~ir, the book
in which Baha'u'llah announced his mission, fulfilled
\N_ History 0/ the Bdb, p. xxi.
I This could not yet be the case. for as Count Gobineau says:
The Btbi literature is extensive but secret, for be who was mown,
to possesS such books put his life in danger.'
p. 310.
this condition of a divine revelation by its eloquence
of diction and the wonderful knowledge, unacquired by
study, displayed by its author.
Anyhow the conflicting
claims to the leadership led to quarrels, blows and loss
of life.
A number of Ezelis, probably about twenty·
five in number, were assassinated by the followers of
Baha'u'llah, . though there is not sufficient evidence to
show that they acted under his orders.
He was, how-
ever, charged with an attempt to poison Sub1;J·i.Ezel.
The Baha'is rebut this charge by saying that it was
Subi;J-i-Ezel who put the poison in the food Baha'u'llah
was expected to eat. Mr. Phelps ('Abbds Effendi, pp.
42-3) holds the latter view and animadverts severely on
Professor Browne's suggestion that assassination is less
repugnant to the eastern than to the western mind.
That three, at least, of the Ezelis were put to death by
the Baha'is is, in Professor Browne's opinion, hardly a
matter of doubt.
He further states that 'Abbas Efendi
would appear to have interceded for the murderers. \
The assassination of opponents on the part of a religious
leader has for its justification amongst persons brought
up in the. Muslim system, the actions of Mul,Jammad
himself, and it would not, therefore, necessarily appear
objectionable to the Baha'is.
Only it is a bad intr0-
duction to a new system which claims above all things
to be ' a religion of brotherhood.'
The Turkish authorities seeing those breaches of the
peace amongst the Babis at Adrianople determined to
separate the disputants.
Baha'u'llah and his followers
were sent to 'Akka in Syria, and Subi:J.i.Ezel and his
\ Cf. The Episode 0/ the Bdb. pp. 93-4; 359-72.

,
BAHAISM
,
,
THE TEACHING OF BAHA'U'LLAH
5*
people to Famagusta in Cyprus.
This took place in
1868.
A few Ezelis were sent with Baha'u'lIah and a
few Baha'is with
~ub1)-i·Ezel. It was hoped that by
this arrangement the minority, in each case, would act
as spies, and prevent any communication between Babis
in Persia and either of the rival leaders.
After a time Baha'u'lIah was allowed to live in a
house outside the town of 'Akka.'
When the deposi.
tion of Sultan
'Abdu'I.J:!amid
took place still more
liberty was allowed, and 'Abbas Efendi can now travel
abroad.
His permanent residence is at Haifa near
'Akka,
whither
pilgrims from
Persia,
England and
America resort, and by their gifts maintain him and his
family in afIluence.
It is said that there are no con-
verts in the neighbourhood.
'~ub1)-i-Ezel in his island
home may be compared to Napoleon in St. Helena-a
man who has played a great rtlle in stirring events and
times, but wbose active life and power to mould men's
thoughts have passed away.' I
After this separation had been made, the followers of
Baha'u'lI~h increased rapidly, whilst those of
~ub1).i.
Eze) have decreased.
They are now nearly extinct, and
are not at all likely ever to come into power again.
Baha'u'lIah's claim to be tbe messenger of a new dis-
pensation was an unlooked for development of the work
lIt was from here that Baha'u'llah following the example of
Muhammad. sent forth a letter to the Shah of Persia (EpisOlk 0/
tM'Bdb. pp, 390-400), the bearer of which was put to death, and.
addressed other letters, called 'Epistles to the Kings,' to Queen
Victoria, the Tsar of Russia, Napoleon III and his Pope,
JRAS
1889, pp, 489-92,
• EncycloJ>t"dia of Religion and Ethics, vol. ii, p, 303,
of the Bab, and caused at the time much consternation
in the Babi world.
A hopeless schism was made.
It
was much more than a mere struggle for leadership, for
Baha'u'lIah virtually deposed the Bab from his position
as the' Point of Revelation' and made him;:nerely the
forerunner or herald (mubashshir) of 'Him whom God
shall manifest.'
This involved a serious departure from
the earlier conceptions of the Babis.
It placed the Bab
in the lower position of one sent to announce the advent
of Baha'u'llah, whose followers no longer call themselves
Babis, but Baha'is.
The teaching of Baha'u'lIah was more practical than
that of the Bab.
It was less mystical and he made his
appeal not merely to the Shi'ahs of Persia but to all men.
The laws framed by Baha'u'llah are found in the Kitab.
i.Aqdas.
They are much simpler than those laid down
by the Bab.
He is more concerned with ethics than
with metaphysics.
Whatever view may be taken of
Baha'u'lIah's usurpation of the leadership, it must be
admitted
that his more practical mind gave to
the
movement that life and vigour which, had the system
remained as the Rib left it, would not have come into
existence.
The organization is good, and by means of letters,
pilgrims and messengers communication from all parts
is kept up with 'Akka.
The Baha'i missionary has all
the tact of the Da'i of the ancient Shi'ah sect of the
Isma'ilians, who accommodated the instruction given to
the opinions of his hearers and only gradually led on to
the esoteric doctrines of the system. I
In Persia itself
1 See The Druses (C.L,S,), pp. 10-13.

,
BAHAISM
POSITION OF 'ABBAS EFENDI
.39
there have since been occasional outbursts of perse-
cution, accompanied with the cruelties so common to aU
Persian repressive action.
The political influence of the'
BaHa'is in Persia is not great.
Under orders issued
from head-quarters, they took no part in the first parlia-
ment.
• In the constitutional movement in Persia (1907)
the Blibis, though their sympathies are undoubtedly
with the refonners, wisely reframed from outwardly
identifying themselves with that party, to whom their
support, by alienating the orthodox Mujtahids and Mul-
las, would have proved fatal.' I
This course of conduct
may have led to some misconception, for they are said
to be looked upon as men who consider the claims of
their sect before that of their country.
BaM'u'llah died on May 16, 1892.
As he had dis-
puted the right of leadership with his half-brother, so
now his sons commenced to quarrel over it.
'Abbas
Efendl, who was called 'the servant of Baha' (Abdu'l-
Baha), 'The Most Mighty Branch'
(Ghu~n-i-A';r,am),and
, He whom God hath desired' (man urada'llilhu), claimed
the right to succeed his father.
This claim was disputed
by his brother Mirza Mul).ammad 'All, called' The Most
Great Branch' (Qhu~n-i-Akbar), who received tbe sup-
port of his two younger brothers.
'Abbas Efendi has on
his side a document left by his father which seems to
indicate Baha'u'Wih's intention that he should succeed
him.
This probably would have been conclusive, but
'Abbas appears to bave claimed that the revelation was
not ended, but would go on through bim.
This strength-
ened the cause of his opponents, for they held that the
1 EtlCyclopa:di.. Brit......ic.. (eleventh ed.), vol. iii, p. 95.
,
revelation was closed, and quoted from Baha'u'Uah's
book, the Kitlib-i-Aqdas (the most holy bock) the words,
'Whosoever lays claim to any authority before the
completion of a millennium is assuredly a liar and a
calumniator.' 1
Thus the position is curious.
On the
one hand, 'Abbas Efendi seems to have his right to the
leadership confirmed by his father's written wish; on
,the other, his claim to be still a channel of revelation
is directly contrary to his father's teaching.
'As in the
case of the previous schism between Baha'u'llah and
SubQ-i-Ezel, so here also the conflict was between those
who held that every day of Theophany must be suc-
ceeded by a night of Occultation and those who felt
that the Light by which they had walked could not be
extinguished, but must rather increase in brightness."
The party of 'Abbas Efendi is, however, in the as-
cendant and is likely to remain so.
About the time when Baha'u'llah died, a curious ex-
tension of the movement took place in America.
A
Syrian,. Ibrahim George Khayru'Uah, who· became a
convert to Bahaism in Cairo, proceeded to America, be-
came an American citizen and in 1892 made known by
his lectures in Chicago the claims of Baha'u'llah.
In
1893 the' Parliament of Religions' was held at Chicago,
which afforded a further opportunity for the propagation
of Bahaism, and for the bringing it prominently to the
notice of the American people.
An American lady has
lately presented to 'Abbas Efendi a large house at the
foot of Mount Carmel, and another has written a play
1EtlCycWpcedi.. 0/ Religion ..nd Ethics, voL ii, p. 304.
"Ibid.• p. 304.

BAHAISM
LAWS AND CUSTOMS
celebrating Qurratu'I-'Ayn, the devoted female follower
of the Bab.
American authors have written books on
the subject, to which also reference is frequently made
in periodical literature, and so the movement is kept
before the notice of the public.
After the dispute be-
tween the two hrothers took place Khayru'Uah espoused
the cause of Mirza Mul;1ammad 'Ali, but 'Abbas Efendi
in the beginning of 1902 sent over to America mission-
aries to state his own claims and to rebut those of his
brother.
Now, a nephew, the son of Mirza MuJ:1ammad
'Ali, who lives in California, declares that the claim of
'Abbas Efendi to be a present channel of revelation is
totally opposed to BaM'u'llah's teaching, which was that
no new manifestation would take place for a thousand
years,
There are said to be in Chicago, Washington
and New York communities of several thousand Ameri·
can Baha'is, who maintain some communication with
'Abbas Efendi at 'Akka.
Baha'u'llah in the LauT;t-i-Aqdas (most holy book)
laid down many practical rules which differ consider-
ably from those which arc current in Islam,
Prayer is
to be said three times a day, instead of the Muslim five
times, and the' number of prostrations are fewer than
those of the Islam ritual.
Worshippers no longer turn
to Mecca, but towards the' Most Holy Place, whence
issueth the commands to whomsoever is in the earths
and the heavens.' I
That 'Akka is here meant is clear,
1 Pbelps, 'Abbas Elfend£, p. 159. Count Gobineau says tbattbe
Bah did not suhstitute any Qibla for tbe ancient ones of Jerusalem
and Mecca, which be set aside; hut declared tbat •ce sera Ie grand
Rev.1ateur qui dolcidera,' p, 332,
because it is said that when Baha'u'llah dies, or, as it is
put in hyperbolic language, 'when the Sun.of trut~ and
exhortation sets', the Qibla is to be changed to
that
place which we have appointed
yo~.'
Poly~amy
~s
sanctioned, for Baha'u'llah had two wIves.
Divorce
~s
permitted on the demand of either party after a prelI.
minary separation of one year.
The laws in both cases
seem more rigorous than those on the same subjects in
t'
d 1
Islam; but polygamy and easy divorce are sanc lOne .
.' Their efforts to improve the social position of women
.have been much exaggerated."
Some of the practical
duties enjoined are obedience and submission to the
ruler and laws of the country in which Baha'is dwell,
friendly intercourse with all sects and people, such
studies as tend to the welfare of mankind, and the
practice of some trade or profession.
They are ex-
horted to abstain from sin, to avoid selfishness, and
to seek for the reformation of the world.
All this is
very good, but it does not follow that Bahaism is a
broad latitudinarian system.
It is essentially dogmatic.
'Every utterance made by the "Manifestation" of the
period
(whether the
Bab, $ubJ:1·i.Ezel,
Baha'u'llah,
'Abbas Efendi and MUQammad 'Ali respectively), must
be accepted without reserve.' 3
An American follower of 'Abbas Efendi, in a book
called 'Abbas
Effendi, writes enthusiastically of the
marvellous spirit of liberality shown in Bahaism.
He
says that 'it recognizes every other religion as equally
1 Phelps, pp, 139-40,
,.,
, Browne, Encyc1oPa!dia Britannica (eleventh ed,), vol. w, p. 95.
3 BncycloPa!dia 0/ Religion and Bthios, vol. ii, p. 305.

,
BAHAISM
IDEA OF GOD
43.
divine in origin with its own; ,I but Baha'~'llah writing
of his own religion in his most important work, the'
Kitab-i-Aqdas, says: 'The first thing which God has
prescribed unto His servants is knowledge of the Day-
spring of His revelation, and the Dawning-place of
His command, which is the station of His Spirit in the
world of creation and command.
Whosoever attaineth
unto this hath attained unto all good, and whosoever
is debarred therefrom is of the people of error, even
though he produce all manner of good works.'"
In
other words no amount of good deeds will help a man
who does not attain to a knowledge of Baha.'u'liah.
That is the road to the attainment 'of all good', which
is scarcely a recognition of 'every other religion as
equally divine.'
The Babls were intolerant and would
have kept unbelievers in a position of inferiority.
The
Baha'is profess to look forward to a period of universal
brotherhood, which shall include men of all religions, but
this theory may be put forth more as a matter of policy
than of principle.
Those who know them well doubt
the permanence of this idea of universal tolerance. 3
Professor Browne who wrote the preface to Mr. Phelps'
book, referring to that author's confidence in the tolerant
spirit of Bahaism, says: • I cannot wholly share his
confidence as to how the Baha'is would treat either the
Shi'ite Mu!:tammadans, the $Ufis, or the Ezelis (against
all of whom they have, for different reasons, a special
grudge) if they should one day, as is within the range
1 Phelps, p. xxxvii .
.• Encyclopcedia 0/ Religion and Ethics. vol. ii, p. 305.
'Cf. The Mosz"m World, vol. ii, No.3, p. 237.
of possibility, become paramount in Persia.'!
Again, 'it
is not certain to the present writer (Professor Browne)
that their triumph over Islam in Persia would ulti-
mately conduce to the welfare of that distracted land,
or that the tolerance which they now advocate would
stand the test of success and supremacy.'"
Mr. Phelps, an ardent admirer of 'Abbas Efendl,
gives an account of the religion and
philosophy of
Bahaism, as it was taught to him at 'Akka from which
we gather the
following
information.
•The Baha'I
conception of the Supreme Being is not a personality,
but an essence, an all-pervading force or power, fre-
quently referred to as love, or truth, or life.'
' God "
says'Abbas Efendi, •is pure essence.'3
'A messenger
comes whenever, through the lapse of time and the for-
getfulness of men, the voice of his predecessor becomes
obscured; and the extent to which the truth is declared
by each depends upon the capacity of the age to receive
it.
Such messengers were Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha,
Christ, Mahomet, and the founders of the Baha'i faith.
The revelation of the last is fuller than any which has
preceded it, men being now better fitted to understand
the truth."
. 'The real human soul' is described by •Abbas Efendl
as a ray of God's love, sent by Him to every human
being at ,its conception;' with this soul the human con-
sciousness must effect union during the term of its
I Phelps, p. xx.
" Encyctopcedia 0/ Religion and Ethics, vol. ii, p. 307
3 Phelps, p. 114.
'Ihid., p. 126.
'Ibid., p. 124,

-
BAHAISM
earthly existence. I
This result then follows:
' When
the. union is complete, there results an individuality
possessed of divine wisdom and the all-pervading powers
of spirit, knowing itself and also knowing that it is
part of the Infinite, Absolute, Eternal Essence....
In its ultimate perfection, it passes beyond time, space,
place, and form.
It is then man and God in one, the
reflection and the one."
Thus a Baha'i must believe
in an impersonal God and the loss of his own per-
sonality· in the future.
He must further acknowledge
that 'the spirit has passed away from the bodies of the
old religions', that 'these bodies are dead or dying; but
the same spirit is reborn in a new body-that is, the
Body of the Law contained in the utterances of BaM'-
u'llah.' 3
A world-teacher greater than his predecessors
has now appeared.
'He is a world-teacher in a broader
sense than they.
His teaching cannot be limited to
any
nation
or
race."
It
is
distinctly stated
that
in all the previous manifestations God sent His Holy
Spirit, or breath to breathe upon the peoples of the
world, so 'when the spirit was manifested in the pro-
phets of old, they represented as much of the .divine
nature as it was possible for the people of those periods
I Phelps, p. 127.
·Ibid., pp. 128-9.
. This does nol appear to be Ihe view held by many Persian
BaM'is, which is that the spirits of men preserve their identity
after death, and they say that 'Abbas EfendJ so teaches.
Probably
like other mystical sects, off-shoots of the Shl'ah system, Bahaism
has an esoteric doctrine for the initiated, and that others hear very
much what they desire to learn.
Cf. Article on Bahaism in The
Moslem Reoiew, vol. ii, No.3, p. 240.
• Phelps, pp. 1+1-5.
'Ibid., p. 149.
MISCONCEPTIONS
to assimilate.' I
Then follows the astounding statement:
• Now the world has advanced.
It was necessary for
the essence itself of God to become manifest and this
it did through the person of Baha'u'llah.' 2
One of
'Abbas Efendf's statement is: 'Look always to God for
aid not to frail human' nature.'
Then follows: 'Call on
,
.
'Baha for strength to guide you.
That spirit is now the
renovating influence upon this earth.' 3
In the most recent English book' on the subject many
creeds are described, but the account of Bahaism is
short and superficial.
A writer who says that 'the
difference between the Shi'ah and the Sunni is mainly
one of ritual' presumably knows nothing of the great
Shi'ah dogma of the Imamat, and so fails to see that
Babiism and its off-shoot Bahaism are in reality but other
forms of Mahdihood (ante p. 9).'
Unless the historical
basis of Bahaism is correctly understood, no right conclu-
sion concerning it can be arrived at.
Nothing is said
about the supersession of $ubQ-i-Ezel by BaM'u'llah.
I Phelps, p. 149.
• Ibid., p. 149.
• Ibid.• p. 163.
'Bah4ism, the Religion oj Brotherhood, F. H. Smne.
t Professor Browne referring
to the ultra-SW'ite sects and of
their doctrines of Anthropomorphism. Incarnation, Re-incarnatioD
or 'Return'. and Metempsychosis says
that these 'doctrines
appear to be endemic in Persia, and always ready to become
epidemic under a suitable stimulus.
In our own day they appeared
in the
B~bi movement, of wbich, especially in its earlier form
(A. D. 1844 to 1852) they constituted the essential kernel: though in
later time, under the guidance of Bah~'u'l1&h and now of his son,
•Abbas Efendl, they have been relegated to a subordinate, or
at least a less conspicuous position.'
A Literary History 01
Persia, vol. i, p. 311.

,
BAHAISM
TEACHING OF 'ABBAS EFENDI
or of the opposition to the leadership of 'Abbas Efendi
made
by his brother Mirza M~ammad 'Ali. . The
author calls Bahaism the 'religion of brotherhood', a
. curious title for a religion which so far has produced
nothing but dissension between brothers.
In its highest
domestic circles it has absolutely failed to bring peace
and harmony into the family life of its leaders.
We are
told that' no organized religion appeases the soul's crav-
ing for light';
that 'a teacher is eagerly looked for
who shall focus the mass of unco-ordinated effort and
voice the aspirations of an unquiet age.
The Gospel
of
'Abdu'l-Baha is, therefore,
making
extraordinary
progress.'
His followers are called 'a brotherhood of
idealists whose self-devotion
breathes
new life into
dying creeds.'
But the existing organized
religions
are very much alive and are by no means dying.
The
Muslim propaganda, for example, was never more vigor-
ous than it is now.
Is it a fact that the great religions
of the world can give no light to the souls of their
followers?
Certainly Christianity, now spreading so
rapidly in all lands gives light and peace.
Yet, accord-
ing to the western admirers of Bahaism, belief in the
absolute failure of any existing religion to give any
light, and the belief that other creeds are 'dying', seem
to be a necessary article of faith for those who accept
the teaching of 'Abbas EfendL
An excellent account of the teaching given will be found
.in the Record 0/ Christian Work (August, 1912).
It
summarizes the teaching of Baha'u'llah and of 'Abbas
Efendi thus: '(I) The gathering of all the inhabitants
of this terrestrial globe to the acceptance of him as the
manifestation of God, i. e. the divine guide to the unifi-
cation of all religions in one, and that one-Bahaism·
,
'
(2) universal love as a consequence of the common reli-
gion; (3) universal peace and abolition of all possible
causes of disagreement, with consequent prohibition of
war and shedding of blood, and the mutual love which
springs from confidence; (4) the harmonizing of all
national customs and characteristics; (5) the unification
of all the languages of the world, the only two to be left
being Arabic and Persian.'
'Abbas Efendi is a man of considerable power, who,
by his apparent breadth of view, captivates a certain
class of hearers.
As a great unifier of all religions he
claims that Baha'u'l1lih was al-Mahdi of the Muslims;
the Christ of the Christians come again at this His
second advent; the Messiah of
the Jews.
Buddha,
Zoroaster, Christ, Mu1,lammad and Baha'u'lllih were all
messengers and manifestations of God.
Baha'u'lllih was
the last and greatest of all.
'Abbas Efendi, however,
is the newest manifestation.
An American writer in
The Continent (May 13, 1912) after an interview with
'Abbas Efendi at Haifa says: 'My impression was that
'Abbas Efendi had little knowledge of the progress of
the spirit of truth and altruism and brotherhood through-
out the world. . ..
He is an improvement upon the
Muslims from whom he sprung.
As for accepting
Bahaism in lieu of Christianity, or as a thing super-
imposed upon Christianity that seems to me absurd
and unthinkable.
I expect to see the fad pass away in
this country.
It has shot its bolt:
The recent visit of 'Abbas Efendi to Paris and London

,
BAHAISM
CONCLUSION
bas caUed forth some periodical literature, I not of any
historical value, but interesting as showing how many
people there are who are ever seeking after something
new.
'Abbas Efendl is described as receiving in his
residence in London 'Christians of every denomination,
Buddhists of every nationality, Theosophists, MuQam.
madans, Agnostics and Gnostics', and as answering all
the varied questions put to him in a simple and direct
manner.
Apparently this was done to the satisfaction
of his hearers, for we are told that 'to a Christian,
Bahaism is Christianity; to a Buddhist, Buddhist; to
a mystical
~(ifl it speaks in the mystical language of
the ~(ifl; to a rationalist it is logical.'
.
It is said that Bahaism claims to have the adhesion·
of at least one-third of the Persian people,' that it
bas numerous followers in Egypt, India, Burmah, chiefly
from among the MuQammadans.
I can only speak for
India, where it certainly has not gained any hold of
the MUQammadan population.
In South India I know
of the existence of only one Baha'I.
It is curious to see what little notice, often none at
aU, European admirers of Bahaism take of the two
great family quarrels.
Is it because the practice in
the highest circles of Bahaism has been so strangely
in contrast with the statements put forth for the ap-
proval of Europeans and Americans?
'Abbas Efendi
is said to describe the teaching of Baha'u'Uah thus:
1 TM Contemporary Review, March, 1912; The Fortnightly
R"""" April, 1912.
.
'A resident in Persia says they number about 100,000.
See
article on BaIWsm in the Moslem R"';..." vol. i, No.3.
'If a religion becomes the cause of hatred and disbar-
mony it would be better not to exist than to exist.'1
He evidently presumed on the ignorance of these whom
he addressed as to the past hatred between his father
. and his uncle and of his own family quarrels.
Both Baha'u'lllih and 'Abbas Efendi, like all other
religious leaders in the history of the past, often gave
utterance to expressions of real devotion and also to
aphorisms containing much that is good.
These Mr.
Phelps quotes largely and speaking of those who think
about religion, the conclusion finally arrived at is that
'to know the Master of 'Akka ('Abbas Efendi) is at
once a confirmation and a revelation to those who have
thus searched and thought.
Their reason and intuition
is justified, the possibilities of human nature are revealed
to them."
We have seen that it was a leading principle of the
Blibis and the Bahli'is that
the
new manifestation
came when the world was weary and the times, in a
religious sense, were out of joint.
This ardent Ameri-
can advocate for 'Abbas Efendl holds 3 that now faith
has waned, that true religion is forgotten, that in both
'the east and
the west men are wandering in
the·
dark;' so that it belongs to the divine order that a
messenger should now come,
This is 'a weak basis on
which to build up Baha'u'lllih's claim to be such a
divinely-sent messenger, or for the position assigned to
'Abbas Efend!, for it is far more correct to say that
1Contemi'orary Re""",,, March. 1912, p. 397.
'Phelps. p. 2~~.
3 Ibid., p. 256.

BAHAISM
. .
ever more alive
the Christian reltglOn, at .least, was n
.
than now, that its missionary activitie~ were neve;rmo::
.
more successful, that faith In Its u
~ma
vigorous nor
fident and that true reltglOn,
success was never more can
,
.
man
was
xem lified in countless forms of serVice to
'.
e
P
. t nse
This being the real state of affairs,
never more 10 e
.
.
its own
th~ ~pl: :~i~S th:nt:~;:s:~~~a~f o~~:~::: ~~endl als~,
prtnci
'.
. d
hen a new mam-
.'
I
th t it IS not a perla
W
for It IS C ear
a
.
.
departure
.
f
f
I ader of a sectarlan
festation, In the arm a ba e hes of the Muslim religion,
from one of the great
ranc
.
of
.
d d for
the
edification and
enltghtenment
IS
nee e
mankind.
",
The Islam Series
Tbe Four l{ightly.Gulded Khallfas.
By the Rev. Canon
Sell, D.O.
The Battles of Badr and Ubud.
By the Rev. Canon
~ell, D.O.
The Muslim Idea of God.
By the Rev. W. H. T.
Gairdner, B.A.
AI.Qur'an.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.O.
The Cult of 'All.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.O.
The Holy Spirit In Qnr'an and Bible.
By the Rev.
C. G. Mylrea, B.A.
Islam I{efuted ou Its own Grounds.
By the Rev. E. M.
Wherry, D.O.
Sufllsm.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.O.
The Verse of Stoning.
By the Rev. W. H. T. Gairdner,
B.A.
Christianity
and
Muhammadanism.
By
the
Rev.
W. R. W. Gardner, M.A.
Tbe HanUs.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.O.
Tbe Receuslons of the Qur'an.
By the Rev. Canon
Sell, D.O.
SeleCtlous from the Qur'ao.
Edited by the Rev. Canon
Sell, D.O.

,
THE ISLAM SERIES
Bahaism.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.D.
1" the Press.
Life of Mohammad.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.O.
Outlines of Islam.
By the Rev. Canon Sell, D.D.