THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-03-04

dear b ahá’í f riends,

about your review of music and special materials. . . . we are to convey the

following reply.

The memorandum on bahá’í publishing dated ri¤ván 1971, which the

house of j ustice sent to National Spiritual Assemblies, states that

At this early stage of the cause all works by bahá’ís which deal with the

faith, whether in the form of books, pamphlets, translations, poems,

songs, radio and television scripts, films, recordings, etc. must be ap-

proved before submission for publication, whether to a bahá’í or non-

bahá’í publisher. in the case of material for purely local consumption

the competent authority is the local Spiritual Assembly, otherwise

the National Spiritual Assembly (through its reviewing committee)

is the approving authority.259-1

The obligation, as indicated in this statement, of Spiritual Assemblies

to ensure the appropriateness of books, music and other items intended for

dissemination in the interests of the faith remains unchanged for the time

259-1. muhj, no. 94.258.7

259.1

259.2

259.2a

259.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

610being; but it will have to be carried out with flexibility in the light of chang-

ing circumstances. The house of justice recognizes that the volume and

variety of materials being created have greatly increased with the growth in size of the bahá’í community and the rapid advance and ease of use of

communication and other technologies.

Applying review standards to manuscripts is, of course, relatively straight-

forward, whereas doing so with respect to different types of music and the wide range of items categorized as “special materials” poses a particular chal-lenge to those responsible for reviewing them. Since the form, expression and effect of music are, to a great extent, determined by the cultural norms

of a society, the reviewing agency called upon to decide on the acceptability

of proposed musical items must be sensitive and flexible in its judgment. The value of having National and local Spiritual Assemblies exercise such

judgment is obvious in the fact that what may well be accepted as appropri-ate in one place may have the opposite effect in another. moreover, an aspect

of the flexibility called for is recognizing that all acceptable musical items are not suitable for all bahá’í occasions. for example, a distinction must be

made between the music employed for devotional services and that used for other occasions in the b ahá’í community.

Special materials, such as those listed in your letter (i.e. art prints, tee-

shirts, cards, automobile bumper stickers, book marks, calendars, jewelry,

and art work that includes the greatest Name and the ringstone symbol),

are so numerous, so varied and, in many instances, so ephemeral, that it

would be impossible for any national agency to cope with the demands for

review of them all. it is necessary therefore that your National Assembly de-

termine what types of items must be reviewed and by what standard. As for

the others, you will have to allow some latitude in their production, while continuing to educate the friends as to the principles that should guide their

creation of such items.

The house of justice applauds your intention to mount an effort to

educate the friends concerning the standards to be upheld in creating, pub-

lishing and distributing all kinds of materials involving the faith and its

symbols. in time, as the friends themselves increasingly exercise wise dis-

crimination in choosing between appropriate and inappropriate items in circulation, the exertions of the institutions in promoting these standards

will bring about the desired results.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat259.4

259.5

259.6

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

611260

Passing of Hugh E. Chance, Former Member of the

Universal House of Justice

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]