THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1993-07-01

To an individual b ahá’í

dear b ahá’í f riend,

june 1993 which evinces such devotion to the cause of god. it has asked us

to send you the following reply.

The house of justice has never gone to the extreme of telling the friends

that now is the time to give their long-range savings to the fund. it sets

forth the needs of the cause, and calls upon the believers to sacrifice, but

the degree and manner of his sacrifice depends on each believer’s own faith

and good judgment in light of his responsibilities. Again and again in his

162-2. Adj, ¶78 (2006).162.9

163.1

163.2

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

51writings bahá’u’lláh emphasizes the need for moderation in all things, and

he upholds the importance of using wisdom in all we do and say.

devoted believers in every age have found it challenging to decide how

much of their worldly wealth they should give to the cause of god, and

how much they should use to meet their many responsibilities of life, such

as educating their children, preparing for their old age so that they will not

be a burden on others, and so forth. you will recall the story of the muslim

who asked mu¥ammad whether he should tie up his camel or trust in god

that it would not run away. mu¥ammad’s answer was that he should tie

up the camel and trust in god! in this dispensation, by the institution of

þuqúqu’lláh, bahá’u’lláh has provided us with a measure. we are all obliged

to pay that portion of our savings that is god’s right. what remains there-

after is ours to use at our own discretion, for the promotion of the work of the cause and for helping others less fortunate than ourselves.

in the h idden w ords b ahá’u’lláh revealed:

o my Servant! The best of men are they that earn a livelihood by their

calling and spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the

love of g od, the lord of all worlds.

163-1

furthermore, in the twelfth g lad-Tidings h e stated:

The most despised of men in the sight of god are those who sit

idly and beg. hold ye fast unto the cord of material means, placing

your whole trust in god, the provider of all means. when anyone

occupieth himself in a craft or trade, such occupation itself is regarded

in the estimation of god as an act of worship; and this is naught but

a token of h is infinite and all-pervasive bounty.163-2

Thus to earn a livelihood is a spiritual obligation, and one should not

consciously place oneself in a position where one would have to beg others for material support.

it is against this background of responsibility for oneself and one’s family

that each person must estimate the degree to which he or she can sacrifice

163-1. hw , persian, no. 82.

163-2. Tb, p. 26.163.3

163.4

163.4a

163.4b

163.5

163.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

52for the funds of the faith. The range of options and decisions that the

believers can make regarding the management of their personal finances

without jeopardizing their future security are great, and can only be evalu-

ated by each individual.

The house of justice asks us to assure you of its prayers at the Sacred

Threshold that you may be assisted with divine guidance and confirmations

in all your devoted services on behalf of the f aith of b ahá’u’lláh.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

164

Applicability of Bahá’í Laws to Western Believers

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]