THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1997-03-30

To all National Spiritual Assemblies in Africa

dear b ahá’í f riends,

ever since the launching of the four year plan, the universal house

of justice has noted, with deep satisfaction, the manner in which bahá’í

institutions and communities of the African continent have welcomed the spirit and letter of the broad lines of activity set forth in the plan, and have

particularly taken to heart its ri¤ván message for 153 b.e. to the followers

of bahá’u’lláh in Africa. As a supplement to that message, the universal

house of justice wishes to convey the following comments to your National

Spiritual Assemblies, and through you, to the body of believers in that

continent.

The development of the teaching work in Africa has always been char-

acterized by the receptiveness with which the truths of the revelation of

bahá’u’lláh have been accepted and valued by the peoples of that vast con-

tinent, by the joy stemming from the pure hearts of the African believers as reflected in their radiant faces, and by their growing maturity in appreciat-ing the importance of adherence to b ahá’í laws and ordinances.

one of these ordinances is the clear prohibition in the writings of

bahá’u’lláh of the consumption of alcoholic drinks. This has been explicitly

revealed in his most holy book, the kitáb-i-Aqdas. he states, “i t is inad-

missible that man, who hath been endowed with reason, should consume

that which stealeth it away. Nay, rather it behooveth him to comport himself

in a manner worthy of the human station, and not in accordance with the misdeeds of every heedless and wavering soul.”

247-1 in other Tablets, we read

from his glorious pen, “b eware lest ye exchange the wine of god for your

own wine, for it will stupefy your minds, and turn your faces away from the countenance of god, the All-g lorious, the peerless, the inaccessible.

Approach it not, for it hath been forbidden unto you by the behest of god,

the e xalted, the Almighty.”

247-2

247-1. kA, ¶119.

247-2. kA, Notes, no. 144.247 .1

247 .2

247 .3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

566‘Abdu’l-b ahá, adding his voice to that of the blessed beauty, has written,

“The drinking of wine is, according to the text of the most holy book,

forbidden; for it is the cause of chronic diseases, weakeneth the nerves, and

consumeth the mind.”247-3 he has also written, “r egarding the use of liquor:

according to the text of the book of Aqdas, both light and strong drinks are

prohibited.”247-4 he further states, “i ntellect and the faculty of comprehen-

sion are god’s gifts whereby man is distinguished from other animals. will

a wise man want to lose this light in the darkness of intoxication? No, by

god!”247-5

in answer to questions, Shoghi effendi’s elucidations, written on his be-

half, provide further guidance on this subject. in these letters the habit of

drinking is described as a “great misery” and a “great evil.”

it was the policy of Shoghi effendi, upheld by the house of justice, that,

in the early stages of the teaching work in countries whose people have for

centuries been accustomed to the use of alcohol, the institutions should be

patient and lenient, educate the friends, and allow time for them to extricate themselves from this pernicious habit before applying sanctions. This educa-tion has been an ongoing process. regretfully, however, it has been seen that

in some cases, even among certain prominent believers, the friends have not freed themselves from this practice. Some may have wrongly thought that light alcoholic drinks, if taken irregularly, were permitted, without real-

izing the detrimental effect that their example was having on others. it is

always most unfortunate when bahá’ís of long standing, and even members

of institutions at the national level, partake of alcoholic beverages, thus

damaging themselves, harming the good name of the faith in the eyes of

non-b ahá’ís, and setting a bad example for the rank and file of the believers.

ment of the cause of god in those communities where there remains any

doubt among the friends as to the importance of obedience to this law,

that the National Spiritual Assemblies ensure that all believers are clearly

informed of it. of course, the Assemblies should not pry into the lives of

individual believers; but in the case of any bahá’í who blatantly violates the

law, he should be counseled, assisted to overcome the habit, warned repeat-

247-3. Adj, ¶49.

247-4. lg, no. 1171.247-5. cc 2:1790.247 .4

247 .5

247 .6

247 .7

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

567edly of the consequences of continued disobedience, and ultimately, if he

does not respond positively, be deprived of his administrative rights.

furthermore, in order to protect the interests of the faith, the universal

house of justice has decided that, henceforth, any believer who occupies a

bahá’í administrative or teaching position on the national level and is seen to

be consuming alcoholic beverages, should not only be counseled but should

be removed from office during the process of the correction of his failing. if

he does not give up drinking, he should lose his administrative rights; if he

changes his ways, and the National Assembly is satisfied that he is obeying the law, he would regain his full rights. The positions the house of justice

has in mind are those occupied by members of the National Spiritual As-sembly or any committee under its aegis, whether national or regional, by bahá’ís who serve at the national office or in the training institutes at any

level, and by traveling teachers and pioneers serving under the direction of the National Assembly or its subsidiary agencies.

it is the hope of the house of justice that such a step will give a signal

to the entire community that, whatever the inherited cultural practices or

tribal customs may be, every effort should be made by each conscientious

believer to obey the sacred law of god which forbids the drinking of alcohol.

The friends must become aware that there are certain essentials of bahá’í

conduct that they cannot continue to disregard with impunity. continued,

blatant disobedience to this law will, in the case of any believer, lead to consideration of deprivation of his voting rights. The friends should also realize that refusing to comply with this requirement will not only harm the

offender and injure his family but will certainly impede his spiritual devel-

opment and lead to the cessation of the confirmations of bahá’u’lláh—con-

firmations and blessings without which his life will eventually be brought down to misery.

love for god is best exemplified not through words, but through deeds.

“let deeds,” bahá’u’lláh says, “not words, be your adorning.”

247-6 by obeying

his laws we demonstrate our love for him. he has also written: “m y love

is my stronghold; he that entereth therein is safe and secure, and he that

turneth away shall surely stray and perish.”247-7

247-6. hw , persian, no. 5.

247-7 . hw , Arabic, no. 9.247 .8

247 .9

247 .10

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

568The guideline that Shoghi effendi gave at the outset of the Ten year

crusade, setting forth the manner in which the bahá’í law on the need to

abstain from alcoholic drinks should be explained while teaching the faith

to the people of Africa, is as applicable today as it was in 1953 when the

guardian’s secretary gave the following advice on his behalf:

The question of impressing upon the Africans who are seeking enroll-

ment the necessity of not drinking is a delicate one. when enrolling new

believers, we must be wise and gentle, and not place so many obstacles in their way that they feel it impossible to accept the faith. on the other

hand, once accorded membership in the community of the followers of

bahá’u’lláh, it must be brought home to them that they are expected to live

up to his Teachings, and to show forth the signs of a noble character in

conformity with his laws. This can often be done gradually, after the new

believer is enrolled.

every effort should thus be made by the institutions of the faith, as well

as by those who are directly engaged in the expansion and consolidation work, to make conscious and determined efforts to assist the new believers

to realize the grave consequences of disobedience to god’s laws, and to ap-

preciate the bounties that flow from growing spiritually under the shadow

of h is holy cause.

the Sacred Threshold, that you may be guided in the stewardship of your community as you strive to promote the vital interests of the f aith.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

248

Message to the Iranian Believers—

March/April 1997

Bahá 154 B.E.

To the lovers of the m ost g reat b eauty, beloved and faithful f riends,

The tremendous forces latent in the inmost reality of this precious faith

exert daily a fresh influence in the contingent world and shine forth with greater intensity. Through the outpourings of bahá’u’lláh’s bounties, and as 247 .11

247 .12

247 .13

247 .14

248.1

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

569a result of dictates of the time as well as the mighty efforts exerted by the

followers of his beauty, the faith’s life-giving Teachings are taking root in

the world of being, increasing its prestige and manifesting evermore its power to solve the problems confronting humanity. The blessed divine T ree, we

must know, is firmly rooted in the ground, while its branches and offshoots are growing heavenward. All this has been possible through the interaction

and cooperation of two mighty, dominant forces which, in compliance with

god’s will, are at work simultaneously, enabling the blessed T ree to grow, put

forth its leaves and blossoms and, at the appointed time, offer to humankind its choicest fruits. one of the generating powers of this spiritual springtime is

tempestuous and soul-stirring in nature; causing lightning and thunder, high winds, torrential rain, and roaring floods. These in turn cause the orchards and fields to become verdant and fruitful. The other is the inherent capac-

ity for growth latent in the blessed seed. it is this capacity that causes the

seed to grow as an essential necessity. The rays of the Sun of T ruth and the

sprinklings of the cloud of bounty help it to grow and become a mighty and fruit-bearing tree, providing a celestial retreat for the guided birds of the field.

The overall divine design which leads humanity to spiritual maturity is not

within our control; it is well guarded in god’s hidden treasure house and its

realization is dependent on his will. ‘Abdu’l-b ahá says:

in this wondrous Age, at this time when the Ancient beauty, the most

great Name, bearing unnumbered gifts, hath risen above the horizon

of the world, the word of god hath infused such awesome power into

the inmost essence of humankind that he hath stripped men’s human

qualities of all effect, and hath, with his all-conquering might, uni-

fied the peoples in a vast sea of oneness.

248-1

The duty of the people of bahá is to tread the path of servitude to the

divine Threshold, it is to spread god’s Teachings and establish a spiritual

civilization. praised be god, the loved ones of god throughout the world

have, for such a long time, hearkened to the directives of the center of

the cause and, guided by the divinely ordained institutions of the faith

and according to specific plans, have advanced step by step to hoist the

248-1. Sw Ab, no. 7 .2.248.1a

248.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

570banner of the most great Name in every corner of the globe. The last in

the chain of systematic successes achieved was the Three year plan which

ended last ri¤ván and produced heartwarming results. during those three

years twelve new National Spiritual Assemblies were established, raising the

number of National Assemblies to 174. Also, during that short span of time a considerable number of bahá’ís, like unto a gentle breeze, passed

through other countries and lands, engaging in the spreading of divine fragrances, enlisting a number of new believers under the banner of the cause of bahá’u’lláh, and deepening their understanding of the tenets of

the faith. These achievements paved the way for the formulation of the

present four year plan which outlines the duties of the people of bahá to

the end of the twentieth century and mobilizes them to forge ahead and accelerate the process of fulfillment of divine prophecies. These teaching

plans, which have successively set the worldwide bahá’í community on the

move and broadened the boundaries of the faith, are the product of the

creative power of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s Tablets of the divine plan. over eighty

years ago he summoned the followers of the Abhá beauty to the spiritual

conquest of the planet and gave them this responsibility. Thus, the teaching

plans will continue until the g olden Age.

The collective duty and responsibility of the believers during the next

four years has been spelled out in our last ri¤ván message and the new

plan’s prominent features explained. The believers have subsequently been

actively engaged in carrying out its provisions. The focus of the present message is the iranian bahá’ís, who, when the dawn of guidance broke,

turned their faces to the Sun of T ruth and like unto birds of the dawn sang the songs of welcome and allegiance to him, taking the joyful tiding of

reunion to the people of every land in accordance with this celestial melody:

Announce unto yourselves the joyful tidings: “h e who is the best-

beloved is come! he hath crowned himself with the glory of god’s

revelation, and hath unlocked to the face of men the doors of his

ancient paradise.” let all eyes rejoice, and let every ear be gladdened,

for now is the time to gaze on his beauty, now is the fit time to hear-

ken to his voice. proclaim unto every longing lover: “b ehold, your

well-beloved hath come among men!”

248-2

248-2. gwb, no. 151.1.248.3

248.3a

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

571The iranian believers were not content just with spreading the divine

call; they rallied around the promised one and arose to render him as-

sistance in whatever way they could. life in hand and rank upon rank they

hastened to the field of martyrdom. The memory of their sacrifices has been

perpetuated by the Supreme pen. The account of their heroism is too vivid

in the minds of those of us who are the physical and spiritual offspring of

such valiant and intoxicated lovers of the blessed beauty to need repetition

here. Suffice it to say that we need be on our guard to preserve with our life

the inestimable bounty bestowed upon us, lest ingratitude snatch the honor from our hands.

The historical background which has conferred upon the friends from

bahá’u’lláh’s land the privilege of being the first to believe in him and made

them distinct in many respects has focused upon them the attention of

bahá’ís all over the world. furthermore, in recent times when the gallant

believers in the cradle of the faith were again persecuted by the people of

malice, they defended, protected and proclaimed the cause of god with

the shield of detachment, reliance on god, heroism and certitude. This

redoubled the degree of the worldwide bahá’í community’s expectation of

the iranian bahá’ís who are scattered throughout the free world. They must,

therefore, emulate the example of those lions of the field of steadfastness

and learn from them the lesson of servitude. consider the time when the

tempest of ordeals started to blow in iran again, how the spark of belief in

the hearts of the members of the community, dormant in some cases under the ashes of worldly attachments, suddenly turned into a brilliant flame and

wiped out the dust of complacency and heedlessness. The warning sound

of the thunderbolt of events awakened them. They became mindful and, in the joyful gathering place of nearness to god, drank the brimful chalice of

calamity. oblivious of self, they laid down their heads at the feet of the best

beloved. They faced depredation and dismissal from jobs with aloofness

and detachment from worldly goods. when the relentless enemy leveled

false, trumped-up charges against them to justify their evil doings, with a godly demeanor and heavenly behavior the friends frustrated the adversar-

ies’ designs and demonstrated the absurdity of their accusations, thereby

proving their innocence in the eyes of broad-minded iranians. The people

of malice deprived the bahá’í youth in iran of higher education. The youth,

however, did not sit idle. They busied themselves with the acquisition of hu-man perfections. They endured every discomfort and persevered until in the realm of knowledge they excelled their peers. The attainment of this high 248.4

248.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

572station and honor became possible when the friends in iran, old and young,

women and men, even very young children, realized that the remedy of all

their ills was the remembrance of god. They started to study the writings

regularly and systematically. it was through their study that the outpourings

of the holy Spirit, enshrined in every word of the Sacred writings, came to

their assistance and made of that community a new creation in whose eye the world and whatever it contains is worth nothing when compared with

servitude to the divine Threshold, attainment of bahá’u’lláh’s good pleasure

and eternal life in every one of god’s worlds. Therefore, they patterned their

lives on the life-giving Teachings contained in the Sacred writings. conse-

quently, they became the glory of this world and of the next, succeeding in promulgating the cause of god in the far corners of the world and among

the highest institutions of humankind.

The beloved friends from iran who are scattered throughout the free

world must never forget the grave responsibility they bear. for, the expect-

ant eye of everyone is turned towards them, waiting to behold in the mir-ror of their deeds the splendors of god’s Teachings. consider the beloved

guardian’s appeal to those dear friends:

. . . the beloved friends and members of the Assemblies should, in the manifold circumstances of their lives and in all their multifarious

dealings and pursuits, by their deeds, their bearing and demeanor,

seek to demonstrate to their fellow-countrymen the excellence of this sacred cause, to vindicate its truth, and give living testimony to

its potency and the sublimity of its spirit. it is thus that the friends

should proceed, not confining themselves to the delivery of the mes-sage, to explanations, expositions and elucidations. ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, the

chief interpreter of the faith of bahá’u’lláh, has written: “ wherefore

it is incumbent upon all bahá’ís to ponder this very delicate and vital

matter in their hearts, that, unlike other religions, they may not con-tent themselves with the noise, the clamor, the hollowness of religious doctrine. Nay, rather, they should exemplify in every aspect of their

lives those attributes and virtues that are born of god and should

arise to distinguish themselves by their goodly behavior. They should

justify their claim to be bahá’ís by deeds and not by name. he is a

true bahá’í who strives by day and by night to progress and advance

along the path of human endeavor, whose most cherished desire is so to live and act as to enrich and illuminate the world, whose source of 248.6

248.6a

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

57inspiration is the essence of divine virtue, whose aim in life is so to

conduct himself as to be the cause of infinite progress. only when he

attains unto such perfect gifts can it be said of him that he is a true bahá’í. for in this holy dispensation, the crowning glory of bygone

ages and cycles, true faith is no mere acknowledgement of the unity of god, but rather the living of a life that will manifest all the perfections

and virtues implied in such belief.” See how firm and strongly-worded is this statement of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s, and how demanding its require-

ments! Notwithstanding, it is only when the bahá’ís are able fully and

befittingly to distinguish their characters by the adornment of these

divine virtues that they will appear before the eyes of the world in a

worthy and appropriate manner and that the name of bahá’u’lláh will

set the universe ablaze. The chosen ones of god in iran should not

look at the depraved condition of the society in which they live, nor at the evidences of moral degradation and frivolous conduct which the people around them display. They should not content themselves merely with relative distinction and excellence. rather they should fix

their gaze upon nobler heights by setting the counsels and exhorta-tions of the pen of glory as their supreme goal. Then it will be readily

realized how numerous are the stages that still remain to be traversed and how far off the desired goal lies—a goal which is none other than

exemplifying heavenly morals and virtues. Therefore, as the treaders

of the path of salvation, we should strive with all our might and in every moment of our life to vindicate by deeds and words the reviv-

ing power enshrined in bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings. in our association and

conversation with others, in our transactions, performance of duties,

our aims, and in major and minor undertakings we should so appear as to proclaim and prove to all that other than the unifying power of

bahá’u’lláh’s Spirit nothing can transform the hearts of people and

make of them a new race of men. This is the only means for the salva-

tion and victory of the cause of g od.

The lovers of the blessed beauty in iran, assisted by the promise which

says, “This is the only means for the salvation and victory of the cause of

god,” saw clearly how astonished the enemies were when they witnessed the

fortitude of the friends under trials and their deeds which complied com-pletely with divine exhortations. it was such behavior that turned strangers

into friends and supporters of the wronged ones. it is certain that tests are

248.7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

57not confined to the iranian friends; the ordeals which confront the believ-

ers in the free world, although different in nature, will be as severe and

deceitful. if they do not face such tests with the aid of a prayerful attitude

and constant engagement in service, they are likely to be submerged in the

ocean of bewilderment, confusion and remorse, wasting away the short days of their lives and leaving this world with empty hands. of particular

importance is the training of the youth to enable them to stand firm against the perils of the society in which they live. They should be encouraged to participate in bahá’í activities, while pursuing their education in fields

which benefit humanity.

bahá’u’lláh says:

whosoever attaineth divine love at the earliest stages of youth, that

one is accounted among the dwellers of the highest paradise. Strive

that from thee mayest appear that which will cause the exaltation of

the f aith.

Also:

o thou who art young in age! may the confirmations of the merci-

ful enable thee to attain unto his bountiful bestowals. Since thou

wert adorned with the recognition of the daystar of revelation when

thou wert in the prime of youth, beseech thou god to enable thee

to achieve that which will be immortalized in the book of existence.

mortality overtaketh everything except what is uttered and carried out

for god’s sake; such [words and deeds] are deathless. Strive that thou

mayest drink of the wine of immortality and attain unto the kawthar

of steadfastness.”

we ardently hope that bahá’í youth who have their roots in the cradle

of the faith will, in all affairs, stand out among their peers. The youth

who received bahá’í education have, undoubtedly, reached the stage when

they can fend for themselves and face the tempestuous tests of the present

day world with valor, confidence and self-assurance. The bahá’í youth who

have distinguished themselves and stood out in the non-b ahá’í world are a

testimony to the truth of this statement.

The persecuted bahá’ís of iran are deprived of the bounty of teaching the

cause of god. The effect of this deprivation, which they regret immensely, 248.7a

248.7b

248.8

248.9

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

575is mitigated when they hear that friends in other countries are carrying out

teaching work on their behalf, or have arisen to execute a project in their

name or in the name of the precious martyrs of that land. Such glad tidings

prompt the iranian friends to offer loving prayers for the success of the

efforts of their faithful comrades in other parts of the world. we now join

our eager voice to that of these iranian believers and appeal to the friends

from bahá’u’lláh’s birthplace in every part of the globe to arise in accordance

with the requirement of faithfulness and make mighty and effective efforts to teach the cause of god on behalf of their long-suffering brothers and

sisters. for, teaching the faith is a spiritual obligation from which no one is

exempt; it is the magnet that attracts divine confirmations, it is the cause of the revival of hearts and souls. The Supreme p en says:

center your energies in the propagation of the faith of god. whoso is

worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and promote it. whoso is un-

able, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this revelation, whose power hath caused the foundations of the mighti-

est structures to quake, every mountain to be crushed into dust, and every soul to be dumbfounded.

248-3

he also says:

in one of the Tablets this exalted word hath been revealed from the

Supreme p en: “ whoso is unable to teach should appoint a deputy.”

praised be god, this munificent banquet is now spread for the enjoy-

ment of all. The four year plan provides guidance to each and every one

involved with the achievement of the teaching goals. in some cases, when

people are unable to directly teach the cause, they have been exhorted to

deputize someone to carry out this duty on their behalf. Should they be unable to deputize one person, they can, in accordance with their financial

ability, make contributions earmarked for deputization through local, na-

tional, continental and international funds of the faith. in brief, all means

have been provided for everyone to participate in the teaching work which, according to ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, is the foremost duty, leaving no room for any

248-3. gwb, no. 96.3.248.9a

248.9b

248.10

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

576excuse. moreover, the people of the world who are weary and helpless in the

face of present-day ordeals are more than ever ready to embrace the cause of

god. failure to take advantage of this opportunity would indeed be a grave

loss, for it would deprive the aching body of humanity of a remedy placed

freely in the hands of the people of bahá. This is the day on which, accord-

ing to ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, “The cry of ‘where are bahá’í teachers’ is raised from

every corner of the world. . . .” blessed are the ones who have hearkened

and responded with heart and soul. This appeal is particularly significant these days because, according to the four year plan, in the concluding years

of this century the number of teachers should so increase as to hasten the

entry of troops under the shadow of god’s cause. The dearly loved iranian

believers, wherever they reside, must not deprive themselves of the bounty

of participation in bahá’í activities. They should rather arise unitedly with

the native friends and join forces with them to offer befitting service under the direction of bahá’í institutions. Nay, they should even take the lead and

become renowned in servitude to the d ivine Threshold.

Another matter of great import which the iranian believers cannot af-

ford to neglect is the instruction of children in spiritual attributes, human perfections and heavenly character. in this, too, they can learn from the ex-

ample of the sacrificial friends of iran who train their children from infancy

under their loving care, adorn them with the ornaments of a praiseworthy

character, and help them to advance in the acquisition of knowledge and

understanding of spiritual truths, thus exemplifying this exhortation from ‘Abdu’l-b ahá:

. . . exert every effort to educate the children, so that from infancy they will be trained in bahá’í conduct and the ways of god, and will, even

as young plants, thrive and flourish in the soft-flowing waters that are

the counsels and admonitions of the b lessed b eauty.

248-4

Also:

it is incumbent upon bahá’í children to surpass other children in the

acquisition of sciences and arts, for they have been cradled in the grace of god.

248-4. Sw Ab, no. 97 .2.248.11

248.11a

248.11b

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

577whatever other children learn in a year, let bahá’í children learn in a

month.248-5

And again:

while the children are yet in their infancy feed them from the breast

of heavenly grace, foster them in the cradle of all excellence, rear them in the embrace of bounty. give them the advantage of every useful

kind of knowledge. let them share in every new and rare and won-

drous craft and art. bring them up to work and strive, and accustom

them to hardship.

248-6

consider carefully the following statement revealed by the pen of the An-

cient b eauty:

The parents must exert every effort to rear their offspring to be reli-gious, for should the children not attain this greatest of adornments, they will not obey their parents, which in a certain sense means that

they will not obey god. indeed, such children will show no consider-

ation to anyone, and will do exactly as they please.

248-7

Nowadays in many countries people are rebellious and careless, morally

corrupt and afflicted with various problems. At a time like this, obedience to

the above ordinances is more vital than ever before. The friends in iran have

successfully put these ordinances to work and learned through experience

that one of the immediate results of this endeavor is to empower their pre-

cious children at an early age to confront difficulties in school, on the street and in the market-place and to show forth heroism, thereby preserving their integrity and safeguarding the reputation of the faith. The friends in other

parts of the world should do likewise. for, should the children be deprived

of a spiritual foundation, their protection from the onslaught of destructive temptations will be compromised.

one of the laudable services which the iranian bahá’ís everywhere can

pledge to perform is initiating work on establishing character training classes

248-5. Sw Ab, no. 119.1–2.

248-6. Sw Ab, no. 102.3.

248-7 . lg, no. 763. 248.11c

248.11d

248.12

248.13

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

578for children and rendering assistance in maintaining them. Those friends

who were the pupils of these classes and have enjoyed the sweetness of

the fruits of such education should actively participate in this great service,

which is the cause of strengthening every bahá’í community, and provide

for children’s b ahá’í education everywhere.

furthermore, the bahá’í parents from iranian background should en-

deavor to teach their children the persian language, for persian is one of the

two languages of revelation in this glorious dispensation. bahá’u’lláh says:

“in this day when the Sun of knowledge hath appeared and is resplendent

from the firmament of iran, it is fitting to praise this language as much

as one can.” he also says: “The desire of the world speaks in the persian

language. it would be praiseworthy to him, if his loved ones also converse

and write in this language.”

it would be a great service if, in every city and hamlet where a number

of iranian bahá’ís reside, some persian friends would exert special effort to

teach this language to the children and youth, study together the writings in

persian, and drink their fill from the billowing source of the creative word

and Sacred writings. we praise god for having enabled some bahá’í institu-

tions abroad to devise ways and develop programs useful for teaching the persian language to those iranians who live away from their homeland. Such

programs can be put to good use for the achievement of this blessed service.

The valued friends of iran have always been and continue to be at the

forefront in rendering worthy services to the cause of god. we need not

review the record of sacrifices made in the arena of faithfulness by the he-

roes of the Apostolic Age. A careful look at the early stages of the formative

Age will enlighten us about the historic and crucial services of the iranian

believers in glorifying the cause of god and its establishment throughout

the world, and will evoke our admiration and praise. in the Ten year plan,

which the beloved guardian called the world Spiritual crusade, a consid-

erable number of iranian bahá’ís succeeded in opening up countries and

territories to the light of the faith. The names of these knights have been

recorded in the roll of honor. Also, numerous are those who have contrib-

uted generously to the establishment of essential and significant institu-

tions. recently, when monetary donations for the construction of buildings

on the Arc became a necessity, the iranian friends living abroad considered

it unbecoming to lag behind others. As before, they stepped forth with high endeavor and participated as much as possible in providing the financial needs of those mighty institutions.248.14

248.15

248.16

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

579o friends of god, it is certain that the cloud of divine bounty and bestow-

al rains equally upon all humanity. however, we each partake of it according

to our capacity. Although potentialities differ in accordance with degrees,

not a single soul is completely bereft of capacity. indeed, people’s progress

in this world is dependent on that preordained measure and the manner in which they fulfill their god-given potentiality. Accordingly, our responsibil-

ity is commensurate with our capacity, as it is said: “g od will not burden

any soul beyond its capacity.” it is our ardent hope that the lifelong lovers

of the divine beauty will, in the privacy of their conscience and in the pres-

ence of god, thoroughly assess their ability, judge their situation, and decide

what kind and extent of service they can render in the path of the love of bahá’u’lláh, then offer it in fulfillment of a vow of faithfulness, that they may

attain the bounty of reunion in the everlasting world and reap the harvest of

their existence. otherwise, if they think only of their own comfort in this

mortal life and be heedless of the purpose of creation, undoubtedly they will

bring loss and regret upon themselves. ‘Abdu’l-b ahá says:

of what benefit to humanity is the body’s comfort which consists

of the night’s rest, the day’s talk, the gathering of provisions in the morning, enjoyment of the fireplace in the evening, and the pleasure of a highly comfortable and extravagant bed made of finest silk and

brocade! A considerable time is wasted in idle talk. once it comes to

an end, it is loss upon loss and manifest perdition.

how penetrating is bahá’u’lláh’s utterance which exhorts his faithful ser-

vants thus:

Night hath succeeded day, and day hath succeeded night, and the

hours and moments of your lives have come and gone, and yet none of you hath, for one instant, consented to detach himself from that

which perisheth. bestir yourselves, that the brief moments that are

still yours may not be dissipated and lost. even as the swiftness of

lightning your days shall pass, and your bodies shall be laid to rest

beneath a canopy of dust. what can ye then achieve? how can ye

atone for your past failure?

248-8

248-8. gwb, no. 151.4.248.17

248.17a

248.17b

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

580o beloved and faithful friends from the land of bahá’u’lláh’s birth! our

longing, nay our hope and expectation of those valued friends is this: that

in obedience to divine commandments and exhortations, you become like

unto morning stars, shining from the horizon of guidance and leading the

way, thereby attaining unto that which the peerless beloved has desired and

ordained for you.

249

Riḍván Message 1997

Ridván 154

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

we acclaim with grateful hearts the eager response on all continents to

the f our y ear p lan launched last ri¤ván.

consultations of the continental counselors and National Spiritual

Assemblies started an extensive planning process, also involving Auxiliary board members and local Spiritual Assemblies. Through such a process the

national and regional character of the derivative plans took shape. but this

world-encompassing exercise did more than yield distinctive schemes for the different countries; it also boosted the collaborative relationship of the two arms of the Administrative order, a most welcome portent of the victories

yet to come.

A sign of the immediate impact of the plan was the speed with which

steps were taken to establish nearly two hundred training institutes during

the last twelve months. many of these have gone far beyond the point of

designing their organization; they are actually in operation and have offered

their first courses. moreover, in the movement of homefront and interna-

tional pioneers and traveling teachers; in the increased attention given by

individuals to deputizing teachers; in the preparations made to ensure the

formation of local Spiritual Assemblies only on the first day of ri¤ván; in

the increasing endeavors to hold regular devotional meetings; in the widen-ing efforts to make use of the arts in the teaching work and community

activities—in all these respects could be discerned the friends’ keen aware-

ness of the importance of concentrating on the requirements of the major 248.18

249.1

249.2

249.3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

581aim of the plan, which is to effect a significant advance in the process of

entry by troops.

Nor can we neglect to recognize other developments during the past year

which confirmed the high merit of the manifold efforts being exerted by our

world community and the results being achieved. Among these, to mention a few, were: the acquisition of the apartment at 4 Avenue de camoëns in

paris where the beloved master, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, resided during his historic

visit to the city; the special session on 14 August of the federal chamber

of deputies in brazil to mark the 75th anniversary of the introduction of

the bahá’í faith into that country—a unique, official occasion at which

Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih khánum was present as the honored guest; the

launching last july of the bahá’í international community’s site on the

world wide web, entitled “The bahá’í world,” which to date has received

from more than 90 countries and territories over 50,000 visits, averaging some 200 per day.

hardly outpaced by such accomplishments, the construction projects

on mount carmel maintained a dazzling momentum highlighted by the

completion of the marble colonnade of the center for the Study of the

Texts, by the rise of the international Teaching center building towards its

seventh level, and by the ongoing emergence of the far-stretching features of the Terraces of the Shrine of the báb. in this connection must be men-

tioned the partial lowering of the section of the public road over which the line of terraces will pass, and the acquisition and subsequent demolition of the building at the foot of the mountain which stood as the last obstruction

that had to be overcome to make possible the completion of the lower ter-

races through which the glorious pathway rises up towards the sacred edifice

and beyond it to the crest of the h ill of g od.

Also of acute relevance to the progress thus described was the mainte-

nance of a level of contributions to the Arc projects fund which fulfilled

the goal for the last year. clearly, the financial demands in this regard are

being met with incessant heroism by rich and poor alike, and must be sus-tained over the remaining years. At the same time, however, a parallel effort,

equally strenuous and sustained, should be simultaneously exerted by the

Assemblies and friends throughout the world to fill the critical needs of the bahá’í i nternational f und.

Such an auspicious beginning to the four year plan as has been experi-

enced cannot but inspire confidence in the hearts of the members of our 249.4

249.5

249.6

249.7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

582worldwide community that they are fully equipped to execute its require-

ments as outlined in the messages that launched it, and as elaborated in the

plans adopted by their respective Assemblies. A further and especially ap-

preciated encouragement as we enter this second year is that circumstances have made it feasible for the reestablishment this ri¤ván of the National

Spiritual Assembly of rwanda. This victory over crisis will bring to 175 the

number of National Spiritual Assemblies that will be eligible to participate in the eighth international bahá’í convention to be held next ri¤ván at

the bahá’í world center. how dearly we hope that by then, at the very

midpoint of the plan, the bahá’í world will have made a major leap forward

in the multiplication of its human resources, the maturation of its Spiritual Assemblies, and the evolution of its local communities!

The opportunity offered by the brief span of time before the century

ends is precious beyond all telling. only a united and sustained effort by

the friends everywhere to advance the process of entry by troops can be-fit such a historic moment. responsibilities urgent and inescapable press

upon every institution, every member of a community striving towards its

god-promised destiny. As there is only a short period in which to achieve

a great deal, no time must be spared, no opportunity lost. rest assured,

dear friends, that the hosts of the Abhá kingdom stand ready to rush to

the support of anyone who will arise to offer his or her acts of service to the unfolding, spiritual drama of these momentous days.

250

Formation of Regional Bahá’í Councils

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]