The Baha’i Faith in Africa
Establishing a New Religious Movement,
1952–1962
By
Anthony A. Lee
LEIDEN • BOSTON

Studies of Religion in Africa
Edited by
Benjamin Soares, Africa Studies Center, Leiden, The Netherlands
Frans Wijsen, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands
VOLUME 39

This book is printed on acid-free paper.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Lee, Anthony A., 1947–
The Baha’i faith in Africa : establishing a new religious movement, 1952–1962 /
by Anthony A. Lee.
p. cm. — (Studies of religion in Africa ; v. 39)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-90-04-20684-7 (hardback : alk. paper)
1. Bahai Faith—Africa—History. I. Title. II. Series.
BP355.A35L44 2011
297.9’309609045—dc23
2011030296
ISSN 0169-9814
ISBN 978 90 04 20684 7
Copyright 2011 by Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden, The Netherlands.
Koninklijke Brill NV incorporates the imprints Brill, Global Oriental, Hotei Publishing,
IDC Publishers, Martinus Nijhoff Publishers and VSP.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, translated, stored in a
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without prior written permission from the publisher.
Brill has made all reasonable efforts to trace all rights holders to any copyrighted
material used in this work. In cases where these efforts have not been successful
the publisher welcomes communications from copyright holders, so that the
appropriate acknowledgements can be made in future editions, and to settle
other permission matters.
Authorization to photocopy items for internal or personal use is granted by Koninklijke Brill NV
provided that the appropriate fees are paid directly to The Copyright Clearance Center,
222 Rosewood Drive, Suite 910, Danvers, MA 01923, USA.
Fees are subject to change.

CONTENTS
List of Illustrations, Maps, and Tables  ............................................
vii
Note on Transliteration and Style  ...................................................
ix
Acknowledgements  .............................................................................
xi
1. Introduction: The Babi/Baha’i Movement  ...............................
2.  The African Presence at the Genesis of the Babi/Baha’i
Religions  ........................................................................................
3.  Opting for the Apocalypse: The Baha’i Response to the
Modern Crisis in the Middle East and West Africa  ..............
4.  Planting the Baha’i Faith in West Africa: The First
Decade ............................................................................................
5. The Roots of Baha’i Conversion in British Cameroons  ........ 115
6. British Cameroons: A Movement Develops  ............................ 159
7. The Baha’i Church of Calabar  ................................................... 195
In Lieu of a Conclusion  ..................................................................... 219
Appendix: A List of Baha’is in British Cameroons, 1958  .............. 225
Bibliography  ......................................................................................... 259
Index  ..................................................................................................... 277

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS, MAPS, AND TABLES
Chapter 1
Illustration 1.1. The Entrance to the House of the Bab  ...............
Table 1.1.
Estimated Baha’i Populations  ..............................
Chapter 2
Illustration 2.1. An African Slave, 1840  ..........................................
Illustration 2.2. Mubarak’s Room in the House of the Bab  ........
Chapter 4
Illustration 4.1. Map of Baha’is in Africa, 1952  ............................
Illustration 4.2. Baha’i House of Worship, Kampala, Uganda  ...
Illustration 4.3. The First Baha’is in Liberia, 1952  ........................ 105
Illustration 4.4. Baha’is in Tamale, Northern Ghana, 1960  ........ 111
Table 4.1.
Goals and Achievements of the African

Campaign, 1951–1953  ...........................................
Table 4.2.
The First Twenty-six to Become Baha’is in

Liberia, 1952  ............................................................
Table 4.3.
Pioneers and First Baha’is in West Africa  .........
Table 4.4.
Numbers of Baha’is in Northwest Africa, April

1956  ...........................................................................
Table 4.5.
Statistical Summary of African Territories,

1952–1963  ................................................................
Chapter 5
Illustration 5.1. Enoch Olinga (1926–1979)  ................................... 134
Illustration 5.2. Four New African Baha’is, Kampala, Uganda,

1952  ........................................................................... 139
Illustration 5.3. Leroy Ioas Greeting the New Baha’is  ................. 149
Illustration 5.4. Africa Intercontinental Conference, Kampala,

Uganda, February 12–18, 1953  ............................ 150
Illustration 5.5. New Baha’is from Teso, February 1953  ............. 151

viii
list of illustrations, maps, and tables
Map 5.1.
Detail of a Map of South British Cameroons  .... 117
Map 5.2.
Uganda, Showing Teso District  ........................... 136
Table 5.1.
Growth of the Basel Mission in Cameroons,

1914–1925  ................................................................ 129
Chapter 6
Illustration 6.1. Three Cameroonian Baha’is  ................................. 163
Chapter 7
Illustration 7.1. ‘Abdu’l-Baha (taken circa 1912)  .......................... 201

NOTE ON TRANSLITERATION AND STYLE
Any academic work on Baha’i history raises the question of how to
render Persian and Arabic words, names, and phrases into the Latin
alphabet. The use of other English conventions—such as capitalization,
gender forms, and italics—also becomes problematic. Unfortunately,
there is no one system of transliteration and style that is used univer-
sally in academia, so various systems compete. The systems used in
this book are not entirely consistent. For that, I apologize in advance.
In 1923, Shoghi Effendi, then the head of the Baha’i Faith, asked
Baha’is of the world to “avoid confusion in the future” by adopting
an academic system of transliteration which was then in use. He pre-
sented this as “an authoritative and universal, though arbitrary code
for the spelling of Oriental terms.”1 The strong point of the system
was its strict insistence on letter-for-letter transliterations, such that
any bilingual reader seeing a Persian or Arabic word transliterated by
this system could immediately write the word back into the original
language without error. The other advantage was that it brought con-
sistency and uniformity to spellings in Baha’i books in various coun-
tries and languages.
Since then, Baha’i literature has adhered to this system religiously
to represent Persian and Arabic words that did not have conven-
tional spellings. However, academic conventions moved on, and the
Baha’i spellings now sometimes appear old-fashioned and/or confus-
ing. The system, besides being arbitrary, also had the disadvantage
of being heavy with diacritical marks—so that the ubiquitous word
Bahai, for example, was loaded down with two accent marks and an
apostrophe—Bahá’í.
1 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922–1932, Revised edi-
tion (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974 [1928]) p. 56. Shoghi Effendi appa-
rently believed that this system had been adopted as standard by academics at one of
the International Oriental Congresses. But he seems to have been mistaken. (Marzieh
Gail, Bahá’í Glossary [Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1955.] For a discussion
of this matter, see Moojan Momen, “The Baha’i System of Transliteration,” Bahá’í
Studies Bulletin, Vol. 5 ( January 1991) Nos. 1–2, pp. 13ff.  See also, Stephen Lambden,
“Modern Western, Arabic-Persian Academic Transliteration System,” Bahá’í Studies
Bulletin, Vol. 5 ( January 1991) Nos. 1–2, pp. 56ff.

x
note on transliteration and style
For this book, I have used a modified and softened version of (what
is now exclusively) a Baha’i system. I have eliminated all sublinear
diacritical marks (dots and underlining). All accent marks have been
removed, as well, even from Baha’u’llah and Bab—though, the Bab
retains the definite article to avoid confusion with the common Eng-
lish name (Bob) which is pronounced identically. Words that have
conventional English spellings, as might be found in a dictionary or
newspaper, are not transliterated using this system. The second hyphen
in the rendering of the ezafeh form of Persian (which links two nouns)
has been dropped. (So, Baha’u’llah’s Book of Certitude is Kitab-i Iqan,
not Kitáb-i-Íqán, for example.) I hope this will make the work more
readable.
However, when quoting other books and authors using other sys-
tems of transliteration, I have been obliged to copy the spellings found
in those works. Since I have cited and quoted a large number of Baha’i
books and authors, the inconsistencies are glaring.2
Normally, book titles are placed in italics. However, books of Holy
Scripture are not italicized—Bible, Qur’an, and Torah, for example.
Therefore, major works of Baha’i scripture are not found in italics,
unless the reference is to a specific published edition. For example,
Baha’u’llah’s holy book, the Kitab-i Aqdas, is normally not italicized.3
References are made to the paragraph numbers of that book, which
are the same in all editions.
Persian and Arabic phrases that are quoted in the book have been
rendered in italics.
2 To make matters worse, Baha’i books published before 1923 (and sometimes
afterward) did not adhere to the system Shoghi Effendi recommended. More recently,
Baha’i authors—and especially scholars—have begun to depart from that system as I
have, using their own forms of transliteration, or using conventional forms demanded
by their publishers. Scholars who are not Baha’is have used their own systems when
discussing Baha’i topics.
3 Likewise, the Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah, another work of scripture. On the
other hand, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, for example, is a compilation
of passages excerpted from Baha’u’llah’s major works. Since it is a compiled, published
volume—even if of scripture—it is rendered in italics.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This volume has had a difficult birth and has been attended by so many
patient midwives that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to thank
all of them. Through decades of postponements and repeated resolu-
tions to start afresh—during which time I pursued book publishing
as a career, a cause, and a passion—I have become indebted to many
faithful supporters of my academic work, without whom this flawed
piece of scholarship could not have been written.
First, I should express thanks to the late Valerie Wilson who gener-
ously allowed me to interview her and to copy her personal papers.
Her records provided an abundance of information, allowing me to
pursue the answers to questions that otherwise would have been unan-
swerable. I am also grateful to Don Addison for making his recorded
interviews available to me.
Edward A. Alpers was the primary academic advisor for the dis-
sertation upon which this book is based. It was he who first suggested
to me that the Baha’i religion in Africa might become the topic of my
research. His unflagging optimism and his uninterrupted support for
my work over many years were nothing short of saintly. His comments
and recommendations have improved this work greatly. I am grateful
for the encouragement of Tom Hinnebusch and Christopher Ehret
which they both expressed reliably and often over so long a time.
I must thank also Amin Banani, whose family appears in the body
of this work, and his wife, Sheila Walcott Banani, for reading drafts
of my work and for encouraging my efforts. I deeply appreciate their
willingness to offer their home as a venue for interviews with Amin’s
mother, the late Samiheh (Mama-jan) Banani. Her remarkable open-
ness and frankness were precious gifts.
I am also grateful to Juan R. I. Cole and to Sen McGlinn for their
useful comments on drafts of this work. I cannot fail to express deep
appreciation as well to the late Jackson Armstrong-Ingram, longtime
friend and confidant, for many hours of discussion on the early chap-
ters of my dissertation and for his confidence in my work. I also thank
my friend and spiritual brother, Mehrdad Amanat, for reading parts of
this work and making helpful suggestions—also for blazing a trail for
me with his own recent dissertation and book.

xii
acknowledgements
I am eager to thank Terence O. Ranger, who first introduced me to
the historical study of African religions and who never fails to inspire
me with his insights on the subject. His consultation and encourage-
ment over the years have been foundational and essential. Thanks also
to Greg Pirio for his faith in me and his constant encouragement of
my work.
I especially appreciate the willingness of Baha’i scholars who have
done research on Africa for the Baha’i Encyclopedia Project to share
their work with me: Moojan Momen; Loni Bramson-Lerche, Martha
Garman, Akwasi O. Osei, Prince K. Abaidoo, and Roberta Al-Salihi.
Special thanks to Will C. van den Hoonaard for his assistance and
concern. The materials he shared with me were invaluable.
I also wish to thank the following for their courtesy in allowing
me to reproduce the maps and photographs that illustrate this volume:
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United Kingdom,
Kalimát Press, and I. B. Tauris Publisher.
Most importantly, I must thank my wife, Flor Geola, for her many
years of patience and toleration.
Finally, I am keenly aware that this is the first book to be written
on the history of the Baha’i faith in Africa. As a consequence, it is
certainly replete with oversights and errors. Therefore, let me express
my appreciation in advance to future scholars who will point out my
many mistakes and advance this field of academic study.

CHAPTER ONE
INTRODUCTION: THE BABI/BAHA’I MOVEMENT
The Beginnings of the Babi/Baha’i Movement
On the evening of May 22, 1844, a young Muslim theology student
named Mulla Husayn, returning to Iran from the Iraqi Shi’ite shrine
cities of Najaf and Karbala, was invited into the home of one of the mer-
chants in Shiraz. According to the traditional, hagiographic accounts,
during the course of that evening Mulla Husayn became convinced
that his merchant-host was the person who would soon fulfill certain
prophecies and expectations of the Shi’ite esoteric tradition.1 Mulla
Husayn’s conversion was the beginning of a movement. 2
1 This opening narrative relies on the hagiographic account of the Bab’s ‘declaration’
found in the pious history of Nabil-i A‘zam (Mulla Muhammad Zarandi) edited and
translated into English by Shoghi Effendi as The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of
the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932).
There are other accounts of the event, most notably in Mírzá Husayn Hamadani, The
Táríkh-i-Jadíd or New History of Mírzá ‘Alí Muhammad the Bab, trans. by Edward G.
Browne (Cambridge University Press, 1893). For a full discussion of the sources, see
Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement in Iran,
1844–1850 (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1989) pp. 166–74. Other accounts,
while no less affected by Baha’i piety than is Nabil’s narrative, are more interested in
chronicling Mulla Husayn’s inner struggle to accept the Bab’s messianic claim. This
struggle almost certainly played itself out over a period of at least a few days—other
sources suggest anywhere between three and forty days—rather than in one night,
as Nabil relates. (Denis MacEoin, The Messiah of Shiraz: Studies in Early and Middle
Babism [Leiden: Brill, 2009] pp. 167–68.)
2 Of course, there is a considerable literature on the Babi movement. The various
works of Edward G. Browne are still important, especially his translation and nota-
tion of A Traveller’s Narrative (Cambridge University Press, 1891), by ‘Abdu’l-Baha,
and his own Materials for the Study of the Babí Religion (Cambridge University Press,
1918). The best recent academic treatments are to be found in Abbas Amanat, Resur-
rection and Renewal, and in Denis MacEoin, “From Shaykhism to Babism: A Study in
Charismatic Renewal in Shí’í Islam,” Ph.D. dissertation, Cambridge University, 1979
(finally published in The Messiah of Shiraz [2009]). The classic Baha’i chronicle of the
period is Nabil-i A‘zam’s The Dawn-Breakers, mentioned above. See also, H. M. Baly-
uzi, The Báb: The Herald of the Day of Days (Oxford: George Ronald, 1973) and Peter
Smith’s sociological study, The Babi and Baha’i Religions: From messianic Shi’ism to a
world religion (Cambridge University Press, 1987). The early volumes of the Studies in
the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions series, Anthony A. Lee, General Editor, are also useful.

chapter one
Baha’is mark the start of their history with that conversion, which
took place—all sources agree—precisely at two hours and eleven min-
utes after sunset on May 22.3 The merchant, Sayyid ‘Ali-Muhammad
of Shiraz, who later took the title of ‘the Bab’ (Arabic: Gate), claimed
to be the appearance of the long-awaited Qa’im, the Imam Mahdi,
the Hidden Imam, whose return in the flesh had been awaited for
a thousand years by pious Shi’is.4 The Babi movement quickly grew
and spread, gaining a following in Iran among the religious scholars
(ulama) of the Shaykhi school,5 and eventually a wider following among
ordinary Shi’ite Muslims. The followers of the Bab were soon declared
heretics by the orthodox Muslim clergy, persecuted, and scattered. The
Bab himself was imprisoned and eventually executed in 1850.
But on that first evening, the movement began with a conversation.
Mulla Husayn was impressed by his host’s invitation and by his solici-
tous hospitality once they were settled in his merchant house. The Bab
ordered water to be brought and personally poured it so the student
could wash his hands. He offered him refreshments, ordered a samo-
var and prepared tea for them to drink. They performed their evening
prayer. They talked of religious matters, especially the more esoteric
aspects of the Shaykhi religious doctrines with which they were both
associated. Mulla Husayn showed his host some of his own writings
on these subjects. The Bab, in turn, shared his compositions. During
the course of the evening, Mulla Husayn became aware that his host
was laying claim to a divine mission and asking him to become his
3 In his Persian Bayan (Bayan II, 7 30), the Bab himself fixes this time as the exact
moment for the beginning of his revelation. See Selections from the Writings of the Báb
(Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 1976) p. 107. Also, Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal,
p. 170; MacEoin, The Messiah of Shiraz, p. 168.
4 The eschatological prophecies of mainstream Shi’i Islam anticipate the coming
of the Qa’im (Arabic: he who will arise; that is, arise from the family of the Prophet
Muhammad). These Shi’is believe that the twelfth Imam, Abu’l-Qasim Muhammad
(869–873 ad) did not die in childhood. He has remained miraculously alive through
the centuries, hidden from the world. He is the Mahdi (Arabic: the guided one) who
will suddenly end his occultation before the Day of Resurrection to wage a final battle
for the establishment of righteousness on earth. Despite some similarities in eschato-
logical expectations, the Shi’ite Mahdi is a different personality than the Mahdi of the
Sunnis. He will not appear at the end-times simply to restore the abandoned Islamic
shari’a, but rather to establish a new age of justice and a new religious order. (Moojan
Momen, An Introduction to Shi’i Islam: The History and Doctrines of Twelver Shi’ism
[Oxford: George Ronald, 1985] pp. 45, 161–71; Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal,
pp. 2–6.)
5 A branch of Shi’ism that developed in the nineteenth century around the innova-
tive theology of Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa’i (1753–1826).

introduction
Illustration 1.1. The Entrance to the House of the Bab
The front entrance to the House of the Bab in Shiraz from the street. The
Bab’s ‘Ethiopian servant’ Haji Mubarak acted as the doorman at this entrance
during the first weeks of the Babi movement in 1844. The Bab’s house was
destroyed by the Iranian government after the Islamic revolution of 1979.
Source: Abu’l-Qasim Afnan, Black Pearls, Second Edition (Los Angeles: Kal-
imát Press, 1999) p. 8. Catalogued at the Bahá’í World Center, Audio Visual
Department as NN3621-79, FN 13241.

chapter one
first disciple. Then, to his great consternation, Mulla Husayn realized
that he had perforce accepted that claim.
Mulla Husayn’s conversion is remembered by Baha’is today as a
seminal moment in their salvation history. The anniversary of that
night is celebrated annually on the evening of May 22, by Baha’i com-
munities around the world as a holy day, the ‘Declaration of the Bab.’
The various (and ‘sacred’) events surrounding the conversion are well
known to Baha’is. I have argued elsewhere that there is no American
Baha’i, for example, for whom this account does not carry profound
personal significance. In fact, I have suggested that this story is so
important that it has become one of the foundational myths support-
ing American Baha’i identity, an episode that is replayed at least once
a year in American Baha’i imagination.6
The religious ecstasy that Mulla Husayn reports he felt that night is
instructive. He was overwhelmed by the conviction that a new era in
human history had begun. He was dazzled and empowered by a vision
of infinite new possibilities. Many years later, he remembered his emo-
tions on that occasion quite vividly:
This revelation, so suddenly and impetuously thrust upon me, came as a
thunderbolt which, for a time, seemed to have benumbed my faculties.
I was blinded by its dazzling splendor and overwhelmed by its crushing
force.
Excitement, joy, awe, and wonder stirred the depths of my soul. Pre-
dominant among these emotions was a sense of gladness and strength
which seemed to have transfigured me. How feeble and impotent, how
dejected and timid, I had felt previously! Then I could neither write nor
walk, so tremulous were my hands and feet. Now, however, the knowl-
edge of His Revelation had galvanized my being.
I felt possessed of such courage and power that were the world, all
its peoples and its potentates, to rise against me, I would alone and
undaunted, withstand their onslaught. The universe seemed but a hand-
ful of dust in my grasp.
I seemed to be the Voice of Gabriel personified, calling unto all man-
kind: “Awake, for lo! the morning Light has broken. Arise, for His Cause
is made manifest. The portal of His grace is open wide; enter therein, O
peoples of the world! For He who is your promised One is come!”7
6 Anthony A. Lee, “Reconciling the Other: The Bahá’í Faith in America as a Suc-
cessful Synthesis of Christianity and Islam,” Occasional Papers in Shaykhi, Babi, and
Baha’i Studies, Vol. 7, no. 2 (March 2003) http://www.hnet.msu.edu/~bahai/bhpapers/
vol7/reconc.htm.
7 These are the remembered words of Mulla Husayn as reported by Mirza Ahmad

introduction
The Shi’ite millenarian movement known as Babism that was founded
that night by the Shirazi merchant, the Bab, was the origin of the
Baha’i religion that was brought to the United States in the 1890s.
Remarkably, the same exhilaration and sense of unlimited possibility
that Mulla Husayn describes was to be experienced also by thousands
of American converts, and then by thousands of Africans in the colo-
nial West Africa of the 1950s and 1960s.
Mulla Husayn’s ecstatic conversion, in fact, translated well into
American and Christian idioms. Stanwood Cobb, then a young Uni-
tarian minister, and later an important Baha’i author and speaker, has
left this description of hearing the Baha’i message for the first time in
1906, at the Green Acre conferences, in Eliot, Maine:
Miss Farmer8 took my hand in hers and cordially held it while she looked
into my eyes and asked, “Have you heard of the Persian Revelation?”
“No,” I answered.
“Well, go to that lady in the white headdress and ask her to tell you
about it. I know by your eyes that you are ready for it.”
. . . Mary Lucas, the ‘woman in white’—a singer just back from vis-
iting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá—took me under an apple tree on the sloping lawn
and proceeded to unfold to me the Persian Revelation. Her exposition
was very simple. It consisted of only these four words: “Our Lord has
come!”9
The moment Mary Lucas uttered those words I felt, This is it! . . . one
simple utterance could sweep me—mind, heart, and soul—into that
Faith! . . .
If ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself had stood under that apple tree and addressed
me, I could not have been more convinced. . . . Mary Lucas had brought
the spirit of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá with her. I felt it, and I was convinced. Espe-
cially as my own soul had already sought out and found the answer to
the world’s dire needs: Someone must appear with more than human
authority.10
Qazvini (who is supposed to have heard the former relate the story on a number of
occasions) to Nabíl-i A‘zam. (The Dawn-Breakers, p. 65.)
8 Sarah Farmer had established the Green Acre conferences in 1894, at Eliot,
Maine, in the aftermath of the World’s Parliament of Religions held in Chicago. The
sessions were devoted to the exposition of progressive ideas and lectures on compara-
tive religions. After 1900, when Miss Farmer became a Baha’i, the Baha’i faith was
included among the subjects taught there.
9 Meaning, Christ has returned.
10 Stanwood Cobb, “Memories of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá” in In His Presence: Visits to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1989) pp. 26–29, reprinted from the July–August
1962 issues of Bahá’í News.

chapter one
So perhaps we should not be surprised that the Baha’i message could
also translate successfully into African cultures and expectations. Jacob
Tabot Awo relates this story of meeting a Baha’i teacher, Enoch Olinga,
in the British Cameroons in 1953:
On the day he came to introduce the Faith, I said: “In fact, are you saying
that Baha’u’llah is the Promised One?”
He said: “Yes!”
“By whom, and by what Prophet?”
He said: “By Christ, by Muhammad, by Zoroaster, by Krishna—all
the Prophets.”
I said: “Yes, it is true, because I read it in one of the parts of the
Bible—that after one-thousand years a messiah comes. But what Christ
said in his Holy Book . . . He said: ‘I will come in the Glory of the Father,
and when I shall come, I will establish the House of my Father on the
top of Mount Carmel.’ Which house is there?”
The Hand of the Cause Olinga, who was [then] the traveling teacher,
he answered me. He said: “You are a clever child. I am telling you that
it is the Tomb of the Bab, now established on Mount Carmel.”
I said: “Yes. I accept you. [But] I have a second question. He [Christ]
said: ‘When he shall come, he will have his name to be written on a
block, on a pillar of the house.’ Which name is there?”
Then he told me—he said: “Yes.” That’s when he said: “Baha’u’llah’s
name is written on one of the pillars of the house, meaning ‘The Glory
of God,’ as you have said.”
I said: “Correct.” . . .
Then hearing all of his answers, I was very calm and [in] great hap-
piness, and great joy—because of my last vision that I saw when I was
fourteen years old. I saw that I was in the presence of Christ, introduc-
ing me to the wounds, the scars . . . and then I was seeing the [thorns] on
his head, the wounds, and everything that they did to him. And then
he said: “You will go and teach my new Faith.” I didn’t know what was
the meaning of that. But now that I embraced this new Faith, I knew
that it was the Faith that Christ told me, when I saw my vision. I actu-
ally confirmed that it is true. This was the religion that Christ promised
that I will go and teach. So, I accepted it wholeheartedly. And the next
morning, I came and then asked for Mr. Enoch Olinga, to tell me the
way how I will become a Baha’i!11
11 Transcript of Don Addison interview with Jacob Tabot Awo, 1/2/83, National
Baha’i Center, Limbe (Victoria), Cameroon. Don Addison papers.

introduction
Religious Transformations
The Baha’i faith that reached West Africa in the early 1950s had its
origins in the Shi’ite millenarian movement founded by the Bab one
hundred years earlier. From its beginnings as “a heterodox and seem-
ingly negligible offshoot of the Shaykhí school of Ithná-‘Asharíyyih
sect of Shí’ah Islam,”12 the movement, by the twenty-first century, has
transformed itself into a distinctive and independent reli gious system
whose leadership claims for it the status of a new world religion.
The brutal suppression of the Babi religion within Iran by an alliance
of clergy and government, the failure of armed resistance, and the exe-
cution of leading Babis, including the Bab himself, left the movement
ripe for reinterpretation. This was eventually provided by Baha’u’llah
(Mirza Husayn-‘Ali Nuri), a wealthy and notable Babi, who made the
claim to be the Bab’s successor, and a prophet of God in his own
right—equal to, and perhaps greater than, the Bab himself. From his
exile in Ottoman realms (1853–1892), he reshaped the Babi teachings
into a new quietist and liberal religion with universal claims. All but a
small minority of Babis had become Baha’is, followers of Baha’u’llah,
by the time of the second prophet’s death (1892).
Subsequent diffusion of the Baha’is to Europe and America, in the
last years of the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twen-
tieth century, brought more transformations, with the explicit articu-
lation of Baha’i beliefs in terms of Christian themes, using Christian
terminology, and with reference to Christian scriptures. The Baha’i
faith self-consciously represented itself, almost from the beginning of
its arrival in the West, as a new religious movement—independent
and distinct from all other religions. Baha’is of both East and West
en thusiastically adopted quasi-democratic, Western parliamentary
forms as the organizational framework of their religion. Perhaps
somewhat prematurely, from the 1920s, Western Baha’is at least pre-
sented their religion to the public as the most recent of the great world
12 An observation made by Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, then the ‘Guardian’and head
of the Baha’i faith, in his official history of the first century of the religion, God Passes
By (Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1944) p. xii. This passage traces the sec-
tarian geneology of the Baha’i religion, which finds its roots in Babism (the “negli-
gible offshoot”), which arose from within Shaykhism (a Shi’ite school of theological
thought), which was a movement within mainstream, ‘Twelver’ (Ithna-‘Ashariyyih)
Shi’ism. The Twelvers accept a line of twelve (and only twelve) Imams as legitimate
successors to the Prophet Muhammad. The great majority of Shi’ites are Twelvers.

chapter one
religions of mankind. Today the Baha’i communities in America can
demonstrate the persistence of this new Western Baha’i identity into
the third and fourth generations.
Baha’i identity in the United States and Europe developed with a
distinct social agenda. The Baha’i community emerged in the United
States as a liberal, though non-political, voluntary association. Ameri-
can Baha’is were particularly notable for their strongly liberal position
on racial equality, even in the South, during a period of legal segrega-
tion and ubiquitous racism.13 Baha’is during this period summarized
their beliefs in ten or twelve social principles gleaned from Baha’i
scripture.14 These principles very much shaped their own identity and
offered a liberal face to the public. They were usually formulated as:
(1)
The oneness of mankind
(2)
Independent investigation of truth
(3)
The common foundation of all religions
(4)
The essential harmony of science and religion
(5)
Equality of men and women
(6)
Elimination of prejudice of all kinds
(7)
Universal compulsory education
(8)
A spiritual solution of the economic problem
(9)
A universal auxiliary language
(10) Universal peace upheld by a world government.15
13 For a full discussion of Baha’i racial history in the United States, see Gayle Mor-
rison’s surprisingly frank monograph To Move the World: Louis G. Gregory and the
Advancement of Racial Unity in America (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1982).
14 The list of principles was based on those outlined by ‘Abdu’l-Baha during his
public talks in the West, especially in the United States, in 1911–1912. See, for exam-
ple, Paris Talks: Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911, first published in
1912 (Eleventh Edition, Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979) and The Prom-
ulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to the
United States and Canada in 1912, first published in two volumes in 1922 and 1925
(Second Edition, Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982).
15 As listed in the popular Baha’i pamphlet One Universal Faith (Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, n.d. [1960?]). Sometimes, the last principle listed here would
be divided in two and presented as separate items: world peace and world government.
Occasionally, another principle ‘Religion must be the cause of unity and harmony’
would be added to the list. There was no hard and absolute list of these principles,
though all Baha’is would recognize that there was a list and could recite at least a few
of them.

introduction
Though the Baha’i principles were oriented toward social reform, from
the 1930s through the 1960s, American Baha’is in particular devoted an
enormous amount of their attention to establishing the machinery of
Baha’i Administration within their communities, almost to the exclu-
sion of anything else. Since the Baha’i faith has no clergy, the organiza-
tion of the affairs of the religion fell upon ordinary believers who were
elected to nine-member councils, known as local Spiritual Assemblies.
By the 1950s, these assemblies were the focus of most Baha’i activity
in the West. In fact, the expansion of the religion was conceptual-
ized almost exclusively in terms of the multiplication of these coun-
cils. Smith and Momen have noted the Americans’ “distinct tendency
toward over-administration”16 which resulted in many Baha’is view-
ing their faith largely in corporate and legalistic terms, but not to the
exclusion of charisma.17 The Assemblies themselves were given sacred
significance by the Baha’is and lauded as ‘divinely appointed institu-
tions’ through which divine guidance might flow.18
Only in the 1950s did the Baha’i religion begin to realize any sig-
nificant expansion beyond the United States and its Shi’ite lands of
origin. The record of its expansion since then has been impressive.
Baha’is have now established groups or communi ties in all countries
of the world, with followers drawn from diverse religious and ethnic
heritages. This includes an important presence in Africa. The Baha’i
faith in the West has achieved wide recognition of its claim to the sta-
tus of a world religion. It is not uncommon today for standard texts
on comparative religions to include a short chapter on the Baha’i faith
as a recent or emerging world religion.19
16 Peter Smith and Moojan Momen, “The Bahá’í Faith 1957–1988: A Survey of
Contemporary Developments,” Religion, Vol. 19 (1989) pp. 63–91.
17 I have also commented on this aspect of American Baha’i history. Anthony A.
Lee, ed., Circle of Unity: Bahá’í Approaches to Current Social Issues (Los Angeles: Kal-
imát Press, 1984).
18 See, for example, the compilation of Baha’i scripture authorized by the Universal
House of Justice, The Local Spiritual Assembly: An Institution of the Bahá’í Adminis-
trative Order (in various editions, for example, Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1970); John E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, 1950 Second Revised Edi-
tion (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950) pp. 218–21. The section on Baha’i
Administration in the revised edition of Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era is considerably
changed from the original edition of the book published in London in 1923.
19 See, for example, Warren Matthews, World Religions (St. Paul: West Publishing
Company, 1991); Lewis M. Hopfe, Religions of the World, Seventh Edition, ed. by
Mark R. Woodward (Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998); Chris Richards,
The Illustrated Encyclopedia of World Religions (Rockport, MA: Element, 1997); and

chapter one
The first serious efforts of Baha’is to establish their religion in West
Africa date from the 1950s, before which the Baha’i presence in Africa
was negligible. The World Christian Encyclopedia estimates that there
were a total of 1,732,816 Baha’is in Africa by the year 2000—this out of
a worldwide Baha’i population of 7,106,420.20 However, these figures
are widely understood to be unrealistically high.21 The International
Baha’i Community has always been reluctant to release numbers of
Baha’is for any place in the world.22 However, the figures that Smith
and Momen provide are probably accurate, though they include data
only to 1988. Margit Warburg has estimated figures for 2001. (See
Table 1.1.) The official Baha’i sources now claim a total of somewhere
in excess of five million Baha’is around the world, with about one mil-
lion of those living in Africa.23
The Academic Study of the Babi/Baha’i Religions
The Babi movement attracted the attention of Western scholars almost
from its beginnings. Important European orientalists, such as Browne,
Gobineau, Tumanski, and Nicolas, devoted portions of their academic
careers to the study of the Babis.24 They succeeded in preserving many
Geoffrey Parrinder, Sexual Morality in the World’s Religions (Oxford: Oneworld Pub-
lications, 1980 [1996]).
20 World Christian Encyclopedia: A Comparative Study of Churches and Religions
in the Modern World, Second Edition, Vol. 1 (Oxford University Press, 2001) pp. 4
and 13.
21 Margit Warburg, Citizens of the World: A History and Sociology of the Baha’is
from a Globalisation Perspective (Leiden: Brill, 2006) pp. 218–19.
22 This is a long-standing policy that dates at least from the beginning of Shoghi
Effendi’s ministry (1921). It was, no doubt, a strategy used to conceal the very tiny
numbers of Baha’is (at least, living outside of Iran) at that time. Baha’i institutions
have always preferred to confine their official release of statistics to numbers of Baha’i
local Spiritual Assemblies (that is, elected local councils), ‘groups,’ and ‘isolated cen-
ters.’ These are the kinds of statistics that were made available to the World Christian
Encyclopedia, and they seem simply to have overestimated the size of the average
Baha’i community. Actually, a Spiritual Assembly can be formed with as few as nine
Baha’is in a city; a ‘group’ represents a place where fewer than nine Baha’is reside; and
an ‘isolated center’ is a lone Baha’i living in a particular locality.
23 Cf. The Bahá’í World, 2004–2005 (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2006) p. 295.
24 The writings of E. G. Browne on the Babis and Baha’is are extensive and par-
ticularly important to English-language scholarship. These include: A Year Amongst
the Persians (London: A. and C. Black, 1893) and Materials for the Study of the Babí
Religion (Cambridge University Press, 1918). Browne was inspired by Comte de
Gobineau’s earlier Les Religions et les philosophes dans l’Asie centrale (Paris: C. Cres et
Cie., 1865). Tumanski published in Russian. Nicolas’s work was in French, including:
Seyyèd Ali Mohammed dit le Bâb (Paris: Dujarric, 1905) and translations of the Babi

introduction
important Babi texts and making initial observations on Babi history
which laid the foundation for future study. But, after this early schol-
arly curiosity, there was a gap of almost four decades before historians
were to seek a reevalua tion of the Babi-Baha’i movements in terms
of more contemporary theory. Ivanoff ’s Marxist interpretation and
Keddie’s millenarian approach led this trend.32 But, in fact, even these
scriptures Le Béyân arabe (Paris: Ernest Leroux, 1905) and Le Béyân persan (Paris:
Librairie Paul Geuthner, 1911–14).
25 All data for 2001 is from Warburg, Citizens of the World. Data for previous years
is from Smith and Momen.
26 Warburg’s data for Asia is divided between India and ‘Other Asia.’
27 The total of Warburg’s Europe, USA and Canada, and Australia and New Zea-
land categories.
28 This figure is for India alone.
29 Warburg’s ‘Other Asia’ figure.
30 This figure is for Latin America alone.
31 This figure is for all of Africa.
32 Mikhail S. Ivanov, Babidski Vostanii i Irane, 1848–1852 (Moscow: Trudy Insti-
tuta Vostok-vedeniya, 1939). Nikki R. Keddie, “Religion and Irreligion in Early Iranian
Nationalism,” Comparative Studies in History and Society, Vol. 4 (1962) pp. 265–95.
Table 1.1. Estimated Baha’i Populations
200125
(1)  Middle East and
North Africa
200,000
250,000
300,000
(See Asia: 3 & 4
below)26
(2)  North America,
Europe, and
Anglo-Pacific*
10,000
30,000
200,000
175,00027
(3) South Asia
1,000
300,000
1,900,000
1,900,00028
(4) South-east Asia
200,000
300,000
}1,200,00029
(5) East Asia
2,000
10,000
20,000
(6)  Latin America and
the Caribbean
100,000
700,000
800,00030
(7) Africa (sub-Saharan)
200,000
700,000
900,00031
(8)  Oceania (excluding
Anglo-Pacific)
5,000
70,000
125,000
Total
213,000
1,095,00
4,490,000
5,100,000
* Anglo-Pacific refers to Hawaii, Australia, and New Zealand.
Sources: Peter Smith and Moojan Momen, “The Baha’i Faith 1957–1988: A Survey of Contemporary
Developments,” Religion, Vol. 19 (1989) pp. 63–91. The 1954 figure for North America, Europe, and
Anglo-Pacific is probably a bit high. Numbers for 2001 are from: Margit Warburg, Citizens of the
World: A History and Sociology of the Baha’is from a Globalisation Perspective (Leiden: Brill, 2006)
pp. 222–27.

chapter one
scholars had little interest in the Baha’i religion itself as a phenom-
enon. Their concern was to fit the events of Babi and Baha’i history
into some larger ideological interpretation of history or some larger
understanding of social theory.
More recently, much new scholarship has been under taken—in
many cases by Baha’i scholars—with a renewed interest in primary
research. Johnson’s dissertation on Baha’i history (1974) marks per-
haps the beginning of this new literature.33 This dissertation was
important because it explicitly argued for the importance of the Baha’i
faith as a subject of academic study. It also provided the first non-
polemical interpretation of internal developments within the Baha’i
faith that had appeared in the academic literature in many decades.
Johnson suggested that the Babi-Baha’i religions had reinterpreted and
transformed their core teachings and values—in almost chameleon-
like fashion—right from their inception. Surprisingly, perhaps, this
view was not far removed from Baha’i self-perception, and Johnson’s
dissertation was given a fairly warm reception within the Baha’i com-
munity itself.34
Johnson’s thesis was followed by Garlington’s study (1975)35 and
then Garrigues’s dissertation (1976)36 on the Baha’is of India. Kahn’s
analysis (1977)37 of Baha’i conversion in the rural American South,
Hampson’s study of Baha’i global expansion (1980),38 and Hassall’s
history of the Baha’i faith in Australia (1984) followed in their turn.39
33 Vernon Elvin Johnson, “An Historical Analysis of Critical Transformations in the
Evolution of the Baha’i World Faith,” Ph.D. dissertation, Baylor University, 1974.
34 The first chapter of his dissertation was actually reprinted in the official journal
of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’ís of the United States. Vernon Elvin
Johnson, “The Challenge of the Bahá’í Faith” in World Order, Vol. 10, No. 3 (1976)
pp. 39ff.
35 William N. Garlington, “The Baha’i Faith in Malwa: A Study of a Contemporary
Religious Movement,” Ph.D. dissertation, Australia National University, 1975.
36 Steve L. Garrigues, “The Baha’is of Malwa: Identity and Change Among the
Urban Baha’is of Malwa,” Ph.D. dissertation, Lucknow University, 1976.
37 Sandra Santolucito Kahn, “Encounter of Two Myths: Baha’i and Christian in the
Rural American South—A Study in Transmythicization,” Ph.D. dissertation, Univer-
sity of California at Santa Barbara, 1977.
38 Arthur Hampson, “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith,” Ph.D. disserta-
tion, University of Hawaii, 1980.
39 Graham H. Hassall, “The History of the Baha’í Faith in Australia, 1920–1963,”
B.A. thesis, University of Sydney, 1984. See also, idem., “The Bahá’í Faith in Australia,”
in Ian Gillman, ed., Many Faiths, One Nation (Melbourne: William Collins, 1988);
idem., “Outpost of a World Religion: The Bahá’í Faith in Australia, 1920–1947,” in
Peter Smith, ed., Bahá’ís in the West: Studies in the Babí and Bahá’í Religions, Volume

introduction
Hasan Balyuzi’s work, published during this same period, was
intended for a Baha’i audience and does not pretend to be academic,
but should not be overlooked.40 His pioneering monograph Edward
Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith (1970)41 was clearly written as
a defense of orthodox Baha’i positions. But, the work respected schol-
arly standards and signaled a new willingness at the highest levels of
Baha’i leadership to engage in academic discourse. It also awakened
young Baha’is entering universities to the possibility of the academic
study of Baha’i history. Balyuzi’s full biography of Baha’u’llah (1980)
was also written to serve a pastoral function within the Baha’i commu-
nity. Baha’is instantly accepted it as the definitive work on the subject.
But its foundation in primary-source documentation, use of the full
apparatus of academic forms, references to variant accounts, and so
forth, reinforced the legitimacy of an academic approach within the
Baha’i community and blurred the previous hard distinction between
faith-based history and disinterested scholarly inquiry.
The next internal development was the publication of the first
of the series of volumes that was initially titled Studies in Babí and
Bahá’í History.42 Volume One (1982),43 edited by Moojan Momen,
who regarded himself as a student of Balyuzi,44 was fully academic in
tone and content and became the object of some controversy in Baha’i
circles, since it openly challenged some faith-based assumptions.
11 (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004). This last paper was actually completed and
circulated in 1988, but published later.
40 Hasan M. Balyuzi: The Bab: The Herald of the Day of Days (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1973); idem., Bahá’u’lláh, the King of Glory (Oxford: George Ronald, 1980);
idem., ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Center of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh (London: George Ron-
ald, 1971); idem., Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh: with some historical
background (Oxford: George Ronald, 1985).
41 H. M. Balyuzi, Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1970).
42 With Volume Five, the name of the series was changed to accommodate a wider
diversity of articles to Studies in the Babí and Bahá’í Religions. I am general editor of
the entire series. A complete listing of the volumes published (Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press) to date is included in the bibliography of this book under my name.
43 Moojan Momen, ed., Studies in Babí and Bahá’í History, Volume One (Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1982). Momen is a medical doctor by profession, but he has
published a number of books as an independent scholar which have gained wide
recognition in the academic community, most notably his An Introduction to Shi’i
Islam.
44 See Momen’s tribute to Balyuzi in Volume Five of the Studies series which he
titled Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
1988) pp. vii–xx.

chapter one
Volume Nine Modernity and the Millennium (1988) was published by
Columbia University Press. It was privately rejected and condemned
by the Baha’i leadership as too academic, in that it sought to attribute
the teachings of Baha’u’llah in their view, not to divine revelation, but
to the convergence of social forces. The Studies series has published
its twenty-second volume45 and has received fairly wide acceptance in
the Baha’i community. Nonetheless, this series and all other books by
its publisher have recently become the object of a boycott by Baha’i
institutions in large parts of the English-speaking world due to con-
troversies over the publisher’s academic books.
Outside of the Baha’i community, the study of the Babi-Baha’i reli-
gions has developed into a field of interest in academe. MacEoin’s dis-
sertation on the Shaykhi-Babi transition period (1980)46 and Amanat’s
dissertation on the early years of the Bab’s ministry (1981)47 brought
the movement into the full light of academic study. Bayat’s Mysticism
and Dissent (1982)48 took the Babi movement seriously as an element
of Iranian political and socioreligious history. Momen’s collection of
historical documents (1981),49 and the publication of Smith’s sociologi-
cal survey (1987)50 were also important in expanding the field. Amanat’s
history was published by Cornell University Press in 1989, and had the
effect of bringing Babi history for the first time into the mainstream
study of modern Iranian history. Cole’s monograph Modernity and
the Millennium (1998) played a similar role in bringing Baha’i history
more clearly into the consciousness of Middle East historians. Cole’s
book was the first full volume on the Baha’i religion51 published by an
academic press since Browne’s work (1918). Margit Warburg’s volume
Baha’i in the series Studies in Contemporary Religion52 approaches the
45 This book is counted as Volume Twenty-three.
46 MacEoin, “From Shaykhism to Babism.”
47 Abbas Amanat, “The Early Years of the Babi Movement: Background and Devel-
opment,” Ph.D. dissertation, Oxford University, 1981. Published as idem., Resurrec-
tion and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement in Iran, 1844–1850 (Ithaca, NY:
Cornell University Press, 1989 [Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2005]).
48 Mangol Bayat, Mysticism and Dissent: Socioreligious Thought in Qajar Iran (Syra-
cuse University Press, 1982).
49 Moojan Momen, ed., The Babí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844–1944: Some Contem-
porary Western Accounts (Oxford: George Ronald, 1981).
50 Peter Smith, The Babi and Baha’i Religions: From Messianic Shi’ism to a World
Religion (Cambridge University Press, 1987).
51 As opposed to the Babi religion, that is.
52 Margit Warburg, Baha’i, Studies in Contemporary Religions, Massimo Introvigne,
series ed. (Torino: Signature Books, 2001). Originally published in Italian as I baha’i.

introduction
Baha’i faith as a fully legitimate subject for academic study, as does
her subsequent collection of essays Baha’i and Globalisation and her
full monograph Citizens of the World.53 Two other volumes of col-
lected essays, Iran im 19.Jahrhundert und die Entstehung der Bahā’ī
Religion (1998),54 with three important articles in English; and Studies
in Modern Religions: Religious Movements and the Bābī-Bahā’ī Faiths,55
based on papers delivered at the International Conference on Modern
Religious Movements held at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in
December 2000, should not be overlooked.
There now exists a considerable published body of new academic
literature on the Baha’i Faith. Unfortunately, almost all of this new
scholarly attention has been centered on Babis and Baha’is in Iran
and in America. To a much lesser extent, the Baha’i communities of
India and of Europe have received some attention. Pioneering work
has been conducted on the history of Baha’is in Britain56 and in
Australia.57 There are two studies by sociologists, one that examines
the Baha’i community of Atlanta, Georgia,58 and the other, the ori-
gins of the Baha’i community of Canada.59 Full monographs have been
published on the Baha’is of the Netherlands60 and of Denmark,61 and
two volumes on Baha’is and globalization issues.62
53 Margit Warburg, Annika Hvithamar, and Morten Warmind, eds., Baha’i and
Globalisation (Aarhus University Press, 2005); Warburg, Citizens of the World.
54 Johann Christoph Burgel and Isabel Schayani, eds., Iran im 19.Jahrhundert und
die Entstehung der Bahā’ī Religion (Zurich: Georg Olms Verlag, 1998).
55 Moshe Sharon, ed., Studies in Modern Religions: Religious Movements and the
Bābī-Bahā’ī Faiths (Leiden: Brill, 2004).
56 Phillip R. Smith, “What Was a Bahá’í? Concerns of British Bahá’ís, 1900–1920,”
in Momen, Studies, Vol. 5, pp. 219–51; idem., “The Development and Influence of the
Bahá’í Administrative Order in Great Britain, 1914–1950” in Hollinger, Community
Histories, pp. 217–40; and Ismael Velasco, “The Bahá’í Community in Edinburgh,
1946–1950” in Peter Smith, Bahá’ís in the West, pp. 265–93.
57 Graham Hassall, “Outpost of a World Religion.”
58 Michael McMullen, The Bahá’í: The Religious Construction of a Global Identity
(New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, 2000).
59 Will C. van den Hoonaard, The Origins of the Bahá’í Community of Canada,
1898–1948 (Waterloo, Ont.: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 1996).
60 Jelle de Vries, The Babi Question You Mentioned . . . : The Origins of the Bahá’í
Community of the Netherlands, 1844–1962 (Leuven: Peeters, 2002).
61 Margit Warburg, Baha’i: The Invisible Religion of Denmark (University of Copen-
hagen, forthcoming).
62 Margit Warburg, et al., eds., Baha’i and Globalisation; and idem., World Citizens:
A History and Sociology of the Baha’is in a Globalisation Perspective, which gives spe-
cial emphasis to Europe and Israel.

chapter one
Despite this impressive scholarly work, the Baha’i communities
in the Third World are mostly unstudied. Smith and Momen have
included the Third World in their general surveys,63 but with no spe-
cific information. Africa, with fully 20% of the world’s Baha’i popu-
lation remains virtually untouched by academic inquiry (also Latin
America, for that matter).64 This work will attempt to fill a small part
of that gap.
Methods and Sources
In a significant sense, this book was made possible by the diligence
and care of Valerie Wilson, an African American Baha’i who moved to
Liberia in 1952 to spread the Baha’i teachings and further the interests
of the religion. Wilson became an important Baha’i administrator in
West Africa, being elected to the regional National Spiritual Assembly
of the Baha’is of North West Africa, and also appointed to the Auxil-
iary Board (a board of assistants to the Hands of the Cause, the depu-
ties of Shoghi Effendi). She kept meticulous records of her activities,
copies of her correspondence, and copies of reports made to Baha’i
institutions on the state of West African Baha’i communities.
I was very much privileged to have an opportunity to interview Wil-
son in June 1983, in her home in Menlo Park, California. She spoke
openly and candidly about her Baha’i experiences in West Africa dur-
ing her years of residence there. She also gave me full access to her
personal papers, which were the records of her service as an Auxiliary
Board member.65 While these records reflect mostly the institutional
concerns of growth, expansion, the fulfillment of goals, and so forth,
63 Smith and Momen, “The Baha’i Faith 1957–1988” and Smith, “The Bahá’í Faith
in the West: A Survey” in Bahá’ís in the West, pp. 3–62.
64 The only article on Baha’is in Africa that has been published in a secular, aca-
demic journal is still Loni Bramson-Lerche’s “The Baha’i Faith in Nigeria” in Dialogue
& Alliance, Vol. 6, No. 4 (Winter 1992–93) pp. 104–125. See also Bramson’s “Errata”
for that article.
65 Wilson explained to me during our conversations that she had also carefully kept
the records of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of North West Africa, as
she was the secretary of the Assembly. However, she no longer had them. After her
return to the United States, she had traveled back to West Africa and returned the
National Assembly’s records to where she felt they belonged. They were left in the
care of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Nigeria. However, she later
learned that these records had been lost or misplaced. I have no further information
about them, but we might hope that they are not permanently lost. The original copies

introduction
there is enough additional material to provide important insights into
the nature of the Baha’i religion in West Africa and the attitudes of
indigenous Baha’is there.
This book is based entirely on archival materials that were avail-
able to me. These include the published reports of Baha’i activities
in Africa that have been produced by the international Baha’i com-
munity, particularly in the international newsletter Bahá’í News and
the occasional yearbooks, The Bahá’í World, that were published from
time to time. In addition, I was able to make brief visits to the National
Bahá’í Archives in Wilmette, Illinois; the archives of the Basel Mission,
in Basel, Switzerland; and the archives of the American Presbyterian
Church in Philadelphia.
In addition to these, I have been able to make use of the papers
of Don Addison, an American Baha’i who lived in West Africa for
some years. Addison was an ethnomusicologist and took an interest in
recording Baha’i music. However, he also conducted interviews with
Baha’is that he recorded. His concerns were mostly faith-based, and he
was not trained as an historian. But his interviews with African Baha’is
have proven to be extremely useful to me.
Unfortunately, I have been unable to travel to West Africa to con-
duct interviews myself. Certainly, the most valuable source of evidence
for the meaning of the expansion of the Baha’i faith in West Africa
between 1952 and 1962, the subject of this study, would come from
the personal reminiscences of the early Baha’is themselves. Though
that has always been my hope, its realization has eluded me. How-
ever, I did have the great honor and pleasure of interviewing Samiheh
Banani in 1991, at the home of her son and daughter-in-law, Amin and
Sheila Banani, in Santa Monica, California. Samiheh Banani, known as
Mama-jan among the Baha’is, was the wife of the Hand of the Cause of
God Musa Banani. Together, she and her husband had moved to East
Africa to be among the first Baha’is to relocate there for the purpose
of spreading the Baha’i religion. I was fortunate enough to be able to
speak to her at length on a number of occasions. Her insights and
memories were invaluable.
Unfortunately, there is no academic literature on the Baha’i faith in
West Africa, as I have noted. Generally speaking, the scholarly work
of the Auxiliary Board records that I was able to photocopy were donated by Wilson
to the National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Illinois.

chapter one
that has been done on New Religious Movements in Africa has simply
overlooked the more than one million Baha’is who live there. John
S. Mbiti’s book, African Religions and Philosophy, managed to men-
tion Baha’i in passing.66 But other academic work on new religions
in Africa has passed it over in silence. Indeed, the very idea of a new
religious movement arising in Third-World Iran in the nineteenth
century, escaping from its Islamic roots, and finding a significant
community of converts in the United States and Europe, who then,
in turn—along with their Persian co-religionists—manage to establish
their movement in Africa a century later, has not even been contem-
plated by academia, as yet.
Summary of Chapters
Chapter One has simply been a discussion of the academic study of
the Baha’i religion.
Chapter Two focuses on the African presence at the genesis of the
Babi/Baha’i movement in Iran, a presence that continues to be erased
and ignored in all the literatures.
Chapter Three is concerned with theoretical issues. It asks the ques-
tion of why the Babi/Baha’i movement should have been successful
at all—first in Iran, and later in America and in West Africa. This
chapter develops the idea that the Baha’i teachings are fundamentally a
religious response to modernity and its challenges to society. Looking
at the missionary presence in Africa, it seeks to explain why the crisis
of modernity would have been particularly acute within mission com-
munities. It argues that in the contemporary environment of modern
crisis, which is ongoing and ubiquitous, the Baha’i faith offered a pro-
ductive religious alternative that was compelling to some.
Chapter Four seeks to sketch an outline of the diffusion and expan-
sion of the Baha’i faith in West Africa. Since this expansion was accom-
plished by conscious planning, it reviews the international Baha’i plans
that led to the movement of Baha’i pioneers (missionaries) to West
Africa and their relative successes and failures. It is primarily con-
cerned with the institutional development of the religion in the first
ten years of its presence in the area. The chapter pays special attention
66 John S. Mbiti, African Religions and Philosophy (New York: Doubleday and
Company, 1969) pp. 340–41ff.

introduction
to the African American Baha’is who moved from the United States
to bring their religion to West Africa.
Chapters Five and Six attempt to ask more difficult and, I believe,
more interesting questions about the development of a Baha’i commu-
nity in Africa. They are concerned with asking what message Baha’is
brought to Africa, how that message was delivered, and how it was
understood and received by Africans. Therefore, these chapters are
concerned with questions of meaning. What did the Baha’i faith mean
to those Africans who converted to it in the first years of its existence in
sub-Saharan Africa? What meaning did those early conversions have,
in turn, for the larger Baha’i world community? Why did the religion
spread rapidly in some areas, and not at all in others? How were the
Baha’i teachings practiced and reinterpreted by the new Baha’is? And
perhaps most interestingly, in West Africa, why was the religion most
successful as a movement within the Christian mission community in
the British Cameroons?
Chapter Five explores the nexus of missionary Christian commu-
nities at the end of the colonial period. It discusses the beginnings
of Baha’i conversions in East Africa, which became the source of dif-
fusion to parts of West Africa. Chapter Six looks specifically at the
British Cameroons, where the religion was most successful in terms
of converts. It investigates the role of Enoch Olinga, the Ugandan pio-
neer who carried the Baha’i faith to the Cameroons, and the role of the
traditional African religious context into which these new teachings
were inserted.
Chapter Seven changes the subject entirely. It follows the short
career of an African Baha’i preacher who briefly established a Baha’i
church in Calabar, Nigeria, independent of any outside Baha’i influ-
ence. It recounts the success, and then the collapse, of this church
and the conversion of its leaders to a more orthodox Baha’i teaching.
This chapter reminds us that master narratives are simply historical
constructions—they do not account for everything. While the early
history of the Baha’i faith in West Africa will inevitably be recalled as
a history of growth and expansion, there were also other things going
on that are ultimately more important.
While I think that it is premature to come to any hard and fast
conclusions concerning the history of the Baha’i faith in Africa at this
point in the development of scholarship in the field, I conclude with
a brief statement written in lieu of such conclusions. Here I affirm
that I am highly suspicious of master narratives—especially triumphal

chapter one
narratives of growth, expansion, and success. Nonetheless, there are
certain themes and issues that emerge in the study of Baha’is in West
Africa. These include a wide divergence of belief and practice among
communities in various areas; the influence of Iranian, American, and
African pioneers; questions of boundaries and religious identities; and
the highly uneven growth of the Baha’i community in different areas
which allows us to identify some areas as unqualified successes and
others as utter failures. These themes, more than anything else, suggest
a field ripe for future research.

CHAPTER TWO
THE AFRICAN PRESENCE AT THE GENESIS OF THE BABI/
BAHA’I RELIGIONS
From its earliest beginnings, the Baha’i religion knew an African dimen-
sion and included African converts. Even the hagiographic accounts of
Mulla Husayn’s conversion mention an African man who was present
on the first night of the Bab’s ‘declaration.’ This man, who is invari-
ably referred to as the Bab’s ‘Ethiopian servant,’ attended to his master
and guest that evening. He can be glimpsed a number of times in Babi
histories as a servant and companion of the Bab and a participant in
some of the early events of his master’s new ministry.
It is, I suppose, to be expected that the nineteenth-century Iranian
sources leave it at that; they attach no significance to this African pres-
ence. It is perhaps less understandable, however, that contemporary
histories reflect this same attitude, ignoring the implications of Afri-
cans participating in founding events of Baha’i history. Nonetheless, as
will be seen, that presence was important, visible, and profound.
The ‘Ethiopian servant,’ Haji Mubarak, was purchased by the Bab
in 1842 (two years before the beginning of his religious mission) from
Haji Mirza Abu’l-Qasim, a brother of the Bab’s wife, Khadijih Bagum.
Mubarak was nineteen years old. He had been transported from East
Africa as a child, bought from slave traders when he was five years
old, and trained for business and domestic service in the household
of the Bab’s future brother-in-law. His education is said to have been
‘exemplary.’1 He was literate and skilled at commerce, and the Bab
entrusted him with the task of settling his outstanding accounts and
winding up his business affairs in Shiraz.2 Nonetheless, he has remained
invisible to history.
1 Abu’l-Qasim Afnan, Black Pearls: Servants in the Households of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988 [1999], p. 5.
2 Ibid., p. 6.

chapter two
Illustration 2.1. An African Slave, 1840
A portrait of a black slave, probably Ethiopian, dated 1256 ah/1840 ad.
In the manuscript he has in his hands, his face is compared to the ‘night of
revelation’ (laylat al-qadr) of the Prophet Muhammad. The painting, from the
Qajar period, is contemporary with the Bab and his servant, Haji Mubarak.
Source: Vanessa Martin, The Qajar Pact: Bargaining, Protest and the State in
Nineteenth-Century Persia (London: I. B. Tauris & Co., 2005).

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
Slaves as Non-persons
Orlando Patterson, in his broad comparative study of slavery around
the world, defines the condition of slavery as a kind of social death.
Slaves in all societies, and in all periods of history, were considered
to be persons without rights and without moral claims on the wider
community. Patterson suggests that:
Perhaps the most distinctive attribute of the slave’s powerlessness was
that it always originated (or was conceived of as having originated) as a
substitute for death, usually violent death. . . .  Archetypically, slavery was
a substitute for death in war. But almost as frequently, the death com-
muted was punishment for some capital offense, or death from exposure
or starvation.3
The only human relationship that slaves held that was socially recog-
nized or legally sanctioned was their relationship to the master. In all
other situations, they were social and legal non-persons. As such, the
slave was stripped of all claims of birth and belonged (of his own right)
to no social order.
Patterson argues that this ‘social death’ included the slaves’ alien-
ation from all kinship ties in the present, and their alienation from all
relationship to ancestors and from history itself:
Not only was the slave denied all claims on, and obligations to, his par-
ents and living blood relations but, by extension, all such claims and
obligations on his more remote ancestors and on his descendants. He
was truly a genealogical isolate. Formally isolated in his social relations
with those who lived, he also was culturally isolated from the social heri-
tage of his ancestors. . . . Slaves differed from other human beings in that
they were not allowed freely to integrate the experience of their ances-
tors into their lives, to inform their understanding of social reality with
the inherited meanings of their natural forebears, or to anchor the living
present in any conscious community of memory. . . .
One of the most significant findings of Michael Craton’s study of the
oral history of the descendants of the Worthy Park plantation slaves
of Jamaica was the extraordinary shallowness of their genealogical and
3 Orlando Patterson, Slavery and Social Death: A Comparative Study (Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1982) p. 5. Patterson’s book is a work of great breadth
that calls on ancient, pre-modern, and modern periods of history and compares sixty-
six societies over time—including Greece, Rome, medieval Europe, China, Africa, the
Islamic world, and the American South.

chapter two
historical memory. The same is attested by the recorded interviews with
American ex-slaves.4
Slaves, as Patterson explains, are denied any rights to their own heri-
tage. They are also denied any role in history. Until recently, written
histories might make reference to slaves as a class or a group, even as
a gang in rebellion. But as non-persons, individual slaves were erased
from historical memory. They could be remembered as objects, but not
as independent actors in history. Slaves were excluded from history,
just as they were excluded from society. An individual slave might
be praised for his loyalty, even his bravery, but his life could have no
significance beyond devotion to his master. For the most part, this
remains the state of the academic literature even today.
Slavery in Iran
Unfortunately, little is known about the history of black slavery in
Iran. Thomas Ricks has noted this ‘perplexing void’ in Iranian his-
tory. He complains about the paucity of scholarship on “the subject of
slaves, slave trade, trade routes, collection stations, creditors, or slavery
for the medieval, early modern or modern periods of Iranian history.”5
Nonetheless, by the mid-1800s, the importation of slaves into Iranian
4 Patterson, Slavery, pp. 5–6. Patterson cites Craton’s Searching for the Invisible
Man: Slaves and Plantation Life in Jamaica (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press, 1978) pp. 45–48.
5 Thomas Ricks, “Slaves and Slave Trading in Shi’i Iran, ad 1500–1900,” Journal of
Asian and African Studies, Vol. 36 (2001) no. 4, pp. 407–418. In addition to Ricks’s
comments, Ronald Segal comments at length on the paucity of academic work done
on slavery in Iran in Islam’s Black Slaves: The Other Black Diaspora (New York: Farrar,
Strauss and Giroux, 2001) pp. 121–27. The only doctoral dissertation written on the
history of Iranian slavery appears to be Behnaz A. Mirzai’s “Slavery, the Abolition of
the Slave Trade, and the Emancipation of Slaves in Iran (1828–1928),” Ph.D. disserta-
tion, York University, Ontario, 2004. By the same author, see “African Presence in
Iran: Identity and its Reconstruction,” in O. Petre-Grenouilleau, ed., Traites et Escla-
vages: Vieux Problemes, Nouvelles Perspectives? (Paris: Société Française d’Histoire
d’Outre-mer, 2002) pp. 229–46; and, “The Slave Trade and the African Diaspora in
Iran” in Abdul Sheriff, ed., Monsoon and Migration: Unleashing Dhow Synergies (Zan-
zabar: ZIFF, 2005). Other useful discussions of slavery in Islam, with brief references
to Iran, include Joseph E. Harris, The African Presence in Asia: Consequences of the
East African Slave Trade (Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1971) and Ber-
nard Lewis, Race and Slavery in the Middle East: An Historical Enquiry (New York:
Oxford University Press, 1990).
Apparently there is little memory of African slavery among contemporary Iranians,
at least among those in Los Angeles. Whenever I raise the subject among Iranian

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
cities had been a long-established practice. Behnaz Mirzai has con-
cluded that reports from the time indicate that the majority of African
slaves taken from the East African coast were imported into Iranian
ports.6
Domestic slavery had become the social norm for the royal court,
for wealthy families, and even for some middle-class merchants like
the Bab. For an urban, Iranian family of any wealth and status during
this period, the seclusion of the women of the household (or at least
the pretense of such seclusion7) was a supreme necessity. Respectable
Muslim women were expected to remain within the private sections of
their houses and gardens, and to venture out only when strictly veiled.
Women of this class were, at least officially, expected to have no con-
tact with men who were not their husbands or immediate relatives—
such as fathers, brothers, or sons. In such a society, domestic slaves
or ‘household servants’ were needed to carry out the public business
of the house in streets and markets, and to maintain the honor of
the family. Slaves and low-class women might haggle in the bazaar or
move about the town without a specific destination, but such things
were off-limits to high-caste, veiled women.
In Iran, there was some use of slaves as laborers for public works,
and some were conscripted into the military. However, by the mid-
nineteenth century, African slaves were almost always destined for
domestic service. The importation of slaves to Iran for domestic ser-
vice and concubinage continued into the twentieth century. In 1905,
for example, Jamila Khanum, an Ethiopian slave in Shiraz, wrote a
letter summarizing her life as a slave. She writes:
friends and acquaintances they express shock and deny that such a thing could ever
have existed in Iran.
6 Mirzai, “Slavery,” p. 70.
7 This was as much a matter of pretense as anything else. Lady Sheil noted, with
regard to Tehran in the early 1850s: “[Women of] all classes enjoy abundance of lib-
erty, more so, I think, than among us. The complete envelopment of the face and
person [the veil, or chadur] disguises them effectually from the nearest relatives, and
destroying, when convenient, all distinction of rank, gives unrestrained freedom. The
bazars [sic] are crowded with women in this most ungraceful disguise. The weekly
bath and constant visits consume a large share of their time; and Thursday afternoon
is devoted to a mock pilgrimage to some shrine outside the town, or else to the grave
of some relation.” Lady Mary Elenor Sheil, Glimpses of Life and Manners in Persia
(London: John Murray, 1856) pp. 145–46. I am grateful to Sen McGlinn for bringing
this quote to my attention.

chapter two
My name is Jamīla Habashī [Ethiopian], my father is Lulā’d-Dīn from
Sāho, my mother Loshābah, and from the Omrānīah tribe. I was enslaved
when I was a child then was brought to Mecca where I was sold to a
broker; the broker took me to Basra from the Jabal, and sold me to
an Iranian broker named Mullā ‘Alī, who shipped me from Basra to
Muhammara and from there he took me to the Bushihr port and there
he sold me to a merchant called Hājī Mīrzā Ahmad Kázirunī who is in
Shīrāz now, I was his concubine for four years in Bushihr then Hājī took
me to Shīrāz and kept me there for five years; in total, I was with him
for nine years and then he sold me to Nasir Nizām the son of ‘Atāu’llāh.
After one year, Nasír sold me to Hājī Muhammad ‘Alī Khān. Now it has
been five years that I have been with him.8
A distinction in desirability and price was made between ‘Ethiopian’
slaves and East African (siddi, zanji) slaves from farther south on the
continent. Systems of classification are, of course, common wherever
there is slavery.9 Sheil notes that African slaves in Iran were divided
into three types: ‘Bambassees, Nubees, and Habeshees. The former
come from Zanzibar, and the neighboring country in the interior but
I don’t know the etymology of the name [certainly from ‘Mombasa’].
The others as their names imply are natives of Nubia and Abyssinia.’10
Abyssinians were considered superior to the others, and males were
therefore more likely to receive a full education and be placed in posi-
tions of responsibility and family trust.11 They could be given important
jobs within the household, even acting as their master’s confidential
stewards.12
It was also common for male slaves from Africa—both ‘Ethiopian’
and otherwise—to be castrated as children before being exported to
the Middle East. If the child survived the operation, he would fetch
a much higher price on the market as a eunuch.13 Such slaves were
8 Jamila’s saga apparently begins in 1880. Quoted in Mirzai, “Slavery,” p. 72,
from the statement of Jamila, 8 Shawwál 1323, File 2, Box 3, 1323, Center of Docu-
ments, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tehran. Mirzai suggests in footnotes nos. 24 and
25 (Ibid.), that Sāho is “a Cushitic-speaking group in northern Ethiopia,” and that
Omrānīah presumably refers to the Oromo. The latter supposition is certainly not true
because linguistic barriers would prevent such a shift in pronunciation. (Christopher
Ehret, personal conversation, July 2, 2007.)
9 Slaves are, after all, commodities that must be classified and priced.
10 Sheil, Glimpses of Life and Manners in Persia, pp. 243–45.
11 See Ibid. The book also contains an early account of the Babi movement in Iran.
See also, Harris, The African Presence, pp. 39–40, especially note 25.
12 Mirzai, “Slavery,” p. 112.
13 In Iran, at this time, the price of a eunuch was three times more than that of
other slaves. (Mirzai, “Slavery,” pp. 118)

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
bought specifically to act as attendants to the women of wealthy house-
holds. Of course, their mutilation insured that their close association
with the women in such households would be beyond reproach. A
eunuch could sometimes become his master’s confidant.14 All sources
are silent on this issue, of course—but because of the nature of his
service in the household of the Bab, it is likely that Haji Mubarak was
a eunuch.
Polak stated in 1865 that the majority of black slaves (ghulams, kan-
izes) living in Iran were born in Africa.15 In 1868, a census in Teh-
ran found that 12% of the civilians in the city were African slaves or
‘household servants’ (who may or may not have been Africans16). This
count includes only urban households, and not slaves who were used
in agricultural work, or to maintain the irrigation system.17 This census
reveals the extent of domestic slavery in nineteenth-century Iran and
the importance of the African population in cities, which is invariably
ignored in Iranian history.
There does not seem to me to be any reason to think that the situ-
ation in Shiraz twenty-five years earlier, when the Bab acquired his
slaves, was qualitatively different. Indeed, since Shiraz is closer to the
Persian Gulf slave routes, and since in the 1840s there was less inter-
national anti-slavery activity than there was in the 1860s, I would sup-
pose that the population of African slaves would be even larger there.
Mirzai notes that Afro-Iranian communities were established in the
towns and cities all along the southern coast of Iran. A report in 1847
shows that 3,488 slaves were brought that year to the Persian Gulf, and
most of those were destined for Iran.18 Shiraz was one of the principal
14 At least, according to Harris, The African Presence, p. 40.
15 Jakob Eduard Polak, Persien, das Land und seine Bewohner (Leipzig:Brockhaus,
1865) p. 248. Cf. Mirzai, “Slavery,” p. 80.
16 Still, I am highly suspicious of the census category ‘household servants’ in this
context. The slave trade had been formally outlawed by the Iranian government in
1848, but the importation of slaves from Africa had continued. Under such circum-
stances it may have been prudent for the wealthy to refer to their African slaves as
‘household servants,’ especially in official matters like a census. It may have been even
more prudent for the Iranian government to refer to household slaves in public docu-
ments like a census with an ambiguous designation that would attract a minimum of
foreign scrutiny and condemnation.
17 Segal, Islam’s Black Slaves, p. 126, quoting an unpublished paper by Thomas
Ricks, which was eventually published as “Slaves and Slave Trading in Shi’i Iran, ad
1500–1900.”. I am grateful to Sen McGlinn for locating the published paper for me.
18 Mirzai, “Slavery,” pp. 97–98.

chapter two
cities in the south where slaves were disembarked for sale or transfer,
and so the African population there must have been significant.19
A 12% segment of the urban population simply cannot be ignored
and suggests that there have been significant African influences on all
aspects of Iranian culture—from food to music to language to reli-
gion. This represents roughly the percentage of African Americans to
be found living in the United States today, and of course the study of
black people and their influence on American history and culture is a
major field of academic study. Clearly, the study of the African pres-
ence in Iran could be a major field of Iranian studies, as well—even if
the estimate of 12% were to be cut in half. As in the American South,
this would be true especially as regards the influence that presence had
on the culture of upper-class and wealthy Persian families.
Edward Alpers has also noted the absence of scholarship on the
African diaspora in the Indian Ocean and on African cultural influ-
ences on societies from the Arabian Peninsula to India.20 More than a
decade ago he called forcefully for the study of Africans in the north-
western Indian Ocean. However, his pioneering call for more research,
for the most part, has not been taken up by other scholars.21 The con-
sensus of all histories of Iran today insists, quite inexplicably, on “the
all but complete disappearance of a black diaspora in Persia.”22
Although the significance of his African presence is ignored in the
account, Nabil’s narrative—the most well-known and popular Baha’i
history—records that Mubarak acted as the doorman at the Bab’s
house on the evening of Mulla Husayn’s conversion. As such, he
greeted both master and guest as they arrived at the house.23 Beyond
this, he attended to the other needs of the two men while the conver-
19 Ibid., pp. 74 and 78.
20 Edward A. Alpers, “The African Diaspora in the Northwestern Indian Ocean:
Reconsidration of an Old Problem, New Directions in Research,” Comparative Stud-
ies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East (formerly South Asia Bulletin), Vol. 17
(1997) no. 2, pp. 62–81. Even Alpers’s article—while calling on evidence from Arabia
and India—was unable to discuss Iran as the site of African cultural influence, how-
ever. Presumably, this is because so little has been written on the subject.
21 Campbell’s important volumes, Women and Slavery, do not mention Iran, for
example, as her earlier edited anthology, The Structure of Slavery in Indian Ocean
Africa and Asia (London: Frank Cass, 2004) did not.
22 Segal, Islam’s Black Slaves, p. 127. Of course, such an assessment rests on the
racial classification of the Iranian population into contemporary Western categories,
which is questionable at best.
23 Nabíl-i A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 53.

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
sation continued all night in the Bab’s chambers, as the Bab sought
to convince Mulla Husayn of his divine mission and related his new
religious teachings. The mulla’s own recollections of Mubarak’s service
are recorded:
At the third hour after sunset, my Host ordered the dinner to be served.
That same Ethiopian servant appeared again and spread before us the
choicest food. That holy repast refreshed alike my body and soul. In
the presence of my Host, at that hour, I felt as though I were feeding
upon the fruits of Paradise. I could not but marvel at the manners and
the devoted attentions of that Ethiopian servant whose very life seemed
to have been transformed by the regenerating influence of his Master.
I then, for the first time, recognized the significance of this well-known
traditional utterance ascribed to Muhammad: “I have prepared for the
godly and righteous among My servants what eye hath seen not, ear
heard not, nor human heart conceived.” Had my youthful Host no other
claim to greatness, this were sufficient—that He received me with that
quality of hospitality and loving-kindness which I was convinced no
other human being could possibly reveal.24
After this passage, Mubarak disappears from Nabil’s narrative of the
sacred events of May 22, 1844. However, we are fortunate that con-
temporary accounts are not the only sources of information about
these events or about the African domestic slaves that lived in the
Bab’s household. We also have the records, the oral traditions, and
the personal reminiscences of the Bab’s family. Not only did various
kinsmen of the Bab eventually become Baha’is (while others remained
indifferent, or even openly hostile to the Bab’s new faith and the sub-
sequent innovations that transformed it into the Baha’i religion), but
the family was also extremely wealthy and prominent in other ways,
developing a mercantile empire that stretched from Istanbul to Hong
Kong.25
Although the Bab himself had no children, the descendants of his
maternal uncles and of his brother-in-law claimed him as an ancestor.
The Baha’i branch of the family, at least, was known as the Afnans
24 This quotation is also taken from the report of Mirza Ahmad Qazvini, as noted
above. Nabíl-i A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 62.
25 See Jackson Armstrong-Ingram, “ ‘Black Pearls’: The African Household Slaves of
a Nineteenth-Century Iranian Merchant Family,” a paper presented at the Conference
on Slavery, Islam, and Diaspora, Harriet Tubman Resource Centre on the African
Diaspora, Department of History, York University, October 24–26, 2003.

chapter two
(twigs),26 which eventually transformed from an honorific title into
a family surname. The Afnan family has maintained a keen sense of
its own place in history, and particularly in the history of the Baha’i
religion. By the 1980s, one member of the family, Abu’l-Qasim Afnan,
living in England, had come to be regarded as “the true custodian
in this age of the traditions of the Afnan family.”27 Mr. Afnan wrote
down the family traditions as they related to the African slaves in the
Bab’s household in a narrative that included his own personal remi-
niscences, specifically for Baha’i communities in East and Central
Africa. Of course, he had at his disposal the considerable resources
of the Afnan family, held in private archives, which include docu-
ments and memoirs reaching back to the time of the Bab himself. His
account was circulated in mimeographed form for some years. It was
eventually published in 1988, in the United States, under the title of
Black Pearls: Servants in the Households of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.28
The book became the subject of considerable controversy within the
American Baha’i community at the time.29 Nonetheless, Black Pearls
may be regarded as a primary source that embodies a small portion
of the Afnan family’s extensive memory and archive of the events of
Baha’i history.
It is no surprise that, although it is a biographical account of Afri-
can slaves in the Bab’s household, Black Pearls30 focuses a great deal
of attention on the Bab himself as the source of the numinous. The
slaves are praised repeatedly for their loyalty and selflessness, and
for their unquestioning—even childlike—devotion and obedience to
‘their’ family. As such, the book repeats the themes found in earlier
26 That is, ‘twigs’ branched from the Holy Tree (of the Bab). This, as opposed to the
Aghsan (branches), the direct descendants of Baha’u’llah.
27 Robert Balyuzi, in the Foreword to H. M. Balyuzi, Khadíjih Bagum: The Wife of
the Báb (Oxford: George Ronald, 1981) pp. xi–xii.
28 Abu’l-Qasim Afnan, Black Pearls, Second Edition, 1999. The book remains in
print today and is no longer the subject of much controversy.
29 Some African American Baha’is were outraged at the revelation that the Central
Figures of their religion had been slave owners. (See, for example, http://www.geoci-
ties.com/Pentagon/3016/racism. htm) Others seemed unconcerned about that but felt
that a public portrayal of early believers as slaves—even if slaves to the Prophets—was
unseemly and ill-considered. They preferred to see black Baha’is in history occupying
more heroic positions. They also objected to Mr. Afnan’s accounts as patronizing.
30 This very interesting little book also provides biographies of African slaves and
servants who served in the households of Bahá’u’lláh, and of his son ‘Abdu’l-Baha, in
Iran and in Palestine. These narratives are also of considerable interest, but are beyond
the scope of this study.

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
Baha’i histories, except that Afnan is quite personally attached to his
relatives’ reminiscences. For example, he writes:
I vividly remember that my grandmother, the daughter of Hájí Mírzá
Abú’l-Qásim, would often recall Mubárak’s extreme modesty and polite-
ness. She would say that, while intelligent, quick of understanding, and
possessing a great capacity to learn, he nonetheless displayed the utmost
meekness and humility and showed kindness to all. She would describe
his manners and demeanor as being regal, and would remark that they
well befitted his service in the holy house [i.e., the house of the Bab].
More than anything else, though, she remembered him as a loyal and
faithful servant of the Báb and His mother.31
But, as I have argued elsewhere,32 Afnan also provides us with enough
additional information to suggest that the event of the ‘Declaration of
the Bab’ should be reinterpreted to include an African presence at the
genesis of the Babi movement.33
Afnan is able to locate Mubarak’s room in the house of the Bab,
and even provides a photograph of the room in his book.34 He informs
us that it sits adjacent to the room in which the Bab received Mulla
Husayn on the night of the declaration. And since it would have been
unthinkable for a domestic slave to retire for the evening while his
master remained awake entertaining a houseguest, Mubarak “waited
sleepless and vigilant, just outside the chamber, ready to serve when
called upon.”35 This account does not make much of the obvious
fact that Mubarak was present—and perhaps not even out of sight—
throughout the conversation that led to Mulla Husayn’s conversion,
that he clearly witnessed the entire event, that he must have been fully
aware of the religious claims that his master was making, and that—
since he was literate and educated—the significance of these claims
could not have been lost on him.
31 Afnan, Black Pearls, pp. 5–6.
32 Anthony A. Lee, Foreword to the Second Edition, in Black Pearls (1999), pp.
xvii–xxii.
33 And also a feminine presence, for that matter. The traditions of the Afnan family
include testimony from the Báb’s wife that she “witnessed” the events of the Declara-
tion of the Báb on the evening of May 22, 1844. She says that she remained awake
the whole night listening to her husband’s conversation with Mullá Husayn, which
could be clearly heard even from the women’s apartments in the Báb’s modest house.
(Munírih Khanum, Munírih Khanúm: Memoirs and Letters (Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1986) p. 34. Her testimony reinforces the conclusion that Mubarak must have
also overheard this conversation, and makes it conclusive.
34 Afnan, Black Pearls, p. 4.
35 Ibid., p. 7.

chapter two
Illustration 2.2. Mubarak’s Room in the House of the Bab
In Shiraz, Iran. According to Abu’l-Qasim Afnan, the room is directly adja-
cent to the audience room where the Bab received Mulla Husayn on the eve-
ning of May 22, 1844. The events of that night resulted in Mulla Husayn’s
conversion and the beginning of the Babi movement. The house of the Bab
was completely renovated in the 1870s, so the room would not have looked
like this at the time the Bab lived in the house. But the structure of the house
remained unchanged.
This house became a place of pilgrimage almost immediately after the Bab’s
execution in 1850. Here the Bab’s wife received Babi, and later Baha’i, pil-
grims who came to pay their respects to the widow and visit the birthplace of
their religion. The house remained a place of pilgrimage for Baha’is all over
the world through the 1970s. After the Islamic Revolution in Iran (1979), it
was razed to the ground by government officials because it was a center of
Baha’i activity. Source: Abu’l-Qasim Afnan, Black Pearls, Second Edition (Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1999) p. 4. Catalogued at the Bahá’í World Center,
Audio Visual Department as NN 3559-4-29, FN 13241.

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
Beyond this, Afnan makes reference to the traditional sources that
document Mubarak’s intimate association with the whole period of
the Bab’s early activities. Between May 1844 and September 1846—
when his master was finally arrested for his religious heresies and was
forced to leave Shiraz for the last time—Mubarak met and served all
of the first disciples of the movement; he carried secret verbal mes-
sages and written correspondence between his master and these dis-
ciples; he was the Bab’s companion and attendant (along with one
other disciple) on the pilgrimage in 1844–1845, to Mecca, where the
new prophet publicly announced his claim to be the Qa’im.36 Mubarak
was witness to the Bab’s nearly continuous dictation of sermons and
religious treatises during the pilgrimage; he was shocked when most
of these writings were stolen and was willing to defend them at the
risk of his life. He was present when his master was arrested in June
1845, and placed under house arrest in Shiraz. During the period of
that confinement, he served his master and was in charge of surrepti-
tiously (and in defiance of government orders) bringing followers to
meet with him through a secret passage to the house. When the Bab
finally left Shiraz for hiding in Isfahan, Mubarak never saw him again
but was entrusted with the care of his wife and mother, both of whom
remained at home.37
It should also be noted, by way of understanding fully the African
presence at the genesis of Baha’i history, that Mubarak was not the
only slave in the Bab’s household. Afnan also introduces us to Fid-
dih (Fezzeh) Khanum,38 an African woman who was the servant and
companion of the Bab’s wife, Khadijih Bagum. When the Bab mar-
ried in 1842, he established a new household which consisted of two
slaves, his wife, his mother, and himself. Of the family of five, two were
Africans; and after the Bab’s forced departure, half the household was
African.
Mubarak was purchased from his wife’s brother for the low price
of 14 tumans (about $28.00), and he was probably more of a wedding
36 The Shi’ite messiah. See Chapter One, n. 4.
37 Nabíl-i A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 53–72 passim, 129, 132–33; Afnan, Black
Pearls, pp. 11–16; Balyuzi, The Báb, pp. 17, 49, 57, 71, 84; Amanat, Resurrection and
Renewal, pp. 166–67, 241–43.
38 Always referred to simply as Fiddih in the literature. I have added the title “Kha-
num,” which is the customary honorific address given to any respectable woman,
except perhaps a slave woman.

chapter two
present from the brother-in-law than anything else.39 At the time of
his marriage, the Bab also ‘acquired’ (to use Afnan’s term) Fiddih, an
‘Ethiopian’ child who was probably no more than seven years old,
and clearly did not represent a great investment of funds. They lived
in a small two-story house in Shiraz, and seem to have had modest
means. The Bab had some time earlier retired from his business activi-
ties to pursue religious studies and devotions. It is not clear that he
had any income at all, at this point, and may have relied on relatives
for support.40
Afnan’s portrayal of Fiddih’s life presents, if possible, an even more
narrow picture of a selfless servant utterly lost in devotion to her mis-
tress, the Bab’s wife, and in service to his mother. After the mother
departed with Mubarak for Iraq, Afnan assures us: “. . . Fiddih was able
to dedicate herself fully to Khadíjih Bagum to the exception of all oth-
ers in her life. She never developed any warm friendship with anyone
else, even though there were a number of servants in the homes of the
uncles of the Báb. Never would she appear in public except in atten-
dance on Khadíjih Bagum.”41 Beyond this, Afnan insists that: “Fiddih
refused to even contemplate life without Khadíjih Bagum.”42 In fact,
both women actually died on the same night, November 15, 1881. Fid-
dih was about 47 years old. Afnan explains that Khadijih Bagum died
first, and that a short time later “. . . true to her hearts desire, the spirit
of Fiddih winged its flight to join her beloved mistress.”43 The narra-
tive is so idyllic on this point that one would assume that Fiddih had
either died of acute grief or had committed suicide. Afnan assured me
personally however, upon my inquiry, that both women had simply
succumbed to dysentery, one after the other.44
39 Afnan, Black Pearls, p. 5. Apparently, the bill of purchase still exists in the
archives of the Afnan family.
40 I am grateful to the late Jackson Armstong-Ingram for some of these insights.
I certainly wish to acknowledge the value of our many conversations, over lunch and
via e-mail, which have helped to clarify my thinking about the slaves in the Báb’s
family.
41 Ibid., p. 22. I should note that the other servants mentioned here lived in the
adjoining houses of the Báb’s relatives. This also indicates the importance of the Afri-
can presence in these households and implies that the African servants were naturally
close to one another and were expected to relate to one another with “warm friend-
ship.” Here we can catch a brief glimpse of the slave networks that would be able to
preserve and reproduce some aspects of African culture.
42 Ibid., p. 23.
43 Ibid., p. 25.
44 Afnan, personal conversation with the author.

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
As Armstrong-Ingram remarks in his discussion of Fiddih’s life, one
is tempted by Afnan’s account “to consider her a child so traumatized
by the experience of enslavement that she attached herself totally to
a ‘protector’ and grew up to be a withdrawn, asocial person.”45 How-
ever, there are aspects of her story in this and in other histories that
suggest otherwise. Some time after her husband’s execution, Khadijih
Bagum’s home became a center of pilgrimage for the persecuted Babis
(and later Baha’is) of Iran.46 Streams of visitors came to the house to
seek out the presence of the wife of the Bab, who was regarded as a
holy person in her own right by virtue of her direct relationship to the
Prophet. Some of the women, at least, might remain as houseguests for
extended periods. Khadijih Bagum would receive these visitors, act as
guide to the holy house, and recount her memories of her husband
and her marriage to her devoted listeners. In this role, she became a
person of considerable influence within the Baha’i community. Fiddih,
for her part, remained the only servant in the house and would wait on
and cook for the guests—so social isolation was not an option.
In addition, Fiddih—having known the Bab and lived in his house-
hold—also inherited some of the Prophet’s charisma. Abu’l-Qasim
Afnan explained to me that she was also an object of reverence and
devotion for visiting pilgrims. He made a point of saying that these
visitors would kiss the shoulder47 of Fiddih as an act of subordination
and reverence, and that they regarded her spiritual station as above
their own.48
Despite their close relationship to the Bab and their participation in
some of the most critical early events of his ministry, neither Muba-
rak nor Fiddih is given much notice in traditional Baha’i histories,
45 Armstrong-Ingram, “Black Pearls,” p. 16.
46 The Báb’s house remained an important place of pilgrimage for Baha’is until it
was razed to the ground by Muslim zealots after the Islamic Revolution of 1979.
47 Kissing of hands is forbidden by Baha’i religious law. (Baha’u’llah, The Kitab-i
Aqdas, K34.) The kissing of shoulders is not unknown in Iranian culture as a gesture
of love and respect, however.
48 This statement was his response to objections which had been made by some
African American Baha’is that his portrayal of Fiddih was demeaning to black people.
He insisted that Iranian Baha’is of a previous generation had regarded Fiddih as a
holy person, as did he. I remember quite vividly that at the end of our visit, perhaps
in illustration of his point, Mr. Afnan embraced me and kissed my shoulder. The
effect was indeed startling and inspired me with a sense of humility and deep respect
for the man, who seemed to embody at that moment all of the traditional dignity,
modesty, and rectitude of his illustrious family. (Afnan, personal conversation with
the author.)

chapter two
and even less in academic discussions of Babi-Baha’i history. Afnan
himself rejected the idea that they should even be regarded as Babis.
He is careful in his book to characterize their service to the Bab as
demonstrating only their devotion to his person, and as having no
religious significance—either for present-day Baha’is or for the indi-
viduals themselves. He repeatedly denied that such devotion should
be interpreted in such as way as to grant a Babi identity to either
Mubarak or Fiddih. Indeed, none of the sources ever make reference
to them as ‘Babis.’
But, of course, the sources never make reference to anyone as a
‘Babi.’ Especially during the early years of the Bab’s mission, the
nature of Babi identity was extremely fluid and undefined, and even
the word itself had not yet been coined. The religious identity of the
early followers of the Bab is simply inferred from their behavior and
their identification with, their loyalty and devotion to, the Bab as the
source of the numinous. Different rules seem to be applied for Muba-
rak and Fiddih. This is an odd turn: It could be that their slave status
simply disqualifies them, from the perspective of the sources, from the
possibility of having a Babi identity. Or perhaps it is assumed that, as
slaves, they were not free agents and could not, therefore, choose to
change religions or dedicate themselves to the person of the Bab as a
matter of their own personal decision. Still, it is curious that an author
like Afnan would spend so much time praising the selfless and unfail-
ing devotion of both of the servants he memorializes if he felt that
such devotion were coerced.
The publisher of Afnan’s Black Pearls: Servants in the Households
of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh intended to bring the book out under the
title of ‘Black Bábís,’ with the same subtitle.49 The book was even ini-
tially advertised as forthcoming with the ‘Black Bábís’ title. However,
the author flatly refused to allow this title to be used for his book. An
exchange of letters followed in which the publisher argued that all of
the persons written about in the book should be regarded as Babis
based on their actions, their devotion to the Bab, and their participa-
tion in seminal events of Baha’i history. Afnan was not convinced,
however. He wrote:
49 Kalimát Press was the publisher, and I acted as the in-house editor for the book.
In fact, Kalimát Press had proposed the publication of the book to Afnan in the first
instance, after seeing the mimeographed biographies that had been circulated in
Africa.

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
. . . there is no evidence which indicates that any of the black servants
mentioned in my book except Masoud50 became believers in the Bab
or Baha’u’llah. . . . We have to bear in mind that simply the fact of the
presence of these servants at certain important historical occasions is
not sufficient as evidence of belief or proof of declaration.51 . . . Therefore,
not having seen or heard any evidence of a declaration of faith by any
of these black servants, I am reluctant to state categorically that they
became believers.52
Again:
. . . these black servants were not declared Babis except Masud, but they
were dedicated and faithful, selfless, truthful and loving followers of the
Bab and Baha’u’llah and their family and followers.53
Of Fiddih, Afnan states directly in his book that “. . . she was not aware
of the station and mission of the Báb.”54 Of course, in the case of the
Bab’s manservant such a statement would have been absolutely unsup-
portable, and we find no similar remark in Afnan’s chapter on Muba-
rak. Moreover, I would suggest that the notion that Fiddih could have
remained unaware of the claims of the Bab throughout her lifetime
beggars all reason, though this view was obviously held concerning
her within the Afnan family. This same conclusion with regard to Babi
identity also represents the consensus within the Baha’i community
with regard to both servants. In any case, the title ‘Black Bábís’ was
changed to Black Pearls at the author’s insistence.
Why Afnan should maintain such views is an open question.
Armstrong-Ingram suggests that he simply “projected a bureaucratic
view of religious identity that became common in the Baha’i com-
munity around the 1930s on his subjects.”55 I think it more likely that
50 A servant of the uncle (Khal-i Akhbar) of the Bab who met Baha’u’llah and
became a Baha’i.
51 That is, a formal declaration of faith in the prophet that would change one’s
religious identity. The concept here is similar to the recitation of the shahada, which
instantly and unquestionably changes one’s status to that of a Muslim in Islamic
jurisprudence.
52 Abu’l-Qasim Afnan to Anthony A. Lee, August 13, 1988. Kalimát Press archives.
I have corrected some of the grammar and spelling errors in the original text.
53 Abu’l-Qasim Afnan to Anthony A. Lee, June 29, 1988. Kalimát Press archives. I
should point out that the concept of a ‘declared Babi’ is an anachronism that betrays
the influence of later Baha’i ideas.
54 Afnan, Black Pearls, p. 23.
55 Armstrong-Ingram, “Black Pearls,” p. 22. That is, Armstrong-Ingram suggests
that since the Bab’s slaves had never made a formal ‘declaration’ of faith as is required
in the contemporary Baha’i community, they could not be considered Babis.

chapter two
he unconsciously reproduced the views long held within his family—
views that were primarily determined by cultural attitudes towards
Africans, slaves, and household servants. A slave, almost by definition,
after all, is not supposed to be an independent actor. Rather, a slave is
supposed to be a person attached by law and by custom to the iden-
tity of another individual, who is the master. A slave might be a good
servant or a bad one, might be devoted and faithful or careless and
perfidious, might be truthful or false. But, the idea of a slave making
a free and independent decision to assume a new identity is almost a
contradiction in terms.56 Nonetheless, as I have suggested above, it is
certainly time to reconsider such false assumptions.
One aspect of Afnan’s book that most startled his American read-
ers was the assertion that neither Mubarak nor Fiddih was told by
the Bab’s family about the Prophet’s execution as a heretic by clergy
and government in Tabriz (northern Iran) in 1850. The Bab had been
imprisoned for years before his execution, and the Babi movement had
created a political and social upheaval in Iran. Armed conflicts broke
out in various parts of the country, clerics regularly vilified Babis from
the pulpit, and the Bab was the subject of general rumor in all parts of
Iran. Nonetheless, the final blow came as a shock to the Bab’s relatives,
and Afnan admits that the menfolk tried to keep the news from the
women in the family for as long as they could.57
Of Mubarak, Afnan writes:
Even until the time of his death, Mubárak was not told of the Báb’s
martyrdom. Likewise, the other servants of the household remained in
ignorance of these events. The family wanted neither to distress them
nor to allow their servants, who were the only ones of the house who
were regularly seen in the marketplace, to become the source of delusive
56 Armstrong-Ingram has also suggested to me, in private conversation, that in
some ways the reputation and honor of the Afnan family might be involved here.
After all, most of the Afnans were not Babis at all, but were converted to the Baha’i
religion during the time of Baha’u’llah (ministry, 1863–1892). So, if Mubarak and Fid-
dih were accepted as real Babis, they would have preceded the members of the Afnan
family (except for the Bab’s wife) into the Faith by almost a generation. Personally,
I doubt that this was a conscious consideration on Afnan’s part, though it may have
unconsciously colored his thinking.
57 Afnan, Black Pearls, pp. 16–17. This is not an unusual strategy for dealing with
the death of an absent relative within Iranian families. Quite often, the bad news will
be kept from as many relatives as possible for as long as possible. Of course, the cha-
rade inevitably comes to an end. The dreaded truth is either revealed openly and delib-
erately or accidentally—and it is then either fully acknowledged within the family, or a
feigned ignorance is maintained as a polite fiction that is respected by everyone.

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
news or rumors. Both Mubárak and Fiddih were told that the Báb had
voyaged to India to manage his mercantile affairs and would eventually
return.
While in Karbala [in service to the Bab’s mother], Mubárak longed
for the return of his Master. He made a broom to which he attached
a green handle. Green is the color of Muhammad’s lineage: since the
Báb was a descendant of the Prophet, Mubárak’s broom was made in
remembrance of Him. Every morning at the hour of dawn, Mubárak
would use the broom to sweep the courtyard around the sanctuary of
the Shrine of Imám Husayn. He vowed to perform this pious deed every
day until the Báb would return. After completing this exercise, he would
then proceed to procure the provisions required by the household and
complete his other duties.58
Of Fiddih, Afnan simply writes: “. . . she was so enchanted by Him [the
Bab] that she could not even fathom the thought that He could have
been killed under such brutal circumstances.”59 In 1877, some twenty-
seven years after the execution, the house of the Bab in Shiraz was
renovated by Baha’is so that Khadijih Bagum could live there once
again. Afnan relates a family tradition about this to illustrate the point
that Fiddih remained ignorant of the Bab’s death until the end of her
life. He says that Fiddih was found rejoicing at the work being done,
since she believed that the renovations meant that her master would
soon return from his long journey to India. Afnan remarks: “Her joy
was a heartbreaking testimony to her devotion.”60
As persecutions of the Babi religion intensified in Iran, both during
the Bab’s lifetime and after his execution,61 the situation of Khadijih
Bagum and the other members of her family in Shiraz became precari-
ous, and even dangerous. For a time it was unsafe for the Bab’s wife to
remain in her house, and she took up residence with relatives. Under
such circumstances, it became expedient for the family to maintain
the public fiction that it was not their relative who had been executed.
Rather, the story was put out that Sayyid ‘Ali-Muhammad had traveled
to India to take charge of an arm of the Afnan trade network there. He
was on an extended journey, but he would eventually return.
58 Afnan, Black Pearls, pp. 17–18.
59 Ibid., p. 23. The “brutal circumstances” are a reference to the Bab’s execution by
firing squad.
60 Ibid.
61 Persecution became especially intense in 1852, after an attempt was made on the
life of the shah by a group of Babis in Tehran.

chapter two
Such a story may have made it a little easier for the Afnans to main-
tain their face in public, but it certainly convinced no one. Naturally,
the family’s household slaves were willing and able to defend the pub-
lic fiction for decades.62 But the Bab’s mother and grandmother even-
tually felt compelled to move their residence from Shiraz to Karbala,
in Iraq, to escape from the rumors and deprecations of their Muslim
relatives who made no secret of their contempt and hostility.63
It is certainly absurd to maintain that either Mubarak or Fiddih
remained literally unaware of the fate of their master, since they
regularly attended to household duties in the streets of the city and
would have heard all the news that circulated there. Both servants
had witnessed the Bab’s arrest, his imprisonment at home, and his
forced departure. They certainly would have overheard conversations
within the household and witnessed the grief-stricken mourning of the
women of the family when the news of the Bab’s execution was finally
confirmed for them. Afnan maintains that the mother of the Bab, at
that point, was “beside herself with grief.”64 Beyond that, of course,
there was the parade of Babi and Baha’i pilgrims that Fiddih attended
to for some thirty years after the Bab’s death. It is not reasonable to
suppose that the significance of any of these events would have been
lost on anyone who was of sound mind. Nonetheless, that is the cur-
rent state of the literature.65
The African dimension of the genesis of the Babi religion remains
unexplored both by the Baha’i faith community and by the academic
community. And it is not possible for me to explore it here, since
such matters are beyond the scope of this work. However, the subject
cries out for further study. At this point, it can only be said emphati-
cally that there was an important African presence at the events that
marked the germination of the Babi movement. During those early
years, the Bab and his extended family lived in intimate association
62 There may have been an element of self-interest at play here, as well. Mubarak
and Fiddih were, after all, slaves. If their master were determined to be dead, his
property could be divided among his heirs. That property might include the two of
them, and their household would be destroyed as a result. (I am grateful to Mehrdad
Amanat for this insight.)
63 Afnan, Black Pearls, p. 17.
64 Ibid.
65 For example, Will C. van den Hoonaard states categorically: “Neither Mubarak
[n]or Fiddih became Babis.” (“A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa from Its Earliest
Days to 1986,” Baha’i Studies Review, Vol. 11 [2003] p. 12.)

african presence at the genesis of baha’i religions
with Africans who were members of their households. We should
expect then that a search for African cultural influences would prove
fruitful. At this time, both Baha’i history and Iranian history seem
unfamiliar with—perhaps hostile to—the concept that slaves might
influence the tastes, the language, the actions, and even the ideas of
their masters. However, the academic study of the African diaspora in
the Americas and in other parts of the world has demonstrated this
truth beyond a reasonable doubt.66
66 The current state of Iranian scholarship with regard to African influences on the
history, language, culture, music, and religion of Iran (among other aspects of the cul-
ture) resembles the state of American scholarship some sixty years ago, with regard to
African influences on American culture. It was supposed then that there were none—
that the experience of slavery had erased all cultural memory from the minds of slaves,
who arrived in the New World as tabulae rasa. (At least, the presence of an African
Diaspora was never denied.) The opening salvo of the destruction of such a position
was Melville J. Herskowitz’s, The Myth of the Negro Past (Boston: Beacon Press, 1941)
which documented the survival of African culture in the Americas and its influence on
American societies. Even before that, Carter G. Woodson, in The African Background
Outlined; or, Handbook for the Study of the Negro (Washington, D.C., 1936), and
W. E. B. DuBois, in The Negro (1915) had argued along the same lines. Since then, of
course, although African American history remains a subaltern history, the influence
of African people on the United States has become a large field of study. See Robin
D. G. Kelly, “ ‘But a Local Phase of a World Problem’: Black History’s Global Vision,
1883–1950,” Journal of American History, Vol. 86, no. 3 (1999) pp. 1046–1077.

CHAPTER THREE
OPTING FOR THE APOCALYPSE:
THE BAHA’I RESPONSE TO THE MODERN CRISIS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST AND WEST AFRICA
This work is concerned with the growth and development of the Baha’i
religion in West Africa during the first decade or so after its introduc-
tion there. During this period, Baha’is from other parts of the world—
primarily the United States—pursued an international missionary
plan that brought their religion to West Africa in the form of Baha’i
‘pioneers’ (missionaries) who settled in various parts of the region,
supported by the international Baha’i community. These Baha’is suc-
cessfully and permanently planted the Baha’i religion in West Africa
through a decade of teaching, traveling, conversions, correspondence,
and organization. A narrative of these events will be provided in Chap-
ter Four.
A chronology of Baha’i growth and expansion in West Africa is not
my primary concern in this chapter, though there is certainly a story
to be told in that regard. Baha’is around the world were both sur-
prised and delighted by the ease and rapidity with which their religion
grew in this part of Africa during these first years. Thousands of new
converts were spread over virtually every territory in the region. Per-
haps even more important to the Baha’is of those decades, an impres-
sive number of local Baha’i councils (local Spiritual Assemblies) were
formed in accordance with the goals of the international plan. Beyond
this, there were the formations of other Baha’i institutions—including
the appointment of one Baha’i in West Africa, Enoch Olinga, to the
international office of ‘Hand of the Cause of God’ by Shoghi Effendi,
the ‘Guardian’ and the head of the Baha’i faith.
However, the causes for the successful establishment of any religious
community in a new place must also be explained. I believe that an
investigation into those causes will raise the most important questions
that need to be answered about this early history: Why did people
decide to become Baha’is in West Africa during the 1950s? What was
the message that Baha’i teachers offered to potential converts? And
why should this message motivate large numbers of people to embrace
a new religious identity, even if provisionally? Why, indeed, did people

chapter three
decide to become Baha’is in the United States at the end of the nine-
teenth century, when it was introduced to that country? Or in Iran and
in other parts of the Middle East even earlier, for that matter? Were
these the same ideas and issues that motivated West Africans in the
middle of the twentieth century?
If it is possible to recover a social history of the establishment of
the Baha’i faith in West Africa in the 1950s and early 1960s, I believe
that such a history will be found in asking questions such as these—
questions that are concerned with the meaning of the religion to its
members (both old and new), rather than in a chronology of first
believers, conversions, travels, formations of local Baha’i councils—or
even the emergence of an international leader.
The Baha’is of West Africa
The Baha’i religion was introduced into West Africa in the early 1950s
as a result of the deliberate missionary efforts of English, Persian, and
American Baha’is.1 Small communities were established fairly quickly
in several West African countries—not as churches or as closed com-
munities, but in the American model of voluntary associations. In
the United States, and in other parts of the West, Baha’is had, by the
1950s, refused to organize themselves into churches. For various rea-
sons, they had instead formed religious organizations that governed
themselves in accord with standard parliamentary procedure, much as
any secular association, club, or society might. These associations were
designated ‘Spiritual Assemblies,’ and then later, ‘Baha’i communities.’
Indeed, this model of Baha’i organization took on an aura of sacred-
ness in itself. So, naturally, it was this model that American Baha’i
pioneers sought to reproduce on the African continent.
The only exception to this pattern is found in the British Camer-
oons where the Baha’i religion spread as a social movement. Here,
several hundred people became Baha’is within a short time. This was
the only country in West Africa where this was accomplished, and
here American pioneers were only marginally involved in the process
of conversion. I believe that this development in British Cameroons
1 As mentioned, the history of the growth of the Baha’i faith in West Africa is
treated in detail in Chapter Four of this work. Therefore, the following is only a brief
summary of events.

opting for the apocalypse
demonstrates an occasion where the Baha’i faith offered an alternative
to secularization and fundamentalism in a society facing a modern
crisis.
Terence Ranger’s definition of religious ‘movements’ is helpful
here to differentiate between the development of the Baha’i faith in
the British Cameroons and its development elsewhere in West Africa.
Of course, Ranger’s definition specifically addresses the situation of
African religious movements: “By movements” he says, “are meant
widespread and grassroots adherence to religious ideas, symbols and
rituals, sometimes brief in duration, sometimes long-lasting; sometimes
lacking and sometimes acquiring formal organizational structures.”2
Religious movements in all societies necessarily spread by rumor, gos-
sip, and informal, face-to-face conversation. Movements of this kind
expand through existing social networks, rather than creating new
ones. They are fueled by partial understandings, misunderstandings,
distortions, and reformulations of an initial (more formal and ortho-
dox) message or teaching.
The Baha’i faith in West Africa spread initially among urban males
with some schooling between the ages of 30 and 40 years, who were
without steady employment, and who were at the bottom of the modern
sector of society. They were almost always Christians. Also, foreign-
ers in other countries looking for work tended to become Baha’is in
disproportionate numbers. Occasionally, youth in school and villagers
became Baha’is.
In the British Cameroons, virtually all of the new Baha’is were
Christians. The Baha’i faith spread as a religious movement within the
networks of the Basel Mission, a Swiss Presbyterian missionary society
that functioned in the English-speaking British Cameroons as a Prot-
estant denomination. At the center of the Baha’i movement was Enoch
Olinga, an educated African Baha’i from Uganda.
Olinga moved to the Cameroons as a pioneer in the first year of
the Ten Year Crusade, a worldwide teaching plan initiated by Shoghi
Effendi, in 1953. He devoted his full time to teaching the Baha’i faith
and was extremely successful. Within a few years, there were over
1,000 newly declared Baha’is in the Cameroons as a direct result of
his efforts.
2 T. O. Ranger, “Religious Movements and Politics in Sub-Saharan Africa” in Afri-
can Studies Review, Vol. 29 (1986) no. 2, p. 1.

chapter three
Almost all of these new believers had been Christians and commu-
nicants of the Basel Mission. Indeed, the Baha’i faith took on the char-
acter of a movement within the mission with—in some places—60% to
90% of the membership converting to the new religion.3 Beyond those
who broke with the church, there was also an underground movement
of Christians who secretly considered themselves Baha’is, but who
continued to remain within the mission, as teachers or employees.4
What was the Baha’i message then, and why was it so attractive to
certain West African men in the 1950s?
The Baha’i Alternative
To attempt an answer to that question, it will be useful again to have
a look at the beginnings of the Baha’i religion in Iran. In his pioneer-
ing history of the first years of the establishment of the Babi religion,
Abbas Amanat has argued that the Bab’s message began as a call for
pious reform within Shi’ism that eventually resulted in a break from
Islam and in the creation of a new religion. He offers the view that the
Babi movement, and by implication the Baha’i faith that succeeded it,
found its appeal as a response to the global crisis of modernity which
was just beginning to distress and to threaten the Middle East. Amanat
argues, therefore, that the success of the Babi religion can be under-
stood as an effort by one movement within pre-modern Iranian soci-
ety to come to terms with the new and inescapable fact of modernity.
All that, without resorting to fundamentalist rigidity and without pas-
sively accepting the secular attitudes that render religion marginal to
modern concerns.
Amanat argues of the Babi religion that: “Its innovations were a
spontaneous response to the realities of the time.” And that: “It was an
attempt to render a religious answer to the moral and material stagnation
of the community by proposing a continuous regeneration of religious
essence, while preserving the historical relevance of prophethood.”5
Amanat concedes that the Babi response to the perception of social
3 Georg Tröster, “Zum Problem der Baha’i-Bewegung in Sudkamerun” in Evange-
lisches Missions Magazin, Vol. 106, No. 2 (1962) pp. 71–77. See Chapter Six.
4 Samuel M. Kima to Valerie Wilson, November 29, 1959. Valerie Wilson papers.
See Chapter Five.
5 Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p. 408.

opting for the apocalypse
crisis was primarily symbolic and religious, rather than rational or
modern. Nonetheless, he argues that it “shared the modernity of a
secular mind as it traced the stagnation of the [Shi’i Muslim] commu-
nity not in the irreversible fate of its members but in their failure to
see the incompatibility of their past religious values with the realities
of a new era.” He continues: “Before the introduction of Western ide-
ologies would definitively revise the ideals of reform, this was the only
answer generated in nineteenth-century Shi’ite Iran which coped with
the threat of an alien and materially superior culture without resorting
to rejectionism or falling prey to complacency.”6
This chapter will seek to demonstrate that this insight into the
beginnings of the Babi religion in Iran can also be usefully applied
to the history of the religion of Baha’u’llah. More specifically, I will
suggest that the beginnings of the Baha’i faith in West Africa—during
the mid-1950s—and the appeal that the religion had at that time and
place can be understood in terms of a religious response to the crisis
of modernity. The Baha’i community flourished, when it did, in the
Middle-Eastern, in the American, and later in the African, contexts
because it offered an answer to the crisis that the modern world posed
for religion, in particular, and for society in general.
The Crisis of Modernity
Critics of modernity complain that the modern world is always in cri-
sis, of course, for reasons that are basic to modernity itself. The sheer
size, complexity, and specialization of modern life make the collapse
of shared norms and values across the whole of society virtually inevi-
table. More than this, the modern world relentlessly pursues rapidly
changing technologies to which individuals must continually adapt.
These technologies are incorporated into modern lives much faster
than they can be legitimized, or even understood, in terms of tradi-
tional values, accepted identities, or religious norms. And therefore,
one of the most consistent critiques of Western societies, especially in
the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, has been the generalized (and
rather pessimistic) belief that the modern world is in a state of cri-
sis. This discourse has proclaimed the widespread perception—among
6 Ibid., pp. 406–407. Emphasis added.

chapter three
intellectuals, at least—that Western modernity has come at a very high
cost, a cost that threatens to erase all shared values and even to destroy
society itself.
This critique of modernity is so ubiquitous and so familiar that its
classic arguments hardly bear repeating. In the last hundred years, the
most important critics of modernity have been Marx, Durkheim, and
Weber—who, though their approaches differ utterly, are unanimous in
insisting that the human consequences of modern life are calamitous
for the individual and for society. Marx decried the exploitation of
human beings as worker units, their estrangement from one another
and from the products of their labor, their ultimate alienation from
others and from themselves.7 Durkheim warned of the dangers inher-
ent in the growing complexity of society, the pluralization of values
that must lead to normative breakdown, the collapse of social norms,
and the exaltation of the individual to a cultic icon.8 Weber’s work
details the soulless bureaucratization of human society, its inevitable
specialization, rationalization, and disenchantment, leading to the
reduction of the human spirit.9 And so have the great social critics
outlined the crisis of modernity. They have been joined by countless
others across disciplines who have elaborated the same critiques.
It is, moreover, widely accepted—both by the religiously minded
and by secular modernists—that the established religions find basic
incompatibilities of consciousness and of practice within the mod-
ern world. The development of modernity in Europe has presented
a devastating challenge to Christianity, for instance. The major social
and intellectual responses to this dilemma are either religious funda-
mentalism—which rejects and demonizes important aspects of moder-
nity; or secularism—which embraces modernity and tries to discard
religiously oriented views of the world. These choices are, of course,
Amanat’s ‘rejectionism’ and ‘complacency.’
7 For the general argument, see for example, Karl Marx, The Marx Reader, ed. by
Christopher Pierson (Cambridge: Polity Press, 1997) especially pp. 60–71; and Robert
C. Tucker, The Marx-Engels Reader, Second Edition (New York: Norton & Company,
1978).
8 For Durkheim’s views see, for example, Emile Durkheim, Readings from Emile
Durkheim, ed. by Kenneth Thompson, Revised Edition (New York: Routledge, 1984
[2004]); and idem., The Division of Labor in Society, trans. by W. D. Halls, Second
Edition (New York: The Free Press, 1984).
9 On Weber, see Max Weber, The Essential Weber: A Reader, ed. by Sam Whimster
(New York: Routledge, 2004); and Wolfgang J. Mommsen, Age of Bureaucracy: Per-
spectives on the Political Sociology of Max Weber (Oxford: Blackwell, 1974).

opting for the apocalypse
The Heretical Imperative
Peter Berger, a sociologist who has written on Christianity from the
perspective of a Christian, has addressed the problem of modernity
in a number of books and articles. Berger maintains that in the pre-
modern world symbols, norms, meanings, and values could be expe-
rienced as a (more or less) integrated and taken-for-granted whole by
everyone in society. This acceptance acted as a ‘sacred canopy’ that
provided individuals with the unexamined context of their lives.10 For
Berger, the crisis of modernity is brought about most clearly by the
pluralization (and fragmentation) of values and norms, which has
destroyed the traditional canopy of wholeness and shattered Western
culture beyond repair. Since the canopy was primarily religious, the
impact of the modern world is most drastic in the area of religion.11
Berger discusses this issue thoroughly within Christianity, and espe-
cially Protestant Christianity, in The Heretical Imperative.12 Accord-
ing to Berger, the modern situation is one that has universalized the
condition of heresy. The word, heresy, itself is derived from the Greek
word for choice. The heretic is one who ‘chooses’ his own path, rather
than accepting the received, orthodox tradition as divinely ordained.
Berger argues that no one in a modern society today can participate
in any religious tradition without personal choice. It is impossible for
any believer—as in pre-modern times—to simply take for granted his
ancestral traditions, remaining unaware of alternative religious sys-
tems or secular lifestyles to which he could just as easily adhere. In
the modern situation, Berger insists, even an uncritical affirmation of
the received religious orthodoxy is an individual choice. No one can
10 Compare this approach with the ideas of John Middleton, which are outlined
in Chapter Five. Middleton sees traditional African societies as accepting their local
social contexts, with all their conflicts and contradictions as a roughly unified whole.
All social phenomena that are ‘there’ are accepted as part of that context. While Mid-
dleton rejects the romantic overtones of Berger’s views of a past ‘wholeness,’ his ideas
are similar in terms of a shared context of community.
11 Peter L. Berger, The Sacred Canopy (Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1967); also
idem., with Brigitte Berger and Hansfried Kellner, The Homeless Mind (New York:
Random House, 1973).
12 Peter L. Berger, The Heretical Imperative: Contemporary Possibilities of Religious
Affirmation (Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1979). It should be noted that Berger’s
doctoral dissertation was written on the Baha’i faith. It is a sociological inquiry into
the transition of the religion from a sect to a formal religion. (Peter L. Berger. “From
Sect to Church: A Sociological Interpretation of the Baha’i Movement.” Ph.D. Dis-
sertation. New School of Social Research, 1954.)

chapter three
escape the imperative to consciously and individually choose his belief
system. Nor can any religious community escape the implications of
this choice.13
Berger finds only two major intellectual responses to this modern
dilemma within Christianity, which he labels the deductive and the
reductive possibilities. The deductive possibility (fundamentalism, tra-
ditionalism; Amanat’s rejectionism) reaffirms traditional religion in
defiance of the modern world and pretends to reject a modern con-
sciousness. The reductive possibility (liberalism, capitulation; Amanat’s
complacency) accepts the modern, scientific worldview as the basis of
truth and seeks to adapt what is left of religion to it. Beyond this, of
course, there is the fully secular possibility of dismissing religion alto-
gether. But, for Berger, this is not a real option. Even full seculariza-
tion cannot discard religion since, as a natural aspect of the human
experience, such a thing is not possible. Even within a wholly secular
society, religion exists—reduced to a private and subjective spiritu-
ality.14 Therefore, for Berger, secularism is really a form of reductive
response, with religion simply marginalized and individualized.
Dissatisfied with these alternatives, Berger proposes a third way, the
path that he favors—the inductive possibility. Here one affirms that
religion is rooted in the continuing human experience of the sacred,
an experience that is neither modern nor pre-modern, but an ongoing
existential reality. The inductive possibility seeks to understand and
accept the existential core of religious experience in light of modern
realities. This third way allows the person of faith to maintain his reli-
gious experience as central to life, without rejecting the implications
of the modern world. It seeks to return to the original historical events
that gave rise to Christianity—to return to (the accounts of) the life
of Jesus and his disciples as they can be understood and experienced
today by believers—in order to interpret these ongoing realities in the
light of modern consciousness.
The Babi Option
I think that the Babi movement (and the later Baha’i faith) is in many
ways similar to Berger’s third category of inductive approach to reli-
13 Berger, The Heretical Imperative. See Chapter One.
14 Berger, The Heretical Imperative, Chapters 3, 4, and 5 passim.

opting for the apocalypse
gion in the modern world—but with an important difference. While
the inductive approach that Berger describes and advocates seeks to
return to the original experiences that created the Christian faith, the
Babis attempted no such thing. Quite the opposite. As Amanat dem-
onstrates, Babis had no interest in returning to the primal experiences
of Islam to discover their meaning in the modern world. Neither the
Bab nor his followers sought to create or reexamine a pristine past.
Rather, their intention was to actively create new experiences that
would be as powerful, or more powerful, than the original impulse
that created Islam in the first place. And this, not by looking to the
past, but to the future.
The Babis sought to respond to the crisis of modernity by calling
on the eschatology of their Islamic tradition (rather than its history)
and pulling future events into the present. The prophecies about future
events were studied and consciously enacted—lived out, thereby
‘inductively’ creating the promised apocalypse, or ‘time of the end.’
Thus the Qa’im, the Shi’ite Messiah, had appeared (in the person of
the Bab) and his promised victory (or ultimate sacrifice through mar-
tyrdom, one is never quite sure which) had to be actively produced in
the present. For this reason, I will refer to the Babi/Baha’i model of
religious response to modernity as the productive possibility.
Amanat repeatedly laments the single-mindedness of the Babi lead-
ers in continually interpreting their current reality in terms of prophetic
fulfillment. According to Amanat, every decision, every victory, every
betrayal, that the movement faced was experienced by the believers
as symbolic—the enactment of the Qiyama (the passion of the Prom-
ised One’s appearance)—“almost to the point of being mythological.”15
However, whatever its weaknesses, this consciousness was not a nos-
talgic return to the original experience of Islam, but an active claiming
of events expected in the future for present use, in an effort to confront
the challenges of a modern world.
The Babis did not reject the modern situation in favor of a lost
‘Golden Age’ of faith that they hoped to recreate. Neither did they,
as Berger suggests we might, understand their faith as a timeless real-
ity that we can experience in the modern situation as easily as in any
other. Instead, they sought to engage the modern world—and to con-
quer it—by urgently invoking the millennium to justify and legitimize
15 Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p. 409.

chapter three
their intention to discard and reformulate their orthodox tradition, in
the name of orthodoxy.
This productive principle allowed for a complete reformation of reli-
gion (that is, of Islam)—a renewal of religion in the context of moder-
nity, in other words, which might allow faith concerns to remain at the
center of a modern world. It was also an attempt to redefine the nature
of modernity itself, and so exert some control over its demands. After
all, if modernity is really a question of the appearance of the apoca-
lypse, then it is certainly under the control of the promised Qa’im,
who is the ruler of the millennium. If the Qa’im is alive and available
to provide instructions in this ‘modern’ situation, then matters are
under his control and religion is the center of social concern. Of course,
this reformulation—which requires the appearance of a new prophet
of God, in this case the Bab, who eventually claimed that station—
propelled the Babis beyond Islam, producing a new religious commu-
nity, of which the Baha’i faith is the contemporary manifestation.
The Religion of Baha’u’llah
The Babi religion was reformulated and revitalized by Baha’u’llah (min-
istry: 1863–1892) as a new dispensation, the Baha’i faith. Baha’u’llah
accomplished this task in exile, first in Iraq, then in Istanbul; later in
European Edirne; and finally in Syria/Palestine. During the latter half
of the nineteenth century, the Ottoman Empire was transforming itself
into a modern state. Baha’u’llah’s teachings were promulgated within
the context of the now overwhelming presence of European moder-
nity, which was the most important force confronting these Ottoman
realms in the nineteenth century.
Juan Cole, in his important book Modernity and the Millennium,16
has argued that Baha’u’llah embraced certain aspects of the modern
condition and placed them at the center of his religion. Cole demon-
strates effectively how major elements of Baha’u’llah’s thought were
intended both to accommodate and to critique the modern situation
through the reformulation of religion.
16 Juan R. I. Cole, Modernity and the Millennium: The Genesis of the Baha’i Faith
in the Nineteenth-Century Middle East (New York: Columbia University Press, 1998)
distributed by Kalimát Press as volume nine of the series Studies in the Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions.

opting for the apocalypse
The Baha’i religion, in Cole’s view, clearly demonstrates the falsity of
the stereotypical view of the Middle East as traditional, stagnant, and
anti-modern—resistant to all change. This is an important insight, and
an important challenge to the prejudices of earlier scholarship that can
certainly be applied to African history, as well. Starting from the ear-
lier Babi innovations, Baha’u’llah departed from Islam within his own
teachings by embracing the concept of separation of church and state,
rejecting absolutism in favor of democratic values, accepting the value
of a limited nationalism, insisting on the unity of the human race, and
calling for gender equality.17 The result was the establishment of a new
religion that deliberately and consciously—openly and unashamedly—
formulated itself in response to the problems of modernity.
Christopher Buck also argues that the Baha’i religion consciously
confronts the crisis of modernity, in his encyclopedic Paradise and
Paradigm.18 Buck demonstrates that many of Baha’u’llah’s later writings
can be understood as a direct response to modern issues. Baha’u’llah’s
solution to the challenge of modernity, according to Buck, was to accept
a modern consciousness—but not by way of Berger’s reductive capitu-
lation to secularism. Rather, he undertook the active ‘sacralization’ of
aspects of the modern world (scientific inquiry, gender equality, and
internationalism, for example) and a corollary ‘de-sacralization’ of for-
mer religious practices considered “outmoded, incommensurate with
the exigencies of modernity, and thus no longer ‘sacred’ with respect
to divine authorization.”19 Again, we see the productive alternative at
work.
Baha’u’llah’s productive religious project, as with the earlier Babi
movement, called upon traditional eschatology to meet the crisis of
modernity. By deliberately invoking end-time prophecies and actively
claiming to have lived out those prophecies in present time, he created
the social space to reform, readjust, and indeed to recreate religion.
Remarkably, Baha’u’llah was able to call upon not only Muslim (and
of course Babi) eschatological narratives, but also those of Christian-
ity, Judaism, and Zoroastrianism as well. He announced himself to be
(in addition to the promised Husayn of the Shi’is and ‘he whom God
17 Ibid. See especially, pp. 189–95.
18 Christopher Buck, Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity
and the Bahá’í Faith (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999). See espe-
cially, pp. 142–79.
19 Ibid., p. 146.

chapter three
will make manifest’ awaited by Babis) Jesus Christ returned, the Jewish
Messiah, and the Zoroastrian deliverer Shah Bahram Varjavand.20 By
claiming to be each (and all) of these holy figures, he could assume the
divine authority required to adjust and remake religions in response
to the demands of a modern world. Therefore, the success of his mes-
sage rested on the acceptance of those charismatic claims. And accep-
tance of those claims propelled the new Baha’is out of their traditional
orthodoxies into a new religious movement.
Similarly, the introduction of the Baha’i faith to America in the
1890s certainly exhibits the same option for a productive alternative to
the (permanent) crisis of modernity. In America, the crisis was not the
appearance of a new, alien, and militarily superior culture—as in the
Middle East—or the collapse of colonial rule and missionary power,
but rather the encounter of nineteenth-century American society with
the full-blown effects of the industrial revolution, the rapid growth of
the modern metropolis, and transition to an urban culture. All this,
coupled with the failure of traditional Protestant religion to respond
to a new and bewildering urban, industrial environment.21
20 Christopher Buck, “A Unique Eschatological Interface: Bahá’u’lláh and Cross-
Cultural Messianism” in Peter Smith, ed., Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, Volume
Three: In Iran (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1986) pp. 157–79.
21 For the history of the Baha’i religion in the United States, see Peter Smith, “The
American Bahá’í Community, 1894–1917: A Preliminary Survey” in Studies in Bábí
and Bahá’í History, Vol. 1, pp. 85–223; Richard Hollinger, Community Histories, vol-
ume six of the Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions series (Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1992); and William Garlington, The Baha’i Faith in America (Westport, Conn.:
Praeger, 2005). Other volumes of the Studies series are also useful.
The Baha’i faith was introduced to the United States by an Egyptian Christian con-
vert, Ibrahim Kheeiralla. This early American Bahaism was millennial and the early
Baha’is drew heavily on Bible prophecies to understand their new religious identity.
Kheiralla taught and early American Baha’is believed that Christ had returned and
that he was alive on earth in the person of ‘Abdu’l-Baha—Baha’u’llah’s eldest son
and successor, then living in Palestine—even though this was not doctrinally correct
from a more orthodox perspective. (‘Abdu’l-Baha repeatedly denied that he was the
return of Christ, for example.) However, a full treatment of American Baha’i history
is beyond the scope of this discussion.
It is useful to compare the success of the Baha’i eschatological message in America
with the failure of the religion to establish itself in Britain. The ‘productive’ religion of
the American Baha’is was effective in establishing a viable community in the United
States almost from the start. However, British Baha’is never accepted Kheiralla’s teach-
ing that ‘Abdu’l-Baha was the return of Christ. The religion, as it was taught in Britain,
had no millennial message. Baha’is in Britain probably never numbered more than
about 50, from the beginning through the 1930s. See Phillip R. Smith, “ What Was
a Bahá’í? Concerns of British Bahá’ís, 1900–1920” in Studies in Honor of the Late

opting for the apocalypse
The Collapse of the Missions
I think that it is useful to apply the productive model to this intro-
duction of the Baha’i faith into West Africa. But here, the crisis of
modernity was not focused on an alien threat or the problems of
urbanization and industrialization. The crisis that the modern world
presented to the Africans in the 1950s was the impending collapse
of colonial society, and particularly the collapse of Christian missions
within that society.
John Iliffe, in his classic A Modern History of Tanganyika,22 has out-
lined the major elements of the crisis of colonialism in Africa. Illife
maintains that a crisis had developed in British colonies and colonial
societies beginning with the Great Depression of the 1930s. This crisis
coincided with the upheaval of European capitalism and continued
through World War II. By the decade of the 1950s, which is the focus
of this study, the situation was full blown and desperate. By then,
according to Iliffe, the crisis was over—for all practical purposes—
because colonial society had in fact already collapsed. Though colo-
nial governments remained, responsibility for the future of Africa had
passed to the minds and the hands of the colonized. In all African
colonies, national liberation was by then clearly the logic and dynamic
of all social movement. One element of this crisis was that both the
colonizer and the colonized lost faith in the colonial project, the
colonial vision of the future. Iliffe explains that Europeans began to
doubt whether their goals of a Europeanized Africa were attainable,
and “Africans doubted whether they were desirable.”23 Iliffe sees this
disillusionment as being expressed most clearly in Christianity and
within the Christian missions.
Iliffe sees this crisis as affecting all African missionary societies, not
only the ones in Tanganyika. There is every reason to believe that a
similar crisis faced the Basel Mission in British Cameroons during
the same period, for example. After all, the Basel Mission was on the
verge of collapse in Africa, as was the whole concept of a mission-
ary Christianity controlled and administered by Europeans. By 1957,
H. M. Balyuzi, Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Volume Five (Los Angeles: Kal-
imát Press, 1988) pp. 219–51.
22 John Iliffe, A Modern History of Tanganyika (Cambridge University Press, 1979).
See Chapter 1, “The Crisis of Colonial Society, 1929–1945,” pp. 342–80.
23 Iliffe, Tanganyika, p. 342.

chapter three
the Presbyterian community of the Cameroons had broken with such
control and had become an independent national church free of all
supervision from the Swiss Mission.
There is clear evidence of such a crisis of confidence and purpose for
fellow Presbyterians in the French Cameroons just across the border.
For example, the annual reports of American missionaries for 1953
and 1954, from the French region, had to be censored before publica-
tion. In them, the missionaries had complained rather bitterly that the
African Christian community was out of control. Their teachers and
pastors would not behave, and they had no way to discipline them.
African Christians now had life choices, and they were using their
mission education to move on to lucrative jobs in the city, forgetting
their Christian roots. The communicants in their congregations had
not become the strict Christian ascetics the missionaries wanted them
to be. They complained that Africans were getting too much freedom
and responsibility too soon.24
Perhaps we should expect that a fading vision of the future would
most affect religious communities—since their shared identity relies
so heavily on an imagined future, in this world and in the next. The
dream for Africa had always been that the missionaries were raising
up a new Christian society there, perhaps even new Christian nations.
And for Africans, missionaries—even until the 1930s, in more remote
areas—were conspicuous as the symbols of European wealth, power,
prestige, and modernity in places where no other such symbols
existed. By the end of World War II—with African soldiers returning
from other parts of the world, with more Europeans arriving in Africa,
and with a much more substantial secular government presence in
the colonial territories—that was no longer true. Missionaries could
not compete with the government or with private business interests
in terms of wealth, prestige, or resources. It was also clear to all, by
this time, that Christian missionaries were never going to have access
to the massive infusion of money and personnel that they would have
24 Annual Reports of the Mission Stations, 1953–54; Secretaries Files: West African
Mission; Board of Foreign Missions (RG142, Box 11, Folders 57, 70, and 81). Presby-
terian Historical Society, Philadelphia. See especially the (uncensored) general report
and the report from Yaounde, 1953.

opting for the apocalypse
needed to assume a commanding presence in African societies—or
even to control their own congregations.25
The missionary dream by the end of World War II had been over-
taken by events. The mission community was obviously never going
to become that near-perfect Christian society that the missionaries
had hoped for and had struggled to produce through the first half of
the century. Rather, the Christian church in Africa was going to look
much like the churches in America and Europe—existing in cultural,
political, and economic subordination to a secular state. Christianity
would be only one aspect of a larger, Western, secular culture that
would provide the primary identity of Africans—even for African
Christians. Christianity was not going to become a dominant force in
society, and the church would soon be turned over to African believ-
ers. The missionary dream was over, and the mission system was at
the point of collapse.
It is perhaps for this last reason that Iliffe finds that the dynamic
of a lost European vision was most pronounced in mission Christian
communities. After all, secular societies in Africa would undergo a
profound transformation, but they would not cease to exist. Mission-
ary Christianity would disappear. As a result, Iliffe suggests: “As the
European vision of the future faded, so African Christians sought one
for themselves.”26
Iliffe identifies three approaches by which African Christians asserted
their independence and their visions of the future as a result of the
colonial crisis: 1) independent Christian churches, 2) revival move-
ments within the missions, and 3) eclecticism which refused to be lim-
ited by Christianity. Revival is the approach that is of most interest to
us here, since it suggests possible parallels with the spread of the Baha’i
faith within the Basel Mission in British Cameroon in the 1950s.
25 Cf. Iliffe, Tanganyika, pp. 360–61.
26 Ibid., p. 361.

chapter three
The revival movement entered Tanganyika from Rwanda in 1939.27
However, the revival preachers did not organize separate churches.28
They preached within the mission. Those newly ‘saved’ remained
within their congregations, although they might meet separately at
times for prayer and mutual support. Nonetheless, the revival preach-
ers criticized both the European missionaries and Africans in posi-
tions of authority within the missions as impure. Only gradually did
these local cells within the mission—and occasionally larger gatherings
arranged for the public confession of sins—create new loyalties and
new communities. The point here is that the colonial crisis gave rise to
movements within mission communities, just as it gave rise to move-
ments outside of them.29
The colonial crisis was a profound disturbance for the missionar-
ies, of course. But it was also a crisis for African Christians who now
faced exactly the same choices as European Christians had in earlier
times—secularization or fundamentalist retreat. Revival movements
can be seen as the latter. This is especially true for village teachers,
catechists, and communicants—those at the very bottom of the mis-
sion hierarchy for whom the dream of a Christianized Africa had held
the most promise. Those who had assumed that a Christian career
would lead upward now realized that they would be left behind.30 Most
27 On Revival, see Max Warren, Revival: An Inquiry (London: SCM Press, 1954);
Catherine Robins, “Tukutendereza: A Study of Social Change and Withdrawal in the
Bolokole Revival Movement in Uganda,” Ph.D. dissertation, Columbia University,
1975; Kevin Ward, “Tukutendereza Yesu: The Balokole Revival Movement in Uganda”
in Z. Nthamburi, ed., From Mission to Church: A Handbook of Christianity in East
Africa (Nairobi: Uzima Press, 1991, pp. 113–44; George K. Mambo, “The Revival Fel-
lowship (Brethren) in Kenya,” in David B. Barrett, et al., eds., Kenya Churches Hand-
book (Kisumu: Evangel Publishing House, 1973) pp. 110–117; Josiah R. Mlahagwa,
“Contending for the Faith: Spiritual Revival of the Fellowship Church in Tanzania,”
in Thomas Spear and Isaria N. Kimambo, eds., East African Expressions of Christian-
ity (Oxford: James Currey, 1999); and Thomas Spear, “Toward the History of African
Christianity” in ibid., pp. 3–10. The literature on revival is comparatively sparse. Spear
notes that it is the independent African churches that have been studied the most,
“leaving parallel developments within the historical churches and the emergence of
African [mainstream] churches obscured below the waterline of schism and indepen-
dence.” (Spear, “Toward the History,” p. 4.) See also, David B. Barrett, Schism and
Renewal in Africa [Nairobi: Oxford University Press, 1968] pp. 4–7, 179–86.
28 Fellowship with mission churches was not finally broken until the 1950s. Iliffe,
Tanganyika, p. 365.
29 This is precisely Spears’s point, quoted in the footnote above. He notes that “the
independent churches represented only the tip of the iceberg . . .” (Spear, “Toward the
History,” p. 4.)
30 Cf. Iliffe, Tanganyika, pp. 358–59.

opting for the apocalypse
people within the missions would opt for one of the obvious alterna-
tives. But, again, the Baha’i faith offered a ‘productive’ alternative that
was chosen by a few, at least a few within the Basel Mission.31
The Baha’i teachings offered a way of renewing the missionary dream
by reaching into the future to make use of the eschatological promises
of Christianity. Actually, we know very little about how Enoch Olinga
taught the people he converted to the Baha’i faith in the British Cam-
eroons. But, there is evidence that the message was a millennial (that
is, chiliastic) one. He taught that these were the Last Days, in a bibli-
cal sense. The Baha’i message, as it was understood by Cameroonian
Baha’is for decades after, was shaped by Olinga’s teaching.
Opting for the Apocalypse
I suggest, therefore, that the meaning of the Baha’i message that spread
as a movement, in the British Cameroons at least, in the 1950s and
1960s was a ‘productive’ one. Those attracted to the Baha’i teachings
were precisely those Christians within the Basel Mission community
who were facing a new crisis of modernity—a crisis that was about to
sweep away their world. For some, rather than abandon their Chris-
tian dream, or retreat to a stubborn refusal to admit the obvious, the
Baha’is offered an alternative—the unique apocalyptic option that has
been characteristic of the Babi/Baha’i religions from the earliest days
of their combined history.
One example of this productive message that successfully spread the
Baha’i teachings is provided by the conversion of Alice Ndobe, later
an Auxiliary Board member32 in Cameroon during the 1980s, and so
a prominent Baha’i. The message that she heard and that led her to
become a Baha’i certainly originated with Enoch Olinga. Her story
takes place in 1969, and demonstrates some of the ethos of the Baha’i
community at that time, and earlier.33
Ndobe explains that she grew up within the Basel Mission system.
As she became older, she was disturbed when she realized that there
were a number of Christian churches that all preached the gospel of
31 This was not the only productive alternative, by the way. Iliffe’s Christian inde-
pendency and eclecticism are others. (Iliffe, Tanganyika, p. 361ff.)
32 A fairly important position within the Baha’i Administration.
33 Interview by Don Addison, January 1983, of which I have a tape.

chapter three
Christ, but in different ways. So, “I was not steady in the Presbyterian
Church [the Basel Mission],” she says. She continues: “I used to go to
the Full Gospel. Hear what they are saying about Christ. And other
churches that were around.”
In 1969, she went to the small town of Tombe and encountered
many Christian sects talking about the Last Days, the coming end of
the world. Their teachings frightened her and were the source of con-
tinuous disquiet. She was worried about what would happen to her
when the Last Day came. She was unhappy with all the anxiety that
this preaching caused her, and she says that she even became angry
and “blamed God” that he should send people into the world to tor-
ment her like this. Apparently, she was overwhelmed by fear that she
might be damned in the drama of the Last Judgment. That reaction is,
of course, precisely the one intended by a certain kind of evangelical
preaching. Conversion to evangelical Christianity is supposed to be
the next logical step from there.
She returned to Eboneme, her home village, in 1969, and she started
talking about these ideas of the Last Days. (It is not clear from this
account whether she was converted to these Evangelical views. But,
she says that she “took that message” to her home village, so I assume
that she had accepted whatever message was being preached.) On one
occasion, when she was telling people that the end of the world was at
hand, one of her relatives, Michael Edie, who was a Baha’i, objected.
He told her that the Last Days would not come as the Christians
expect. We are living in the Last Days now, he insisted. This response
caught her off guard. He taught her a bit about the Baha’i faith. Most
importantly, Edie taught her that the Last Days would not bring about
the end of the world, and explained Baha’i notions of the end of the
present era, the coming of a new religion, and so forth. She was imme-
diately attracted to this teaching. And, after this, she was “a little bit
released” from her anxiety about the end of the world. But her relative
did not know very much about the Baha’i religion and could not tell
her more.
At that point, she was in effect converted as a Baha’i. But she did not
actually join the Baha’i community in a formal way until several years
later, when she finally found some other Baha’is. This is an example of
how the Baha’i religion was able to spread outside of the control of its
formal organization. It indicates the development of the Baha’i faith
into a religious movement, a development that was unique to British
Cameroons. Her relative, Michael Edie, did not know enough about

opting for the apocalypse
the Baha’i faith to actually bring her into the community. Nonetheless,
he succeeded in converting her in belief, if not in affiliation. Here, we
see the expansion of the religion through family networks.
It is not clear to me that Edie himself was even a Baha’i, by formal
affiliation, at the time of his initial conversation with Ndobe, though
he was later on. Certainly, he knew very little about the religion. But,
there was no question in his mind that the Baha’i message was: “We
are living now in the Last Days.” The Last Days, which become the
‘first days’ and open the possibility for the production of a new reli-
gion that takes account of modern life. This is the fundamental func-
tion of the productive alternative, and it became the entry point of the
Baha’i religion into Cameroonian society, as it was the point of entry
into Iranian society in the middle of the nineteenth century.
I might note here that Ndobe’s anxiety about the Judgment Day and
the end of the world was the force that bound her, perhaps even reluc-
tantly, to the evangelical Christian church. When she found herself “a
little bit released” from this anxiety by the Baha’i teachings concern-
ing the coming of a New Age and a new religion (as opposed to the
destruction of the planet), she would also have been released from
binding ties to Christianity and to Christian missions and preachers.
Ndobe does not discuss this aspect of her experience in the interview
that is available to me. Nonetheless, in the British Cameroons at least,
accepting a new Baha’i message carried with it a newfound auton-
omy from European authority and a rejection of mission control. This
dimension of Baha’i conversion will be discussed more fully in Chap-
ter Six.

CHAPTER FOUR
PLANTING THE BAHA’I FAITH IN WEST AFRICA:
THE FIRST DECADE
From their beginnings, the Babi and Baha’i religions were conceived
by their founders as world religions, comparable in universality and in
divine mission to Christianity or Islam. As such, the Baha’i scriptures
anticipate the eventual conversion of all peoples into a worldwide
community of faith. Even in his first treatise, the Qayyumu’l-‘Asma,1
which the Bab began writing on the night of the conversion of Mulla
Husayn, he called upon the “people of the West” in one passage to
“issue forth from your cities and aid the Cause of God.”2 Some years
later, Baha’u’llah wrote, concerning his own cause: “When the victory
arriveth, every man shall profess himself as believer and shall hasten
to the shelter of God’s Faith.”3 Therefore, the conversion of African
peoples was always regarded by Baha’is as inevitable—an event to
be anticipated as a necessary aspect of the eventual conversion of all
humanity.
‘Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’u’llah’s eldest son and designated successor,
explicitly anticipated the entry of Africans into his father’s religion as
part of this triumphant destiny. For example, he writes:
How great, how very great is the Cause; how very fierce the onslaught
of all the peoples and kindreds of the earth! Erelong shall the clamor of
the multitude throughout Africa, throughout America, the cry of the
European and of the Turk, the groaning of India and China be heard
from far and near. One and all they shall arise with all their power to
resist His Cause. Then shall the Knights of the Lord, assisted by grace
1 A commentary on the Sura of Joseph in the Qur’an. Excerpts of this treatise have
been translated in Selections from the Writings of the Báb, trans. by Habib Taherzadeh,
et al. (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976) pp. 39–74. See also, Amanat, Resurrection
and Renewal, pp. 202–207; [Nabil-i ‘Azam], The Dawn-Breakers, p. 61.
2 Quoted in Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, God Passes By (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1944) p. 23.
3 Quoted in Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, trans. by Shoghi Effendi
Rabbani (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939) p. 319. Neither the date nor
the context of this particular passage is explained in the text of the book, which is a
compilation of excerpts from the major works of Baha’u’llah.

chapter four
from on high, strengthened by faith, aided by the power of understand-
ing and reinforced by the legions of the Covenant, arise and make mani-
fest the truth of the verse: “Behold the confusion that hath befallen the
tribes of the defeated!”4
In passages such as this one, the conversion of Africans seems almost
to be consigned to an eschatological future. However, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
also took practical steps to encourage a Baha’i presence in Africa. In
April 1916, in one of a series of letters written to the Baha’is of the
United States and Canada, he urged them to carry the Baha’i message
to the continent of Africa and to its surrounding island groups:
Similarly, if possible, they should travel to the continent of Africa,
Canary Islands, Cape Verde Islands, Madeira Islands, Réunion Islands,
St. Helena, Zanzibar, Mauritius, etc., and in those countries summon the
people to the Kingdom of God and raise the cry of ‘Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá!’5
They must also upraise the flag of the oneness of the world of humanity
in the island of Madagascar.
Books and pamphlets must be either translated or composed in the
languages of these countries and islands, to be circulated in every part
and in all directions.
It is said that in South Africa, a diamond mine is discovered. Although
this mine is most valuable, yet after all it is stone. Perchance, God will-
ing, the mine of humanity may be discovered and the brilliant pearls of
the Kingdom be found.6
As we have seen in Chapter Two, there had been a presence of Africans
at the very genesis of Baha’i history. Both the Bab and Baha’u’llah
owned black African slaves who were intimately involved in every
aspect of their households. Africans had become Babis and Baha’is.7
But by the middle of the twentieth century, Baha’is on the African
continent itself were limited to a number of Iranian expatriates (and
some converts) living in Egypt and Sudan,8 a small Baha’i group in
4 Quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1928) p. 123.
5 Arabic: O Thou the Glory of the All-Glorious, a Baha’i invocation.
6 ‘Abdu’l-Baha to “the believers and maid-servants of the Merciful of the Bahá’í
Assemblies and meetings in the United States and Canada,” April 11, 1916, in The
Tablets of the Divine Plan revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American Bahá’ís during
1916 and 1917 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1959) p. 14.
7 Afnan, Black Pearls, passim.
8 A few Egyptians converted to the Baha’i religion, especially the students of Mirza
Abu’l-Fadl. I believe that the number of his student-converts was fourteen. At least
one Christian became a Baha’i in Sudan. The first local Spiritual Assembly was elected
in Egypt (Cairo) in 1912. The first National Spiritual Assembly (including both Egypt

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Ethiopia,9 and a few whites living in South Africa.10 These small num-
bers, at this point, left the peoples of sub-Saharan Africa virtually
unrepresented within the Baha’i community and West Africa almost
completely out of the picture.11
In his letters of 1916–1917 to the North American Baha’is (which
later came to be known collectively as the Tablets of the Divine Plan),
‘Abdu’l-Baha had repeatedly urged them to travel to Africa to spread
their religion. There was some response to this call, especially for
South Africa, where Baha’is had been holding meetings, at least in
Cape Town, as early as 1911. Baha’i travelers made sporadic visits
to South Africa through the 1920s and 1930s, where a few Baha’is
could be found until 1948, though all of these appear to have been
Europeans.12
The Tablets of the Divine Plan, beginning in 1937, became the
scriptural basis for a systematic and planned effort of growth and dif-
fusion initiated and directed by Shoghi Effendi Rabbani (1897–1957)
when he beame the leaderof the Baha’i religion. ‘Abdu’l-Baha passed
away on November 28, 1921. In his Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
appointed, Shoghi Effendi, as his successor with the title of ‘Guardian
of the Cause of God’ (vali amru’llah), investing that office with the
and Sudan) was elected in 1924. A separate National Assembly for Sudan was elected in
1934. (Bahá’í Year Book 1925–1926, Vol. 1 [New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1926] p. 101; and Will C. van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa
from Its Earliest Days to 1986,” in Bahá’í Studies Review, Vol. 11 [2003] p. 14.)
9 There was at least one Baha’i living in Ethiopia by 1933; the first local Spiritual
Assembly was formed in Addis Ababa in 1947. (van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the
Baha’i Faith in Africa,” p. 14; The Bahá’í World 1932–1934, Vol. 5 [Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1936] p. 426; The Bahá’í World 1946–1950, Vol. 11 [Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1952] p. 520.)
10 van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa,” pp. 13–14.
11 At least, as far as the mainstream Baha’i community was concerned. Apparently,
the New History Society, a breakaway Baha’i group in New York City founded by Mirza
Ahmad Sohrab, had some success in convincing a number of West Africans in Ghana
and Nigeria to declare themselves as Baha’is (through correspondence) long before the
Baha’i community began its systematic efforts in West Africa. (Personal conversation
with Iraj Ayman, April 1995, at the Fifth Annual Colloquium on Scriptural Studies,
Wilmette, Illinois. Dr. Ayman told me that he had met some of these converts in
Nigeria.) More specifics on the activities of the New History Society and the Caravan
of East and West are discussed below.
The records of the New History Society have been donated to the National Bahá’í
Archives in Wilmette, Illinois. Therefore, further research can be conducted on this
matter in that archive. See below for a discussion of mainstream Baha’i contacts in
Nigeria before 1950.
12 van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa,” pp. 14–15.

chapter four
absolute authority to command the obedience of the Baha’i commu-
nity, as he had. Born in Palestine, the new Guardian was the eldest
grandson of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Shoghi Effendi adopted a very different
style of leadership than ‘Abdu’l-Baha had, however. Notably, he was
twenty-four years old when he became the head of the Baha’i faith.
He had been educated at the American University in Beirut, had lived
in England, and had attended Oxford University. He was fluent in
English and had acted for a time as a translator for his grandfather. He
had traveled through Europe and was familiar with Western customs
and ideas. Indeed, he had never lived in or even visited Iran.13
From the beginning, Shoghi Effendi refused to take on any roll that
might resemble that of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. He rejected any charismatic
authority and insisted that his leadership rested entirely on the legal
appointment of ‘Abdu’l-Baha in his will. He took on as his primary goal
the routinization of charisma, establishing a multi-layered bureaucracy
within the Baha’i community to administer its affairs, from elected
local and national councils, to international bodies appointed by him-
self. He further insisted that this new and bureaucratic ‘Administrative
Order’ was an integral part of the Baha’i religion, inseparable from its
spiritual elements, that it had been imbedded in Baha’i scriptures from
the beginning, and that it was based on the instructions left by ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, especially in his last Will and Testament.14
Very soon after becoming the head Baha’i faith, Shoghi Effendi began
to pursue policies that would provide the Baha’i community with a
coherent theology; publish translations of major Baha’i scriptures into
new languages—especially into English as rendered by himself; develop
Western forms of organization and parliamentary procedure; estab-
lish clear lines of religious authority; and accelerate the movement of
Baha’is into areas where there were none in an effort to increase the
spread of the religion and expand its international character.15
13 Warburg, Citizens of the World, pp. 194–96.
14 See, for example, Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938 [1974]) pp. 3–7 and passim.
15 No academic study has been undertaken of Shoghi Effendi or of the policies that
he developed as the Guardian of the Baha’i faith (1921–1957). For his own discussion
of the rise of the Baha’i Administrative Order, see God Passes By, pp. 323–53. For a
hagiographic biography of Shoghi Effendi written by his wife, see Ruhiyyih Rabbani,
The Priceless Pearl (London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969); also idem., The Guardian
of the Bahá’í Faith (London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988). Also, the memoir of
one of the Hands of the Cause, Ugo Giachery, Shoghi Effendi: Reflections (Oxford:

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Shoghi Effendi in fact placed most of his emphasis on organiza-
tion. He devoted most of his ministry to building the Administrative
Order, which transformed the Baha’i community from an informal
collection of believers, with loose and uneven forms of organization,16
into (at least ideally) a rational and disciplined world organization. He
insisted that in every place where nine or more adult Baha’is resided,
a local Spiritual Assembly should be formed.17 Originally called for by
Baha’u’llah in his Kitab-i Aqdas, and designated there as the ‘House of
Justice,’18 a local Spiritual Assembly is an elected council of nine believ-
ers who are given authority to take charge of Baha’i affairs within a city,
town, or village. In every country or major territory where enough local
Spiritual Assemblies could be formed,19 a National Spiritual Assembly
would also be elected to administer the national affairs of the Baha’is.
Finally, the members of all National Spiritual Assemblies, acting as
delegates at an international convention, were to be the electors of the
(future) Universal House of Justice—the supreme administrative body
of the Baha’i religion that (with the Guardian serving as its chairman)
George Ronald, 1973); and The Vision of Shoghi Effendi: Proceedings of the Association
for Bahá’í Studies Ninth Annual Conference (Ottawa: Association for Bahá’í Studies,
1993).
16 But powerfully tied together in an imagined unity by common devotion to the
charismatic head of the Faith—first Baha’u’llah, then ‘Abdu’l-Baha, and then (perhaps
to a lesser extent) to Shoghi Effendi.
17 Shoghi Effendi to “fellow workers in the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh,” undated (circa
May 1922) published in Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 20; and another
letter addressed to the Baha’is of the West, dated April 8, 1923, published in Bahá’í
Administration, p. 37. Only Baha’is over 21 years old are eligible to serve on local
Spiritual Assemblies and National Spiritual Assemblies.
18 Baha’u’llah, The Kitab-i Aqdas, K30. “The Lord hath ordained that in every city
a House of Justice be established wherein shall gather counselors to the number of
Bahá [9], and should it exceed this number it doth not matter. . . . It behooveth them
to be the trusted ones of the Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the
guardians appointed of God for all that dwell on earth. It is incumbent upon them to
take counsel together and to have regard for the interests of the servants of God, for
His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that which is meet
and seemly.” The text of the Aqdas is numbered by paragraph and is referenced as
such. The first official English translation of the book was published as: Bahá’u’lláh,
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992). The
Christian ministers Earl E. Elder and Wiliam McE. Miller had published an earlier,
rather hostile, translation: al-Kitāb al-Aqdas or The Most Holy Book by Mīrzā Husayn
‘Alī Bahā’u’llāh (London: The Royal Asiatic Society, 1961).
19 Initially, usually three or four—but sometimes even fewer.

chapter four
would become the final authority on all Baha’i affairs.20 This was to be
the form of the Baha’i Administrative Order.
The Tablets of the Divine Plan were used by Shoghi Effendi as
a charter for the diffusion and growth of the Baha’i religion. These
Tablets emphasized a number of elements of Baha’i expansion that had
been present since the beginning of its history. These goals included:
an increase in numbers, the dispersion of Baha’is to new places, the
translation and wide distribution of Baha’i scriptures, and an increase
in the ethnic diversity of the Baha’i community.21 To these objectives,
Shoghi Effendi added the goal of establishing Baha’i administrative
institutions wherever enough Baha’is might reside.
It is clear that Shoghi Effendi believed that the establishment of a
well-ordered and functioning administrative structure was a neces-
sary prerequisite to the implementation of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s far-reaching
goals.22 From 1921 to 1937, he was principally concerned, at least in
the West, with developing the Administrative Order. After 1937, he
initiated a series of plans, primarily intended for implementation by
the Baha’is in the United States, to begin the diffusion of the Baha’i
religion to new areas. The means of diffusion called for in these plans
was always the same. The first stage was to establish a minimum Baha’i
presence in a country or major territory. This was often accomplished
by a lone pioneer,23 or perhaps a small band of such pioneers, who
20 Shoghi Effendi died unexpectedly in 1957, and left no successor; he became the
first and the last Guardian of the Baha’i religion. The Universal House of Justice was
not elected until 1963, at the end of the Ten Year World Crusade, which had been ini-
tiated by Shoghi Effendi. Therefore, no Guardian has ever served as its chairman. The
House of Justice, at its inception, decided to adopt an ad-hoc, rotating chairmanship
in lieu of the scriptural prescription that the Guardian should act as chair.
21 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 24–27 and passim; Arthur
Hampson, “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith,” Ph.D. dissertation (Geog-
raphy), University of Hawaii, 1980, pp. 189–90.
22 See, for example, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 34–43; and, Shoghi
Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939)
pp. 9–10.
23 The term ‘pioneer’ designates a Baha’i who has left his home for the purpose of
teaching his religion in a new area. Baha’is scrupulously avoid the term ‘missionary,’ a
word they regard with some disdain. The Baha’i faith has no clergy, and Baha’is were
anxious not to establish pioneers as such. Ideally, a pioneer is not paid. He simply
takes up residence in a new place and finds a job or pursues his profession or business
as a self-supporting member of his new community. In fact, this was not always pos-
sible, and pioneers were often provided with stipends from the Baha’i funds for their
support. Such financial support of pioneers was always regarded as temporary and
irregular, however, no matter how widespread or permanent the practice became. An

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
would take up residence in a new place. These first Baha’is would
necessarily be foreigners. But even one alien Baha’i living within any
country would mean that country had been ‘opened’ to the Baha’i
faith, and that was regarded as an important victory.
The next step was the effort to increase the number of localities
within a region where Baha’is resided. This would include the for-
mation of local Spiritual Assemblies wherever possible. However, the
minimum number needed for an Assembly is nine Baha’is living in
one area. Places where fewer than nine Baha’is lived were designated
as ‘groups’; and even a single Baha’i living alone in a city, town, or
village was counted as a ‘locality’ or an ‘isolated center’ and regarded
as an outpost of the religion in that place. Goals were invariably estab-
lished in terms of an increase in the number of Assemblies, groups,
and localities within any region.24
This process was intended to result in the formation of a widely
scattered network of Baha’i nuclei. As soon as possible, a regional
National Spiritual Assembly would be elected—including a huge terri-
tory, sometimes covering more than a dozen countries. Such a regional
Assembly would provide the area with institutional autonomy and (it
was hoped) would increase the prestige of the religion in the public
mind. Such regional Assemblies would have enormous territories to
administer, and very few Baha’is. But Baha’i growth was encouraged
throughout each region so that it could, eventually, be partitioned into
smaller National Spiritual Assemblies corresponding to the countries
and major territories to be found there. This was the ultimate goal
and, again, was accomplished through pioneers, the multiplication
of Baha’i ‘centers,’ the formation of groups, and the election of local
Spiritual Assemblies. Plans of this kind and pattern were pursued in
Latin America and in Europe from 1937 to 1953.25
ideal of the self-supporting, unpaid pioneer was maintained—in contrast to a profes-
sional and paid ‘missionary.’ However, in practice there was often little difference.
24 As opposed to goals for the number of converts or the number of Baha’is to be
found within any region.
25 Cf. Hampson, “Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith,” pp. 399–404.

chapter four
The Africa Plan
In 1950, the same strategy of diffusion and growth was applied to Africa.
In that year, in a long cablegram sent to their National Convention,
Shoghi Effendi congratulated the Baha’is of Great Britain on the suc-
cessful completion of their Six-Year Plan, which had culminated in the
election of a total of nineteen local Spiritual Assemblies on the British
Isles.26 In the same message, he announced plans to begin a slow dif-
fusion of Baha’is into sub-Saharan Africa. This “systematic campaign”
was scheduled to begin in April 1951, and was to be a two-year plan
that would include the consolidation of the recently formed Assemblies
in Britain. The message reads, in part:
. . . hour propitious galvanised firmly knit body believers [in
Britain] brace itself embark after one year respite yet another his-
toric undertaking marking formal inauguration two year plan
constituting prelude initiation systematic campaign designed
carry torch faith territories dark continent [Africa] whose
northern southern fringes were successively illuminated course
ministries baha’u’llah ‘abdu’l-baha. hour struck under take pre-
liminary steps implant banner faith amidst african tribes27
mentioned tablet28 centre covenant [‘Abdu’l-Baha29] . . . designed
lay structural basis baha’i administrative order scale compa-
rable foundation already established north south american
european australian continents.
. . . first objective two year plan consolidation nineteen
assemblies painstakingly established england scotland wales
north ireland eire. second objective formation nuclei three
dependencies british crown either east west africa. third
objective translation publication dissemination baha’i litera-
ture through publishing trust three african languages addi-
tion three already undertaken course first plan. successful
26 Including Ireland and Northern Ireland.
27 “He used the word ‘tribes’ loosely to mean the peoples of Africa and not necessar-
ily individuals still living under tribal system [sic].” (Shoghi Effendi’s personal secre-
tary to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the British Isles, February 25,
1951, published in Shoghi Effendi, The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í
Community: The Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of the
British Isles [London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981] p. 259.) There are no specific
African ‘tribes’ mentioned in the Tablets of the Divine Plan.
28 That is, the Tablets of the Divine Plan.
29 One of the titles of ‘Abdu’l-Baha used by Baha’is is the ‘Center of the Covenant’
(of Baha’u’llah).

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
prosecution contemplated plan will pave way large scale
operations. . . 30
The contemporary reader may find this message a little difficult to
decipher. Without articles, conjunctions, helping verbs, and connect-
ing phrases the language is stripped to a minimum. This was, of course,
the usual condensed language used at the time in most telegrams. In
1950, this was still the fastest form of written communication. The
cablegram, like the long-distance phone call, signaled urgency, formal-
ity, and gravity. As the most current communications technology, it
also indicated wealth and modernity.
The mystique of the cablegram supported the emotional impact
of Shoghi Effendi’s message to the British convention. His very long
message would have been read aloud to the assembled delegates and
observers at the meeting. The length of the message would have been
startling: something one would expect only from a government com-
munication or instructions from a wealthy financier. Most telegrams
at this time were composed of only a few words. The necessarily con-
densed form of the message, especially when read to a religious group,
takes on the form and feeling of a solemn pronouncement. The form
of the cablegram communicates an atmosphere of emergency. Even
the difficulty that many listeners (even then) may have had in under-
standing the exact meaning of the message may have reinforced its
power and charisma. What could be more riveting than receiving an
urgent message in grand language with important news that you can-
not quite make out?
In any case, it seems clear that the message to the British Convention
succeeded in powerfully motivating the Baha’is there. The two-year
plan for Africa announced in 1950 was to be a preliminary plan under-
taken under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Baha’is of
Britain, with the assistance of the Baha’is in the United States and Egypt.
Its goals were quite modest: the migration of three Baha’i pioneers to
any three British colonies in East or West Africa31 and the translation
30 Shoghi Effendi to the British National Convention [April] 1950, published
in Unfolding Destiny, pp. 245–46. The complete cablegram is quite long, totaling
351 words.
31 Southern Africa appears to be excluded here, perhaps because there was already a
small Baha’i presence in South Africa. The Guardian later excluded Nigeria and Kenya
as goals for that reason. (Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha’is of the British Isles, June 28, 1950, published in Unfolding Destiny, p. 253.)

chapter four
of some Baha’i literature into three more African languages.32 More
extensive goals were supposed to follow in subsequent plans.
The proposed Africa campaign quickly grew beyond these intentions.
Within the year, the first Baha’i pioneers had arrived in Africa and oth-
ers were on their way. Shoghi Effendi expanded the plan to include the
cooperation of the National Spiritual Assemblies of Persia and of India,
who were to provide additional pioneers. By the time the Two-Year
Plan was “officially launched” in April 1951, the Guardian could boast
that: “. . . seventeen african territories now included [within the]
pale [of the] faith.”33 These included countries where Baha’is had
lived for many decades, like Egypt and Sudan, but also new areas. By
April 1952, the total number of goal territories to be ‘opened to the
Faith’ in Africa had been increased to 25, and pioneers had arrived
in 9 new places. Two local Spiritual Assemblies had been formed—in
Kampala, Uganda, and in Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika—a development
which had not been initially contemplated. By October 1952, there
were one hundred Baha’is in Uganda alone.34 By the end of the plan
in April 1953, Baha’is had formed 17 new local Spiritual Assemblies
on the continent—13 in Uganda, and one each in Tanganyika, Kenya,
Libya, and Liberia.35
The following table summarizes some of the achievements of the
Africa Campaign, which certainly exceeded expectations:
Table 4.1. Goals and Achievements of the Africa Campaign, 1951–1953
Goal
Achievement
New Territories settled (‘opened’)
Local Spiritual Assemblies
Translation into African Languages
Ethnic groups
Baha’is in Africa
>200
Source: van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa,” p. 16, Table 1.
32 One Baha’i pamphlet, Do You Know in What Day You Are Living?, had already
been translated into Swahili, Hausa, and ChiNyanja by Philip Hainsworth. (The Bahá’í
World 1950–1954, p. 827; Unfolding Destiny, p. 253.)
33 Shoghi Effendi to the British National Convention April 25, 1950, published in
Unfolding Destiny, p. 264. Meaning that at least one Baha’i now lived in seventeen
different countries or major territories on the continent.
34 The Bahá’í World 1950–1954, Vol. 12 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1956) pp. 52–53.
35 The Bahá’í World 1954–1963, Vol. 13 (Haifa: The Universal House of Justice,
1970) p. 283.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Something should be said about the symbolic (even metaphorical)
nature of the goals of the Africa Plan, as well as the goals of previ-
ous plans, and of the Ten Year International Plan that was to come.
All of the goals of these plans were modest. They were all focused on
the establishment of Baha’i ‘localities’ and ‘groups,’ and the multipli-
cation of Baha’i institutions—local Spiritual Assemblies and National
Spiritual Assemblies. In the case of Africa, the goals included trans-
lation of Baha’i literature into African languages, and sometimes
the purchase of land and buildings to be held in the name of Baha’i
institutions. Numerical goals for the number of African conversions
were never adopted. While every effort was made to bring indigenous
people into the Baha’i religion, all of the goals of the plans could have
been accomplished with a minimum of such conversions.
Baha’is discussed the achievement of their goals in epic language—
literally, in biblical terms. Nonetheless, the actual achievements of the
plans, in many cases, might be seen by a social scientist as insignificant.
For example, in 1950, the migration of three more Baha’is to British
colonies in Africa and the translation (somewhere in Great Britain) of
the words of a pamphlet into three African languages would hardly
seem important from a sociological point of view. Yet, in announcing
the plan, Shoghi Effendi compared it favorably to the establishment of
the British Empire:
successful prosecution contemplated plan will pave way [for]
large scale operations calculated lay foundations promised
kingdom [of God on] earth through establishment administra-
tive order infinitely more glorious [than the] empire built rulers
british isles throughout that continent [i.e., Africa] . . . 36
Clearly then, the goals of the Baha’i plans for Africa were symbolic of
the larger dream of the far-off but longed-for conversion of humanity
to the religion. The real intention was simply to establish a presence
on the continent that Baha’is could present to the public, and to them-
selves, as evidence of the international character of their faith and as
proof of its claim to be a world religion. This was made explicit with
regard to the translation projects, for example. When the National
36 Shoghi Effendi to the National Convention of the Baha’is of the British Isles,
Cable, April 1950, published in Unfolding Destiny, p. 246.

chapter four
Spiritual Assembly of Britain suggested, during the two-year Africa
Plan, that more literature be published in Hausa and Swahili, the
Guardian’s secretary replied on his behalf:
Entirely aside from any additional literature it might be possible to get
out in Hausa and Swahili he feels your objective must be to print at least
a pamphlet in three languages other than those . . . It must be borne in
mind that printing in new languages kills two birds with one stone—not
only does it enable the Faith to reach new elements, but it also enriches
our literature and is excellent as a means of calling the attention of the
public to the universality of our Cause and the extent of our world-wide
activities!37
Similarly, the arrival of the first Baha’i pioneers, the conversion of the
first indigenous believer, the election of the first Assemblies, and so
forth, should be seen—at least in retrospect—as metaphors for larger
concerns. Baha’is celebrated each of these events enthusiastically, and
today sometimes remember them in the same way. But, with one
notable exception,38 the number of Africans actually involved in these
events was tiny. Again, with the one exception, we will be discussing
the history of dozens of people, rather than hundreds or thousands.
Some Early African American Pioneers
When Shoghi Effendi called upon the American Baha’i community to
assist the British Baha’is with their Africa Campaign in 1950, he made
a special appeal to African American Baha’is to volunteer as pioneers
to that continent:
I appeal particularly to its [the American Baha’i community’s] dearly
beloved members belonging to the Negro race to participate in the
contemplated project marking a significant milestone in the world-
unfoldment of the Faith, supplementing the work initiated fifty years
ago on the North American continent, forging fresh links binding the
American, British and Egyptian Communities and providing the prelude
to the full-scale operations destined to be launched at a later period of
the unfoldment of the Divine Plan aiming at the conversion of the back-
ward, oppressed masses of the swiftly awakening continent.39
37 Written by Shoghi Effendi’s secretary to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha’is of the British Isles, June 28, 1950, published in Unfolding Destiny, p. 253.
38 British Cameroons.
39 Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United
States, August 5, 1950, published in Citadel of Faith: Messages to America 1947–1957
(Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970) pp. 87–88.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Illustration 4.1. Map of Baha’is in Africa, 1952
Not really a map, but more an illustration of the presence of Baha’is in Africa
in 1952, published in Bahá’í News as a way of demonstrating recent achieve-
ments. The original caption reads: “Map of Africa showing Bahá’í Assemblies,
Groups, and Isolated Centers. The lined and dotted areas indicate the coun-
tries the Guardian assigned as the teaching responsibility of each of the
National communities participating in the Two Year African Plan, inaugu-
rated in 1950. The large legend designates the specific assignments. This map
was prepared by the British Africa Committee for Bahá’í World, Vol. XII.”
(Although, the map was not in fact published in that volume. Since Volume XII
covers the years 1950–1954, by the time the book was published in 1956 the
map was already obsolete. It was probably omitted for that reason.)

chapter four
While the map manages to fill in most of English-speaking Africa, in one
way or another, any analysis would immediately note the blankness of French
and Portuguese Africa. An entire page was devoted to this map in the October
1952 issue (No. 260, p. 6) of Bahá’í News, and it was intended to celebrate
the Baha’i presence in Africa at the end of the Africa Campaign. However,
the map reveals just how very thin this presence was. Cities identified with
a square symbol had at least nine Baha’is living in them and had elected a
local Spiritual Assembly. Those identified with a triangle had fewer than nine
Baha’is living in them, but at least two. The circles indicate cities where no
more than a single Baha’i lived. Nonetheless, entire countries are filled in by
only one or two circles.
This display demonstrates the symbolic nature of the Baha’i goals during
the 1950s. Aesthetically, the map appears full. The underlying message here is
that the Baha’i faith is a world religion that can claim to be present and fully
established in Africa. But the map does not indicate a significant presence of
Baha’is on the continent—at least from a sociological perspective. Rather it
illustrated for Baha’is a symbolic, “spiritual conquest” of Africa, accomplished
simply by the fact that Baha’is were now living there—even in small numbers.
This mere presence was a source of both pride and excitement for Baha’is
at the time. Maps of this genre were used extensively during the Ten Year
World Crusade, 1953–1963.40
A number of black Baha’is responded to this plea. There were prob-
ably fewer than 6,000 Baha’is in the United States at this time, and
certainly fewer than 500 of them were African Americans41—making
the response all the more impressive.
Ethel Stephens,42 a black American Baha’i, was the first pioneer
to arrive in West Africa in response to Shoghi Effendi’s message,
reaching the Gold Coast in October 1951. Stephens was a ‘Home
Economist’ who participated in a research project under the direction
of Northwestern University. She was employed at Kumasi College to
teach and conduct research on diet and nutrition in the Gold Coast.
Although she was somewhat restricted in her activities because of her
government employment, she made efforts to teach the Baha’i faith.
40 See, for example, the maps that were published as inserts to the Bahá’í World,
Vols. 12 and 13 (1950–1954 and 1954–1963, respectively).
41 There were no public records of the number of Negro Baha’is in the United
States in 1950. It is possible that some confidential records exist in the National Baha’i
Archives in Wilmette, Illinois. The number 500 is probably high, but represents a gen-
eral impression based on contemporary records and photographs taken at the time.
(Private e-mail communications with Richard Hollinger, December 2006.)
42 Mrs. Stephens was married (although she is sometimes referred to as ‘Miss’
Stephens in Baha’i sources). Her husband was a physician. He did not accompany her
to Africa. (Bahá’í News, No. 254 [April 1952] p. 8.)
Caption (cont.)

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
After one year, due to an unexpected death in the family, she returned
to the United States, leaving the Gold Coast with no resident Baha’is.
Although her stay in the country had no concrete results, at least in
terms of converts, she is remembered as the first Baha’i pioneer to
West Africa.43
The first black Baha’i who volunteered to go to Africa after Shoghi
Effendi’s call for pioneers had been William Foster, but he did not arrive
in Liberia until January 1952.44 Responding to a letter from Foster in
which he had expressed his desire to relocate to Africa, Shoghi Effendi’s
secretary, writing on his behalf, had stressed the importance of Negro
Americans taking the Baha’i religion to Africa. The letter reads in part:
[June 4, 1951]
Dear Bahá’í Brother:
Your letter of May 2nd was received by our beloved Guardian and
brought him great joy.
The decision you have taken to go to Africa and teach the Cause is
momentous and is worthy of the great race you belong to. The Guardian
has been eagerly awaiting a Negro pioneer, and feels that Bahá’u’lláh will
surely bless your enterprise and assist you in this work you are planning
for His Faith.
You are fortunate to have a wife by your side kindled with the same
enthusiasm and determination, and your joint labours will be a tremen-
dous asset to the new campaign in Africa. . . .
With warmest Bahá’i love,
[signed] r. rabbani45
[P.S. In Shoghi Effendi’s handwriting]
May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you always, enable you to
fulfill your heart’s desire, set a noble example to the Negro believers, and
win great and memorable victories in that promising Continent.
Your true brother,
shoghi
43 Minutes, November 3–4, 1951; AFR 9/44, April 21, 1953; AFR 10/1, September 30,
1952, Africa Teaching Committee records, National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Illinois;
Bahá’í News, No. 249 (December 1951) p. 5, No. 251 (February 1952) p. 9, No. 254
(May 1952) p. 8, No. 257 (August 1952) p. 10, No. 258 (September 1952) p. 13. For
the celebration of Stephens as the first pioneer, see chart below; also Bahá’í World
1950–1954, Vol. 12, p. 53; and, for example, Bahá’í World News Service, “Official
Urges Study of ‘Noble Principles,’ ” October 2004 (http://news.bahai.org/story/328).
44 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 7/51, March 8, 1953, National Bahá’í
Archives, Wilmette, Ill., cited in Van den Hoonaard, “Annotated Index,” p. 40.
45 Ruhiyyih Khanum Rabbani, Shoghi Effendi’s wife.

chapter four
Foster’s Baha’i wife, Ruth, was white; and the couple had one son,
whom they named Badi.46 His family did not accompany him to
Liberia because Ruth had a skin disease that she felt would not allow
her to live in a tropical climate. But he left for Africa with her encour-
agement. Eventually, when Foster relocated to Casablanca, Morocco,
Ruth and Badi joined him there.47
Valerie Wilson remembered Foster as an outgoing person, with
a good sense of humor, who was able to make friends easily.48 He
was much more successful than Ethel Stephens had been in finding
people who were willing to become Baha’is. In February of 1952, he
was able to cable the Africa Teaching Committee in the United States
with news of his first Baha’i convert in Liberia.49 By July, there were
twelve Baha’is in Liberia, holding meetings and Baha’i events.50 By the
time Wilson arrived in November, Foster had brought twenty-six new
converts into the Baha’i religion.51 (See Table 4.2 below.)
Foster was also able to make contact with another Negro America
Baha’i, Joseph Pereira, formerly of Boston, who had settled in Gbarnga,
Liberia, in 1946, and had been living there ever since. Gbarnga is some
eighty miles from Monrovia, in the Liberian hinterlands, and Pereira’s
residence there had been unknown to the international Baha’i com-
munity before Foster discovered him. He was, however, inactive as a
Baha’i and seems to have shown no interest in spreading the religion.
He seems to have been among the American Negroes who experi-
mented with ‘returning’ to Africa in the post-World War II period.52
46 An Arabic word meaning ‘wonderful,’ the name of a celebrated Persian Baha’i
martyr. Badi Foster became a noted African American scholar and educator in the
United States. See Anthony A. Lee, “Badi Foster” in Africana: The Encyclopedia of the
African and African American Experience, Revised Edition, ed. by Henry Louis Gates,
Jr. (Oxford University Press, 2005) pp. 691–92.
47 Valerie Wilson Interview, Menlo Park, Calif., June 16, 1983. Foster left Liberia
for Casablanca on May 1, 1954. (Membership book, Liberia and Sierra Leone, Valerie
Wilson papers.)
48 Ibid.
49 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 5/6, February 18, 1952, National Bahá’í
Archives, Wilmette, Ill., cited in van den Hoonaard, “Annotated Index,” p. 39; Bahá’í
News, No. 254 (April 1952) p. 8.
50 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 5/6, July 25, 1952, National Bahá’í
Archives, Wilmette, Ill., cited in van den Hoonaard, “Annotated Index,” p. 41.
51 Valerie Wilson Interview, Menlo Park, Calif, June 17, 1983.
52 Bahá’í News, No. 254 (April 1952) p. 8; Africa Teaching Committee records,
AFR 5/6, July 25, 1952 and AFR 3/52, September 9, 1956, National Bahá’í Archives,
Wilmette, Ill., cited in van den Hoonaard, “Annotated Index,” pp. 39 and 41.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
As we shall see, other black Baha’is in Africa during this period would
seem to fit this pattern, as well.53
Foster had secured work as a plumber, supervising the work at
the government hospital being built at Bassa, in southern Liberia.
Therefore, he was a government employee. He became quite friendly
with a number of civil officials, including President William Tubman.
He taught the Baha’i faith through his personal contacts. All of the
new Baha’is Foster converted were men.54 They were also foreigners—
Ghanaians, Sierra Leoneans, and Americans. These Baha’i men all had
good jobs in Monrovia, mostly as clerks, secretaries, or bookkeepers.
They were all literate. They were Christians and had been educated in
British schools in Africa. Most of them had been friends before becom-
ing Baha’is; this was especially true of the Ghanaians. They became
Baha’is in groups, rather than as individuals. Because of social custom,
Foster was not able to approach Liberian women to teach them about
religion, and he seems to have been almost as unsuccessful in teaching
Liberian men.55
Because of this situation, Foster asked the Africa Teaching Committee
in the United States to send a Baha’i woman pioneer to Liberia. They
were able to convince Valerie Wilson to move there, even though she
had originally planned to pioneer to Tanganyika. Through his personal
contacts, Foster was able to secure the promise of a job for Wilson
as the Director of Nurses at the government hospital in Monrovia.56
Wilson arrived in Liberia in November 1952.
53 Including Foster’s first convert, Benjamin Miller (Jala Massaquoi). (See footnote
89 below.) Also, the Washingtons and the Dunnes in Liberia.
54 Except for three women who were the wives of Foster’s converts. They were
apparently convinced by their husbands to enroll as Baha’is. (See Table 4.2 below.)
55 Valerie Wilson Interview, Menlo Park, Calif., June 16, 1983.
56 Ibid. The promised salary was quite modest: $100 per month, plus housing, to be
raised to $150 per month after six months of employment.

Table 4.2. The First Twenty-Six to become Baha’is in Liberia, 1952
Twenty-three men and three women (wives of male converts) who were taught the religion by William Foster, American
pioneer to Liberia, before the arrival of Valerie Wilson. All but two are foreigners.
No.
Name
Sex
Date of
Declaration
Country
of Origin
Ethnic
Group
Language
Residence
Moved to:
Benjamin Miller
(Jala Massaquoi)
M
2/1952
USA
American
Negro
English
Sanniquette
America, 6/1954
Mangus Innocent
Nani Amegashie
M
6/10/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Patrick Hector
Amegashie
M
6/10/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Keta, Gold Coast,
9/1955
David Seah Doe
M
6/10/1952
Liberia
Kru
Kru
Monrovia
Suakoko, 2/1955
Gakpo (Bill)
Kpohanu
M
6/10/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Lottieri Lotteringhi
della Stufa
M
6/10/1952
Italy
Italian
Italian
Monrovia
Unknown, 1/1953
Dan G. K. Ocloo
M
6/10/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
C. A. Lovette-Brew
M
6/10/1952
Nigeria
Ibo
Ibo
Cape Palmas
Fred Armstrong
Letchah
M
8/5/1952
French
Togoland
Ewe (Agu)
Ewe
Monrovia
America, 9/1953
Ezekiel Adecye
Thomas
M
8/5/1952
Sierra
Leone
Creole
English
Monrovia
Irene Agatha
Abigail Thomas
F
8/5/1952
Sierra
Leone
Creole
English
Monrovia
Joseph Kofa
M
8/5/1952
Liberia
Kru
Kru, Twi
Monrovia

No.
Name
Sex
Date of
Declaration
Country
of Origin
Ethnic
Group
Language
Residence
Moved to:
K. B. Addo
M
9/17/1952
Gold Coast
Fanti
Fanti
Monrovia
England? 11/1953
Rudolph
Amartey
M
9/17/1952
Gold Coast
Fanti
Fanti, Ga,
Twi
Monrovia
Canada, 8/1953
James Klutse
Chapman
M
9/17/1952
French
Togoland
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
France, 10/1953
Gedeon Patrick
Yawo Koffie
M
9/17/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Melissa Oconnor
F
9/17/1952
Sierra
Leone
Creole
English
Monrovia
Bomi Hills,
1/1953
Benjamin Ojumeri
Oconner
M
6/7/1952
Sierra
Leone
Creole
English
Monrovia
Bomi Hills,
1/1953
Rowland
Emmanuel Sagoe
M
9/17/1952
Gold Coast
Fanti
Fanti
Monrovia
Chamberlain
Tamakloe
M
9/17/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Bomi Hills,
1/1953
Wellington K.
Gony
M
11/16/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Table 4.2 (cont.)

No.
Name
Sex
Date of
Declaration
Country
of Origin
Ethnic
Group
Language
Residence
Moved to:
Alfred A. Lewis
M
11/16/1952
Liberia
French
Kru
English, Kru
Monrovia
23*
Sophia Abdallah
Kpohanu
F
11/26/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
24*
Dan Demor
M
11/26/1952
Gold Coast
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
Mt. Koffie,
Harrisburg
25*
Ireneaus
Gadegbeku
M
11/26/1952
French
Togoland
Ewe
Ewe
Monrovia
26*
Aiah M.
Mangatoma
M
11/26/1952
Sierra
Leone
Kono
Kono,
Mende
Monrovia
* The last four names listed, Nos. 23–26, had their declarations witnessed by Wilson, although they were Foster’s students.
Source: Membership Book, Liberia and Sierra Leone, Valerie Wilson papers, pp. 20–21.
Table 4.2 (cont.)

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
I was able to interview Valerie Wilson in her home in Menlo Park,
California, in 1983.57 By then she had returned from Africa and was
caring for her bedridden mother. Although she had always identified
herself as an African American,58 she was a very light-skinned woman
and would have appeared white to any observer. She was happy to be
interviewed and was willing to give me access to her personal papers59
and to share her memories of the history of the Baha’i faith in West
Africa.
Wilson was thirty-three when she arrived in Liberia as a Baha’i pio-
neer.60 She was unmarried and remained so for the rest of her life. She
had grown up in Oakland, California. She completed her college edu-
cation at Wilberforce University, Ohio, in 1938. She had entered nurs-
ing school in 1940, at General Hospital in Los Angeles, but left during
World War II to work for the Army. After the war, she had trained as
a physical therapist at Children’s Hospital in Los Angeles, in a March
of Dimes program to assist polio victims. She attended Baha’i meet-
ings in Los Angeles at the home of a black family, the Ellises.61 After
her training, she traveled around the country for two years working
with polio victims for the March of Dimes. She was, however, able to
attend Baha’i meetings in each city where she was assigned. When she
returned to Los Angeles, she became a Baha’i, on February 7, 1949.
Wilson decided to move to Liberia mostly in response to Shoghi
Effendi’s appeal for Negro Baha’is in the United States to pioneer to
Africa. She had attended sessions at Geyserville Baha’i School62 in
1951, one of which had been devoted entirely to African pioneering.
Amin Banani was present at this session; his father, Musa Banani, had
recently relocated to Uganda. Apparently, this had impressed her.
Wilson took up residence at the government guesthouse in Monrovia
and began work at the hospital on December 1, 1952. On December
11, 1952, both she and William Foster received letters from President
Tubman dismissing them from their jobs and expelling them from
the country. Another woman living in the guesthouse had reported
57 Most of the remaining information in this section was obtained from two inter-
views with Valerie Wilson conducted at her home, Menlo Park, June 16–17, 1983.
58 This term is an anachronism, of course. During the 1950s, Wilson considered
herself an American Negro.
59 Referenced here as the Valerie Wilson papers.
60 Her birth date was September 7, 1919.
61 The home of Charles and Sadie Ellis and their children.
62 In northern California.

chapter four
Wilson’s conversations at the dinner table directly to the President.63
He had taken offense at some of her remarks and actions and had used
the opportunity to fire her and Foster.64 Both Foster and Wilson were
accused of deliberately insulting the nation of Liberia. However, their
crimes were slight, and we might suspect that there were other fac-
tors involved. The opportunity to humiliate a ‘white’ woman probably
had a part in the matter. Also, it was reported that the government
treasury was desperately overextended and the President needed to
reduce expenses.65
Wilson was able to get the expulsion order delayed and to arrange
for an appointment with the President where she apologized to him
personally. So, both Wilson and Foster were allowed to remain in
Liberia.66 Wilson got her job back, but Foster did not. He had to find
other employment during his remaining time in the country.
This incident represented a crisis for the new Baha’is in Liberia.
Almost all of them were, after all, foreigners and could be expelled
from the country without much cause. Wilson remembered that half
of the new Baha’is were lost at this point, because they did not want to
be associated in any way with the two expelled pioneers. The growth of
the Baha’i faith in Liberia was temporarily halted and reversed.
63 Apparently, the President knew this woman very well. She was from Sierra Leone
and had been invited by the President to come to Monrovia specifically to visit him.
She was offended by some of Wilson’s behavior and reported her indignation to the
President.
64 Wilson’s indiscretions were three: 1) Shortly after her arrival, on November 22,
1952, she had invited the entire Monrovia Baha’i community to her room in the guest-
house to celebrate the 19-Day Feast (a regular Baha’i community gathering). Nineteen
people attended the meeting. The guesthouse was supposed to be an exclusive govern-
ment residence, and the President thought her actions were inappropriate. 2) She had
overheard a domestic argument near the guesthouse in which a man was asserting his
right of custody to his young son. At table, Wilson had taken the side of the mother.
3) She had repeated a story about a photo taken at the dedication of the new govern-
ment hospital at Bassa, which she had heard from the other nurses at the Monrovia
hospital. This ceremony had been attended by some high government officials from
Monrovia, in full dress uniforms and regalia, but the only transportation that they
could find to Bassa was in an old garbage truck. They had asked William Foster to take
a picture of them in their uniforms. He obliged them. But, unfortunately, they had
posed themselves in front of the garbage truck. The photo that resulted was apparently
hilarious, and all the nurses were talking about it.
65 The presidential order for Foster and Wilson to leave Liberia is reported in the
records of the Africa Teaching Committee, AFR 1/1–11, January 4, 1953, National
Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.
66 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 1/1–11, January 10, 1953, National
Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
In any case, Wilson remained in Liberia. After she lost her job at the
hospital (a second time) in 1955, she was supported by Baha’i funds
from the United States.67 In 1954, she was appointed to the Auxiliary
Board, a group of assistants to the Hand of the Cause Musa Banani,
whose area of activity was Africa. In 1956, she was elected as a member
of the new regional National Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa.
She traveled extensively in West Africa by automobile, visiting fledg-
ling Baha’i communities, and was an important support for the Baha’i
Administration in the area for many years.
There are also tragic stories to tell, however. George and Bessie
Mae Washington were a Negro American Baha’i couple who arrived
in Monrovia on July 19, 1955, with their grandson, Ricky.68 They came
to Liberia with another black Baha’i, Arthur Banks, who was a friend
of theirs. All three had lived in Seattle, Washington. The Washingtons
had sold all they had in the United States and had come to Africa to
stay for good. They brought a large number of belongings with them,
including an American car, a Packard. They also brought a large
amount of money with them. The three had intended to settle in Sierra
Leone, but they were unable to obtain visas, and so they were forced
to come to Liberia.
The Washingtons joined Zara and Major Dunne, Baha’is who had
arrived in Monrovia in January 1954.69 Zara was white; Major Dunne
was black. They had known the Washingtons in Seattle. They had made
some plans for private projects in Africa that they did not share with
the other pioneers. Wilson thought that their schemes were rather
“grandiose.” She remembered that Mr. Washington was frustrated
and restless when he first arrived in Liberia. He would drive his car
far upcountry in search of opportunities to realize his plans. He and
his wife soon shed their American citizenship to become naturalized
Liberians so that they would be able to own land in the country.
Mr. Washington was introduced to one of the local chiefs in Gbarnga
District who promised to give him 500 acres of land and to pay all
his expenses, if Washington would construct a house for him using
67 She received $100 per month for some years. She explained to me it was enough
to live on at that time.
68 Membership book, Liberia and Sierra Leone, Valerie Wilson papers, p. 25. Unless
otherwise indicated, the information below on the Washingtons and the Dunnes was
obtained from my interviews with Valerie Wilson.
69 Membership book, Liberia and Sierra Leone, Valerie Wilson papers, p. 23.

chapter four
modern materials. The site was some 137 miles from Monrovia. To
accomplish the task, Washington converted his Packard into a pick-up
truck to transport the building materials. He exhausted all of his funds
building the chief ’s house, which he completed. He was given title to
a 500-acre estate in payment, but the chief never reimbursed him for
his expenses. So, the Washingtons were left destitute, even though they
were now landowners.70 They settled in Gbarnga in November 1955,
and managed to establish a rice farm there. However, in August 1957,
the American Africa Teaching Committee received a report that they
were in “dire straits” financially.71
On April 23, 1959, Bessie Mae Washington passed away after a brief
illness.72 Her death was a great shock to her husband, who nonetheless
pledged to continue his pioneering activities for as long as he could.73
However, Mr. Washington passed away in Gbarnga a few weeks later
on May 30.74 Ricky was left an orphan, though he inherited his grand-
parents’ property. Mrs. Dunne and Mr. Banks became his guardians.75
The African American pioneers to Liberia included Vivian Wesson,76
who arrived with Mavis Nymon77 in August 1954. They established
themselves in Bomi Hills, a mining town in northwest Liberia, north
of Monrovia. They opened an English literacy school there in early
1955, with an initial enrollment of 60 students. The school was main-
tained into the 1960s.78
70 Wilson said that, after this, the Dunnes supported the Washingtons financially
until they passed away.
71 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 1/1–11, August 18, 1957, National
Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.
72 Aftica Teaching Committee records, AFR 6/2, n.d., National Bahá’í Archives,
Wilmette, Ill.
73 Ibid.
74 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 9/37, March 14, 1971, National Bahá’í
Archives, Wilmette, Ill.
75 Report to the National Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa, “Liberia: LSAs,
Centers, Communities, & Pioneers,” by M. Mustapha, n.d. (Received by Valerie Wilson
on September 18, 1959). See section on “Gbarnaga: not incorporated, & Washington
Estate.” Valerie Wilson papers.
76 I understand that there are extensive taped interviews of Wesson that were
made some years ago. However, they have not been deposited in the National Bahá’í
Archives, Wilmette, Ill., and are not included among her papers there. Although I was
told about the tapes by the interviewer herself years ago, I do not know where they
might be located now.
77 Wesson and Nymon were both Americans. Nymon was white.
78 Membership book, Valerie Wilson papers, pp. 22–23; Africa Teaching Committee
records, AFR 6/20, March 21, 1955; AFR 1/1–11, April 3, 1955. See also, “Bomi Hills
Literacy Graduates First Class,” in Bahá’í News, No. 299 (January 1956) p. 3.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
There were other pioneers as well—both black and white. Certainly,
more research needs to be done on the biographies of these early
Baha’is in West Africa, their motivations and beliefs, their social
backgrounds, their similarities (in these respects) to Christian mis-
sionaries, and—perhaps most interestingly—how their moves to Africa
compare to similar moves made by other Americans during this same
period. There is some evidence, as we have seen, that some of the black
American Baha’is saw themselves as ‘returning’ to Africa, and as such
may be part of a pattern of the tiny trickle of African American emi-
gration to Africa that began in colonial times.79 For example, Marcus
Garvey’s back-to-Africa movement and the (unrelated) emigration of
W. E. B. DuBois to Ghana in 1961, come immediately to mind.80 In
any case, it is clear that, in the 1950s, the Baha’i community in the
United States was able to call upon its African American converts to
help establish a permanent presence in West Africa.
The Ten Year World Crusade
Immediately upon the close of the two-year Africa Plan, Shoghi Effendi
initiated a new Baha’i teaching campaign that was global in scope and
far more ambitious than earlier plans. This was a ten-year plan that he
designated as a “fate-laden, soul-stirring, decade-long, world-embracing
Spiritual Crusade”81 to involve a coordinated effort on the part of
79 See, for example, P. J. Staudenraus, The American Colonization Movement, 1816–
1865 (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961), which is still the most recent full
treatment of the American Colonization Society; and, for example, Kevin K. Gaines,
African Americans in Ghana: Black Expatriates and the Civil Rights Era (Chapel Hill:
The University of North Carolina Press, 2006). Also, Saidiya Hartman, Lose Your
Mother (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Grioux, 2007).
80 On Garvey, see Judith Stein, The World of Marcus Garvey: Race and Class in
Modern Society (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1991) and E. David
Cronon, Black Moses: The Story of Marcus Garvey and the Universal Negro Improvement
Association (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1955). The most definitive
biography of DuBois is the two-volume set, David Levering Lewis, W.E.B. DuBois:
Biography of a Race, 1868–1919 and W.E.B. DuBois:The Fight for Equality and the
American Century, 1919–1963 (New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1993 and 2000);
on DuBois religious views, see Edward J. Blunt, W.E.B. DuBois: American Prophet
(Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2007).
81 Shoghi Effendi to the Baha’i world, September 8, 1952, published in Messages to
the Bahá’í World, p. 41.

chapter four
all twelve existing National Spiritual Assemblies in the world.82 The
primary goal of the plan was to establish a Baha’i presence and the
rudiments of Baha’i administrative organization in every country and
major territory in the world.
Again, the goals of the plan were highly symbolic. The metaphor
was the (spiritual) conquest of the planet. A country, as before, would
be considered ‘opened to the Faith’ or ‘conquered’ when a single
Baha’i took up residence there. The metaphor of world conquest—with
Knights, armies, battalions, reinforcements, sacrifice, and victory—was
quite explicit in the messages of the Guardian to the Baha’is of the
world. In the following passage, he calls for an increase in the num-
ber of Baha’is in the United States as an adjunct to the plan. Perhaps
referring to the prophecy of ‘Abdu’l-Baha quoted earlier in this chap-
ter, Shoghi Effendi gives the Ten Year Plan an almost eschatological
significance:
The movement of pioneers, the opening of virgin territories, the ini-
tiation of Houses of Worship and of administrative headquarters, the
incorporation of local and national elective bodies, the multiplication of
assemblies, groups and isolated centers, the increase in the number of
races represented in the world Bahá’í fellowship, the translation, publica-
tion and dissemination of Bahá’í literature, the consolidation of adminis-
trative agencies and the creation of auxiliary bodies designed to support
them, however valuable, essential and meritorious, will in the long run
amount to little and fail to achieve their supreme purpose if not supple-
mented by the equally vital task . . . of winning to the Faith fresh recruits
to the slowly yet steadily advancing army of the Lord of Hosts, whose
reinforcing strength is so essential to the safeguarding of the victories
which the band of heroic Baha’i conquerors are winning in the course of
their several campaigns in all the continents of the globe. . . .
Such a steady flow of reinforcements is [needed to] safeguard the
prizes which . . . are now being won in virgin territories by Bahá’u’lláh’s
valiant Knights, whose privilege is to constitute the spearhead of the
onrushing battalions which, in diverse theaters and in circumstances
often adverse and extremely challenging, are vying with each other for
the spiritual conquest of the unsurrendered territories and islands on the
surface of the globe.
82 The United States; the British Isles; Germany and Austria; Egypt and Sudan; Iraq;
India, Pakistan, and Burma; Persia; Australia and New Zealand; Italy and Switzerland;
Canada; Central America; and South America. (Shoghi Effendi, The Bahá’í Faith
1844–1952: Information Statistical and Comparative, including Supplement Ten Year
International Bahá’í Teaching Plan 1953–1963 [Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1953] p. 12.)

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
This flow, moreover, will presage and hasten the advent of the day
which, as prophesied by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, will witness the entry by troops of
peoples of divers nations and races into the Baha’i world—a day which,
viewed in its proper perspective, will be the prelude to that long-awaited
hour when a mass conversion on the part of these same nations and
races, and as a direct result of a chain of events, momentous and possibly
catastrophic in nature, and which cannot as yet be even dimly visual-
ized, will suddenly revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange the
equilibrium of the world, and reinforce a thousand fold the numerical
strength as well as the material power and the spiritual authority of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.83
A total of 131 new countries and territories were to be settled by at
least one Baha’i during the Ten Year Plan, and this objective was
supposed to be achieved during the first year—between April 1953
and April 1954. Because Africa was so thinly populated with Baha’is,
African countries and territories were prominent on this list, although
the distribution of the territories was global. Shoghi Effendi’s intention
appears to have been to establish a symbolic presence of Baha’is even
in the most remote and far-flung parts of the world. Hampson has
noted that many of the territories designated as goals of the plan were
“notable only for their geographical isolation and demographic insig-
nificance. The United States, for example, . . . was expected to spread
the Faith to such obscure places as Spitzbergen, St. Helena, Sakhalin,
Andorra, Tonga, and Réunion.”84 Hampson further remarks that: “The
names of the 131 goal territories read like a list of the least important
places in the world.”85
The list of territories with no Baha’is for West Africa included:
the Ashanti Protectorate, British Cameroons, British Togoland, the
Canary Islands, Cape Verde Islands, French Equatorial Africa, French
West Africa, French Cameroons, French Togoland, Gambia, Northern
Territories Protectorate (in the future Ghana), Portuguese Guinea,
Spanish Guinea, and St. Thomas Island. All of these areas did, indeed,
receive at least one Baha’i pioneer during the first year of the Ten Year
Plan.
Table 4.3 provides detailed information on the first Baha’is who
settled in the various countries of West Africa, including their names
83 Shoghi Effendi to the American Baha’i community, July 18, 1953, published in
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, pp. 116–17.
84 Hampson, “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith,” p. 397.
85 Ibid.

chapter four
and dates of arrival. Also included are the names of the first native
Baha’is enrolled in each place.86 The table includes the achievements
of both the two-year Africa Plan and the first year of the Ten Year
World Crusade. As can be seen from Table 4.3, besides the American
and Iranian pioneers, many of the ‘virgin territories’ were settled by
new African converts to the Baha’i faith.
In addition to goals of dispersion, the Ten Year Plan included goals
for consolidation (that is, strengthening) of Baha’i communities in
areas where they were already established, the translation of Baha’i lit-
erature into 31 new African languages, and eventually the purchase of
land and of buildings as local Baha’i meeting places (haziratu’l-quds,87
or Baha’i centers).
Once a territory was settled, it was supposed to increase both in
the number of Baha’is and in the establishment of local Spiritual
Assemblies. Impressive growth was accomplished in these terms. In
April 1955, Musa Banani was able to report the formation of 75 new
local Assemblies in Africa, making a total of 124 for the whole conti-
nent. Eight of these new Assemblies were formed in British Cameroons
(making a total of nine), one in British Togoland, and one in the Gold
Coast.88 Since the count had been 26 at the end of the Africa Plan in
1953,89 and since there had been only 10 local Assemblies in Africa
(all in North Africa and Ethiopia) in 1950,90 there had been enormous
growth in five years—at least in institutional terms.
The crowning institutional achievement was reached in April
1956, when the Baha’is of North and West Africa elected their first
regional National Spiritual Assembly. This provided the region with
institutional autonomy, ending the initial period during which for-
eign National Assemblies had exercised jurisdiction over various ter-
ritories in the area—the National Assembly of the British Isles, for
British Cameroons, British Togoland, Gold Coast, Madeira, and Sierra
Leone; the National Assembly of Persia, for the Ashanti Protectorate;
86 That is, the first converts.
87 Arabic: sacred fold; the official Baha’i term for a building used as a meeting place.
Sometimes referred to in English as the ‘Hazira,’ but most often simply as the local
‘Baha’i Center.’
88 Bahá’í News, No. 293 (July 1955) p. 3; No. 295 (September 1955) p. 5.
89 Only one in West Africa, in Monrovia, Liberia.
90 The Bahá’í World 1946–1950, Vol. 11, pp. 520–24.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
9192Table 4.3. Pioneers and First Baha’is in West Africa 9394
Country
First Baha’is to Settle (Date)
First Native Baha’i (Date)
Benin (Dahomey)
David Tanyi (1954)
Atanley II
and Cosme Kponton (1954)
Cameroon
British Cameroons
French Cameroons
Enoch Olinga (Oct. 1953)
Samuel Njiki (Apr. 1954)
Mehrangiz Munsiff (Apr. 1954)
Enoch Ngompek
Central African
Republic
Samson Nkeng (Jan. 1956)
Charles Morgan
Pierre Sangha
Gambia
Fariborz Roozbehyan
(Feb. 1954)
Nicolas Banna (1954)91
Ghana
Gold Coast
Ashanti Protectorate
British Togoland
Northern Territories
Ethel Stephens (Oct. 1951)
Benedict Eballa (Apr. 1954)
Edward Tabe
Albert Buapiah (Apr. 1954)
Julius Edwards (Sept. 1953)
Martin Manga (Apr. 1954)
Albert Nyarko Buapiah
(Oct. 1953)
Guinea Bissau
(Portuguese Guinea)
José and Hilda Xavier
E. Rodrigues (Aug. 1953)
Duarte Vieira92 (Feb. 1961)
Ivory Coast
Labib Esfahani (1955)
Uri Bodo (1960)
Liberia
William Foster (Jan. 1952)
Valerie Wilson (Nov. 1952)
Benjamin Miller93
(June 1952)
Nigeria94
Thomas Beresford Macauley
(1940s)
Senegal
Labib Esfahani (Nov. 1953)
Habib Esfahani (April 1954)
N. Thomas (1957)
Sierra Leone
Arthur W. Cole (June 1952)
Joseph Hingston (Nov. 1953)
Togo (French
Togoland)
David Tanyi (Apr. 1954)
Carl Allotey (June 1954)
Source: “Reference list of pioneers and first Baha’is in Africa” in Van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the
Baha’i Faith in Africa,” pp. 30–33, with additions and corrections.
91 Banna was a Syrian Arab living in Gambia. The first Gambian convert was Nelson
Ethan Thomas, a Christian (Methodist). His first Muslim convert was al-Hassan Jagne.
(F. Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth [N.p. (Denmark?): by the author, n.d. (1960?)]
pp. 66–71.)
92 Later designated the first African Baha’i martyr. See below.
93 Miller was “an Afro-American from Cincinnati who moved to Liberia and
became a member of the Uai [Vai] ethnic group.” (“Survey of the Baha’i Faith in
Africa,” p. 31, n. 146.) Also known as Jala Massaquoi, Miller lived in the hinterlands
of Liberia. He left the Liberia in June 1954. (Interview with Valerie Wilson, Menlo
Park, 6/17/83.)
94 By 1950, when the Africa Campaign was proposed, there were already “some
Baha’is” living in Nigeria. Therefore, it was not included among the goals of the plan.

chapter four
and the National Assembly of India, Pakistan, and Burma for French
Cameroons and Gambia.95
The territory of the new regional National Spiritual Assembly
included a vast area.96 Elected in April 1956, by delegates chosen by the
existing local Spiritual Assemblies, the members were: Enoch Olinga
(pioneer from Uganda), Elsie Austin (pioneer from the United States),
Shoghi Ghadimi (an Iranian), William Foster (pioneer from the United
States), Mustapha Bouchoucha, S. Riad Ruhani (an Iranian), Valerie
Wilson (pioneer from the United States), Rowshan Mustapha, and
Abdul-Hamid El Khamire.97
This huge zone, although the Baha’is had succeeded in erecting
a skeleton of new institutions within it, contained fewer than 1,000
Baha’is. Realistically, since the Baha’i population of Gambia was
ephemeral, the number was actually fewer than 600—with about half
of these located in British Cameroons. Table 4.4 provides the official
count of Baha’is in each country under the jurisdiction of the regional
National Assembly as of April 1956. The numbers include foreign pio-
neers. Valerie Wilson noted at this time that 170 of the Baha’is in the
area were ‘non-African,’ being pioneers from other countries, and 749
Baha’is were ‘African,’ meaning indigenous to their areas.98
These numbers were not made public at the time. As can be seen
from Table 4.4, the growth of the religion in West Africa was discon-
(Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the British Isles,
June 28, 1950, published in Unfolding Destiny, p. 253.) See discussion of Nigeria below.
95 Delegate information for “National Convention of the Baha’is of North-West
Africa, Tunis, [Baha’i year]113—[A.D.]1956,” issued by the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Baha’is of Egypt and Sudan, March 29, 1956. Valerie Wilson papers.
96 With its administrative headquarters established in Tunis, the territory under
its jurisdiction included: Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco (International Zone), Spanish
Morocco, French Morocco, Rio de Oro, Spanish Sahara, French West Africa,
Gambia, Portuguese Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Gold Coast, Ashanti Protectorate,
Northern Territories Protectorate, British Togoland, French Togoland, Nigeria, British
Cameroons, French Cameroons, Spanish Guinea, St. Thomas Island, Cape Verde
Islands, Canary Islands, and Madeira. This regional Assembly continued until April
1964, when the National Assemblies of West Africa and West Central Africa were
elected. Since then, separate National Assemblies have been elected for all countries in
the region. (Van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa,” p. 19.)
97 Delegate information, Valerie Wilson papers. Solomon Hilton, a Sierra Leonean
(Mende) who had been Valerie Wilson’s first convert in Liberia, was almost elected
to the regional National Spiritual Assembly. He tied with Abdul-Hamid El Khamire
for the ninth spot on the Assembly. However, in a tie-breaker vote, El Khamire was
elected. (Ibid.; Membership book, Valerie Wilson papers.)
98 Wilson hand notes in Delegate information, inside back cover, Valerie Wilson
papers. I presume that this figure includes the 302 African Baha’is in Gambia who
quickly disappeared. So, a more realistic count is about 450 African Baha’is in West
Africa, the majority of whom lived in the British Cameroons.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
tinuous and highly uneven. The British Cameroons was by far the most
successful area in terms of the number of new Baha’is. When Gambia
is factored out, the 279 Baha’is in the British Cameroons represent
almost half of the Baha’is in the region, and a large majority of the
447 African Baha’is in the region. Except for British Cameroons, no
country in West Africa could claim that many more than two dozen
Baha’is lived there. The development of the Baha’i faith in British
Cameroons will be treated in some detail in Chapter Six. The early
history of Baha’is in other West African countries will be discussed
briefly below, specific to each country.
99 The Africa Teaching Committee in the United States noted the “virtual loss”
of all six local Spiritual Assemblies and all 300 Baha’is in Gambia in 1957. Dated
Table 4.4. Numbers of Baha’is in Northwest Africa, April 1956
Country or Territory
Baha’is
Algeria
Ashanti Protectorate
British Cameroons
British Togoland
Canary Islands
Cape Verde Islands
French Cameroons
French Morocco
French Togoland
French West Africa
Gambia
Gold Coast
Liberia
Madeira Islands
Morocco Int’l Zone
Nigeria
Northern Territories
Rio de Oro
Sierra Leone
Spanish Guinea
Spanish Morocco
Spanish Sahara
St. Thomas
Tunisia
Total
Source: Musa Banani, “Circular Letter,” Ridván 1956, Box 1, File 41, Africa Teaching
Committee Records, National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Illinois.

chapter four
In November 1957, Shoghi Effendi died suddenly and unexpectedly
while on a trip to London,100 without leaving a successor.101 With
his passing, the Baha’i community not only lost its spiritual leader,
but also the mastermind and architect of the Ten Year Plan that it
was pursuing. The Hands of the Cause,102 who had been appointed
by Shoghi Effendi as his deputies and assistants, temporarily assumed
the leadership of the Baha’i religion in his stead. They arranged for the
election of the Universal House of Justice, the supreme international
Baha’i body, to be held in April 1963. But the remaining goals of the
Ten Year World Crusade were achieved under the direction of the
Hands of the Cause.
By 1958, there were over 4,000 Baha’is living in Africa, and about
3,000 of these were native Africans. The Hands of the Cause could
also report that same year that in Africa there were “no less than one
hundred and fifty spiritual assemblies; the introduction of the Faith
into more than two hundred tribes, the translation of its literature into
more than seventy languages, the purchase of numerous Haziratu’l-
Quds and endowments103 both national and local; . . . and the increase in
the number of localities where Bahá’ís reside to over six hundred.”104
In these terms, the growth of the Baha’i faith in Africa continued
to the end of the plan. The number of Baha’is overall continued to
increase, and the number of local Assemblies, groups, and localities
continued to multiply. Table 4.5 provides a statistical summary of this
growth. But these numbers are for the whole continent. The develop-
ment of the Baha’i community continued to be uneven when con-
sidered country by country. Uganda, Congo, and British Cameroons
witnessed the entry of thousands of new converts and became the real
10/10/57, AFR 4/60, 12/57(?), National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Illinois, cited in
van den Hoonaard, “Annotated Index,” p. 31.
100 His residence was in Haifa, Palestine.
101 According to Baha’i scripture (that is, the instructions left by ‘Abdu’l-Baha
in his last Will and Testament), Shoghi Effendi was to appoint his first-born son
as the next Guardian. Failing this, he could appoint any other male descendant of
Baha’u’llah to this position. However, Shoghi Effendi had no children, and by the
time of his passing, he had expelled all eligible successors from the Baha’i community
as ‘Covenant-breakers.’ (Cf. The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944 (1971)] p. 12.)
102 Including Enoch Olinga, who was the only African Hand of the Cause.
103 Undeveloped land.
104 “Message From the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land to the Intercontinental
Conference in Kampala” published in Bahá’í News, No. 325 (March 1958) pp. 1–2.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
success stories. Other countries lagged behind, or failed to grow at all,
as we shall see.
But such statistics hardly tell the whole story. The worldwide Baha’i
community developed a master narrative of growth and victory sur-
rounding the recent history of the religion in Africa. This narrative
was virtually predetermined by the symbolic nature of the goals of the
Ten Year World Crusade and the metaphors that were used to sup-
port that effort. The symbolic action was the conquest of the countries
of Africa, and that goal could be accomplished by the movement of a
lone pioneer to a single city within a nation, or certainly by the forma-
tion of a local Spiritual Assembly—even if most of its members were
foreigners.
Inevitably then, the early Baha’i history of West Africa will be under-
stood, especially by Baha’is, as the story of the triumphal growth of the
religion in a region where it had previously been virtually unknown.
However, a narrative of growth and expansion provides an unsatisfac-
tory history of the early years of the Baha’i faith in West Africa. Such
an approach is limited, one-sided, and obscures more developments
than it explains. This issue will be discussed further in the next chap-
ter, and more especially in Chapter Six. Nonetheless, expansion did
take place—even though it is only one element in the full history of
Baha’is in West Africa. Some aspects of that expansion are discussed
below.
Gambia
The first Baha’i pioneer to settle in Gambia was Fariborz Roozbehyan,
who was originally from Bombay, born into a Baha’i family of
Zoroastrian background.105 He had attended St. Xavier College in
Bombay, but had to withdraw in 1907 due to illness. He was advised to
105 His father, Keykhusrow Esfendiar, had been a member of the local Spiritual
Assembly of Bombay in 1905 when Sydney Sprague, an American Baha’i teacher, vis-
ited India. Keykhusrow became celebrated in the American Baha’i community as the
friend who traveled from Bombay to Lahore (where an epidemic of cholera was rag-
ing) to nurse Sprague back to health after he had fallen gravely ill with typhoid fever.
Unfortunately, Keykhusrow died of cholera while in Lahore, symbolically giving his
life for his fellow-Baha’i from America. (Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, pp. 1–5;
Sydney Sprague, A Year With the Bahá’ís in India and Burma, Reprint [Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1986 (1908)] pp. 49–53.)

chapter four
Table 4.5. Statistical Summary of African Territories, 1952–1963106107108109110111112113114115
Year
Baha’is106
LSAs107
Groups108
Localities109
NSAs110
<200
1,300
90111
>120
3,000
124(?)
1958112
4,000
1960113
15,000
1,140
1961114
20,000
1,500
>40,000115
1,076
2,900
Source: van den Hoonaard, “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa,” Appendix B,
p. 34, with additions and corrections.
leave India for health reasons and lived for many years in Iran.116 After
attending a Baha’i conference in India in 1953, he decided to settle in
Bhutan, one of the goals of the Ten Year Crusade; but he was unable
to obtain a visa. Determined to become the first Baha’i to open some
goal country, Roozbehyan changed his destination to Gambia—which
was one of the goals of the plan that had been assigned to the National
Assembly of India, Pakistan, and Burma.117
106 Estimated number of Baha’is in all of Africa.
107 Local Spiritual Assemblies. There must be at least 9 adult Baha’is living in an
area to form a local Spiritual Assembly. These Assemblies are usually elected by the
Baha’is locally.
108 A group is any area where at least 2 Baha’is live where a local Spiritual Assembly
has not been formed. Usually, this means that there are 2 to 8 Baha’is living there.
109 Any place where at least one Baha’i resides. These include local Assembly areas,
groups, and isolated believers.
110 National Spiritual Assemblies.
111 There were 124 LSAs in all of Africa as of April 1955. (Bahá’í News, No. 293
[July 1955] p. 3.) Thus, van den Hoonaard’s figure of 90 refers, perhaps, only to sub-
Saharan Africa.
112 Information for 1958, added from Bahá’í News, No. 325 (March 1958) pp. 1–2.
113 Information for 1960, added from Bahá’í News, No. 351 (June 1960) p. 3, and
No. 354 (September 1960) p. 1.
114 Information for 1961, added from Bahá’í News, No. 363 (June 1961) pp. 4 and 6.
115 Approximately half of these Baha’is were in the Congo. (The Bahá’í World
1954–1963, Vol. 13, p. 287.) Although van den Hoonaard does not indicate it on his
chart, the figure of 40,000 represents only the Baha’is of Central and East Africa in
1963. (Ibid.)
116 In 1907–1908 he was attacked by cholera, but he also suffered from chronic
malaria. (Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, p. 6.)
117 Actually, a regional body that governed the Baha’i affairs in all three countries.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
He arrived in Bathurst (now Banjul), Gambia, on February 19, 1954.
However, he was an older man, and in poor health, so that he was
hospitalized repeatedly during his stay in the country.118 Nonetheless,
his Baha’i teaching efforts were highly successful. He soon convinced
a wealthy Syrian Christian merchant,119 a Gambian Methodist (an
Aku),120 and a Gambian Muslim (a Wolof )121 to become Baha’is. The
Muslim convert was extremely helpful and introduced Roozbehyan
to his network of friends. A number of them became Baha’is. By April
1955, four local Spiritual Assemblies were elected in Gambia: Bathurst,
Serrekunda, Lamin, and Brikama.122 By June 1955, Roozbehyan
reported that there were 106 Baha’is in Gambia.123 In April 1956, two
new Assemblies were formed in addition to those already existing, for
a total of six. By that time, there were 300 Baha’is in the country.124 But
all of these gains were soon to be lost.
Roozbehyan’s ill health finally forced him to leave Gambia and
return to Iran. He left in April 1956.125 Almost immediately, the
Baha’i community collapsed. In October 1957, the Africa Teaching
Committee in the United States received a report of the virtual loss
of all local Spiritual Assemblies and all 300 Baha’is in Gambia.126 The
community had been completely dependent on the one pioneer. Even
though Roozbehyan returned to Gambia in September 1957, at the
specific request of Shoghi Effendi (who must have been informed of
the situation in Gambia), the community did not recover. Roozbehyan
was so ill that he could not leave the hospital during his brief return.
He went back to Iran.127
118 Since Roozbehyan left college in 1907, he must have been in his mid-sixties by
1954. He was hospitalized initially for asthma and ‘fever.’ During his first six-month
stay in Gambia, he was hospitalized four times for stays of ten or fifteen days each.
He found his first Gambian convert during his fourth hospitalization. (Roozbehyan,
The Paradise on Earth, pp. 66–70.)
119 Nicolas Banna.
120 Nelson Ethan Thomas.
121 al-Hassan Jagne.
122 Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, pp. 66–73; Roberta Al-Salihi, “The Gambia,”
2nd edited draft (1994), an unpublished article written for the Baha’i Encyclopedia
Project, Wilmette, Ill.
123 F. Roosbehyan [sic] to Africa Teaching Committee, June 19, 1955, AFR 1/1–11,
National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.
124 Al-Salihi, “The Gambia”; AFR 4/57, September 24, 1956, AFR 9/39, February 13,
1958, National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.; Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, p. 74.
125 Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, pp. 76–77.
126 AFR 4/60, December 1957?, Africa Teaching Committee records, National
Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.
127 Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, pp. 81–82.

Illustration 4.2. Baha’i House of Worship, Kampala, Uganda
The Baha’i Temple of Africa is located in Kawempe Division, in northern Kampala, Uganda. Designated by Baha’is as the
‘Mother Temple of Africa,’ its foundation stone was laid in 1958, and it was dedicated on January 13, 1961.  Source: Wikipedia.
org/wiki/Kampala.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
An Iranian couple, Enayatu’llah and Eshrat Fananapazir, with their
three children, arrived as pioneers in April 1957. They began the Baha’i
teaching work anew, and remained in Gambia until March 1962.
Shoghi Riaz Rohani also settled in the country as a pioneer in 1962,
and he stayed for one year. In 1963, there were again Baha’is living in
31 localities in Gambia, and 21 of these communities had formed local
Assemblies. But with the departure of Mr. Rohani, again there was
no pioneer in the country for some years, and these gains were also
lost. The situation remained stagnant until 1967, when another Iranian
pioneer, ‘Ali-Muhammad Jalali arrived and reorganized the commu-
nity. By 1973, there were reported to be 1,800 Baha’is in Gambia, and
they had formed 27 local Spiritual Assemblies. A large percentage of
Baha’is were from the Jola minority, though all major ethnic groups
were represented.128 Apparently, there was no further loss of member-
ship after that.
However, the question that arises from this short summary of the
early history of Baha’is in Gambia is not why the progress that was
made was so easily lost. It is rather why converts were so easily made
here in the first place. Gambia is a tiny country, whose population in
1950 was only 294,000.129 A British colony until 1965, its people are
overwhelmingly Muslim. Yet, as the chart above has indicated, in 1956
there were more Baha’is living there than in any other country in West
Africa130—hundreds, rather than dozens. In 1963, more than one out
of six local Assemblies in all of Northwest Africa existed in Gambia.131
How can we explain this Baha’i success?
Again, we come up against the limits of a narrative of expansion.
Of course, the successes were all the work of Persian pioneers. This
might suggest that Iranian Baha’is were more effective than their
American counterparts in propagating the religion. Iranian success in
Uganda, and similar success in the British Cameroons achieved by an
African Baha’i trained by Iranians, might reinforce this conclusion.
(See Chapter 5.) However, such an answer only begs the question.
Why should Persian pioneers be more successful than Americans, and
128 Al-Salihi, “The Gambia.”
129 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population
Division, (http://esa.un.org/unpp/p2k0data.asp).
130 Of course, British Cameroons was not far behind.
131 There were 115 local Spiritual Assemblies in the jurisdiction of the National
Assembly of North West Africa in 1963. (Al-Salihi, “The Gambia.”)

chapter four
specifically why in Gambia? What message did Iranian Baha’is deliver
to those they were teaching, and how was that message understood
and received—received more enthusiastically than in other parts of
West Africa?
These questions cannot be answered from the records I have avail-
able.132 Of course, there are more records: the archives at the Baha’i
World Center, the reports of the Hands of the Cause and Auxiliary
Board members, personal diaries and recorded public talks of pio-
neers, and so forth. But it seems to me that even all these sources
would be of little help with these basic questions. Institutional records
reflect institutional concerns. During the 1950s and early 1960s, the
overwhelming concern of the Baha’i institutions and of the pioneers
was the Ten Year Plan. These goals were addressed to the exclusion of
all other issues. The records of the time are tightly focused on these
goals. Notes on the unorthodox beliefs of the new Baha’is, their form
and practice of the religion, even testimonies of faith and accounts of
conversion experiences, are conspicuously absent.
Since Gambia was a British colony during the 1950s and early 1960s,
it is possible that colonial records may hold some clues to the history
of the Baha’i faith there. Colonial police are known to have kept close
track of foreigners, and an Iranian Baha’i teacher may have attracted
some attention. This would also be true for most of the other countries
in West Africa. Police files in metropolitan capitals may prove to be
the most useful and illuminating sources of Baha’i social history.133
The story of what motivated Roozbehyan’s first wave of 300 converts
to become Baha’is has never been told, at least not from the point of
view of the converts. Perhaps, that aspect of Baha’i history will never
be told. The information may remain only in the memories of the first
believers themselves, most of whom are by now certainly deceased.
132 For this short account, I have relied entirely on the memoirs of Roozbehyan, the
records of the Africa Teaching Committee in the United States, and the draft Baha’i
encyclopedia article.
133 Moojan Momen’s use of colonial police files has been useful in providing infor-
mation on the history of the Baha’i faith in India and Burma, for example. Around
1891, the police succeeded in infiltrating the inner circle of the emerging Baha’i move-
ment there. Regular reports were sent to the British authorities on Baha’i activities
and concealed beliefs. See his article, “Jamál Effendi and the Bahá’í Faith in Asia,” in
Search for Values: Ethics in Bahá’í Thought, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions,
Vol. 15, ed. by John Danesh and Seena Fazel (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004)
pp. 185–88, 190–94.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Nonetheless, an effort to collect the personal reminiscences of some of
these individuals is called for.134
Despite the paucity of evidence available to us, Roozbehyan him-
self has left a clue that might explain his unusual success. During the
time he was in Gambia as a pioneer, he developed a healing prac-
tice. This may have become the key to his teaching and the source of
attraction for new Baha’is. The first native Gambian became a Baha’i
in Roozbehyan’s hospital after doctors gave up on him. Roozbehyan
chanted a Baha’i healing prayer at his bedside and the man recovered
the next day. The patient soon became a Baha’i. It seems that this
healing became the talk of the hospital among the doctors and nurses.135
Some time later, the daughter of a wealthy Gambian merchant lay
in a coma. Roozbehyan prayed at her bedside, and she regained her
health. Her father did not become a Baha’i, but everyone heard about
his daughter’s recovery. No doubt, after two miraculous healings, there
were many requests for Roozbehyan’s services as a healer. How this
relates to the large number of new Baha’is in Gambia is not clear.
The Baha’i faith ‘on the ground’ may have been a healing movement.
Roozbehyan remembers that: “Naturally many heard about this heal-
ing power of the Baha’i Tablet136 so came to me and made enquiries
about the Holy Faith and some of them embraced the Cause.”137
134 How any of these early Baha’is could be located is another matter. The task
would certainly be difficult.
135 Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, pp. 68–70.
136 The Long Healing Prayer in Arabic. An English translation is published in
Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, 1991 Edition (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991). It is not clear
whether Roozbehyan recited the prayer in English or in Arabic for his healings. I
assume Arabic.
137 Roozbehyan, The Paradise on Earth, pp. 75–76. How miraculous healing attached
to the whole Baha’i religious system in the minds of the new Baha’is is not clear, but
it may have become a point of entry. Roozbehyan’s memoirs report two miraculous
healings that he experienced at the hands of ‘Abdu’l-Baha himself. Such healing was
certainly a part of his own understanding of the power of Baha’i prayers. His mem-
oirs include the story of his father’s service in India to a deathly ill American Baha’i,
Sydney Sprague, and Sprague’s miraculous healing (in exchange for the father’s life).
I experienced a similar situation within the Baha’i community myself. In the sum-
mer of 1968, I lived in northeastern Spain for a few months, in the town of Tarrazza,
near Barcelona. I was there as the leader of a Baha’i youth project (a mission) along
with other young Baha’is. We were surprised to learn during our stay that most of
the Baha’is in Catalonia had been brought into the faith by one man, who was a
folk healer. He held regular healing sessions at his home, using Baha’i prayers (also
laying on hands), and sometimes he would travel to other cities, at least in part as
a way of finding new Baha’i converts. All of his converts had been attracted to him

chapter four
Sierra Leone
The early history of the Baha’is in Sierra Leone contrasts sharply with
that in Gambia. The first Baha’i there was a Sierra Leonean, Aaron B.
Wellesley Cole (also known as Arthur Cole), who had become a Baha’i
in England, and returned to his country in June 1952.138 Cole was a
barrister and returned to Sierra Leone to practice law. He had taken
part in the Six-Year Plan undertaken by the Baha’is in Britain (1944–
1950), meaning that he had relocated to serve on one of the nineteen
local Spiritual Assemblies that were elected in the country by the end
of the plan.139 However, after his return to Sierra Leone, he appears to
have lost interest in the Baha’i religion.140 He remained a member of
the Baha’i community, but was regarded as ‘inactive.’141
After Wilson and Foster began their Baha’i work in Liberia, since
most of their converts were foreigners, some Sierra Leoneans who had
become Baha’is through them began returning to Sierra Leone. Joseph
A. F. S. Hingston,142 a Creole from Sierra Leone and a schoolteacher,
became a Baha’i in Liberia in November 1955, through the American
initially because of his reputation as a healer. The Baha’is in Madrid, and even in
Barcelona, were somewhat embarrassed by this man’s healing practice. I was told that
the National Spiritual Assembly of Spain had even asked him to stop it. But he con-
tinued undeterred, and since his work was the source of most of the new believers
in his area, he was left alone. The healer certainly saw his work (at least loosely) in
Baha’i terms. When I questioned him about his healing practice, he opened a copy of
Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era (then a standard Baha’i text) and simply pointed to the
chapter on “Health and Healing.” The chapter had nothing to do with what he was
doing, but it seemed to justify his work in his mind.
Most of the new Gambian Baha’is had been Muslims, but Christian missionaries
were often regarded as healers in Africa. Indeed, they often used Western medicine
as a point of entry into African societies, urging people to abandon their traditional
healers in favor of the more powerful ‘medicine’ of Christ.
138 Susan Kouchekzadeh, “Sierra Leone,” 1st edited draft (1990), an unpublished
article written for the Baha’i Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, Ill. Used with the
author’s kind permission.
139 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 10/5, June 15, 1952, National Bahá’í
Archives, Wilmette, Ill.
140 Cole did not reply to Valerie Wilson’s several letters asking him to contact her,
from 1954 through 1956. Valerie Wilson to A. Wellesley Cole, October 2, 1954 (making
reference to a previous letter dated June 23, 1954), and June 23, 1956 (making refer-
ence to “several” letters), Valerie Wilson papers.
141 See, for example, “Auxiliary Board Member Report,” for Sierra Leone, March 1963,
Valerie Wilson papers. Cole is listed as living in Makeni and designated as inactive.
142 Joseph Arthur Frederick Shodupeh Hingston. (“Letter of Intent,” July 3, 1963.
Valerie Wilson papers. With this document, Hingston ceded some land he owned in
Songo Town to the National Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa.)

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
pioneer family the Dunnes. He returned to his country as a Baha’i pio-
neer himself in June 1958,143 and settled at Wilberforce village, close
to Freetown. At first, he received a small subsidy from the National
Spiritual Assembly for his pioneering efforts.144
Hingston had some success in teaching, but by 1963 there were still
only 13 Baha’is, living in five ‘localities,’ in Sierra Leone, with 12 of
them (all but Hingston himself ) listed as inactive. No local Spiritual
Assembly had been formed.145 In 1966, when a young Anglo-Iranian
couple, Shidan and Susan Kouchekzadeh, arrived in the country, they
were unable to find any trace of Hingston’s earlier Baha’i group. It was
not until 1970 that the first local Assembly was elected in Freetown.
However, by 1979, there were 1,112 Baha’is in the country, and 25
local Spiritual Assemblies. By 1992, the number of Assemblies had
increased to 67.146
Liberia
Part of the history of the Baha’is in Liberia has been discussed above
in connection with the stories of the first African American pioneers
who landed there. Americans were able to settle in Liberia more eas-
ily than in the British and French colonies in West Africa, where they
were often refused residence visas. Therefore, American Baha’is played
a dominant role in the early history of the Liberian Baha’i community.
At least the institutional aspects of that history are well documented in
Valerie Wilson’s papers, since she lived in Monrovia.
143 Membership Book, Liberia and Sierra Leone, p. 29, Valerie Wilson paper. This
was the source of controversy. Since Hingston was returning to his own country,
the Baha’i institutions had difficulty in classifying him as a ‘pioneer.’ A pioneer is
generally someone who leaves his home country to teach the Baha’i faith in a foreign
land. Eventually, Hingston was redesignated as ‘resident teacher’ and his subsidy was
cut off. (J. A. F. S. Hingston to the Regional Teaching Committee No. 7, Freetown,
Sierra Leone, “Annual Report [1958–1959], [April 14, 1959]; M. Mustapha to Valerie
Wilson, August 21, 1959; “Auxiliary Board Member Report,” for Sierra Leone, March
1963, Valerie Wilson papers.
144 Susan Kouchekzadeh, “Sierra Leone”; J. A. F. S. Hingston to the Regional Teaching
Committee No. 7, Freetown, Sierra Leone, “Annual Report [1958–1959], [April 14,
1959],” Valerie Wilson papers.
145 Ibid.
146 Susan Kouchekzadeh, “Sierra Leone.” The article does not include a figure for
the number of Baha’is in Sierra Leone in 1992. However, we can assume that it had
increased since 1979. In 1976, there were three all-Baha’i villages in the country.
(Ibid.)

chapter four
However, Baha’is had only limited success in finding converts in
Liberia. By the middle of 1954, there were 28 Baha’is in the country,
and one local Assembly had been elected in Monrovia. In addition,
there was one group (of fewer than nine) and one center (meaning,
a single Baha’i in a locality). By 1956, the count of Baha’is was at 39,
with 2 Assemblies, 2 groups, and 2 centers. By 1960, the number of
Assemblies had increased to 4; and by 1962, to 5.147 The international
Baha’i yearbook for 1963 listed 5 Assemblies, 3 groups, and 11 isolated
centers in its directory.148
Portuguese Guinea (Guinea Bissau)
Portuguese Guinea was assigned as a goal to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States to ‘open to the Faith’ (with
at least one pioneer), as part of the Ten Year World Crusade. A Baha’i
couple, José and Hilda Rodriquez, arrived in Bissau in September 1953.
However, by March 1955, they had been forced to leave the country
by the Portuguese authorities.149 It seems that there were no resident
Baha’is in the country after that, though a few Baha’is were able to visit
for brief periods in 1956 and 1957, and again in 1960. Nonetheless, no
Baha’i group or local Spiritual Assembly could be formed, and there
were no indigenous Baha’is in the country.150 The rest of the story of
the early years of the Baha’i faith in Portuguese Guinea is tragic.
The first long-term resident African Baha’i was Eduardo Duarte
Vieira, who had been born a Catholic in the Portuguese colony, where
he was educated and eventually promoted to the position of Director
of Tourism within the colonial government. During a brief visit to
Lisbon in 1961, Vieira learned of the Baha’is and converted to the new
religion. When he returned to his own country, he brought the Baha’i
teachings with him.
147 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 7/12, June 14, 1954; 7/54, March 19,
1956; 4/63, October 1960; 9/6, October 18, 1962.
148 The Bahá’í World 1954–1963, p. 1015.
149 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 6/45, September 23, 1953; AFR 6/48,
April 1, 1955; AFR 4/56, June 4, 1956, National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill. All
references to the Africa Teaching Committee records for Portuguese Guinea are cited
from van den Hoonaard, “Annotated Index.”
150 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 4/56, June 4, 1956; AFR 4/61, January 11,
1961; AFR 1/1–11, December 10, 1960, National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Ill.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Illustration 4.3. The First Baha’is in Liberia, 1952
Standing (l. to r.): Benjamin Oconnor, unknown, unknown, Dan Demor,
Dan D. K. Ocloo, unknown, Alfred Lewis, Patrick Amagashe. Sitting on
chairs (l. to r.): Irene Agatha Thomas, Melissa Oconnor, William Foster,
Valerie Wilson, Sophie Abdullah. Sitting on the floor (l. to r.): Fred Letchah,
Rudolf Amartey, Mangus Amagashe.151 Source: Bahá’í News, No. 265 (March
1953) p. 11.
151 Identifications by Valerie Wilson, Interview, Menlo Park, 6/16/83. Wilson
could not remember the names of some of those in the photo, who are designated as
“unknown.” She could not remember the name of the first woman seated on the left.
But since there were only three Baha’i women in Monrovia at that time, I have added
the name of Irene Agatha Thomas. The photo was taken on November 22, 1952, on
the occasion of the celebration of the Feast of Qawl (Speech) at Wilson’s home at the
time, which was the government guesthouse in Monrovia.

chapter four
In March 1962, upon returning to Bissau, he openly severed his affilia-
tion with the Catholic Church in Portuguese Guinea. He succeeded in
converting his wife, Antonia, and establishing a circle of about fifteen
new Baha’is in the city. However, these activities provoked a reaction
from both the church and the state. He was forced to retire from his
government position, and he was denied travel documents. Strict cen-
sorship was imposed on all his correspondence. Eventually, his house
was raided, his Baha’i books were confiscated, and he was forbidden to
hold meetings in his home. He was arrested repeatedly on various pre-
texts. His final arrest, on a charge of subversive political activity, took
place in March 1966, about two months after his forced retirement.
He died in prison shortly thereafter, under uncertain circumstances,
on March 31, 1966. His body showed signs of torture.
Before his death, he was able to write a final message to his wife,
crudely scratched with a sharp instrument on the metal biscuit box she
used to transport food into the prison for him. It reads:
Tonia: This is the way of destiny. All is terminated. Love your fellow-
man and raise your children with love. Love everybody. Forgive all the
wrongs I have done. Be able to face life with naturalness. Goodbye, and
I wish you a long life. Duarte 29-3-1966.152
Vieira is regarded as the first African martyr of the Baha’i faith.
Nigeria
The early history of the Baha’i faith in Nigeria differs somewhat from
the narratives of other West African countries, since there were Baha’is
in Nigeria from the 1940s—before Shoghi Effendi called for Baha’i
152 All material on Vieira is from The Baha’i World 1963–1968 (Haifa:The Universal
House of Justice, 1974) Volume 14, pp. 389–390; see also, Vol. 16, p. 568; and Anthony
A. Lee, “Eduardo Duarte Vieira” in Holy People of the World (Santa Barbara, Calif.:
ABC-CLIO, 2004) p. 893.
I remember William Maxwell (an African American, a former member of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, and a former member
of the Continental Board of Counsellors for Africa) some years ago, telling Vieira’s
story as part of a lecture to a gathering of Baha’is in the United States. He noted
that Vieira’s wife, Antonia, and his children were in desperate circumstances after
his death. But they were unable to contact any Baha’is, and their whereabouts were
unknown for some time (years). When the family was finally located, the Universal
House of Justice was able to send her a large sum of money for her support and for
the education of the children.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
pioneers to disperse to Africa. Although Nigeria was (and is) by far
the largest country in West Africa,153 the development of the Baha’i
religion there was slow, and the number of Baha’is few.154
Before the mainstream Baha’i community had any presence in
Nigeria, the New History Society and the Caravan of East and West had
established themselves there. These two organizations were founded by
Ahmad Sohrab, an Iranian Baha’i in New York who had broken with
Shoghi Effendi and rejected his leadership of the religion. Baha’is who
remained loyal to their Guardian shunned Sohrab and his followers
and excoriated them as ‘Covenant-breakers.’155 Nonetheless, Sohrab’s
organizations carried on, by correspondence, various international
activities dedicated to world unity. By 1940, there was at least one
Caravan chapter for children in Nigeria. Other chapters were even-
tually organized, especially for children and youth, and dedicated to
international correspondence. Their number and size are not known,
and they have since died out.156
In the mid-1940s, a New York City Baha’i began a correspondence
with Thomas Beresford Macauley, a Nigerian corporal. Macauley
became a Baha’i by mail and formed a study group with other Nigerians
interested in the Baha’i religion. By 1947, he was listed as a contact
person for the Baha’is of Nigeria, with an address in Ebute-Metta,
a town just north of Lagos.157 There was also a Baha’i study group
in ‘Oshogbo/Jebba.’158 Little is known about these Baha’is. However,
because of this tenuous Baha’i presence, Nigeria was not included
in the goals of the Africa Plan, 1950–1952. It was not regarded as a
153 The population of Nigeria in 1950 was 32,769,000. In 2005, 131,530,000.
(GeoHive, “Countries with Highest Population for 1950, 2005, and 2050,” http://www
.geohive.com/charts/population2.aspx.)
154 There were about 15,000 Baha’is in Nigeria around the year 2000. (Loni
Bramson-Lerche and Martha Garman, “Nigeria,” 1st edited draft (2006), an unpub-
lished article written for the Baha’i Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, Ill. I am grateful
to Dr. Bramson for permission to use this article.)
155 The New History Society was formed in 1929. See William Garlington, The Baha’i
Faith in America, p. 108; Peter Smith, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, pp. 124–26;
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 327 (Sohrab is referred to here as “a former secre-
tary” of ‘Abdu’l-Baha).
156 Loni Bramson-Lerche and Martha Garman, “Nigeria.”
157 World Order, Vol. 13, no. 8 (November 1947) p. 287; The Bahá’í World, 1947–
1950, Vol. 11, p. 523.
158 Bahá’í News, No. 198, pp. 1, 7. Bramson-Lerche and Garman note that Oshogbo
is in modern-day Osun State and Jebba is in Kwara State, so the location is curious
and widespread—possibly erroneous.

chapter four
virgin territory in the Ten Year World Crusade, but was assigned to
the British National Spiritual Assembly as a goal for strengthening and
consolidation.
Baha’i pioneers eventually began arriving in Nigeria in 1956–1957:
an American couple, Glen and Lois Lissner, who settled at Owo, in the
west; an English school teacher, Margaret Lloyd, at Kano (Zaria), in
the north; and a recent Cameroonian convert, Oscar Njang, at Calabar
in the east.159 There were no Baha’is in Lagos, however, until another
American couple, Sherman and Lillie Rosenberg, moved there in 1958.160
In 1956, there had been only 14 Baha’is in the whole country.161
Local Spiritual Assemblies were formed at Owo (1957), in the east
at Enugu (1957), and at Akpabuyo (1958). By 1963, there were Baha’is
living in 23 ‘localities,’ and 11 local Assemblies had been formed.
Almost all the Baha’is were living in the eastern states; some were in
the west; but, only one Baha’i lived in the northern (mainly Muslim)
part of the country.162 It seems, therefore, that there would have been
fewer than 200 Baha’is living in Nigeria by that time.163
Ghana164
The Ghana of today was, in the early 1950s, under British colonial
rule, divided into a number of different territorial jurisdictions: the
Ashanti Protectorate, the Gold Coast colony, the Northern Territories
Protectorate, and British Togoland. Each of these territories was
regarded as a separate goal of the Ten Year Plan, and so the future
Ghana received four sets of Baha’i pioneers. (See Table 4.3.) The
159 Njang’s story will be discussed in detail in Chapter Five.
160 Bramson-Lerche and Garman, “Nigeria.”
161 See chart above.
162 The Bahá’í World 1954–1963, Vol. 13, p. 106; Bramson-Lerche and Garman,
“Nigeria.”
163 The 11 Assembly areas would have had at least nine Baha’is each. But the
remaining 12 ‘localities’ must have had fewer. There were nine or more Baha’is living
in the Assembly areas, but possibly as few as one or two in all other localities.
164 The section on Ghana could, no doubt, be expanded by reference to the book
Conquering the Hearts: A Brief History of the Bahá’í Faith in Ghana 1951–1995,
published under the auspices of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Ghana in 2004. (See The Bahá’í World 2004–2005 [Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2006]
pp. 50–51.) However, I have been unable to locate a copy of this book, despite repeated
efforts.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
short residence of Ethel Stephens in the Gold Coast has already been
discussed.
However, the earliest references to the Baha’i religion in Ghana date
from the 1940s. As in Nigeria, the Caravan of East and West carried
on activities by correspondence in Ghana during this time—especially
in the Gold Coast, where it organized 80 chapters. These activities
were not only dedicated to promoting international goodwill, but were
also specifically Baha’i in character. The Caravan’s celebration of the
one-hundredth anniversary of the Declaration of the Bab was reported
in the Gold Coast Daily News (May 24, 1944). Baha’is discovered an
elderly Ghanaian man in 1991, who by then lived in Ojobi, Central
Region. He told them that he had been a member of the ‘Caravan
Church’ in Ghana in the 1950s. However, it appears that by the 1960s,
the Caravan had ceased activity in Ghana and only a few followers
were left.165 Nonetheless, there were Ghanaians in the country who had
considered themselves Baha’is before the arrival of the first pioneers of
the Ten Year Crusade.
In May 1953, Major and Zara Dunne (see above) arrived in Accra
as Baha’i pioneers. Failing to find work there, they relocated to
Topremang, in the Eastern Region. Their first Ghanaian convert was
Albert Nyarko Buapiah, who became a Baha’i in Topremang in October
1953. He was followed by his wife, Grace, and another Ghanaian, Abu
Appiah Sam. By November, there were ten Baha’is in Topremang, and
they were joined by a Ghanaian student, Godwill Fiawoo (Seawood),
who had become a Baha’i while studying in the United States. The first
local Assemblies were elected in Topremang and in Osenase, where
Buapiah had moved. However, the Dunnes were unable to remain in
Ghana; they left for Liberia in January 1954.166
Julius Edwards, a Baha’i from Jamaica, arrived as a pioneer in Tamale,
in the Northern Territories, in September 1953, becoming the first
Baha’i in that region. He was able to remain in the country only for a
few months, eventually leaving for Liberia. Among the other pioneers
to come to Ghana were three new Baha’is from the British Cameroons:
Benedict Eballa, who moved to the Ashanti Protectorate; Edward Tabe,
British Togoland; and Martin Manga, Northern Territories. Another
165 Akwasi O. Osei and Prince K. Abaidoo, “Ghana,” 2nd edited draft (1994), an
unpublished article written for the Baha’i Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, Ill.
166 Ibid.

chapter four
Cameroonian Baha’i, James Mbu, arrived in the Northern Territories
in early 1956. David Tanyi, another young Cameroonian Baha’i, had
initially moved to French Togoland; but in 1957, with his wife (Esther)
and children, he relocated to the Northern Territories as well. Albert
Buapiah moved to British Togoland to spread the religion there.167
These early Baha’i teachers had some limited success. Although
in 1952 there were no Baha’is in the Gold Coast, for instance—by
April 1956, Baha’is could report 2 new local Spiritual Assemblies,
5 ‘groups,’ and 7 ‘isolated centers’ there.168 In the same year, British
Togoland had 1 Assembly, 2 ‘groups,’ and 5 ‘isolated centers.’169 In
1956, there were 92 Baha’is in the four territories combined.170 But
these gains were modest, and they were soon reversed. By 1962, there
were only 3 local Assemblies still standing in the now independent
country of Ghana—at Accra, Kumasi, and Tamale.171 In 1970, the
Baha’is published the names of 11 Assemblies, 13 groups, and 16
‘isolated centers’ in the country.172 In that year, the count of Baha’is
in the country had increased to 395.173 These Baha’is were able to
elect the first National Spiritual Assembly for Ghana in 1970, but
five of the nine members of the Assembly were foreigners.174 In 1993,
there were approximately 17,300 Baha’is in Ghana, in 267 ‘localities,’
and 121 local Spiritual Assemblies.175 In 2005, the count of Assemblies
was 63.176
167 Ibid.; The Bahá’í World 2004–2005 (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2006)
pp. 50–51; Valerie Wilson, “Report of Board Member for Jan. 31st, 1957,” sent to
Musa Banani, Valerie Wilson papers. As far as I can tell, all of the early pioneers
to Ghana mentioned in this paragraph were given subsidies from the Baha’i funds
to maintain themselves in their pioneer posts. In the case of Mbu, he bitterly protested
that his subsidy of £20 per month was inadequate for his expenses and that he could
not send for his wife to join him on such a small allowance. (Ibid.)
168 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 10/1, September 30, 1952; AFR 4/57,
September 24, 1956.
169 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 1/1–11, March 24, 1962.
170 Osei and Abaidoo, “Ghana.”
171 Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 4/57, September 24, 1956. All of the
Africa Teaching Committee records in this section are cited in van den Hoonaard,
“Annotated Index.”
172 The Bahá’í World 1954–1963, pp. 1013–1016. These are supposed to date back
to 1963, but that seems unlikely to me.
173 Osei and Abaidoo, “Ghana.”
174 Ibid.
175 Osei and Abaidoo, “Ghana.”
176 The Bahá’í World 2004–2005, p. 51. There are no published statistics on the
number of Baha’is in the country.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
Illustration 4.4. Baha’is in Tamale, Northern Ghana, 1960
David Tanyi, an early pioneer from British Cameroons, stands in the back
row (fourth from left, in white shirt). His wife, Esther, is seated in the middle
(holding child). Source: Bahá’í World News Service <http://news.bahai.org/
photo/1205>.
French Cameroons
The French United Nations mandate territory of Cameroons was
assigned to the National Spiritual Assembly of India, Pakistan, and
Burma as a goal of the Ten Year World Crusade. But the first Baha’i
to arrive there was a new Cameroonian convert, Samuel Njiki. He was
followed a short time later by an Indian-Iranian woman, Mehrangiz
Munsiff. Together they were given credit for ‘opening’ the French
Cameroons to the Baha’i religion. However, after that, not much progress

chapter four
was made. As in all of French-speaking West Africa, there was not
much growth or expansion of the Baha’i community.
Njiki had been a Baha’i for only two weeks when Enoch Olinga,
who had taught him the religion, urged him to relocate to Duala in the
French sector of Cameroon. Njiki had attended Basel Mission primary
schools. His uncle was a catechist who worked for the mission, and he
eventually found employment as a typist there too. However, he had
rejected the Mission when he was refused communion by the mission-
aries because his church dues were not paid up. He found another job
with the Cameroon Development Corporation as a clerk.177
After meeting Olinga, Njiki became the first Bamiliki Baha’i in
Cameroon. Almost immediately, he resigned his job and moved to
Duala, where he had some relatives. He was supported by a subsidy
from the Baha’i funds. However, he could not speak French, and so
could not interact much with the local population. Most of his friends
and acquaintances were English-speaking Banyangi men, and he lived
in the Banyangi quarter of Duala. Munsiff could speak French. The two
of them taught the Baha’i faith together for a short while. But within
a year, Munsiff fell very ill and had to return to London for medical
treatment. Njiki remained the lone pioneer in French Cameroons.178
Eventually, Njiki was able to find enough Baha’i converts to form
a local Spiritual Assembly in April 1955. However, in 1960 there was
still only one local Assembly established in the territory, along with
five ‘isolated centers.’179 The same count for Assemblies and centers
was reported for 1963.180 That would suggest that there were never
more than a handful of Baha’is in the area (perhaps, only fifteen or
twenty) during this period.
Something similar could be said about other French-speaking
areas of West Africa. During the 1950s and early 1960s, almost all
the Baha’i pioneers were Americans or Iranians, or new Baha’is from
the British Cameroons. France itself was a goal of the Ten Year Plan
and only formed its National Spiritual Assembly in 1958. Therefore,
177 Don Addison interview with Samuel Njiki, December 27, 1982, Don Addison
papers.
178 Ibid. Munsiff left the country before April 1955, when the first local Spiritual
Assembly was elected in Duala.
179 Ibid.; Africa Teaching Committee records, AFR 4/63, October 1960. Njiki left
the French territories in 1960, because he no longer wanted to be supported by the
Baha’i funds.
180 The Bahá’í World 1954–1963, p. 1014.

planting the baha’i faith in west africa
there were virtually no French-speaking Baha’is available to teach the
religion in Africa. In 1963, the former French Togoland (later, Togo)
had fewer than nine Baha’is in the country, all living in Lomé. All of
what had been French West Africa (Dahomey, Guinea, Ivory Coast,
Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta) could report only
three local Assemblies, one ‘group,’ and two isolated Baha’is by 1963.
That would suggest a Baha’i population of fewer than 50 for the whole
vast region.181
British Cameroons
The history of the early years of the Baha’i faith in the British
Cameroons will be discussed in the next chapters. But even from what
has been written so far, it can be seen that it is the great exception to
the usual story of Baha’i expansion in West Africa during the decade
of 1952–1962. In most countries, during this period, the Baha’i com-
munity remained small and heavily institutionalized. The American
Baha’is who brought the religion to this part of the world, for the
most part, succeeded in replicating in the places where they settled
the general contours of the Baha’i community they had known in the
United States.
The Baha’i community in the United States was small. Groups of
ten or twenty Baha’is in a city were the norm. Where there were more
the Baha’is rarely numbered more than one hundred. Most groups
were focused around the institution of the local Assembly and had
few collective goals other than creating more local Assemblies. The
Baha’is maintained strict requirements for membership and under-
stood their community to have rigidly defined boundaries. They were
made up of literate and middle-class adults who organized themselves
as voluntary societies—with members holding general business meet-
ings, taking minutes, and observing Robert’s Rules of Order in their
proceedings. Most of this would have been foreign to most African
people during this period.
As has been seen, another exception to this pattern was created by
an Iranian pioneer in Gambia. His experience of the Baha’i religion
had pointed him in a direction that broke the American pattern. While
181 Ibid.

chapter four
local Assemblies were, of course, elected according to the goals of the
Ten Year Plan, there were large-scale conversions of native Africans.
We might speculate that the Baha’i experiences of the new Gambian
Baha’is must have centered around healing, rather than around busi-
ness meetings. But Baha’i successes in Gambia were, during this
decade, short lived.
The other great exception to the American pattern was found in
the British Cameroons. Here Baha’i teaching centered around the
Ugandan pioneer, Enoch Olinga, who was able to pursue his activities
with little American influence, and virtually no interference. Under
these circumstances, he was able to create a religious movement that
delivered the most impressive successes for Baha’is in the area during
this period. Even in the strictest institutional terms, in 1963, the British
Cameroons could report—in sharp contrast to the modest success
found elsewhere—the establishment of 54 local Spiritual Assemblies,
8 ‘groups,’ and 3 ‘isolated centers.’182
182 The Bahá’í World 1954–1963, p. 1013.

CHAPTER FIVE
THE ROOTS OF BAHA’I CONVERSION
IN BRITISH CAMEROONS
Since the British Cameroons was the place where the Baha’i religion
was most successful in the 1950s in West Africa, at least in terms of
conversions and the establishment of Baha’i institutions, this study
will attempt to look in depth at the origins of the Cameroonian Baha’i
community. But I will not be so much interested in the institutional
growth of the religion as I will be in discerning the message that was
being delivered by the Baha’is there and how it was received and under-
stood. I am ultimately interested in asking why some people decided
to adopt the Baha’i faith as their own, how they reshaped the message,
what that meant to them, and the effect that their conversions had on
the larger Baha’i international community.
Cameroon appears to be one of the only places in West Africa during
this period where the Baha’i message overwhelmed its institutional
boundaries to become an organic religious movement—especially
among African Christians within the Basel Mission. The religion not
only grew openly and publicly, as elsewhere, but also as an under-
ground movement within this Basel Mission community. I am inter-
ested in why this should have been so: What were the vulnerabilities of
the Basel Mission that allowed it to become the locus of the develop-
ment of a new religious movement within its midst? Why did whole
communities of Basel Mission Presbyterians become Baha’is? And
how did the Mission respond to this development?
This chapter, in an attempt to answer these questions, will intro-
duce the ‘underground movement’ and look briefly at the history of
the Basel Mission in Cameroon and in Ghana—taking particular note
of the dynamics of that mission community at the end of the colonial
era. It will then discuss the conversion of large numbers of Africans to
the Baha’i faith in Uganda in 1952, as a result of the efforts of Enoch
Olinga, then a recent convert, and the impact of these conversions
on the Baha’is of the world. Attempts will be made to determine the

chapter five
nature of the Baha’i message in Uganda—both as it was taught and as
it was received. It was this message that Olinga carried to West Africa,
and it proved to be successful. In Chapter Six, I will turn my atten-
tion to the British Cameroons and the history of the Baha’i commu-
nity there, a history that begins with the arrival of Olinga in Victoria
(Limbe) in 1953.
The Underground Movement
On November 29, 1959, Samuel Kima—a native of Bakebe Village in
Cameroon, who was working as a teacher within the Basel Mission
system—sat down to write a letter of inquiry to Valerie Wilson, an
African-American Baha’i pioneer living in Liberia. By then, Wilson
was, within the Baha’i administrative system, an Auxiliary Board
member, and perhaps the Baha’i in the West African region who
was in most direct contact with sources of funding coming from the
United States.1
The letter is of singular interest, as it demonstrates how the Baha’i
faith, by 1959—in Cameroon, at least—had broken out of its organi-
zational mold and become an organic social movement, spreading in
unofficial and sometimes clandestine ways, especially within the Basel
Mission system. The brief exchange of correspondence between the
mission teacher and the Baha’i pioneer also demonstrates the clear
disconnect between the African version of the Baha’i teachings, which
seems to have had reproduced itself with great success in Cameroon
by then, and the American Baha’i understanding of things held by
organization-minded pioneers like Wilson. The letter is, therefore,
worth quoting in full:
1 She had no control over those funds, though this may not have been known to
Kima.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 117
Map 5.1. Detail of a Map of South British Cameroons, 1956
Note that Valerie Wilson underlined the names of localities where Baha’is
were living at this time. Source: Valerie Wilson papers, dated 1956. (Original
map source: “United Nations Visiting Missions to the Trust Territories of the
Cameroons,” Map No. 796, February 1956, United Nations)

chapter five
[ Rec: Dec. 7th ]2
Samuel M. Kima
c/o Hare Jones
Three Corner, —Bakebe
Mamfe,
Southern Cameroons
29th Nov., 1959
Dear Mrs. Wilson,
I have to write here and explain to you my live [read: life] as a
Baha’i.
I am a protestant christian [sic] in the Presbyterian church. I have
been educated by this Mission hence I was employed under them as a
teacher. I had also attained Grade #7 Teachers’ certificate under them.
This training was to bind me under them for four years. All this time
I have close contact with Mr. Olinga Hand of the Cause in Victoria. I
came in contact with the Bahai faith in 1954. I had enough contact with
Mr. Olinga. Also I was teaching the faith to the group at Ossing from
1954–1957. But all this time, I didn’t declare as a Bahai. It was in 1958
that I was asked by my employer whether I was a Bahai. Knowing that
I have not yet filled my declaration form, I told him I am not a Bahai,
but my family members are Bahais and most of the people from my
village (Bakebe). This happened when I was not aware of the under-
ground movement. Not until 27th July 1959, that I sent in my declara-
tion form to Mr. Olinga, then he brought the secret into light. I told
him, the approach my employer made. Having discussed at length with
him and fully convinced, I told him I shall resign because this may be a
hindrance to my faith.
All this time, my dreams always take me to unknown countries teach-
ing the faith. So I feel that if also I write to you, you may solve this prob-
lem after investigating the truth from Hand of the Cause at Victoria or
to the nearest David Tanyi at Tamaleh. I am very eager to be a Bahai as
called by Bahaullah. And there are many regions which need the faith; I
hope pioneers could be sent to prepare the way.
Waiting to hear favorably from you.
While,
I remain
Yos [Yours?]
in the name of Bahaullah
Samuel Kima. 3
2 Note added by Valerie Wilson to indicate when she received the letter.
3 Samuel M. Kima to Valerie Wilson, November 29, 1959. Valerie Wilson papers.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 119
Samuel Kima had considered himself a Baha’i (at least in some sense)
since 1954. He says that he had been secretly ‘teaching the faith’ to
others in Ossing since that time. About four months before he wrote
this letter, he had decided to end his charade and to make his mem-
bership in the Baha’i religion official. It appears that Olinga accepted
his official application for enrollment as a Baha’i, but then revealed
to him that he was not alone. There was an ‘underground movement’
within the Mission which seems to have been made up of men like
himself who had become Baha’is, but who found it difficult to break
their ties to the Presbyterian Church, due to employment or other rea-
sons. It appears that this advice from Olinga amounted to permission
for Kima to continue his employment in the Mission and to keep his
formal declaration of faith a secret.
The Basel Mission authorities had made it clear to Kima a year ear-
lier, and in the most direct way, that they were not going to tolerate
Baha’is working as teachers within the mission system. And so, he
had been forced to repudiate his Baha’i identity at that time. While it
was technically true that he was not a Baha’i in any official sense, his
dissimulation seems to have pained him. We might imagine that he
later felt even more uncomfortable as a registered Baha’i on the offi-
cial membership lists still pretending to be a Presbyterian of the Basel
Mission. In this letter, he seems determined to break his ties with the
missionary church, if he can find a way to do so and not find himself
impoverished. He suggests to Wilson—in language that is subtle and
polite, but nonetheless quite clear and unmistakable—that she might
be able to arrange for him to be supported as a Baha’i pioneer in some
other region of Africa.
Wilson seems herself to have been unaware of ‘the underground
movement’ within the Basel Mission. In her reply to Kima, she que-
ried his statement that he was “a protestant christian,” saying that she
was confused by it. She also questioned the idea that he could have
been teaching the faith from 1954, without formally declaring. She
asks directly if he has, in fact, resigned his employment with the Basel
Mission now that he has enrolled as a Baha’i.
She understood his polite request to become a Baha’i pioneer,
saying: “This is very commendable and certainly brings joy to my
heart.” She goes on to admonish him that Baha’i pioneers must be
“. . . dedicated, consecrated and willing to sacrifice in many ways so that
what they say will attract the waiting soul[s].” However, she explains

chapter five
that he should write to the appropriate Baha’i institutions with his
request.4 She makes no mention of ‘the underground movement,’ and
clearly she did not want to inquire any further about this aspect of his
Baha’i experience. The letter goes on to say that she will inform Enoch
Olinga of Kima’s request.5
It seems that Wilson conceived of Baha’i faith and practice in
terms of the (then) common American model of a properly function-
ing bureaucracy (the ‘Administrative Order’), with workers filled with
a spirit of joy, service, and sacrifice. Wilson herself was actually the
embodiment of this ideal. As a pioneer and Auxiliary Board member,
she told me that she would regularly spend about five hours a day
writing letters, keeping records, and maintaining Baha’i files. I have
relied heavily on her papers in writing this book. There is no record
indicating that Kima wrote back to her.
The Basel Mission in Cameroon6
The origins of the Basel Mission in Africa trace back to the Evangelical
movements that emerged in Protestant churches in Central Europe
during the eighteenth century. Known as the ‘Pietists,’ these early
Evangelicals were convinced that each individual Christian could con-
verse directly with God in prayer and through ecstatic experience. They
also believed that God intervened, directly and personally, in their lives
to correct their errors and to guide them toward a higher standard of
living than that found among ordinary Christians. Through careful
4 The proper institutions being the National Spiritual Assembly and Regional
Teaching Committee #10.
5 Valerie Wilson to Samuel M. Kima, December 12, 1959. Valerie Wilson papers.
6 This section will rely heavily on the official church history written by Rev. Werner
Keller, The History of the Presbyterian Church in West Cameroon: A Survey of the
General Development of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon up to 1960 (Victoria,
Cameroon: Radio and Literature Department of the Presbyterian Church in West
Cameroon, 1969). While the text of the book is usually celebratory, even triumphant,
and sometimes even hagiographic, it provides the only detailed account of the devel-
opment of the Basel Mission in Cameroon. Other sources used in this section will be
cited as appropriate. I am aware of Guy Thomas’s doctoral dissertation, “Why Do we
Need the White Man’s God? African Contributions and Responses to the Formation
of a Christian Movement in Cameroon, 1914–1968” (University of London, 2002),
which is an assessment of the Basel Mission. However, it has not been published, and
I have been unable to obtain a copy. Stephen F. Miescher’s Making Men in Ghana
(Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2005) is focused on Ghana, but is also of
interest as a study of Basel Mission activity.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 121
attention to the events of daily life, through regular Bible study, and
especially through prayer and religious practice, the Pietists believed
that they could know God’s will for their individual lives.7
In 1730, Dr. J. A. Urlsperger founded the German Society for the
Advancement of Christian Truth and Godly Piety with its center in
Basel, Switzerland. Similar groups were being formed in other places in
German-speaking Europe. From its beginnings, these Evangelical mis-
sionary efforts had an ecumenical dimension. In Berlin, the Evangelical
Mission Institute worked closely with various Protestant churches and
with missionary societies in England, for example. The Basel Mission
(The Evangelical Missionary Society in Basel) came into being in 1815,
an offshoot of the German Society, as an interdenominational school
where students of various missions could prepare themselves for the
field. It quickly developed into a mission in its own right.8
The Basel Mission avoided theological controversies and collabo-
rated closely with a variety of international missionary societies. The
Mission became a service agency to other churches, in fact, provid-
ing trained missionaries without regard to denominational or national
barriers. As a consequence, Basel missionaries worked within a variety
of Christian denominations internationally. By 1861, some 86 Basel
missionaries could be found in diverse parts of the world.
The first Christian missionary work in Cameroons was begun in
1844, by a group of English Baptists, some of whom were Jamaicans.
They were eventually joined by other English Baptist missionaries in
1858, after the latter were expelled from the island of Fernando Po
by the Catholic authorities there. The newcomers founded a town on
Ambas Bay at the mouth of the Limbe River and named it Victoria,
after the British queen reigning at that time. Although the missionaries
established schools and churches, the work of the missions was slow
and costly, especially in European lives. Lack of resources, political
instability in the area, and the persecution of Christians by the local
people meant that there were few conversions and that new African
Christians were marginalized and vulnerable. The annexation of the
Cameroons by Germany in 1885 made the work even more difficult,
7 Paul Jenkins, A Short History of the Basel Mission, Texts and Documents Series,
No. 10 (Basel: Basel Mission, 1989) p. 3.
8 Jonas N. Dah, Missionary Motivations and Methods: A Critical Examination of the
Basel Mission in Cameroon 1886–1914 (Basel Mission, 1983) p. 6.

chapter five
especially since the Germans insisted on school instruction in the
German language.
The English Baptist missionaries, therefore, approached the Basel
Mission—as a Swiss-German missionary society—with a proposal
that they might take over their work in the Cameroons. Although
the Basel Mission was a Presbyterian society, the two organizations
stressed their common Evangelical roots to accomplish the transfer.
The first German Basel missionaries arrived in Duala at the end of
1886 to assume full control of the Baptist churches, schools, and con-
gregations. They apparently believed that denominational differences
would be no barrier to a smooth transition.
At the time the Basel Mission took over from the English, there
were ten Baptist congregations in southern Cameroon. Some of these
were headed by African lay preachers and catechists. Two African
ministers were in charge of the congregations at Bethel and Victoria,
and a Jamaican minister headed the church at Bakundu. A census of
the church at the end of 1887 showed an adult Christian member-
ship of 172 souls, with 238 children enrolled in Baptist schools. This
was the sum result of over forty years of missionary labor and Baptist
loyalty.9
In an effort to gain the allegiance of the African Baptists, and to cre-
ate confidence in their own leadership, the Basel missionaries offered
some doctrinal compromises to teachers, ministers, and congregations.
Although these compromises may seem slight to us from a contem-
porary perspective, no doubt in 1886 they seemed enormous to the
participants. The Basel missionaries stressed the common evangelical
truth that united the Baptists to themselves. Pastors and catechists
working for the Baptist mission were hired on to the Basel Mission—
but with the condition that they must preach only doctrines and truths
the denominations might hold in common, and leave off teaching any
specifically Baptist doctrine. Baptist pastors were not to be forced to
baptize infants or children, if it was against their conscience. Likewise,
they could baptize their own children in later years, if they preferred.
But the new Basel Mission made it clear that the German missionaries
would not change their practice of infant baptism just because it might
offend the Baptists. In all other matters, the newly acquired Baptist
9 Keller, History of the Presbyterian Church, pp. 12–13.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 123
congregations were to follow the rule, order, and discipline practiced
by the Basel Mission.
The work of gaining the allegiance of the indigenous Baptist con-
gregations was unsuccessful, however. Within a year, the congrega-
tion at Bethel separated itself from the Basel Mission and formed an
independent Christian church. They wrote the following petition to
the Basel Mission:
1. We the Elders of the Church of Bethel do not approve of sprin-
kling, we agree so far to abide in the old mode of immersion,
2. to support our own Pastor as before also to carry out all affairs
under our own expenses,
3. to govern our own Church and matter[s] subjected to the Elders be
referred to the Church for approval and settlement,
4. that as your Mission is new to us, we are willing that the infant be
sprinkling according to your mode.10
Eventually, the congregations at Bell Town and Victoria also withdrew
from Basel Mission control. The official Presbyterian church history
for Cameroon complains that the Baptist separatist congregations dis-
played a lack of discipline and order that the new missionaries could
not tolerate. The congregations were involved in drinking alcohol and
also trading in it. The Basel Mission demanded that they stop. There
were disagreements over the proper form of baptism, over church
organization, and over the decision to choose Duala as the official
church language.
No doubt, there were real struggles over such issues. However, in
the end, separatist Baptist churches were formed by African Christians
who simply refused to subordinate themselves or their churches to
missionary authority. No matter how many doctrinal issues divided
the Baptist congregations from the new Basel Mission, the most sig-
nificant point of division was the question of African autonomy vs.
European control. After the separation, the Baptists at Victoria and
Bethel carried on their preaching and schools without outside help.
Their rebellion was successful and established a history of indepen-
dence that the Basel Mission could never ignore. In the 1950s, for
example, the congregation at Mwasundem withdrew from the Mission
10 Ibid., p. 13.

chapter five
and affiliated itself with another Protestant denomination as the result
of a dispute with church authorities. As late as 1983, the Presbyterian
congregation at Nyasoso was threatening to do the same thing in pro-
test over a decision to relocate a planned theological college.11
A Place to Feel at Home
African Independent Christian Churches have been discussed in the
academic literature since at least the 1940s.12 There is a considerable
body of academic research, therefore, on both the phenomenon of
Christian independency and on a number of specific independent
Christian churches and movements.13 All of these independent move-
ments are understood to be motivated in large part by issues of African
identity and autonomy within the framework of Christianity.
Welbourn and Ogot’s classic book, A Place to Feel at Home: A Study
of Two Independent Churches in Western Kenya,14 takes this approach.
The authors argue that a new state of anonymity was the consequence
11 Heinrich Balz, Where the Faith Has to Live, Studies in Bakossi Society and
Religion (Basel Mission, 1984), p. viii.
12 Bengt G. M. Sundkler, Bantu Prophets of South Africa (London: Oxford University
Press, 1961 [Lutterworth Press, 1948]).
13 Monica Wilson, Communal Rituals of the Nyakusa (Oxford University Press,
1959); C. G. Baeta, Prophetism in Ghana (London: SMC Press, 1962); Vittorio
Lanternari, The Religions of the Oppressed: A Study of Modern Messianic Cults (New
York: Knopf, 1963); F. B. Welbourn and B. A. Ogot, A Place to Feel at Home: A Study
of Two Independent Churches in Western Kenya (London: Oxford University Press,
1966); Harold W. Turner, African Independent Churches (London: Oxford University
Press, 1967); John D. Y. Peel, Aladura: A Religious Movement among the Yoruba
(London: Oxford University Press for the International African Institute, 1968; David
B. Barrett, Schism and Renewal in Africa: An Analysis of 6,000 Contemporary Religious
Movements (Nairobi: Oxford University Press, 1968); idem., ed., African Initiatives in
Religion (Nairobi: East African Publishing House, 1971); B. G. M. Sundkler, Zulu Zion
and Some Swazi Zionists (London: Oxford University Press, 1976); E. W. Fashole-Luke,
et al., eds., Christianity in Independent Africa (London: Rex Collings, 1978); Bennetta
Jules-Rosette, African Apostles: Ritual and Conversion in the Church of John Maranke
(Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1975); idem., The New Religions of Africa
(Norwood, N.J.: Ablex Publishing Corporation, 1979); Sheila S. Walker, The Religious
Revolution in Ivory Coast: The Prophet Harris and the Harrist Church (Chapel Hill:
University of North Carolina Press, 1983); Wyatt MacGaffey, Modern Kongo Prophets:
Religion in a Plural Society (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1983); Richard
Gray, Black Christians and White Missionaries (New Haven: Yale University Press,
1990); Brigid M. Sackey, New Directions in Gender and Religion: The Changing Status
of Women in African Independent Churches (Lanhan, Md: Lexington Books, 2006);
and so on. (This list is by no means exhaustive.)
14 Cited above.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 125
of the social disruption brought on by the colonial era. The collapse of
the village and clan as the primary indicators of social identity, and the
threat of anomie in a colonial society, required Africans to search for
new labels to “place themselves in a home and thus identify themselves
in their own eyes and in the eyes of other men.” African Independent
Churches, therefore, gave persons in colonial societies a chance to
signify, for themselves and for others, “I am, after all, So-and-So.”15
Welbourn and Ogot make much use of the idea of ‘home’ as a broad
metaphor for the need for personal identity, psychological security,
social support, and ritual protection.
These authors argue, however, that European missions finally could
not provide a ‘home’ for African Christians in the midst of social
disruption:
It is hardly surprising if they [Africans] thus identified themselves in
many ways. There was the possibility of joining the mission churches,
of saying, in effect, “I am a black European”, of taking in baptism a
European name, of getting a literary education, of hoping for promo-
tion in the service of mission or government. There was, here, no lasting
chance of finding a home. Control remained firmly in the hands of for-
eigners; and, outside the church building, there was little hope of social
acceptance. Men who came in this way tended to find their way out into
nationalist politics . . .16
The missions could not be ‘homes.’ According to Welbourn and Ogot,
they had become too large and bureaucratic for that. Their hierarchies
had entrenched some converts as elites and subordinated Christians of
lower status. Their message had become irrelevant to the concerns of
most ordinary people. Finally, they remained indifferent to the emer-
gence of new African national identities developing in the colonial era.
In response, African Independent Churches developed to fill all these
needs. They discarded European control; provided intimate, face-to-
face communities for uneducated Africans; and created churches that
could address their cultural and ritual concerns.17
African Independent Churches were often formed as a consequence
of disputes between African Christians and European missionaries, as
a result of what seemed to the former to be arbitrary decisions and
high-handed treatment on the part of the latter. The resulting anger
15 Welbourn and Ogot, A Place to Feel at Home, p. 139.
16 Ibid.
17 Ibid., pp. 139–42.

chapter five
and indignation of African converts might lead them to create inde-
pendent movements free of European control. For example, in 1924,
in Tanzania, in events very similar to the Baptist/Basel situation in
Cameroon, all of the Christians residing in the Nassa Sultanate con-
verted to the Malakite church of Uganda—“a native independent
Church.” The Christian headmen of the area invited the independent
church to shepherd them because they resented the transfer of their
congregations, without their consent, from the Church Missionary
Society (CMS) to the African Inland Mission by European mission-
aries.18 The African Christian leaders naturally resented finding them-
selves suddenly under a new church administration, subject to new
rules, and subordinated to new mission authorities. The Tanzanian
rebellion was short-lived, however, since the colonial authorities inter-
vened and demanded that the Nassa Christians withdraw from the new
church. In Cameroon, the separation of the Baptists was permanent.
Growth of the Basel Mission
The Basel Mission in Cameroon continued its work with the old African
Baptists—the ones who did not leave—establishing new schools and
converting people to Christianity, all under European control. By 1914,
the mission had established some 90 missionary outstations, servicing
6,600 students and a baptized congregation of 1,150.19 In its work, the
mission stressed the use of native languages, to the consternation and
dismay of their congregations. Duala became the medium of instruc-
tion and worship in the Forest Region and Bali (or Mungaka) in the
Grassfields to the north. This decision became the source of endless
tensions between parents of school children and missionaries. Africans
for whom Duala, for example, was not their native language saw no
reason for their children to learn to read and write in it.
The African Christians of the Basel Mission characteristically dem-
onstrated independence from the missionary society and a willingness
to challenge European leadership. In 1910, for example, the German
colonial authorities decided to expropriate a large amount of land at
18 Terence O. Ranger, “Christian Independency in Tanzania,” in Barrett, African
Initiatives, p. 126.
19 Lamin Sanneh, West African Christianity: The Religious Impact (George Allen &
Unwin, 1983) p. 118.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 127
Duala and move the people living on it from the banks of the river to
new areas. The decision was vigorously opposed by the landowners
and resulted in protests and threats of rebellion that continued for
years. As these controversies continued, the Duala residents believed
that the Basel Mission had failed to defend their legitimate interests
appropriately against the Germans. Good relations between Africans,
including African Christians, and the mission soured. Even the church
congregation joined in attacking the mission.20
News of the outbreak of World War I reached Cameroon in August
of 1914. The war would quickly result in over a decade of relative
independence and autonomy for the African Christians of the Basel
Mission. Within a month, British warships had entered Cameroonian
waters, and by the end of September, British and French troops had
occupied Duala.21 Eventually, the entire German territory was occupied
by the British and French who divided the country into two separate
spheres. With this division, the Basel Mission lost the French sector
of the country permanently. From that point, their work continued on
only in the English-speaking British zone.
With the Allied occupation, the Basel Mission’s German missionar-
ies were interned and the Swiss missionaries were sent home. Only
one missionary, an Australian (and hence a subject of the Queen), was
allowed to remain, and his activities were restricted. Most of the mis-
sion schools were closed, and a number of African teachers left their
work for fear of being labeled as German agents.22 Nonetheless, many
of the mission’s congregations were prepared to carry on their religious
lives without European supervision. The church, in fact, expanded and
flourished free of missionary control.
An academic history of this period of Basel Mission history has
not been written—nor is it possible to write one here. But the official
church histories hint at a number of indigenous Christian movements
that sprang up among the Basel churches in the years 1914–1925.
Among the Bakweri, for example, in 1915, a combination of famine
and the prophetic preaching of the mother (not herself a Christian) of
20 Keller, History of the Presbyterian Church, p. 36.
21 For a full military history of the war in Cameroon, see Bryon Farwell, The Great
War in Africa, 1914–1918 (New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 1986) pp. 31–71;
see also, Hew Strachan, The First World War (New York: Penguin, 2004), which has
a full chapter on Africa.
22 Keller, History of the Presbyterian Church, p. 48.

chapter five
a Basel catechist, resulted in a large number of conversions and bap-
tisms accomplished without missionary oversight.23
Under British occupation, some Christians returned to their ances-
tral religion for comfort and ritual protection. Others were fully pre-
pared to carry on as Christians without the Basel Mission. The only
two ordained Cameroonian ministers in the country remained faith-
ful to Christianity, even though they seemed to believe that the Basel
Mission would not return. When the people taunted them, saying, “It
is all finished, the Mission is dead, everybody can do as he likes,” the
pastors are said to have replied: “Though Basel is dead, God is alive.”
Their retort is celebrated in Basel Mission history as a testimony of
their steadfastness. But we should note that it is as much a declaration
of independence from the Basel Mission as it is a statement of faith.24
With the departure of the missionaries, the indigenous Christians
simply took over the work of their congregations, as they were clearly
qualified to do. Schools were reopened and conferences held to orga-
nize and direct Christian evangelism. This work was carried on, for
the most part, by elders and catechists—and even students. It was not
until 1925 that the British authorities allowed three Swiss Basel mis-
sionaries to reestablish themselves in Cameroon.25
Without the Europeans, the Basel congregations grew in organic
fashion. For instance, in 1922, a Basel catechist with no missionary
supervision, together with a few of his helpers, succeeded in instruct-
ing about a thousand people in Christianity in central Cameroons,
the Grassfields. In the same year, in Mamfe District, a Cameroonian
minister discovered that the gospel was being preached by a group of
young men who had organized choirs singing Christian hymns and
had introduced the hymns in various places. The minister was able to
baptize about one hundred converts on the spot.26
African autonomy was highly successful in terms of the growth
of the church. The number of Christians increased fivefold between
1914 and 1925. The growth of the church in the Grassfields area (near
Bali) in the interior of the country was remarkable—the number of
Christians multiplied twenty-three times. The official church history
provides a chart of growth by presbytery:
23 Ibid.
24 Ibid., p. 49.
25 Ibid., p. 58.
26 Ibid., pp. 55 and 57.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 129
Table 5.1. Growth of the Basel Mission in Cameroons, 1914–1925
Numbers of Baptized Christian by Presbytery27
As of January 1914
As of December 1925
Victoria
2,203
Buea
1,808
Bombe (Kumba)
1,600
Nyasoso
Besongabang
Bali [Grassfields]
1,954
Total
1,768
8,91527
Source: Keller, History of the Presbyterian Church, p. 59.
Although the missionaries regained at least nominal control of the
Basel Mission in 1925, the day-to-day administration of schools and
congregations had passed into African hands. The church had experi-
enced an important period of African initiative and autonomy. With
the coming of World War II in 1939, German missionaries were again
interned or expelled from the Cameroons. Six Swiss missionaries were
allowed to remain, with their families. Only three mission stations out
of thirteen could be staffed by Europeans, as a consequence. Eventually,
the Swiss missionaries were obliged to leave the country for health rea-
sons. The Basel Mission was left in the hands of ten ordained African
ministers, assisted by catechists and teachers.28
After the war, the European missionaries returned, of course. By
the middle of 1947, the number of Europeans was back up to twenty-
nine, though German workers were not allowed to reenter the British
Cameroons until 1959. By 1957, however, the Basel Mission had legally
conceded what was already an established reality on the ground—the
full independence of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon and its
administration by African Christians.
The Basel Mission at the End of the Colonial Era
The Baha’i faith entered the Cameroons in the early 1950s, as the
colonial era was drawing to its close. The Basel Mission was a well
27 Total has been corrected. The text reads 8,913.
28 Ibid., p. 80.

chapter five
established church by that time. John Middleton has published an
anthropological sketch of a Basel Mission church in one town in Ghana
that—since there is no comparable study for Cameroon—may give us
an idea of the form and dynamics of the mission’s work. Middleton’s
study is suggestive for understanding the Basel Mission as it stood at
the end of the colonial era and why it became such a locus of Baha’i
conversions during this time.29
When the Basel Mission was introduced to Middleton’s Ghanaian
town in 1835, its relationship to local African society was one of oppo-
sition, mutual antagonism, and frequently even open hostility on both
sides. The first Christian converts were minor princes, slaves, widows,
and other persons of low or ambiguous social status. Christians lived
in their own part of the town, wore European clothing, rejected many
local customs, and maintained a deliberate separation from non-
Christians, whom they considered immoral and ‘heathen.’ Middleton
argues that from the 1860s, this initial period of hostility began to
moderate. A period of ambivalence and compromise followed, until
about the Second World War. After that, Middleton sees the Christian
church increasingly becoming an integral part of local society, accepted
by all. During its history, the church’s role in the town changed radi-
cally from that of a new religious movement in opposition to society,
to an institution of the ‘establishment’ with an essentially conservative
role.30 From its missionary beginnings, the church successfully inte-
grated into the ordinary life of the town.
Middleton maintains that the various churches and religious rites
that exist side by side in a certain Ghanaian town, although they may
appear to be incompatible and mutually exclusive, should be consid-
ered as a single religious complex that reflects the diversity and com-
plexity of a single community. It is his view that any detailed figures or
statistics that might purport to show numbers of converts or adherents
29 John Middleton, “One Hundred and Fifty Years of Christianity in a Ghanaian
Town,” Africa: Journal of the International African Institute, Vol. 53, no. 3 (1983)
pp. 2–19. I am grateful to Paul Jenkins, who was then the archivist of the Basel
Mission in Switzerland, for bringing this article to my attention. He suggested to me
that this study provided an honest assessment of a Basel Mission community in Africa.
Middleton’s research was carried out in the mid-1970s in the local congregation of
the Presbyterian Church of Ghana (formerly Basel Mission) in the town of Akuropon,
the capital of the eastern Akan kingdom of Akuape, some twenty-five miles north of
Accra. Therefore, it cannot be applied uncritically to the British Cameroons in the
1950s. However, the outlines of the sociological picture of the church are suggestive.
30 Ibid., pp. 3–7.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 131
of one church or another are misleading in that they imply that people
accept and identify with only one of the churches or cults available to
them. In fact, most ordinary people in the town he studied partici-
pated in more than one of the various religious opportunities, rites,
and confessions that were established within their community.
Middleton does not make use of terms such as ‘dual identity’ or
‘multiple identities.’ Nor does he think that such a view of fragmentary
identities is useful. The townspeople, in his view, maintain a single
identity of ‘belonging’ to their town, and they accept whatever things
are ‘there’ as aspects of daily life that coexist in a more or less organic
relationship. With this view, they may participate in various religious
practices as the need arises for healing, worship, protection, purifica-
tion, etc. Middleton notes that the people of the town: “. . . may appear
to the [outside] observer as indecisive or even insincere [that is, hypo-
critical], by attending rites of different faiths which are in many ways
opposed to one another.” However, he insists: “Rather than indicating
indecision or insincerity, their behaviour is a function of moral and
cosmological complexity and of a need for ritual protection.”31
There are, of course, some people in the town who feel differently,
and these believers can be fiercely and exclusively loyal to only one
religious practice. There are conflicts of religion between various seg-
ments of the townspeople. Middleton does not suggest that belonging
to a single, multifaceted religious system eliminates conflict or leads to
harmony and mutual respect. Various struggles within the society for
rank, wealth, power, and autonomy are played out largely in religious
terms. However, he does suggest that the various religious systems that
compete for the attention of the townspeople are linked together in a
single complex that is as organic and as unified as the town itself is.
Within this system, the Presbyterian congregation of the Basel
Mission was widely accepted and understood as a way of displaying
and validating one’s high status and rank in the town. Church services
and activities were regularly attended by “stalwart and well-reputed
Christians.” These were mostly women who were dressed in fine cloth-
ing. There were at that time many women who wanted to attend ser-
vices, but they could not, because it was considered shameful for a
woman to attend two successive functions wearing the same clothes, or
wearing old clothes. Attendance at communion, every six weeks, was
31 Ibid., p. 12.

chapter five
limited to those whose church dues were paid up. As a consequence,
many attended church only very occasionally. There were many fewer
church attendees than nominal church members (who were often
owing dues). Church attendance was a public demonstration that a
townsperson was recognized to have high social and moral standing,
had attained a fairly good standard of education, and belonged to a
family with reasonable wealth, social position, and reputation.32
Other segments of the town—those who could not afford the dues
and fees required by the mission, women who were unable to main-
tain the required standard of dress, those who were illiterate, or fami-
lies of a generally low social position—tended to be attracted to the
newer, independent or Pentecostal churches and prayer groups, or to
the shrines of traditional (non-Christian) religion. Middleton notes
that participation in services of the Basel Mission was an increasingly
important marker for the measurement of class and educational dif-
ferences within the town. This resulted in the alienation of younger,
poorer Christian men and women, who sought out other forms of reli-
gious expression—“perhaps as a sign of rebellion against their elders.”33
The new churches were also attended by non-Christian townspeople,
when they believed the services might help solve their difficulties.
Middleton asks why so many more women attended church ser-
vices and activities than did men. Those at church services tended
to be older women, or younger women visiting their families from
other towns. He suggests that men were expected to be more con-
cerned with their business ambitions and economic success, which
were not regarded as church concerns. Men of high status spent their
Sundays in town meetings discussing community affairs. Women were
expected to be more concerned with the social status of their fami-
lies, and so they represented their families at church services. In addi-
tion, the men in this Ghanaian society were traditionally and ideally
polygamous. Christians who had more than one wife were allowed to
attend church, but were barred from communion and other activities.
Therefore, they tended to be less active in the church.
Middleton also suggests that the message of the Basel Mission may
have become rather stale over time as its position evolved within the
political economy of the town over the last century of its history. The
32 Ibid., pp. 12–13.
33 Ibid., p. 14.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 133
original prophetic and innovative role of the mission became routin-
ized and conservative. Active participation in church activities was
now a sign of wealth and high social position. No longer a symbol of
opposition to the status quo, the church transformed into an impor-
tant institution in the town and increasingly identified itself with
the rituals and apparatus of the state. As a result, it no longer had a
unique message to offer—rather, it supported the commonly accepted
mores and values of the society around it.34 Such a critique is similar
to the analysis of mission churches made by Welbourn and Ogot for
Western Kenya.
It may seem counterintuitive to suppose that the Basel Mission in
Cameroon would provide a fertile field for conversions to the Baha’i
faith in the 1950s. One might imagine that the mission, with its exten-
sive networks of schools and Christian instruction, with African teach-
ers and catechists on its payroll, and under strict European supervision,
might be the most resistant segment of an African society to the intro-
duction of a new religion. However, quite the opposite proved to be
true. Virtually all of the new Baha’is whom Enoch Olinga managed to
bring into the new faith in Cameroon were Presbyterians of the Basel
Mission.
Middleton’s analysis of a Basel Mission church in Ghana may be
suggestive in explaining why some Basel Christians in another West
African country found the Baha’i religion so attractive. Most of the
early Baha’is were male, were of low status—both within the church
and within society—and were fascinated by a new message that pre-
sented itself as a way to revolutionize the status quo. These are pre-
cisely the areas of weakness that Middleton identifies within the Basel
Mission system by the end of World War II.
Enoch Olinga Starts a Movement
Enoch Olinga was born on June 24, 1926, the second son of a family
of Christian converts (Native Anglican Church of Uganda, associated
34 Ibid., pp. 14–16.

chapter five
Illustration 5.1. Enoch Olinga (1926–1979)
Source: The Bahá’i World, Vol. 18, 1979–1983, p. 618.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 135
with the CMS).35 His father, Samusan Okadakina, was Teso.36 The
father was a catechist and teacher for the Anglican Mission. In 1920,
he had volunteered to establish a mission station in Soroti, central
Uganda, where he lived until 1927, when he returned with his wife
and children to his home village of Tilling, to the northeast. Olinga
was, therefore, educated in missionary schools. He received his early
education in Tilling and later went to school in Ngora, a small town
near his home, and to high school in Mbale District. Afterwards, he
attended Makerere University, but did not graduate.37
During World War II, in 1941, when he was fifteen years old, Olinga
was drafted into the British Army Education Corps and was sent to
Nairobi. During the war, he served in the East African King’s Rifles
Corps in South Asia: Burma, Ceylon, and India. When he returned to
Uganda in 1946, he was employed by the colonial Department of Public
Relations and Welfare. He was trained as an economist and worked
as a translator. He produced two books in his own language, Ateso,
for the Department of Education in Teso district. Initially stationed
35 Baron Deems Harper, Lights of Fortitude: Glimpses into the Lives of the Hands
of the Cause of God (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997) p. 462. There are few written
sources of information on Enoch Olinga’s life, especially on his life before becom-
ing a Baha’i. Most information remains in the memories of his Baha’i friends and
of his remaining family. For biographical information, I have relied upon Harper’s
short, hagiographic account; on the official memorial essay written by Ruhiyyih
Khanum Rabbani after his tragic murder, “In Memoriam: Enoch Olinga,” in The
Baha’i World: An International Record (1979–1983), Volume 18 (Haifa: Baha’i World
Centre, 1986) pp. 618–635; a short entry that contains some primary material in Hugh
C. Adamson and Philip Hainsworth, Historical Dictionary of the Bahá’í Faith, Historical
Dictionaries of Religions, Philosophies, and Movements, No. 17 (Lanham, Md.: The
Scarecrow Press, 1998); an internet article apparently using information gleaned from
some original research, Richard Francis, “Enoch Olinga: Hand of the Cause of God,
Father of Victories,” 1998 (http://bahai-library.com/?file=francis_olinga_biography);
and on a memorial video program produced by Olinga’s family, “Enoch Olinga:
Knight of Baha’u’llah, Father of Victories, Hand of the Cause of God,” (Wilmette,
Ill.: Olinga Productions Association, 2000). Also, my own article, Anthony A. Lee,
“Enoch Olinga,” in Africana: The Encyclopedia of the African and African American
Experience, Revised Edition, ed. by Henry Louis Gates, Jr. (Oxford University Press,
2005) pp. 278–79.
36 His mother’s name was Eseza Iyamitai. She was also an Anglican Christian.
(Francis, “Enoch Olinga,” p. 1)
37 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/19/91. I was able to interview Samiheh
(Mama-jan) Banani carefully on two occasions, March 15, 1991 and March 19, 1991,
and to speak to her informally at other times during that same period when she hap-
pened to be visiting her son and daughter-in-law, Amin and Sheila Banani, in Santa
Monica, California. Most of the following account of Enoch Olinga’s Baha’i activities
in Uganda is based on her recollections.

chapter five
Map 5.2. Uganda, Showing Teso District
Source: U.S. Department of State <www.state.gov/p/af/ci/ug/>.
S U D A N
DEM. REP.
OF THE
CONGO
KAMPALA
RWANDA
KENYA
Fort Portal
Moroto
Soroti
Mbale
Jinja
Gulu
Arua
100 km
100 ml
Lira
Teso District
Entebbe
Entebbe
Bell
Bell
Port
Port
TA N Z A N IA
TA N Z A N IA
Masaka
Lake
Edward
Lake
George
Lake
Albert
Lake
Victoria
Victoria
Nile
Lk. Kyoga
Mbarara
A
l
b
e
r
t

N
i
l
e
V
i
c
t
o
r
i
a


N
i
l
e

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 137
in Soroti and in Mbale, he eventually moved to Kampala. During this
time, he married his first wife, Eunice, with whom he eventually had
six children.
In 1951, Olinga was dismissed from his job because of heavy drink-
ing. Depressed and disillusioned with his rather desolate life, he began
to study the Baha’i religion with ‘Ali and Violette Nakhjavani, Baha’is
from Iran who had only recently arrived in Uganda. It is significant,
perhaps, that the initial Baha’i influences on Enoch Olinga were not
American, but Iranian. The Baha’is of Iran at this time were, gener-
ally speaking, less focused on the organizational and administrative
aspects of Baha’i practice than their American co-religionists were.
This broader, Persian outlook, with its deeper historical perspective
and greater flexibility in matters of detail, may have provided more
opportunity for the rapid conversion of Africans that Olinga was soon
able to initiate in Uganda. The Baha’i community in Iran, after all, had
been well established in rural parts of that country for a hundred years
and had experienced rapid growth in villages in earlier periods of its
history.38 The much younger American Baha’i community had no such
experience behind it.
‘Ali and Violette Nakhjavani with their daughter, and along
with Violette’s parents—Musa and Samiheh Banani—had settled in
Kampala, Uganda, as part of the two-year Africa Plan (1951–1953)
given to the British National Spiritual Assembly by Shoghi Effendi.39
One of the goals of that plan was to establish small groups of Baha’is
living in at least three British colonies in Africa.40 This could be accom-
plished only by convincing Baha’is living in other parts of the world
to move to those areas as ‘pioneers.’41
38 This rapid growth probably took place in the early years of the Babi era, of course.
Nonetheless, this Babi history was fully incorporated into Iranian Baha’i conscious-
ness as part of its heritage. For a comprehensive listing of the ‘localities’ (cities, towns,
and villages) where Baha’is lived in Iran in 1950, see The Bahá’í World, 1946–1950,
Vol. 11 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1952) pp. 542–63.
39 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/19/91.
40 See Chapter Four of this book. Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, pp. 245–93
passim; Adamson and Hainsworth, Historical Dictionary, pp. 333–35.
41 As mentioned in Chapter Four, these teachers were never called ‘missionaries,’
which Baha’is regarded as a Christian term to be avoided. Ideally, Baha’i pioneers
were supposed to be self-supporting, and they were encouraged to find jobs or estab-
lish businesses in the places where they settled. However, many pioneers (including
African pioneers) were sent monthly allowances from Baha’i sources in Europe and
America. Musa Banani and his family were wealthy, and they were indeed able to
support themselves in Uganda and give financial support to other pioneers in Africa.

chapter five
Musa Banani was a wealthy businessman who had been living in
Tehran. He was an Iraqi Jew by birth and had converted to the Baha’i
religion in 1912. Samiheh, his wife (universally known as Mama-jan
among the Baha’is), was born in a (‘Muslim’) family that had been
Baha’i for three or four generations. Although he spoke no English,
and she very little, the couple left Iran in December 1950, with the
intention of becoming Baha’i pioneers. They made their way to
England. From there, they wrote to Shoghi Effendi for directions on
where they should settle. He replied that they should go to Africa and
take their daughter and son-in-law with them. ‘Ali and Violette were
English-speakers, and it is probably for this reason that the Baha’i
leader thought it advisable that they accompany the Bananis to the
British colonies in Africa. ‘Ali was, at that time, a prominent Baha’i
in Iran, a pioneer to Shiraz, and a member of the Iranian National
Spiritual Assembly. The couple had a three-year-old daughter.
The Nakhjavanis left Iran, on the instructions of Shoghi Effendi, and
traveled to England to join the Bananis. The family first journeyed to
Dar es Salaam.42 From there, they moved on to Nairobi, but eventu-
ally settled in Kampala on August 8, 1951. Since they could find no
suitable house to rent, they were forced to live in rooms in a hotel for
some time. Their lodging was the initial obstacle to their Baha’i work.
They had a difficult time making contact with Ugandans, because they
were not allowed to bring Africans into their European hotel. ‘Ali
was the teacher in the group, and he would go to the park to meet
people and teach them about the Baha’i religion. He had little success.
Nonetheless, after seven months in Uganda, he had two African con-
verts who had become Baha’is. Enoch Olinga would be the third.
It is difficult to know exactly what message ‘Ali Nakhjavani delivered
when teaching the Baha’i faith to Africans. It seems that most people
he met were Christians, and that ‘Ali’s teaching was oriented around
the Bible. Mrs. Banani recalled that he had compiled a notebook of
prophecies from the Bible that he would use to convince his students
that the coming of the Baha’i prophets had been foretold in the Bible.
And since there were a few Muslims who had become interested in
learning about Baha’i teachings, he also made reference to prophe-
42 Mrs. Banani indicated that they were also able to pay the expenses for a British
Baha’i, Philip Hainsworth, to come with them as a pioneer to East Africa. Hainsworth
settled in Nairobi.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 139
cies that he had compiled from Muslim scriptures.43 One Muslim man
became a Baha’i, as a result. 44
43 This curious practice of teaching the Baha’i religion by placing prophecies from
the Bible and prophecies from the Qur’an side by side—almost without distinction—
was carried on by Iranian pioneers to East Africa in later years. I received a manuscript
of this kind, in the mid-1980s, compiled by Nabil I. Hanna, a pioneer to Tanzania at
the time. Hanna was an Egyptian Baha’i of Coptic Christian background. It consisted
entirely of quotations from the Bible and from the Qur’an on a variety of subjects,
including prophecy. The juxtaposition was seamless. Quotations from the Qur’an and
from other Muslim sources followed biblical passages with the implicit assumption
that all of them should be regarded as Holy Scripture. Since quotations from Muslim
scriptures were not regarded as suitable for an American, Christian audience, they
were removed in the editing process. The book that resulted was published as: Nabil
I. Hanna, Bible Proofs: A Fireside Aid for Teaching Christians (Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1988).
44 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/15/91. A short time later, the Muslim convert
murdered his wife in a crime of passion and served a prison sentence. But he remained
Illustration 5.2. Four New African Baha’is, Kampala, Uganda, 1952
The first four African Baha’i converts. Enoch Olinga is third from the left.
Source: Bahá’í News, No. 260 [October 1952] p. 7.

chapter five
The fundamental claim of the Baha’i religion to be proven by Bible
prophecy would be, at least in the Western Baha’i community, that
Jesus Christ had returned to earth in the person of Baha’u’llah. But it is
not clear that Nakhjavani went that far in teaching African Christians.
I have seen no reference to Baha’is making any claim that Christ had
returned in materials from that period, nor is such an idea men-
tioned in the personal reminiscences of Baha’is who were in Africa
at that time. Possibly, such a central Baha’i doctrine is simply taken
for granted, and so not discussed explicitly. On the other hand, ‘Ali
may have used his Bible (and Qur’an) references to demonstrate that
these are the ‘Last Days,’ a time foretold when there would be moral
decay and decadence—a time in need of religious renewal. That would
certainly have presented a less shocking message to Christians, and
it would have taken advantage of familiar Christian themes. In this
case, ‘Ali’s message may have been similar to the message of Christian
Revival in Rwanda and Tanganyika discussed earlier in this study.45
As we will see, at this time new Baha’is were not asked to withdraw
from Christian congregations, resign their church memberships, or
separate themselves from their established religious communities. So,
we might suppose that the idea of Baha’u’llah as ‘Christ returned’ was
not, therefore, the central message being taught and did not form the
core of Baha’i identity—even if it were mentioned in passing by Baha’i
teachers.
In any case, Enoch Olinga’s conversion marked a turning point in
the growth of the Baha’i religion in Uganda, and later in Cameroon.
Evidently, once he became a Baha’i he accomplished a radical change
in his habits and in his life. The Baha’is recall that he stopped drinking
altogether46 and began to study Baha’i books avidly. The change in his
conduct and attitude was so remarkable that his wife, Eunice—who
had, of course, suffered on account of his previous behavior—was
convinced that she should become a Baha’i also. She did, but the mar-
riage remained an unhappy one. Olinga had a Catholic friend, Peter
Motavazi, who had worked with him at his government job and knew
a Baha’i and was responsible for a number of conversions within the prison. (Ibid.)
I do not know whether his converts were Muslims or Christians.
45 See Chapter Three.
46 As in Islam, the consumption of alcohol and other intoxicating drinks is forbid-
den by Baha’i religious law. See Baha’u’llah, The Kitab-i Aqdas, K119; A Synopsis and
Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1973) p. 47; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 214.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 141
him well. He also looked into the Baha’i teachings after he observed
the changes in Olinga’s conduct and became the fifth convert to the
Baha’i faith in Uganda.47
At the time that Olinga decided to become a Baha’i, the official pro-
cedure for enrollment in the Ugandan Baha’i community was for the
new believer to write a letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of
the Baha’is of Britain. This letter would be a declaration of faith and
a request to be admitted to the Baha’i community. The same proce-
dure for enrollment (that is, writing a letter to a Baha’i institution)
was observed in Britain and in the United States. However, such a
requirement limited converts to those who were literate and fairly
well educated. It also left acceptance of new converts under the con-
trol of the British Baha’is. In April 1952, there were enough Baha’is
living in Kampala to permit a local Spiritual Assembly to be formed
there. Olinga became a member of that body, as did the Bananis and
Nakhjavanis. Thereafter, the local Assembly in Kampala accepted all
new enrollments.48 This was certainly a necessary condition for what
was to come.
Shortly after the Kampala Assembly was elected, and only two
months after Enoch Olinga had become a Baha’i, he returned to his
home village of Tilling to visit his family. He spoke to people about
the Baha’i religion in the towns where he stayed along the way. Some
of these wanted to become Baha’is, and Olinga sent postcards back to
the Iranian pioneers in Kampala telling them about the new believers.
When he got to Teso district, he also talked about the Baha’i teach-
ings and found that many people wanted to become Baha’is. Olinga’s
father, and also an uncle, became Baha’is. It seems that all of the new
Baha’is were from Olinga’s lineage or clan.49
Soon, Olinga wrote to ‘Ali Nakhjavani and asked that he come to join
him in Tilling, because there were many new Baha’is there. They had
questions about the religion that Olinga could not answer. Nakhjavani
joined him, and he returned to the area many times in later months
on such teaching trips. Initially, there were about 90 converts.50 Very
soon, hundreds of Teso people had become Baha’is. These conversions
47 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/19/91.
48 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/15/91.
49 Ibid.
50 Harper, Lights, p. 464.

chapter five
represented the first substantial entry of sub-Saharan African peoples
into the Baha’i religion since its nineteenth-century beginnings.
A Gentle Message
It is hard to know what teachings Enoch Olinga brought to Teso as
the Baha’i message and why so many people were willing to become
Baha’is so quickly. One factor was, of course, not the message but the
messenger. Olinga was an educated and successful son of the area, a
member of an important Christian family, and—no doubt—a symbol of
prosperity, urbanity, and modernity in his home village. We also know
that all those who became Baha’is in Olinga’s area were Christians
(Anglicans) and that they continued to attend their churches. He did
not ask that they break their established religious affiliations, at this
point. Mrs. Banani recalled that even some Christian ‘ministers’ (per-
haps meaning, catechists or teachers) became Baha’is and continued
their professions.51
Mrs. Banani explained that Shoghi Effendi had instructed the pio-
neers that they should not insist on strict obedience to Baha’i laws and
regulations on the part of the new African Baha’is.52 The Bananis and
the Nakhjavanis apparently took this to mean that they should not ask
the new Baha’is to leave their churches.53 Therefore, the new Baha’is
accepted a message that they did not find incompatible with their cur-
rent Christian identities or with regular church attendance.
Very early on, it had become international Baha’i policy to adapt
teaching methods in Africa to the cultures into which they were intro-
duced. Baha’i pioneers were urged to make a distinction between ele-
ments of the Baha’i teachings that were to be regarded as ‘central’ or
‘pivotal’ and those that were ‘controversial’ and ‘secondary.’ It was con-
sidered best that teachers avoid discussing secondary matters with new
Baha’is and those interested in the religion, if at all possible. Therefore,
the Baha’i message that was used to attract new believers was to be a
51 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/15/91.
52 Ibid.
53 There is no reason to believe that their understanding of Shoghi Effendi’s instruc-
tions was mistaken. Musa and Samiheh Banani had made a pilgrimage to the World
Center of the Baha’i religion in Israel in February of 1952. During their visit they had
many opportunities to speak to Shoghi Effendi personally about Baha’i activities and
affairs in Africa and to receive his verbal instructions.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 143
broad and general one focused around principles such as the unity of
all religions and the oneness of the human race—rather than around
the specifics of Baha’i law or teachings that might be in conflict with
traditional African customs.
This was made explicit in an article entitled “Teaching in Africa:
Laws, Minor Observances and Secondary Aspects of the Faith,” pub-
lished in Britain in March 1951.54 The article reads in full:
In teaching we should try to avoid controversial issues in the beginning,
the Guardian once wrote. As we Baha’is know, many of the secondary
elements of the religion are controversial, for opinions may legitimately
differ about them and indeed do differ, as people adhere to the laws of
particular dispensations of the past.55
There are two good reasons for not volunteering information on the
secondary elements of the Baha’i Faith, such as monogamy,56 avoidance
of alcohol, the equality of the sexes,57 treatment of criminals,58 etc. First,
it is not tactful to shock people and fail to approach them from their own
point of view. Second, a long way has to be traversed before people are
54 In Africa News, No. 3 (March 1951) issued by the Africa Committee of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the British Isles. Copied in the Valerie
Wilson papers.
55 Here, “dispensations of the past” refers to all religions before the advent of the
Baha’i religion—Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, etc.
56 At this point in Baha’i history, monogamy was enforced by Baha’i law within the
community (as it is today), though this had not always been the case. See Anthony
A. Lee, “Choice Wine: The Kitab-i Aqdas and the Development of Baha’i Law” pre-
sented at the Fifth Annual Colloquium on Scriptural Studies (1995), Baha’i Studies
Institute, Wilmette, Illinois. Published at: http://bahailibrary.org/conferences/wine
.html. Baha’u’llah had only recommended monogamy in his book of laws, the Kitab-i
Aqdas, while legally limiting Baha’i men to no more than two wives. (Baha’u’llah,
Kitab-i Aqdas, K63) Baha’u’llah himself married three wives. Even today, polygamous
men who convert to the Baha’i religion, regardless of the number of their wives, are
permitted to keep all of them (although they are forbidden to take any more).
57 It is curious that the principle of the equality of men and women could be listed
here as one of the ‘secondary elements’ of the Baha’i faith. Since ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit
to the West in 1911–1912, it had been regarded by Baha’is around the world as one of
the basic principles of the religion. Nonetheless, because it was apparently ‘controver-
sial’ in Africa, it could be passed over. This suggests, of course, that the real concern
here is the avoidance of controversy when teaching the Baha’i faith to Africans, rather
than any serious classification of Baha’i teachings as primary or secondary on their
merits.
58 In his book of laws, the Kitab-i Aqdas, Baha’u’llah seems to fix harsh punish-
ments for murderers, thieves, and arsonists. These provisions have been a source of
controversy both within the Baha’i community and with Christian detractors of the
Baha’i teachings. Baha’u’llah, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, K45, K62, and K73, with notes and com-
ments. Cf., William McElwee Miller, The Baha’i Faith: Its History and Teachings (South
Pasadena, Calif.: William Carey Library, 1974), especially Chapter 8 and Appendix I
(which is Miller’s translation of the Kitab-i Aqdas into English).

chapter five
ready for the full bounties of Baha’u’llah’s wise provision, as is shown by
the fact that many laws are not yet promulgated for compulsory obser-
vance in the West.59
There is a strong likelihood that some of the laws of Baha’u’llah run
directly counter to African practice, since ideas of the value of women
and of property, for example, are founded on tribal custom and are of
immemorial age.60 To upset such a long held practice deliberately at the
beginning with any individual might well evoke collective opposition
and perhaps set back the advance of the Cause by decades.
On the other hand we must not allow ourselves at any time to com-
promise the Teachings or prevaricate if we are asked a direct question on
a particular. In such a case it is best to turn up the passage in Scripture
or Esslemont,61 and quote it or show it to the enquirer, preferably on
his own.
We are wisest if we seek first to demonstrate and teach the meaning
of Baha’i living, the pivotal teaching of the oneness of humankind, the
idea of progressive religion, and the central issue of Who the Bab and
Baha’u’llah were. We thereby give prominence to the dynamic, construc-
tive principles of the Cause which are best in keeping with the needs and
spirit of the age.
We can do no better than try to bear in mind the example of the
Master [‘Abdu’l-Baha] as given by the Guardian: “Wise and tactful in
His approach, wakeful and attentive in His early intercourse, broad and
liberal in all His public utterances, cautious and gradual in the unfolding
of the essential verities of the Cause, passionate in His appeal yet sober
in argument, confident in tone, unswerving in conviction, dignified in
[his] manners,”62 and suit the message to the susceptibilities and varying
capacities of our hearers.
59 At that time, there was no official translation of Baha’u’llah’s (Arabic) Kitab-i
Aqdas into English, or into any other language. Therefore, most of the provisions and
regulations to be found in that book were not considered to be ‘binding’ on the Baha’is
of the West. To a large extent, this was true in the ‘East,’ as well. But the Iranian
Baha’is were expected to observe some religious ordinances (e.g., ablutions before
obligatory prayers, observance of the formal period of engagement before marriage,
payment of a ‘dowry’ to the bride by the bridegroom, etc.) which were unknown to
Baha’is in other countries. For the most part, such ordinances are still not practiced
by Baha’is in the West.
60 Of course, such customs—although they were supposed by Europeans to be of
‘immemorial age’—can often be shown to be of quite recent origin.
61 The comprehensive and (at the time) ubiquitous book of introduction to the
Baha’i teachings, John E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era (Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950 [originally, London: Allen & Unwin, 1923]).
62 From a letter of Shoghi Effendi to the Baha’i world, September 24, 1924, pub-
lished in Bahá’í Administration (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1928 [1974])
pp. 69–70. The quotation is not referenced in the copy that I have of this article.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 145
This approach to delivering the Baha’i message was widely understood
and had more or less been observed by Baha’i teachers (as the quota-
tion from the Guardian indicates) from the early years of the twentieth
century. Therefore, its specific application to the new African situation
was not much of an innovation. This is, no doubt, how Enoch Olinga
was taught, and he certainly followed these prescriptions. As we
will see below, he was able to make a sharp distinction between essen-
tials and ‘inconsequentialities’ in pursuing his future Baha’i work in
West Africa.
It is worth noting how radically this gradual Baha’i approach to
teaching and conversion differs from the stereotypical and widely
reported missionary approach to evangelism. As Middleton notes,
Christian missionaries often assumed a much more hostile and con-
frontational stance toward African cultures and traditional beliefs.
Rather than downplaying or concealing Christian opposition to tra-
ditional practices, missionaries generally advertised such incompat-
ibilities, demanded immediate conformity from new converts, and
regarded traditional customs as ‘heathen,’ the antithesis of Christian
standards.63 Baha’i practice, on the other hand, was much more accept-
ing of local cultures and practices, even when they were in conflict
with basic Baha’i religious principles. Baha’i teachers expected a much
more gradual conformity to the laws and ideals of the religion on the
part of their new believers and new Baha’i communities, a process that
might span generations.64
The Successful Teaching
There is no record of the content of Enoch Olinga’s teaching—specifi-
cally what he said and what message he brought—in his home area of
63 Middleton, “Christianity in a Ghanaian Town,” pp. 3–6. See also, T. O. Beidelman,
Colonial Evangelism: A Socio-Historical Study of an East African Mission at the
Grassroots (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1982) especially, Chapters 7
and 8.
64 In this sense, the Baha’i attitudes may be closer to Islamic modes of thought
than to Christian ideas of conversion. The introduction of Islam into Africa and its
spread into various societies was generally a gradual process that spanned generations.
See Nehemia Levtzion and Randall L. Pouwels, “Introduction: Patterns of Islamization
and Varieties of Religious Experience among Muslims of Africa” in idem., eds.,
The History of Islam in Africa (Athens: Ohio University Press, 2000) pp. 1–18; see
especially, Edward A. Alpers, “East Central Africa,” pp. 303–325.

chapter five
Teso, nor of ‘Ali Nakhjavani’s for that matter. The often-told stories of
the beginnings of the Baha’i religion in East Africa are simply silent on
this point. While the story of Enoch Olinga’s conversion in Kampala
was told in great detail, with miraculous overtones and suggestions—
the story of his teaching successes in his home village contains no such
richness or contour.65 Olinga himself wrote no memoir. Therefore,
information about his life has been written from the perspective of the
Baha’is who knew him, and they were not direct witnesses to the early
events in Teso that brought so many new believers into the Baha’i
religion. So, we can only surmise what the details of this teaching
activity must have been.66 Whatever they were, this teaching certainly
established the background for Enoch Olinga’s Baha’i work in later
years in British Cameroons, where he was able to repeat his conver-
sion successes.
A tape of a talk given by Olinga many years later may provide some
clues to his approach to the Baha’i message. In 1970, Olinga was in the
United States visiting Baha’i communities. While he was in Seattle,
he made an audiotape to send greetings to the Baha’is of California,
Nevada, and Wyoming. It appears, from what he says, that he had
intended to visit Baha’i communities in those states, but he had been
forced to change his plans. Therefore, in lieu of a visit, he was sending
them a tape.67
This recorded talk was addressed only to Baha’is and was not
intended for teaching purposes. Nonetheless, it reflects Olinga’s
understanding of the Baha’i faith. For example, I am struck by the
Christian flavor of the talk and his use of language and terms that
can be found in Christian discourse—’sisters and brothers,’ ‘seek the
will of the Lord,’ ‘grace,’ etc. Such language would not normally be
65 Cf. Harper, Lights, pp. 463–64; Rabbani, “In Memoriam: Enoch Olinga,” Bahá’í
World, Vol. 18, pp. 619–20.
66 Samiheh Banani told me directly that Enoch Olinga had come up with a new
way of teaching the Baha’i faith that resulted in many conversions. But she was not
sure about exactly what he said or how he did it. She was not present when he taught
the Faith outside of Kampala; and during the early years, her English was not good
and she could not understand everything he said when she heard him teaching in the
city. Nonetheless, she insisted that it was Enoch Olinga who had developed the new
teaching techniques, and not her son-in-law, ‘Ali Nakhjavani. (Interview, 3/15/91.)
‘Ali Nakhjavani is still alive. But he has given no detailed account of these matters.
I have met him on a number of occasions, but I have never been able to question him
about his pioneering activities. He has declined to write a memoir of these events.
67 Talk of Enoch Olinga in 1970 from Seattle to the Baha’is of California, Nevada,
and Wyoming. Don Addison papers.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 147
expected in Baha’i talks of any kind in the United States during the
1960s and 1970s. Olinga speaks in a very slow, impressive manner—in
a deep voice that would be appropriate from the pulpit. The urgency of
his remarks is almost millenarian in tone. Part of the talk reads:
Beloved sisters and brothers. Let us seek the will of the Lord. And let us
win the favor and grace of the Blessed Beauty [Baha’u’llah], so that he
may through his grace and purpose reveal to us the time of his grace.
In the Hidden Words, the Lord says: “Magnify my Cause that I may
reveal unto thee the mysteries of my greatness . . .”68
We are fighting war, dearly loved ones. The army of light is engaged
in a battle against the dark forces of ignorance, injustices, prejudice, and
unbelief. The battlefield has many fronts. May each of us participate in
this colossal enterprise. Africa is awaiting you with wide-open arms.
Come one, come all, and win victories for the Blessed Beauty. This is
the day to make mention of the Lord, to celebrate his praise, and serve
him.
We are at war, dear sisters and brothers. The general, said the beloved
Master [‘Abdu’l-Baha], does not love most the man in the back of the
ranks. He loves most the man in the front.
Ya Baha’u’l-Abha!69 Ya Baha’u’l-Abha! Ya Baha’u’l-Abha! Allah-u
Abha!70
Despite the distance of time and place, we might imagine that a simi-
lar message would have seemed attractive to a Christian audience in
Olinga’s home village of Tilling in 1952, eighteen years earlier. After
all, without the references to Baha’u’llah, and without the Arabic
phrases, virtually the same exhortations to righteousness and renewal
might be heard in Christian churches any Sunday morning. But, at the
same time, the message was new—and the Arabic words and refer-
ences (even if only the word ‘Baha’i’) would have been an unmistak-
able mark of its newness. Promises of righteousness and renewal are
always seductive, after all, especially in exotic dress. This may have
been the kind of message that Olinga brought to the people of Teso,
and later to Cameroon, a message that was immediately attractive and
successful in creating new Baha’is. At least among the local men.
68 Baha’u’llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic #41. This short book of scripture has been
published in many editions around the world, e.g., Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1939 [1994].
69 Arabic: O Thou Glory of the All-Glorious One. An invocation of the name of
Baha’u’llah, also used as a prayer.
70 Arabic: God, the Most Glorious. A distinctively Baha’i invocation of the name
of God. (As distinct from the Muslim Allah-u Akbar). It is used as a greeting and a
departing salutation among Baha’is, and sometimes as a prayer.

chapter five
It is known that almost all of the new Baha’is in Teso were men.
One report indicates that, in late 1952, when there were 72 new Baha’is
in Teso and Mbale (the districts where Enoch Olinga was teaching)—
only one of these was a woman, Olinga’s sister-in-law.71 Apparently,
men found the new religious message appealing, and women did not.
Such an extreme gender imbalance indicates that men and women in
rural Uganda had very different responses to the Baha’i faith as it was
being taught. It is not clear why this should have been the case, but
the differences were radical.72
Ruhiyyih Khanum Rabbani (the wife of Shoghi Effendi) has related
a story she heard in this regard.73 Before the Africa Intercontinental
Conference was held in Kampala in February 1953, Shoghi Effendi had
sent a sum of money to Musa Banani that he directed should be used
to bring a number of the new Baha’is from Teso to attend the confer-
ence as his guests. She goes on:
. . . this meant that about 200 people would be brought down by bus
from this north-eastern province, which was a trip of over 200 miles.
‘Alí Nakhjavání went to escort the friends and invite them to be Shoghi
Effendi’s guests. When the men got on the buses many of the women
wept and wailed because they were afraid their men were being taken
off to be slaves!74
It appears that all of those who made the trip to Kampala, the ‘200
people,’ were men. They had apparently accepted the Guardian’s invi-
tation in large numbers. The women, on the other hand, had very
71 Bahá’í News, No. 262 (December, 1952) p. 12.
72 Of course, Middleton’s arguments (above) may be suggestive in explaining the
attraction of men to the Baha’i religion. The Christian church may have been regarded
as a woman’s concern. But this is only a suggestion. More historical work certainly
needs to be done on the specific events in Uganda.
73 She was not there and did not attend the conference she refers to. However, she
was in a unique position to hear first-hand accounts of these events.
74 Rabbani, “In Memoriam: Enoch Olinga,” The Bahá’í World, p. 620. I do not think
that the women literally believed that their husbands were being taken into slavery,
since the slave trade had largely ended by the early part of the twentieth century—
slavery continued on the Kenyan coast until 1907, however, and on the coast of
German East Africa (Tanganyika) until 1919. (Shihan de Silva Jayasuriya and Richard
Pankhurst, The African Diaspora in the Indian Ocean [Trenton, NJ: Africa World
Press, 2003] p. 11.) Slave trading was nonetheless the idiom which the women could
use to express their anxieties, and it was obviously still an evocative trope within their
society. In any case, it is clear that the women expressed their loud protest to the trip.
It is just as clear that the men were willing to defy the objections of the women and
dismiss lingering fears of slave trading.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 149
different ideas, and their behavior as the men boarded the buses indi-
cates they had deep suspicions about the Baha’is that the men apparently
did not share. A review of the photographs of the Kampala conference
published at the time confirms that almost all of the Africans who
attended were men.7576
75 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/19/91. Mrs. Banani actually said in this inter-
view that Mr. John Ferraby, a British Hand of the Cause, had been asked to perform
this task. But Mr. Ferraby did not attend the conference. She probably simply mis-
spoke and intended Mr. Ioas.
76 Bahá’í News, No. 266 (April, 1953) p. 12; No. 267 (May, 1953) p. 7; No. 268
(June, 1953) p. 10. In the last photograph, a few African women and girls are promi-
nently seated in front of the group. However, these are probably not Baha’is from
Teso. (See photo below.)
Illustration 5.3. Leroy Ioas greeting the New Baha’is at the Intercontinental
Baha’i Teaching Conference, in Kampala, Uganda on February 12–18, 1953
Mr. Ioas, an American Baha’i, had been appointed by the Guardian of the
Baha’i faith, Shoghi Effendi, as a Hand of the Cause of God in 1951. He was
asked, along with several other Hands of the Cause, to attend this confer-
ence. Shoghi Effendi asked Mr. Ioas specifically to greet each one of the new
Baha’is from Teso individually on his behalf at this conference.75 All of the
African men here appear to be young. There are a couple of women in the
group, one standing to the right of Mr. Ioas. Source: Bahá’í News, No. 267
[May 1953] p. 7.

chapter five
Impact on the Worldwide Baha’i Community
It is impossible to overestimate the impact that the news of Enoch
Olinga’s teaching success in Uganda had on the Baha’i leadership and
on Baha’is around the world. It is important to remember that the
number of Baha’is in every country in the world—with the excep-
tion of Iran—was very tiny indeed. By 1950 in all of Britain, Baha’is
could count only 340 adult believers.77 In the United States, there were
77 Phillip R. Smith, “The Development and Influence of the Bahá’í Administrative
Order in Great Britain, 1914–1950” in Community Histories, ed. by Richard Hollinger,
Illustration 5.4. Africa Intercontinental Conference, Kampala, Uganda,
February 12–18, 1953
Prominent Baha’is from all over the world attended the conference, particu-
larly Iranians and Americans. In this formal photograph, they seem to be
posed in the front with some Ugandan girls. The new Baha’is from Teso are
standing in the back rows. Source: Bahá’í News, No. 268 [June, 1953] p. 10.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 151
Illustration 5.5. New Baha’is from Teso, February 1953
Nathan Olei is shown here translating from English into Teso at the
Intercontinental Baha’i Teaching Conference held in Kampala, Uganda,
February 12–18, 1953. Note that all of the new Teso Baha’is in the pho-
tograph are men. All appear to be relatively young. Source: Bahá’í News,
No. 267 [May 1953] p. 7.
perhaps 6,000 Baha’is, at that point—and fewer than 10,000 Baha’is
in the entire world outside of Iran.78 So, Olinga’s initial conversion of
some 90 new believers79 in Teso was regarded as a stunning achieve-
ment. The subsequent enrollment of hundreds of new Ugandan Baha’is
p. 204. In 1944, there had been fewer than 150 Baha’is in Britain (ibid.). The growth of
the Baha’i community there in the six years that followed seemed triumphant to the
Baha’is. The message that Shoghi Effendi sent to the National Baha’i Convention for
Britain in 1950, referring to this growth in numbers and the successful completion of
their six-year goals, was enthusiastic. The telegram reads in part: heart flooded joy
striking evidence bountiful grace baha’u’llah enabling valorous dearly
loved baha’i community british isles triumphantly conclude first historic
plan half century british baha’i history. herald author faith [the Bab and
Baha’u’llah] centre covenant [‘Abdu’l-Baha] concourse on high [i.e., the heav-
enly hosts] acclaim superb collective achievement immortalizing opening
decade second baha’i century unprecedented history faith british isles
unrivalled annals any baha’i community european continent . . . historic
pledge british baha’i community nobly redeemed. tribute memory martyr
prophet faith worthily paid. . . . (quoted in Unfolding Destiny, p. 245)
78 William Garlington, The Baha’i Faith in America, p. 112.
79 One official report states that the initial count of new believers was 72. (The
Bahá’í World, Vol. 12 [Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956] p. 53.)

chapter five
seemed virtually miraculous.80 The previous fifty-some years of Baha’i
teaching in the West had accustomed the Baha’i community to much
more modest progress. Suddenly and unexpectedly, there was a new
kind of rapid conversion that raised the potential of establishing large
Baha’i communities in Africa—communities that might surpass in
numbers the Baha’i communities in Britain and in the United States.
There had been a period of rapid and large-scale conversion to the
Babi/Baha’i religions in Iran in the nineteenth century. But that was now
in the distant past, remembered as the ‘Heroic Age’ of Baha’i history.81
By the mid-point of the twentieth century, there were approximately
200,000 Baha’is living in Iran.82 This number probably represented a
considerable decrease from earlier decades.83 Of course, the definition
of what it meant to be a Baha’i in Iran had changed from earlier times,
as well. The history of the changing nature of Baha’i identity has yet
to be written.84 But we can discern that the meaning of being a Baha’i
80 Cf., for example, Unfolding Destiny, p. 460: “The progress made in Africa is truly
miraculous . . .” (from a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the British Isles, dated 30 August 1951); also Leroy
Ioas’s letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual Assembly of
the Baha’is of the United States, n.d., published in “The Continent of Africa is Pre-
eminent,” Bahá’í News, No. 280 (June 1954) p. 5.
81 A term coined by Shoghi Effendi and used often in his writings. See, for example,
God Passes By (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944) pp. 3, 35, 46, 50, 55, and
passim.
82 Baha’is today claim “some 300,000” in Iran. (The Bahá’í World, 2002–2003
[Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2004] p. 248.)
83 Dr. Roy Mottahedeh (presently at Harvard University, Department of Near
Eastern Languages and Civilizations) is a Baha’i. He told me in personal conversa-
tion, some years ago, that while he was conducting research in the International Baha’i
Archives, in Haifa, Israel, he had come across a census that had been taken of the
Baha’is in Iran shortly after the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Baha (1921). This count had been
carried out at the direction of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s sister, Bahiyyih Khanum, the Greatest
Holy Leaf (the daughter of Baha’u’llah). who assumed de-facto leadership of the Baha’i
community for a few years after her brother died. (Although there was no change of
official leadership, and the new Guardian spent at least a part of each year in the Holy
Land, the Greatest Holy Leaf directed the day-to-day activities of the international
Baha’i community, acting on behalf of Shoghi Effendi since he spent most of his time
in retreat in Europe.) This census, according to Dr. Mottahedeh, indicated that there
were half a million Baha’is in Iran at that time. The International Baha’i Archives
are, unfortunately, closed to most researchers. But the figure of one-half million (and
even one million) has been discussed and disputed online and in print. See Peter
Smith, “A Note on Babi and Baha’i Numbers in Iran,” Iranian Studies, Vol. 15 (1984)
pp. 295–301.
84 For a preliminary discussion of this process as it evolved in Iran, at least with
regard to Jewish conversions to the Baha’i faith, see Mehrdad Amanat, “Negotiation

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 153
in Iran transformed over time. Beginning as what many regarded as a
purely personal (and often secretly held) theological conviction, Baha’i
identity moved to an open identification with a distinct confessional
community within the context of Islam; later to a balance of negoti-
ated multiple identities; then further, to a rejection (or at least a partial
repudiation) of previous religious identifications. Later, being a Baha’i
implied an acceptance of a new religious organization and structure
with all of its myriad institutions, laws, principles, leaders, officials,
and policies. Similarly, in the West, the meaning of what it meant to
be a Baha’i evolved from its nineteenth century beginnings.85 I suggest
that the meaning of Baha’i identity continued to evolve in the locus of
Uganda in the early 1950s. That is, a new definition of Baha’i member-
ship and identity was created.
As we discussed in Chapter Four, in 1950 the Baha’i religion was
virtually unknown in Africa. Beyond Egypt and Sudan, where there
were small Baha’i communities—counting scores of believers, not
hundreds—there were only about 25 Baha’is living in seven dispersed
localities on the whole continent.86 The first efforts of Shoghi Effendi
to encourage the dispersal of Baha’is to Africa were not ambitious.
His two-year plan initiated in April 1950, later known as the Africa
Plan, called on the National Spiritual Assemblies of Egypt, Britain, and
the United States to cooperate to send Baha’i pioneers to Africa. The
British Baha’is were initially asked to establish only a minimum Baha’i
presence (presumably, one pioneer) in any three British territories in
sub-Saharan Africa within the two-year goal.87 The American Baha’is
Identities: Iranian Jews, Muslims and Baha’is in the Memoirs of Rayhan Rayhani
(1859–1939),” Ph.D. dissertation (UCLA, 2006), published as Jewish Identities in
Iran: Resistance and Conversion to Islam and the Baha’i Faith (London: I. B. Tauris,
2011).
85 Cf. Vernon Elvin Johnson, “An Historical Analysis of Critical Transformations,”
mentioned in Chapter One.
86 The Bahá’í World, 1946–1950, Vol. 11 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1952) pp. 520–24; Arthur Hampson, The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i
Faith, Ph.D. dissertation (University of Hawaii, 1980) p. 382. Hampson’s numbers are
from 1945, but there was little change by 1950.
87 The Guardian’s telegram to the British National Baha’i Convention of 1950 reads,
in part: hour struck undertake preliminary steps implant banner faith
amidst african tribes . . . signalising association victorious british baha’i
community with sister communities united states egypt designated lay
structural basis baha’i administrative order scale comparable founda-
tion already established north south american european australian

chapter five
were asked to assist with this task. It is clear that the intention of these
first tentative goals was not to enroll large numbers (or even small
numbers) of new African Baha’is. Rather, it was to establish Baha’i
outposts of pioneers, and eventually to form local Spiritual Assemblies,
that would act as hubs for the later diffusion of Baha’is into Africa.
Shoghi Effendi had relied heavily on this strategy of diffusion in earlier
Baha’i teaching plans in Europe, in Britain, and in Latin America.88 His
messages indicate that he, like everyone else, expected that the Africa
Plan would initiate the same slow and painstaking pattern of growth
that had characterized Baha’i activity on other continents.
Such expectations were universal. When the first Spiritual Assembly
of Kampala was elected in April 1952, there were twelve Baha’is in
the country, including the Iranian, and some American, pioneers.
That Assembly soon adopted the goal of doubling its membership—
from twelve to twenty-four—as part of a seven-month plan. This was
regarded as a daring, ambitious, and extremely challenging ideal. No
one anticipated the events of the coming months for which Enoch
Olinga became the catalyst.
On January 5, 1953, Shoghi Effendi sent out the following dramatic
telegram message addressed to “Entire Baha’i World”:
rejoice share baha’i communities east west thrilling reports
feats achieved heroic band baha’i pioneers labouring divers
widely-scattered african territories, particularly uganda
heart continent, reminiscent alike episodes related book acts,
rapid dramatic propagation faith instrumentality dawn-
breakers [i.e., early heroes and martyrs of Baha’i history] heroic age
baha’i dispensation. marvellous accomplishments signalising
rise establishment administrative order faith latin america
eclipsed. exploits immortalising recently launched crusade
european continent surpassed. goal seven-month plan initiated
kampala assembly aiming doubling twelve enrolled believers
out-stripped. number africans converted course last fifteen
months residing kampala, outlying districts, protestant cath-
olic pagan backgrounds, lettered unlettered, both sexes, rep-
resentative no less sixteen tribes, passed two hundred mark.
continents . . . objective formation nuclei three dependencies british crown
either east west africa . . . (Unfolding Destiny, pp. 245–46.)
88 Hampson, “The Growth and Spread,” p. 375.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 155
effulgent rays god’s triumphant cause radiating focal cen-
tre fast awakening continent, penetrating accelerating rate
isolated regions unfrequented white men, enveloping their
radiance souls hitherto indifferent persistent humanitarian
activities, christian missions, civilising influence civil author-
ities. no less nine localities qualified attain coming ridvan
assembly status within single territory long-slumbering
continent. . . .
desire pay special tribute strenuous efforts exerted ali
nakhjavani setting example dedication, freedom prejudice fel-
low pioneers labouring inhospitable surroundings confronted
manifold formidable obstacles. . . . 89
The language of the telegram was both ecstatic and triumphant, as
Shoghi Effendi gave news to the Baha’i world of the rapid and unan-
ticipated growth of the Baha’i faith in Africa. He compares these
events first to the early growth of Christianity chronicled in the Book
of Acts, and then to the history of the rapid growth of the religion in
its ‘Heroic’ early years in Iran (1844–1850), which Western Baha’is
would be familiar with through reading the Guardian’s own book,
The Dawn-Breakers.90 He announces that this progress has ‘surpassed,’
even ‘eclipsed,’ the teaching successes achieved in South America and
in Europe—thereby focusing the attention and admiration of the
worldwide Baha’i community on Africa.
Some of the romantic assumptions found in this particular mes-
sage are rather jarring to contemporary sensibilities. The references
to “isolated regions unfrequented by white men” and to African souls
indifferent to humanitarian efforts, to Christian missions, and to the
“civilizing influence” of colonial authorities are certainly mistaken. At
least in the case of Uganda, the first Baha’is were—after all—Christians,
and had been for generations. They were familiar enough with white
missionaries, colonial officers, and other European influences.
It appears that Shoghi Effendi was simply misinformed on these
points. To his credit, such stereotypical images of Africa quickly
disappeared from his vocabulary. Perhaps the Baha’i pioneers pro-
vided him with better information about the new believers in Uganda.
89 Quoted in Unfolding Destiny, pp. 290–91. Punctuation added.
90 The Dawn-Breakers was translated, edited, and reworked from the original
Persian by Shoghi Effendi. It had been published in the United States in 1932.

chapter five
Perhaps the new Baha’is asserted themselves. In any case, almost
immediately, once there was a substantial number of indigenous
African Baha’is, it appears that a new logic of fraternity and equality
fell into place. References to the “dark continent” and to “backward
peoples,” seen in earlier correspondence, were no longer found in the
Guardian’s discourse.91
Moreover, Olinga’s success in converting hundreds of his Teso
countrymen to the Baha’i religion seems to have infused a new opti-
mism into the international goals and plans that were being developed
by Shoghi Effendi at the Baha’i World Center. Almost immediately,
he recognized the new African Baha’is as competent to be regarded as
a source of pioneers who might accelerate the diffusion of the Baha’i
religion to other parts of Africa.92 With this new resource, the goals
of Shoghi Effendi’s plans for Africa became considerably more ambi-
tious than they had been before. In his message addressed to the first
African Baha’i Intercontinental Conference, held in February 1953, he
called on Baha’is to settle in thirty-three African countries and terri-
91 Unfolding Destiny, p. 251. See also, p. 245 and Citadel of Faith, p. 98. In his mes-
sage addressed to the Africa Intercontinental Conference, February 1953, where the
majority of those attending were new African Baha’is, the Guardian wrote: “I feel par-
ticularly gratified by the substantial participation in this epoch-making Conference of
the members of a race dwelling in a continent which for the most part has retained its
primitive simplicity and remained uncontaminated by the evils of a gross, a rampant
and cancerous materialism undermining the fabric of human society alike in the East
and in the West, eating into the vitals of the conflicting peoples and races inhabiting
the American, the European and the Asiatic continents, and alas threatening to engulf
in one common catastrophic convulsion the generality of mankind [referring to the
possibility of nuclear war]. . . .” (quoted in Bahá’í News, No. 265 [March, 1953] p. 1).
But here there has been a change of emphasis. Now Africans are praised for their sup-
posed ‘simplicity’ and their presumed freedom from materialistic corruption, rather
than seen as remote, uncivilized, and resistant to change. This theme of pristine sim-
plicity, spiritual receptivity, and freedom from materialism as related to Third-World
peoples would become a familiar one in Baha’i discourse for many decades afterward.
In the same message, the Baha’i Guardian suggests that the growth of the Baha’i faith
in Africa augurs well for “a corresponding multiplication of the number of representa-
tives of the yellow, red and brown races of mankind . . .” within the Baha’i community,
which will bring more ethnic balance to the “world-embracing Baha’i Fellowship.” It
appears that the Baha’i community now discovered that, not just Africa, but all devel-
oping parts of the world might be a fertile field for new converts. This insight would
have enormous significance in the decades to come.
92 Shoghi Effendi to National Spiritual Assembly of the British Isles, 13 May 1953,
in Unfolding Destiny, p. 299. Cf. Remarks of Leroy Ioas—reporting the Guardian’s
words—to the new African Baha’is at the Africa Intercontinental Conference, February
1953, in Bahá’í News, No. 267 (May, 1953) p. 7.

the roots of baha’i conversion in british cameroons 157
tories where no Baha’is yet lived. That number is eleven times greater
than the goals assigned to the British Baha’i community just two years
earlier. It seems clear that Baha’i conversions in Uganda had broad-
ened the vision and the ambitions of the entire Baha’i world.

CHAPTER SIX
BRITISH CAMEROONS: A MOVEMENT DEVELOPS
This chapter will follow the successful Ugandan teacher, Enoch Olinga,
to the British Cameroons, as the first Baha’i pioneer to establish himself
in that country. It was his continuous successes that created the larg-
est Baha’i communities in West Africa. I will, therefore, look in some
detail at the growth of the Baha’i religion in the British Cameroons,
especially within the Basel Mission. I will ask what the secrets of
its success were, and look briefly at ways in which the religion was
‘Africanized’ in this Cameroonian context.
Finally, I will look at evidence of the Basel Mission’s response to
these developments, which was surprisingly mild. Nonetheless, mis-
sionary testimony provides a needed perspective on Baha’i expansion.
It also provides hints concerning the nature of that expansion, which
in important ways seems similar to traditional patterns of religious
renewal found in the larger West African culture.
In response to Shoghi Effendi’s call at the Intercontinental Conference
in Kampala, February 12–18, 1953, for additional pioneers to disperse
to various locations in Africa, three of the new African Baha’is in
Uganda volunteered to move to areas where no Baha’is lived. Enoch
Olinga left Uganda to settle in the British Cameroons. To make this
journey, he separated from his wife and children, leaving them in the
care of the Bananis, who agreed to support his family in his absence.1
Indeed, the separation may have been a part of Olinga’s motivation to
leave Uganda. He was no stranger to travel, in any case, but his mar-
riage was a troubled one.2
All of the new African volunteers left Kampala by motorcar with ‘Ali
and Violette Nakhjavani, in August of 1953. Samson Mungono was
dropped off in Kamina, in the (then) Belgian Congo; Max Kenyerezi
1 Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/15/91.
2 In 1957, he returned to Uganda to collect his family. His wife and children relocated
to Cameroons at that point. But the reconciliation lasted only three years. Although
his wife was a Baha’i, she was not an educated woman, and this was a major source of
discord. His wife returned to Uganda in 1960, and the couple were divorced in 1961.
(Harper, Lights of Fortitude, pp. 467–68; Interview with Samiheh Banani, 3/15/91.)

chapter six
was settled at Brazzaville, in (then) French Equatorial Africa. Finally,
after two months of travel, the Nakhjavanis and Olinga reached Mamfe
District, in the British Cameroons, in October 1953.3 Olinga would
remain in Cameroon for the next ten years and establish a new reli-
gious movement there.
The Nakhjavanis and Olinga continued south from Mamfe to
Victoria, in British Cameroons. However, they were apparently con-
cerned that the association of an Iranian couple with a black man from
Uganda would attract unwanted attention from the colonial authorities.
The Nakhjavanis had, of course, experienced persecution of Baha’is in
Iran, and that experience may have influenced their decisions. They
were certainly more cautious in this situation than American Baha’i
pioneers would have been. In any case, Olinga was dropped off at a
government rest house in Victoria, while the Nakhjavanis continued
on to find lodging in Duala. Soon, Olinga found a room in the home
of David and Esther Tanyi in Victoria. The Tanyis were Christians
attached to the Basel Mission. David Tanyi would eventually become
one of Olinga’s first converts.4
Olinga’s arrival appears to have caused some stir in Victoria, which
was only a small town at the time. Everyone knew that he was a for-
eigner. But since it was regarded as impolite, even taboo, to ask any
stranger where he was from, Olinga became the object of much mys-
tery and speculation. It seems that he did not volunteer any informa-
tion about himself. Oscar Njang was a taxi driver in Victoria at this
time, and he was hired to bring Olinga from the rest house to the
Tanyi home. Njang says that Olinga was traveling with a heavy box
of luggage, and he was convinced that it must be filled with money!
Some people believed that Olinga must be an American because he
spoke English with a foreign accent. We can imagine that rumors of
a rich American Negro moving into town must have attracted a lot of
attention.5
Olinga began his Baha’i teaching cautiously. He invited people to
‘tea parties’ in his room in the Tanyi home. At this time, in Cameroon,
3 Ruhiyyih Khanum, “In Memoriam: Enoch Olinga,” pp. 621–22.
4 Ibid., p. 622.
5 Interview of Oscar Njang, National Spiritual Assembly of Nigeria, 1/92. Cf. also,
interview of Addison with Jacob Tabot Awo, 1/2/83, National Baha’i Center, Limbe
(Victoria), Cameroon. Don Addison papers. (Awo suggests that Olinga would answer
questions about his origins, if asked.)

british cameroons: a movement develops
tea was considered a refreshment of the white man. It was also thought
to be expensive. So, the picture of a foreigner generously entertaining
his guests with free tea only added to Olinga’s mystique as a kind,
wealthy, and sophisticated man. His tea parties were popular and were
attended by men, women, and children.6 He gradually introduced the
subject of the Baha’i religion at these parties and began to gain con-
verts. It would seem that his tea parties were a re-creation of the Baha’i
meetings he had attended in the Banani home in Kampala.7 We might
imagine that his message was the same one that he had delivered suc-
cessfully to villagers in Teso in Uganda. But now he was finding con-
verts in an urban setting. All of the new Baha’is were Christians of the
Basel Mission.
Since he was highly qualified, Olinga had no trouble finding a job
with the British colonial administration. He was quickly hired by the
Cameroons Development Corporation as a typist, and then as a cleri-
cal assistant. Eventually, he became the private secretary of one of the
managers. This lasted for only a short time, however. At one point, his
boss drafted a letter and gave it to him to type. It seems that Olinga
made some minor corrections to the text, and this enraged the manager
who felt that he had no right to do this. The general supervisor of the
office realized that the manager was wrong and apologized to Olinga
for the manager’s behavior. He offered to have Olinga transferred to
another office. But at this point, Olinga felt it best to resign to be sure
that the same problem would not be repeated. Perhaps this was again
a reflection of his extreme caution when dealing with authorities.8
In any case, by the end of the year he had quit his job. By then,
however, he had made a place for himself in the community and
apparently lived off the kindness and generosity of his friends and
supporters. Naturally, he was living in one room in the Tanyi’s house
with an ordinary, simple African lifestyle, so he had few expenses.
6 Ibid.
7 Serving tea in one’s home has been an essential ingredient of Iranian hospitality
since the nineteenth century, and it continues to be so today. Baha’i meetings in Iran
were famous for serving generous quantities of tea. Muslim clerics would sometimes
attribute Muslim conversions to the Baha’i religion to the magical qualities of the
tea that was served at these meetings. Tea is also typically served at Baha’i meetings
(especially at firesides, i.e., introductory meetings) in the United States.
8 Interview of Samuel Bakare with Don Addison, 12/6/82, Afrikpo, Nigeria. Tran-
script of an interview of Samuel Njiki with Don Addison, 12/27/1982, Baha’i Center,
New Town, Limbe (Victoria), Cameroon.

chapter six
Samuel Bakare recalled that: “After that, he had no job. He stood as a
pioneer.” But he was able to survive because: “By then, he has got so
many friends.”9
His resignation seems to have freed up his time, and he became more
bold and open in teaching the Baha’i religion.10 Within a very short
time, Olinga was able to convert a small circle of Baha’is to his new
message. Almost immediately, Shoghi Effendi, at the World Center
of the religion in Israel, saw this little group of men11 in Victoria,
Cameroon, as a new source of pioneers who might spread the religion
to other countries in Africa. Within a few months, he asked Olinga
to find volunteers among his new converts who would be willing to
move to five territories in West Africa that had no Baha’is living in
them. The new Victoria Baha’is responded enthusiastically.12 By April
1954, David Tanyi had moved to French Togo, Edward Tabe to British
Togoland, Samuel Njiki to French Cameroons, Benedict Eballa to
Ashanti Protectorate, and Martin Manga to the Northern Territories
of Nigeria.13
Eight months after his arrival in Cameroon, Olinga wrote the fol-
lowing letter to Shoghi Effendi in Israel:
[14 June 1954]
My Well-Beloved Guardian,
I must first thank my Well-Beloved Guardian for continually pray-
ing for my spiritual welfare as well as of those who are now serving the
Ancient Beauty [Baha’u’llah], and for the Beloved Guardian’s guidance,
without which the present spiritual achievements of our beloved Faith
would have not been possible.
Furthermore, I very humbly beg to assure my dearly loved Guardian
of my unreserved loving devotion to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh,14 and my
submissiveness to every one of the Guardian’s admonitions in the way
9 Interview of Samuel Bakare with Don Addison.
10 Ibid.
11 All of the early converts were men, with the exception of David Tanyi’s wife.
12 Enoch Olinga to Haifa (Shoghi Effendi?) in “Letter from Baha’i Brother in
Africa,” Bahá’í News, No. 280 (June 1954) p. 10. ‘Ali Nakhjavani returned to the Brit-
ish Cameroons briefly to encourage the new Baha’is to become pioneers. He probably
also brought money to distribute for their support.
13 Rabbani, “In Memoriam,” in The Bahá’í World, Vol. 18, p. 623.
14 The accent marks that have been added above the letters in the spelling of the
name ‘Baha’u’llah’ in the published version of this letter, as well as the other diacritical
marks used in the published version, indicate that the text has been edited. It is not
likely that Olinga would have used diacritical marks in his correspondence, no matter
how formal it was. There are probably other editorial additions or deletions, as well.

british cameroons: a movement develops
Illustration 6.1. Three Cameroonian Baha’is
David Tanyi (standing) and Benedict Eballa (left), both early pioneers to
Ghana, with Samuel Njiki (right), pioneer to French Cameroons. Source: The
Bahá’í World, 2004–2005: An International Record, p. 50.

chapter six
of promoting the fundamental interests of our Faith, which is now over-
shadowing the entire world. May I also be permitted to express the joy
and delight which the letters received by the individual Bahá’ís from the
Beloved Guardian have brought to the hearts of all the believers of this
nascent community. These letters, like the fervent prayers of the Beloved
Guardian, do wonders here. Our daily prayer and hope is that God, the
All-Compelling, the All-Protecting may prolong the days of our Beloved
Guardian’s unbroken service to His Cause and mankind.
As my Beloved Guardian may be aware, an Assembly was elected here
last Ridván, and through the Beloved’s [Baha’u’llah’s] Grace the coming
Ridván may bring us a number of local Assemblies. I have just returned
from a two weeks’ teaching trip which took me right inside the coun-
try where I had quite thrilling and exciting experiences; especially when
I had to live among the villagers who believe in witchcraft and potency
of ‘Juju’ (fetish, I think) [sic] practices. Quite terrifying it was to hear
very frightful stories told by ‘Juju’ adherents, but with much confidence
in Bahá’u’lláh I was never deterred. Fortunately enough a few of them
were enabled to see the Truth of the Message of Bahá’u’lláh—may my
life, soul and spirit be a sacrifice unto the lowliest of His servants!
It may please my Beloved Guardian to know that ten new centres
[towns or villages where Baha’is live] have been opened to the Faith,
making a total of twelve centres in British Cameroons. We want to
develop all the eleven towards Assembly status before the next Ridván.15
We really need our Well-Beloved Guardian’s special prayers for success
in this somewhat ambitious project.
We receive very encouraging letters from all our five pioneers who
have gone to open virgin territories. They all seem very happy there and
are waiting for the doors of success to be opened for them. We all hope
and pray that in time they will find jobs they can do. This is not only
because they will thereby be able to support themselves, but also because
they will feel so much more happy and settled when they have jobs of
work to do. They will take root and feel they belong. We always encour-
age them to remain there as much as we can when we write to them.
My Well-Beloved Guardian may be interested to know that the num-
ber of believers is increasing very rapidly in British Cameroons. The
present situation is accepted believers, up to 30; declarations, up to 40;
centres now opened to the Faith, 12.
15 In fact, nine local Spiritual Assemblies were formed in British Cameroons at
Ridvan (April 20–21, a Baha’i holy day) 1955. These were in the towns of: Victoria,
Moliwe, Likomba, Lobe, Tiko, Bakebe, Mbehektok, Mbonge, and Tombel. At that
point, there were 180 Baha’is in the territory. (Questionnaire, Report of the Camer-
oons Teaching Committee, November 1955, sent to Valerie Wilson by Enoch Olinga.
Valerie Wilson papers.) The formation of a Spiritual Assembly in these towns indi-
cates that there were at least nine adult Baha’is living there at the time of the forma-
tion. Exact numbers of enrolled adults are given in the report.

british cameroons: a movement develops
Please, my Beloved Guardian, I know how much busy you are, there-
fore I shall not dwell on inconsequentialities.
I very reverently beg to send my loving greetings and best wishes to
my Beloved Guardian and all members of [his?] family.
With warmest Bahá’í Love from Victoria believers,
I beg to remain,
my Beloved Guardian,
Your devoted servant,
Enoch Olinga16
The first thing that strikes the reader about this letter is Olinga’s use
of English. He is fully conversant in the language of Baha’i piety,
and he uses it profusely. Every opportunity is taken to express his
devotion and submission to the Guardian of the Baha’i faith, Shoghi
Effendi. Indeed, such language would appear to the secular reader to
be extreme. Even in some Baha’i contexts, in the West at least, it might
be regarded as such. But for Iranian Baha’is it would appear quite
normal, and even expected. For Iranian Baha’is, expressions of faith,
devotion, and subservience that may appear to outsiders to be overly
pious are simply thought of as polite. Any Iranian believer writing to
the Guardian would be expected to adopt a similar tone and to confess
obedience and loyalty to his leadership. Of course, Olinga was taught
the Baha’i faith by ‘Ali and Violette Nakhjavani, who were Persian
Baha’is with little experience in the West. When considering Olinga’s
work in Cameroon, it is also important to remember that this Iranian
influence was paramount—as opposed to the American approach to
all things Baha’i, which dominated in most of the rest of West Africa
and which, while always careful, sincere, and correct, tended to be
considerably less effusive in the use of language.
Beyond this, Olinga’s full competence in the English language dem-
onstrates his high level of education. He is fully literate in the most
formal English letter-writing prose, such that the unexpected lapses in
grammar (“how much busy you are”) seem out of place.17 In any case,
the letter demonstrates, as no other published document does, how
fully equipped Olinga was to assume a position of leadership within
16 Published in Rabbani, “In Memoriam,” in The Bahá’í World, Volume 18, pp.
623–24.
17 Of course, as mentioned above, I do not have access to the original of this letter
and am working from a published text. I do not know how much the original may be
been edited for publication.

chapter six
the African (and the worldwide) Baha’i community. He was certainly a
part of the mission-educated elite that was rising to positions of lead-
ership all over Africa in the 1950s.
The letter includes some numerical information. In June of 1954, the
number of Baha’is in British Cameroons was officially 40, with some
30 more applications for enrollment in hand.18 This is not counting the
five who had left for other countries. Clearly, the growth accomplished
was impressive in Baha’i terms, and it would become more so.
Olinga states that he had just returned from a two-week trip to
the interior area of Cameroon. Therefore, we can assume that he had
no regular job that kept him tied down in Victoria by this time. “He
stood as a pioneer”19—a full-time Baha’i teacher, which was certainly
an important factor in his success.
The attitudes that he expresses toward villagers practicing African
Traditional Religions (‘Juju’) may seem surprising, at first. However,
Olinga had been born into a strict Christian family in Uganda, and
these attitudes are precisely those taught in Christian schools and
churches. This lack of familiarity with non-Christian religions demon-
strates how completely Olinga was working from a Christianized per-
spective. Without question, he finds the pagan villagers he encounters
benighted, and he appears genuinely frightened by their capacity to
perform evil. He imagines himself struggling against this evil, with the
protection of Baha’u’llah. Such a vision certainly recapitulates Olinga’s
father’s early work as an Anglican teacher in Uganda. The correspon-
dence is almost exact. As his father had found successful methods of
teaching Christianity to non-Christians, so Olinga would be successful
with his Baha’i message.
As this letter shows, Olinga had had little contact with Africans
who were not Christians. He operated within the society of Christian
townspeople, and his Baha’i teaching was directed towards them. The
normal path of conversion then would be from the Basel Mission into
the Baha’i community.
Most of all, however, the very narrow range of concerns that Olinga
chooses to bring to the Guardian’s attention is instructive. His let-
ter is focused almost exclusively on the accomplishment of the goals
of Shoghi Effendi’s Ten Year Crusade. All other matters are regarded
18 Declarations of faith had to be accepted officially in Britain, at this point.
19 See footnote 9 above.

british cameroons: a movement develops
as ‘inconsequentialities.’ He speaks primarily about the formation of
local Spiritual Assemblies, the opening of ‘localities’ to the faith, and
about the Cameroonian pioneers to various countries in West Africa
and their need to become self-supporting. Olinga mentions his teach-
ing trip into the interior without much detail, and he reports on the
number of Baha’is in Cameroon almost as an afterthought, at the end
of the letter.
Such a strict focus on the needs of the plan would have been seen as
admirable by Baha’is at the time. The Ten-Year Crusade was, after all,
the top priority of all Baha’i teaching activity anywhere in the world.
However, by deeming everything else as inconsequential (the ‘second-
ary’ matters of official Baha’i policy), a wide area of discretion and vari-
ation is left open to Olinga and to other African Baha’is. Such matters
as the methods of teaching and conversion, the content of the Baha’i
message, the understanding (or misunderstanding) the new converts
had of their religion, their knowledge of and adherence to Baha’i law,
their relationship to their former churches, their maintenance of tradi-
tional religious practices, their openness about their new beliefs, their
expectations of material aid, their willingness to be publicly identified
as Baha’is—all these, and more, are ‘inconsequentialities’ left to the
individual discretion of the new believers. Including, it can be noted,
the existence of any underground movement of Baha’is within the
Basel Mission. This is, after all, a very wide swath, which must have
made the yoke of the Baha’i religion seem very easy indeed.20
In recognition of his teaching successes in Cameroon, Olinga was
invited by Shoghi Effendi to make a pilgrimage to the Baha’i holy
shrines in Israel during February of 1957.21 He was the first black
African Baha’i to make such a journey. Interestingly, Shoghi Effendi
saw to it that he was lodged in the Oriental Pilgrim House22 in Haifa,
where he would be separated from the Americans and Europeans, who
would be staying in the Western Pilgrim House. While Olinga was in
Israel, Shoghi Effendi took the unusual step of giving him the hon-
orific title of Abu’l-Futuh (Arabic: Father of Victories), intended to
20 Matt. 11:30. “For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
21 I assume that Olinga was invited to visit the Guardian in the Holy Land at least
partially as a reward for his teaching successes. But there may have been other reasons,
as well. Shoghi Effendi may have wished to take the opportunity to gather first-hand
information about the new Baha’is in Africa, for example.
22 The Baha’i hostel house normally used by Iranian pilgrims. This might suggest
that Shoghi Effendi was attempting to isolate Olinga from American influences.

chapter six
increase his stature among Baha’is. Shortly thereafter, in October of
1957, the Guardian informed the Baha’i world that he had appointed
Olinga as a ‘Hand of the Cause of God,’ one of a cadre of his special
deputies with responsibilities for the propagation and protection of
the Baha’i religion. This assured him an honored place in the inter-
national Baha’i community. At the age of 31, he was the youngest
of the Hands—and having converted to the religion only four years
earlier, he was also their most junior member. One month after that,
Shoghi Effendi died suddenly without a successor, and the Hands of
the Cause collectively assumed de-facto leadership of the religion until
1963, when the international Baha’i community elected its governing
Universal House of Justice. During the six-year ‘interregnum’23 Olinga
served at the highest rank of Baha’i leadership.24
With no American or Iranian pioneers present in Cameroon, and
without international constraints, Olinga was virtually free to invent
new forms of Baha’i community. This would soon result in the rapid
spread of the Baha’i faith as a religious movement in some rural areas.
At the end of 1957, Olinga was the most senior Baha’i in West Africa.
After the unexpected passing of Shoghi Effendi, he found himself
serving on the highest Baha’i councils in the world. He stood in a
powerful position to negotiate with the wider Baha’i community on
23 Within the Baha’i administrative system, the Hands of the Cause—being depu-
ties of the Guardian—had no authority. Authority was invested in elected institutions,
the National Spiritual Assemblies and local Spiritual Assemblies—and, of course, in
the Guardian, as the head of the faith. The unexpected death of Shoghi Effendi in
1957 created a complete absence of legitimate international authority within the
Baha’i community. The Hands of the Cause, being the only international institution
of the Baha’i faith that existed, assumed leadership of the religion on an ad-hoc basis.
But they remained keenly aware of their lack of charisma and legitimacy. When the
Universal House of Justice (ordained by Baha’u’llah in his writings) was elected by the
National Spiritual Assemblies of the world in 1963, legitimate international authority
was reestablished. (See Ruhíyyih Khánum, Preface to The Ministry of the Custodians,
1957–1963 [Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 1992] pp. xix–xxii.)
24 Olinga eventually returned to East Africa to live in his native Uganda. He trav-
eled extensively as a Baha’i teacher and was especially loved by Baha’i communities
around the world. His journeys took him to all parts of Africa, to India, Southeast
Asia, Australia, Japan, the Pacific Islands, North and South America, and Europe.
When the Baha’i faith was banned in Uganda in 1977, by the Idi Amin government,
Olinga remained there, caring for the (closed) Baha’i Temple properties and encour-
aging the persecuted Baha’is. In 1979, after the fall of the regime, but while Uganda
was still in a chaotic state of near anarchy, armed gunmen attacked Olinga’s house in
Kampala. Their motives are unknown. Olinga, his (second) wife, Elizabeth, and three
of their children were brutally murdered. Their bodies were interred near the Baha’i
Temple in Kampala.

british cameroons: a movement develops
behalf of West African Baha’is and to shelter their autonomy and local
practices.
An African Faith in Cameroon
In November 1955, Enoch Olinga, acting as secretary of the Cameroons
Teaching Committee, sent a report of Baha’i membership to Valerie
Wilson. The fourteen-page report lists the name of every Baha’i in
the territory, the officers of every local Assembly, and their postal
addresses. Appended to the report is Olinga’s response to a question-
naire that Wilson had sent to Baha’i communities in all areas of West
Africa. Some of Olinga’s answers to the questions read as follows:
8. Total number of localities in the Territory: 22.
9.  Total approximate number of adult believers in the territory:
157.
10.  Total approximate number of native African adult believers resid-
ing in the territory: 157.
11. Total approximate number of youths:25 23, all African.
12.  Names of the African tribes represented in the community of the
territory: Bayenge; Igbo; Bassa; Bakossi; Bakweri; Ibibio; Keaka;
Douala; Bametta; Calabar; Ekoi; Ekwe; Barombi; Balundu; Ngollo-
Batanga; Bali; Bafia; Yoruba; Bafuti; Mbonge; Bana; Efik; Bafow;
Bambele; Bafang; Nkambe.26
A little more than a year after Olinga’s letter to the Guardian, the
number of Baha’i converts had more than quadrupled. There were
now 180 Baha’is in Cameroons, adults and youth.27 Despite the loose-
ness of the term ‘African tribes’ used in the questionnaire, it is clear
that the community was diverse—and that a number of the Baha’is
were Nigerians. More importantly, all of the Baha’is were Africans.
The Cameroonians were pursuing their development as a community
without the influence of American or Iranian pioneers. This is the
only Baha’i community in West Africa that could make such a claim.
Free of foreign influence, the Cameroonians achieved a growth that no
25 Baha’is between the ages of 15 and 20.
26 “List of Voting Baha’is, arranged alphabetically. British Cameroons, West Africa—
1955” and “Cameroons Teaching Committee. Questionnaire: November, 1955” by
Enoch Olinga. Valerie Wilson papers.
27 Children were not counted.

chapter six
other Baha’i community in West Africa could rival. At the same time,
they developed distinctively African forms of the religion.
Just exactly what these new forms were is hard to discern from
the written documentation. Occasionally, however, one can catch a
glimpse. The testimony of Jacob Tabot Awo provides an example.
In the Baha’i literature on Cameroon, David Tanyi is named as
Olinga’s first convert in the country.28 However, Awo claims that
he was the first to declare his belief, by about two hours. Awo was a
Christian in the Basel Mission, and his father had been a catechist.29
In an interview in 1983, he mentioned that he had gone to Mamfe
District to teach the Baha’i faith at Olinga’s direction. He says:
. . . So the Faith was spreading very smooth. But accepting the Faith, the
Guardian says that when he [Enoch Olinga] comes here, it is a Banyangi
man who will accept the Faith before. Everybody is supposed to fol-
low—to come into the Faith. The Guardian foretold this when he was
sending Enoch Olinga here in West Africa. But he said he will settle
in Cameroon, in Victoria. Then a Banyangi man will accept this Faith.
Then everybody will come in, to accept the Faith. He said: Without so,
nobody will accept the Faith. And it was true. But I know the Guardian
knew that. You know, they have spiritual eyes to see. How did he know
that a Banyangi man who saw a vision is around, and then he must come
to accept the Faith?
Question: And that’s you?
Answer: And that’s me. So, I accepted the Faith and then remembered
my vision, which I was fourteen years old, and then I saw this vision of
Christ. Then I accepted the Faith here in 1953, September.30
Since this prophecy attributed to Shoghi Effendi is recorded nowhere
else, it is highly unlikely that it is authentic.31 We are probably safe
in supposing that the Guardian was altogether unfamiliar with the
Banyangi people before they entered the Baha’i religion in Cameroon
in 1953. Yet, the prophecy was important to Awo. He relates it in
a matter-of-fact way that suggests that it was a commonplace belief,
at least among the Banyangi Baha’is. The story not only reinforces
28 Harper, Lights of Fortitude, p. 466; Rabbani, “In Memoriam,” in The Bahá’í
World, Volume 18, p. 622.
29 Interview of Addison with Awo, 1/2/83, National Baha’i Center, Limbe (Victo-
ria), Cameroon. Don Addison papers.
30 Ibid.
31 Shoghi Effendi never claimed any ability to predict the future, in any case.

british cameroons: a movement develops
Awo’s claim to be Olinga’s first convert in Cameroon; it also sacral-
izes Banyangi ethnic identity—making it the center of a prophecy. The
Banyangi are the people who will lead the way; they will precede all
other ethnicities in the country as Baha’is.
The story suggests, perhaps, that there was some ethnic tension
within the Baha’i community of Cameroon, at least in 1983, when the
interview was collected. Why there should be a need to assert the pri-
macy of the Banyangi at that time is unknown. But more importantly,
here we get a glimpse of an Africanized Baha’i prophecy. It is a proph-
ecy that is useful in valorizing the Baha’i Guardian as a seer, validat-
ing Awo’s claim to be the first believer, and encouraging Banyangi
ethnicity.
The Banyangi as Religious Specialists
The Banyangi32 homeland lies well north of the coast of Cameroon,
in the central area of the basin of the upper Cross River, but still
within the forest region. During the 1950s, under United Nations
Mandate, this area formed part of Mamfe Division within the British
Cameroons. In 1953, the population of Banyangi numbered some
18,000 people, with another 5,000 or so living away from their home
area, mostly as workers in the coastal south. At that time, some 32%
of the adult male population had left the Banyangi lands in search of
jobs elsewhere.33 Therefore, it was not unusual to find Banyangi men
working in Victoria.
The Banyangi have a reputation as religious specialists in Cameroon,
especially with regard to protection against witchcraft.34 During the
1920s, for example, the anti-witch movement Afam (Nfam) was  carried
to the coast by the Banyangi.35 During the period of Baha’i expansion,
32 The people are also referred to in various sources as: Benyenge, Nyang, Bayangi,
Bayang, Banyang, Banjangi, Manyang, Kenyang, etc.
33 Malcolm Ruel, Leopards and Leaders: Constitutional Politics among a Cross River
People (London: Tavistock Publication, 1969). This book is a full political ethnography
of the Banyangi. However, it pays little attention to religious beliefs and manages to
omit reference to Christianity or to the Basel Mission altogether. The Baha’i religion
among the Banyangi also goes unmentioned.
34 Peter Geschiere, The Modernity of Witchcraft: Politics and the Occult in Postcolo-
nial Africa (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1997) p. 276, n. 15.
35 Edwin Ardener, Coastal Bantu of the Cameroons (London: International African
Institute, 1956) p. 104.

chapter six
between 1955 and 1957, the Bakweri villages of the Cameroon coastal
region paid the Banyangi to bring Obasi Njom associations and rituals
to their communities to eradicate the spread of witchcraft.36
In mid-1955, the Bakweri village of Lisoka became agitated by
accusations of witchcraft. The village agreed to send a delegation to
Banyangi country, 150 miles away, with £30, to import Obasi Njom
and to establish new associations to use it. The Banyangi men agreed,
but their price was £100. The money was quickly raised. The Banyangi
specialists came in August, with their medicines and a masked dancer.
Many villagers were accused of witchcraft and confessed. The village
was cleansed. The Banyangi trained some thirty doctors to practice
Obasi Njom. It was a great weight off the village mind.37
By 1956, word of Obasi Njom had spread from village to village in
Bakweri country. Enthusiastic delegations were sent to the Banyangi
from a large number of villages. The Banyangi established the new
movement all over the area. It was rumored that about £2000 was paid
to Banyangi specialists who instructed the Bakweri in the cult. The
new association continued its work of witch cleansing through 1956
and 1957, eventually coming into conflict with the Christian churches
and with the law.38 We will discuss the significance of such periodic
witchcraft eradication movements in African societies below.
The Political Climate
The Baha’i religion was introduced into the British Cameroons dur-
ing a time of tremendous political upheaval. In 1952, the area was
officially a United Nations Trusteeship, and it was administered by
the British as part of Nigeria. By 1962, British Cameroons had bro-
ken its Nigerian connections, had voted for independence, and had
reunited with the French-speaking part of the country to form the
Federal Republic of Cameroon. This period witnessed the formation
36 Edwin Ardener, “Witchcraft, Economics, and the Continuity of Belief ” in Witch-
craft Confessions and Accusations (London: Tavistock Publications, 1970) pp. 151–53;
Geschiere, The Modernity of Witchcraft, pp. 149–50. For a full discussion of the
Obasi Njom association in the Banyangi homeland, see Ruel, Leopards and Leaders,
pp. 210–213.
37 Ardener, “Witchcraft, Economics . . . ,” p. 152.
38 Ibid. See also, Geschiere, The Modernity of Witchcraft, pp. 149–50. Geschiere
notes that although Obasi Njom waxed and waned, it was still being actively practiced
in the area in 1988.

british cameroons: a movement develops
of the first political parties, the administration of the area as a quasi-
autonomous region, and later as a fully autonomous region, voting in
a number of United Nations plebiscites, battles between parties and
politicians, the coming of independence, and reunification with the
former French Trusteeship.39
These events resulted in profound legal and political changes within
a territory that had been, in effect, a British colony. Nonetheless, the
growth of the Baha’i community in the British Cameroons during
these same years reveals the shallowness of these changes—at least in
terms of the social and religious life of the country. While some people
were intensely occupied with an emerging political life and the rise
of Cameroonian nationalism, others (and perhaps the majority of the
people in the country) remained uninterested and unconcerned with
these developments. In all of the records of the Baha’i community that
I have located, in all of the correspondence of the Baha’is, in all of the
interviews that have been conducted with early believers, I have been
unable to locate even one mention of the nationalist struggle that was
taking place in the British Cameroons in the 1950s and 1960s.
Partially, this can be seen as a consequence of the rapid and rather
superficial politicization of the country. The struggle for independence
in the British Cameroons had more to do with freeing the country
from Nigerian domination and ridding the territory of Igbo merchants
and businessmen than with anything else.40 More importantly, how-
ever, this may be a result of the aggressively non-political stance that,
by the 1950s, had developed within the Baha’i community itself.
In 1932, Shoghi Effendi wrote a long letter to the American Baha’i
community in which he insisted that all Baha’is should withdraw from
partisan political activity. This letter was written in the most emphatic
language and reads in part:
39 The standard political history for this period is Victor T. LeVine, The Camer-
oons, from Mandate to Independence (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1964).
I have also consulted Tazifor Tajoche, Cameroon History in the 19th and 20th Centu-
ries (Buea, Cameroon: Education Book Centre, 2003); Victor Julius Ngoh, Cameroon,
1884–1985: A Hundred Years of History (Yaounde: Navi-Group Publications, 1987);
Tambi Eyongetah and Robert Brain, A History of Cameroon (London: Longman,
1974); Martin Njeuma, Introduction to the History of Cameroon in the Nineteenth
and Twentieth Centuries (London: Macmillan, 1989); and Victor Bong Amaazee, The
Eastern Nigerian Crisis and the Destiny of the British Southern Cameroons, 1953–1954
(University of Yaounde Press, 2000).
40 See LeVine, The Cameroons, Chapter 8, pp. 193–214.

chapter six
I feel it, therefore, incumbent upon me to stress, now that the time is
ripe, the importance of an instruction which, at the present stage of the
evolution of our Faith, should be increasingly emphasized, irrespective
of its application to the East or to the West. And this principle is no
other than that which involves the non-participation by the adherents of
the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, whether in their individual capacities or collec-
tively as local or national Assemblies, in any form of activity that might
be interpreted, either directly or indirectly, as an interference in the
political affairs of any particular government. Whether it be in the pub-
lications which they initiate and supervise; or in their official and public
deliberations; or in the posts they occupy and the services they render; or
in the communications they address to their fellow-disciples; or in their
dealings with men of eminence and authority; or in their affiliations with
kindred societies and organizations, it is, I am firmly convinced, their
first and sacred obligation to abstain from any word or deed that might
be construed as a violation of this vital principle. Theirs is the duty to
demonstrate, on one hand, the nonpolitical character of their Faith, and
to assert, on the other, their unqualified loyalty and obedience to what-
ever is the considered judgment of their respective governments.
Let them refrain from associating themselves, whether by word or
by deed, with the political pursuits of their respective nations, with the
policies of their governments and the schemes and programs of parties
and factions. In such controversies they should assign no blame, take no
side, further no design, and identify themselves with no system prejudi-
cial to the best interests of that world-wide Fellowship which it is their
aim to guard and foster. Let them beware lest they allow themselves
to become the tools of unscrupulous politicians, or to be entrapped by
the treacherous devices of the plotters and the perfidious among their
countrymen.41
The letter goes on for more pages in this vein. By the 1950s, participa-
tion in politics of any kind had become a kind of taboo among Baha’is
in the United States.42
The principle of non-participation in politics was applied to Africa
from the beginning of Baha’i expansion there. It was, in fact, one of
the few prohibitions that was enforced vigorously upon the emerging
41 Shoghi Effendi, “The Golden Age of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh,” a letter addressed
to the Baha’is of the United States and Canada, March 21, 1932, published in The
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 63–64.
42 See Sen McGlinn, Church and State: A Postmodern Political Theology (Leiden:
published by the author, 2006) pp. 214–15 and 221, n. 1, for the development of Baha’i
policy in this area. Church and State is McGlinn’s Master’s Thesis from the University
of Leiden, distributed as Vol. 19 of the series Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
by Kalimát Press. See also my own assessment, Circle of Unity, pp. viii–xviii.

british cameroons: a movement develops
African Baha’i communities.43 As a result, the Baha’i religion spread
only among apolitical segments of the population. Whatever limita-
tion this may have placed on Baha’i expansion in other parts of West
Africa, it appears that it did not create a barrier to growth in British
Cameroons. It is not clear why this is so. Perhaps the Baha’is in this
area were shielded from enforcement of this apolitical demand by
the all-African nature of the community. More likely, however, the
Baha’is simply had no problem locating large, apolitical communities
that became a fertile field for converts.
In any case, political events in British Cameroons had no direct
effect on the development of the Baha’i religion there. This is not to
say that they did not indirectly contribute to Baha’i success, however.
It seems certain that the general political turmoil in the country, and
in Africa generally, contributed to a sense of social crisis. As has been
discussed earlier, this modern crisis was felt most keenly in the area
of religion, and particularly within collapsing missionary Christian
communities. It is to this crisis that the Baha’i religion presented its
‘productive’ alternative.
The Baha’i Movement
A list of Baha’i statistics dated 1956 counts the number of Baha’is in
British Cameroons at 241, with 227 adults and 14 youth.44 A report
compiled from information that was current in September 1956, also
places the number of Baha’is in British Cameroons at 241. However, a
list of the names of all Baha’is in the country contained in that same
report suggests that the count was probably somewhere above 260,
although a full listing was not available.45 In this report, Valerie Wilson,
the American pioneer, complains that the Cameroonian Baha’is are
not well informed of the fundamentals of Baha’i Administration,
such as: “The National Spiritual Assembly; the National 4th Regional
Teaching Committee; its responsibilities; and how elected, especially
the National committees and . . . the application of administrative
43 Valerie Wilson recalled that this was the one Baha’i law on which there could be
no compromise. Any African Baha’i who was found to be involved with any political
activity was quickly expelled from the community.
44 “Membership. British Cameroons [1956?].” Valerie Wilson papers. Children
were never included in Baha’i statistics during this period.
45 “Report of Board Member for Jan. 31st, 1957.” Valerie Wilson papers.

chapter six
procedures: on L.S.A. [Local Spiritual Assembly]; Group; Committees,
and election of officers and the duties and functions of each, and
Consultation with community at 19 day Feasts.”46
The same report suggests that the wider Baha’i organization had lost
control of the procedures by which new converts were to be accepted
as Baha’is in British Cameroons. Wilson complains:
. . . I do not know how accurate this listing is—I don’t know how they
were accepted or when—several have transferred into Centres and out
of Centres, but such information was not passed on to me. Some uni-
form acceptance of declarations, (RTC [Regional Teaching Committee])
must be developed, also transferees, and traveling certificates, etc. How
can the B.M. [Auxiliary Board Member, i.e., herself ] give accurate sta-
tistical data when not informed through LSA, and group Sec’y. what is
happening.47
Again, we see here the divergence of African notions of Baha’i com-
munity from what were considered the norms of proper Baha’i func-
tioning, as understood by an American. It seems fairly clear that the
Cameroonian Baha’is did not regard the intricacies of Baha’i adminis-
trative procedure as very important—at least, not as important as the
American thought they should be. The Africans must have found other
aspects of the Baha’i religion more appealing. Beyond that, by 1956, we
can discern here that conversions to the Baha’i faith were out of con-
trol. The religion was beginning to take on some of the characteristics
of a movement. This tendency quickly became more pronounced.
A list of the names of all (known) Baha’is in British Cameroons that
appears to have been compiled in the fall of 1958, provides the names
of some 900 men and women. The list also gives the ethnic affiliation
of each believer, date of registration as a Baha’i, country of citizenship,
age, and “Mother Tongue.”48 A full statistical analysis of this material is
beyond the scope of this study, but it seems that the Baha’i community
continued to grow rapidly. Of those whose ethnic identity is identified,
673 are listed as Banyangi—well over two thirds of the community.
Virtually all of the converts are listed with Christian names, and we
46 Ibid., p. 25. Valerie Wilson papers.
47 Ibid., p. 26.
48 Untitled list of Baha’is in British Cameroons. Valerie Wilson papers. It includes
mostly adult members of the community, and it may have been intended as a draft
for a voting list. Since children are not represented on the list, we can assume that the
Baha’i community was actually larger than 900 by 1958.

british cameroons: a movement develops
might assume that they were Christians—almost certainly from the
Basel Mission.
Something else becomes clear from examining this record, which
is reproduced in full as an appendix to this book. The list for the vil-
lage of Ntenmbang, for example, records the names of 70 Baha’is.
All of these are Banyangi, and all show a “Date of Registration” as
January 29, 1958.49 By this time, becoming a Baha’i was no longer just
an individual matter. Ntenmbang had experienced a mass conversion
of Christians into the Baha’i religion. Other villages show similar pat-
terns, with conversions often coming on the same day. The Baha’i faith
had become a movement.
In fact, he Baha’is in the Cameroons had tended to convert in small
bunches very early on. The first believers found their new faith as
individuals. But as early as 1954, we can see that five people became
Baha’is on the same day in Victoria.50 On December 16, of that year,
four men converted together in Tiko.51 Three other men (who were
living in Ekona by 1958), may have converted with them.52 In Eyang,
on December 22, 1954, seven men and one woman became Baha’is on
the same day. Two of these were members of the Tanyi family, and the
woman, Serah Tanyi, was probably the wife of Sam Tanyi, one of the
male converts.53 On August 5, four other members of the Tanyi family
had converted together.54
Through such instances of small group conversion, we can trace the
spread of the Baha’i religion through networks of friends and relatives.
We can suppose that a small group of friends could encountered Enoch
Olinga on one of his teaching trips, and through conversations with
him and discussions among themselves could decide to embrace a new
religion. Or perhaps through conversations with their relatives, mem-
bers of the Tanyi family became Baha’is in groups of four or five.
The numbers involved in group conversions become larger from
1955 to 1957, however. By 1958 conversion is no longer a small group
phenomenon. Besides the case of Ntenmbang mentioned above, there
were 42 conversions in Bakebe on January 20, 1958.55 The 13 Baha’is
49 See Appendix, pp. 235–36.
50 On September 9, 1954. Appendix, p. 226.
51 Appendix, p. 231.
52 Appendix, p. 232.
53 Appendix, p. 236.
54 Probably in Mbehetok. Appendix, pp. 240–241.
55 All of them were Banyangi. Appendix, p. 252.

chapter six
listed for the Faitok Baha’i Group—3 men and 10 women, all Banyangi—
converted on June 20, 1958. It appears that something similar hap-
pened in Sumbe the same year, where 19 Banyangi Baha’is are listed.56
The Mbinjong Group, with 48 Baha’is, probably reflects the same trend
with dates of conversion listed as September 22, 1958.57
At this point, we can no longer imagine conversions as a private
matter involving just an individual or a few friends and family mem-
bers who might discuss the matter and decide to become Baha’is
together. It seems likely that people were hearing the Baha’i message
in large meetings and deciding to join the religion on the spot. It is
not possible for dozens of people to deliberate on such a matter and
make a unanimous decision on the same day. The Baha’i message had
taken on the characteristics of a religious movement that could cap-
ture the imaginations of groups of hearers and sweep them into its
wake. People were becoming Baha’is in expressions of group solidar-
ity, with little exposure to and minimum knowledge of the religion.
The movement began to attract local political leaders, as well. After a
mass conversion of 88 new Baha’is in January 1958, which included
Chief A. Agbor in its first wave, Chief P. A. Fongang and Chief D. A.
Tataw also joined the new religion.58
By September 1959, a comprehensive list of Baha’is in British
Cameroons sent to Valerie Wilson from the (African) Regional
Teaching Committee in Victoria counted 1,716 Baha’is.59 Besides dem-
onstrating continued growth, this list also gives an indication of how
thoroughly Baha’is had infused themselves into the Basel Mission. This
provides further evidence of the Baha’i faith as a religious movement
at this point in its development. Providing mailing addresses for all
53 local Spiritual Assemblies, the list shows four of those in Mamfe
District receiving mail “c/o Basel Mission School” in each village. So,
for example, the address for the Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of
56 Appendix, pp. 233–34. No dates for the Sumbe conversions are given. But as
Sumbe was still a group (that is, it had not yet elected a local Spiritual Assembly, as
was done every year in April), they must have taken place in 1958. I am guessing on
the same day, as in other instances.
57 Appendix, pp. 249–50. The “Date of Registration” column is incomplete here.
But 28 of the Baha’is registered on September 22. Since Mbinjong is listed as a “group”
on the 1958 list, the other 20 converts were recent. (See footnote 55.)
58 Appendix, p. 229.
59 Again, not counting youth and children. Another statistical record for 1959–1960,
indicates that there were 1,802 Baha’is in British Cameroons. (“Southern Cameroons.
Statistics. April 1959–60.” Valerie Wilson papers.)

british cameroons: a movement develops
Ossing is given as: “Secretary Baha’i LSA, OSSING, c/o Basel Mission
School, Ossing—Mamfe, Br. Cameroons.” Similar addresses were
given for Eyang, Faitok, and Takpa. Apparently, the compiler of the
list was confident that letters sent to those addresses would reach the
Baha’i Assemblies for whom they were intended.
Since we would ordinarily assume there to be a high level of hostil-
ity between any Basel Mission facility and the local Baha’i community
that was converting its parishioners, now in large numbers, we might
take note of this matter-of-fact listing of addresses. It would seem that
Baha’is were such a familiar part of the environment in some villages
(perhaps, simply, ‘there’?) that delivery of mail in care of the local Basel
Mission school would not have raised an eyebrow. The local mission
teacher may have become a Baha’i in such areas, or most of the con-
gregation. As we will see below, in at least one case, the Baha’is suc-
ceeded in taking over a Basel Mission school and appropriating it to
their own use.60 In any case, the compiler of the list did not realize how
shocking such Basel Mission addresses would seem to Wilson, living
in Monrovia, Liberia, and unfamiliar with the situation in Cameroons.
She immediately wrote to the committee to question whether such
addresses were valid.61 There is no record of a reply.
In fact, the Cameroonian Baha’is on their own initiative actually
organized five schools for literacy and adult education under Baha’i
auspices. These were in the villages of Bakebe, Tinto, Fotabe, Eyang, and
Ntenmbang.62 The National Assembly for Northwest Africa approved
of these plans and agreed to fund the schools.63 Unfortunately, there is
no information in the Baha’i records available to me concerning what
relationship, if any, these schools originally may have had to the Basel
Mission. But all of these communities had Basel congregations. We
might wonder if the takeover of Basel Mission schools was widespread,
if perhaps still covert.
60 In Besongabang, Mamfe District.
61 Valerie Wilson to Regional Teaching Committee No. 10, September 19, 1959.
Valerie Wilson papers.
62 National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Northwest Africa to the Education
Committee for the Cameroons (William Enoanyi, Hanzel Ndando, Moses Akwensi-
oge, Moses Akombi, and Jacob Elad), November 1, 1959. Valerie Wilson papers.
63 National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Northwest Africa to Regional
Teaching Committee #10, August 16, 1959. Valerie Wilson papers.

chapter six
The Missionary Response
The conversion of Basel Mission Christians to the Baha’i faith in
British Cameroons in the decade after Enoch Olinga’s arrival did not
go unnoticed by the missionaries there, of course. However, for the
most part, they did not respond with much concern. Perhaps they did
not realize the extent of conversions because the ‘underground move-
ment’ allowed Baha’is to remain observant church Christians, even as
they secretly practiced their new religion. In any case, I was unable
to locate any mention of the Baha’i religion in missionary reports
sent to the mission headquarters in Basel from Cameroon during this
period.64
However, in 1962 an important article was published in Switzerland
by an outraged missionary in the official journal of the Basel Mission.65 It
provides important information on how the Baha’i religion was viewed
by some missionaries, the extent of its growth within the mission, and
the church response. The article, written in German, is entitled “On
the Problem of the Baha’i Movement in South Cameroon.” It reveals
that by around 1960, the Baha’i faith had become a major movement
within some of the congregations of the Basel Mission, especially in
Mamfe District, with whole Christian communities converting to the
new faith. In some cases, it appears that the new Baha’is were success-
ful in expropriating church property and institutions, such as land and
schools. In addition, the article provides some insights into the meth-
ods used by Enoch Olinga to secure and maintain these conversions.
Beyond that, the author of the article, Georg Tröster, a strict Basel
missionary, inadvertently suggests some of the motivations the Baha’i
64 I visited the Basel Mission Archives in Switzerland for a few days in 1992. I am
grateful for the assistance of Paul Jenkins, and of the research assistants there, for
their invaluable assistance. They informed me, after days of searching, that no mention
of the Baha’i religion could be found in the German reports sent to Basel from the
Cameroons. At that point, I had almost concluded that the Basel authorities must have
been unaware of the Baha’i incursions into their Cameroonian congregations. But sev-
eral weeks after my visit, Mr. Jenkins kindly brought to my attention the Evangelisches
Missions Magazin article that I discuss below. I assume that local mission archives in
Cameroon would provide a wealth of information on the growth of the Baha’i com-
munity. But I have not been able to consult them.
65 Georg Tröster, “Zum Problem der Baha’i-Bewegung in Sudkamerun” in Evan-
gelisches Missions Magazin, Vol. 106, No. 2 (1962) pp. 71–77. All quotations in the
following pages of this chapter are from the translation of this article made for this
book by Robert Lightner, unless otherwise noted.

british cameroons: a movement develops
converts may have had for changing religion. To me, his description
of the message that Baha’is were spreading within the mission seems
similar to the characteristics of a witchcraft eradication movement—
a type of traditional African religious movement common in most
parts of Africa. In any case, Tröster attests to the attractiveness of the
Baha’i message. He accidentally suggests that new converts were par-
tially motivated by a desire to reject the air of colonial dominance dis-
played by Basel missionaries. He also offers hints that the Baha’i faith
spread through family networks, and that it was well thought of even
by those who chose not to convert. In Middleton’s terms, it appears
that even by 1960, the Baha’i movement within the Basel Mission had
established itself as a part of the religious landscape in Cameroon (at
least in Mamfe) that was simply ‘there.’ If so, it had become an aspect
of spiritual life that African Christians could accept, would certainly
tolerate, and might even participate in. This is a remarkable achieve-
ment, considering that the faith was introduced to the area only in
1953. But perhaps the new religion was understood in the context of
traditional religious patterns.
A Missionary Article Sounds the Alarm
Tröster’s article in Evangelisches Missions Magazin is introduced by
a preface, which was clearly written in Europe by an editor identified
as “A.F.”66 The preface provides some background information on the
Baha’i religion, its origins and teachings. The information provided is
remarkably accurate and positive, and it is certainly taken from Baha’i
sources. Indeed, the preface itself—as well as the afterword67—seems
to work at cross-purposes to Tröster’s arguments.
While Tröster dismisses the purpose of the Baha’i faith in one line,
as a religion that wants to replace all others, the preface provides an
idealized and sympathetic view of what Baha’is believe. It reads, in
66 This is probably Andreas Fankhauser, a theologian and one-time missionary in
Nigeria. Later, he became a pastor in Switzerland and member of staff of the Basel
Mission in Basel. I am grateful to Guy Thomas for this information.
67 The article ends with a quotation from G. F. Vicedom, from a book entitled Die
Mission der Weltreligionen (Munich: Kaiser, 1959). The quotation appears to have
been added to the article by the European editors, since it is rather critical of church
practice. It begins: “The people expect real brotherhood. Thus the Christians are lack-
ing here too. They have not pitted themselves against racial arrogance . . .” etc.

chapter six
part: “. . . Moses and Jesus, Zoroaster, Mohammad and Buddha: They
all were prophets of the One God and announced eternal truths. The
Baha’i religion is now said to be the sum and concentration of these
truths. It does not seek to establish a church; it has neither priests nor
ritual. Its only institution is the universal ‘House of Justice,’ which is
intended to guarantee world peace. It is formed by an optimistic world-
view, whose highest ideas are freedom, justice, and brotherhood. Since
it has certainly many pluses and no minuses there—and therefore no
conflict either—it is attracting many. It is religion without offense!”
While all of these statements are only partial understandings of full
Baha’i teachings, they clearly represent the way that European Baha’is
might have introduced and explained their religion to inquirers. It is
not surprising that the editor of the article, A.F., would have access
to such a view of the Baha’i faith in German, since the religion had
been established in Germany since 1907, and had presented itself to
the public in this fashion since that time.68 What does surprise is that
such a positive view of Baha’i teachings should precede an article that
so strongly attacks the religion as predatory and anti-Christian.
The purpose of Tröster’s article is to raise an alarm within the mis-
sion concerning the serious inroads that the Baha’i faith has made
into Basel congregations in Cameroon.69 Beyond this, the missionary
intends to analyze the reasons for Baha’i success. He notes that, by
1960, Baha’is had been able to win over very large numbers of Basel
Mission Christians to their cause in some remote areas of the country.
By then, there appear to have been several congregations in Mamfe
District which “as a rule, had lost 60 to 90 percent of their members to
the Baha’is.” These conversions were made, Tröster tells us, not among
new Christians, but in “very old communities” that cut their ties with
68 Moojan Momen, “Esslemont’s Survey of the Bahá’í World, 1919–1920” in Peter
Smith, Bahá’ís in the West: Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 14 (Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004) pp. 88–92.
69 Another Christian polemical attack on the Baha’i religion written by a Cam-
eroonian Presbyterian minister is worth mentioning: Mbu Walters, Beware of Reli-
gious Cults and Secret Societies (Chicago?: Midnight Image, 1995). The book appears
to be self-published and devotes two or three pages to the Baha’i teachings. As in
the Basel Mission article above, Walters expresses an odd ambivalence. For example:
“These . . . are lofty and praise-worthy ideas, but a careful examination reveals the Bahai
faith as a secular and political organization with nothing new to offer to the world”
(pp. 17–18; note that the index is consistently incorrect in page listings). He notes in
passing that most Baha’is in Africa are polygamists.

british cameroons: a movement develops
the Basel Mission in order to follow the “new church.” He found it
“extremely difficult” to reverse this trend.
The first reason for the growth of the Baha’i religion, the missionary
tells us, is the availability of money coming from the United States.
He notes of the Baha’is that “their leader” sat in Victoria: this is cer-
tainly a reference to Enoch Olinga. He suggests that Olinga had a large
amount of American cash that he could hand out to an African Baha’i
pioneer who would agree to move to some remote village to live “an
independent life” there. The money could be used to entertain village
leaders and ply them with palm wine.70 After this, whole congregations
would convert “enthusiastically.”
Traditional African Religious Movements
However, it was not only food, palm wine, and cash that attracted
people to the Baha’i Faith. Tröster admits that the message brought
by the Baha’i teachers was also attractive. He says that Baha’i teachers
70 The reference to the use of “palm wine” in Baha’i teaching activities is surprising
here. Baha’i religious law forbids the drinking of alcoholic beverages. Enoch Olinga
had given up alcohol upon his conversion to the Baha’i faith in Uganda. There is good
evidence that he continued to abstain from alcohol—even beer—during his stay in
Cameroon, not the least of which is that he had no relapse into his former alcoholism.
(Interview of Bakare with Don Addison, December 6, 1982, Afrikpo, Nigeria. Bakare
notes that Olinga refused beer when he offered it to him.)
However, it would be a mistake to dismiss this detail as missionary propaganda. In
1959, Valerie Wilson reported widespread consumption of alcohol among Baha’is in
her report of her tour of the Baha’i communities in the Cameroons. (“Board Member
[Teaching] Tour of Allocated Territories, Feb. Mar. Apr. 1959.” Wilson papers.) She
was unhappy about this but suggested that this might be a ‘secondary’ matter.
I should note that the definition of what constitutes an alcoholic beverage within
the Baha’i community can sometimes be flexible. When I traveled to Panama in 1968,
I had occasion to visit some fairly remote villages in mountain areas where large num-
bers of indigenous Indians had become Baha’is. Whole communities were converted.
These new converts had universally given up manufactured hard liquor and regarded
it as forbidden by Baha’i law. However, there was a variety of locally made, fermented
fruit drinks that the new Baha’is, and even their American teachers, regarded as ‘sweet’
(dulce), rather than alcoholic. These they would drink without compunction, though
I admit that I never saw any Baha’i become intoxicated. The local brews were used
quite openly, and the Baha’is offered them to me as well. Regretfully, I was rather
more orthodox in my thinking than I am now, and I consistently refused them.
Closer to home, there was one Baha’i woman in my local community in California
in the early 1990s who regularly drank a glass of red wine with dinner, claiming that it
was a ‘food’ rather than an alcoholic drink and citing health benefits. Since her drink-
ing was private, it never became an issue within the Baha’i community.

chapter six
carried a message to remote areas that convinced villagers that the
“new church” would bring “fabulous advantages for the village.” He
goes on to outline the initial Baha’i message as he understands it.
Although Tröster is obviously a hostile witness, and he is reporting
this information second-hand, his description can still be taken seri-
ously. He finds the Baha’i message bad enough on its face and appears
to have no interest in fabricating false teachings. He reports that Baha’i
teachers promise that the Baha’i faith:
. . . makes possible a completely new village community! The distinction
between Christians and Heathens is overcome! Yes, and also the distinc-
tion between villagers and tribal outsiders [i.e., people of other tribes
living in the village]! This means that secret societies may safely continue
to exist (for the time being). And the main point: no dues whatsoever,
no exploitation whatsoever, of the kind the folks from Basel and the
Catholics do! Of course, he also speaks of schools and hospitals, etc.,
which the future will bring. No wonder then that the whole gathering
enthusiastically decides: Of course we want to take part in this blessing.
So they decide to establish a parish [i.e., a Baha’i community].
Even from this hostile description, it is easy enough to discern that the
central message of the Baha’i teachers in village areas was the “pivotal”
Baha’i principle of the unity of humanity and need for the elimination
of prejudices of all kinds. There is tolerance and respect for local cus-
toms and traditional African institutions, such as secret societies, as we
would expect from a knowledge of Baha’i policies. There is no demand
for money, nor any obligation to pay dues to the ‘new church.’ There
appears to be a hint of some hostility toward Christian missions, and
also a suggestion that some help from outside may be forthcoming,
and that it might take the form of schools and/or hospitals.
This is certainly an attractive message, as Tröster admits. But there
is something else. The consultation with village leaders, the communal
and public acceptance (as opposed to individual and private accep-
tance) of the new movement, its rapid spread, the theme of cleansing of
social antagonisms, the idea of “a completely new village community,”
and the enthusiasm with which the message was received all suggest
descriptions of traditional witchcraft eradication movements in Africa.
Such movements are long-standing, possibly ancient, cultural features
within African societies that periodically attempt to renew social life
at the village level.
Certain movements arise from time to time, and in fairly regular
cycles, that claim to strike at the root of social strife by banishing

british cameroons: a movement develops
witchcraft (and therefore social discord) from village life. According
to Willis, these cults share certain basic characteristics across Africa.
These include: the arrival of the movement’s representatives, invariably
from outside; negotiations with local village headmen who are under
pressure to accept the new message; acceptance of the new cult and
its cleansing rituals; the conspicuous lack of any formal organizational
structure; and, an ability to cross ethnic boundaries and adapt to local
cultures. Once the movement has been adopted, “a new and morally
regenerated life then begins for everyone.”71 These movements have
been identified in most parts of sub-Saharan Africa in areas that are
relatively remote from urban centers and relatively far from European
influences.72
Scholars have, perhaps, been too quick to define these movements
as merely concerned with witchcraft.73 Certainly, the eradication of
witches is the discourse which they most often employ—claiming the
power to neutralize all evil and protect the innocent. But witchcraft
and accusations of witchcraft in African societies are broad metaphors
by which social tension and community disharmony can be expressed
and exposed. It may be more useful to regard such movements as a
71 R. G. Willis, “Instant Millennium: The Sociology of African Witch-cleansing
Cults” in Mary Douglas, ed., Witchcraft Confessions, pp. 128–131. Quote from p. 131.
Willis also identifies other general characteristics of such movements that are more
specifically concerned with witchcraft and witch cleansing. But such characteristics
are not universal.
72 Willis, “Instant Millennium,” p. 133.
73 Witchcraft and witchcraft eradication movements in Africa are much discussed
in the anthropological literature and, to a lesser extent, by African historians. See, for
example, S. F. Nadel, “Witchcraft in Four African Societies: An Essay in Comparison,”
American Anthropologist, New Series, Vol. 64 (Jan.–Mar. 1952) no. 1, pp. 18–29; Mary
Douglas, “Techniques of Sorcery Control in Central Africa” in J. Middleton and E. H.
Winter, eds., Witchcraft and Sorcery in East Africa (London: Routledge & Kegan Paul,
1963 [2004]); R. G. Willis, “Kamcape: An Anti-sorcery Movement among the Fipa” in
Africa, Vol. 38, no. 1 (1968); idem., ed., Witchcraft and Healing (University of Edin-
burgh Press, 1969); idem., “Instant Millennium”; L. E. Larson, “Problems in the Study
of Witchcraft Eradication Movements in Southern Tanzania” in Ufahamu, Vol. 6,
no. 3 (1976); Jan Vansina, “Les mouvements religieux Kuba (Kasai) à l’époque colo-
niale” in Etudes d’histoire africaine II (Kinshasa: Université Lovanium, 1971); Jean
Comaroff and John Comaroff, Modernity and its Malcontents: Ritual and Power in
Postcolonial Africa (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993); Pamela J. Stewart
and Andrew Strathern, Witchcraft, Sorcery, Rumors, and Gossip (Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 2004); Henrietta L. Moore and Todd Sanders, Magical Interpretations,
Material Realities: Modernity, Witchcraft and the Occult in Postcolonial Africa (Lon-
don: Routledge, 2001), with two essays on Cameroon; and so forth. Also with particu-
lar reference to Cameroon, see Peter Geschiere, The Modernity of Witchcraft.

chapter six
traditional means of religious revival and renewal in rural African
societies.
David Parkin has argued that such movements are long-standing
cultural features of African societies that invariably signal a redefini-
tion of social roles in the places where they occur. Emphasizing the
political, rather than the religious, significance of these events, Parkin
sees them as the means by which potentially new and younger elites
within village societies can attack the symbols of established authority
and announce that they have assumed key roles, or that others of their
generation are about to do so. The movements advertise rising trends
in society that have made new sources of opportunity and influence
available. They open the door to intense internal, political negotiations
within a village from which new and reordered configurations of pres-
tige and power may emerge.74
I have argued against Parkin’s explanation of the significance of these
movements as it relates to Ngoja, a series of anti-witchcraft move-
ments which took place throughout the 1920s in Central and Southern
Tanganyika.75 Parkin’s approach is simply too narrow to account for
the various aspects of Ngoja. However, while Parkin’s theories are not
a universal explanation of witchcraft eradication and its significance
(as he originally suggested), they are certainly useful in understand-
ing the rapid spread of the Baha’is in Cameroon. The last few years
of the colonial era in Africa were also the last few years of the mis-
sionary era. Europeans were soon to lose power within both church
and state, opening new opportunities for autonomy and dignity for
Africans within both spheres. A young generation of Basel Christians
in rural Cameroon seems to have made use of this opening to spread
the Baha’i faith and overturn missionary ascendancy.76
74 David J. Parkin, “Medicine and Men of Influence,” MAN, Vol. 3 (1968) pp. 424–39.
75 Anthony A. Lee, “Ngoja and Six Theories of Witchcraft Eradication,” Ufahamu,
Vol. 6, no. 3 (1976) pp. 108–109.
76 It is also possible to suggest that the earlier spread of the Basel Mission in those
same areas may have made use of the same cultural and religious advantage. This is
particularly suggested by the rapid growth of converts to the Mission in the years from
1918 to 1925, during the period of no European supervision. (See Chapter Five, and
especially Table 5.1.) However, the role that traditional healing and witch-cleansing
practices may have played in the success of Christianity in Cameroon is beyond the
scope of this study. For Malawi and Zambia, however, see Rijk van Dijk, “Witchcraft
and Skepticism by Proxy: Pentecostalism and Laughter in Urban Malawi” in Moore
and Sanders, Magical Interpretations, Material Realities, pp. 100–102; and A. C. Ross,

british cameroons: a movement develops
Therefore, it is possible to suppose that the Baha’i message of unity
and harmony among religions and tribal ethnicities was heard by rural
Cameroonian Christians in the context of their ancient African tradi-
tions of spiritual revival and the eradication of evil. Respect for tradi-
tional African institutions (that is, secret societies) and denunciation
of church taxes may easily have been understood as signaling a com-
ing era of African power and control. Young Baha’i teachers could
be seen as challenging older elites. Suggestions of future schools and
hospitals would certainly have raised visions of an idealized society
and would have complemented nationalist political demands, as well.
These would fulfill all of Parkin’s requirements for a traditional reli-
gious movement to emerge.
Tröster complains about the availability of American Baha’i money
to build Baha’i Centers (hazíratu’l-quds, meeting places) in villages
where new communities emerged. He resents the fact that invari-
ably these were buildings made of concrete blocks with corrugated
tin roofs—“the building style of the wealthy in the countryside.”
Apparently, the Basel Mission’s “humble little churches” were made
of wood and thatch. He also complains rather forcefully that some
Baha’is who were ill had been transported from Eyang by car to a
hospital some one hundred kilometers away. Concrete and tin, how-
ever, may also have been seen locally as symbols of modernity and
change. In Parkin’s terms, perhaps Baha’i teachers were attacking old
symbols of religious authority and signaling forthcoming opportuni-
ties in a soon-to-be post-colonial world by raising a building using
new materials. Access to hospitals and to medical care is also an aspect
of modern opportunity.
This is not to suggest, of course, that Basel Mission Christians in the
Cameroons were consciously reverting to African traditional religious
practice when they became Baha’is. Nor do they appear to have been
rejecting Christianity. Certainly, they would have denied both sug-
gestions most vigorously. But, established cultural patterns and tradi-
tional forms of religious revival, such as familiar witchcraft eradication
movements, may have played a role in the rapid spread of the Baha’i
religion at the end of the colonial era.
“The Political Role of the Witchfinder in Southern Malawi during the Crisis of Octo-
ber 1964 to May 1965” in Willis, Witchcraft and Healing, pp. 55–70.

chapter six
Local Christian Response
Tröster’s second reason for Baha’i success provides more evidence that
Baha’i conversions were understood in the mode of traditional, cycli-
cal revival movements. He complains at length in his article about the
passive response of his African Basel Mission pastors and elders to the
coming of the Baha’i teaching:
But how do our members behave in this situation? Far from being
alarmed, they always looked for new ways to trivialize [the threat posed
by] the movement. Even our pastors did not believe it was worth the
trouble to become more involved with it. They thought it sufficient to
disregard these “passing matters” with a shrug, and they refused to let
their displeasure be noticed by those who have left us. “Just wait two or
three years, then you’ll see that the whole ghost was made of smoke,” the
best among them said. As if in such a situation one could simply wait. As
if it were not the first task of a shepherd to look after his flock!
It seems that the African leaders of the mission church regarded the
Baha’i faith as merely a passing matter. They had seen movements
like this before; they come and go, lasting a few years, then dissipating
like ‘smoke.’ No need for alarm.
Willis recognizes that most cleansing cults are cyclical, occurring at
roughly ten-year intervals in the Congo and in other parts of Central
Africa, for example. Witchcraft eradication promises a new and mor-
ally regenerated village, free of evil, protected from unexplained illness
and premature death. Eventually it must fail to deliver on this impos-
sible promise of utopia. Therefore, according to Willis, faith in the
efficacy of the cult will decline, and in due course the community will
be ready to try again.77
However, Willis also recognizes that under certain circumstances
movements of this kind may become transformed into effective agents
of social action and generate new institutions. He cites the 1905–1906
Maji-Maji rebellion against German colonial rule in Tanganyika, the
Lukusu cult in Congo in the early 1930s, and Kamcape among the
Fipa and neighboring peoples of southwest Tanzania in 1963–1964,
as examples.78 It appears that the Baha’is in Cameroon were also able
to transform early enthusiasms into an institutionalized movement,
77 Willis, “Instant Millennium,” p. 131.
78 Ibid., p. 132.

british cameroons: a movement develops
since Baha’i families there today are producing their third and fourth
generations. A count of Baha’is in the Cameroon Republic made in
1992 showed a membership of 28,062.79 However, direct continuities
with early village conversions in the 1960s have yet to be investigated
or understood.
Tröster tells us that he was determined to preach against the Baha’i
faith in Mamfe District in the early 1960s. However, he received little
cooperation from African Christians. His position of authority nev-
ertheless allowed him to demand some compliance. One hapless pas-
tor, identified only as B— by the missionary, was pressed into service,
apparently as a translator, to accompany Tröster “to the marshlands”
to preach against the Baha’is. Although he was “a really faithful worker
and a fine person,” he was clearly loath to speak against the religion.
His reluctance bewildered Tröster. The African pastor did not see the
Baha’i movement as the wicked, alien, intrusive, and destructive new
religion that Tröster made it out to be.
We can only guess why this should be. It is possible that the pastor
had Baha’is within his own family or among his friends. Perhaps, the
movement was just so widespread and popular that he did not want
to risk his own reputation by opposing it. He himself may have been
a participant in ‘the underground movement.’ Whatever the specific
reasons, it appears that the Baha’i faith was just ‘there’ (in Middleton’s
sense of the word)—that is, it had found a place in Mamfe social life,
and so the pastor felt that it should be accommodated, not opposed.
Tröster tells us that B— was very happy to see the missionary leave
his area and go home.
Missionary Paternalism and African Indignation
Tröster relates a story about one encounter with a Baha’i that is more
revealing of his attitudes than he intended it to be. This was a rather
unfriendly conversation that he had with a man in Besongabang,
Mamfe, whom he met “on the street.” The conversation turned into an
angry argument during which the man revealed that he was a Baha’i.
Tröster decided that this Baha’i had given him a “sort of key” to “the
79 “Cameroon Republic Basic Statistics. Department of Statistics (Bahá’í World
Center). 19 April 1992.” I am grateful to Vahid Rafati for providing me with a copy
of this report in 1992.

chapter six
secret of this ‘new (false) church’ ” that explained its enormous suc-
cess. I rather agree with him, but for different reasons.
Tröster needed no translator to talk to this man, since he spoke
Duala fluently. From this fact he realized that the man must have
attended Basel Mission schools and was probably a member of the
church. The man was happy to admit to both facts.80 At this point,
Tröster’s missionary instincts kicked in, and he went on to ask the
stranger if he might be “a full member of the church today, which is
to say, if he receives the Holy Communion.”81
At this point, the missionary tells us that the stranger took offense
and responded angrily:
“Whatever gives you the right to ask me that?” he screamed at me. “Of
course I haven’t received communion for a long time. I really don’t need
it! What artificial chains you have forged from the communion, just to
take what little money the poor Christians have in their pockets.” (And
he is a businessman!) After he had blown off some steam, I sought to
answer matter-of-factly by referring to our Lord Christ and the meaning
of his cross for us all. This, however, made him even more angry. “What
are you always up to with this Jesus Christ? It’s always Jesus Christ! Jesus
Christ! And then comes this Cross! I’m telling you to stop it. I can’t lis-
ten to it anymore. You know as well as we do that this Jesus was also a
human being, just like all the others. We should receive forgiveness? I’m
telling you, we Baha’is need none of it; we have seen through you.”
Tröster took the Baha’i’s statement that Jesus was human, “just like
all the others,”82 as an indication of a “devilish hate of Christ.” In fact,
he found the man’s statement so blasphemous that he decided he
had found the secret teaching of the Baha’i religion, which revealed
its anti-Christian and destructive nature. Curiously, he seems to write
80 Note here that the Baha’i man was happy to affirm “with pleasure” that he was
a member of the Basel Mission. Perhaps he too was in the ‘underground movement,’
or perhaps just maintained a dual identity. Middleton might suggest that he was sim-
ply participating, as most Africans do, in the traditional complexities of his social
milieu.
81 Only fully paid up members of the church could receive Holy Communion.
82 This is not a correct statement of strict Baha’i doctrine, however. Baha’is do not
regard Jesus Christ as the incarnation of the Godhead. However, he is not merely
human either. He is recognized as a ‘Manifestation of God’ (a sort of intermediate
category), as are Abraham, Moses, Muhammad, Buddha, and other founders of world
religions. See Shoghi Effendi, “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in The World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 99–119; Juan R. I. Cole, “The Concept of Manifestation in the
Bahá’í Writings” in Bahá’í Studies, Monograph 9 (1982) pp. 1–38, published online at
<http://www-personal.umich.edu/~jrcole/bhmanif.htm>.

british cameroons: a movement develops
this almost with a sense of relief—as though all of the other, more
public teachings of the ‘new church’ were unobjectionable. Here he
seems to have finally found something about the Baha’i religion that
he can attack with enthusiasm.
However, it appears to me that Tröster has provided us with a near
perfect example of missionary paternalism confronting African indig-
nation and resistance at the end of the colonial era. As he reports the
conversation, he pressed all the buttons of colonial power and reli-
gious control at his disposal, which he apparently expected to be met
with compliance and gestures of subordination. He first refers to mis-
sion schools and church membership thinking that should bind the
stranger to the Basel Mission. He goes on to talk about full and cur-
rent membership (requiring payment of dues) and Holy Communion
(which can be withheld by the clergy for bad behavior). When that is
not effective, he invokes the name of Jesus Christ as an instrument of
his power, reminding the stranger of the “meaning of his cross” and
the need for forgiveness. Forgiveness that can only be had through
the church. What he intended to get out of all this is fairly clear—the
docile return of his new African acquaintance to full compliance with
church law, under missionary control.
Instead, the man he spoke to reacted with indignation, anger, and
full rejection of the mission.83 He simply refused to be patronized
or brought under church authority. He revealed himself as a Baha’i,
and therefore in no need of forgiveness through Christ.84 It seems clear
that his Baha’i identity had given him a way to opt out of the system.
This is a more radical rejection of the Basel Mission and its influ-
ence than even the formation of an independent (Christian) African
83 I must admit that I also reacted with some indignation when I first read the
missionary’s remarks.
84 This, at least, is an accurate statement of Baha’i beliefs. The Baha’i religion rejects
the notion of original sin that plays such an important part in Christian formulae for
salvation. Of course, Baha’is do ask God’s forgiveness for misdeeds and shortcomings,
but this is accomplished through individual prayer. Formal confession of sins is forbid-
den in Baha’i law. (Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
[Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978] pp. 24–25; Bahá’í Prayers, 1991 Edition [Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991] pp. 74–83; Helen Bassett Hornby, comp., Lights of
Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File, Fourth Revised Edition [New Delhi: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust, 1983 (1996)] #589, p. 179.) Salvation is achieved through recognition (irfan)
of the Manifestation of God and obedience to his commands. (Baha’u’llah, The Kitáb-i
Aqdas, K1; Terry Culhane, I Beheld a Maiden . . . : The Bahá’í Faith and the Life of the
Spirit [Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2001] pp. 16–18 and 81–91.)

chapter six
church—something that missions had been familiar with since the
early years of the century. The Baha’i insisted that even the necessity of
believing in Jesus Christ (as the only path to salvation), a Jesus Christ
identified with Europe and Christian missionaries, had been rejected.
It seems to me that the ‘key’ which may have become one of the
elements of Baha’i success in rural Cameroon was not the “hate of
Christ” that Tröster suggests. Rather, it was that the Baha’i teachings
provided converts with a developed theology which they could use to
reject mission control at the end of the colonial era. By converting to
the Baha’i religion, a village could simply rid itself of the Basel Mission
and fill the void created with a new and idealized religious identity
attached to another world faith. This new identity could sustain and
reinforce itself with Baha’i religious institutions and American finan-
cial support. Apparently, this was a successful combination.
Baha’is in Mamfe
Tröster’s article provides still more information and insight into the
history of the spread of the Baha’i faith in Mamfe. He maintains that
the movement was brought to the area by Mose Tanyi, who had
from childhood been a faithful member of the Basel Mission. Tanyi
belonged to an important family and “a notable Christian house.”
Tröster explains that Tanyi had become a Baha’i while away from his
home village of Mfaitok. When he returned home, he brought the
Baha’i teachings with him. After that, “the surrounding villages very
rapidly flocked to these ‘new churches.’ ”85
Mose Tanyi was certainly a relative of David Tanyi, one of Olinga’s
first converts in Victoria and his landlord. It is clear that the Baha’i
movement spread through kinship networks. Tröster does not explain
why villages in Mamfe should flock to a new religion. But he explains
Mose Tanyi’s conversion as an act of revenge—the result of a grudge
that he held against the mission after failing his Standard VI exams.
Here again, the theme of African resentment of mission control
85 As mentioned above, Jacob Tabot Awo claims that he was the first person to
bring the Baha’i faith to Mamfe District. (Interview of Addison with Awo, 1/2/83. Don
Addison papers.) This is probably correct, but he may not have been responsible for
the kind of mass conversions to the religion that the missionary describes here. These
may have been the result of Tanyi’s work.

british cameroons: a movement develops
appears to be important. Rebellion against European authority seems
to have played an important role in the mass conversions of Christians
to Baha’i.
Mose Tanyi, it appears, succeeded in having the villagers build a
Baha’i Center on land that had formerly belonged to the mission. They
also took over “the large English school” that had been under Basel
Mission control in Besongabang. The school was only returned to the
mission with the aid and intervention of the colonial government, “the
English civil servants” as Tröster puts it. He expresses apprehension
about what will happen to the school when the colonial administration
comes to an end.
Moreover, the missionary seems to have had difficulty distinguish-
ing his evangelical Christian message from the new Baha’i message
in the minds of African Christians. Mose Tanyi had told him, after
being questioned about his commitment to Christianity: “Yes, I am
certainly conscious of that. But I see no great difference between the
Baha’is and those within the Church such as you.” Continuing: “I am
convinced that we [Baha’is] will be the victors in this struggle.” And
it is clear that the missionary could not convince him otherwise. For
Tröster the choice to be a Christian or a Baha’i represented a cru-
cial distinction, the distinction between truth and falsehood, between
being saved and being lost. For Tanyi, this was a ‘new church’ involved
in the same struggle as the old one. The exact nature of the ‘struggle’ is
not defined. But in a Christian context we may suppose this to be the
struggle between good and evil, or perhaps the struggle for salvation
itself. If this attitude was widespread, there was as much continuity in
the Baha’i conversions as there was change. Rural communities, per-
haps, took the opportunity to convert to the Baha’i faith in an effort to
continue their religious lives without European supervision, declaring
their independence from missionaries a few years before the official
break took place.
Conclusions
In any case, by 1962, the Baha’i religion had succeeded in planting
itself firmly in the British Cameroons and had established a permanent
presence there. This was accomplished under the direction of Enoch
Olinga, and far from the observation and influence of foreign Baha’is.
As we have seen in the previous chapter, Olinga had managed to

chapter six
reformulate Baha’i teachings in Uganda, shortly after his own con-
version, into an attractive and convincing message. He was able to
accomplish large-scale conversions in his Teso homeland and to
repeat his success in West Africa after he moved to Victoria in the
British Cameroons.
While further research is needed to determine the precise nature
of Olinga’s message, we must acknowledge that there were other
social forces at work that made the conversion of large numbers of
Christians in the Cameroons a possibility. There is the ‘productive’
option that the Baha’i faith presented, which does not reject former
religious identities—but rather remolds them with the tool of ‘End-
Time’ prophecies. There is the collapse of the missionary dream within
the Basel Mission, a crisis felt most keenly by those of low social status
within the church. Middleton suggests the stagnation of the original
revolutionary dynamic of the Basel Mission, making it by the 1950s
a symbol of wealth and status in African communities—thus alienat-
ing its poor and rural constituencies. Official Basel Mission accounts
suggest a history of fractiousness and breakaway movements within
their Cameroonian communities, as well as a tradition of African
autonomy.
In addition, as we assess the causes for Baha’i growth, we should not
ignore the willingness of Baha’i official policy to accommodate itself
to local customs and to make few demands on new converts. Just as
important, we must acknowledge the widespread African traditions
of religious renewal which, though they often took the form of witch-
craft eradication movements, could also be acted out as conversion
to a new religion. In this sense, the Banyangi converts to the Baha’i
religion may have facilitated its growth, acting as religious innovators
and specialists. All this, at the close of the colonial period, which was
a time of political upheaval and rapid social change.

CHAPTER SEVEN
THE BAHA’I CHURCH OF CALABAR1
Inevitably, the history of the first years of the Baha’i presence in West
Africa will be written and understood, especially within the Baha’i
community, as the story of how the religion spread and grew from the
time of its introduction in the early 1950s by American, Iranian, and
African pioneers. Missionary histories of the spread of any religion are
usually written in terms of the growth of the faith, the expansion of the
number of believers, and the ultimate triumph of the church—either
presently or in the distant future. Groves’s classic four-volume work,
The Planting of Christianity in Africa,2 certainly takes this approach.
Even Hastings,3 while paying more attention to political and socio-
logical factors, finds his central concern in the growth of the church.
Etherington and Spear have complained about the narrowness of this
kind of church history.4 Nonetheless, issues of growth—and its con-
verse, decline—always seem to make their way to the center of the
histories of missionary enterprises.
Beyond Growth
Such an approach is to be expected. The growth of the Baha’i commu-
nity was, after all, impressive during its first several years of develop-
ment in West Africa. But, I maintain that this approach to its history
will obscure more than it illumines. The history of the arrival of Baha’is,
Baha’i ideas, and Baha’i religious identity on the West African scene
is—as with all human history—extremely complex. The events and
1 An earlier version of this chapter was published online at H-Bahai, Occasional
Papers in Shaykhi, Babi, and Baha’i Studies, Vol. 1, no. 6 (November 1997) <http://
www.h-net.org/~bahai/bhpapers/ vol1/africa1.htm>
2 Charles Pelham Groves, The Planting of Christianity in Africa (London: Lutter-
worth Press, 1948–58).
3 Adrian Hastings, A History of African Christianity, 1950–1975 (Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1979).
4 N. Etherington. “Missionaries and the Intellectual History of Africa,” Itinerario.
Vol. 2 (1983) pp. 27–45. Spear, “Toward the History,” passim.

chapter seven
activities associated with it were highly varied, and even contradictory.
Certainly, growth and expansion were a part of that history. The vari-
ous Baha’i pioneers who traveled to West Africa came there with the
idea of the expansion of the religion in mind. And, in some cases,
this expansion was achieved. But that is not all that happened, nor is
it necessarily the most important thing that happened. The whole of
this history simply cannot be encompassed or explained by notions
of growth and decline, success and failure. A conceptualization of
Baha’i history in West Africa primarily in terms of growth will, in
fact, obscure most of the historical events associated with the religion
in its early years. It will obscure all of the interesting ones.
Philosophically speaking, the number of historical ‘events’ associ-
ated with any time period is infinite, and so the vast majority of them
deserve to be obscured and forgotten, anyway. No one really wants to
know the details of every conversation that Valerie Wilson had with
her neighbors or exactly what Enoch Olinga had for breakfast each
morning, seven days a week, year after year. Nonetheless, it might
be well to remind ourselves that most of the daily activities of these
Baha’i pioneers did not result in conversions and had no relationship
to ‘growth’ in any form.
Beyond that banal and obvious fact, a history written in terms of the
success of various Baha’i teaching plans and the conversion of Africans
to the message of the Baha’i pioneers will overlook the importance of
the initiatives and ideas of those very converts—which, of course, is
the other half of the story. The religion was actively offered; it was also
actively received. In fact, it is clear that where the Baha’is were able
to find large numbers of converts rapidly, this was always as a result
of African initiative. It is only where the converts themselves were
able (usually only for short periods) to seize control of the message,
the teaching work, and the organizational structure of the Baha’i reli-
gion—and shape it to the needs of an African society—that expansion
was achieved. This was true, for example, in the British Cameroons,
where the religion was most successful. In such cases, it is my view
that it is this reshaping of the message that is the really important part
of the history we want to study, not the numbers of converts.
Finally, a focus on growth and expansion also ignores, and implic-
itly denies, changes in the content of the Baha’i message as it spread
through West Africa and the uniqueness of the communities that were
constructed as a result of that growth. Such a focus undermines the
very question of the meaning of the new religion to the people who

the baha’i church of calabar
adopted it, the nature of the new identity they accepted, and their own
contributions to this identity. Of course, these are precisely the ques-
tions that I have been most interested in answering—questions that
cannot be approached at all with reference only to issues of growth
and expansion.
Levels and Discontinuities
Thomas C. Holt, in a fascinating article, has raised what he has called
“the levels problem” of history.5 For Holt, this is the inevitable dilemma
of the historian who wants to make sense out of events of the past. He
regards this as “the problem of establishing the continuity between
behavioral explanations sited at the individual level of human experi-
ence and those at the level of society and social forces.”6 That is, it is
the problem of connecting, in some meaningful way, the everyday acts
of individual human beings (that actually make up the material of his-
tory) with the larger historical patterns and trends, which are seen by
historians as having been produced and reproduced by these acts (and
which constitute history, as it is usually written).
Of course, Holt is primarily concerned with how race and racism
came to be reproduced in American society, and through American
history. But his admonition that the historian must remain aware of
the “subtle interaction between various levels and terrains of human
experience” is a universal one.7 He proposes an approach that will
bridge the (usually neglected) gap between the global and the local
views, the societal explanation and the individual’s behavior. While it
might be said, for example, that ‘the Baha’i community grew in West
Africa,’ what exactly does this mean at the level of everyday experi-
ence? for the pioneers? for the converts?
I will take Holt’s point one step further and suggest that the histo-
rian must also face the problem of exploring the discontinuities which
exist in the “terrains of human experience.” Not, I might add, for the
purpose of integrating all the contradictory bits into one grand scheme
of things—but precisely to remind us that our grand schemes do not
5 Thomas C. Holt, “Marking: Race, Race-making, and the Writing of History,” The
American Historical Review, Vol. 100, no. 1 (February 1995) pp. 1–20.
6 Ibid., p. 7.
7 Ibid., p. 6.

chapter seven
explain everything. It is the job of every historian to make sense of
the everyday events of the past, and equally his task to acknowledge
the contradictory events and behaviors that might otherwise be lost or
obscured by his analysis, his master narrative.
This concern with the discontinuities of history, as it is written, has
been brought most forcefully to the attention of scholars by Michel
Foucault in a number of important volumes.8 Foucault’s profound cri-
tique of the conventional understanding of Western history has thor-
oughly undermined a self-assured reliance on any master narrative
for a field or topic of history. His interrogation of Western history
reveals ‘two great discontinuities’ in the assumptions that lie at the
base of Western culture.9 Though Foucault himself forcefully denied
that he was concerned with discontinuity per se and claimed to be
bewildered by this interpretation of his work,10 nonetheless his insight
into the deep breaks in European history represents at least the neces-
sary starting point for his larger work. By noticing those events made
discontinuous by a master narrative, Foucault was able to focus his
attention on the assumptions which make an ordered understanding
of history even possible.
This chapter is devoted to just such a discontinuous event, or
chain of events: the establishment of the Baha’i Church of Calabar in
1955–1956. Here was an independent church based on Baha’i teach-
ings which was established wholly without connection to any Baha’i
pioneer, and which existed without communication with any Baha’i in
8 For this discussion I am relying most heavily on Foucault’s Les Mots et les cho-
ses, translated as The Order of Things: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences (New
York: Random House, 1970). See also, Madness and Civilization (New York: Random
House, 1965) and Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison (New York: Random
House, 1977).
9 Foucault, The Order of Things, p. xxii. It is characteristic of Foucault that he never
spells out precisely what those discontinuities were. He says, for example: “. . . on the
archeological level, we see that the system of positivities was transformed in a whole-
sale fashion at the end of the eighteenth and beginning of the nineteenth century. Not
that reason made any progress: it was simply that the mode of being of things, and
of the order that divided them up before presenting them to the understanding, was
profoundly altered.” (Ibid.) In other words, these were discontinuities in modes of
thought, rather than anything else—roughly from ‘correspondences’ and ‘similitudes,’
to systems of classification, and then to abstractions that underlay the classification of
discrete objects. Europe changed the assumptions it held when looking at the world;
it changed the way that it organized knowledge, the way it organized reality.
10 See the introduction in Paul Rabinow, ed., The Foucault Reader (New York: Pan-
theon Books, 1984) pp. 3–27.

the baha’i church of calabar
the world outside of its own congregation, for the duration of its short
existence. Nonetheless, for a short time, it succeeded in capturing the
interest, the participation, and the allegiance of virtually all of the
Cameroonian men on one large palm plantation in eastern Nigeria.
The church was established, flourished, and then collapsed (as the
result of a dispute between its founders) after several months of regu-
lar services, utterly unrecognized and unknown to the Baha’i pioneers
and to the international Baha’i community. It left no converts to count
as a part of the Baha’i ‘expansion.’ However, as we will see, an exami-
nation of the history of this short movement will provide important
insights into the religious needs and attitudes of some African con-
verts, their understanding and reworking of the Baha’i message, and
their approach to Baha’i identity. These insights can be usefully applied
to other Baha’i conversions in the region, and indeed provide a much-
needed contrast to the usual historical paradigm of Baha’i expansion.
This instance provides us with a rare and remarkable phenomenon:
We are provided with virtually a laboratory model of a purely African
Baha’i faith, developed without any influences whatsoever from the
larger Baha’i community. The church was established purely out of
African need and African initiative, without the direction or guidance
of foreign believers. The result was, however briefly, a successful inde-
pendent church.
A New Church is Founded11
The Baha’i Church of Calabar was organized in June of 1955 by Oscar
Njang and Peter Oben-Etchi, neither of whom was a Baha’i. Nor
were they in contact with any Baha’is at the time that they founded
the church. We do not have a full description of the activities of the
church, but its services and teachings were based upon the text of only
one Baha’i book, Paris Talks: Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris
11 All the factual information concerning the Baha’i Church of Calabar that is
presented in this chapter is taken from two taped interviews with Oscar Njang: one
recorded on June 27, 1981 by Don Addison in Ikot Uba Village, Cross River State,
Nigeria; the other recorded in January 1992, by the Secretary of the National Spiri-
tual Assembly of the Baha’is of Nigeria (and apparently with an audience, at a Baha’i
meeting) in Lagos.

chapter seven
in 1911–1912.12 It was clearly conceived of as an independent Chris-
tian church, but it maintained a distinct Baha’i identity.
The church was founded on the initiative and oratorical skills of
Oscar Njang, a Cameroonian and a Presbyterian of the Basel Mission,
who had left his home country to escape the demands of his extended
family and community and had come, quite by accident, to Calabar
to look for work. There he happened upon Peter Oben-Etchi, a friend
(perhaps a distant relative) of his from the Cameroons.13 Oben-Etchi
offered him a job as a supervisor on a palm plantation, the Kalaru
Estates, and Njang accepted.
About a week later, Oben-Etchi went off for a weekend trip to
another plantation to visit a Cameroonian friend, Michael Nkamato.
When he returned, he mentioned to Njang that he had seen a reli-
gious book there and had read something in it that “resembled your
[Njang’s] character.” Njang was surprised, and (it appears) a bit dis-
turbed. He replied that the Bible was the only religious book that he
recognized and that he had never read of anyone in the Bible who
resembled him in character. He asked that Oben-Etchi bring the book
to him the next week.
When Njang saw the book, Paris Talks, he says that he was immedi-
ately impressed by two things. One was a photograph of ‘Abdu’l-Baha
that is reproduced as the frontispiece of the book. This was the first
thing that he saw when he opened the book, and it apparently affected
him deeply. He says that he stared at the photograph for about ten
minutes. The image seems to have reminded him of the face of one of
the respected elders in Njang’s home village, a man who would settle
land disputes among his people.
The other thing that impressed him was the text of the book itself.
He read a little and was drawn to the teachings he found there because
he felt that they justified the way he had led his life—always helping
people and giving away his things. He says that his family had often
chided him for his generosity, saying that one day he would be a poor
man “if I scatter all my things—giving, giving.” Now he felt that he
had been doing God’s will all along and that his generous ways were
a matter of religious duty. His willingness to help people and his trust
12 London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1912 (Ninth British Edition, 1951).
13 They were both Banyangi.

the baha’i church of calabar
Illustration 7.1. ‘Abdu’l-Baha (taken circa 1912)
This photo was published as the frontispiece of the Baha’i book Paris Talks,
British Edition 1951 (a translation from the French).

chapter seven
of strangers had not been in vain. He looked up from the book and
said to Oben-Etchi, “I will teach this faith.”
There is little doubt that the passages in Paris Talks that Oben-Etchi
had noticed and that impressed Njang so much were read from the
first address of ‘Abdu’l-Baha which is reproduced in the book, enti-
tled “The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers and
Foreigners.”14 The talk begins:
When a man turns his face to God he finds sunshine everywhere. All
men are his brothers. Let not conventionality cause you to seem cold
and unsympathetic when you meet strange people from other countries.
Do not look at them as though you suspected them of being evil-doers,
thieves and boors. You think it necessary to be very careful, not to
expose yourselves to the risk of making acquaintance with such, pos-
sibly, undesirable people.
I ask you not to think only of yourselves. Be kind to the strangers,
whether come they from Turkey, Japan, Persia, Russia, China or any
other country in the world.
Help to make them feel at home; find out where they are staying,
ask if you may render them any service; try to make their lives a little
happier.
In this way, even if, sometimes, what you at first suspected should be
true, still go out of your way to be kind to them—this kindness will help
them to become better.
After all, why should any foreign people be treated as strangers?
Let those who meet you know, without your proclaiming the fact, that
you are indeed a Bahá’í.
Put into practice the Teaching of Bahá’u’lláh, that of kindness to all
nations. Do not be content with showing friendship in words alone, let
your heart burn with loving kindness for all who may cross your path. . . .
When you meet . . . a stranger, speak to him as to a friend; if he seems to
be lonely try to help him, give him of your willing service; if he be sad
console him, if poor succor him, if oppressed rescue him, if in misery
comfort him. In so doing you will manifest that not in words only, but
in deed and in truth, you think of all men as your brothers.
Njang and Oben-Etchi decided to organize a new church on the Kalaru
Estates. There were already two Christian services being offered in the
community hall on the plantation. From 8:00 to 10:00 a.m. on Sun-
days there was a service in the Efik language, and from 10:00 to 12:00
p.m. there was a Catholic service in Igbo. There was no service avail-
able in English to minister to the religious needs of the many English-
14 Notes of talks given October 16th and 17th, 1912. Paris Talks, pp. 15–17.

the baha’i church of calabar
speaking Cameroonians who lived on the plantation. They, at least the
Christians among them, would have been Presbyterians from the Basel
Mission. So, Njang and Oben-Etchi decided to offer a Baha’i service in
English (probably from 12:00 to 2:00 p.m.) to be based on Paris Talks.
To announce their decision, they used the plantation drum to call all
of the workers living there to a general meeting.
These events raise a number of issues, all of which have important
implications for the study of the Baha’i religion in West Africa. Fore-
most among these is the vantage point which we have, as a result of
the independent nature of this Baha’i church, to examine the specific
points of contact which allowed Oscar Njang and Peter Oben-Etchi to
adopt a Baha’i identity without being taught by a Baha’i pioneer.
The bridge to the new religion, according to Njang’s narrative, con-
sisted of three specific points of fascination that attracted him to the
Baha’i teachings—the photograph of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, the passage on
hospitality from Paris Talks, and the (unstated) fact that the Baha’i
teachings were presented in English. It is remarkable how widely these
issues diverge from the standard presentation of the Baha’i teachings
which was used by (American) Baha’i pioneers at the time.
Njang was initially attracted to the photograph of ‘Abdu’l-Baha
which he saw when he opened the book Paris Talks. The photo is a
portrait which shows only the head and shoulders of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, an
elderly man with a full white beard wearing a white turban and a tra-
ditional Middle Eastern cloak. (See Illustration 7.1.) He looks directly
into the camera and is smiling slightly. The photo is a poor reproduc-
tion in the 1951 British Edition of the book, which is undoubtedly the
edition which Njang saw. The reproduction is dark with high contrast,
and it might appear (especially in an African context) that ‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s skin is extremely dark.
Njang says that he was fascinated by the photograph because it
reminded him of an elder in his village who would hear land disputes.
He was a respected figure of Njang’s childhood who would hear such
cases and then “speak the truth.” This raises the question of whether
Njang was, at first, under the impression that ‘Abdu’l-Baha was a black
man. This may have been the first point of correspondence between
Njang and the Baha’i Faith. It is possible that Njang was willing to
accept the Baha’i teachings because he saw them as part of an African
religion, or at least an independent African church.
Beyond this, of course, Njang felt that his own character was justi-
fied by the passages in the book that extol hospitality and kindness to

chapter seven
strangers. Oben-Etchi had first suggested that such a religion might be
suited to Njang, because of his generosity. He was right, since it was
this aspect of the Baha’i religion which initially convinced Njang to set
up the Baha’i Church of Calabar.
Finally, the presentation of the Baha’i religion in an English book
suited Njang’s needs at the time. There were no Christian services in
English for the many Cameroonian workers on the Kalaru plantation.
The Efik and Igbo services obviously appealed to specific ethnic alle-
giances on the plantation. A church in English would appeal particu-
larly to the Cameroonian Presbyterians, and in that sense it became an
expression of ethnic identity also.
Peter Oben-Etchi apparently expected to become the leading figure
in the new church, since his position on the plantation was superior
to Njang’s. He conducted the initial service, reading from Paris Talks,
and talking about the Baha’i teachings. Then there were questions
from the congregation: One man asked why it was that some people
die as children, some die as young people, and some others do not die
until they are old.
Apparently, Oben-Etchi did not have a satisfactory answer to this
question, and Njang came to the rescue. He walked to the front of the
room to address the congregation. He told a parable: Suppose that the
overseer of the plantation would give a letter to three men. One letter
is to be delivered to a nearby village, another to a place some miles
away, and the third letter has to be taken to a far distant destina-
tion. Which one of these messengers will return to the plantation first,
Njang asked. The worker who carried the letter to the village nearby
would return after a few minutes; the other messenger would take a
few hours; and the third messenger would not return until nightfall.
But, they are all carrying out the instructions of the overseer, and he
is equally pleased with each of them. Njang went on to explain that
God is like the overseer and that each person dies after the mission
that God has given to him is complete.
This short sermon drew an immediate response from the congrega-
tion; there were applause and handshakes all around. Njang’s answer
and his rhetorical abilities seem to have carried the day, winning the
approval of those who were present. Oben-Etchi, at that point, asked
Njang to lead the congregation, since his parable had been so satis-
fying. But later, Oben-Etchi became suspicious that his friend may
have prepared this sermon beforehand and planted the question with
someone in the congregation in order to capture the leadership of the
church.

the baha’i church of calabar
Baha’i services on the Kalaru Estates continued to be held every
Sunday for several months. They were attended regularly by about
50 or 60 men. There are no detailed descriptions of the order of the
service, though each Sunday was devoted to a different chapter of Paris
Talks. It appears that the meetings consisted of readings from that
book and a sermon or lecture delivered by Njang. His recollections
of the services make no mention of any ritual, music, singing, or even
prayer—though these may all have been involved.
In any case, it appears from Njang’s descriptions that the services
were Christian in character. The congregation clearly understood itself
to be a new Christian denomination based on the Baha’i teachings—an
independent church. At one point, Njang and Oben-Etchi discussed
what form of baptism their church should administer.
The Collapse of the Church
Eventually, Oscar Njang and Peter Oben-Etchi, the two church lead-
ers, quarelled. Njang received a promotion and was to be trained as a
canteen clerk on the plantation. Oben-Etchi complained to the Euro-
pean owner of the plantation about this, and his complaint was the
source of the dispute. Soon, the two men could not be in the same
room together without arguing. So, Njang was transferred to the palm
oil mill in Akpabeyo. He left the Kalaru Estates in February of 1956.
Since Njang had been the leader of the services in Calabar, his trans-
fer disrupted the church. Oben-Etchi seems to have tried to continue
the services, but he was not a popular speaker. The church soon col-
lapsed when attendance at the Sunday meetings fell off.
Njang left his copy of Paris Talks in Calabar when he departed for
Akpabeyo. The book actually belonged to Enoch Olinga. It had only
been borrowed by Michael Nkamato and was being used by the new
church without Olinga’s knowledge. However, Olinga’s address was
written in the book, and now Oben-Etchi wrote to him, telling him
about the Baha’i activities in Calabar and the success and collapse of
the church. He informed Olinga of Njang’s success as a Baha’i leader
and of his transfer to Akpabeyo.
Njang seems to have had no intention of continuing his Baha’i
activities in Akpabeyo. He says that he began attending the services
of the Church of Christ during the first few weeks after his arrival
there. Much to his astonishment, he then received a letter from Olinga
expounding the Baha’i religion. The letter urged him to continue his

chapter seven
Baha’i teaching. “If you are a Baha’i,” the letter said, “wherever you go
you have to teach the Baha’i Faith.”
Njang showed this letter to the evangelist of the church he was
attending, but he was accused of following a false prophet. Now
dependent on Olinga for all information about the Baha’i faith, with
no Baha’i book to fall back on, and apparently no longer willing to rely
on ad-hoc interpretations, Njang wrote to Olinga in the Cameroons.
He received in return a four-page letter which defended the Baha’i
faith from the charge of false prophethood. He took this letter to his
church in Akpabeyo and attempted to repeat his success in Calabar
by forming a Baha’i congregation from its members, making a deter-
mined effort to split the church. Only five churchmen followed him.
When he wrote to Olinga to inform him of these five new followers,
Olinga sent him the standard declaration forms used for Baha’i enroll-
ment. He recalls that his instructions were: “Oscar, first declare your-
self. Then declare these people.” Njang recalls that he laughed when
he read the letter. He remarked to one of the new Baha’is how funny
it was that, all the time he had been doing these many things for his
new religion, he himself had not been a member!
Njang’s Parable
Oscar Njang was unable to repeat his first teaching success by estab-
lishing a Baha’i church in Akpabeyo. This raises the question of what
allowed him to be so successful on the Kalaru Estates, in the first
instance. While personal fascination with the photograph of ‘Abdu’l-
Baha and appreciation of the Baha’i teachings on hospitality might
explain Njang’s own attraction to the Baha’i teachings, the interest and
allegiance to the Baha’i Church of the other Cameroonian men on the
Kalaru plantation is another matter. The initial popularity of the Baha’i
services seems to have been sparked by the parable that Njang told at
the first meeting of the church in response to a question about death.
Therefore, it might be useful to look at the implications of this par-
able more closely. What would have caused this story to resonate so
effectively with large numbers of foreign laborers that it could insure
(at least the beginnings of ) a new church on the Kalaru Estates?
Primary factors in the success of Njang’s short sermon were, of
course, that it was delivered in English and that it was decidedly Chris-
tian in character. Njang’s parable closely resembles in structure the

the baha’i church of calabar
gospel parable of Jesus concerning the laborers in the vineyard.15 In
the New Testament version, Jesus compares the kingdom of heaven to
a householder who hires men to work his fields—some in the morn-
ing, some during the day, and some near sunset, but they are all paid
the same wage for their labor.16 The identical moral—of the justice of
God’s judgment despite apparent disparities—is being drawn out in
both parables. It is not hard to imagine why the Christian men on the
plantation would have found Njang’s sermon familiar and appealing.
However, distinctly African concerns are also at play in Njang’s par-
able. In fact, it would not be an exaggeration to say that Njang has
recast Jesus’s parable of the laborers in the vineyard in an African
mold. The original parable has nothing to do with death.17 The ques-
tion of the explanation of premature death is a central one in most
African philosophy and occupies a great deal of thought and specula-
tion in African cosmologies. I would suggest that it corresponds to
similar European concerns with the problem of evil or the Christian
preoccupation with salvation.
African views of the world, at least in most societies, have no dif-
ficulty accounting for death per se. It is the nature of things that one
should be born into the world, should grow up, have children, and
eventually die at an old age to join one’s ancestors in the spirit world.
That is all good. But African philosophy generally finds premature
death to be a problem that requires explanation. The death of a child
or a young mother, for instance, indicates that the natural order of the
universe has been disturbed. Something has gone wrong, and it must
be set right.18
15 Matt. 20:1–19. Njang would have been intimately familiar with this parable from
his mission education. The resonance of his speech is largely drawn from the famil-
iarity of the parable which is now turned to suit African theological concerns. See
below.
16 Presumably meaning that late-comer converts to Christianity will have the same
status as early believers—both in this world and in the next.
17 Here I am not maintaining that the parable was necessarily original to Njang. He
may easily have heard this explanation of death during his years of mission educa-
tion and simply repeated it here. The parable does appear to have been new to the
other men on the plantation who may have heard it for the first time at the Baha’i
service, but possibly it was just familiar. There is no question that it was satisfying as
a response to the question of premature death.
18 See, for example, Geoffrey Parrinder, African Traditional Religion (London:
Hutchinson’s University Library, 1954) pp. 58–63; John S. Mbiti, African Religions
and Philosophy (Garden City, NY: Doubleday & Company, 1970) pp. 31–34, 48 and
Introduction to African Religion (London: Heinemann, 1975) pp. 110–25.

chapter seven
Classic African explanations for premature death include belief in
witchcraft. This explanation for early death postulates that one has
been harmed by the anger, the evil thoughts, or the envy of a living
person. Witchcraft is universally regarded as evil in all African societ-
ies. The anger of ancestors or the displeasure of lesser gods and spirits
are also explanations that can account for premature death, which is
always regarded as an affront to the natural order of things.19
Recent research has demonstrated that witchcraft beliefs, far from
disappearing in the upheavals in Africa in the twentieth century, are
resilient and highly flexible discourses by which people can negotiate
ideas about morality and modernity.20 They can be used as an impor-
tant conceptual tool in preserving traditional values and battling anxi-
eties about the disruptions of powerful, outside, global forces that are
beyond local control. Ideas about witchcraft can be enlisted to critique
capitalist inequalities in the economy, to control the impact of new
goods and technologies, and more generally as a moral commentary
on modern life.
Therefore, it is significant that one of the questions that arose dur-
ing Njang’s and Oben-Etchi’s original meeting would concern the
disquiet that African societies so often feel about premature death.
Njang’s response to this question avoids the traditional African expla-
nations for this issue and directly rejects the notion that premature
death represents an evil and disordered intervention in God’s plan
for things. Njang’s parable focuses on the command of God, eschews
19 On witchcraft, in addition to works cited in Chapter Six, see E. E. Evans-
Pritchard’s classic study of the Azande, Witchcraft, Oracles, and Magic Among the
Azande (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1937). See also, Lucy Mair, Witchcraft (New York:
World University Library, 1969); John Middleton, ed., Magic Witchcraft and Curing
(Garden City, NY: The Natural History Press, 1967); Mary Douglas, ed., Witchcraft
Confessions and Accusations (London: Tavistock Publications, 1970).
20 Recent academic explorations of witchcraft and modernity include: Misty Bas-
tian, “Bloodhounds Who Have No Friends: Witchcraft and Locality in the Nigerian
Popular Press” in Comaroff, ed., Modernity and its Malcontents, pp. 129–66; Mark
Auslander, “Open the Wombs! The Symbolic Politics of Modern Ngoni Witchfind-
ing” in Comaroff, ed., in Modernity and its Malcontents, pp. 167–92; Peter Geschiere,
“Globalization and the Power of Indeterminate Meaning: Witchcraft and Spirit Cults
in Africa and East Asia,” Development and Change, Vol. 29 (1998) pp. 811–37; Domi-
nique Malaquais, “Anatomie d’une arnaque: feymen et feymania au Cameroun,” Les
Etudes du CERI, Vol. 77 (2001) pp. 1–46; Birgit Meyer, “Commodities and the Power
of Prayer: Pentecostalist Attitudes Towards Consumption in Contemporary Ghana,”
Development and Change, Vol. 29 (1998); Todd Sanders, “Reconsidering Witchcraft:
Postcolonial Africa and Analytical (Un)Certainties,” American Anthropologist, Vol.
105 (2003) no. 2, pp. 338–52.

the baha’i church of calabar
reference to any lesser being, and specifically makes no reference to
witchcraft as a cause of death. All death results from the will of God
himself and is part of his plan.
Robin Horton, in a celebrated exchange with Humphrey Fisher,
argued that the large-scale conversion of Africans to Christianity and
Islam in the late nineteenth and the twentieth centuries can be partially
explained by the transfer of significance (and life experience) from the
microcosm to the macrocosm.21 Horton proposed a two-tiered model
of African traditional cosmology, which is admittedly an oversimplifi-
cation, but nonetheless useful for purposes of analysis. In this model,
the lesser spirits and beings of African religions are associated with
family, village, clan, and the local landscape—the microcosm of daily
life. Yet these same religions recognize a supreme being, God, who is
concerned with the larger world, the macrocosm.
Horton suggests that, especially in the nineteenth century, as the
importance of the macrocosm to African life expanded—through state
formation, the movement of people, long-distance trade, foreign con-
quest, colonial rule, and so forth—the adaptive potential of the largely
underdeveloped African concept of a supreme God was actualized.
The minor spirits came to be regarded as less important, in retreat,
or even positively evil; while the supreme God was now seen to play a
more active role in African life. As people were forced by circumstance
to leave their local areas and live outside the traditional microcosm,
the lesser spirits became irrelevant.
Using this model, Horton suggests that “acceptance of Islam and
Christianity [in Africa] is due as much to development of the tradi-
tional cosmology in response to other features of the modern situation
as it is to the activities of the missionaries.”22 In this sense, Horton’s
theory rejects the notion that even large-scale conversions to monothe-
istic religions represent the rejection of a traditional African religious
cosmology. Rather, Christianity and Islam are regarded as ‘catalysts,’
that is, stimulators and accelerators of religious change—of a reli-
gious conversion which was ‘in the air’ anyway, for purely indigenous
21 Robin Horton, “African Conversion,” Africa, Vol. 41, no. 2 (1971) pp. 85–108;
and “On the Rationality of Conversion,” Africa, Vol. 45, nos. 3 and 4 (1975) pp. 219–
35, 373–99. See also, Humphrey Fisher, “Conversion Reconsidered: Some Historical
Aspects of Religious Conversion in Black Africa,” Africa, Vol. 43, no. 1 (1973).
22 Horton, “African Conversion,” p. 103.

chapter seven
reasons.23 The traditional local spirits that are of such immediate and
constant concern in village life no longer provide the explanations that
are needed when the wider world (the macrocosm) intrudes. But Afri-
can religions, according this theory, can always call upon the (tradi-
tionally distant and otiose) High God as a means of explaining these
new events. Horton maintains that they did.24
Njang’s parable, with its uncompromising focus on God as the cause
of all death, insists on the overwhelming significance of the macrocos-
mic forces of the universe. The microcosm of lesser gods and spir-
its, witches, and even ancestors is ignored altogether. According to
Horton’s schema, this approach would represent a statement that the
lower tier of African cosmology is of no importance, and perhaps has
even disappeared as a religious category.
Of course, as Horton suggests, the impositions of the modern world
and conversion to Christianity and Islam in Africa had already helped
this process along considerably by the 1950s. Surely, God was a known
concept and was already important in African thought before Njang
told his parable. But for those men working far from home on the
Kalaru Estates, cut off from local networks and even local churches,
the insignificance of the micro-spirit world must have seemed espe-
cially obvious. The appeal of Njang’s sermon may have been precisely
its willingness to discard the microcosm completely—even more com-
pletely than most African Christians would have done while living
under normal circumstances with family and relations within their
home communities—in favor of a conversion to rigid monotheism.
If this is true, then the Baha’i Church that Njang and Oben-Etchi
founded would have represented a real conversion even for the Chris-
tians among the congregation. Certainly, the two founders of the
church regarded it as such, feeling that they had truly changed reli-
gions. That significant numbers of other men were willing to follow
them indicates that the change met a commonly felt need. The migrant
laborers who attended the Baha’i services were, in Nigeria, utterly
23 Ibid., p. 104. Compare this to Peter Berger’s model of the need for change within
Christianity itself in the face of the challenge of modernity, discussed in Chapter
Three.
24 For a critique of Horton’s model (beyond Fisher’s reply, which was effectively
dismissed by Horton’s second Africa article in 1975), see André Droogers, “From
waste-making to recycling: A plea for an eclectic use of models in the study of reli-
gious change,” in Theoretical Explorations in African Religions, ed. by Wim van Bins-
bergen and Matthew Schoffeleers (London: KPI, 1985) pp. 116–19.

the baha’i church of calabar
dependent on the world beyond their kinship and ethnic networks for
work, money, and survival. Their conversion to the Baha’i Church may
have been, among other things, a conversion to the exclusive signifi-
cance of the macrocosm in their spiritual lives, as well.
From Church to Sect
So it seems that the success of Njang’s efforts in Calabar may be attrib-
uted in large measure to the power of Baha’i teachings and Baha’i
identity to capture the imagination of Africans who were newly expe-
riencing the importance of the macrocosm in their lives. If this is true,
then the question must immediately arise of why Njang was unable to
repeat his conversion success in Akpabeyo. Why didn’t he go on to
organize a successful Baha’i church there and attract a congregation
of believers, as he had before?
Both Njang and Oben-Etchi remained Baha’is after the collapse of
their church. They went on to form the first local Spiritual Assembly
of Nigeria in Calabar in April 1957. Njang remains a Baha’i today,
having served as a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha’is of Nigeria and later as an Auxiliary Board member in that
country. Oben-Etchi also remained a Baha’i for the rest of his life.
However, neither of them ever again was able to form a Baha’i church
or accomplish the significant number of conversions to the Baha’i faith
that they had initially.
Certainly, Njang in Akpabeyo no longer had access to the book
Paris Talks, which had become the basis of church services on the
Kalaru Estates. But, undoubtedly, he could have reclaimed the book
or obtained other Baha’i literature, especially after beginning a cor-
respondence with Enoch Olinga.
There is also the fact that Njang tells us that he had no intention
of continuing his Baha’i activities once he moved to Akpabeyo. Find-
ing the need for religious observance, he joined the Church of Christ
there.25 But, after receiving his first letter from Olinga, Njang reaf-
firmed his commitment to a Baha’i identity. His lapse of faith lasted
25 It should be observed that this was not the Presbyterian Church in which he had
been educated and baptized in Cameroon. This Church of Christ affiliation under-
scores, perhaps, the flexibility of Christian observance among the working men on
the palm plantations in Nigeria.

chapter seven
only a few weeks at most, and he was soon determined to establish a
Baha’i group in his new location.
The practical situation that Njang faced in Akpabeyo was certainly
different. The services of the Church of Christ were in English, and so
the need for Christian services in English on this plantation would not
have been as keenly felt as on the Kalaru Estates, where there had been
none. He faced a rival evangelist who would soon preach against him.
He did not enjoy the same friendship with a company headman that
his acquaintance with Oben-Etchi had afforded him.
However, the explanation for the now few number of converts
which Njang could find, it seems to me, lies more in understanding
the nature of the international Baha’i community to which he was
now attached than with any differences in the local conditions that
he faced. It seems that, in coming into contact with Olinga and the
Baha’i community of West Africa, Njang and Oben-Etchi were them-
selves converted from their own Baha’i Church to a more primitive
and demanding Baha’i ‘circle’ of disciples, more or less focused on a
single leader. This new conception of the Baha’i religion as a closed
‘circle,’ rather than an open ‘ecclesiastical body,’ is what rendered the
repetition of the success of the Baha’i Church of Calabar impossible in
Akpabeyo, and even in Calabar itself.
Joachim Wach, in his classic Sociology of Religion, suggests a three-
phase model for the historical development of the great religions.26 He
illustrates his model with evidence drawn from various religious tradi-
tions, including Baha’i. Wach proposes that the founded religions begin
with an initial phase during which their teachings are established by
an individual through the force of his own charisma. This individual
becomes the center of a ‘circle’ of disciples who are personally attached
to him. This ‘circle’ represents the entire body of believers.
After the death of the founder, a new phase in the development
of the religion begins during which the ‘circle’ is transformed into
a new kind of organization which Wach termed the ‘brotherhood.’
Whereas during the life of the founder the doctrine and truth of the
new religion centered on him alone, after his departure the teachings
must be carried on by his close disciples. Typically, only believers who
have known the founder personally and were members of the original
26 Joachim Wach, Sociology of Religion (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1944
[1971]) pp. 130–45.

the baha’i church of calabar
‘circle’ will achieve positions of leadership in the ‘brotherhood’ phase
of the religion’s growth. But these new leaders will reorganize and
reinterpret the prophet’s work—seniority and direct contact with the
prophet’s charisma becoming the sources of their authority.
This ‘brotherhood’ must, of course, gradually disintegrate; and the
third phase of the religion’s development is marked by its slow trans-
formation into an ‘ecclesiastical body,’ or a church. This last stage rep-
resents the full routinization of the founder’s charisma, during which
the teachings, the rituals, and the authority of the church and its func-
tionaries become formalized.
Margit Warburg, using the example of the establishment of the
Baha’i faith in Denmark, has demonstrated the value of Wach’s model
to the understanding of the spread of an existing religion into a new
country.27 Warburg maintains that the same three phases of ‘circle,’
‘brotherhood,’ and ‘ecclesiastical body’ can be seen, over a much
shorter period of time, to have characterized the history of the Baha’is
of Denmark. Introduced in 1947, by two women—American pioneers
who played the role of ‘founders’—the Baha’i community was initially
established as a ‘circle’ of believers centered around them. The com-
munity experienced a painful reorganization into a ‘brotherhood’ after
the pioneers left the country in 1951, and then later began its develop-
ment toward routinized organization and formal hierarchy—develop-
ments which are still in process today.
Warburg finds major structural similarities between the founding of
a new religion by a prophet, as described by Wach, and its subsequent
introduction into a new area of the world by the first missionaries. At
least three characteristics are nearly identical:
1.  The religion was previously unknown in a particular area to the
public at large;
2.  The founder and/or the first missionaries hold a monopoly on
information about the new religion;
3.  To the new converts, the founder and/or first missionaries are
undisputed religious authorities.28
27 Margit Warburg, “The Circle, the Brotherhood, and the Ecclesiastical Body:
Bahá’í in Denmark, 1925–1987” in Religion, Tradition, and Renewal, ed. by Armin
W. Geertz and Jeppe Sinding Jensen (Aarhus University Press, 1991) pp. 201–221.
28 Ibid., p. 203.

chapter seven
Warburg is careful to clarify that this comparison of founder and first
missionaries is valid only from an academic, sociological perspective.
It does not represent the point of view of the missionaries themselves,
who would regard the two situations as fundamentally different. Such
a comparison would also be rejected by the adherents of the religion,
since naturally they would regard their prophet as beyond comparison
to later missionaries, and might even be offended by such an idea.
Nonetheless, Warburg usefully suggests that:
This structural similarity between the two situations means that the mis-
sionary’s position in the religious community is similar to that of the
founder, both enjoying a special status among the believers. Both are
sole mediators of religious knowledge directly from superior authority.
The relation between the missionary(ies) and the first converts will be a
structural parallel to the founder’s relation to his first disciples, because
both the founder and the missionary act as a centre of undisputed author-
ity communicating with each convert directly. In Wach’s terminology,
this type of organization is called a ‘circle.’ This concept, therefore, will
also be applicable to a situation where a missionizing religion is first
introduced into a new area.29
I would propose that these structural conditions apply to the introduc-
tion of the Baha’i faith into the Cameroons and Eastern Nigeria, with
Enoch Olinga playing the role of the first missionary who attracted
a circle of believers around himself. The Baha’i Church of Calabar,
on the other hand, exhibited no such characteristics. It was initiated
by Njang and Oben-Etchi as an ecclesiastical body in the tradition of
Protestant Christianity, and it saw itself not as a founding ‘circle’ but
as a new church. As such, this church was free to attract an immediate
attendance to its services of a large number of worshippers who were
familiar with that tradition.
After Njang’s move to Akpabeyo and Oben-Etchi’s failure to main-
tain the church in Calabar, both men eventually turned to Olinga as
the authority on the Baha’i faith and attached themselves to him. He
was already established as the center of a new ‘circle,’ and they—in
effect—became his ‘disciples’ (in a structural sense). This created a
situation that was entirely distinct from their previous presentation of
the Baha’i faith as a church. As a ‘circle’ the Baha’i religion would have
29 Ibid., pp. 203–204.

the baha’i church of calabar
much less appeal to large numbers of Christian men in West Africa
than would a church.
Although Warburg is not concerned with this aspect of his analy-
sis, Wach—in proposing his model for the development of founded
religions—has noted the different levels of demand and commitment
required of believers at the different stages of ‘circle,’ ‘brotherhood,’
and ‘church.’ Membership in the original ‘circle’ requires “a complete
break with the ordinary pursuits of life and a radical change in social
and religious relationships. Ties of family and kinship and loyalties
of various kinds are at least temporarily relaxed or severed.”30 The
‘circle’ demands intense bonds of solidarity among the believers, who
are expected to be few. They are asked to leave everything behind to
follow the new religion and adopt “a revised attitude toward the nature
of ultimate truth as well as toward the world and its inhabitants.” They
adopt a new identity and should expect to experience hardships, suf-
fering, persecution, and even martyrdom.31
This approach to religion very much characterized the demands and
expectations of the Baha’i pioneers in West Africa toward their con-
verts during the first years of its growth there, and this was also true in
Uganda. The very first converts in Cameroon were almost immediately
asked to leave friends, family, and fellow believers behind, and to scat-
ter as pioneers to various parts of the region. As we have seen, many
of them did just that.32
By the time the religion develops into a church, Wach observes,
these expectations are relaxed—at least for the majority of believers.
A ‘double standard of perfection’ distinguishes the ‘clergy’ from the
‘laity.’ The latter, who are most members of the church, pursue their
lives in an ordinary way within a stable, if sacred, organization.33
I would suggest that, after coming into contact with Olinga, Njang
and Oben-Etchi found their conception of the Baha’i religion changed
from the assumption that it was a church among other Christian
churches to the realization that it was—at least at this point in its
30 Wach, Sociology of Religion, p. 135.
31 Ibid., p. 136. These kinds of demands and expectations certainly characterized
the Baha’i community in the United States during the 1950s and, to a much lesser
extent, continue to characterize it today.
32 See Chapter Five.
33 Wach, Sociology of Religion, p. 144.

chapter seven
development in the British Cameroons—conceived as a ‘circle.’34 Olin-
ga’s first letters to Njang do not instruct him to form a Baha’i church
in Akpabeyo that might duplicate the success he had achieved in Cala-
bar, it should be noted. Olinga’s first instructions were to have all of
the Baha’is in Akpabeyo ‘declare’ their faith and register their names
as members of a new religion. This declaration procedure, however
normal in the Baha’i world, was unfamiliar to Njang, as it would have
been to his new converts. Certainly, this was an act that implied a radi-
cal change in religious identity. It was this new concept that effectively
brought a halt to Njang’s Baha’i church project and connected him to
the wider international Baha’i community, which conceived of itself
quite differently.
Conclusions
So, what are the results of the laboratory experiment that offered us,
in West Africa during the 1950s, in effect, a Baha’i faith without the
Baha’is? What can we learn from the brief life of the Baha’i Church
of Calabar?
The first thing that is obvious is the enormous role which the ini-
tiative of African converts played in the establishment of the Baha’i
religion in West Africa. In the Calabar case, the Baha’i teachings alone
were extremely effective in establishing a substantial following of con-
verts without any effort whatsoever being made by foreign Baha’is.
Conceived, of course, as a Christian teaching, the Baha’i message alone
had enormous appeal to West Africans—quite independent of its mis-
sionaries. Such appeal implies not only the persuasiveness of the mes-
sage itself, but more importantly the readiness of Africans to adopt it
on their own initiative. As an independent Christian church, which is
how it was conceived and reworked in Calabar, the Baha’i faith was an
extremely successful (if ephemeral) movement.
Second, we may note that the points of attraction to the Baha’i mes-
sage from an African perspective were quite different than the Baha’i
34 Although more research is needed to establish the point clearly, it appears that
in later years the Baha’i faith in British Cameroons eventually moved away from the
structure of a brotherhood centered on Enoch Olinga and became a movement, at
least in some parts of the country. Large numbers of people became Baha’is very
quickly. (See Chapter Six.) However, the history of the Baha’is in Nigeria indicates
that a similar advance did not take place there. (See Chapter Four.)

the baha’i church of calabar
pioneers may have imagined. The photograph of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, the
Baha’i teachings on hospitality, the English translation of Baha’i texts,
and an unorthodox35 explanation of the cause of premature death were
the elements which allowed a bridge to large-scale conversion in Cala-
bar. The usual elements of Baha’i teaching—the concept of progressive
revelation, the modern and progressive Baha’i principles, claims of a
new prophet come from God, the call to a new religious age—were
absent.
One point of convergence between the conventional Baha’i mes-
sage and the Calabar doctrine, however, may have been agreement
on the overwhelming significance of the macrocosm to the life of its
converts. This may have been expressed in the form of a strict mono-
theism within the new Baha’i church: it would have marked the arrival
of the world of high modernism to West Africa and the end of the
traditional, village order. For the larger Baha’i world, this idea would
be understood as the fundamental Baha’i belief in the unity of human-
ity, the oneness and wholeness of the human race, as the central fact
of contemporary history.
And again, the Baha’is of Calabar and the Baha’is in the larger inter-
national Baha’i community may have shared a common experience of
conversion to a new faith, even though a faith with deep roots in their
old traditions. Insofar as the Calabar Baha’is experienced their Baha’i
services as a move beyond the Basel Mission to a post-Christian reli-
gion—in some sense, a post-colonial religion—they shared this experi-
ence of conversion and renewal with every other Baha’i in the world.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, our laboratory experiment
indicates clearly that the conception of the Baha’i faith as a closed ‘cir-
cle’ of believers—believers who are expected to break with the past and
pursue the promulgation of the religion at any cost to themselves—
failed to attract large numbers of converts in West Africa.
On the other hand, the presentation of the Baha’i religion as a new
Christian church with a fresh message for its followers was enormously
effective. The initial success of Njang and Oben-Etchi in organizing a
Baha’i Church stands as an important counter-example to their more
limited success in finding converts to the Baha’i faith once they were
35 Unorthodox from a Baha’i point of view, that is. And only in the sense that
Njang’s parable cannot be found in official Baha’i texts. There is nothing in Njang’s
parable that contemporary Baha’is would find objectionable or offensive.

chapter seven
part of Enoch Olinga’s circle. It stands in similar contrast to the efforts
of foreign pioneers in establishing the Baha’i community in other parts
of Africa, in Ghana or Nigeria, for instance.
But, at the same time, their success may provide hints to explain
how the Baha’is were able to achieve such explosive growth in convert-
ing whole congregations from within the Basel Mission in the British
Cameroons some time later. The Basel Mission converts may have seen
themselves as joining a ‘new church,’36 rather than a life-consuming
‘circle’ of disciples of a new religion. The Baha’i Church of Calabar
demonstrates how easily Africans might agree to join such a new
church and how such conversions might involve whole communities
of Christians.
36 The term ‘new church’ was actually used at the time, in popular speech, to refer
to the new Baha’i communities of the British Cameroons, as Tröster mentions in his
article.

AFTERWORD
IN LIEU OF A CONCLUSION
This is the first academic book that has been published on the history
of the Baha’i religion in Africa. It is certainly premature to sum up
this research with any definite statements that can be called ‘conclu-
sions.’ Furthermore, the sources of this book, and the dissertation on
which it is based, were limited to archives in the United States and
Switzerland, and a few oral interviews. Therefore, the reach of this
study is necessarily limited. The establishment of the Baha’i faith in
Africa, and in West Africa in particular, involved a number of dispa-
rate threads and complex processes that cannot be neatly tied together.
There were at some times clear trends and patterns that can be dis-
cerned in hindsight. However, such patterns were often short-lived
and  contradictory.
At the end of this study, the reader is left with more questions than
answers. That is as it should be. Academic publications should, after
all, pave the way for further research, not pretend to shut the door
on it. My hope is that future scholars, and especially scholars inside
Africa, will follow this work with more detailed and more informed
studies that will raise still more questions.
The process of establishing the Baha’i religion in West Africa, in
the first ten years, was a complex one, involving pioneers from three
different continents bringing (as is now clear) different messages
and different religious practices with them. Americans, both white
and black, were followed by Iranians, and Indian with Iranian roots,
several recently converted Africans, and one Ugandan transplant, all
living in widely dispersed communities. They carried with them dif-
ferent assumptions, different beliefs, different emphases, different
approaches, different languages, and different strategies of teaching.
The Baha’i message was, therefore, not a monolithic one.
The clearest distinction that can be discerned at this point is the con-
trast between the American organizational model, which was mostly
concerned with the proper functioning of Baha’i Administration, as
exemplified by Valerie Wilson; the Indo-Iranian healing model, which
we can barely make out as a movement among Muslim converts in

afterword
the Gambia, centered around the efforts of Fariborz Roozbehyan; and
a revival-type movement, which spread successfully among Christians
within the Basel Mission in the British Cameroons under the direction
of Enoch Olinga.1 Certainly, the latter was the most successful and the
most long-lasting of the three. Nonetheless, a wide divergence of Baha’i
practice is one theme that merits further study. What exactly were
the various elements of each approach? How were they understood by
new converts? Why did some fail and some succeed so well?
Questions surrounding conversion and religious identity are noto-
riously difficult, but must be answered. However, the answers very
much depend on point of view. In Uganda, Olinga invited people
in his homeland of Teso to become Baha’is in such a way that did
not require them to abandon their church membership. While the
Baha’i world celebrated their conversions in near-ecstatic language,
the Ugandan Baha’is—while enthusiastic about their new faith and
their new identity—continued to regard themselves as Christians. This
may also have been true of the Basel Mission Baha’is in the British
Cameroons.
I doubt that the concept of ‘dual identity’ will be very helpful in
allowing us to understand the experiences of these African Baha’is.
It seems to me that such a concept would be foreign to their experi-
ence and incomprehensible to them. It does not appear to me that
they subjectively experienced any duality at all. To demand that they
should have done so, I would argue, is only an attempt to force them
into categories that they did not recognize, or even understand—but
to which we feel they must conform. More likely, Middleton’s sugges-
tion that these new Baha’is were simply happy to partake of what was
‘there’ will be more useful for research.2
Categories were certainly forced upon the new Baha’is, in any case.
Of course, these categories depended very much on who was doing the
categorizing. In the British Cameroons, for example, the new Baha’is
were immediately accepted by Shoghi Effendi as full and mature mem-
bers of the Baha’i religion, equal to all others and competent to under-
1 To these, we might possibly add the ‘utopian model’ of some of the African
American pioneers in Liberia. However, we have so little evidence concerning their
ideas and plans that I hesitate to include it. I am deliberately passing over the short-
lived ‘independent church’ model found in Calabar, since it was not connected to the
wider Baha’i community.
2 See Chapter Five for a discussion of Middleton’s concepts.

in lieu of a conclusion
take missionary assignments in other parts of Africa. They represented
to him, and to the distant Baha’is of Iran and of America, the spiritual
conquest of the continent. To Georg Tröster, on the other hand, these
converts were lamentable apostates who should be urgently gathered
back into the Christian fold. Other evidence suggests that to their fel-
low African Christians—those who did not become Baha’is, such as
Minister B— in Tröster’s narrative—they remained members of the
church, and members of the community, whose adherence to Baha’i
teachings had given rise, perhaps, to the unfortunate consequence of
making them the target of missionary meddling. For B— and for cer-
tain Christian elders it appears that their neighbors’ new beliefs and
new allegiances were of little consequence.
But what of the Basel Baha’is and their self-perception? What cat-
egories did they make for themselves? How did they define their own
identities? The answers to these questions remain elusive. Mose Tanyi
claimed that he could see “no great difference” between Christianity
and the Baha’i faith. He had opted for the latter, perhaps, to escape
from missionary control and oppression. But he remained convinced
that he was involved in the same struggle that the Christian missions
were engaged in. Just how he understood that to be true is unclear.
Certainly future studies will answer this question better than this
first study can. Future researchers would do well to interview the early
converts who are still alive, to seek out their memoirs, letters, and
written testimonies.3 Not only the converts who remain Baha’is today,
but also those who may have returned to their original churches or
moved on to other beliefs, should be sought out. Nor should Tröster
be allowed to remain the only voice of the Basel Mission. The testimo-
nies of other missionaries and of African pastors are badly needed. It
is only by exploring these multiple points of view that it will be pos-
sible to get a multifaceted understanding of Baha’i conversion during
the period.
Questions of conversion and identity will also be prominent in any
consideration of the Baha’i Church of Calabar. Should this short-
lived congregation of believers be regarded as Baha’i at all? Did the
formation of this church mark any real conversion on the part of its
3 For those who have died, the personal reminiscence of their children and the oral
histories of their families will yield important information.

afterword
members?4 My answer would be: yes, indeed it did. But again, the
event stubbornly refuses to fit neatly into familiar categories.
I have suggested in Chapter Seven that the Baha’i congregation at
Calabar was a deliberate and self-conscious attempt to create a new
church based on Baha’i teachings as found in Paris Talks, a volume
of speeches delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Nonetheless, I doubt that the
new Baha’is perceived any sharp break with their Christian origins
(though some of them later would). They were Baha’is in the sense that
they had founded a new and independent church committed to Baha’i
principles.5 They had converted to a new thing—something novel and
refreshing, but still domestic and recognizable. Questions of identity
and conversion are paramount here, but answers are not easy to come
by. Nor are they liable to fit into categories we are comfortable with.
Another pattern that emerges from this study of the early years of
the Baha’i faith in West Africa is the highly uneven effectiveness of
Baha’i teaching efforts. For Olinga, success followed success—first in
Uganda and then in the British Cameroons. In Gambia, on the other
hand, Baha’i Assemblies and converts were repeatedly erased by cir-
cumstances. In Sierra Leone, the Baha’i community had a tentative
beginning and then stagnated. In Nigeria, growth remained weak and
unimpressive. In French-speaking West Africa, there was virtually no
growth at all.
Finally, there is the even more elusive question of the Baha’i mes-
sage. As we have seen, the teachings of the Baha’i religion were selec-
tively transmitted to Africans by Iranian and American pioneers, who
carefully distinguished between the essentials of faith and ‘secondary’
matters. These teachings were also selectively received by converts in
ways that are difficult to discern from the written record.
Certainly the messages differed. I have suggested that the message
that Enoch Olinga offered, the one that was most successful, was a
4 One scholar has suggested to me that since the founders of the church apparently
intended to baptize its members, this indicates that they considered themselves Chris-
tians, and not Baha’is at all. I cannot follow the logic of this argument.
5 The anecdote which relates that the founders of the Calabar Baha’i Church puz-
zled over which kind of baptism they should administer is instructive—even emblem-
atic. The new Baha’is here assumed that they remained Christians and that potential
converts would have to be baptized. But, what kind of Christians were they? Which
form of baptism should be appropriate? Here is the intersection of an identity that is
self-consciously new and innovative, clearly a conversion (the Baha’i element), within
an assumed matrix of an older tradition.

in lieu of a conclusion
Christian chiliastic call for renewal. Further research is certainly
needed to confirm this hypothesis. Even if this initial assessment turns
out to be true, and Olinga’s message was such, how was it understood
and received—first by Teso converts in Uganda, then by Banyangi in
the British Cameroons? What message, in turn, did these new converts
transmit to their own converts, and how was that received?
The Baha’i faith was introduced into an African context, in a milieu
of African beliefs and assumptions. Where it was accepted, it was
interpreted within that context and appropriated to the needs of the
African experience. As with all conversions, conversion to the Baha’i
faith was a classical, dialectic process that included an exchange of
ideas between specific individual converts and specific individual
pioneers—each with their differing cultures, beliefs, assumptions, and
practices. Sorting through all of those individual threads is perhaps the
most difficult task, a task well beyond the scope of this study.
Thomas Spear has noted that, although there is a vast literature
on the spread of Christianity throughout Africa in the nineteenth
and twentieth centuries, there are still large areas of Christian his-
tory that have not been adequately explored in academic study. He
points out that much has been written on the growth of missions, mis-
sion churches, and the subsequent explosion of independent African
churches, but little is known about the personal religious experiences
of African Christians. He goes on to say:
Social histories of mission and national churches are rare, ethnographies
of African Christian religious practice virtually non-existent, biographies
of early Christian converts and catechists exceptional, and analyses of
African Christian beliefs scarce. . . . It is thus critical that we probe deeply
into the experiences of African Christians themselves as they explored
the new faith in all its complexity, interpreted it in their own cultural
and historical contexts, and appropriated it as their own . . .6
Of course, if this is true of the scholarship on Christianity in Africa,
it is true many times over for the study of the Baha’i religion there.
At this point, we can only begin to ask questions and hope that future
researchers will find ways to answer them.
6 Spear, “Toward the History,” pp. 3–4.

APPENDIX
A LIST OF BAHA’IS IN BRITISH CAMEROONS, 1958
This is a copy of a list found in Valerie Wilson’s papers. Though
undated and untitled, it appears to be a report that she received in
1958 from the Baha’is in the British Cameroons. The report is remark-
able for the detail that it contains concerning the individual Baha’is in
the area. Every effort was made to show the names, tribal affiliation,
country of origin, native language, and age of each Baha’i. In addition,
records had been kept, in most cases, of the date on which each person
had registered as a member of the religion.
Since there were no European or American Baha’is in the British
Cameroons at this time (and no Iranians), the report was generated by
recent African converts. It demonstrates the level of sophistication and
literacy of (at least the leaders of ) the Cameroonian Baha’i community
at this time. The report resembles a list that might have been made by
the colonial administration or by the Basel Mission.
The compiler of this list is unknown. However, the report sent the
following year (received September 3, 1959) to Ms. Wilson from the
British Cameroons was put together by the Baha’i Regional Teaching
Committee No. 10, based in Victoria. In that letter, the secretary of
the committee seems mildly annoyed by Wilson’s urgent demands
for statistics. He writes: “Please I regret whatever embarrassment the
shortage of the enclosed information had caused you. However, a little
patience in this time of development could be tolerated if not over-
looked.” (Valerie Wilson papers.) The 1959 report included the names
of all Baha’is, but not their personal information.
There are handwritten additions to the typed list that were probably
made by Wilson herself to update the list, as more people became Baha’is.
Her notes also indicate deaths, corrections of spelling, moves, and so
forth. In addition, she adds checks and symbols that are not immediately
clear. In most cases, I have not reproduced these notes below. Where I
have done so, the notes appear in brackets. (My additions also appear
in brackets.) Since the pages of my photocopies have become shuffled,
it is not clear that the various localities were listed in the order they are
presented below. However, the information is accurately reproduced for
each locality. Inconsistencies in  punctuation and spelling, duplication of
names, etc., are reproduced as found in the original list.

appendix
Locality: Victoria
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Thompson Akondip
Banyang
B/Cameroons
7.2.54
Kanyang
Andrease Ndip
Banyang
B/Cameroons
30.4.54
Keaka
Adult
Samuel Bakare
Ibo
Nigeria
14.6.54
Ibo
Oscar Wotumba
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
10.6.54
Bakweri
Adult
John Mbok
Bassa
B/Cameroons
9.9.54
Bassa
Adult
Thomas Njumbe
Bakossi
B/Cameroons
9.9.54
Bakossi
Jeremiah Ngu
Bametah
B/Cameroons
28.10.54
Meta(h)
Adult
Solomon Tambai
Banyang
B/Cameroons
11.11.54
Kenyang
Adult
William Egbe Tuku
Banyang
B/Cameroons
11.11.54
Kenyang
Adult
Richmond Teta
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
30.9.54
Bakweri
Adult
Robinson Ekpew
Banyang
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Banyang
Adult
Alfred Takow
Banyang
B/Cameroons
16.4.55
Kenyang
Adult
Jo’anah Ngompek (Miss) Bassa
B/Cameroons
9.9.54
Bassa
Belta Oru (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
9.9.54
Kenyang
Adult
Benjamin Akparies
Ekoi
Nigeria
24.2.55
Ekoi
Alfred Jack
Ibo
Nigeria
12.7.55
Ibo
John Upa
Doula [sic]
B/Cameroons
18.2.56
Doula [sic] 28
Samuel Atanga
Bameta(h)
B/Cameroons
14.2.56
Meta(h)
Ben Ndumbe
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
4.3.56
Bakweri
Jackson Nso
Ibibio
Nigeria
10.4.56
Ibibio
John Chuku Ogu
Ibo
Nigeria
20.4.57
Ibo
Joshua Orung
Keaka
B/Cameroons
20.4.57
Keaka
Dickson Nfaw Ako
Banyang
B/Cameroons
1.5.57
Kenyang
Eleazar Mojekwu
Ibo
Nigeria
12.7.55
Ibo
Adult
Mathias Nwaha
Bassa
B/Cameroons
24.6.54
Bassa
Agnes Tambi (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
9.9.54
Kenyang
Enoch Olinga
Teso
Uganda
15.10.53
Ateso
Adult
Eunice Olinga (Mrs)
Teso
Uganda
—
Ateso
Adult
Nancy A. Ekedo (Mrs)
Ibo
Nigeria
12.5.57
Ibo
25½
Frida Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
13.7.54
Kenyang
Adult
Sophie Ayauk (Miss)
Obang
B/Cameroons
29.6.57
Obang
Adult
Rose A. Takow (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
6.7.57
Kenyang
Rose Bakere (Mrs)
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Adult
Lucy Okoro (Mrs)
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Adult
Grace Okoro (Mrs)
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Adult
Daniel Ekoma Ebai
Bafor
B/Cameroons
10.1.56
Bafor
Robert Sass
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
15.6.57
Bakweri
Martin Besong [Olaf ]
Banyang
B/Cameroons
24.4.57
Kenyang
Oscar B. Orung
Keaka
B/Cameroons
25.6.57
Keaka
Mathias A. Ekedo
Ibo
Nigeria
12.5.57
Ibo
Daniel Njah
Bamenda
B/Cameroons
4.7.57
Bikom
Adolphus Njang
Banyang
B/Cameroons
4.7.57
Kenyang

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
[The following names have been added by hand, each followed by an X. Many
of the names appear to list the last name first. But there are no commas.]
Ashu Daniel
Okoko Ndukaihe
Oru James
Ayuk Stephen
Ifeyinwa Albert
Besong Moses
Franscisca Agbor [no X, preceded by Θ]
Adolophonse Njang
Enow Joseph
Ekema Peter
Ogu Chuku John1
Monono M. Gustav
Mbal Ceicilia (Mrs)
Elta Mercy (Mrs)
Hannah Monono (Mrs)
1 Also listed above for Victoria.
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Theophilus Umunalsive
Ibo
Nigeria
4.7.57
Ibo
Wilfred Agbor Ashu
Keaka
B/Cameroons
1.11.57
Keaka
John A. Agbor
Banyang
B/Cameroons
31.10.57
Kenyang
Daniel E. Takow
Banyang
B/Cameroons
31.10.57
Kenyang
Daniel Eyisab
Banyang
B/Cameroons
1.11.57
Kenyang
Silas Nwaka
Ibo
Nigeria
1.11.57
Ibo
Francisca E. Arung (Mrs) Banyang
B/Cameroons
8.8.57
Kenyang
Fernie Ewane (Mrs)
Nkongsamba F/Cameroons
30.10.57
Douala
Adult
Nkah George
Bassa
B/Cameroons
31.10.57
Bassa
Thimothy Onyebuagu
Ibo
Nigeria
1.4.58
Ibo
Isaac Okoro
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
George E. Ndukwe
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Iro Ike
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Hansel Ndando Akume
Bakossi
B/Cameroons
—
Bakossi
Joseph O. Irem
Ibo
Nigeria
6.11.56
Ibo
Alice Eyong (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Jacob N. Elad
Mbo
F/Cameroons
30.12.57
Mbo
Adult
Bassey Udofia
Ibibio
Nigeria
10.9.58
Ibibio
George E. J. Aderinola
Yoruba
Nigeria
14.9.58
Yoruba
Locality: Victoria (cont.)

appendix
Locality: Tinto
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Edward Manga
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.10.57
Kenyang 23
Moses Eyong Tabi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.10.57
Kenyang 27
James T. Ebai
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.10.57
Kenyang 39
Be(r)nard T. Ayuk(agbor)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.10.57
Kenyang 26
Johnathan Akombi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.10.57
Kenyang 21
Joseph Atem Njock
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.10.57
Kenyang 30
J. N. Ajongi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang 32
Thomas Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang 28
M. N. E. Akombi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang 27
Tabe Essim
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang 27
G. N. Maccornea Tongabiang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang 22
Ceicilia Paul Ndip (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 32
Bessem Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 45
Agnes Enobika (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 27
Agnes Ayongi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 30
Belta Atem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 31
Janny Atem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 25
Frida Atem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 40
[Su]ssana Asik Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 20
Adolf Njock Ebai (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 32
Cather Beyang Essong (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 43
Samuel Besong Ebanga
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 75
Samuel E. Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 56
Sampson Tatta
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 39
Sophie Anyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 18
Manyang Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 40
Samuel Ngah
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 14
Lucy Tambe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 30
Polina Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 28
Jacob Manga
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 20
Agatha A. Akombi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 25
Johanes Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 60
Abanda Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 36
Sophie Abanda (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 30
Robertson Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang Adult
W. A. Ebot
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 48
Lucy Oyongi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 28
[F]rancisca Orok (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 48
Clara Williams (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 24
Sophie Atem Nyok (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 26
D. A. Atem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 50

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Robert Tange
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 57
Fanny Atem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 40
James T. Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 30
William Nkeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang 30
J. A. Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 31
Chief A. Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 68
Oscar Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 48
Regina Tambe Etem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 29
Mufani Tabe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 48
Emelia Tanyi Ndip (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 36
Emannuel Agbor Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 48
Emelia Enow Obi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 32
Andrease Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 41
James Enobika
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 30
Elline Enobika (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 25
Agnes Enobika (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 27
Regina Enombi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang Adult
Margaret Eyong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang Adult
Peter Ashu Ngwa
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 21
Sam Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 44
Sophie Adami (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 54
Money Takang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 53
Grace Martin (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 28
Jacob Bangeb
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 50
Nkwa Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
Jacob Nkwa Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 32
Elisa Ayuk Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 27
Sophie Eyong Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
Mathias Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
Regina Mufanny (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 35
Locality: Tinto (cont.)
[The following names have been added by hand.]
Chief P. A. Fongang
Chief D. A. Tataw

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Lucy For Mbu (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 25
Emelia Ndip Emannuel (Mrs) Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 27
Ester Affue Agbo (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 28
Cather Egbe (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
A. E. Manga
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 48
Besong Ngu (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 60
Tambe Mbock
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 25
Belta Bayee (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 22
Mary Beju Eyong (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
Sussana Esakenong (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 28
Margaret Bechem (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 24
Jackson Agbor Enow
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 48
Mary X Ebika (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 42
Belta Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 42
Lydia Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 40
Manfred Bayee
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
Clarah Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 29
[Lu]cy Ashu Apai (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 36
Aggie Zacharias (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 38
Lucy Bessem Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 32
Fridah Mongerng (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang Adult
Elizabeth Taku (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 42
Moses Essem
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 48
Francis Ebang Ebai
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 41
Emelia Ayuk (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang Adult
Paulinah Tartah (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang Adult
Sussana Enaka (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 38
Abraham A. Ntatang
Banyang
B/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang 45
Locality: Tinto (cont.)

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Locality: Tiko
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Emannuel Akoharrey
Keaka
B/Cameroons
30.4.54
Keaka
Adult
Zaacs Ngaaje
Bakossi
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Bakossi
Adult
Augustine Ebott
Keaka
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Keaka
Adult
Mallory Wuvalla
Bali
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Bali
Adult
Martin Agbor [Secy]
Keaka
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Keaka
Adult
Johnson Etumbe
B/Cameroons
16.4.55
Adult
James Mbu
Banyang
B/Cameroons
7.2.54
Kenyang
Adult
Alice Mbu (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
24.2.54
Kenyang
Philip Atem
Banyang
B/Cameroons
24.3.54
Kenyang
Michael Ndip
Keaka
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Keaka
Adult
Joseph Akama
Bakossi
B/Cameroons
—
Bakossi
Adult
Daniel Besong Arrey
Keaka
B/Cameroons
—
Keaka
Adult
Alfred Bayee
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Samuel Agbor
Keaka
B/Cameroons
—
Keaka
Adult
James Nwachi
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Adult
Sussana Agbor (Mrs)
Keaka
B/Cameroons
—
Keaka
Adult
Ceicilia Ebai (Mrs)
Keaka
B/Cameroons
—
Keaka
Adult
Locality: Tali
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Paul Takem Mfotow
Banyang
B/Cameroons
22.1.58
Kenyang
Margaret Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
22.1.58
Kenyang
Daniel Tataw
Banyang
B/Cameroons
22.1.58
Kenyang
George Nda Abanda
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Paul Ndip
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Gabriel N. Bechem
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Rose Takem (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Christiana Ebanga (Miss)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Oscar Tambe
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Dickson Oben
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Rebecca Takem (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
John Ako
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Arrah Eno Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang
Sussana Ebott (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
23.1.58
Kenyang

appendix
Locality: Buea
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Namange Johnson
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
23.3.55
Bakweri
Simon Tabe
Banyang
B/Cameroons
8.3.55
Kenyang
Michael Ebott Tanyi
Keaka
B/Cameroons
4.9.56
Keaka
Peter Lima
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
11.9.56
Bakweri
Simon Mbwange
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
26.4.56
Bakweri
Alexander Ashutatang
Banyang
B/Cameroons
25.11.54
Kenyang
Adult
John Nwanja
Barombi
B/Cameroons
7.2.54
Barombi
Adult
Lucas Binda
Babetah
B/Cameroons
27.10.54
Metah
Adult
S. E. Enow [Roberts Myoko] Banyang
B/Cameroons
27.10.54
Kenyang
Adult
Wilson Egbe
Banyang
B/Cameroons
16.4.55
Kenyang
Adult
Hans Ekema Ndumbe
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
—
Bakweri
Adult
Godfrey Ekombe Wose
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
30.3.58
Bakweri
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Enow, Robert
Enow, Sussanah (Mrs)
Eyong Tabot Simon
Simon Wana Mbua-
(Takang, John)
Mpacku Marcus
Locality: Ekona
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Pius Ngatta
Banyang
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
O. F. Musi
Bali
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Bali
Adult
Christopher Siki
Bali
B/Cameroons
16.12.54
Bali
Adult
Peter Woloko
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
8.4.56
Bakweri
Joseph Molongo
Bakweri
B/Cameroons
12.2.56
Bakweri
Martin Ebai
Banyang
B/Cameroons
26.1.56
Kenyang
Alexander Abanda
—
B/Cameroons
—
—
Adult

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
[Note:] Two left this Centre.
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Wourou Brown
Akonjang Samuel
Ako, Joseph
Ekongwe Manfred
Locality: Sumbe. Group
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Thomas Bakia
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Oscar E. Bakia
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Samuel T. Mbeng
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Belta Ebanga (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mather Banyi (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Isaac Bakia
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Simon Egbe
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Likomba
Record bearing the manes of believers in this centre is not found at present,
hope to forward in due course.
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Nkongho Peter
Mfontem Gregory
Enow Christopher
Ka Tayason Theresa (Mrs)
Ashu Daniel
C. Y. Tayason
Abia Stephen
Oben Mfontem Victor
Takang, John2
Locality: Sapele [Nigeria]
As stated above.
2 Also listed above. Added by hand in parenthesis to Buea.

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
David Mbu
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adolf Mbu
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Aaron Besong
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Daniel Tanyi
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ceicilia Ndip (Mrs)3
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Belta Etta (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Dyna Arrah (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Moses Ebai
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sussana Mbi Aya (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Peter Enow
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Belta Nkem (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Paul Ayauk
Banyang
B/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Sumbe. Group (cont.)
Locality: Faitok. Group
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Elias Tabi
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Fredah Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Dickson Achour
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Fredah Agbor (Mrs)4
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Belta Eta (Mrs)5
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Elisa Ayuk (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Mather Betchem (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Ester Eta (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Sussana Tabi (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Jacob Ebai
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Annah Achour (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Regina Nyenty (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
Ceicilia Ofonde (Mrs)
Banyang
B/Cameroons
20.6.58
Kenyang
3 Same name listed above in Tinto, as age 32.
4 Same name as above in Faitok, with a different age. Possibly a mother and
daughter?
5 Same name listed above in Sumbe, with a different age.

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Locality: Ntenmbang
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
William Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Ferdson Tong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Grace Thomas
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Lydia Tabe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Margret Abange (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Aaron Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
John Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Daniel Tanyi Bitika
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
A. Abange
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Robert Nkwa
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Thomas A. Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Emannuel Eyang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Frida Mbing David (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Hanah Njinge (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Francisca Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Paul Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Elina Moses (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Rose Stephen (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Thompson Ebi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Joseph Bateh
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Belta Mbu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Joseph N. Afie
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Elinah Besong John (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Christiana Paul (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Besem Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Elias N. Tarh
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Stephen N. Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Mary Tawo (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Nakungu (Madam)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Jonas Nkem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
David Nyack
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Bakia Esong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Aaron Mbu Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Michael Member
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Adult
Sofi Member (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Jonas Nkem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Joanah Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Marther Eyere (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
[Al]ice Nkem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Daniel Nyack
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Manfred Abang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Polina Besm Abang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Rose E. Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
George E. Nyack
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Alexander Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Adult
Samuel Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Sofi Epe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Helinah Ndip (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Julianah Epe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
James Nkeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Sofi Nkem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Francisca Epe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Elias Epe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Christiana Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Polina Abang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Polina Njong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sussana Njong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Margret Affeah (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Lydia Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Benard Ayuk Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.1.58
Kenyang
Thimothy Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
James Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Emelia Ayi Tambe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Johanes Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Thomas Abe Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sussana Eyongi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Fridah Ebot (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sofi Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mary Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Jacob Etong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Ntenmbang (cont.)
Locality: Eyang
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Sam Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Serah Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Joseph Ebini
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Shadrack Baye Atem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Samuel Tambi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Elias Tabi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Vincent Takom
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
James Epe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Paul Oben
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Lydia Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Thimothy Nkongho
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Noah Batake
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Andrew Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Ebelle Efange
Bakweri
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Bakweri
Thomas Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Thomas Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Jacob Ketchen
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Joseph Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Helin Tambi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Johanah Manyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Bell Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Anna Ketchen (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
William Enow Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Annah William Enow (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Paulina Andrew
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Hannah Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Benjamin Ependip
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Belta Bakume Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Janny Dan Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Emelia Bell Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Rebecca Eyong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Andrew Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Fridah Joseph Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Elina Tambe Aku (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Adult
Chief James Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Dorah Ebott (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Ceicilia Ebott (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Johanah Zacheus
[Agbor] (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Regina John Deba (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Michael Ebai
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Hannah Sam Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.3.57
Kenyang
Bonabelly Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
12.1.58
Kenyang
Tom Apkwame
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Elisa Betek (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
John Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Rudolph Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mathias Babi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Soffe Besem Thymothy
(Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Margret Tom (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Eyang (cont.)

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Alice Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
14.3.58
Kenyang
Eline Acili (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
14.3.58
Kenyang
Belta Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
14.3.58
Kenyang
Sarah Abe Mathias (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
16.3.58
Kenyang
Regina Mbey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
9.3.58
Kenyang
Ceicilia Taku (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
14.3.58
Kenyang
George Bayee
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
9.3.58
Kenyang
Benjamin Deb
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
9.3.58
Kenyang
Mary Manyi Ako (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Lucas Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Daniel Epe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
25.4.58
Kenyang
Lucy Besem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.6.58
Kenyang
Emelia Deba (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Christiana Epe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Eyaong Ayauk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Tabi Nguta
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Mary Deba (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Aggie N. Epe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
7.5.58
Kenyang
Dinah Ebott Abey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Sussana Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Fredah Arrey Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Amina Ako (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Agnes Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Adult
Emelia Nakumba (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.4.58
Kenyang
Eline Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.6.58
Kenyang
Paulina Eyong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.6.58
Kenyang
Atoni Ntah
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.6.58
Kenyang
Paulina Ketchen (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.6.58
Kenyang
David Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.6.58
Kenyang
Thomas Nkongho
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.6.58
Kenyang
Locality: Eyang (cont.)
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Okon Epeh Jonas
Bayi Johanah (Mrs)
Arrah Ayuk (Miss)

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Locality: Mutengene
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Emannuel Njang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

30.4.54
Kenyang
Augustine Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

27.10.54
Kenyang
Joseph A. Ayuk
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

18.11.56
Keaka
Moris Ojong
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

18.11.56
Keaka
Aaron Asick
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

18.11.56
Keaka
Napoleon Etta
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

18.11.56
Keaka
Otto A. Equor
Balong
Br/Cameroons

20.4.57
Balong
Joseph Chukwu
Ibo
Nigeria

9.12.57
Ibo
Martin Manga
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Augustine Esage
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Sylvester Njum
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
[The following name was added by hand. The comma between the last name
and first name appears to be missing.]
Irem Okpara Joseph
Locality: Mamfe
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Emannuel Tataw Nkeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
9.9.54
Kenyang
David I. Bassey
Ibibio
Nigeria
28.10.54
Ibibio
Sampson Fochak
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  22.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Daniel (Obi) Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.2.56
Kenyang
Napoleon Ojong
Keaka
Br/Cameroons  20.12.54
Keaka
Adult
William Tabe
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
9.2.54
Keaka
Jacob Awo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
27.1.54
Kenyang
Adult
Daniel Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
14.4.56
Kenyang
Adult
Zacharias Nkongho
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  22.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Ceicilia Tabe (Miss)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
18.4.57
Kenyang
[Ef ]fe Otun Ayamba
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
18.4.57
Keaka
William I. F. Ajogbor
—
Nigeria

18.4.57
—
Samuel Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
7.2.54
Kenyang
E. A. Atu
—
Nigeria
—
—
Adult
Karo Jacob Awo (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Mary Agbor (Madam)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
John Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Madgalene Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
S. A. Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Solomon Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult

appendix
[The following names were added by hand. The comma between the last name
and first name appear to be missing from the second name.]
Willie Enang
Odu Gabriel
Clara Eyong
Locality: Etoko
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Catherine Ayukmara (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Comfort Esim (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Isaac Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Catherine Tataw (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Stephen Tataw Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Alice Egbe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Robinson Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
George Bayee
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Mary Tataw (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Lydia Tataw (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Margret Lucas (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Lucy Lucas (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Simon Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Adult
Mbi Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
3.2.58
Kenyang
Adult
Locality: Mbehetok
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Sen Ebai Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
John Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Sampson Atchuo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Aaron Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Thomas Tiku
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Moses Bawak
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Solomon Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
William Nate [Bate?]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
William Akwo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Mathias Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Elias Deba
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Thomas Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Becy Oyere (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
John Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Cecilia Ebott (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Bertha Nkwo (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Lydia Nso (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Solomon Mfontem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Hans E. Kima [Agbo?]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Elizabeth Tabong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Mary Asek (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Isaac Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Esther Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Frida Oniki (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Lydia Tah (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Robert Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Joseph Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Clara Antem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Ceicilia Bekai (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Sampson T. Tabot
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Aggie Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Grace Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Ceicilia N. Nso (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Grace Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Adult
Ester Beyu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Sophy Ebob (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.11.57
Kenyang
Alice Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Regina Agbo (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
30M [sic]
Mary Nyang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Thomas Betchem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mary Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sam Tabi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Dorah Taku (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
George Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
William Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Thomas Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.8.54
Kenyang
Adult
Lucy Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.8.54
Kenyang
Adult
Sophie Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.8.54
Kenyang
Adult
Janny Tanyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.8.54
Kenyang
Adult
Catherine Ebanga (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Catherine Antem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Catherine Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Thomas T. Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Peter Nkongo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Shadrack Nkwo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sam Antem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Mbehetok (cont.)

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Bessem Frida (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ceicilia Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mary Ako (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Matina Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Elizabeth Betchem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Lucy Betek (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
John N. Apac
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Bertha Arikai (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Noah Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
William Etanda
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
John Nsoh
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adolph Tar Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Agnes Deba (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ben Orok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mather Eyang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sussana Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Mbehetok (cont.)
Locality: Ossing
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Elias Tabe
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
David Aku
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Adult
Ajongi Eyong
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Besong Tabe
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Sam Orok
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

9.11.57
Keaka
Margret Affiong (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

9.11.57
Keaka
Polinah Abanda (Mrs)
[Paulina]
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Lucy Etang (Miss)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

9.11.57
Keaka
Maria Agbor (Madam)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Alice Williams (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Ajo Atem
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

11.11.57
Keaka
Abanda Aku
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Pius Orok
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

9.2.58
Keaka
Petrol Enow
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

14.4.58
Keaka
Robert Aku
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

14.4.58
Keaka
Ewebe Aku (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

14.4.58
Keaka
Adult
Hannah Orok (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.6.54
Keaka

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
[The following names have been added by hand.]
Paulina Sakie
Sabrina Mbo
Clara Akoh Arrey
Locality: Takpa (Takwa)
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Tom Tanyi
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Augustine Ayuk
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Daniel Tanyi [Mbu?]
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
James Tanyi
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Jonas Ngongho
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Fridah Atem (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Alice Enow Tanyi
(Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Alice Martin (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Emelia Atem (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Jam Besong
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

4.1.58
Keaka
John Taku
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

4.1.58
Keaka
Adult
Emelia Tiku (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Adult
Samuel Atem
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Adult
Andreas Besson
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

10.11.57
Keaka
Adult
Locality: Tintombu
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
[So]ffi Bessem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Martha Nchong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sam Ayok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Nathanel Betchem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Polinah Arah (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ajong Orok Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
32A [sic]
Aggie Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Rose Ebob (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Manise Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Manga Ayok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Madgalene Tabi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ceicilia Mpey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Joseph Tataw
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Oscar Nchenge
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
E. T. Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mbeng Samuel
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Elisa Atem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mathias Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Elias Obi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Dicson Ayok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Enow Abi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Tom Mbi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
James Mbeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sam Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Clara Ebanga (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
13 [sic]
Emelia Ange (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Hanna Arika (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Margret Asek (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
John Antem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Tom Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Tintombu (cont.)
Locality: Tombel
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Andrew Enoh [Enock
Andreas]
Mbo
Br/Cameroons
—
Mbo
Adult
Francis Tenko
Bakossi
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
Bakossi
Adult
Petrol Nyombe
Bakossi
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
Bakossi
Adult
Andrew Epieson [Epie?]
Mbo
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
Mbo
Adult
Paul Fordzen
—
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
—
Adult
Francisca Fordzen (Mrs)
—
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
—
Adult
Orlga Tenko (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
Kenyang
Adult
Martin [No last name]
—
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
—
Adult
Mathias Sime
—
Br/Cameroons
18.3.56
—
Adult
Jacob Mwabe
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Gabriel Nombi
Bakossi
Br/Cameroons
—
Bakossi
Adult

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Sadang Lucas
Ayuk Maxim
Bassey S. I.
Chunde Charles
Dohuji Elias
Tengue Jean
Samuel Enow
Njitone Joe Will
Tobusa Godfrey
Jacob Nkandem
Jimmy Micheal
Kameni Augustine
Tenko Fransisca (Mrs)3
3 All of these names were added by hand above, in Tombel.
Locality: Edibnjock [Jeoville]6
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Lucas Sadang
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Maxim Ayuk
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
—
Keaka
Adult
S. I. Bassey
Ibibio
Nigeria
—
Ibibio
Adult
Chales Chunde
—
—
—
—
Adult
[El]ias Dohnji
—
—
—
—
Adult
Joe W. Njitone
—
—
—
—
Adult
Samuel Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Jean Zengne
—
—
—
—
Adult
Nkandem Jaxob
—
Fr/Cameroons
18.3.56
—
Adult
Michael Jimy
—
—
—
—
Adult
Augustine Kameni
—
—
—
—
Adult

appendix
Locality: Kumba
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Peter Nfon Tanyi
Bali
Br/Cameroons
1.7.55
Bali
Benard Teku Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
27.12.54
Kenyang
David Esoe
Bakundu
Br/Cameroons
24.2.54
Bakundu
Adult
Elizabeth Esoe (Mrs)
Bakundu
Br/Cameroons
10.6.54
Bakundu
Uche Agha
Igbo
Nigeria

16.12.54
Ibo
Adult
Ebanja Isaac
Balong
Br/Cameroons
3.4.56
Balong
David Tong
Mayemen Br/Cameroons
20.4.57
Mayemen
Peter Sona
Bakossi
Br/Cameroons
30.12.54
Bakossi
Adult
George Fonocho
Bametah
Br/Cameroons
7.2.54
Metah
Adult
Paul Taku
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Mary Mfon (Mrs)
—
—
—
—
Adult
Annah Mayicha (Mrs)
—
—
—
—
Adult
Jonas Fomukong Fumbug
—
—
—
—
Adult
Alice Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Simon Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Chukwu Kalu [Kabe]
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Adult
Jonah Kalu
Ibo
Nigeria
—
Ibo
Adult
Amos Agbow
—
—
—
—
Adult
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Ebott Robert
Agbor Oscar
Ebott Sussana (Mrs)
Ulu Irem
Ebott Margaret (Mrs)
Locality: Muyuka
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Richard Ashu
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

7.2.54
Keaka
Adult
Annah Ashu (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

16.4.55
Keaka
Adult
Christopher Eno Orok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

31.3.57
Kenyang
Johnson Kenu
Balong
Br/Cameroons

31.3.57
Kenyang
Ogbonnaya Ekuma
Ibo
Nigeria

31.3.57
Ibo
John Ebott
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

5.8.55
Kenyang
John Takang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

12.8.56
Kenyang
Joseph Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Brown [H.] Wourou
Douala
Fr/Cameroons

9.9.54
Douala
Manfred Ekongwe
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Samuel Tanyi [Besong]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
John Orok [Tabot]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Elias A. Tanyi [Agbo]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Samuel Eben
—
—
—
—
Adult
Isaac A. Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Gabriel Udo
Ibibio
Nigeria
—
Ibibio
Adult
Samuel Akonjang
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Locality: Muyuka (cont.)
[The following names have been added by hand.]
Daniel Obi
Ebai (Mrs)
Locality: Muea
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Obi Nzesiagwu
Ibo
Nigeria

10.12.54
Ibo
Adult
Charles Asibong
Itchikiri
Nigeria

24.8.55
Itchikiri
Ruben Uneke
Ibo
Nigeria

10.4.56
Ibo
Sarah Tabe (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
21.4.56
Keaka
Joseph Etoti
Efik
Nigeria

20.4.56
Efik
Sylvester Nzalla
Bakossi
Br/Cameroons
21.4.56
Bakossi
Edward Tabe
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
24.3.56
Keaka
Elijah Tarh Euisab
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.56
Kenyang
Thaddeus Awa
Weh-Wum
Br/Cameroons
24.3.56
Weh
Josephine Etoti (Mrs)
Efik
Nigeria

11.11.56
Efik
Adult
Dorah Tarkang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.10.56
Kenyang
Adult
Hans Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
7.10.56
Kenyang
Ida Mjoko Awa
Bakweri
Br/Cameroons
7.10.56
Bakweri
Elisabeth Fe Awa (Mrs)
Weh-Wum
Br/Cameroons
22.8.56
Weh
Adult
Josephine Obi (Mrs)
—
—
—
—
Adult

appendix
Locality: Moliwe
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Max Ikome
Bakweri
Br/Cameroons
—
Bakweri
Adult
[Da]vid Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.4.54
Kenyang
Simon Abro
Bametah
Br/Cameroons
29.4.54
Metah
George Ebong
Bakossi
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Bakossi
Simon Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.12.55
Kenyang
Adult
Samuel Ikome
Bakweri
Br/Cameroons
August 56
Bakweri
Adult
Clement Lotton
Douala
Fr/Cameroons
9.4.54
Douala
Adult
Andrew Ojong
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
August 55
Keaka
Adult
Lucy Ojong (Mrs)
Keaka
Br/Cameroons
22.12.55
Keaka
Adult
James Akoegbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
30.9.54
Kenyang
Adult
Moses M. Moliki
Ngolobatanga
Br/Cameroons
7.3.54
Ngolobatanga Adult
[The following names have been added by hand. Some commas between the
last names and first names appear to be missing.]
Njuma Sylvester
Esage Augustine
Daniel Baiye
Thomas Okongor
Locality: Batchuakagbe
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Margret Egbe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Simon T. Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Shadrack Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Martin Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Joseph T. Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Charles Ebai
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
[Wi]lliam Joseph
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Mary Etchu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Thomas Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.3.57
Kenyang
Elisabeth S. Ayuk (Mrs)
[Shadrack]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.11.57
Kenyang
Adult
Comfort Ebott (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.11.57
Kenyang
Adult
Polinah Martin Ashu (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons
9.11.57
Kenyang
Adult
Joseph Ngwanja
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.11.57
Kenyang
Solomon Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.11.57
Kenyang
Abel Enow [Enoh]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.11.57
Kenyang

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
John Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.11.57
Kenyang
Adolph Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.11.57
Kenyang
Solomon Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.11.57
Kenyang
Agnes Joseph (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.11.57
Kenyang
Ebai Nkeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Sussana Charles Ebai (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.2.58
Kenyang
Moses Taku Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.2.58
Kenyang
Andrew Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.11.57
Kenyang
Adult
Locality: Batchuakagbe (cont.)
Locality: Batchuntai
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
James Ebai Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.2.58
Kenyang
Mather Mbu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.2.58
Kenyang
Timothy Agbor Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.2.58
Kenyang
Adult
Mathias Agbor Takor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Joseph T. Mbi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Edward Besson Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Timothy Eyong Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Madam Belta Orok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Andrew D. Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Peter T. Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Nelson Harry Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Lucas A. Tabi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Hanna Andrew
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Locality: Mbinjong. Group
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Sussana Eyere (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sarrah Ayomo (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Dora Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Tom M. Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mangola Eyere (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Peter Ketchen Takow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Stephen T. Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Alice Stephen Enpw (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Edward N. Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Margret John Obi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
David Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Alice Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Benard Defang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mathias Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Hans Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
George Bessong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Hans Agbor7
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
John Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Daniel Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
[Ja]mes Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Francis Auguston
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Grace Atche (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Emannuel Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Emelia Eyong Eta (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Dickson Mbi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Margret Ndiep (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Catherine Etando (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Daniel Tabot
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
George Atem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Eliza Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Dorah Ketchen (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Grace Echi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Emelia Ebob (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Peter Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Trouble Aforne
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Rose Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Agnes Sam (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Mathaer Ebot (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Elias Agbo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Francis Mfor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Alice Bessem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Mather Ako (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Ceicilia Akombi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
John Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Martin Njong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Grace Benard (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Jonas T. Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Dora Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.9.58
Kenyang
Adult
Locality: Mbinjong. Group (cont.)
7 Please provide footnote text.

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Locality: Boa. (L.S.A.)
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Martin Fete
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
12.4.55
Balondo
Adult
Hasting Nachi
Ibo
Nigeria
20.8.55
Ibo
Aso Sako Lucas
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
25.8.55
Balondo
Johnson Etongo
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
25.8.55
Balondo
Philip Diko
Ngolobatanga Br/Cameroons
5.10.55
Ngolobatanga 25
Catherine Fete (Mrs) Balondo
Br/Cameroons
29.9.55
Balondo
L. L. Yana
Yaunde [sic]
Fr/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Francis Bechong
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Ephraim Udo
Ibibio
Nigeria
—
Ibibio
Adult
Oscar Nawango
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Paulina Fete (Mrs)
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
—
Balondo
Adult
Victor Noromu
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
John Ban Fete
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
—
Balondo
Adult
Thomas Naseli
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
—
Balondo
Adult
Martin Manfor
Balondo
Br/Cameroons
—
Balondo
Adult
Vincent Masembe
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Isaac N. Ito
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Dorah Ito (Mrs)
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
[The following name has been added by hand.]
Johnson Ban Etongo45
5 Originally “Petrol” but the last letter has been struck out by hand.
Locality: Bakebe
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
John Enoachu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Elias Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Ebikang Abanda
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Ben Mfonjock
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
George Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Adolf Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Petro[l]8 Njang Nkeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Emanuel Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Zacharias Eno Njang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.4.57
Kenyang
Zachius Enoachu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Rudolf Epe[h]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Adult
Carl Jones Eno
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.4.57
Kenyang
Tanyi Dickson
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
10.3.55
Kenyang
Samuel Oru
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.4.57
Kenyang
Paulina Eno (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
4.4.57
Kenyang
John Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
26.5.57
Kenyang
[Dav]id Agbo Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
11.10.57
Kenyang
Samuel Ofonde
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Emannuel A. Eno[w]
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
23.11.57
Kenyang
Johnson [John] Orok
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Elisa Jacob Ebai (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
24.11.57
Kenyang
Joannah Etchi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
24.11.57
Kenyang
Marther Ebot (Madam)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.11.57
Kenyang
Sussana Achack (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.11.57
Kenyang
Fanny Besungu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Lydia Bechem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Ceicilia Bakai (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Mary Arrah (Madam)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Elisa Eyong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Veronica Etop (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.11.57
Kenyang
Christiana Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
John Agbo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Mbella Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Cather Nkep Ayang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Tom Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
[Su]ssana Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Peter Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Thomas Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Agather Atem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Sophie Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Joanah Ebai (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Ester Akuo (Miss)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Freda Egbe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Alice Banyi (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Sophie Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Ebella Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Grace Ebott (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Adolf E. Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Elias Bakia
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Lukas Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Adult
Julianah Mpeh (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Joanah Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Marther Mbeng (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
22S
Locality: Bakebe (cont.)

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Simon Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Adolf Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Rose Nkwo (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Dickson Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Adult
Sussanah Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Cather Mbu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Ako Ntock (Madam)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Paulinah Nkeng (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Elias Kefie
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Njoha
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Jenny Besem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Joanah Ayuk (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Elisa Nkem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Paulinah Besem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Jolly E. Tabot (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Rebecca Ngwomen (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Christiana Eno Kima (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Adult
Matina Mpe Kima (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Martina Njoha (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
20.1.58
Kenyang
Locality: Bakebe (cont.)
[The following names have been added by hand. Commas between the last
names and first names appear to be missing.]
Tanyi Sakio
Njang Eno Zacharias6
6 Also added by hand above, to Likomba.
Locality: Ashum
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Bechem Naphtaly (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.3.56
Kenyang
Tanyi Mathias
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Adson Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Peter Nkongho9
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Mary Ayuk (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Peter Etta
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
William Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Peter Asu Nechem
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang

appendix
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Rebecca Michael (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
John Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Emannuel Ebai Tabi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
George Andreas Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Mathias Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
24.3.56
Kenyang
John Bate Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Sophie Martin Mbeng (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.4.57
Kenyang
Daniel Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
7.7.55
Kenyang
Martin Mbeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
28.5.58
Kenyang
Daniel Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
28.5.58
Kenyang
Adult
Agnes Mbu [George] (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
28.5.58
Kenyang
Adult
Joanah Mbeng Manfred (Mrs) Banyang
Br/Cameroons  25.11.57
Kenyang
Abraham Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.6.57
Kenyang
Elias Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.6.57
Kenyang
Grace Adison Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  25.11.57
Kenyang
Adison Aku
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  25.11.57
Kenyang
Jacob Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  25.11.57
Kenyang
Mathias Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
6.6.57
Kenyang
Lucy Nkongho (Miss)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  26.11.57
Kenyang
Daniel Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  25.11.57
Kenyang
Lydia A. Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons  25.11.57
Kenyang
Emannuel Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Emelia Besong (dead)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Annah Peter (Madam)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Elinah Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Mather Jacob (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Thompson Mfomo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Robson Tatta
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Sophie Bechem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Paulina Thompson (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Elisa Martin (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.1.58
Kenyang
Michael Nyenty
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
28.5.58
Kenyang
Aaron Ashu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
29.5.58
Kenyang
Michael Chukwu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
12.6.58
Kenyang
Johnson Bakiya
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
12.6.58
Kenyang
Suphy [sic] Ako Taku (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.6.58
Kenyang
Emelia Sam Bechem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
5.6.58
Kenyang
Elina Ashu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.7.58
Kenyang
Mary Mbing (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.7.58
Kenyang
Paulina Mbu (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
13.6.58
Kenyang
Amenah Ayuk Matin (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.6.58
Kenyang
Regina Johnson (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
19.6.58
Kenyang
Dorah Agbor (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
15.6.58
Kenyang
Clarah Tabot Ndip (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
8.6.58
Kenyang
Locality: Ashum (cont.)

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Locality: Ngasang
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Robert Nkwa Arrey
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sussana Ako (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mather Bechem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Cather Arrey (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
B. T. Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Titi Ekwa Ayuk (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Jonas Takang Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Mbu Agbor
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Daniel Enow
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Hanah Esier (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Helina Akang (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ceicilia Mpe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Margret Ngwikem (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Matina Arrah (Miss)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Sampson Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Ange Agboka
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Locality: Lobe
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
David Ebong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Sam Ako
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Johnson Ayuk
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

5.4.56
Keaka
Tenyson Ayuk Ojong
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

5.4.56
Keaka
William Orok Tabot
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

5.4.56
Kenyang
Edward Ayuk
Banyang
Br/Cameroons

8.3.56
Kenyang
Alfred Tachang
Bali
Br/Cameroons

8.3.56
Bali
William Ofuka Ijoma
Keaka
Br/Cameroons

8.3.56
Keaka
Alice Akpan (Mrs)
Ibibio
Nigeria

8.3.56
Ibibio
Akpan Michael
Ibibio
Nigeria

8.3.56
Ibibio
Aaron Tah
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
Abnaw Enow John
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
21.12.54
Kenyang
Adult
William Nko
Barombi
Br/Cameroons

8.12.56
Barombi
Simon Auguo
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult

appendix
[The following names have been added by hand. Commas between the last
names and first names appear to be missing.]
Tanyi Thomas
Tanyi Sophie (Mrs)
Tanyi Jenie (Mrs)
Tanyi Lucy (Mrs)
Locality: Fotabe
Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
James Nkongho Eyong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
[Dan]iel Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Dickson Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Sophie Enow (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Elias Akpo
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Lyddia Essim (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Margret Fotabe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Dinnah Tambe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Elinah Benjamin (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Elias Besong
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Sarrah Tiku (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Alice John Ngah (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Eyere Tambe (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Philip E. Tabe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Moses Amoh
Bali
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Fanny John Ngah (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
John Ngah
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
John Sua
Munshi
Nigeria
—
Tiv
Adult
Lydia Besong (Mrs)
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Hans E. Mbu
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Alice Tanyi
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Daniel A. Fonten
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Frida Egbe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Alice Philip
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
Samuel E. Tambe
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult

a list of baha’is in british cameroons
Locality/Names
Tribe
Country
Date of
Registration
Mother
Tongue
Age
Bomboko
Hans Mbeng
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
12.12.57
Kenyang
Adult
Wedikum [Wodikum]
Thomas Tanchie
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
24.2.55
Kenyang
Adult
Powo
Alexander Abanda
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Missellele
Thomas Ngwa
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Malende
Henry Dacauly
—
Br/Cameroons
—
—
Adult
Takwa
Chief P. A. Fongang
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang
Edjigang
Chief D. A. Tataw
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
22.11.57
Kenyang
Difang
Peter Acha Tanyie
Banyang
Br/Cameroons
—
Kenyang
Adult
[The following names have been added by hand, certainly by Valerie Wilson.
These appear to be new localities in some cases. But there is some overlap with
the list above. Wilson includes three localities in the French Cameroons. Some
commas between the last names and first names appear to be  missing.]
Br. Cameroons
Missellells
Ngwa, Thomas
Wodikum ? [sic]
Bamenda
Tayang T. Johnson
Ndifot Rudolf
Malenge [sic, “Malende” above]
Dacauly Henry
Mbonge
Kamara Lucas
Itoe Mathias

appendix
Effimeneke George
Effimeneke Fernie (Mrs)
Besongabang
Tiku Thaddeus
Powo
Aban Alexander
Moboko
Hans Mbeng
Fr. Cameroons
Douala
Peter Price
Samuel Ekounka
Okon Edueka
Hijano Romiro
Daniel Mbu Fay
Moses Enow Tanyi
U. S. Equoho
Paul Ofendi Tabot
Lucas Ekong
M. Munsiff [Iranian Pioneer]
Samuel Njiki [Pioneer from Br. Cameroons]
Isidor Mtilong
Ben Enow Ayak
Philimon Braide
James Akoegbe
Okoto [sic]
Augustin Mahenen
Alfred M. Defang
Ferdinand Tabi
Semon Tabi
M. T. S. Dahra
Joseph Tabot
James Agobo [sic]
Yaounde
Antoine Myogosh Claude
Mpenja
Fordzen Fransisca (Mrs)
Fordzen Paul
Onana Alexander

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Personal Papers
Don Addison Papers. (About ½ foot of papers. Numerous cassette recordings.)
Don Addison, Ph.D. (Ethnomusicology, UCLA), conducted a series of interviews
and made a number of recordings (mostly of music) in West Africa between 1981
and 1983. He interviewed a number of early Baha’is in the area. He graciously
allowed me to copy his notes and tapes for this book.
Valerie Wilson Papers. (About 2 feet of papers.)
Wilson maintained meticulous and copious records during her tenure as a Baha’i
pioneer in West Africa. She kept official records both as a member of the Auxiliary
Board for the Hand of the Cause Musa Banani and as secretary of the National
Spiritual Assembly of North West Africa. She explained that she, some years later,
had returned the records to the National Assembly to the Baha’is in West Africa
and that they had been misplaced, and perhaps lost.
However, she kindly allowed me full access to her Auxiliary Board papers, which
she still had. I was able to make photocopies of the complete records for Nigeria,
British Cameroons, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. In addition, I copied a great deal of
correspondence and statistical material. The originals of these papers were eventu-
ally donated by Wilson to the National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, IL.
Interviews
Samiheh Banani (Mama-Jan) interviews. March 15 and 19, 1991. At the home of
Sheila and Amin Banani. Santa Monica, Calif.
Oscar Njang. January 1992. A taped interview by the Secretary of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha’is of Nigeria (and apparently with an audience, at a Baha’i
meeting). Lagos, Nigeria.
Valerie Wilson. June 16 and 17, 1983. Interviews at her home. Menlo Park, Calif.
Archival Sources
Africa Teaching Committee records. National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, IL.
I consulted these records briefly in 1984, and took some notes. However, I was later
denied access to conduct further research on these same records by the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. Nonetheless, I have consulted
van den Hoonaard’s index to these files, which I have found to be extremely useful.
(See reference below.)
Basel Mission Archives. Basel, Switzerland.
I visited these mission archives in 1992. I wish to acknowledge the kind assistance of
Paul Jenkins, archivist, and his staff who searched tirelessly for references to Baha’is
among the records of the Basel Mission for the British Cameroons—at least the
reports sent to Basel. Unfortunately, they found no mention of the Baha’i faith in
their German records. It was Jenkins, however, who brought my attention to Georg
Tröster’s article in the Basel missionary journal Evangelisches Missions Magazin.
(See below.) That article has been extremely helpful.
Presbyterian Archives. Presbyterian Historical Society. Philadelphia, Penn.
I visited this archive in 1991, only to find that the American Presbyterian mission-
aries were active in French Cameroons, not in British Cameroons. There were few

bibliography
Baha’is in the French sector, and no mention in the American Presbyterian records.
However, the visit was useful in illumining the general mood of mission churches
at the end of the colonial era.
Unpublished Articles
Jackson Armstrong-Ingram. “ ‘Black Pearls’: The African Household Slaves of a
Nineteenth-Century Iranian Merchant Family.” A paper presented at the Conference
on Slavery, Islam, and Diaspora, Harriet Tubman Resource Centre on the African
Diaspora, Department of History, York University, Canada. October 24–26, 2003.
Loni Bramson-Lerche and Martha Garman. “Nigeria.” 1st edited draft (2006), written
for the Baha’i Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, IL.
The development of an Encyclopedia of the Bahá’í Faith was adopted by the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States as a goal of their Six Year
Plan in 1986. It is still an active project of that Assembly. Unfortunately, no article
written for the encyclopedia has yet been published, and there is no projected date
of publication. A few articles have appeared online at www.bahai-encyclopedia-
project.org. With the permission of the authors, I have used draft articles intended
for the future encyclopedia listed below.
Susan Kouchekzadeh. “Sierra Leone.” 1st edited draft (1990), written for the Baha’i
Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, IL.
Akwasi O. Osei and Prince K. Abaidoo. “Ghana.” 2nd edited draft (1994), written for
the Baha’i Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, IL
Roberta Al-Salihi. “The Gambia.” 2nd edited draft (1994), written for the Baha’i
Encyclopedia Project, Wilmette, IL.
Will C. van den Hoonaard, comp. “Annotated Index of the United States Africa
Teaching Committee Minutes and Correspondence, 1953–1964.” March 26, 1991.
This index was compiled as an archival aid for the National Bahá’í Archives,
Wilmette, IL Indices were also compiled for the Inter-American Committee, the
European Teaching Committee, and the Asian Teaching Committee for this same
period. The author informed me, however, that the file system at the National Bahá’í
Archives was reorganized after this index was made. Therefore, the file numbers pro-
vided are those for the old system, not the current one. (Personal  conversation.)
Periodicals
Africa News. London. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the British Isles.
Bahá’í News. Wilmette, IL National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States.
Baha’i Studies Bulletin.
Published Articles and Volumes
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [‘Abbas Effendi]. Paris Talks: Addresses given by’Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in
1911. Ninth British Edition. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1951 (1912).
——. The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His
Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. Second Edition. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1982 (1922–1925).
——. The Tablets of the Divine Plan revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American
Bahá’ís during 1916 and 1917. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1959.
——. A Traveller’s Narrative. Trans. and ed. by Edward G. Browne. Cambridge
University Press, 1891.

bibliography
——. The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1944 (1971).
Adamson, Hugh C. and Philip Hainsworth. Historical Dictionary of the Bahá’í Faith.
Historical Dictionaries of Religions, Philosophies, and Movements, No. 17. Lanham,
Md.: The Scarecrow Press, 1998.
Afnan, Abu’l-Qasim. Black Pearls: Servants in the Households of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988 (Second Edition, 1999).
Ajayi , J. F. Ade. Christian Missions in Nigeria, 1841–1891: The Making of a New Elite.
Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1969.
Alexandre, Pierre. “Cameroun.” In Islam in Africa. Ed. by James Kritzeck and William
H. Lewis. New York: Van Nostrand-Reinhold, 1969. Pp. 270–77.
Alpers, Edward A. “The African Diaspora in the Northwestern Indian Ocean:
Reconsideration of an Old Problem, New Directions in Research.” Comparative
Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East (formerly South Asia Bulletin),
Vol. 17 (1997) no. 2, pp. 62–81.
Amaazee, Victor Bong. The Eastern Nigerian Crisis and the Destiny of the British
Southern Cameroons, 1953–1954. Presses Universitaires de Yaoundé, 2000.
Amanat, Abbas. Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement in Iran,
1844–1950. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1989. Paperback Edition 2005,
with a new preface, distributed by Kalimát Press as Vol. 20 of the series Studies in
the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions.
Amanat, Mehrdad. “Negotiation Identities: Iranian Jews, Muslims and Baha’is in the
Memoirs of Rayhan Rayhani (1859–1939).” Ph.D. dissertation. UCLA, 2006.
——. Jewish Identities in Iran: Resistance and Conversion to Islam and the Baha’i Faith.
London: I.B. Tauris, 2011.
Ardener, Edwin. Coastal Bantu of the Cameroons. London: International African
Institute, 1956.
——, et al. Plantation and Village in the Cameroons. London: Oxford University Press,
1960.
——. “Witchcraft, Economics, and the Continuity of Belief.” In Witchcraft Confessions
and Accusations. Ed. by Mary Douglas. London: Tavistock Publications, 1970.
Assam, Fred. “The Message of the Prophets,” in Nigerian Studies in Religious Tolerance,
C. Momoh, ed. Np., 1989. Pp. 51–62.
Auslander, Mark. “Open the Wombs! The Symbolic Politics of Modern Ngoni
Witchfinding” in Modernity and its Malcontents: Ritual and Power in Postcolonial
Africa. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993. Ed. by Jean and John Comaroff.
Pp. 167–92.
Ayandele, E. A. Holy Johnson: Pioneer of African Nationalism. New York: Humanities
Press, 1970.
——. The Missionary Impact on Modern Nigeria, 1842–1914. New York: Humanities
Press, 1967.
The Bab [Sayyid ‘Ali-Muhammad Shirazi]. Selections from the Writings of the Báb.
Trans. by Habib Taherzadeh, “with the assistance of a Committee at the Bahá’í
World Centre.” Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 1976.
Baeta, C. G., ed. Christianity in Tropical Africa. London: Oxford University Press,
1968.
——. Prophetism in Ghana. London: SMC Press, 1962.
The Bahá’í Faith: Statistical Information, 1844–1968. Including the Current Status of
the Goals of the Nine Year International Teaching Plan, 1964–1973. [Haifa]: The
Universal House of Justice, 1968.
Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. 1991 Edition. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
The Bahá’í World. Vols. 1–23. Wilmette, IL and Haifa: Bahá’í Publishing Trust and
Bahá’í World Centre, 1926–1986. Volume 1 is entitled Bahá’í Year Book.

bibliography
Baha’u’llah [Mirza Husayn-‘Ali Nuri]. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Trans.
and ed. by Shoghi Effendi Rabbani. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939.
——. The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Trans. by Shoghi Effendi, et al. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939 (1994).
——. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992.
——. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. London:
George Ronald, 1971.
——. The Báb: The Herald of the Day of Days. Oxford: George Ronald, 1973.
——. Bahá’u’lláh, the King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald, 1980.
——. Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith. London: George Ronald, 1970.
——. Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh: with some historical background.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1985.
——. Khadijih Bagum: The Wife of the Báb. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.
Balz, Heinrich. Where the Faith Has to Live. Studies in Bakossi Society and Religion.
Part I: Living Together. By the author, 1984.
Barrett, David B., ed. African Initiatives in Religion. Nairobi: East African Publishing
House, 1971.
——, ed. Schism and Renewal in Africa: An Analysis of Six Thousand Contemporary
Religious Movements. Nairobi: Oxford University Press, 1968.
Bastian, Misty. “Bloodhounds Who Have No Friends: Witchcraft and Locality in the
Nigerian Popular Press” in Modernity and its Malcontents: Ritual and Power in
Postcolonial Africa. Ed. by Jean and John Comaroff. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1993. Pp. 129–66.
Bayat, Mangol. Mysticism and Dissent: Socioreligious Thought in Qajar Iran. Syracuse
University Press, 1982.
Beidelman, T. O. Colonial Evangelism: A Socio-Historic Study of an East African
Mission at the Grassroots. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1982.
——. “Contradictions between the Sacred and the Secular Life: The Church Missionary
Society in Ukaguru, Tanzania, East Africa.” Comparative Studies in Society and
History. Vol. 23 (1981) pp. 73–95.
Benjamin, Jacques. Les Camerounais occidentaux: la minorité dans un état bicommu-
nautaire. Montreal: Les Presses de l’Université de Montreal, 1972.
Bennett, N. R. and D. F. McCall, eds. Aspects of West African Islam. Boston University
Papers in African History. Vol. 5. Boston University Press, 1971.
Berger, Peter L. “From Sect to Church: A Sociological Interpretation of the Baha’i
Movement.” Ph.D. dissertation. New School of Social Research, 1954.
——. The Heretical Imperative: Contemporary Possibilities of Religious Affirmation.
Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1979.
——. The Sacred Canopy. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1967.
——, Brigette Berger, and Hansfried Kellner. The Homeless Mind: Modernization and
Consciousness. New York: Vintage Books, 1973.
van Binsbergen, Wim and Matthew Schoffeleers. Theoretical Explorations in African
Religion. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1985.
Blasi, Anthony. Issues in the Sociology of Religion: A Bibliography. New York: Garland
Publishers, 1986.
Blunt, Edward J. W.E.B. DuBois: American Prophet. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press, 2007.
Boetzkes, William. “West Cameroon: A Success Story.” World Mission, Vol. 15 (1964)
no. 3, pp. 83–87.
Bond, George, Walton Johnson, and Sheila Walker, eds. African Christianity: Patterns
of Religious Continuity. New York: Academic Press, 1979.

bibliography
Bramson-Lerche, Loni. “The Baha’i Faith in Nigeria.” Dialogue & Alliance, Vol. 6,
No. 4 (Winter 1992–93) pp. 104–125. Note Bramson’s Errata.
Brookshaw, Dominic Parviz and Seena B. Fazel, eds. The Baha’is of Iran: Socio-
historical Studies. London: Routledge, 2008.
Brown, Gerald G. Christian Response to Change in East African Traditional Societies,
Woodbrooke Occasional Papers, No. 4. London: Friends Home Service Committee,
1973.
Browne, Edward G. Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion. Cambridge University
Press, 1918.
——, trans. and ed. A Traveller’s Narrative. [By ‘Abdu’l-Baha.] Cambridge University
Press, 1891.
Brutsch, Jean René. “A Glance at Missions in Cameroons.” International Review of
Missions, Vol. 39, no. 155 (1950) pp. 302–310.
Buck, Christopher. Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity and
the Bahá’í Faith. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999.
——. “A Unique Eschatological Interface: Bahá’u’lláh and Cross-Cultural Messianism”
in In Iran: Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History. Volume 3. Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1986. Pp. 157–79.
Bureau, Rene. “Flux et reflux de la christianisation camerounaise.” Archives de socio-
logie des religions, Vol. 17 (1964) pp. 97–112.
Burgel, Johann Christoph and Isabel Schayani, eds. Iran im 19. Jahrhundert und die
Entstehung der Bahā’ī Religion. Zurich: Georg Olms Verlag, 1998.
Campbell, Gwyn. The Structure of Slavery in Indian Ocean Africa and Asia. London:
Frank Cass, 2004.
——, Suzanne Miers, and Joseph C. Miller. Women and Slavery. 2 Vols. Athens: Ohio
University Press, 2007.
Campbell, Penelope. “Presbyterian West African Missions: Women as Converts and
Agents of Change.” Journal of Presbyterian History, Vol. 56 (1978) pp. 121–32.
Charsley, S. R. “Dreams in an Independent African Church.” Africa, Vol. 43 (1973)
no. 3, pp. 244–57.
Clarke, Peter B. West Africa and Islam: A Study of Religious Development from the 8th
to the 20th Century. London: Edward Arnold, 1982.
Cobb, Stanwood. “Memories of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.” In In His Presence: Visits to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1989, pp. 26–29. Reprinted from the July–August
1962 issues of Bahá’í News.
Cole, Juan R. I. “The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.” Bahá’í Studies,
Monograph 9 (1982) pp. 1–38. Published online at <http://www-personal.umich.
edu/~jrcole/bhmanif.htm>.
——. Modernity and the Millennium: The Genesis of the Baha’i Faith in the Nineteenth-
Century Middle East. New York: Columbia University Press, 1998.
Comaroff, Jean. Body of Power/Spirit of Resistance: The Culture and History of a South
African People. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1985.
—— and John Comaroff, eds. Modernity and its Malcontents: Ritual and Power in
Postcolonial Africa. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1993.
Conquering the Hearts: A Brief History of the Bahá’í Faith in Ghana 1951–1995. Accra:
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Ghana, 2004.
de Craemer, W., R. Fox, and Jan Vansina. “Religious Movements in Central Africa:
A Theoretical Study.” Comparative Studies in Society and History, Vol. 18 (1976)
no. 4, pp. 458–75.
Cronon, E. David. Black Moses: The Story of Marcus Garvey and the Universal Negro
Improvement Association. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1955.
Culhane, Terry. I Beheld a Maiden . . .: The Bahá’í Faith and the Life of the Spirit. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2001.

bibliography
Dah, Jonas N. Missionary Motivations and Methods: A Critical Examination of the
Basel Mission in Cameroon 1886–1914. Basel: Basel Mission, 1983.
DeLancey, Mark W. and Virginia H. DeLancey, comps. A Bibliography of Cameroon.
New York: Africana Publishing Company, 1975.
Dickson, Kwesi and Paul Ellingworth, eds. Biblical Revelation and African Beliefs.
Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1969.
Dippold, Max F. Une Bibliographie du Cameroun. Freiburg: Institut de cooperation
sociale, 1971.
Doi, Abdurrahman I. Islam in Nigeria. Zaria: Gaskiya Corporation, 1984.
Douglas, Mary. “Techniques of Sorcery Control in Central Africa.” In Witchcraft and
Sorcery in East Africa. Ed. by J. Middleton and E. H. Winter. London: Routledge &
Kegan Paul, 1963 (2004).
——, ed., Witchcraft Confessions and Accusations. London: Tavistock Publications, 1970.
Droogers, André. “From Waste-making to Recycling: A Plea for an Eclectic Use of
Models in the Study of Religious Change.” In Theoretical Explorations in African
Religions. Ed. by Wim van Binsbergen and Matthew Schoffeleers. London: KPI,
1985. Pp. 116–19.
Durkheim, Emile. Readings from Emile Durkheim. Ed. by Kenneth Thompson. Revised
Edition. New York: Routledge, 1984 (2004).
——. The Division of Labor in Society. Trans. by W. D. Halls. Second Edition. New
York: The Free Press, 1984.
Ejedepang-Koge, S. N. Change in Cameroon. Alexandria, Va.: ARC Publications,
1985.
Elder, Earl E. and Wiliam McE. Miller. al-Kitāb al-Aqdas or The Most Holy Book by
Mīrzā Husayn ‘Alī Bahā’u’llāh. London: The Royal Asiatic Society, 1961.
“Enoch Olinga: Knight of Baha’u’llah, Father of Victories, Hand of the Cause of God.”
(Video) Wilmette, IL: Olinga Productions Association, 2000.
Etherington, N. “Missionaries and the Intellectual History of Africa.” Itinerario, Vol. 2
(1983) pp. 27–45.
Esslemont, John E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. 1950 Second Revised Edition.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950 (1923).
Evans-Pritchard, E. E. Witchcraft, Oracles, and Magic Among the Azande. Oxford:
Clarendon Press, 1937.
Eyongetah, Tambi and Robert Brain. A History of Cameroon. London: Longman,
1974.
Fabian, Johannes, ed. “Beyond Charisma: Religious Movements as Discourse.” Social
Research. Special Issue (1979).
——. “Genres in an Emerging Tradition: An Anthropological Approach to Religious
Communication.” In Changing Perspectives in the Scientific Study of Religion. Ed.
by A. W. Eister. New York: Wiley and Sons, 1974.
——. Jamaa: A Charismatic Movement in Katanga. Evanston: Northwestern University
Press, 1971.
——. “Six Theses Regarding the Anthropology of African Religious Movements.”
Religion, Vol. 11 (1981) pp. 109–126.
Fallding, Harold. The Sociology of Religion. Toronto: McGraw-Hill-Ryerson, 1974.
Farwell, Bryon. The Great War in Africa, 1914–1918. New York: W. W. Norton &
Company, 1986.
Fashole-Luke, E., et al., eds. Christianity in Independent Africa. London: Rex Collings,
1978.
Fernandez, James W. Bwiti: An Ethnography of the Religious Imagination in Africa.
Princeton University Press, 1982.
——. “African Religious Movements.” In B. J. Siegel, A. R. Beals, and S. A. Taylor, eds.
Annual Review of Anthropology (1978). Pp. 195–234.

bibliography
Fields, Karen E. Revival and Rebellion in Colonial Central Africa. Princeton University
Press, 1985.
——. “Charismatic Religion as Popular Protest.” Theory and Society, Vol. 11 (1982)
no. 2, pp. 321–61.
——. “Christian Missionaries as Anticolonial Militants.” Theory and Society, Vol. 11
(1982) no. 1, pp. 95–108.
Fisher, Humphrey J. Ahmadiyya: A Study in Contemporary Islam on the West African
Coast. Oxford University Press, 1963.
——. “Conversion Reconsidered: Some Historical Aspects of Religious Conversion in
Black Africa.” Africa, Vol. 43, no. 1 (1973) pp. 27–40.
——. “Independency and Islam: The Nigerian Aladuras and Some Muslim
Comparisons.” Journal of African History. Vol. 11 (1970) no. 2, pp. 269–77.
Foucault, Michel. Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison. New York: Random
House, 1977.
——. The Foucault Reader. Ed. by Paul Rabinow. New York: Pantheon Books, 1984.
——. Madness and Civilization. New York: Random House, 1965.
——. The Order of Things: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences. New York: Random
House, 1970.
Francis, Richard. “Enoch Olinga: Hand of the Cause of God, Father of Victories.” 1998
at <http://bahai-library.com/?file=francis_olinga_ biography>.
Fowler, Ian and David Zeitlyn. African Crossroads: Intersections between History and
Anthropology in Cameroon. Cameroon Studies. Vol. 2. Providence, RI: Berghahn
Books, 1996.
Frempong, M. P. “A History of the Presbyterian Church at Bompata in Asante-
Akyen.” Ghana Notes and Queries (June 1972) pp. 20–23.
Gail, Marzieh. Bahá’í Glossary. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1955.
Gaines, Kevin K. African Americans in Ghana: Black Expatriates and the Civil Rights
Era. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press, 2006.
Garlington, William N. “The Baha’i Faith in Malwa: A Study of a Contemporary
Religious Movement.” Ph.D. dissertation. Australia National University, 1975.
——. The Baha’i Faith in America. Westport, Conn.: Praeger, 2005.
Garrigues, Steve L. “The Baha’is of Malwa: Identity and Change Among the Urban
Baha’is of Malwa.” Ph.D. dissertation. Lucknow University, 1976.
Gbadamosi, T. G. O. The Growth of Islam Among the Yoruba, 1841–1908. London:
Longman, 1978.
Gelzer, D. G. “Missions and Colonization: Education in Cameroon in the Days of
the Germans.” Bulletin of the Society for African Church History, Vol. 3 (1969–70)
no. 1, pp. 1–14.
Geschiere, Peter. “Globalization and the Power of Indeterminate Meaning: Witchcraft
and Spirit Cults in Africa and East Asia.” Development and Change, Vol. 29 (1998)
pp. 811–37.
——. The Modernity of Witchcraft: Politics and the Occult in Postcolonial Africa.
Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1997.
Giachery, Ugo. Shoghi Effendi: Reflections. Oxford: George Ronald, 1973.
Gray, Richard. Black Christians and White Missionaries. New Haven: Yale University
Press, 1990.
Grimky, John B. and Gordon E. Robinson. Church Growth in Central and Southern
Nigeria. Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Co., 1966.
Groves, C. P. The Planting of Christianity in Africa. 4 Vols. London: Lutterworth,
1948–58.
Haas, Waltraud and Paul Jenkins. Guide to the Basel Mission’s Cameroon Archive.
Basel: Basel Mission, 1988.
Hackett, Rosalind I. J. New Religious Movements in Nigeria: A Current Perspective.
Edwin Mellen Press, 1987.

bibliography
——. Religion in Calabar: The Religious Life and History of a Nigerian Town. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, 1989.
Halldén, Erik. The Culture Policy of the Basel Mission in Cameroons 1886–1905. Studia
Ethnographica Upsaliensia XXXI. Lund: Berlingska Boktryckeriet, 1968.
Hamadaní, Mírzá Husayn. The Táríkh-i-Jadíd or New History of Mírzá ‘Alí Muham-
mad the Báb. Ed. and trans. by Edward G. Browne. Cambridge University Press,
1893.
Hamptson, Arthur. “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith.” Ph.D. dissertation.
The University of Hawaii, 1980.
Harper, Baron Deems. Lights of Fortitude: Glimpses into the Lives of the Hands of the
Cause of God. Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.
Harris, Joseph E. The African Presence in Asia: Consequences of the East African Slave
Trade. Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1971.
Hartman, Saidiya. Lose Your Mother. New York: Farrar, Straus, and Grioux, 2007.
Hassall, Graham H. “The Bahá’í Faith in Australia.” In Ian Gillman, ed. Many Faiths,
One Nation. Melbourne: William Collins, 1988.
——. “The History of the Bahá’í Faith in Australia, 1920–1963.” B.A. thesis. University
of Sydney, 1984.
——. “Outpost of a World Religion: The Bahá’í Faith in Australia, 1920–1947.” In
Bahá’ís in the Wes: Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Volume 11. Ed. by Peter
Smith. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004.
Hastings, Adrian. African Christianity. London: Geoffrey Chapman, 1976.
——. History of African Christianity, 1950–1975. Cambridge University Press, 1979.
Hayward, Victor E. W., ed. African Independent Church Movements. London:
Edinburgh House Press, 1963.
Herskowitz, Melville J. The Myth of the Negro Past. Boston: Beacon Press, 1941.
Herzog, H., et al. I Am the Lord Your God! Catechism of the Presbyterian Church in
West Cameroon. Np., 1965. (22 pp.)
Hiskett, Mervyn. The Development of Islam in West Africa. London: Longman, 1984.
Holt, Thomas C. “Marking: Race, Race-making, and the Writing of History.” The
American Historical Review, Vol. 100, no. 1 (February 1995) pp. 1–20.
Hopfe, Lewis M. Religions of the World. Seventh Edition. Ed. by Mark R. Woodward.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998.
Hornby, Helen Bassett, comp. Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. Fourth
Revised Edition. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983 (1996).
Horner, Norman A. Cross and Crucifix in Mission: A Comparison of Protestant-Roman
Catholic Missionary Strategy. New York: Abingdon Press, 1965.
Horton, Robin. “African Conversion.” Africa, Vol. 41, no. 2 (1971) pp. 85–108.
——. “On the Rationality of Conversion.” Africa, Vol. 45, nos. 3 and 4 (1975)
pp. 219–35, 373–99.
Hunter, James Davison and Stephen C. Ainlay, eds. Making Sense of Modern Times:
Peter L. Berger and the Vision of Interpretive Sociology. London: Routledge & Kegan
Paul, 1986.
Hutchinson, William R. Errand to the World: American Protestant Thought and
Foreign Missions. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987.
Iliffe, John. A Modern History of Tanganyika. Cambridge University Press, 1979.
Isichei, Elizabeth, ed. Varieties of Christian Experience in Nigeria. London: The
MacMillan Press, 1982.
——. “Seven Varieties of Ambiguity: Some Patterns of Response to Christian Missions.”
Journal of Religion in Africa, Vol. 3 (1970) pp. 209–27.
Jenkins, Paul. A Short History of the Basel Mission. Texts and Documents, No. 10.
Basel: Basel Mission, 1989.
Johnson, Geoffrey. Of God and Maxim Guns, 1846–1966. Waterloo, Ont.: Wilfrid
Laurier University Press, 1988.

bibliography
Johnson, H. M. Religious Change and Continuity: Sociological Perspectives. San
Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 1979.
Johnson, Vernon Elvin. “The Challenge of the Bahá’í Faith.” World Order, Vol. 10,
No. 3 (1976).
——. “An Historical Analysis of Critical Transformations in the Evolution of the
Baha’i World Faith.” Ph.D. dissertation. Baylor University, 1974.
Jules-Rosette, Bennetta, ed. African Apostles: Ritual and Conversion in the Church of
John Maranke. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1975.
——, ed. The New Religions of Africa. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex Publishing Corp., 1979.
——. Symbols of Change: Urban Transition in a Zambian Community. Norwood, N.J.:
Ablex Publishing Corp., 1981.
Kalu, O. U., ed. The History of Christianity in West Africa. London: Longman, 1980.
Keddie, Nikki R. “Religion and Irreligion in Early Iranian Nationalism.” Comparative
Studies in History and Society, Vol. 4 (1962) pp. 265–95.
Keller, Werner. The History of the Presbyterian Church in West Cameroun: A Survey
of the General Development of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon up to 1960.
Victoria, Cameroon: Radio and Literature Department of the Presbyterian Church
in West Cameroon, 1969.
Kelly, Robin D. G. “ ‘But a Local Phase of a World Problem’: Black History’s Global
Vision, 1883–1950.” Journal of American History, Vol. 86 (1999) no. 3, pp. 1046–77.
Kendall, E. The End of an Era: Africa and the Missionary. London: SPCK, 1978.
Khan, Sandra Santolucito. “Encounter of Two Myths: Baha’i and Christian in the Rural
American South—A Study in Transmythicization.” Ph.D. dissertation. University of
California at Santa Barbara, 1977.
Kofele-Kale, Ndiva. Tribesmen and Patriots. Washington, D.C.: University Press of
America, 1981.
Kwast, Lloyd E. The Discipling of West Cameroon. Grand Rapids, MI: William B.
Eerdmans, 1971.
Lambden, Stephen. “Modern Western, Arabic-Persian Academic Transliteration
System.” Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, Vol. 5 (January 1991) Nos. 1–2.
Lanternari, Vittorio. The Religions of the Oppressed: A Study of Modern Messianic
Cults. New York: Knopf, 1963.
Larson, L. E. “Problems in the Study of Witchcraft Eradication Movements in Southern
Tanzania.” Ufahamu, Vol. 6, no. 3 (1976).
Lee, Anthony A. “Badi Foster,” “Enoch Olinga,” and “Haji Mubarak.” In Africana: The
Encyclopedia of the African and African American Experience. Revised Edition. Ed. by
Kwame Anthony Appiah and Henry Louis Gates, Jr. Oxford University Press, 2005.
——. “The Baha’i Church of Calabar.” H-Bahai, Occasional Papers in Shaykhi, Babi,
and Baha’i Studies, Vol. 1, no. 6 (November 1997) at <http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/
bhpapers/ vol1/africa1.htm>.
——. “Choice Wine: The Kitab-i Aqdas and the Development of Baha’i Law” at <http://
bahailibrary.org/conferences /wine.html>.
——, ed. Circle of Unity: Bahá’í Approaches to Current Social Issues. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1984.
——. “Ngoja and Six Theories of Witchcraft Eradication.” Ufahamu, Vol. 6, no. 3
(1976) pp. 108–109.
——. “Reconciling the Other: The Bahá’í Faith in America as a Successful Synthesis of
Christianity and Islam.” H-Bahai, Occasional Papers in Shaykhi, Babi, and Baha’i
Studies, Vol. 7, no. 2 (March 2003) at <http://www.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/bhpapers/
vol7/reconc.htm>.
——, gen. ed. Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History. Vol. 1. Ed. by Moojan Momen. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1982.
——, gen. ed. Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History. Vol. 2. From Iran East and West. Ed.
by Juan R. Cole and Moojan Momen. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1984.

bibliography
——, gen. ed. Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History. Vol. 3. In Iran. Ed. by Peter Smith.
Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1986.
——, gen. ed. Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History. Vol. 4. Music, Devotions, and
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár. By R. Jackson Armstrong-Ingram. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
1987.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 5. Studies in Honor of the
Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Ed. by Moojan Momen. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 6. Community Histories.
Ed. by Richard Hollinger. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 7. Symbol and Secret:
Qur’an Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i Íqán. By Christopher Buck. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1995.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 8. Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives on a Bahá’í Theology. Ed. by Jack McLean. Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1997.
——, gen. ed. Modernity and Millennium: The Genesis of the Baha’i Faith in the
Nineteenth-Century Middle East. By Juan R. I. Cole. Distributed as Studies in the
Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 9. New York: Columbia University Press, 1998.
——, gen. ed. Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity and the
Baha’i Faith. By Christopher Buck. Distributed as Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions, Vol. 10. Albany: State University of New York, 1999.
——, gen. ed. Religion in Iran: From Zoroaster to Baha’ullah. By Alessandro Bausani.
Trans. by. J. M. Marchesi. Distributed as Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions,
Vol. 11. New York: Bibliotheca Persica Press, 2000.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 12. Evolution and Bahá’í
Belief: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Response to Nineteenth-Century Darwinism. Ed. by Keven
Brown. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2001.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 13, Reason and Revelation:
New Directions in Bahá’í Thought. Ed. by Seena Fazel and John Danesh. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 2002.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 14. Bahá’ís in the West. Ed.
by Peter Smith. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 15. Search for Values: Ethics
and Bahá’í Thought. Ed. by John Danesh and Seena Fazel. Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 2004.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 16. Táhirih in History:
Perspectives on Qurratu’l-‘Ayn from East and West. Ed. by Sabir Afaqi. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 2004.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 17. Táhirih: A Portrait
in Poetry. Ed. by Amin Banani, Jascha Kessler, and Anthony A. Lee. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 2004.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 18. Alain Locke: Faith and
Philosophy. By Christopher Buck. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2005.
——, gen. ed. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 19. Church and State: A
Postmodern Political Theology. By Sen McGlinn. Leiden: by the author, 2005.
——, gen. ed. Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement, 1844–
1850. By Abbas Amanat. Paperback Edition distributed as Studies in the Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 20. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2005.
——, gen. ed. The Baha’i Faith in America. By William Garlington. Paperback Edition
distributed as Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 21. Westport, Conn.:
Praeger Publishers, 2005.
——, gen. ed. Baha’i and Globalization. Ed. by Margit Warburg, et al. Distributed as
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 22. Aarhus University Press, 2005.
Lehman, Anne Thorne. Days of Our Years . . . in Cameroun. By the author, n.d.

bibliography
Lekunze, Edward Forcha. “Chieftaincy and Christianity in Cameroon, 1886–1926:
A Historical and Comparative Analysis of the Evangelistic Strategy of the Basel
Mission.” Th.D. dissertation. Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago, 1987.
LeVine, V. T. The Cameroons from Mandate to Independence. Berkeley: University of
California Press, 1964.
Levtzion, Nehemia, ed. Conversion to Islam. New York: Holmes & Meier, 1979.
——. “Conversion to Islam: Some Notes . . .” Actes du 29e Congrès International des
Orientalistes (Paris, 1975) Fasc. 3. Pp. 125–29.
——. Muslims and Chiefs in West Africa: A Study of Islam in the Middle Volta Basin
in the Pre-Colonial Period. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1968.
—— and Randall L. Pouwels, eds. The History of Islam in Africa. Athens: Ohio
University Press, 2000.
Lewis, Bernard. Race and Slavery in the Middle East: An Historical Enquiry. New York:
Oxford University Press, 1990.
Lewis, David Levering. W.E.B. DuBois: Biography of a Race, 1868–1919 and W.E.B.
DuBois: The Fight for Equality and the American Century, 1919–1963. 2 Vols. New
York: Henry Holt and Company, 1993 and 2000.
Lewis, I. M. Islam in Tropical Africa. Second Edition. Bloomington: Indiana University
Press, 1980.
Little, K. L. “A Moslem ‘Missionary’ in Mendeland.” Man, Vol. 46 (1947) pp. 111–13.
The Local Spiritual Assembly: An Institution of the Bahá’í Administrative Order.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.
Lofland, John and Norman Skonovd. “Patterns of Conversion.” In E. Barker, ed. Of
Gods and Men. Macon, GA: Mercer University Press, 1983.
—— and Rodney Stark. “Becoming a World-Saver: A Theory of Conversion to a
Deviant Perspective.” American Sociological Review, Vol. 30 (1965) pp. 862–75.
MacEoin, Denis. “From Shaykhism to Babism: A Study in Charismatic Renewal in
Shí’í Islam.” Ph.D. dissertation. Cambridge University, 1979.
——. The Messiah of Shiraz: Studies in Early and Middle Babism. Leiden: Brill, 2009.
Macrae, N. C. The Presbyterian Church in Eastern Nigeria and the Cameroons. Calabar:
Presbyterian Church of Eastern Nigeria, 1957.
Mahmoudi, Jalil. “A Sociological Analysis of the Baha’i Movement.” Ph.D. disserta-
tion. University of Utah, 1966.
Mair, Lucy. Witchcraft. New York: World University Library, 1969.
Malaquais, Dominique. “Anatomie d’une arnaque: feymen et feymania au Cameroun.”
Les Etudes du CERI, Vol. 77 (2001) pp. 1–46.
Malcolm, L. W. G. “Islam in the Cameroons, West Africa.” Journal of African Society,
Vol. 21 (1921) no. 71, pp. 35–46.
Mambo, George K. “The Revival Fellowship (Brethren) in Kenya.” In David B. Barrett,
et al., eds., Kenya Churches Handbook. Kisumu: Evangel Publishing House, 1973.
Pp. 110–117.
Marchant, Leslie Ronald. A Guide to the Archives and Records of Protestant Christian
Missions . . ., 1796–1914. Nedlands, W.A.: University of Western Australia Press,
1966.
Marx, Karl. The Marx Reader. Ed. by Christopher Pierson. Cambridge: Polity Press,
1997.
Matthews, Warren. World Religions. St. Paul: West Publishing Company, 1991.
Martin, Vanessa. The Qajar Pact: Bargaining, Protest and the State in Nineteenth-
Century Persia. London: I.B. Tauris & Co., 2005.
Mbiti, John S. African Religions and Philosophy. London: Praeger Publishers, 1969.
——. Introduction to African Religion. London: Heinemann, 1975.
MacGaffey, Wyatt. Modern Kongo Prophets: Religion in a Plural Society. Bloomington:
Indiana University Press, 1983.

bibliography
McGlinn, Sen. Church and State: A Postmodern Political Theology. Leiden: by the
author, 2006.
McMullen, Michael. The Bahá’í: The Religious Construction of a Global Identity. New
Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, 2000.
Meyer, Birgit. “Commodities and the Power of Prayer: Pentecostalist Attitudes Towards
Consumption in Contemporary Ghana.” Development and Change, Vol. 29 (1998).
Miller, William McElwee. The Baha’i Faith: Its History and Teachings. South Pasadena,
CA: William Carey Library, 1974.
Middleton, John, ed. Magic, Witchcraft and Curing. Garden City, NY: The Natural
History Press, 1967.
——. “One Hundred and Fifty Years of Christianity in a Ghanaian Town.” Africa,
Vol. 53 (1983) no. 3, pp. 2–19.
Miescher, Stephen F. Making Men in Ghana. Bloomington: Indiana University Press,
2005.
Mirzai, Behnaz A. “African Presence in Iran: Identity and its Reconstruction.”
In O. Petre-Grenouilleau, ed. Traites et Esclavages: Vieux Problemes, Nouvelles
Perspectives? Paris: Société Française d’Histoire d’Outre-mer, 2002.
——. “Slavery, the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and the Emancipation of Slaves in
Iran (1828–1928).” Ph.D. dissertation. York University, Ontario, 2004.
——. “The Slave Trade and the African Diaspora in Iran.” In Abdul Sheriff, ed.
Monsoon and Migration: Unleashing Dhow Synergies. Zanzibar: ZIFF, 2005.
Mitchell, Glenford E. “The Bahá’í Faith in Africa.” Africa Report (October 1963)
pp. 14–15.
Mitchell, Robert Cameron. “Towards a Sociology of Religious Independency’.” Journal
of Religion in Africa, Vol. 3 (1970) no. 1, pp. 2–21.
Mlahagwa, Josiah R. “Contending for the Faith: Spiritual Revival of the Fellowship
Church in Tanzania.” In Thomas Spear and Isaria N. Kimambo, eds., East African
Expressions of Christianity. Oxford: James Currey, 1999.
Mohammadou, Eldridge. Traditions d’Origine des Peuples du Centre et de l’Ouest
du Cameroun. African Languages and Ethnography. Vol. 20. Ed. by Morimichi
Tomikawa. Tokyo: Institute for the Study of Languages and Cultures of Asia and
Africa (ILCAA), 1986.
Mommsen, Wolfgang J. Age of Bureaucracy: Perspectives on the Political Sociology of
Max Weber. Oxford: Blackwell, 1974.
Momen, Moojan, ed. The Babí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844–1944: Some Contemporary
Western Accounts. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.
——. “The Baha’i System of Transliteration.” Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, Vol. 5 (January
1991) Nos. 1–2.
——. “Esslemont’s Survey of the Bahá’í World, 1919–1920.” In Bahá’ís in the West:
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 14. Ed. by Peter Smith. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 2004. Pp. 88–92.
——. An Introduction to Shi’i Islam: The History and Doctrines of Twelver Shi’ism.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1985.
——. “Jamál Effendi and the Bahá’í Faith in Asia.” In Search for Values: Ethics in Bahá’í
Thought, Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 15. Ed. by John Danesh and
Seena Fazel. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004. Pp. 160–205.
Momen, Wendi, ed. A Basic Bahá’í Dictionary. Oxford: George Ronald, 1989.
Moore, Henrietta L. and Todd Sanders, Magical Interpretations, Material Realities:
Modernity, Witchcraft and the Occult in Postcolonial Africa. London: Routledge,
2001.
Morrison, Gayle. To Move the World: Louis G. Gregory and the Advancement of Racial
Unity in America. Wilmette, IL.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
Munírih Khánum. Munírih Khánum: Memoirs and Letters. Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 1986.

bibliography
Murdock, George Peter. Africa: Its Peoples and Their Culture History. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1959.
Nabíl-i A‘zam [Mulla Muhammad Zarandi]. The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of
the Early Days of the Bahá’i Revelation. Ed. and trans. by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932.
Nadel, S. F. “Witchcraft in Four African Societies: An Essay in Comparison,” American
Anthropologist. New Series. Vol. 64 (Jan.–Mar. 1952) no. 1, pp. 18–29.
Neill, Stephen. A History of Christian Missions. London: Penguin, 1964.
——. Colonialism and Christian Missions. London: McGraw-Hill, 1966.
Ngoh, Victor Julius. Cameroon, 1884–1985: A Hundred Years of History. Yaounde:
Navi-Group Publications, 1987.
Njeuma, Martin. Introduction to the History of Cameroon in the Nineteenth and
Twentieth Centuries. London: MacMillan Publishers, 1989.
Nyansako-ni-Nku, ed. Journey in Faith: The Story of the Presbyterian Church in
Cameroon. N.p.: Buma Kor and Co., 1982.
Nkwi, Paul Nchoji and Jean-Pierre Warnier. Elements for a History of the Western
Grassfields. University of Yaounde, 1982.
O’Dea, Thomas F. and Janet O. Aviad. The Sociology of Religion. 2nd Edition.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1983.
Ofori, Patrick E. Islam in Africa South of the Sahara: A Select Bibliographic Guide.
Nendeln: KTO Press, 1977.
Okite, Odhiambo. “Bahai in Black Africa: A Force to Contend With.” Christianity
Today, Vol. 14, no. 53 (March 13, 1970) p. 53.
One Universal Faith (pamphlet). Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, n.d. (1960?).
O’Neil, Robert John. “A History of Moghamo, 1865 to 1940: Authority and Change in
a Cameroon Grassfields Culture.” Ph.D. dissertation. Columbia University, 1987.
Palmer, Helen D. Twenty-Eight Years in Africa. New York: Carlton Press, 1985.
Parkin, David J. “Medicine and Men of Influence.” MAN, Vol. 3 (1968) pp. 424–39.
Parrinder, Geoffrey. African Traditional Religion. London: Hutchinson’s University
Library, 1954.
——. Sexual Morality in the World’s Religions. Oxford: Oneworld Publications, 1980
(1996).
Patterson, Orlando. Slavery and Social Death: A Comparative Study. Cambridge:
Harvard University Press, 1982.
Peel, J. D. Y. Aladura: A Religious Movement Among the Yoruba. London: Oxford
University Press, 1968.
Polak, Jakob Eduard. Persien, das Land und seine Bewohner. Leipzig: Brockhaus, 1865.
Rabbani, Ruhiyyih. The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1988.
——. “In Memoriam: Enoch Olinga.” In The Bahá’í World: An International Record,
1979–1983. Vol. 18. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1986. Pp. 618–635.
——. Preface. In The Ministry of the Custodians, 1957–1963. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Center, 1992.
——. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969.
Ranger, Terence O. “Christian Independency in Tanzania.” African Initiatives in
Religion. Ed. by David B. Barrett. Nairobi: East African Publishing House, 1971.
Pp. 125–45.
——. “Religious Movements and Politics in Sub-Saharan Africa.” African Studies
Review. Vol. 29 (1986) no. 2, pp. 1–69.
—— and I. N. Kimambo, eds. The Historical Study of African Religion. London:
Heinemann Educational, 1972.
—— and J. Weller, eds. Themes in the Christian History of Central Africa. London:
Heinemann, 1975.
Richards, Chris. The Illustrated Encyclopedia of World Religions. Rockport, MA:
Element, 1997.

bibliography
Richardson, James T., ed. Conversion Careers: In and Out of the New Religions. Beverly
Hills: Sage Publications, 1978.
Ricks, Thomas. “Slaves and Slave Trading in Shi’i Iran, AD 1500–1900,” Journal of
Asian and African Studies, Vol. 36 (2001) no. 4, pp. 407–418.
Robins, Catherine. “Tukutendereza: A Study of Social Change and Withdrawal in the
Bolokole Revival Movement in Uganda.” Ph.D. dissertation. Columbia University,
1975.
Robbins, Thomas and Dick Anthony. “Sociology of Contemporary Religious Move-
ments.” In Annual Review of Sociology, 1979. Ed. by A. Inkeles, J. Coleman, and
R. H. Turner. Palo Alto, CA: Annual Reviews, Inc., 1979. Pp. 75–89.
Roozbehyan, F. The Paradise on Earth. N.p. (Denmark?): by the author, n.d. (1960?).
Rubin, Neville. Cameroun: An African Federation. London: Pall Mall Press, 1971.
Ruel, Malcolm. Leopards and Leaders: Constitutional Politics Among a Cross River
People. London: Tavistock Publications, 1969.
Sackey, Brigid M. New Directions in Gender and Religion: The Changing Status of
Women in African Independent Churches. Lanhan, MD: Lexington Books, 2006.
Sanders, Todd. “Reconsidering Witchcraft: Postcolonial Africa and Analytical (Un)
Certainties.” American Anthropologist, Vol. 105 (2003) no. 2, pp. 338–52.
Sanneh, Lamin O. West African Christianity: The Religious Impact. London: Allen and
Unwin, 1983.
——. “Christian Experience of Islamic Da’wah, with particular reference to Africa.”
International Review of Mission. Vol. 65 (1976) pp. 410–23.
——. “The Domestication of Christianity and Islam in African Societies.” Journal of
Religion in Africa, Vol. 11 (1980) no. 1, pp. 1–12.
——. West African Christianity: The Religious Impact, New York: George Allen &
Unwin, 1983.
Schneider, G. Go! A Graphic Portrayal of the Christian Mission at Work in Cameroons,
West Africa. N.p., 1957.
Segal, Ronald. Islam’s Black Slaves: The Other Black Diaspora. New York: Farrar,
Strauss and Giroux, 2001.
Shack, William A. and Elliot P. Skinner. Strangers in African Societies. Berkeley:
University of California Press, 1979.
Sharon, Moshe, ed. Studies in Modern Religions: Religious Movements and the Bābī-
Bahā’ī Faiths. Leiden: Brill, 2004.
Sheil, Lady Mary Elenor. Glimpses of Life and Manners in Persia. London: John
Murray, 1856.
Shiri, Godwin, ed. Wholeness in Christ: The Legacy of the Basel Mission in India.
Balmatta, Mangalore: The Karnataka Theological Research Institute, 1985.
Shoghi Effendi (Rabbani). The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1939.
——. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922–1932. Revised edition. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1928 (1974).
——, comp. The Bahá’í Faith, 1844–1950: Information Statistical and Comparative.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, n.d. (1950?).
——, comp. The Bahá’í Faith, 1844–1952: Information Statistical and Comparative.
Including Supplement Ten Year International Bahá’í Teaching and Consolidation
Plan, 1953–1963. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1953.
——. Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947–1957. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1965.
——. God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944.
——. Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950–1957. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1958.
——. The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community: The Messages from
the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of the British Isles. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1981.

bibliography
——. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Revised Edition. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1955.
Shorter, Aylward and Eugene Kataza, eds. Missionaries to Yourselves: African Catechists
Today. London: Geoffrey Chapman, 1972.
van Slageren, Jaap. L’Histoire de l’Eglise en Afrique (Cameroun). Yaounde: CLE,
1969.
——. Les Origines de l’Eglise Evangélique du Cameroun. Yaounde: CLE, 1972.
Smith, Bryan Sharwood. Recollections of British Administration in the Cameroons and
Northern Nigeria 1921–1957: “But Always As Friends.” Durham: Duke University
Press, 1969.
Smith, Noel. The History of the Presbyterian Church in Ghana 1835–1960. Accra:
Ghana Universities Press, 1966.
Smith, Peter. The Babi and Baha’i Religions: From Messianic Shi‘ism to a World
Religion. Cambridge University Press, 1987.
——. A Concise Encyclopedia of the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: Oneworld Publications, 2000.
——. “A Note on Babi and Baha’i Numbers in Iran.” Iranian Studies, Vol. 15 (1984)
pp. 295–301.
—— and Moojan Momen. “The Baha’i Faith 1957–1988: A Survey of Contemporary
Developments.” Religion, Vol. 19 (1989) pp. 63–91.
Smith, Philip R. “The Development and Influence of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
in Great Britain, 1914–1950.” In Community Histories: Studies in the Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 6. Ed. by Richard Hollinger. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1992.
Pp. 153–215.
——. “What Was a Bahá’í? Concerns of British Bahá’ís, 1900–1920.” In Studies in
Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi: Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religio. Vol. 5.
Ed. by Moojan Momen. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988. Pp. 219–51.
Snow, David A. and Cynthia Phillips. “The Lofland-Stark Conversion Model: A
Critical Reassessment.” Social Problems, Vol. 27 (1980) pp. 430–47.
Spear, Thomas and Isaria N. Kimambo. East African Expressions of Christianity.
Oxford: James Currey, 1999.
Sprague, Sydney. A Year With the Bahá’ís in India and Burma. Reprint. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1986 (1908).
Stakeman, Randolph. The Cultural Politics of Religious Change: A Study of the Sanoyea
Kpelle in Liberia. Lewiston: Edwin Mellen Press, 1986.
——. Religious Innovation in Africa: Collected Essays on New Religious Movements.
Boston: G.K. Hall, 1979.
Stark, Rodney. The Future of Religion: Secularization, Revival, and Cult Formation.
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1985.
—— and William S. Bainbridge. “Networks of Faith: Interpersonal Bonds and
Recruitment to Cults and Sects.” American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 85 (1980)
pp. 1376–1395.
Staudenraus, P. J. The American Colonization Movement, 1816–1865. New York:
Columbia University Press, 1961.
Stebbins, May Prentiss. Index, Bahá’í News. Vols. 2 and 3. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1959 and 1966.
Stein, Judith. The World of Marcus Garvey: Race and Class in Modern Society. Baton
Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1991.
Stewart, Pamela J. and Andrew Strathern. Witchcraft, Sorcery, Rumors, and Gossip.
Cambridge University Press, 2004.
Stiles, Susan. “Early Zoroastrian Conversions to the Bahá’í Faith in Yazd, Iran.” In
From Iran East and West: Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History. Vol. 2. Ed. by Juan R.
Cole and Moojan Momen. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1984. Pp. 66–93.
Stiles-Maneck, Susan. “The Conversion of Religious Minorities to the Bahá’í Faith
in Iran: Some Preliminary Observations.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3 (1990–
1991) no. 3, pp. 35–48.

bibliography
Stockman, Robert Harold. “The Bahá’í Faith and American Protestantism.” Th.D. dis-
sertation. Harvard University, 1990.
Strachan, Hew. The First World War. New York: Penguin, 2004.
Sundkler, Bengt G. M. Bantu Prophets of South Africa. London: Oxford University
Press, 1961 (Lutterworth Press, 1948).
——. Zulu Zion and Some Swazi Zionists. London: Oxford University Press, 1976.
A Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1973.
Tajoche, Tazifor. Cameroon History in the 19th & 20th Centuries. Buea, Cameroon:
Education Book Centre, 2003.
Taylor, John V. Processes of Growth in an African Church. London: SCM Press, 1958.
Temu, A. J. British Protestant Missions. London: Longman, 1972.
Thomas, Guy. “Why Do We Need the White Man’s God? African Contributions and
Responses to the Formation of a Christian Movement in Cameroon, 1914–1968.”
Ph.D. dissertation. University of London, 2002.
Trempong, M. P. “A History of the Presbyterian Church at Bompata in Asante-
Akyen.” Ghana Notes and Queries (June 1972) pp. 20–23.
Trimingham, J. S. The Christian Church and Islam in West Africa. London: SCM Press,
1955.
——. A History of Islam in West Africa. London: Oxford University Press, 1962.
——. The Influence of Islam upon Africa. New York: Praeger, 1968.
——. Islam in West Africa. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1959.
Tröster, Georg. “Zum Problem der Baha’i-Bewegung in Sudkamerun.” Evangelisches
Missions Magazin, Vol. 106, No. 2 (1962) pp. 71–77.
Trüb, Adolphe. “A Study of the Traditional Outlook of the Native Community in the
Cameroons Province of Nigeria, and its Impact upon Thought and Practice of the
Christian Church in that Province.” Ph.D. dissertation. University of Edinburgh,
1960.
Tucker, Robert C. The Marx-Engels Reader. Second Edition. New York: Norton &
Company, 1978.
Turner, Harold W. African Independent Churches. London: Oxford University Press,
1967.
van den Hoonaard, Will C. The Origins of the Bahá’í Community of Canada, 1898–
1948. Waterloo, Ont.: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 1996.
——. “A Survey of the Baha’i Faith in Africa from Its Earliest Days to 1986.” Baha’i
Studies Review, Vol. 11 (2003) pp. 10–34.
Vansina, Jan. “Les mouvements religieux Kuba (Kasai) à l’époque coloniale” in Etudes
d’histoire africaine II. Kinshasa: Université Lovanium, 1971.
Velasco, Ismael. “The Bahá’í Community in Edinburgh, 1946–1950” in Bahá’ís in the
West: Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 14. Ed. by Peter Smith. Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2004. Pp. 265–93.
Verstraelen, F. J. An African Church in Transition: From Missionary Dependence to
Mutuality in Mission. 2 Vols. Leiden: Interuniversity Institute for Missiological and
Ecumenical Research, 1975.
The Vision of Shoghi Effendi: Proceedings of the Association for Bahá’í Studies Ninth
Annual Conference. Ottawa: Association for Bahá’í Studies, 1993.
de Vries, Jelle. The Babi Question You Mentioned . . .: The Origins of the Bahá’í
Community of the Netherlands, 1844–1962. New Religious Identities in the Western
World. Vol. 3. Leuven: Peeters, 2002.
Wach, Joachim. Sociology of Religion. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1971
(1944).
Walker, Sheila S. The Religious Revolution in Ivory Coast: The Prophet Harris and the
Harrist Church. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1983.
Walters, Mbu. Beware of Religious Cults and Secret Societies. N.p. (Chicago?): Midnight
Image, 1995.

bibliography
Warburg, Margit. Baha’i, Studies in Contemporary Religions. Massimo Introvigne,
series ed. Torino: Signature Books, 2001.
——. “The Circle, the Brotherhood, and the Ecclesiastical Body: Baha’i in Denmark,
1925–1987.” In Religion, Tradition, and Renewal. Ed. by Armin W. Geertz and
Jeppe Sinding Jensen. Aarhus University Press, 1991. Pp. 201–221.
——. Citizens of the World: A History and Sociology of the Baha’is from a Globalisation
Perspective. Leiden: Brill, 2006.
——, Annika Hvithamar, and Morten Warmind, eds. Baha’i and Globalisation. Aarhus
University Press, 2005.
Ward, Kevin. “Tukutendereza Yesu: The Balokole Revival Movement in Uganda.”
In From Mission to Church: A Handbook of Christianity in East Africa. Ed. by
Z. Nthamburi. Nairobi: Uzima Press, 1991. Pp. 113–44.
Warren, Max. Revival: An Enquiry. London: SCM Press, 1954.
Weber, Max. The Essential Weber: A Reader. Ed. by Sam Whimster. New York:
Routledge, 2004.
Welbourn, F. B. East African Rebels: A Study of Some Independent Churches. London:
SCM Press, 1961.
—— and B. A. Ogot. A Place to Feel at Home. London: Oxford University Press, 1966.
Willis, J. R. “The Historiography of Islam in Africa: The Last Decade.” African Studies
Review, Vol. 14 (1971) no. 3, pp. 403–424.
Willis, R. G. “Instant Millennium: The Sociology of African Witch-cleansing Cults.” In
Witchcraft Confessions and Accusations. Ed. by Mary Douglas. London: Tavistock
Publications, 1970. Pp. 128–131.
——. “Kamcape: An Anti-sorcery Movement among the Fipa.” Africa, Vol. 38, no. 1
(1968).
——, ed. Studies in West African Islamic History. London: Frank Cass and Company,
1979.
——, ed. Witchcraft and Healing. University of Edinburgh Press, 1969.
Wilson, Monica. Communal Rituals of the Nyakusa. Oxford University Press, 1959.
Woodson, Carter G. The African Background Outlined; or, Handbook for the Study of
the Negro. Washington, D.C., 1936.
World Christian Encyclopedia: A Comparative Study of Churches and Religions in the
Modern World. Second Edition. Oxford University Press, 2001.
Wyman, June R. “Becoming a Baha’i: Discourse and Social Networks in an American
Religious Movement.” Ph.D. dissertation. The Catholic University of America,
1985.
Zettenberg, H. L. “Religious Conversion as a Change in Social Roles.” Sociology and
Social Research (UNESCO), Vol. 36 (1952) no. 3, pp. 159–86.
Zoghby, S. M. Islam in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Partially Annotated Guide. Washington,
D.C.: Library of Congress, 1978.

INDEX
Balyuzi, Hasan M. 13
Banani, Amin 83
Banani, Musa 17, 83, 85, 90, 137, 138,
141, 148, 159, 161
Banani, Samiheh 17, 137, 138, 141,
142, 159, 161
Banyangi as religious specialists
171–72, 194
Baptists 121–26
Basel Mission 17, 45–46, 55–56, 59,
60, 112, 115, 116, 119, 159, 160, 161,
166, 170, 177, 178–79, 180, 181–83,
191, 192, 194, 103, 217, 218, 220;
beginnings in Cameroon 120–24;
growth in Cameroon 126–29; in
Ghana 129–33; schools of 112,
126, 127, 129, 178–79, 180, 190, 193;
weaknesses of 133
Berger, Peter L. 49–50, 51, 53
‘Black Babis’ 36–37
Black Pearls 30, 36, 37
boycott of Kalimat Press 14
‘brotherhood’ 212–213
Browne, Edward G. 1n, 10
Calabar, see Baha’i church of Calabar
Caravan of East and West (New History
Society) 65n, 107, 109
‘circle’ 212–215, 217–218
Cobb, Stanwood 5
Cole, Aaron B. Wellesley (Arthur) 102
Cole, Juan R. I. 14, 52–53
Congo, Belgian 94, 159, 188
deductive religious alternative 50
discontinuities (in history) 197–98
dual identity (multiple identities) 131,
190n, 220
Dunne, Major and Zara 85, 86, 103,
‘ecclesiastical body’ 212–214
Edie, Michael 60–61
Edwards, Julius 109
elites 125, 186–87
eschatology 51, 53
‘Ethiopian servant’ (of the Bab), see
Mubarak, Haji
‘Abdu’l-Baha 5, 63–64, 65, 66, 88, 144,
147, 200; photograph of 203, 206,
Afnan family 29–30, 37, 38, 38n,
39–40
Africa Plan 70–74, 87, 90, 107, 137,
153, 154
African-American (Negro) Baha’is 19,
28, 35n, 74, 76n, 76–77, 78, 80, 86, 87;
Olinga mistaken for 160
African population of Tehran 27; of
Shiraz 25–26, 27
African Traditional Religion 132, 143,
145, 159, 166, 167, 181, 183–87, 188,
208, 209–210
alcohol 123, 140n, 143, 183, 183n
Alpers, Edward A. 28
Amanat, Abbas 14, 36, 48, 50, 51
American Baha’is 4, 9, 16, 17, 30, 44,
54n, 74, 116, 137, 173, 187
American (Presbyterian) missionaries
Armstrong-Ingram, Jackson 35, 37
Awo, Jacob Tabot 6, 170–71;
vision of 6
B— 189, 221
Bab, the (Sayyid ‘Ali-Muhammad
Shirazi) 5, 21, 25, 27, 29, 30,
34, 36–37, 38–40, 51, 52, 63, 64;
declaration of 1–5, 2n, 31, 109, 144;
household of 33; purchase of slaves
33–34
Baha’i Administration 9, 66–68, 85,
120, 175, 219; over-administration 9
Baha’i church of Calabar 19, 199–206
Baha’i faith 7–10, 46, 52–55, 63,
181–82; academic study of 10–16;
Africanization of 159, 170–71, 196
Baha’i identity 4, 8, 119, 140, 152–153,
191, 199, 200, 203, 211
Baha’i law 142–43, 167, 175n
Baha’i movement in Cameroons
175–79
Baha’i principles 8–9, 143, 144, 145, 217
Baha’is of West Africa 44–46
Baha’u’llah 6, 7, 37, 52–53, 63, 64, 67,
144, 147; as the Return of Christ 140

index
eunuchs 26, 27
expansion (growth of the Baha’i
community) 9, 12,17, 18,19–20,
43, 61, 68, 69, 90, 94, 95, 113, 154,
159, 166, 169, 171, 175; narratives of
expansion 95, 99, 195–97, 199
Fankhauser, Andreas (A.F.) 181, 181n
Fiddih (Fezzeh) Khanum 33–36, 37,
38–40
Foster, William 77–79, 83–84, 92, 102
Foucault, Michel 198
French colonies in West Africa 89,
103, 110, 111–13, 127, 160, 162, 222
Gambia 95–101, 113
Garlington, William N. 12
Garrigues, Steve L. 12
Ghana 108–111, 115, 130, 133
Hampson, Arthur 12, 89
Hassall, Graham H. 12
Hingston, Joseph A. F. S. 102–103
Holt, Thomas C. 197
Horton, Robin 209–210
Illiffe, John 55–57
independent Christian churches
124–26, 198–99, 206, 222
inductive religious alternative 50–51
Intercontinental Conference in
Kampala 148, 159
Ivanoff, Mikhail S. 11
Jamila Khanum 25–26
Johnson, Vernon Elvin 12
Kahn, Sandra Santolucito 12
Keddie, Nikki R. 11
Khadijih Bagum (wife of the Bab) 21,
33, 34, 35, 39
Kima, Samuel 116, 119–20; letter to
Wilson 118
Liberia 103–104
local Spiritual Assemblies 9, 43, 44, 67,
69, 70, 72, 73, 90, 92, 94, 95, 97, 99,
102, 152, 167, 176, 178
Lucas, Mary 5
Macauley, Thomas Beresford 107
MacEoin, Denis 14
Mahdi 2, 52
mailing addresses of Cameroons Baha’i
communities 178–79
Mamfe District, British Cameroons
118, 128, 160, 170, 171, 178, 178, 180,
181, 182, 189, 192–93
men 46, 112, 119, 162n, 205, 210, 215;
converted in Liberia 79; in the Basel
Mission 132; of Teso 147–49
Middleton, John 49n, 130, 131–33,
145, 181, 189, 194, 220
missions, collapse of 55–59
modernity 18, 46, 47, 51, 52–55, 59,
71, 142, 187, 208; crisis of 46–50
Momen, Moojan 9, 10, 13, 14, 16
Mubarak, Haji 21, 27, 28, 31, 33,
34–40; night of the ‘Declaration’ 29
Mulla Husayn 21, 28, 31, 63;
conversion of 1–5
Nakhjavani, ‘Ali and Violette 137–38,
140, 141, 142, 148, 155, 159–60, 165
National Spiritual Assemblies 67, 69,
72, 73, 88, 104, 108, 110, 111, 112,
137, 138, 141, 153, 175, 211
Ndobe, Alice 59–61
New History Society, see Caravan of
East and West
Nigeria 106–108, 162, 172–73, 211,
214, 222
Njang, Oscar 108, 160, 199–206,
211–212, 215, 216, 217; parable of
206–211
Nymon, Mavis 86
Oben-Etchi, Peter 199, 200, 202–205,
208, 210, 211–12, 214, 215, 217
Olinga, Enoch 43, 45, 59, 92, 112, 114,
115–16, 118, 119–20, 133–37, 140–47,
148, 150–56, 159–71, 168n, 180,
183, 193–94, 205, 211, 212, 214, 215,
216, 218, 222–23; Hand of the Cause
168–69; job in British Cameroons
161; letter to the Guardian 162–67;
marriage of 159, 159n; narrow range
of concerns 166–67; pilgrimage 167
parable of Oscar Njang 204, 206–211
Paris Talks 199, 200, 202, 203–205,
Parkin, David 186–87
parliamentary forms, in Baha’i practice
7, 44, 66
Patterson, Orlando 23–24
pilgrimage to the house of the Bab 35,
pioneers (Baha’i missionaries) 18, 20,
43, 44, 45, 68, 68n, 71–72, 74, 77, 79,

index
87, 88, 89, 90, 92, 95, 99, 118–20, 137,
153–54, 156, 162, 196, 213, 215, 219,
222–23
politics 125, 180–87; Baha’i attitude
towards 173–75; in British
Cameroons 173, 175
Portuguese Guinea (Guinea Bissau)
104–106
premature death in African cosmologies
188, 206, 207–209, 217
productive religious alternative 18,
51–53, 54–55, 59, 61, 175, 194
Qa’im 2
Ranger, Terence O. 45
reductive religious alternative 50, 53
Regional National Spiritual Assemblies
16, 69, 85, 90, 92, 175
religious movements, definition of 45
Ricks, Thomas 24
Roozbehyan, Fariborz 95–101, 220
Ruhiyyih Khanum Rabbani 148
salvation history, Baha’i 4
Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Baha’i
Faith 43, 65, 66, 67–68, 70, 73, 74,
77, 87, 88, 94, 97, 138, 142, 149, 153,
154, 155, 159, 162, 167, 168, 173, 220
Sierra Leone 102–103
slave population of Shiraz 27–28
slave population of Tehran 27, 27n
slavery in Iran 24–28
slaves as non-persons 23–24
Smith, Peter 9, 10, 14, 16
social death 23
Sohrab, Ahmad 65n, 107
Stephens, Ethel 76–77, 109
Tanyi, David 110, 118, 160, 162, 170,
Tanyi, Esther 160
Tanyi, Mose 192–93, 221
tea parties 160–61
Ten Year World Crusade (international
plan) 45, 73, 87–90, 95, 96, 100,
166–67
‘there’ (Middleton’s term) 49n, 131,
179, 189, 220
transliteration ix–x
Tröster, Georg 180–84, 189–93, 221
underground movement 46, 115,
116–20, 180, 189
Vieira, Eduardo Duarte 104–106
Wach, Joachim 212–213, 215
Warburg, Margit 10, 14, 213–14, 215
Washington, George and Bessie Mae
85–86
Wesson, Vivian 86
Willis, R. G. 185, 188
Wilson, Valerie 16, 78, 79, 83–85,
92, 102, 116, 119, 120, 169, 175–76,
178–79, 219, 225
witchcraft beliefs 164, 171–72, 181,
184–85, 186, 187, 188, 194, 208, 209
women 27, 79, 131–32, 144; not told of
Bab’s execution 38, 40; seclusion
of 25; unattracted to Baha’i 148
World Christian Encyclopedia 10, 10n