A Profitable End:
A History of the Zabihi Family


Editor
for the English Edition
Dr. Foad Seddigh
Assisted by
Mrs. Mairianne Zabihi
Dr. Tahirih Danesh

A Profitable End: A History of the Zabihi Family
A  translation of the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr”
by Zia’u’llah Zabihi
Persian Edition 2018
Publisher: Yaran

English Edition 2024
Printer:

All Rights Reserved By Shahrokh Zabihi
Leo Paper USA, 1180 N.W. Maple St. Issaquah WA 98027
No part of this publication may be reproduced in whole or part or stored in a retrieval
system, a transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic mechanical, photocopy,
recording, or otherwise, without written permission of the publisher.
Copyright (insert Copyright symbol) 2024 Shahrokh Zabihi
Library of Congress Cataloging – in- Publication Data
Naames: Zabihi, Zia, author
Title: A Profitable End, Abdul-vahab Zabihi, his family and the Bahai Faith
Includes bibliographical references and index
ISBN: 978-0-578-78223-2




Table of Contents



Foreword: In Remembrance of the Friend         .……………..………..
Introduction (Persian Edition)      .……….………………
.....
.………......
Introduction (English Edition)      .……….………………
.....
.………….
Chapter One – Ancestors
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk, Ḥájí Bábá      .……………..…………………………
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir, Sham‘ush-Shuhadá      .…………….

(i)
Martyrdom      .……………..……………………………… .……..

(ii) The events in ‘Abbás-Ábád       .……………..……………………
Sakínih Sulṭán, Nanih jún      .……………..……………………………
‘Alí-Akbar Káshí      .……………..………………………………
.....
.......
Sakínih Sulṭán, The Grandmother Labíb, Umm-i- Labib       ………..
Fáṭimih Ṣughrá     .……………..……………………………….........
Jamálíyyih, Bíbí Fáṭí       .……………..……………………………
Chapter Two – ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
Memoirs

(i)
Challenges in Early Life      .……………..……………………

(ii)
Permission for Pilgrimage          .……………..………………

(iii)
Dreams      .……………..………………………………
.....
..........

(iv)
Pilgrimage      .……………..………………………………
.....
.....

(v)
Bahá’í Books at the Customs        .……………..…………....…
Shaykh Bihlul        .……………..………………………………
.....
...........
Ḥájí Mullá ‘Ali      .……………..………………………………
.....
.....…..
Khálisí-zádih in Yazd       .……………..……………………………….
Adventures in Bam          .……………..………………………………..... 107


The Falsafí Era          .……………..………………………………
.....
.......


Chapter Three – Teaching Memories
Debate with a Cleric      .……………..………………………………
.....

Áqá Mihdí Sarsáz      .……………..……………………………….........
The fruitful Seed       .……………..………………………………
.....
.......
Isfahani Priest       .……………..………………………………
.....
............
Trip to Afghanistan      .……………..……………………………………
Priest from Ádhirbáyján       .……………..……………………………...
Chapter Four – Amazing Accounts
Famine and the Mention of the Name of the Most Exalted Point
Mírzá Muḥammad Mushrif     …………………………………………
Jamál-í Burújirdí       …………………………………………………… 155
Surveying Personal Residences       …………………………………
Declaration After Second Marriage       ……………………………
Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)      ………………………………………….
Chapter Five – Memories of Mr. Zabihi
Spirit of Sacrifice      ……………………………………………………..
Words of the Guardian       ……………………………………………....
Permission to Copy Tablet of the Temple      ………………………….
Ḥájí Muḥammad Gunduli        …………………………………………..
The Holy House in Tákur        …………………………………………
The Final Days       ………………………………………………………..
A Bahá’í Centre in Memory of Zabihi      ……………………………...
Chapter Six – Yazd and the Circumstances of the Family
Conditions in Yazd      ……………………………………………………
One Family and 17 Martyrs       …………………………………………
‘Ishq-Ábád Exiles       ………………………………………………….....


Bahá’ís of ‘Adasiyyih       ………………………………………………..
The Circumstances Surrounding the Zabihi Family      ………………
The Remains of our Paternal Home       ………………………………
The Prayer that was Answered       ……………………………………
Chapter Seven – Some Tablets Addressed to the Family

Tablet No. 1
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 2
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 3
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 4
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 5
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 6
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 7
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 8
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 9
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 10
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 11
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 12
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 13
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation

Tablet No. 14
Handwritten, typed manuscript and its Provisional
translation


Chapter Eight – Endnotes

Note No. 1
The provisional translation of a quote ……………....

Note No. 2
The provisional translation of a quote ……................

Note No. 3
The name of the book  ……………………………....

Note No. 4
Payám-i Bahá’í  ……………………………………..

Note No. 5
The Passage  ………………………………………

Note No. 6
Mr. ‘Azíz Ismayn Yazdí  ……………………………

Note No. 7
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk  …………………………………..

Note No. 8
Tabriz  ………………………………………………. 239

Note No. 9
Manshád  ……………………....................................

Note No. 10
Takíyyih  …………………………………………..... 241

Note No. 11
Mecca  ………………………………………………

Note No. 12
Karbala  ……………………………………………..

Note No. 13
Mashhad   …………………………………………… 243

Note No. 14
A Tablet of visitation for two brothers: Áqá Abu’l-
Qásim  and Ibrahim

Note No. 15
Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí’s visit to Yazd  …………....

Note No. 16
The poem   ………………………………………......

Note No. 17
Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí travel after leaving Shiraz

Note No. 18
Ákhúnd Mullá Riḍá -i- Manshádi (Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ)

Note No. 19
Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí’s Visit of Yazd in 1850

Note No. 20
Navváb-i-Raḍaví …………………………………....

Note No. 21
Mullá Ḥusayn - the older brother of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ

Note No. 22
A verbal utterance from Bahá’u’lláh regarding
Manshád

Note No. 23
Ákhúnd Mullá Ḥusayn - Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ’s brother
(martyrdom)

Note No. 24
Najaf  ……………………………………………….

Note No. 25
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk – story of his life  ………………

Note No. 26
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh  ………………………………….. 256

Note No. 27
Jalálu’d-Dawlih  …………………………………….

Note No. 28
Martyrdom of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of Báqir  258

Note No. 29
A correction   ………………………………………..

Note No. 30
Mullá Bahrám Akhtar-Khávarí  …………………….. 258

Note No. 31
‘Abbás-Ábád  ……………………………………….. 260



Note No. 32
Events of 1903 in Yazd  …………………………….

Note No. 33
Pool …………………………………………………. 263

Note No. 34
Yádnámiy-i-Bayḍá’-i-Núrá  ………………………

Note No. 35
Township of Taft  …………………………………...

Note No. 36
Ḥaḍrat Válá  ………………………………………… 263

Note No. 37
Qapán  ………………………………………………. 263

Note No. 38
A tablet regarding the friends in ‘Abbás-Ábád  ….....

Note No. 39
A tablet in the honor of Sakínih Sulṭán  …………….

Note No. 40
Abá  …………………………………………………

Note No. 41
Táríkh-i Shuhadáy-i Yazd  ………………………….

Note No. 42
Ḥaḍrat Válá  ………………………………………… 265

Note No. 43
The fort of the governor …………………………….

Note No. 44
Nasaqchi Báshi  ……………………………………..

Note No. 45
A Tablet of visitation ………………………………..

Note No. 46
A verse from the Qur’án …………………………….

Note No. 47
Sadratu’l-Muntahá  ………………………………….

Note No. 48
An article of the Payam-i Bahá’í    ………………….   267

Note No. 49
The Twin Most Sublime Names  …………………… 267

Note No. 50
Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar, one of the Seven Martyrs of Yazd

Note No. 51
The city of ‘Ishq-Ábád ……………………………...

Note No. 52
Reference in the Diaries of Juliet Thompson ……….

Note No. 53
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍá’il Gulpáyigání …………………...

Note No. 54
The tablet of visitation for Fatimih Khanum  ………

Note No. 55
Uda‘t-u Nafsi  …………………………………….....

Note No. 56
A letter from the Guardian  …………………………

Note No. 57
A letter from the Guardian  …………………………

Note No. 58
A letter from the Guardian  …………………………

Note No. 59
A letter from the Guardian  …………………………

Note No. 60
A letter from the Guardian  …………………………

Note No. 61
A letter from the Guardian  …………………………

Note No. 62
Munír Nabíl-Zádih  …….…………………………… 271

Note No. 63
Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí  ……………………

Note No. 64
Validity of Pilgrims’ Notes  ……………..………….

Note No. 65
Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannad Yazdi  ………………

Note No. 66
Keith Ransom-Kehler …………………………….....



Note No. 67
Ḥájí Maḥmúd Qassábchí  …………………………

Note No. 68
Kavákib’ud-Duríyyih (meaning luminous stars)  …

Note No. 69
Tablet of Ram  ……………………………………....

Note No. 70
The Hadith  ……………………………………….....

Note No. 71
Uṣúl al-Káfí  ………………………………………

Note No. 72
Biḥár al-Anvár  ……………………………………

Note No. 73
Ḥusayn a grandson of Prophet Muḥammad  ………

Note No. 74
‘Alí - a son of Abu Talib  …………………………

Note No. 75
Fáṭimih - the daughter of Prophet Muḥammad  …….

Note No. 76
Salmán al-Fársí  ……………………………………..

Note No. 77
Abú Dhar  …………………………………………

Note No. 78
Khurásán  …………………………………………… 277

Note No. 79
“man” - an old unit of measuring weight  …………

Note No. 80
A verse from the Qur’án …………………………….

Note No. 81
Shaykhís  …………………………………………....

Note No. 82
Bam - a city in eastern Kermán province …………

Note No. 83
Abarkuh or Abarqú  …………………………………

Note No. 84
Bandar-i ʿAbbás  ……………………………………. 280

Note No. 85
Rafsanjan  …………………………………………

Note No. 86
Kirmán  ……………………………………………...

Note No. 87
Falsafí:   Persecution  …………………………….....

Note No. 88
Sarsáz  ……………………………………………..... 284

Note No. 89
Buq‘at’ul-Khaḍrá  …………………………………... 284

Note No. 90
Yazíd ……………………………………………....... 284

Note No. 91
Dr. Sulaymán Birjís  ……………………………….

Note No. 92
A short prayer from Bahá’u’lláh ……………………

Note No. 93
Tone and manner of debate  ………………………

Note No. 94
Áqá Mírzá Ḥasan Núsh-Ábádí  ……………………

Note No. 95
Arák  ………………………………………………...

Note No. 96
Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván Ṣafá  ………….……………..

Note No. 97
Ḥájí Siyyid Javád Surúsh …………………………… 289

Note No. 98
Jamál Burújirdí ……………………………………

Note No. 99
Mírzá Ḥaydar-‘Alí Isfahani  ………………………

Note No. 100
Qábil-i Ábádihyí  ……………………………………

Note No. 101
Mullá ‘Alí Ján & ‘Alavíyyih khanum  ……………



Note No. 102
Bakhtyárí  …………………………………………

Note No. 103
Shahr-i-Kurd  ………………………………………

Note No. 104
Abu’l-Faḍl Raḥmání  ………………………………

Note No. 105
Dr. ‘Alí- Murád Dávúdí  ……………………………

Note No. 106
Naw Nahálán Company  …………………………....

Note No. 107
A short Prayer by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá …………………....

Note No. 108
Tablet of  Temple  …………………………………..

Note No. 109
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl Gundulí  ………………….

Note No. 110
Tákur  ………...…………………….……………...... 300

Note No. 111
This is short note written by Bahá’u’lláh at childhood   300

Note No. 112
Mírzá Buzurg and Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí  ……………….

Note No. 113
Seventeen or more  martyrs  ………………………

Note No. 114
Refer to Payam Bahá’í, issue number 360-370  …….

Note No. 115
Ákhúnd Mullá ‘Abdu’l-Ghaní Ardikání   …………

Note No. 116
Adasíyyih  …………………………………………... 310

Note No. 117
A Brief History of  the Faith in Yazd ……………….

Note No. 118
Some other  family members of Dhabihi  …………

Note No. 119
A story about Ḥájí Ḥasan  …………………………

Note No. 120
Ḥájí Ḥasan Turk’s family  …………………………..

Note No. 121
‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn -  one of the sons of Ḥájí Zaynal Turk  321

Note No. 122
Ḥájí Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín in Memorials of the Faithful
List of Illustrations


Illustration 1
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)  …………………

Illustration 2
Family Tree No.1:  Connections between the families
of  Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk and  Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Rahím Yazdí

Illustration 3
Family Tree No. 2:    More detailed descendants of
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk

Illustration 4
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir   ……………………

Illustration 5
Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún)  …………………………

Illustration 6
Rubábíyyih Muttaḥidih and Munavvar Munjazib
(Daughters of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir)

Illustration 7
Original copy of the tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressed
to Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún)

Illustration 8
Nanih jún’s room in her daughter, Munavvar’s home,
in Gazurgah, Yazd (Báhirih standing in front of the
entrance to the room)



Illustration 9
Family Tree No. 3:     Connection between ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí and the Family of Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar
(martyr)

Illustration
Family Tree No. 4:      Family Connection: Áqá ‘Alí-
Akbar Káshí and Children of Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ḥusayn son of Báqir and Sakínih Sulṭán daughter of
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk

Illustration
Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib, the son of ‘Alí-Akbar
Káshí

Illustration
Family Tree No. 5:    The Family of the three brothers
two of whom were among the seven martyrs of Yazd

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Muttahidih, the son of ‘Alí-Akbar
Káshí

Illustration
In this photo, ‘Alí-Akbar can be seen standing behind
the Master

Illustration
Bíbí Fáṭí,  Jamálíyyih  ………………………………

Illustration
Right to Left: My brother Ḥusayn, my father ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb (holding myself, Ḍia’u’lláh) and my sister
Ishráq

Illustration
Right to left: Ishráq, Báhirih, my mother with Mehrí,
Parí and Mulúk

Illustration
Bíbí Fáṭí, Jamálíyyih  …………………………….....

Illustration
My mother, Jamálíyyih Khánum, with my sister,
Mehrí

Illustration
The entrance to the Bahá’í Cemetery following its
confiscation by the Islamic Republic of Iran

Illustration
The Bahá’í Cemetery in Ṭihrán  ………...................... 69

Illustration
(1) Entrance to the Jamálíyyih Institute in El Salvador
& (2) Bahá’í Conference at the Institute.

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)  ……………......... 70

Illustration
Right to left: Ishráq, Parí, my father with Mihrí and
my mother with Báhirih

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) is seated first from
right,  in front of the steps of the Mansion of Bahjí

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) and Muḥammad
Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí  (Zabihi) in Bam



Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) second from right
with some of the pioneers in Bam,  and his son Ḥusayn
first from left

Illustration
Members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Bam,
Mr. Zabihi is seated in the center

Illustration
At the House of the Báb in Shiraz  …………………

Illustration
Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí and his Sons, Ḥabíb
and Adíb with Mr. Zabihi

Illustration
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Garcia with ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)  in Oldenburg, Germany

Illustration
Hand of the Cause of God, Dr. Giachery and his wife
during their first visit to Iran.  The first from the right
is the martyr of the Cause, Dr. Dávúdí.

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)  …………………

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) among the friends
in Shahsavár

Illustration
Tablet of the Temple  ……………………………...... 176

Illustration
Letter written on behalf of the Guardian authorizing
Mr. Zabihi to copy the Tablet of the Temple

Illustration
A few friends, from right, Mr. Ash‘arí, Mr. ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí  (Zabihi)  with Furúghíyyih, Mr.
Sálikíyán and Maḥmúd Mishkí

Illustration
House of Tákur, the home of Bahá’u’lláh destroyed at
the hands of the enemies of the Cause

Illustration
Pear tree planted by the hand of the Blessed Beauty

Illustration
The verse above was written by Mírzá Buzurg Núri
at the entrance of the house in Tákur

Illustration
A wall of the house that was recently destroyed  .......

Illustration
Building the dam in Tákur, from right: ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), Malik Khusraví,  Ustád ‘Abdu’lláh
Báqirí and two laborers

Illustration
The clinic built by Mr. Mithaqíyyih and Muḥammad
Ḥusayn Zabihi,  now used by Tákur residents

Illustration
Convention in Ṭihrán, second from the right, Mr.
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)



Illustration
Hand of the Cause of God, Abu’l-Qásim Faizi
(Faiḍí) and  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)

Illustration
Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) together with Mr.
Adib Taherzadeh  in front of the House of Worship
in Germany

Illustration
Yazd, a desert city with no greenery or trees …........

Illustration
Some of the Bahá’ís of Yazd with Ḥájí Muḥammad-
Ṭáhir Málmírí and his son, Adíb, in the front center,
and Ḥabíb in the back row third from the right

Illustration
Some of the Bahá’í youth in earlier times  …………

Illustration
Some of the Bahá’í youth in Yazd prior to the 1979
revolution

Illustration
A few Bahá’ís of Yazd  ………………………..........

Illustration
A few Bahá’í families from ‘Ishq-Ábád enjoying a
picnic at Arsun garden in Yazd

Illustration
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) and family ...........

Illustration
Zabihi family in Ṭihrán in 1961  …………………...

Illustration
Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí  (Zia’u’llah Zabihi) in Graz,
Austria, 1961

Illustration
Family tree number 6  ……………………………....

Illustration
Tablet in the form of haykal (temple) number 2 …....

Illustration
Tablet in the form of haykal (temple) number 3 …....

Illustration
Family Tree Number 7: Three of the Seven Martyrs
of Yazd

Illustration
Family Tree number 8:  Relationship between the
Martyrs in the Family








Chapter 9 – Bibliography ............................................................





Chapter 10 – Index (Proper Nouns)   ........................................... 328




Foreword

In Remembrance of Friends
Some time ago I was given a copy of this manuscript. As I started to
read, its contents moved me to my very core. However, as often happens, I
forgot all about it. In the fall of 2016, one night I had a dream of a distinguished
figure dressed in clothing and headwear prevalent during the time of the Blessed
Beauty and the Master, who told me:
“This book must be published; there is much more to it!”
In response to this comment, I asked whether this was in accordance with
the Divine will? He said: “Yes,” and then disappeared.
I hope that what has been written in this book, as well as much more that
is missing, will one day be published together. This volume describes a brief
albeit significant phase of the Cause of God in Yazd, Iran. I knew the late
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), and other members of this extended
family, who were among my friends. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb was a brave, sincere,
righteous, content and selfless lover of Truth, whose every thought and
word, much like his ancestors, centered around propagation and protection
of the Cause.
In a tablet revealed in honor of his father, the Master writes: “… thou
wast counted amongst the servants of His Threshold and recognized as one
of the keepers at His door. …” (provisional translation).1 Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
inherited the trait of safeguarding from his father. He writes in his memoirs:
“… out of His grace and mercy He honored this insignificant being to
safeguard His servants…”. He considered himself responsible to protect the
Cause of God, never shied away from responsibility and welcomed every
opportunity, even when it was dangerous.
Although, according to his own statements, he never set foot in school
and was not educated, he was an outstanding orator with an exceptional
ability to reason and debate. As pointed out earlier, he was entirely focused
on teaching and guiding souls to the Cause. Dozens came to accept the


Cause through him, and hundreds in Yazd and other cities came to learn
about the Faith because of him. One of the wonders of his life was that
through Divine confirmations, he attained such a level of knowledge that he
was able to converse and convince men of great intellect and
accomplishment. Furthermore, with the beloved Guardian’s blessing, he
was put in charge of inscribing the Tablet of the Temple! In a tablet revealed
in the honor of the respected father of the Zabihi’s, the Master writes: “…
Thou must overlook the notion that thou wearest a hat upon thy head, and
a shirt on thy human temple.  Soon, through the strengthening grace of God,
thou wouldst acquire such power of oration that no one would be able to
challenge thee.  …” (Provisional Translation),2 it seemed as though this great
bounty was transferred by the father to the son.
For more than fifty years, the history of the Faith in Yazd involved the
name of this pure soul and his lineage. He was raised by a sacrificial mother
and an illustrious family, among whom several souls, including his father,
were among the faithful servants of the Blessed Beauty and the Master. In
addition, seventeen souls 3 among them, including his father, faced
martyrdom and received a number of tablets that have adorned this book.
However, despite the above, this book is not solely about the late ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí. It is also about the lives of many other sacrificial souls
from the earliest days of the Cause, each of whom deserves a dedicated and
detailed biography. In addition, this book includes a range of other
important and immortal facts that deserve attention.
In conclusion, this volume is an account of an epic era of selfless lovers
who stem from the days of the revelation of the Báb and the time of His
early followers such as Jináb-i Vaḥíd-i Dárábí, in Yazd. The book: “A
Profitable End” introduces a good standard to be emulated for many a soul
to enrich their lives, and in particular for the youth.









Jalil Iqbal


Introduction (Persian Edition)

It was a source of joy to find the biography of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí
(Zabihi) in the final chapter of volume 9 of Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat, [MAH]
pages 482 to 567, written by ‘Azízu’lláh Sulaymání. However, the account
of the life of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) in Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat lacks
details about him and the lives of our ancestors. Therefore, I decided to write
this book which includes other material as well.
During the 1990’s, as a sign of his respect for their friendship, Mr.
Hishmat’u’llah Mushrifzádih of Canada began to write a book about my
father. He wrote to the Bahá’í World Centre, placed an announcement in
Payám-i Bahá’í,4 contacted, consulted and met with many of his friends and
family members to write a book in his memory. In a letter, Mr. Mushrifzádih
wrote to me that the manuscript was finished and sent to the “Centre for the
Study of the Early History of the Faith”, receiving a letter from this “Centre”
signed by a certain Mr. Báhir. The letter included the following excerpt:


“Notwithstanding the fact that the manuscript is fit for publication
and distribution, since he spent much of his fruitful life travel teaching
and serving the Cause in pioneering spots, there is no doubt his friends
and family members have many more accounts and information to add
to the current 55 page manuscript. In addition to offering our thanks to
the friend who has written about the life of one of thousands of servants
of this Sacred Cause, it is hoped that through greater effort more
information shall be received from his children, friends and those close
to him, so that more accounts about his teaching and pioneering services
are included to help make this an even more precious source for the
education of future generations. The current version will be kept in the
archives of this Centre.”

However, due to Mrs. Mushrifzádih’s ill health and her passing away,
followed by the passing of Mr. Mushrifzádih, the book was never
completed. All the efforts for writing the above-mentioned manuscript, all


information collected, including where and, or what the “Centre” was, could
not fulfil the original objective. After losing all hopes, I considered it my
duty to re-start this project and gather all necessary information to complete
it. The current volume not only covers my father’s life, but also those of our
ancestors, who willingly sacrificed everything in service to the Cause of the
Blessed Beauty, and some of whom spent years in the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Holy Land. It also includes a brief
history of conditions in Yazd, as well as accounts and circumstances
surrounding the Bahá’í community and life in that juncture in history.
The title of the book refers to a request made by ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí from
the Master, as described in the first chapter of the book. The translation of
the title is based on Shoghi Effendi’s translation, guided by a Tablet of
Bahá’u’lláh as ‘… “may grant that the end of their conduct may be
profitable unto them” 5… In conclusion I must mention that this book could
not have been completed without the assistance of my dear sister, Parvin,
who typed the text, and the help of my dear brother, Muḥammad Ḥusayn.
Last, but not least, I wish to thank Dr. Jalil Iqbal, whose assistance made
the publication and distribution of the Farsi version (original) of this book
possible.







Zia Zabihi
October 2012, Waldheim



Introduction (English Edition)
The book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr” authored by Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí (Zia Zabihi)
in Persian, which was published in 2018,  is essentially centered around the
life of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), and in effect is the story of his life
narrated by his son. However, a great majority of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí
(Zabihi)’s children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren live outside of
Iran, who could not adequately benefit from the contents of the book in
Persian; therefore, it was felt that an English edition of the book would be
necessary for them. In addition to the family members there are many more
individuals who could be inspired by the story of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s life.
The first step for the publication of the book in English has been taken and
a text of the original material has been translated by Dr. Tahirih Danesh,
which was edited by Mrs. Mairianne Zabihi. In subsequent stages some
changes followed; should a bilingual person in both Persian and English
compare this text with that of its base (‘Áqibat Bikhayr) he would readily
recognize some major differences which are listed below:
1. Any text in Persian might not require elaboration regarding certain
cultural norms, historical figures, names of towns and places, lines
of poetry, etc. This is mainly because they are easily understood by
a reader of the text in Persian as they are parts of daily conversation
and references. However, a reader who is raised in another culture
needs further elaboration of such terminologies used in the
translation of the Persian text. For this purpose, at the end  of the
current book in English, in chapter 8 , 122 endnotes have been added
which throw some light on a number of issues for the benefit of
whoever wants to refer to them. Also they are sources of authentic
information and references for some events which have been
described in the text of the book.
2. Names in Persian have been transliterated according to the Bahá’í
transliteration standards.
3. Since references to a large number of names have been in the Persian
text, most of whom were relatives of  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi),


seven family trees exhibited in the English version of the book which
display such relationships. Readers who are not familiar with such names
and relationships are encouraged to consult these family trees.
4. A list of illustrations and titles of endnotes appear in the table of
contents in order to make it easier to find a particular topic.
5. Certain short phrases in the Persian text which might require
excessive explanation have been slightly modified or eliminated. In
order to preserve the  loyalty to the Persian text, such cases are kept
to a minimum.
6. Wherever the author has quoted from other sources such texts have
been italicized, and also for extensive texts the column of text has
moved about one cm inwards. Also, the font used for the italicized
text is slightly smaller.
7. The translation of all Tablets and holy Writings which are
designated as provisional translation are done by Foad Seddigh and
subsequently have been approved by the Bahá’í World Center for
publication.
8. Since the contents of the  book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr” basically consist
either memoirs of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) or memories of
him written by others, his son included, lots of references to
historical events in the Persian edition of the book. In the English
edition, practically all the historical events which were cited in the
Persian text have been authenticated by references to reputed
sources. Whenever the information regarding such material was not
available in English sources, reliable and reputed Persian sources
were consulted from which extracts were made and  translated into
English. A bibliography has been added.
9. It should be noted that the book “Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat” authored by
‘Azíz’u’lláh Sulaymání is a well-respected and reputed history book
which has been approved by the institutions of the Faith in Iran. In
this monumental work of nearly 5000 pages, the author has
researched and written about the lives and exploits of over one
hundred notable teachers of the Cause of God in Iran who lived in
the period starting from the earlier times of Baha’u’llah up to the


time of the Iranian Islamic Revolution. The life of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) has featured in volume nine, pp. 482 – 568.  Since
the book “Aqibat Bikhayr” has not cited the references for the
sources of information, in the current book “A Profitable End”,
wherever an event, story, or any description associated with the life
of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí mentioned which has also appeared in
Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat [MAH], it has been documented and
acknowledged. This provides further credence to the material
appearing in the English edition of the book.
10. An abbreviation has been adopted for each reference book appearing
in the bibliography and the entries have been sequentially and
alphabetically arranged. Refer to the entries in the first column from
the right for such abbreviation and their longer form in the next
column.
It has been endeavored to retain as much of the original material as possible
in the translation of this book. Since the translation was not done word by
word, inadvertently some material might have been left out; however, such
cases were rare and were kept to a minimum.

Foad Seddigh (Editor)
July 2023


Chapter One
The Ancestors

1 - Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk, Ḥájí Baba
A brief biography of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk was included in the following
letter that my father, ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) (photo below),
wrote to Mr. ‘Aziz Yazdi 6 at his request:


Illustration 1.  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
“Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk, the maternal grandfather of both you and I,7 was
the son of Ḥájí ‘Ali Amir David Qulí, a courageous and powerful man who
came from a distinguished family in Tabriz 8. As a result of a quarrel
between him and a certain sheriff of one of the boroughs of Tabriz, the latter


was killed, and so the family set out towards Yazd, taking with them a camel-
load of gold coins.  They entered the village of Manshád 9 with their fortune.
This all happened prior to the advent of the Faith, and being Muslims, they
funded the building of the local Takiyah 10, mosque, and the public bath.
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk had a brother called Ḥájí Zaynal. Together they had been
on pilgrimage to Mecca 11 on three occasions, twenty-seven times to
Karbala 12, and seven times to Mashhad 13
Ḥájí Zaynal had two sons, ‘Abdu’l-Karím and Muḥammad Ibrahim
(who served the Blessed Beauty in later times) and they were cousins of both
your maternal grandfather and that of my mother. A Tablet of visitation
revealed in their honor is published in volume three of Makatib-i-Ḥaẓrat-i
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.[MKT]14 For the visitation of the tablet and its
provisional translation, see Endnote 14. For examining the
relationships between these two families, see family tree no. 1 in
Illustration 2 below, and also family tree no. 2 in Illustration no. 3.
Illustration 2:   Family Tree No.1:  Connections between the families
of  Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk and  Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Rahím Yazdí
When the Call of the Faith was raised in Yazd, Siyyid Yaḥyá Dárábí; one
of the most learned, eloquent, and most influential subjects of the Sháh, was


delegated by the monarch to go to Shiraz and investigate the Faith of the Báb.
Travelling south from Ṭihrán to Shiraz, he stopped in Yazd, ascended the
pulpit in the Musalla Mosque and announced: ‘I have been commissioned by
the King, Muḥammad Sháh, to go to Shiraz and investigate the claim of a
certain noble Siyyid, if I find him to utter the truth, I will, with this very sword,
wage the holy war in His name; but if I find his claim to be false, I shall indeed
slay him with this same sword. Whosoever wishes to accompany me, let us do
so in the Name of God.’  All those present responded by saying that they
would fully accept his decision.15
Siyyid Yaḥyá proceeded to Shiraz where he attained the presence of
the Báb on three occasions. During the first interview, he regarded the
young Siyyid as a merchant, and himself as an erudite scholar. On the
second visit, he thought of Him as one equal in knowledge to himself.
During the third interview however, the delegate of the Sháh was
completely won over by the arguments and personality of the Báb. He
regarded himself as a humble servant before his Almighty Lord, and in
his own words: “lowly as the dust beneath His feet”. He then wrote a
letter to Yazd, conveying the account of his visit and his recognition of
the Cause of the Báb:
A Fire, O friends, from afar is in sight,
From the heights of the Tur it is glowing so bright!
its flame is blazing for all to perceive,
The Message of the Lord it reveals with all might! 16
Upon his return to Yazd, 17 he wrote a letter to Mírzá Luṭf-‘Alí, the
court chamberlain, to be submitted to the Monarch, giving a detailed
account of his observations and acceptance of the new Faith. Ḥájí Ḥusayn
Turk, together with Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ 18 pledged their allegiance to Áqá Siyyid
Yaḥyá Dárábí. They became his companions in the upheavals in Yazd and
led by him, they withstood the attacks of the enemies in that city.19 Ḥájí
Zaynal along with the other brother, Áqá Ḥasan, also embraced the
Cause and in due course, Ḥájí Ḥusayn and Ḥájí Zaynal attained the
presence of the Blessed Beauty. Ḥájí Zaynal remained there. Ḥájí Ḥusayn
attained the Holy Presence on three further occasions but returned to
Yazd, as he owned many properties in Manshád, and visited the village
during the summer season. There was a certain cleric in Yazd, an
influential and wealthy man named Navváb Raḍaví, 20 who was a fierce


opponent of the Faith and he frequented Manshád in the summer also, in
order to harass and harm Ḥájí Ḥusayn.
It so happened that one day, when my mother and grandmother
(the daughter and wife of Ḥájí Ḥusayn) went to the public bath, the
supervisor of the women’s section, a woman named Gul Nisa, asked
them to not enter the building, because the wife of Navváb was there
that day, and their presence might create some problems. My mother
who at the time was just a child returned home crying, and in reply to
the query of Ḥájí Ḥusayn, my grandmother recounted what had
happened. He went to the bath house and confronted Gul Nisa harshly,
saying: “Who built this bath, us or Navváb?” He was involved in many
such incidents.
On another occasion, Mullá Ḥusayn,21the brother of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ —
a man who was honored by a comment of  Bahá’u’lláh; that He liked
Manshád, because of Jináb-i-Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ 22— attended the public bath.
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar Shahbáz, a staunch enemy of the Faith, arose and
beat up Mullá Ḥusayn so badly that the latter died of his injuries a
couple of days later. 23
When on his return to Manshád, Ḥájí Ḥusayn heard about this
incident, he went to the Hammam and sat in the same spot as Mullá
‘Alí-Akbar did. At this time Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar arrived and announced:
“I did warn these people not to come here, they didn’t heed my
warning and have even sat in my place.” Ḥájí Ḥusayn walked over to
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar, held him by his beard and began to punish him so
intensely that part of his beard was ripped out. The local Muslims
hearing about what happened, sent the torn beard to Najaf 24 and
objected to a Bábi mistreating a cleric in such a manner. Subsequently,
Ḥájí Ḥusayn was chained and returned to Yazd, where he was
subjected to torture. In effect it can be said that from his declaration
until his death in 64 B.E. (1908 AD), he spent his life either as a
fugitive or a prisoner. His brother, Ḥájí Zaynal, was a steadfast
servant in the holy household.
There were three brothers in this family. They were Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk,
Ḥájí Zaynal and Áqá Ḥasan. Ḥájí Ḥusayn married Zahrá Sulṭán, they had
four sons and one daughter. The son’s names were: Áqá ‘Alí Manshádí
(who was your maternal grandfather), ‘Alí-Muḥammad Shahíd (who
attained the presence of Bahá’u’lláh and was later martyred in Manshád),
Jináb-i Áqá Mihdí (whose mother was a grandchild of Ḥájí Sháh
Muḥammad Amínʼul-Bayán, who at Bahá’u’lláh’s order delivered the
Tablet of Sulṭán to Badí‘, who in-turn carried it from Haifa and presented
it to the Sháh of Iran). The fourth son was Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn, who
lived in Alexandria (you may know his children). The fifth child was a


daughter, Sakínih Sulṭán who was my mother. (Refer to Illustration number
3,  the  family tree chart no. 2 on page 22)
The second brother, Ḥájí Zaynal, had four sons and one daughter.
The sons were named: Muḥammad Ibráhím, Abu’l-Qásim,‘Alí-
Muḥammad Shahíd, and ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn.  The daughter was named
Fáṭimih Khánum – whose husband was martyred in Manshád. She
was a consecrated believer who often said: “Even the wind cries out
Alláh’u’Abhá, all that is needed, is a hearing ear.” Bahá’u’lláh
blessed her with a gift of his own water jug.
The third brother, Áqá Ḥasan, attained Bahá’u’lláh’s presence in
Dár’us-Salám in Baghdad. He had a son and two daughters who were
Bahá’ís – and several grandchildren, some of whom are also Bahá’ís.
Ḥájí Ḥusayn was the recipient of several tablets from Bahá’u’lláh
and the Master. In 1302 solar calendar (1923 AD), Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ḥusayn came to Yazd to take the tablets to the Holy Land. I am not sure
what happened to the rest, but two of the tablets are with me.”
Illustration 3:  Family Tree No. 2:    More detailed descendants of
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk


My father often repeated a verse from one of the tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
revealed in the honor of Ḥájí Ḥusayn as he recalled it which stated that when
the name of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk is uttered, bravery and reliance come to mind.
The daughter of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk, called Nanih jún by the family, used
to recount many stories of his bravery. One involved his travels from Yazd
to Ṭihrán25 to visit the court of the cruel Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh 26 and report on
the actions of his grandchild Jalálu’d-Dawlih,27 who ruled Yazd. The Sháh
was so overcome with his majesty and grandeur that he listened to his report
with great respect and thanked him by giving him a gift. As mentioned
earlier, Ḥájí Ḥusayn was often incarcerated. Nanih jún used to say: “On one
occasion, he was so happy to be free on Naw-Ruz.”
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed several tablets honoring Ḥájí
Ḥusayn Turk and Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir. As they were both named
Ḥusayn, some tablets in the possession of the descendants may have been
addressed to either. They are presented at the end in chapter 7.

2 - Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir, Sham‘ush-Shuhadá
Illustration 4:  Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn (image above), was the son of Báqir, a local
of Farasha, one of the villages in Yazd near Taft. Almost all residents of


Farasha wer of Zoroastrian origin. It seems the father of Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ḥusayn was a Zoroastrian also.  When ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
was in the Holy Land, Shoghi Effendi’s father, Áqá Mírzá Hádí, inquired
about his origins. According to a letter my father sent to Mr. ‘Azíz Yazdí,
his response was as follows:
“When Mírzá Hádí asked about my family roots, I offered the
following: I am the grandson of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk and son of Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn, the martyr, whom the Master titled as Sham‘ush-
Shuhadá.28 Mírzá Hádí replied: “wonderful, during his four years in
service to the Holy threshold, he was highly regarded and loved by the
Blessed Beauty”. For instance, the first time he attained the Holy
presence, Bahá’u’lláh said something to the effect that Mashhadí
Ḥusayn! A body that is not dismembered in His path is worth less than
dunnage.
He returned to Yazd after four years and married my mother. Then
in 1891 AD he went back to the Holy Land and was there when the
ascension of  the Blessed Beauty took place.  It was then when the
Master instructed him to remain in the Holy Land. He wrote my mother
and informed her of this order. She wrote back saying to stay as long as
needed. He served there for three years. At his departure, the Master
told him, Ḥájí Ḥusayn when you return to Irán, carry your cross, just as
Jesus did.
Like his violent father and grandfather, Jalálu’d-Dawlih, ruled Yazd
and was responsible for the massacre of thousands of Bábis and
Bahá’is.29 But when he decided to develop one of the villages, he asked
the Afnán brothers to introduce two trustworthy Bahá’is to assist with
agricultural expansions and construction. The Afnáns introduced Mullá
Bahrám Akhtar-Khávarí 30 and Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn. In honor of
the Master, he named the village ‘Abbás-Ábád  31 to portray as though
he had no ill wish against the Bahá’is.”


(i) Martyrdom
In his book, Tarikh Shuhada’i Yazd [TSY] (The History of the Martyrs
of Yazd, written by Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí - 2007). Under the title of:


Events and Tragedies of Manshád, pp. 432-503, the author describes the
course of events related to the martyrdom of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn. The
translation of the relevant section of the book into English is as follows:
“Náyib Báqir Khán spent his evenings at Sulṭán-Ábád farm, adjacent
to the Ákhúnd Farm. One evening he went there to attain the presence
of Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá Mujtahid and Áqá Shaykh Ismá‘íl ‘Aqdá’yí, the
owners who spend their summers at Ákhúnd Farm. He said: “Bahá’is in
‘Abbás-Ábád greet each other by saying Alláh’u’Abhá and consider us
Jews. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir and Mullá Bahrám are their
leaders who conduct dawn prayers and obligatory prayers in
accordance with Bahá’i laws”. Báqir Khán ordered a few men to visit
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn at ‘Abbás-Ábád the next morning, to see
whether he would confess to the same, and if so, he would be put to
death. The next day he went to see a builder and an undertaker to
instruct them that if they saw anyone at the Ákhúnd Farm engaging in
such acts of worship, to gather their supporters to come and fight the
Bahá’ís.
A few hours into Saturday, 8th Rabí‘uth-Thání of the year 61 (4th
of July 1903),32 the sons of Siyyid Yaḥyá Mujtahid laid a rug and sat
next to the pool in‘Abbás-Ábád. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn and Mullá
Bahrám received them with warm hospitality. Náyib Báqir joined them
in welcoming: Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad, Áqá Siyyid Javád, guardians of
Siyyid Yaḥyá, Siyyid ‘Alí Khán, the custodian of Imamzádih Ja‘far
mosque and the son-in-law of Shaykh Ja‘far Mujtahid ‘Aqdá’yí, who
accompanied the guardians of Siyyid Yaḥyá. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn
and Mullá Bahrám brought a tray full of fresh cucumbers which Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn proceeded to wash in the pool 33. With great care
and respect he offered them as refreshments, saying: “The weather is
hot and you have travelled a long way, please help yourselves!” Náyib
Báqir Khán stated: “You have washed these with your own hands, they
are najis (unclean). You must first clarify what your faith is before the
guests can touch them.” Then Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad, the father of
Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá asked: “Jináb-i Ḥájí what is your religion?” He
responded by saying: “I believe in the oneness of God, prophethood of
Muḥammad, the Twelve imams, the Guardianship of imam ‘Alí and his
eleven descendants”. Áqá Muḥammad expressed his pleasure, referred


to Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn as “a wonderful man” and began to
partake of the cucumbers.
In the midst of this, Náyib Báqir Khán shot a bird. Apparently, he
had arranged that when the undertaker and the builders would hear
shooting, they must act, so as soon as they heard the bullet they
approached and waited until the group had finished eating. Then they
all went to the newly built complex where Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn
resided. They were looking around, admiring the buildings when Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn saw them and asked: “Why have you stopped
working?” Náyib Báqir Khán stated: “The builders demand that in
the presence of Ḥájí Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad and Ḥájí Siyyid Javád,
Muḥammad Ḥusayn must deny his faith!” Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad
asked them: “Do you confirm this statement?” They replied: “Yes.”
Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad continued: “Not only is Jináb-i Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn not a Bábí, but also he is a wonderful man.”
Báqir Khán then demanded a formal denial to satisfy those present.
Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad turned to Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn saying:
“Jináb-i Ḥájí, to refuse any accusation deny your faith so that the
builders return to work.”
Jináb-i Ḥájí said: “Jináb -i Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad, I do not
consider anyone as evil, how could I disdain any name?” Áqá Siyyid
Muḥammad called out a name in disrespect and demanded that he
follow suit. Jináb-i Ḥájí refused by saying: “I do not see it as my duty to
do so. Everyone is free to do as they wish, I do not choose to disrespect
anyone”. Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad lashed out by striking Ḥájí with a bat
over his head and screaming: “Get away from me!” Muḥammad Zaynal,
the servant of Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá grabbed the same bat and struck Ḥájí
Ḥusayn over the head with such intensity that his skull broke open and
he fell to the ground. After this a third man named Taqí, who was a
tenant of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn, attacked his head with a knife. Then
the builders attacked him with whatever instruments were at hand and
dragged his corpse outside the complex. Báqir Khán then ordered the
undertakers to bring a rope to tie around his feet and bury his remains
in an abandoned aqueduct. The builders and the undertakers cheered as
they dragged his remains to its final resting-place, the main well in
Sharíf-Ábád aqueduct, facing ‘Abbás-Ábád   and towards Dasht - where,
known to its inhabitants, they covered him with soil and left the area.


The next day seven representatives commissioned to protect the
Bahá’is in ‘Abbás-Ábád    reached the area and learned of the
martyrdom. They were shocked to hear that had they reached their
destination earlier Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn would not have been killed.
They inquired from Náyib Baqir as to why he had allowed this act to
take place. He responded by saying: “He could not have prevented it
from occurring.”
Nanih jún used to say that for days after his martyrdom took place, a pet deer
of Ḥájí Ḥusayn would stand by the aqueduct where his remains were buried. His
bloodied clothes were brought to Nanih jún, his wife, indicating that his body
had been cut to pieces, just as Bahá’u’lláh had foreseen.


(ii) The Events in ‘Abbás-Ábád
The tragic events in ‘Abbás-Ábád were described in Yad-Namih Bayḍá’-i
Núrá[YBN, pp.123 -127] 34 which is being translated and presented here as
follows:
“With regards to the tragedy surrounding the frightful events on the
newly built farm of Jalálu’d-Dawlih, the governor-general of Yazd and
the owner of ‘Abbás-Ábád said: there were up to twenty Bahá’is of
Zoroastrian or Muslim background conducting business at the farm.
Agricultural and tree plantations were allocated to Jináb-i Mullá
Bahrám and several other believers of Zoroastrian background, whose
families were residents. Construction, education and welfare of children
were allocated to beloved martyr, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir.
Coordination of the local shops and supplies were carried out by martyr,
Ḥájí Aḥmad Kaffásh. Animal husbandry and the local meat supplies
were also taken care of by another martyr, Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar. Bahá’ís and
others lived together in peace and tranquility. Close to five hundred
laborers worked at the farm, who were locals from nearby villages,
including ‘Alí-Ábád, Nasr-Ábád, Ákhúnd Farm and Mullá Farm. Some
would return to their homes every night while others would sleep at the
farm.
Náyib Báqir Khán, the local representative in charge of the armory,
oversaw receipt of funds from the city and income distribution among the
laborers, all of which was calculated and recorded by martyr, Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir. As mentioned earlier in this book,


persecutions began in Yazd.  Jináb-i Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar, the butcher, was in
the city. As his name was known around the city, it was assumed his
temporary move to ‘Abbás-Ábád   would save him from the persecutions.
With great care and the encouragement of Ḥájí Siyyid Javád of
Muḥammad-Ábád, he agreed to visit the friends in ‘Abbás-Ábád.
On Friday, 29 Rabí‘ul-avval 1321 (25/26 June, 1903), the enemies
of the Faith were busy persecuting the friends in Yazd, harassment,
martyrdom and pillage was at its height in Taft. Jináb-i Ḥájí Siyyid
Javád who had not heard of these tragedies bade farewell to the friends
in ‘Abbás-Ábád and began his journey towards Taft.35 When he reached
Farashah, someone approached him, warning him about the tumultuous
events in Taft, and cautioning him that he will be killed at first sight. So,
he spent an hour in peaceful solitude, resting by the Áb-Jádih stream
near the flour mill, which was a delightful place.  A few children who
saw him came forward and asked if he were a Bábi? He replied by
saying: “Why do you ask?” Gradually close to twenty or so individuals
began to harass and detain him. One of the children headed for Taft to
inform people to come and martyr him. Not long after, two Taftí’s
approached the child and asked him why he was hurrying and whether
he was a Bábí? The child told them he was on his way to Taft to arrange
for Jináb-i Ḥájí Siyyid Javád’s demise. Learning of his whereabouts, the
Taftí’s went with the child to his exact location where, using rocks,
wood, knife and shovel they ended his life.
When news of his martyrdom reached Taft and ‘Abbás-Ábád, Náyib
Báqir Khán decided to eradicate the Bahá’ís in ‘Abbás-Ábád. In this
vein, Ustád Ghulám Banná, a builder in ‘Abbás-Ábád, and an enemy of
the Faith, told the author (Bayḍá), that ever since the news of Ḥájí Siyyid
Javád’s martyrdom reached ‘Abbás-Ábád, Náyib Báqir Khán intensified
his enmity towards Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn who had been in charge of
finances and refused to accommodate Náyib Báqir Khán’s interest in
usurping what rightfully belonged to the laborers. He used to repeatedly
say that when 200 Túmáns a day were spent on laborer’s, then he should
get five Túmáns. But Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn had been absolutely
against anyone misusing the funds.
So, it was that Náyib Báqir Khán felt this was his chance to kill Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn. He was not so concerned about others, just
particularly the Ḥájí. Although he spent his days in ‘Abbás-Ábád, he
lived in Sulṭán-Ábád near Ákhúnd Farm. That evening he was at Ákhúnd
Farm and complained to Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá Mujtahid and Shaykh Ismá‘íl
about having had enough of Bahá’ís. He was tired of them; saying


Alláh’u’Abhá to each other, inviting guests and referring to others as
Jews. He said: “Their obligatory prayers are different, they hold
devotionals at every dawn chanting prayers, they have even groomed
the ruler. Soon ‘Abbás-Ábád  will be entirely in their possession and
perhaps will even be the site of their Mashriq’ul-Adhkár. Now Taft and
the city are in turmoil. Jalálu’d-Dawlih arrives here in three days. If we
do not do anything over the next day or two, we will have missed our
chance. This is urgent. They are a selfish crowd who may force Jalálu’d-
Dawlih to attack the few remaining Muslims!”
Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá professed he was behind the persecutions in the
city and said: “Now at the Farm I am ready to do the same, but you must
bring them to me for interrogation.” Náyib Báqir Khán replied by
saying: “There is no way to bring Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn to you.” So,
they arranged that in the morning a few residents of Ákhúnd (Mullá’s)
Farm would pass by ‘Abbás-Ábád to go towards the complex where
Náyib Báqir Khán would invite them in and subsequently murder Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn. In the morning, Náyib Báqir Khán went to ‘Abbás-
Ábád, as did the laborers. Apparently, he had spoken with the
supervisors and informed them of the plan, as otherwise they may not
have understood why cannon balls were fired. He confided in them that
as soon as they notice a Siyyid or a cleric walk towards ‘Abbás-Ábád,
to prepare to attack Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn.
On Saturday, 1st of Rabí‘uth-Thani 1321 Lunar year, (27th June
1903), some Bahá’ís having Zoroastrian background went about their
business as usual at the farm and the laborers were occupied with their
work. According to the wife of the martyred Ḥájí Aḥmad, they were
concerned about the persecutions in the city, but had no idea the same
may happen in ‘Abbás-Ábád. She said: “I was sick in bed with a fever,
when on Friday evening Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn came to visit us and
shared with Ḥájí Aḥmad that persecutions may reach Taft and the
surrounding areas. The famous Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar, the Butcher was there.
His crew were harassing the friends, killing sheep and camels to cause
havoc. Therefore, it may be advisable to pay Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar to go buy
more sheep. This way he would not be around when Jalálu’d-Dawlih
visited. And so that same Friday evening arrangements were made for
Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar to go buy sheep.
On Saturday morning Ḥájí Aḥmad went to work and Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn came to check on me. He said he was given some
plums, and wondered if I had the appetite to eat some?  I told him that I
had a dream the previous night and it had worried me. He said that he


also had a strange dream and asked if he could tell me about it first. I
agreed. He explained that in his dream he had seen clouds and a
rainstorm taking over our area, however it was brief and soon came to
an end. Therefore, I was not to worry, all would be fine. Then he left and
I went back to sleep. Two hours later I heard shots fired. I thought Náyib
Báqir Khán must be shooting again. However, not long after I heard the
sound of a crowd and much commotion, so I wondered if perhaps
Ḥaḍrat-i- Válá 36 had arrived. Gradually I dragged myself to the roof
top, where I saw some laborers and workers gathered near ‘Imarat
Lake. I heard one scream: “Kill him,” and another shouted: “Destroy
and pillage everything.” I was stunned and speechless. Finally, someone
came, and I asked them what was happening, only to be told that Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn had been killed. When I asked who had killed him,
I was told it was the son of Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá along with an unruly
crowd. I fainted with the shock. When I finally came to, some
Zoroastrian women were nursing and attending to me. Words fail to
describe how I felt.
Siyyid ‘Alí Khán, the custodian of Imam Ja‘far’s shrine and the son-
in-law of Áqá Shaykh Ja‘ar ‘Aqdá’yí had been at Ákhúnd Farm as the
guest of Siyyid Yaḥyá at the time; so, I asked him what had happened? He
told me that on Saturday morning Siyyid Muḥammad, the son of Áqá
Siyyid Yaḥyá had said they planned to go to ‘Alí-Ábád and Naṣr-Ábád
and invited him to go along too. He agreed and was given a mule to ride
and they set out to Naṣr-Ábád. Siyyid Javád, the son, and Muḥammad, the
servant of Siyyid Yaḥyá, accompanied them. As soon as they approached
‘Abbás-Ábád Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad commented that as Ḥaḍrat-i- Válá
has not yet arrived, they should go see the new royal complex and lake, in
‘Abbás-Ábád.  They agreed. On reaching the entrance, a man was sent in
to inform of the arrival of the sons of Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá. Náyib Báqir Khán
immediately sent a message that they were welcome; then with a gun in
his hand, rushed out to greet them and extended an invitation for them to
smoke with him. They accepted and disembarked, however no one was
around to care for their mules. They entered the garden and sat by the
lake to socialize.
At that moment, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir, who was in
charge, arrived and began to lavish us with great care, respect and
hospitality. He called on Mullá Bahrám and said: “We have fresh
cucumbers, bring some for our guests.” Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad
explained that we simply wanted to see the site, there was no need for
fruit and hospitality. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn however insisted that we


enjoy both. We accepted, and Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad mentioned that we
would like to visit the inner complex, gardens and the stables. We toured
the entire complex with Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn as our guide. He
explained which parts were completed and which were still under
construction. He was most gracious.
Náyib Báqir Khán informed us that water pipes were ready by the
lake. They had laid out a mat, so we went to rest there for a while. Mullá
Bahrám offered a tray full of fresh cucumbers. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn
washed them to perfection in fresh water, placed them back on the tray
along with a knife and some salt, and said: “Please go ahead.” Náyib
Khán said: “These gentlemen have heard that you are a Bábí and find
it difficult to eat these cucumbers. You must first say something before
the guests can touch them.” Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn said: “What shall
I say?” Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad said: “What is your faith?” Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn responded by saying: “I believe in the oneness of
God, prophethood of Muḥammad, the Twelve imáms, the Guardianship
of imám ‘Alí and his eleven descendants.” Áqá Muḥammad expressed
his pleasure saying: “Not only are you not a Bábí, but in fact you are a
wonderful man.” Then, in the midst of this Náyib Báqir Khán shot a
bird. Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad said: “You were too distracted to hear how
beautifully Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn spoke. Whatever you have heard is
false.” He began to eat the cucumbers, while Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn
spoke about anything and everything.
The workers arrived with their tools in their hands and gathered
around us. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn said: “What is going on? Why have
you stopped working?” Náyib Báqir Khán stated: “They say Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn must deny his faith to assure us,” and turned to Áqá
Siyyid Muḥammad demanding, “tell Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn to
recant.” Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad responded: “Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn
is a good man. Ḥájí you have already stated your beliefs, now recant too
so they can return to work in peace.” Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn said: “I
do not consider anything as evil, how can I recant then?” Áqá Siyyid
Muḥammad said: “Repeat after me.”  He then proceeded to utter profanities
in reference to some names. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn was upset, and his face
noticeably changed when he said: “I do not have to repeat everything you
say.” Thus, everyone came to know he was a Bábi.
Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad felt perturbed and with a stick in his hand
struck Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn over his head and shouted: “Get away
from me!” Muḥammad, the servant of Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá picked up a
piece of Qapan wood 37 to hit him on the head, and the others followed


suit, attacking him with whatever tools they had in their hand - to end
his life. Táqí, the tenant of Ḥájí Siyyid Ḥusayn Shaykhí struck his head
with a rock, so hard that it broke open. They dragged his body outside
the garden, and dismembered it, all the while chanting mantras. His
remains were thrown in a remote area, after which Áqá Siyyid
Muḥammad, joyous, yet somewhat fearful, went with Áqá Siyyid Javád,
Siyyid ‘Alí Khán and some others; back to the Ákhúnd Farm, saying:
“We will not go to Naṣr-Ábád today.”
Siyyid ‘Alí Khán said that for the entire day Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad
and Siyyid Javád were anxious saying: “That was a terrible act, we
should not have gone there in the first place. What if Jalálu’d-Dawlih
investigates the matter and comes after us?” Around noon that day,
Shaykh Ismá‘íl ‘Aqdá’i who is the maternal uncle of Áqá Siyyid
Muḥammad came to know about what happened and praised us by
saying: “You did the right thing,” he told Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá the same
thing, saying: “Some men went to ‘Abbás-Ábád, and at Báqir Khán’s
instigation put Ḥájí Ḥusayn to death. Báqir Khán is a good Muslim man
who for some time had become increasingly concerned about this case,
and possibly had even brought it to Jalálu’d-Dawlih’s attention. This is
as good as killing one hundred Bábis.” Áqá Siyyid Yaḥyá confirmed this
was a good deed, however, Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad and Áqá Siyyid
Javád were still restless and anxious - and apparently after almost 18
months had passed, they still remained apprehensive and their hearts
were filled with fear.
Ḥájí Aḥmad’s wife went on to explain that on hearing the tumult
and the news of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn’s martyrdom, she had lost
consciousness. When she came to, there were Zoroastrian women seated
beside her, caring for her with great kindness. The mood among them
was indescribable. The agony of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn’s martyrdom
on the one hand, and on the other fear for their lives and belongings, by
enemies of the faith in this remote dessert. All the women were
concerned about what was awaiting them and what recourse they had.
In this way, the day came to an end; but none of them could sleep.
Anyone who came to visit would ask: What happened? What chaos was
taking place? What will the enemies do to them in this frightful desert?
What will become of them? Will the evil masses arrest and detain them?
Will they murder them just as they murdered their men?
We were engaged in these fearful exchanges until Sunday morning,
the 2nd of Rabí‘uth-Tháni 1321 Lunar (28th June 1903). It was three
hours into the morning when around seven or eight soldiers arrived,


telling us that they had come to protect us, to have no fear. Had they
arrived a day earlier no one would have dared to enter the Farm or
murder Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn. But now, what had passed, was
past. However, Baqir, the father of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn, on hearing
the news of the martyrdom of his son raised his face and offered thanks
to God for having removed this dark spot from the history of his family!”
Below is a Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about the martyrs of
‘Abbás-Ábád, that is most likely about the martyr, Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ḥusayn. The provisional translation of the tablet  appears below: (For the
text of the Tablet in Persian see Endnote 38): 38
Via Jináb-i Ḥájí Siyyid Javád, ‘Abbás-Ábád, Jináb-i Ḥájí Ḥusayn. May
the Glory of God be upon him!
He is God!
O thou who art steadfast in the Covenant! What thou didst write to
Jináb-i Ḥájí was noted. It was full of praises for ‘Abbás-Ábád,
explanation that his Highness (1) is in utmost kindness, and the
friends of God have arisen to render services in the utmost degree of
truthfulness and high resolve.  This news induced limitless joy and
happiness, because one of the greatest commands of God and His
teachings is that anyone who is in the position of command must be
kind. On the other hand, anyone who should follow orders must be
truthful, brave and a well-wisher. Should these twin undertakings
become combined, they would result in joy, happiness, everlasting
glory and tranquility in both worlds, a joyful conscience, and
attainment unto the longing of heart and soul. Convery thou, on
behalf of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, greetings to the friends who are engaged in
services there and say: “Make ye a lofty effort! Be ye enkindled with
the fire of the love of God, and adorned with grace in that village so
that ‘Abbás-Ábád would become Bahá-Ábád.” Upon thee be
salutation and praise!   Ain. Ain.
(1) This is the Prince Ḥusayn Mírzá,  Jalálu’d-Dawlih
Nanih jún, the wife of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn had said that on the morning
of his martyrdom, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn had said dawn prayers with the rest of
the friends in ‘Abbás-Ábád. At the conclusion of the meeting a friend told him
about events in Sulṭán-Ábád and suggested that today he should avoid going out
in order to escape any possible danger. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn had responded
by saying: “Whatever is the Divine Will, shall take place.”


3. Sakínih Sulṭán, Nanih jún
My grandmother, in the image below, the daughter of Ḥájí Ḥusayn-i-
Turk and Zahrá Sulṭán, was the embodiment of steadfastness and
perseverance, a main source of care and compassion for the family, friends
and others. She used to spend two or three weeks at the homes of her children,
or grandchildren, to bring joy to them, especially the young. Whomever was
facing a challenge, would share it with her. She would often sit in a corner
and offer prayers for them.
As mentioned earlier, Ḥájí Ḥusayn-i-Turk had four sons, but only one
daughter, Nanih jún. She used to say that she was pampered and spoiled in
her parents’ home. Servants and maids managed domestic affairs and there
was no need for her to do anything. Nanih jún would tell us that she was so
lazy, the butler would tease her that no one would ever marry her - and if
someone did, they would drop her off in front of her father’s home the next
day! But that was not the case and it was not long before she was married.
Illustration 5:  Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún)



She was around 15 or 16 years old when she married Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ḥusayn Báqir. This couple had three children: Munavvar, ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb and
Rubáb. There were no servants in Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir’s home and
Nanih jún was a beautiful spoiled girl, raised amid great wealth with no
experience in housework. However, she had no choice but to do everything on
her own. In those days, none of the ingredients necessary for cooking were
hygienic. Everything had to be cleaned in a certain way. Dirt, rocks and soil
had to be removed so that it could be suitable in cooking. One day she made
mung bean rice for her husband. As he began to eat, he took one rock after
another from each bite and threw them into a copper tray in the corner of the
room. Nanih jún would say, the sound of each rock hitting the tray was as
though a loud bell would shake her heart, its effect was worse than any yelling
or other expression of dissatisfaction with the meal.
After the martyrdom of any believer, it was a normal practice to pillage
his house. Therefore after the martyrdom of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir
in ‘Abbás-Ábád, his home in Yazd was pillaged. With no one to provide for
them, Nanih jún remained in the empty home with her three young children
of five years, three years and six months old.
Illustration 6:  Rubábíyyih Muttaḥidih and Munavvar
Munjazib (Daughters of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir)



‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed a tablet in honor of Sakínih Sulṭán, Nanih jún
(Refer to Endnote number 39) 39, which spiritually strengthened her. Her
impression of the tablet was that her husband fulfilled his pledge by
sacrificing his life, and that it was her turn to do the same by raising her
children. It is impossible to imagine how under those circumstances, with
no provision of any sort and no income, a young widow with three children
could make such a decision and remain faithful to it. She refused to accept
any assistance from friends or family. If anyone came to visit her, she would
put a pot full of water on the stove to appear as though food was being
cooked and there was no need for assistance. She placed her whole trust in
Bahá’u’lláh and with entire devotion began to work as a simple wool yarn
weaver to earn some money in order to look after her children.
She used to say whenever it would get too difficult, divine
confirmation would come. For example, when her home was pillaged,
she quickly hid some jewelry only to forget all about it. After some time,
she was in desperate need of money to care for her sick children. She
was destitute and without hope for their survival, when one night her
husband came to her in a dream and asked her why she was so wretched
and failed to care for the children? Nanih jún in turn questioned him as
to why he had left her alone? Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn responded that it
was not of his own volition and then reminded her that she had hidden
her jewels in the water well and added that help would come. She
immediately awoke and found her hidden jewels.
The next morning, she was awakened by the noise of the movement of
several mules from ‘Abbás-Ábád carrying all her husband’s belongings
from his residence there, as well as donations by friends living between the
two locations. This included some pomegranate blossoms from Taft.
These were particularly welcomed as the children were sick with measles
(although the donors were unaware of this fact). The blossoms thankfully
helped cure the children; and the rest of the load allowed them to go on living
for a while. After a few days, once again the children did not have any hot
food. This caused Nanih jún a great deal of pain. Suddenly she noticed her
cat entering the house carrying a bag full of meat to her feet. She inquired


from all her neighbors whether the meat belonged to them. When they all said
no, she cooked it for her children.
It was customary in those days to buy new clothes for children at the
onset of each year. As the new year drew closer, her son wanted a new aba
(traditional outer garment). The cost was two Rials, however it was not
possible for her to come up with the money despite her utmost efforts. On
New Year’s Eve the child was in tears and she was so distressed because
without his fathers’ help, she could not fulfil her son’s wish. In this state of
sadness, she left home when to her surprise, she saw a two Rial coin on the
bench next to her house. Despite all her efforts to find the owner, no one
claimed the coin, and so she bought the “abá” 40 and her son welcomed the
new year with his new clothes. In this way she managed to raise her children
and in time they all married and formed their own families. By this time, it
so happened that the Iranian authorities had closed the Bahá’í schools and
as the buildings were empty, Nanih jún moved into a room on the Tofiq
school campus. When, as children we used to visit her, she would fill our
pockets with dried fruit from the Manshád garden.
A provisional translation of the Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressed to
Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún) appears below (Refer to Endnote number 39):
He is God.
O handmaid of the Abhá Beauty! That bright candle among the martyrs
obtained manifest grace from God’s holy Court and was given the honor of
attaining unto His presence in the Abhá kingdom. During his lifetime, he rose
up to  the well-favoured of God, and he was confirmed in attaining unto
servitude to His Sanctified Threshold. Thou art the respected companion of
that pure soul. Thou shouldst live in accordance with his behavior and
conduct so that thou mayest become the cause of his joy and gladness in the
eternal realm. The Glory of the Most Glorious be upon thee.
(Provisional translation by F.S. and approved for publication by BWC)



Illustration 7:  Original copy of the tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
addressed to Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún)
A sentence she would often repeat was: God, you have provided,
continue to provide and will provide. The entire family owes a great deal to
Nanih jún and her priceless guidance. Her advice was invaluable. On one
occasion she advised one of the girls in the family that a girl was akin to
white fabric. If she were handled by those whose hands were not clean, no
one would ever want the soiled cloth.
Illustration 8:  Nanih jún’s room in her daughter, Munavvar’s home, in
Gazurgah, Yazd (Bahirih standing in front of the entrance to the room)
The best memories of Nanih jún were from cold winter nights spent under
the kursi (a table covered by a blanket and heated from underneath in order to


keep people warm, as they sat around it with half their bodies under the
blanket). She would share beautiful memories and often speak of her life, her
father Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk – and her husband, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir.
Although she was a strong woman, she had a soft and endearing voice and
despite the fact that she was illiterate, she had committed many prayers and
tablets to memory. Even in her old age she chanted prayers at meetings as
though she were a young woman. When she ascended to the Abhá Kingdom
(a short time after the passing of her daughter-in-law, Jamálíyyih – my mother)
she was put to rest in the Bahá’í Cemetery in Ṭihrán.

4. ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí
During the 1891 era of persecutions in Yazd, seven martyrs of
Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry were sacrificed. Following an elaborate plan devised
by the authorities and carried out by the masses, they were murdered in the
most horrific manner on the same day in different parts of the city. Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ṭáhir Málímrí describes this incident in his book Táríkh
Shuhadá’i Yazd, (The History of Martyrs of Yazd). Two of the seven martyrs
were the brothers of  ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí, named ‘Alí-Aṣghar and Áqá Ḥasan.
The account of their martyrdom is as follows: 41
“Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar and Áqá Ḥasan, may my life be sacrificed for them, were
taken to the center of the bazaar. On both sides, soldiers, footmen, drummers
and musicians filled up the place. They were chained and pulled along by
Afrasíyáb, the executioner, while crowds gathered around them. After entering
the square and standing them next to the fountain, they removed the chain from
around the neck of Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar, placed him to the north of the square and
beheaded him. He was 24 years old at the time of his martyrdom. They then
took Áqá Ḥasan to the south of the square, facing his brother’s remains in front
of the apothecary, and removed the chain from around his neck. Hazrat-i-Válá
42 had instructed Mubarak Khán to try his best for Áqá Ḥasan to recant his faith
instead of killing him, as he was exemplary in his looks and character, and
much liked by the Hazrat-i-Válá. In fact, they were both so outstanding and
unparalleled, in particular Áqá Ḥasan, that no one could stop staring at him
without feeling overwhelmed by his unique countenance. I did the same
whenever I saw him among friends at meetings and gatherings. In any event,
Mubarak Khán told Áqá Ḥasan: “See we have killed everyone. Deny your faith


by uttering just a single word, and I shall accompany you, while you ride on
my horse all the way to the castle to visit Hazrat-i-Válá. Then we shall return
you to your home, safe and sound. Hazrat-i-Válá does not want to see you
dead.” Áqá Ḥasan responded by saying: “Hurry up, all my friends have
forsaken this world already.”
When the crowd heard him utter these words, they lost all hope. A
soldier pierced his body with his spear, followed by others who attacked
him with any, and all, tools of violence. All the while he remained
composed and standing, until finally a soldier placed a knife to his chest
and cut him open to his navel. He was still standing when the soldier
placed his hand in his torso and ripped apart his internal organs at which
point, he fell on the ground. Afrasiab the executioner then beheaded him
even although he had already passed on. Everyone took a piece of his
flesh, while Afrasiab pulled out his liver, held it in one hand; his head in
the other, all the way over to the remains of Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar. Then, he cut
open Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar’s side and ripped out his liver.  He carried both
livers in his hand and put his head on the end of a gun and returned to the
castle,43 where he was praised for this action. Shaykh Taqi Sabzivárí
rewarded him with a special garment and Mubarak Khán was elevated to
a new position with the title of Nasaqchi Báshi.44 After visiting the castle,
the two heads and livers were then taken before the public. They hung Áqá
Ḥasan’s head from a mulberry tree on Áb-Taft road, where the crowd
threw rocks at it. Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí (the father of Jamálíyyih - the wife
of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí - and the older brother of the two martyrs),
named the tree Va-vayla, and that is how it remains known today. All the
shops and the bazaar were closed on the day of the martyrdoms, and
everyone was celebrating. An order was issued to put up lights and
decorations everywhere, and while the masses were busy preparing,
Ḥaḍrat-i-Válá ordered that some Jews remove the corpses. They did so
by tying their feet with rope and dragged their remains from wherever
they were last left, without any clothing or cover. Áqá Ḥasan’s remains
were left in front of the entrance to his home on Sang Tarashi Alley
(Masonry Alley) near Imam Ja‘far’s shrine. So, all parts of the remains
were collected and put back together. However, Áqá Ḥasan’s head,
internal organs, as well as parts of his flesh were cut off. His head had
been wrapped in a humiliating manner to his body and dragged among
the crowds then thrown in a dry well in Kushak Hill near Maḥmúd-Ábád
Aqueduct. So that same night, Bahá’ís endeavored to search and retrieve
all remaining parts of their bodies and transferred them to the same well.
At the time of his martyrdom, Áqá Ḥasan was 21 years of age. It was on


the 29th of Shavvál 1308 (June 7, 1891), when these seven pure souls
attained the exalted station of martyrdom. The above is a brief account of
what came to pass. Greater details would require a voluminous book.”
Illustration 9:  Family Tree No. 3:     Connection between ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí and the Family of Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar (martyr)
Illustration 10:  Family Tree No. 4:      Family Connection: Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar
Káshí and Children of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of Báqir and Sakínih
Sulṭán daughter of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk

There are many stories conveying the excellence and refinement of
the characters of these two brothers, including the following: There was a


poor and illiterate family that lived in the same neighborhood as the three
brothers. No one was willing to associate with them and their daughters
lacked beauty. No one had come to ask for their hand in marriage and they
were referred to as spinsters. One day Áqá Ḥasan told his mother to visit
their family and arrange for one of the daughters to marry him. His mother
responded by telling him that the most beautiful girls from some of the
wealthiest families in town longed to marry him and yet, he desired to marry
the most uncomely daughter of a family that lacked any position? He replied
that he was not thinking of himself, he simply wished to lessen the burden
on her poor father.
Following the martyrdom of the two brothers, their sister Fáṭimih Sulṭán
was in a state of deep trepidation, shedding tears and lamenting as to why
they had not offered a sum of money to Jalálu’d-Dawlih as ransom to free
her brothers? Her mother failed to ease her pain. Finally, one night her
brothers came to her in a dream, soothing her soul, by letting her know that
they were in the next world, were very happy and that everything had been
prepared for their arrival in the Abhá Kingdom.
Roger White published a collection of his poems, The Shell and the Pearl,
(White, Roger. “The Shell and The Pearl”: George Ronald publisher Ltd.,
Oxford UK 1984) in 1984. The collection is about ‘Alí-Aṣghar and centers
around the courage and steadfastness of the mother of these two brothers.
Before the enemies hung the head of ‘Alí-Aṣghar and his brother from the
branches of the mulberry tree, they went to her home. His mother and his new
bride, Sakineh Sultan, were busy dividing a new load of mulberries for their
neighbors. The enemies threw the severed head of ‘Alí-Aṣghar into their
courtyard. His brave mother picked up the head of her beloved son, cleaned
the blood from his face and returned it, telling them that: “We do not take
back the head that we have offered in the path of God.”
Below is a Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in honor of ‘Alí-Aṣghar
(visitation tablet): In a moving manner the Master bears witness to his inner
gratitude, enthralled with the fire of his love for His chosen ones and those
who sacrifice their all as a sign of their love in order to exalt His Cause and
return to the  Beloved. He beseeches the Almighty to exalt ‘Alí-Aṣghar’s
station in return for his consecration and sacrifices in the path of God. The
Master describes his martyrdom in the realm of the spirit as a true reunion


with one’s Beloved, despite the gruesome manner of his physical death and
the fearsome mistreatment of his mother and wife involving ‘Alí-Aṣghar’s
severed head, threatening their faith to distance them from The Straight
Path. The beloved Master then concludes the tablet by beseeching the
Almighty to receive this martyr as a shining star in the Kingdom of Abhá,
and to surround his bereaved mother and wife with His mercy, patience and
grace. (Refer to the Endnote number 45) 45
He is God!
Praise be unto Thee, O my Lord, O my Lord! I cry unto Thee from within
the depths of my heart, within mine inmost being, the reality of mine
essence, the very core of my life. I call Thee to mind from mine outward
and mine inward self, from out my very bones and flesh and blood, from
my soul and heart and tongue and pen—aflame with the fire of my love for
Thy chosen ones, frenzied with yearning over Thy greatly favoured ones,
those who have cast away their lives upon Thy pathway and given up their
own selves for love of Thee, and their own blood for desire of Thee. They
are the ones who have made themselves the arrow’s target, who have
found sweet the lance-head’s biting steel, who craved that, for the
upraising of Thy Word, their heads be raised upon the spear-point, and
that their hearts be torn apart—out of adoration for Thy beauty, and
yearning for Thy presence, and longing for Thy love, and in ardently
seeking to extol Thy glory, to be drawn unto Thy heaven, and to be
drowned in the sea of devotion unto Thee.
Among these was this youth, comely and sweet, he whom Thou didst call
‘Alí the Less1 in the kingdom of names, he whom Thou hast made, in the
kingdom of attributes, to be ‘Alí the Great.2 For he, O my Lord, when he
did drink from the cup of bestowals at the hands of the cupbearer of Thy
grace, became drunken with the red wine of love for Thee, and there
rose, over the horizon of his heart, the bright rays of knowing Thee. Then
was he enraptured with the wine of desire for Thee, and out of longing
for Thee he sped to the martyr’s field, and following Thy path, he quit
the bridal chamber on his wedding night, he left his cushioned ease and
joy for a place of affliction and pain, and from his rank of honour and
esteem was cast down to the depths of humiliation and abasement.
And then, at the decree of the worst among Thy creatures, did he redden
his smooth and delicate cheek with the blush of his spilled-out blood,
and with his life-blood dyed his clustered locks. Then did he exchange
the fine embroidered garment, put on for his wedding night, for clothing
dark with gouts of blood, and laid himself down in the bed of the scorned
and despised, down in the dust of misery and loss, in exchange for his
safe couch of bliss. This he did in his yearning for Thy realm, the all-
glorious, and Thine Abhá Company. Then they rent his breast that had
rejoiced in the tokens of Thy love, and they ripped at his heart, flaming
with desire for Thee; and on Thy path, they shot their arrows of hate at


his fair, open bosom and, because of his love for Thee, with their cruel
blade struck off the noble head.
Then they set his head on the point of their tyrant’s lance, and they carried
it to his tender-hearted and grievously wronged mother and to his
honourable, his sorrowing bride. And to terrify their hearts and threaten
them with more—so as to make them waver in their faith and cause their
feet to stumble on Thy highway of truth, Thy path that runneth straight—
they flung it into the courtyard of their spacious home.
Praise be unto Thee, O my Lord, that Thou didst keep their hearts firmly
grounded in Thy love. They took that noble head and set it down outside
the house, returning that precious substance to the merciless among Thy
creatures, and told them: “God forbid! The head that we have offered
up on the path of God, we will not take back. We will not ask for it again,
the hidden gem, the treasured and well-guarded pearl that we have given
up in love for God. O, may this comely head but vanish under the
galloping horses’ hooves! May the steeds of the obdurate trample it to
dust!”
O my Lord! Make Thou this martyr a hero of Thy Kingdom, make him a
mighty pillar in Thy supernal realms, a blazing star in Thy resplendent
heaven.3 [ Make him a pure spirit in the temple of faithfulness, a shining
light in the lamp of “Then came he nearer and approached, And was at
the distance of two bows, or even closer”
4; and bestow Thy blessings,
salutations, and greetings upon the mother who carried him in her
womb, the breasts which nurtured him, and the bosom which held and
raised him. Give her patience and comfort her through Thy great mercy
and glorious bestowals.  Exalt his noble wife, a leaf of Thy Sadratu’l-
Muntahá 5,  with the lights of grace and grandeur. Place her under the
shadow of Thy might and beauty, and adorn her head with the crown of
great bounty, O Thou the Lord of them who have attained unto the
knowledge of God.  Cast Thou, through Thy bounty, the glance of the
eyes of Thy grace upon all those who are related to him, that it may bring
him honor, O Lord of mankind and the object of the longing of all that
dwell in the heavens and on the earth!  Thou art the All-Merciful, the
Most-Generous. There is none other God save Thee, the Almighty,
Whose help is implored by all. ]
An authoritative translation of this Tablet has been obtained from the website which
may
be
accessed
through
the
following
link:
https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/additional-prayers-
revealed-abdul-baha/852289635/1#853877301
Notes
1.
The name of the martyred youth is ‘Alí-Aṣghar.
2.
‘Alí-Akbar
3.
The section which follows inside the square bracket at this point is a provisional translation
while what comes before it is an authorized translation.


4.
A verse from the Qur’an, Surih An-Najm, 53: 8-9. (Rodwell translation). It refers to the
spiritual journey (Mi’ráj of the Prophet Muḥammad in His journey to God, to a distance
less than the length of two bows. It refers to the nearness of God. [see Endnote number
46]
5.
Sadratu’l-Muntahá literally means the last tree. It is a Qur’anic term. In the Bahá’í
revelation, it is a reference to the Manifestation of God. [see Endnote number 47]


5. Sakínih Sulṭán, the grandmother of Labíb
An article published about the life of Sakínih Sulṭán, the wife of ‘Alí-
Aṣghar, the martyr [not to be confused with ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí’s
(Zabihi) mother of the same name], written by Mah Mihr Gulistanih
(Vahdat) was published in an issue of Payam-i Bahá’í (a Persian-language
Bahá’í magazine, published by the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of France) 48 the translation of which is as follows:
In 1971, my family and I were travelling to the youth conference in
Padua, Italy. On our way we stopped over in Beirut. At that point, there
was no sign of war or conflict, and Beirut was a beautiful Mediterranean
city. Buildings of different colors and heights were anywhere and
everywhere, like wild mushrooms with no rhyme or reason. Lack of
attention to urban planning conveyed no unique sense of harmony or
identity. In a short time, one could travel from the heart of the city,
through beautiful breezy villages, all the way to the snowy cedar mountain
tops and on to the blue ocean – all in one day.
Visiting the Bahá’í friends, particularly the youth, had such an impact
on our spiritual lives that it changed our destiny forever. We spent a few
days at the home of my husband’s sister, Gulrukh, and her husband, the
late Labíb Shahíd – who had moved to Beirut at the instruction of the
Beloved Guardian. I remembered hearing the name of Sakínih Sulṭán
from Arab speaking Egyptian and Iranian Bahá’ís during my visit to
Egypt in 1956. One day during our stay in Beirut, although he had never
been to Iran, Mr. Labíb Shahíd (Labib Shahid) (whose mother was
Fáṭimih, the daughter of Sakínih Sulṭán and ‘Alí-Aṣghar the Martyr)
eloquently shared the story of her life in Persian. I was young then and
filled with youthful vigor and pride. I listened to the account but never
thought about it again until years later. Along with millions of other
Iranians, following the 1979 revolution, we left our home for a new life in


a lonely and far away land, where memories led to countless journeys in
the silence of one’s heart. In 1998 Dr. ‘Ali Gulistanih brought a number
of documents from his trip to Cyprus, including an account about Sakínih
Sulṭán. I forgot about this too. While in Alexandria in January 1994, I
came across some original tablets and sacred writings among the
belongings of the Gulistanih family and we carried these invaluable
treasures back with us to the United States.
Sometime later I was researching the life of the Yazdi family in Egypt when
among the documents I saw a letter written, in the beautiful handwriting of a
woman that bore the signature of Sakínih Sulṭán. I could hardly believe that a
woman born more than 120 years ago, into limitations of that land and time, had
such beautiful handwriting. Dated the 4th of November 1908, the letter was sent
from the Holy Land to the Yazdi family in Egypt. Curious about the relationship
between Sakínih Sulṭán and the Yazdi family, I began to review the documents I
had in Arabic. With much exhilaration, Dr. Gulistanih and I translated a short
compilation. Below is a brief account for your readers. May the seeds of love and
joy, planted by this courageous and faithful handmaiden, result in sweet fruits of
steadfastness, empathy and faith among the future generations.

Sakínih Sulṭán was one of nine siblings. Her father, Muḥammad Ṣádiq
and her mother Fáṭimih Bigum were both descended from well-known
families in Yazd. One of Sakínih Sulṭán’s  maternal uncles, Ḥájí Siyyid
‘Alí, along with Ḥájí Muḥammad Yazdí, received the title of “The Twin
Most Sublime Names” 49 from the Blessed Beauty. Another one of her
uncles, Ḥájí Siyyid Javád Yazdí married Gawhar Khánum, (the sister of
Munírih Khánum, the wife of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá). The intense persecutions at
the order of the ruler of Yazd during the first few years following the
revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, led to the forced departure of the two brothers.
Despite all challenges at the time, they reached the Holy Land, and at the
order of the Blessed Beauty, left for Alexandria and settled there.
At the age of 13 Sakínih Sulṭán married ‘Alí-Aṣghar Yazdí. Sometime
later the marriage resulted in a daughter named Fáṭimih. It was then when
the Yazd seven martyrs suffered execution. ‘Alí-Aṣghar, Sakínih Sulṭán’s
husband was one of them. The sorrowful account of the martyrdom of ‘Alí-
Aṣghar and his brother Áqá Ḥasan, two of the Seven Martyrs of Yazd have
been recorded in details and their names have been immortalized in the
annals of the early martyrs of the Cause. These two brothers were peerless


in their patience, dignity, kindness and nobility. The seven were arrested,
their hands tied behind their backs and then subjected to every vile act
imaginable, as they were dragged through the bazaar, on the way to the
ruler of Yazd. The ruler’s name was Jalálu’d-Dawlih, and he was the son
of Ẓilu's-Sulṭán and grandson of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh. They were told to
recant, but they refused and ‘Alí-Aṣghar said: “My life belongs to my
Beloved, whoever so desires, may end it”. Jalálu’d-Dawlih then placed
the noose around his neck. Those pure ones were dragged by a rope
between two rows of soldiers, servants and slaves – amidst a fanfare of
cheers, drums and trumpets. They were taken to the main square in the
bazaar. To the north they beheaded ‘Alí-Aṣghar. At the time he was 24
years old. This event took place on the 9th of Shavval 48 years after the
Declaration of the Báb (1892 AD). 50
A few years after the martyrdom of her husband, Sakínih Sulṭán along
with her daughter Fáṭimih, moved to ‘Ishq-Ábád.51 At the instructions of
the Master, they then moved to the Holy Land and resided in the home of
her maternal uncle, Siyyid Javád Yazdí, who was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s brother-
in-law. After some time, she was appointed as the custodian of the House
of ‘Abbúd and Fáṭimih was raised in the House of the Master in Haifa and
educated at the Sisters of Nazareth School. She was taught the Qur’án
and the Kitáb-i-Aqdas by the scholars of the Faith and was trained in
calligraphy by Mr. Mishkín Qalam. One of her interesting creations was
a beautiful frame designed with colorful yarn, which was presented to the
beloved Guardian - and at whose order it is now displayed in the corridor
of the Mansion in Bahjí. She also sewed beautiful cloaks for the Master.
In one of the accounts recorded by Juliet Thompson during her stay in
the Holy Land in 1909, she refers to Sakínih Sulṭán: ‘The Master always sat
in the right-hand corner of the divan by one high window, correcting the
Tablets dictated to His secretaries, the small, glazed, ivory-colored leaf of
parchment in His left hand. Around Him on the divan, we sat with the Holy
Family. Along the divan and on the floor sat the families of martyrs, a number
of children among them, whom the Master had taken under His own care.
The samovar stood on the floor at the entrance on a Persian teacloth, a
beautiful, happy-faced woman behind it serving tea. She had deep dimples in
her cheeks and her hair hung in thick black braids, a white veil partially
covering it. Years before in Persia, when she was a bride fifteen years old,
her husband was martyred.’ 52



In 1911, Fáṭimih jún was married to Badi‘ Effendi, the son of Jináb-i
‘Abdu’l-Javád Yazdí (maternal cousin of Sakínih Sulṭán) and settled in Egypt.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gifted them with 40 gold Liras and a tablet revealed in the
name of Badi’ Effendi. It was during the first year of Fáṭimih’s marriage that
Sakínih Sulṭán was directed by the Master to serve Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍá’il
Gulpáyigání 53 and Shoghi Effendi; who was a student at the Catholic school
in Beirut. Soon after Jináb-i Afnán received a letter from the Master
expressing his deep satisfaction with Sakínih Sulṭán’s services. Consequently,
when Rúḥá Khánum, the daughter of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá fell ill, Sakínih Sulṭán was
asked to accompany her to the mountains of Lebanon.
In a letter issued by the Master on this occasion he indicates he recited
the Healing Tablet for her, and that he is embarking on a journey that may
take a longtime. He reassured Sakínih Sulṭán that he will not forget her
services and will offer prayers for her. One year after Fáṭimih jún’s
marriage, she gave birth to a boy, named Labíb. He is the author of this
account in Arabic and writes: “I was born in October 1912 in Egypt. My
mother called me Labíb, but my official name is ‘Alí-Aṣghar, in honor of
my grandfather. The Master bestowed the last name Shahíd on me when I
entered school. At the Sister of Nazareth School, my mother was also known
by the same last name. My mother contracted a fever at the time of my birth
and ten days later passed away. It appears that the cause of her fever was
neglect on the part of my father’s family and their failure to inform Sakínih
Sulṭán about her condition. It was five days after her passing that Sakínih
Sulṭán rushed to Cairo, where the shock of this news made her delirious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá heard this news before his journey and issued several letters
to console the bereaved mother, reassuring her that she will be reunited
with her daughter in the next world.
Sometime before the passing of my mother, my grandmother who
was serving Mírzá Abu’l- Faḍá’il Gulpáyigání and Shoghi Effendi at the
time, had a strange dream. Since Mírzá Abu’l- Faḍá’il was known for
his ability to interpret dreams, she shared her experience with him. In
response he simply said: “God willing all will be well.” She described
the dream as follows: I saw Fáṭimih jún as a 7-8-year-old girl walking
on the wall. She suddenly fell and broke into pieces like a china doll.
Panic-stricken, I collected all the pieces and put them in a bag where
they reconnected and came back to life. I thought to myself, thank God
she is a new being and I will care for her and raise her up. After the


passing of Fáṭimih jún, Mírzá Abu’l- Faḍá’il visited Sakínih Sulṭán to
offer his condolences and told her: “I saw no good come of the dream
and that is why I did not say anything.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote a tablet on her passing as follows: (for the original
tablet in Arabic refer to Endnote number 54)54
He is God.
O My God! O My God! Verily, this maidservant was born in the
stronghold of Thy love, and nurtured from the breast of Thy knowledge; she
flourished in the cradle of Thy loving-kindness, was sheltered beneath the
shadow of Thy oneness, and reached maturity under the banner of Thy
lordship. O My God! She tasted the bitterness of her father’s martyrdom,
and quaffed from her earliest days her fill of tribulation in Thy path.
While still of tender age, she swallowed the poison of tyranny and hate
from the grasping hands of cruelty, oppression and enmity. No sooner
had she reached maturity under the shadow of Thy tender mercy, and
ere she had savored life’s sweetness and enjoyed some measure of
comfort in this material world, than she donned the robe of everlasting
life and bid farewell to the ephemeral world. She returned unto Thee,
imploring Thy kingdom, humbly supplicating Thy realm, longing to meet
Thee. She was attracted to the concourse of glory, shining at the focal
point of light in the kingdom of mysteries.
O My God! Verily, she is the daughter of a martyr, a cherished child of
one who hastened to the arena of martyrdom, and who drank the cup of
anguish whilst crying aloud saying:  ‘Take me, take me, O my
compassionate God! Accept my sacrifice in Thy path, O Thou the All-
Mighty, O Thou the All-Knowing! I offered up my soul and my blood in Thy
love, seeking Thy presence, and taking refuge in Thy stronghold.’
O My God! Make this handmaiden of Thine a sign of Thy mercy, a banner
of Thy forgiveness, a fountain of Thy bounty, and a wellspring of eternal life
for centuries to come, till time without end. Verily, Thou art the Pardoner
of sins, the Ever-Forgiving, the Kind, the Compassionate.
[Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC]
Labíb Shahíd continues: When I went to Cairo in Riḍván 1942, I first
visited my mother’s grave. With tearful eyes I offered a prayer for a
mother who gave up her life to save mine. At the instructions of the
beloved Guardian the following inscription beautified her tombstone:
He is God
I, Fáṭimih, was weaned from the bosom of this world to drink the eternal
milk from the realm above.


Fáṭimih jún Shahid
23 Dhul-Qa’dih 1330 – 3 November 1912
Sakínih Sulṭán was filled with sorrow and pain. She felt all her dreams
were shattered. She imprisoned herself in the top floor of a house to die.
She refused all efforts to bring her back. She refused to leave that room
despite all requests and visits by friends until a letter written by the Master
inviting her to the Holy Land reached her. In this letter the Master consoled
and advised her not be sorrowful.
Labíb continues, I was one year old when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s letter
summoned us to the Holy Land. My grandmother obeying the Master,
returned, along with me (the only descendant she had) to the Holy Land
where we settled in the House of ‘Abbud. This house had an eastern and a
western wing. The eastern wing was composed of three floors facing ‘Abbúd
square. Sakínih Sulṭán chose to live in that wing, in a room adjacent to the
one where the Master married Munírih Khánum. The best years of my life
were in that house. Sometimes we would enter the presence of the Master.
The warmth and unconditional love of Sakínih Sulṭán, known by all as
Umm-i Labíb (mother of Labíb) filled my life. I will never forget the look on
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s face while he softly chanted “Yá Iláh Al-Mustagháth” as
he conversed with God. That heavenly voice meant that as soon as He would
begin to chant prayers, my eyes would rest and soon I would find myself in
deep sleep.
Our little room had a small window facing the square, where a Turkish
bath was set up. How often I would stick my head out of this window and
curiously observe the comings and goings of people and shopkeepers. Every
night I slept on the bed next to that of Sakínih Sulṭán and imagined that she
was my mother. She put my bed next to the wall so that I would not fall
down. She would hold me in her warm embrace and quietly chant Uda‘t-u
Nafsi.55 She would ask: “Do you love me?” And I would respond by saying:
“Yes from the bottom of my heart.” I would express my child-like love and
reassure her of my feelings for her, until our eyes would give way to sleep.
The first time I noticed the faraway horizon over the ocean, I felt scared
and called her to say: “Mother, look carefully, stars are falling on earth.
She looked out the window and said, Labíb, these are not stars, these are
lights far away in Haifa.”
I remember each time the youthful Guardian would visit ‘Akká, Sakínih
Sulṭán would send me with a small bag to buy his favorite, famous sweet


plums, from Abu Haydar’s shop in Al-Hassabih bazaar. One day I was in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s room without permission, I opened his case and picked up
the knife he used to sharpen his calligraphy pens or clean his nails. Sakínih
Sulṭán saw me and angrily took it from me. I cried so hard I passed out.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was upset and reprimanded her saying: “Did I not ask you
to leave this child be?” He then took me into his embrace, kissed me and
held me until I calmed down.
During the WWI years of 1914-1918 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would send the list of
names of ‘Akká residents for Sakínih Sulṭán from ‘Adasiyyih. She oversaw the
distribution of wheat among those who lived in ‘Akká. He was personally in
charge of agricultural matters, including harvest and transfer of wheat to ensure
nothing was wasted. Everything was sent to Sakínih Sulṭán at the House of
‘Abbúd, who would issue receipts for each sac. She would then distribute them
according to the list of names issued by the Master. The love and mercy of the
Master for all inhabitants of ‘Akká during those difficult years with scarcity of
food and resources, and his initiative to care for the needy, had an incredible
impact on their heart and soul; leaving no room for dissension among the
Muslims, Christians and Bahá’ís. His love was all embracing. The summary of
one of His letters is as follows:
I have been in Al-Ghur for some time. The afternoons are indescribably hot,
causing me shortness of breath. I had to come to Tiberias (Northwest
Palestine). I will return as soon as I feel better. I will send you the harvest as
usual. Although friends are missed (due to the heat), otherwise I would be
forced to return to Haifa and ‘Akká. Regardless of all challenges I sent some
wheat. However, the cost of transfer has been raised. Each load costs around
2-3 Majidi. We bought the entire load last year and each load cost one Majidi.
This year, for the same loads we had to pay 2-5 Majidis (each load is about 5
pounds). This year I will send you 560 pounds of wheat. Distribute 540 pounds
in accordance with the list I have included. Store it at the House of ‘Abbúd and
distribute it with great attention among the friends through trustworthy
individuals. Pay them for the transfer and give my loving greetings to all the
servants and handmaidens of God. If any wheat is left over, send some to our
neighbor (Kamilih Khánum). That is all.
There are many such letters in which lists of names of families and
friends in need are detailed. Sometimes due to lack of time He would send
a brief. The order of the names was in accordance with the amount of wheat


delivered and each letter was sealed. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá knew everyone in each
family in ‘Akká and knew how many members there were. If anyone would
fall ill, he would send one of the Bahá’ís to visit them, and when necessary
he would send a doctor. When he was at the House of ‘Abbúd, after each
night’s rest he would rise at dawn and inquire: “O Umm-i Labíb have you
sent anyone to look after the sick? Is so and so better? What is their
temperature?” His fatherly love embraced all. He treated everyone equally.
With sincerity and kindness, he asked about everyone. In another letter He sent
my grandmother state that He faced obstacles to travel to ‘Akka and gives
instructions of giving wheat to some individuals stating their names and the
amounts to be given The name Umm-i-Khalil. Also He advised Sakinih sultan
to bring Labib to Haifa.

The Master’s reference to “the wife of Farbuh,” was to a Christian widow
who was from a respected and humble family. Her home was in Alfakhúrrat, near
the House of ‘Abbúd and my grandmother used to send me to her.
Sakínih Sulṭán was an expert in preparing pomegranate paste. Every year
during the harvest season, she would go along with two other hard-working
women to the pomegranate garden. This was the only time I spent in nature with
my grandmother. She would prepare everything a few days ahead of time and
would instruct Isfandiar to come at dawn. Then we would all leave for the garden
of Surush, near the garden of Riḍván in the outskirts of ‘Akká; where the best
pomegranates (originated from Iran) were grown. The beautiful red of the
pomegranates was an eye-catching contrast to the greenery of the leaves. One type
of fruit known as Al-Lafani, was unparalleled in taste. For two whole days they
would be busy preparing pomegranate paste. While the paste cooled down our
souls were revived in the beautiful garden. Once ready, glass bottles and clay jars
were filled and sealed up. These had to last for an entire year for the holy family in
Haifa. I would spend these two days roaming around the garden and watching the
fish swim by. Sometimes we would visit the Riḍván garden and I would stand by
the peacocks to enjoy the beauty of their plumage. When the male peacocks
extended their feathers, it was as though the rays of the sun formed into a
shimmering beautiful rainbow. It took my breath away.
I remember during WWI that salt had become an unbelievably valuable
commodity; so much so that it was used to pay soldiers. Sakínih Sulṭán
would hire our neighbors’ wife to bring us beach sand in return for a small
payment. She would then place the sand in water and shake it around until


all the salt was dissolved. Then, to extract the salt, all the containers of
water were laid out to dry in the sun on our rooftops. I was 5 or 6 years old at
the time, however I remember these details clearly as my grandmother would
often recount this process for our neighbors and pilgrims.
In 1917-1918 my paternal grandmother, Gawhar Bigum visited Haifa.
News reached us that she had come to take me to my father. When Sakínih
Sulṭán learned of this she was so shocked and angry that her face turned
pale. She was so devastated she didn’t know what to do with herself, so
she put on her scarf, grabbed my hand and headed for the Mansion of
Bahji, where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was staying for a few days. She was granted
an audience with him and with my hand in hers, she said: “They want
Labíb, here he is, take him away.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá assuaged her, saying:
“Calm down Umm-i Labíb, what is the matter?” Sakínih Sulṭán replied:
“After all these years, Gawhar Bigum has come to take Labíb away. I
rescued him from certain death and raised him. He is now living with me
in peace and safety. Why did they not take him back then, when his neck
was bent and he was so malnourished, he was about to perish? Why did
they not take him then? I told them, this is your child; even though Fáṭimih
jún was dead but they refused saying they couldn’t care for him, that if I
left him with them, he would die; so it would be just as well to prepare a
coffin for him before I would leave. So, when I realized they did not want
this child, I then took him and raised him myself. When I left Egypt, I
promised not to let anything happen to him.” She continued: “Now after
all these years they have come to take him from me? My Master, you know
I have raised him with tears and prayers offered day and night at the
threshold of the Blessed Beauty, but now they think they can simply take
him away? If this is just and fair, then fine.”
On hearing all of this, I was so overcome with fear and trepidation
that I fell before the Master sobbing uncontrollably. He took me into his
warm embrace, kissed me, patted my back and told me: “Labíb, don’t be
afraid, no one can separate you from your mother. He then removed a
‘Greatest Name’ ring from his belt and placed it on my finger saying:
“This ring belongs to you,” all the while holding me in his arms until I
finally calmed down. He then called Isfandiar and instructed him saying:
“Prepare the horses and the carriage and take Labíb and Sakínih Sulṭán
to Abusanan village, as they need rest and recuperation.”


So it was that in great comfort, we spent an enjoyable, happy summer in
Abusanan, before returning to ‘Akká to resume the academic year. One day,
in the presence of the Master, I asked my grandmother why did the village
women suffer from a red eye infection throughout the summer? With absolute
sincerity I said: “I wish I could find a cure to help them.” With a kind smile
the Master said: “Umm-i Labíb this condition, conjunctivitis, causes muco-
purulent discharge among women who work in grapevines, or farms, which
harvest figs, tamarind or tobacco leaves. Unfortunately, it is viral.” Sakínih
Sulṭán commented how she wished she could take away their pain. To which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded: “I will provide guidance that will heal them.” Then
he gently went on to explain: “Dissolve some copper sulphate in boiled water
to get a blue liquid. This is the best cure for this condition. Try to keep it
sterilized and superfine. Place two drops in each eye every morning and every
evening. The eye should not be touched and make sure to not apply the same
cloth to both eyes.” My grandmother offered her gratitude and prayed for
him to live a long life.
The following day, my mother (Labíb often refers to Sakínih Sulṭán as
his mother) gave me a quarter and instructed me to purchase some copper
sulphate from the apothecary of Ḥusayn Áshchí, who was one of the Iranian
migrants living in ‘Akká; known as Áshchí. Sakínih Sulṭán followed the
master’s instructions to cure the village women’s eye infections and from that
day on, she was called Umm-i Labíb the Optometrist. Groups of villagers
would come to see her, and she would use cotton balls to treat their painful
eyes with the solution. They would thank my mother and sincerely pray for a
long life for her son, Labíb. She became renowned for this and residents of
other villages would come to her for treatment – and, like an angel of mercy
she would care for one and all.
Over the years I attended schools in Haifa and ‘Akká and later went
to college. Towards the end of 1921 Sakínih Sulṭán requested ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s permission for me to go to Beirut to continue my studies. A letter
from that embodiment of love and mercy reached Sakínih Sulṭán
conveying the following: As Labíb is still young it may be better to
postpone this matter until next year. Nevertheless, I am in favor of your
medical treatment there and if you so desire, you may visit Haifa. He
added: “I hope your mind is at ease. Write whenever you wish. You know
I will never forget your services. I am busy and have no time to write, but


I am writing this detailed letter to you through Suhayl Effendi. The letter
was written on 7 October 1921 and his blessed ascension took place on
28 November 1921.
All her dreams and wishes following the passing of Fáṭimih jún were summed
up in my life, as she lived to raise me with sincere maternal love. If I was happy,
so was she. If I were ill or in discomfort, she would rush me to doctors, provide
medication, food and drinks; regardless of her own welfare. She was a source of
love and care to both the young and the old. Everyone loved her, selflessly she
cared for the sick, as she was trained by the Master himself.
A beautiful cherished memory comes to mind, about my mother,
while in the presence of the Master. One day the Master wanted to
test her love for me. He asked her: “If you hear God and Labíb are
on the roof and are about to fall, which one will you catch?”
Without hesitation she responded: “Of course Labíb.” He
reiterated: “You will let God fall?” Sakínih Sulṭán laughed and
said: “My Master, God is all-powerful, He will safeguard himself
and does not need a feeble maiden such as I.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
laughed heartily and enjoyed her witty response. On another
occasion my mother was seated in our room, immersed in thoughts
and pain. The Master asked her: “Umm-i Labíb, what are you
thinking about?” She said: “My Master, I always think about Labíb
and his future. My husband was martyred and left me Fatimih jún.
She too died young and left me Labíb. I don’t know what the future
will bring.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded by saying: “Fear not, I
promise you, soon Labíb will marry and the house will be filled with
children.” Therefore, and so it was that when my children and seven
grandchildren were playing at my home in 1981, I suddenly
remembered these words of the beloved Master. My heart was
overcome with indescribable joy and I offered a thousand thanks to
the Almighty.
A few weeks before the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, I left for Beirut
along with a few of his grandchildren. A short time later, the ascension
took place. With broken hearts we returned to Haifa and took part in the
ceremonies. We remained there for almost a year, and I continued my
studies at the Italian school, next to the Master’s house in Haifa. On my
return to Beirut I studied at the Alfarir School. Every summer I would
return to Haifa and ‘Akká to visit the holy shrines and the beloved


Guardian. After graduation I was employed at a bank, but as I was not
Lebanese, I was paid less. Nevertheless, I was happy and content as my
grandmother and I could get by.
Sakínih Sulṭán purchased a small house for me and after that
endeavored to find a beautiful, healthy, educated young woman for
me to marry. Unabated, she would continue her search and inquire
around until she found the person she was looking for. My income
was low and the last thing on my mind was marriage. But as soon
as she would find someone mildly appropriate, she would consult
with the beloved Guardian and beg for his confirmation and
blessings. More often than not, he did not approve of her choice,
until the summer of 1939 when he came to know Muḥammad Riḍá
Gulistanih and his family from Egypt, had come on pilgrimage.
Shuqangiz Khánum, the maternal cousin of Sakínih Sulṭán and the
daughter of Siyyid ‘Ali Yazdi asked permission for her daughter to
marry Labíb; which was delayed at this time due to Gulrukh’s
education. Labíb writes: “After some time Sakínih Sulṭán visited the
Guardian and without my knowledge consulted him about this
marriage. This time his response was positive, he had no objection to
the marriage of Gulrukh and myself. My grandmother took this as
confirmation that the marriage must take place. However, when I heard
of this, I lost my nerve, as I could not imagine how a wife could have
been chosen for me without my consultation - but it was too late, and I
was faced with Mr. Gulstanih and his daughter. So, with the assistance
of the late Mr. Muḥammad Taqí Isfahání (Hand of the Cause of God)
during Riḍván 1942, our marriage took place.”
Labíb, the only love and concern of Sakínih Sulṭán’s life, was
finally married and just as the Master had promised, that tested soul
lived long enough to see the first two children of this union (Bijan
and Susan). She would hold them in her warm embrace and deeply
enjoyed watching them play. In 1945 when she was about 68, she fell
ill and after a year of suffering passed away. A year after her passing,
at the order of the beloved Guardian, her remains were transferred
from Beirut to ‘Akká and placed in their eternal resting place. Labíb
Shahíd passed away some years ago. He and his wife, who resides in


Beirut, had two sons and two daughters, three of whom are pioneers
married with children. In this manner Sakínih Sulṭán’s life came to a
fruitful conclusion.”
‘Alí-Akbar was the brother-in-law of Sakínih Sulṭán. He was the
older brother of the martyrs: Áqá Ḥasan and ‘Alí-Aṣghar. He was
married to Fáṭimih Ṣughrá. They had two sons and two daughters:
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Muttahidih, Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib, Bíbí Fáṭí
(Jamálíyyih, my mother) and Fáṭimih jún (Kamálíyyih) who married a
newly declared Bahá’í. Later, this new Bahá’í was attracted to the
teachings of British Christian missionaries and converted to Christianity;
going on to become a priest. His wife, Fáṭimih jún, also converted and
as a result, their children were raised as Christians.
It was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s desire that the two families of ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí and
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir join together in matrimony. Accordingly, the
two daughters of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Báqir, Munavvar and Rubáb, married the two
sons of ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí, called Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib and ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb (my maternal uncles). The son of Ḥájí Ḥusayn Báqir called, ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb (my father) married one of the daughters of ‘Alí-Akbar called, Bíbí
Fáṭí (Jamálíyyih). The Greatest Holy Leaf gifted Rubáb and ‘Abdu’l-Vahhháb
with a dress and a coin on their marriage.
Illustration 11:  Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib, the son of ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí


Illustration 12:  Family Tree No. 5:    The Family of the three brothers
two of whom were among the seven martyrs of Yazd


Illustration 13:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Muttahidih, the son of ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí
The best years of ‘Ali-Akbar’s life were during his term of service in the
presence of the Master. The account of the martyrdom of his brothers
(beloved youth who were admired by all) has already been shared. The
surviving brother of the two martyrs, ‘Alí-Akbar, was the eldest. He had a
child who sadly passed away when only four years old. It is said that one
day, one of the boys in the family took this young child to the nearby
Ḥusayníyyih to play. Muslim children began to insult and stone them, so
the twelve-year-old boy placed the child on his shoulders and ran for safety.
Suddenly one of the rocks struck his head and he began to bleed. Frightened,
they reach home. The relatives began to care for the older boy’s bleeding
head and left the young child unattended. The following day the young child
suffered from bloody diarrhea and shortly after, passed away. Unbeknown
to them the child had suffered internal bleeding following the violent attack
and sadly lost his life.
After some time, Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar attained the presence of the Master
and was honored to spend four years in his service. One day the beloved
Master arranged for ‘Alí-Akbar to have a ride in his carriage next to himself
and the Guardian, who was a young man at the time. The Master then
proceeded to shower him with kindness and grace, finally asking: “Áqá ‘Alí-


Akbar you sacrificed two brothers and a son in the path of God. You have
been with us now for four years. What else do you desire?” ‘Alí-Akbar
responded: “Salvation” (the title of this book in Farsi, a reference to this
conversation). The beloved Master removed his cloak and placed it around
‘Alí-Akbar saying: “I give you this too, go in God’s care.” When ‘Alí-Akbar
returned to his companions he joyfully told them: “Abdu’l-Bahá closed the
book of my life.” Soon after he returned to Yazd and shared the news from
the Holy Land with family and friends. He closed the books for his business
and three days after his arrival in Yazd he passed away.
Illustration 14:  In this photo, ‘Alí-Akbar can be seen standing behind
the Master

6. Fáṭimih Ṣughrá
The wife of ‘Alí-Akbar, Fáṭimih Ṣughrá, was also his paternal cousin. She
was a kind and selfless woman. She spent her days caring for the poor and
those of ill health. She always tried to be of service and selflessly help


alleviate the hardship and suffering of others. It was her wish to die when
she had been to the public bath, clean and dressed in fresh clothes, so that
she would not be a burden to others!

And so it was that one day after her return from the public bath, she
did her laundry then took it to the roof to dry. While hanging her clothes she
fell down and after a short time she passed away in the arms of her son-in-
law, my father, ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb. After her passing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá issued a
tablet in which an expression appears to the effect that although she was
Fáṭimih Ṣughrá (the lesser Fáṭimih) in this world, in the Kingdom of Abhá
she will be Fáṭimih Kubrá (the greater Fáṭimih).

7. Jamálíyyih, Bíbí Fáṭí
My father, ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) was often travel teaching -
or serving the community in other capacities. When in Yazd, he spent most
of his time carrying out the affairs of the Local Spiritual Assembly and its
committees. My mother had no choice but to get by with no resources and
had to care for all our needs. The joy of visiting the House of the Báb in
Shiraz was one of her long-held desires, yet it seemed impossible to attain.
One day, some Bahá’ís of Yazd were about to travel to Shiraz. She asked
one of her older children to care for the younger ones so that she could visit
these Bahá’ís and request that they would offer prayers on her behalf at the
Holy House. Dressed in her everyday attire, she put on her chador and
headed to the place of the would be pilgrims. When she got there and saw
the crowd gathered around the pilgrims who were about to make the journey
to visit the Holly House, (the very wish cherished in her heart) she was so
deeply affected that she began to cry. All were overcome with emotion on
seeing her weep. The friends were saying goodbye to the pilgrims, who
were seated in their car, when suddenly one of them reached for her hand
and pulled her into the car with them; just as the car was about to move.
And so it was, that when she arrived in Shiraz, she washed the simple
clothing she had on. The pilgrims arranged for some material in order to
sew her a new dress so that she would be prepared for the next day when
they would visit the Holy House.


She could not sleep that first night – on one hand she was excited and happy
at the prospect of pilgrimage, and on the other concerned for her loved ones back
home, especially her youngest child. She wondered whether she would actually
attain her desire. Although deprived of literary skills, she began to write her very
first poem, comprised of 19 lines, while everyone was in deep sleep in the
darkness of the shared room. She used her nail to inscribe the poem on the wall,
fearing she may forget the verses by the morning:
O Lord, I desire the liberation of my soul, in accordance to Thy will
To fly on freedoms’ wings towards thy Paradise
O Lord, this lifeless body and wandering soul
I place in your care to attain a home and eternal joy
I am a lost ant searching for its’ abode
Rushing towards Thee to sacrifice my soul
The last and the nineteenth line says:
Oh Zabihi, I sacrifice my life for Him
Can attain His presence anywhere.
The day of pilgrimage arrived. It was customary for the pilgrims to be
received by the custodian, Mr. Afnán, who would be given the letters issued by
the Local Spiritual Assembly of each pilgrim. Then together, they would enter
the blessed room where the Declaration of the Báb took place. However, this
believer had no letter. No exemptions were ever made. Jamálíyyih was deeply
stressed, wondering what would happen. Her heart was full of joy that she had
made this adventurous journey. What miracle could possibly remove this
obstacle – of no letter from her Local Spiritual Assembly? Was it not Divine
Will that had brought her so close to this Holy Threshold? Would the same
Divine Will allow her to attain her desire?
The pilgrims arrived at the site, were welcomed, then following
introductions began to offer prayers; all the while my mother remained
immersed in her thoughts and tears. One of the Western pilgrims, a woman
assigned by the beloved Guardian to visit the House of the Báb on his
behalf, was among the pilgrims. She began to share vignettes from her time
in the presence of the Master. Since many there that day were from Yazd,
she noted that a believer from Yazd, named Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar, had been in
the holy presence, and had been particularly favored by the beloved Master.
She shared a few stories of his humility and selflessness, saying she:


“Wished to meet one of the relatives of this chosen servant of His
Threshold.” When she was informed that the young woman shedding
tears, was in fact his daughter – she too began to cry. Tearful she drew
my mother, Jamálíyyih Khánum, into her embrace. Much like everyone
else, Mr. Afnán was overcome with emotion and made no mention of the
requirement for a letter.
My mother, Jamálíyyih, was born in 1909 AD in Yazd. As previously
mentioned, my father was often travelling around the country to teach the
Cause. When in Yazd, he served the needs of the persecuted community
and its Local Spiritual Assembly. From time to time he would engage in
paid work to provide for his ten-member family. The true provider for our
large family, however, was my dear mother. With financial pressures,
limited resources, lack of access to water, electricity and other necessities
of life that we take for granted today, she performed her chores with great
diligence. Imagine her arduous journey with no means of transportation,
having to walk more than a kilometer to wash her children’s clothes in a brook.
It was no easy task however she accomplished everything with patience,
sacrifice and kindness. No doubt it was Divine confirmation that made our lives
possible. Despite having to raise eight children with an absent father, lack of
money and no access to education; we each formed our own families and lived
comfortable lives. Sadly, despite her children’s desire to care for their
hardworking mother, her life was too short, and she was unable to witness or
benefit from our prosperity.
Illustration 15:  Bíbí Fáṭí,  Jamálíyyih


Our dear mother, Jamálíyyih had been a source of care and consolation for
all, both when living in this world and now from the realm on high. Her
compassion and care manifests itself in the dreams we have of her. One example
of this involves the recent revolution in Iran and the subsequent persecution of
Bahá’ís. One day revolutionary guards, led by an officer named Tulu’i, attacked
the home of her daughter Ishráq. Tulu’i was responsible for the torture and
execution of many Bahá’ís. He and the guards ruthlessly ransacked her home and
their belongings. ‘Azíz’u’llah, her husband, was arrested and forced to carry the
confiscated items from their home with him. This inhumane treatment took place
in the presence of their young, distraught son. No information was divulged as to
‘Azíz’u’lláh’s whereabouts. It often happened in those days that the authorities
carried out summary executions immediately after a person’s arrest and did not
inform their families. All they would get was a phone call to say where their
remains could be collected for burial.
Illustration 16:  Right to Left: My brother Ḥusayn, my father
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb (holding myself, Ḍia’u’lláh) and my sister Ishráqh
For the entire day and night after ‘Azíz’u’lláh’s arrest, Ishráq’s family
used every means at their disposal to find out where he had been taken; and
what had become of him. But there was no information and Ishráq grew
increasingly fearful as to his whereabouts and his fate. Around dawn Ishráq


fell asleep. She dreamed of her mother. In her dream, Jamálíyyih told her to
remember to recite the Tablet of Aḥmad. Ishráq immediately awoke, got up
and went to tell her niece, Fariba, who had spent the night to support and
keep her company. They began to recite the Tablet. As soon as they finished
the phone rang! It was ‘Azíz’u’llah, calling to tell them where he was being
detained.
Illustration 17:  Right to left: Ishráq, Báhirih, my mother
with Mehrí, Parí and Mulúk

Much like her mother Fáṭimih Ṣughrá, our mother was constantly
committed to serving others. There are many accounts that testify to this
fact and demonstrate how she cared for the needy - despite her many family
commitments. My sister, Mulúk, recounts about one such example: “At the
end of the Cul-de-Sac in Gazurgah where our family lived, there was a
senile woman who lived with her relatives. She had worked her whole life
as a maid to an established family in town. However, when she grew too
old to work, she returned to live with her family, who unfortunately left her
alone to attend to her own needs, in the most remote room in their
household. Gradually, she felt unwell and eventually was bedridden and
unable to clean or care for herself – so my mother would go to care for her.
As she was very busy throughout the day, caring for her own family (and
risked punishment for caring for the elderly woman) she attended to her at
every dawn. She cleaned her, changed her bedding, cooked for her and
returned home before anyone was up.


Indeed, Jamálíyyih was a kind and virtuous soul. She put her family and
others before herself. Her dearest wish was to visit the Holy Land – and thanks
to a family friend, Maḥmúd Mishkí, arrangements were made for her wish to
be fulfilled – and she went to pilgrimage to the Holy Land.
Illustration 18:  Bíbí Fáṭí, Jamálíyyih
Sadly, Jamálíyyih’s children did not have the opportunity to serve and
care for her, as she had for them. She passed away at a young age. She was
just 57 when, after a brief illness she died on April 11th1966. A magnificent
funeral was arranged for her at the Ṭihrán Bahá’í Cemetery. Regrettably,
after the Islamic Revolution of 1979, the grounds were confiscated,
demolished, and a cultural center was built in its’ place. Many members of
her family were buried in this cemetery including Nanih jún, my father, my
maternal uncle and Sa‘íd the baby son of my sister Mulúk.


Illustration 19:  My mother, Jamálíyyih Khánum, with my sister, Mehrí
Fortunately, the name of our dearly missed mother has been eternalized.
Close to San Salvador, the capital of El Salvador, there is a Bahá’í Institute
named after her. The Jamálíyyih Institute serves as a center for national
activities, conferences, and trainings. The news of the inauguration of this
institute was announced in a telegram issued by the National Spiritual
Assembly of El Salvador on Naw-Ruz 1985.
Illustration 20:   The entrance to the Bahá’í Cemetery
following its confiscation by the Islamic Republic of Iran


Illustration 21:  The Bahá’í cemetery in Ṭihrán
Illustration 22:  Above: Entrance to the Jamálíyyih Institute in El Salvador.
Below: Bahá’í Conference at the Institute.



Chapter Two
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)

1. Memoirs
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (my father) has written some details
regarding some aspects or some phases of his life. These notes will
be presented in this chapter as follows:
(i)    Challenges in early life
“As many friends have insisted that I write my memoirs, I
hereby share the account of my pilgrimage for the benefit of
all the friends.


Illustration 23:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)


After offering praise and gratitude to the Threshold of the Blessed
Beauty, the Most Exalted, I am grateful that He blessed me with the
grace and blessing of guarding His servants. This, indeed, is above
and beyond rulership of the earth. During the year 57-58 B.E. (1900
AD), I, this worthless servant was born into a Bahá’í family in Yazd.
In 61 B.E. (1903 AD), my father Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir,
along with many others in our family, was martyred for the crime of
adherence to the Bahá’í Faith. Our home and belongings were
ransacked. Within the span of a single month, my mother (Sakínih
Sulṭán), a faithful handmaiden, lost 17 members of her family all of
whom were martyred  [The particulars of these 17 martyrs have been given
in the Endnote number 113, Illustrations 59, 60 and family tree numbers 7
and 8]. Despite this immense suffering, she managed to raise me (four
years old at the time), along with my six-year-old and six-month old
sisters. Although she was grieving, her cruel neighbors denied her the
right to express her grief by threatening her and saying:  “If we hear
you cry out aloud or sigh in pain, we will chop you up!” Regardless
of such threats, she remained in God’s protection.[MAH-9, pp.482-484]
We grew up having no access to education. Schools were scarce
in those days therefore we had no means to study. Eventually, my
sisters married two brothers who were the nephew of two of the Seven
Martyrs of Yazd. When the Master heard about our family, it is
reported that He said: “I am delighted to see these two persecuted
families unite in marriage.” After some time, I married their sister,
and from that point on, I was the recipient of Divine confirmations,
as she, Jamálíyyih was a heavenly woman – and soon after we had
our first child. [For information regarding relationships refer to the family
tree number 3 & 4 on pages 36 & 37 and number 5 on page 50.]


Illustration 24:  Right to left: Ishráq, Parí, my father with Mihrí
(Mehri) and my mother with Báhirih

One day some Bahá’ís visited our home. Among them was one of
the teachers of the Cause, Jináb-i Mírzá ‘Abdulláh Muṭlaq. He
announced: “I have something precious with me, if you would like I
can share it with you.” We all expressed our interest and so he took
out a photograph of the Guardian. We were in awe as we had never
seen such an image before. When I saw his face, I felt as though I
were reborn. I no longer thought of my family, and even considered
taking my own life. Afterwards, I dreamt of Bahá’u’lláh, the Master,
or the beloved Guardian almost every night. Sometimes, I would have
more than one dream. I even dreamt of the Báb; may my soul be a
ransom for His sacrifice. I felt worse by the day. Finally, one of the
friends informed the beloved Guardian of this and begged for my
healing. I do not know what the friend had written, but shortly after I
received a letter from the Guardian. [MAH-9, p.487] In that letter I came
to know the Guardian was fully aware of my feelings and he advised me


in such manner, that whenever I followed his instructions, I felt perfectly
well. [MAH-9, pp.487-488] [Refer to Endnote number  56] 56

The summary of a letter which has been written  by Maḥmúd Zarqání,
the Eastern Secretary of the Guardian, dated 12  Muḥarram 1345 (23
July 1926), addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), the son of
the martyr. In the letter, Maḥmúd Zarqání stated that ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb’s letter was mentioned before the Guardian and he
remembered his name and expressed the hope that he would get the
divine grace and healing. He has encouraged him to recite holy verses
and to ask for God’s mercy and to beseech divine blessings.
In Shoghi Effendi’s handwriting: “O spiritual friend! I beseech the
Kingdom on high to surround you with confirmations and assistance as
promised by the Beloved. Be assured and never lose hope. The True
Protector is your aid and helper. I pray that you may attain unto that
which is worthy of this most great Revelation.   The Servant of His
Threshold, Shoghi”
[Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC]
Since then letters have been issued showering me with infinite grace
and bounty.

(ii) Permission for pilgrimage
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)  continues with the story of
his pilgrimage:
“In 1928, I began to think about the possibility of visiting the
Shrines of the Blessed Beauty, the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and to pay
my respects to the beloved Guardian. I lacked the material means and
so it seemed impossible. I had 36 Tumans when I wrote the beloved
Guardian to seek his permission to go on pilgrimage. I took my letter
to the Local Spiritual Assembly for them to send to the Holy Land.
One of the members candidly told me that they could not send my
letter, as I was unable to afford such an expense. In those days when
friends wrote to seek permission, the Guardian would never refuse
anyone. Instead, he would make the permission conditional on
material means, approval of the Local Assembly or a period of


waiting. I was ill at the time, so when the Assembly refused to send
my letter, I felt incredibly sad. I took my letter, returned home and
only God knows what I went through. So, I sent my letter directly to
the Holy Land. After some time, I received three letters from the
Guardian. One was in the handwriting of Mírzá Maḥmúd Zarqání,
and the other one in the handwriting of Mírzá Núr’ud-Dín Zayn. Both
letters clearly indicated his permission: [MAH-9, p.488-489] [for the Persian text
Refer to Endnote number 57] 57
The summary of a letter which has been written  by Núr’ud-Dín Zayn,
the Secretary of the Guardian, dated Rajab 1346 (January 1928),
addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), the son of the glorious
martyr, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Yazdí. In this letter it mentions that
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s letter radiated with humility and steadfastness and
his desire for pilgrimage and that it was read by the Guardian. He gives
the glad tidings for the permission given for ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s travel
to the Holy Land.
Shoghi Effendi’s handwriting: “O spiritual friend! I beseech the Best
Beloved of the world to grant you success and hope that you may attain
unto all that which is the desire of those who are near to Him.  The
Servant of His Threshold, Shoghi”   [MAH-9, p.489]
[Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC]

[For the Persian Text of the following letter refer to Endnote number 58]58
The summary of a letter which has been written  by Núr’ud-Dín Zayn,
the Secretary of the Guardian, dated Rajab 1346 (2 November 1927),
addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), the son of the martyr,
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Yazdí. It mentions that ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s
letter has been seen by the Guardian; and that he has been given the
permission to visit the Holy Land; and he expresses his happiness that
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s request was accepted and he will be able to  make
the pilgrimage; and that the letter has been written by the instruction
of the Guardian..

Shoghi Effendi’s handwriting: “Spiritual friend! I hope the means for
your travel to the Holy Land will materialize so that you may attain
unto your heart’s desire.
The Servant of His Threshold, Shoghi”   [MAH-9, p.491]


[Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC]
[For the Persian Text of the following letter refer to Endnote number 59]59
The summary of a letter which has been written  by Maḥmúd Zarqání,
the Eastern Secretary of the Guardian, , dated 12 Khurdad 1306
Shamsi (3 June 1927), addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi),
the son of the martyr, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Yazdí. It mentions that
the beloved Guardian heard the message in his letter and his response
was that he is permitted to come to Haifa in early spring for pilgrimage.
Based on his instruction this letter was written.

Shoghi Effendi’s handwriting: “O spiritual brother! It is earnestly
hoped that, through the loving-kindness and grace vouchsafed unto you
from the Realm of the Unseen, you may render  splendid services in the
future, and may be assisted and confirmed in that which is the cause of
the promotion and high repute of this precious Faith. Make your steps
firm and endeavor to promote the Word of God in utmost confidence.
The Servant of His Threshold,
Shoghi”   [MAH-9, p.492]
[Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC]
[For the Persian Text of the following letter refer to Endnote number 60]60
The summary of a letter which has been written  by Núr’ud-Dín Zayn,
the Secretary of the Guardian, dated Rajab 1347 (9  January 1929),
addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi).  It mentions that
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s letter was noted by the Guardian and that it
manifested the sign of sincerity . The Guardian assures him that what
he saw in the world of vision is a sign of Divine grace,  and an
attainment unto Heavenly bestowals. The   Secretary acknowledges the
gift of his wife for the Greatest Holy leaf which arrived safely. He
acknowledges the names of  a few individuals whom ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
had mentioned in his letter who were the family of martyrs. The
Guardian will remember them and he had asked to convey his greetings
to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb’s mother, and his wife, two sisters and daughters.
He gives permission for a person by the name Ali Akbar to go for
pilgrimage. This letter was written by the Guardian’s instructions.
[MAH-9, p.493]


(iii) Dreams
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) Describes His
Dreams:
I dreamed I was in the Holy Land. I kissed the shoulders of the
beloved Guardian three times. Once, during my first visit with him,
second, on the day of my departure from the Holy Land, and the third
was on the eve he instructed me to join him for a private visit. When
he permitted me to leave, he said, go in God’s grace. I stood and
waited for him to leave the room. At the point of departure, I held him
in my embrace and kissed his shoulders while taking in the details of
his entire being.
In another one of my dreams, I attained his presence. He pointed
at me saying, he is enamored. I woke up. I was upset that I did. I fell
asleep again. Once again, I was in his presence along with several
friends. I was seated next to him. Each of us held a plate of food and
were busy eating. In the case of the Guardian, he handed me his after
eating half the food on his plate. I ate the rest while thinking about my
own plate of food as I woke up.
Eventually, after a few years I went on pilgrimage. The first day,
there was a gathering at the Pilgrim House. I went to the residence of
the Guardian and accompanied him to the gathering. The Guardian
entered the allocated room and indicated that I was to remain in his
presence. All the chairs were occupied by the members of the Holy
family. This was before they broke the Covenant. There was a single
chair by the door, and as soon as I entered the beloved Guardian
instructed me to sit, and I obeyed.
The first week came to an end. The following week I entered the
room where the Sunday assembly was gathered. I noticed all the
chairs were taken except two next to the Guardian. I did not want to
impose and sit next to him, so I began to retrace my steps, however
the beloved Guardian while pointing to the empty chairs instructed
me to sit. I took a seat. Tea was served and the Guardian addressed
us while sipping on his cup. When he finished his tea, he gave his cup
to me. At once, Ghulám-Ḥusayn Ḥakím (the son of Arasṭú Khán


Ḥakím) and Áqá Ḥusayn Ḥájí (the son of Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Rahím Yazdí)
started gathering the cups and took the cup from me for cleaning. I
regretted handing over the cup, but it was too late. Every night I
would take the key of the Shrine of the Báb, so as I could visit it at
dawn. I prayed most ardently that once again the Guardian would
hand me his cup, so that I could keep and treasure it.
During the third week, I entered the Sunday Assembly at the
pilgrim house. Once more, I noticed the same two chairs next to the
Guardian. Again, I began to retrace my steps when he instructed me
to sit next to him. I sat on one of the chairs, but I was anxiously
trembling, hoping to get his cup. Tea was served. The Guardian was
holding his cup in his hand so I could not tell whether it was empty or
not, but I noticed he was not drinking it anymore. I got up, stood in
front of him and extended my arm. He handed me his half full cup. I
took it, left the room, drank the remainder and begged the custodian
to let me keep it. I still have it!
I should mention one of my dreams that occurred about three
months prior to pilgrimage. I was weeping in the presence of the
Blessed Beauty at the Yazd Bahá’í Centre. He admonished me saying:
Do not shed a tear, so long as you are in the presence of Truth, you
are forgiven. Shed your tears during meetings. Then He departed.
When He returned, I was seated to his left. He bid me farewell. I arose
to leave, but before doing so, noticed His bare chest. I kissed it. Three
months later, on the last day of my pilgrimage, I was crying
uncontrollably. The beloved Guardian consoled me and then came the
time to depart. When he opened his arms to embrace me, I placed my
head on his chest. I noticed his bare chest. Just as in my other dream
and I kissed the blessed chest.
In another of my dreams which involved attaining the presence of
the Master, I begged to kiss his heels. He said: Some other time. We
went over to the Zoroastrian quarters, where a beautiful spread was
laid out in the middle of the street; and the beloved Master sat to enjoy
some bread and cheese. The Zoroastrians wanted to object, but I told
them that this was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and they all stood with respect in His


presence. Forty nights later I dreamt that I and a friend were to go on
pilgrimage; however, he left to go before me. When he came back, I
complained to him as to why he had left me behind. He returned to
Iran and I went to the Holy Land and attained the presence of the
Guardian. I bowed before his feet, but the Guardian forbade me to do
so. In this dream, I remembered my previous dream with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, so I politely said, but the Master promised me so!
The next morning, I told my friend about the dream. He said I have
no plans for pilgrimage, as I have received no permission. I told him,
you will, before I do. I liked him a great deal and could not stand for
him to miss such a blessing. Without telling him, I sent a letter to the
Holy Land and sought permission on his behalf. The response was
positive. I went to his home and said you too have received permission
for pilgrimage! He was delighted. I kept reminding him that we would
not be travelling together, and that is how it transpired. He was under
the impression that travelling as a group may cause challenges in
receiving letters, and so he travelled to Ṭihrán to apply for his
passport, and I followed later. He was related to Kázim Uf Amri and
so the two men arranged their passports to travel together. Fourteen
days after them I went on pilgrimage. While on route, I saw them
dining at the same spot as in my dream, when I had complained about
him leaving me behind. On arrival in the Holy Land, I prostrated
before the Guardian, just as I had in my dream. He told me that this
was not allowed. Instead we greeted each other as he helped me to
my feet and graciously welcomed me.
These are my dreams about pilgrimage. I must add I would
not have enjoyed travelling with Kázim Uf and his friends, as they
were wealthy, and I could not travel with them. Instead, I
accompanied someone with similar means and the journey was
enjoyable beyond measure. The Guardian refers to this in the letter
he wrote allowing me to attain pilgrimage:
[For the Persian Text of the following letter refer to Endnote number 61]61


“O spiritual friend! I hope that the means for your journey to the Holy Land
may be provided according to your wishes, so that you may attain unto that
which is the desire of  your heart and soul. The servant of His Threshold,
Shoghi”

(iv) Pilgrimage
It took some time for me to arrange the means for pilgrimage.
What delight when the hopeful attains his heart’s desire! On the 8th
day of Riḍván in the year 1352 in the Lunar calendar, (1932 AD) or
1311 Solar calendar, I left Yazd for Ṭihrán along with Mr. ‘Alí-
Akbar Jávídání, to prepare the documents required for our trip. It
took twenty-five days. Sixty-six days after Naw-Ruz we left Ṭihrán
for the Holy Land. From the moment we set foot on our journey until
we reached the Holy Land, as God is my witness, we experienced a
new miracle at every hour and step of the way. After all the
Guardian had stated: “O spiritual friend! I hope that the means for
your journey to the Holy Land may be provided according to your
wishes, so that you may attain unto that which is the desire of your
heart and soul. The servant of His Threshold, Shoghi” [Provisional
translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC] On the 76th day in the
new year we attained his presence. Each year the Guardian would
spend the 73rd-74th days of the year at the Bahá’í International
offices in Switzerland, so I thought he was not in Haifa. However, I
found out he had arrived a few days before we did and had informed
the Pilgrim House that two people were coming. We entered the
Pilgrim House at 2:30 pm. We took a bath and set out to the House
of the Master and waited outside until Jináb-i ‘Alí-Aṣghar Adíb, one
of the volunteers serving there, came out and delighted us with an
invitation to enter his presence.
We went into his residence and awaited the Guardian’s arrival.
Words fail me to convey the significance of moments such as these.
Suddenly the curtains were lifted, and the radiant face of heavenly grace
became manifest. I arose to my feet. Graciously he welcomed us. I barely
remember anything after that. Crying, I threw myself at his feet. Then
suddenly I noticed that the Guardian was helping me up, saying that
was not appropriate. He then embraced and greeted me, saying that I
should take a seat. After he was seated, he asked me when I left Yazd.  I


told him forty days earlier and he explained that in the old days it would
take the friends six months to travel. He inquired about the friends how
they were. I expressed that with God’s grace and bounty, they were all
well and busy serving. To which the Guardian responded asking
whether gatherings took place there. I shared that they were indeed, at
the Bahá’í Centre. There were around 1,000 to 1,200 Bahá’ís in Yazd.
He expressed his thanks to God again, saying that Yazd was an
important spot for the Faith, that Bahá’ís must make every effort to help
the Cause advance. Then he asked who the teachers of the Cause were.
I mentioned Jináb-i Mírzá Munír Nabíl-Zádih 62 and Ḥájí Muḥammad-
Ṭáhir Málmírí,63  as well as other friends. He then made a few comments
and inquired about the clergy. I explained that they were rendered
powerless. My recollection of his response was that saying this was the
beginning of the fall of the clergy and the rise of the friends and that the
significance of this process could not be fathomed by the friends at this
time.64 Then he asked the question whether I had any thoughts in this
regard to which I responded: “He does as He wishes.” The Guardian
then said that we should visit the Shrines and mentioned that we should
go along. He headed to the Shrine of the Báb and we followed. We spent
four hours, until 8 pm, with him. [MAH-9, pp.489-490]
The Guardian would recite the Tablet of Visitation once a day,
either in the Shrine of the Báb, or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He would then leave
the Holy Threshold and stand on the steps. I would hurry and stand
next to him. On the first day, Ḥájí Áqá Muḥammad, the son of Ḥájí
‘Abdu’r-Rahím Yazdí,65 the son-in-law of my maternal uncle, was
present. As the Guardian stood by the steps, he addressed him saying
that Jináb-i Mírzá Muḥammad, tomorrow should go to Bahji before
leaving the Holy Land. He then lovingly looked at me and said that he
will send me to Bahjí on Friday.
Every day at 3 pm we stood by the gate of his residence so that
when he would come out to walk to the Shrine of the Báb, we could
follow behind him. He would speak to us throughout the walk. On the
first day, he came through the gates, an Arab child came forward and
extended his hand. The Guardian instructed him to leave. He obeyed
but then returned. The Guardian took a step towards him and the child
quickly left. He said that Bahá’u’lláh has forbidden begging, but this


generation is desperate and that in America, thousands are
unemployed, and this has left the nation in fear.
Mrs. Keith Ransome Kehler 66 was on pilgrimage at the same time
as us. Jináb-i Ḥájí Maḥmúd Qassábchí 67 returned from visiting the
Al-Aqṣá and joined us. In other words, there were just a few
pilgrims, and this meant ‘Alí-Akbar Jávídání and myself could spend
a great deal of time with the Guardian. On many days he would pay
attention to me and ask whether I was having any difficulties. We
spent four to five hours in his presence. Because of my reaction at
meeting him for the first time, both to his person while on pilgrimage,
and to his photos back in Yazd, I often used to whisper this poem:
Musa and we tread throughout the Tur
Not he, but we attained His presence
One day the Guardian said that in every city an archive must be
established to house the holy writings, just as this has been done here.
He clarified that Bahá’ís were not obliged to hand anything over, they
could do so if they wished, or kept what they had. This was a relief to
me as I had a few items that I have kept to this day. On another day
he expressed his wish and longing to visit the friends and the holy
places in Iran. I inquired: “In the near future?” His reply was
negative and the reason was that he was alone, had no help, no
deputy. That  he must establish the Universal House of Justice. He
alone was supposed to accomplish this.
On other occasions, while riding in the car, or immersed in the
sea bath, Jináb-i Mírzá Muḥammad Sa‘íd Miṣrí was always teaching
the faith. During our afternoon visit, Jináb-i ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq Baghdádí
mentioned this to the Guardian, who responded by saying that
Bahá’ís must not teach as Catholics and Protestants do. They must
first determine whether a person is receptive before speaking about the
faith. All Bahá’ís must teach though. Ideally, half the day must be spent
working and the other half teaching the Cause.
On another day, he told us that Bahá’ís must study the Dawn-
Breakers. I said: “Beloved Guardian, it is in English, (it was not yet
translated into Persian), what are the Iranian Bahá’ís, including


those in Yazd, supposed to do? Not many Iranians speak English.”
The Guardian responded by saying that Iranian Bahá’ís could study
Kavákib’ud-Duriyyih, Ávárih’s History 68 which was a beneficial
source, and was the result of much effort. Although there were
discrepancies, nevertheless, his civil rights must be upheld. Whoever
owes him, must make every payment. The Guardian continued to
speak about him and when we returned to the pilgrim house that
evening, Jináb-i ‘Abdu’r-Razzáq Effendi was anxious. He said: “I
was at the receiving end of the consequences of your question earlier
today.” I asked what he meant, and he told me that he had 400 copies
of the Ávárih’s books in Baghdád and after Ávárih broke the
Covenant, he never responded to his letters. Therefore, what the
Guardian said today was a directive to him. He explained as soon as
he would reach Baghdad, he would sell the remaining copies and pay
Ávárih. It is important to note the faithfulness of the Guardian, in that
despite Ávárih’s infidelity, the Guardian continued to observe his civil
rights. [MAH-9, p.491]
On one occasion I asked the Guardian: “If it were permissible,
could we visit Karbala on our return journey to Iran?” He told me
that there was no objection but added if they ask you about your
religion you should say that are Bahá’ís and if they allow you to enter
the precincts, so be it; otherwise you should not enter. I felt however
that he was not in favor of our visiting Karbala - as Bahá’í pilgrims
did not normally go there since we would face questioning about our
religion. The next day he returned to the topic stating that it was not
wise for the friends to enter Islamic shrines and events until it is
established that the Faith is independent of any nation or religion.
Since my companion intended to visit Karbala on the day of our
return, I asked the Guardian whether it would be permissible for us
to visit the Holy House in Shiraz instead? In other words, I wanted
the Guardian to state the obvious, hoping my companion would
change his mind. The Guardian responded that this would be a
wonderful and logical choice. Visiting Bahjí is not obligatory and
friends were not required to go, however, visiting the Holy House
was.


On another occasion during the pilgrimage the Guardian told us
that the government of Iran plans to eliminate Arabic from the
country. This was not wise as Arabic and Persian are like milk and
honey. Iranian Bahá’ís must study Arabic. Likewise, Bahá’ís in Iraq
must study Persian, so that they are able to read and comprehend the
holy writings. He continued to expound on the nature of  rulers
around the world who were preoccupied with establishing their own
power and this will result in corruption and loss and that it  will result
in chaos. He made some general remarks concerning the future.
Another topic he addressed was alcohol stating that although
drinking wine is not explicitly forbidden in the Kitáb-i Aqdas,
however, in the Tablet of Rám,69 Bahá’u’lláh forbids it. The tablet has
been sent to Iran so that the friends can recite it and learn about this
matter. Bahá’ís must not interpret this to mean that drinking a
moderate amount is permissible. Moderate or excessive, it is
forbidden, forbidden, forbidden. Unless a competent physician
prescribes it.
On a different occasion I recall him, while standing at a place
where was overlooking the Shrine of the Báb, addressing me, saying
that tomorrow he  would send me to visit the Shrine in Bahjí, and that
I  will be there as a representative on behalf of all the Bahá’ís in Iran.
And while on another such occasion I recall him coming to the Shrine
of the Báb, picking an apple from a nearby tree and lovingly giving it
to me. He then picked a branch from the Jasmine flowers and handed
it to me also.
On one of the days when we were on our way to Bahjí, I saw a
woman scantly attired [A reference to the swimming suit – it was much in
contrast to the Shari’t code of covering for women which was prevailing at that time
in Iran] rolling in the sand by the beach. As I had never seen anything
like it, I thought she had lost her mind. I asked Ghulám-Ḥusayn
Ḥakím, the son of Dr. Arasṭú Ḥakím, if she were insane? He told me:
“The hot temperatures here drive many people crazy”; and during
the two days we spent in the Garden of Riḍván before our return to
Haifa, the doctor kept saying: “That poor foolish woman.” [MAH-9,
p.493]



Illustration 25:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) is seated first from
right, in front of the steps of the Mansion of Bahjí
Later, on the same day that I saw the woman on the sand, Dr. Ḥakím
suggested that we all go sightseeing. I declined, telling him I preferred
to spend my time either at the Shrines or near the residence of the
Guardian; and did not want any distraction from this. He responded,
saying: “I am not extravagant however I would like to take everybody
for an outing on Sunday.” So, on Sunday he rented a car and took
everybody to the mineral bath. When we reached the sea, I saw a group
of about 60 musicians. At that time Palestine was ruled by the British. I
then noticed thousands of women and men of all ages who had very little
in the way of covering their bodies (a reference to the swimming suit) in the
sea! The Dr. said: “Zabihi, did I not say the hot temperatures here drive
everyone insane?” After our return to the pilgrim house Ghulám-Ḥusayn
khán kept up his humor with me.
The following day we attained the presence of the Guardian.
He came from his residence to the spot above the Shrine of the Báb.
A number of those who I had observed in the sea had brought their
children to tour the gardens. As soon as they saw the Guardian they


prostrated before him. The Guardian treated them with much love and
then turned to Mr. Furúd Síyávashí, who at the time served as the
custodian of the Shrine, saying: “Could you please open and then
close the gate?” He obeyed these instructions. The Guardian then
turned his attention to us saying: “The gates are open to friends and
others. They do not even believe in God, but they believe in these
shrines. One is praying for money, another for a child. They come and
tearfully pray to obtain their wishes. The greatness of this Cause is
beyond description.”
An example of this can be seen when we were in Damascus, just
two days before we reached the Holy Land. We were walking by a
roundabout one evening when I noticed a man dressed in Iranian
clothes. I greeted him and he warmly responded by saying: “Hello
Iranian brothers, where do you come from?” I told him from Yazd
and others responded accordingly. He inquired the purpose of our
visit (not many Iranians travelled abroad in those days). I told him we
were on our way to Haifa and when he asked the reason why, I told
him it was to: “visit the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh and pay our respects
to Shoghi Effendi.” He replied: “Wonderful, how fortunate that you
have such a leader. Yesterday I spent two hours with him. I am not
exaggerating when I say God has placed all His treasures in him.
Lucky you! Lucky you!” I asked why he had come here, and he
responded: “I am a traveler here on behalf of the Iranian
government.” He then bade me goodbye and left.
On another occasion, we accompanied the Guardian to the
Bahá’í cemetery in Haifa instead of the Shrine. During this time, he
addressed us without interruption. We returned in the evening,
reaching the gate of his residence around 7 pm when he bid us
farewell telling us to: “Go in God’s protection,” before entering the
courtyard, I watched him as he walked away, after a few steps he
turned his face to me and called out: “‘Abdu’l-Vahháb come.” I
rushed to follow him. We entered his quarters; however, he did not
turn any lights on. Instead he sat down and said: “Make yourself at
home.” I was going to sit by the entrance, but he asked me to go closer
and closer until I finally sat facing him. He then said: “I wished to
speak with you earlier but work never ends.” I felt that the gates of
grace had been opened to me. That was the eve of fulfilment of all my


dreams. He showered me with such grace and bounty that was
deserving of he himself. I imparted: “Beloved Guardian, over the past
five years, I have been suffering from mental illness.” He responded:
“Have you seen a competent physician?” I said: “They say it is
incurable.” He replied: “You have come to visit the Shrine in Bahjí,
rest assured you will be cured.” I had first began feeling unwell five
years earlier at the sight of his portrait and only began to fully recover
after he uttered those words. [MAH-9, p.494]
During the course of the evening, I mentioned that Jináb-i Mírzá
Maḥmúd Badí‘í wished to attain the presence of the beloved Guardian
and visit the Holy Land. The Guardian agreed to this and instructed
me to write and inform him. Mírzá Maḥmúd was the head of the
Ṭihrán branch of provisions and needed no introduction - after my
return, he went on pilgrimage, and imported a considerable number
of Bahá’í books, a great service to the community. Mrs. Kehler and
Dr. Ghulám-Ḥusayn Ḥakím were also leaving the Holy Land that day
and were in the Master’s House while I was standing in the reception.
Mrs. Kehler, who always showered me with great kindness, called me.
I went up the stairs. Dr. Ḥakím said: “We are going to see the portrait
of Bahá’u’lláh, and you must come along.” I did. Later when we
attained the presence of the Guardian, he asked whether I had seen
the portrait and immersed me in his love and grace, encouraged me
to see the portrait again and then arose to bid me farewell. On leaving
the presence of the Guardian he opened his embrace to me; I held him
and kissed his chest.

(v) Bahá’í Books at the Customs
We left the Holy Land for Syria; we were depressed and forlorn.
When we reached the border, customs wanted to go through our
baggage. The Guardian had given me 20 copies of Dr. John
Esslemont’s book to deliver to the Local Spiritual Assembly in
Baghdad, and two copies for myself. He instructed that if the customs
officers decided to confiscate the books, not to resist and give them my
copies. I wrapped the books in a bedsheet and tied them to the top of


the car. The head of customs came to the car saying: “This bedsheet,
suitcases and other baggage must be checked!” I took them inside and
as soon as I unwrapped the books, the phrase, Yá Bahá’ul-Abhá on the
cover could be seen. He inquired in Arabic whether we were Bahá’ís
and I confirmed we were. An Arab man travelling with us came into the
building. When the head of customs came to know we were Bahá’ís,
excitedly he said: “Image, image,” meaning did we have any books
containing images?” I opened the book and showed him an image of
the Master. He turned to our Arabian friend and inquired whether it
was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the son of Bahá’u’lláh, and continued speaking with
him in Arabic, explaining since the dawn of Adam, there had never been
anyone like ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Then the head of customs wrapped up all
our belongings and returned them to the car.
The grace and bounties of the eighteen days spent during this
journey overcame the suffering experienced during my entire lifetime,
and with that I shall conclude my remarks regarding my pilgrimage.
As the poet says: [MAH-9, pp.494-495]


I am dizzy with a vision and the world remains deaf
I fail to recount and the world to hear



2.
Shaykh Bihlul
My father continues to share other memories as follows [In order to
appreciate this story and why has been narrated here requires some understanding and
non-judgmental attitude, please refer to the Endnote number 93]:
“Now I will share a few experiences I have personally been through.
At one time a person by the name of Shaykh Bihlul, turned up in Yazd in
cleric’s clothing and gave speeches from the pulpit about Bahá’ís
saying: “I want to speak to this sect.” The Bahá’ís did not respond
however he persisted and so a Bahá’í named Jináb-i Ḥájí Muḥammad-
Ṭáhir Málmírí, (whom I mentioned earlier, was a teacher of the faith in


Yazd) agreed to meet him. They met at the home of Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn
Aṭṭár, a prejudiced Muslim. Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir read the passage:
“And when the standard of Truth is made manifest, the people of both
the East and the West curse it.” (The Kitáb-i Íqán,  Bahá’u’lláh. Page
239, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1989). Shaykh Bihlul responded: “This is
not a Ḥadith.70” Then Ḥájí said: “It is.” Bihlul again reiterated: “It is
not.” Then Ḥájí retorted: “What if it is?” To which Shaykh Bihlul
responded: “If it is, then I, Shaykh Muḥammad Taqí Bihlul, am a
Bahá’í.” Ḥájí responded: “If so, then write it down.” Bihlul complied
and signed it. Ḥájí continued: “Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn, you are a follower
of Bihlul, you should also write this down and sign it.” And he did the
same. Shaykh Bihlul then said: “What happens if this is not a Hadith?”
To which Ḥájí replied: “If it is not, then I have lied.”
The following day when they studied the Uṣúl-i Káfí 71 and
Biḥár’ul-Anvár 72 books, they verified the statements and the Muslims
were terribly upset. Shaykh Bihlul had arranged to meet with the
Bahá’ís at the home of one of the believers in order to pray and seek
a resolution to the matter. That morning, the twenty seventh day of
the month of Ramaḍán, an invitation was sent to the Ḥájí Bihlul. He
accepted provided transportation was arranged for him. The home
was near the gate of Mullá Ismá‘íl  Mosque, the largest mosque in
Yazd. We accompanied Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí along with
the late ‘Alí-Akbar Dayyání, knowing we may not return home. This
was due to the fact that eight thousand or so locals had gathered
around a preacher named Siyyid Yaḥyá at the mosque. We were about
a thousand steps away from the house of the believer when we began
to hear the roaring of the crowd in the mosque. When we reached the
street that the house of Shaykh Bihlul was on, we saw a Bahá’í named
Áqá Ḥusayn. We asked him whether Shaykh Bihlul was there. He
informed us verbally that he was not however he signaled with his
eyebrows that he was home!
Four merchants of Yazd, who were very prejudiced Muslims, could
be seen in the distance. This was because given the turn of events, and
Shaykh Bihlul’s promise to declare himself a Bahá’í, the masses did
not want the Shaykh to show up. When we drew closer, one of the


merchants, Ḥájí Muḥammad asked if we had come to escort the
Shaykh. I told him we had, and he responded by saying: “What
shameless people you are! We have let you be, and yet you still persist
in pursuing us?” I wanted to respond but Áqá Ḥusayn signaled to me
to keep silent. When we reached the doorway, women were seated in
a fifty-meter-long vestibule. Upon entering the house, we noticed it
was filled with clerics but there was no sign of Shaykh Bihlul. The
merchant, Ḥájí Muḥammad announced: “Whatever I need to know, I
researched and found at the age of fifteen.” He was shouting a great
deal, when I finally said: “No one in this world wishes evil for himself,
we too have investigated however it was Shaykh Bihlul who made this
arrangement for today. This is about truth and falsehood.” Ḥájí
Muḥammad was silent, and walked away momentarily, then returned
and said: “Do you have a guarantee for your safety that you remain
here?” I replied: “What do you mean by that? Please speak plainly.”
He responded: “If someone were to verbally or physically assault you
is he not a Muslim?” I replied by saying: “First you should acquaint
yourself with me and then we can have a conversation. I am the
descendant of those Bahá’ís martyred in 1321 (1903 AD). I am no
different. But now it is the reign of Riḍá (Reza) Pahlavi and no one
can assault another person.
In the midst of all this, Shaykh Bihlul arrived and asked: “Have
you come to take me?” I said: “Yes,” and he responded: “You poor
men, it is quite late now, give me the book to take with me.” He
grabbed the book from one of the clerics and was about to leave when
the crowd prevented him, insisting that he must refrain from joining
us unless Siyyid Muḥammad Vazírí (one of the clerics) would
accompany him. He said: “You are causing trouble; I have made a
promise and people are waiting.” However, they would not allow him
to leave and so we remained also. The atmosphere was so intense, as
though blood was raining down on us. Then ‘Alí-Muḥammad entered
and spoke privately with Shaykh Bihlul. They talked for about ten
minutes then Siyyid said: “Shaykh Bihlul and I are going to Siyyid-i
Ṣahrá (one of the Islamic shrines in Yazd), you come and also bring
along your Ḥájí Ṭáhir!” I replied: “Neither you nor I are in charge,


we are but messengers. Shaykh Bihlul is the one in charge.” Shaykh
Bihlul opened the book and said: “Yes, that is the case, you see
Muḥammad took Ḥusayn,73 ‘Alí, 74 Fáṭimih, 75 Salmán76 and Abá-
Dhar77 to the desert to seek guidance, not to a house. We must follow
His instructions.” I acquiesced saying: “Let us go together to
wherever you wish to meet. If you would prefer, we can go as a group
to Imámzádih Zangí desert.” He responded: “Good idea, well said.”
As he left, he invited Mr. Vazírí (one of the clerics) saying: “Let us go
and bring anyone else who wishes to come.”
As we left the house, the women who were seated at the entrance
stood up and began to scream and the situation quickly deteriorated.
I felt in great danger. If each one of them merely put a hand on me I
would be quashed; so, I shielded behind the Shaykh, thinking to myself
that if they attacked me, I would hold on to Shaykh Bihlul! The Shaykh
argued with the women. He rebuked them for making so much noise
and asked them to calm themselves. Apparently, they intended to
inform the people in the mosque and cause trouble. We escaped
unharmed and after some time the Shaykh inquired about Vazírí. His
servant said he was not there, and Shaykh Bihlul remarked: “What
terrible people! What a dishonest lot!” Then ‘Alí-Akbar Dayyání
said: “This is why people have stopped following them”. Shaykh
Bihlul agreed saying: “Some have become Sufis, some Bábis and
some Shaykhi!” We all laughed together. He then turned to his
servant saying: “ ‘Alí-Aṣghar look into his whereabouts”. In a short
while between 60-70 clerics and Mullá’s were following us and by the
time we reached our destination about 100 were present. I rang the
bell of the house of the believer. It was my nephews’ house. He opened
the door and on seeing the crowd, began to panic. I told him to go and
as soon as the three Mullá’s and nine students arrived I closed the
door. The rest demanded to enter, but I said: “Whatever these twelve
decide on, you follow through”. As soon as I entered the room, I
noticed that Jináb-i Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí had placed the
Ad’iyyih Maḥbúb (book of Bahá’í prayers by Bahá’u’lláh) in front of
himself so that Shaykh Bihlul could curse it while Mr. Málmírí
chanted the Fire Tablet. There were 31 of us in the house in all. Then


Siyyid ‘Alí-Muḥammad Vazírí announced: “Let us all go to the desert”.
Muḥammad Iqtiṣdí replied: “We are not wild animals. There is no need
to go to the desert. The responsible authorities must come before we go
to the desert, you arranged to meet here.”
Suddenly the chief of the local police station and Office of
Information, along with a number of their employees, entered the
house asking questions regarding the meeting. Siyyid ‘Alí-
Muḥammad Vazírí said: “Shaykh Bihlul has come to Yazd and has
called for the Bahá’ís to enter this exchange”. The chief of the police
said: “The government has banned such meetings”. He began to
admonish the Muslims and said: “Let’s go”. The clerics assumed they
were under arrest, however that was not the case. After walking for
some time Siyyid ‘Alí-Muḥammad Vazírí begged the police not to take
them to the station. The chief of the police said: “There is no harm in
doing so, come of your own accord”. When the three clerics arrived
at the station, the chief claimed they were causing havoc under his
watch and Shaykh Bihlul had 24 hours to depart before he would be
exiled from the city. Shaykh Bihlul told him that the Bahá’ís had a
written statement from him and to please order that they return it. The
chief refused, saying: “It is not my business.”
After I returned home in the afternoon, the news of this event had
spread throughout the bazar, any Muslim that saw me made
unpleasant remarks and when I reached the memorial near my home,
a group of Muslims were standing there. One of them, named Siyyid
‘Alí-Akbar told me: “Zabihi, if someone had died today during that
heated exchange, what would you have done?” I responded: “If the
Angel of Death had arrived for anyone of us while we were debating,
he would have returned from whence he came. However, if it were
God’s will, it would have happened one way or another. Regardless,
had all the Bahá’ís of Yazd been murdered and I was the sole survivor,
I would become more steadfast and persevere in my beliefs, because
I am certain about my faith.” Siyyid ‘Alí-Akbar turned to the Muslims
and said: “We are the righteous ones, yet we would do well to have
someone such as him among us.”


That same afternoon Shaykh Bihlul came over begging for the
return of his signed statement. Jináb-i Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir said:
“We must gather the same witnesses so that you admit to your
mistake”. The next day everyone again gathered at the home of the
prejudice Muslim, Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn Aṭṭár. Ḥájí Muḥammad-
Ṭáhir Málmírí recited a verse from the Qur’án when suddenly Shaykh
Bihlul challenged its authenticity. Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir asked:
“Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn Aṭṭár, do you have a copy of the Qur’án in your
home?” Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn Aṭṭár confirmed and brought it to him.
As soon as Ḥájí Ṭáhir opened it, he found the verse and said: “Here
you are!” Shaykh Bihlul began to beg once more saying: “I am
distracted please return my statement to me.” Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir
returned it and Bihlul quickly grabbed his shoes and fled the house
barefoot! No one ever saw or heard from him until we heard about the
corruption he caused in Khurásán;78 the subsequent shooting that took
place and the victims, including himself.


3.  Ḥájí Mullá ‘Alí
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues his story; this is the
story of Ḥájí Mullá ‘Alí as follows:
“During one of my trips on behalf of the Local Spiritual Assembly
of Yazd, to raise funds for the Bahá’í centers in Syria and Egypt, one
of my friends named Ustád Ghulám’Ali Thábit accompanied me. At
that time one “man”79 of sugar-loaf cost 40 Tumans. We took two
“man’s” of sugar loaves and some tea before we left. My companion
said: “After we have collected the contributions, can we please make
a trip to the mountains of Yazd, where there are no Bahá’ís?” I came
up with an excuse saying: “If we collect enough contributions in cash,
I’ll come with you.” But given his pure intention, unlike past
experiences, all six villages we visited paid their contributions there
and then. Some even borrowed money to pay us. I came to realize his
faith was so strong that it would lead us to succeed regardless of all
odds. [MAH-9, p.497]


We rented mules to journey the 30 kilometers or so to the
mountains. By nightfall, we were halfway there. We had a rug to rest
on. Our baggage and belongings had been sent on ahead. It was
morning when we reached our destination. As there was no place for
us to rest, we camped under a willow tree and moved ourselves
accordingly as its shadow shifted around. One of Ustád Ghulám-
‘Alí’s students, who was friendly towards the faith, arrived. It was as
though we were reunited with a friend. We asked if we could find a
place to stay. He told us there was not and that if people found out we
were Bahá’ís they would persecute us. However, we told him we
wanted to teach the Faith and he offered to bring along receptive
souls. [MAH-9, p.497]
There were two shelters in the middle of the desert. Each night we
would climb one of them. The first evening, the student brought eight
or nine seekers to converse with us – and all the while Muslims were
chanting on top of the other shelter. The second night was the same.
On the third day we heard that one of our friends - who had declared -
had a garden about five kilometers away. We were very tired and so we
went to visit him. I asked him if he knew of the whereabouts of the
remains of ‘Alí-Riḍá the martyr? ‘Alí-Riḍá was the last Bahá’í
martyred in that area in 1321 (1903 AD). However, the location of his
martyrdom was not recorded accurately. Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir has
identified it as Qavám-Ábád. However, this was not the case. Its’ exact
location was in the Gold Valley’s Bábí Well, now filled with rocks and
soil. I asked how far it was from our location and was informed that it
was about ten kilometers through the mountains and about thirty
kilometers by road. I was further informed that a police officer named
Ḥájí Mullá ‘Alí was in charge. He was apparently quite prejudiced, but
one could still get along with him. [MAH-9, p.498]
The next morning, we set off through the mountain for the valley.
When we reached our destination, someone recognized me and told the
locals that I was a dog! I sensed the tension and asked for the home of
the leader of the village. One of the people asked what business I had
with him. I told them only that we wanted to visit him at his home and
was informed he was at the mill. Someone was sent to fetch him. I should


mention that sugar and tea were hard to come by in those days so, we
gave some as a present to the village leader, which made him incredibly
happy. Some locals gathered to socialize and enjoy tea. When I inquired
about Ḥájí Mullá ‘Ali’s whereabouts, I was informed that he was at a
farm some 5 kilometers away. The village leader asked why I wanted to
see him, and I told him that we wanted to purchase land, and if it went
through, he would benefit from the deal also. The leader went on to tell
us that Ḥájí Mullá ‘Alí had appointed him as the chief of the village and
he went with us to the farm.
When we arrived, they had spread a rug and laid out cushions. A
few people were sitting drinking tea and the chief announced: “This
is Ḥájí Mullá ‘Alí.” I went forward and greeted him. He received us
expressing his delight that we had come to visit. He asked our purpose
there and I told him that I wanted to buy properties for investment.
He said: “I am in charge of seven different types of villages.” The
village leader was still standing by. Ḥájí addressed him saying: “Go
home and tell them to prepare a proper meal, I have two dear guests,
the food here is not the best, but it will suffice.” After lunch he said:
“Let’s look around and whatever property you choose, I shall arrange
its sale for you.” The chief, Ḥájí, his son, along with my companion
and I, headed to the same spring we visited that morning. He said: “I
have a seven thousand square meter garden with a river running
through it. If you want a thousand meters of it, you can have it at
whatever price you wish.” I was praying that the chief and Ḥájí’s son
would leave so that I could speak freely. I asked the chief: “Could you
please return home and prepare tea for us?” The chief left. Ḥájí
turned to his son and said: “Go prepare the tea for our guests.” Ḥájí’s
son left and so we three remained. Ḥájí invited me to go to the source
of the spring to try the fresh water. After a drink he straightened his
beard and commented that he may be tall and have a long beard, but
he was not as stupid as people may say. Then he asked: “You are not
after land, I like to know your real intention” I responded by telling
him that he was indeed a wise man: “I do not have the money to buy
land, but I have a friend back in Yazd named Burzú Aqdasí. He is of
Zoroastrian descent and follows the Bahá’í Faith. He is the one who


wants to purchase the land.” To which Ḥájí exclaimed: “You do not
know me and my bad temper, if you did, you would know that it is the
worst.” I said: “But I don’t want to lie to you. I am not after property.
My Bahá’í friend is, and I too am a Bahá’í. I am a descendant of
someone murdered here in the year 1321 (1903AD) and I need to find
where he is buried.” Ḥájí then responded: “I am not on good terms
with the locals, but since you are my guest, I will do what I can to help
you.” He proceeded to describe the details of ‘Alí-Riḍá’s martyrdom:
“I was standing around and did not wish to see that old man die here.
Although we are not from these parts, my father and I still felt like
locals and did not want to see him killed in this place; he should have
been taken to the city. However, a Mullá who was passing through
the village announced: “Do not hesitate, kill him here and now!” We
did not kill him though; it was the ones who came from the city that
killed him. Then they threw him in one of the new water wells. Locals
covered him with rocks. Since in Islam opening a grave is forbidden,
we let go of that well and dug another one close by, so that we now
still have access to water.” [MAH-9, pp.498-499]
Hearing all of this, I asked: “Could you please take me to the
well?” Ḥájí Mullá agreed to do so, telling me that we needed to go
when it was dark, so that the locals (who referred to it as the Bábí
Well), would not see us. After three hours had passed, we went to the
home of the village leader to have our tea. Then we waited until it was
dark to go to the well. It was as had earlier been described to us. Ḥájí
Mullá went off to sit in the desert, leaving my companion and myself
to stand alone and pray. Afterwards we joined him and asked: “Ḥájí,
would you allow me to say a few words?” He said: “No!” Since we
were now familiar with each other I said: “You are being unfair.
Since noon you have lectured us, and I have listened to everything you
wanted to say or call us.” He then acquiesced to listen to me. I began
by asking: “Is your flesh and blood different than that of Christian,
Jewish or Zoroastrian priests?” He responded: “No.” I continued:
“They did not recognize Prophet Muḥammad despite 30-40 years of
education, and what about those who did not recognize the earlier
Messengers like Moses or Jesus? Why do you think that is the case?”


He was deep in his thoughts when I shared a verse from the Qur’án
(Al-Hujarat 6) with him and explained its meaning. “O believers, if
there comes to you a disobedient one with information, investigate,
lest you harm a people out of ignorance and do what will lead to your
regret.”80
When I finished, he responded that he needed to verify this
interpretation.
We informed Ḥájí Mullá that we would stay with the Chief and
leave in the morning. I then inquired if he would sell some of the land
where ‘Alí-Riḍá was buried, and he said that he would – provided we
did not promote Bábí’s. I asked the price for 1000 square meters and
was told 600 Rials, but for locals, 150. So, I queried as to the difference
in price and he replied by saying: “Your purchase is for a reason,
regardless, I am doing you a favor. I will raise a wall around the
property, will plant almonds and let you have access to water at no
charge.” I invited him to Yazd to carry out the deal and he asked: “Are
you known in Yazd?” I replied: “Yes” after which he told me that he
would not meet me in public; instead I should name a place and he
would meet me there. [MAH-9, pp.500-502]

On my return to Yazd, I informed Mr. Afnán of the conversation
and he advised that we either meet at his home or mine. On the 8th
day Ḥájí Mullá sent a message that he had arrived in Yazd. I went to
the appointed place to meet with him, but he was not there. I was told
he was at the shop of a Jewish man and so I went to find him. After
some trepidation he acknowledged me, and I invited him to my home.
However, he declined my invitation on the account that I was a Bábí
and therefore unclean! I responded by saying: “Ḥájí, you hosted me
at your home.” He replied: “You are always welcome there.”  So, I
offered another option, suggesting we go to the home of a man who
was the descendant of parents who were both Siyyids. Ḥájí Mullá’s
response was to question whether the man was a Bábí Siyyid - and
went on to demand that I buy the land, otherwise he would leave.


I shared the details with the Local Assembly at the time - but they
refused to act on it. Unfortunately, now they are trying to acquire the
same property, at a much higher price; and with much difficulty. Two
days later Ḥájí Mullá and the Jewish man at whose shop we met, came
to my home. I invited them in where it was cooler to be seated and joked
with Ḥájí Mullá saying: “Today you have to have your lunch here.” He
replied: “Despite my hunger and fatigue I won’t.” This made me
remember that I had bought a melon earlier.  There had been two
melons at the shop near our home that morning. One was sold and the
other was on hold for a cleric. However, I had begged the shopkeeper
until he agreed to sell it to me. So, I brought the watermelon to the Ḥájí
and told him that it was untouched, and that he should cut it and enjoy
it with his Jewish friend. He commented that he did not have a knife, so
I offered him mine. He refused on account of it being najes and unclean.
I offered to rinse it in our pool, but he was right in that the amount of
water was inadequate in accordance with Islamic rules to use for
cleaning. So, I sent my son Ḥusayn to borrow a knife and a spoon from
our neighbor, who served at the local mosque. I presented him with the
cutlery, promising him that it was borrowed. He said: “I trust you, you
are a truthful man,” and then proceeded with the Jewish friend to cut
and eat the melon.
He asked if I had seen Shoghi Effendi? I replied with a verse
from Gulistan by poet Sa‘dí, “Men of sense esteem him not
magnanimous who speaks ill of the mighty.” Then in reply to his
question I said: “Yes I have.” He asked what I saw, and I told
him: “You cannot appreciate what I saw. It was exclusive to me.”
He responded: “I promise neither of you have anything special.”
I retorted: “I am not worthy of being anything, but the Jewish
man who is sitting next to you may say the same about you and
Prophet Muḥammad.” His companion, Harun, laughed and I
asked him: “Do you?” He responded: “If I did, I would be a
Muslim.” I turned to Ḥájí and said: “I rest my case.” He
responded: “Let me eat and leave.” I replied: “I was not the one
who asked the question, I was merely responding, would you like
to read?” He accepted this offer and I brought him a copy of the


Kitáb-i-Íqán. He read two pages before I asked his opinion. In
response he shook his head, then left soon afterwards.
Forty days after this incident Ḥájí Mullá sent his son, along with
a saddled mule, in order to take me for a visit to the home of a Bahá’í.
I had never ridden a mule, so I told his son that I would make my own
way. He refused, telling me he would get into trouble so instead
suggested that I ride with his assistant. I agreed and we went to the
home of Mr. ‘Alí-Akbar Bayání, who welcomed me by whispering the
Greatest Name in my ear and shouting: “Salam Alaykum” in front of
the others. On entering I noticed a rich spread, full of fruit. Mr.
Bayání was a wholesaler and encouraged us to help ourselves to the
fruit. I said: “Ḥájí considers me unclean.” Mr. Bayání asked why this
was and I suggested that he should ask the Ḥájí. He did so and Ḥájí
replied: “Do you not know he is a Bábí?” ‘Alí-Akbar Bayání
responded: “No, I go to his home and he comes to mine.” He then
proceeded to serve me some fruit. [MAH-9, pp.502-505]
After we had eaten Ḥájí Mullá began to cry and went on to explain:
“The day I left your home to return to the village, I found my daughter,
a mother of four dead due to Diphtheria. Today is the 40th day after
her passing.” His son interjected: “Today we are hosting a memorial
for her, will you join us?” However, since I had an Assembly meeting,
I had to unfortunately decline their invitation. Ḥájí Mullá then turned
to his son and asked: “Do you still think he believes in Imam
Ḥusayn?” I said: “May God damn whoever entertains such a thought
that I don’t!” Ḥájí retorted: “Did you mean to curse me?” I replied:
“I know you know that I did not intend to,” we bade each other
farewell and left.
Several years passed before I saw him again. The Yazd Assembly
had assigned me to visit Báfq, some 150 Kilometers away. I went
along with one of the Bahá’ís who were from a Zoroastrian
background, who owned a few properties. We reached Báfq by 10 pm.
On arrival we noticed Ḥájí Mullá ‘Ali pacing in the garden, in the
dark. When the lights were lit, he saw me and asked: “Where were
you?” I responded by asking: “What are you doing here?” He
instructed the farmer to go and bring his bedding, saying: “So long


as my friend is here, I shall stay.” I had a bag of sugar cubes, rock
candy and tea, with a teapot and cups so I offered them to him and
said: “Have some tea, then pour some for me so that I do not touch
yours.” He did just that and at bedtime, he slept on the roof. When we
were alone Arbáb asked me how it was that I was acquainted with
Ḥájí Mullá? I explained how we had met and shared details of our
previous experiences. Then he said: “You have come to pioneer!”
[MAH-9, pp.505-508]
The following morning, when Ḥájí came down from the roof, I
inquired which way was the Qiblah? He pointed to Kaa’ba and I
proceeded to face Bahjí and prayed. Ḥájí then left the room. After
breakfast Ḥájí and Arbáb wanted to check their properties and asked
me to go with them. Ḥájí insisted I ride the mule that had been
designated for him and he walked beside me. When we reached our
destination, he quietly asked me, whether I had any martyrs buried
there? I said: “No, I am here in dire straits and have come to secure
employment.” He was saddened on hearing this and confided in
Arbáb that had he been sure I would not teach the Faith; he would
have taken me to his village to support me. At noon, he announced:
“Today you are my guest” and purchased three breads and three
containers of yogurt. He placed Arbáb’s and mine in a separate dish
and said: “Do not touch mine!” Every once in a while, I would
jokingly say: “Can I dip my bread in your container of yogurt?” He
would object saying: “Don’t you dare!”
After lunch we set out on our return journey. People who were
praying had placed pots of water around palm trees. Even then when
I asked for water, he would pour water into my hands to drink. One-
night Arbáb, Ḥájí and I were invited by one of the locals as their guest.
Ḥájí told me to go to a place where the host would meet me and take
me to his home however, I was to take every care to ensure the host
did not find out that I was a Bahá’í. I did as I was told. When I arrived
at the home with the host, Ḥájí and Arbáb were already there. After
sunset I asked our host, which direction the qibla was? He directed
me to Kaa’ba, and I went on the roof behind a tall wall to offer my
prayer facing the Bahá’í qibla. However, the host had snuck up on me


and had noticed I was facing the Bahá’í qibla. He returned to Ḥájí
and said: “He is a Bábí!” Ḥájí confirmed this, saying: “Yes, I know,
but we must show them kindness. If you complain, we will both be in
trouble!” When we were heading to bed, Ḥájí said: “Mr. Zabihi, it
probably would have been better if you had not prayed! I asked why,
so he went on to explain.
The following morning, I invited our host to Arbáb’s home. Later
in the day when he arrived, I shared the basic tenets of our Faith with
him – all the while referring to Ḥájí and asking him to bear witness
to the truth of my statements. Ḥájí confirmed them and our host
appeared to agree. Before he left, we gave him some tea and sugar as
a gift. I then told Ḥájí: “Today I plan to leave.” He said: “Let’s go
for a stroll.” While we were out, the chief gendarmerie saw me and
announced in the coffee shop: “That man is a Bábi.” The locals were
fundamentalist and uncivilized so Ḥájí grabbed my hand and took me
to the coffee shop where he greeted the Chief; and then ceremoniously
escorted me out showing I was under his protection and no harm
would come my way. When we left, he commented that I was known
everywhere! That same afternoon as I was leaving Arbáb commented:
“Ḥájí is good to you.” I replied: “May God bless him.” Ḥájí
accompanied me to the bus depot and told the driver: “Please take
my friend out of here and bring me back the news of his safe arrival
at his destination.” The driver agreed to do so. Before I left, I had
asked Ḥájí to come and visit me whenever he was in Yazd, saying:
“Do whatever you wish at my home; we will not touch anything. I just
want us to visit each other.” Ḥájí had promised to return in fifteen
days however, three days later he took a heart attack and passed
away. May he rest in peace.” [MAH-9, pp.508-510]

4.  Kháliṣízádih in Yazd (During 1948 – 1951)
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues his story; this is the
story of Kháliṣízádih in Yazd:
“Another event in Yazd in which I had a role to play involved an
unknown figure, named Kháliṣízádih. Initially he was opposed to the


Shaykhís,81 then it was the Zoroastrians, Jews, and Christians. However,
they were all but scapegoats, used to attack the Bahá’ís. Our assembly
meetings were held three times a week. Two meetings were exclusive,
and one joined with the pioneering committee. One Friday afternoon I
went for a stroll near the Bahá’í Centre, prior to the joint meeting. When
I reached the entrance of the Centre, I noticed two Bahá’í youth fighting
with a Muslim, while a few onlookers stood by. I made objections to the
action of Bahá’í youth and they stopped. Using gestures, I told them to
leave and escape the consequences. As it turned out the fight was over
the Muslim youth verbally abusing the Bahá’í girls who were attending
their class that afternoon. [MAH-9, pp.510-511]
The Muslim youth was pretending to be unconscious on the ground
and other Muslims who had been attending two memorials nearby,
heard of the incident and soon gathered in the vicinity. They attacked
the Centre. My son, Ḍíyá’u’lláh (Zia’u’llah), and I quickly shut the
door and remained trapped inside for some time. Other Assembly
members who saw the crowd approaching the Centre, left the area.
Soon the local police came to hear of the incident and Mr. Majdhúb,
one of the Assembly members swiftly biked to the Centre. I opened the
door to let him in. He joined the fourteen girls, my son, and myself. We
locked the door and remained there all evening. Suddenly, the crowd
attacked the center and profanities were hailed against me. I asked the
girls to stay in one room and told them in the event that the attackers
managed to break in, I would try to stop them, while they should run
out the other exits. The doorway was being pounded so intensely that
we could feel the earth shuddering beneath us. This lasted more than
90 minutes. [MAH-9, p.511]
Eventually twelve officers and the chief of police came to
disperse the crowd. I tried to open the door, but it had been
damaged so much that the bars were bent, and the door could not
be unlocked. We used a pick to finally let them in. This process
lasted four hours, until 8 pm. The officers inspected the scene and
then we strategized as to the next steps; such as how many guards
were needed to protect the center. I suggested four, and it was


agreed upon. The guards remained at the center and some other
officers escorted the young girls safely to their homes.
The following day the chief of police, (Mr. Sharífí), detained the
two Bahá’í youth saying: “Wisdom dictates that I keep them until 12th
of Muharram. Then Kháliṣízádih (the true cause of this episode) will
release them.” This process was underway when the head of Ṭihrán
University was attacked. This added to the concerns of Bahá’ís in
Yazd and they wondered what could happen next. The Assembly was
meeting the same evening that this news reached us and decided that
the following day two other Assembly members along with myself,
would remain at home. We were so alarmed that the Assembly
decided to meet every evening. This situation continued for two years.
Arson, throwing rocks and other attacks frequently assailed Bahá’í
homes. Around twenty Muslim youths who were on a payroll, would
bike around town and chant defamatory songs insulting the Bahá’í
Faith. One evening on my way to the Assembly meeting, as I covered
my face in my overcoat and walked in the dark to hide my identity, I
overheard some people discussing a plan they had devised against the
Bahá’ís. I was near Gudarz Hospital building, meditating on my
willingness to give my life to protect other Bahá’ís when I heard a
commotion. I assumed it was a public mourning of some sort. Then I
realized they were chanting anti-Bahá’í slogans. I had been in a hurry
to reach the Assembly meeting when I had encountered the
demonstrators. It was dark so no one recognized me. I retraced my
steps and entered the home of one of the Bahá’ís who lived nearby.
We went to the top of the roof and saw that there was no end to the
number of demonstrators stretching over four square kilometers.
They were attacking the Bahá’í Centre and had attacked several
Bahá’í homes on their way there. One of the Bahá’ís retaliated by
throwing a rock back at them. His home was behind an abandoned
British hospital, where a priest whose church was lost to the floods,
resided. The crowds were so angry that they attacked the priest –
all the while uttering profanities at him for promoting Christianity
in Yazd. [MAH-9, pp.511-512]


They also went to the home of Áqá Mírzá Badi’u’lláh Afnán; and
his son-in-law, Muḥammad Taqí, fired two blank shots in the air.
Following this the crowd attacked the Bahá’í Centre. Their numbers
were rising by the minute. I could not stand by and watch anymore so
I left the house. On the way to the Bahá’í Center I saw Áqá Mírzá
Badi’u’lláh Afnán, Jináb-i Áqá Muḥammad-‘Alí Afnán (Fálláḥ) and
Sa‘íd Raḍaví all covering their faces with their overcoats to protect
their identity, as they rushed towards the Centre. I reached Mr.
Raḍaví. We saw two guards standing by the doorway. Mr. Raḍaví
asked them: “What are you carrying on your belts?” They replied:
“Guns.” Mr. Raḍaví responded: “Why are you not controlling these
unruly people then?” They replied saying: “Because we have not
been ordered to.”
People continued to throw rocks while insulting the Faith, then
four additional guards reached the center. One of the Bahá’ís took off
his belt and hit two of the attackers, one of whom suffered an injured
skull and facial injuries before they ran away. His belt buckle fell off.
One of the guards picked it up. I grabbed it from him, gave it to Mr.
Raḍaví and told him to go, quickly, before the situation escalated
further. The situation was so dire that early next morning Mr. Raḍaví
flew to Ṭihrán (with the help of a Bahá’í pilot). We then arranged for
his family to join him. [MAH-9, pp.513-514]
I was standing by the guards, when one of them named Vazírí, a
respectable man, asked me about the situation. I told him I had no
idea and that he knew better than I. The two men injured by Mr.
Raḍaví then returned and Mr. Vazírí asked them what had happened.
They lied and told him that Bahá’ís at the end of the lane attacked
them. Unfortunately, the guard who had witnessed the event had been
transferred elsewhere, so I said: “The people standing there are the
ones who had come to kill the Bahá’ís. Is there a Bahá’í left to
attack?” Mr. Vazírí then asked them: “Who was it?” And instead
of saying Raḍaví, they said Vazírí! I exclaimed: “They are
troublemakers!” Mr. Vazírí was furious, so he detained them. Then
he asked me if four guards were enough to guard the Centre? I told
him it was and so the four remained; and we provided their meals
and refreshments.


Along with the remaining guards we went to Badi’u’lláh Afnán’s
home. Given the dangers, I stayed with them. The guards asked:
“Who fired the shots and why? People are sleeping at this hour.” I
explained that since five or six thousand people were causing trouble
in the city, no one was asleep. Compared to the noise of the crowd,
how could the two blank shots even be heard or wake anyone up?
They responded that they had to detain those responsible. Therefore,
they took Mr. Afnán and his son-in-law to the police station. Mr.
Muḥammad-‘Alí Afnán was escorted home. I stayed there on my own.
A few troublemakers were around. I asked one of them whom I knew
whether he would accompany me home. He did. When I reached my
home, I noticed our door was covered in rocks. I tried to open it and
noticed my wife was holding it closed. When she came to realize it
was me, she opened the door. On entering, I saw that all my children
were suffering from anxiety and shock. They said that for more than
two hours the attackers were bombarding the door and all the while
threatening them. I realized that it was no longer safe for them to stay
there, so we left for the house of one of the friends; where other
Bahá’ís were already gathered. The situation was so overwhelming
that we felt we had no hope of returning. [MAH-9, pp.514-515]
Early the following morning, the custodian of the Centre came by
to say the Assembly was meeting and I must come. As it was not yet
dawn and the streets were empty, I went. When I entered the meeting
at the home of Dr. ‘Abdu’l-Kháliq, I saw around 50-60 Bahá’í women
gathered to meet the Assembly. In tears they reported that the locals
in Mahallat were marching to Musalla mosque with horns and drums.
Kháliṣízádih is there and ordering them to persecute the Bahá’ís. On
hearing this report, Áqá Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí Afnán began to cry
and said: “O Blessed Beauty, what shall we do with these enemies
and their endless persecutions?” The friends then left and the
Assembly held their meeting. It was decided to send a telegram to the
governor and copies to the government offices. One of the friends,
named Abu’l-Qásim Muṣliḥ, took the text to the telegraph office. The
manager there refused to send it and so Mr. Muṣliḥ asked him to
record his refusal in writing or else he would not leave the premises;


thousands were at the risk of death. The manager finally agreed to
send it. At this time, the governor and the chief of police were not on
good terms and wanted to cause trouble for each other. On receiving
the message, the governor formed a task force. Luckily, that
afternoon, the chief of police left for Ṭihrán. His deputy was not so
staunch. A task force was formed, and the head of the gendarmerie
volunteered to restore order in the city. [MAH-9, pp.516-517]
As it so happened, three full gendarmerie trucks were passing
through on their way to Isfahan. The head of the gendarmerie posted
two officers and one policeman to various locations around the city.
He issued an order that anyone harassing Bahá’ís must be detained
at gunpoint. God is my witness, that day I saw with my own eyes the
Blessed Beauty’s miracle as a result of Áqá Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí
Afnán’s tears. More Muslims were punished that day than all the
years the Faith had been in Yazd.
That afternoon at the Amír Chakhmáq mosque, a prominent cleric in
Yazd, named Áqá Shaykh Ghulám-Riḍá, called on the masses saying: “I
have been preaching here for the past sixty years. There are Jews,
Christians, Zoroastrians and Bahá’ís in Yazd. We are all equal as brothers.
Why such persecution?” A few days earlier he visited Kháliṣízádih at
home and told him: “The fire you have started will burn us all. If you
refuse to end it, I will leave this city.” However, Kháliṣízádih did not pay
heed and continued to corrupt the masses. The Shaykh then departed and
was several kilometers away from the city before Muslims learned of his
decision to leave and insisted that he return. By that afternoon
Kháliṣízádih felt alarmed and published an announcement ordaining
that the authorities must punish anyone who harasses Bahá’ís; all the
while remaining the sole cause of the unrest.
By the order of the Assembly, we filed two complaints with the
court. One by the Assembly and one by me. A few days later the
judiciary arrested Kháliṣízádih. Apparently, he had forcibly removed
a Zoroastrian girl from her family to become a Muslim. The girl was
in tears refusing to do so and her parents had filed a complaint. The
public prosecutor visited Kháliṣízádih at home and questioned his
approach. In response Kháliṣízádih insulted the official and as a


result was put under arrest. The next day crowds gathered around the
court demanding that the prosecutor be put to death. In light of our
relevant complaints, I was summoned to the court. When I entered, I
saw a large crowd. The guards were trying to disperse the people
and the court was out of control. One of my friends, who was a
lawyer working there joked, saying: “The court is unclean (najis)
enough as it is, no need for you to make it worse. Sign the papers
and leave.” We did, despite the angry crowd, we reached home in
safety. [MAH-9, pp.517-519]
A few days later I was summoned. The interrogator, Jalálí, who
was now the head of the court, asked: “Mr. Zabihi, what is your
complaint?” I said: “My written complaint is before you.” He said:
“You have just written that they attacked your home, threw rocks and
uttered profanities”. I replied: “Profanities are not measurable so I
cannot prove it.” He responded: “Identify the attackers and we will
punish them. But we cannot go after the ones who have insulted ‘Abbas
Effendi. There is no such law to draw on. So, we can only act if they
have insulted your loved ones.” I replied: “Well, then our case is
closed. I have nothing else to add. I thought there was justice and law.
But now I see you favor impunity. Many instances are not covered in
the letter of the law but still we may benefit from it. The same goes for
the laws of the Qur’án.”. His secretary was biting his lips in anger and
signaling me to stop. I thought to myself, this is it, I will not budge. No
matter what he said I refused to respond. He asked: “Will you sign the
court statement?” I said: “Yes”, I did so and left the court. Mr. Jalálí
then went to visit Mr. Nají – one of the leading figures in Yazd at the
time. I know this because a short time after leaving a Muslim asked me
if I had been at the court? I confirmed that I had, and he imparted:
“Don’t you know it is futile? I was just at the home of Mr. Nají and
Jalálí was there, reporting everything that transpired. Apparently, that
same day they held a meeting to decide how to proceed and
subsequently, devised a plan to kill me. I told the informer: “Shame on
you for killing the truth and taking pride in it!” I will explain later about
an incident that occurred a few years after this, when some men were
assigned to beat me to death in ‘Iz- Ábád.”



5.  The adventures in Bam
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues his story; he explains
his home-front pioneering to the city of Bam:
“During the Kháliṣízádih upheavals, the National Assembly issued
an order to the Bahá’ís in Yazd, Kerman and Rafsanjan to form a joint
meeting and devise a plan to send pioneers to the south of Iran. The
first meeting took place in Rafsanjan and Mr. Majdhúb and I were the
delegates. Prior to leaving I suggested we volunteer to pioneer and Mr.
Majdhúb agreed. However, at the meeting he refrained from
committing to this – and over the next three months, two additional
meetings were held in Yazd and Kerman. I was a delegate in these
meetings also; and was asked to pioneer to Bam.82 The spies were hard
at work though and reported any and all decisions, and actions taken
by the Assembly and its committees. Just as the Bahá’ís had a
pioneering committee, the spies, and those they represented, had an
anti-pioneering committee to stop them! [MAH-9, pp.521-522]
Illustration 26:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) and
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí  (Zabihi) in Bam


My son, Ḥusayn, and I went to Bam however, before we even
approached anyone, the enemies began to vilify the Faith. This was proof
to me that they knew we were coming. The Yazd businessmen had
affiliates in Bam. They had been told not to let me work or rent a place
to live. I came to know all of this a year later from the same informant.
He said they had been instructed in writing. However, with God’s grace,
I secured both a residence and a shop, but the daily persecutions
continued. At times thugs would attack us using knives, at others they
would verbally assault us. With the assistance of the Blessed Beauty, in
just one year, I befriended them all. [MAH-9, pp.522-523]
Illustration 27:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) second
from right with some of the pioneers in Bam,  and his son
Ḥusayn first from left.
This went on until the Bahá’í prisoners in Yazd were brought to
Kerman. The Yazd public prosecutor issued a statement to the
Kerman prosecutor, falsely claiming that the Abarqú Bahá’ís 83 had
committed deeds which they had not. The prosecutor in Kerman
approved the statement and distributed about 1500 copies. This was
arranged through a Mullá, who was the son of Siyyid Átashí, as a
means to cause trouble and force me to leave Bam. One Friday
afternoon, I was awaiting the arrival of friends for a meeting when one


of them present told me about a letter issued from Kerman that was now
in the hands of Muslims and Zoroastrians; which had them riled up,
smearing and uttering profanities against Bahá’ís. I paid little attention
and shrugged it off saying: “They do this on a daily basis.”
The next day however, when I went to open my shop, I noticed one of
the letters had been posted on the wall opposite to my shop. People had
gathered around and as a Mullá was passing by, they asked him to read
it. He did so. The crowd continued to grow and soon stretched all the
way to the entrance of our shop. They continued to hurl insults at us. The
text claimed that Bahá’ís had attacked Abarqú and killed an innocent
woman along with her five children, who allegedly had insulted the
Bahá’ís. Naturally, everyone was angered on reading this report so, I
decided it was not wise for me to remain in the shop that day. I left and
went to the National Bank. Mr. Ja’far Bád-Kúbihiyyí (now Raḥmání)
was the manager and his residence was also in the same building. I
shared the details with him of what was transpiring. He told me that he
had heard about it and advised I stay away from my shop. He then called
the chief of police and asked him to come over to the bank to discuss the
matter. The chief was reluctant but nonetheless acquiesced. [MAH-9,
pp.523-525]
When he finally arrived, he greeted me and asked what was going
on in the bazar. My response was to tell him that he must know better
than I about what was going on. He inquired if the posted letter was
handwritten or printed and I explained that I had not actually read it
but assumed it must be printed. He confirmed, imparting the
information that 1,500 copies had been distributed. He went on to tell
me to return to my shop with assurances that he would restore peace
in the bazar. When I returned however, the situation had grown much
worse. His promise to restore peace had not been carried out.
The son of Siyyid Átashí, was at the mosque issuing orders.
Finally, amid this mayhem one of the thugs who had become
acquainted with me, came to my shop as he was aware of my
circumstances. When he asked some questions, I refused to respond
hoping not to worsen my situation. However, the shopkeepers across
from me did speak to him and stoked things further – but instead of


returning to me, he vilified them and threatened and slapped two of
the instigators, saying: “It is not your business to attack this man who
is our guest in Bam.” When he left, one of the two troublemakers came
over and said: “We mean no harm. You are a father figure to us. We
are not swearing at you. We are swearing at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”
It was an extremely difficult day for me as it was the time of the
fast - but I did not want to close the shop and give them the satisfaction
of claiming that they had made me leave.

So that evening and the following morning I prayed most
ardently. On the third day, the chief of police called the bank
manager (Mr. Ja’far Bád-Kúbihiyyí) and told him: “This is all
about Zabihi, I cannot do anything to prevent it. He must leave. I
will escort him out of town all the way to Yazd and I will post
guards to watch his shop here.”
There were enough Bahá’ís in Bam to form the Local Assembly.
I told the Assembly that I was neither closing my shop, nor leaving,
therefore they must consider this fact in their consultations. The
Assembly consulted and decided to file a complaint regarding the
Bam chief of police, which they sent to the chief of police in Kerman,
(who was the same, Mr. Sharifi, who had been involved in the Yazd
incident). A letter was sent by the Bam Assembly to the Local Spiritual
Assembly in Kerman, who in-turn were to pass it on to the chief of
police in Kerman. Consequently, the Kerman chief of police,
instructed by phone and in writing, that the Chief of Police in Bam
must prevent any further commotion and restore peace. Two days
later when I arrived at my shop, two guards and the same intelligence
officer who had posted the announcement, were waiting for me. At
first, I thought they had come to take me to the police station or banish
me, but this was not the case. Instead the intelligence officer asked me
to file a complaint so they could arrest those responsible. However, I
told them I did not plan to file anything and indeed, had I wanted to,
I was well aware where to find the authorities. As people gathered, he
became more persistent and finally I said: “If I were to complain


about anyone, it would be you. You were the main instigator here. It
was you who posted that false announcement everywhere.” Somehow,
I managed to convince him to leave. [MAH-9, pp.525-528]
Illustration 28:  Members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Bam,
Mr. Zabihi is seated in the center

The chief called the bank manager and asked to meet him privately,
either at his home or Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí’s house. The manager hastily
told him he did not have the time to leave the building and requested
that the chief come to his residence. The chief apparently took
umbrage to his response and decided to refer the matter to the
governor. The same afternoon the governor (Aḥmad), summoned the
manager to his office with the chief present. Following official
protocol, the governor ordered tea, however the manager refused, on
the grounds that he was fasting. The governor questioned the timing,
as to which the manager responds by saying: “Do you not know that
I am a Bahá’í and this is the month to fast?”
The governor then explained that he had received an order from
the Prime Minister, Ḥájí ‘Alí Razm-Árá to ignore complaints by
Bahá’ís. He said: “Zabihi teaches the Faith in the bazaar and holds
Assembly meetings every Monday. We ignore all of this; therefore, it


was not right for you to treat the chief as you did today.” Mr. Bád-
Kúbihiyyí explained: “I did not intend to insult him. He called during
office hours and I could not ignore my work. You may carry out
whatever orders you have received. It is true that we meet every
Monday and Zabihi teaches the Faith.” He then excused himself and
left. He subsequently came to my home and shared everything with
me. [MAH-9, p.529]

The next morning, the premier of Kerman arrived in Bam.
Whenever the officials arrived the normal protocol was such that first
the governor and the bank manager would receive them, followed by
other government authorities. However, on this occasion the
governor did not invite the bank manager to join him in receiving the
Premier. One of the friends of Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí, who on such
occasions arranged his transportation, naturally assumed he was
invited, therefore had arranged a car. However, since Mr. Bád-
Kúbihiyyí had not been invited he redirected the car to the governor.
That evening the manager had invited me to break the fast with him.
On arrival I immediately noticed his dismay. During the evening, his
wife told me that her husband had had a dream, where he put on a
cloak and shawl that he had been given to wear. I responded: “Thank
God he enjoys dignity as a person, soon he will enjoy the same among
the public.” Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí then commented: “What public? They
did not invite me today.” We continued to talk for some time on the
topic. Ultimately, he was wondering whether he should visit the
premier at all. I asked him if he felt it necessary. His feeling was that
it wasn’t, and I agreed. After I left his home, the leader of Bam, who
was hosting the governor telephoned Bád-Kúbihiyyí letting him know
that the Premier wished to meet with him; so in this event Mr. Bád-
Kúbihiyyí had no choice but to oblige.
On his arrival the son of the host approached Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí
cautioned that he be careful as there had been complaints about him.
Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí inquired about the reason for the complaints - had
he been unfaithful in any way? The host’s son told him that the
complaints were about religion, and he must say that he is a Bahá’í.


The chief then approached Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí asking him to let the
matter go as he had already sent his representatives to Zabihi’s shop
and had asked him to file a complaint, but he had declined. Mr. Bád-
Kúbihiyyí did not pursue the matter any further and was then taken to
see the Premier. [MAH-9, pp.529-530]
As he approached the Premier, he silently called on the Blessed
Beauty. On entering, the Premier stood up and warmly greeted him.
He then smiled and asked: “Bád_Kúbihiyyí what have you done that
30 Mullá’s claim you have formed an Assembly?” Bád-Kúbihiyyí
responded saying: “I swear on your life, when I arrived, an Assembly
was already in place. Please let me explain before you decide on
anything. I am from Isfahan. All Bahá’ís, in general, and Isfahan
Bahá’ís, in particular, respect the Bakhtiari tribe as sincere and
honest people”. The Premier responded: “This is kind of them, but
you must not pretend. Prime Minister Razm-Árá has sent a
confidential telegram, I do not know what it is all about. You act with
caution and we will prevent harassment”. Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí stated:
“We do act cautiously. There is a man named Zabihi who runs a shop
in the bazar. They harass him a great deal. A few days ago, the chief
had sent a representative to inquire about any complaints he may file.
But he has not filed anything.” Immediately, the Premier called on
the Chief and the Governor and asked them: “Why have you let these
cruel people insult these gentlemen? Razm-Árá has sent a telegram,
so what, what on earth? What does it have to do with us? We must
maintain peace and order to guard against agitators. His intentions
have nothing to do with us. Take the agitators to the station and deal
with them accordingly.” He then turned to the chief and emphasized:
“I am talking to you! You! The rest know what to do.” He then
dismissed the governor and the chief, then addressed Mr. Bád-
Kúbihiyyí: “I know you obey the law but remember what I said.”
Despite his invitation to stay longer Mr. Bád-Kúbihiyyí excused
himself saying that he had guests to attend to. At 8:00 am the
following morning the Premier departed from Bam. By 10:00 am the
Radio announced that Prime Minister Razm-Árá had been
assassinated. It was 1951. Suddenly everything changed. A few days


later I left for Yazd to spend the New Year with my family. I
stopped in Kerman and intended to leave the next day to reach my
family in time. However, persecutions in Yazd had re-intensified.
Two of the friends were injured and one was martyred. Following
these events, the Local Spiritual Assembly felt it prudent to order
me to remain in Bam. I was most disappointed however, on not
being able to see my family.
The next day I returned to my shop. One of my friends was busy
reading the newspaper. He called me over and said: “The situation
in Yazd is dire. The governor has restored order and has announced
that anyone involved in harassment will be banished to Bandar-
‘Abbás.84” So, I informed a number of Assembly members of this news
and proceeded to buy a bus ticket to Yazd. One of the friends took my
luggage to the bus depot and when I arrived there, I noticed some of the
same agitators from Yazd were travelling on the same bus as me. Since
my luggage had already been put on the bus, I had no choice but to go.
I sat in the waiting room and with great devotion recited the Tablet of
Aḥmad. While there, I saw a drunken Ḥájí with a bottle in one hand and
a head of lettuce in the other. He approached me saying: “Have you seen
my son’s photo?” I said: “No.” He took out a photo from his pocket to
show me and told me his son was now a driver in Ṭihrán. I blessed his
son. Then he turned to another traveler and said: “He is my son too.” I
said: “Bless him also.” When he left, the manager of the station informed
me that he was travelling with me all the way to Yazd. I responded to this
by quoting Sa‘adí: [MAH-9, pp.531-532]
‘The beauty in our midst takes the breath away,



even more so now with her added flair’
As I boarded the bus along with the other travelers, I felt a deep
sense of trepidation. When the bus began to move someone shouted:
“Chant Muḥammad’s prayer for the dead.” The same old man said:
“It’s New Year’s Eve. We want to have a good time. We do not know
Muḥammad from Adam, why should we chant?” While offering
chocolate and cigarettes, he told the passengers: “For my sake let’s
spend this evening in friendship and joy.” Twice they attempted to
chant but he repeated his request and said: “Once should be enough,


please stop.” He then started singing songs and sharing jokes. When
the bus stopped in Rafsanjan,85 some twenty kilometers from
Kerman,86 he left the bus in search of liquor. He found none and
returned to the bus to continue singing and socializing with everyone.
He kept saying: “I swear by my life, one has to know one’s self in
order to know God.” He talked non-stop all the way to Anár, a city
about 150 kilometers from Yazd. After our stop in Anár, he began to
sing poems by Tahirih. He referred to her as a follower of the Báb
while addressing me. I did not engage in his attempts to speak with
me. While continuing to offer chocolate and cigarettes to everyone,
he even went so far as to say: “The clerics did not recognize the Báb.
Many condemned him to death while he gave birth to a new world.”
I was worried someone may object. [MAH-9, pp.532-533]
At dawn we reached Yazd. The driver announced that whoever
wanted to perform their obligatory prayer to disembark the bus. The
Yazdi instigators followed suit. Two Jews and I remained. No one
objected but they turned to the Ḥájí and asked: “Do you want to
pray?” He said: “God forbid! Out of the eighty years God has given
me, sixty-six years have been spent with no prayers. The rest will
remain the same. Instead of praying, I drink and praise myself.”
We reached Yazd with no incidents. This was the effect of the
Tablet of Aḥmad. God sent a person like Ḥájí to protect His servant.
When we arrived at the bus depot and all passengers left, I told Ḥájí:
“I am here to see my family after six months. I like you and would like
for you to join us.” He said: “I have grown to like you too, but I have
to reach Isfahan at the earliest. Here is my address in Kerman, let us
try to see each other whenever possible”. He gave me his address in
the Mushtáqiyyih neighborhood of Kerman where dervishes live.
Anytime I visited Kerman I went to Mushtáqiyyih, but never managed
to find him. The last time I tried, I was told he had passed on and was
guided to his gravesite. I noticed the site was decorated and closed
off with his photo displayed at the top. I prayed for the progress of his
soul. I remained in Bam for two more years before changes in my
circumstances caused me to return to Yazd.”


6.  The Falsafí Era
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues his story; this is
concerning Falsafí:
Two years later the Falsafí era87 of persecutions began (1955).
On 27 March that same year, I went to a place about thirty kilometers
from Yazd to officiate a marriage. The next day as I headed back
home, I saw the same person who had been previously assigned by
Kháliṣízádih to kill me, along with three others. One of the three
remarked to me: “As if we don’t have enough Bábi’s, now you had to
come here to produce more!” They began to attack me with every
intention to kill me. I was unconscious. Apparently, they wanted to
throw my body into a well, but the locals prevented them. Instead, a
Muslim driver agreed to take me in the back of his car while carrying
other passengers to Yazd. A short distance before Yazd the Bahá’ís,
who were passengers in the same car, feared that returning to Yazd
may result in Muslims setting my body on fire. One of them told the
driver they would remain, so they got out and took me, along with
their belongings. Two of the Muslims also got out and kicked me a
few more times. They then arranged for another car to take me to the
home of one of the Bahá’ís who had been on the bus. I regained
consciousness but could not remember anything. They called in a
doctor who ordered me to rest. I was bedridden for 80 days. On the
third day a state doctor examined me. He begged my wife’s forgiveness
and said: “I have been instructed to issue bed rest for 18 days only.” I
responded by saying: “Don’t worry about me, do what you need to.”
He did as he was told but it took me a full 80 days to completely recover.


Chapter 3
Teaching Memories
In this chapter, Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) explains a few
stories from his teaching experiences and his teaching trips. He starts
with the following story:
1.
Debate with a Cleric
“I have so much to share with you about another kind of
experience in life. I could write many books, however, instead will
only share a few glimpses. I hope these will suffice to uplift the souls
of friends and inspire them to include me in their prayers and
supplications from the Almighty. [MAH-9, p.532]
Siyyid Abu’l-Qásim Nadím was very much  attached to his Islamic
beliefs in Yazd, who after three years of investigation and consultation
with teachers of the Cause, accepted the Faith. He then decided to
share this Message with one of his relatives, who was a cleric in the
city. One day Siyyid went to visit him and said: “Áqá Siyyid Abú-
Turáb, do you remember that you used to advise me not to associate
with the vagrant sectarians because they do not recognise God and
are enemies of the Faith? I spoke with them and learned that they
worship no one but God and His Messenger. Whatever they share is
based on the holy books.” Siyyid Abú-Turáb had replied: “You too
have fallen for their tricks?” Siyyid said: “Yes, and now I have come
to seek your assistance to save me.” The cleric agreed to meet and
speak with him. [MAH-9, p.533]
One night when I visited Siyyid Abu’l-Qásim Nadím at his shop he
mentioned that he had invited Áqá Siyyid Abú-Turáb to his home that
evening and if I could I go and talk about the Faith with him. As we
conversed together, Áqá Siyyid Abú-Turáb entered. Siyyid Abu’l-
Qásim Nadím closed the shop and we headed to his home. After
enjoying some fruit, Áqá Siyyid Abú-Turáb addressed me saying:


“Share something that may be of benefit.” I responded by telling him
that I was not educated and therefore had come to learn from him. He
sarcastically retorted: “I do not believe in God, so prove His
existence.” I laughed and said: “I am not lying.” He said: “Why are
you laughing?” I responded: “Because you mix true and false
together. Here you say you do not believe in God, but then preach
from the pulpit that you do! Seventy thousand inhabitants of Yazd
follow you. How could you say you do not believe in God?” He took
note of his false claim and said: “Let’s assume that I do!” I said:
“Let’s set aside assumption and talk based on facts.” He said: “Fine,
I believe in God, but not others.” I asked: “If you do, then how do you
prove He exists?” He said: “God is constant and independent of any
logical explanation.” I refused this statement saying: “Half the planet
denies His existence, let’s say I am one of them, so you prove He
exists!” He appeared to be frustrated. I continued: “I will share a
verse with you written by someone you consider a non-believer, whose
book you refuse to touch. Keep in mind a gem is a gem, even if carried
in the mouth of a dog. It must be treasured. Rumi, whom you consider
a heretic, says:
If it were not for Muḥammad,

You would follow your ancestors and worship idols.
[MAH-9, p.533-534]
From Abraham to Muḥammad, all Messengers prove the existence
of God and guided humanity to worship them. If Muḥammad, himself
from a family of idol worshippers, had not been appointed as a divine
Messenger, none of the Arabs would have recognised the Almighty,
and would have remained immersed in ignorance.” At this point he
said: “Let’s say I accept Muḥammad too, but no one else.” I repeated
my request to set aside assumptions and to speak based on facts. He
said: “But Muḥammad was my ancestor!” I responded: “May my life
be a sacrifice to you and your ancestor! Please prove He was sent by
God. Let’s assume I deny him, like all the Buddhists, Brahmans,
Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians. Now I want to recognise Him. But
how?” He said: “Recognise His miracles and accept Him!” I asked:
“Which miracle?” He replied: “The splitting of the moon as


mentioned in the Qur’an, or similar cases like when He conversed
with a crocodile, grew a palm tree on the hump of a camel, or turned
pebbles in the palm of his hand into gems which he gave to an Arab.”
I responded: “Áqá Siyyid Abú-Turáb, why should I believe these
miracles to be true?” He said: “Because of frequency.” I asked to
elaborate further what he meant, then he continued: “If a thousand
people enter this house and tell us a man was put to death in the main
square, how would we come to believe their words?” I said: “If
millions deny it, which would we choose to believe then?” He asked
me to explain what I meant, and I said: “Buddhists, Brahmanians,
Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians who do not accept Islam, they
ridicule us, otherwise they would have become Muslim.” Angrily he
said: “I hope the sword of the Qá’im responds to you.” I replied: “His
sword was His words, which taught us what we know.” When I noted
he could no longer continue I said: “Áqá Siyyid, allow me to ask
another question, if Muḥammad split the moon in two, how did He put
it back together? Keeping in mind we have seen many magicians cut
off a head and then reconnect it. A miracle is one that cannot be
reverted and retains its validity, so that all can experience and believe
it. If the moon was split into two halves, should not it be noticed by all
who live on earth? How is it that none of the historians have recorded
anything of this nature?”
I continued and said: “With regard to the crocodile who conversed
with the Prophet, did he do so in Arabic or his own tongue? If the
crocodile would speak Arabic, then it would be the animal that has
performed the miracle. If it is Muḥammad who spoke in the crocodile’s
tongue, it is an insult to His station. With regard to the palm tree that
grew on the camel’s hump, none of the museums around the globe bear
any such image. On the other hand, if any military figure has achieved
any victory, they are surely the subject of paintings and sculptures. How
could such an important claim be excluded? Had He managed to grow
the palm tree in this manner, out of His bounty, there would be so many
trees now that would leave no need for palm groves. With regard to the
rocks, if the said incident had come to pass, the resultant gems would


have been on display in museums. Have you ever heard of any such
gems?” [MAH-9, pp.534-536]
He asked: “Are you denying these miracles? Or God?” I said:
“No but listen to my explanations to understand we worship God
and believe in miracles, but true miracles not vain imaginings.” He
said: “You cannot.” I replied: “If so, then I am in the same position
as you are.” He asked me to explain further and I said: “What is
meant by a pebble?” He said: “A stone.” I said: What does dark
mean?” He said: “Black.” I asked: “Then the black stone which is
stored in Mecca has come from heaven or earth? There are many
such stones in Mecca, a mountainous region. They are of no value.
But when Muḥammad, the Messenger of God, touched it and said
this is the Qiblih of Muslims, it gained value, so much so that many
Muslims have given their lives for it. You know Jináb-i Ḥájí
Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí. When he went on pilgrimage to Mecca
during the Holy Year, he witnessed 70,000 lives lost next to this
precious stone. Mass graves were dug for both men and women who
died to reach this stone. Even today, are there any Muslims who
would be ready to exchange this stone with anything else in the
world?” He said: “No.” I continued: “So this is the rock that the
Prophet has turned into a gem.” [MAH-9, p.537]
Now in regard to the palm tree that grew on the back of a camel.
The camel was the vehicle of the Messenger. He rode upon it. His
Essence was the fruitful tree, whose sweet speech nourished the souls
of the believers. Next, the crocodile that spoke with the Prophet, there
was not only one, but many that conversed with Him. Have you ever
heard of an animal bury its own offspring?” He said: “No.” I
continued: “Prior to the revelation of Islam, Arabs used to either bury
their daughters alive or throw them off cliffs. The Prophet managed
to speak with these uncivilised tribes and trained them to the extent
that before long four Islamic educational institutions were established
in Baghdad, Egypt, Bukhara and Tripoli. Last, but not least,
regarding the splitting of the moon, as you know the moon moves
around the sky and there is no benefit to humanity to split it. The
Prophet never did anything futile. At the start of our discussions you


said you do not believe in God. In all truthfulness, if you say that at
the pulpit, what will happen to you?” He said: “But I won’t.” I asked:
“What if you do? Will they even let you stand for a second before they
chop you up to pieces? But the Prophet repeatedly stood before the
uncivilised masses and the idols they worshipped to call them to God.
Is this not stronger than splitting the moon? More importantly, did he
not order them to replace all past traditions with His divine
teachings? They all followed Him and supported a dispensation as
grand as Islam. If you even attempt such a thing, you will be
eliminated without hesitation.”
This meeting lasted six hours and ended at 2:00 am. The cleric
stayed overnight but I returned home. While bidding them farewell the
host said: “I now know this community is bereft of all knowledge, but I
beg of you, do not utter a word to anyone about what happened here
tonight. No one should know how ignorant the cleric is.” I replied: “Áqá
Siyyid Abu’l Qásim, you have awakened the beast! I had no such
intention, but you know he will spread the word that he debated and
defeated a Bahá’í.” The host doubted he would say anything. I insisted
that if the cleric made any such claims, I too maintain the right to defend
my position. The host agreed. [MAH-9, pp.538-540]
Forty days later I was passing through the bazar. I saw Ḥájí
Ḥasan Dhu’l-Faqár, a pleasant friend and a leading figure in the
community, among a few others. He called on me and said:
“Zabihi, you have proselytised our Mullá? Don’t you know they
are good for nothing?” I replied: “Jináb-i Ḥájí, what
proselytization? I am busy working and looking after my own
affairs.” He asked me to stay for a while and said: “You must stay
and hear the details. Áqá Siyyid Abú-Turáb conducts weekly
devotionals at the home of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ṣádiq. I am one of the
regular attendants. He never accepts refreshments following the
session, do you know why? Because if he stayed, he would get a
meal. But by refusing to stay the host has to send enough rice, oil,
sugar cone and tea to his home to last a whole week. He is a smart
man.” I asked: “What does this have to do with me?” He
responded: “Zabihi, either because of you or Siyyid I used to get


my free meal. But this week when he finished the session, he wanted
to stay for lunch and share an experience with all of us. While lunch
was being prepared, he turned to us and asked: “How often have I
advised you to send your children to religious, not secular schools?
None of you listened. We now face dangerous enemies. I had to
face Zabihi, a local who works in the silk industry and according
to him, is illiterate. When I asked him to speak, he claimed he was
entirely bereft of any knowledge. But when he spoke, he could
defeat top Islamic scholars with his arguments. Regardless, I
defeated him.” While he was sharing these details, we were served
a delicious lunch. [MAH-9, p.540]
I turned to him and said: “Ḥájí, I swear by the Black Stone and
all things holy, that night Áqá Siyyid said he does not believe in God.
Áqá Siyyid Abu’l-Qásim can testify to this fact. He was an unbeliever.
When he finally accepted God then he said he does not believe in any
of the Messengers of God. I proved the reality of the Messengers of
God. He became a believer there and then.” Sometime later, Ḥájí
Ḥasan had shared the same details with the cleric and told him: “You
are a liar, I am a Muslim, but the Bahá’ís know God and His
Messenger better than we do.” [MAH-9, p.541]

Teaching efforts continued until a few years later, one of the
Bahá’ís of Yazd named Jináb-i Javád Qálichi’i, shared the following
story with me: “I have two nephews. Their father was a Bahá’í but
one of them has converted to Islam and the other is an atheist. If
possible, please speak with them. Maybe they will recognise the
truth.” We arranged a fireside with them. I accepted to attend the
event at Mr. Bihí’s home. Siyyid Muḥammad, the nephew who had
become Muslim, refused to come because he could not speak with a
Bahá’í teacher, however he would attend if he could bring along an
Islamic scholar to debate together. I accepted and invited Ḥájí
Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí to join us also. When we entered the home
of Áqá Ramaḍán Bihí, I saw Áqá Siyyid Abú-Turáb seated with Áqá
Siyyid Muḥammad. He got upset at seeing me and said: “Zabihi, I
only have 90 minutes.” Tea was served, but he refused to drink any.
Discussions began, but he refused to speak. He only sat there to listen.


The seeker invited him to participate, but the cleric said: “All that is
shared is wonderful. I must listen so that I can respond.”
In this midst, Jináb-i Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí asked
permission to share a few points. After a few initial remarks he
explained: “About ninety years ago a holy figure appeared, and many
learned clerics accepted him. Among them were those who could far
surpass any cleric today. Some twenty thousand followers sacrificed
their lives for Him. He was the founder of a faithful community with
many followers, is this not a true Cause?” The cleric replied:
“Twenty-four years ago someone in India claimed to be a Messenger
and has revealed a book.” I asked: “Show me one of his verses or
followers.” He said: “Show me yours!” I responded: “Other than you
and Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad, everyone else in the room is a Bahá’í and
we have myriads of books and verses to show you.” At this point he
commented that the meeting was taking too long and brought the
discussions to an end. [MAH-9, pp. 540-541]
At another similar event Jináb-i Mihdí Sarsáz was present. When
he witnessed Abú-Turáb’s unfair responses he said: “Áqá Siyyid, you
have no idea what religion is, never mind Islam!”


2.  Áqá Mihdí Sarsáz 88
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his teaching
stories:
Áqá Mihdí Sarsáz had an interesting life filled with many
contributions and it is worthwhile to mention a few of them. He was
of Yazdi origin and worked in the textile industry. Prior to accepting
the Faith, he had been a custodian of the mosque and harboured a
great deal of prejudice and animosity towards the Bahá’ís. However,
this was due to his dedication to Islam, and the assumption that
Bahá’ís were heretics who acted against his faith and the Prophet.
When he would open the gates of the mosque in the morning, for
people to offer their prayers, he would launch in to a litany of verbal


abuse if he saw a Bahá’í, and cry out: “God, why have You let them
turn their backs to Islam?” It was known that he would leave no stone
unturned in order to locate Bahá’ís and harass them.
During those days, Riḍván celebrations would involve three to
four thousand participants, only a quarter of whom were Bahá’ís.
It was difficult to distinguish between the Bahá’ís and the non-
Bahá’ís. Regardless, he identified a Bahá’í who was a clerk at the
public bath. Áqá Mihdí had drank a glass of refreshment at the
Riḍván celebration, so the next day he went to the bath to purify
his body of this drink. The clerk greeted him saying:
“Alláh’u’Abhá.” Áqá Mihdí lost his temper, beat up the man, threw
him out and locked the door, declaring that the entire bath be
cleansed. In addition he demanded that some Bahá’ís be killed
before he would unlock the gates to the mosque!
Crowds soon gathered and the clerk along with six other Bahá’ís
were subjected to a great deal of physical torture. Áqá Mihdí
continued to instigate such incidents and became known for his
devotion to Islam. This pattern continued until such time as the new
officials in Yazd gradually grew to respect the Bahá’ís. As a result,
the Bahá’í community eventually filed a complaint against Áqá Mihdí.
The officials contacted the chief of his village, Ghulám Ḥusayn Pír
Muḥammad; also an enemy of the Cause, to bring Áqá Mihdí to court.
The chief went to his textile factory and slapped Áqá Mihdí on the face
saying: “You so and so, what have you done that the judiciary has
summoned you?”
On his way to court, Áqá Mihdí prayed for justice. On entering the
court, he was told that his superior had complained about the quality
of his textiles and therefore he must be punished! Áqá Mihdí gave the
court his promise that he was the best at what he did. However, the
judge sentenced him to flogging by bastinado. As they brought the
wooden lashes, the guards who knew what the real reason was, tried
to pull the end of his trousers so that it would cover the soles of his
feet in order to reduce the effects of the blows. However, he assumed
they were actually removing his trousers and therefore refused to
cooperate. As a result, the guards were angered and carried out the


lashing at full force. Áqá Mihdí kept praying, which added to the anger
of the guards. They instructed him to apologise instead of praying but he
didn’t comply and so the guards carried on the punishment until he lost
consciousness. When he gained consciousness, he was put on the back of
a donkey and taken to his home. It was customary for the victim to pay the
costs of lashing, but as he was poor, the local community raised the
necessary sum to pay the authorities.
As there was no proper medical care it took Áqá Mihdí three
months to recover. Finally, one day he stepped out with the aid of a
cane. He ran into a Bahá’í named Áqá Muḥammad-‘Alí Simsár and
proceeded to utter profanities against him. Since there was no one
around and Áqá Mihdí was still injured, Áqá Muḥammad seized the
opportunity to return his insults.  [It should be noted that this is not a normal
response of a Bahá’í under such circumstances. The normal response of an
individual Bahá’í is to show kindness to aggressors.] Áqá Mihdí was physically
unable to attack this Bahá’í man so he hit himself with his own cane
and screamed: “All faith is lost, this Bábí is now insulting Muslims.”
No one acknowledged him and so he decided to go to the home of
Mullá Ḥusayn, the son of Ḥájí Mullá Báqir Ardikání to complain
about the Bábí man.
Ḥájí  Mullá Báqir was one of the clerics who accepted the Faith
during the time of the Báb. However, his son did not. It was noon by
the time Áqá Mihdí reached the Mullá’s house – taking him a full six
hours to cover the half kilometre distance. He entered and saw the
Mullá seated with all sorts of refreshments before him. He was busy
eating and showed no inclination to share anything with Áqá Mihdí.
He asked the Mullá: “Is it wise for you to enjoy this lavish set up while
a Bábí insults a Muslim?” The Mullá put another piece of fruit in his
mouth and replied: “What can I do? God will take care of it.” Áqá
Mihdí was shaken by this and forced to face the harsh reality that
Mullás may say one thing and do another. As Hafiz writes:

Clerics claim much at the altar and pulpit


In private they go and otherwise they commit


As a result, Áqá Mihdí began to think about investigating the
Faith. He approached one of the friends whom he had previously
harassed. With great trepidation the friend taught him the Faith. Áqá
Mihdí declared and became so devoted to the Faith that his every
breath was in adoration of the Blessed Beauty. He taught the Faith to
many, some of whom are still around and serving the Cause.
Sometime after his declaration, Jináb-i Ghulám-Ḥusayn (the chief
of his village) drank the cup of martyrdom. One of the Muslims who
heard that Áqá Mihdí had declared and was teaching the Cause, went to
his home and demanded that he come out, saying: “I am going to take
you to Ḥájí Muḥammad Ja‘far’s home to have him issue your death
sentence!” Áqá Mihdí refused to go. However, the Muslim was
determined, saying: “You used to harass them and now you promote
them, there is no way that I will not take you.” Áqá Mihdí agreed to go
with him on the condition that he would not be killed at Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ja‘far’s home. On the way, they encountered several crowds. They
changed their routes to escape any disruption to the plan against Áqá
Mihdí. When they reached their destination, a servant opened the door.
The Muslim man instructed the servant to get Ḥájí Muḥammad Ja‘far to
issue Áqá Mihdí’s death sentence. After a few minutes, the servant
returned and told them that Muḥammad Ja‘far was not home! The
Muslim man then turned to Áqá Mihdí and declared that they would go
to another cleric’s home. However, Áqá Mihdí refused to go elsewhere.
The Muslim’s reaction was to say: “I changed our routes several times
so none of the crowds would attack you, you promised to come with me
to be killed.” Áqá Mihdí replied: “I fulfilled my promise to you and came
all the way to this house.” In this way they argued back and forth until
late at night when eventually Áqá Mihdí escaped death.
Áqá Mihdí lived in service to the Cause and taught the Faith to
innumerable souls, including many vehement enemies of the Faith,
until his passing at the age of seventy. His remains were buried in
Buq‘at’ul-Khaḍrá89 in Yazd, next to the resting place of the Afnán
family. May God’s mercy and bounties surround his soul.
May those who let go and let others go be happy


Their legacy naught but a good name for eternity


3.  The fruitful seed
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his teaching stories:
“Fahraj is the name of a village some 30 kilometers from Yazd.
The great majority of those who lived there were fanatics and totally
unaware of the Revelation, except for a single Bahá’í. He was the
village chief and due to his position could not proclaim the Cause. On
many occasions in Yazd I visited with this steadfast believer and asked
him whether he was able to teach anyone in Fahraj? He informed me
that no one was receptive to the Cause. Soon after WWI began, I was
instructed by the Yazd Local Assembly to go to Fahraj in order to
teach the Faith. I left on the first day of Muḥarram. Some 18
kilometers into my journey I reached the village of Khuvaydak, there
I attended the celebrations for the Twin Holy Days for friends and
seekers, where I proclaimed the Faith. This brought me great joy and
I considered it a good omen. The next day, along with Áqá
Muḥammad-‘Alí Ittiḥádi and Ḥájí Mihdí Shahídzádih, I set out for
Fahraj. [MAH-9, p.542]
One of my companions had a bicycle and reached our destination
first. I had advised him to be careful and not to draw the attention of
the locals as to our arrival. But when we arrived, he told us everyone
was surprised to see visitors inquiring about the chiefs’ home;
therefore, they came to know we were there. Nevertheless, I
emphasized they needed to exercise prudence. I recalled one of the
fanatical Muslims in Yazd, named Panjih ‘Alí, who had two sons-in-
law in Fahraj, named Mírzá Áqá and ‘Alí Áqá. Although I had never
met them, I decided to pay a visit to Mírzá Áqá’s home. I inquired the
whereabouts with the local shopkeepers and was asked: “Which one
are you after? Half the village are called Mírzá Áqá!” I then asked
about ‘Alí Áqá and was told that the other half of the village had that
name! I asked which one was the son-in-law of Panjih Áqá and was
told that there was only one and was guided to his home. When we
knocked on the door, ‘Alí Áqá inquired about our business. We told


him that we were travelers and as it was cold and snowing, we needed
a place to stay. He warmly welcomed us. [MAH-9, p.543]
The locals had informed the chief of our arrival. Although he was
ill at the time and had never met us, he graciously invited us to his
home. So, after lunch we went to visit the chief. We were joined by his
son who soon came to realize that we were all Bahá’ís. This made him
terribly angry, and he said: “You should leave now and in two hours
you will reach Mihriz!” I knew in such bad weather it was impossible
for us to make the trip and in fact the Chief’s son actually wanted us
to leave so that we would lose our lives on the way! However, contrary
to his son’s wishes, the chief insisted that we spend the night in
Fahraj. We did. What an unforgettable night! His son left, only to
return two hours later and casually greet us. I responded with great
respect. Soon seventeen other men arrived and greeted us in the same
off-hand manner. They all lit their smoking pipes. The smoke was so
thick we could hardly see their faces or breathe. As Hafiz describes:

How do those who pace the beach come to know


The dangers of the dark deeps and the fearsome storm?
They continued talking, making veiled threats, saying things such
as: “Do you remember how we cut up so and so? Killed so and so?
Blinded so and so? All with impunity. This is who we are. We kill
whomever we want, like a little bird. No one can do a thing about it.”
I remembered Hafiz’s verse: [MAH-9, p.544]


It’s a deadly trap, unless the Almighty assists



No use for man, the damned Devil persists
While holding on to the hem of His mercy and begging His Divine
assistance, I began to speak and said: “Why speak of such things
during the blessed month of Muḥarram? Tonight, we must talk about
the sacrificial life of Imam Ḥusayn.” I spoke about the enmity of Yazid
90 and the innocence of Imam Ḥusayn and the martyrs of Karbala. In
particular, my description of the suffering of the martyrs at Karbala
impressed them so much that they all began to cry; and demonstrated
a great deal of sorrow. While shedding an endless flow of tears they
continued to chant, may our lives be a sacrifice for the Prince of
Martyrs. At this point I ended my talk. They said: “Such sweet words.


We have never heard such a sermon. May God forgive the souls of
your loved ones in the next world.”
We spent the duration of the evening in this manner until everyone
left for their respective homes. We slept at the place of our host. That
night I had a dream that the Master sent a cloak from the Holy Land
to Yazd for me. However, unbeknown to me it had been sent to the
home of Muḥammad Ḥarírí. When I received the cloak, I realized it
was actually a vest. I kissed it and put it on. The following morning
when I awoke, I felt as though the mayhem we had survived the
previous night had planted seeds that would bear great fruit in the
years to come.
As soon as I completed my ablutions to offer my morning prayer,
the guests returned one by one. Each had brought something, a bit of
beetroot, turnip, milk, yogurt and bread. They said: “This is for the
preacher.” As the conditions were propitious, I stood facing the
Qiblih and offered the medium obligatory prayer, followed by the
Tablet of Aḥmad and a few prayers in Arabic and Persian, and then
a brief fireside. [MAH-9, p.545]
After breakfast we headed to Mihríz. Unlike the night before, the son
of the chief was insistent that we stay for lunch. But it did not seem wise,
so we began our journey. When we reached the bazar district, the butcher
stopped us and asked: “Are you the one who described the martyrdom of
Imam Ḥusayn in Karbala?” I confirmed that I was, and he continued: “I
have pledged to recite the Tablet of Visitation for Imam Ḥusayn; you must
stay and do it.” I told him that, I must leave for Mihríz today, however
would hopefully do it next time. He kept insisting, but eventually agreed
and we carried on our way.
The next summer, the two faithful nephews of the chief who lived
in Yazd, ‘Alí-Akbar and Ḥusayn Mujahid, went with me to Fahraj.
Prior to our arrival, one of the locals had alarmed the residents ahead
of time by saying that 25 Bahá’ís were on their way. Frightened at
this news, the locals had fled for the countryside. The chief alone was
there to receive us. However, when they came to know it was just the
three of us, they all returned. So, I felt the time was opportune to
proclaim the Faith, regardless of the consequences. I spoke for more


than two hours about the teachings of the Faith, as the fulfilment of
age-old prophecies. One of the elderly participants asked: “Do you
have any holy writings?” I replied: Far more than the Qur’an.” He
responded: “Can you recite anything for us?” So, I began to chant
the Tablet of Aḥmad. After the final verse he said: “I testify that every
word was revealed by God.” Then one of those who was present felt
overcome and declared his faith.
Sometime later, ‘Alí-Akbar Mujahid shared the following with me:
“The eighteen men who came to the home of the chief on your first visit,
had gathered earlier on the outskirts of the city and had sworn on the
Qur’an to murder you. But the Almighty had decreed otherwise.” I said:
“I do not fear death, but my blood is not worthy of the tree of the Cause
of God.” In the words of Hafiz: [MAH-9, p.545-547]

Your wayfarers desire calamity



A lover fears not apex or valley

When I bathe in the river of love



I pray for whatever below or above
4.  The Isfahani Priest
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his teaching
stories:
Around 1305 in the solar calendar (1927 AD), I went to the
Christian mission in Yazd. The priest in charge, Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim
was born and raised in Isfahán. He was a former Muslim and an
expert government revenue agent. When he was waiting for his term
of service, he converted to Christianity and soon reached the rank of
priesthood.
Next to the mission was a hospital run by the church. There were
six people at the mission. Two were religious studies students, two
others were Muslims known as Muḥammad and Ḥusayn, and finally
a Zoroastrian and a Bahá’í from Zoroastrian background, both of
whom worked at the hospital. They served tea, which I drank, but the
two religious students did not as they were upset with me. Each
received a copy of the Bible, but neither looked at it. The priest opened
the book and recited a verse about Jesus performing the miracle of
feeding the masses with two fish and five loaves of bread. I asked the


priest: “It is now 3 pm and there are seven of us here. We have had
lunch but I promise you, if you bring two fish and five loaves, we will
finish all of it.” He did not respond and so I regretted rushing in with
my argument. [MAH-9, p.548]
The priest continued his remarks and said: “After Jesus, 24 false
prophets will rise, all of whom will mislead the masses.”[It should be noted
that in the 24th chapter of the Gospel of Matthew states that many (not 24) false prophets
shall arise and deceive many. Also number 24 is associated with the number of elders
mentioned in the Revelation of St. John; 4:4 which has nothing to do with false prophets.
It is possible that these two verses were mixed up in the mind of the priest.] One of the
students inquired: “What do you think of Prophet Muḥammad?” He
replied: “I have shared my views.” The students asked again to which the
priest replied: “Muḥammad was one of the 24 false prophets too.” The
siyyid student was angered by this and said: “So Christians have joined
the Bábí’s too?” The priest replied: “That’s not possible.” The student
continued: “I have seen with my own eyes the photo of Mírzá ‘Alí-
Muḥammad Shírází with a number of Christians.” I explained that at the
time, meaning some 90 years earlier, there were no cameras and no
Christian accepted His Faith; (I should clarify the student was referring
to a photo of the Master with a number of Bahá’ís in the West). He was
upset but did not say anything.
I moved to sit next to the priest and said: “Thank you for
everything today. I am from a Muslim background and have learned
everything I know about Jesus Christ  from the Qur’an, where the
Prophet confirms the revelation of the Christ. I too consider Him as
the Messenger of God. Now that you say Prophet Muḥammad was not
a truthful person, I should extend it to all the Prophets of God
including Jesus Christ because they are all one and receive their
teachings from one source . What would you suggest that I should
do?” He invited me to visit him at his home on Monday to guide me
to the right path. I asked him to share what he wanted right there and
then so that others could learn also. However, he refused saying: “I
do not have time now.” I replied: “But your time is supposed to be
spent on guiding the masses. Every evening you remain with seekers
until 6 pm. You must do the same tonight with me.” I held onto his
sleeve and continued: “I will not let go of you.” Irritated he said:


“How many times have I told you to come back on Monday and I will
convince you of the truth?” I said: “What if I die before Monday?”
He responded: “I promise you won’t die.” He pulled his sleeve,
turned to the Zoroastrian Bahá’í and said: “Mr. Surush, close the
door behind these gentlemen,” and then he left.
Mr. Surush said: “Mr. Zabihi, the priest wants to earn his
living; leave him alone.” The students agreed and happily left, but the
Siyyid remained seated. I took advantage of the situation and began
to teach saying: “They have not recognised the Christ. If anyone
recognises one Messenger, they will recognise all of them. So, they
have not searched to attain faith, they have simply followed others.”
As Rumi says: [MAH-9, pp.548-549]


Man is ruined by blind imitation



Two hundred curses on imitation
When I finished talking, I was waiting for him to leave, but he
continued to sit and listen without uttering a word. I finally left around
7 pm. He began to follow me. When I walked fast, so did he. When I
paced slowly, so did he. When we reached a quiet area, he said: “I
would like to say something.” I said: “Please go ahead.” He asked:
“What is your educational background?” I replied: “I don’t even
know the difference between A and B.” He did not believe me. I finally
swore on all things holy until he accepted the truth of my statement.
He then asked: “What is your religion?” I laughed and said: “You
are Muslim, you know your Prophet has taught that one’s money, path
and beliefs are private matters. Why do you ask then?” He then
begged me to answer. I said: “I am a Bahá’í.” He replied: “Could
we speak tonight?” I responded: “Of course!”
As we were not prepared to receive guests at our home, I took
him to the home of Haj Muḥammad Zá’ir. I also turned to the Blessed
Beauty and begged Him to guide this seeker. That evening we
engaged in deep discussions that transformed him to his core. We met
on two other evenings. He was absent on the fourth evening but
returned on the fifth, when he declared. In the words of Hafiz:

Praised be God that whatever I desire



He grants beyond measure to admire


His name was Áqá Siyyid Hidáyat’u’lláh and he became an
enkindled lover of the Cause. He asked permission to extract and
memorise the words of the Master published in Star of the West, as he
wanted to share them during his sermons saying: “Only the words of
God can guide the masses to the Straight Path.” Ḥájí Muḥammad
Zá’ir responded: “Several souls in the Zabihi family have given up
their lives for the Cause. Do you know why? Because they used to
share the same words in public. You must observe wisdom as you
gradually meet receptive souls and share The Most Great Name with
them.” But the fire of his love for the Cause lead him to arise to teach
the Cause at once.
Before not too long, people came to know of his faith and began to
persecute him. Finally, the Local Assembly was left with no choice
but to ask him to leave the city. For over 25 years no one ever heard
of him. At last, one day Jináb-i Ḥájí Muḥammad Zá’ir went to the
Office of the Registry in Yazd, where someone approached him and
whispered: “Alláh’u’Abhá! How are you Ḥájí Muḥammad?” He
replied: “Who are you?” The man responded: “I am Áqá Siyyid
Hidáyatu’lláh, how is Mr. Zabihi?” He then went on to share that he
worked at the main Office of Registry and was on a two-day business
visit to Yazd. Ḥájí Muḥammad explained that he had been trying to get
something done for some time; and Áqá Siyyid took care of whatever it
was that he needed and bade him farewell. [MAH-9, pp.550-552]

5.  Trip to Afghanistan
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his teaching
stories. He explains the details of teaching trip to Afghanistan:

During my 18 days of pilgrimage in 1311 Shamsi (1932 AD),
when I met the beloved Guardian, he told me that Iranian Bahá’ís
must establish the Faith in Afghanistan, and likewise the Iraqi Bahá’ís
in Sudan and Ethiopia. On my return to Ṭihrán, I visited Siyyid
Ḥusayn Háshimí-Zádih. He was a teacher and servant of the Cause.
I was telling someone in his presence, about my memories from my
unforgettable pilgrimage days, including the above statement by the
Guardian when, Mr. Háshimí-Zádih said: “If you decide to go there,


I will come along.” I said: “If it comes to pass, then wonderful!”
[MAH-9, p.553]
After saying goodbye, the guest of Mr. Háshimí-Zádih left the house
with me. While on our way back he said: “I am Háshim Yárshaṭír, the
brother of Mírzá Ya’qúb Muttaḥidih, the brave martyr of Kirmanshah.
Let us go for a stroll.” We spent hours walking around the area now
known as Elizabeth Boulevard in Ṭihrán. Back then it was a barren piece
of land. The entire time he spoke of his time in the presence of the Master,
and we finally reached his home in Amiriyyih around 4 am. There were
a few rooms, each housing a family. He told me to go to sleep, however
I hear him starting to pray, so I decided to join him. After our devotional
session he said: “In our family before we begin anything, we spend a
night in prayer. Now I want to consult with you about accompanying you
to Afghanistan to help spread the Cause.” I replied: “I hope we do it.”
He immediately wrote the Guardian and requested prayers. This event
took place 60 days after the passing of the Greatest Holy Leaf. In this
manner the sun dawned, and a blessed night came to an end. As the poet
Sa’di says:


All in rest and midnight has come to pass



Yet Parvin and I find no sleep in our eyes
As daylight appeared, a few children woke up and began to work.
I asked  them, who they were, and they informed me that they were his
children. Back then they were young children, but now they have all
grown up and are active servants of the Cause. He was a widower, so
I asked him, how he planned to go to Afghanistan? He said: “I have
a plan. I will place two of my children in an orphanage and two of
them will go to one of my relatives.” I was deeply affected by his
detachment which is a model to be emulated. [It should be noted that the
family structure in Iran during the time of this story accommodated some freedom
of action as extended family lived together or near each other. In this instance they
could look after children for a short while. It was reciprocal, i.e., when younger
children grew older they had an obligation to look after older people. The features
of this story may not be emulated in the West at this time.]
Some 70 days after he wrote to the Guardian, I received a copy
of the Guardian’s response through Dr. Sulaymán Birjís,91 the martyr


of the Cause in Kashan. In this detailed tablet, the beloved Guardian
displayed the greatest degree of love and then mentioned that a
teacher had already been sent, and the expected results would be
shared with the Assembly. Sometime later, Mr. Háshim Yárshaṭír sent
the original tablet to me and said: “This is yours.” A short while later
I heard the news of his passing, which saddened me a great deal. I no
longer felt I was able to go to Afghanistan.
Almost 40 years later, in the year 1351 (1972 AD) in the solar
calendar, Mr. Hadí Rahmání Shirazi, a member of the Continental
Board of Counsellors, saw me in Ṭihrán and asked, if I was able to go
to Afghanistan? I replied: “To do so is my ardent wish. Despite the
fact that I am 72 years old and feeling quite weak, if the means
emerge, I will go. At this time, I have been commissioned by the
Pioneering Committee to travel. But when I return, I will be in touch
with you.” He responded: “Leave that trip to others, you are needed
in Afghanistan.” Since the commissioned trip was arranged through
the National Spiritual Assembly, I consulted them and came to know
they were fully informed of this new arrangement. [MAH-9, p.554]
I arranged for my passport and travelled to Afghanistan. A few
kilometres before the border town of Islam-Qal’ih, the authorities
kept my passport and instructed me to return to Mashhad to get
vaccinated for smallpox. I told them my belongings were at the
customs office. I would go there and return soon, however returning
was difficult, so I began to chant the Tablet of Aḥmad and begged the
Blessed Beauty to assist me. When I reached the customs building, the
manager invited me to his office. Given my advanced age, he was most
gracious to me. As he began to inspect my suitcase I inquired if there
was anyone there that could assist me? He told me to go and see the
General in charge. So, I went to his office and as soon as I entered,
the General stood up and warmly received me. He offered me a seat
and asked what he could do for me? I told him that something had
come up and although unintentionally, I took full responsibility for it.
I then shared the details with him and said: “I am at your service, I
will do whatever you advise me to. He told me it would be his pleasure
to arrange the vaccination for me. The General then called for a


doctor to come, vaccinate me and hosted me at a hotel for the next 24
hours. However, the doctor said that 48 hours of post-vaccine
quarantine was necessary; to which the General commented: “I said
24 hours!” [MAH-9, p.555]
I went with the doctor to the Ministry of Health where I was
vaccinated and returned to the general’s office to receive my
passport. He said: “Your passport is ready and even if it had been
mailed by air it wouldn’t have got here faster.” When I returned to
the hotel, with a great deal of wisdom and care, I spoke about the
Faith with the manager until 10 pm. Whenever the employees came to
him, he said: “Just assume I am not here, do whatever you need to, I
am busy.” Although he intuitively felt I was a Bahá’í, he showered me
with indescribable kindness.
The following morning, it came to me that if I were to stay there
for the entire period of 24 hours, it would be very late by the time I
would reach Harat - and I didn’t know anyone there. Therefore, it
may be better for me to leave earlier so I spoke with the manager and
he arranged for me to leave at 9 am, meaning that I would arrive eight
hours earlier in Harat. This was the first instance of Divine
confirmation that I experienced. I considered it a good omen.
In Harat I met about eight or nine Bahá’ís. I stayed there for over
three days and then headed to Kabul, some 1,080 kilometres away. I
went to a hotel that had been recommended to me by the hotel
manager in Harat. Without my saying a word, they came to know that
I was a Bahá’í. They gave me a room with two beds and when I told
them I only needed a single room, they told me that they were giving
me a double room at the price of a single room so that I would be
comfortable. The staff were most hospitable. At first, I thought it was
not from their heart and it was a show, but then I realised it was
genuine, and due to the fact that I was a Bahá’í.
The next morning, I performed my ablutions and chanted the Long
Obligatory Prayer, the Tablet of Aḥmad and several other prayers -
so that they would come to know Bahá’ís pray. The staff had nothing
to do at dawn, so they would gather behind the door to my room and
listen to the Holy Words. I spent 55 days in this manner. One of the


staff members told me: “I get up at dawn, offer my prayers and then
I stand behind your door to hear your prayers.” I got in touch with
the local Bahá’ís and spent time in deep prayer and meditation in
order that I would succeed to spread the Message among the Afghans.
Incidentally, I met ‘Abdu’l-Ḥayy-i Qáḍí, who is now the Minister of
Transportation. He had two young sons 18 and 22 years old. They
went hunting together. The older brother was shooting at some prey
when sadly the younger brother raised his head and was accidentally
shot dead. [MAH-9, pp.555-556]
Mr. Húshang Rashídí, one of the Iranian pioneers in Kabul
shared the details of this accident with me and told me they were
going to the memorial that evening, and if I were to find an
opportune moment, to share the Faith with him! In addition to Mr.
Rashídí, Mr. Maḥbúbípúr and Mrs. Rashídí came along also. On the
way there, Mr. Rashídí said: “This man is quite proud, don’t be
offended if he ignores you.” I said: “I don’t easily get offended.” On
arrival, Mr. and Mrs. Rashídí entered, but I removed my shoes first
and then entered. Mr. Qáḍí arranged for alcoholic drinks so quickly
that I did not even notice it happen, until sometime later when Mr.
Rashídí shared the details with me. As soon as I was introduced to
him, I commented: “Mr. Qáḍí I have heard a great deal about you
and have been eager to meet you, albeit not on such a sad occasion.”
Then I shared the following with him:
Heaven laughs at those who shed tears for a lifeless body
All are wayfarers; How strange to cry for those who arrive early
We then went on to speak about the eternal nature of the human
spirit and the futile nature of this material world. Our visit lasted for
about two hours. Throughout this time Mr. Qáḍi listened with great
interest and invited his wife to join us. At the end he said: “I am sorry
I did not record your words to keep with me but I promise not to shed
another tear.” Since he was greatly moved, I said: “Mr. Qáḍí, there
is a prayer that is of utmost benefit to you in this state, please recite
it whenever you feel the need to.” Then Mr. Maḥbúbípúr beautifully
calligraphed the Remover of difficulties and another prayer for him.
Mr. Qáḍi was educated so he reviewed the pronunciation and then


asked: “How many times do I recite them?” I replied: “As many times
as uplifts your soul.” While saying goodbye he said: “We could have
hosted you, but I am afraid the sound of children crying would disturb
you. I promise to visit you in Iran.”
He and his wife escorted us to the gate. That same day the Prime
Minister and his cabinet had visited them, but the couple only saw them
to the door. His wife wanted to kiss my hands, but I did not agree to this
and said: “It is forbidden. If it were not, I would have kissed your
hands.” When we were seated in our car, Mr. Qáḍí ordered two gunmen
to accompany us. I told him that we had not noticed any danger on our
way there, to which he responded: “But it is not safe.” Later, Mr. Rashídí
explained that they were escorting us as a sign of their respect.
A few days later Mr. Rashídí remarked that we should visit Mr.
Mukhtárzádih, saying: “He is an important, educated and wealthy
figure among the business community, and is well acquainted with
Mr. Hádí Raḥmání. However, it has not been prudent to share the
Faith with him.” Wholly trusting in God, I accompanied Mr. Rashídí
and his wife to Pakhman, near Kabul. As an excuse for the visit, Mr.
Rashídí gave me a photo of Mr. Raḥmání and Mr. Mukhtárzádih that
he had intended to hand deliver to him. Mr. Mukhtárzádih warmly
received us. While there, we met another guest by the name of Khalíl
Khalílí, whom Mr. Rashídí informed us was one of the professors of
literature at Kabul University, who ranked third in his field
worldwide. [MAH-9, pp.557-559]
I presented our host with the photo and he thanked me profusely.
Then Mr. Khalílí said: “I had intended to leave to see to my guests but I
will stay for another 15 minutes to be in your company.” During this
time, he and our host spoke about literature and critiqued each other’s
poetry. When they concluded their discussion, I took advantage of this
opportunity to ask: “Professor, may I ask you a question?” He said:
“Please do!” I continued: “I am not educated and know nothing about
poetry, but there is a poem I am curious about, both with regard to its
writing as well as its writer,” and then I recited Firdawsi’s verse:

May my life be sacrificed for the dark in your eye


For at Judgement, God even wonders who created it


Mr. Khalílí smiled and said: “Mr. Zabihi, the poet has
exaggerated a great deal, how could God wonder about the Creator?
Nevertheless, it is a beautiful verse.” I responded: “Professor, the
more a verse is exaggerated, the more beautiful it is.” He placed his
hand on my shoulder and said: “That is true.” Then I recited a couplet
composed by Fáṭimih Khánum, one of the Bahá’ís in Rafsanjan,
known as Darvishih:

O Saba! Tell that fragile Farhad


You’ve planted infamous seeds midst lovers

Arduous labour for Shirin justifies


Why an iron hatchet, your loving look empowers
Mr. Khalílí said: “That is beautiful. I had never heard it before.”
Then he and Mr. Mukhtárzádih both wrote it down. After a brief
discussion about poetry and prose I said: “There are three stations
that are above all others. One is the station of prophecy that is
reserved for the Manifestations of God. Second, the science of
medicine, and third, education and training in literacy. Education of
the mind is a prerequisite to education in divinity." Mr. Khalílí
responded: “I don’t think so.” I clarified: “Although religion is most
important, nevertheless, unless a man is healthy, he cannot adhere to
a religion.” Then I quoted Muḥammad who said: ‘science is of two
kinds, one is the science of eternity or science of religion and the other
one is science of body or medicine’. I added: “It may have another
meaning that I am not aware of, but the science of eternity is before
science of religion. Therefore, medicine is more important. I do not
want to take your time of course.” At which point he said: “No I want
to stay and learn.” So, I added Sa’di’s words:

Cloud and wind, moon and sun turn in the sky


That thou mayest gain bread, and not live in ignorance
I continued: “This verse determines our path. If we use the science
of medicine that is after divinity, or literature that is taught properly so
that we recognise the Truth, then they occupy their rightful stations. If
not, they have betrayed humanity.” [MAH-9, pp.560-561]


We began to talk about the Faith openly and referred to the fact that in
nature, there is the phrase describing natural selection, the: Survival of the
fittest, in other words weaker species are not protected. If we examine the
nature and the animal world, we see that stronger animals exert their power
over weaker animals. This is true also in the vegetable kingdom. We should
note that Divine Teachers have tried to protect the disadvantaged people in
the society by promoting love, harmony, unity, and cooperation instead of
competition, dominance and the exploitation of one’s weaknesses.  At one
level higher, this means that  stronger individuals and nations should not
trample upon weaker ones. The objective of this Dispensation is to extend
such a teaching to the global community. At the end of our meeting Mr.
Khalílí said: “Although I consider myself advanced when it comes to
knowledge of literature, I must admit, I have never investigated about a
religion that is establishing the foundation of oneness of humanity.” Our
meeting concluded and our host asked that we meet again. However,
unfortunately, this never came to pass.
Three days before my return to Iran Mr. Rashídí received a letter
from Mr. Mukhtárzádih in which he requested to meet with me. I wrote
back explaining that I must leave soon, I would arrange to meet him
next time I visited. I sent another letter to Mr. Qáḍí containing the
following prayer by the Blessed Beauty: 92

“Lord! Turn the distressing cares of Thy holy ones into ease, their
hardship into comfort, their abasement into glory, their sorrow into blissful
joy, O Thou that holdest in Thy grasp the reins of all mankind!  Thou art,
verily, the One, the Single, the Mighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise”
[For
an
authoritative
translation,
refer
to:
https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-
texts/search#q=%22Turn%20the%20distressing%20cares%20of%20Thy%20holy
%20ones%20%22]
I also included “Yá Subbuḥun Yá Quddusun” and suggested
that he recite these when he is overcome with emotion.
I went back to Iran and after three months or so I returned to
Afghanistan. Mr. Qáḍí, on hearing of my arrival, came to my hotel to
see me. I said: “I should have come to visit you.” However, he told me
that it was his duty to visit me and went on to invite me to his home. I


accepted this invitation along with Mr. Rashidi and while there, spoke
at great length about the Faith. Mr Qáḍí wanted to meet again but
unfortunately it was not possible.
After five months, Hand of the Cause of God, Dhikr’u’lláh
Khádim, and Counsellor Hadí Raḥmání arrived in Afghanistan and
went with Mr. Rashidi to visit Mr. Mukhtárzádih. On being informed
that I was still in Kabul, Mr. Mukhtárzádih was very upset at not
having seen me and asked that I visit him the next day at 5 pm. The
following day I went to his home, to find that his brother was also
there. I recited parts of the Kitáb-i-Iqán which I had committed to
memory and when I was leaving, my host insisted that we meet again;
and so, we did. [MAH-9, pp.561-562]

One day prior to my departure for Iran, we met at Mr. Rashídí’s
home. I told him: “Mr. Mukhtárzádih, you know I like you very
much.” He replied: “I know, and so do I. I continued: “I want to give
you the most precious possession I have and candidly share with you
a few things.” Then I began to recite from the Iqan. He asked: “Whose
words are these?” I replied: “Bahá’u’lláh’s, in the Book of
Certitude.” He commented that he had read the book, but he had
never understood its intent. He went on to ask: “Are there more
Writings?” I told him that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had written
innumerable volumes compared to revelations of the past. Then I went
on to recite the Tablet of Aḥmad. He greatly admired it and asked:
“Why is this Tablet revealed in Arabic when He was Persian?” I
responded: “First and foremost, we do not question actions of Divine
Messengers. Second, this is a Most Great Revelation for all humanity
and compared to other languages, Arabic is far more precise and
comprehensive. So, this is due to His perfection. Where in the world
does anyone question perfection?”
I recited two other Tablets of the Master and explained that it had been
130 years since the Revelation had taken place. Before leaving I said: “How
sad that despite your rich body of knowledge, you have remained bereft of
this Grace. I beg of you to value the remaining days of your life and
investigate reality so that your life is not in vain.” We bade each other
farewell and he promised to study the Writings.


During this same trip I engaged in teaching the Faith to a man
named Ismu’lláh Máhir. After three days, on the eve of Riḍván, he
declared. He was elected to the first Local Assembly of Harat and
pledged to raise funds earmarked for teaching the Cause. I also met
Sharhangí in Kabul. He was a former communist. After our first
meeting he was so taken by the Faith that he regularly visited me at
my hotel to discuss it. After two months he too declared. He sent a
declaration letter to the Kabul Assembly that resembled a thesis. In
130 B.E. (1974 AD) he was elected to the Kabul Assembly.
Another fireside that must be mentioned is one that involved
several merchants. Mr. Akhaván, one of the Iranian Bahá’ís in Kabul,
befriended four of these well-known individuals. They had all been on
pilgrimage to Mecca, one of them, a total of five times. So, before
leaving for Iran, I had the privilege of meeting with them. They were
very moved and inspired so much so that they asked to meet regularly.
One of them who was a physician, kissed me at the end of our meeting
and said: “We had never heard such teachings.” He shared the word
with his wife and brought her to our next meeting where we spoke
openly about the Faith. They were told: “You have paid homage to
the House of God in Mecca in order to draw closer to Him, but He
revealed Himself 130 years ago. You must come to know Him first and
then follow His teachings.” That Thursday Mr. Akhaván and I were
supposed to leave for Iran, but we received a telegram saying our trip
was delayed by four days. This made me happy. We went on a picnic
with the group of friends and spoke about the Faith in detail. At this
gathering, Mrs. Ṭabíbí’s father, an educated engineer, was also
present. [MAH-9, p.563]

At the outset we spoke about Islam. The engineer said: “Do not talk
to me about Islam. My children are all Sufis. But I hate Islam. It is
nothing but a history of massacre and bloodshed.” I responded: “The
religion of Islam started as nothing but purity, and in essence, it remains
so to this day.” I pointed to the creek in front of us and continued:
“Would you drink from there?” He said: “Never!” I asked: “How far is
its source?” He responded: “It is about 1000 meters away.” I asked: “Is
the source polluted also?” He said: “It is the best quality of water in this
area.” I explained: “So for a 1000 meters distance, you do not drink this


water; the same goes for Islam over 1300 years. It has been polluted but
its origins are perfect and pure. The station of the Messengers and the
essence of Their teachings are one and the same.” We continued to speak
for some time. When I returned to Iran and shared a report of my
activities with the beloved National Assembly, they blessed me with the
following response:
18 Rahmat 130 B.E./ 30 Tír 1352 Solar
Number. 9/4/08
Dear Mr., Zabihi,
Your cover letter dated 11/4/1352 along with your report regarding
meetings and activities during your recent trip to Afghanistan was a
source of joy. No doubt every step in the path of service that advance
the Cause of God will attract Divine confirmations. The efforts of that
servant of the Cause is engraved in our hearts and will never be
forgotten. We will offer prayers at the Threshold of the All-Glorious
Beloved, beseeching the continued success of our brother.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Secretary

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran


Do not serve as do beggars in hope of reward



Hafiz knows how to train to move you forward


6.  Priest from Ádhirbáyján
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his teaching
stories:
“A young priest from Ádhirbáyján came to Yazd. Every evening he
would gather the employees of the hospital and the consulate together
and engage in attacking all things holy in Islam. One of the more
fanatical Muslims came to see me and said: ‘Mr. Zabihi, shame on
our clerics. They do nothing but follow their own interests. This young
priest gathers us every night and insults our sacred beliefs. I appealed
to our clerics. They said, don’t go! But I said if I do not go, the hospital
management will fire me. They said, that is fine! I asked, can you help


me get a job, so that I can leave the hospital? But they did not even
respond. I am now asking you to please speak with the priest.” I
consulted the Assembly and sought their permission to attend the
meetings organised by the priest.


One night, along with Mr. Mihdí Afnán, Aḥmad Mahdavi and a
new but inactive declarant named Kávih, I attended the meeting at the
mission. On the way we consulted and decided that I should introduce
myself as a Muslim, as otherwise he would not speak with me. Kávih
the Calligrapher would attend as a Jew and the two Afnáns who were
well-known, if asked, would say they were Bahá’ís. We entered and
greeted everyone. Without the slightest movement or any trace of
humility, he simply acknowledged us. It was a cold night and there
was a fire near the priest. I tried to move the heater closer to me to
warm up, but he moved his feet to prevent me from doing so. I then
reached for the handle and pulled it from under his feet. He said:
“Why are you here?” I answered: “To investigate the truth!” He
replied: “What does that mean?” I said: “We have come to learn
about what and where is God.” He asked: “What do you believe in
that has led you to come after God?” I said: “I am a Muslim.” He
then asked: “What about those two?” I replied: “They are Bahá’ís.”
He continued: “Which one of you am I dealing with?” All three of my
companions pointed to me and so he added: “What is missing in your
religion that has led to your desire to search after truth?” I said:
“Nothing, I have actually come to guide you to the Straight Path!”


On hearing these words, his prideful approach ruptured into
anger and he screamed: “Guide me to the path of theft and adultery?”
I responded: “You must prove that Islam is based on adultery.” He
said: “What about the account involving Zayd, his wife and
Muḥammad?” I replied: “Zayd was the servant of Khadíjih, who on
declaring his faith was adopted by Muḥammad as His son, he then
arranged for his marriage to a woman named Zaynab. Later, after
Zayd divorced his wife, Muḥammad married her. This is not adultery.
The Bible says, you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but not
the log in your own eye?”  I said: “Allegations such as  the one
mentioned by your honour have filled hundreds of books written for


the purposed of condemnation of Prophet Muhammad. However,
similar books have also been written for the same purpose for the
rejection of Jesus Christ. There is no need to go over them or even
make any hints about them. Personally, I do not entertain such stories
and shun debates which treat Manifestations of God disrespectfully.
Such arguments do not lead anyone to spirituality neither do they
guide anyone to the truth.” The priest remained silent.
I continued: “You said Muḥammad was a thief, you need to
prove that too.” He said: “What about the incident involving the
Hijaz tribe and the battle of Badr? Is that a lie too?” I said: “The
facts about the battle of Badr are well known. That battle took place
because of fighting men of the Caravan from Mecca were planning an
attack.  Muḥammad and his followers prevented them from what
intended to do. We need to search deeper in the events of the past and
should not be satisfied only with the arguments of the opponents. Even
if we accept some events on their face values and ignore their positive
intended outcome we need to extend the same to all Messengers of
God.” He was listening, therefore, I continued and said: “Similarly,
if a Christian might think relating negative stories, such as the one
which was expressed and with false accusations and unproven
allegations regarding one Manifestation of God,  he should be ready
to hear the same matching stories about Jesus Christ. However, I
cannot fulfil this function. I, rather, concentrate on the positive
aspects of the lives of the Manifestations of God which are full of self-
sacrifice, devotion, and  service to humanity in the path of God. I can
relate many stories of this kind about both Prophet Muhammad and
Jesus Christ.” 93
At this point I felt the priest was greatly agitated. I was not
willing to go any further and said: “Even if you continue to insult
Muḥammad and His followers or I disrespect the Christ for a hundred
years, they will remain holy beyond all measures. What we are doing
is no different than us standing in front of the sun to darken the earth.
The sun continues to shine and brighten the world. The Manifestations
of God are like the sun. They are not affected by what you do or I say.
Just as I consider Muḥammad as the Messenger of God, I consider


Christ as the son of God and a Divine teacher. Let us consult on
principles and explore the Truth.”
He wanted to avoid further discussion however, we found a way
forward. I said: “Are the teachings of Christ still practical today?”
He replied: “Why wouldn’t they be?” I asked: “Is it not one of His
teachings that if someone strikes one’s face, one must turn the other
cheek? Or that if someone is after your robe, you should give them
your cloak too? I have never insulted anyone, never mind someone of
your standing. But if I strike you, would you turn the other cheek? Or
instead would you file a complaint with the authorities?” He stood up
and said: “I would certainly complain!” I asked: “Then how are His
teachings practical if you who guide the masses, are not willing to
follow this teaching. Furthermore as time goes on, followers of any
religion in their practise of the original teachings find them difficult
to follow and inevitably start deviating from such teachings. If we
examine the action of the followers of Jesus Christ in the West no
exception could be detected. This is why we see much bloodshed and
tyranny amongst them..” He said: “What about the teachings of
Muḥammad, are they practical today?” I said: “No!” He inquired:
“Then what teachings can lead humanity to salvation?” I replied:
“The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh!” He mused: “I knew you were a
Bahá’í, Muslims cannot argue. Why did you lie and introduce yourself
as a Muslim?” I said: “Actually I am Christian too. Bahá’ís accept
all Manifestations of God and their teachings.” In the midst of this,
Áqá Muḥammad Afnán entered and said: “It is two thirty in the
morning, I was worried about you.” At this point we ended our
meeting and returned home.
The following day, I met the priest in front of the hospital and
greeted him. He said: “There is no need to greet me!” I explained: “I
am minding my manners.” He went to see a patient and, on his way
back I greeted him again. Once more he said: “No need to!”
A few days later, I went to visit Siyyid ‘Alí-Aṣghar Sukút. He now
resides in Ṭihrán, but at the time, he was one of the Bahá’ís of Yazd,
who not only worked at the hospital but was also ill and
hospitalised. The priest entered the room to pray for the patients and


said: “What is this liar doing here?” I responded: “Ladies and
gentlemen, by liar he means me. I have spoken only the truth but he
calls me a liar.” I turned to him and said: “A believer may lie and
later repent, but you who lack faith, what do you do?” He responded:
“I lack faith?” I replied: “The Bible says so.” He took a copy off the
shelf and said: “Where? Show me!” I did not know the exact words
of Christ. I said: “I will bring the exact verse tomorrow night, but I
know the Bible states that whoever believes in me as much as a
mustard seed, he does as I do.”
The next day I sent for the Muslims and said: “You delegated me
to defend you, but you failed to show up. You must come this evening.”
At dusk, I grabbed the Bible and along with Kávih, the famous
calligrapher, headed to the home of the priest. When we entered, I
noticed all Muslims were seated. The priest said: “I do not want you
to come in!” I said: “But I am your guest.” He retorted: “I do not
want any guest!” I replied: “If that is the case, then I do not want you
in my hometown of Yazd,” and added: “Whatever I have said that
may have offended you, please forgive me. Let us review a verse from
the Book of Matthew.” I opened the Bible to chapter 17 in the Book
of Matthew and read the following:
“When they came to the crowd, a man approached Jesus and
knelt before him. “Lord, have mercy on my son,” he said: “He has
seizures and is suffering greatly. He often falls into the fire or into
the water. I brought him to your disciples, but they could not heal
him.” “You unbelieving and perverse generation,” Jesus replied,
“how long shall I stay with you? How long shall I put up with you?
Bring the boy here to me.” Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came
out of the boy, and he was healed at that moment. Then the disciples
came to Jesus in private and asked, “Why couldn’t we drive it out?”
He replied, “Because you have so little faith. Truly I tell you, if you
have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain,
‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move. Nothing will be
impossible for you.”

I then addressed the priest saying: “I do not want to complicate
matters, I am not ordering a mule to go to the mountain top, just to this
table. Please do this so that those present in this room would realise you


are a follower of Christ.” The priest answered: “Even Christ did not do
such a thing!” I said: “In that case either you lie, or the Bible, or Christ!”
He kept silent so I said: “Never again insult the Prophet. Keep in mind
that there are those who will respond to you!”
A few days later I travelled to Shiraz. I saw him on his bike. He
saw me and said: “Why are you deep asleep in your vain imaginings?”
I replied: “I am wide awake!” He continued: “Does not the Primal
Point prophecy say that Him Whom God shall make manifest will
appear in 2001? Why did He appear after 19 years? I said: “Why do
you critique the teachings of other Faiths when you do not know those
of your own? Christ said, the Son of Man will appear at dusk, midnight
or dawn. Elsewhere He says, the Son of Man will come like a thief in
the night. He also prophesises that the Son of Man will brighten the
east and the west. Why did he make three different prophecies?” He
replied: “Keep slumbering in ignorance,” and left.
After my return from Shiraz I was visiting ‘Alí-Muḥammad Izádí at
his shop, when the priest came and sat on the floor. He said: “I have
a request.” I replied: “Please go ahead.” He continued: “I have been
ordered by London to buy a collection of Bahá’í books and send it for
the church library. I heard you may be able to provide these for me.”
I asked: “Do you have a list?” He gave me one, listing more than one
hundred volumes, some of which I had never heard of. He told me he
would pay whatever the costs may be, as well as whatever fees I may
charge. I said: “It is possible to provide these books but as a Christian
my Lord Christ has instructed me that His jewels should not be given
to pigs. In light of this, I cannot give these books to you!” He said:
“Do you mean I am a pig?” I said: “No, but there are those who do
not use these books for the right reasons.” He did not discuss the
matter any further and left.
Mr. Fanánápadhír, the son of Mírzá Faḍl’u’lláh Núrí of Isfahan,
who resided in Yazd, was our mutual friend. The priest complained
about me, so he arranged for us to meet at his home, lavishly hosted
us and mediated to re-new our friendship. The priest said: “You have
caused me a great deal of suffering.” I said: “I am not too happy about
Islam either. In fact, 17 members of my family have been martyred [See


Endnote number 113] at the hands of Muslims. I have done you a great
favour and you should thank me for it because Yazd is full of zealot
Muslims, and it is quite possible that they would retaliate against your
insults and kill you. So, in reality, I have saved your life.” He accepted
what I said. We kissed and embraced each other. But he never
accepted the Faith. In the words of Sa’di:




What use is there in preaching a black heart?




An iron nail cannot penetrate a rock


Chapter Four
Amazing Accounts

1.
Famine and the mention of the name of the Most
Exalted Point
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) has written about a few
amazing stories. The first one appears below:
“In 1314 (1935 AD), along with Ḥusayn-‘Alí Ittiḥádí, Ḥájí
Asadu’lláh Dhabiḥian and Ḥusayn Sá‘í, I visited the House of the Báb
in Shiraz. This pilgrimage lasted ten days. Every day, Ḥájí Mírzá
Buzurg Afnán showered us with great love and attention. The morning
after we arrived in Shiraz, we went for a stroll. Suddenly my gaze fell
on a mechanics shop. I approached the shop and stood there in
reverence watching the owner. It was Mírzá Faḍlu’lláh Khan
Ra’ufíán, one of the Bahá’ís of Isfahan. He came out of the shop and
asked where I was from? I said: “Yazd,” and he asked: “Have you
come on pilgrimage?” I replied: “Yes.” He held me in his warm
embrace, kissed my face, showered me with much affection and invited
me to his home for dinner. However, out of prudence, I did not accept
the dinner invitation, instead I visited him daily at his house or
elsewhere. He later visited me in Yazd, which further strengthened our
bonds of friendship.
During Riḍván in 1318 (1939), eighteen other Bahá’ís of Yazd and
myself, returned to the Holy House. On the afternoon we arrived in
Shiraz, one of the friends accompanied me to visit Mírzá Faḍl’u’lláh
at his shop. He invited me to dinner. I told him there were 18 of us
and that I could not come alone. He said: “You are all invited,” and
immediately got on his bicycle to go to his home. On his return he
said: “I arranged food for all of us.” I replied: “Let me consult my
companions.” It was then decided that we visit the Holy House the
next day, then afterwards go to his shop so that he could directly invite
everyone. We did as planned, however. he also invited another group
of pilgrims, bringing the total number of guests to eighty. Our
friendship grew stronger by the day and consequently every time I


visited Shiraz after that, he was the first person I would visit. And when
my wife went to Shiraz sometime later, Mr. Ra’úfíyán invited 100 guests
in her honor.
I heard many amazing accounts about this great man and wanted
to discuss them with him, but never got the chance to; until finally the
National Assembly commissioned me to visit the friends in Nayriz. As
soon as I arrived in Shiraz, I went to visit Mr. Sálikíyán at his shop
and also saw Mírzá Ḥasan Núsh-Ábádi,94 the great teacher of the
Cause who mentioned that Mr. Ra’úfíyán had a fireside at his home
that evening and for me to join them. I accepted this invitation and it
was a wonderful fireside; during which I learned a great deal from
Mr. Ra’ufian and Mr. Núsh-Ábádi. The following day, I was sitting at
Mr. Sálikíyán’s shop when Mr. Ra’úfíyán entered. I took advantage
of the encounter and said: “I have heard a great deal about you from
people, however I want to verify some things with you.” He said:
“They are not worth repeating.” I appreciated his humility and
insisted on hearing it directly from him. He agreed to share one or
two experiences:
Illustration 29:  At the House of the Báb in Shiraz


“In 1334 A.H. (1915 AD), in the midst of WWI, I accepted the
Faith. Famine affected the whole country, particularly Isfahan. At the
time, I had a small bicycle shop there. One morning on my way to
work, I saw a crowd gathered around a dead mule, fighting over its
flesh and bones. A little further along, I saw a man had lit a fire to
roast a lamb’s shoulder bone. A bit further, I came to a cotton de-
seeding workshop where a laborer was turning the wheel with great
difficulty. Suddenly, he stopped, bile flowed from his mouth and he
passed away. These three events affected me so deeply that I decided
to spend the night at my shop and recite the verse, God sufficeth all
things 334 times. The following afternoon Jináb-i Mírzá Faḍl’u’lláh
Núrí, the father of Mr. Fanánápadhír came to my shop. We spoke for
a short time and then he left. I went for a bath, I put on clean clothes
and returned to work. That evening when there were no more
shoppers around, I locked the shop from the inside and recited the
same verse 150 times. Suddenly I saw a noble man enter the shop
without unlocking the door. He instructed me to take the hand of a
newborn child that was tied to a rope. I refused, saying: “No, I won’t
take his hand!” He then said: “Then do not pray!” And left, without
opening the door. Then my maternal aunt’s husband, who had passed
away in Mashhad three years earlier, appeared and asked: “Did you
recognize him?” I told him I did not, to which he replied: “that was
Bahá’u’lláh, why do you dare chant this verse?” He too left, without
opening or closing the shop door.
I was so afraid that I almost passed out. Shocked and overcome with
emotions, I ran into the street. I wanted to shout out to everyone. but
except for a guard, no one was around. I returned to my shop and
remained sleepless until dawn, begging God’s forgiveness. At the break
of day, Mírzá Faḍl’u’lláh Núrí brought a few papers to me. He said:
“You have changed since yesterday. What has happened?” Tearfully, I
described what had come to pass. He said: “Who are you to decide what
must happen? God knows best.” He then turned to a page of the
newspaper and showed me the images of the seven martyrs in Arák.95
One of the photos showed a child who at the time of his beheading, had


raised his arms up. It was the same hand that the Blessed Beauty had
shown me the night before and I refused to take.”


2.  Mírzá Muḥammad Mushrif
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his stories:
“The second one, is an exciting and unforgettable account: “The
Master had ascended to the Abhá Kingdom, but no news of His Will
had reached Iran yet. The community of the Greatest Name did not
know who to turn to. One night I saw in a dream that I had passed on
and was accompanied by people who had wings to a judgement. One
of the judges asked: “Have you lied?” I said: “Yes.” Then he asked:
“Lies that harm the Cause?” I told him I did not know. He instructed
me to open my mouth! Then he had my face cut from the corner of my
lips to my earlobes, and the arteries in my throat opened; then
everything was stitched back together again. Despite all this, I felt no
pain. I went to another office where I saw Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván’us-
Ṣafá.96 The judge inquired how much I had borrowed from Mr.
Akhaván’us-Ṣafá and I told him, two qiran (pennies), to which he
replied: “No, 14 qiran!” I then responded: “If Mírzá, who is present,
confirms that it was 14 qiran then that is correct.” To which he
replied: “I just wanted to test you.”
When I arrived at the third office, I saw the beloved Master with
two Siyyids standing on either side of him. I commented that I knew
‘Abdu’l-Bahá but did not know the other two men. I was then informed
that they were the King and the Beloved of Martyrs. When I
approached the Master, He said: “Is that Áqá Faḍl’u’lláh?” I replied:
“Yes,” and the Master responded: “He has done well, let him go!” I
said: “O’ beloved Master, I cannot walk.” The Master then ordered
that I be taken in a carriage.
While waiting for the carriage, I saw a crowd gathering around. I
inquired who they were and was told they were awaiting their
judgement, to see where they would end up. The carriage arrived. We
were asked: “Is Mírzá Muḥammad Mushrif here?” The Master said:


“Yes” and pointed to an entrance, saying: “Open the door and let them
in!” When the door was opened, I saw flames of fire reaching up to the
sky. Mírzá Muḥammad and his companions were sent in and I was
placed in the carriage. I asked why there were six horses and was told,
it was the Master’s orders. Just as I reached home, I woke up from my
dream, delighted that the Master was happy with me.

I decided to get to know Mírzá Muḥammad Mushrif who was sent
into the room burning with fire. I went to visit one of the friends and
inquired who Mírzá Muḥammad Mushrif was? He told me that Mírzá
was one of the steadfast servants of the Cause, who along with his
son, Mírzá Asadu’lláh, had attained the presence of the beloved
Master and remained faithful to the Covenant. I was surprised and
wondered, what my dream was all about and what could be his
claims? I asked for his address and went to meet him. Unfortunately,
I found out that he was ill and hospitalized, so I went to visit him at
the Mursalin Hospital. He was wearing his cloak and resting in his
bed, looking not too ill. We greeted each other and he asked: “Are
you a Bahá’í?” I told him I was, to which he replied: “Then chant a
prayer.” I did so with utmost lowliness and humility. Mírzá said:
“Please come over every day and pray.”

So, every day I would go over to the hospital and offer prayers.
One day, Master Bahman, the head of Payman Company, came to
visit Mírzá Muḥammad. I knew him. We greeted each other and I
carried on with praying as always and then remained seated to listen
to their conversation. Mírzá Muḥammad asked: “What Bahá’í
news?” To which Master Bahman replied: “The Master’s Will has
arrived.” On hearing this I inquired what it said and if he had a copy
with him. He said: “Yes,” and handed it over to Mírzá Muḥammad,
and told me: “Shoghi Effendi, the grandson of the Master is now the
Guardian of the Faith.”

Mírzá Muḥammad Mushrif read a few lines of the Will and asked
Master Bahman, what he thought about the document? He replied: “I
have nothing to say. Our Master has expressed His Will and we are
to follow as the servants.” Mírzá Muḥammad then turned to me and
asked my opinion. I said: “He is the grandson of the Master and a


descendant of the Afnán’s. Even if the Master had appointed the cane
of Master Bahman as His successor, I would follow!” Mírzá
Muḥammad folded the Will and said: “Master Bahman, I attained the
presence of the Master along with my son. He showered us with his
love. His grandson was a child at the time, and he is a mere youth
now. I do not trust my life and possessions with a youth!” Just as he
handed the Will back to Master Bahman, he suffered a stroke and died
on the spot! I thought to myself, thank God my dream was a true
vision. This is how the Devil intervened to prevent him from becoming
a true servant in the last moment of his life.”

Mr. Ra’úfíyán was a true lover who in the early days of his life as a
Bahá’í travelled to Baghdad to visit the Master but did not reach his
destination to attain His presence. Regardless, his home was the scene of
many firesides and teaching efforts that have greatly advanced the Cause
in Shiraz. He repaired car batteries. Among drivers he was known as
Faḍl’u’lláh Bábí. When they would come to his shop for repairs, he would
have his assistants carry out the work while he taught them the Faith.
Whenever he found a receptive soul, he would complete the repairs the
following day, so that he could host a fireside for the driver at his home
that evening. He would host them as often as necessary and tell them:
“Whenever you visit Shiraz, remember my home!” If the driver would not
show too much interest in the Faith, he would ask: “Do you like money?”
They would say yes, and he would reply: “I know a few prayers, which if
you learn to recite, you will become rich.” He would then write down the
verses of Mustagháth, Subbúḥun Quddúsun and visitation revealed by the
Báb and instruct them to recite it daily. I pray the grace and blessings of
the Almighty continue to shower these sincere, generous and courageous
servants so that they continue to succeed to serve the Cause.

3.  Jamál Burújirdí
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his stories. This
is his recollection about one of the teachers of the Cause during the
time of Bahá’u’lláh, Who called him Ism’ullah-Jamal (The name of
God, Beauty). Bahá’u’lláh treated him with dignity but he squarely
misunderstood it; and felt  that he had certain spiritual power and
qualities which became the cause of his downfall during the time of


the Master. The end of his life was regrettably very sad. Believers
shunned and despised him, so did the society at large; he became a
beggar in the streets of Tihrán at the end of his life. There is much to
learn from Jamal’s arrogance and his life story. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí writes:
“The life history of my father, Ḥájí Ḥusayn son of Báqir, who was
given the title of Sham‘ush-Shuhadá (Torch of Martyrs), is included
in the ‘History of the Martyrs of Yazd’ authored by Muḥammad-Ṭáhir
Málmírí, Abu’l-Qásim Bayḍá and Muḥammad-‘Alí Malik-Khusraví.
This martyr of the Cause was the carrier of messages exchanged
between the friends in Yazd and their Beloved in the Holy Land. After
his martyrdom, some 260 envelopes containing letters carrying the
seal of the Master were recovered. All letters were sent to the Bahá’í
National Assembly in Ṭihrán. Some of these were used by Mr. Malik
Khusraví in ‘Iqlim-i-Nur’ and the ‘Martyrs of Iran’ books. According
to him, all the correspondence were rare and of historical value. One
such letter was penned by Ḥájí Siyyid Javád Surush 97 in response to
my sharing the news of Jamál Burújirdí 98 breaking the Covenant.  I
had the said letter in my possession and was keen to offer it to the
Guardian. I was looking for a way to do this when Mr. Mulaví, one of
our relatives, came to my home to let me know he was leaving for the
Holy Land. I sent the letter with him. I have no news of its
whereabouts.
When I went to visit the Guardian’s resting-place in London, I
decided to take advantage of my time in Europe and went to see Mr.
Mulaví, who was pioneering in Belgium, to inquire about the letter.
However, he was away at the time.
One day at the home of Jináb-i Ḥaydar-‘Alí, 99 in Yazd, I met
Jináb-i Mírzá Qábil Ábádihyí 100. He was a famous teacher of the
Cause and the recipient of many tablets issued by the Master. I
mentioned the letter in our conversation. He said: “‘Alaviyyih
Khánum, the widow of the martyr, Mullá ‘Alí Ján, 101 known as ‘Alí-
u’l-‘Alí, was also on pilgrimage at the same time as I. One day when
we both attained the presence of the Master, she sought permission to
share some details about the pride and ego of Jamál Burújirdí and


the Master agreed.” She had said that her home was a place regularly
visited by the pioneers and friends travelling through and Jamál
Burújirdí was often amongst them. His ego was always obvious but
as he was the recipient of the Master’s love, she tolerated him. One
day as she was pacing in the yard, Jamál, who was seated inside,
called her. When she entered the room, she saw that he had put on
special clothes to look similar to the Blessed Beauty. He would move
with his headwear back and forth in movements similar to those of
Bahá’u’lláh. He asked her: ‘Alaviyyih Khánum, is there any
difference between me and the Blessed Beauty?” This question upset
her so much that she left the room.  After hearing her experience,, the
Master smiled and narrated a famous story to ‘Alaviyyih Khánum,
then He connected that story to the life of  Jamál Burújirdí.  This is
the end of the story of ‘Alaviyyih Khánum as was shared by Mírzá
Qábil, a famous teacher of the Cause.
I heard the following from Jináb-i Nayyir Humáyún in Kashan.
As we were good friends, I had seen him in Yazd and Sirjan. But in
1921, when the Master ascended to the Abhá Kingdom, I saw him at
the Kashan travelers’ lodge. That night we spoke about a range of
topics, including Jamál Burujirdi breaking the Covenant. I shared
what I had heard and read in the letter to my father. Jináb-i Humáyún
said: “Much like a father who guides his son, I cared for him in
Ṭihrán. Shortly after the ascension of the Blessed Beauty he began to
insist we must say Alláh’u’-A’ẓam and not Alláh’u’Abhá.”
Another account I heard was from a teacher of the Cause, Mírzá
Áqá Raḥmání Sangsarí. He said: “One day Jamál Burújirdí came to
Shahmírzád. I met him at the home of my maternal uncle, one of the
survivors of Mazandaran fortress. Hearing Jamál’s words greatly
saddened me. When he left, I asked my uncle with such deep faith and
knowledge, how could you tolerate listening to him utter such
nonsense and not say a word? He told me people like Jamál are the
kind of clerics who corrupt the Cause. We must leave them to their
own devices while we carry on our services.”
One evening, myself and Luṭfu’lláh Khán Muwhibat (a faithful
servant of the Covenant and recipient of many tablets, who also worked


as an illuminator of the Holy Writings) were riding in a horse-drawn
carriage along with his son. In those days, carriages provided
transportation from the Guard Machine neighborhood to the
intersection of Ḥasan-Ábád. When we reached Chirágh-Gáz street, now
known as Amír-Kabír, the carriage stopped to let a few passengers get
on and off. An old man appeared, wearing a torn cloak. He was carrying
a cane and approached the carriage saying: “I am old, blind and
helpless, have mercy on me.” Jináb-i Muwhibat gave him ten Shahi’s
(equivalent to half a qiran) and said: “Oh old man, I hope you have
worse days ahead.” I asked who he was and Jináb-i Muwhibat said: “My
father, Jamál Burújirdí!” I was at once both sorry and alarmed and
prayed: Dear God, protect your servants to the last breath. Suffering in
absolute misery and poverty, he finally passed away near the old ruins
around Ṭihrán’s Telegraph Office. One of the kind Bahá’ís went to his
death bed to give him a last chance to repent, saying: “You were so
favored during the days of the Blessed Beauty and attained such high
station, why did you break the Covenant during the Master’s ministry to
bring yourself to this state? You still have a chance to remedy this deficit
and seek refuge at the Holy Threshold so that you may be forgiven.” He
replied: “Once I am better, I will share some experiences with you.” But
it was too late and three days later he passed away, to reach the eternal
depths of misery.
I mentioned this because we must always remain vigilant and
mindful. We must beg God that His mercy and grace may surround
the friends until their very last breath. The Covenant is of utmost
importance. Many souls stray far from it at the end of their lives and
condemn their soul to eternal damnation. Outstanding believers,
including Ḥájí Amín, remained ever mindful of the power of the
Covenant, and feared tests of faith. During his last days, he submitted
a letter to the Master requesting: “I am old and my days are
numbered. I beg the Almighty to protect me from the Insistent Self.”
The Master replied that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá beseeches the Almighty for the
same bounty.
If God is not pleased with His servants


Not all humanity’s intercession will be relevant


4.  Surveying personal residences
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his stories:

During the first days of the Registry Office in Yazd, the government
issued an order and assigned a few surveyors to register boundaries
to personal properties. Mr. Islam was one such officer. He was an
extremist Shaykhí from Ná’ín. Whenever he found a Bahá’í home, he
would harass the residents. Due to his position, they had no choice
but to refrain from any response.
One afternoon news reached us that the surveyor had come to
register the boundaries. When I met the officer, Mírzá Muḥammad,
he greeted me saying: “It’s late now, I will return tomorrow
morning.” The next morning, I was ready to receive him. When he
entered, he inspected all parts of our property and when we were
standing on the roof he said: “Please allow me to settle your account
now.” I replied: “Let’s sit inside.” He responded: “Are you a
Bahá’í?” I confirmed that I was. He said: “Your neighbor told me
yesterday that he lives next door to Mr. Zabihi, and I asked what he
thought of you? He told me that you were a strong Bahá’í.” I then
said: “It is true, I am a Bahá’í but not so well-known. If you have the
time, we could speak together.” He accepted and so I began with the
following verse by Farahmand Muqbilin (Ilhám):
Midst ocean waves you leave me bounded



Then demand vigilance to keep aloft and dry
Then I continued: “I may be known as a Bahá’í by others, but
before my Master I feel inadequate, as I do not act as one.” He
replied: “Whomever is a Bahá’í but denies it, lacks intelligence.” At
this point Mr. Islam arrived. I received him warmly and offered him
tea and pomegranate.


Illustration 30:  Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí and
his Sons, Ḥabíb and Adíb with Mr. Zabihi
While eating, he noticed a book and inquired if I was a
scholar? I told him that I was not. He continued: “Then what is that
book?” I replied: “It is a Bahá’í book.” He pressed: “What is
Bahá’í?” I said: “Bahá’í means Bahá’í.” He asked: “May I study
this book?” I picked up the book and gave it to him. He looked at it
and exclaimed: “Look at this nonsense!” On hearing these words, I
grabbed the book from him, saying: “This is not nonsense, it is the
Word of God.” He replied: “What a fool!” I retorted: “I am not a
fool; it is you who calls the Words of God nonsense!” He put his
plate down and ran into the street shouting: “Why don’t you murder
this dog? He openly declares he is a Bahá’í.” Regardless of their
prejudices, our neighbors said: “We know, but they do us no harm,
and respect our women and children.”
On hearing these words, he left and took Mírzá Muḥammad
along with him. The next day I described this incident for Mr.
Muḥammad-Ḥasan Akhaván’uṣ-Ṣafá and added: “I want to file a
complaint at the Islamic court.” He advised: “You have already dealt
with him accordingly, why do you want to file a complaint? In


addition, that is Mírzá Muḥammad Khudábandih, a Bahá’í from
Isfahan. He used to be a teacher of the Cause, but now in light of
certain considerations, he does not attend Bahá’í activities.”
That afternoon on my way home I saw Mr. Islam standing at
the entrance to our alley. In order to avoid any conflict, I waited to
see whether he would leave. He did not. When he saw me, he said:
“Mr. Zabihi, I have to inspect your neighbor’s home, you need to
come along.” Relying on God’s protection, I went and took one of my
sons with me.
He asked me: “How many children do you have?” I told him four
or five. He inquired: “Who takes care of their expenses?” I replied:
“The One who provides for all creatures.” With every step, he
repeated: “O Lords of Time! O Sign of the Age! Provide the means.”
We entered the house of our neighbor, Mr. Mutivvalí, who received
us with kindness and invited us to have breakfast on the roof. He was
a Muslim, but in response to Islami’s mantras, he whispered
profanities. He pointed to a thin woman working on the roof and said:
“She may seem smaller in stature than a child, but she has borne nine
children.” Islam asked: “Are they all Muslims?” Mr. Mutivallí said:
“Yes, they are.” Islam said: “May God increase their numbers.” He
then turned to me and said: “What is your house number?” Since it
had just been assigned, I did not remember. In response to this he
said: “How could a man who does not know his own house number,
know anything about religion?” I exclaimed: “Pardon me but so far
no one’s property was assigned a number, so you mean they had no
faith either?”
When he was finished his task, Mr. Mutivallí told me: “You must
stay and talk to Islam so he learns who is right.” I said: “I do not
want to cause havoc in your home,” but he insisted. Then Islam said:
“Zabihi, don’t leave, I want to talk to you.” I replied: “But I don’t
want to talk to you!” He asked why and I explained: “Despite the fact
that you entered my home with no permission and I received you
warmly, you insulted the sacred writings that are more precious to me
than my own life, calling them nonsense.” He replied: “That’s in the
past already. Now, are you really a Bahá’í?” I clarified that I was


most definitely a Bahá’í. He said: “Do you declare yourself as one
everywhere?” I said: “Everyone knows me as one.” He said: “What
if someone asks you?” I said: “Who?” He continued: “Someone at
the mosque or at a Rawḍih Khaní?” I told him: “I do not frequent
such places because one day when the son of Mírzá Sayḥún Ḥakím
warmly invited me and a friend to a Rawḍih Khaní at his home, we
saw them rinse 18 cups in our presence to cleanse it from our
impurities. So, we noted we were not welcome at their Rawḍih Khaní,
and so we remain deprived of such bounties.”
A number of the locals were there listening to these exchanges.
They divided into two groups. Some commented that it was a
praiseworthy act to rinse the cups, while the other group disagreed.
Mr. Islam said: “You lie, you do not bear any love for the martyred
Imam Ḥusayn.” I responded: “I have never lied to you, but all that
you utter is nothing but lies. We have a tablet of Visitation that
Bahá’u’lláh has revealed in honor of Imam Ḥusayn. I will offer you a
copy so that you see for yourself the exalted station he occupies
among the Bahá’ís.”
At this juncture, Mírzá Muḥammad entered the room. Islam said:
“Now I really want to talk.” I suggested that we set aside all prejudice
and enmity so that we could have a proper discussion. Mírzá
Muḥammad Khudábandih said: “Love blinds us.” I asked: “What do
you mean?” He explained: “Jewish leaders are so inebriated with
Judaism that they have ignored Christ and Muḥammad. The love for
Moses gave rise to animosity towards Jesus and Muḥammad. If they
were just, they would have investigated the truth and come to view all
religions as one.” Our conversation lasted until 8 pm.
Mr. Islam said: “I have debated with and debunked Ḥájí
Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí’s arguments.” I asked: “Just like you
have with me?” Mr. Mutivallí added: “Mr. Islam, Zabihi is who he
is. We like him. You may debate with him anytime you wish.” I
echoed: “Anytime.”
When we left the house, Mr. Islam said: “Give me the Tablet of
Visitation that you mentioned.” I said: “I will do as I promised. You
too promised to continue our exchanges, so you must come again.”


However, he never did. I saw him once while walking down the street.
As soon as he saw me, he hid behind a wall. I never heard from him,
until one day when I was invited by the Office of Registry to meet with
them at Maryam-Ábád desert.
The night before that meeting I had a dream. I was in a desert
where a crowd had gathered. There was a bloodthirsty wolf, but it did
not attack me, even though I was afraid of it. The next morning when
we went to Maryam-Ábád, I saw Mr. Islam among a crowd. He asked
me: “Do you represent Siyyid ‘Alí Kámravá?” I said: “Yes.” He
continued: “Which part of the land belongs to him?” I answered: “I
do not know, but you can determine based on the numbers assigned.”
That was the last time I saw him.
An iron nail cannot penetrate a rock!


5.  Declaration after second marriage
Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) continues with his stories:
Around 1345 in the Solar calendar (1966 AD), Mr. Núrbakhsh,
a Bakhtíyárí, found a piece of paper among his father’s documents.
He showed it to a Bahá’í and came to realize that his father was a
believer. The piece of paper was his declaration card. A
representative of the National Assembly asked Mr. Núrbakhsh if there
were any Bahá’ís in his locality and when he indicated that he didn’t
know, the assembly member asked if he would welcome a visit from a
Bahá’í to which Mr. Núrbakhsh replied: “By all means.”
The National Assembly, with the assistance of the Local Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Isfahan, decided to send me to the
Bakhtíyárí regions.102 I gladly began my journey towards the Shahr-i
Kurd and sent a message that the guest they were awaiting had
arrived. It was not long before Mr. Núrbakhsh came to the town to
meet me and with much joy told me that he had come to take me to the
Bakhtíyár area, saying: “You are my guest”. He purchased two
tickets and we headed to Bakhtíyárí. As he refused to let me pay for


my bus ticket, I refrained from having dinner on the way to ensure I
did not further impose on him.
It was 28 Ṣafar (June 18th) when we arrived in the settlement of
Núrbakhsh. The local tradition was that they would mourn sitting
under trees on the outskirts of the village. The village elders, as a
means to prevent trees from being cut down in the area, told people
that this was a tradition which saints of the past had followed. After
that, the trees were considered holy and were used by the locals as
their places of entertainment.
That night Mr. Núrbakhsh invited 30 guests for dinner. The next
day he announced: “I have pledged to sacrifice a lamb under one of
the trees and arrange a feast for the locals.” He invited me to go to
the desert also, however I declined as I felt it was wise for me to
remain at his home. That evening, he invited 30 more guests for dinner
and the following day, the niece of the Commander-in-Chief who was
now a frail woman; invited me to dine at her home. While there, I
talked about the Bahá’í Faith. She accepted the Cause, however since
she smoked opium, it was decided to register her as a Bahá’í after she
gave up the habit.
The next day I went to Shahr-i Kurd 103 and told the local Bahá’ís
that much hardship had been put on Mr. Núrbakhsh. He had missed
out on his work and spent a great deal of money. As a result, the Local
Assembly in Isfahan learned of this and sent him two sets of duvets.
The following autumn I returned to the Bakhtíyárí mountains and this
time spent nine days at the home of Mr. Núrbakhsh. During my stay teaching
continued unabated. By the time I left seven souls had accepted the Faith.
One person however did not declare. I inquired as to the reason and he said:
“Because I do not love my wife and I want to remarry. As the Bahá’í Faith
does not allow multiple wives, I will declare after I have remarried so that I
do not lose my voting rights.”
The weather on the day of our departure was awful. The road was
covered by the snow and we were told we could not travel. I asked if
there were any other options and was told there were, but they were
exceedingly difficult. A few years ago twelve travelers had lost their


lives. I had no choice but to extend my stay by one more night and
travel by horse. This gave me the opportunity to share the Faith with
the brother-in-law of Mr. Núrbakhsh. At the outset, he was not too
keen but gradually he was pleased. Unbeknown to me he spent the
night in my room. I came to know this, when in the morning I
performed my obligatory prayer, he removed his duvet and said:
“May it be accepted!”
Despite the cold weather we went to see the holy trees together. I
asked about the significance of the rocks arranged around the trees
and he explained that it was a shrine. I then asked what he thought
about what I had shared with him the previous night? He answered: “In
all fairness, you are right, but on the other hand I could also say that
those who come here in the name of clerics and rob the masses in the
name of God, are also right.”
We walked together for about seven or eight hours. By the time we
reached Chúnih Qum, we were exhausted. At the same time, we were
happy to reach this place, with more than 14,000 residents. We tried to
find somewhere to stay overnight however, we were told there was nothing
available, not even a teahouse. With much persistence though, we
managed to sleep at a traditional restaurant. Unfortunately, there were no
blankets or any means for us to keep warm. Therefore, we spent all night
in prayer, until the morning, when Áqá Ṣádiq, our guide, came and started
a fire so we could warm up.
While standing in the restaurant I suddenly noticed a man pushing a
jeep. The vehicle had neither doors nor windows and would not start. I
approached him and asked if he would drive us to Shahr-i-Kurd? He said:
“The road conditions are unsafe, and I cannot guarantee anyone’s
safety.” However, we insisted and eventually he agreed to take us. The
journey was arduous, but we managed to reach our destination by noon.
On arrival, I went to the Bahá’í center and rested for three days in order
to recover from the journey.
The night we had slept at the restaurant, our guide had mentioned
that the locals were prejudice against the Faith, and no teaching should
take place. However, later when he discovered that the restaurant owner
had not given us anything to keep us warm, he became quite angry. After


our departure, the locals told the owner that since two Bahá’ís had stayed
there, his restaurant was now unclean. Subsequently the poor man had to
spend 28,000 Tumans, more than double the 12,000 Tumans we had paid
him, to repair and repaint!

6.  Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí  (Zabihi)
The amazing stories expressed by my father finishes here and it would
be proper to share a story about another member of my family. Mr. Abu’l-
Faḍl Rahmání,104 one of the Bahá’ís living in Houston, USA, shared
the following memory of Ḥusayn, my brother:
“After a month of stay (November 1995), I travelled to the UK
to visit the resting-place of the beloved Guardian, and my brother,
Hádí Rahmání. As usual, dear Ḥusayn had made all the arrangements
for my stay. The last day, 22 December 1995, he picked me up from
my brother’s house and drove me to his own loving home so that I
could spend the night and be driven to the airport at 5 am the next
day. Ḥusayn’s kindness always put me to shame.
One night he told his wife and children, that he was a Bahá’í
because of me. The late Dr. Dávúdí,105 used to say this also. When
Ḥusayn began attending Bahá’í activities, Dr. Dávúdí would say: “It is
because of Rahmání that Ḥusayn is with us.” He would say this
regardless of how many times I insisted that it is a sin to say that - as
according to Bahá’u’lláh, faith is a Divine gift that God bestows on His
servants. That being said, in truth it was because Ḥusayn had parents
who were among the most spiritual teachers of the Cause.
However, the situation was such that Ḥusayn was unable to
attend Bahá’í events because for years he was busy working as a truck
driver which took him often to very remote parts of the country.
Similarly, this continued even after he formed the Aṭlasir Company in
Ṭihrán with Mr. Jumihrí. In this capacity he once again had to go far
and wide, installing communication and electrical towers. Around
this time Ḥusayn and I were friends and lived in the same
neighborhood called Amír-Ábád.


One day Ḥusayn passed our home on his way to work. He saw
me standing on the balcony and called out: “How are you?” I
answered: “Well.” Ḥusayn asked if I was going somewhere? I told
him I had to deliver mail to Mr. Abu’l-Qásim Faiḍí(Faizi), on behalf
of my brother who received all his mail at his work, Naw-Nahálán
Company 106. As I did not have a car, I was taking a taxi to the home
of his niece, Qudsiyyih Khánum, the wife of Mr. Fayḍ’u’lláh Mahjúr.
Ḥusayn said: “I know it’s been 43 years that you have been friends
with Mr. Faiḍí (Faizi), but I am not interested in seeing him nor
Kháḍi‘ or the rest of them. Regardless, I will take you to his place.
However, promise not to tell him that I brought you. Bring the mail!”
As we often would joke together, I told him to get lost and got into his
car. When we arrived, I got out of the car and entered the house while
Ḥusayn waited in the shade of a tree. On seeing Mr. Faiḍí(Faizi), I
noticed he was not his usual self. He suffered from diabetes, so jokingly
I said: “Do you allow your mailman to leave?” He smiled and said:
“Let’s have lunch together.” I declined however, explaining that I was
in a hurry. He inquired why and I told him that someone was waiting
to drive me back home. Mr. Faizi asked who he was, and I explained
that he was not someone he was acquainted with. Mr. Faizi went on to
ask the person’s name and I divulged it was Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí (Zabihi).
He asked: “Which Zabihi? Do you mean the son of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb,
the teacher of the Cause?” I said: “The one and the same.” Mr. Faizi
exclaimed: “Then let me come and offer my greetings to his wonderful
father.” When I reached the gate, Ḥusayn gave me an angry look as if
to say, why did you say I was here!


Illustration 31:  Mr. and Mrs. Ross Garcia with ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)  in Oldenburg, Germany
Mr. Faizi embraced Ḥusayn and stared deep into his eyes. After
a few moments he inquired about his dear father and Ḥusayn told him
that he was well but had gone to Mazandaran. We bade each other
farewell and left. Ḥusayn did not talk to me until we reached my home.
Begrudgingly, he said goodbye and then left. I assumed he would
never talk to me again.
The next morning, I awoke at dawn to carry out my duties. I
heard the doorbell’s ring and hurried to the door to avoid waking up
the children. It was Ḥusayn. He came up the steps crying and kept
kissing me. I became worried and asked him what was wrong?
Finally, he said: “Nothing is wrong. Yesterday I was upset with you
for taking me to Mr. Faizi but last night after having dinner with my
family, I went straight to bed and dreamed that I was at your home. We
were standing right here with Mr. Faizi dressed in beautiful clothes. I
asked, where did these fine clothes come from and you told me that they
belonged to the Guardian and he had given them to Mr. Fazi. I woke
up feeling such joy that I had to come and share my dream with you.
First of all, I feel you were upset with me yesterday. Please forgive me.
As of right now I am at your service. Whenever you have any needs I
am at your disposal.” I prepared some breakfast for us and later shared


this experience with the Amír-Ábád Assembly, informing them that
Ḥusayn has become a new man. Ḥusayn became a highly active Bahá’í
and also a member of the local pioneering committee.
Allow me to share more details; The Amír-Ábád Assembly decided to
form several assemblies along the path of the Blessed Beauty’s travels
throughout the province of Mazandaran; namely, Maḥmúd-Ábád,
Sa’ádat-Ábád, Salúdih (Núr), Dárkalá, and Tákur (Núr). After much
effort, all assemblies were formed. I should share with you in confidence
that even though Ḥusayn had no money, he would borrow large sums and
assist pioneers to purchase brick or cement factories. We used to spend
every Thursday driving up north to visit and strengthen the newly formed
assemblies. When we did not have enough believers in Tákur to form an
assembly, we had to draw on Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), who
knew the relatives of the Master living in the area; Niẓam and Ḥamíd
Awrangí who travelled through these regions on a regular basis. In
addition, we needed Mrs. Ghaffárí, however as she could not take part in
the elections for personal reasons, this led to the honor of my election to
the Assembly of Tákur in Núr. Fortunately, her circumstances improved,
and she was able to move back to Tákur, so I returned to Tihrán.
On my return, Mr. Jalál Asásí came to see me, saying that he had
been looking for me over the past three days. He said that I had been
elected to the Amír-Ábád Assembly and must attend their meeting that
evening. On hearing this, I resigned from the Tákur Assembly before
joining the Assembly of Amír-Ábád.”


Chapter 5
Memories of Mr. Zabihi

1.  Spirit of Sacrifice
His approach to living life and his dealings with others have left us
with many memories, a few of which will be shared here. The best advice
Mr. Zabihi would offer his children and friends was that: If your major
objective in life is to achieve fame, wealth, scholarship, etc., you should
pursue it while serving the Cause and with absolute adherence  to the
teachings of the Cause.
One night at a Yazd Assembly meeting he got into an argument with
a fellow member, Mr. Yigánih, which resulted in both being terribly
upset. On his return home he remembered the words of the Blessed
Beauty, to the effect that if a person is upset with someone else, it is best
to resolve it before retiring for the night. He then decided to not sleep and
to pray instead. The next morning, before dawn, he left home to go to
Mr. Yigánih’s house in order to resolve their dispute. On his way there
he ran into Mr. Yigánih, who had also come to the same conclusion.
They embraced each other and the matter was laid to rest.
When the Guardian instructed the Yazd Assembly to gather statistics
on the believers in the surrounding villages, the Assembly consulted as to
whom must carry out the task. Everyone had an excuse, so as a result my
father was assigned to it. However, he refused to receive financial
assistance and opted instead to let the Assembly know if he incurred
expenses. After 2-3 months he returned with the list, as well as an
inventory of his expenses, totaling three Tumans; all of which was spent
on books that the Assembly wanted to send to one of the villages. When
the members inquired about his own expenses he responded: “I am the
Guardian’s servant so I will invoice him!” However, the following day he
made an appointment with Dr. Afnán at his office regarding wounds and
infectious blisters on his legs and feet. This was due to the fact that lacking
the funds for transportation, he had walked from village to village instead
of imposing on the funds of the Faith.


Mr. Hishmatu’lláh Mushrifzádih, one of the Bahá’ís living in
Canada, shared a memory from his childhood growing up in Kerman,
when my father was pioneering in Bam. My father formed children’s
classes in the neighboring communities and would travel every four
weeks to each class to manage their development and assign them
specific tasks, to be carried out before his next visit. On one such
occasion he assigned them to learn about the most important
preparation for travel teaching trips. The students began to research
but found no answer. They inquired from their elders, which led to a
commotion among the Bahá’ís in Kerman. Four weeks passed after
which they provided their responses, these included: superior
knowledge, financial resources, public speaking skills, and so on. My
father approved of all of them, then proceeded to take out some
papers, in his own handwriting, which contained a Tablet of the
Master as follows: 107

“O thou who art turning thy face towards God! Close thine
eyes to all things else, and open them to the realm of the All-
Glorious. Ask whatsoever thou wishest of Him alone; seek
whatsoever thou seekest from Him alone. With a look He
granteth a hundred thousand hopes, with a glance He healeth a
hundred thousand incurable ills, with a nod He layeth balm on
every wound, with a glimpse He freeth the hearts from the
shackles of grief. He doeth as He doeth, and what recourse have
we? He carrieth out His Will, He ordaineth what He pleaseth.
Then better for thee to bow down thy head in submission, and
put thy trust in the All-Merciful Lord” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá)


Illustration 32:  Hand of the Cause of God, Dr. Giachery and
his wife during their first visit to Iran.  The first from the
right is the martyr of the Cause, Dr. Dávúdí.
Mr. Mushrifzádih would say that: “This Tablet was not only my sole
resource during travelling teaching trips, but also all other affairs
throughout my entire life.”

Another such memory was shared by Mrs. Saná’yi, a Bahá’í
residing in Bábulsar:
“During one of his teaching trips, Mr. Zabihi went to one of the
poorer areas of Khúzistán, where the friends did not have much
money. They lived on wheat. In order to not impose on anyone, he told
them his diet required him to eat wheat and so during his stay that
was all he ate. He then headed to Ahváz. One of the friends sent a
sack of wheat to Ahváz and informed the Bahá’ís that Mr. Zabihi must
only eat wheat! Mr. Zabihi explained to the friends that because of
the situation in the other village he had limited his diet to wheat; but
in Ahváz he could eat meat also.”

On another occasion in the Holy Land, I met Mrs. Victory, who
along with her husband, was serving there at the time. They now
reside in Canada. She shared many memories of my father. One of
them, if I remember correctly, is as follows:



“In one of the subsidiaries in Mazandaran, my family was
informed of the arrival of a travel teacher. I immediately headed
to the home where this person was residing, however I did not
see any newcomers among the visitors. The host informed me that
he was busy in the yard. I told him that I did not see any travel
teacher there, just an old man who was busy washing his clothes.
The host said: “That is him.” This first encounter of mine with
this man of extraordinary simplicity, contentment, and humility,
had such an impact on me that it led to a lifetime of friendship
with this kind friend, compassionate father and knowledgeable
mentor. As it so happened, the day after this encounter I went to
see the head of a government office to investigate a critical
matter. I felt concerned and unable to go alone. I spent days
praying about it however found no solution. I shared this matter
with the guest. After encouraging me to rely and trust in the
bounties and mercy of the Blessed Beauty, he offered to
accompany me to this meeting. The next day, we went to the office
and through his wisdom and insight the matter was dealt with and
resolved.”


2.  Words of the Guardian
During the early days of the revolution, my father was hospitalized at
Mitháqíyyih hospital and while there formed a deepening class for the
employees. One day, an armed Mullá suddenly entered the class and
inquired about the rooms. My father inquired about his identity and was
told that he was a representative of the temporary Islamic government. On
hearing this, he joyfully exclaimed: “I am happy because this is the
fulfilment of part of the prophecies of the Guardian and I am sure the rest
will come to pass in the course of  time.” Of course this verbal statement
and some others which come later are considered as pilgrim’s notes which
are not parts of the authoritative texts.


Illustration 33:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)

The prophecies are as follows: About fifty years before the
revolution, when my father visited the Holy Land and attained the
Guardian’s presence, he inquired about the news from ‘Ulama. My
father replied: “Out of Bahá’u’lláh’s mercy they were rendered
powerless.” The Guardian responded and went on to explain that they
were powerless at that time, and they will be defeated in the future.
The dawn of their demise has broken.
Illustration 34:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) among the
friends in Shahsavár

As my father suffered a great deal at the hands of the clergy, he was
overjoyed on hearing these words however, when the Guardian noticed


his happiness, he said that nay! They will gain power; they will have
glory and will rule. Then three times he pointed to my father’s chest with
his index finger and continued to make a remark that he will be a witness
to this. On hearing these words, my father remembered with deep
sadness the martyrdom of his own father, the confiscation of their
belongings and the suffering throughout his life at the hands of the
clergy. In this distracted and deep state of sadness he suddenly heard the
laughter in the Guardian’s voice as he said something to this effect that
before too long they will face such a misery that there will be no trace of
them anywhere.

3.  Permission to copy the Tablet of the Temple
The following story is part of a letter written by Mr. ‘Alí-Muḥammad
Iftikhárí from Brazil:
“I met him in Zábul, the capital of Sistán, next to Balúchistán. This was
during the 45th Month Plan of pioneering laid out by the beloved
Guardian. He had travelled to lovingly encourage and assist the twenty
families who had pioneered there from all parts of the country, including
ourselves. Over the next twenty years, this friendship grew stronger. Had
it not been for our pioneering overseas, this friendship would have
undoubtedly continued to grow.
His stay lasted for some time, but never did he mention anything
about the honor of receiving permission from the beloved Guardian
to copy the Tablet of the Temple in his own handwriting. Sometime
after his departure I received a letter from him that included the
Tablet, mentioning he had permission to share this with the friends,
in order to solve their problems. He had also included the instructions
for folding and reciting this potent prayer. We followed his exact
instructions and benefited a great deal. It is impossible to describe
them in detail. I will simply suffice to say that it changed my life. In
addition to removal of all material and spiritual difficulties in our
pioneering post, all of which are His blessings and mercy, I made
great strides in my career. Undeservedly, I obtained the honor of
pilgrimage to the Holy Land and was able to remain a pioneer for
over 30 years in a country designated by the Guardian in his plan.


Although I can not equate this journey with the station of pioneering,
however I remain delighted that much like a tiny ant I offered my
insignificant bit to the Glorious Solomon of Love, and count as a weak
servant of His servants in this land.


The great Zabihi had attained many honors. He was one of the
trusted supporters of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
in Iran, who was commissioned to look into a range of affairs and
challenges in various spots around the country. As his intention was
pure and sincere, he was successful in every case. He was assigned to
annually inspect the Holy House in Tákur and remain there for two to
three months each time. Undeservedly, my family and I accompanied
him in this great task. One year he invited us to visit and serve at this
holy place. I do not need to explain how delighted we were to accept
this invitation. I sent my family along with him and after arranging
my affairs, joined them two weeks later.
Illustration 35:   Tablet of the Temple
This bounty is a long and detailed account that goes far beyond
this brief letter however, I will share a glimpse. The descendants of
the Holy family who lived there were not Bahá’ís, except for
Ma’ṣumih Khánum. The manner in which Mr. Zabihi dealt with them,
made them all, both young and old, to love and respect him. One
instance involved a young member of that family who accepted the


Cause and sometime later, married a Bahá’í girl. Their wedding took
place in Behjat -Ábád , one of the many homes belonging to Mr.
Zabihi. It was a spiritually glorious and uplifting experience. Often
times, I would come home after work and find him in our home
involved in both the entertainment and spiritual education of children.
The meals we shared with him are among the most treasured and
unforgettable moments in our family life. My wife repeatedly told me,
I feel in my heart as though someone is praying for me, and it is
because of those prayers that I succeed in everything I do. My wife
would ask, could it be anyone but Mr. Zabihi? My wife and children
are among those who admired Mr. Zabihi and remember him with a
great deal of respect and affection.”
Illustration 36:  Letter written on behalf of the Guardian
authorizing Mr. Zabihi to copy the Tablet of the Temple
One of the honors of my father was to handwrite the Tablet of the
Temple. 108 In the beginning, the Blessed Beauty bestowed the honor
of writing and wrapping this potent tablet to Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin, and
then to Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn, the martyr. However, following his


martyrdom this process stopped. Before further details, a brief
description about the conditions for its writing and wrapping will be
offered. In a tablet addressed to Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin, the Blessed
Beauty instructs that it must be written with musk and saffron, or red
ink. Rose water and some tree gum must be used to secure it. It should
be folded along with the Prayer for the Temple. Whoever receives this
great gift, after ablutions must be seated in privacy facing the Point of
Adoration and with great humility recite the verse on the first line,
then mention the names of God on the second line, and finally recite
the prayer written in the center of the Temple, and then while folding
it nineteen times repeat the following verse: “He is the Protector, the
Victorious, the Helper, the Assister.” Keep it folded, and if opened to
copy, repeat this process. Whoever writes this Tablet should be
rewarded with one mithqal of gold … meaning he must be rewarded
as it will benefit the carrier. Verily He is the Powerful, the Wise;
however, great attention must be paid to ensure it is copied exactly as
the original.  It should be explained that if anyone writes the Tablet
for someone else, the receiver must offer him the equivalent of a
mithqal of gold.
During the ministry of the Guardian, The Afnáns in Yazd
submitted a request, asking his permission to allow this process to
resume through the son of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn, meaning
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi). The Guardian accepted this
request and sent a copy of the Tablet along with the relevant
instructions to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb in Yazd. After receiving this
communication, that same evening ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb went to the
bazaar, arranged for all the materials necessary for this task and
produced one copy. It is important to note that until that day, he was
not literate enough to write, but through Divine confirmation and the
permission he received from the Guardian, he was able to live up to
this responsibility.


4.  Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl Gunduli
My father used to share many stories about the early believers. The
following is one such instance:
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl Gunduli, 109 one of the wealthy believers
in Yazd, attained the presence of the Master. One day during lunch,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked Ḥájí which one of the two he favored more:
chicken breast or martyrdom. Ḥájí replied: “To tell you the truth, the
chicken breast, I do not want to face martyrdom.” The Master assured
him by saying that he will not face the martyrdom. Ḥájí felt a sense
of closeness with the Master and told Him: “Your life in the Holy
Land is not worthy of you. Please grace us in Yazd with your
presence, so that I may provide a more comfortable life for you. I have
a large home with maids and servants, a spacious yard with a marble
fountain filled with colorful fish, a naturally air-conditioned
basement, and more.” The Master replied saying that the Blessed
Beauty did too, but all was looted.
One day during the Yazd episode, Ḥájí was busy at home meeting
with one of his employees in charge of digging a well, who happened
to be a Bahá’í. They were informed that there was chaos in the alley,
and enemies were about to attack his home. Ḥájí responded: “I am
not in danger.” He was warned once more that they were closer and
about to set his entrance door on fire. Ḥájí continued to ignore the
warnings. The Bahá’í employee told Ḥájí that the Master had
promised his safety, but what about himself? He then hid in the well
and Ḥájí went after him when he slipped. The employee noticed that
Ḥájí was stuck in the mud and tried to carry him to the next well,
despite his large size.
The Ḥájí was so heavy that the employee gave in halfway and hid him
in the belly of the well (a hole in the wall of the well) and he remained
on the side. The attackers entered the house but since they could not
find the Ḥájí, they searched the well and saw the employee. They shot
at him, but only pierced through his clothing. They continued to
search for Ḥájí, carrying a handheld oil lamp. Ḥájí could see them in
the dark, but they could not see him, so they left the well. After some
time, Ḥájí emerged from the well with some difficulty and headed


back to his home. On the way, he heard the attackers talking about his
plentiful wealth and full house. On his return, he noticed that the
attackers took everything with them, even the marble slabs and fish in
his fountain.
Illustration 37:  A few friends, from right, Mr. Ash‘arí, Mr.
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí  (Zabihi)  with Furúghíyyih, Mr.
Sálikíyán and Maḥmúd Mishkí


When he saw this scene, he felt overcome. He suddenly recalled
the voice of the Master uttering these words: The Blessed Beauty
did too, but all was looted. He immediately rose and danced with
joy, praising God that his property was now alongside those of the
Blessed Beauty.


5.  The Holy House in Tákur
On Naw-Ruz 1336 (1957 AD) in the solar calendar, the National
Spiritual Assembly commissioned my father to move to Tákur, 110
Mazandaran. The goal of the Assembly was to take back this holy place
from Niẓámu’d-Dín Awrangí, the ruler of Tákur. The previous custodians
of the house were Áqá Mírzá Faḍl’u’lláh Niẓám’ul-Mamálik, the paternal
cousin of the Master, succeeded by his son, Áqá Mírzá Ḥasan Awrangí,
both faithful believers, and more recently, Niẓámu’d-Dín, the son of Mírzá
Ḥasan, who was not a Bahá’í .
My father left for Tákur. Sometime later, my mother joined him;
and four of their children who were students, remained in Yazd. In
those days there was no road to Tákur, therefore the journey was a
challenge. The trip would commence initially by car, then after
spending a night at an inn, they would continue by mule, going
through narrow mountainous paths. This leg of the journey took a
further two days, with another overnight stay at a remote lodging
before finally reaching Tákur. Likewise, all household materials
needed to set up home had to be transported in the same manner.
Illustration 38:  House of Tákur, the home of Bahá’u’lláh
destroyed at the hands of the enemies of the Cause

When my father settled in Tákur, he established a friendly
relationship with Niẓámu’d-Dín and his family, and over the years, with the


village dignitaries. He won their trust and as a result he was able to reside at
the holy house. My father then began to take the necessary steps to improve the
condition of the house and its surrounding gardens, all of which were more or
less approved by Niẓámu’d-Dín. Eventually though the Faith held the rights to
this holy place.
One of the essential elements in developing Tákur was the building
of a dam to protect it from floods. This was accomplished through
collaboration with some engineers, namely: Mr. Khabírpúr, Ra’ufí,
and Ḥarírí, from Beta Company. The project manager was Mr.
Faḍl’u’lláh Fá’iz, and the site manager, Ustad ‘Abdu’lláh Báqirí. As
it was the summer holidays the schools were closed and I was in
Tákur, in charge of managing the hours and payments of the laborers.
Rocks and lime were needed to build the dam, and we had to prepare
the lime locally. Mules carried the limestone rocks and dry bushes to
the area to be smelted. It took two days and nights to produce the lime
and, in this way, the dam was built.
The reader may imagine how happy I was to be able to stay in the
“Blessed House” and to stroll in the surrounding gardens while calling to
mind that perhaps the Blessed Beauty when was a child stayed in this house
and walked in the same gardens. It was in this house that He wrote the
following letter/tablet to one of the aristocrats of Mazandaran when he was
eight years old.   111
“He is the Beloved
God willing you are abiding under the shadow of His mercy and
Divine blessings with ease and comfort. As it outwardly appears, I
am a child and cannot write properly. However, as this unlettered
one holdeth firmly unto the Divine Tree, he can read and write
without instruction. This is manifest in the realm of essence before
the people of insight. The wayward have not been aware of this
mystery and never will be.”


Illustration 39:  Pear tree planted by the hand of the
Blessed Beauty
To know that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had been in the same house, seeing the
framed handwriting of Mírzá Buzurg above the entrance and
experiencing Tákur and the Orang Mountains, evoked emotions in
him beyond description.
Illustration 40:  The verse above was written by Mírzá Buzurg
Núri  at the entrance of the house of Tákur.


When at the Beloved’s threshold, offer up your soul



Here no longer stand greetings age old
This is the valley of love, withhold your step



This is the land of divine, shed all you bear    112
During his time there, my father’s friendship with Niẓámu’d-Dín’s
family grew so strong that he became like one of the family members.
They trusted him to the extent that he was allowed to research their
documents and submit those deemed important to the National
Assembly. These included the marriage certificate of the Blessed
Beauty and 70 other original tablets revealed by the Blessed Beauty
and the Master.
After about two years my mother returned to Yazd to care for her
three children who were still attending school. My father remained in
Tákur for a few more years and organized all affairs pertaining to the
holy place. However, he eventually moved away and one of the
friends from Sangesar was assigned to serve as the custodian of the
holy place in his stead. Each year however he returned to spend three
or four months there. The rest of his time was spent travel teaching
around the country. Over time, with the assistance of Mr. Mithaqíyyih
and my brother Ḥusayn, a clinic, public bath, and custodian’s quarters
were built. In addition to electricity, a water well, tank and pipelines
were installed to improve the lives of the locals.


Illustration 41:  A wall of the house that was recently destroyed
Sadly, with the establishment of the Islamic Republic, the holy house
and its surrounding gardens were razed to the ground. The land around
the house was divided and several buildings were erected. The bath was
left unused and the locals began to use an old unsanitary reservoir for
communal bathing instead. The clinic still stands, which continues to
help the locals access medical services and there is a paved road that
enables travel from Tihrán to Tákur in just a few hours.


Illustration 42:  Building the dam in Tákur, from right: ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), Malik Khusraví,  Ustád ‘Abdu’lláh
Báqirí and two laborers.
Illustration 43:  The clinic built by Mr. Mithaqíyyih and
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Zabihi,  now used by Tákur residents


6.  The final days
One of the last memories of my father was shared by my siter Pari
in her letter dated 28 Azar 1374 (Nov 1995). She writes:
“The last time my father was instructed by the National
Assembly to visit the friends in Gunbad Kavús and Bandar
Turkman, he happened to hear the news of the execution of the
seven friends in Yazd. He knew each of them and was so
overcome with sadness that he suffered an intestinal
hemorrhage. Against his wishes, he returned to Tihrán and
rested at home. Since the treatments failed, with the aid of
some of the friends, he was hospitalized at the Mihr Hospital
(despite the fact that medical facilities were oversubscribed
with war casualties).
Regardless of his physical weakness and non-stop
hemorrhage, his spirit was stronger than ever before. With his
amiable personality and good humor, he was tactful towards all
around him, particularly doctors and nurses, however, he
continued to proclaim the Faith. Everyone was in awe of his
behavior and treatment of others. Even one of the nurses, who
was Assyrian, kept changing her shifts so she could spend more
time with him. His condition was such that during the 26 days
of his hospitalization, not one moment was spent alone. His
children and grandchildren who were still in Iran, kept him
company. Mr. Dihqaní, his son in law, spent many nights in the
hospital with him; despite the illness of his wife, Ishráq. He
more than made up for the absence of his sons, Ḥusayn and Zia,
who lived overseas.

One day when I was alone with him, I was summoned to
the finance office of the hospital so had no choice but to leave
him alone. On my return, my cousins who happened to arrive
for a visit, had noticed a few strangers gathering around him,
inquiring about his identity. Apparently, a rumor was
circulating at the hospital that he was a well-published scholar.
No one knows how this rumor started. Part of it could have been


due to his striking appearance, with his rather long white hair,
and kind demeanor - which attracted attention and drew people
to him. Despite such attention, compared to others at the
hospital, his physical condition worsened by the day. One of the
doctors recommended surgery however the chances of recovery
were low. During the operation, they reached the conclusion
that unfortunately nothing could be done. What bothered him
the most was his inability to bathe himself. He was used to
showering before offering prayers every dawn. While
hospitalized he insisted on going to the bath to wash every day,
however he could not stand or move on his own.
Illustration 44: Convention in Tihrán, second from the
right, Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
Despite those days of chaotic and uncertain conditions,
friends came to visit him at the hospital. They included Kúrush
Talá’í, a member of the Tihrán Assembly, and Dr. Cyrus
Rawshaní, who delivered a bouquet on behalf of the National
Spiritual Assembly. The only question he could manage to ask
Dr. Rawshaní was: “What news?” The Dr. replied: “The
second muezzin has raised the call for prayer.” Which my father
understood to mean that the members of the next National
Spiritual Assembly had been elected.



During this period, not once did he mention death or dying.
Despite his critical condition and advanced age, I could not bring
myself to think of my father’s death. The night before his passing, he
addressed me and calmly said: “Death is real and can happen at any
moment, my only request is that you siblings remain united. Nothing
should come between you.” He asked me to see to this and I have
tried my best, hoping with the assistance of my dear ones, that we
honor our father’s last request.

After some time, on 29 Aban 1359 (Nov 20th, 1980) he had
a good appetite and ate well. The nurse took care of his
injections and cleared his lungs so that he could breathe easier.
My father was relaxed and resting. I was with him. The light
was dim, due to the conditions of war, and I watched the I.V.
attached to his hand. Suddenly at 9 pm he called out my name.
I asked him a question and he immediately responded. After a
few seconds, he closed his eyes and I thought he had peacefully
gone back to sleep. However, I noticed his I.V. drip had stopped.
I quickly put my head on his chest to check his heartbeat. I did
not hear anything. It was then that I knew I had lost him.
Everyone seemed to know that he had been close to the end. The
nurses were expecting his passing; so as soon as I called them,
I was no longer allowed to stay in the room. This was the end
of his earthly life. He had departed and left us all. I felt
especially alone. It was he, who after my sibling’s departure
from Iran, kept me company. Even after 15 tumultuous years, I
continue to miss him, his expressions, gestures, memories. I
regret not doing my best as his child.

He was independent, and always would say that he was
pleased with all of his children; whom he loved dearly. At the
time most of them lived far away, but he never expressed any
remorse. It was only on the last night of his life that he
mentioned their names and whispered a few words to bid them
farewell in their absence. But I still believed it was not real; just
a dream.”


Illustration 45:  Hand of the Cause of God, Abu’l-Qásim Faizi and
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
At this point, I wish to share a dream of my own: It was dawn in
my dream. The room in front of me was a palatial banquet hall, like
the ones we see in movies – but it also resembled a hospital. There
were two beds in the hall, one looked grand and kingly, the other,
was a hospital bed. My father was resting on one of the beds, and
on the other lay a great personage. I awoke and shared the dream
with my wife. I had no idea what it meant however, I told her that I
thought my father and an important person among his friends would
die today. Later while we were having breakfast the phone rang
bearing the news of his passing. A few hours later another call came
from the UK informing us that the Hand of the Cause of God, Mr.
Faiḍí, had passed away also!


Illustration 46:   ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) together with Mr.
Adib Taherzadeh in front of the  House of Worship in Germany


7.  A Bahá’í Centre in memory of Dhabíḥí (Zabihi)
In a 1995 letter signed by the secretary of the National Spiritual
Assembly of Saudi Arabia, Mrs. Náhid Ráwháni (Akhtari) informed
us that in Guri, Georgia, a Bahá’í Centre has been purchased at
number 19, Vaḥdat (unity) St. in the name of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí (Zabihi). At the time, the National Assembly of Saudi Arabia
was in charge of the expansion of the Faith in Georgia.



Chapter Six
Yazd and the Circumstances of the Family

1.
Conditions in Yazd
The extreme heat and dry conditions in Yazd make this place
unparalleled. The adobe architecture, with its’ narrow, windy alleys, high
walls and windwards on rooftops; all signal the city’s resistance to the
burning heat of summer, and historical attacks, by enemies on the city.
Its’ self-sufficient population have long worked on building Yazd with
little or no imported resources. They have used building materials that
are native to the area; and the city’s agricultural irrigation, drinking
water, and world-famous aqueducts, are among the outstanding
achievements of its’ dedicated hard-working natives.
Illustration 47:  Yazd, a desert city with no greenery or trees
Its population, though frank and had the reputation for being
somewhat fanatical, are hospitable and intelligent. Since the early days
of the Bahá’í Era, a significant portion of its population accepted the
Faith and selflessly labored to expand their community. The Bahá’í


Centre was large and included many halls, a spacious garden, sports
grounds for youth, a cemetery, a Bahá’í public bath and Bahá’í schools;
all of which were developed by the local Bahá’í community.
Illustration 48:  Some of the Bahá’ís of Yazd with Ḥájí Muḥammad-
Ṭáhir Málmírí and his son, Adíb, in the front
center, and Ḥabíb in the back row third from the right
The homes of most of the Bahá’ís had large yards and meeting places
which accommodated hundreds of participants. The Local Spiritual
Assembly oversaw the ongoing operation of committees, task forces,
classes, conferences and gatherings. The Assembly, committees and task
forces held several lengthy consultations each week. Organized Bahá’í
children’s classes grades 1 through 12, as well as seminars and final
examinations were as important as academic education in the life of all
Bahá’í children and youth. However, during the period 1954-1955 AD, the
Faith continued to expand at a steady pace, so much so that it was noticeable
to those outside of the community. Unfortunately, persecutions also
remained part of the lives of the members of the Bahá’í community.


2.  One family and 17 martyrs
Yazd has many martyrs. ‘The History of Yazd Martyrs’ written by
Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí, describes some of these cases. Yazd
has had four group martyrdoms. The first happened during the lifetime
of the Blessed Beauty, the second, during the ministry of the Master,
the third during the ministry of the Guardian, and the last, during the
leadership of the Universal House of Justice. In the families of Ḥájí
Ḥusayn Turk and ‘Ali Akbar Kashi, a total of 17 individuals were
martyred. [The names and their relationship with Mr. Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) of these
martyrs have been described in the Endnote 113]: 113


3.  ‘Ishq-Ábád Exiles
During WWII, some of the Bahá’ís of ‘Ishq-Ábád in Russia were
exiled to Iran, first to Mashhad and then to Yazd. At that time Yazd was
an exceedingly small city whose citizens were known for being closed
minded and prejudiced. The arrival of the exiles did not only impact the
Bahá’í community, but also the society at large. The newcomers were
trained in both artistic crafts and industry. They brought with them
modern tools and instruments and began to work in new fields. Even the
women opened shops and travelled through the city on bicycles without
wearing hijábs. They brought with them things that the people of Yazd
had never seen or heard of. Their courage and temerity, particularly that
of the women, resolved many conflicts at sensitive junctures in time. The
presence of these Bahá’ís at community events improved dynamics and
their incorporation of arts and music uplifted gatherings.


Illustration 49:  Some of the Bahá’í youth in earlier times
Illustration 50:   Some of the Bahá’í youth in Yazd prior to the 1979
revolution
In an issue of Payam-i- Bahá’í magazine, 114 the memoirs of a
young girl, Farzánih Dhabíḥí Muqaddam were published. In them she
tells of an event in 1938 a translation of which is as follows:
“February 4th, 1938 is a horrific date, I shall never forget. Two
officers came to our home to arrest my father, Ghulam-Ismá‘íl Uf
Dhabíḥí. We awoke abruptly and were all at once afraid. My father
was not home. He was attending an assembly meeting at the home of
Ḍíya’u’lláh Rashti. My older brother was not at home either so my
mother along with our neighbor, Mr. Ghulám-Ḥusayn Shahrívar,


consoled us. However, when the neighbor returned home, he found
himself under arrest also. It was 1 AM when my father returned home.
Calmly he turned to my mother and said: “Máh-Faríd Khánum sent
these few chocolates for you.” The officer turned to my father and
asked, whether he had any guns or knives in the house. To which my
father smiled and said: “We are Bahá’ís and do not act in opposition
to the government. You may search our home and if you find anything
that violates that fact, you may hold me accountable.” The two
officers stayed until 5 am during which time they thoroughly searched
through the entire 3 rooms and the hallway of our home.
Illustration 51:  A few Bahá’ís of Yazd

All the while my brother Dhabiḥu’lláh, my younger
sister, Malakih, and I, were standing transfixed by the wall. We
could not sit until they finally took my father away. The officers,
found nothing and told my father: “You must come with us to the
Politics Office but don’t worry, you will return home in the
morning.” However, in reality it was 1946, eight years later
before we received word from him via a letter. We lived in Yazd
at that time. The previous year, 1945 my paternal aunt, Sultan
Fu’adi (Bushruyih), went on pilgrimage to visit with her son,
Mírzá Badi‘ Bushruyih, and his family. During this trip the
Guardian asked her if there was any news of her brother? My


aunt told him that there was not, and the Guardian responded by
saying: “You will see him!”  She shared this message with us,
with assurances not to worry ourselves. However, it was some
time after before we received the letter from my father in Siberia.
In the letter he specifically instructed us as follows: “My dear
wife and beloved children, wherever you are, remain fully
obedient to the instructions of the Local Spiritual Assembly.”
We were deeply relieved and grateful to know he was still alive.
He had been transferred to Kazakhstan, in Siberia, from a prison
in ‘Ishq-Ábád. At the time of his arrest, he was a young and
handsome man, however when he was finally released in 1947, and
returned to us in Mashhad; he was an old and frail man with white
hair, relying on a cane. Nevertheless, we were delighted to see him
and thanked the Blessed Beauty that he was free and able to reunite
with his family.
My older brother, Isma’il, finished medical school in ‘Ishq-Ábád
and was now working at Tasha’us Hospital. The state had
summoned him to ‘Ishq-Ábád on 22 July 1938, where he was
interrogated by the KGB then exiled to Iran. The same summer
(1317 Solar calendar), the rest of us, my mother, Malihih, my
brother, Dhabiḥ’u’lláh, my sister, Malakih, and myself, were also
exiled to Iran. We only brought as much belongings with us that we
could load in our car. Everyone was facing some form of
discrimination at this time, not only the persecuted Bahá’ís. Some
were imprisoned, while others were exiled to Iran.
When we lived in ‘Ishq-Ábád our home was large and faced
the Mashriq’ul-Akhkár. Every morning when we awoke, we were
delighted to see the beautiful dome and minarets in the distance.
Nothing surpassed this, however now we were forced to leave ‘Ishq-
Ábád and move to Iran; a land we knew nothing of. In addition to the
upheaval of the exile, we had no idea of my father’s whereabouts.
Only God knows what we went through.

I remember well when we were living in Mashhad that I
used to hide under trees to cry. When we arrived in the city in 1938,
my brother Isma’il, who had arrived ahead of us, was somewhat


familiar with the conditions of the city and its inhabitants. My
cousin, Bibi Fatimih, accompanied him to meet us. With tears in her
eyes she told my mother: “What place is this we have come to?” She
was overcome with emotion. She took us to her home in Mashhad
and arranged one of the rooms for us to live in.

We were fortunate to have some of both our paternal and
maternal relatives in the city. My maternal aunt, Mehrangiz
Khánum, and her husband, Siyyid Riḍa Pish-Áhang, both served
at the local Bahá’í Centre. They too were from ‘Ishq-Ábád.
Although my brother had studied medicine, he took any job
available to him. My younger brother, Dhabiḥ’u’llah, set about
finding a job also.

Fariman is a city about 20 kilometres from Mashhad. It
was under construction for the Crown Prince. The Head of
Finance in Fariman, ‘Aziz’u’llah Mehrbanzád was the maternal
cousin of my mother and he gave jobs to the youth who came from
Russia. My brother, who was 16 at the time, began to work there.
However, the harsh working conditions overwhelmed these young
people and one day my brother and two of his friends tried to
escape back to Russia. Unfortunately, they were caught at the
border and after much torture, they were transferred to the
Mashhad prison. At the time, many youths from Russia were
accused of espionage and placed in prison. So, although my
brother was not alone, he was the youngest prisoner there.

This all happened during the reign of Riḍá Shah, when
his government was concerned about the large number of people
moving from Russia to Mashhad. They considered this situation a
threat to national security and therefore decided that all those who
had a male member of their family with them, should be exiled to
their place of birth. As my father was from Bushruyih, they decided
to send us there. We consulted the Mashhad Local Assembly and
decided to appeal to the Ministry of Intelligence and request that
they transfer us to Yazd, the birthplace of our grandparents.

Our mother was born in ‘Ishq-Ábád. Her parents, Siyyid
Káẓim Yazdi and Bíbí Fáṭímih, were the first custodians of the House


of Worship. In light of this, we were exiled to Yazd, while my younger
brother remained detained in the Mashhad prison. It took three days
of arduous journey for us, and our truck load of belongings, to arrive
in Yazd. A few friends and members of the Local Assembly came to
meet us. We were taken to Tawfiq school and accommodated in a
room and a hallway. This was the site of a Bahá’í school which has
now been closed by the government. The Assembly housed all the new
arrivals in this building. On our arrival we joined a few other families
in transition to Yazd. The four of us lived in the room and we had a
large balcony where we could sleep at night. Due to the hot climate
in Yazd, many people spent their days in their basements and their
nights on the roof of their houses.

There were also a few single young men housed at the
school. We all lived together and enjoyed each other’s company in
this strange new place. The local Bahá’ís, especially the Arjumand
Afnán family, were hospitable, helpful and loving. They provided us
with many opportunities, including Bahá’í classes and dinner
parties. But we were closely watched by the Yazd authorities. Each
family was assigned one or two city police officers who watched and
monitored our comings and goings. Single individuals were
assigned one officer and our family of four were assigned two. They
spent most evenings at our homes.
Over time more than 70 exiles were living in Yazd. Some were
housed at another campus, called Hushangi school, and two of the
families who had arrived earlier, at another location. The adults
were looking for employment and the children attended school.
One day an order was issued that the children be expelled. Our
mothers were greatly saddened by this, and we were all terribly
upset. Our parents took us with them to their carpet weaving
workshops and other places of work. Gratefully, a few days later,
a new circular readmitted us to school.
Following the above introduction, I want to share the
following incredible account from our days in Yazd: In 1318 Solar
calendar (1939 AD), 53 leftists were arrested and detained in
Ṭihrán. Top state authorities were frightened to see large numbers


of Russians and decided to exile them. This included certain
national policies affecting Yazd. The two key officials in the city
were: The Head of Law Enforcement, Colonel Qahrimání (who
was a very powerful man), and Ahmadpur, the Head of
Intelligence. So, it came to pass that without prior notice, the
officers that had been assigned to our family, attacked our home
early one morning. We were told to gather our belongings because
we had to leave Yazd! Their orders were to use any means
necessary to take us to the local police station. Anyone passing by
who was riding a camel or mule was stopped and forced to carry
our belongings. Our depressed mother had no idea what to do.
Anxious and tearful she went to her maternal uncle, the late
Ḥusayn ‘Alí Nírú (‘Askar Uf), who at that time was living next to
the Tawfiq School campus, to tell him the dreadful news. He
calmed her down and agreed to keep all our fragile items; advising
us not to take too much with us. We were all in tears when we bade
him farewell, to go with the officers. After a short while the exiles
were rounded up in front of the Yazd Police Station. We were all
devastated and distraught. The local population, whose community
we were now a part of, had informed one another and rushed to
gather around us. They used to call us “Rusiuka”, meaning: the
Russian exiles – and although the majority were fanatical Muslims,
they still liked having us in their city.

I will never forget when as children we would accompany
our mothers through the streets and the bazar. Everyone used to run
to their homes and say: The Rusikas are coming! Then they would all
come out to watch us with great curiosity. They were interested in
how we dressed and walked. We were the talk of the town; and so on
that awful day when we were rounded up, the locals gathered around
to watch us.
The youth, even the young girls, loaded our belongings on to
two trucks. They then took us to the compound where we were
documented and checked, all were present. They made us sign
papers and told us that we were being sent away for employment -
among other promises - then handed us over to three armed


gendarmes. One of them was named Lieutenant Mukhtárí. He said:
“None of you can leave the bus without my permission!” All of the
women, children and youth were made to get on the buses. There
were about 50 of us in all on the two vehicles. The rest had to sit
on top of the loaded trucks. Before we left, one of the officers told
a Bahá’í to: “Leave and never come back! We shall uproot the
Bahá’ís!” To which the Bahá’í friend replied: “Nasir’ud-Din Shah
thought so too! What became of him?”
After we got on the bus, anxiety and worry lead to our youth
taking up their instruments and they began singing Bahá’í songs
as we bade Yazd goodbye. It was a surreal experience. Women
were in tears. We spent one night on the road. The next morning,
we entered a caravanserai near a small village named Anarak or
Rubat Pusht-Bádám. This caravanserai had two cafes. Men and
youth entered the larger one and women and children, the smaller
one. The entire time we were watched and monitored. Each
morning we were given bread, boiled beetroot, or turnip with
carrots. The villagers would bring us everything cooked so we
would buy it. But there was no meat. The first few days they
brought some, but then concern for their short supplies meant they
kept all the meat to themselves.
One day an officer summoned one of the villagers, who was a
shepherd to the caravanserai. He had refused to bring us meat,
and on his arrival, he was tied up in the center of the caravanserai
and bastinadoed. We were overcome by this scene. My younger
sister, Malikih, who was about 11 years of age, began to cry. The
officer stopped the lashings and had the shepherd bring us a sheep.
They killed the sheep right there and then and sold its meat to our
families. But the villagers were right. Our long stay there meant
they would not have enough meat themselves.

There was little room for women and children, and we
used to sleep almost on top of each other. It was a dark and
cramped room with only one entrance. It was also infested with
lice and each day we had to hide behind the walls of the ruins in
the village and shake our clothes in the sun to rid ourselves of


them. All our cleaning was done by the river outside the
caravanserai and each evening we would gather in the room
occupied by the men. It had a window and we used to gather there
to offer prayers, play music, share stories and socialize before
retiring for the night. We were confined in our world, while the
authorities were plotting against us!

One morning, after a week had passed, a messenger came
from Yazd with instructions for our officer to transfer us as soon
as possible, to a place called Bíyábának (Junduq). At dawn, the
officer summoned us all and we were told to prepare for the next
phase of our journey. He read out the names of some of the youth
and told them they must leave in the first group. The name of my
brother and maternal uncle were on the list. Once again, my little
sister began to shed tears at the prospect of separation from two
more family members. At this point they brought a few camel
herders along with some rope. The officer instructed them to
choose the camels to transport the youth as soon as possible. The
herders were hesitant to travel to an unknown place deprived of
water and greenery and released their camels, then claimed they
could not retrieve them. In response, the officer ordered their
lashing. They were laid on the ground and whipped. We were
distraught to witness this scene. The children were crying. At dusk,
the officer let them go but demanded that they return at dawn with
their camels, otherwise they would be placed in prison.
God only knows how we felt as we returned to our rooms. We began
to pray. We were no longer able to enjoy sharing stories or laughter
together. We had no idea what awaited us. But the camel herders knew.
A few of them returned the next day and brought their camels along with
them. Reluctantly they awaited their instructions to transfer us. They
knew we were innocent victims at the mercy of the government’s
ominous plans. A few of our youth were ordered to transfer our
belongings from the trucks to the camels. During this process, one of the
families that worked as barbers to support their seven members, had
their mirror shattered. On seeing this, the mother and daughters began
to cry. We followed suit. In the midst of all this, one of the officers rushed


to halt the process. A news directive had arrived from Yazd. We all
surmised that it must be good news. He turned to us saying: “Go to sleep,
tomorrow we will travel in the same buses and trucks we came with.”
However, he did not tell us where we were going. They began to treat
our youth in a friendly manner and returned our goods to the trucks. The
truck and bus drivers who were monitored along with us, were also
feeling relieved and happy.
It was around noon the following day when we embarked on our
journey. As night began to fall, we stared out the windows, wondering
where we were being taken and what would become of us. Much like
the night, we were kept in the dark. Unspoken questions and concerns
filled our demeanor. Sometimes tears flowed and other times smiles
brightened our faces. Those were difficult hours. Soon the dark night
revealed lights shining from afar. We knew we were close to a town
and soon it became clear we were on our way to Yazd. The city we now
considered home. We began to cheer - and as we did when we left Yazd
– began to sing as we approached the city; only this time our hearts
were filled with joy. When we reached the main street, past the city
square, the bus pulled to a stop. We were staring out the windows
wondering what awaited us when we saw the Chief of Police and Head
of Security awaiting our arrival. As soon as the bus doors opened, the
Chief entered saying: “Welcome back to Yazd, we’re stuck with you!”
He got off and the bus began to move again. When it reached the same
spot where we began our journey, it stopped. We disembarked one by
one, to spend the night at the homes of local Bahá’ís and returned in
the morning to unload the trucks.
The hospitality and love displayed by the friends was
unforgettable. In our absence they had prayed, begging the
Blessed Beauty for our safety. Some of the Zoroastrians in Yazd
had done the same, hoping for our safe return. The night after our
arrival, the Bahá’í community arranged for a celebratory dinner,
praising the Almighty for the bounty of our return and the
opportunity to reunite with the friends. Yazd was no longer the city
we were exiled to. It was our city of hope. We returned to our
homes and continued our lives once more. We no longer cared


whether we were under surveillance or not, we were simply happy
to be alive and have Bahá’í friends who cared for us.

After our return to Yazd, the gendarmerie officer visited
us in our homes and befriended many of us, in particular my
brother. He respected us and in return, we each thanked him in our
own way. During the first days of our encounter, due to the false
reports from the capital and the mandate he was given, the officer
treated us with doubt and suspicion. However, once he began to
interact with us, his perception changed and he became more
friendly. Each of us, according to our means, gave him a gift. This
approach led to our friendship. He invited some of us to his home
and hosted us for dinner.

Through this relationship we came to know that when we
were taken to Rubát Pusht Bádám, the officer in charge of our
group was awaiting instructions as to his next mission. Then the
orders arrived telling him to transfer us to Junduq, via camel. This
order was issued with the sole purpose that all of us, including the
animals, would perish. They had planned to send the youth first, so
that perhaps the women and children could be spared. I am not
certain what happened, but it is quite possible that the officer in
charge of our group had reported to his superiors that we were
innocent and intentionally delayed carrying out his duties. Or
perhaps the National Assembly had made an appeal. Whatever the
reason, the authorities revised their decision and ultimately
changed the orders issued in the capital. We remained in Yazd until
the end of WWII.

Most of our youth were unemployed. My brother who was a
graduate in medicine worked with a Bahá’í doctor, named Dr.
‘Abdu’l-Kháliq Yazdi [Dr. Malakútiyán, the son of Mullá ‘Abdu’l-
Ghaní]. 115 After some time, all the youth were conscripted to the
military at the army base in Kerman. Their term of service lasted
two years. It is interesting to note that just as Riḍá Shah had
ordered to exile and annihilate us, he too was exiled through
Kerman. Ironically, some of our youth were among his escorts.”


4.  Bahá’ís of ‘Adasiyyih
Much like the story of the ‘Ishq-Ábád exiles in Yazd and its’
Bahá’í community, the Bahá’ís of ‘Adasiyyih had a similar impact.
‘Adasíyyih was a village in Jordan, which was managed by the
beloved Master. In order to develop this village, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá invited
a number of Bahá’í families from the Yazd suburbs, such as Maryam-
Ábád and Mihdí-Ábád, to move there. Under his supervision they
began to engage in agricultural projects. Based on the Master’s
instructions, they established a dam on the Lizard River, so that the
water could be used to irrigate ‘Adasiyyih and the surrounding areas.
This resulted in the production of enough food for not only Bahá’ís,
but the general population of ‘Adasiyyih and nearby villages. The
King of Jordan, Amir ‘Abdu’llah said that if he owned this village,
there would be enough fruit and vegetables to feed the entire
country!116  The Bahá’ís of ‘Adasiyyih were among the first to own
stone built homes with telephones and other modern amenities. There
was a large Bahá’í Centre with a garden. Meetings were held there, and
this is where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stayed during his visits. The economic
conditions of the Bahá’ís who lived there continued to improve.
After the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the beloved Guardian felt
that the resident Bahá’ís in ‘Adasiyyih who were mostly from Yazd
would serve the Faith better in Iran. Therefore, he asked them to return
to their original communities. They did so and brought along with
them their modern belongings; setting up shops, making watches,
glasses, and other things that were rare in Yazd. In the Maryam-Ábád
and Mihdí-Ábád villages, they employed modern agriculture and dug
deep wells to irrigate the land. As a result, many changes were
implemented. At this time, the Guardian instructed Dr. ‘Abbás Afnán
to go to Yazd and his arrival brought further positive changes, in
addition to those brought by the ‘Adasiyyih Bahá’ís. Classes were
established to teach Arabic, English, arts, crafts, carpentry, wiring,
sewing, glass painting, First Aid, and so on.


Illustration  52:  A few Bahá’í families from ‘Ishq-Ábád enjoying a
picnic at Arsun garden in Yazd
The goal was to have every Bahá’í youth learn a trade so that they
could become effective and self-sufficient pioneers, especially in the
Gulf countries. This brought a new wave of modernization to Yazd.
Some Bahá’ís  pioneered to other countries and a few began to serve in
cities across Iran. After the 1979 revolution, the authorities arrested,
detained, tortured - and even executed a few of these friends - they
displayed an unparalleled spirit of heroism and steadfastness among the
Bahá’ís. A few of these friends include the martyrs: Faríd Behmardí,
Hedáyat Síyávushí and Jamshíd Síyávushí. May they rest in peace.


5.  The Circumstances Surrounding the Zabihi family
The first Zabihi home was in a cul-du-sac in the Gazurgah
neighborhood. To reach this home, one had to pass through the
Ḥusayniyyih. When memorials were taking place, none of us,
particularly our father, could walk through. On such occasions, he
either could not leave the house at all, or had to spend the night away


at the home of our relatives. Our house had a yard, a fountain pool with
two rooms on one side, and an indoor pool and kitchen on the other.
One room was our family living room, and the other was more formal.
Here we kept our library, prayed, and received guests. In addition, the
room housed weaving looms to produce fabric – as did the indoor pool
room. Both of these rooms benefited from high dome ceilings. In
addition, between the pool and the kitchen was a water well about forty
meters deep that provided for our needs.
Illustration 53:  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zabihi) and family
We washed our clothes in a brook that ran a few meters underground.
Under both rooms there were two basements. During summer months
they served as both our cold room to store fruit, and a place to rest during
the daytime heat. In the summer months our family slept on the rooftop.
It had no fence around it and so to protect the children my father used to
tie one end of a string to our toes and the other to his, so that if one of us
got up, he too would get up to protect us. Our bathroom was in the corner,
a few steps lower than our yard.


6.  The Remains of Our Paternal Home
My sister, Ishráq, has written the following story:


“I have so many memories of my father. From the first moments
of my life until the last days of his life, all are filled with precious
memories that go far beyond any attempt to record them. I will
share one memory from his last days, a month or two before his
passing, that points to his good intentions and loving heart.
My grandfather, Ḥájí Ḥusayn Shahid, titled Sham‘ush-
Shuhadá, (Candle of Martyrs) along with my grandmother and
their son and daughters, lived in the Burzi (Zoroastrian)
neighborhood of Yazd. On the same occasion when Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn was martyred in ‘Abbás-Ábád, Yazd, the
enemies ransacked their home, broke the doors and windows, and
even uprooted their sole pomegranate tree. A few years later, my
grandmother (Sakínih Sulṭán) sold the house to a Zoroastrian and
left the area. Years later, following marriage, my father bought a
small house in Gazurgah, where all of us, except for Mehri, were
born. But my father’s wish was to purchase his paternal home and
move there. But we were not able to afford the high price. In
addition, Zoroastrians do not often, or easily, part with property.
One day my father approached the owner, Mr. Hurmuzdyár
Surushi, who was his contemporary and had inherited the house.
My father shared his wish and said: “Return my father’s home to
me!” He replied: “This is my father’s home too, and it reminds me
of him, but since we were playmates and good friends growing up,
I accept.” My father told him that he could not afford anything
more than the price which he could sell his house in Gazurgah for.
My father sold our home for 3,500 Tumans whereas Mr. Surushi
had priced his home for 6,000 Tumans however, he told my father:
“‘Abdu’l-Vahháb I know you like your father’s home and do not
have anything except 3,500 Tumans, so I will keep my word and
sell you my house for 3500 Tumans.”
We moved to our new home and spent twenty happy years there.
My father was delighted to own his paternal home however,
eventually my siblings and I, either due to education or marriage,
had to move to Ṭihrán so the house was rented out. My father often
said that he wanted to offer this house to the Faith, however. I


should mention that half the house was in my mother’s name. This
was because half of our first home was my mother’s dowry. When
purchasing the second home, my father kept the same arrangement
and because of the Islamic revolution, it was not possible to
transfer ownership to the institutions of the Faith. So, we decided
to sell the property and donate the sum to the Universal House of
Justice. However, we still had to resolve the issue of my mother’s
share. Furthermore, the grandchildren were spread throughout
the globe and it was not possible to arrange the legal paperwork.
The Islamic government refused to accept legal representation
where Bahá’ís were involved. Another challenge was that the
tenant was a Muslim who refused to evacuate the property.
As I mentioned earlier, this account demonstrates my father’s
good intentions and loving heart. In 1359 (Sept. 1980), two months
before his passing, one of the friends who knew my father’s wishes,
had a contact at the right office in Yazd and informed him that he
could sell his house without going through the usual process. He
asked for the deed. This was sent to him. He sold the house and
sent the total sum to my father in Ṭihrán. He donated the total sum
to the Faith. A week later, Mr. ‘Abdu’l- Ḥusayn Taslímí came to
visit him and brought along the receipt for his donation. He said:
“Mr. Zabihi, your generous donation was received.” The
following week the authorities kidnapped Mr. Taslimi and we
never saw him again.


Illustration 54:  Zabihi family in Ṭihrán in 1961

That evening, as I climbed the steps and entered the house, I
saw my father pacing. As soon as he saw me, he came close to the
stairs and said: “I have nothing left to do. I have accomplished all
that I was supposed to. Look, here is the receipt. I have nothing
more to do in this world.” During the same meeting with Mr.
Taslimi, he was instructed by the National Assembly to visit the
friends in Gunbad Kávus and Bandar Turkman. The next day he
went on his trip however when he returned, he was extremely ill
and passed away a short time later.”


7.  The Prayer That Was Answered
In the early years of the 1950’s  a Muslim mother and her sons were
murdered in Abarqú, a city between Yazd and Shiraz. This was incited by
an influential local landlord. Once again, the Bahá’ís were used as
scapegoats. Meanwhile, Prime Minister ‘Alí Razm-Árá was pursuing a
particular plan, agenda and scheme. In order to carry out his plan, he needed
to distract the masses by creating chaos. Perhaps the best option for Razm-
Árá was to blame the Bahá’ís for the murder of a Muslim family.


Illustration 55:  Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí  (Zia’u’llah Zabihi) in
Graz, Austria, 1961
Rumors pointed to plans to take falsely accused Bahá’ís from
Kerman, to Yazd and from there to Qum; and while in Shahr-i-Ray
release them among the angry and vengeful crowds. The clerics had
already incited the masses between Shahr-i-Ray and Ṭihrán and
prepared them for violence. The plan was to allow the blood thirsty
marchers to strike and stab them to death. This plan was reported to
the Guardian. He called for a national prayer campaign at a specific
time. The accused were brought from Kerman to Yazd and awaited
their transfer to Ṭihrán the next day. The prayer meetings took place
at several spots around Yazd. I remember the one for our area was
held at the home of Na‘ímí family. Tearfully and ardently, we prayed
for their freedom. The next morning when we headed to school, we
saw the custodian standing by the entrance. He informed us that
school was closed, due to the Prime Minister having been assassinated
(March 7th, 1951). In this manner, our loved ones were spared severe
torture and martyrdom. God’s will works in mysterious ways. [At this
point documenting a brief history of the development of the Faith in Yazd since its
inception seems useful. For this purpose refer to the Endnote one hundred and
seventeen. 117  Also names and relationships of some relatives of  ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Zabihi (Dhabíḥí) have been in the Endnote one hundred and eighteen.]118



Chapter 7
Tablets

We will present in this chapter original handwritten versions of the tablets
revealed by the Blessed Beauty or the Master addressed to Zabihi family, a
typeset version of each Tablet as well as its approved provisional translation.
The provisional translations appearing in this chapter are done by Foad
Seddigh which have been approved by the Bahá’í World Center for their
publication. At the end of the chapter a family tree will be given:
Tablet No. 1: This  Tablet is revealed by Bahá’u’lláh addressed to Husayn (Turk)
[AQA, vol. 3, 645-648]

ﺑﺴﻢ رﺑﻨﺎ اﻻﻗﺪس اﻻﻋﻈﻢ اﻟﻌﻠﻰّ اﻻﺑﮭﻰ
ﺣﻤﺪ ﻣﺤﺒﻮب ﻋﺎﻟﻢ و ﻣﻘﺼﻮد اﻣﻢ را ﻻﯾﻖ و ﺳﺰاﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﻻزال اﺧﺬ و ﻋﻄﺎ از ﯾﻤﯿﻦ و ﯾﺴﺎر اراده اش ﺟﺎرى
و ظﺎھﺮ اﺧﺬ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ آﻧﭽﮫ را ﻋﻄﺎ ﻓﺮﻣﻮد و ﻋﻄﺎ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ آﻧﭽﮫ را اﺧﺬ ﻧﻤﻮد در اﺧﺬش ﺻﺪ ھﺰار ﺣﮑﻤﺖ ﺑﺎﻟﻐﮫ
ﻣﺴﺘﻮر و ھﻤﭽﻨﯿﻦ در ﻋﻄﺎﯾﺶ ﺑﻠﻨﺪى و ﻋﻠﻮِّ ﻣﻘﺎم ﻋﻄﺎ را از اﺧﺬ ﻣﻌﻠﻮم ﻧﻤﻮد از آردى ﮐﮫ ﺳﻨﮓ آﺳﯿﺎ ﺑﺮ
ﺳﺮش ﮔﺸﺘﮫ آدم ﭘﺪﯾﺪ آرد از زﺣﻤﺖ آن اﯾﻦ ﻧﻌﻤﺖ ﺣﺎﺻﻞ و از ﺷﺪّت آن اﯾﻦ رﺧﺎ ﭘﺪﯾﺪار اﯾﻦ اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﻣﻘﺮّﺑﯿﻦ
و ﻣﻮﺣّﺪﯾﻦ و ﻣﺨﻠﺼﯿﻦ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﻣﻮر را ﺗﻔﻮﯾﺾ ﻧﻤﻮده اﻧﺪ و ﺑﺎﺳﺘﻘﺎﻣﺖ ﺗﻤﺎم ﺑﺮ آﻧﭽﮫ وارد ﺷﺪه ﺻﺒﺮ ﻧﻤﻮده اﻧﺪ
ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ اﻧّﮫ ﯾﻌﻠﻢ ﻣﺎ ﻋﻨﺪﻧﺎ ﻻ ﻧﻌﻠﻢ ﻣﺎ ﻋﻨﺪه و ھﻮ اﻟﻌﻠﯿﻢ اﻟﺨﺒﯿﺮ ﻧﺎﻣﮫ آن دوﺳﺖ ﻣﮑﺮّم رﺳﯿﺪ ﺗﻠﻘﺎء ﻋﺮش ﻋﺮض


ﺷﺪ ھﺬا ﻣﺎ ﻧﻄﻖ ﻟﺴﺎن اﻟﻌﻈﻤﺔ ﻗﻮﻟﮫ ﺟﻞّ ﺟﻼﻟﮫ ﺑﺴﻤﻰ اﻟﻤﻈﻠﻮم ﯾﺎ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ در ﺑﻼﯾﺎى ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﺗﻔﮑّﺮ ﻧﻤﺎ در ظﺎھﺮ
ﺑﻼ ﻣﯿﻨﻤﻮد و ﺷﺪﯾﺪ و ﻋﻈﯿﻢ ﺑﻮد وﻟﮑﻦ ﺑﺤﺮ رﺣﻤﺖ از او ﻣﻮّ اج و ﻧﻮر ﻣﺒﯿﻦ از او ﻣﺸﺮق و ﺷﻤﺲ ﻓﻀﻞ از
او ﺑﺎزغ ﺷﺮﯾﻌﺖ ﻏﺮّاى رﺳﻮل Òّ را ﺷﮭﺎدت آن ﺣﻀﺮت ﻣﻌﯿﻦ و ﻧﺎﺻﺮ ﺷﺪ ﻋﻤﻞ آن ﺣﻀﺮت ﺑﮑﯿﻨﻮﻧﺘﮫ
آﻓﺘﺎب آﺳﻤﺎن ﻓﺮﻗﺎن ﺑﻮده و ﺣﺪﯾﻘﮫ ﻣﻌﺎﻧﻰ را او ﺳﺎﻗﻰ و آﺑﯿﺎر اﮔﺮ ﺳﺮّى از اﺳﺮار ﺑﻼﯾﺎى ﻓﻰ ﺳﺒﯿﻠﮫ ذﮐﺮ ﺷﻮد
ﺟﻤﯿﻊ راﯾﮕﺎن ﻗﺼﺪ ﻣﯿﺪان ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و ﺷﮭﺎدت طﻠﺒﻨﺪ اﻣﺮوز ھﺮ ﻣﻘﺎﻣﻰ را ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﮐﻨﻰ ﺣﻖ در آﻧﺠﺎ ﻗﺎﺋﻢ ﯾﻌﻨﻰ
ﻣﻘﺎم اَبْ  اَبْ  و ﻓﻮق آن و دون آن اﯾﻨﻘﺪر ﺗﺮا ﮐﺎﻓﻰ اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﻗﻠﻢ اﻋﻠﯽ در اﯾﻦ ﻣﻘﺎم ﺗﺮا ﺗﻌﺰﯾﺖ ﻣﯿﻔﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ و
ﺗﺴﻠّﻰ ﻣﯿﺪھﺪ و ﻣﺼﻌﻮد ﻣﺴﻌﻮد را ذﮐﺮ ﻣﯿﻨﻤﺎﯾﺪ او ﺑﻄﺮاز ﻣﺤﺒﺔ Òّ ﻣﺰﯾﻦ و ﺑﺒﯿﺎن ﻗﻠﻢ رﺣﻤﻦ ﻣﻮﻗﻦ و ﻣﻌﺘﺮف
و ﺣﺎل در ﺟﻮار رﺣﻤﺖ ﺳﺎﮐﻦ و از ﻓﯿﻮﺿﺎت ﻻ ﯾﺘﻨﺎھﻰ ﻣﺮزوق طﻮﺑﻰ ﻟﮫ و ﻟﮏ و ﻟﻤﻦ ﻣﻌﮏ و ﻟﻠّﺬﯾﻦ ارﺳﻠﻨﺎ
ﻟﮑﻞّ واﺣﺪٍ ﻟﻮﺣﺎً ﻻﺣﺖ ﻣﻦ اﻓﻘﮫ ﺷﻤﺲ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺔ رﺑّﮏ اﻟﻤﺸﻔﻖ اﻟﮑﺮﯾﻢ اﻟﺒﮭﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﮏ و ﻋﻠﯽ ﻣﻦ ﺻﻌﺪ اﻟﯽ اﻟﺮّﻓﯿﻖ
اﻻﻋﻠﯽ و ﻓﺎز ﺑﻤﺎ ﻗُﺪّرﻟﮫ ﻣﻦ ﻟﺪى Òّ ربّ اﻟﻌﺎﻟﻤﯿﻦ اﻧﺘﮭﻰ ﻧﺎﻣﮫ آﻧﺠﻨﺎب ﻓﻰ اﻟﺤﻘﯿﻘﮫ ﺳﺒﺐ ﺣﺰن ﮐﺎﻣﻞ ﺷﺪ ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ
ﺣﺎﻣﻞ ﺧﺒﺮ ﺣﺰن اﻧﮕﯿﺰ ﺑﻮد ﺣﻖ ﺷﺎھﺪ و ﮔﻮاه ﮐﮫ ﮐﻤﺎل ھَﻢّ و ﻏﻢ روى ﻧﻤﻮد وﻟﮑﻦ ﭼﻮن در ﺳﺎﺣﺖ اﻣﻨﻊ اﻗﺪس
ﻋﺮض ﺷﺪ و آﯾﺎت ﺑﺎھﺮات از ﺳﻤﺎء ﻣﺸﯿﺖ ﻧﺎزل ﺷﻌﻠﮫ اﺣﺰان ﺑﻐﺘﺔً ﺳﺎﮐﻦ و ﻟﮭﯿﺐ ﻧﯿﺮان ھﻤﻮم ﻣﺘﻮﻗّﻒ ﺑﻞ
ﺑﯿﻔﺴﺮد اﻓﺴﺮدﻧﻲ ﮐﮫ روﺷﻨﻰ ﻧﭙﺬﯾﺮد ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ ﺑﯿﺎﻧﺎﺗﻰ در اﯾﻦ ﻣﻘﺎم از ﻟﺴﺎن ﻣﻘﺼﻮد اﻣﮑﺎن ﺟﺎرى ﮐﮫ ھﺮ ﻧﻔﺴﻰ
رﺟﺎى ﻣﻮت ﻧﻤﻮد ﮐﮫ ﺷﺎﯾﺪ ﺑﻤﺜﻞ آن ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﮔﺮدد ھﻨﯿﺌﺎً ﻟﻤﻦ ﺻﻌﺪ اﻟﯿﮫ ﻣﻨﺘﺴﺒﯿﻦ را از ﻗﺒﻞ اﯾﻦ ﻓﺎﻧﻰ ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ و ﺳﻼم
ﺑﺮﺳﺎﻧﯿﺪ و ﺗﺴﻠّﻰ ﺑﺪھﯿﺪ ﻣﻄﻠﺐ دﯾﮕﺮ اﻧﮑﮫ در وﻗﺖ ﺗﺸﺮﯾﻒ ﺑﺮدن آﻧﺠﻨﺎب اﺳﺎﻣﻰ ﭼﻨﺪى ﻧﻮﺷﺘﮫ وﺑﺴﺎﺣﺖ اﻗﺪس
ارﺳﺎل داﺷﺘﻨﺪ و وﻋﺪه ﻧﺰول اﻟﻮاح از ﺳﻤﺎء ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ظﺎھﺮ و ﻣﺪّﺗﮭﺎﺳﺖ ﻧﺎزل ﺷﺪه اﯾﻦ ﮐﺮّه ارﺳﺎل ﺷﺪ ﻣﻄﺎﺑﻖ
ثداﻮﺣ زا ﺎﺗ دراد ﻦّﯾﺰﻣ ﺪﯾﺪﺟ زاﺮﻄﺑ ًﺎﻋﺪﺑ ار ﻖﻠﺧ و ﺪﻧﺎﺳﺮﺑ ﻞﻣآ و ﻞﺋﺎﺳ ﮫﻟﻼﺟ ّﻞﺟ ﻖﺣ زا  ٠١ ﺐﺣ دﺪﻋ
روزﮔﺎر و ﺑﻐﻀﺎى اﺷﺮار و ﻋﺪاوت ﻋﻠﻤﺎ و ﺣﺴﺪ ﻓﻘﮭﺎ ﻣﺤﺰون و ﻣﻀﻄﺮب ﻧﺸﻮﻧﺪ وﻗﺘﻰ از اوﻗﺎت اﯾﻦ ﮐﻠﻤﮫ
ﻋﻠﯿﺎ از ﻟﺴﺎن ﻣﻮﻟﯽ اﻟﻮرى ظﺎھﺮ ﻗﻮﻟﮫ ﺟﻞّ ﮐﺒﺮﯾﺎﺋﮫ ﯾﺎ ﻋﺒﺪ ﺣﺎﺿﺮ دوﺳﺘﺎن اﻟﮭﻰ اﻟﯿﻮم ﺑﻌﻨﺎﯾﺖ و ﺷﻔﻘﺘﻰ ﻓﺎﺋﺰﻧﺪ
ﮐﮫ اﻗﻼم ﻋﺎﻟﻢ و اﺑﺤﺮ آن از اﺣﺼﺎء آن ﻋﺎﺟﺰ ﻧﺒﺎﯾﺪ از ﺣﻮادث ﻓﺎﻧﯿﮫ ﻣﺤﺰون ﺷﻮﻧﺪ آﻧﭽﮫ در ﻗﻠﺐ ﺧﻄﻮر ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ
و ﯾﺎ ﻗﻮّ ه ﺧﯿﺎﻟﯿّﮫ آﻧﺮا ﺗﺮﺗﯿﺐ دھﺪ ﻟﺪى Òّ از ﺑﺮاى اوﻟﯿﺎ ﻣﻮﺟﻮد و ﻣﺨﻠﻮق و ﺣﺎﺿﺮ و ﻣﻨﺘﻈﺮ در اﯾﻨﺼﻮرت
ﺣﺰن ﺟﺎﺋﺰ ﻧﮫ ﺳﺮور اﻧﺪر ﺳﺮور ﻓﺮح اﻧﺪر ﻓﺮح ﺑﮭﺠﺖ اﻧﺪر ﺑﮭﺠﺖ ﻧﻌﻤﺖ اﻧﺪر ﻧﻌﻤﺖ اﺳﺖ ﯾﺸﮭﺪ ﺑﺬﻟﮏ ﻣﻦ
ﻧﻄﻖ و ﯾﻨﻄﻖ اﻧّﮫ ﻻ اﻟﮫ اﻻّ  ھﻮ اﻟﻈّﺎھﺮ اﻟﺒﺎھﺮ اﻟﻔﺮد اﻟﻮاﺣﺪ اﻟﻤﻘﺘﺪر اﻟﻤﻌﯿﻦ اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ëّ ربّ اﻟﻌﺎﻟﻤﯿﻦ اﻧﺘﮭﻰ رﺟﺎ
آﻧﮑﮫ اوﻟﯿﺎى آن ارض را اﮔﺮ ﺑﺤﮑﻤﺖ ﻣﻮاﻓﻖ ﺑﺎﺷﺪ ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ ﺑﺮﺳﺎﻧﻨﺪ ﺷﻮق ﻗﻠﺐ و ﻓﺆاد از ﺣﺪّ و ﺣﺼﺮ ﺧﺎرج
وﻟﮑﻦ ﻧﻈﺮ ﺑﺤﮑﻤﺖ ﻣﻨﺰﻟﮫ در اﻟﻮاح ذﮐﺮ اﺳﻢ ﺟﺎﺋﺰ ﻧﮫ اﻟﺒﮭﺎء و اﻟﺘّﮑﺒﯿﺮ و اﻟﺜّﻨﺎء ﻋﻠﯽ ﺟﻨﺎﺑﮑﻢ و ﻋﻠﯽ اﻟّﺬﯾﻦ
ﺮﻣﺎﺑ اوزﺎﻓÒّ  ﮫﻨﺳ ﻰﻧﺎّﺜﻟا ﻊﯿﺑر ﺮﮭﺷ  ٨١ ﻰﻓ مدﺎﺧ . ﻢﯿﮑﺤﻟا ﺰﯾﺰﻌﻟا
)آﺛﺎر ﻗﻠﻢ اﻋﻠﯽ ج 3 – ﻟﻮح ﺷﻤﺎره
ﺻﻔﺤﺎت 645
–
(

A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
In the Name of our Lord, the Most Holy, the Most Great, the Most Exalted, the
All-Glorious.
Praise beseemeth the Best-Beloved of the world and the Object of the longing of
the nations, from the right and left sides of Whose Will signs of both giving and
taking have been everlastingly manifested. He taketh away that which He hath
given and giveth that which He hath taken away. A thousand traces of wisdom lie
hidden in that which He taketh away. Likewise, the exaltation of the station of
bestowal can be discerned from those things He taketh away. From the flour that


hath borne the heavy weight of the millstone,He bringeth forth a human being.
From this toil great blessing is attained, and from adversity ease. For this reason,
the well-favored of God, the believers in His Unity, and the pure ones, one and all
commit their affairs unto Him; with complete constancy they are patient over that
which hath been inflicted upon them, for He knoweth that which lieth within us,
but we know not that which lieth within Him. He is the All-Knowing, the All-
Informed.
The letter of that noble friend arrived and was mentioned in His presence. This is
what the Tongue of Grandeur uttered:
“In My name, the Wronged One! O Husayn,1 ponder thou the afflictions of the other
Husayn! 2 It appeared to be calamity, punishing and fierce. However, therefrom
the sea of mercy surged, the radiant light became resplendent, and the sun of grace
grew luminous.  His martyrdom lent potency and assistance to the perspicuous
Law of the Messenger of God.3 In essence, this action alone was the sun of the
heaven of the religion of the Qur’án 4 and watered the rose-garden of inner
meanings. Should any one of the hidden mysteries of affliction in His path be
recounted, then everyone would rush forward without hesitation to the arena of
martyrdom. Now shouldst thou consider any station, thou wouldst behold therein
God’s Presence, in the station of the Father and in any station above or below this.
It should be sufficient unto thee that in this Station, the Supreme Pen condoleth
with and consoleth thee and maketh mention of the auspicious soul who hath
ascended to the Kingdom. He was adorned with the ornament of the love of God,
attained unto that which proceeded from the Pen of the All-Merciful, and
recognized his Lord. Now he abideth within the precincts of the mercy of God,
and partaketh of the limitless outpourings of His grace. Well is it with him and
with thee, and with all those who are with thee, and with anyone among them for
whom We have dispatched a Tablet from the horizon of which shone forth the sun
of the loving-kindness of thy Lord, the Compassionate, the All-Bountiful. May
the glory of God be upon thee and upon him who hath ascended unto the Exalted
Throne and attained unto that which hath been decreed for him by God, the Lord
of all mankind
.”

Thy letter caused much sadness indeed for it bore sorrowful news. God beareth
me witness that it produced the utmost grief. As soon, however, as it was
mentioned in His holy and inaccessible Presence, and luminous verses were
revealed from the heaven of His will, the fire of sadness was instantly abated and
its flame stilled; nay, it was quenched in such wise that its flame will never again


be ignited.  Such utterances have flowed from the tongue of the Desire of the world
as to cause every soul to long for death, perchance he may attain unto their like.
Well is it with him who hath ascended unto Him. Convey greetings on behalf of
this lowly one to thy relations and do thou console them. Further, thou didst write
a few names supplicating His blessing when thou left this place; they were
forwarded to His holy Presence. A promise was then given that Tablets would be
revealed from the heaven of His loving-kindness. It hath been quite some time
since these Tablets were revealed and were dispatched to the number of Ḥub 5. I
beseech God that they may reach their destination and adorn the people with a
new garment, so that they would be neither saddened nor perturbed by the
happenings of this world, whether it be the hatred of the wicked-doers, the enmity
of the learned, or the jealousy of the divines.
This exalted Word was uttered some time ago from the tongue of the Lord of all
men:
“O servant-in-attendance!6 The friends of God have today been blessed by such
loving-kindness and tenderness that all the pens of the world and the seas of ink
would prove incapable of recounting it. The friends should not be saddened by
fleeting events. Whatever the human heart can conceive or the power of the
imagination can devise hath been created and lieth ready and waiting for the
benefit of His loved ones. This being the case, sadness is in no wise permitted.
Rather, it is delight upon delight, joy upon joy, ecstasy upon ecstasy, and favor
upon favor. He Who hath spoken in the past and Who speaketh now in the present
beareth witness: ‘Verily, there is none other God save Him, the Manifest, the
Evident, the Incomparable, the Single, the All-Powerful, the Helper. Praise be
unto God, the Lord of all men
.’
"


We cherish the hope that thou wilt greet the believers there, provided that the
dictates of wisdom warrant it. The longing of my heart and soul is boundless. In
order to observe the wisdom that hath been mentioned in the sacred Writings,
particular names should not be mentioned. May the glory of God and greetings
and praise be upon thee and upon them who have attained unto the Cause of God,
the Almighty, the All-Wise.
Khádim, 18 Rabí‘u’th-Thání 1302  (4 February 1885)
Notes :
1.
The name of the recipient of the Tablet is Ḥusayn.
2.
It refers to Imam Ḥusayn, the third Imam of Shi‘ah.


3.
The Messenger of God is the title of Prophet Muḥammad in the Qur’án.
4.
The religion of Qur’án is Islam and its believers are Muslims.
5.
Number of ‘ḥub’ is ten. It means that ten tablets were revealed.
6.
Servant-in-Attendance is Mírzá Áqá Ján Khádim’u’lláh.



Tablet No. 2 : This  Tablet is revealed by Bahá’u’lláh addressed to Husayn
(Turk):
ھﻮاﻟﺸﺎھﺪ اﻟﺨﺒﯿﺮ
ﯾﺎ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﻗﺼﺪ ﻣﻘﺼﺪ اﻗﺼﯽ ﻧﻤﻮدی و ﺑﮫ ذروه ﻋﻠﯿﺎ و اﻓﻖ اﻋﻠﯽ اﻗﺒﺎل ﮐﺮدی و از ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺎت ﻻ ﻧﮭﺎﯾﮫ ﺣﻖّ ﺟﻞّ
ﺟﻼﻟﮫ ﺑﮫ آن ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﮔﺸﺘﯽ. ﭼﮫ ﻣﻘﺪار از ﻋﺒﺎد ﮐﮫ از ﻗﺒﻞ و ﺑﻌﺪ ﻣﺸﺘﺎق ﻟﻘﺎ ﺑﻮدﻧﺪ و ﺑﺸﺎرت آن را از ﮐﺘﺐ اﻟﮭﯽ
ﺷﻨﯿﺪﻧﺪ و ﻟﮑﻦ ﭼﻮن ﺻﺒﺢ ﯾﻮم اﻟﮭﯽ طﺎﻟﻊ ﺷﺪ و ﺑﺤﺮ وﺻﺎل ﻣﻮّ اج، ﮐﻞّ ﻣﺤﺮوم ﻣﺸﺎھﺪه ﺷﺪﻧﺪ اﻻّ  ﻣﻌﺪودی.
ﺑﻌﻀﯽ از ﻧﺎس را ﻏﺮور ﻣﻨﻊ ﻧﻤﻮد و ﺑﺮﺧﯽ را زﺧﺎرف و ﺣﺰﺑﯽ را اوھﺎم و ظﻨﻮن و ﮔﺮوھﯽ را ﺑﻐﯽ و
ﻓﺤﺸﺎ؛ و ﺳﺒﺐ و ﻋﻠّﺖ ﮐﻞّ ﻋﻠﻤﺎی ﻋﺼﺮ ﺑﻮده و ھﺴﺘﻨﺪ. أن اﺷﮑﺮﷲ ﺑﻤﺎ ﺣﻔﻈﮏ اﯾّﺪک و ﻗﺮّﺑﮏ اﻟﯿﮫ و ﺳﻘﺎک
اﻟﺮّﺣﯿﻖ اﻟﻤﺨﺘﻮم ﺑﺎﺳﻤﮫ اﻟﻘﯿّﻮم. ﻗﺪر اﯾﻦ ﻓﻀﻞ را ﺑﺪان ان رﺑﮏ ﻟﮭﻮ اﻟﻔﻀﺎل اﻟﮑﺮﯾﻢ. ﻧﻔﻮس ﻣﻮﻗﻨﮫ ﻣﻄﻤﺌﻨﮫ از
ارض ﯾﺎ ﮐﻞّ ﺑﮫ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﺣﻖّ ﻓﺎﺋﺰﻧﺪ و اﺳﻤﺸﺎن از ﻗﻠﻢ اﻋﻠﯽ ﺟﺎری و ﻧﺎزل. از ﺣﻖّ ﻣﯽ طﻠﺒﯿﻢ اﯾﺸﺎن را ﺗﺎﺋﯿﺪ
ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ ﺑﮫ ﺷﺎﻧﯽ ﮐﮫ ﺳﻄﻮت اھﻞ ﻋﺎﻟﻢ اﯾﺸﺎن را از ﻓﯿﻮﺿﺎت اﯾّﺎم اﻟﮭﯽ ﻣﺤﺮوم ﻧﺴﺎزد. ﺳﻮف ﯾﻔﻨﯽ اﻟﻘﻮم و ﻣﺎ
ﻋﻨﺪھﻢ. ﯾﺸﮭﺪ ﺑﺬﻟﮏ ﮐﻞّ ﻣﻨﺼﻒ ﺑﺼﯿﺮ و ﮐﻞّ ﻋﺎﻟﻢ ﺧﺒﯿﺮ. اﻟﺒﮭﺎء اﻟﻤﺸﺮق ﻣﻦ اﻓﻖ ﺳﻤﺎء رﺣﻤﺘﯽ ﻋﻠﯿﮭﻢ و ﻋﻠﯿﮏ
و ﻋﻠﯽ اﻟﺬﯾﻦ ﻣﺎ ﻣﻨﻌﺘﮭﻢ ﻟﻮﻣﺔ اﻟﻼﺋﻤﯿﻦ ﻋﻦ ھﺬا اﻻﻣﺮ اﻻﻋﻈﻢ اﻻطﮭﺮ اﻻﻧﻮر اﻟﻌﺰﯾﺰ اﻟﺒﺪﯾﻊ


A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:

He is the Witness, the All-Informed.
O Ḥusayn! Thou didst direct thy steps towards the Supreme Purpose, turn thy face
towards the Most Sublime Summit and the Dayspring of Glory, and attain unto
the infinite loving-kindness of God, glorified be His grandeur. Countless people
have been eager to meet Him, both in the past and at the present time, and had
heard His glad-tidings in the Books of God. However, when the morn of the Day
of God broke and the sea of reunion surged, all were seen to be deprived of
meeting Him except a few; some souls were prevented by their vainglory, some
by worldly possessions, others by vain-imaginings and doubts, and yet others by
inequity and rebellion. The cause of all this have ever been the divines of the age.
Render thanks unto God for protecting thee, assisting thee, drawing thee nigh unto
Him, and making thee to quaff the sealed wine in His name, the Self-Subsisting.
Appreciate the value of such a bounty. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Bountiful, the
All-Generous. The true and well-assured souls from the Land of Yá 1 are
recipients of the loving-kindness of God and been honored by having their names
set forth by the Supreme Pen. I entreat God to confirm them to such an extent that
the ascendency of the people of the world may not deter them from the bounties
of the Day of God. Soon will such people and what they possess be brought to
naught. Every discerning and fair-minded person and every wise and informed
soul beareth witness unto this. The resplendent Glory shining from the horizon of
the heaven of My mercy be upon them and upon thee and upon those who have
not been deterred by the blame of the blamers from this Cause, the most glorious,
the most pure, the most luminous, the mighty, the wonderful.

Notes
1.
Land of Yá is Yazd.


Tablet No. 3 :  A Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh addressed to Husayn (Turk):

ﺟﻨﺎب ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎءﷲ
ھﻮﷲ ﺗﻌﺎﻟﯽ ﺷﺎﻧﮫ اﻟﺤﮑﻤﺔ و اﻟﺒﯿﺎن
ﯾﺎ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﻧﺎﻣﮫ ﺷﻤﺎ ﮐﮫ ﺑﮫ ﺟﻨﺎب ﺟﻮاد ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯽ ارﺳﺎل ﻧﻤﻮدی در ﺳﺎﺣﺖ اﻗﺪس ﺣﺎﺿﺮ و ﺑﮫ اﺻﻐﺎ
ﻣﻈﻠﻮم ﻓﺎﺋﺰ. ²
اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ﻋﺮف ﻣﺤﺒّﺖ اﻟﮭﯽ از او ﻣﺘﻀﻮّ ع. از ﺣﻖِ ﻣﯽ طﻠﺒﯿﻢ اھﻞ ﻋﺎﻟﻢ را از ﻟﺌﺎﻟﯽ
ﺑﯿﺎن ﮐﮫ در ﺑﺤﺮ ﻋﺮﻓﺎن ﻣﺴﺘﻮر اﺳﺖ ﻣﺤﺮوم ﻧﻔﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ. ﺳﺒﺤﺎت را ﺑﮫ اﺻﺒﻊ ﻗﺪرت ﺷﻖّ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و
ﺣﺠﺒﺎت را ﺑﺮدرﻧﺪ ﺗﺎ ﮐﻞّ ﺑﮫ ﻗﻠﻮب ﺑﮫ اﻓﻖ اﻋﻠﯽ ﺗﻮﺟّﮫ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و از ﻓﯿﻮﺿﺎت اﯾّﺎﻣﺶ ﻣﻤﻨﻮع ﻧﻤﺎﻧﻨﺪ.
ﺣﻖّ ﺑﻤﺜﺎﺑﮫ آﻓﺘﺎب ظﺎھﺮ و آﯾﺎت ﺑﻤﺜﺎﺑﮫ اﻣﻄﺎر ﻧﺎزل و ﺑﯿّﻨﺎت از اﺷﻄﺎر ﻣﺸﮭﻮد. ﻣﻊ ذﻟﮏ اﮐﺜﺮی ﺑﻤﺎ
ﻋﻨﺪھﻢ ﻣﺸﻐﻮل و از ﻣﺎ ﻋﻨﺪﷲ ﻏﺎﻓﻞ. ﺑﮫ وھﻢ ﻣﺘﻤﺴّﺴﮑﻨﺪ و از اﻧﻮار آﻓﺘﺎب ﯾﻘﯿﻦ ﻣﺤﺮوم. ﻣﻌﺮﺿﯿﻦ
ﺑﯿﺎن اﺧﺴﺮ از ﻣﻠﻞ ﻗﺒﻞ ﻣﺸﺎھﺪه ﻣﯿﺸﻮﻧﺪ. ﻣﺠﺪّد ﺑﮫ اوھﺎم ﻗﺒﻞ ﻧﺎطﻖ. از ﻋﺒﺪه اﺳﻤﺎء ﻟﺪی ﷲ ﻣﺬﮐﻮرﻧﺪ.
طﻮﺑﯽ ﻟﮏ ﯾﺎ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﺑﻤﺎ اﻗﺒﻠﺖ و ﻓﺰت و ﺷﺮﺑﺖ رﺣﯿﻖ اﻟﻌﺮﻓﺎن ﻣﻦ ﯾﺪ ﻋﻄﺎء رﺑّﮏ اﻟﺮّﺣﻤﻦ. ﻧﻔﻮس
ﻣﺬﮐﻮره در ﻧﺎﻣﮫ ھﺮ ﯾﮏ ﺑﮫ ذﮐﺮ ﻣﺎﻟﮏ اﺳﻤﺎء ﻓﺎﺋﺰ و ﺑﮫ آﺛﺎر ﻗﻠﻢ اﻋﻠﯽ ﻣﺰّﯾﻦ. از ﺣﻖّ ﻣﯽ طﻠﺒﯿﻢ ﮐﻞّ
را ﺑﮫ طﺮاز اﺳﺘﻘﺎﻣﺖ ﻣﺰّﯾﻦ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ. ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ ﻧﻌﯿﻖ ﻣﺮﺗﻔﻊ و ﮔﻤﺮاھﺎن در ﮐﻤﯿﻨﮕﺎھﺎن ﻣﺘﺮﺻّﺪ. ﻧﺴﺌﻞ
ﷲ ان ﯾﺤﻔﻆ ﺣﺰﺑﮫ ﻣﻦ اﻟﺬﯾﻦ ﻧﻘﻀﻮا ﻋﮭﺪﷲ و ﻣﯿﺜﺎﻗﮫ و ﺟﺎدﻟﻮا ﺑﺎﺗﺎﺗﮫ. اﻧﮫ ﻋﻠﯽ ﮐﻞ ﺷﯿﺊ ﻗﺪﯾﺮ. ذﮐﺮ
ﺟﻨﺎب رﻣﻀﺎﻧﻌﻠﯽ را ﻧﻤﻮدی. از ﺣﻖّ ﻣﯽ طﻠﺒﯿﻢ او را ﺑﮫ ﻧﻮر اﻣﺮ ﻣﻨﻮّ ر و ﺑﮫ ﻧﺎر ﺳﺪره ﻣﺸﺘﻌﻞ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ.
اﺷﺘﻌﺎﻟﯽ ﮐﮫ اﺛﻤﺎرش ظﺎھﺮ ﺷﻮد. اﻧﺎ ﻧﮑﺒﺮ ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﻣﻦ ھﺬا اﻟﻤﻘﺎم و ﻧﻮﺻﯿﮫ ﺑﻤﺎ ﯾﻨﺒﻐﯽ ﻻﯾّﺎم ﷲ  اﻧﮫ ھﻮ
اﻟﺠﻮاد اﻟﮑﺮﯾﻢ. اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ²
.ﻦﯿﻤﻟﺎﻌﻟا ّبر


A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
Jináb-i Ḥusayn, the glory of God be upon him.
He is God, Exalted be He, the Lord of majesty and power.
O Ḥusayn! The letter thou hast sent to Jináb-i Javád, My Glory be upon him, was
presented to the Holy Court, and was heard by this Wronged One. Praise be unto
God! The fragrance of the love of God was diffused therefrom. I beseech God not
to deprive the people of the world from the pearls of utterance which lie concealed
in the depth of the ocean of the knowledge of God, that they may rend asunder the
veils with the fingers of power, and may tear such veils so that all may turn unto
the Supreme Horizon with sanctified hearts and would not be debarred from the
abundant grace of His days. God is manifest like the sun before the eyes of men,
His revealed verses have showered down like copious rain, and His testimonies
are evident in every land. Despite all this, countless souls have busied themselves
with the tales and traditions current amongst them and have remained heedless of
that which is revealed by God; they have clung to vain-imaginings and have been
dispossessed of the light of the sun of certitude. The followers of the Bayán who
have turned aside are regarded as such as have suffered losses far greater than
others. Once again they are promoting the vain-imaginings of the past. In the sight
of God, they are regarded among them who are the worshippers of names. Well is
it with thee, O Ḥusayn, that thou hast turned towards Him, attained His Presence,
and quaffed the brimful chalice of  the wine of the knowledge of God which hath
been proffered by the fingers of the grace of thy Lord, the All-Merciful. Every one
of them whose name appeared in thy letter hath been honored by the mention of
the King of Names and hath been adorned by that which is revealed by the
Supreme Pen. I beseech God to adorn them with the ornament of constancy, as the
clamors of the infidels have been raised and wayward souls are awaiting the
opportunity to hunt down their prey. We entreat God to protect His people from
those who have broken His Covenant and Testament, and from them who have
caviled at His signs. He is, verily, powerful over all things. Thou hast mentioned
Ramaḍán-‘Alí. We beseech God to shed the light of His Cause upon him and to
enkindle him with the flame of the  Burning Bush to such a degree that its effects
would become apparent. We greet him from this Station and exhort him to observe
that which beseemeth the days of God. Verily, He is the Bountiful, the Generous.
Praise be unto God, the Lord of all the worlds.



Tablet No. 4 : A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  [MKT, vol. 5, pp. 38-39]:
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﻧﺎظﺮ ﺑﻤﻠﮑﻮت ﺗﻘﺪﯾﺲ اﻟﮭﯽ، در اﯾﻦ ﻓﺼﻞ ﺗﺎﺑﺴﺘﺎن در ﻣﺎه ﺣﺰﯾﺮان در ﺑﻌﺪ از ظﮭﺮ ﮐﮫ ﺣﺮارﺗﺶ ﭼﻮن
ﻧﯿﺮان اﯾﻦ ﻋﺒﺪ در اﯾﻦ ﻣﺤﻞّ ﮔﺮم ﮐﮫ ﺗﺤﻤّﻞ ﻧﺘﻮان ﻧﻤﻮد ﺑﯿﺎد اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ ﺧﻮش و ﻣﺴﺮور و ﻣﺴﺘﺒﺸﺮم ﮐﮫ اﺑﺪاً
ﺣﺮارت ھﻮاء را ﺗﺄﺛﯿﺮی ﻧﮫ و ﺷﺪّت ﮔﺮﻣﺎ را ﺣﮑﻤﯽ ﻧﯿﺴﺖ ﺑﻠﮑﮫ ﻧﯿﺮان ﺣﺪﯾﻘﮫ ﺟﻨﺎﻧﺴﺖ و طﺮاوت و ﺷﺪّت
ﻟﻄﺎﻓﺖ ﺑﯽﭘﺎﯾﺎن و ﻗﻠﻢ ﺑﺮداﺷﺘﮫ و ﺑﺬﮐﺮ آن ﻣﺸﺘﺎق ﺟﻤﺎل رﺣﻤﻦ ﭘﺮداﺧﺘﮫ ﮐﮫ ﺑﻠﮑﮫ از اﺛﺮ اﯾﻦ ﮐﻠﮏ و ﻣﺪاد ﻧﻔﺤﮫ
ﺧﻮﺷﯽ ﺑﻤﺸﺎم ﻓﺆاد اھﻞ وداد رﺳﺪ و ﻗﻠﻮب و ﺻﺪور ﺑﺬﮐﺮ اﻟﮭﯽ ﻣﻨﺒﺴﻂ و ﻣﻨﺸﺮح ﮔﺮدد ای ﺑﻨﺪه ﺻﺎدق ﺟﻤﺎل
اﺑﮭﯽ در ظﻞّ ﺳﺪره ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ آرﻣﯿﺪهﺋﯽ و ای ﺗﺸﻨﮫ ﺳﻠﺴﺒﯿﻞ ﻋﻄﺎ در ﺷﺎطﯽ ﺑﺤﺮ ﻋﺬب ﻓﺮات رﺳﯿﺪهﺋﯽ و ای
ﻣﺸﺘﺎق دﯾﺪار ﺟﻤﺎل ﮐﺒﺮﯾﺎء در ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﺑﮭﯽ ﻣﻮﻋﻮدی و ای ﻧﺎظﺮ اﻟﯽ Òّ ﺑﻤﻮھﺒﺖ ﮐﺒﺮی ﻣﺒﺸﺮی و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء
ﻋﻠﯿﮏ   ع ع   ﺟﻨﺎب اﺧﻮی آﻗﺎ ﺣﺴﻦ ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎء Òّ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ را از ﻗﺒﻞ اﯾﻦ ﻋﺒﺪ ﺑﺎﺑﺪع اذﮐﺎر ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ اﻋﻈﻢ اﻋﻠﯽ
اﺑﻼغ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﺋﯿﺪ و ھﻤﭽﻨﯿﻦ ﺳﺎﺋﺮ ﻣﻨﺘﺴﺒﯿﻦ و اﻗﺮﺑﺎ را )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 38
-
(

A provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O thou who hast kept thine eyes directed towards the Holy Divine Kingdom! In
this summertime, in the month of June 1 in the afternoon hours when the heat is
like fire, this Servant is happy, joyful, and gladdened by the remembrance of the
loved ones of God in this place of unbearable heat. The hot weather hath no effect
and the extreme heat is of no consequence; on the contrary, this scorching heat is


like a rose garden of delight, and in the utmost freshness and beauty.  Now I have
taken up My pen and am making mention of that ardent lover of the Beauty of the
All-Merciful; haply from the traces of this pen and ink, a sweet smell  may reach
the nostrils of the loving friends and souls that thereby their breasts and hearts
may become dilated with the remembrance of God. O true servant of the Abhá
Beauty!  Thou hast reposed beneath the shade of the tree of His loving-kindness.
O thou who thirstest for the crystalline waters of His bestowals!  Thou hast
attained unto the shores of the fresh and thirst-subduing sea. O thou who desirest
to meet the Blessed Beauty! Thou art  expected  in the Abhá Kingdom.  O thou
who hast turned towards God! Thou art given the glad-tidings of the Most Great
Favor. Glory be upon thee.
Convey unto Áqá Ḥasan, thy brother, may the Glory of the Most Glorious be upon
him, on behalf of this Servant the most wondrous greetings of the Most Glorious,
the Most Exalted.  Also extend greetings to thine other relatives and kindred.
Note:
1.
Ḥazírán, the Arabic name of the Gregorian month of June, used in Iraq and the
Levant.

Tablet No. 5 : A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: …[MKT, vol. 5, pp.9-10]:
\



ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﺑﻨﺪه آﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﻘﺪّس اﻟﮭﯽ، ﯾﺎد آر اﯾّﺎﻣﯿﺮا در درﮔﺎه ﺣﻖّ ﮔﺬراﻧﺪی و ﺑﺸﺮف ﺧﺪﻣﺖ ﻣﺸﺮّف ﮔﺸﺘﯽ و ﺗﺎج اﯾﻦ
ﻣﺒﺎھﺎت را ﺑﺮ ﻓﺮق اﻓﺘﺨﺎر ﻧﮭﺎدی و از ﺧﺪّام آﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﺤﺴﻮب ﺷﺪی و ﺑﭙﺎﺳﺒﺎﻧﯽ ﻣﻨﺴﻮب ﮔﺸﺘﯽ ﻓﻀﻞ و اﻟﻄﺎف
ﺧﻔﯿّﮫ ﭼﻨﺎن اﺣﺎطﮫ ﻧﻤﻮده ﮐﮫ در آﺛﺎر ﺟﻠﯿّﮫاش ﻣﺴﺘﻐﺮق ﮔﺸﺘﯽ و از اﻧﻮار ﻣﻮھﺒﺖ ﻋﻈﯿﻤﮫاش ﻣﺴﺘﺸﺮق ﺷﺪی
ﭘﺲ در ﺷﺐ و روز ﺑﻤﺤﺎﻣﺪ و ﻧﻌﻮت ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ربّ ودود ﻣﺸﻐﻮل ﺷﻮ ﮐﮫ ﻟﺤﻈﺎت ﻋﯿﻦ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺘﺶ ﺷﺎﻣﻞ و ﻓﯿﺾ
رﺣﻤﺘﺶ ﮐﺎﻣﻠﺴﺖ و ﺑﺸﮑﺮاﻧﮫ اﯾﻦ اﻟﻄﺎف ﺑﺨﺪﻣﺖ اﻣﺮش ﺑﮑﻮش ﺗﺎ ﻧﻔﺤﺎت  ﻗﺪﺳﺶ ﻣﺸﺎم اھﻞ آن ﺧﻄّﮫ و دﯾﺎر
را ﻣﻌﻄّﺮ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﮏ و ﻋﻠﯽ  ﮐﻞّ ﺛﺎﺑﺖ راﺳﺦ ﻋﻠﯽ ﻋﮭﺪ Òّ و ﻣﯿﺜﺎﻗﮫ اﻟﻌﻈﯿﻢ
ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﺒﮭﺂء
ع
ﺟﻨﺎب ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﻣﻨﺸﺎدی ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎء Òّ  اﻷﺑﮭﯽ را از ﻗﺒﻞ اﯾﻦ ﻋﺒﺪ ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ ﺑﺮﺳﺎن و ﺑﮕﻮ آن اﺷﺘﯿﺎق و
اﺣﺘﺮاق از ﻓﺮاق ﭘﺮﺗﻮی از وﺻﺎﻟﺴﺖ و آن ﻧﺎﻟﮫ و ﺣﺮﻗﺖ از ﻓﺮﻗﺖ ﻧﺸﺎﻧﮫ وﺻﻠﺖ اﺳﺖ از درﮔﺎه اﺣﺪﯾّﺖ
اﺳﺘﺪﻋﺎ ﻣﯽﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﻢ ﮐﮫ اﺟﺮ زﯾﺎرت در ﺣﻖّ آﻧﺠﻨﺎب ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ و در ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﺑﮭﺎﯾﺶ ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﮐﻨﺪ و ﻗﺒﻮل در
درﮔﺎه اﺣﺪﯾّﺖ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ و ﻣﺸﻤﻮل ﻧﻈﺮ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﺷﻮﯾﺪ و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﮏ    ع ع  )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 9 –
(


A provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O servant of the Holy Threshold of God! Call to memory the days thou didst spend
in His presence, wast honored to serve him and to have this crown of glory placed
upon thy head, and wast counted amongst the servants of His Threshold and
recognized as one of the keepers at His door.  His loving-kindness encompassed
thee to such an extent that thou wast immersed in His glorious signs and illumined
with His exalted grace.  Therefore be thou occupied with the praise and
acclamation of such a loving Lord, for the glances of the eyes of His loving-
kindness are cast upon thee and His merciful bounties are perfect.  To yield thanks
for such a favor, strive thou to serve His Cause such that His holy fragrance may
perfume the nostrils of the people of that land.  Glory be upon thee and upon them
who are steadfast and firm in the Covenant of God and His great Testament.
Convey greetings on behalf of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Jináb-i Ḥájí Ḥusayn Manshádí,
may the glory of the Most Glorious be upon him, and say: “The longing and fire
in thy heart because of separation are rays of reunion, and lamentation, wailing,
and burning with the fire of separation are signs of union with the Beloved.  I
beseech the Threshold of the One True God to ordain for thee the recompense of
attaining His presence in His Abhá kingdom. May thou gain acceptance before
His Threshold of Oneness, and may the eye of God’s loving-kindness turn towards
thee.”


Tablet No. 6 : A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  …[MKT, vol. 5, pp.14-15]:
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﺑﻨﺪه دﯾﺮﯾﻦ ﺟﻤﺎل ﻗﺪم، ﺧﻮﺷﺎ ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ﺑﺎﯾﻦ آﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﻨﺴﻮﺑﯽ و ﺑﺎﯾﻦ درﮔﺎه از ﺑﻨﺪﮔﺎن ﻣﺤﺴﻮب
ﻗﺴﻢ ﺑﺎﺳﻢ اﻋﻈﻢ ﮐﮫ ﻋﻨﻘﺮﯾﺐ اﯾﻦ ﻧﺴﺒﺖ آرزوی ﺷﮭﺮﯾﺎران ﻋﺎﻟﻢ ﮔﺮدد و ﺳﺮﻣﺎﯾﮫ اﻓﺘﺨﺎر ﻣﻠﻮک اﻣﻢ
و ﺗﻮ ﺑﭽﮫ ﺳﮭﻮﻟﺖ ﺑﺎﯾﻦ ﻣﻮھﺒﺖ ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﮔﺸﺘﯽ و از اﯾﻦ ﺟﺎم ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﺳﺮﻣﺴﺖ ﺷﺪی ﭘﺲ ﺑﻮﻓﺎی ﺣﻖّ ﻗﯿﺎم
ﮐﻦ و اﺣﺒﺎب را ﺑﺮ ﺛﺒﻮت و رﺳﻮخ ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ و ﭘﯿﻤﺎن اﻟﮭﯽ دﻻﻟﺖ ﮐﻦ و ﻋﻤﻮم ﻧﺎس ﺑﺮ ﻣﻨﮭﺞ ھﺪاﯾﺖ.
ﺟﺎﻣﯽ از ﺻﮭﺒﺎء طﮭﻮر در دﺳﺖ ﮔﯿﺮ و از ﺧﻤﺮ ﻣﺰاﺟﮭﺎ ﮐﺎﻓﻮر ﻋﺎﻟﻢ را ﺳﺮﻣﺴﺖ ﻧﻤﺎ ﮐﺎر اﯾﻦ ﮐﺎر
اﺳﺖ ای ھﺸﯿﺎر ﻣﺴﺖ ﻗﺴﻢ ﺑﺠﻤﺎل اﻧﻮر ﮐﮫ در ﺳﺒﯿﻞ ﺟﺎﻧﻔﺸﺎﻧﯽ ﺧﻮش اﺳﺖ ﻧﮫ ﮐﺎﻣﺮاﻧﯽ و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء
ﻋﻠﯿﮏ و ﻋﻠﯽ ﮐﻞّ ﻣﻦ ﺛﺒﺖ ﻋﻠﯽ اﻟﻌﮭﺪ و اﻟﻤﯿﺜﺎق   ع ع )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 14
-
(
A provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O long-standing servant of the Ancient Beauty!  Well is it with thee who hast been
associated with His Threshold and counted as one of His servants.  I swear by the
Most Great Name that soon such affiliation shall become the object of the longing
of the kings of the world and the source of pride for the sovereigns of nations.
Behold how easily thou hast attained unto this bounty and been intoxicated with
this wine of loving-kindness. Arise then in faithfulness to the Lord, to lead the
friends of God to stand firm and become immovable in the Covenant of God and
His Testament, and guide all souls to the straight Path.  Hold thou fast unto a
brimful chalice of pure wine and inebriate the people of the world with the
beverage that is tempered at the camphor fountain. 1 This is the real service,  O
thou who art mindful yet intoxicated with the divine drink!  I swear by the
Luminous Beauty, that which is delightful in the path of the Beloved is self-


sacrifice, not material ease and comfort.  The glory of God be upon thee and upon
them who are steadfast in the Covenant of God and His Testament.

Note:

1.
Kamfur or Kafur is a white substance added to wine in order to make it
sweet in taste and odour.  It is mentioned in the Qur’án that in Paradise,
the faithful will be given the drink which is mixed with kamfur.  For
example see: Al-Insan, 76:5 ‘But a wine cup tempered at the camphor
fountain the just shall quaff.’ According to Rodwell translation


Tablet No. 7 : A Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  …[MKT, vol. 5, pp.12-13]
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﺑﻨﺪه ﺣﻖّ ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ، ﺧﻮﺷﺎ ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ﻣﺆﻣﻦ ﺑﻄﻠﻌﺖ اﻋﻠﯽ و ﻣﻮﻗﻦ ﺑﺠﻤﺎل اﺑﮭﯽ روﺣﯽ
ﻻﺣﺒّﺎﺋﮫ اﻟﻔﺪا ﺷﺪی ﺧﻮﺷﺎ ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ﻣﺸﺘﻌﻞ ﺑﻨﺎر ﻣﺤﺒّﺖ åّ ﮔﺸﺘﯽ ﺧﻮﺷﺎ ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ﻣﻨﺠﺬب ﺑﻨﻔﺤﺎت
åّ ﺷﺪی ﺧﻮﺷﺎ ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ﻣﺸﺮّف ﺑﻠﻘﺎء åّ ﮔﺸﺘﯽ ﺧﻮﺷﺎ ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﻣﻈﮭﺮ اﻟﻄﺎف åّ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪی ﺧﻮﺷﺎ
ﺑﺤﺎل ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ و ﭘﯿﻤﺎن ﯾﺰدان ﺷﺪی ﺣﺎل وﻗﺖ ﻣﯿﺪاﻧﺴﺖ و زﻣﺎن ﺟﻮﻻن زﯾﺮا ارﯾﺎح
اﻓﺘﺘﺎن در ﺷﺪّت ھﯿﺠﺎن و اﻣﻮاج اﻣﺘﺤﺎن در ﻣﻨﺘﮭﺎ ﺟﺮﯾﺎن ﻣﻮج ﭼﻨﺎن اوج ﮔﺮﻓﺘﮫ ﮐﮫ ﻋﻤّﺎﻣﮫ ﭼﻮن
ﺑﺮج را ﻧﯿﺰ ﻏﺮق ﻧﻤﻮده ﻋﻨﻘﺮﯾﺐ ﺧﻮاھﯽ آن ﻋﻤّﺎﻣﮫ را ﻣﺸﺎھﺪه ﻧﻤﻮد ﺑﺎری ﭘﺎی ﺛﺒﺎت را ﻣﺤﮑﻢ ﮐﻦ
و ﻗﻠﺐ را ﺑﻨﻔﺤﺎت ﻣﯿﺜﺎق åّ ﺑﻮﺳﺘﺎن ارم ﺑﻘﻮّ ت ﭘﯿﻤﺎن ﭼﻨﺎن ﺑﺮﺧﯿﺰ ﮐﮫ ھﺎدم ﻣﯿﺜﺎق را در دﻣﯽ و
ﻧﻔﺴﯽ ﻓﺮار دھﯽ اﻟﯿﻮم روح اﻟﻘﺪس ﺗﺄﯾﯿﺪ ﺛﺎﺑﺘﯿﻦ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ و روح اﻻﻣﯿﻦ ﺗﻮﻓﯿﻖ راﺳﺨﯿﻦ ﺑﺨﺸﺪ ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ
ﻣﮑﻦ ﮐﮫ ﮐﻼه در ﺳﺮ داری و ﻗﺒﺎ در ﺑﺮ ﺑﻘﻮّ ت اﻟﮭﯿّﮫ ﭼﻨﺎن ﻧﻄﻘﯽ ﯾﺎﺑﯽ ﮐﮫ ﮐﻞّ ﻋﺎﺟﺰ ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ   ع ع
)ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 12
-
(


A provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:

He is the All-Glorious.
O servant of God who art steadfast in His Covenant!  Well is it with thee for having
believed in the countenance of the Exalted One, and embraced the station of the
Abhá Beauty, may My soul be a ransom for His loved ones.  Well is with thee for
having been enkindled with the fire of the love of God.  Well is it with thee for
having been attracted unto the fragrant breezes of God.  Well is it with thee for
having been honored by attaining unto the divine Presence.  Well is it with thee
for having received His overflowing bounties.  Well is it with thee for having
stood firm in the Covenant of God and His Testament.  Now is the time to rush
forth unto the arena of service and spur on thy charger for the gales of tests are
fiercely blowing and the billows of trials are violently surging.  The waves have
risen so high that even towering turbans have been submerged.  Thou wilt soon
behold that turban. In any event, make firm thy feet in constancy and make thy
heart a rose garden through the fragrant breezes of the Covenant of God.  Rise up
in service in such wise that it would cause them who strike at the root of the
Covenant to instantly run away.  In this day, the Holy Spirit will assist those who
stand firm in the Covenant, and the Faithful Spirit will confirm them who are
unwaveringly firm.   Consider not that thou wearest a hat upon thy head, and a
coat on thy body.1 Soon, through the strengthening grace of God, thou wilt acquire
such power of oration that no one will be able to challenge thee.
Notes
Clothes worn by laymen, in contrast with the turban mentioned earlier, which is worn by the clergy


Tablet No. 8 : A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:   [MKT, vol. 5, pp.10-11]
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﺑﻨﺪه اﻟﮭﯽ، اﻟﯿﻮم ﺟﮭﺎن ﻓﺎﻧﯽ ﻣﯿﺪان ﺗﺰﻟﺰل و اﺿﻄﺮاﺑﺴﺖ و ﻋﺮﺻﮫ ﻧﻘﺾ ﻣﯿﺜﺎق ارﯾﺎح اﻓﺘﺘﺎن
در ھﯿﺠﺎﻧﺴﺖ و ﻋﻮاﺻﻒ اﻣﺘﺤﺎن در اﺷﺘﺪاد ﻧﺎر ﻓﺴﺎد در اﺷﺘﻌﺎل اﺳﺖ و ﻧﺎﺋﺮه ﻓﺘﻮر در ارﺗﻔﺎع
درﯾﺎی ﺟﮭﻞ در ﺗﻤﻮّ ج اﺳﺖ و ﻧﻔﻮس ﻏﺎﻓﻠﮫ در ﺗﺨﺮﯾﺐ و ﺗﺪﻣﯿﺮ ﺑﻨﯿﺎن ﭘﯿﻤﺎن ﺳﮭﺎم ﺷﺒﮭﺎﺗﺴﺖ  ﮐﮫ در
طﯿﺮاﻧﺴﺖ و ارﯾﺎح ظﻨﻮﻧﺎت اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ در ھﯿﺠﺎﻧﺴﺖ ﺟﻨﻮد ظﻠﻤﺎت اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ درھﺠﻮم اﺳﺖ و اﻓﻮاج
اوھﺎم اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﭼﻮن اﻣﻮاج اﺳﺖ ﭘﺲ ﺗﺎ ﺗﻮاﻧﯽ ﻗﺪم را ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﻧﻤﺎ و ﻗﻠﺐ را راﺳﺦ ﮐﻤﺮ ھﻤّﺖ ﺑﺮ ﺑﻨﺪ و
ﺑﺨﺪﻣﺖ اﻣﺮåّ ﻗﯿﺎم ﻧﻤﺎ ﺗﺎ اﻧﻮار ﺛﺒﻮت ﺑﺪرﺧﺸﺪ و ﺻﺒﺢ رﺳﻮخ ﺑﺪﻣﺪ ﺑﺎﺳﺘﻌﺪاد و ﻗﺎﺑﻠﯿّﺖ ﺧﻮﯾﺶ ﻧﻈﺮ
ﻣﻨﻤﺎ ﺑﻔﻀﻞ و ﻣﻮھﺒﺖ ﺟﻤﺎل ﻗﺪم ﻧﻈﺮ ﮐﻦ ﮐﮫ ﻣﻮری را ﺳﻠﯿﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﺑﺨﺸﺪ و ﻗﻄﺮهﺋﯽ را ﺑﺤﺮ ﻋﻤّﺎن
ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ ذرّه را آﻓﺘﺎب ﮐﻨﺪ و ﺳﺮاﺑﺮا درﯾﺎی ﻋﺬب ﻓﺮات ﺧﺎک ﺳﯿﺎه را ﭘﺮ ﮔﻞ و ﮔﯿﺎه ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ و ﺳﻨﮓ
ﺑﯽرﻧﮓ را ﮔﻮھﺮ ﺷﺎھﻮار اﮔﺮ در ﻣﻮاھﺐ و ﺑﺨﺸﺎﯾﺶ او ﻧﻈﺮ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯽ از ﺳﺮ ﺗﺎ ﻗﺪم ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺖ اﻣﯿﺪ
ﮔﺮدی و اﮔﺮ در ﺧﻮد ﻧﮕﺮﯾﻢ ﻣﺄﯾﻮس و ﻧﻮﻣﯿﺪ. زﺑﺎن ﺑﮕﺸﺎ و دوﺳﺘﺎن را ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ و ﭘﯿﻤﺎن ﻧﻤﺎ
ع ع )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 10
-
(


A provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O servant of God!  Today, the fleeting world hath become the field of vacillation
and agitation, and the arena of Covenant-breaking.  The gales of trials are blowing,
and the winds of tests are raging.  The fire of sedition is blazing, and the flames
of defection are leaping high.  The sea of ignorance is rolling, the wayward souls


are engaged in the destruction of the foundation of the Covenant and its
annihilation, and the arrows of doubt are flying in every direction. The tempests
of idle fancies are stirring, the army of darkness is in full assault, and the hosts of
vain imaginings are like waves continuously lapping on the shore.  Therefore,
strive with all thy might, to make thy steps steady and thy heart immovable, gird
up thy loins, and arise to serve the Cause of God, so that the lights of steadfastness
may shine and the morn of firmness break forth.  Look not upon thy capacities,
rather fix thy gaze upon the grace and bounty of the Blessed Beauty which causeth
an ant to become Solomon, a drop to become an ocean, an atom to become the
sun, a mirage to become a body of fresh water, the black earth to become a garden
full of flowers and herbs, and a colorless stone to become a jewel worthy of kings.
Shouldst thou examine His bestowals and grace, thou wouldst become the essence
of hope.  Should we look upon ourselves, we would become dispirited and
hopeless.  Loosen thy tongue and make the friends to become firm in His Covenant
and Testament.


Tablet No. 9:   A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  [MKT, vol. 5, p.74]:
ھﻮ åّ
ای ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﺑﺮ ﻣﯿﺜﺎق، در ھﺮدم در اﯾﻦ اﻧﺠﻤﻦ رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﻣﺬﮐﻮر ﺑﻮده و ھﺴﺘﯽ آﻧﯽ از ﺧﺎطﺮ ﻧﻤﯿﺮوی
ﺷﮑﺮ ﮐﻦ ﺟﻤﺎل اﺑﮭﯽ را ﮐﮫ ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ﻣﻘﺒﻮل ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﺒﮭﺂء ﮔﺸﺘﯽ و ﻣﺤﻤﻮد در ﻧﺰد اﺣﺒّﺎء. اﻟﯿﻮم ﻣﻮھﺒﺘﯽ
اﻋﻈﻢ از ﺛﺒﻮت و رﺳﻮخ ﺑﺮ ﭘﯿﻤﺎن ﻧﮫ اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ðّ ﺑﺂن ﻓﺎﺋﺰی و اﻧﺸﺎءﷲ ﺑﺜﻤﺮات آن ﻧﺎﺋﻞ در ﺧﺼﻮص
اﻧﺘﺨﺎب ﻣﺠﻠﺲ اﻣﻮر ﺧﯿﺮﯾّﮫ و اﻋﻤﺎل ﺑﺮﯾّﺔ ﻣﺮﻗﻮم ﻧﻤﻮده ﺑﻮدﯾﺪ ﻣﺮاﺟﻌﺖ ﺑﺤﻀﺮت اﻓﻨﺎن ﺳﺪره ﻣﻨﺘﮭﯽ
ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ ھﺮ ﻧﻮع ﮐﮫ ﻣﺼﻠﺤﺖ داﻧﻨﺪ ﻣﺠﺮی دارﻧﺪ ﻣﻘﺒﻮل اﺳﺖ و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﮏ و ﻋﻠﯽ ﮐﻞّ ﻣﻦ ﺛﺒﺖ و


ﺑﻠﺖ   ع ع ﺣﻀﺮات اﻓﻨﺎن ﺳﺪره ﻣﻘﺪّﺳﮫ را ﻣﺸﺘﺎﻗﯿﻢ و ﺑﺠﻤﯿﻊ اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ ﺑﺮﺳﺎن و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء
ﻋﻠﯿﮏ    ع ع  )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 74
(


A provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:
He is God.
O thou who dost stand firm in the Covenant!  Thou art remembered in this spiritual
assemblage, and art not absent from My mind for a moment.  Be thankful to the
Abhá Beauty that thou hast been accepted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and art praised by the
friends.  Today there is no grace greater than being firm and immovable in the
Covenant.  Praise be unto God that thou hast attained unto that.  God grant that
thou mayest also attain unto its results.  Thou hast written regarding the election
of the committee for benevolent purposes, philanthropic deeds and public affairs;
thou shouldst refer this to Jináb-i Afnán, the twig of the Divine Tree.  Whatever he
deemeth prudent is acceptable.  The glory of God be upon thee and upon whomever
is firm in the Covenant.  Convey my longing to the Afnáns, the twigs of the Holy
Tree, and convey my greetings to all the friends.  Glory be upon thee.


Tablet No. 10 : A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:    …[MKT, vol. 5, pp. 23-24] :
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﻗﻠﺐ ﻣﺘﻌﻠّﻖ ﺑﺤﺐّ اﻟﮭﯽ، در اﯾﻦ اﯾّﺎم دو ﻣﻘﺎم ﻣﺸﮭﻮد و دو ﻣﺮﺗﺒﮫ ﻣﻌﺮوف و ﻣﺸﮭﻮر ﯾﮑﯽ از اﻋﻠﯽ
ﻋﻠّﯿّﯿﻦ ﺣﮑﺎﯾﺖ ﮐﻨﺪ و دﯾﮕﺮی از اﺻﻞ ﺳﺠّﯿﻦ ﯾﮑﯽ ﺟﻮھﺮ ﺗﻮﺣﯿﺪ اﺳﺖ و دﯾﮕﺮی اوﺳﺎخ ﺗﺤﺪﯾﺪ رﺗﺒﮫ


اوّ ل ﻣﻘﺎم ﻓﻨﺎی در ﺟﻤﺎل ﻣﺒﺎرک اﺳﺖ و اﺷﺘﻌﺎل ﺑﻨﺎر ﻣﺤﺒّﺖ ﺟﻤﺎل ﻗﺪم و ﺟﻮش و ﺧﺮوش ﺑﺬﮐﺮ اﺳﻢ
اﻋﻈﻢ و ﻧﺴﯿﺎن ﻣﺎدون او و ﻧﺸﺮ ﻧﻔﺤﺎت و اﻋﻼی ﮐﻠﻤﺎت او و رﺗﺒﮫ ﺛﺎﻧﯿﮫ اﺷﺘﻐﺎل ﺑﺮواﯾﺎت و ﺣﮑﺎﯾﺖ
و ﻗﺼﺺ و اﺷﺎرت و اﻟﻘﺎء ﺷﺒﮭﺎت در ﻗﻠﻮب ﺿﻌﯿﻔﮫ اﯾﻨﻘﺪر ﺑﺪان ﮐﮫ آﻧﭽﮫ اﺳﺘﻤﺎع ﮐﻨﯽ ﮐﮫ ﻏﯿﺮ از
ذﮐﺮ ﺟﻤﺎل ﻗﺪم ﺑﺎﺷﺪ ﻣﻘﺼﺪ اﺷﻐﺎل ﺑﻤﺎ ﻻ ﯾﻐﻨﯽ اﺳﺖ و ﻏﻔﻠﺖ از ذﮐﺮ اﻟﮭﯽ ﺗﻮ ﮐﮫ ھﻮﺷﯿﺎر و ﺑﯿﺪاری
و اﯾّﺎﻣﯽ در ﻣﺤﻀﺮ دﯾﺪار ﺟﻤﺎل ﻣﺨﺘﺎر ﺑﻮدی و ﻣﺴﺘﻤﻊ ﺧﻄﺎب ﺣﻀﺮت ﭘﺮوردﮔﺎر ﺑﺎﯾﺪ اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ
را ﭼﻨﺎن ﺑﻨﺎر ﻣﻮﻗﺪه رﺑّﺎﻧﯿّﮫ ﻣﺸﺘﻌﻞ ﮔﺮداﻧﯿﺪ ﮐﮫ ﺟﺰ ذﮐﺮ دوﺳﺖ از ﻣﻐﺰ و ﭘﻮﺳﺖ ﺑﺴﻮزاﻧﺪ ﺗﻮ در
ﺳﺎﺣﺖ اﻗﺪس ﻣﺪّت ﻣﺪﯾﺪی ﮐﮫ ﺑﻮدی ﺳﻠﻮک و اﺧﻼق و اطﻮار و اﺳﺮار و رﻓﺘﺎر و ﮔﻔﺘﺎر آن ﺟﻮھﺮ
اﻧﻮار و ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺖ ﺟﺎﻣﻌﮫ ﺳﺎطﻌﮫ از ﻣﻄﻠﻊ اﺳﺮار را ﻣﺸﺎھﺪه و اﺳﺘﻤﺎع ﻧﻤﻮدی و روش و دھﺶ آن
ﺳﻠﻄﺎن آﻓﺮﯾﻨﺶ را دﯾﺪی ﺑﺎﯾﺪ ﺑﺠﺎن ﺑﮑﻮﺷﯽ و ﺑﺪل ﺑﺠﻮﺷﯽ ﺗﺎ ﮐﻞّ را ﺑﺮﺿﺎی ﻣﺒﺎرک دﻻﻟﺖ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯽ
و ﺑﺮ ﺷﺮﯾﻌﮫ ﺑﻘﺎ ھﺪاﯾﺖ ﮐﻨﯽ و ﺑﺮ ﻧﺸﺮ ﻧﻔﺤﺎت åّ ﺗﺸﻮﯾﻖ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯽ و ﺑﺮ اﻧﺘﺸﺎر آﺛﺎر åّ ﺗﺤﺮﯾﺺ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯽ
و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﮏ و ﻋﻠﯽ ﮐﻞّ ﺛﺎﺑﺖ راﺳﺦ ﻋﻠﯽ ﻋﮭﺪ åّ و ﻣﯿﺜﺎﻗﮫ اﻟﻐﻠﯿﻆ  ع ع  )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص
-
(

A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O possessor of a heart attached to the love of God!  Two stations can be discerned
and two positions are well known and reputed at this time: one doth reflect the
heights of heaven and the other doth express the essence of the lowest abyss; one
is the quintessence of oneness and the other is the defilement of limitations.  The
first is the station of non-existence before the Blessed Beauty, enkindlement with
the fire of love of the Ancient Beauty, being filled with enthusiasm in the mention
of the Greatest Name, forgetting aught else besides Him, diffusing the divine
fragrances, and exalting His words; while the second is becoming busy with
traditions, stories, tales, and allusions, and placing doubts in weak hearts.  What
thou shouldst know is this, that whatever thou mayest hear other than the mention
of the Ancient Beauty is nothing but the pursuit of what is of no benefit and
waywardness from the mention of God.  Thou, who art vigilant and awake, didst
spend some time visiting the court of the Unconstrained Beauty, and wert
privileged to be addressed by the Lord of mankind, shouldst endeavour to enkindle
the friends of God with the divinely kindled fire in such wise that it would burn
away all else save the mention of the Lord.  Thou didst spend a considerable length
of time at His holy Court; thou didst behold the conduct, disposition, manners,
and behaviour of that Essence of light, and the perfect Reality emanating from the
Dayspring of mysteries; thou didst hearken to His utterances and didst witness the
conduct and generosity of that Sovereign of creation.  Thou must endeavour with
thine entire being and cry out from the depth of thy heart so that thou mayest lead
everyone to His good-pleasure, guide them to His everlasting Faith, encourage


them to the diffusion of the fragrance of God, and urge them to spread the signs
and tokens of God.  The Glory of God rest upon thee and upon them who are firm
and unassailable in the Covenant of God and His firm Testament.

Tablet No. 11 : A Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  [MKT, vol. 5, pp. 25-26]
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﻣﺘﻮﺟّﮫ ﺑﺪﯾﺎر اﻟﮭﯽ، آﻧﭽﮫ ﺑﺠﻨﺎب ﺳﯿّﺪ ﺟﻮاد ﻣﺮﻗﻮم ﻧﻤﻮده ﺑﻮدﯾﺪ ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﺷﺪ ﭼﻮن ﻣﺪلّ ﺑﺮ ﺗﻮﺟّﮫ
اﻟﯽ åّ و اﺷﺘﻌﺎل ﺑﻨﺎر ﻣﻮﻗﺪه در ﺳﺪره ﺳﯿﻨﺎ ﺑﻮد روح و رﯾﺤﺎن ﻣﺒﺬول داﺷﺖ و ﻧﻔﺤﮫ اﯾﻘﺎن اﺳﺘﺸﻤﺎم
ﺷﺪ از ﻓﻀﻞ ﻋﻈﯿﻢ ﺣﻲّ ﻗﺪﯾﻢ اﻣﯿﺪوارﯾﻢ ﮐﮫ ﭼﻮن ﻧﺴﺎﺋﻢ اﺳﺤﺎر و ﻟﻮاﻗﺢ ﻣﻮﺳﻢ ﺑﮭﺎر ﺑﺮ ﻣﻤﺎﻟﮏ و دﯾﺎر
ﻣﺮور و ﻋﺒﻮر ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯽ ﺑﮭﺮ ﻣﺸﺎم رﺳﯽ ﺑﺒﻮی ﺧﻮش ذﮐﺮ åّ ﻣﻌﻄّﺮ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯽ ﺑﮭﺮ ﻧﻔﺴﯽ رﺳﯿﺪی ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ
و ﭘﯿﻤﺎن ﺣﻀﺮت ﭘﺮوردﮔﺎر او را ﺛﺎﺑﺖ و راﺳﺦ ﮐﻨﯽ اﻟﯿﻮم اھﻢّ اﻣﻮر ﺛﺒﻮت و رﺳﻮخ ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ و
ﻣﯿﺜﺎق اﻟﮭﯽ اﺳﺖ اﻟﺒﺘّﮫ ﮐﻞّ ﻧﻔﻮس را ﺑﺎﯾﺪ ﺑﺎﯾﻦ اﻣﺮ اﻋﻈﻢ ﺑﯿﺪار و ھﻮﺷﯿﺎر ﮐﺮد ﺗﺎ آﻧﮑﮫ ﭼﻮن ﺟﺒﻞ
راﺳﺦ و راﺳﯿﺎت ﺛﺎﺑﺘﮫ ﺑﺮ ﻋﮭﺪ و ﭘﯿﻤﺎن و اﯾﻤﺎن اﻟﮭﯽ ﻣﺴﺘﻘﯿﻢ ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ در ﺧﺼﻮص رؤﯾﺎﺋﯽ ﮐﮫ ﺗﻌﺒﯿﺮش
را ﺧﻮاﺳﺘﮫ ﺑﻮدﯾﺪ ﺗﻌﺒﯿﺮش اﯾﻦ اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ دﺧﻮل در درﯾﺎ ﻋﺮﯾﺎن و ﺑﺮھﻨﮫ دﻟﯿﻞ اﯾﻦ اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ اﻧﺸﺎءﷲ
ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺖ اﻣﺮåّ ﺑﯽﺳﺘﺮ و ﺣﺠﺎب ظﺎھﺮ و ﺑﺎھﺮ ﮔﺮدد و از آﻟﻮدﮔﯽ ﻣﻔﺘﺮﯾﺎت ﻣﻔﺘﺮﯾﻦ و ﻣﺮﺟﻔﯿﻦ ﻣﻨﺰّه
و ﻣﻘﺪّس ﺷﻮد و اﻧﺸﺎءﷲ ﺷﻤﺎ ﻧﯿﺰ ﻣﻮﻓّﻖ ﺑﺂن ﺧﻮاھﯿﺪ ﺷﺪ ﮐﮫ آﺛﺎر ﻋﺰّت اﻣﺮåّ در ﺣﯿّﺰ اﻧﻈﺎر اھﻞ
ﻋﺎﻟﻢ ﻣﺸﮭﻮد و ﻋﯿﺎن ﮔﺮدد ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ را در اطﺮاف ﺑﮑﻤﺎل اﺷﺘﯿﺎق از ﻗﺒﻞ اﯾﻦ ﻋﺒﺪ ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ
اﺑﺪع اﺑﮭﯽ اﺑﻼغ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﺋﯿﺪ و ﺑﮕﻮﺋﯿﺪ ای اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ ﯾﻮم ﺛﺒﻮت و رﺳﻮخ اﺳﺖ و وﻗﺖ اﺳﺘﻘﺎﻣﺖ و
رﮐﻮز ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﺷﺪاﯾﺪ ﺑﻼ را ﻧﻨﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ اﮔﺮ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﯾﻦ ﻋﺒﺎد را ﻏﺮق درﯾﺎ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و ﯾﺎ ﮔﻤﺸﺪه ﺻﺤﺮا
ﮐﻨﻨﺪ ﺷﻤﺎ ﺛﺎﺑﺖ و راﺳﺦ ﺑﺎﺷﯿﺪ و ﺑﺮ ﻧﺼﺮت اﻣﺮåّ ﺑﺒﯿﺎن ﻟﺴﺎن و ﺣﺴﻦ اﺣﻮال و اطﻮار و وﺻﺎﯾﺎی
اﻟﮭﯽ ﻗﯿﺎم ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ و اﻟﺒﮭﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﮏ   ع ع )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 25
-
(


A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O thou who hast turned towards the Divine Realm! I noted what thou hast written to Siyyid
Javád. Thy letter indicated that thou hast turned thy eyes towards God, and hast been
enkindled with the blazing fire raging in the burning Tree upon Sinai; thus it produced
much gladness and joy, and from it the sweet scent of certitude was inhaled. I cherish the
desire that by the great bounties of the All-Living and Everlasting God thou mayest pass
over cities and lands like the early morning zephyr and the gentle breezes of spring, and
mayest perfume every nostril with the fragrance of the mention of God and strengthen
whomever thou dost meet in the Covenant of God and His Testament. Today, firmness in
the Covenant and Testament is the most important of all things. It is essential to awaken
all souls to this reality and make them vigilant so that they stand firm and steadfast as
mountains.
Thou hast requested the interpretation of thy dream in which thou wert plunged
naked into a sea. This doth mean that, God willing, the truth of the Cause of God
will be made apparent and manifest without any veils and coverings, and will be
sanctified from the calumnies of the agitators and slanderers; God willing thou
wilt also attain unto it so that the glory of the Cause of God may be seen and may
become apparent before the eyes of the peoples of the world. Convey wonderful
Abhá greetings to the friends in that area and tell them:  “O ye beloved of God!
Today is the day of steadfastness and firmness, of perseverance and tenacity.
Regard ye not the severity of afflictions. Should they plunge these servants into
the sea or send them to uninhabitable deserts, ye should stand firm and immovable,
and arise to make the Cause of God triumphant by the power of your utterance,
your good deeds and character, and in conformity with Divine  admonitions.” The
glory of God be upon thee.


Tablet No. 12 : A Tablet revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:   [MKT, vol. 5, pp. 26-27] :
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﻣﺴﺎﻓﺮ ﻣﻦ åّ اﻟﯽ åّ، ﭼﻨﺪ ﻣﺮاﺳﻠﮫ آﻧﺠﻨﺎب ﻣﺘﻮاﺻﻞ و از ﻣﻀﺎﻣﯿﻨﺶ آﺛﺎر روﺣﺎﻧﯿّﺖ ظﺎھﺮ و
ﺑﺎھﺮ و ﺷﺌﻮن ﺛﺒﻮت و رﺳﻮخ ﻣﺸﮭﻮد و ﻻﺋﺢ دﺳﺖ ﻧﯿﺎز را ﺑﺪرﮔﺎه ربّ ﺑﯽاﻧﺒﺎز ﺑﻠﻨﺪ ﮐﻦ و ﺑﮕﻮ ای
ﭘﺮوردﮔﺎر ﺳﺘﺎﯾﺶ و ﻧﯿﺎﯾﺶ ﺗﺮا ﻻﺋﻖ و ﺳﺰاوار ﮐﮫ اﯾﻦ ﻣﺮده اﻓﺴﺮده را ﺟﺎن ﺑﺨﺸﯿﺪی و اﯾﻦ ﮔﻤﮕﺸﺘﮫ
ﺳﺮﮔﺸﺘﮫ را ﺑﺪاراﻻﻣﺎن راه دادی اﯾﻦ ﺑﯽ ﺳﺮ و ﺳﺎﻣﺎن را در ﻣﺄﻣﻦ اﻟﻄﺎف ﭘﻨﺎه دادی و اﯾﻦ ﺗﺸﻨﮫ
ﺳﻮﺧﺘﮫ را ﺑﺮﺣﯿﻖ ﻣﺨﺘﻮم و ﻣﺂء ﻋﺬب ﺣﯿﻮان ﺳﯿﺮاب ﻓﺮﻣﻮدی ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ ﺑﮭﺪاﯾﺖ ﮐﺒﺮی ﻓﺎﺋﺰ داﺷﺘﯽ و
ﺑﻤﻮھﺒﺖ ﻋﻈﻤﯽ ﻣﺨﺼّﺺ ﮐﺮدی ﮐﺮدﮔﺎرا ﺷﮑﺮ ﺗﺮا ﺣﻤﺪ ﺗﺮا ﺳﺘﺎﯾﺶ ﺗﺮا، ﻧﯿﺎﯾﺶ ﺗﺮا، ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺒﯽ ﮐﮫ
ﺧﻮاﺳﺘﮫاﯾﺪ اﻧﺸﺎءﷲ ﺑﻌﺪ ارﺳﺎل ﻣﯽﺷﻮد     ع ع  )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 26
-
(

A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O thou who hast travelled from God unto God! Several of thy dispatches were
received; from their contents signs of spirituality and evidences of firmness and
steadfastness could be observed. Raise thou thy suppliant hands at the threshold
of the Incomparable Lord and say:  “O my God! Praise and devotion beseemeth
Thee for having revived this lifeless and dispirited being, for having led this
wanderer and long-lost being to a place of safety, for having provided a refuge for
this destitute and homeless one in the safe shelter of Thy loving-kindness, and for
having quenched the thirst of this parched-lipped soul with the unsealed wine and
fresh and living waters, inasmuch as Thou didst make him attain unto the most
great guidance and favored him with the most glorious grace. O my God! I yield
Thee thanks, praise, and devotion for this.” The letters thou hast requested, God
willing, will be dispatched later.



Tablet No. 13 : A Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  [MKT, vol. 5, pp. 31-33]
ھﻮ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﻣﻮﻗﻦ ﺑﺂﯾﺎت åّ، آﻧﭽﮫ ﺑﺠﻨﺎب ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﻣﺮﻗﻮم ﻧﻤﻮده ﺑﻮدﯾﺪ ﻣﻠﺤﻮظ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ و ﺑﯽﻧﮭﺎﯾﺖ ﻣﺤﻈﻮظ ﺷﺪﯾﻢ
و ﺧﺪﻣﺎت ﺷﻤﺎ در ﮐﺘﺎب ﻣﺤﻔﻮظ ﻣﮑﺘﻮب ﮔﺸﺖ و در ﻟﻮح ﻣﺴﻄﻮر ﻣﺮﻗﻮم طﻮﺑﯽ ﻟﮏ از ﺣﺮارت و
اﺷﺘﻌﺎل اﺣﺒّﺎء åّ و ﻧﻔﻮذ ﮐﻠﻤﺔ åّ ﮐﻤﺎل ﺑﺸﺎرت ﺣﺎﺻﻞ اﻣﯿﺪوارﯾﻢ ﮐﮫ ﯾﻮﻣﺎً ﻓﯿﻮﻣﺎً در ازدﯾﺎد ﺑﺎﺷﺪ وﻟﯽ
از ﺣﮑﻤﺖ ﻣﺄﻣﻮر ﺑﮭﺎ در زُﺑُﺮ و اﻟﻮاح ﻏﻔﻠﺖ ﻧﮑﻨﻨﺪ ﮐﮫ اﯾﻦ ﻗﻀﯿّﮫ ﺑﺴﯿﺎر ﻣﮭﻢّ. اﻟﺒﺘّﮫ ﺻﺪ اﻟﺒﺘّﮫ ﻣﺮاﻋﺎت
ﺣﮑﻤﺖ را از دﺳﺖ ﻧﺪھﻨﺪ ﺗﺒﻠﯿﻎ اﻋﻈﻢ ﺧﺪﻣﺖ اﺳﺖ در آﺳﺘﺎن ﺣﻀﺮت اﺣﺪﯾّﺖ وﻟﯽ ﺷﺮط ﻣﻘﺎرﻧﺖ
ﺑﺤﮑﻤﺖ ﺷﺮط ﻣﺘﺮوک ﺷﻮد ﻣﺸﺮوط ﻋﺒﺚ و ﻣﻔﻘﻮد ﺷﻮد ﺟﻨﺎب آﻗﺎ ﻣﯿﺮزا ﻣﻨﻈﺮ ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎء åّ اوّ ل ﺑﺎﯾﺪ
ﺣﮑﻤﺖ را ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و ﺛﺎﻧﯿﺎً آﻧﭽﮫ ﺣﻀﺮت اﻓﻨﺎن ﺳﺪره ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎء åّ  اﻷﺑﮭﯽ ﻣﺼﻠﺤﺖ داﻧﺴﺘﮫ
اﻣﺮ ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ ﻣﻌﻤﻮل دارﻧﺪ اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ را از ﻗﺒﻞ اﯾﻦ ﻋﺒﺪ ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ اﺑﺪع اﺑﮭﯽ ﺑﺮﺳﺎﻧﯿﺪ و ﺑﮕﻮﺋﯿﺪ ﮐﮫ ای
دوﺳﺘﺎن اﻟﮭﯽ ﺑﻌﻨﺎﯾﺎت ظﺎھﺮه ﺑﺎھﺮه ﺣﻀﺮت رﺣﻤﻦ ﻣﺴﺘﺒﺸﺮ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ و از ﻧﺴﺎﺋﻢ ﺟﺎﻧﺒﺨﺶ ﺣﺪاﺋﻖ
ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﺑﮭﯽ ﻣﮭﺘﺰّ در ظﻞّ ﺳﺪره ﻣﺒﺎرﮐﮫ ھﺴﺘﯿﺪ ﮐﮫ ظﻞّ ظﻠﯿﻠﺶ از ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﻋﻠﯽ ﺗﺎ ﺣﻀﯿﺾ ادﻧﯽ
ﻣﻤﺪود و ﻣﺴﺘﻈﻠّﯿﻦ در ﻣﻘﺎم ﻣﺤﻤﻮد. ربّ ﻧﻮّ ر ﻗﻠﻮب اﺣﺒّﺎﺋﮏ ﺑﺎﻧﻮار ﻋﻄﺎﺋﮏ و ﻋﻄّﺮ ﻣﺸﺎم ارﻗّﺎﺋﮏ
ﺑﻨﻔﺤﺎت ﻗﺪس ﻋﺒﻘﺖ ﻣﻦ رﯾﺎض ﻋﻼﺋﮏ و اﯾّﺪھﻢ ﻋﻠﯽ اطﺎﻋﺔ اﻣﺮک و اﻟﺜّﺒﻮت و اﻟﺮّﺳﻮخ ﻋﻠﯽ ﻋﮭﺪک
و ﻣﯿﺜﺎﻗﮏ و اﻻﺷﺘﻌﺎل ﺑﺎﻟﻨّﺎر اﻟﻤﻮﻗﺪة ﻓﯽ ﺳﺪرة رﺑّﺎﻧﯿّﺘﮏ اﻧّﮏ اﻧﺖ اﻟﺤﺎﻓﻆ اﻟﮑﺮﯾﻢ اﻟﺮّﺣﯿﻢ اﻟﻤﺨﺘﺎر از
ﺟﻤﻠﮫ ﺣﮑﻤﺖ ﺑﺎﯾﺪ ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﺣﮑﻮﻣﺖ ﻧﻤﻮد ﻧﻮﻋﯽ ﺣﺮﮐﺖ ﻧﮑﺮد ﮐﮫ ﺳﺒﺐ دﻟﮕﯿﺮی و وﺣﺸﺖ ﺷﻮد ﭼﮫ
ﮐﻞّ ﺑﻨﺺ
ّ  ﻗﺎطﻊ ﻣﺄﻣﻮر ﺑﺎطﺎﻋﺖ و اﻧﻘﯿﺎد ﺑﺤﮑﻮﻣﺘﻨﺪ   ع ع )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺟﻠﺪ 5 ص 31
-
(


A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
He is the All-Glorious.
O thou who hast attained certitude in the signs of God! What thou hast written
to Jináb-i Ḥájí hath been noted; it is the cause of infinite delight. Thy services
were written in the Guarded Book and were recorded in the Written Tablet. Well
is it with thee. The news of the enkindlement and ardor of the loved ones of God


and of the penetrating power of the Word of God was the cause of utmost joy
and delight. We cherish the hope that they may increase day by day. However,
wisdom, to which everyone is directed in the Books and Tablets, should not be
neglected. The matter of wisdom is very important and of course should not be
abandoned under any circumstances. Teaching the Cause of God is regarded as
the greatest service at the threshold of the Incomparable God, provided that it
conformeth to the condition placed upon it, which is nothing but wisdom. Should
the condition be ignored, the act conditioned upon it would come to naught.
Jináb-i Áqá Mírzá Manẓar, the glory of God be upon him, should firstly observe
wisdom and then follow that which the Afnán of the Holy Tree, the glory of the
Most Glorious be upon him, would deem prudent. Convey the most wondrous
Abhá greetings on behalf of this Servant to the friends and tell them:  “O ye
loved ones of God! Be ye gladdened by the manifest and evident loving-kindness
of the All-Merciful, be ye stirred by the fragrant breeze which hath wafted over
the gardens of the Abhá kingdom. Ye are sheltered under the shadow of the
Blessed Tree, the shade of which hath been extended from the Kingdom on high
to the lowest depths, and ye are sheltered beneath shadow of the Praised Station.
1 O My Lord! Illumine the hearts of Thy loved ones by the light of Thy loving-
kindness and perfume the nostrils of Thy thralls by the fragrant breeze wafting
over Thy lofty gardens; confirm them so that they may attain unto obedience to
Thy Cause, unto firmness and steadfastness in Thy Covenant and Thy
Testament, and unto enkindlement by the fire raging in Thy Divine Tree. Thou
art verily the All-Protecting, the All-Bounteous, the Compassionate, the
Unconstrained.” One instance of wisdom is to have regard for the government;
no one should make any move in a way that would vex or alarm the government,
because everyone hath been admonished, according to the explicit Text, to obey
the government and submit unto it.

Notes
1.
Praised Station/Glorious Station:  Praised Station is an Islamic concept which appears
in the Qur’án. Refer to the verse in Surih Al-Asra 17:79: “And watch unto it in the
night: this shall be an excess in service:25 it may be that thy Lord will raise thee to a
glorious station.” It has been mentioned that this station is Prophet Muḥammad in the
Day of Resurrection Who will intercede on behalf of believers. In this Dispensation,
the Praised Station is reserved for the Blessed Beauty and is a reference to Him.
2.


Tablet No. 14 : A Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: [MKT, vol. 5, p.1]
åّ اﺑﮭﯽ
ای ﺑﻨﺪه ﺟﻤﺎل اﺑﮭﯽ، ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺷﻤﺎ ﻣﻀﺎﻣﯿﻨﺶ ﺷﯿﺮﯾﻦ و ﺑﺴﯿﺎر دﻟﻨﺸﯿﻦ ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ دﻟﯿﻞ ﺑﺮ ﻣﺤﺒّﺖ ﻧﻮر
ﻣﺒﯿﻦ ﻣﺎدام ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ﮔﻨﺠﯽ در آﺳﺘﯿﻦ داری و ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ﺳﻠﻄﻨﺘﯽ زﯾﺮ ﻧﮕﯿﻦ ﭘﺮواز ﮐﻦ و ﺑﺂواز ﺷﮭﻨﺎز
ﺑﺨﻮان
ﮐﺎﻧﺖ ﻟﻘﻠﺒﯽ اھﻮاء ﻣﺸﺘّﺔ

ﻓﺎﺳﺘﺠﻤﻌﺖ ﻣﺬ رأﺗﮏ اﻟﻌﯿﻦ اھﻮاﺋﯽ
ﻓﺼﺎر ﯾﺤﺴﺪﻧﯽ ﻣﻦ ﮐﻨﺖ اﺣﺴﺪه
و ﺻﺮت ﻣﻮﻟﯽ اﻟﻮری ﻣﺬ ﺻﺮت ﻣﻮﻻﺋﯽ
ﺗﺮﮐﺖ ﻟﻠﻨّﺎس دﯾﻨﮭﻢ و دﻧﯿﺎھﻢ
ﺷﻐﻼً ﺑﺬﮐﺮک ﯾﺎ دﯾﻨﯽ و دﻧﯿﺎﺋﯽ
و اﻟﺒﮭﺂء ﻋﻠﯽ ﮐﻞّ ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﻣﺴﺘﻘﯿﻢ   ع ع )ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ  ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﺒﮭﺎء، ﺟﻠﺪ 5
، ﺻﻔﻨﺤﮫ  1
(

A provisional translation of the Tablet is as follows:
God is the Most Glorious.
O servant of the Abhá Beauty! The contents of thy letters were sweet and most
pleasing as they were an indication of love for the Resplendent Light. As long as
thou dost possess such a treasure and dost bear such a sovereignty under thy seal
thou shouldst soar and sing melodiously these lyric lines:
I had several competing desires in my heart;
When my eye met thee, it caused the desires to merge together.
Whomever I envied would in reality have envied me;
I became the master of all people when thou didst become my master.
I left this world and the next to the people;
So that my thoughts might be wholly occupied with thee who art to me both this
world and the next.
The glory of God be upon everyone who is firm and steadfast.








Illustration 56:  Family tree number 6



Chapter 8
Endnotes

1.
The provisional translation of a quote: This quotation is taken from the
tablet which appears in the page 235 of the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhiyr.” (
ﻋﺎﻗﺒﺖ ﺑﺨﯿﺮ
“ )
از ﺧﺪام آﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﺤﺴﻮب ﺷﺪی و ﺑﮫ ﭘﺎﺳﺒﺎﻧﯽ ﻣﻨﺴﻮب ﮔﺸﺘﯽ
”
For the original Tablet and its provisional translation refer Tablet number 5,
Chapter 7.
2.
The provisional translation of a quote: This quotation has been taken from
a tablet in the honour of the father of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí (Zahihi) and
grandfather of Ḍia’u’lláh Dhabíḥí – The tablet appears in the page 239 of the
book: “ ‘Áqibat Bikhiyr.” and page 238 of the book “Taríkh Amrí Yazd”, (last
line). For the original tablet and its provisional translation  refer to Tablet
number 7 which appears in Chapter 7.
"ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﻣﮑﻦ ﮐﮫ ﮐﻼه در ﺳﺮداری و ﻗﺒﺎ در ﺑﺮ ﺑﮫ ﻗﻮت اﻟﮭﯿﮫ ﭼﻨﺎن ﻧﻄﻘﯽ ﯾﺎﺑﯽ ﮐﮫ ﮐﻞّ
ﻋﺎﺟﺰ ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ"
…“Consider not that thou wearest a hat upon thy head, and a coat on
thy body.1  Soon, through the strengthening grace of God, thou wilt
acquire such power of oration that no one will be able to challenge
thee.…”   (Provisional translation by F.S. approved by the BWC for
publication)
3.
Seventeen Martyrs: For a brief account of the lives of these
seventeen souls refer to the Endnote note number 113.
4.
Payám-i Bahá’í is a reputed periodical which is published in Persian in
France and distributed around the world. This magazine has continued
providing this service over a period of about forty years since its inception.
5.
The Passage:  The following passage appears in one of the Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh which is in a compilation of Tablets commissioned by the
Universal House of Justice both in Persian and in English:


در ﻣﺠﻤﻮﻋﮫ اﻟﻮاح ﺣﻀﺮت ﺑﮭﺎءﷲ ﮐﮫ ﺑﻌﺪ از ﮐﺘﺎب اﻗﺪس ﻧﺎزل ﺷﺪه  در ﻟﻮح ﻣﻘﺼﻮد
ﺻﻔﺤﮫ 105
ﺟﻤﺎﻟﻘﺪم ﻣﯿﻔﺮﻣﺎﯾﻨﺪ ﻗﻮﻟﮫ اﻻﻋﺰّ: "  از ﺣﻖّ ﺟﻞّ ﺟﻼﻟﮫ ﻣﯿﻄﻠﺒﻢ ﻛﮫ اھﻞ ارض را
آﮔﺎه ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ و ﻋﺎﻗﺒﺘﺮا ﺑﺨﯿﺮ ﻣﻨﺘﮭﯽ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﺪ ... "
English counterpart of the Persian compilation is called: “Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas” which has been
commissioned by the Universal House of Justice. The following quote
appears in the above-mentioned book at the bottom of the page 171 and top
of page 172. Bahá’u’lláh says: “…I beseech God, exalted be His glory, that
He may graciously awaken the peoples of the earth, may grant that the end
of their conduct may be profitable unto them, …”
6.
Mr. ‘Azíz Ismayn Yazdí was the son of Áqá Muḥammad who was in turn
the son of Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannád Yazdí. ‘Azíz was born in Alexandria
in 1909 to Bahá’í parents who had traveled to Alexandria as directed by
Bahá’u’lláh. He did his early schooling in Egypt and then in Haifa and
England and returned to Iran and he embarked on his pioneering spiritual
adventure. During this period, Mr. Yazdi served as an Auxiliary Board
member in Africa (was appointed in 1954), a Counsellor for Central and
East Africa (was appointed in 1968), and as a member of the National
Spiritual Assembly of Central and East Africa, and later of Kenya. His last
pioneering place was Nairobi in Kenya. He was appointed to the
International Teaching Center and served in that capacity from 1973 to
1988.  He passed away on April 19, 2004.
Mr. ‘Azíz Yazdí was given his name by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when the Master
visited Alexandria in 1910. Later in 1919, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called Mr. Yazdi's
family to Haifa and he was in the presence of the Master until His passing
in 1921. It may be that the Yazdí family was one of the first few to be
acquainted with the contents of the Will of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Mr. Yazdí studied
banking in Egypt and electrical engineering in England. In 1941 he married
Soraya Khamsí, with whom he had four children. Pursuing service to the
Faith, Mr. Yazdí lived in a number of countries including Egypt, Syria, Iran,
Iraq, Great Britain, Uganda, Kenya, Israel, and finally Canada.
‘Alí M. Yazdí (1899-1978), brother of ‘Azíz,  a noted Bahá'í lecturer and
writer, served on many national committees of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States and was, for thirty years,
chairman of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Berkeley, California. Marion
Carpenter Yazdí, whom he married in 1926.
In 1856, a youth by the name Shaykh ‘Alí, only fourteen years old, came
into contact with the new Faith, heard the Message and wholeheartedly
accepted it. He was the eldest son of the well-to-do and highly respected


Ḥájí ‘Abdu'r-Rahím Yazdí. The family was alarmed. But Shaykh ‘Alí was
ablaze. To distract him from the Bábí Faith, his family sent him to Kirmán
with enough goods to start a business. The shop was successful but soon
rumors floated back that he was meeting with the Bábís. ‘Abdu'r-Rahím
went to Kirmán and brought him home. Throughout this difficult time when
calumnies and persecutions heaped upon Bábís by their enemies, Shaykh
‘Alí displayed a kindness and fearlessness remarkable in a person so young.
As time passed, his character, his behavior, his attitude and his actions
gradually won over the whole family. One by one they joined the Faith. Now
meetings were held in the Yazdí home though the need for secrecy remained
paramount. Teachers came from other cities, each with new tales. Some who
came from Baghdád spoke of Bahá'u'lláh. Later they came from Adrianople,
and then from ‘Akká.
Ḥájí Muḥammad, who like his brother, Shaykh ‘Alí,  had joined the Faith
when he was fourteen, left for the Holy Land with a friend, a donkey, lots
of faith and very little money. He and his companion set out to see
Bahá'u'lláh and traveled over steep, rugged mountains and across hot, arid
plains until they arrived in ‘Akká, around 1870. Shaykh ‘Alí, while still a
young man, was sent by Bahá'u'lláh to Khartoum to help Mírzá Ḥaydar-‘Alí.
He stayed on to teach, and died there. Ḥájí ‘Abdu'r-Rahím, left Yazd after
he had been tortured, beaten and bastinadoed. The story of this ‘precious
soul’, as the Master called him, his arrival in ‘Akká, and his life there, is told
with tender compassion by ‘Abdu'l-Bahá in Memorials of the Faithful. Each
member of the Yazdí family was given an assignment by Bahá'u'lláh and
sent out to accomplish it. Ḥájí Muḥammad, and two other youthful believers
were sent to Egypt where they worked hard for many years and eventually
built up a prosperous business. Through these believers--all young people--
the Faith was first established in Alexandria, Cairo and Port Said. Although
they were not free to openly teach the Faith, they were on good terms with
the population and were generally well-liked and respected. Ḥájí
Muḥammad was the son of Ḥájí ‘Abdu'r-Rahím, the father of ‘Azíz Yazdí,
and son-in-law of Mr. ‘Alí Manshádí who was in turn a son of Ḥájí Ḥusayn
Turk. (Extracted from Bahá’í World vol. 6, pp.499-501)
7.
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk is maternal grandfather of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí and
paternal grandfather of the ‘Azíz Yazdí’mohter. In this book there are a
number of family trees which illustrate the relationship between the two
families. For example refer to Ill. 2, Family Tree No. 1, page 19; and Ill. 3,
Family Tree No. 2, page 22
8.
Tabriz:   It is a city in northwestern Iran, serving as the capital of East
Ádhirbayján Province. It is the fifth-most-populous city in Iran. In the Quru
River valley in Iran's historic Ádhirbayján region between long ridges of
volcanic cones in the Sahand and Eynali mountains, Tabriz's elevation


ranges between 1,350 and 1,600 metres (4,430 and 5,250 ft) above sea level.
The valley opens up into a plain that gently slopes down to the eastern shores
of Lake Urumia, 60 kilometres (37 miles) to the west of Tabriz. With cold
winters and temperate summers, Tabriz is considered a summer resort. It
was named World Carpet Weaving City by the World Crafts Council in
October 2015 and Exemplary Tourist City of 2018 by the Organisation of
Islamic Cooperation.
With a population of over 1.7 million (2016), Tabriz is the largest economic
hub and metropolitan area in northwest Iran. The population is
overwhelmingly Ádhirbayjáni who speak the Ádhirbayjáni language,
though Persian is spoken by residents as a second language. Tabriz is a
major heavy industries hub for automobiles, machine tools, refineries,
petrochemicals, textiles and cement production industries. The city is
famous for its handicrafts, including hand-woven rugs and jewellery. Local
confectionery, chocolate, dried nuts and traditional Tabrizi food are
recognised throughout Iran as some of the best. Tabriz is also an academic
hub and a site for some of the most prestigious cultural institutes in
Northwest Iran.
9.
Manshád:  is a village in Miyankuh Rural District, in the Central District
of Mehriz County, Yazd Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population
was 430. Manshád is located in the southwest of Yazd city in Iran. It has
relatively pleasant climate in that region and it is located  about 50 km south
west of Yazd.
Details of the heart burning events of Yazd and the explanation of the
martyrs of Manshád is extracted and translated from [TAY], p. 386 which
appear below:
Manshád and its believers:       Indeed Manshád is one of the places of
Yazd for  summer retreat, its distance from Yazd is about 36 km and it has
a pleasant weather, and a place where one can see some greenery; it has nice
views, has a cool water without salt and other minerals. Most people of Yazd
for change of weather and environment during summer when Yazd is very
hot go to Manshád. People of Manshád are very religious. Always the
learned and holy people from Manshád, relative to other places between
mountains, have been larger in number. For religious affairs other places are
in need of Manshád and in public utilities such as public bath and mosque
and Takíyyih and Ḥusayniyyih and Ruḍihkhaní, Manshád is far ahead of
other places between mountains. At the beginning of the revelation of the
Báb, the souls of all else save Him be a ransom for Him, a group of the
learned and sanctified people accepted His faith and indeed at the beginning,
in Yazd people turned to the Báb in less numbers compared to Manshád.
Indeed Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ and his brothers, Ḥaḍrat-i Ákhúnd Mullá Ḥusayn and
Ákhúnd Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar and Mullá Bábáyí each one had the position of
being the first to believe in Yazd. At the end, all four brothers and some of


their male children and grandchildren were martyred like Jináb-i Ákhúnd
Mullá Ghafúr and Ḥaḍrat-i Ákhúnd Mullá Muḥammad who became
martyrs.  Others among the believers of Manshád were very religious,
sanctified and spiritual like late Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn son of Áqá Siyyid Riḍá
(whose story was related before travelled to Tabriz) and late Ḥaḍrat-i Shah
Muḥammad Manshádi Amín-i Iláhí and others. Although all the calls are
coming from the king that is Ḥaḍrat-i Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ who was indeed such an
effective and holy person like of him is rare. One day this lowly one (Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ṭáhir Málmírí, the author TAY) had the honor of being in the
presence of Bahá'u'lláh and recalls  Him saying that  He liked Manshád, this
was because of Jináb-i Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ. Now you may imagine the spiritual
qualities and the enlightenment of the believers of Manshád. In recent
upheaval (1903)  in Yazd and surrounding areas; eighteen people were
martyred in Yazd while in Manshád it was thirty people.
10.
Takíyyih is a building used for worship and mourning in Islamic
communities, including the observance of the anniversary of the martyrdom of
Imam Ḥusayn, the third Imam for Shi‘iah Muslims.
11.
Mecca:  Officially Makkah al-Mukarramah, and commonly shortened to
Makkah  is a city and administrative center of the Mecca Province of Saudi
Arabia, and the holiest city in Islam. It is 70 km  inland from Jeddah,  a port
on the Red Sea, in a narrow valley 277 m (909 ft) above sea level. Its last
recorded population was 1,578,722 in 2015. Its estimated metro population
in 2020 was 2.042 million, making it the third-most populated city in Saudi
Arabia after Riyad and Jeddah. Pilgrims more than triple this number every
year during the Ḥajj pilgrimage, observed in the twelfth Hijri month of
Dhul-Ḥijjah.
Mecca is reputedly the birthplace of the Islamic prophet Muḥammad. The
Hira cave atop the Jabal al-Nur ("Mountain of Light") is just outside the city
and where Muslims believe the Qur’án was first revealed to Muḥammad.
Visiting Mecca for the Hajj is an obligation upon all able Muslims. The
Great Mosque of Mecca, known as the Masjid al-Haram, is home to the
Ka'bah, believed by Muslims to have been built by Abraham and Ishmael.
It is one of Islam's holiest sites and the direction of prayer for all Muslims
called qibla. Hajj is one of the fifth pillars of Islam and is binding for
whoever is wealthy enough and has the means to do it.
In the Islamic view, the beginnings of Mecca are attributed to the Biblical
figures, Abraham, Hagar and Ishmael. The civilization of Mecca is believed
to have started after Ibráhím (Abraham) left his son Ismáʿíl (Ishmael) and
wife Hájar (Hagar) in the valley.  Some people from the Yemeni tribe of
Jurhum settled with them, and Ismáʿíl reportedly married two women, one


after divorcing the first, on Ibráhím's advice. Ka’bah was built by Ibráhím
but was destroyed several times and was rebuilt. Sometime in the 5th
century AD, the Ka'bah was a place of worship for the deities of Arabia's
pagan tribes. Mecca's most important pagan deity was Hubal, which had
been placed there by the ruling Quraish tribe and remained until the
Conquest of Mecca by Prophet Muḥammad. In the 5th century, the Quraish
took control of Mecca, and became skilled merchants and traders. In the 6th
century, they joined the lucrative spice trade, since battles elsewhere were
diverting trade routes from dangerous sea routes to more secure overland
routes. The Byzantine Empire had previously controlled the Red Sea.
Another previous route that ran through the Persian Gulf via the Tigris and
Euphrates rivers was also being threatened by exploitations from the
Sassanid Empire, and was being disrupted by the Lakhmids, the Ghassanids,
and the Roman–Persian Wars. Mecca's prominence as a trading center also
surpassed the cities of Petra and Palmyra. The Sassanids however did not
always pose a threat to Mecca, as in 575 AD they protected it from a Yemeni
invasion, led by its Christian leader Abraha. The tribes of southern Arabia
asked the Persian king Khusrau I for aid, in response to which he came south
to Arabia with foot-soldiers and a fleet of ships near Mecca.
12.
Karbila: Karbila or Karbala is a city located in Iraq, about 100 km south of
Baghdad. It is a holy city for Shí‘ih sect of Islam due to housing the shrine
of Imam Ḥusayn, the third Imam of Shí‘ih and a grandson of Prophet
Muhammad. It was a desert without any settlement in the first century of
Islam. The Battle of Karbala was fought on 10 October 680 (10 Muḥarram
in the year 61 AH of the Islamic calendar) between the army of the second
Umayyad Caliph Yazid the first and a small army led by Ḥusayn ibn ‘Alí,
the grandson of the Islamic Prophet Muḥammad, at that location which was
a desert then.
Prior to his death, the Umayyad caliph Mu‘áwiyah the first had nominated
his son Yazid as his successor. Yazíd's nomination was contested by the
sons of a few prominent companions of  Prophet Muḥammad, including
Ḥusayn, the son of fourth Caliph ‘Ali, and ‘Abdu’llah ibn Zubayr, son of
Zubayr ibn al-‘Awam. Upon Mu‘awíyah's death in 680 AD, Yazid
demanded allegiance from Ḥusayn and other dissidents. Ḥusayn did not give
allegiance and traveled from Medina to Mecca. The people of Kufa, an Iraqí
garrison town and the center of ‘Alí's caliphate, were averse to the Syria-
based Umayyad caliphs and had a long-standing attachment to the house of
‘Alí. They proposed Ḥusayn overthrow the Umayyads. On Ḥusayn's way to
Kufa with a retinue of about 70 men, his caravan was intercepted by a 1,000-
strong army of the caliph at some distance from Kufa. He was forced to head


north and encamp in the plain of Karbala on 2 October, where a larger
Umayyad army of 4,000 men arrived soon afterwards. Negotiations failed
after the Umayyad governor, Ubayd Allah ibn Ziyad, refused Ḥusayn a safe
passage without submitting to his authority, a condition declined by Ḥusayn.
Battle ensued on 10 October during which Ḥusayn was killed along with
most of his relatives and companions, while his surviving family members
were taken prisoner. It is believed that Imam Ḥusayn has been buried there.
But his enemies ploughed the land to remove any trace of him. Years later,
a shrine was built there and the sincere Shi‘iah go for pilgrimage which is
considered a sign of devotion.
13.
Mashhad: Is a city in the eastern province of Khurásán and its provincial
capital. The importance of this city is due to the shrine of Imam Riḍá, the
eighth Imam of Shi‘iah. Whoever visits this shrine thinks that he would
receive some benediction. Therefore people keep visiting this place several
times in the course of their lives; repeated visits are a sign of devotion and
consecration.
14.
A Tablet of visitation and supplication for the two brothers who were sons
of  Ḥájí Zaynal could be found in Makátíb ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 3, page 261,
as follows:
ﻣﻨﺎﺟﺎت طﻠﺐ ﻣﻐﻔﺮت ﺑﺠﮭﺖ ﻣﺘﺼﺎﻋﺪ اﻟﯽ †ّ  آﻗﺎ اﺑﻮاﻟﻘﺎﺳﻢ  و ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﺑﻠﻘﺎء در ﻣﻘﻌﺪ ﺻﺪق آﻗﺎ ﻣﺤﻤّﺪ اﺑﺮاھﯿﻢ
ﻣﻨﺸﺎدی ﻋﻠﯿﮭﻤﺎ ﺑﮭﺎء †ّ  اﻻﺑﮭﯽ
ھﻮ †ّ
اﻟﮭﯽ اﻟﮭﯽ انّ ھﺬﯾﻦ اﻻﺧﻮﯾﻦ اﻟﺴﻠﯿﻠﯿﻦ اﻟﺠﻠﯿﻠﯿﻦ ﯾﻨﺘﺴﺒﺎن اﻟﯽ ﻋﺒﺪک اﻟّﺬی ﻟﺒﯽ ﻟﻠﻨﺪاء اﻟﻤﺮﺗﻔﻊ ﻣﻦ ﻣﻠﮑﻮﺗﮏ اﻻﻋﻠﯽ وﻗﺎل
رﺑّﻨﺎ اﻧﻨﺎ ﺳﻤﻌﻨﺎ ﻣﻨﺎدﯾﺎً ﯾﻨﺎدی ﻟﻼﯾﻤﺎن ان آﻣﻨﻮا ﺑﺮﺑّﮑﻢ ﻓﺂﻣﻨّﺎ رﺑّﻨﺎ ﻓﺎﻏﻔﺮ ﻟﻨﺎ ذﻧﻮﺑﻨﺎ و ﺛﺒّﺖ ﺛﺒﻮت ﺷﻮاﻣﺦ اﻟﺠﺒﺎل و اﺳﺘﻘﺎم
اﺳﺘﻘﺎﻣﺔ اﻟﻤﺨﻠﺼﯿﻦ ﻋﻠﯽ اﻣﺮک ﯾﻮم اﻟﻮﺻﺎل و ﺧﺮج ﻣﻦ وطﻨﮫ ﻣﻊ ﺳﻠﯿﻠﮫ ﻣﻘﺒﻼً اﻟﯿﮏ ﻣﺘﻮﮐّﻼً ﻋﻠﯿﮏ ﻣﻨﺠﺬﺑﺎً ﺑﻨﻔﺤﺎت
اﯾّﺎﻣﮏ ﺷﺎﮐﺮاً ﻋﻠﯽ ﻧﻌﻤﺎﺋﮏ و طﻮی اﻻودﯾﺔ و اﻟﻤﮭﺎد و ﻗﻄﻊ اﻟﺨﺰون و اﻟﺠﺒﺎل و ﺗﺤﻤّﻞ ﮐﻞّ ﻣﺸﻘّﺔ و ﺑﻼء ﺣﺘّﯽ ﺳﻠّﻢ
اﻟﺮوح ﻓﯽ اﻟﻄﺮﯾﻖ و ﺗﺠﺮّع ﮐﺄس اﻟﻔﺪاء اﻟﻄﺎﻓﺤﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﺮﺣﯿﻖ اﻻﻧﯿﻖ و اﺳﻠﻢ اﻟﺮوح و ھﻮ ﻣﺘﻮﻗّﺪ ﺑﻨﺎر اﻻﺷﺘﯿﺎق ﻣﻨﺠﺬب اﻟﯽ
ﻧﯿّﺮ اﻵﻓﺎق و ﺗﺮک ھﺬﯾﻦ اﻟﺴﻠﯿﻠﯿﻦ اﻟﺠﻠﯿﻠﯿﻦ اﺣﺪھﻤﺎ ﻣﻦ ﺳﻤّﯽ ﺑﺎﺑﯽ اﻟﻘﺎﺳﻢ اﻟّﺬی اﺧﺘﺮﺗﮫ ﻟﺨﺪﻣﺘﮏ ﻓﯽ اﻟﺮوﺿﺔ اﻟﻐﻨّﺎء و
ﺟﺰﯾﺮﺗﮏ اﻟﺨﻀﺮاء و ﮐﺎن ﻓﯽ اﻟﻠﯿﻞ و اﻟﻨﮭﺎر ﯾﺨﺪم اﻻزھﺎر و اﻻﺷﺠﺎر و ﯾﺴﻘﯽ ﺳﻘﺎﯾﺔ اﻟﻤﺴﺠﺪ اﻟﺤﺮام و ﻻ ﯾﻌﺮف
اﻟﺘﻌﺐ و اﻟﻤﻼل و ﻻ اﻟﻨﺼﺐ و اﻟﮑﻼل ﺑﻞ ﯾﻮاظﺐ ﻋﻠﯽ اﻟﺤﺪﯾﻘﺔ اﻟﻨﻮراء ﺑﮑﻞّ ﺗﺒﺘّﻞ و ﺗﻀﺮّع و اﺑﺘﮭﺎل و ﺷﻘﯿﻘﮫ اﻵﺧﺮ
ﻣﻦ ﺳﻤّﯽ ﺑﺎﺑﺮاھﯿﻢ ﻗﺎم ﻋﻠﯽ ﺧﺪﻣﺘﮏ ﻓﯽ اﻟﻐﺪوّ  و آﻻﺻﺎل و ﻟﻢ ﯾﻔﺘﺮ ﻓﯽ ﻋﺒﻮدﯾّﺘﮏ اﻧﺎء اﻟﻠﯿﻞ  و اﻟﻨﮭﺎر و ﮐﺎن ﻣﻮاظﺒﺎً ﻋﻠﯽ
اﻻﺷﺠﺎر ﻓﯽ اﻟﺠﻨﯿﻨﺔ اﻟّﺘﯽ ﺷﺮّﻓﺘﮭﺎ ﻓﯽ أﻣﺪ ﻣﺪﯾﺪ ﺑﺴﻄﻮع اﻻﻧﻮار ربّ اﻧّﮫ ﮐﺎن ﻗﺮﯾﺮ اﻟﻌﯿﻦ ﺑﻤﺸﺎھﺪة اﻟﺠﻤﺎل و ﻓﺮح اﻟﻘﻠﺐ
و ﻣﻨﺸﺮح اﻟﺼﺪر ﻻﺻﻐﺎء اﻟﺨﻄﺎب اﻟﯽ أن اﺷﺘﺪّت اﻟﺮزﯾﺔ اﻟﮑﺒﺮی و ﺗﺒﺪّل اﻟﻨﮭﺎر ﺑﺎﻟﻠﯿﻠﺔ اﻟﻈﻠﻤﺎء و ﻧﺎح اﻟﻤﻸ اﻻﻋﻠﯽ و
ﺿﺞّ ﺿﺠﯿﺞ اﻟﺜﮑﻠﯽ طﻠﻌﺎت اﻟﻘﺪس ﻓﯽ اﻟﻔﺮدوس اﻻﻋﻠﯽ و ﻗﺪ ﺛﺒﺖ ھﺬان اﻻﺧﻮان ﻋﻠﯽ ﻋﮭﺪک و ﻣﯿﺜﺎﻗﮏ و ﻟﻢ ﯾﺰلّ
ﻗﺪﻣﮭﻤﺎ ﻣﻦ ﻋﻮاﺻﻒ اﻻﻣﺘﺤﺎن و ﻗﻮاﺻﻒ اﻻﻓﺘﺘﺎن و ﺧﺪﻣﺎ ﻋﺘﺒﺘﮏ اﻟﻌﻠﯿﺎ ﺑﻘﻠﺐ ﺧﺎﻓﻖ ﺑﺤﺒّﮏ و ﻟﺴﺎن ﻧﺎطﻖ ﺑﺬﮐﺮک و
دﻣﻊ داﻓﻖ ﻣﻦ اﻟﺤﺮﻣﺎن و ﻗﻠﺐ ﻣﻀﻄﺮم ﺑﻨﯿﺮان اﻟﺤﺴﺮات اﻟﯽ أن ﺗﺮﮐﺎ اﻟﺤﻀﯿﺾ اﻻدﻧﯽ و ﻋﺮﺟﺎ اﻟﯽ ﻣﻠﮑﻮﺗﮏ اﻷﺑﮭﯽ


ﻣﺴﺘﻘﯿﻤﯿﻦ ﻋﻠﯽ أﻣﺮک ﺛﺎﺑﺘﯿﻦ ﻋﻠﯽ ﻋﮭﺪک ﻣﻨﺠﺬﺑﯿﻦ ﺑﻨﻔﺤﺎﺗﮏ ﻣﺮﺗّﻠﯿﻦ ﻵﯾﺎﺗﮏ ﻣﻌﺘﻤﺪﯾﻦ ﻋﻠﯽ ﻋﻔﻮک و ﻏﻔﺮاﻧﮏ ربّ
ارﻓﻊ ﻟﮭﻤﺎ اﻟﺪرﺟﺎت و أدﺧﻠﮭﻤﺎ ﻓﯽ ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﻻﺳﻤﺎء و اﻟﺼﻔﺎت و اﻏﺮﻗﮭﻤﺎ ﻓﯽ ﺑﺤﺮ اﻟﺮﺣﻤﺔ ﻓﯽ ﺑﺤﺒﻮﺣﺔ اﻟﺠﻨﺎن و زد
ﻟﮭﻤﺎ اﻟﻔﻀﻞ و اﻻﺣﺴﺎن و اﺟﻌﻠﮭﻤﺎ ﺳﺮاﺟﯿﻦ وھﺎﺟﯿﻦ ﻓﯽ زﺟﺎﺟﺔ اﻟﻤﻠﮑﻮت و آﯾﺘﯿﻦ ﻻﻣﻌﺘﯿﻦ ﺑﻨﻮر اﻟﻤﻐﻔﺮة ﻓﯽ ﻋﺘﺒﺔ
نﺎﻀﻣر ٦٢  بﺎّھﻮﻟا ﻢﯾﺮﮑﻟا ﺖﻧأ  ّﻻا ﮫﻟا ﻻ رﻮﻔﻐﻟا ﻮﻔﻌﻟا ﺖﻧأ ﮏّﻧا ﻢﯿﺣﺮﻟا ﻦﻤﺣﺮﻟا ﺖﻧأ ﮏّﻧا ﻢﯾﺮﮑﻟا ﺖﻧأ ﮏّﻧا تﻮھﻼﻟا
عع
Supplication seeking forgiveness for the one who hath ascended
towards God, Áqá Abu’l-Qásim, and for the one who attained unto
meeting Him in the seat of Truth, Áqá Muḥammad Ibráhím-i-
Manshádí, the Glory of the Most Glorious be upon them.
He is God.
O My God! O My God! These two illustrious brothers are related to Thy
servant who responded to the message which was raised from Thy
Celestial Kingdom. He said: “‘O our Lord! we have indeed heard the
voice of one that called. He called us to the faith – “Believe on your
Lord” - and we have believed’ 1 O our Lord! Forgive our sins, make us
stand firm like lofty mountains, and enable us to remain steadfast with
the steadfastness of them who are wholly devoted to Thy Cause in the
day of union.” He forsook his homeland, together with his son, turning
towards Thee, wholly relying upon Thee, attracted  by the breezes of Thy
days, and thankful for Thy favors. He travelled through valleys and
plains, passed over hills and mountains, and endured every suffering
and affliction until he surrendered his life upon the way, drank the
chalice of sacrifice that was brimming with the choicest wine, and gave
up his soul. He was aflame with the fire of longing and was attracted to
the Daystar of the world.
He left as a legacy these two
distinguished sons, one of whom was known by the name Abu’l-Qásim,
whom Thou didst choose for Thy service in Thy luxuriant garden and
Thy Green Island.2 He cared for the flowers and trees by day and by
night; he watered the plants with such tender care as is reserved for the
Sacred Mosque. He was heedless of toil, lethargy, fatigue or weariness;
rather, he watched over the rose garden of splendour with the utmost
devotion, lowliness, and fervour. The other brother, who was named
Ibráhím, rose up in Thy service both morn and eve and wavered not in
servitude to Thee whether in the day time or in the night season. He
cared for the trees in Junaynih, a spot that was honored for many days
by Thy shining presence shedding light upon it. O My God! His eyes
were solaced by beholding Thy beauty; his heart found delight and his
breast was dilated at hearkening to Thy call. He continued thus, until
the Most Great Affliction occurred, whereupon day changed to darkest


night, the Concourse on high moaned, and the sanctified beings in the
supreme heavens bitterly cried aloud. These two brothers stood firm in
Thy Covenant and Testament; their feet did not falter by reason of the
gales of trials and the whirlwinds of tests. Both served Thine exalted
Threshold with hearts throbbing with Thy love and tongues uttering Thy
mention, with tears streaming down because of their sorrows, and hearts
burning with the fire of bereavement. And all this until they left the
nether world and ascended unto the Abhá Kingdom, steadfast in Thy
Cause, firm in Thy Covenant, attracted to Thy breezes, chanting Thy
verses, and confident of Thy pardon and forgiveness. O My God! Elevate
their stations and let them abide in the Kingdom of Names and
Attributes. Immerse them in the ocean of Thy mercy in the midmost
paradise, bestow upon them bounty and favors, make them two bright
lights in the globe of Thy Kingdom, two signs shining with the light of
forgiveness at the threshold of the unseen realm. Thou art verily the
Generous. Thou art verily the Compassionate, the Merciful. Thou art
verily the Pardoner, the Forgiver of sins. There is none other God save
Thee, the Generous, the All-Bountiful. 26 Ramaḍán 1337 AH.
(Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC)
Notes
1. This is a verse from the Qur’án: ‘O our Lord! we have indeed heard the voice of
one that called. He called us to the faith - 'Believe on your Lord' - and we have
believed’.’ Qur’án 3:193( Rodwell translation)
2. Garden of Riḍván in ‘Akká.

15.  Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Darábí’s visit to Yazd:  In the Dawn-Breakers,
there is no mention of  Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Darábí’s visit to Yazd prior
to his travel to Shiraz for meeting the Báb. (Refer to pages 172-177
of the Dawn-Breakers).    Probably this is taken from other history
books. After his travel to Shiraz and believing in the Báb, he did not
go back to Yazd either. He travelled to Burujird to see his father,
Siyyid Ja‘far Kashfí, in order to give him the message of the new
Faith. Siyyid Ja‘far became a believer but openly did not disclose his
belief. He never opposed the Báb nor did he say a negative thing about
Him. Siyyid Yaḥyá returned to Yazd in the month of March 1850. He
proclaimed the Faith openly and people gathered around him and this
was the time when Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk and Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ became
believers. Siyyid Yaḥyá travelled to Nayriz from Yazd and many
great souls in Nayriz and surrounding areas accepted the message of
the new religion which he was proclaiming.


16.
This poem is from Ṣádiq-i Tafrishi with the pen name Ṣádiq (1160 A.H. &
1747 A.D)
ﺑﺮ وزن ﻣﺜﻨﻮی ﻣﻮﻟﻮی )ﺑﺤﺮ رﻣﻞ ﻣﺴﺪّس ﻣﻘﺼﻮر(، اﺛﺮ آﻗﺎ ﺻﺎدق ﺗﻔﺮﺷﯽ ﻣﺘﺨﻠﺺ ﺑﮫ
ﺻﺎدق )1160ق/1747م(. اﯾﻦ ﻣﻨﻈﻮﻣﮫ از ﻧﻮع ﻣﺜﻨﻮﯾﮭﺎﯾﯽ اﺳﺖ ﻛﮫ در ادﺑﯿﺎت ﻓﺎرﺳﯽ ﺑﮫ ﻧﺎم
ﺳﻮزوﮔﺪاز ﺷﮭﺮت ﯾﺎﻓﺘﮫاﻧﺪ. در ﭘﺎرهای از ﻛﺘﺎﺑﮭﺎی ﻧﺎم ﻣﻨﻈﻮﻣﺔ ﺻﺎدق ﺗﻔﺮﺷﯽ را ﺳﻮز و
.ﺪﻧاهدﺮﻛ ﻂﺒﺿ و ﮫﺘﺴﻧاد ﺰﯿﻧ زاﺪﮔ
17.  There is no evidence that Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí returned to Yazd after
attaining the presence of the Báb in Shiraz in 1845. The book: the Dawn-
Breakers is silent on this issue and mentions that he travelled from Shiraz
to Burújird to meet his father. His father was one the most eminent
learned of his time, Siyyid Ja‘far Kashfí, in order to convey the message
of the new Revelation to him. Apparently, Siyyid Yaḥyá sent his
assessment of the claims of the Báb from Shiraz to Mírzá Luṭf-‘Alí
Khán, the court chamberlain, to be conveyed to the king.   He did not
return to Yazd to proclaim the claim of the Báb until 1850. Refer to the
Dawn-Breakers page 177.
18.
Ákhúnd Mullá Riḍá -i- Manshádi (Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ) ([TAY], pp. 38-42)
Mullá Riḍá Manshádi was one of the believers of Bábí dispensation who
pledged his allegiance to Vahíd and later accepted the Bahá’í Faith.
Bahá’u’lláh bestowed upon him the title (appellation) of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ. He
was a learned and pious man, highly skilled in the Science of Medicine,
Islamic Jurisprudence, Philosophy and Literature. Additionally, he was
highly talented in the art of Persian calligraphy. He had three brothers. All
three brothers accepted the Faith and during the massacre of 1903 in Yazd,
in which nearly one hundred believers were martyred, all these three
brothers were among the martyrs. Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ’s brothers, Áqá Mullá
Ḥusayn and Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar were also among the learned ones. Their
father was renowned Mullá Ḥájí Muḥammad Mujtahid of Manshád. The
entire family became Bahá’í as a result of his accepting the Faith. Late
Mullá Ḥájí Muḥammad was not very active in the Faith.
Progressively life become hard for them as being Bahá’ís and the
government was planning to arrest him along with his brothers, hence
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ and brothers had no option save leaving the town for Shiraz.
Instead, authorities detained their father and although he was very respected
in Miyan-kuh and Manshád, nevertheless with abuse, insult and
humiliation, he was taken to Banádak. There he was interrogated but he did
not respond and kept quiet. While Deputy Governor grew angry, people
who were in the gathering asserted that Mullá Ḥájí Muḥammad was among


respected Mujtahids in town and should not have been treated with
indignity. Obviously, he was insulted and that’s why he was silent. The
Deputy Governor offered apologies and permitted him to leave. He did
not utter any word in the meeting and finally returned to Manshád. After
sometimes Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ and brothers returned from Shiraz. As Manshád
was not a safe place for him, he lived in hiding. Occasionally at night he
went to Mehriz and stayed at Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad Baqir’s residence.
In those days, life was extremely hard for friends and some of the
believers were living in hiding, some were arrested and a great number
killed and martyred.
When news came that the Bábí leadership had established itself in Baghdád
after 1852, many of the Bábís of the area travelled there. Several of them
stayed while others returned bringing the news that it was not Mírzá Yahyá,
rather it was Bahá'u'lláh who had won their respect and admiration in
Baghdád. Among those who returned were Mullá Muhammad-Ridá
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ Manshádí. Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ hid in the caves of mountains of
Manshád for four and half years. Three years and seven months of that time,
he lived in a cave on the summit of a mount known as Murád-‘Alí. Except
his brother, Áqá Mullá Bábáyi, no one else had any idea of his whereabout.
Once in a few days with great caution in the middle of the night, some food
was taken to him. After sometimes, few people found out about his hiding
place on the mountain, therefore he changed his place and lived in a cave
near Turks’ farms on the southern side of the mountain for thirteen months.
Gradually the intensity of calamities subsided. He, then went to Mehriz for
few days and stayed in the house of Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad Báqir until
such a time that he travelled to Baghdad for the purpose of attaining the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh. After staying some time in Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh
asked him to go back to Yazd. Finally, when he arrived in Manshád, started
his medical practice. Gradually his practice became famous for quality
treatment and people from far and wide used to come to Manshád for
medical advice. For this reason, he became very popular and also started
teaching the Faith to those who were ready. As a result, some prominent
people accepted the Faith. However, his brothers along with few other
Bahá’ís were captured because being Bahá’ís and taken to Tezerjan which
was the administrative centre for the area and were detained for few days.
After extortion of some money from them, which was based on their wealth,
they were released.
Martyrdom:  After taking leave from the presence of Bahá’u’lláh in
Baghdád, Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ left for Yazd. He visited some friends for few days
in that city, then went to Manshád and started his medical practice. After a


while when the fame of his expertise spread, Ḥájí Rasúl Mehrizi, who was
the administrative head in charge as well as the governor and head of police
of Manshád and Miyan-kuh sent a messenger to Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ that they had
a patient who needed treatment. He was requested to go there. The note that
the governor sent to him was very respectful, saying his patient was bed
ridden and was needed urgently. It appeared that Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ intuitively felt
the threat as he said this journey was dangerous for him. He briefly gave final
instruction to his family and left for Mehriz. When he mounted, his mule did
not move forward and actually was moving backward. The animal started to
cause trouble. He addressed the mule saying: “Do you want to kill me here,
it is too early, wait until we arrive in Mehriz.” Finally, after arriving in
Mehriz, he directly went to Ḥájí Rasúl’s residence. Respectfully, he was
given a place in the guest room and a message was sent to the inner quarter
of residence that Ákhúnd Mullá Riḍá -i- Manshádi has arrived.
Immediately a cup of tea dozed with poison was sent to him. He murmured
what a unique refreshment Ḥájí Rasúl has offered him! Any way he drank
the tea as he knew if he did not drink that tea, naturally he was going to be
killed in another way. While his younger brother, Áqá Bábáyi was in his
company, however he asked Ḥájí Rasúl’s servant to pack the carpet as it
might become dirty and should leave the room. He did so. It took until two
hours in the morning that he passed away. His body was taken away on the
back of the same mule and buried in Manshád cemetery. His martyrdom
took place in the year 1284 A.H. (1867).  Towards the end of His life,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, revealed a detailed Tablet of visitation in his honour. The
original copy of the said Tablet in His handwriting is in Ṭihrán in the
possession of Áqá Mirzá Hádi Khán, the son of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ. After
sometime, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá instructed Ḥájí Amín to raise the grave of Raḍíuʼr-
Rúḥ in an excellent style and engrave a particular verse revealed by Him on
his tombstone. Ḥájí Amin wrote to Manshád and left the construction of the
grave to late Ḥájí ‘Alí Muḥammad Manshádi. Although Ḥájí ‘Alí was the
police head and contact point in Manshád but Ḥájí Ḥusayn-‘Alí Manshádi
and few trouble makers were against him. He said that he has no objection
to embark on the building but he was afraid that Ḥájí Ḥusayn-‘Alí and other
trouble makers might stop him or after the construction of the tomb, they
may destroy it.  On that day, the writer (Haji Tahir Malmiri) was in
Manshád and was planning to leave but he stayed the night as Spiritual
Assembly had an extra-ordinary session; they invited Ḥájí ‘Alí-Muḥammad
to consult with. After discussion Ḥájí ‘Alí said, although everyone knew to
what extent Ḥájí Ḥusayn-‘Alí and trouble makers were moving against him


but if the Assembly decided to build it, he also was ready. ([TAY], pp. 38-
42) also refer to [ROB-e], vol. I, p.  85)
19.
In the month of March 1850, Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí’s was in Yazd
proclaiming the Cause of God and giving the news of the New Revelation.
For his activities and events refer to Dawn-Breakers page 466.
20.
Navváb-i-Raḍaví was the cleric in Yazd who stirred up the people and the
government against Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí. In the book Dawn-Breaker we
read: “The leading ‘ulamás and notables of the city all came on that day to
greet him and to offer their best wishes. Navváb-i-Raḍaví, the meanest and
most prominent among his adversaries, was present on that occasion, and
maliciously hinted at the extravagance and splendour of that reception. “The
Sháh’s imperial banquet,” he was heard to remark, “can scarcely hope to
rival the sumptuous repast you have spread before us. I suspect that in
addition to this national festival which to-day we are celebrating, you
commemorate another one besides it.” Vahíd’s bold and sarcastic retort
provoked the laughter of those who were present. All applauded, in view of
the avarice and wickedness of the Navváb, the appropriateness of his
remark. The Navváb, who had never encountered the ridicule of so large and
distinguished a company, was stung by that answer. The smouldering fire
which he nourished in his mind against his opponent now blazed forth with
added intensity, and impelled him to satisfy his thirst for revenge.” (The
Dawn-Breakers, [TDB] p. 466)
21.
Mullá Ḥusayn was the older brother of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ (for a short report of
his life see Endnote number 18)
The atrocities on the believers of Manshád was tremendous. As a sample,
we have extracted and translated an event in Manshád from TAY as appears
below:
“Under any event, in those days every day there was a wrongdoing and
mischief. Some days enemies would attack and the friends observed wisdom
and reduce the number of meetings and as much as possible would not pass
through the main streets and the shopping centre. Once in a while the
enemies became busy with their own affairs and forgot all about the friends
and this would allow them to hold more meetings and lead more people
along the straight path. In those days during one summer, Navváb-i-Raḍaví
came to Manshád in the farm of Ráḥat-Ábád in the house of Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥasan Shirazi. The next day, he sent his men to bring before
him some of the prominent believers and he was sitting in the hall of the
building near the entrance and was conversing in utmost vain with a few of
Mullás of Manshád and trouble makers when they brought some of the


believers and made them stand outside in front of the building. He did not
pay any attention to them for half an hour and continued talking to Mullás
and trouble makers who were sitting in front of him. Then he looked at them
with anger and said introduce them to him.   They introduced them to him
one by one. The last person was Áqá Ḥájí Siyyid Taqi  Manshádi who was
introduced.  He said that this Ḥájí Áqá Siyyid Taqi is so ugly whom I do not
want to see again,  and that sent him away from Manshád. They pulled him
and took him away instantly and exiled him. Then he ordered that others be
beaten on their heads and ordered to open their shawl (1) and turbans and
put them around their necks and to pulled them along the path around the
big pool. These wronged ones were: Ḥaḍrat-i Ákhúnd Mullá Ḥusayn, the
older brother Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ; Ḥaḍrat-i Ákhúnd Mullá Ali-Akbar the other
brother;  Ḥaḍrat-i Ákhúnd Mullá Áqá Bábáyi, the youngest brother of
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ; Ḥaḍrat-i Áqá Muḥammad, the son of Mullá Aḥmad, the
paternal cousin of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ; Ḥaḍrat-i Áqá Siyyid Taqi, the second
person by this name, and his father Áqá Siyyid Aḥmad;  Ḥaḍrat-i Áqá
Muḥammad Ḥusayn known as Turk  and Ḥájí Zaynal turk his brother. They
tied the shawl(1) each one of them around his own neck of were circling
them around the pool, they had given the task of beating on the head of these
wronged ones to a man who was walking behind them. This continued for
half an hour, at this time someone by the name Riḍá son of Ḥusayn-‘Alí
Manshádi who was very rude, was thinking of himself to be one of the men
of Navváb Raḍaví went, murmured something in the ear of Navváb and
came down. Then he said that bring these people near him, and that you
should  open the shawl from around their necks because I have arranged the
matter with Navváb. So they removed the shawls and brought them near
Riḍá son of Ḥusayn-‘Alí, then he murmured something in the ear of each
one of them to this effect that for each one to pay a sum of ten tumans and
some of them less and some others higher than this amount and asked them
to pay. Those helpless people accepted the deal. He wanted something on
top of that for himself. Then he asked for surety and after that they were
released to go home and pay the required amount. All paid up and they
became free. Áqá Siyyid Taqí did not return to Manshád; he started his
journey to the Holy Land and was able to serve the Master. (Extracted and
translated from [TAY],  pp. 113-114).
For the details of the martyrdom of Ákhúnd Mullá Ḥusayn, see Endnote
number 23.
(1) Shawl: A long piece of cloth wound by men as a belt round the waist;
sash, scarf.
22.
Refer to page 386 “Táríkh Amrí Yazd [TAY]”  reported and quoted by Haji
Muhammad Tahir Malmiri when he was on pilgrimage. In page 386 TAY,
Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí has written that when he was on pilgrimage


to the Holy Land, he recalled the Blessed Beauty saying that He loved
Manshád because of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ.
23.
Ákhúnd Mullá Ḥusayn (martyrdom):  One of the sanctified souls who
deserves every kind of praise is Ḥaḍrat-i Ákhúnd Mullá Ḥusayn the older
brother of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ. His age reached eighty five but he was very weak.
His throat was very narrow from childhood to the extent that he had
difficulty swallowing one grain of lentil. Always he would eat liquid food
and it would take two hours to finish. Despite such physical limitation, he
endured lots of hardship in the path of the Cause of God. At the end, Ḥájí
Siyyid Mírzá, the Imam who leads Friday prayers, in the public bath of
Manshád twisted the breechcloth, made it wet to become heavier, and started
beating it upon the body of Mullá Ḥusayn such that he almost fainted and
some people had to carry him away from the public bath and delivered him
to his family at his house. At home he went straight to bed and he could not
control members of his body anymore and became paralyzed. He was in this
condition for sometime until he passed away.
All the sacrifices that the people of Yazd have made are because of the
Blessed Beauty and in the second degree because of the Afnáns in Yazd. My
pen and utterance cannot adequately describe what Afnáns have done in
Yazd for the Faith. Although to the letter, they have not taught the Faith to
anyone, but with their morals, deeds and behaviour; this lowly servant is
unable to describe their noble action. The presence of majestic enlightened
group of believers in Yazd is the manifest signs of their behaviour. Their
very existence in Yazd has been the cause of turning many people to the
Faith. High and low have testified that these blessed souls are manifest signs,
uplifted banners,  pure lineage and the source of felicity, chastity and
faithfulness. Although they would not cry out outwardly to their belief,
however all the people of Yazd were certain that they were Bahá’ís and they
were the twigs of the Blessed tree (Extracted and translated from TAY, pp.
132-133)
24.
An-Najaf, just 19 miles from Babylon and in the geographic
neighbourhood of the “cradle of civilization,” was founded in 791AD when
it was chosen as the final burial place of one of the "Twelve Imams," ‘Ali
ibn Abi Talib, the Martyr of Mihrab, Commander of the Faithful. He was
the 4th Caliph of Islam, cousin of the prophet Muḥammad and the 1st Imam
of Shí'ih Islam. Najaf is one of the sacred cities of Iraq, the Door of the
Greatest Prophet's Knowledge, the capital of his jurisprudence,  the son of
the Ka'aba. It is also a source of (marjaiyyah) authority and (taqlid) imitation
acting according to that authority, a cradle of scientific and literary
movements, mother of sciences, piety, poetry, and (jihad) holy war.
THE LOCATION OF THE CITY: Najaf is located on the edge of the western
plateau of Iraq, at southwest of Baghdad the capital city of Iraq, with 160


km far from the capital. It is almost 70 meters above sea level, and is situated
on the longitude of 19 degrees and 44 minutes, as well as on the latitude of
31 degrees and 59 minutes. This city is bordered from north and northwest
by Karbala city (which is 80 km far from the city), and from the east by
Kufah city (which is 10 km far from the city).
FOUNDATION : Indeed, nowadays Najaf is the same Najaf Al-Kufah.
Ancient time there was an Arabian town in which they spread the Christian
monasteries in the city before the Islamic conquer, but the city changed and
became a big city, its range was expanded and its inhabitants became
crowded, this is because of the existence of Imam Ali's holy shrine which
gave the city a mark of holiness and respect. The city then became a center
of religious leadership along with a resort of scientific figures. Najaf is an
Arabic name, which has been derived from (Al-Manjuf), its plural is Najaaf
(means a place where water can not overtop), because it is a highland similar
to a hill which it used to block or prevent water to things close to it. Also
the word Najaf refer to a hill. Najaf was given various names one of which
is   Zahrul Kufah.
THE EXPANSION AND CONSTRUCTION: In the year 170 A.H. after the
appearance of Commander of Faithful Imam Ali's holy shrine, Najaf became
a city with a big number of buildings, as the constructional work of the city
continued gradually until it became a well developed city. Constructional
works of Najaf is divided into 3 stages:
FIRST: Construction stage of the Buwaihi State which extended from year
338 A.H. until 9th century of Hijri, which represents a prosperity and vigor
of Najaf, whereas he built a first fence, surrounded the city, then Abu
Muhammed bin Sahlaan Alwazir Al-Buwaihi built the second fence in year
400 A.H.
SECOND: This stage which occurred between 9th century A.H. until the
middle of 13th century A.H. In this period, the buildings of the city became
old and its brilliance disappeared, due to the war between Turks and
Persians.
THIRD: This is the last stage which began from the middle of the 13th
century A.H. when splendor and promotion returned to the city. Meanwhile,
many constructional, cultural, and service changes occurred after the district
became subsidiary to the Karbala province.
o Between year 550 A.H.- 656 A.H. Abbasid Caliph An-Naasir Li
Deenillah, paid a great attention to the city. The construction work
included repairing of Imam Ali's holy shrine.
o The domestic Company founded a railway in year 1325 A.H. which
connected the city with Kufah.


o In year (1325 A.H. / 1908 A.D.) A Railway was set up by a national
company which connects between Najaf and Kufah.
o In year 1348 A.H. / 1929 A.D. Najaf connected to the Kufah by water
pipes, as pumps were also installed to push water to it. While before
the city was depending on canal, wells and small rivers to take its water
from Furat River which is far from the city.
o In year 1350 A.H. / 1931 A.D. during the period of the successor Sayyid
Ja‘far Hamandi, the regional government opened five doors in the city
fence and planned for a wide square in the southern part of the city,
then the merchants and inhabitants of the city began to build palaces,
houses, coffeehouses, gardens, and shops.
o The city Emirs established various schools, gardens, and parks, and a
wide hospital. This new district was called (Al-Ghaziyah ) which was
derived from the name of the king Ghazi.
o Railway was taken away in the year 1948 A.H. When it became easier
for the cars to carry people between Najaf and Kufah as the road is
made between them.
It is the capital of Najaf Governorate. It is widely considered amongst the
holiest cities of Shia Islam and one of its spiritual capitals, whilst also
remaining the center of Shia political power in Iraq.
Summarized from:  https://www.britannica.com/place/Al-Najaf
25.
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk was very brave, steadfast and committed to the
protection of the friends of God. We will quote a few of such instances from
the published literature which clearly demonstrates such qualities:
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk’s visit to Bághdád: Translated from the book “Ẓuhúr’ul-
Haqq”, vol. 3, page 194:
“Áqá Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí Nahrí along with his nephew and Áqá Mírzá
Muḥammad Ḥasan from Isfahan reached Bághdád and returned after a while
and took along the musk laden breezes from Iraq with them. In this way
people like Áqá Muḥammad Javád Farhádí, Mírzá Muṣṭafá Naráqí, Mullá
Muḥammad Riḍá Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ, Áqá Siyyid ‘Abdu’l-Báqí Káshí, Sháṭir Riḍá
Ardikání with Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk and Áqá Ḥusayn Ḥájí Rajab Manshádí one
after another travelled to Bághdád, benefited from the divine knowledge,
and returned to their homeland.”
In “Táríkh Amrí Yazd [TAY]” pp. 170 and 171, the following account has
been recorded which has been translated and shown below:
“Another one of the brave and audacious believers was Ḥáḍrat-i Ḥájí
Muḥammad-Ḥusayn Turk Manshádí who was one the earlier
believers (from the time of the Báb). One day, he was passing


through the street of Manshád, all of a sudden workers of Shaykh
Muḥammad Sabzivárí arrested him and took him away to the house
of the Shaykh. Shaykh told him how is that you, Ḥájí Ḥusayn,
understood the return of Imam Ḥusayn while myself having much
knowledge did not get it? He answered without any hesitation: “look
what happened when Abú Dhar became a believer during the time of
Muḥammad while Abú Jahl with all his knowledge did not?”  Shaykh
became very agitated and angry then ordered to scourge him with
many whip lashes and ordered him to be locked up in a room then he
informed Ibráhim Khan, the governor of Yazd. The government
people came, took him away to the government house; the governor
ordered him to be imprisoned for forty days. Then he asked him to
pay a sum as penalty and after the payment he was released. There
were three brothers: Ḥájí Zaynal, Áqá Ḥasan and Ḥájí Muḥammad-
Ḥusayn. They were known as Turks and were very sanctified souls.
They were not amongst the men of learning but they were the essence
of the love of God. After the martyrdom of the seven martyrs of
Yazd, Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ḥusayn travelled to Ṭihrán and stood in front
of the carriage of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh and said O king! Have you ever
heard that anyone has given the care and protection of his flock of
sheep to a wolf? And started crying such that he made all those who
were around him very sad and disturbed. The king asked repeatedly
what had happened. The old man who was overwhelmed by crying
was unable to mutter a word. At the end when he gained his
composure said:  “which sins did the people of Yazd commit that the
Point of Adoration of the world (Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh) dominated
Jalálu’d-Dawlih over them?” He asked: “What did he do, O aged
man?” He said: “This wolf tore apart the divine flock of lamb. They
cut off the head of seven men in one day. There was not any act of
tyranny that he did not commit. A learned man of seventy years of
age he murdered with his own hand with bullets from his gun. There
was not any crime that he did not commit. He plundered the property
of the people.” He continued with his explanation while he was
crying.  As a result of his action, Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh deposed Jalálu’d-
Dawlih. Then he returned to Yazd.  He was a true gentleman. The
sons of the Ḥájí Zayanl were: Áqá Abu’l-Qásim who was the
gardener of the garden of Riḍván in ‘Akká until his last breath; and
the other son was Áqá Muḥammad Ibráhím who was serving the
Ancient Beauty in the blessed  House from the time he was a youth
until the end of his life. The family of these three brothers were
engaged in serving the cause in Manshád, the Holy Land, and Egypt:


they were true believers and the servant of humanity. One of them
was late Áqá ‘Alí-Muḥammad, the son of Áqá Ḥasan Turk who was
the Sheriff of Manshád for twenty five years while he was in charge
of the town no body dared to harm the Bahá’ís particularly he
protected the survivors of the martyrs. Members of his family,
specially Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar, his eldest son, protected the friends of God
in Manshád.”
In the book: “Ẓuhúr’u’l-Ḥaq [ZHQ]”, vol. 5, pp. 263-264, the following
account has been recorded which is being translated and shown below:
“Atrocities in Manshád in 1299 AH (1882):    In Manshád through
the mischief of Navváb-i Raḍaví and agitation and incitement of
mullás,  the enemies of the Faith and hoodlums started to harm the
friends. At the beginning they started with the believers who were
meek and low profile in the society and heaped upon them all kinds
of verbal abuse and belittling them. Then they became bolder,  started
plundering their houses and properties, and to set in fire some houses.
Some of these people had to flee to other regions and some went to
Shiraz some to Ṭihrán and others to Rafsanjan, Kirman, Bavánát and
Abádih. Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk with three others went to Isfahan and
others who could not go away stayed on and accepted all the
hardship. Ḥájí Ḥusayn Turk with his companions tried to plead to the
government and to demand justice. One day they stood on the way
of Ẓilu's-Sulṭán waiting for him to show up and as soon as the prince
drew near to them Ḥájí raised his hand up for pleading for justice,
moaned and groaned.  He complained about the tyranny and
oppression of the ruling class, and complained that the governor is
turning blind eyes to their atrocities thereby allowing them to do
whatever they wanted. Ẓilu's-Sulṭán pulled the bridle of his horse and
stopped and said: “Hey old man, what has happened?” Ḥájí Ḥusayn
Turk said: “I am nearly eighty years of age and am known for years
with the name Bábí.  How would it be possible to change such
reputation? Also this is the case with many other people of Manshád.
Now if we deserve to be killed please order they kill us all at once,
otherwise you should produce an atmosphere of tranquillity and
peace so that we pray for your good health and well being.” The
prince consoled him and told him to go to the government house the
next day so that he would make arrangements for his affairs and those
of others. The next day Ḥájí and companions went to the government
house and complained about Navváb-i Raḍaví. The prince sent a
telegram to Ibrahim Khalil who was the governor on his behalf to this


effect that it would appear that the rule of Yazd is in the palm of
others and if it is not the case why is it that the subjects have dispersed
and fled to the countryside? You have to bring well being and peace
to Manshád and those who have oppressed others should be punished
and then wrote an edict  and gave it to them to take along and submit
it to the governor as follows: “ You have to console the wronged ones
of Manshád and protect them from the mischief of the oppressors and
punish the evil doers.”  Ḥájí Ḥusayn took the edict and returned to
Yazd and gave it to Ibrahim Khalil, the governor. The governor had
no other choice but to punish a few of evil-doers and made it illegal
for anyone to bother them. This was the cause of the further enmity
of tyrants;  Mírzá Imam jum‘ih made a new plot against the faithful.
At midnight he fired some rounds in the air from his pistol and started
shouting so that the neighbours would gather around him and he put
the blame on the Bahá’ís whom he claimed wanted to kill him.”
26.
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh was the Sháh of Qájár, Iran from 5 September 1848 to
1 May 1896 when he was assassinated. He was the son of Muḥammad Sháh
Qájár and Malik Jahán Khanum and the third longest reigning monarch in
the Iranian history after Shapúr II of the Sassanid dynasty and Tahmasp I of
the Safavid Dynasty.
Born: July 16, 1831, Tabriz, Iran
Buried: May 2, 1896, Shah ‘Abdu’l-‘Aẓím shrine, Ṭihrán, Iran
Assassinated: May 1, 1896, Ṭihrán, Iran
Children: Muẓaffari’d-Dín Sháh Qajar, and others
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh, (born July 16, 1831, near Tabriz, Iran—died May 1,
1896, Ṭihrán), Shah of Iran (1848–96) who began his reign as a reformer
but became increasingly conservative, failing to understand the accelerating
need for change or for a response to the pressures brought by contact with
the West. Although a younger son of Muḥammad Shah, Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh
was named heir apparent through the influence of his mother. Serious
disturbances broke out when he succeeded to the throne on his father’s death
in 1848, but these were quelled through the efforts of his chief minister,
Mírzá Taqi Khan. Under Taqi Khan’s influence, Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh began
his rule by instituting a series of needed reforms. Taqi Khan, however, was
later forced from power by his enemies, who included Náṣiri’d-Dín’s
mother, and was disgraced, imprisoned, and finally murdered. In 1852 an
attempt was made on Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh’s life by two Bábís; he responded
with a fierce, cruel, and prolonged persecution of the members of this
religion. Unable to regain territory lost to Russia in the early 19th century,
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh sought compensation by seizing Herat, Afghanistan, in
1856. Great Britain regarded the move as a threat to British India and
declared war on Iran, forcing the return of Herat as well as Iranian


recognition of the kingdom of Afghanistan. Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh was effective
in certain areas. He introduced telegraph and postal services, built roads,
opened the first school offering education along Western lines, and launched
Iran’s first newspaper. He visited Europe in 1873, 1878, and 1889 and was
impressed with the technology he saw there. In the later years of his rule,
however, he steadfastly refused to deal with the growing pressures for
reforms. He also granted a series of concessionary rights to foreigners in
return for large payments that went into his own pockets. In 1872 popular
pressure forced him to withdraw one concession involving permission to
construct such complexes as railways and irrigation works throughout Iran.
In 1890 he made an even greater error in granting a 50-year concession on
the purchase, sale, and processing of all tobacco in the country, which led to
a national boycott of tobacco and the withdrawal of the concession. This last
incident is considered by many authorities to be the origin of modern Iranian
nationalism. Increasingly unpopular among various Iranian factions,
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh was assassinated in Ṭihrán by a follower of Jamál’ul- Dín
Afghaní.
27.
Jalálu’d-Dawlih: Sulṭán Ḥusayn Mírzá entitled Jalálu’d-Dawlih (1868 –
1913) was a grandchild of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh and a son of prince Mas‘ud
Mírzá entitled Ẓilu's-Sulṭán  who was in turn the son of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh
and Hamdam’ul-Mulk (Kawkab’u-Dawlih daughter of Mírzá Taqi khan
Amir Kabir.) Ẓilu's-Sulṭán who was the governor of Isfahan and ruled
almost half of Iran, appointed his son Sulṭán Ḥusayn Mírzá,  Jalálu’d-
Dawlih, to the position of the governor of Yazd (1890 – 1892). In this period
the martyrdom of the seven martyrs of Yazd took place (1891). This was
due to the fatwa given by the clergy and the whole-hearted support by the
governor. Shortly after this, due to complains about his rule and poor
management of the affairs of the city he was removed from the office.
However, he was appointed once again to the governorship of Yazd in 1903-
1905. During his second tenure, the horrendous events of the martyrdom of
nearly one hundred Bahá’ís in Yazd and surrounding villages took place
with utmost cruelty by unruly mobs instigated by the clergy. The governor
was so weak that could not intervene or it was not to his advantage to stop
the clergy. In the Writings he is referred to as the “Tyrant of the land of Ya”
(refer to the Tablet of the World and other Tablets). After he was deposed,
numerous individuals claimed that he owed them large sums of money and
they established it by genuine documents that he could not reject or deny
and also he was not in a position to pay his debt. One of them was a Bahá’í
by the name Mullá Bahrám. During the reign of Muhammad-‘Alí Sháh he
supported the constitutionalists. The king sent him to Europe in exile. He
was in Geneva with his brother and father when they met  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; he


repented from his past cruel action against the Bahá’ís and tried to put the
blame on others.  Refer to the memoirs of the Juliet Thompson for 28 August
1911. He passed away in 1913.
28.
Martyrdom of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of Báqir:   Details of events
that lead to the martyrdom of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of Báqir entitled
Sham‘ush-Shuhadá  have been reported in the following books:
(i)
Yádnámih Bayḍayi Núrá, [YBN] pp. 123-130, 135-136, 146-147
(ii)
Táríkh Shuhadáyi Yazd [TSY], pp. 508-514.
(iii)
Táríkh Amrí Yazd [TAY], pp.  162, 235-244
The following is a summary which is translated from: Táríkh Amrí Yazd
[TAY], p.162. “Haji Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of Báqir:   A brief history
of the life of Ḥaḍrat-i Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of Báqir is as follows
that after he accepted the Faith, he had no rest. Day and night, he  was
constantly arranging meetings for the loved ones of God either in town or in
the farm of Mihdi -Ábád. He was so ablaze with the  fire of the Cause of
God which he could not sit still for a moment. He was busy transcribing
Tablets. His hand-writing was not so good but there are many manuscripts
of the Tablets available with the friends in his hand-writing. This kind of
life continued until he moved to ‘Abbás-Ábád and became busy with the
work of the management of the farm and yet he spent considerable length of
time for the service to the faith and he was there when his martyrdom took
place.”
29.
It seems there is a little exaggeration here. Probably several hundred, instead
of several thousand, is more accurate statement.
30.
Mullá Bahrám Akhtar-Khávarí:    The life history of Mullá Bahrám
Akhtar-Khávarí, or in short Mullá Bahrám, is recorded in Maṣábíḥ-i-
Hidáyat, [MAH] vol 4, pages 376-446; it is presented here in very condensed
form.  Mullá Bahrám should be regarded as the foremost Bahá’í teacher
from  Zoroastrian background. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says in a Tablet something to
the effect that Mullá Bahrám is the mercy of God and a bounty of the Lord;
you should appreciate him greatly (To see the tablet, refer to  [MAH], vol 4,
p. 377). His name was Bahrám, his father’s name Bahman, his grandfather’s
name Jamshíd. He was borne in 1275 AH (1858) in Maryam-Ábád, Yazd;
his mother’s name was Sulṭán khánum Máhyár. As he grew older, he
followed the profession of farming but followed rigorously the religion of
his ancestors which was Zoroastrian. He  was not fanatical about it; he was
meditating deeply on the contents of the text of the Zoroastrian Scriptures.
Soon he realized that the advent of some holy beings had been prophesied:
Húshidar Máh, Húshidar Búmi, Sháh Bahrám Varjávand and Dustúr


Pashútan, so he was always in search of new ideas. Mírzá Isá khán, one of
minister of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh asked the government of Yazd to send seven
Zoroastrian of Yazd to Ṭihrán for the advancement of a farm; Mullá Bahrám
was one them;   he was considered  an expert in shooting rifle, in
development of domestic animals and in agriculture. He heard about the
name of Faith for the first time in Yazd when one of the believers was
martyred, then  in Ṭihrán he heard the name again. After finishing his work
in Ṭihrán, he travelled to Kashán to work for Kaykhusru Khudádád who was
a Bahá’í. His employer found him fair in his views and genuinely interested
in seeking the truth, so he started teaching him the Faith. This was the first
time that he came in contact with the history and teachings of the Faith. After
two and a half years he returned to Yazd and met Mullá Qalandar then a
bond of friendship developed between them and in the meantime he heard
more about the Faith. Finally, Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí had serious,
deep and long discussions with him in 1301 AH (1884) which lead to his
acceptance of the Faith. From this point onwards he was on fire and
wherever he went he started the conversation about the Faith. He brought so
many of the fellow Zoroastrian into the Faith. When he read the Lawhi
Mánikchí ( Manekji ) Ṣáḥib, the fire of love of God in his heart inflamed, he
forgot totally about himself. The first opposition came, from inside his
family, from his wife until she passed away a few years later. Mullá Bahrám
was a witness to the events of seven martyrs of Yazd. Dustúr Tir-Andaz  was
one of the learned in the Zoroastrian community of Yazd and was aware of
his association with the Bahá’ís and  tried to harm him. So Mullá Bahrám
travelled to Bombay for one year to allow the enmity to cool off. Upon his
return,  he was chosen as one of the members of the Anjuman-i Náṣiri, a
quasi government organization to look after the interests of Zoroastrians.
For the second time he went to Bombay. When he returned, Afnans made
arrangements such that Jalálu’d-Dawlih to meet Mullá Bahrám. In 1320
(1902) about one year before the great massacre of Bahá’ís to occur,
Jalálu’d-Dawlih asked him to develop the land and property he had in
Píshkúh which had very little water, was in poor condition and he had
bought it at very low price. He told Bahá’ís that because of the name of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (page 417 MH, Vol. 4)  he called it ‘Abbás-Ábád. With the
encouragement of  Mírzá Maḥmúd Afnan, Mullá Bahrám, with Khusru
Mihrabán and 15 other Zoroastrian families, moved to the farm and made a
contract with Jalálu’d-Dawlih for the development of the farm. Next year
when the time for harvest approached, the upheaval of Yazd started and 84
people (page 418 MH, Vol. 4) were martyred. Jalálu’d-Dawlih  wanted to
collect back all the papers and documents which had been written and the
contract drawn and signed from Mullá Bahrám; but he resisted  and the
government officials and the people of Jalálu’d-Dawlih started  beating  him
up to force him to submit all his legal documents. Since his life was in
danger, Mullá Bahrám left Yazd for Ṭihrán while he had no money or riches


of this world with him. He arrived in Ṭihrán without money, exhausted,
nearly sick and quite weak. So he started to work for Arbáb Jamshid, a
wealthy and influential Zoroastrian in Ṭihrán. In Ṭihrán he was elected as
one of the members of the Spiritual Assembly. Afterwards, he went on
pilgrimage and met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  He passed away in 1349 AH (1930)
when he was 79 years old.
31.
‘Abbás-Ábád:   Form [TAY], p. 234:  “‘Abbás-Ábád was the property of
prince Sulṭán Ḥusayn Mírzá entitled Jalálu’d-Dawlih. He asked Áqá Siyyid
Mihdi Afnan and Áqá Siyyid Maḥmúd Afnan to send some of the Bahá’ís
from Zoroastrian background such as Mullá Bahrám and his brother Aqa
Kayumarth and Siyah Bakhsh and several others to send them over there.
Although they were working in Afnan’s farms and they had certain
arrangements with them, nonetheless, Afnans sent them to ‘Abbás-Ábád.
Also he asked if some others for having shops and others in construction,
butchery, and other trades to be sent over there. Therefore, Afnans sent Ḥájí
Siyyid Javad-i Muḥammad-Ábádi and Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of
Báqir and Ḥájí Aḥmad, the shoe-maker and Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar the butcher and
several other Bahá’ís over there to become engaged.” Also refer to [MAH],
vol. 4, p. 417.
32.
Events of 1903 in Yazd:  By 1903, the Bahá’í community of Iran had
experienced almost five decades of relative ease. Not that there was no
persecution at all in this period rather whatever happened was local or
confined to a smaller  region. The last widespread persecution of its
members had occurred in 1852-53.  During the period of half a century, the
Bábí community had changed its character from not hesitating to defend
itself under attack and aggression, to a peace-loving Bahá’í community that
had grown considerably in numerical strength. Yazd was well-known
throughout Iran for its devoted Muslim believers to the extent that they could
be called fanatical (those who disregard any form of rational thinking in
what they believe) and prone to exploitation by the clergy. Therefore there
was always a repressive atmosphere towards the Bahá'ís of the city. At first
matters were moderated by the fact that several of the leading religious
figures in Yazd were indifferent to the new religion while others were
supporters, like Mírzá Muḥammad Riḍá , or even secret believers, like Áqá
Siyyid Abu'l-Qásim Mujtahid. However as the older generation of the divine
learned died, their leadership in Yazd fell into the hands of the mujtahid
Shaykh Muḥammad-Ḥasan Sabzivárí and his son Shaykh Muḥammad-Taqí
who together with Sayyid ‘Alí Mudarris were much opposed to the Bahá'ís.
Perhaps the most interesting development in Yazd during this period was
the conversion of large numbers of Zoroastrians. The first conversion
occurred in Káshán. Several other Zoroastrians had become very much
attracted to the Bahá'í Faith in Ṭihrán during the time that Mírzá Abu'l-
Faḍá’l-i Gulpaygání had been working for Manikji Limji Hatari, the first


Parsi agent in Ṭihrán. But real progress in this area of Zoroastrian
conversions did not occur until Mullá Bahrám Akhtar-Khávarí became a
Bahá'í in about 1298AH(1881). Since he had a thorough knowledge of
Zoroastrian prophecies, he, together with Hájí Qalandar, developed a
successful approach to teaching Zoroastrians of Yazd and some of the
villages around.
There were also conversions in many of the villages around Yazd. In Yazd,
Maryam-Ábád and Mihdí-Ábád, Bahá'í schools were established. In `Alí-
Ábád, Husayn-ábád, ‘Izz-Ábád, Sharaf-Ábád and Hurmuzak strong Bahá'í
communities grew up.
If there was no incitement from the rank of the clergy, the populace lived in
peace with the Bahá’ís. Somehow early in twentieth century the situation
changed.  Áqá Najafí of Isfahan had written letters to all major cities in Iran
encouraging the Mullás to follow his lead in harassing the Bahá’ís. The
newly appointed prayer leader of Yazd, Sayyid Muḥammad Ibráhím, arrived
in Yazd on 12 June, 1903 and was anxious to prove his orthodoxy and to
consolidate his authority. Therefore, before even arriving at the city, he
circulated rumours about a general massacre of the Bahá’ís. The day after
his arrival witnessed the first attacks against several Bahá’í shopkeepers.
The first murder of a Bahá’í took place on 15 June when Ḥájí Mírzá Ḥalabí-
Sáz was brutally killed. After that, for a week, the city was calm but soon
the Bahá’í-killing spread to the nearby villages and cities. During the next
month, wave upon wave of mob attacks left hundreds of Bahá’ís homeless,
nearly 100 of them dead, and many more injured to the extent that in
Manshád alone thirty believers, more than anywhere else lost their lives.
We will insert here, part of a lengthy Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá which has been
revealed specifically for the events of Yazd and elsewhere for the year 1903.
نﺎﮭﻔﺻا و دﺰﯾ رد ناﺪﯿﮭﺷ ﮫﻤﻟﺆﻣ ﮫﻌﻗاو ﺮﺼﺘﺨﻣ
ھُﻮ Òّ
در اﯾﻦ ﻋﺼﺮ اﻧﻮار ﮐﮫ ﻗﺮن ﺣﻀﺮت ﭘﺮوردﮔﺎر اﺳﺖ و از ﭘﺮﺗﻮ ﺷﻤﺲ ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺖ اﻧﻮار ﻣﺪﻧﯿّﺖ
در ﺟﻤﯿﻊ آﻓﺎق در اﻧﺘﺸﺎر و ﮐﻤﺎﻻت اﻧﺴﺎﻧﯽ و ﻓﻀﺎﺋﻞ رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ ﺑﺎرﻗﮫ ﺻﺒﺢ در ﺷﺮق و
ﻏﺮب ﺑﻘﺴﻤﯽ ﻣﻨﺘﺸﺮ ﮐﮫ درﻧﺪﮔﯽ و ﺧﻮﻧﺨﻮارﮔﯽ در ﺑﯿﻦ ﺑﺸﺮ از ﻋﻮاﺋﺪ ﻣﺘﺮوﮐﮫ ﮔﺸﺘﮫ ﺑﻠﮑﮫ
در ﻣﻤﺎﻟﮏ ﻣﺘﻤﺪّﻧﮫ ﺑﮑﻠّﯽ ﻓﺮاﻣﻮش ﺷﺪه ﺗﻌﺮّﺿﺎت ﻣﺬھﺒﯿّﮫ ﺑﮑﻠّﯽ زاﺋﻞ و ﺗﻌﺼّﺒﺎت ﺟﺎھﻠﯿّﮫ ﺑﺎطﻞ
ﮔﺮدﯾﺪه در ﺑﯿﻦ ﺷﻌﻮب و ﻗﺒﺎﺋﻞ ﻏﯿﺮ از ﻣﺤﺎرﺑﺎت دوﻟﯿّﮫ و اﻓﮑﺎر ﺳﯿﺎﺳﯿّﮫ ﻣﻨﺎزﻋﮫ و ﻣﻌﺎرﺿﮫ
و ﻣﻀﺎرﺑﮫﺋﯽ ﺑﺎﻗﯽ ﻧﻤﺎﻧﺪه ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﻣﻢ و ﻣﻠﻞ در ﻣﮭﺪ اﻣﻦ و اﻣﺎن ﻣﺴﺘﺮﯾﺢ و ﮐﺎﻓﮫ طﻮاﺋﻒ از
ﺷﺮّ ﺳﺘﻤﮑﺎران اﻣﯿﻦ و در ﺣﺼﻦ ﺣﺼﯿﻦ. در اﯾﺮان ﭼﻮن ﻧﺪای اﻟﮭﯽ ﺑﻠﻨﺪ ﺷﺪ و ﺻﺒﺢ ﻧﻮراﻧﯽ
دﻣﯿﺪ و ﺷﻤﺲ ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺖ درﺧﺸﯿﺪ ﻧﻔﻮﺳﯽ از اﺳﻔﻞ درﮐﺎت ﺟﮭﻞ ﻧﺠﺎت ﯾﺎﻓﺘﮫ ﺑﺄﻋﻠﯽ درﺟﺎت اﻧﺴﺎﻧﯽ
ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﮔﺸﺘﻨﺪ و ﻣﺮﮐﺰﺳﻨﻮﺣﺎت رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﺷﺪﻧﺪ روح ﻣﺠﺴّﻢ ﮔﺸﺘﻨﺪ و ﻋﺪل ﻣﺼﻮّ ر ﮔﺮدﯾﺪﻧﺪ و
ﺑﺎﺧﻼق روﺣﺎﻧﯽ و ﻓﻀﺎﺋﻞ آﺳﻤﺎﻧﯽ در ﺟﮭﺎن اﻧﺴﺎﻧﯽ ﺟﻠﻮه ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ  و اﻣّﺎ ﭘﯿﺮوان ﻣﺬھﺐ ﻗﺪﯾﻢ
ﮐﮫ ﺑﺮ ﺗﻌﺎﻟﯿﻢ و ﺗﻘﺎﻟﯿﺪ ﻋﺘﯿﻘﮫ ﺑﺎﻗﯽ و ﺑﺮ ﻗﺮار ﻣﺎﻧﺪﻧﺪ روز ﺑﺮوز ﺑﺮ ﺟﮭﻞ و ﻧﺎداﻧﯽ اﻓﺰودﻧﺪ
ﺑﻘﺴﻤﯿﮑﮫ ﮔﺮﮔﺎن درﻧﺪه ﮔﺸﺘﻨﺪ و ﮐﻼب ﮔﺰﻧﺪه ﺷﺪﻧﺪ در ﺧﻮﻧﺨﻮارﮔﯽ از ﺳﺒﺎع ﺿﺎرﯾﮫ و ذﺋﺎب


ﮐﺎﺳﺮه ﮔﻮی ﺳﺒﻘﺖ رﺑﻮدﻧﺪ و ﺑﻨﺎی ﺗﻌﺮّض ﺑﺎﯾﻦ ﻧﻔﻮس ﻣﺒﺎرﮐﮫ ﮔﺬاﺷﺘﻨﺪ ھﺮ روز ﻓﺘﻨﮫﺋﯽ ﺑﺮ ﭘﺎ
ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ و ھﺮ ﺳﺎﻋﺖ ﺳﺘﻤﯽ آﻏﺎز ﮐﺮدﻧﺪ ھﺮ وﻗﺘﯽ آﺗﺶ ﻓﺴﺎد ﺑﺮاﻓﺮوﺧﺘﻨﺪ و ﭘﺎﮐﺎﻧﺮا ﺑﻨﺎر ﺣﻘﺪ و
ﺣﺴﺪ ﺑﺴﻮﺧﺘﻨﺪ ﺳﺮھﺎ ﺑﻨﯿﺰه ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ و ﺑﺎطﻔﺎل ﺳﺘﯿﺰه ﮐﺮدﻧﺪ ﻣﺎل و ﻣﻨﺎل ﺗﺎﻻن ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ و ﺧﺎﻧﮫ و
ﮐﺎﺷﺎﻧﮫ ﺗﺎراج ﮐﺮدﻧﺪ اطﻔﺎل و ﻧﺴﻮان از وطﻦ اﺧﺮاج ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ ﻋﺰﯾﺰان ذﻟﯿﻞ ﮔﺸﺘﻨﺪ اﻣﯿﺮان ﻓﻘﯿﺮ
ﺷﺪﻧﺪ ﻧﺎزﻧﯿﻨﺎن اﺳﯿﺮ ﮔﺸﺘﻨﺪ.  از ﺟﻤﻠﮫ واﻗﻌﮫ ﺟﺪﯾﺪه ﯾﺰد و اﺻﻔﮭﺎن اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﺗﺎزه رخ داده و
دﻟﮭﺎ آزرده و آﺷﻔﺘﮫ ﮔﺸﺘﮫ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اھﻞ اﻧﺼﺎف از اﺳﺘﻤﺎﻋﺶ ﺧﻮن ﮔﺮﯾﺴﺘﻨﺪ و ﮔﺮﯾﺒﺎن درﯾﺪﻧﺪ ﺑﺎ
وﺟﻮد آﻧﮑﮫ ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯿﺎن ﺷﺠﯿﻌﻨﺪ و دﻟﯿﺮ و ھﺮ ﯾﮏ در ﻣﯿﺪان ﺣﺮب و ﺿﺮب ﻣﻘﺎوم ﺟﻢّ ﻏﻔﯿﺮ و
ﭼﻮن ﺑﺠﻨﮓ ﺑﺮﺧﯿﺰﻧﺪ ﺻﻮﻟﺘﯽ اﻧﮕﯿﺰﻧﺪ ﮐﮫ ﺻﻔﻮف اﻋﺪا را ﻓﻮراً درھﻢ ﺷﮑﻨﻨﺪ زﯾﺮا ﺗﺠﺮﺑﮫ
ﺷﺪه ﮐﮫ در ﺷﺠﺎﻋﺖ ﻣﺜﻞ و ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ ﻧﺪارﻧﺪ وﻟﯽ ﭼﻮن ﺑﺎﻣﺮ ﻣﺒﺮم اﻟﮭﯽ ﻣﺄﻣﻮر ﺑﺼﻠﺢ ﻋﻤﻮﻣﯽ
ھﺴﺘﻨﺪ و ﻣﮑﻠّﻒ ﺑﻤﻈﻠﻮﻣﯿّﺖ ﮐﺒﺮی ﻟﮭﺬا اﮔﺮ ﺳﺘﻤﮑﺎری دﺳﺖ ﺗﻄﺎول ﺑﮕﺸﺎﯾﺪ و ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ ﮔﺮگ ﺗﯿﺰ
ﭼﻨﮓ ھﺠﻮم ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ اﻏﻨﺎم ﺗﺴﻠﯿﻢ ﺷﻮﻧﺪ اﺑﺪاً ﻣﻘﺎوﻣﺖ ﻧﻨﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ ﺑﻠﮑﮫ ﺗﯿﻎ و ﺷﻤﺸﯿﺮ
را ﺑﺸﮭﺪ و ﺷﯿﺮ ﻣﻘﺎﺑﻠﮫ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ زﺧﻢ ﺑﺠﮕﺮﮔﺎه ﺧﻮرﻧﺪ، دﺳﺖ ﻗﺎﺗﻞ را ﺑﺒﻮﺳﻨﺪ و در ﺳﺒﯿﻞ اﻟﮭﯽ
ﺟﺎﻧﻔﺸﺎﻧﯽ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ، از ﺑﺮای ﺳﺘﻤﮑﺎر اﺳﺘﻐﻔﺎر ﮐﻨﻨﺪ و طﻠﺐ ﻋﻔﻮ از ﭘﺮوردﮔﺎر ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ اﯾﻦ روش
و ﺳﻠﻮک ﺳﺒﺐ ﮔﺸﺘﮫ ﮐﮫ آن ﺣﯿﻮاﻧﮭﺎی درﻧﺪه و ﻣﺎر و ﻋﻘﺮب ﮔﺰﻧﺪه روز ﺑﺮوز ﺑﺮ ﺟﺴﺎرت
اﻓﺰودﻧﺪ و ﺑﺨﻮن ﻣﻈﻠﻮﻣﺎن دﺳﺖ ﺧﻮﯾﺶ آﻟﻮدﻧﺪ و راه ﺟﻔﺎ ﭘﯿﻤﻮدﻧﺪ و اﺑﺪاً رﺣﻢ ﻧﻨﻤﻮدﻧﺪ اﯾﻦ
واﻗﻌﮫ ﺟﺪﯾﺪ و ظﻠﻢ ﺷﺪﯾﺪ ﺑﺮ وﻗﻮﻋﺎت ﺳﺎﺑﻘﮫ ﺑﯿﻔﺰود و ﻣﺼﺎﺋﺐ و ﺑﻼﯾﺎی ﻗﺪﯾﻤﮫ را ﻣﺤﻮ ﻧﻤﻮد.
ﻣﺨﺘﺼﺮ اﯾﻨﺴﺖ ﮐﮫ ﭼﻮن در اﯾﻦ اﯾّﺎم ﻋﻠﻤﺎی ﺷﯿﻌﮫ ﯾﻌﻨﯽ ﻣﺬھﺐ ﻗﺪﯾﻢ در اﯾﺮان ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ
ﮐﮫ ﻧﺪای اﻟﮭﯽ ﺑﻠﻨﺪ ﺷﺪ و ﺷﺮق و ﻏﺮب ﺑﺤﺮﮐﺖ آﻣﺪ اﻧﻮار ﺷﻤﺲ ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺖ ﭼﻨﺎن ﺳﻄﻮع ﻧﻤﻮد
ﮐﮫ ﭼﺸﻤﮭﺎ روﺷﻦ ﺷﺪ راﯾﺖ اﻣﺮ Òّ ﻣﺮﺗﻔﻊ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ ﻧﻔﻮس ﻓﻮج ﻓﻮج در ظﻞّ ﮐﻠﻤﺔ Òّ در آﯾﻨﺪ و
ﺷﯿﻌﯿﺎن ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯿﺎن ﮔﺮدﻧﺪ ﺣﺘّﯽ اﺳﺮاﺋﯿﻠﯿﺎن ﭼﻨﺎن ﺷﻮر و وﻟﮭﯽ ﯾﺎﻓﺘﻨﺪ ﮐﮫ ﻋﻨﻘﺮﯾﺐ ﻧﻔﺴﯽ از اﯾﺸﺎن
در اﯾﺮان ﺑﺎﻗﯽ ﻧﻤﺎﻧﺪ ﻣﮕﺮ آﻧﮑﮫ ﻣﮭﺘﺪی ﺑﮭﺪاﯾﺖ ﮐﺒﺮی ﮔﺮدد و ھﻤﭽﻨﯿﻦ ﻓﺎرﺳﯿﺎن ﮐﮫ ﻣﻠّﺖ ﻗﺪﯾﻤﮫ
اﯾﺮاﻧﻨﺪ و ﻣﻨﮑﺮ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﻧﺒﯿﺎء از اﺑﺮاھﯿﻢ و ﻣﻮﺳﯽ و ھﻤﭽﻨﯿﻦ ﻣﻨﮑﺮ ﺣﻀﺮت ﻣﺴﯿﺢ و ﺣﻀﺮت
رﺳﻮل Òّ ﺑﻮدﻧﺪ ﺣﺎل اﮐﺜﺮ ﻣﻘﺮّ و ﻣﻌﺘﺮف ﺑﺠﻤﯿﻊ ﮐﺘﺐ و رﺳﻞ و اﻧﺒﯿﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ ﮔﺸﺘﻨﺪ و در
ﻧﮭﺎﯾﺖ ﺻﺪق و ﺻﻔﺎ از زﻣﺮه ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯿﺎن ﺷﺪﻧﺪ. ﺧﻼﺻﮫ اﯾﻦ ﻗﻀﯿّﮫ ﺑﺴﯿﺎر ﺳﺒﺐ ﺣﻘﺪ و ﺣﺴﺪ ﻋﻠﻤﺎی
ﺳﻮء ﺷﺪه ﺑﻘﺴﻤﯿﮑﮫ ﺻﺒﺮ و ﺗﺤﻤّﻞ ﺑﺮ ﺑﺎد رﻓﺘﮫ در ھﺮ ﻧﻔﺴﯽ آﺗﺸﯽ اﻓﺮوزﻧﺪ و ﻓﺘﻨﮫﺋﯽ ﺑﺮ ﭘﺎ
ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و ﺑﺎﻧﻮاع وﺳﺎﺋﻞ ﺟﮭﻠﮫ ﻗﻮم و ھﺰﻟﮫ و رذﻟﮫ ﭘﺮ ﻟﻮﻣﺮا ﺑﺮ رﯾﺨﺘﻦ ﺧﻮن ﻣﻈﻠﻮﻣﺎن ﺗﺸﻮﯾﻖ
و اﺟﺒﺎر ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ ﯾﮑﯽ از آن ﻋﻠﻤﺎء ﺳﻮء ﺷﺨﺼﯽ ﻣﻮﺟﻮد در اﺻﻔﮭﺎن ﻧﺠﻔﯽ و ﭘﺪرش ﭼﻮن
ﺑﺨﻮن ﺣﻀﺮت ﺳﻠﻄﺎن اﻟﺸﮭﺪاء و ﻣﺤﺒﻮب اﻟﺸﮭﺪاء دﺳﺖ ﺑﯿﺎﻟﻮد ﺣﻀﺮت ﺑﮭﺎءÒّ ﭘﺪر را ذﺋﺐ
و ﭘﺴﺮ را اﺑﻦ ذﺋﺐ ﻟﻘﺐ ﻓﺮﻣﻮد ھﺮ ﮐﺲ ﻣﺘﺤﯿّﺮ ﺑﻮد ﮐﮫ ﺣﮑﻤﺖ اﯾﻦ ﻟﻘﺐ ﭼﮫ ﭼﯿﺰ اﺳﺖ و ﭼﮫ
ﺧﻮاھﺪ ﮐﺮد ﺗﺎ آﻧﮑﮫ در اﯾﻦ اﯾّﺎم ظﺎھﺮ ﺷﺪ ﺑﺪاﯾﺖ اﯾﻦ ﻓﺘﻨﮫ از ﺟﮭﻼی اﻣّﺖ و ﻋﻠﻤﺎی ﺳﻮء در
اﯾﺮان در وﻻﯾﺖ رﺷﺖ در ﻣﺎه ﻣﺎرس ﺳﻨﮫ
ﮐﮫ ﻣﻄﺎﺑﻖ ﻣﺎه ﻣﺤﺮّم ﺳﻨﮫ
واﻗﻊ ﺑﺮﭘﺎ
ﮔﺸﺖ اوّ ل ﻋﻠﻤﺎی ﺟﮭﻼ ﻋﻮام ﺧﻠﻖ را از اراذل و اوﺑﺎش ﺗﺸﻮﯾﻖ ﺑﺮ ﺗﺎﻻن و ﺗﺎراج اﺣﺒﺎب
ﮐﺮدﻧﺪ و ﺗﺤﺮﯾﺾ ﺑﺮ اذﯾّﺖ و ﺟﻔﺎ اﺷﺮار ﺑﻄﻤﻊ ﻏﺎرت اﻣﻮال ﻣﺎﻧﻨﺪ ﮔﺮگ ﺑﺮ اﻏﻨﺎم اﻟﮭﯽ ھﺠﻮم
ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ و ﯾﮑﻨﻔﺮ از اﺣﺒّﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ را ﮐﮫ ﺗﺎزه ﻓﻮت ﻧﻤﻮده از زﯾﺮ ﺧﺎک ﺑﯿﺮون آوردﻧﺪ ﻗﻄﻌﮫ
ﻗﻄﻌﮫ ﮐﺮده آﺗﺶ زدﻧﺪ و ﺣﺎل آﻧﮑﮫ آﻧﻤﻈﻠﻮم ﺑﺎ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ ﺧﻠﻖ در ﻣﺪّت ﺣﯿﺎت ﺑﻮﻓﺎ و ﻣﻼطﻔﺖ
ﮐﺒﺮی ﺳﻠﻮک ﻣﯽﻧﻤﻮد و ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اھﺎﻟﯽ ﻣﻤﻠﮑﺖ ﺣﺘّﯽ اﻋﺪاء و ﻧﻔﺲ ﻋﻠﻤﺎی ﺟﮭﻼ ﺑﺮ ﺣﺴﻦ اﺧﻼق
و اطﻮار و اﻣﺎﻧﺖ و ﻣﺤﺒّﺖ آن ﺑﺰرﮔﻮار ﺷﮭﺎدت ﻣﯿﺪادﻧﺪ و ﻣﯿﮕﻔﺘﻨﺪ ﮐﮫ اﯾﻦ ﺷﺨﺺ ﺑﺰرﮔﻮار
اﺳﺖ و ﺧﻮش رﻓﺘﺎر و وﻓﺎدار وﻟﯽ ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯿﺴﺖ و ﺟﺮﻣﺶ اﯾﻦ ﺑﻮد ﮐﮫ ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯽ ﯾﻌﻨﯽ زﻣﯿﻨﯽ ﺑﻮد
آﺳﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﮔﺸﺖ ﺟﺴﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﺑﻮد روﺣﺎﻧﯽ ﺷﺪ ﻧﺎﺳﻮﺗﯽ ﺑﻮد ﻻھﻮﺗﯽ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ ﺳﺒﺤﺎن Òّ ﭼﮫ ﻗﺪر ﻋﺠﯿﺐ
اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﻗﺮآن را ﺗﻼوت ﻣﯿﻨﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و وﺻﺎﯾﺎ و ﻧﺼﺎﯾﺢ اﻟﮭﯽ را ﻣﯽﺷﻨﻮﻧﺪ ﺑﺎ وﺟﻮد اﯾﻦ درﻧﺪه و
ﺧﻮﻧﺨﻮارﻧﺪ و اﯾﻦ ﺳﺒﻌﯿّﺖ را از ﻟﻮازم ﺷﺮﯾﻌﺖ ﻏﺮّا ﻣﯽﺷﻤﺮﻧﺪ و اﺳﻼﻣﺮا در ﻧﻈﺮ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ ﻣﻠﻞ


رذﯾﻞ و رﺳﻮا ﻣﯿﻨﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ ﺑﺎری ﺣﮑﻮﻣﺖ ﻋﺎدﻟﮫ ﭘﺎدﺷﺎه اﯾﺮان ھﺮ ﭼﻨﺪ ﺧﻮاﺳﺖ ھﺰﻟﮫ رذﻟﮫ را از
اذﯾّﺖ و ﺟﻔﺎ ﻣﻨﻊ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ ﭼﺎره ﻧﺘﻮاﻧﺴﺖ اﻣﻮال ﺑﮭﺎﺋﯿﺎن را ﻧﮭﺐ و ﻏﺎرت ﻧﻤﻮدﻧﺪ و اﺣﺒﺎب را
ﺳﺨﺖ اذﯾّﺖ ﮐﺮدﻧﺪ اﯾﻦ ﺳﺒﺐ ﺷﺪ ﮐﮫ در ﺳﺎﺋﺮ ﺑﻼد اﯾﺮان ﻋﻠﻤﺎی ﻣﻠّﺖ ﻧﯿﺰ ﺑﺘﺤﺮﯾﮏ و ﺗﺸﻮﯾﻖ
ﺟﮭّﺎل ﭘﺮداﺧﺘﻨﺪ  از آﻧﺠﻤﻠﮫ اﺑﻦ ذﺋﺐ در اﺻﻔﮭﺎن. اﯾﻦ ﺷﺨﺺ ﺑﺎوﺟﻮد آﻧﮑﮫ ﻣﺒﻠﻎ ﻣﻮﻓﻮری
ﺑﺎﻧﻮاع وﺳﺎﺋﻞ ﺟﻤﻊ ﻧﻤﻮده و ﮐﻞّ را از دﺳﺖ اﺑﻨﺎء ﻣﻠّﺖ رﺑﻮده و ﻣﻨﮭﻤﮏ در ﺟﻤﯿﻊ ﺷﮭﻮاﺗﺴﺖ
و ﮐﻞّ ﺷﮭﺎدت ﺳﻮء ﻧﯿّﺖ او ﻣﯿﺪھﻨﺪ ﻣﻊ ذﻟﮏ ﺟﮭﻠﮫ ﻋﻮام ﭘﯿﺮوی ﮐﻨﻨﺪ و ﻣﺤﺾ ﻏﺎرت اﻣﻮال
اﺣﺒّﺎ ﻣﺘﺎﺑﻌﺖ او ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و دﺳﺖ ﺗﻄﺎول ﮔﺸﺎﯾﻨﺪ و ﻗﻮّ ت ﺑﺎزو ﺑﯿﺎزﻣﺎﯾﻨﺪ اﯾﻦ ﺷﺨﺺ ﭼﻮن ﻋﻠﻮّ
اﻣﺮ Òّ و ارﺗﻘﺎع ﮐﻠﻤﺔ Òّ را ﻣﺸﺎھﺪه ﻧﻤﻮد آﺗﺶ ﺣﺴﺪ و ﺑﻐﻀﺎ در ﺳﯿﻨﮫاش ﺷﻌﻠﮫ ﺷﺪﯾﺪ زد و
ﻋﻠﻢ ﻓﺴﺎد ﺑﻠﻨﺪ ﻧﻤﻮد ﺑﻌﻨﺎد ﺑﺮﺧﺎﺳﺖ و ﺑﺘﺪﺑﯿﺮ ﺑﺘﺸﻮﯾﺶ اﻓﮑﺎر و ﺗﺨﺪﯾﺶ اذھﺎن ﭘﺮداﺧﺖ ﺗﻠﻐﺮاﻓﯽ
ﺑﻨﺎم ﺣﻀﺮت ﺻﺪر اﻋﻈﻢ اﯾﺮان ﺗﺮﺗﯿﺐ داد و ﺑﻘﺪر ﭼﮭﺎر ﺻﺪ ﻧﺴﺨﮫ در ﻧﺼﻒ ﺷﺐ ﺑﺮ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ
دﯾﻮارھﺎی ﺷﮭﺮ ﺑﻮاﺳﻄﮫ ﻧﻔﻮﺳﯽ از ﻣﻌﺘﻤﺪﯾﻦ ﺧﻮﯾﺶ ﺑﭽﺴﺒﺎﻧﯿﺪ ﻣﻀﻤﻮن ﺗﻠﻐﺮاف اﯾﻨﮑﮫ ﺷﯿﺦ
ﺗﻘﯽ ﮐﮫ ﺣﺠّﺔ اﻻﺳﻼم اﺳﺖ ﺑﺎﯾﺪ ﻣﺤﺎﻓﻈﺖ دﯾﻦ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ اﯾﻦ ﺗﻠﻐﺮاف ﺻﺮف ﺗﺼﻨّﻊ و اﻓﺘﺮا ﺑﻮد
وﻟﯽ ﭼﻮن ﺻﺒﺢ دﻣﯿﺪ و ھﺮﮐﺲ از اراذل و اوﺑﺎش اﯾﻦ ﺗﻠﻐﺮاف را ﺑﺪﯾﺪ و ﯾﺎ ﺑﺸﻨﯿﺪ ﺑﮭﯿﺠﺎن آﻣﺪ
ﮐﻞّ رو ﺑﺨﺎﻧﮫ ﺷﯿﺦ ﺗﻘﯽ ﻧﮭﺎدﻧﺪ او ﻧﯿﺰ ﻓﻮراً ﺑﻔﺘﻮای ﻗﺘﻞ ﻣﻈﻠﻮﻣﺎن زﺑﺎن ﮔﺸﻮد ﻣﻌﻠﻮم اﺳﺖ در
ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ﺣﺎﻟﺘﯽ و ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ھﯿﺠﺎﻧﯽ ﻣﻘﺘﺪای ﻋﻮام ﭼﻨﯿﻦ ﻓﺘﻮاﺋﯽ دھﺪ ﭼﮫ ﻓﺴﺎد و ﻓﺘﻨﮫﺋﯽ ﺑﺮ ﭘﺎ ﺷﻮد ..."
)ﻣﮑﺎﺗﯿﺐ ﺣﻀﺮت ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﺒﮭﺎء – ﺟﻠﺪ ﺳﻮم ﺻﻔﺤﮫ 122
-
(
“[MKT, vol. 3, pp. 122-
127]”

33.
Pool:  The pool was a man-made body of water which served as an open
reservoir and also was used for irrigating the land at lower elevation. The
pool was filled from a smaller stream from an aqueduct.
34.
The book: Yádnámiy-i-Bayḍá’-i-Núrá’ [YBN], edited by Dr. Vahid Ra’fati
which contains partly the history written by Bayḍá’-i- Núrá’.
35.
Township of Taft:  The township of Taft is located in the southwest of Yazd
province. To its west is Fars province. One of the most important mountains
of the province named as Shir Kuh, with an elevation of 4,075 m. is located
here. The weather of Taft is moderate and many kinds of fruit trees are
planted there. The name of Taft is mentioned in many historical and mystical
books of the 9th century AH., along with the name of Shah Nematullah-i-
Vali.
36.
Ḥaḍrat Válá: It means His highness. It is a preface for highly placed people
as a sign of respect.  In this case Jalálu’d-Dawlih.
37.
Qapán wood was a piece of lumber: 7 feet long, and “4x4” inch wide, that
was used to either weigh or carry heavy loads.
38.
This Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá appears in the book “Yádnámiy-i-
Bayḍá’-i-Núrá’, [YBN] pp. 146-147.
ﺑﻪ واﺳﻄﻪ ﺟﻨﺎب ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﺳﻴّﺪ ﺟﻮاد
ﻋﺒﺎس آ7د  ﻳﺰد  ﺟﻨﺎب ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﺣﺴﲔ ﻋﻠﻴﻪ =ﺎءﷲ


ﻫﻮﷲ
ای Bﺑﺖ ﺑﺮ ﭘﻴﻤﺎن، آﻧﭽﻪ ﺑﻪ ﺟﻨﺎب ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﻧﮕﺎﺷﺘﻴﺪ ﻣﻼﺣﻈﻪ ﮔﺮدﻳﺪ. ﲨﻴﻊ ﺗﻌﺮﻳﻒ
وﺗﻮﺻﻴﻒ ﻋﺒﺎس آ7د ﺑﻮد ﮐﻪ اﳊﻤﺪ [ ﺣﻀﺮت واﻻ در `ﺎﻳﺖ ﻣﻬﺮ7ﻧﯽ ﻫﺴﺘﻨﺪ و اﺣﺒﺎء
ﻧﻴﺰ در ﻏﺎﻳﺖ ﺻﺪق و ﳘّﺖ ﺑﻪ ﺧﺪﻣﺖ ﭘﺮداﺧﺘﻨﺪ. اﻳﻦ ﺧﱪ ﺳﺒﺐ روح و رﳛﺎن ﺑﯽ klن
ﺷﺪ زﻳﺮا از اﻋﻈﻢ اواﻣﺮ اﳍﯽ و ﺗﻌﺎﻟﻴﻢ رﲪﺎﻧﯽ اﻳﻦ اﺳﺖ ﮐﻪ 7ﻳﺪ ﻣﺘﺒﻮع ﻣﻬﺮ7ن 7ﺷﺪ و sﺑﻊ
ﺻﺎدق و ﻏﻴﻮر و ﺧﲑﺧﻮاﻩ. ﭼﻮن اﻳﻦ دو ﲨﻊ ﮔﺮدد، روح و رﳛﺎن و ﻋﺰّت ﺑﯽ klن و
راﺣﺖ دو ﺟﻬﺎن و ﻣﺴﺮّت وﺟﺪان و ﺳﺒﺐ ﺣﺼﻮل آرزوی دل و ﺟﺎن. lراﻧﯽ را ﮐﻪ درآﳒﺎ
ﺑﻪ ﺧﺪﻣﺖ ﭘﺮداﺧﺘﻨﺪ، از ﻗﺒﻞ ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﺒﻬﺎء ﺑﮕﻮ: ﺑﮑﻮﺷﻴﺪ و ﺑﻪ ~ر ﳏﺒﺖ ﷲ ﺑﺮاﻓﺮوزﻳﺪ و در ان
ﻗﺮﻳﻪ ﺟﻠﻮﻩ ای ﳕﺎﺋﻴﺪ ﮐﻪ ﻋﺒّﺎس آ7د =ﺎءآ7د ﮔﺮدد. و ﻋﻠﻴﮏ اﻟﺘﺤﻴّﺔ و اﻟﺜﻨﺎء ع ع
The provisional translation of this tablet is as follows:
In care of Jináb-i Ḥájí Siyyid Javád,
‘Abbás-Ábád, Jináb-i Ḥájí Ḥusayn,  the glory of God be upon him!
He is God.
O thou who art steadfast in the Covenant! What thou didst write to
Jináb-i Ḥájí was noted. It was full of praises for ‘Abbás-Ábád,
explaining that his Highness (1) is most kind, and the friends of God
have arisen to render services in the utmost degree of truthfulness and
high resolve.  This news induced limitless joy and happiness, because
one of the greatest commands of God and His teachings is that  the
leader must be kind,  and the follower truthful, brave and a well-
wisher. Should these two become combined, they would result in joy,
happiness, everlasting glory and tranquility in both worlds, a joyful
conscience, and attainment unto the longing of heart and soul. Convey
thou, on behalf of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, greetings to the friends who are
engaged in services there and say: “Make ye a mighty effort! Be ye
enkindled with the fire of the love of God, and adorned with grace in
that village so that ‘Abbás-Ábád may become Bahá-Ábád.” Upon thee
be salutation and praise!
(1) Prince Ḥusayn Mírzá Jalálu’d-Dawlih
(Provisional translation by F.S. approved for publication by the BWC)

39. This Tablet has been published in the page 33 of the book: “Aqibat Bikhayr”,
revealed by  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in honour of Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún). It is also
published in the book: Makátíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, [MKT] vol. 5, p. 98:


ﱪﮐ ﺖﺣﺎﺳ زا ﯽّﻠﲡ ﺾﻴﻓ اﺪﻬﺷ ﻊﻤﺸﻧآ ،ﯽ=ا لﺎﲨ ﺰﻴﻨﮐ یا    ّ‡ا ﻮﻫl  فﺮﺸﺑ و ﺖﻓﺮﮔ
ﺣﻀﻮر در ﻣﻠﮑﻮت ا=ﯽ ﻣﺜﻮل lﻓﺖ در ﻣﺪّت  زﻧﺪﮔﺎﻧﯽ ﲞﺪﻣﺎت ﻣﻘﺮّﺑﲔ درﮔﺎﻩ ﮐﱪl ﻗﻴﺎم
داﺷﺖ و ﺑﻌﺒﻮدﻳّﺖ  آﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﻘﺪّس ﻣﺆﻳّﺪ ﺗﻮ ﻗﺮﻳﻨﻪ ﳏﱰﻣﻪ آن kک ﺟﺎﻧﯽ 7ﻳﺪ ﺑﺮ روش و
ﺳﻠﻮ
ک او زﻧﺪﮔﺎﻧﯽ ﳕﺎﺋﯽ s ﺳﺒﺐ روح و رﳛﺎن او در ﺟﻬﺎن ﺟﺎوداﻧﯽ ﮔﺮدی و ﻋﻠﻴﮏ
اﻟﺒﻬﺂء  اﻷ=ﯽ    ع ع


He is God.
O handmaid of the Abhá Beauty! That bright candle among the martyrs obtained
manifest grace from God’s holy Court and was given the honor of attaining unto
His presence in the Abhá kingdom. During his lifetime, he rose up to  the well-
favoured of God, and he was confirmed in attaining unto servitude to His Sanctified
Threshold. Thou art the respected companion of that pure soul. Thou shouldst live
in accordance with his behavior and conduct so that thou mayest become the cause
of his joy and gladness in the eternal realm. The Glory of the Most Glorious be upon
thee.
(Provisional translation by F.S. which has been approved by the BWC for
publication)
40.
“Abá” was a loose outer garment which was long, flowing over  the
body when it was made from wool it was used also for protection from
cold.
41.
See “Táríkh-i Shuhadáy-i Yazd   [TSY]” written by Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ṭáhir Málmírí; and  also “Tarikh Amrí Yazd [TAY]”, pp. 82-85.
42.
Ḥaḍrat Válá: Jalálu’d-Dawlih see Endnote number 36
43.
The fort or the castle of the governor:  The governor of Yazd lived in a
well-guarded castle with a garrison of soldiers to protect him in case of riots
or when the fort would be attacked by hostile forces. It was like medieval
forts in Europe. It could sustain such attacks for a while until reinforcement
come to the aid of the inhabitants.
44.
Nasaqchi Báshi was one of the posts of Safavid rule of Iran which
continued until towards the end of the reign of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh; this post
disappeared after his rule. The main duty of Nasaqchi Báshi was to maintain
the order in soldiers’ camp; in the city acted as a guard and the protector of
peace. He was appointed by the Shah.
45.
The text of the tablet of visitation for Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar, the martyr:
https://www.bahai.org/fa/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/additional-tablets-
talks-abdul-baha/529608493/529608493.xhtml?e031a750


ھﻮاﻻﺑﮭﯽ



ﺳﺒﺤﺎﻧﮏ اﻟﻠﮭﻢ ﯾﺎ اﻟﮭﯽ اﻧﺎﺟﯿﮏ ﻓﯽ ﺳﺮی و ذاﺗﯽ و ﮐﯿﻨﻮﻧﺘﯽ و ﺣﻘﯿﻘﺘﯽ و اذﮐﺮک ﺑﺮوﺣﯽ وﻗﻠﺒﯽ
وﻟﺴﺎﻧﯽ وﻗﻠﻤﯽ وﻋﻈﻤﯽ وﻟﺤﻤﯽ ودﻣﯽ ﺧﻔﯿﺎً ﺗﯽ وﺟﮭﺎری ﻣﺸﺘﻌًﻼ ﺑﻨﺎر ﻣﺤﺒﺔ اوﻟﯿﺎﯾٔﮏ و ﺷﻐﻔﺎٔ
ﺑﺠﻮھﺮ ودّ اﺻﻔﯿﺎﯾٔﮏ اﻟﺬﯾﻦ اﻧﻔﻘﻮا ارواﺣﮭﻢ ﻓﯽ ﺳﺒﯿﻠﮏ و اﻧﻔﺴﮭﻢ ﻓﯽ ﻣﺤﺒﺘﮏ دﻣﺎﯾٔﮭﻢ ﻓﯽ ﺷﻮﻗﮭﻢ
اﻟﯿﮏ واﺳﺘﮭﺪﻓﻮا اﻟﺴﮭﺎم و اﺳﺘﺤﻠﻮا ﻣﺮارة اﻟﺴﻨﺎن و اﺷﺘﮭﯽ رﺋﻮﺳﮭﻢ اﻻرﺗﻔﺎع ﻋﻠﯽ اﻟﺮﻣﺎح و
ﻗﻠﻮﺑﮭﻢ ان ﯾﻘﻄﻌﻮا ارﺑﺎً ارﺑﺎً ﻓﯽ اﻋﻼء ﮐﻠﻤﺘﮏ ﻏﺰاً ﻣﺎ ﻓﯽ ﺟﻤﺎﻟﮏ و ھﯿﺎﻣﺎً ﻓﯽ وﻻﯾٔﮏ و ﺷﻮﻗﺎٔ
اﻟﯽ ﻟﻘﺎﯾٔﮏ و وﻟﮭﺎٔ ﻓﯽ ﺑﮭﺎﯾٔﮏ و اﻧﺠﺬاﺑﺎٔ اﻟﯽ ﺳﻤﺎﯾٔﮏ و اﺳﺘﻐﺮاﻗﺎً ﻓﯽ ﺑﺤﺮ وﻓﺎﯾٔﮏ و ﻣﻨﮭﻢ ھﺬا
اﻟﻐﻼم اﻟﺼﺒﯿﺢ اﻟﻤﻠﯿﺢ اﻟﺬی ﺳﻤﯿﺘﮫ ﻓﯽ ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﻻﺳﻤﺎء ﻋﻠﯿﺎ اﺻﻐﺮ وﺟﻌﻠﺘﮫ ﻓﯽ ﺟﺒﺮوت اﻟﺼﻔﺎ
ﻋﻠﯿﺎء اﮐﺒﺮ ﻻﻧﮫ ﯾﺎ اﻟﮭﯽ ﻟﻤﺎ ﺷﺮب ﮐﺎٔس اﻟﻌﻄﺎء ﻣﻦ ﯾﺪ ﺳﺎﻗﯽ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺘﮏ و ﺛﻤﻞ ﻣﻦ ﺻﮭﺒﺎء ﻣﺤﺒﺘﮏ
و اﺷﺮق ﻣﻦ ارﺟﺎء ﻓﻮٔ اده اﻧﻮار ﻣﻌﺮﻓﺘﮏ واﺧﺬﺗﮫ ﻧﺸﻮة ﻣﺪام اﻟﺸﻮق اﻟﯽ ﻟﻘﺎﯾٔﮏ ﺣﺘﯽ ﺳﺮع اﻟﯽ
ﻣﯿﺪان اﻟﻔﻨﺎء ﻓﯽ ﺣﺒﮏ و رﮐﺾ ﻣﻦ ﺣﺠﻠﺔ اﻟﺰﻓﺎف اﻟﯽ ﻣﺸﮭﺪ اﻟﻔﺪاء ﻓﯽ ﺳﺒﯿﻠﮏ و ﻣﻦ ﻧﻤﺎرق
اﻟﺮاﺣﺔ و اﻟﺴﺮاء اﻟﯽ ﻣﮭﺎﺑﻂ اﻟﻤﺸﻘﺔ و اﻟﻀﺮاء و ﻣﻦ وﺳﺎدة اﻟﻌﺰ و اﻟﻮﻗﺎر و ھﺎد اﻟﺬﻟﺔ و اﻻﻧﮑﺴﺎر
ﻓﯽ ﻣﺤﺒﺘﮏ و اﺣﻤﺮ ﺧﺪه اﻟﻠﻄﯿﻒ اﻻﺳﯿﻞ ﻣﻦ دﻣﮫ اﻟﻤﺴﻔﻮک و ﺧﻀﺐ ﺳﻮاﻟﻔﮫ و ﻏﺪاﯾٔﺮه ﺑﺜﺎره
اﻟﻤﮭﺪ ورﺑﻔﺘﻮی ﺷﺮ ﺧﻼﯾٔﻘﮏ و ﻟﯿﺲ ﺛﯿﺎب اﻟﻨﺠﯿﻊ ﺑﺪﻻ ﻋﻦ اﻟﻄﺮاز اﻟﻠﻄﯿﻒ اﻟﺬی ﻟﺒﺴﮫ ﻓﯽ ﻟﯿﻠﺔ
اﻻﻗﺘﺮان و اﺿﻄﺠﻊ ﻓﯽ ﻣﻀﺎﺟﻊ اﻟﺬل و اﻟﮭﻮان ﻋﻠﯽ ﺗﺮاب اﻟﻤﺴﮑﻨﺔ و اﻟﻔﻘﺪان ﻋﻮﺿﺎً ﻋﻦ ﻓﺮاش
اﻟﻤﺴﺮة و اﻟﻔﺮح و اﻻﻣﺎن ﺗﻮﻗﺎً اﻟﯽ اﻓﻘﮏ اﻻﺑﮭﯽ و رﻓﯿﻘﮏ اﻻﺑﮭﯽ ﺣﺘﯽ ﺷﻘﻮا ﺻﺪره اﻟﻤﻨﺸﺮح
ﺑﺎٓﯾﺎت ﻣﺤﺒﺘﮏ و ﻗﻄﻌﻮا ﮐﺒﺪه اﻟﺤﺮﯾﻖ ﺑﻨﺎر ﻋﺸﻘﮏ و اﺻﺎﺑﻮا ﻗﻠﺒﮫ اﻟﻤﻨﯿﺮ اﻟﺮﺣﯿﺐ ﺑﺴﮭﺎم اﻟﺒﻐﻀﺎء
ﻓﯽ ﺳﺒﯿﻠﮏ و ﻗﻄﻌﻮا رأس اﻟﺸﺮﯾﻒ ﺑﺨﻨﺠﺮ اﻟﺠﻔﺎء ﻓﯽ وﻻﯾٔﮏ و ﻧﺼﺒﻮه ﻋﻠﯽ ظﺒﺎء ﻟﻄﻐﯿﺎن و
ﺣﻤﻠﻮه اﻟﯽ اﻣﺔ اﻟﺤﻨﻮﻧﺔ اﻟﻤﻈﻠﻮﻣﺔ و ﺣﻠﯿﻠﯿٔﺔ اﻟﺠﻠﯿﻠﮫ اﻟﻤﺤﺰوﻧﺔ و رﻣﻮه ﻓﯿﺴﺎﺣﺔ دارھﻢ رﺣﯿﺐ ﺗﺮھﯿﺒﺎً
ﻟﮭﻦ و ﺗﮭﺪﯾﺪاً ﺑﮭﻦ ﺣﺘﯽ ﯾﺘﺰﻟﺰﻟﻦ ﻓﯽ اﯾﻤﺎﻧﮭﻦ وﺗﺰل اﻗﺪاﻣﮭﻦ ﻋﻠﯽ ﺻﺮاطﮏ اﻟﻤﺴﺘﻘﯿﻢ وﻣﻨﮭﺠﮏ
اﻟﻘﻮﯾﻢ و ﻟﮏ اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ﯾﺎ اﻟﮭﯽ ﺑﻤﺎ اﺛﺒﺖ ﻗﻠﻮﺑﮭﻦ ﻋﻠﯽ وﻻﯾٔﮏ ﺣﺘﯽ اﺧﺮﺟﻮا ذاﻟﮏ رأس اﻟﮑﺮﯾﻢ ﻣﻦ
ﻣﺎواھﻦ ووﺿﻌﻦ ﺧﺎرج اﻟﺒﯿﺖ و ارﺟﻌﻦ ذاﻟﮏ اﻟﺠﻮھﺮ اﻟﯿﺘﯿﻢ اﻟﯽ طﻐﺎت ﺧﻠﻘﮏ و ﻗﻠﻦ: ﺣﺎش 4

رأس اﻟﺬی ﻗﺪﯾﻨﺎه ﻓﯽ ﺳﺒﯿﻞ ﷲ ﻻ ﻧﺴﺘﺮﺟﻌﮫ اﺑﺪاً. واﻟﺠﻮھﺮ اﻟﻤﮑﻨﻮن و اﻟﻠﻮٔ ﻟﻮٔ  اﻟﻤﺨﺰون اﻟﻤﺼﻮن
اﻟﺬی ﻧﺜﺮﻧﺎء ﻓﯽ ﻣﺤﺒﺔ ﷲ ﻻ ﺗﺴﺘﻌﯿﺪه ﻣﻄﻠﻘﺎً ﯾﺎ ﻟﯿﺖ ھﺬا اﻟﺮأس اﻟﮑﺮﯾﻢ اﺿﻤﺤﻞ ﺗﺤﺖ ﺳﻨﺎﺑﮏ
اﻟﺠﯿﺎد و ﺣﺸﻢ ﺗﺤﺖ ﺣﻮاﻓﺮﺧﯿﻞ اھﻞ اﻟﻌﻨﺎد. ای رب اﺟﻌﻞ ھﺬا اﻟﺸﮭﯿﺪ رﺷﯿﺪا ﻓﯽ ﻣﻠﮑﻮﺗﮏ و رﮐﻨﺎً
ﺷﺪﯾﺪا ﻓﯽ ﺟﺒﺮوﺗﮏ و ﮐﻮﮐﺒﺎً ﻻﻣﻌﺎً ﻓﯽ اﻓﻘﮏ اﻻﺑﮭﯽ و ﻧﯿﺮاً ﺑﺎزﻏﺎً ﻓﯽ رﻓﯿﻘﮏ اﻻﻋﻠﯽ و روﺣﺎً
ﺧﺎﻟﺼﺎً ﻓﯽ ھﯿﮑﻞ اﻟﻮﻓﺎ و ﻧﻮراً ﻻﻣﻌﺎء ﻓﯽ زﺟﺎﺟﺔ دﻧﯽ ﻓﺘﺪﻧﯽ و ﮐﺎن ﻗﺎب ﻗﻮﺳﯿﻦ او ادﻧﯽ 46
و
اﻧﺰل ﺑﺮﮐﺎﺗﮏ و ﺻﻠﻮاﺗﮏ و ﺗﺤﯿﺎﺗﮏ ﻋﻠﯽ اﻻم اﻟﺘﯽ ﺣﻤﻠﺘﮫ واﻟﻨﮭﻮد اﻟﺘﯽ رﺿﻌﺘﮫ و اﻟﺤﻀﺎن
اﻟﺘﯽ رﺑﺘﮫ و اﻓﺮغ ﻋﻠﯿﮭﺎ ﺻﺒﺮاً و ﺳﻠﻮ ًة ﺑﺮﺣﻤﺘﮏ اﻟﮑﺒﺮی و ﻣﻮھﺒﺘﮏ اﻟﻌﻈﻤﯽ و ﺟﻠﻞ ﻗﺮﯾﻨﺘﮫ
اﻟﺠﻠﯿﻠﮫ ورﻗﮫ ﺳﺪرﺗﮏ اﻟﻤﻨﺘﮭﯽ47
ﺑﺎﻧﻮار اﻟﻌﺰة و اﻟﺠﻼل و ظﻠﻠﮭﺎ ﺑﻐﻤﺎم اﻟﻌﺰة و اﻟﺠﻤﺎل و ﮐﻠﻞ
رأﺳﮭﺎ ﺑﺎﮐﻠﯿﻞ ﻓﻀﻠﮏ اﻟﻌﻈﯿﻢ ﯾﺎ ﻣﻮﻟﯽ اﻟﻌﺎرﻓﯿﻦ و اﺷﻤﻞ ﻟﺤﻈﺎت اﻋﯿﻦ رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯿﺘﮏ ﺑﮑﺎﻓﺔ اﻗﺮﺑﺎه
ﮐﺮاﻣﺔ ﻟﮫ ﺑﺠﻮدک ﯾﺎ ﻣﻮﻟﯽ اﻟﻮری و ﻣﻘﺼﻮد ﻣﻦ ﻓﯽ اﻻرض و اﻟﺴﻤﺎء اﻧﮏ اﻧﺖ اﻟﺮﺣﻤﻦ و اﻧﮏ
اﻧﺖ اﻟﻤﻨﺎن ﻻاﻟﮫ اﻻ اﻧﺖ اﻟﻌﺰﯾﺰاﻟﻤﺴﺘﻌﺎن. ع ع
46.
A verse from the Qur’án : Surih An-Najm 53: 8-9.


47.
Sadratu’l-Muntahá: It literally means the last tree beyond which no one
could pass.  In the Islamic literature it is a tree planted in heaven.  In the
Bahá’í Writings it refers to Manifestations of God .
48.
An article in the Payám-i Bahá’í:   This article of the Payám-i Bahá’í
has been written by Mah Mihr Gulistanih (Vahdat) in the issue
number 215, October 1997, pages 25-29.
49.
“The Twin Most Sublime Names” (Ismayn Ilyyin): This title was given
by Bahá’u’lláh to two individuals. One was Ḥájí Áqá Muḥammad, the son
of Áqá ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannád Yazdí, and the second one was Siyyid ‘Alí,
the son-in-law of  Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar.  Siyyid ‘Alí was married to Ḥubbíyyih
the grand-daughter of Áqá ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannád Yazdí (See  Ill. 2, the
Family Tree Number 1, in page 19). These two sublime names are
Muḥammad and ‘Alí which have historical significance in the Islamic
world and their combination is also the name of the Báb.
50.
The day of the martyrdom of the Seven Martyrs of Yazd was on Monday,
18th May, 1981. The age of Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar on the day of his martyred
was 24 years. (Tárikh Amri Yazd [TAY], p. 81) & Táríkh-i Shuhadáy-i
Yazd [TSY], p. 47.  In the group of  Seven Martyrs of Yazd, there is
another martyr by the same name who was not a brother  of Áqá ‘Ali-
Akbar Kashani;  he was 19 years of age when he was martyred. Refer to
Endnote number 113.
51.
‘Ishq-Ábád (Ashgabat) was a small city in Turkmenistan, at a distance of
less than 50 km from the Iranian border. In the nineteenth century it was
under the Russian rule. It is now the capital of the independent country of
Turkmenistan. Its current population is about one million. Because of the
oppression of the clerics towards the Bahá’ís in Iran many of them
immigrated to‘Ishq-Ábád which soon swelled to a thriving Bahá’í
community of nearly 2000. Such notable individuals such as Mírzá Abu’l-
Faḍl Gulpáyiganí and Nabíl Akbar lived there for some time. The first
Bahá’í temple was built in this city. Later in the twentieth century because
of the take over of the communist regime in Russia, the Bahá’í community
suffered a lot in that land, it was eventually dissolved and ceased to operate.
In the twenty first century the Bahá’í communities in this country has started
to operate once again.
52.
Refer to the Diaries of Juliet Thompson for first of July, 1909 – page 22
53.
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍá’il Gulpáyigání (1844-1914) was the most famous
Bahá’í scholar of his time. He was the principal of a theological school when
accepted the Bahá’í Faith. He was a fair person amongst the clerics. He was
known for his scholarly debate, the books he has written, his wide-spread


knowledge of the Qur’án, hadith, tafsir, the knowledge of the Old and the
New Testament. The masterpiece of his books is Kitáb-i-Farái’d (Priceless
Jewels). He responded to a cleric from Caucasia who had written refutation
on the Kitáb-i-Íqán. He was imprisoned for being a Bahá’í, particularly in
the year 1300 AH(1883). After that he left Ṭihrán and travelled for sometime
and eventually reached Ishq-Ábád. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sent him to America in
1901 to diffuse the misinformation given by Ibrahim Khayr’u’llah to the
believers.  Khayr’u’llah wanted to establish himself as the leader of the
Bahá’í community in North America. Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍá’il passed away in
Egypt in 1914.
54.
A tablet revealed in the honour of Fáṭimih Khánum, the daughter of
Sakínih Khánum.  (Refer to Payám-i Bahá’í, issue number 215, October 1997,
pp. 28-29)
و ھﺬا ﻧﺺ ﻟﻮح اﻟﺰﯾﺎرة ﻟﺮﻓﻊ اﻟﺪرﺟﺎت ﻻﻣﺔﷲ اﻟﻤﺘﺼﺎﻋﺪة اﻟﯽ ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﻟﺘﻘﺪﯾﺲ، ﻗﺮة
اﻟﻌﯿﻦ اﻟﺸﮭﯿﺪ ﻓﺎطﻤﮫ ﺟﺎن ﻋﻠﯿﮭﺎ ﺑﮭﺎءﷲ اﻻﺑﮭﯽ


ھﻮﷲ


اﻟﮭﯽ اﻟﮭﯽ ان ھﺬاه اﻣﺔ وﻟﺪت ﻓﯽ ﺣﺼﻦ ﻣﺤﺒﺘﮏ و رﺿﻌﺖ
ﻣﻦ ﺛﺪی ﻣﻌﺮﻓﺘﮏ و ﻧﺸﺎت ﻓﯽ ﻣﮭﺪ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺘﮏ و راھﻔﺖ ﺗﺤﺖ ظﻞ ﻓﺮداﻧﯿﺘﮏ و ﺑﻠﻐﺖ
رﺷﺪھﺎ ﺗﺤﺖ ﻟﻮاء رﺑﺎﻧﯿﺘﮏ. رب اﻧﮭﺎ ذاﻗﺖ ﺻﺮﯾﺮة ﺷﮭﺎدة اﺑﯿﮭﺎ و ﺗﺠﺮﻋﺖ ﻣﻨﺬ ﻧﻌﻮﻣﮫ
اظﺎ ﻓﺮھﺎ ﮐﺎٔس اﻟﺒﻼ ﻓﯽ ﺳﺒﯿﻠﮏ و ذاﻗﺖ ﻋﻠﻘﻢ اﻟﺠﻔﺎ و ﺣﻨﻈﻞ اﻟﻈﻠﻢ و اﻟﻌﺪوان ﻣﻦ
ﺻﻐﺮھﺎ ﻣﻦ اﯾﺎدی ﺗﻄﺎوﻟﺖ ﺑﺎﻟﺠﻮر و اﻟﻈﻠﻢ و اﻟﻌﺪوان و ﻟﻤﺎ ﺑﻠﻐﺖ رﺷﺪھﺎ ﺗﺤﺖ ظﻠﻞ
اﻟﻄﺎﻓﮏ ﻣﻦ ﻗﺒﻞ ان ﺗﺎﺧﺬ ﻧﺼﯿﺒﮭﺎ ﻣﻦ ﺣﻼوة اﻟﺤﯿﺎة و ﺗﺪرک رﻏﺪ اﻟﻌﯿﺶ ﻓﯽ اﻟﻨﺸﺎة
اﻟﺪﻧﯿﺎ ﺧﻠﻌﺖ ﺛﺒﺎت اﻟﺒﻘﺎء ﻣﻦ داراﻟﻔﻨﺎء و رﺟﻌﺖ اﻟﯿﮏ ﻣﺒﺘﮭﻠﺔ اﻟﯽ ﻣﻠﮑﻮﺗﮏ ﻣﺘﻀﺮﻋﺔ
اﻟﯽ ﺟﺒﺮوﺗﮏ ﻣﺸﺘﺎﻗﺔ اﻟﯽ ﻟﻘﺎﯾٔﮏ ﻣﻨﺠﺬﺑﺔ اﻟﯽ ﻣﺤﻔﻞ اﻟﺘﺠﻠﯽ ﻣﺮﮐﺰ اﻻﻧﻮار ﻣﻠﮑﻮت
اﻻﺳﺮار. رب اﻧﮭﺎ ﺳﻠﯿﻠﺔ اﻟﺸﮭﯿﺪ و ﻓﻠﺬة ﮐﺒﺪ ﻣﻦ ﺳﺮع اﻟﯽ ﻣﺸﮭﺪ اﻟﻔﺪا و ﺗﺠﺮع ﮐﺎٔس
اﻟﺸﮭﺎدة اﻟﮑﺒﺮی و ھﻮ ﯾﻨﺎدی ادرﮐﻨﯽ ادرﮐﻨﯽ ﯾﺎ رﺑﯽ اﻟﺮﺣﻤﻦ و اﻗﺒﻞ ﻣﻨﯽ اﻟﻔﺪاء ﻓﯽ
ﺳﺒﯿﻠﮏ ﯾﺎ ﻋﺰﯾﺰ ﯾﺎ ﻋﻼم ﻗﺪ ﻓﺪﯾﺖ روﺣﯽ ﻓﯽ ﻣﺤﺒﺘﮏ و ﻗﺮﺑﺖ ﺛﺎری طﻠﺒﺎً ﻟﻠﻘﺎﯾٔﮏ و
اﺣﺸﻤﯽ اﻟﯽ ﺣﻤﺎک رب اﺟﻌﻞ اﻣﺘﮏ ھﺬه آﯾﺔ رﺣﻤﺘﮏ و راﯾﺔ ﻣﻐﻔﺮﺗﮏ و ﯾﺘﺒﻮع
ﻓﻀﻠﮏ و ﻣﻌﯿﻦ ﺣﯿﺎة اﺑﺪﯾﺔ اﻟﯽ اﺑﺪ آﺑﺎد و ﻣﻤﺮ اﻟﻘﺮون و اﻻﺣﻘﺎب اﻧﮏ اﻧﺖ اﻟﻐﻔﺎر اﻧﮏ
اﻧﺖ اﻟﻐﻔﻮر اﻟﺮؤ ف اﻟﺮﺣﻤﻦ    ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﺒﮭﺎٓء ﻋﺒﺎس

55.
Uda‘t-u Nafsi  It is an Arabic phrase which appears in several prayers in
Arabic for protection. These prayers have been revealed for protection
which are to be recited when anyone is about to leave his house or his town.
This phrase simply means: “I have placed my being in Thy care and trust.”
As an example refer to “Ad‘iyyih-i Ḥaḍrat-i- Mabúb  [AHM]”, p. 197.


56.
Refer to the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr [ABK]”, p.71, a letter in the
handwriting of Mírzá Maḥmúd Zarqání dated 12 Muharram 1345 (23 July
1926)
ﻣﺤﺮم 1345
از ﺣﯿﻔﺎ ﺑﮫ ﯾﺰد ﺟﻨﺎب ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﻮھﺎب ﺷﮭﯿﺪزاده زﯾﺪ ﻋﺰة اﻟﻌﺎﻟﯽ
ھﻮﷲ ﺗﻌﺎﻟﯽ زاده ﺷﮭﯿﺪ ﻣﺠﯿﺪ آه و ﻧﺎﻟﮫ ات ﺑﮫ ﺳﻤﻊ دﻟﺒﺮ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ واﺻﻞ و ﻣﺮام دل و
ﺟﺎﻧﺖ ﻣﯿﺴﺮ و ﺣﺎﺻﻞ ﭼﮫ ﮐﮫ ﺑﮫ ﯾﺎدت ﭘﺮداﺧﺘﻨﺪ و ﻟﺒﺎن ﭼﻮن ﻟﻌﻞ ﺑﮫ دﻋﺎﯾﺖ ﮔﺸﻮدﻧﺪ ﮐﮫ
اﻧﺸﺎءﷲ ﺷﻔﺎی اﻟﮭﯽ ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﺷﻮد و ﻓﻀﻞ اﯾﺰدی ﺷﺎﻣﻞ ﺣﺎل ﮔﺮدد. ﻣﻄﻤﺌﻦ ﺑﺎﺷﯿﺪ و
ھﻤﻮاره ھﻤﺪم اﯾﺎت رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯽ ﺷﻮﯾﺪ و ﻣﺘﻮﺳﻞ ﻟﻄﻒ و ﻣﮑﺮﻣﺖ رﺑﺎﻧﯽ ﮐﮫ ان ﻓﯿﺾ ﺳﺒﺤﺎﻧﯽ
ﭘﺎﯾﻨﺪه اﺳﺖ و از ﺟﮭﺎن ﺑﺎﻻ داﺋﻤﺎ ﭘﺮﺗﻮ اﻓﺸﺎن و ﺗﺎﺑﻨﺪه و اﯾﻦ ﺑﮫ اﻣﺮ ﻣﺒﺎرک ﻧﮕﺎﺷﺘﮫ ﺷﺪ.
ﻋﺒﺪ ذﻟﯿﻞ زرﻗﺎﻧﯽ   ﺧﻂ اﺻﻞ: ﺣﺒﯿﺐ روﺣﺎﻧﯽ از ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﻋﻠﯽ ﺗﻮﻓﯿﻘﺎت و اﻣﺪادات
ﻣﻮﻋﻮده ﺣﻀﺮت ﻣﻌﺒﻮد را از ﺑﺮای ان ﺟﻨﺎب راﺟﯽ و اﻣﻞ ﻣﻄﻤﺌﻦ ﺑﺎﺷﯿﺪ و دﻟﺘﻨﮓ و
ﻣﺎﯾﻮس ﻧﮕﺮدﯾﺪ ﺣﺎﻓﻆ و ﺣﺎرس ﺣﻘﯿﻘﯽ ﻣﻌﯿﻦ و ﻧﺎﺻﺮ ﺷﻤﺎ اﺳﺖ. اﻣﯿﺪوارم ﮐﮫ ﺑﮫ آﻧﭽﮫ
ﯽﻗﻮﺷ ﺶﻧﺎﺘﺳا هﺪﻨﺑ .ﺪﯾدﺮﮔ ﻞﺋﺎﻧ و ﻖﻓﻮﻣ ﺖﺳا ﻢﻈﻋا رﻮﮭظ ﻦﯾا ﮫﺘﺴﯾﺎﺷ

57.
Refer to the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr [ABK]”, pp. 72-73, permission for
pilgrimage:
ﯾﺰد ﺟﻨﺎب ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﻮھﺎب ﻧﺠﻞ ﺣﻀﺮت ﺷﮭﯿﺪ ﻣﺠﯿﺪ ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﻣﺤﻤﺪ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﯾﺰدی ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎءاﻻﺑﮭﯽ
ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ  دوﺳﺖ ﺣﻘﯿﻘﯽ ﻋﺮﯾﻀﮫ ﻣﺮﺳﻠﮫ ﺗﻠﻘﺎء ﺣﻀﻮر وارد و ﺑﮫ ﻟﺤﺎظ اﻧﻮر ﻣﺤﺒﻮب ﯾﮑﺘﺎ
ﺣﻀﺮت وﻟﯽ اﻣﺮﷲ روﺣﯽ ﻻﺣﺒﺎﺋﮫ اﻟﻔﺪاء ﻓﺎﺋﺰ. ﻣﻀﻤﻮن ﺑﯿﺎن ﺧﻀﻮع و ﺧﺸﻮع و ﺛﺒﻮت و
رﺳﻮخ ﺑﺮ ﻣﺤﺒﺖ ﺣﯽ ﻗﯿﻮم و ﺗﻤﻨﺎ و ارزوی ﺣﻀﻮر ﺑﻘﻌﮫ ﻧﻮرا ﺑﻮد ﻟﮭﺬا ﻣﻘﺒﻮل و ﻣﻤﺪوح و
ﻣﺸﮑﻮر واﻗﻊ. اﻟﺤﻤﺪ 4
ﻣﻘﺼﻮد و ﻣﺮام دل و ﺟﺎن ﺣﺎﺻﻞ ﮔﺸﺖ. ﺷﻤﺎ را ﺑﺸﺎرت دھﻢ ﮐﮫ اذن
ﺗﺸﺮف از ﺳﺎﺣﺖ اﻗﺪس ﻣﺒﺎرک ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﮔﺸﺖ. ﭘﺲ در ﮐﻤﺎل وﺟﺪ و ﺳﺮور و ﺷﺎدﻣﺎﻧﯽ و ﺣﺒﻮر
ﻗﺼﺪ ﮐﻮی دوﺳﺖ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ و از ﻓﯿﺾ ﻟﻘﺎء و زﯾﺎرت ﻣﻘﺎﻣﺎت ﻣﺒﺎرﮐﮫ ﻧﻮرا روح و رﯾﺤﺎن ﮐﺎﻣﻞ
ﯾﺎﺑﯿﺪ و ﻧﺼﯿﺐ ﻣﻮﻓﻮر ﺑﺮﯾﺪ. ﺣﺴﺐ اﻻﻣﺮ ﻣﺒﺎرک ﻣﺮﻗﻮم ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ ﻧﻮراﻟﺪﯾﻦ زﯾﻦ رﺟﺐ 1346

ژاﻧﻮﯾﮫ 1928
ﺧﻂ ﻣﺒﺎرک: ﯾﺎر ﻣﻌﻨﻮی از درﮔﺎه ﻣﺤﺒﻮب ﻋﺎﻟﻤﯿﺎن ﻣﻮﻓﻘﯿﺖ آن ﺟﻨﺎب را ﺳﺎﺋﻞ
و آﻣﻞ و اﻣﯿﺪوارم ﺑﮫ آﻧﭽﮫ آﻣﺎل و آرزوی ﻣﻘﺮﺑﯿﻦ  اﺳﺖ ﻧﺎﺋﻞ و ﻓﺎﺋﺰ ﺷﻮﯾﺪ ﺑﻨﺪه اﺳﺘﺎﻧﺶ ﺷﻮﻗﯽ

58.
Refer to the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr [ABK]”, p.73, permission for
pilgrimage:


ﺟﻨﺎب ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﻮھﺎب اﺑﻦ ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﻣﺤﻤﺪ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﺷﮭﯿﺪ ﯾﺰدی ﻋﻠﯿﮫ ﺑﮭﺎءﷲ ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﻨﺪ.
روﺣﯽ ﻟﻤﺤﺒﺘﮏ اﻟﻔﺪاء ﻋﺮﯾﻀﮫ ﻣﺮﻗﻮﻣﮫ ﺑﮫ ﺳﺎﺣﺖ ﻗﺪس ﺣﻀﺮت وﻟﯽ اﻣﺮﷲ ارواﺣﻨﺎ
ﻟﻌﻨﺎﯾﺎﺗﮫ اﻟﻔﺪاء واﺻﻞ و ﺑﮫ ﻟﺤﺎظ اﻧﻮر ﻓﺎﺋﺰ. اﺳﺘﺪﻋﺎی ﺗﺸﺮف ﺑﮫ اﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﻘﺪس ﻧﻤﻮده
اﯾﺪ، اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ²
اﯾﻦ ﻣﺴﺌﻮل ﺑﮫ اﺟﺎﺑﺖ ﻣﻘﺒﻮل و ﺷﻤﺲ اذن از ﻣﻄﻠﻊ ﺟﻮد ﺳﺎطﻊ. ﻟﺬا ان
ﺣﻀﺮت را ﺑﺸﺎرت دھﻢ ﮐﮫ ﻣﺎذون ﺣﻀﻮرﯾﺪ ﺣﺴﺐ اﻻﻣﺮ ﻣﺒﺎرک ﻣﺮﻗﻮم ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ  ﻧﻮر
اﻟﺪﯾﻦ زﯾﻦ ﺟﻤﺎدی اﻻوﻟﯽ 1346
، 2 ﻧﻮاﻣﺒﺮ 1928
ﺧﻂ اﺻﻞ : ﯾﺎر ﻣﻌﻨﻮی اﻣﯿﺪوارم


در ﻧﮭﺎﯾﺖ روح و رﯾﺤﺎن اﺳﺒﺎب ﻣﺴﺎﻓﺮت ﺑﮫ ارض اﻗﺪس ﻓﺮاھﻢ ﮔﺮدد و ﺑﮫ اﻧﭽﮫ اﻣﺎل
و ارزوی دل ﺷﻤﺎ اﺳﺖ ﻧﺎﺋﻞ و ﻣﻔﺘﺨﺮ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ ﺑﻨﺪه اﺳﺘﺎﻧﺶ ﺷﻮﻗﯽ

59.
Refer to the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr [ABK]”, p. 72, permission for
pilgrimage:

ﺧﺮداد از ﺣﯿﻔﺎ ﺟﻨﺎب اﻗﺎی ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﻮھﺎب اﺑﻦ ﺣﺎﺟﯽ ﻣﺤﻤﺪ ﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﺷﮭﯿﺪ ﯾﺰدی زﯾﺪ ﻋﺰه
اﻟﻌﺎﻟﻢ  ھﻮﷲ ﺗﻌﺎﻟﯽ  ﺣﺒﯿﺐ ﻓﻮاد ﻣﺴﺌﻠﺖ ان ﺟﻨﺎب ﺑﮫ ﺳﻤﻊ ﻣﺒﺎرک ﻗﺒﻠﮫ اﺻﺤﺎب رﺳﯿﺪ و
ﻟﺴﺎن اطﮭﺮ وﻟﯽ اﻣﺮ رب اﻻرﺑﺎب  ﻓﺪﯾﺖ ﺧﺪام ﺑﺎﺑﮫ ﺑﺬﮐﺮ ان ﻣﺤﺐ اﻻﺣﺒﺎب ﮔﻮﯾﺎ ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ
ﮐﮫ اﯾﺸﺎن ﻣﺎذون و ﻣﺠﺎزﻧﺪ ﮐﮫ اول ﺑﮭﺎر ﺑﮫ ﮐﻮی ﯾﺎر رﺳﻨﺪ و طﻮاف ﮐﻌﺒﮫ ﺟﻤﺎل ﻣﺨﺘﺎر
ﻧﻤﺎﯾﻨﺪ و از ﻓﯿﺾ دﯾﺪار دل و دﯾﺎر دل دﯾﺪه ای ﻧﻮرا ﯾﺎﺑﻨﺪ ﺗﺎ ﺑﺎ رواﻧﯽ ﭘﺮ روح و رﯾﺤﺎن
ﻣﺮاﺟﻌﺖ ﺑﮫ دﯾﺎر ﻋﺎﺷﻘﺎن ﻧﻤﻮده از ﺷﻤﯿﻢ ﮐﻮی دوﺳﺖ دل ھﺎ را رﺷﮏ روﺿﮫ رﺿﻮان
ﮐﻨﻨﺪ و ﺟﺎن ھﺎ را ھﻤﺪم ﻣﺤﺒﻮب در دو ﺟﮭﺎن. ﻟﮭﺬا ﺑﮫ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﺶ ھﻤﺎن ﻏﺼﻦ دوﺣﮫ رب
ﻣﻘﺘﺪر اﯾﻦ ﻧﻮﯾﺪ ﺟﺎﻧﭙﺮور ﻧﮕﺎرش ﯾﺎﻓﺖ. ﻋﺒﺪ ذﻟﯿﻞ زرﻗﺎﻧﯽ  ﺧﻂ اﺻﻞ: ﺑﺮادر روﺣﺎﻧﯽ
اﻣﯿﺪ وطﯿﺪ ان اﺳﺖ ﮐﮫ ﺑﮫ ﻓﻀﻞ و ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﻏﯿﺒﯽ ﺑﮫ ﺧﺪﻣﺎت ﺑﺎھﺮه درﻣﺴﺘﻘﺒﻞ اﯾﺎم ﻣﻮﻓﻖ
ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ و ﺑﮫ اﻧﭽﮫ ﻋﻠﺖ و ارﺗﻘﺎء و اﺷﺘﮭﺎر اﺋﯿﻦ ﮔﺮاﻧﺒﮭﺎﺳﺖ ﻣﻔﺘﺨﺮ و ﻣﻮﯾﺪ ﺷﻮﯾﺪ ﻗﺪم را
ﺛﺎﺑﺖ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ و در ﮐﻤﺎل اطﻤﯿﻨﺎن در ﺗﺮوﯾﺞ ﮐﻠﻤﺔ ﷲ ﺳﻌﯽ ﺑﻠﯿﻎ ﻣﺒﺬول دارﯾﺪ ﺑﻨﺪه اﺳﺘﺎﻧﺶ
ﺷﻮﻗﯽ

60.
Refer to the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr [ABK]”,  pp, 73-74, permission for
pilgrimage:

ﯾﺰد ﺟﻨﺎب آﻣﯿﺮزا ﻋﺒﺪاﻟﻮھﺎب ذﺑﯿﺤﯽ ﻣﻼﺣﻈﮫ ﻓﺮﻣﺎﯾﻨﺪ ﯾﺎر روﺣﺎﻧﯽ ﺗﺤﺮﯾﺮ ﻣﻨﯿﺮ در
ﭘﯿﺸﮕﺎه ﺣﻀﻮر وارد و ﺑﮫ ﻟﺤﺎظ اﻧﻮر ﻣﻘﺼﻮد ﻋﺎﻟﻤﯿﺎن ﺣﻀﺮت وﻟﯽ اﻣﺮﷲ روﺣﯽ
ﻻﻟﻄﺎﻓﮫ اﻟﻔﺪاء ﻓﺎﺋﺰ  از ﻣﻀﻤﻮن اﺛﺎر ﺧﻠﻮص و ﻣﺤﺒﺖ ان دﻟﺒﺮ ﺑﯽ ﭼﻮن ظﺎھﺮ و ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺎن
ﺑﻮد. ﺑﺎب رﺣﻤﺖ و ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ان ﺳﺮ ﻣﮑﻨﻮن و رﻣﺰ ﻣﺨﺰون اﻟﺤﻤﺪ ²
ﺑﺮ وﺟﮫ ﯾﺎران و
ﻣﺤﺒﺎن ﺑﺎز و ﻣﻔﺘﻮح اﺳﺖ و ﺗﺎﺋﯿﺪات و ﺗﻮﻓﯿﻘﺎت ان ﺟﻤﺎل ﺑﯽ ﻣﺜﺎل ﺷﺎﻣﻞ اﺣﻮال ﺑﻨﺪﮔﺎن
اﺳﺘﺎن ﻣﻘﺪﺳﺶ ﺑﻮده و ھﺴﺖ. ﻟﮭﺬا ﻣﻄﻤﺌﻦ و ﻣﺴﺮور و ﻣﺴﺘﺒﺸﺮ ﺑﺎﺷﯿﺪ رؤﯾﺎﺋﯽ ﮐﮫ ﻣﺸﺎھﺪه
ﻧﻤﻮده اﯾﺪ دﻟﯿﻞ ﺑﺮ اﻟﻄﺎف اﻟﮭﯿﮫ اﺳﺖ و ﻓﻮز و ﻣﻮاھﺐ رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯿﮫ. اﻣﯿﺪوارﯾﻢ ﮐﮫ اﻧﻮار ان
ﺧﻮاب از ھﻮﯾﺖ ﻗﻠﺐ در ﺑﯿﺪاری ظﺎھﺮ و ﺑﺎھﺮ ﮔﺮدد. ﯾﮏ طﺎﻗﮫ ﺣﺮﯾﺮ ﺗﻘﺪﯾﻤﯽ ان
ﺣﻀﺮت و دو ﻋﺪد دﺳﺘﻤﺎل اﺑﺮﯾﺸﻤﯽ ﺗﻘﺪﯾﻤﯽ اﻣﺔﷲ ﺿﺠﯿﻌﮫ ﻣﺤﺘﺮﻣﮫ ﯾﮑﯽ ﺣﻀﻮر
ﺣﻀﺮت ورﻗﮫ ﻋﻠﯿﺎ و ﯾﮏ ﺧﺪﻣﺖ ﺣﻀﺮت ﺣﺮم ﻣﺒﺎرک واﺻﻞ و ﻗﺒﻮﺿﺎت ﺟﺪاﮔﺎﻧﮫ
ﻣﺮﻗﻮم و در ﺟﻮف اﺳﺖ. ﺟﻨﺎب آﺣﺴﯿﻦ ﻧﺠﺎر  و ﺟﻨﺎب آﻋﻠﯽ اﮐﺒﺮ ﻣﺠﻨﻮن و ﺟﻨﺎب
ﻋﺰﯾﺰﷲ ﻧﻮۀ آﻣﺤﻤﺪ ﺻﺎدق و ﻋﻤﻮم ﻓﺎﻣﯿﻞ و ﺑﺎزﻣﺎﻧﺪﮔﺎن ﺷﮭﺪا و ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﺣﺒﺎء اﻟﮭﯽ را ﺑﮫ
ﻧﺰول ﺗﺎﺋﯿﺪات ﺳﺒﺤﺎﻧﯿﮫ اطﻤﯿﺎن دھﯿﺪ و اﻣﯿﺪوار ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ و از ﻗﺒﻞ ھﯿﮑﻞ ﻣﺒﺎرک ﮐﻞ را ﺑﮫ
ﺑﺪاﯾﻊ ذﮐﺮ و ﺛﻨﺎ  ذاﮐﺮ و ﻣﮑﺒﺮ ﺷﻮﯾﺪ. اﻣﺎء اﻟﺮﺣﻤﻦ و اﻟﺪه ﻣﺤﺘﺮﻣﮫ و ﻗﺮﯾﻨﮫ ﻣﻌﻈﻤﮫ و دو
ھﻤﺸﯿﺮه ﻣﮑﺮﻣﮫ و ﺻﺒﯿﮫ ﻧﻮراﻧﯿﮫ ﻋﻠﯿﮭﻦ ﺑﮭﺎءﷲ اﻻﺑﮭﯽ را ﺗﮑﺒﯿﺮ اﺑﺪع اﻋﻠﯽ از ﻗﺒﻞ
وﺟﻮد اﻗﺪس اﺑﻼغ ﻧﻤﺎﺋﯿﺪ و ﺑﺸﺎرت ﺑﮫ اﻟﻄﺎف ﺣﻖ دھﯿﺪ. اﻣﯿﺪ ﻗﻠﺒﯽ ﭼﻨﺎﻧﺴﺖ ﮐﮫ ھﺮ ﯾﮏ
ﺑﮫ اﻧﭽﮫ ﺳﺰاوار ﮐﻨﯿﺮی درﮔﺎه ﺟﻤﺎل اﺣﺪﯾﺖ اﺳﺖ ﻣﻮﯾﺪ و ﻣﻮﻓﻖ ﮔﺮدﻧﺪ. اﻧﺸﺎءﷲ راﺣﺘﯽ


و اﺳﺎﯾﺶ اﻓﮑﺎر ﺑﮫ ﻓﻀﻞ ﭘﺮوردﮔﺎر ﺑﺮای ان ﺣﻀﺮت ﺑﮫ طﻮر دﻟﺨﻮاه ﻓﺮاھﻢ ﺷﻮد و
ﺗﺸﻮﯾﺶ و اﺿﻄﺮاب رﻓﻊ و ﺑﺮطﺮف ﮔﺮدد. ﺟﻨﺎب ﻋﻠﯽ اﮐﺒﺮ ﻣﺎذون ﺣﻀﻮر و ﺗﺸﺮﻓﻨﺪ.
ﺣﺴﺐ اﻻﻣﺮ ﻣﺒﺎرک ﻣﺮﻗﻮم ﮔﺮدﯾﺪ  ﻧﻮراﻟﺪﯾﻦ زﯾﻦ رﺟﺐ 1347
، 9 ژاﻧﻮﯾﮫ 1929


61.
Refer to the book “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr [ABK]”, p.78, permission for
pilgrimage:


ﺣﺒﯿﺐ روﺣﺎﻧﯽ، اﻣﯿﺪوارم اﺳﺒﺎب ﻣﺴﺎﻓﺮت ﺑﮫ ارض اﻗﺪس ﺑﻄﻮر دﻟﺨﻮاه ﻓﺮاھﻢ ﮔﺮدد
و ﺑﮫ آﻧﭽﮫ اﻣﺎل و آرزوی دل و ﺟﺎن اﺳﺖ ﻧﺎﺋﻞ ﮔﺮدی ﺑﻨﺪه اﺳﺘﺎﻧﺶ ﺷﻮﻗﯽ

62.
Munír Nabíl-Zádih was a dedicated teacher of the Cause of God. His life
history is detailed in Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat [MAH], Vol. 4, pp. 220-300. We
will present a brief summary of his life history. Mírzá Munír Nabíl- Zadih’s
grand father was Shaykh Muḥammad surnamed Nabíl by the Báb. He was a
respected merchant in Qazvin who accepted the message of the Báb and was
the first one to do so in his family. Mr. Nabil-Zadih’s father was Shaykh
Muḥammad-‘Alí who believed in Bahá’u’lláh when there were great
proponents of Mírzá Yaḥyá in Qazvin. Nabíl-Zádih was also a nephew of
Shaykh Kázim Samandar, one of the Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh.  Mírzá Munír
Nabíl- Zádih was born in Qazvin in 1297 AH (1880). He was engaged in
trade as a merchant in Rasht.  He travelled to Baku for teaching the Cause
of God in 1318 AH (1901) and then to Tbilisi (Capital of Georgia) and from
there to Ashgabat and travelled to a number of cities in Turkmenistan and
neighbouring countries. When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was in Egypt called him to His
presence and then he started teaching the Cause in Afghanistan and in
Khurásán. At the beginning of the Formative Age, he was teaching in Burma
and he reported that the number of Bahá’ís in Rangoon was 740 at that time.
Finally he passed away in Ṭihrán when he was 78 years old in 1328 Shamsi
(1949). He has written a number of books one of which is Tibiyyan-i
Haqiqat.
63.
Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí known as Málmírí, a native of Yazd
from the neighbourhood of Málmír. He was born about the year 1269
AH(1852). We will make a brief summary from the story of his life in the
Kháṭirát-i Málmírí and Masábiḥ-i Hidáyat, vol 5, pp. 300-390.  The name of
his father was Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ghafúr and the name of his mother was
Ma‘sumih. Ḥájí ‘Abdu’l-Ghafúr heard about the claims of the Báb from
Siyyid Ja‘far who was his brother-in-law and likewise accepted the message
of the Báb. In this way, the new Faith  spread among the members of the


family and Muḥammad-Ṭáhir accepted the message of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh as he grew up.  He attended the kind of schools for young
children which was available at the time. From tender age he started learning
the craft of weaving and cloth making. He was eager to learn and spent his
time studying the Writings of the new Faith and verses from the Qur’an, and
verses from Torah in Hebrew. He started memorizing passages regarding
prophesies for the new Faith from the Qur’an, Hadith, Zoroastrian books,
and the Bible. Soon he became a capable teacher of the Cause. He was
instrumental in helping many a soul to understand the Truth such as Ḥájí
Muḥammad Afshár,  Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl  Gunduli, Ḥájí Mírzá Aḥmad
Kázim Uf known as Shirazi and  Ḥájí Ja‘far Uyzdárání. In his conversations
in firesides he related stories from the lives of prophets as was directed by
Bahá’u’lláh during his pilgrimage. He was well known in Yazd and
everyone knew that he was a Bahá’í. When he was walking in streets nobody
dared do or say something disrespectful or denounce the Central Figures of
the Faith. He survived the massacre of Yazd in 1903. He was arrested as a
member of the Spiritual Assembly of Yazd on false charges and imprisoned
and defended himself in court in Ṭihrán. He has written a number of books:
Kháṭirát-i Málmírí, Tárikh Amri Yazd and Tarikh Shuhadáyi Yazd. He
received nearly fifty Tablets from Bahá’u’lláh and  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. For
nearly 80 years he was teaching the Cause of God. He lived nearly one
hundred years and passed away on 14 Khurdád 1332 Shamsi (4 June year
1953),  110 Badi‘ , 1372 AH.
64.
Validity of Pilgrims’ Notes:  Individuals who have gone on pilgrimage,
particularly during the time of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi
Effendi, have admitted that their experience has been overwhelming and
unusual. These souls when happened to be in the presence of the
Manifestation of God, the Centre of the Covenant or Shoghi Effendi had a
feeling that they were in a different world. So most of their observations or
what they heard was an interaction between their personal feelings at the
time and the reality of the situation. Some of them tried to leave for posterity
what they heard during such occasions. We realize that whatever they
recorded, were their recollections as a whole after they were dismissed from
the Holy presence. At times, it may have taken some time before they could
find a chance to write what they remembered. Therefore, what they recorded
were not necessarily the exact words uttered by these Holy Beings; and apart
from that, it was according to their own understanding of what was said.
Although these notes might contain interesting materials but remain as
personal information. It is obvious that such materials which are
characterized as “pilgrim’s notes” do not constitute a part of the


authoritative text. Also such pilgrim’s notes  cannot be in conflict with the
body of the authoritative text of the Bahá’í Faith.
65.
Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannad Yazdi was the father of Áqá Muḥammad
Yazdí and grandfather of  ‘Azíz Yazdí. Refer to Ill. 2, the Family Tree
Number 1, page 20.
66.
Keith Ransom-Kehler was born Nannie Keith Bean on 14 February 1876.
The family lived in the Cincinnati area. Her early education  was at the
Bartholomew in English and Classical School for Girls in Cincinnati and
later attended Miss Grant’s School in Chicago. She received a bachelor’s
degree in child psychology in 1898. In 1901, at the age of twenty-five, she
married Ralph Ransom, a young painter. She attended Albion College in
Michigan in 1903–04, earning a Master’s degree in 1904, and then taught
English literature there in 1904–05; In 1908, Ralph Ransom died, apparently
of tuberculosis. In October 1910 Keith Ransom married James Howard
Kehler, a successful and innovative advertising executive with an office on
Michigan Avenue in Chicago. Her husband died unexpectedly of a heart
attack on 19 June 1923; Ransom-Kehler became a Bahá’í in May 1921.
Shortly after becoming a Bahá’í, Keith Ransom-Kehler gained recognition
as a Bahá’í speaker, writer, and administrator. In 1924–25 she served as
secretary of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Chicago. Early in 1926
Keith Ransom-Kehler went on pilgrimage to the Bahá’í holy places in
Mandatory Palestine . On returning from her pilgrimage in the spring of
1926, Keith Ransom-Kehler intensified the pace of her activities.  In 1920’s
and 30’s she widely travelled to the West Indies, concentrating on Barbados.
Her itinerary included Hawaii, Japan, China, Australia, New Zealand, Java,
Singapore, Burma, and India. She travelled to Iran in 1932. She was to
submit a petition to Reza Shah Pahlavi (reigned 1925–41) to remove the ban
on the entry and distribution of the Bahá’í literature in Iran and also to secure
the lifting of all the limitations that had for years been imposed on the
Iranian Bahá’í community. Keith Ransom-Kehler travelled widely
throughout Iran for more than a year.
She had endured periods of extreme hardship. Thus, exhausted and
weakened, she left Ṭihrán, planning to visit several cities in the southern part
of Iran before leaving the country. In Isfahan she maintained her usual busy
schedule until she suddenly fell ill on 9 October 1933 after a full day of
activities. Exposed to smallpox, possibly by cuddling a child recovering
from the disease, she had no physical resistance. She died two weeks later,
on 23 October. Shoghi Effendi called her the "FIRST AND DISTINGUISHED
MARTYR" 1 of the American Bahá’í martyr and appointed her a Hand of the
Cause of God, "INTERNATIONAL SERVICES ENTITLE HER EMINENT RANK


AMONG HANDS OF CAUSE OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH."2 In 1940 Shoghi Effendi
named her, along with May Maxwell and the indefatigable international
teacher Martha Root, as one of "three heroines of the Formative Age of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh"3 to whom the Bahá’ís owe a debt of gratitude that
"future generations will not fail to adequately recognize.”

Notes
1. Cablegram of Shoghi Effendi, October 30, 1933; see page 3, Messages to
America, 1932 to 1946.
2. Cablegram of Shoghi Effendi, October 30, 1933; see page 3, Messages to
America, 1932 to 1946.
3. Letter of Shoghi Effendi, April 15, 1940; see page 40, Messages to America,
1932 to 1946.
4. Also see Bahá’í World, vol. 5, pp. 389-411.

67.
Ḥájí Maḥmúd Qassábchí, a dedicated Iraqi Bahá’í whose accepting the
Faith in 1911 has a very interesting story behind it. He, during the time of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, assisted with renovation and reconstruction of the Most
Great House which unfortunately did not take long to fall into the hands of
the enemies of the Cause.  Shortly after Shoghi Effendi assumed his
stewardship as the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Ḥájí Maḥmúd Qassábchí
assisted with the construction of additional three rooms along the south side
of the Báb's Sepulchre.  Thus the shape of the building was changed from
an oblong edifice to one perfectly square, which would better lend itself, in
time, to embellishment by addition of an outer structure embodying the
graceful, yet majestic and lofty features desired by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to honour
the resting-place of the Martyr Prophet who heralded the advent of
Bahá’u’lláh.  Shoghi Effendi named a door on the eastern side for Ḥájí
Maḥmúd Qassábchí of Iraq. In 1933 Qassábchí suffered a severe attack of
paralysis which he narrowly survived and as a result of which he could
hardly move or speak for the rest of his life. On September 11, 1947
Qassábchí, who had already grown frail and weak, fell ill, and two days later
winged his flight to the Abhá Kingdom. On the morning of September 13,
1947 this faithful, steadfast and devoted Bahá’í who loved and served the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh until his last breath, passed away. He was buried at
Salman Pak, about thirty miles southeast of Baghdad.
68.
Kavákib’ud-Duríyyih (meaning luminous stars); It is a Bahá’í history
book in two volumes written by Ávárih who was a travel teacher of the
Cause of God during the lifetime of  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. But during the time of


the Guardian, he disobeyed him and placed himself and his ambitions above
the decisions of the Chosen Branch, Shoghi Effendi. He did not want to
heed, or correct his mistakes; and continued to create disunity in any
community he entered. Eventually he was sanctioned and ex-communicated
from the Faith and was counted amongst the Covenant Breakers. His two
volumes of history authored by him was written before becoming a
Covenant Breaker. The Master had seen the book and had made some
corrections on the margins.
69.
Tablet of Ram is one of the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh in which He prohibits
explicitly and unequivocally drinking of alcohol and alcoholic drinks.
70.
The Ḥadith is the collected traditions of the Prophet Muhammad, Shi‘ih
imams and even Prophet’s companions based on their sayings and actions.
There are six canonical ḥadith collections that are widely accepted by Sunni
Muslims and much more for Shi‘ih Muslims; the two most famous are those
of Muhammad ibn Isma‘il al-Bukhárí (810–870) and Muslim ibn al-Hajjaj
(817–875), both of which have the same title aṣ-Ṣaḥíḥ (The Authentic). Each
ḥadith usually begins with the chain of the narrators (isnád) going back to
the time of the Prophet Muhammad, his companions, or Shi‘ih imams which
is then followed by the text of the tradition itself. Al-Bukhárí compiled his
compendium of hadiths with the utmost caution with regards to the
authenticity of the hadith being transmitted. The hadiths relate to a broad
range of subjects, from theological concerns such as revelation and the
nature of God, to instructions on daily worship and rituals, to legal advice.
71.
Uṣúl al-Káfí (Arabic:أﺻﻮل اﻟﻜﺎﻓﻲ
)is the title of the first section the Kitabi al-
Káfí which has three parts. It has universal acceptance among  Shi‘ih and
all of the hadith mentioned there are regarded significant. In this part of al-
Káfí, we can find hadiths concerning the beliefs of Shi‘ih, the biographies
of Imams, and how a Muslim should behave. Uṣúl al-Káfí is the most
significant source of hadiths for the Shi‘ih beliefs. It has frequently been
published as a separate book, it has been translated by several people, and
numerous commentaries have been written on it.
The author of Uṣúl al-Káfí is Abú Ja'far Muḥammad ibn Ya'qúb  ibn Isḥaq al-
Kulayni al-Razi (329 AH and 940AD) known as Thiqat’ul-Islam al-Kulayni.
He was a scholar of ḥadith in the period of Minor Occultation. He was among
the greatest Shi‘ih ḥadith scholars and the author of al-Káfí, the most authentic
Shi'ih ḥadith collection. He was born after the martyrdom of Imam al-'Askari
at the time of Imam al-Mahdi and met some hadith transmitters who directly
had heard hadiths from Imam al-Hadi and Imam al-‘Askari. It is said that al-
Kulayni was very accurate in transmitting ḥadiths.


72.
Biḥár al-Anvár “ﺑِﺤﺎرُاﻷَﻧﻮار
,”is the initial word from a longer phrase which
literally means: Seas of lights: the collection of pearls of the reports of the
pure Imams. It is generally known by its shorter name as Biḥár al-Anvár. It
is the most comprehensive Shí'ih ḥadith collection written under supervision
of al-‘Allama al-Majlisi. Writing of this book which is a collection of Shí'ih
teachings, lasted more than 30 years and a group of al-‘Allama al-Majlisi's
students helped him in this task. The author has organized the book based
on 25 general topics and thus in 25 volumes. However, nowadays it is
published in 110 volumes. Al-Majlisi has tried to cover all common topics
and issues in Biḥár al-Anvár.  Due to its maximum number of ḥadiths
narrated from Shí'ih Imams, chaptering of topics, explanation of ḥadiths,
various theological, historical, jurisprudential, exegetical, ethical, ḥadith,
and lexical researches, Biḥár al-Anvár has a great position among
researchers; so that regardless of its many volumes, since its first
publication, many manuscript copies of that were written and with later
development of printing industry, all or parts of it have been frequently
printed.
73.
Ḥusayn is a grandson of the Prophet Muḥammad. His father is ‘Ali ibn Abu
Talib (cousin of the Prophet Muḥammad and His son-in-law); his mother is
Fatimah, the daughter of Prophet Muḥammad and his older brother is Ḥasan.
74.
‘Alí is the son of Abu Talib (uncle of the Prophet Muḥammad). Imam ‘Alí
is the cousin, son-in-law, and the successor of Prophet Muḥammad
according to Shi‘ih. He is called the Commander of the Faithful. Fatimah,
the daughter of Prophet Muḥammad was his wife. Ḥasan and Ḥusayn were
his sons from Fatimah.
75.
Fáṭimih was the daughter of Prophet Muḥammad and the wife of imam ‘Alí
ibn Abu Talib.
76.
Salmán al-Fársí (Arabic: ﺳﻠﻤﺎن اﻟﻔﺎرﺳﻲ
)was a Zoroastrian and Persian who
became one of the companions of the Prophet Muḥammad and of Imam ‘Alí,
and was very much trusted by Him. The Prophet liked him and said about
him, "Salman is one of us". His idea of digging a trench in the Battle of
Khandaq brought victory to Muslims. He supported the successorship of
Imam ‘Alí after the demise of the Prophet and opposed the incident of
Saqífa. He was assigned as the governor of al-Mada’in in the time of the
caliphate of Umar son of al-Khattab. He gave his salary to charity and
knitted baskets for a living. After a long life, Salman passed away in 36 AH
(656AD) in al-Madyan, where he is buried in a shrine known as "Salman-i
Pák".


Based on some reports, Salmán was a Zoroastrian Iranian whose original
name was Ruzbih. He converted to Christianity in his youth. After hearing
the Christians foretelling the emergence of a prophet in the land of Arabs,
he set off toward Hijaz. He was enslaved in the middle of the way and sold
to a man from Banu Qurayza in Medina. He entered Medina when prophet
Muhammad had recently emigrated to the city. Salman met the Prophet and
after confirming the signs of prophethood converted to Islam. The Prophet
bought and freed him and named him "Salmán".
77.
Abú Dhar : His name Jundab son of  Junáda son of Sufyán al-Ghifárí
(Arabic: ﺟُﻨﺪَب ﺑﻦ ﺟُﻨﺎدة ﺑﻦ ﺳﻔﯿﺎن اﻟﻐِﻔﺎري
)33 AH (653 AD) known as Abú Dhar
al-Ghifárí (أﺑﻮذر اﻟﻐﻔﺎري
)was one of the greatest companions of Prophet
Muḥammad and a companion of Imam ‘Ali ; he was also one of those who
were known as the four pillars of the Shi‘ih. He was a true companion of
Prophet Muḥammad. Numerous virtues and excellences have been narrated
for him by both Sunni and Shi‘ih. Abú Dhar criticized the actions of
Uthman, the third Caliph. As a result, he was exiled to Syria and then to al-
Rabadha, where he passed away.
Abú Dhar was among the first people who converted to Islam. According to
some narrations, he was a monotheist before the emergence of Islam.
According to a narration, Abú Dhar was the fourth one to believe in the
Prophet.  Also Imam ‘Ali has said about him that  ordinary people are unable
to achieve the knowledge of Abú Dhar. Imam ‘Ali also considers him among
those people that Paradise awaits them. Abú Dhar passed away in 32 AH
(653 AD), in al-Rabadha, in the time of Uthman's caliphate.
78.
Khurásán is an eastern province of Iran bordering Turkmenistan to the
north and Afghanistan to the east. Khurásán, historical region and realm
comprising a vast territory now lying in north-eastern Iran, southern
Turkmenistan, and northern Afghanistan. The historical region (which was
much larger than the current province) extended, along the north, from the
Ámú Daryá (Oxus River) westward to the Caspian Sea and, along the south,
from the fringes of the central Iranian deserts eastward to the mountains of
central Afghanistan; it was like a country by itself. Arab geographers even
spoke of its extending to the boundaries of India. The history of the area
stretches back to very ancient times. It was part of the Achaemenian Empire
of the 6th to 4th century BCE and the Parthian empire, which spanned from
the 3rd century BCE to the 3rd century CE. After the Arab conquest in 651–
652 CE, the name was retained both as the designation of a definite province
and in a looser sense. It was occupied by the Afghans from 1722 to 1730.
Nádir Sháh, born in Khurásán, broke the Afghan supremacy and made


Mashhad the capital of his Iranian empire. Firduwsí, author of the Sháh-
námih (“Book of Kings”), and Umar Khayyám, the celebrated poet and sage,
were born in the region. Khurásán’s current Iranian frontiers were defined
in 1881 and in a convention of July 8, 1893. Khurásán, as a result of its
troubled history, is peopled by a great variety of ethnic groups: Turkmen in
the northwest; Kurds around Bujnúrd and Qúchán; Tímúrís and Jamshídís
in the east, some of whom are still nomadic; farther southwest, Ḥeydarīs;
and southeast, Baluch. The highlands in the south are home to a settled
population of Iranian ethnicity. Here and there are found Berberis of Mongol
origin, Arabs, Roma, and a few Jews in the towns.
Modern Iranian Khurásán is largely agricultural, producing fruits, cereals,
cotton, tobacco, oil plants, saffron, and some silk. Livestock are plentiful;
wool, lambskins, and goat hair are exported, and poultry is also raised. The
mineral products include turquoise, salt, iron, copper, lead, zinc, chromium,
magnesite, and coal. Cement, processed foods, ginned cotton, carded wool,
sugar, pharmaceuticals, animal fodder, and textiles are the manufactured
products. Handicrafts include jewellery, rugs and carpets, furs, dolls,
glassware, and handloomed cloth. A railway and roads link Mashhad, a
thriving city, with Iran’s capital, Ṭihrán.  (Extracted and summarized from
Encyclopaedia Britannica)
79.
“man” was an old unit of measuring weight. One “man” is about three kg.
80.
This verse is from the Qur’án: (Al-Hujarat 49:6)
81.
Shaykhís are followers of Shaykh Aḥmad al-Aḥsá’í (1753–1826), a
Twelver Shiʿih Islamic thinker who emphasized the esoteric and intuitional
aspects of the religion.  Shaykh Aḥmad cultivated followers in al-Aḥsa in
eastern Arabia, Baḥrain, and Iraq, as well as in Yazd and Kermanshah in
Iran. A separate school of Shiʿism did not coalesce around his name until
after his death, when he was succeeded by Siyyid Kázim Rashtí (d. 1844) in
Karbala; for a time, esoteric Shaykhísm offered a challenge to the scholastic
orthodoxy of the Uṣúlí school.
After Rashtí's death, though many Shaykhís became Bábis, important
Shaykhi communities continued to exist in the Persian Gulf, and in Kerman
and Tabriz. The Tabriz Shaykhís diminished their doctrinal and ritual
differences with the majority Uṣúlí school, and played a progressive role
during Iran's Constitutional Revolution (1905–1911). The Kerman
Shaykhís, led by the Qajar noble Karím Khan Kermaní (1810–1871) and his
descendants, remained esoteric. Kerman Shaykhism proved conservative
and often was supported by local governors.


In the twentieth century Shaykhísm became marginalized as a Shiʿih sect
and Shaykhis suffered persecution under the Islamic Republic of Iran after
1979. Shaykhí communities persist in Kermán and elsewhere. The Iḥqáqí
family (based in Kuwait but originally from Tabriz) now produces most
Shaykhi publications and claims many followers in southern Iraq. The
movement also has been prominent in recent decades in Pakistan, where
debates have raged over its orthodoxy and a Shaykhí Institute was founded
in Faisalabad.
82.
Bam, city in eastern Kermán province, Iran. The city, an agricultural center
situated on the Silk Road and long famed for its large fortress, was
designated a UNESCO World Heritage site in 2004. Bam is located about
115 miles (185 km) southeast of the city of Kermán at an elevation of
approximately 3,600 feet (1,100 meters) on the banks of the Bam River. The
region around the city has long been known for its date palms, which are
among the most productive in Iran, although cotton and various grains are
also raised there.
The modern city is located immediately to the south of the site of the ancient
citadel (arg) Arg-i Bam, once one of the world’s largest mud-brick
complexes. Located on a hilltop, the citadel consisted of a series of three
concentric walls made of mud brick and palm timbers, the outer wall of
which enclosed the old city. Bam’s highest point, the citadel proper, rose to
about 200 feet (60 meters) above its base. The walls of the fortress, some 40
feet (12 meters) high, were once surrounded by a deep moat. The citadel
was established during the Sasanian dynasty (224–651 CE); even as late as
the beginning of the 19th century, it was the strongest fortified place in Iran,
having been used most extensively during the Iranian dynastic disputes of
the 18th and 19th centuries. During that same period, the fortress fell into
the hands of invading Afghan armies, and much of the population fled.
By the late 19th century the establishment of secure borders and a strong
centralized state made such a military stronghold obsolete. The old city site
was abandoned by the end of the century, though the fortress continued to
be used as a military garrison until the 1930s. Beginning in the 1950s, the
Iranian government began to restore the fortress, but in 2003 the region
around Bam was struck by a massive earthquake that killed more than
26,000 people and devastated the modern city, and the fortress itself was
largely destroyed. Pop. (2006) 75,215.
83.
Abarkuh and the local populace call it Abarqu. It is a small town on the
border between the Iranian provinces of Fars and Yazd. The town is placed
as being in Fars on many maps while many writers place it within Yazd


province, the main township of Abarkuh district. It sits at an altitude of 1509
metres (4954 feet) and is some 140 kilometres (87 miles) to the west of the
city of Yazd, and about 300 km north-east of Shiraz, on the main road that
connects Yazd to Shiraz via Persepolis.
Abarku is home to a 4,500 year old cypress (Persian, sarv) tree that stands
some 25 metres tall. Its trunk has a diameter of about 4.5 metres and a
circumference of about 11.5 metres. Many Zoroastrians revere this ancient
tree as sacred. Some tie ribbons on its branches and make a wish. When the
wish is fulfilled, they return to untie the ribbon. The age of the tree is at least
4,000 years. For Zoroastrians, the cypress (Persian, sarv) is rich with
symbolism. It is a symbol of life - a tree of life. Abarkuh is located in the
desert region with hot and dry weather. This historic city once saw
prosperous days as it was located on the ancient trade road, the Silk Road.
The incidence of Abarqu which led to the arrest of the members of the
Spiritual Assembly has been described by Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb and we will
not go into further details.
84.
Bandar-i ʿAbbás, port city and capital of Hormozgán province, on the Strait
of Hormuz, the main maritime outlet for much of southern Iran. It lies on
the northern shore of Hormuz Bay opposite the islands of Qeshm, Lárak,
and Hormuz. The inhabitants are mainly Arabs and African. The summer
climate is oppressively hot and humid, and many inhabitants then move to
cooler places; however, winter is pleasant.
Bandar-i ʿAbbás (“Port of ʿAbbás”) was established in 1623 by Sháh ʿAbbás
I to replace the city of Hormuz, which had been captured by the Portuguese
about 1514. During the 17th century it was the main port of Persia, but it
lost this status in the 18th century to the rival “Port of Búshihr” (Bandar-i
Búshihr). From about 1793 Bandar-i ʿAbbás was under lease to the rulers of
Muscat, but in 1868 Iran canceled the contract and resumed direct control.
The port’s imports consist mainly of manufactured goods. Its exports
include Kermán rugs, petroleum products, and agricultural produce. The city
has a cotton mill, a fish cannery, and refineries for oil and gas. The roadstead
is shallow and badly sheltered, and vessels must sometimes lie 4 miles (6.5
km) out. Despite the poor quality of its port facilities, the city boomed during
the Iran-Iraq War of the 1980s when Iran’s more westerly ports were
threatened. A new harbour and shipbuilding yard were under construction
in the late 20th century west of the existing port, and a major rail link was
completed in 1995. Pop. (2006) 379,301. (Extracted from Encyclopædia
Britannica, Inc.)


85.
Rafsanjan: With a population of 400,000, Rafsanjan is located in the
northwest of Kerman Province. About 45% of its population live in rural
areas. The distance between Rafsanjan and the city of Kerman is 110
Kilometres. The city encompasses a land area of about 7678 square
kilometres.  Rafsanjan is surrounded by Zarand from the north, Shahr-i-
Babak from the west, Bardseer from the south, and Kerman from the east.
Rafsanjan is known for its good quality pistachio. This product constitutes
one of Iran's most principal exports, and Rafsanjan is the epicentre of
pistachio production and the largest exporter of this product worldwide. The
desert region of Rafsanjan has relatively hot summers and chilling winters.
There is an expanse of mountainous areas around the city that largely affect
its climate. Rafsanjan’s pistachio orchards are of high repute globally.
Pistachio cultivation and trading is people's number one engagement. The
city is also home to some of Iran's largest tiles and ceramics manufacturers.
Rafsanjan is the hub of carpet production even though the rugs are offered
for sale as Kermani rugs rather than Rafsanjani ones. Another remarkable
employer is the nearby Sarcheshmeh copper mines complex known as
Nicico. There are many monumental and historical buildings in this city
including: castles, water reservoirs, caravanserais, arcades, bazaars, towers,
mansions, natural freezers, temples, shrines, hills, mills and archaeological
sites.

86.
Kirmán is the name of a province and a city which is  provincial capital and
located in southeastern Iran. The city lies on a sandy plain, 5,738 feet (1,749
metres) above sea level, under barren rocky hills. Surrounded by mountains
on the north and east, it has a cool climate and frequent sandstorms in the
autumn and spring. The population is mostly Persian-speaking Muslims,
with a Zoroastrian minority. Kirmán is the largest carpet-exporting centre of
Iran. In the mid-1970s an industrial centre was established that included a
cement plant, a textile factory, and a cold-storage plant. There is a
thermoelectric plant; water is brought by qanats (underground aqueducts)
from the surrounding hills. Kermán is linked by road to Bandar ʿAbbás and
Mashhad. It also has an airport.  Kermán city was probably founded by
Ardashír I (reigned 224-241 CE) of the Sásániyán dynasty.   Under the
Ṣafavids, who took control in 1501, it came to be known as Kermán and was
made capital of a province. The city was sacked by the Uzbeks in 1509 but
was quickly rebuilt. Declining Ṣafavid power in the 17th and early 18th
centuries allowed Kermán to be attacked and occupied by Afghan tribesmen
in 1720. Kirmán was rebuilt under Fatḥ-ʿAlí Sháh, the founder of the Qájár
dynasty (ruled 1797-1834). Kermán province is bounded by the provinces
of Fárs on the west, Yazd on the north, South Khurásán on the northeast,


Sístán va Balúchistán on the east, and Hormozgán on the south. It includes
the southern part of the central Iranian desert, the Dasht-i Lút. The southern
Lút is relatively dry and saline, while in the east are sand dunes and in the
west, wind-carved ridges 180–240 feet (55-70 metres) high, called kalút.
Elsewhere are wind-eroded cuestas, locally called shahr lút. The Halíl Rúd
is the only river of importance. In the lowest depressions, the dry heat of
summer is unsurpassed anywhere in the world, but most of the upland
valleys enjoy a pleasant climate. The upland regions produce cereals, cotton,
sugar beets, oilseeds, fruit, and vegetables.  In the warm region below 3,600-
4,500 feet (1,100-1,370 metres), rice, corn (maize), henna, and fruits are
grown. Kermán exports a large percentage of the world’s pistachios. Gum
tragacanth is also gathered. Animal products are chiefly wool and kork, a
kind of soft wool used in Kermán shawls. The province is rich in minerals
such as copper, coal, chromium, lead, zinc, uranium, and aluminum, but
difficulty of access has restricted mining on a large scale. Springs of crude
oil have been found in the Kermán region. A gas pipeline from Bandar
ʿAbbás to Kermán and a network for the transmission of electricity have
helped the development of industry in the province. Besides Kermán, the
other towns of note are Báft, Bam, Rafsanján, Shahr-i Bábak, and Sirjan.
Area province, 69,821 square miles (180,836 square km). Pop. (2006) city,
515,114; province, 2,652,413. (Extracted from  Encyclopaedia Britannica).
87.
Falsafí:   The persecution and slaying of Bahá'ís was one of the daily
activities of the clerics, monarchs and rulers of the Qájár dynasty (1789 –
1925). Mohammad Shah (was born on 5 January 1808 and died on 5
September 1848), the third king in the Qájár dynasty; he reigned from 1834
– 1848. The Cause of God which was instituted by the Báb was born during
his reign. However, it was during the reign of Naser al-Din Shah (born on
16 July 1831 was assassinated on 1 May 1896),  who reigned forty eight
years (5 September 1848 – 1 May 1896), the Báb was martyred, Bahá’u’lláh
was imprisoned, and their followers were massacred in large numbers,
waves of persecution proceeded one after another. During the rule of Reza
Shah (from 16 December 1925 – 16 September 1941 ) who was the first
king in the Pahlavi dynasty, persecution and slaying of Bahá’ís continued.
The only difference with the past was that the government was not a party
to the slaying of Bahá’ís.  However, as a whole, persecution of Bahá'ís was
not one of the political objectives of Riza Shah's era, as his main goal was
to limit the influence of religious clerics. It was during his reign that the
notion of millat [national identity] acquired its roots, and to some degree,
the religious identity of ummat [body of believers] gave its place to millat.
That is, the country was progressing along the direction that every citizen


considered himself an Iranian without concern for religious belief, political
orientation or tribal affiliation. However, in the years after Riza Shah's
demise, gradually that policy was forgotten and, once more, the idea of
Ummat Islami [Body of Muslims] entered the political discourse. The
founding of Fadáíyan-i Islam [Devotees of Islam] took place after Riza Shah
was deposed and was an effort to combat leftist tendencies in Iran. After
Riza Shah, the government and Mohammad Riza Shah’s (he was the son of
Reza Shah reigned from 1941-1979) policies returned back to the path of
“Ummat Islami.”  With Riza Shah's exit, the clerics' long-held hatred of the
Bahá'ís once again reared up its head and of course it was extended to other
minority religions as well.  In reality, the widespread perfidious belief that
"any non-Islamic idea is a creation of foreigners" stemmed from the minds
of the mullás. Through this method, they wanted to call "anti-Iranian" and
"foreign" everything that was not Islamic or might prevent them from
acquiring power through Shi`ih religious pretexts. This deceitful "Othering",
and spreading the seeds of sedition and enmity, not only engulfed religious
minorities,  but also progressive nationalistic parties.
Beginning of 1955 Opposition to Bahá'ís:   After the 28 Murdád (19
August 1953) coup d'état, which brought back Muḥammad Riḍá Shah back
to power, the mullás insisted on their significant share in the revolt in his
support in order for him to come back to power. Subsequently the Shah was
forced to reward them, one of which was  to give in to the request of mullás
for the suppression of Bahá'ís. Two years after the coup d'état in 1953, due
to the pressure from clerics and in particular Áyatu’llah Burújirdí, with the
clear support from the Sháh a campaign against Bahá’ís started. A preacher
by the name Ḥujjatu'l-Islam Muḥammad -Taqí Falsafí, started his sermons
of hate from the pulpit of Masjid-i Sháh (Mosque of Sháh) against the
Bahá'ís.  In parallel with these sermons, a brutal attack on the lives of Bahá'ís
started and the government confiscated Bahá'í properties in every city. In
Ṭihrán, in front of the cameras of both foreign and domestic reporters,
General [Nader] Bátmánqulích, the chief of staff of the Iranian army, along
with [General] Taymúr Bakhtíyár, the military commander of Ṭihrán, took
pickaxes and  struck symbolically the dome of the National Bahá'í Centre
and stared the process of demolishing the dome of the National Bahá'í
Centre. For many years afterwards, that building was impounded by the
military and used for its own command centre.  On the first day of  the month
of fasting, Ramaḍán (23 April 1955) hate sermons started and the
destruction of the dome of the National Bahá'í centre started on 7 May 1955
and similarly the House of the Báb in Shiraz was partially destroyed. All
Bahá'í gatherings and institutions reduces their activities and large


gatherings stopped. Large number of Bahá'ís employed by the  government
were dismissed. This cooperation of the  government and the clergy to take
action against Bahá'ís took place almost two decades earlier than the Islamic
Revolution of Iran.  The late Muḥammad Riḍá Shah could not foresee the
future that through empowering the clergy and persecution of the loved ones
of God eventually he was striking at the root of his sovereignty.
88.
Sarsaz is a reference to the profession of this person under consideration;
literally it means top maker. He used to make the top part of smoking pipes.
89.
Buq‘at’ul-Khaḍrá is the appellation or the name of the Bahá’í cemetery in
Yazd which dates back to the time of Bahá’u’lláh. Originally Bahá’ís used
to bury their dead in Muslim cemeteries. After a while, Muslims refused to
allow the Bahá’ís to bury their dead in their cemetery as they regarded the
Bahá’ís unclean. Eventually, Bahá’ís were allowed to have their own
cemetery in Yazd which assumed the name “Buq‘at’ul-Khaḍrá” which
means green spot.
90.
Yazíd ibn Muʿáwíyah ibn Abi Sufíyán (Arabic: ﯾﺰﯾﺪ ﺑﻦ ﻣﻌﺎوﯾﺔ ﺑﻦ أﺑﻲ ﺳﻔﯿﺎن),
romanized: Yazíd son of  Muʿáwíyah son of Abú Sufíyān; ( 646 – 683A.D.),
commonly known as Yazíd-I, was the second caliph of the Umayyad
Caliphate. He ruled from April 680 until his death in November 683. He is
despised by the Shi‘ih due to his action which led to the martyrdom of Imam
Husayn. Also he is known to have deviated from the earlier practises of
Islamic rulers.
Yazíd was the son of Muʿáwíyah who inherited his father's rule. He was the
second of the dynastic rulers at the beginning of the Islamic era. His father
Muʿáwíyah had obtained power over the Muslim community through deceit
and treachery. During the last days of his reign he made the people pledge
their support for his son Yazíd. Thereupon he installed him as his successor
at an official ceremony.
Yazíd had inherited all the qualities of his character and the manner
according to which rule the nations of Islam from his father, Muʿáwíyah, all
that is, except for one thing: whereas, Muʿáwíyah governed by trickery and
deceit, compromised with the demands of Islam even to the point of building
mosques; Yazíd however committed the unseemly acts. Throughout his life
and especially during his period of rule, became notorious for the killing the
offspring of the Prophet of God and committed numerous other crimes at
the tragedy of Karbalá.
The most abominable of these was ordering the murder of Imam Ḥusayn,
his family and a group of his supporters, during the first year of his rule, and
to make captive the family of Imam Ḥusayn.   Moreover, in the second year


of his rule an event known as Harrah took place which was the scene of
further atrocities on his part. After four years of government Yazíd left this
world.
91.
Dr. Sulaymán Birjís was a physician in Kashan who was attacked and
killed by known assailants because of his Faith. He was born in 1276 Shamsi
(1897) in a Bahá’í family in Káshán. His father, Ya‘qúb Birjís, was one of
the famous physicians of Káshán; When he was in Ṭihrán and in the office
of his uncle who was also a physician started as an apprentice to learn medical
practise of his time. While in Ṭihrán he came into contact with the Bahá’ís and
became one of the of the followers of the Faith.
Ya‘qúb Birjís’s son, Sulaymán Birjís attended the school “Vahdat-i Bashar”
which was established and run by the Bahá’ís of Káshán. One of the reasons
for the fame of this school was that the teachers were familiar with English
and French languages. Young Sulaymán when was nineteen years old
travelled to Ṭihrán to attend “Dar’ul-Funún” for studying medicine, and
after completing his studies and apprenticeship he returned to Káshán to
work at his father’s medical practice. Dr. Sulaymán Birjís was known to
respond to visit house-bound patients and he was assisting people who could
not afford the medicine, giving them free of charge the medical care they
needed; he was very popular in Káshán because of his care for the needy.
Apart from his profession, he  had a good knowledge of the Torah, Gospel
and the Qur’an. One of the reasons which led to his murder was the
threatening preaching from the pulpit by Shaykh Muḥammad Khálisí-zádih.
He was very radical Islamist preacher born in Kázimayn, Iraq. He had a
good connection with Aḥmad Shah but opposed Riḍá Shah and because of
his opposition to the Court of the king, he was sent on exile several times to
different places. He resided in Káshán from 1322 (1943) onwards. Another
person who played a key role in the murder of Dr. Birjís was another preacher
by the name of ‘Ali Akbar Turbatí. Torbatí was sent in 1326 (1947) by
Áyyatu’llah Burújirdí to Káshán.
He was inciting the fanatic Muslims to spill the blood of Bahá’ís and was
telling them such action was consistent with the teachings of Islam. This led
to the action of eight youths who caused the martyrdom of  Dr. Birjís.
On Friday, 14th Bahman 1328 (3rd February, 1950) at 8:30 am two
individuals by the names ‘Abbás Tavassuli and ‘Ali Naqí-Pur went to the
office of Dr. Birjís where he was practising medicine and asked him to come
and visit an old dying women who needed medical attention, they took Dr.
Sulaymán Birjís to a house under this false pretext and then with the help of
Ḥáj Muḥammad Rasúl-zádih, Drúdgar, Riḍá Gulsurkhi and three others they


executed a pre-meditated murder of an innocent man. As soon as Dr.
Sulaymán Birjís reached the place, eight individuals fell on him started
beating him up, after that they cut him into pieces with eighty-one knife
strokes then they dragged him on the roof top of the house and dropped him
down.
After the incidence (according to their plan), four of the killers went to the
police station and confessed to the killing and they were arrested. Then at
the instigation of some people like Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Karim Turbatí Waez,
large crowds of mosques and bazaars gathered around the police station to
force the release of the murders.
The killing of people under religious pretexts, can only be searched in the
period of barbarism and the dark ages of the Middle Ages, and in the present
period, progressive humanity is ashamed of such operations. Religious strife
and killings are practiced only to secure the dominance of those who believe
in prejudice. Some people have indicated that Fadáíyyán Islam with the
leadership of Navváb-i Ṣafaví has also been involved in this plot.
The trial of the murderers and preliminary investigation along with the
alleged offenders were sent to Ṭihrán. Despite the voluntary confession of
all eight individuals, and outcome should have been punishment according
to the law of the country, but they were set free at the end.
Áyyat’ulláh Burujirdí, Bihbahání and Faizí started exerting their maximum
pressure for the release of these eight individuals. The Bahá’í community
by writing to the Shah, Prime Minister, sent  petition to Minister of Justice
and the Chief of Police for justice. But such a plea was ignored and the Prime
Minister was dismissed within two weeks. Then Mansúr and Razm Árá
became prime ministers one after the other and they rejected the plea of the
Bahá’í community. Navváb-i Ṣafaví came to the court room where trial was in
progress and caused confusion and court proceedings closed and went on
recess.
At the end, the court on 26 Shahrivar 1329 (17 September 1950), despite the
confession of the murderers and countless witnesses, were exonerated and
allowed to go free.
92.
This is a prayer from Bahá’u’lláh – refer to  Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat, [MAH] vol.
9, p. 562.
"ھﻮﷲ ای رب ﺑﺪل ﻋﺴﺮ اوﻟﯿﺎﺋﮏ ﺑﺎﻟﯿﺴﺮ و ﺷﺪﺗﮭﻢ ﺑﺎﻟﺮﺧﺎء و ذﻟﮭﻢ ﺑﺎﻟﻌﺰ و ﺣﺰﻧﮭﻢ ﺑﺎﻟﻔﺮح
" ﺮﯿﺒﺨﻟا ﻢﯿﻠﻌﻟا رﺪﺘﻘﻤﻟا ﺪﺣاﻮﻟا دﺮﻔﻟا ﷲ ﺖﻧا ﮏﻧا ﺮﺸﺒﻟا مﺎﻣز کﺪﯿﺑ ﻦﻣ ﺎﯾ ﺮﺒﮐﻻا


93.
Tone and manner of debate:  In the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, teaching the
Cause of God with wisdom is the duty of every Bahá’í. In Iran about a century
ago, every individual tried to identify fair minded seekers of truth who were
sincere and then started entering into conversation with them on  spiritual
matters. That was the general rule. However, once in a while, there were
people who had double face and intended to bring harm to Bahá’ís. This was
very rare, but it could happen. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí has tried to explain
one of such instances. In such cases, the tone of the debate between Bahá’í
believers and their adversaries, who had no intention of accepting the truth
under any circumstances, was formal but polite and at times could be
described as confrontational; and this was nearly a century ago. Talking about
one’s religion and politics are frowned at in the western world today and
therefore people try to avoid it altogether; this is mainly due to the fact that it
could lead to unpleasant confrontation. Documenting such debates, as has
been done by ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí, is historically of some value,
particularly when it covers the social norms of the time which were to some
extent different than those of toady. We should not judge such debates by our
current standards. This story is not cited for the purpose of emulating it today.
94.
Áqá Mírzá Ḥasan Núsh-Ábádí:   Áqá Mírzá Ḥasan Núsh-Ábádí was one
of the capable teachers of the Cause of God in Iran. As his name implies he
was born, and had his early childhood, in Núsh-Ábád, one of the villages
near Kashan. The full story of his life is covered in Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat
[MBH], vol. 6, pp. 96-167. He was born in 1270 Shamsi (1892). The name
of his father was Luṭf-‘Alí and the name of his mother was Ḥalímih Khátún
and both believed in the New Revelation of God. Unfortunately due to the
epidemic of cholera both parents passed away when he was 12 years old, he
became an orphan while he had no brothers or sisters to look after him. He
started travelling with Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván Ṣafá (one of the teachers of the
Cause of God) as his assistant and then after learning from him how to teach
the Cause of God, he started to travel for teaching the Cause independently.
In 81 BE he travelled to the Holy Land for pilgrimage and met the Guardian.
He has written a book: Baráhin (Proofs) nearly 800 pages which has not
been printed or published, and also Rashahát ‘Irfán (The sprinkles of the
knowledge of God). He married Thábitih Khánum the daughter of Áqá
Muḥammad Thábit Sharqí. He participated in Singapore conference in
115BE and in 1340 Shamsi (1961) passed away in Shiraz.
95.
Arák:    Arák, previously Sulṭánábád, city, capital of Markazí province,
north-western Iran. It was founded as Sulṭánábád in 1808 by the Qájár ruler
Fatḥ-ʿAlí Sháh. By the end of the century, it had become an important centre
of carpet production. During the reign of Riḍá Sháh Pahlavi (1925–41), the


local name Arák was adopted as the official name. In the late 20th century
the city developed into a major industrial centre, producing steel,
aluminium, petrochemical products, vehicles, and heavy machinery. Pop.
(2011) 484,200. (Extracted from Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.)
Arák has offered a number of martyrs to the Faith. In here we will mention
only the Seven Martyrs of Arák which took place in 1916. This presentation
is based on what has been recorded in the book “The Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
by Muḥammad-‘Alí Faizi [LAB]”:  Jináb-i Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Barár, the son
of Mullá Ḥusayn was from Kashan and was living in Sulṭán-Ábád who was
martyred two year after the martyrdom of the Four Martyrs of Arak in the
hands of those who worked for Ḥájí Siyyid Muḥammad Báqir and Áqá
Ḍíyá’. Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar grew up in this place and went on pilgrimage to
visit ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. After his return, he continued with his profession which
was trade, progressed well and obtained much wealth which attracted the
enmity of the local people. During WWI when the Russian forces had
reached near Sulṭán-Ábád and camped there, security was non-existent, the
enemies of the Cause of God took advantage of the situation and on the night
of 17th of Rabi‘uth-Thani 1334 (22 February 1916) murdered Mírzá ‘Alí-
Akbar and six members of his family. Those who were martyred were as
follows:
i.
Mírzá ‘Alí-Akbar Barár who was sixty five years old.
ii.
Maryan khanum – his wife
iii.
‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn – his son of 12 years old
iv.
Mírzá Áqá – his son who was nine years old
v.
‘Abdu’llah – his son who was six years old
vi.
‘Abdu’r-Raḥím who was an infant of forty days old
vii.
Khurshíd khanum the sister of Maryam khanum who was fourteen
years old
96.
Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván Ṣafá:    Mírzá Mihdí Akhaván Ṣafá was one of the
travel teachers in Iran. The story of his life has been covered in Maṣábíḥ-i-
Hidáyat [MAH], vol  4, pp. 4-91. His father was Muḥammad Báqir who
lived in Yazd and had many children of which three girls and six boys, all
together nine children. Mírzá Mihdí was one of the nine who reached the
age of young adults. Some of these children became believers in the new
Faith and some followed their old religion of Islam. Mírzá Mihdí was one
them who became a believer. Some of the siblings became also martyrs in
the events of Yazd in 1321 AH(1903). Akhaván Ṣafá is the title that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá granted to this family. The trade that he learned was weaving. He
survived the atrocities of 1903 in Yazd and Travelled to Ṭihrán and joined


the class and teaching group of Ṣadru’uṣ-Ṣudúr. After he finished the
teaching class, started travel teaching and travelled in Iran for the sake of
the promotion of the Cause of God. He travelled to the Holy land and visited
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He returned and continued with his service.  He passed away
in 1337 AH (1919).
97.
Ḥájí Siyyid Javád Surúsh:  There were two  brothers in Yazd who were
among the earlier believers of the Faith from the time of the Báb; they were
sons of Siyyid Surúsh. Their names were Siyyid Ibrahím and Áqá Siyyid
Muḥammad-‘Alí. Áqá Siyyid Muḥammad-‘Alí had four children, two boys
and two girls. The names of the male children were Siyyid Javád and Siyyid
‘Alí. Both of them, after obtaining permission from Bahá’u’lláh, travelled
to ‘Akká and visited His holy presence and with His permission made ‘Akká
as their place of residence. Ḥájí Siyyid Javád married Gohar khánum, the
sister of Munírih khanum, the wife of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The daughter of Ḥájí
Siyyid Javád, Bi Bi Riḍváníyyih, married Áqá Mírzá Ḥusayn, the son of
Ḥájí ‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannád.  According to the instructions of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and after the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, Ḥájí Siyyid Javád and his
family moved to Port Sai‘d. (Táríkh Amrí Yazd, [TAY] p. 152)

98.
Jamál Burújirdí:  Jamál Burújirdí was a learned cleric and mullá who
became a Bahá’í and visited Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
Adrianople and ‘Akká. He was imprisoned in Iran for sometime. He was
known by the name Ismu’llah Jamál. He received several tablets from
Bahá’u’lláh. He was very proud, expected Bahá’ís to pay high respect for
him, and to provide him with means for a comfortable living like the
clergy class in Islam. However, his demise occurred after the ascension
of Bahá’u’lláh and during the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Covenant Breakers
pampered him and he thought he could make a division in the ranks of
the believers to his own advantage. Eventually, he was sanctioned and
Bahá’ís paid no attention to him. He died in misery and poverty.
99.
Mírzá Ḥaydar-‘Alí Isfahani (1834-1920). He was a native of Isfahan and
his father was Mírzá Ḥusayn, a merchant. He accepted the message of the
Báb when he was rather young, was considered as a Bábí for a while then
he travelled to Adrianople and visited Bahá’u’lláh. He was there for seven
months then he was sent to Istanbul to facilitate the travel of friends. His
service to the Cause started from here and continued for half a century.
Bahá’u’lláh towards the final year of His stay in Adrianople sent him to
Egypt to teach the Cause with wisdom, but it did not take him long before
the Iranian Consul General to arrest him, to deliver him to the Egyptian


authorities; he was introduced to them as a rebellious and dangerous
element. He was exiled to Khartum in Sudan. He was there for thirteen
years and after  gaining his freedom, he was granted the permission to visit
Bahá’u’lláh in Ákká after which he travelled back to Iran and was a
successful travel teacher. Once again he visited Ákká in the early years
during the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He again travelled to Iran and
strengthened the understanding of the friends about the Covenant. When
he was old and fragile he travelled to the Holy Land and resided there. He
was known as the “Angel of Carmel”. His famous publication is Bihjatu’ṣ-
Ṣudúr. (The Delight of Hearts) and Dalail’ul-Irfán (Proofs of the knowledge
of God). For further reading see Eminent Bahá’ís by Ḥasan Balyuzi, [EMB]
pp. 237-250: “Angel of Mount Carmel” He passed away in 1338 AH (1920).
His life story is covered in Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat, [MAH] vol  1, pp. 1-92.
100.
Qábil-i Ábádihyí:  Qábil-i Ábádihyí is a successful travel teacher from
Ábádih (in the Province of Fars on the road between Shiraz-Isfahan) which
is not too far from Shiraz. He was a poet as well. He lived during the time
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. The story of his life is covered in
Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat [MAH], vol. 2, pp. 158-189. He was borne in one of
the villages of Ábádih in 1280 AH(1863). His given name was ‘Abbás.
The name of his father was Ghulam-‘Alí. Mírzá ‘Abbás had his early and
basic education in Ábádih and when he was nineteens years old came into
contact with the Bahá’í Faith and believed in Bahá’u’lláh. Despite the
persecution in Ábádih, he continued to teach the Cause of God. He selected
the pen name “Qábil” for himself which numerically is equivalent to
‘Abbás. In 1337 A.H.(1919) along with 18 others, a total of nineteen
Bahá’ís , from Ábádih went on pilgrimage to visit ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He has
received several tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. During the time of the
Guardian he was very active in the field of teaching. He  passed away in
1315 Shamsi (1936).
101.
Mullá ‘Alí Ján & ‘Alavíyyih khanum:    Mullá ‘Alí Ján, entitled “The
lofty, the most exalted” is one of the radiant faces in the history of the
Bahá’í Faith. He was among the learned and from the rank of clergy who
accepted the Faith, a great teacher of the Cause of God and a martyr. He
also left a devoted family behind. Mullá ‘Alí Ján was borne in the village
of Riykandih which was twelve km from the town of Sárí (in the Province
of Mazandaran) in the year 1262 AH (1846). Sárí itself is not too far from
the location of the Shrine of the Shaykh Tabarsi where a great campaign
of devotion, bravery, self-sacrifice and endurance in the face of difficulties
took place. When this campaign was underway, he was a child of tender
age. The name of his father was Ja ‘far and that his mother was Áminih.


Soon he lost both parents. He received the elements of basic education at
home and then continued with advanced studies to become a priest. In
1284 AH (1868) he was convinced of the truth of the Faith.  What attracted
him initially to the Faith were the great prophecies that he read in the
Islamic literature about ‘Akká. He could not understand its reason at that
time. He investigated this matter and was led to the Bahá’í Faith. Then he
was convinced of the truth of the Faith. At this time he was studying in
Barfurúsh (Currently Bábul) which was not too far from Sárí. After
finishing his studies he became the priest (Imam Jum‘ih) of Máh-Furúzak.
He gradually started acquainting his followers to the precepts of the Bahá’í
faith. Then he started to teach the Faith openly as a result of which the
great majority of the inhabitants of the village of Máh-Furúzak became
Bahá’ís. About this time he married his cousin, ‘Alavíyyih khanum. The
progress of the Faith in the surrounding villages alarmed the authorities.
In  the year 1300 AH (1883) when persecution of Bahá’ís was underway
all over Iran, Mullá ‘Alí Ján, along with some other Bahá’ís from Máh-
Furúzak, were arrested and sent to Ṭihrán and were imprisoned. Finally he
was put to death on 21 Sha’bán 1300 (23 June 1883). He became one of
the heroes and outstanding martyrs of the Faith. Also his wife, ‘Alavíyyih
khanum, and family members were arrested and sent to Sárí and they were
humiliated and then released. They ransacked their house and their
properties. From this couple a devoted family followed. Buzurg ‘Alavíyan
is another martyr from this family who drank from the cup of martyrdom
during the start of the Islamic Revolution of Iran. (The story of his life is
covered in Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat [MAH], vol. v, pp. 500-537). It should be
stressed that‘Alavíyyih khanum in the way of perfection and faith was not
much less than her illustrious husband.
102. Bakhtyárí:   Bakhtyárí, also spelled Bakhtiyárí, one of the two nomad tribes
of Iran; the second one is the Qashqáyí. The chiefs of Bakhtyárí have been
among the greatest tribal leaders in Iran and have long been influential in
Persian politics. The Bakhtyárí population of approximately 880,000
occupies roughly 25,000 square miles (65,000 square km) of plains and
mountains in western Iran. They speak the Lurí dialect of Persian and are
Shíʿit Muslims. Sedentarized Bakhtyárís live in towns and in many villages
in Chahár  Maḥál, in the Farídan district down to Isfahan, and in Khuzistan
down to Ahváz. The nomads and some sedentary people live in the tribal
territory, called the “Bakhtyárí country”, an area of roughly 75,000 km2
stretching from the Dez river, Shúshtar, and Rám Hurmuz on the west to
Dárán and the outskirts of Shahr-i Kurd on the east.


The Bakhtyárí nomads move between a summer abode (yiyláq) in the high
mountains (summit, Zardakúh 4,548 m) and a winter abode (garmsír) in the
western foothills adjoining the Khuzistan plain. The ecological boundary
between the two zones coincides roughly with the course of the Áb-i Bázuft.
Thus the Bakhtyárí country falls into two different administrative provinces:
Chahár  Maḥál, where the summer quarters lie, and Khuzistan, in which the
winter quarters are included.
Many of the Bakhtyárí are nomadic, pastoral tent dwellers who are
dependent on their flocks of sheep, goats, and cattle. They migrate their
flocks 150 miles each year between their winter pastures in the plains and
the summer pastures of the mountains. Agricultural products are mainly
obtained by trade or as tax from dependent villages. There has been some
urbanization among the Bakhtyárí resulting from the oil industry.
The Bakhtyárí are divided into two main tribal groups, the Chahár Lang
(“Four Legs”) and the Haft Lang (“Seven Legs”). Each of these groups is
controlled by a single chiefly family that holds extensive political power and
owns sizable herds and farmlands. The position of khán, or paramount
leader, of the Bakhtyárí is held for two years by the chief of the Haft Lang,
with the chief of the Chahár Lang as his Ílbig, or deputy. For the next two
years the two chiefs exchange their posts with each other.
A factor which further strengthened the power of the Bakhtyárí kháns
(chiefs) was the presence of British firms in Khuzistan from the end of the
nineteenth century onward. The opening of the Lynch road through the south
of the Bakhtyárí country in 1897 was followed by the discovery and
extraction of petroleum at Masjid-i Sulaymán and later at other places in the
tribe’s garmsír. These developments deprived several thousand nomads of
traditional pastures but brought a bonanza to the greater chiefs. For their
undertaking to maintain the security of the oil installations, these chiefs were
rewarded with 5 percent of the shares of the First Exploration Company, and
as a result became entitled to part of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company’s
profits for twenty-five years and to substantial compensation after the
company’s withdrawal.
Bakhtyárí chiefs have long been influential in Iranian politics. In 1909
Bakhtyárí tribesmen under the Haft Lang chief Sardar Assad captured
Ṭihrán in their successful campaign to press for constitutional reforms in
Iran. Many Bakhtyárí have held prominent public offices since then,
including governorates of provinces and important ministerial posts in the
central government.


Bakhtyárí women have long enjoyed a high degree of freedom that is
atypical of Muslim women elsewhere. The daughters of tribal leaders are
normally given at least an elementary education.
(Summarized from  Encyclopaedia Iranica & Encyclopaedia Britannica )
103. Shahr-i-Kurd:  It is a City in Chahár  Maḥál and Bakhtyárí Province. In
fact Shahr-i Kurd is the capital city of the Province. It is the largest city in
the Province, and is 90 km away from Iran's third largest city, Isfahan. This
city is located to the northeast of this province, and is situated 543 km south
of Ṭihrán. Shahr-i-Kurd is in the midst of a plain surrounded by mountains.
In the 7th Century AH Shahr-i-Kurd and its outskirts came under the rule of
the Atábakán-i-Fárs and Luristán. It was in this area that a sentry post was
set up to control both passenger traffic and see to their need. The ancient
name of Shahr-i-Kurd has been heard since Zandiyyih era; however,
according to the findings of archaeologists, and specifically with regard to
the ancient hills around the city is dating back to millenniums B. C.  Thanks
to its special roadway location, Shahr-i-Kurd was used as a police station by
Atábakán of Fars and Luristán. Currently, the people living in Shahr-i Kurd
are of three major backgrounds: Bakhtyárí, Qashqáyi and indigenous
Persian speakers of Shahr-i Kurd; however, the people of Shahr-i Kurd
speak Persian as a lingua franca. Shahr-i Kurd is assumed to be first
developed by nomadic farmers because it encompasses vast meadows and
several springs. It was founded by the immigrants from Isfahan, its suburbs,
and the villages around Shahr-i Kurd, most of whom started to run
businesses such as agriculture, horticulture, hat making, felt making, oil and
wool trading, and other industries.
Shahr-i Kurd enjoys a semi-moist and moderate climate with moderate
summers and very cold winters. The annual average temperature in Shahr-i
Kurd is 11°C. Although the humidity level is moderate or high in winter, the
amount of rainfall is close to zero in planting seasons, except for April and
May.
Source:  https://www.itto.org/iran/city/Shahrekord/
104. Abu’l-Faḍl Raḥmání:   Abu’l-Faḍl Raḥmání is the brother of Jináb-i Hádí
Raḥmání who was a counsellor and the manger of Naw Nahálán Company.
Both of them are sons of Áqá Ja‘far Raḥmání who was a native of Fars
Province. Áqá Mírzá Ja‘far Raḥmání was the son of Mírzá Hádí Shirazi. The
father and son travelled to Ishq-Ábád  in 1304 AH (1886) (Notice that the
name of Mírzá Ja‘far’s father as well as that of his son was Hádí). At the


time of his arrival in Ishq-Ábád,  Mírzá Ja‘far did not confess the Bahá’í
belief, neither did his father.  Ḥájí Mírzá Hádí was a devout Muslim and
whenever and wherever heard the call to prayer "Adhán” he did the same
with a loud voice. Ḥájí Mírzá Hádí and Áqá Ja‘far became engaged in trade
in Ishq-Ábád. It did not take long before Ḥájí Mírzá Hádí contracted a
disease and became very sick and passed away. After the death of his father,
Áqá Ja‘far travelled to Khujand (now in Tajikistan) and established himself
there. Then travelled to the Holy Land and built the Eastern traveller’s
Hospice, during the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which served as a lodge for
eastern pilgrims well into the time of the Guardian. It still stands and serves
as pilgrim’s house which receives visitors. Áqá Ja‘far has received tablets
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (see Tarikh Ishq-Ábád pp. 341-342). Also the life
history of Mírzá Ja‘far Raḥmání, the son of Ḥájí Mírzá Hádí is written by
his son Jináb-i Hádí Raḥmání in Áhang Badi‘ – year no. 28 , no. 11-12, year
1352, pp. 21-26.
105. Dr. ‘Alí- Murád Dávúdí was one of the members of the National Spiritual
Assembly in the decade before the Islamic Revolution of Iran and was its
Secretary. He was a professor of philosophy who made himself retired to
devote his time to the service of the Cause. After the 1979 Islamic
Revolution and in its early years, he was walking in a park where he was
kidnapped and nothing was heard from him after that. Without any doubt he
was killed and he is one of the recent martyrs of the Cause of God. Apart
from his self-sacrifice and outstanding services to the Cause of God, he was
a true scholar and the author of several books one of which is “Divinity and
Revelation”.
106. Naw Nahálán Company: It is a trust company established by the Bahá’í
Community of Iran which was inspired by  the Master. Its origin was in the
city of Qazvin. The story of the start of this company from its beginnings in
the city of Qazvin to its developments as reported in the book “Yárán-i
Qazvin [YAQ]” is being translated and summarize below. The
aforementioned story in turn has used several articles in the magazine
Payam Bahá’í numbers 266,  270 and 205; and also Akhbár Amrí (Bahá’í
News), the publication of the National Spiritual Assembly of Iran, year 46,
annual number 4 and 5 for the solar year 1346 and 1967:
Naw Nahálán was establish with the efforts and initiative of Muḥammad
Labíb, a school teacher in the Bahá’í School of Tavakkul in Qazvin, and
a teacher in Bahá’í Children Classes. The humble beginning of this
company started with the pocket money which the children were


receiving from the their parents and they could buy some coupons,
whoever accumulated enough coupons worth one share of the company
they would exchange the coupons for a share and in this manner such
children would become shareholders of the  company. This company had
been approved by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. To confer blessing upon it, He Himself
contributed two gold coins and symbolically He became a shareholder as
well. The capital of the company continuously had upward trend in 1336
AH (1918) it was less than $100. It became a habit that parents would
purchase share as gifts in the name of their children and as a support for
them when children performed well in their studies and other events.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a tablet has made some remarks about this company,
and in the same tablet He asks God to make this company of the Bahá’í
children well rooted and let it continue into the future … There are other
tablets (refer to the tablet MKT3, p. 265). There are letters from the
Guardian for this company as well in which he prays for the success of
the company and the Bahá’í children who supported it. A few decades
later, this company had grown in size substantially and had become a
company with national outlook with sizeable capital. After Islamic
Revolution of Iran, one of the first things they did  was to occupy and
confiscate the company, though the staff still were working there under
their control and later they confiscated it altogether. It is mentioned that
Abdu’l-Bahá once said that this company belongs to me. The capital of
the company in 1979 was close to $10 million and the number of the
employees of the company was fifty five. It had a board of director
consisting of seven individuals and a general manager. Jináb-i Hádí
Rahmání was the last general manager of this company. Since it was also
a business, it was lending money and assisting individuals who were in
difficult situation. (Yárán Gazvin, [YAQ] pp. 631 - 636 )

107. Prayer by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quoted in the book: “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr”, [ABK]  p.
181 and also in the Muntakhabát-i Makátíb ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, [MMA] vol. 1, in
Persian, no. 22, page, 49. This collection of the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has been translated and published as a book called : “Selections from the
Writings of ‘Abdul-Baha” [SWA] tablet number 22 in SWA.


ای ﻣﺘﻮﺟّﮫ اﻟﯽ Òّ ﭼﺸﻢ از ﺟﻤﯿﻊ ﻣﺎﺳﻮی ﺑﺮﺑﻨﺪ و ﺑﮫ ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﺑﮭﯽ ﺑﺮﮔﺸﺎ آﻧﭽﮫ ﺧﻮاھﯽ از او
ﺧﻮاه و آﻧﭽﮫ طﻠﺒﯽ از او طﻠﺐ ﺑﮫ ﻧﻈﺮی ﺻﺪھﺰار ﺣﺎﺟﺎﺗﺖ روا ﻧﻤﺎﯾﺪ و ﺑﮫ اﻟﺘﻔﺎﺗﯽ ﺻﺪھﺰار
درد ﺑﯽدرﻣﺎن دوا ﮐﻨﺪ ﺑﮫ اﻧﻌﻄﺎﻓﯽ زﺧﻤﮭﺎ را ﻣﺮھﻢ ﻧﮭﺪ و ﺑﮫ ﻧﮕﺎھﯽ دﻟﮭﺎ را از ﻗﯿﺪ ﻏﻢ ﺑﺮھﺎﻧﺪ
آﻧﭽﮫ ﮐﻨﺪ او ﮐﻨﺪ ﻣﺎ ﭼﮫ ﺗﻮاﻧﯿﻢ ﮐﺮد ﯾﻔﻌﻞ ﻣﺎ ﯾﺸﺂء و ﯾﺤﮑﻢ ﻣﺎ ﯾﺮﯾﺪ اﺳﺖ ﭘﺲ ﺳﺮ ﺗﺴﻠﯿﻢ ﻧﮫ و
ﺗﻮﮐّﻞ ﺑﺮ ربّ رﺣﯿﻢ ﺑﮫ

108. In the Bahá’í Faith we have prayers for protection, healing, and several
other occasional prayers. There are similar prayers in Islam and particularly
in Shí‘h, Islam, which have been written by revered Shí‘h Imams. It became
a habit for some of the faithful believers in Islam, who were illiterate, to
carry written versions of such prayers with them and particularly prayers
for protection for children. These prayers were written, folded and placed
in tiny bags and worn by the support of an arm band or worn like a necklace
around one’s neck. The Báb established procedures for writing His prayers
and further restricted the manner by which His revealed prayers were to be
written. Bahá’u’lláh further restricted the use of such practise except by His
permission. In the age of enlightenment, one might think that a piece of
paper on which something is written has no power of enactment. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains that the power of faith, belief and reliance upon the Words
of God, exerts tremendous forces. This also holds true when we say any
prayer; the physical aspect of saying a prayer has minimal effects, however,
when it is strengthened by the power of faith it can produce wonderful
results. (Refer to a Table from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Amr va Khalq, vol. 4, pp. 68-
69 – 128 BE; [AVK, vol. 4, pp. 68-69])
Haykal or Temple is nothing but a reference to a shape and in this case the
shape of human body. It is possible to write the revealed Writings in a
manner which at the end produces an image similar to the shape of a human
being consisting of one head, two hands and two legs very much like five
pointed star in which symmetry has been preserved but each point has a
different size. Writing the revealed verses in this manner is one of the
features of the religion of the Báb and we have many images of this nature
which were produced by Him. A copy of two images of this kind have been
placed at the end of this endnote.  These images have been  produced by the
Báb Himself which are taken from the book “ ‘Ahd-i-Ala” by Abu’l-Qasim
Afnan.  In the first year of His revelation, the Báb instructed His male
followers to write his Writings in the form of Haykal (Temple) and wear
them on their chest. He instructed the same thing for female believers except


that He instructed them to write down His Writings in the form of a circle.
In other words, the circle form for females and the temple form for male
believers.
In particular there is a prayer for protection which is written in the form of
Haykal (Temple) and is known as the prayer of temple (Du’a-i-Haykal).
Refer to Illustration number 35. This is a copy of the “Prayer of Haykal”
which has been produced by the Báb; this includes writing as well as
symbols. The text of such Haykal can be examined in Athrar’ul-’Athar, vol.
4, p. 115. The first  few sentences of this Tablet (in Arabic) are as follows:

»اذ اﻧﺰل ﺑﮏ ﺣﺎﺟﺔ او أراد ان ﯾﺤﺸﺮ اﺣﺪ ﻣﻦ اھﻞ اﻟﺤﻘﯿﻘﺔ ﻓﺎﺻﻨﻊ ﻋﻠﯽ ﻟﻮح ﻗﺮطﺎس ﺑﯿﺾ
ﺳﺒﻌﺔ دواﺋﺮ اﻟﺘﯽ ﮐﺎن ﻋﺮض ﮐﻞ ﻣﺎ ﺑﯿﻦ اﻟﺨﻄﯿﻦ ﺑﺤﺪ ﺳﻮاء ﺑﻤﺎء اﻷﺻﻔﺮ ﺳﻮاء ﮐﺎن ذھﺒﺎ او
زﻋﻔﺮاﻧﺎ و اﺟﻠﻌﮫ ﻓﯽ ﺗﺴﻌﮫ ﻋﺸﺮ ﻗﺴﻤﺔ ...« )اﺳﺮار اﻻﺛﺎر ص 115
ﺟﻠﺪ 4
(

One more thing to remember is that the Báb commanded His believers to
transcribe His Writings with the utmost care in the way of calligraphy, and
superior paper, ink, etc. As an example refer to the Persian Bayán, chapter
14 of vahid 3; 3:14. This should be applicable to the reproduction of the
prayer of Haykal as well.
Also it should be remembered that apart from the prayer of haykal by the
Báb which is used for protection, there is a Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh with the
same name. In another Tablet, He gives detailed instructions how to write
the prayer, the kind of ink and paper to use for this purpose and how to fold
the paper. In the same Tablet, He confirms that if someone else to write the
prayer for anyone, one mithqál of gold should be given to him as a gift. There
are instructions regarding how to say the prayer. This Tablet which is
addressed to Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín has been published in “Muḥaḍirát, vol. 1,
page 416” by ‘Abdu’l-Ḥámid-i Ishráq-Khávari.
These prayers which are short should not be mistaken with two other Tablets.
One is the Tablet of Hayakil or Temples which is an explanation by
Bahá’u’lláh about a Tablet of the Báb revealed for Asadu’lláh Dayyán. The
second one is the Tablet of Haykal which is also called Súrih-i-Haykal which
is a long Tablet. These two Tablets are not a part of the current  discussion.

















Illustration 57:  Tablet in the form
of haykal (temple) number 2
Source: ‘Ahdi-i ‘Ala, page 470
Illustration 58:  Tablet in the form
of haykal (temple) number 3
Source: ‘Ahdi-i ‘Ala, page 468


109. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl Gundulí:  (The story of his life is translated and
presented from Khátirát-i Málmírí, [KHM] pp. 35-37) He was the son-in-law
of Ḥájí Muḥammad Afshár (The author of the book: The Sea of the Knowledge
of God – Baḥr’ul-‘Irfan) who was a teacher of Cause and a firm believer during
the time of Bahá’u’lláh and then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl was
a religious man and was adhering tenaciously to the precepts and teaching of
Islam.  It was now a few years that Ḥájí Muḥammad Afshár (his father-in-law)
had accepted the Faith but was keeping his belief hidden from him. Should he
have become aware of his acceptance of the Bahá’í Faith, there would have
been a great possibility that he would divorce his wife (the daughter of Ḥájí
Muḥammad Afshár).
In one year that  the Islamic month of Ramaḍan was in summer and the
afternoon weather in Yazd was very hot Ḥájí Muḥammad Táhir Málmiri relates:
“I was at the home of Áqá Muḥammad Riḍá Muḥammad-Ábádí Shahid; in the


afternoon, Ḥájí Muḥammad Afshár brought his son-in-law, who was fasting at
the time,  to the afore-mentioned house. Due to the heat of the air during daytime,
we were sitting in the basement. As soon as Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl arrived, he
lied down and covered himself up all-the-way from his toe to his head with his
abá and he tried to sleep. Then Ḥájí Muḥammad Afshár though was a believer
in the Faith started asking questions for the benefit of his-in-law so that he could
hear both the questions and their answers. I was answering some of these
questions. He was rejecting some and accepting some. This conversation and
debate took about four hours. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl  was apparently awake
under the cover of abá and was listening to our conversation. It was about two
hours before sunset he, all of a sudden, removed the abá which was covering
him and requested for tea and in this manner he broke his fast despite the fact
that he was very much attached to the ordinances of Islam and strictly obeyed its
laws. In this way he accepted the Faith very quickly and passed across the bridge
and arrived at the garden of the acceptance of the New Revelation. He had an
office in the Caravanserai Khájih and was engaged in trading.
After accepting the Faith he started immediately to teach the cause of God
and openly announced his belief in the New Revelation. This caused some
people to make an attempt to kill him. They encouraged a person by the name
Javád Shekári to kill him when he was returning home from his office. So he
was awaiting for an opportune time until one day they came face to face with
each other and this place was not too far away from his house. Javád fired a
bullet into his belly. But God protected him, he was saved which was the
cause of astonishment of many people. Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl  approached
Jalálu’d-Dawlih, the governor, and complained. The government followed
up the matter but the assailant fled away thereby was not punished.
However, Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl  increased his enkindlement after this
incidence which did not become the means for his despair. Rather, he made
his house as the place for Mashriqu’l-Adhkár and his house for a number of
years till the time of disturbances was the place of Mashriqu’l-Adhkár. He
himself, when midnight approached used to go and open the door and await
the arrival of the friends. The friends were engaged in prayers until early
morning hours in that house. Indeed this  blessed man was the cause of
Exhilaration and happiness of the friends and he had no thoughts or intention
save the exaltation of the Faith and its promotion. He had a good sense of
humor and had very good manners. He was always smiling when meeting
others be it a friend or a stranger. He did not have much knowledge but the
way he argued he could convince the learned. This continued until the
disturbances and intense atrocities in Yazd started and what he endured is
recorded in the Tarikh Shuhadyi Yazd.


110.
Tákur  is a village in Núr  County, Mazandaran Province, Iran. Mazandaran
forms the southern-most shores of the Caspian Sea. Tákur’s population is
currently about fifty families. It is located about twenty km to the west of the city
of Ámul and at about a distance of fifty km from the Caspian Sea.  The province
of Mazandaran has high mountain peaks in the south descending to the northern
coastal plain bordering the sea and covered with lots of vegetation and enjoys
good amounts of rain fall. Because of the dense sub-tropical jungles of the lower
parts of the province (a stark contrast to the dry desert conditions in much of the
rest of Iran), it was always a difficult area for invaders to penetrate. The
Zoroastrian royalty and nobility fled to these parts after the Arab Islamic invasion
of Iran in the seventh century.  Bahá'u'lláh's family have descended from the last
monarch of pre-Islamic Iran. Tákur was the ancestral home of Mírzá Buzurg, the
Father of Bahá’u’lláh. Mírzá Buzurg was the master of calligraphy who was
called the second Mír Imád. His good hand-writing and calligraphic capabilities
eased his way to the court of Fatḥ-ʻAlí S͟ háh. Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, rose in the ranks
of the civil servants to become the minister to a royal prince who was the
commander of the royal guards. He became later a vizier (minister).  He was given
the village of Tákur in the Núr region in lieu of salary and he built a fine mansion
there by the side of the Núr river as a family home. He worked for a time in the
service of Fatḥ-ʻAlí S͟ háh. Mírzá Buzurg was the son of Mírzá Riḍá-Qulí Big, son
of Mírzá ʻAbbás, son of Ḥájí Muḥammad-Riḍá Big, son of Áqá Muhammad-ʻAli,
son of Áqá Fak͟ hr, son of S͟ hahríyár-Ḥasan. Bahá’u’lláh spent some months in
Tákur during summers when the weather in Ṭihrán was very hot. Due to floods
in one year the house of Mírzá Buzurg was washed away and then it was rebuilt.

111. The following note has been written by Bahá’u’lláh when he was about six
or seven years old. Refer to the book: “ ‘Áqibat Bikhayr”,  pp. 192-193;
Payam Bahá’í, no 307, June 2005, pp. 20-21. Also another source is an article
in the Book “The Best-Beloved of the World”, written by Abu’l-Qásim
Afnán, page 180  states that He was eight years old when wrote that
letter/Tablet.
ھﻮاﻟﻤﺤﺒﻮب، اﻧﺸﺎﷲ در ﺳﺎﯾﮫ رﺣﻤﺖ رﺣﻤﺎﻧﯽ و ﻗﺒﺎب ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺖ ﺳﺒﺤﺎﻧﯽ ﺳﺎﮐﻦ و ﻣﺴﺘﺮﯾﺢ ﺑﺎﺷﯿﺪ
و ﺑﺮ ﺣﺴﺐ ظﺎھﺮ ﻣﻦ ﮐﻮﭼﮑﻢ و ﺧﻂ ﻧﺪارم. وﻟﮑﻦ ﭼﻮن اﯾﻦ اﻣﯽ ﺑﮫ ﺳﺪره اﻟﮭﯽ ﻣﺘﻤﺴﮏ اﺳﺖ
ﺑﯽ ﻋﻠﻢ ﻣﯽﺧﻮاﻧﺪ و ﺑﯽ ﺧﻂ ﻣﯽﻧﻮﯾﺴﺪ و اﯾﻦ در ﻋﺎﻟﻢ ﺑﺎطﻦ ﻧﺰد اھﻞ ﺑﺼﺮ ﻣﺸﮭﻮد اﺳﺖ. اﻏﯿﺎر
از اﯾﻦ ﺳﺮّ آﮔﺎه ﻧﺒﻮده و ﻧﯿﺴﺘﻨﺪ.
112. Mírzá Buzurg  and Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí: The second Prime Minister of
Muḥammad shah, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, was antagonistic to Mírzá Buzurg. One
reason which prompted his enmity was Mírzá Buzurg's particular friendship


with the Qá'im-Maqám, Mírzá Abu'l-Qásim of Farahán. In June 1835 the
Qá'im-Maqám was put to death by the order of Muhammad Shah. Mírzá
Buzurg wrote letters condemnatory of Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, which the Prime
Minister eventually encountered, and retaliated with force. He had Mírzá
Buzurg dismissed from the governorship of Burujird and Luristán. This post
had been given to him by the Qá'im-Maqám. Next, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí stopped
Mírzá Buzurg's annual allowance.  Manuscripts exist in his superb and
much-admired handwriting, in various collections both in and outside of
Iran. There is one such scroll in the International Archives of the Baháʼí
World Centre.
As for the history of the Faith in Tákur,  it was twice attacked by the
government troops and some of the Baháʼís were taken prisoner.
113. Seventeen or more  martyrs:   On 23 day of Ramaḍán 1308 (May 2,
1891) two believers from Yazd went to a mosque to see one of their friends.
The people in the mosque attacked them and took them to the government
quarters demanding their execution. Jalálu’d-Dawlih, the governor of Yazd
ordered to keep them in his prison for six days, then asked his father who
was the governor of Isfahan what to do next; since no reply arrived then he
fined them and ordered to pay some amount of  money after which they were
released.  After the governor released them, a reply arrived from his father
to keep them in jail and await further instructions. So the governor ordered
his people to arrest these two men again and in addition they arrested five
more Bahá’ís, a total of seven, and put them in jail. With a fatwa issued by
the clergy for their killing because they considered them infidels, the
governor ordered their execution which was carried out on 9 Shawwal 1308
(18 May 1891). Their names and ages in the order of their martyrdom are as
follows:
a) Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar Yúzdárání – 19 years of age.
b) Mullá Mihdí Khuvaydakí – 60 years old.
c) Áqá ‘Alí Gázur-Gáhí – 30 years of age.
d) Mullá ‘Alí Sabzivarí – 45 years of age.
e) Áqá Muhammad Báqir – 42 years old
f) Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar Fahadani – 24 years old (brother of
Áqá Ḥasan and Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí)
g) Áqá Ḥasan – 21 years old (brother of Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar
#6 above and Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar Káshí)


It should be noted that in the above list of seven martyrs of Yazd, the  story
of martyrdom of whom was given in the text. Three of these martyrs were
related to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí:
i.
Number 3 in the list: Áqá ‘Alí Gázur-Gáhí who was the
parental cousin of  the father of Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb
Dhabíḥí’s wife.
ii.
Number 6 in the list: Áqá ‘Alí-Aṣghar Fahadani , the paternal
uncle of Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí’s wife.
iii.
Number 7 in the list: Áqá Ḥasan who was the parental uncle
of Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥ’s wife.
For their relationship to ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí refer to Ill. 57, the Family Tree
number 7, page 224.
Haji Muḥammad Ḥusayn Turk’s wife was Zahrá Sulṭán. She had a few
brothers and sisters among whose families were several martyrs. We will list
these individuals below and explain each case:
One of Zahrá Sulṭán’s sisters was Khadijih Sulṭán. She married Zayn’ul-‘Ábidin.
This couple had six children three of whom were martyred, as follows (Sháṭir
Husayn, Sháṭir Ḥasan & Aqa Ali Akbar):
iv.
Sháṭir Ḥusayn (Son of Khadijih Sulṭán and Zayn’ul-‘Ábidin):
On the first day of troubles he went to the house of Ṣadr’ul-
Ulama and was hiding for two days. On 2 Rabí‘u’th-Thání
1321 (28 June 1930) he left the house of Ṣadr and in the very
early hours of morning headed towards his own house located
in the neighbourhood of Kushkak-Naw in Yazd. Just in front
of his house before entering his house he was seen by a
neighbour who reported it to thugs, they came and captured
him, took him to a clergy man, got a fatwas for his killing,
then took him to the government  house and demanded the
governor to kill him by placing him in front of a canon. The
governor was forced to comply with their demand. The victim
was placed in front of a canon which was fired and shredded
him to pieces. He was 25  years  old. A tablet of visitation
was revealed in his honor which is printed on page 340 TAY.
([TAY], pp. 338 – 341).
v.
Sháṭir Ḥasan [son of Zaynu’l-`Abidín and Khadíjih Sulṭán. He
should not be confused with Sháṭir Ḥasan, son of Ibráhim and
a  brother of Muḥammad Ismá‘íl, and also Sháṭir Na’ib Ḥasan].
He was a Bahá’í from the Kushak-Naw quarter of Yazd who,
during this period of unrest in his native town, had moved to
the nearby village of Tazarján, where he was continuing his


profession as a baker. When the people of the village learned
of the disturbances and turmoil in Yazd, they congregated and
surrounded Sháṭir Ḥasan, beating him with stone and sticks,
intending on killing him. With great difficulty and struggle,
Sháṭir Ḥasan was able to escape the crazed mob and quickly
left the village for Manshád. He arrived there on the same day,
three hours before sunset, and took refuge in the home of the
martyred Áqá `Alí-Akbar (son of Aqa Ibáhim) On the first day
of troubles in Manshád, [26 June,] some three hours before
sunset, the esteemed Sháṭir Ḥasan and another believer left
Manshád, out of the fear of the foes, for the village of Darrih.
They arrived there one hour before the sunset and took a room
in Khadíjih Darvísh’s house. When the villagers became aware
of the two newcomers that very night, they surrounded the
house, and a few went inside and captured the two believers.
hands of the two distinguished men were tied behind their back
and they were forced to walk to the nearby village of Darrih;
on the way, they sustain injuries from rocks, stones and sticks
The being thrown at them, they were stoned so severely and
repeatedly that before reaching their destination, they gave life
to the Life-Giver. Sháṭir Ḥasan was thirty-five years old at the
time of his martyrdom on 30 Rabí‘’u’l-Avval  1321 A.H.     (26
June 1903).
vi.
Sháṭir ‘Alí-Akbar, the son of Zaynu’l-`Abidín and Khadíjih
Sulṭán (He should not be confused with ‘Alí-Akbar son of
Áqá Ibráhim.) He and his father Zaynu’l-`Abidín lived in the
neighbourhood of Yazd and engaged in running a bakery.
One day thugs came and took him to Navvab Radavi where
he ordered him to curse the sacred figures of the Faith which
he refused. Thus, Navvab ordered caning his feet very hard,
pulling out his mustache, and after that threw him in a well.
He was almost dead. His relatives arrived there and took him
home and looked after him until he recovered. Then he moved
to a village known as Hedash or Deh-Bala and started bakery
there. He survived the atrocities of 1903. But some years
later, a hooligan approached him and started using bad
language, beating him and kicked him so hard at the side of
his body as a result  of which he offered up his life a few days
later. He was 60 year old at the time of his martyrdom
([TAY], pp. 481-483)


vii.
Áqá `Alí-Muḥammad, the son of Ḥájí Muḥammad
ḤusaynTurk:   Again, on the same Wednesday, 5 Rabí‘u’th-
Thání 1321 (July 1, 1903), the mob went to Kuzh
neighborhood, situated on the outskirts of Manshád on the
way to Káv-Afshád. At that time one of the believers, Áqá
`Alí- Muḥammad, son of Hájí Ḥusayn Turk, was hiding from
the bloodthirsty crowd in the home of Ḥusayn, son of Ḥasan
ibn Panáh-`Alí. Four thugs entered the house; they located the
honored Áqá `Alí- Muḥammad, and took him outside and one
of the gunmen aimed his gun at Áqá `Alí- Muḥammad’s head
and fired. He immediately fell to the ground at which time the
rest of the crowd began stoning him. At that moment, while
the severely injured Áqá `Alí- Muḥammad was breathing his
last breaths, one heartless individual opened Áqá `Alí-
Muḥammad’s mouth, filled it with sand and soil, and then
kicked him in chest until he was dead. Áqá `Alí- Muḥammad
was forty-five years old at the time of martyrdom. ([MAM],
p. 25 & [TSY], 466).
viii.
Haji ‘Alí-Muḥammad Baqir: He was the father of ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí. He was martyred in ‘Abbás-Ábád and the
details of his martyrdom was discussed fully in the main text
of the book.
Another sister of Zahrá Sulṭán was Zaynab Sulṭán. In her family there were
several martyrs who are listed below:
ix.
Ghulám-Ḥusayn Dallal, son of Taqí:  He was the son-in-law
of Zaynab Sulṭán and the husband of Fáṭimih Sulṭán. Fáṭimih
Sulṭán was the maternal cousin of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí’s
mother (Sakinih Sulṭán). On Saturday, 15 Rabí`u’th-Thání
1321 A.H. [11 July 1903], Áqá Ghulám-Ḥusayn, son of Áqá
Taqí Dallal [broker], a Bahá’í from Yazd who had come to
Manshád to escape the brutal events unfolding there, along
with another Bahá’í were found hiding in one of the caves in
the eastern mountains, behind the Turks’ farm. Two hours
after sunrise the mob surrounded the cave and called for the
two believers to come out and surrender.  Acquiescing, they
emerged, whereupon Áqá Ghulám-Ḥusayn was killed
instantly by a huge volley of gunfire and later on they
separated his head from his body. He was 63 years old at the
time of his martyrdom. ([TSY], pp. 476-478).


x.
Áqá ‘Alí the son of Ghulám-Ḥusayn Dallal and Fátimih:  Áqá
‘Alí’s wife was one of the daughters of  Sháṭir Na’ib Hassan
whose name was Salṭanat khanum. At beginning of the
turmoil, he had suffered severe injuries and Sháṭir Ḥasan
brought a physician to his house to stich the wounds of Áqá
‘Alí. All of a sudden a mob came and wanted to enter the
house to kill Áqá ‘Alí. At the end the mob killed both Sháṭir
Ḥasan and his son-in-law, Áqá ‘Alí. ([TAY], pp. 178-179)
xi.
Sháṭir Ḥasan had a government position as Sháṭir. He had two
sons and three daughters. The older  daughter was Rubab who
was the wife of Áqá Mírzá Javád Ṣabbágh the martyr and the
other one was Salṭanat khanum the wife of Áqá ‘Alí the
martyr. Sháṭir Ḥasan was put to death in Yazd the same they
that they killed Áqá ‘Alí. ([TAY], p.178)
xii.
Áqá Mírzá Javád Ṣabbágh was the son-in-law of Sháṭir Na’ib
Ḥasan. He was hiding in a hay stack barn. They found him and
with gun bullets they killed him. He was martyred in Hanza of
Yazd on 13 July 1903 (17 Rabí‘u’th-Thání 1321) He was 42
years old. He was survived by two children 11 and 9. His wife
was Rubáb; her father, Sháṭir Ḥasan; her husband, Áqá Mírzá
Javád; and her husband’s brother, Asadu’lláh were all
martyred, ([TAY], pp. 443-446)
xiii.
Mírzá Asadu’lláh Ṣabbágh (son of Mullá Muḥammad
Qannád), the brother of Áqá Mírzá Javád Ṣabbágh. He was a
merchant and did not have any children of his own and was
saying all the Bahá’í youths were his children. During
troubles in Yazd, he was hiding in his neighbour’s house who
was not a Bahá’í. The hooligans broke the door of his house
and entered. They ransacked the house, found him at the end,
and with a knife being thrusted into his neck he was martyred
in the neighbourhood of Pusht-i Bágh. On 25 June 1903 (29
Rabí‘’u’l-Avval 1321 A.H.). He was 45 years old.([TAY],
p.147 & pp. 259-260)
xiv.
Mírzá Ismá‘íl son of Mírzá Ibráhim Khabbáz: When troubles
started, he was in his house in Khadijih farm in Manshád. The
unruly mob found him, repeatedly stabbed him as a result of
which he was martyred. He was 55 on the day of his


martyrdom 27 June 1903 (1 Rabí‘u’th-Thání 1321) ([TAY],
p.65 & p.391)
xv.
Sháṭir Ḥasan, the son of Mírzá Ibráhim Khabbáz and the
brother of Mírzá Ismá‘íl the martyr: On the first day of
troubles in Manshád a few of the friends including three sons
of Mírzá Ibráhim Khabbáz who were: Sháṭir Ḥasan, Áqá ‘Alí-
Akbar and Asadu’lláh (not to be confused with Mírzá
Asadu’lláh Ṣabbágh)  fled to the top of the mountains behind
the farm of Turks. At night when Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar and Sháṭir
Ḥasan were climbing the mountains, they were both injured.
Early in the morning, Sháṭir Ḥasan came down to fetch some
water for his brother who was badly injured and could not
move. Trouble makers spotted him, captured him and killed
him with gun shots. He was 60 year old at the time of his
martyrdom on 29 June 1903 (3 Rabí‘u’th-Thání 1321A.H.)
([TAY], pp. 396-97)
xvi.
Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar son of Mírzá Ibráhim Khabbáz and the
brother of Mírzá Ismá‘íl: He was martyred along with his
brother on 29 June 1903 on top of the mountain where he was
injured and lying down. He was 55 years old. ([TAY], p.398)
xvii.
Mírzá Asadu’lláh son of Mírzá Ibráhim Khabbáz and the
brother of Mírzá Ismá‘íl and Sháṭir Ḥasan (He should not be
confused with Mírzá Asadu’lláh Ṣabbágh)  : On 2 and 3 June
he was with his other two brothers (Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar and
Sháṭir Ḥasan) who were martyred but he came down from the
mountain top and went to town and was hiding in his cousin’s
house. He stayed there for two weeks until things were quiet.
He and another friend left Manshád but on the way at night
he  slept by the road side and in the morning as they started
their walk, they were found and taken to the nearby village of
Ibráhim- Ábád. In that village some hooligans gathered
around him and at the end he was killed with a volley of
bullets on 8 July 1903 (12 Rabí‘u’th-Thání) . He was 35 years
old when he was martyred.
xviii.
Áqá Siyyid Báqir was son-in-law of Ḥájí Zaynal (the brother
of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn Truk): Áqá Siyyid Báqir, the son
of Siyyid Aḥmad of Manshád thought the mobs would not
harm him. When they came near his house he invited them in
and offered them food and drink. They went away but came


back and took him to the house of the police chief of the town.
He was imprisoned there. The thugs came and insisted that
they would not kill him in Manshád and they took him outside
of Manshád in Kav-Afshád and killed him with a volley of
bullets. This was on July 11 1903 and 15 Rabí‘u’th-Thání
1321 A.H. He was 52 years old. He was married to Fáṭimih
Sulṭán, the daughter of Ḥájí Zaynal . ([TAY], p. 399)
xix.
Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn son of Siyyid Aḥmad, and the brother of Áqá
Siyyid Baqir: On 4 Rabí`u’th-Thání 1301A.H. (30 June 1903), Áqá
Siyyid Ḥusayn came down from the mountain top where he was
hiding and took refuge in the house of Siyyid Áqá’í. On Friday, 14
Rabí`u’th-Thání 1321 A.H. [10 July 1903], which was now the
fourteenth day of the troubles, the vicious mob was searching every
household in Manshád in hope of finding more Bahá’ís to kill.
Siyyid Áqá’í informed Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn’s wife of the day’s
events, indicating to her that soon his house would be searched and
did not want Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn to be killed in his house. When
Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn learned of the conversation from his wife, he
told her that his death was near. He alone left the home that had
been his family’s refuge, bidding farewell to his wife and son.
Taking the advice of his host, he changed his clothes and took
refuge behind the pulpit of the nearby mosque. His host had asked
him to remain there until the mob had finished searching his house.
Then he would be able to return.
Although the anticipated search of the house did not result in any
findings, a number of women in the neighborhood reported
having seen Siyyid Ḥusayn in the mosque. Siyyid Ḥusayn,
aware of his dire situation, had no choice but to leave the
mosque, running a distance of two hundred yards and then
climbing over a wall into a wheat field. He hid in the wheat but
was spotted by a woman who told the mob. They entered the
field  and searched until they found Siyyid Ḥusayn. Upon
finding him, the mob started striking him with wooden clubs,
then several bullets were fired towards him and the honored
Siyyid Husayn fell down after the very first bullet struck him.
Still some life was left on him when his family came and threw
themselves on his body, and he embraced them tenderly. While
holding his loved ones and several teardrops streaming from his


eyes, Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn’s hallowed spirit left for the Exalted
Paradise. At the time of his martyrdom his age was 40.([MAM],
pp. 31-36 also [TAY], pp. 399-401)

xx.
Áqá Siyyid Javád, the son of Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn (He should not
be confused with Áqá Siyyid Javád the son of Áqá Siyyid Taqi)
:  On 30th June, Áqá Siyyid Ḥusayn, son of Áqá Siyyid Aḥmad
(brother of Áqá Siyyid Baqir), was yet another Bahá’í who had
taken refuge at the home of a Muslim friend, Siyyid Áqá’í. Two
days before Manshád’s convulsions, his eldest son, Siyyid
Javád, who was only fourteen years old, had fallen while
working in the farm fields with his grandfather, breaking one leg
and severely injuring the other. His injuries were so severe that
he could not move and was bedridden. This continued until 10
July when his father was martyred. When he heard the news of
his father’s martyrdom, the bedridden and broken-hearted
Siyyid Javád pleaded for one last opportunity to visit and bid
farewell to his father. Unfortunately, no one paid any attention
to this poor boy, though he was only a short distance away from
his fallen father. After Siyyid Husayn’s death, Siyyid Javád was
taken back to his own home. He was constantly heard saying and
praying, “How I wish that the enemies had seen me and taken
my life on that day too! If only they would come now and cut
my heart out allowing me to join that exalted soul!” Not a day
went by that he did not wish for his own death. His wailing and
lamenting were destined to be as ephemeral as his fleeting life,
for he was to outlive his father’s brutal martyrdom by only
fourteen days. At last Friday, 28 Rabí`u’th-Thání 1321 A.H. (24
July 1903), his spirit soared to the Abhá Kingdom and his
lifeless body in his bed was found by his mother who mourned
for his death. .([MAM], pp. 33-35)
Now we will proceed to present a few family trees in order to illustrate the
relationships.


Illustration 59:  Family Tree Number 7: Three of the Seven Martyrs of Yazd
(Refer to: i, ii, & iii in the explanation given above)
Illustration 60:  Family Tree number 8:  Relationship
between the Martyrs in the Family



114. Refer to Payam Bahá’í, issue number 360-370, August-September 2010, pp.
106-114.
115. Ákhúnd Mullá ‘Abdu’l-Ghaní Ardikání  was one of the outstanding
believers of the early years, a sanctified soul and a respected personage of
Ardikán. He was a learned person and always spent his time in devotion and
contemplation. He was an erudite and an eloquent speaker.  When he was a
youth he was always looking for truth. For sometime he sought the
companies Sufis but at he end his inquisitive mind led him to the Faith. After
he heard the news of the Faith from Ákhúnd Rajab-‘Alí, he abandoned his
role as a Muslim clergy man and devoted all his effort and energy in the
promotion of the new Faith.  After accepting the Faith as the Truth, he
started teaching the Faith which caused an uproar in Ardikán. Hooligans
who were always ready to initiate evil deeds, one night smeared while mud
on the doors of shops, public baths and mosques. The next day, they accused
the Bahá’í that they have done that. Then, they gathered in the house of
Shaykh ‘Alí, the  mujtahid of town, and complained about the ‘Abdu’l-
Ghaní and the Bahá’í. Shaykh ‘Alí ordered to bring ‘Abdu’l-Ghaní to his
presence, so they went and fetched him. On the way they found an
opportunity to severely beat up ‘Abdu’l-Ghaní, using sticks, throwing stone
at him and even strike him with knife. As a result of such vile behaviours of
the mob, before reaching the house of mujtahid, he fainted. In this condition
they took him to the house of Shaykh ‘Alí. Mujtahid said take him away and
the mob intended to take him at the edge of the town, kill him, burn him and
throw him in a deep ditch. On the way they saw a government employee
whom they thought had come to arrest them and all of them ran away. This
man helped ‘Abdu’l-Ghaní reaching home safely. He rested at home and
recovered after sometime. He ignored the troubles and continued teaching
the Faith. Ten years passed in this manner and he became well known as a
Bahá’í teacher among the people of Ardikán. Because of these troubles, his
relatives felt that it was not safe to stay in his own place and changed his
residence to the place of Ṣadr’us-Ṣultán  and after a while he moved to Yazd.
He has received a number of tablets from Bahá’u’lláh. ([TAY]. pp. 120-121
&  Amr-i Bahá’í dar Ardikán, [TAA] pp.  73- 75).
116. Adasiyyih:  Some believes started buying parcels of land in Palestine and
donate them it to the Faith as early as the time of Bahá’u’lláh. Adasiyyih
was a large size piece of farming land located in the north-west of Jordan
which was acquired at the time of the ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The earliest


settlers were Bahá’ís of Zoroastrian background who moved there from
Yazd. This farming community developed under the guidance and specific
instructions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. They introduced innovations in their
agriculture practises which were later on taken up by other farmers in the
area. The size of the community gradually increased. It became a model
development community. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá instructed those Bahá’í farmers to
grow nourishing vegetables and asked them to focus, in particular, on
growing corn. They produced food of high quantities, which they stored in
pits built by the Romans many years earlier on the same land.
When World War I broke out and began to engulf the world. The Ottoman
Empire was embattled, and the war came to Palestine where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
lived. The community was ravished by famine. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá brought food
from the Bahá’í farming communities in Jordan and fed the starving people
of Haifa, ‘Akká, and the adjacent neighborhoods in the famine years of 1914
to 1918.
Due to unsettled political situation in Palestine, the Guardian decided
to send the believers back to Iran, to their original communities. Many
of them returned to Yazd.

117. A Brief History of Faith in Yazd
Before the time of the Báb
Shaykh Aḥmad Aḥsayyi,  the founder of the Shaykhí school, travelled to
and resided in Yazd for a long period where he wrote the majority of his
works.  In this city, Siyyid Kazim joined him and become a prominent
student and studied under him in Yazd and eventually succeeded him.
During the time of the Báb
After Mullá Husayn’s second visit to shiraz, in the way back to his home-
town, the Báb instructed him to visit Yazd. It was in 1845 also Quddus visited
Yazd briefly.  Around this time Mirza Ahmad Azghandi, a prominent and
one of the most notable believers had moved to Yazd.   Also Mullá Sadiq
Muqaddas Khurani visited the city shortly after the arrival of Mirza Ahmad
Azghandí and delivered a talk at a masjid in which he quoted from the
Writings of the Báb which resulted in him being accused of heresy and he
was almost physically attacked. However, Siyyid Ḥusayn-i-Azghandí
managed to calm the crowd allowing him to leave the place unharmed.
In 1850 Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-Darábí, entitled Vahíd, visited Yazd and
successfully promoted the Bábí religion, gathering a large number of
followers with people traveling from surrounding villages and nearby towns
to hear him speak. The fledgling community began to experience opposition
and persecution and Vahíd left Yazd and after his departure the house where


he was staying was vandalized. It was during this visit that Haji Husayn Turk
and Raḍir-Ruḥ joined the faith.
In the time of Bahá’u’lláh
In July 1850 the Báb was martyred and in August 1852 two Bábís
independently made an assassination attempt on the life of the Shah of Iran
in retaliation for the execution of the Bab and killing large number of  which
was unsuccessful and this resulted in intense persecution of the Bábí
community and many Bábís in Yazd where martyred,  with many others
leaving the city and immigrating to Baghdad. In 1854 , Ḥájí Mírzá
Muhammad Taqi a cousin of the Báb settled in Yazd and he became a
devoted Bábí after meeting Bahá’u’lláh his visit to Baghdad and meeting
Bahá’u’lláh. He remained in Yazd until 1900. Several Bábí's from Yazd
visited Baghdad during the 1850's and spoke highly of Bahá’u’lláh upon
returning with Mullá Muhammad-Ridá Radiyu'r-Rúh Manshádí delivering a
copy of the Qaṣídiy-i-Varqá'íyyih (Ode of the Dove) to the believers of the
Yazd. Also and Mírzá Husayn, elder brother of Varqá, brought a copy of the
Hidden Words for the believers.
In the 1860's Bahá’u’lláh declared Himself to be Him Whom God shall make
manifest as promised  by the Báb and the majority of the Bábí's of Yazd
accepted His claim becoming Bahá’ís. During the late 1860's Mullá Sádiq
visited Yazd where he successfully convinced several members of the Afnán
family, the family of the Báb, of Bahá’u’lláh’s claims. In 1868 Hájí
Muhammad-Ibrahim and Nabil Akbar visited Yazd and converted Afnan
Kabir (Haji Hasan-.Ali, the uncle of the Bab) who became a prominent
steadfast Bahá’í.
The community faced some persecution and at some point some of the clergy
in Yazd sentenced a Bahá’í, Ḥájí Mullá Mihdí, to death however the mujtahid
of Ardikan refused to confirm the sentence allowing Mihdí to flee to Yazd.
Between 1882 and 1883 Mihdi's son,Varqa , returned to visit Yazd and was
arrested and imprisoned then he was transferred to Isfahan. As of the early
1880's the principal of the Parsi School of Yazd, Ustad Javanmard, was a
Bahá’í, and throughout the 1880's many Zoroastrians of Yazd either became
Bahá’ís or were sympathetic to the religion. In 1888 Edward Granville
Browne visited Yazd and met with members of the Bahá’í community such
as Afnán-i-Kabír. Mirza Abul Fadail and ‘Andalib visited Yazd in 1888 and
met with Shaykh Muhammad, who was promoting the claims of Mírzá
Yaḥyá among the Bahá’í community, and they engaged in a debate which
ended with Shaykh Muhammad insulting them and leaving the meeting and
he departed the city shortly afterwards.


In 1891 a political group based in Yazd began stirring dissent against the
government of Persia and when the government began to take action against
them the group decided to fabricate evidence implying that the Bábí
community was responsible for the dissent. As a result Zillu's-Sultán, the
eldest son of Nasiri-Din Shah, who was involved in the groups activities and
was engaged in an attempt to usurp the throne instigated harsh persecution
of the Bahá’í community of Yazd in order to distract from his involvement
in the situation. On May 18, 1891, seven Bahá’ís were arrested and taken to
the palace of Prince Jalálu'd-Dawla and the Prince asked them what their
beliefs were and reassured them that he wanted to secure their release and
did not intend to persecute them for their beliefs, however when they said
they were Bahá’ís members of the Islamic clergy who were present but
behind a curtain signed their death warrants based on their confession. The
seven men were then publicly executed after refusing to recant their Faith
with their remains being dragged through the streets and then burned. There
was also widespread harassment of Bahá’ís with their properties being
looted, and an estimated one thousand Bahá’ís fled the city to escape and
camped in the open countryside with many of them dying from malnutrition.
The persecution ultimately resulted in increased interest in the Faith in Yazd.
In the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
There were approximately five thousand Bahá’í households in Yazd
as of 1903, and that year ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked Ibn-Abhar, Hand of the
Cause, to visit the city and during his visit large gatherings were held
which he spoke at to encourage the Bahá’í community, which enthused
the Bahá’í community but also resulted in some opposition from the
Muslim community.
The same year a telegram was forged purporting to be from the Prime
Minister of Persia which prompted Shaykh Taqí, a religious authority in
Isfahan, to issue a fatwa calling for Bahá’ís to be killed. Mírzá Ibráhím, the
Imám-Jum`ih of Yazd, visited Isfahan and upon his return to Yazd on June
12, 1903, he issued an order for the massacre of Bahá’ís in Yazd, and many
Bahá’ís in the city were killed and had their homes destroyed by mobs over
the next two months.
In earl 1900  the Assembly of Yazd formed and started its  operation in 1919
the Bahá’í community began raising funds which were used to assist relatives
of the martyrs of Yazd and construct tombs.
In the time of Shoghi Effendi
In 1921 Muhammad ‘Alí Afnán of Yazd was on pilgrimage in the Holy Land
when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá passed away and he remained in the Holy Land and was


able to associate with the newly appointed Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith,
Shoghi Effendi, until approximately May 1922 when Shoghi Effendi asked
him to return to Yazd where he was elected to the Local Spiritual Assembly
and served for many years often as chairman.(1)
In 1930 Tarazullah Samandari and Martha Root visited Yazd during teaching
tours of Iran. Zikrullah Khadem also visited Yazd in 1930 at the request of
Shoghi Effendi, and in 1933 Keith Ransom Kehler visited Yazd during her
visit to Iran made at the direction of Shoghi Effendi. As of the early 1930's a
large Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds had been constructed by the Yazd Bahá’í community,
and at some point four Bahá’í owned primary schools were established in the
city however in 1935 the schools were closed down by order of the Persian
Ministry of Education for closing to commemorate Bahá’í Holy Days. As of
1939 the Bahá’í community had constructed a public bathhouse for Yazd
however that year a worker employed to see to the heating of the baths was
injured in a work accident and as a result of prejudice against the Bahá’í
community members of the Local Spiritual Assembly including the chairman
were arrested but were released after only a short period of imprisonment.
In 1947 summer classes for Bahá’í youth were held in Yazd and as of the late
1940's there was a Yazd youth committee which began publishing a local
youth bulletin.(2)
In 1950 a Bahá’í pioneered to a village outside of Yazd and a woman and her
children were murdered shortly afterwards. The murder was attributed to his
arrival and as a result all members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Yazd
were arrested and sentenced to three years in prison. This caused the Yazd
Bahá’í community to become inactive out of fear of retribution and Shoghi
Effendi asked Dr. Abbas Afnán to pioneer to the city to stimulate the
community in 1952. Afnán remained in the city for two years establishing
deepening classes and holding art exhibitions to stimulate the arts and
members of the community were inspired to become active again.
In the time of the Universal House of Justice
In early 1962 a pioneering conference was held in Yazd,(3) and throughout
1964 forty Bahá’í character training classes for youth and children were held
in Yazd with three-hundred youth and children receiving instruction from
thirty Bahá’ís serving as teachers.(4) As of 1966 the Islamic clergy in Yazd
remained suspicious and belligerent towards the Bahá’í community and the
Bahá’í community was sensitive to provoking hostility from them.
The Revolution in Iran which began in 1979 triggered persecution of the
Bahá’í community and as of July 1980 members of the Yazd Local Spiritual
Assembly had been arrested and five Bahá’ís were injured after being


attacked by a mob in the city. (5) On September 8, 1980, seven prominent
Bahá’ís of Yazd including two Auxiliary Board members were martyred by
revolutionary guards with the executions being justified on local radio with
unsupported accusations of espionage and subversive activities.(6) After the
martyrdoms the bodies were transported to a local hospital and then buried
outside of the city limits the same day in order to prevent large amounts of
Bahá’ís gathering for a funeral. Despite this two-hundred Bahá’ís gathered
for the burial and were able to prepare the bodies for burial according to
Bahá’í law. Two days after the martyrdom a trial of the Bahá’ís was televised
in Yazd however during the broadcast the Bahá’ís defense was rendered
inaudible prompting complaints even from non-Bahá’ís. (7)
In 1981 the assets of 117 Bahá’ís of Yazd were frozen and 150 prominent
Bahá’í families were ordered to report to revolutionary authorities.(8) As of
September 1981 a government official had reportedly privately advised the
Bahá’ís that the persecution in Yazd would potentially be the pattern
followed for persecution of Bahá’ís across the rest of the country. In October
1981 four Bahá’í's imprisoned in Yazd were released however the
community was facing persecution in other forms such as being dismissed
from jobs. As of 1982 over one hundred Bahá’í children had been expelled
from schools in Yazd due to their religion,(9) and Bahá’ís had their
properties looted with houses and furniture being confiscated and most
Bahá’í men were forced to flee the city. As of 1984 some Bahá’ís remained
imprisoned in Yazd and were being tortured by being regularly whipped with
plastic tubes. Some died while imprisoned and their families were sometimes
expelled from their homes after their relatives death. (10)
In 1992 several private homes and other properties belonging to Bahá’ís from
eleven families were confiscated by Islamic revolutionary institutions on the
basis of a religious edict filed by a former Imam of Yazd. A further ten
families had been issued a notice to vacate their homes as they were to be
seized by the government. The Universal House of Justice wrote that the
seizures of Bahá’í properties in Yazd was distinct from seizures in other parts
of the country as it was specifically based on a religious edict and the
authorities in Yazd had ruled that no Bahá’ís could own properties in the city.
As of 1998 houses and properties were still being routinely confiscated from
Bahá’ís in Yazd.(11)
In 2005 another wave of persecution against the Bahá’í community of Yazd
began with several Bahá’ís being arrested for short sentences. After this
Bahá’ís in the city were assaulted, harassed and threatened and the Bahá’í
cemetery of the city being destroyed with bodies being left exposed. In


December 2005 Dhabíhu’lláh Mahramí, a Bahá’í who had been imprisoned
since 1995 on the charge of apostasy, died in a Yazd prison.(12)
In 2011 Bahá’í university students studying in Yazd were expelled from
higher education due to their religion, and in 2014 a Bahá’í in Yazd had a
business license refused due to his religion as it had apparently been ruled
that Bahá’ís should not be granted them.(13)  In 2016 Farhang Amiri was
murdered in Yazd by two men who pretended to be interested in buying a
van from him and after being arrested one of the men stated their motivation
was the fact Amiri was a Bahá’í.(14) When the men were sentenced for the
murder the court noted that according to the Islamic penal code Amiri was
not equal to the accused for the purpose of retributive justice as he was not a
Muslim.
In 2020 some Bahá’ís in Yazd were arrested and sentenced to imprisonment
with the Bahá’í International Community noting this as a sign of persecution
of Bahá’ís in Iran escalating.(15)

(1).
The Bahá’í World, Volume 18 (1979-1983), Pg(s) 710
(2).
The Bahá’í World, Volume 11 (1946-1950), Pg(s) 370.
(3).   Bahá’í News. (1962). No 377, pg 5.
(4).   Bahá’í News. (1964). No 405, pg 9.
(5).
Letter from the Universal House of Justice to all National Spiritual
Assemblies,  dated 24 July 1980
(6).
Bahá’í News. (1980). No 596, pg 2.
(7).
Bahá’í News. (1981). No 600, pg 4.
(8)
letter from the Universal House of Justice to all National Spiritual
Assemblies, 11 August 1981
(9).
Bahá’í News. (1982). No 613, pg 4.
(10)  Letter from the Universal House of Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies,
dated 21 May 1984
(11).  Letter from the Universal House of Justice/selected National Spiritual Assemblies,
24 September 1998
(12).   https://news.bahai.org/story/415/
(13).  https://news.bahai.org/story/1031/
(14).  https://news.bahai.org/story/1133/
(15).  https://news.bahai.org/story/1433/

118. In this section, the children, grandchildren and great grandchildren of
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíhí have been listed; and also those of his two
sisters. We start with the listing of  the children and grandchildren of
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíhí below:


b. Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí  + Jutta Schliemann;    Children: (1) Tanja,
(2) Cora, (3) Kíyán
i.
Tanja + Kíyán Mirríkh Yazdí;    Children:  Samin
Mirríkh Yazdí, Nadím Mirríkh Yazdi, Anísá Mirríkh
Yazdí
ii.
Cora Dhabíḥí + Chad Stuart Smith;    Children: Dayyán
Smith, Liva Smith
1)
Dayyán Smith + Emilly Thábit
iii.
Kíyán Dhabíhí  + Irina Klenz ;    Children:  Amira
Dhabíhí  , Amin Dhabíhí
c. Mihrangíz Dhabíḥí + Walter Kovac;    Children: Nádíya Kovac, Tina
Kovac
i.
Nádíyá Kovac + Valid Elmuhandis; Children:  Maya
Elmuhandis , Jena Elmuhandis
d.
Báhirih Dhabíḥí+ Sírús Kathírí;    Children:  (1) Samim Kathírí, (2)
Ṣahbá Kathírí
i.
Samim + Asá Samúrí;  Children: Kíyán
ii.
Ṣahbá + Sárá Ṣádiqí;     Children: Ryan, Kímíyá
e.
Parvin
f.
Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí + Náhíd Munjazib;     Children:  (1) Umíd Dhabíḥí,
(2) Ármán Dhabíḥí,  (3) Sipihr Dhabíḥí, (4) Kámrán Dhabíḥí , (5)
Sháhrukh Dhabíḥí
i.
Umíd Dhabíḥí + Níkdukht Faríd;     Children: Nabíl
Dhabíḥí, Núrá Dhabíḥí, Navá Dhabíḥí
ii.
Sipihr Dhabíḥí + Shulih Núrání;   Children:  Shayan
Dhabíḥí, Emila Dhabíḥí
1)
Shayan Dhabíḥí + Elika Rúhí; Children: Azaria
Zabihi
2)
Emila  Dhabíḥí + Nabíl Ṭálib
iii.
Sháhrukh Dhabíḥí + Mairianne Hughes;     Children:
Sean Dhabíḥí, Sasha Dhabíḥí
1)
Sasha Dhabíḥí + Ghazal Ma’súmábádí:
Children: Fiona  Dhabíḥí, Rana Zabihi
g.
Ishráqíyyih Dhabíḥí + ‘Azíz’u’lláh  Dihqání;     Children: (1) Shaháb
Dihqání, (2) Súsan Dihqání, (3) Mína Dihqání
i.
Shaháb Dihqání + Shumays Muhájir
ii.
Súsan Dihqání + Mas’úd Mawlaví;      Children:
Roham, Milan, Kámyár
iii.
Mína Dihqání + Bernd Swirzynsky; Children:  Níkán
Swirzynsky, Kímíyá Swirzynsky


h.
Mulúkíyyih Dhabíḥí + ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Núrání;      Children: (1)
Shulih Núrání, (2) Shahlá Núrání, (3)Said Núrání,  (4) Suhiyl Núrání,
(5) Shahín Núrání
i.
Shulih Núrání + Sipihr Dhabíḥí;     Children:
ii.
Shahlá Núrání + Amír Jalílíyán;     Children: Níkú
Jalílíyán
1)
Níkú Jalílíyán + Sipihr Ayyatuláhí; Children:
Kímíyá, Nader
iii.
Said Núrání + Jávánshír Subḥání;    Children:  Náṣir
Subḥání  , Nímá Subḥání, Nadím Subḥání
1)
Nadím Subḥání + Shana Baese; Children:
Amaya Subḥání
iv.
Suhiyl Núrání + Berta Martinez;      Children: Said
Núrání, Sháhin Núrání
1)
Said Núrání + Kadence Jimenez;      Children:
Vincent Núrání, Vída Núrání
2)
Sháhin Núrání + Magumi Kito;      Children:
Shayan Núrání , Sahar Núrání
v.
Shahín Núrání + Bahá’ud-Dín Muhájir;   Children:
Layli Muhájir, Vidá Muhájir
1)
Layli Muhájir + Ferdinand Schubber
2)
Vidá Muhájir + Lisa McShane;    Children:  Mila
Muhájir, Fin Muhájir
i.
Furúqíyyih Dhabíḥí  + Firaydún Naí’mí;        Children: (1) Faraḥ
Naí’mí, (2) Faríbá Naí’mí, (3) Fuád Naí’mí, (4) Faríd Naí’mí, (5)
Farrukh Naí’mí
i.
Faraḥ Naí’mí  + Ḥamíd Pijmán;    Children: Navíd
Pijmán  , Umíd Pijmán
ii.  Faríbá Naí’mí + Furúgh Ishráqí;  Children:  Suḥá
Ishráqí, Samá Ishráqí
iii.   Fuád Naí’mí + Faraḥ Farídíyán;   Children: Shirvín
Naí’mí, Melody Naí’mí, Shanta Naí’mí
1)
Shirvín Naí’mí + Nílúfar Ríḍáyí
2)
Shanta Naí’mí + Garett Meaker;    Children:
Mila Meaker
iv.
Faríd Naí’mí + Súdábih Mudírí;   Children:  Pigáh
Naí’mí, Fírúz Naí’mí
v.
Farrukh Naí’mí + Kámrán Ma‘ání;   Children: Húmán
Ma‘ání, Rámín Ma‘ání


1)
Húmán Ma‘ání  + Michelle Glanfratti;
Children:  Shírín   Ma‘ání, Marjan  Ma‘ání,
Amín Ma‘ání
2)
Rámín Ma‘ání + Naghmih Mishki;   Children:
Árám Ma‘ání, Samírá Ma‘ání, Mujdih Ma‘ání


The family members of the two  sisters of ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí:
Munavvar and Rubáb are are as follows:
a.
Munavvar + Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib;    Children: (1) Nuṣrat
Munjazib, (2) Írán Munjazib, (3) Ṣáfá Munjazib,  (4) Ináyat Munjazib,
(5) Riḍván Munjazib, (6) Rúhíyyih Munjazib, (7) Liqá Munjazib, (8)
Sulṭán Munjazib
i.
Ṣáfá Munjazib + Ináyat’u’llah Shahídzádih;
Children: Kúrush Shahídzádih
ii.
Ináyat Munjazib + Írán Safarjú;    Children: Faramárz
Munjazib, Flur Munjazib
iii.
Riḍván Munjazib + Aḥmad Mawlaví;      Children: Bítá
Mawlaví , Kámyár Mawlaví, Mujdih Mawlaví
iv.
Rúhíyyih Munjazib + Siyyid ‘Alí Akbar Púr-Aḥmadí;
Children: Farzánih Púr-Aḥmadí, Farzad Farhang Púr-
Aḥmadí
v.
Liqá Munjazib + Ḥasan Nafcháhi-Aḥya’í;     Children:
Maḥmúd Nafcháhi-Aḥya’í, Ṭáhirih Nafcháhi-Aḥya’í
vi.
Sulṭán Munjazib + Aḥmad Shahid-Zádih;      Children:
Mahnáz Shahid-Zádih , Muḥammad Shahid-Zádih
b.
Rubáb + ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Muttaḥidih;      Children: (1) Parvíndukht
Muttaḥidih, (2) ‘Aziz’u’lláh Muttaḥidih, (3) Nayyirih Muttaḥidih
i.
‘Aziz’u’lláh Muttaḥidih + Rúhíyyih  Muttaḥidih;
Children: Míná Muttaḥidih, Gítá Muttaḥidih, Ruyá
Muttaḥidih
ii.
Nayyirih Muttaḥidih + Ibráhím Wáhidíán;      Children:
Jamshíd Wáhidíán, Farshíd Wáhidíán


119. A story about Ḥájí Ḥasan: It was mentioned that Ḥájí Ḥasan was a brother
of Ḥájí Ḥusayn and Ḥájí Zaynal. The following story regarding Ḥájí Ḥasan
appears in the book “Bahá’u’lláh The  King of Glory” wirtten by Mr. Ḥasan
Balyuzi, the Hand of the Cause of God, and it is reported below without any
change:


“And there was Ḥájí Ḥasan-i Turk. He had attained the presence of Bahá’u’lláh
first in Kirmansháh, and had been several times to Baghdád. A new life was,
indeed, breathed into him. Although devoid of learning, he began to
compose a commmentary on the Báb’s Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’. But most of the
time he said not a word. When his silence was commented on in the presence
of Bahá’u’lláh, He observed that the Ḥájí’s turn to speak would come soon.
Then one day Ḥájí Ḥasan came to Bahá’u’lláh, arrayed with a dagger, and
asked for His permission to go with dagger drawn, to stand on the bridge
and proclaim to all the Cause of God. Bahá’u’lláh told him kindly, but
firmly: ‘Ḥájí, put aside your dagger. The Faith of God has to be given with
amity and love to receptive souls. It does not need daggers and swords.’ …”
(BKG, 134)
120.
In this book, very little has been narrated about Haji Hasan’s descendants. This
brief note is meant to relate some stories about this side of the bigger family.
The following contribution has been received by Mr. Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí from
Qudratu’lláh Vujdání, the son of ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn Vujdání who is a descendants
of Ḥájí Dávúd Qulí; dated February and March 2008. The information
contained in these communications has been extracted from that
communication and with slight modification translated and presented below:
“Our great grandfather was Ḥájí Dávúd Qulí Tabrízí who was exiled
from Tabríz to Yazd.  He found the weather in Yazd harsh compared to
that of Tabríz; so he requested that the authorities to send him to one
of the surrounding mountains. It was explained to him that mountains
near Yazd consisted of seven smaller regions. He was given the choice
to select one of them and  chose Manshád where he settled down in a
neighbourhood called Turkish settlements. He had three sons; Ḥusayn,
Ḥasan and Zaynal. These three sons were school-age children and
attended school in Banádak, a nearby community. One day as they had
started out very early in the morning, they lay down to sleep along the
way on one of the mountain passes. One of them dreamt a holy man
who told him that he should dig an aqua duct at the foot of the
mountain. The boys relayed this dream to their mullá as well as their
father, however no steps were taken in this regard until the dream was
repeated once more and again they told their father. On the basis of
this dream Ḥájí Dávúd Qulí arranged to dig an aqua duct which
proved itself to become one of the best aqua duct systems in Manshád,
providing water to the Turk’s farm; even when there was some drought
in the region.
Áqá Javád was the father of Ḥájí ‘Alí-Muḥammad who along with
Fatḥu’llah-i-Fattáḥí were the grandchildren of Ḥájí Ḥasan. ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí was the grandchild of Ḥájí Ḥusayn. Fáṭí and Idráki
were the grandchildren of Ḥájí Zaynal; the mother of ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn


Vujdání was Gáwhar Sulṭán from Gúr which was the village below the
Turk’s farms. On top of the Gúr mountain was a cave in which Ḥaḍrat-
i- Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ hid for sometime, and from which location he was
arrested. Gáwhar Sulṭán, Akbar and Ḥusayn were the children of
Ramaḍán.  Siyyid Muḥammad, Siyyid Javád, and Siyyid Jalál were the
grandchildren of Ḥájí Zaynal.
As regards Ḍíyá’u’lláh’s mother:  Fáṭimih Tahzíb was the daughter of
Abu’l-Qásim Tahzíb, who was the brother of Muḥammad-‘Alí Tahzíb.
Another sister, the mother of Aḥmad Tahzíb, who passed away in Italy,
and was  a resident of Yazd, in Fahadan or Yuzdárán.
The mother of Bibi Zahrá khánum was a devoted Muslim. One night
she dreamt that she would die the next day. In the morning, she dressed
in clean clothes, had her lunch then passed away peacefully an hour
later  without any pain or discomfort. Her skin’s color and her
complexion did not change. In her will, she had requested to be buried
according to the Muslim burial rites; she was buried in Misgar-Ábád
in Tihrán. The father of ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn and Gáwhar Sulṭán are buried
in Turks’ farm.”
121. ‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn -  one of the sons of Ḥájí Zaynal Turk:  Áqá ‘Ali-Akbar
Yazdi, the martyred architect of the House of Worship in Ishq-Ábád, in his
reputed history book: “Taríkh-i Ishq-Ábád [TIA]” has written a story about
Ḥájí Ḥusayn Truk  which we have quoted elsewhere in the current book.
The following story about ‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn, the son of Ḥájí Zaynal, which
appears in the page 449 of the book, has been translated and shown below:
“ ‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn is the son of Ḥájí Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín Turk whose father
(Davúd Qulí) moved into Yazd from Ádhirbayján and got married in
Manshád and settled there. Dávud Quli’s children: Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín
(Ḥájí Zaynal), Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn and Ḥájí Ḥasan are well
known to whom references have been made as Turk. I have seen all of
them quite often. These three brothers accepted the Message of the Báb
early in His Ministry.”
He further writes in the page 462 of the history book: “In any event, I
meant to mention ‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn the son of Ḥájí Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín, but
I got carried away by narrating other stories and now come back to his
story. ‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn has three brothers; one of them lives in Manshád
(‘Alí-Muḥammad) the other two, Jináb-i Abu’l-Qásim and Áqá
Muḥammad Ibráhím have served at the Holy Land for twenty seven
years now. Abu’l-Qásim looks after the Garden of Riḍván and Áqá
Muḥammad Ibráhím serves at the mansion of Bahjí and Junayn.
Seventeen years ago when I was on pilgrimage, I was conversing with


Áqá Muḥammad Ibráhím. In the course of our conversation he
mentioned this amazing story: ‘Once, the Blessed Beauty was standing
at one of the holy place (the picture of all such places have been taken
as ordered by Him Whom God hath willed – ‘Abdu’l-Bahá). At that
moment, around one particular place where there was a meadow and a
thicket of canes in which all the shrubs had dried up. All of a sudden a
fire broke out and formed a bon-fire. The Blessed Beauty ordered me
to go and extinguish the fire. Immediately, I started moving towards
the place where the fire was raging. On the way, as I was moving
towards the fire, I wondered how I could quench such a big fire. Finally,
I reached near the place where the fire was. While I was immersed in
my thoughts to find a way to quench the fire, all of a sudden, some
strong wind blew and the leaping flames of  the fire started receding
and moved away from me. I spread some dirt and sand over the burnt
area and I remembered the verse from the Qur’án ‘We said: O fire, be
coolness and peace for Abraham’ (Al-Anbiya, 21:69). What I
witnessed let me readily comprehended the meaning of this verse from
the tongue of the point of the Will of God.”
‘Alí-Akbar, the Architect, and the author of the history book continues
his story in the page 463 of the book: “ ‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn immigrated to
Ishq-Ábád in the year 1315 A.H. (1898) and his wife and children also
joined him two years later in 1317 A.H. (1900). He has received tablets
from the Blessed Beauty and the Most Great Branch. His wife is a
devoted handmaiden of God.”
122. Ḥájí Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín in Memorials of the Faithful:  ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá in His book: “Memorials of the Faithful [MFF]”, p. 83, has
written tenderly about Ḥájí Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín who started off his
journey to the ‘Akká with two of his sons (Abu’l-Qásim and Áqá
Muḥammad Ibráhím) in order to serve the Blessed Beauty but he
never made it to Akká and passed away on the way. We have
quoted below the tender words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for him
“Zaynu’l-Ábidín Yazdí:
One of the emigrants who died along the way to the Holy Land
was Zaynu’l-Ábidín of Yazd. When, in Manshad, this devoted
man first heard the cry of God, he was awakened to restless
life. A holy passion stirred him, his soul was made new. The
light of guidance flamed from the lamp of his heart; the love of
God sparked a revolution in the country of his inner self.


Carried away by love for the Loved One’s beauty, he left the
home that was dear to him and set out for the Desired Land.
As he traveled along with his two sons, gladdened by hopes of
the meeting that would be his, he paused on every hilltop, in
every plain, village and hamlet to visit with the friends. But the
great distance stretching out before him changed to a sea of
troubles, and although his spirit yearned, his body weakened,
and at the end he sickened and turned helpless; all this when
he was without a home.
Sick as he was, he did not renounce the journey, nor fail in his
resolve; he had amazing strength of will, and was determined
to keep on; but the illness worsened with every passing day,
until at last he winged his way to the mercy of God, and
yielded up his soul in a longing unfulfilled.
Although to outward eyes he never drained the cup of meeting,
never gazed upon the beauty of Bahá’u’lláh, still he achieved
the very spirit of spiritual communion; he is accounted as one
of those who attained the Presence, and for him the reward of
those who reached that Presence is fixed and ordained. He was
a stainless soul, faithful, devoted and true. He never drew a
breath except in righteousness, and his single desire was to
worship his Lord. He walked the ways of love; he was known to
all for steadfast loyalty and pure intent. May God fill up
reunion’s cup for him in a fair country, make him to enter the
everlasting Kingdom, and console his eyes with beholding the
lights of that mysterious Realm.”
"ﺟﻨﺎب آﻗﺎ زﯾﻦ اﻟﻌﺎﺑﺪﯾﻦ ﯾﺰدی
ھﻮ Òّ
و از ﺟﻤﻠﮫ ﻣﮭﺎﺟﺮﯾﻦ ﮐﮫ در ﺑﯿﻦ ﺳﻔﺮ ﺑﺎرض ﻣﻘﺪّس در ﺑﯿﻦ راه ﭘﯿﮏ اﺟﻞ را ﻟﺒّﯿﮏ ﮔﻔﺖ
ﺟﻨﺎب آﻗﺎ زﯾﻦ اﻟﻌﺎﺑﺪﯾﻦ ﯾﺰدی ﺑﻮد * اﯾﻦ ﺷﺨﺺ ﺧﺎﻟﺺ ﻣﺨﻠﺺ ﭼﻮن در ﻣﻨﺸﺎد ﻧﺪاء ﺣﻖّ
ﺷﻨﯿﺪ ﺑﺎھﺘﺰاز و ﺣﺮﮐﺖ آﻣﺪ ﻧﺎﺋﺮه ﻣﺤﺒّﺖ Òّ ﺷﻌﻠﮫ زد دل و ﺟﺎن روح و رﯾﺤﺎن ﯾﺎﻓﺖ ﺷﻤﻊ
ھﺪاﯾﺖ در زﺟﺎﺟﮫ ﻗﻠﺐ ﺑﺮ اﻓﺮوﺧﺖ ﻋﺸﻖ اﻟﮭﯽ آﺷﻮب و ﻓﺘﻨﮫ در اﻗﻠﯿﻢ وﺟﻮد اﻧﺪاﺧﺖ *
اﻧﺠﺬاب ﺑﺠﻤﺎل ﺟﺎﻧﺎن ﭼﻨﺎن زﻣﺎم از دﺳﺖ ﮔﺮﻓﺖ ﮐﮫ ﺗﺮک وطﻦ ﻣﺤﺒﻮب ﻧﻤﻮد و ﺑﺎرض
ﻣﻘﺼﻮد ﺗﻮﺟّﮫ ﮐﺮد * در ﺑﯿﻦ راه ﺑﺎ دو ﭘﺴﺮ ﺧﻮﯾﺶ ﺳﯿﺮ و ﺣﺮﮐﺖ ﻣﯿﻨﻤﻮد و ﺑﺎﻣﯿﺪ وﺻﻞ


ﺷﺎدﻣﺎﻧﯽ و ﻣﺴﺮّت داﺷﺖ و در ھﺮ ﮐﻮه و ﺑﯿﺎﺑﺎﻧﯽ و ﻗﺮی و ﻗﺼﺒﮫ ﺋﯽ ﺑﺎ اﺣﺒّﺎ ﻣﻌﺎﺷﺮت
ﻣﯿﮑﺮد * وﻟﯽ ﺑُﻌﺪ ﻣﺴﺎﻓﺖ طﺮﯾﻖ او را ﻏﺮﯾﻖ درﯾﺎی زﺣﻤﺖ و ﻣﺸﻘّﺖ ﻧﻤﻮد ھﺮ ﭼﻨﺪ دل
ﻗﻮی داﺷﺖ وﻟﯽ ﺗﻦ ﺿﻌﯿﻒ ﮔﺸﺖ و ﻋﺎﻗﺒﺖ ﻣﺮﯾﺾ و ﻧﺎﺗﻮان ﺷﺪ و ﻋﻠﯿﻞ و ﺑﯽﺳﺮ و ﺳﺎﻣﺎن
ﮔﺸﺖ * ﺑﺎ وﺟﻮد ﻣﺮض ﮐﻼل ﻧﯿﺎورد و ﻣﻼل ﻧﺪاﻧﺴﺖ ﻋﺰم ﺷﺪﯾﺪ داﺷﺖ و ﻗﻮّ ه اراده ﻏﺮﯾﺐ
* ﻟﮭﺬا ﺑﯿﻤﺎری و ﻧﺎﺗﻮاﻧﯽ روز ﺑﺮوز اﻓﺰود ﻋﺎﻗﺒﺖ ﺑﺠﻮار رﺣﻤﺖ ﮐﺒﺮی ﭘﺮواز ﻧﻤﻮد و در
ﻧﮭﺎﯾﺖ ﺣﺴﺮت از ﻓﺮﻗﺖ ﺟﺎن داد ھﺮ ﭼﻨﺪ ﺑﻈﺎھﺮ ﺟﺎم وﺻﺎل ﻧﻨﻮﺷﯿﺪ و ﺑﻤﺸﺎھﺪه ﺟﻤﺎل ﻧﺮﺳﯿﺪ
وﻟﯽ ﻓﯽ اﻟﺤﻘﯿﻘﮫ روُ ح روح و رﯾﺤﺎن ﯾﺎﻓﺖ و از ﺟﻤﻠﮫ ﻓﺎﺋﺰﯾﻦ ﻣﺤﺴﻮب و اﺟﺮ ﻟﻘﺂء از ﺑﺮای
او ﻣﻘﺪّر و ﻣﺤﺘﻮم * اﯾﻦ ﺷﺨﺺ ﭘﺎک ﺟﺎن در ﻧﮭﺎﯾﺖ ﺻﺪق و ﺧﻠﻮص و اﯾﻤﺎن و اﯾﻘﺎن ﺑﻮد
ﺟﺰ راﺳﺘﯽ ﻧَﻔَﺴﯽ ﺑﺮ ﻧﻤﯽ آورد و ﺑﻐﯿﺮ از ﺧﺪا ﭘﺮﺳﺘﯽ آرزوﺋﯽ ﻧﺪاﺷﺖ طﺮﯾﻖ دوﺳﺘﯽ
ﻣﯿﭙﯿﻤﻮد و ﺑﺤﺴﻦ ﻧﯿّﺖ و ﺻﺪاﻗﺖ و ﺛﺒﻮت و اﺳﺘﻘﺎﻣﺖ ﻣﻌﺮوف * ﺳﻘﺎه Òّ ﮐﺄس اﻟﻮﺻﺎل ﻓﯽ
ﻣﻠﮑﻮت اﻟﺠﻤﺎل و ادﺧﻠﮫ ﻓﯽ ﻋﺎﻟﻢ اﻟﺒﻘﺂء و ﻗﺮّت ﻋﯿﻨﺎه ﺑﻤﺸﺎھﺪة اﻻﻧﻮار ﻓﯽ ﻋﺎﻟﻢ اﻻﺳﺮار"




Chapter 9
Bibliography

Books and their particulars
Abbreviation

Amr-i Bahá’í dar Ardikán, (The Bahá’í Faith in  Ardikán)
written by the Sadri Navvab-i Ardikán; published by
Mu’assisih-i Ma‘árif-i Bahá’í Alman, Hofhaim, Germany,
Bahá’í Verlog, 2009 (ABA)
ABA

‘Áqibat Bikhayr, wirtten by Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí, publisher:
Yárán Publisher, 2018  (ABK)
ABK

Ad‘iyyih-i Ḥaḍrat-i- Mahbúb (Prayers of the Beloved),
Publisher: Mir’at, 2013, New Delhi  (AHM)
AHM

Áthár-i Qalam-i‘Alá, vol. 3, Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,
publisher: Muassisih- Ma‘arif-i Bahá’í, Hamilton Ontario,
Canada , 2006  (AQA)
AQA

Amr va Khalq, vol 4, written by Asadu’llah Fadil
Mazandarani,
Publisher,
The
National
Publication
Committee of Iran, 128BE (AVK)
AVK

Bahá’í News. (1962). National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States. (BHN)
BHN

Bahá’í News. (1964). National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States. (BHN)
BHN

Bahá’í News. (1980). National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States. (BHN)
BHN

The Bahá’í World, An International Record. Volume 6
(1934-1936), Bahá’í Publishing Committee, of the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of USA and Canada,  New
York, N.Y., USA, 1937  (BHW)
BHW-06

The Bahá’í World, An International Record. Volume 11
(1946-1950), National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
the United States and Canada. Wilmette, Ill. (BHW)
BHW-11

The Bahá’í World, An International Record. Volume 18
(1979-1983) Bahá’í World Centre. Haifa.,  (BHW)
BHW-18

Bahá’u’lláh, The King of Glory, written by Hasan M.
Balyuzi, publisher: George Ronald, Oxford, 1980. (BKG)
BKG



Eminent Bahá'ís in the Time of Bahá'u'lláh: Ḥasan Balyuzi,
Publisher: George Ronald Publisher Ltd, Oxford, 1985.
(EMB)
EMB

Kháṭirát-i Málmírí, written by Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir
Málmírí, published by the National Committee for the
distribution of the Bahá’í Literature, Verlog, Langenhein,
1992.  (KHM)
KHM

“The Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, written by Muḥammad-‘Alí
Faiḍí (Faizi) , third publication from the  original print in
Iran,  Verlog, Langenhein, 1994  (LAB)
LAB

Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat
vol.
1-10;
Writer:
‘Azíz’u’lláh
Sulaymání, Publisher: The Publication Committee for Bahá’í
Publications – National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Iran, Teharn, Iran, vol. I, 104 BE; Vol. 2, 106 BE.; vol. 3, 109
BE; vol. 4, 116BE;  vol. 8, 130 BE; vol. 9, 132BE.   (MAH)
MAH

The Martyrs of Manshad, Writer:  Siyyid Muhammad Tabíb
Manshádí, Mu’assasih Milli Matbu’at Amrí, Tehran, Iran,
127 BE [1970]. (MAM)
MAM

Memorials of the Faithful, written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ,
published by Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois,
1975 (MFF)


Makátib-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, (Tablets of  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
Persian & Arabic), vol. 3,  publisher, name and place of
publication unknown      (MKT)
MKT

Makátib-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, (Tablets of  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
Persian & Arabic), vol. 5,  publisher, name and place of
publication unknown      (MKT)
MKT

Muntakhabát-i Makátíb ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, (in Persian and
Arabic) Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois, 1979.
(MMA)
MMA

Revelation of  of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I,  wirtten by Adib
Taherzadeh,  George Ronald, Oxford, 1974     (ROB-e)
ROB-e

Selections
from
the
Writings
of
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá;
https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-
baha/selections-writings-abdul-baha/
SWA

Yárán Gazvin, written by Faramarz Ashraf, copy right
reserved for the writer     (YAQ)
TAB

Táríkh-i Amrí Yazd, by Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí,
publisher Century Press, Australia, 2013  (TAY)
TAY



Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitab-i-Aqdas in
English –English edition - published by the Bahá’í World
Centre, Haifa, 1978. (TBA-e)
TBA-e

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitab-i-Aqdas –
Persian & Arabic, published by Mu’assisih-i Ma‘árif-i Bahá’í
Alman, Hofhaim, Germany, Bahá’í Verlog, 137 Bad’
(TBA-p)
TBA-p

The Dawn-Breakers, written by Nabil Zarandi, translated by
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois,
1979. (TDB)
TDB

Táríkh-i Ishq-Ábád, Written by Ustad ‘Ali Akbar Mi’már,
Edited by Dr. Vahid Ra’fati, published by Mu’assisih-i
Ma‘árif-i Bahá’í Alman, Hofhaim, Germany, Bahá’í Verlog,
2015.       (TIA)
TIA

Táríkh-i Shuhadáy-i Yazd, by Ḥájí Muḥammad-Ṭáhir
Málmírí, no name of the  publisher, its place and year of
publicaion. (TSY)
TSY

Yádnámiy-i- Bayḍá’-i- Núrá’ written by Abu’l-Qásim
Bayḍá’,  edited by Dr. Vahid Rafati, published by Bahá’í
Verlog, Hofheim, Germany, 2011 (YBN)
YBN

Ẓuhúr’u’l-Ḥaq, vol. 3, by Asad’u’llah Fáḍil Mazandarani,
published by Mu’assisih-i Ma‘árif-i Bahá’í Alman, Hofhaim,
Germany, Bahá’í Verlog, 2008 (ZHQ)
ZHQ




Index
of
(Proper Names)


‘Abbás-Ábád, 1, 5, 6, 26, 27-34,
36-37, 208, 258
‘Abd’ul-Ḥusayn, one of the sons
of Ḥájí Zaynal Turk, 7, 321
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Tablet to Sakínih
Sulṭán (Nanih jún), 265
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 6, 7, 15, 20, 24,
34, 43, 47-51, 53-58
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Prayer, 6
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet honoring
‘Alí-Aṣghar, 44
‘Abdu’l-Ghaní Ardikání,
Ákhúnd Mullá, 7
‘Abdu’l-Ḥayy-i Qáḍí, 137
‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn Aṭṭár, 88, 92
‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn Vujdání son of
Gáwhar Sulṭán from Gúr,  320
‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn, 12 year-old
son of ‘Alí-Akbar Barár,
martyred in Arak, 288
‘Abdu’l-Karím, son of Ḥájí
Zaynal, 20
‘Abdu’l-Kháliq Yazdi, Dr., 204
‘Abdu’l-Kháliq, Dr. , 104
‘Abdu’lláh Báqirí, Ustad, 182
‘Abdu’llah, 6 year-old son of
‘Alí-Akbar Barár, martyred in
Arak, 288
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí, 1
(Zabihi), 7-10, 12, 15, 16, 19,
25, 36, 41, 62, 65, 70, 73-75,
84, 85, 92, 107-108, 116-117,
123, 127, 130, 133, 143, 150,
153, 155, 156, 159, 163, 167-
169, 174, 178, 180, 186, 180,
190, 191, 207-208,  211, 237,
280, 287, 302, 304, 316-317,
319-320
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Dhabíḥí,
grandchild of Ḥájí Ḥusayn, 320
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Muttahidih, 8,
58, 60,  311
‘Abdu’l-Vahháb Núrání, 59,
‘Abdu’r-Raḥím Qannad Yazdi,
Ḥájí, 5, 7, 20, 77, 80, 238-239,
267, 273, 289
‘Abdu’r-Razzáq Baghdádí, 81
‘Abdulláh Muṭlaq, Mírzá, 72
‘Adasiyyih, 2, 52, 205
‘Akká, 51-53, 55-57, 239, 245,
255, 289, 291, 311, 322
‘Alavíyyih khanum, 6, 156,
157, 290
‘Ali Amir David Qulí, Ḥájí, 19
‘Ali Gulistanih, Dr., 47
‘Alí Ján, the martyr, Mullá, 6,
156, 290
‘Alí Kámravá, Siyyid, 163
‘Alí Khán, Siyyid, 26, 31
‘Alí M. Yazdí, 238
‘Alí Manshádí, Áqá, 23
‘Alí- Murád Dávúdí, Dr. , 6,
166, 172, 294
‘Alí Razm-Árá, Ḥájí, 111, 113,
210, 286
‘Alí Yazdi,  Siyyid, 57
‘Alí,  Shaykh, son of  ‘Abdu’r-
Raḥím Qannad Yazdi, 238
‘Alí, Áqá, 20
‘Alí, Ḥájí Mullá, 92-95
‘Alí, Ḥájí Shaykh, 20
‘Alí, Imam, 26, 276-277
‘Alí, Siyyid, husband of
Ḥubbíyyih khanum, 20, 267
‘Alí, Siyyid, the son-in-law of
Áqá ‘Alí-Akbar, 267
‘Alí, son of Abu Talib, 6, 276
‘Alí-Ábád, 28
‘Alí-Akbar Barár, Mírzá,
martyred in Arak, 288
‘Alí-Akbar Dayyání, 88
‘Alí-Akbar Jávídání, 79, 81
‘Alí-Akbar Káshí, Áqá, 1, 7-8,
15, 40-42, 58, 60, 194


‘Alí-Akbar Shahbáz, Mullá, 22
‘Alí-Akbar, Ákhúnd Mullá,
brother of Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ 249
‘Alí-Akbar, Áqá brother of ‘Alí-
Aṣghar Shahíd, 20, 42, 45, 58, 59
‘Alí-Akbar, Áqá, 29
‘Alí-Akbar, Áqá, husband of
Ruqiyyih khanum, 20
‘Alí-Akbar, brother-in-law of
Sakínih Sulṭán, 58
‘Alí-Akbar, Siyyid, 91
‘Alí-Akbar, the Butcher, Áqá, 30
‘Alí-Aṣghar (martyr),  Áqá, 5,
7, 40-49, 58, 266
‘Alí-Aṣghar (martyr) Tablet of
visitation, 266
‘Alí-Aṣghar Adíb, 79
‘Alí-Aṣghar Shahíd, husband of
Sakínih Sulṭán, 20, 40-44, 266
‘Alí-Aṣghar Sukút, Siyyid, 146
‘Alí-Aṣghar, Áqá, 5,
‘Alí-Muḥammad Iftikhárí, 175
‘Alí-Muḥammad Shahíd, 22
‘Alí-Muḥammad Shahíd, son of
Zaynal, 23
‘Alí-Muḥammad Vazírí,
Siyyid, 89
‘Alí-Muḥammad, Áqá, son of
Áqá Ḥasan Turk, 255
‘Alí-Muḥammad, Ḥájí,
grandchild of Ḥájí Ḥasan, 320
‘Alí-Riḍá, the martyr, 93, 96
‘Azíz Ismayn Yazdí, 19, 238
‘Aziz Yazdi, 19-20, 23
‘Azíz’u’lláh  Dihqání, 59, 187, 309
‘Aziz’u’llah Mehrbanzád, 198
‘Aziz’u’lláh Muttaḥidih, 59, 319
‘Azíz’u’llah, husband of Ishráq
Dhabíḥí, 65-66
‘Azízu’lláh Sulaymání, 14, 17
‘Ináyat Munjazib, 59
‘Ishq-Ábád, 2, 5, 10, 48, 194,
197-198, 205-206, 267
Abarkuh,  Refer to: Abarqú
Abarkuh, 6
Abarqú, 6, 108-109, 210, 280
Abbás-Ábád, Refer to: ‘Abbás-
Ábád,
Abú Dhar, 6, 90, 254, 277
Abu Haydar’s shop in Al-
Hassabih bazaar, 52
Abu’l-Faḍá’il Gulpáyigání,
Mírzá, 5, 49, 48, 261, 267-268
Abu’l-Faḍl Raḥmání, 6, 166,
Abu’l-Qásim Bayḍá, 156
Abu’l-Qásim Faizi (Faiḍí) Hand
of the Cause of God, 9, 167, 190
Abu’l-Qásim Nadím, Siyyid,
117, 122
Abu’l-Qásim, Áqá, 4
Abu’l-Qásim, son of  Zaynal,
23, 330
Abu’l-Qásim-i-Manshádí, son
of Zaynal, Ḥájí, Tablet of
Visitation, 243
Abú-Turáb, Áqá Siyyid, 117,
119, 121-122
Ad’iyyih Maḥbúb, 90
Adasíyyih, 7
Ádhirbáyján, 2, 143, 239
Adíb son of Muḥammad-Ṭáhir
Málmírí, 9
Adib Taherzadeh, Mr., 9, 160, 191
Afghanistan, 2, 133-135, 137
Afnán, 25, 49, 63, 96, 104
Afrasiab the executioner, 40
Aḥmad Kaffásh, Ḥájí, 28
Aḥmad Kázim Uf known as
Shirazi, Ḥájí Mírzá, 272
Aḥmad Mahdavi, 144
Aḥmad Mawlaví, 319
Aḥmad Shahid-Zádih, 319


Aḥmad Tahzíb, 321
Aḥmad, son of ‘Abdu’r-Rahím,
Mírzá, 20
Aḥmad, the martyred Ḥájí, 30
Ahváz, 172
Akhaván, 6, 142
Ákhúnd Farm, 26, 28-29, 31, 33
Al-Aqṣá, 81
Alfakhúrrat, 53
Alfarir School, 56
Al-Ghur, 52
Al-Lafani, 53
Amaya Subḥání, 318
Amín Ma‘ání  319
Amin Zabihi (Dhabíhí), 317
Amír Chakhmáq mosque, 105
Amír Jalílíyán, 318
Amira Zabihi (Dhabíhí), 317
Amír-Ábád, 166. 169
Anísá Mirríkh Yazdí, 317
Áqá Ján Khádim’u’lláh, Mírzá, 215
Áqásí, Ḥájí Mírzá, 6, 300
Áqibat Bikhayr, 16
Arák,  6, 152, 287
Árám Ma‘ání, 319
Arasṭú Khán Ḥakím, 83
Ármán Zabihi (Dhabíḥí),  317
Asá Samúrí, 317
Asadu’lláh Dhabiḥian, Ḥájí, 150
Ash‘arí, Mr., 9, 180
Ávárih, 82
Azaria Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Báb, The house, 8
Bábáyí, Mullá, 240
Bábulsar, 172
Badi‘ Bushruyih, 196
Badi‘ Effendi, 49
Badi’u’lláh Afnán, Áqá Mírzá,
103-104
Báfq, 98
Baghdád, 86, 120
Bahá’í Cemetery, 8
Bahá’u’lláh, 15, 17, 22-25, 28,
37, 40, 47, 85. 86. 90, 141, 146,
152, 155, 157, 162, 166, 174,
181, 212, 216, 218, 238
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayer, 6
Bahá’ud-Dín Muhájir,  318
Báhir, 14
Báhirih Dhabíḥí, 39, 317
Báhirih Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Báhirih, 7, 8, 39
Bahji, 48, 54, 80, 82-84, 86, 99,
Bahman Payman, 154-155
Bahrám Akhtar-Khávarí,
Mullá, 4 , 25, 26, 28, 258
Bahrám, Mullá, 26
Bakhtíyárí,  113, 163, 164
Bakhtyárí, 6
Balúchistán, 175
Balyuzi, Ḥasan, 290, 319, 325,
Bam, 1, 6, 8, 106-108, 110-113,
115, 291
Bandar-i ʿAbbás, 6, 114, 280
Báqir Ardikání, 127
Báqir Khán, 26-33
Báqir, 42
Behjat -Ábád, 177
Beirut, 46, 49, 55-57
Bernd Swirzynsky, 317
Berta Martinez, 318
Bíbí Fáṭí,  Jamálíyyih, 8, 64
Bíbí Fáṭí, Refer to: Jamálíyyih
Biḥár al-Anvár, 6, 88, 276
Bihlul, Shaykh, 87-91
Bítá Mawlaví, 319
Book of Matthew, 131, 147


Bukhara, 120
Buq‘at’ul-Khaḍrá, 6, 126, 284
Burújirdí, Áyatu’llah, 283
Burzú Aqdasí, 94
Buzurg Afnán, Ḥájí Mírzá, 150
Chad Stuart Smith, 308
Chúnih Qum, 165
Cora Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Cyprus, 47
Cyrus Rawshaní, Dr., 188
Damascus, 85
Dárkalá, 169
Dávúd Qulí Tabrízí, Ḥájí, 320
Dávúdí, Dr., 6, 9
Dayyán Smith, 317
Dhabíḥí, Refer to: Zabihi
Dhabihi, Some family members, 7
Ḍia’u’lláh (Zia’u’llah), Also see
Zia’u’llah Zabihi
Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí  (Zia’u’llah
Zabihi) in Graz, 8, 10, 211, 236
Ḍíyá’u’lláh Dhabíḥí  (Zia’u’llah
Zabihi), 317
Ḍíya’u’lláh Rashti, 195
Egypt, 46-47, 49, 54, 57, 92, 120,
238-239, 255, 268, 271, 290
Egyptian, 46, 290
El Salvador, 8, 68-69
Elika Rúhí, 317
Emila  Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Emilly Thábit, 317
Faḍl’u’lláh Fá’iz, 182
Faḍl’u’lláh Niẓám’ul-Mamálik,
Áqá Mírzá, 181
Faḍlu’lláh Khan Ra’ufíán, 150-151
Fahraj, 127-129
Falsafí, 1, 6, 116, 282
Fanánápadhír, son of Mírzá
Faḍl’u’lláh Núrí of Isfahan,
148, 152
Faraḥ Farídíyán, 318
Faraḥ Naí’mí, 318
Faramárz Munjazib, 319
Farasha, 24, 25
Faríbá Naí’mí, 318
Faríd Naí’mí, 318
Farrukh Naí’mí, 318
Farshíd Wáhidíán, 319
Farzad Farhang Púr-Aḥmadí,  319
Farzánih Dhabíḥí Muqaddam, 195
Farzánih Púr-Aḥmadí, 319
Fatḥu’llah-i-Fattáḥí, grandchildren
of Ḥájí Ḥasan, 320
Fáṭí grandchild of Ḥájí Zaynal, 320
Fáṭimih - the daughter of
Prophet Muḥammad, 6, 276
Fáṭimih Bigum mother of
Labib,  42
Fáṭimih Bigum, 42
Fáṭimih jún (Kamálíyyih), 42,
52, 58
Fatimih Khanum, 5
Fáṭimih Khánum, daughter of
Zaynal, 23
Fáṭimih Khánum, daughter of
Sakínih Khánum, 265
Fáṭimih Khánum, sister of ‘Alí,
Siyyid, 20
Fáṭimih Kubrá, 62
Fáṭimih Ṣughrá, 1, 41, 61
Fáṭimih Ṣughrá, wife of ‘Alí-
Akbar, 61
Fáṭimih Sulṭán duaghter of
Husayn Kashi, 42
Fáṭimih Sulṭán, 20, 43, 59, 304,
Fáṭimih Tahzíb, 321
Fáṭimih Zahra, 90
Fáṭimih, daughter of Sakínih
Sulṭán and ‘Alí-Aṣghar the
Martyr, 46-48, 260


Fayḍ’u’lláh Mahjúr, 167
Ferdinand Schubber, 318
Fin Muhájir, 318
Fiona Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Firiydún Na‘ímí, 59, 318
Fírúz Na‘ímí, 318
Flur Munjazib, 319
Foad Seddigh, 17, 18, 212
Fuád Naí’mí, 318
Furúd Síyávashí, 85
Furúgh Ishráqí, 318
Furughiyyih  (Dhabíḥí), 42, 59
Furúghíyyih, 9
Furúqíyyih Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 318
Garden of Surush, 53
Garett Meaker, 318
Gawhar Bigum, 54
Gazurgah, Yazd, 7, 39, 66, 206, 208
George Ronald publisher, 43
Georgia, 191
Ghaffárí,  Mrs., 169
Ghafúr, Ákhúnd Mullá, 241
Ghazal Ma’súmábádí, 317
Ghulám Banná, Ustád, 29
Ghulám Ḥusayn Pír
Muḥammad, 124
Ghulám’Ali Thábit, Ustád, 92
Ghulám-Ḥusayn Ḥakím, 76, 83, 86
Ghulám-Ḥusayn Ḥakím, son of
Dr. Arasṭú Ḥakím, 76, 83
Ghulám-Ḥusayn Shahrívar, 195
Ghulám-Ḥusayn, the martyr, 126
Ghulam-Ismá‘íl Uf Dhabíḥí, 195
Ghulám-Riḍá, Áqá Shaykh, 105
Giachery, Dr., 172
Giachery, Hand of the Cause of
God, Dr., 8
Gítá Muttaḥidih, 319
Graz, 8, 10, 211
Gul Nisa, 22
Gulrukh, 46, 57
Gulstanih, Mr., 57
Gunbad Kávus, 187, 210
Ḥabíb son of Muḥammad-Ṭáhir
Málmírí, 9
Ḥabíb Taherzadeh, 9, 160, 193
Hadí Rahmání Shirazi, 135
Hádí, Áqá Mírzá, 25
Hadith, 5, 88, 268, 272, 275-276
Haifa, 22, 48, 51-56, 75, 79, 83,
85, 238, 311
Ḥájí Bábá, 1, 19
Ḥájí Muḥammad Ismá‘íl
Gundulí, 7, 298
Ḥájí Mullá ‘Ali, 1, 92
Ḥalabí-Sáz, Ḥájí Mírzá, 261
Ḥamíd Awrangí, 169
Ḥamíd Pijmán, 318
Harat, 136, 142
Ḥarírí. 182
Ḥasan Awrangí, Áqá Mírzá, 181
Ḥasan Nafcháhi-Aḥya’í, 319
Ḥasan Núsh-Ábádi, Áqá Mírzá,
6, 151, 287
Ḥasan Turk’s family, Ḥájí, 7,
255, 320
Ḥasan,  Ḥájí, 7
Ḥasan, Áqá, brother of ‘Alí-
Aṣghar Shahíd, 20, 40-41, 43,
47,  58
Ḥasan, Áqá, brother of Ḥusayn
Turk, Ḥájí,  23
Háshim Yárshaṭír, brother of
Ya’qúb Muttaḥidih martyr, 134,
Ḥaydar-‘Alí Isfahani, Mírzá, 6, 289
Hishmat’u’llah Mushrifzádih,
14, 171
Holy Land, 47-48, 51, 61, 67,
73,-76, 78-80, 85-86, 129, 156,
172, 174, 175, 179, 239, 250,


251, 255, 287, 289, 294, 313,
321, 322
House of ‘Abbúd, 48, 52
House of Bahá’u’lláh, 9
Ḥubbíyyih , grand-daughter of
‘Abdu’r-Rahím, 20, 267
Húmán Ma‘ání, 319
Humáyún, 157
Hurmuzdyár Surushi, 208
Ḥusayn a grandson of Prophet
Muḥammad, 6
Ḥusayn Áshchí, 55
Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí (Zabihi), 2, 8,
107, 166-169, 186, 187, 317
Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí (Zabihi): Also
refer to: Muhammad Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí
(Zabihi)
Ḥusayn Ḥájí, Áqá, son of Ḥájí
‘Abdu’r-Rahím Yazdí, 74-75, 77
Ḥusayn Háshimí-Zádih, Siyyid, 133
Ḥusayn Kashi, Aqa, 42
Ḥusayn Sá‘í, 150
Ḥusayn Shaykhí, Ḥájí Siyyid, 33
Ḥusayn son of ‘Abdu’r-Rahím,
Ḥájí, 20
Ḥusayn Turk, Ḥájí,   1, 4, 7, 19-
25, 40, 42, 194, 239, 246, 253-
255, 302, 304, 312
Ḥusayn Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 319
Ḥusayn,  Imam, 241
Ḥusayn, Mullá, brother of
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ, 4, 22, 240, 243,
249, 251
Husayn, Refer to: Ḥusayn
Ḥusayn-‘Alí Ittiḥádí, 150
Húshang Rashídí, 137, 138,
140-141
Ibráhím Wáhidíán, 319
Ibrahim, Áqá, 4, 243
Idráki grandchild of Ḥájí
Zaynal, 320
Imam Ḥusayn, 128
Imam Ja‘far’s shrine, 41
Imamzádih Ja‘far, 26
Imámzádih Zangí, 90
Ináyat Munjazib, 319
Ináyat’u’llah Shahídzádih,  319
Iqlim-i-Nur, 156
Írán Munjazib, 59, 319
Írán Safarjú, 319
Iranian, 38, 55
Irina Klenz, 317
Isfahan, 105, 113, 115, 148,
150, 152, 161
Isfahani, 2, 130
Ishráq Dhabíḥí , 8, 42, 59, 65-
66, 72
Ishráqíyyih Zabihi (Dhabíḥí),
Islam-Qal‘ih, 135
Ismá‘íl ‘Aqdá’yí, Áqá Shaykh, 26
Ismayn Ilyyin, 266
Ja‘far Kashfí, Siyyid, 246
Ja‘far Bád-Kúbihiyyí, Mr, (now
Raḥmání), 109-113
Jalál, Siyyid,  grandchild of Ḥájí
Zaynal, 321
Jalálu’d-Dawlih, 4, 24-25, 28,
30, 33-34, 48, 254, 257, 259-
260, 263, 264-265, 299, 301
Jalil Iqbal, 13, 15
Jamál-í Burújirdí, 2, 6, 155,
156-158
Jamálíyyih Institute in El
Salvador, 8, 69
Jamálíyyih Khánum, 8, 67, 68
Jamaliyyih wife of ‘Abdu’l-
Vahháb Dhabíḥí, daughter of
Alí-Akbar, 20, 42, 58, 62-66
Jamálíyyih, Also refer to Bíbí Fáṭí
Jamálíyyih, Bíbí Fáṭí, 1, 42, 62-63
Jamilih, 20
Jamshíd Wáhidíán, 319


Javád Qálichi’ , 122
Javád Surush, Ḥájí Siyyid, 6,
156, 289
Javád Yazdí, Ḥájí Siyyid,
husband of Gawhar Khánum, 47
Javád, Áqá Siyyid, 27, 29
Javád, Siyyid,  grandchild of
Ḥájí Zaynal, 321
Javád, Siyyid, brother of ‘Alí,
Siyyid, 20
Jávánshír Subḥání, 318
Jeddah, 241
Jena Elmuhandis, 317
John Esslemont, 86
Jordan, 205
Juliet Thompson, 5, 267
Junduq, 202
Jutta Schliemann, 59, 317
Kabul, 136-138, 141-142
Kadence Jimenez, 318
Kamilih Khánum, 52
Kámrán Ma‘ání, 319
Kámrán Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Kámyár Mawlaví, 319
Kámyár, 317
Karbala, 4, 20, 82, 128, 129,
242-243, 252, 278
Karbila, Refer to: Karbala
Kashan, 134, 157, 285
Kavákib’ud-Duríyyih, 5, 82, 275
Kávih, 144
Kázim Samandar, Shaykh, 271
Kázim Uf Amri, 78
Keith Ransom-Kehler, 5, 8,  273
Kerman, (Kirmán) 107-110,
112, 114-115, 171, 204, 211,
278,  281
Khabírpúr, 182
Khadíjih, 144
Khalíl Khalílí, 138-140
Khálisí-zádih, 1, 100, 104-105,
116-117
Khartoum, 239, 290
Khayr’u’llah, 268
Khurásán, 6, 92, 243, 271,  277-278
Khuvaydak, 127
Khúzistán, 172, 291-292
Kímíyá Ayyatuláhí, 318
Kímíyá Swirzynsky, 317
Kirmán province, 6
Kirmán, 6, 109, 112, 134, 237,
255, 281
Kirmán: Refer to Kerman
Kitáb-i Íqán, 88
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 48, 238
Kíyán Mirríkh Yazdí, 317
Kíyán Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Kúrush Shahídzádih, 319
Kúrush Talá’í, 188
Kushak Hill, 41
Labíb Shahíd, 46, 50, 53, 57
Lakhmids, 242
Layli Muhájir, 318
Liqá Munjazib, 319
Liqá Nafcháhishyál (Munjazib), 59
Lisa McShane,  318
Liva Smith, 317
Lizard River, 205
Luṭf-‘Alí, Mírzá, 21, 246, 287
Luṭfu’lláh Khán Muwhibat, 158
Ma’ṣumih Khánum, 176
Magumi Kito,  318
Máh-Faríd Khánum, 196
Máh-Furúzak, 291
Maḥmúd Afnan, Áqá Siyyid, 260
Maḥmúd Badí‘í, Jináb-i Mírzá, 86
Maḥmúd Mishkí, 67, 180
Maḥmúd Nafcháhi-Aḥya’í, 319


Maḥmúd Qassábchí,  Ḥájí, 5,
81, 274
Maḥmúd Zarqání, 75
Maḥmúd Zarqání, Mírzá, 269
Maḥmúd-Ábád, 169
Maḥmúd-Ábád, 41
Mahnáz Shahid-Zádih, 319
Mairianne Hughes, 317
Mairianne Zabihi, Mrs., 16
Majdhúb,  101, 107
Malakútiyán, Dr. son of Mullá
‘Abdu’l-Ghaní, 204
Malik Khusraví, 9, 156, 186
Manshád, 4, 14, 20-23, 26, 240-
241, 246-251, 254-256, 261,
303-308, 320-322
Mansion of Bahjí, 8
Marjan Ma‘ání,  321
Maryam-Ábád, 163, 205
Maryan khanum, wife of ‘Alí-
Akbar Barár, martyred in Arak, 288
Mas’úd Mawlaví, 317
Maṣábíḥ-i-Hidáyat, 14, 17
Mashhad, 20, 135, 152, 194,
197-199, 243
Mashhad, 4, 20
Maya Elmuhandis, 317
Mecca, 4, 20, 120, 142, 145, 241
Mehrí Zabihi , 8, 42, 59, 66, 68
Melody Naí’mí, 318
Michelle Glanfratti, 319
Mihdi Afnan, Áqá Siyyid, 144, 260
Mihdí Akhaván Ṣafá, Mírzá,  6, 288
Mihdí Akhaván’us-Ṣafá, Mírzá, 153
Mihdí Jináb-i Áqá, 22
Mihdí Sarsáz, Áqá, 2, 123, 284
Mihdí Shahídzádih, Ḥájí, 127
Mihdí-Ábád, 205
Mihrangíz Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Mihrí (Mehri)  Dhabíḥí: Refer to
Mehrí Zabihi
Mihrí (Mehri) 8
Mihriz, 128
Mila Meaker, 318
Mila Muhájir, 318
Milan, 317
Mína Dihqání, 317
Míná Muttaḥidih, 319
Mírzá Áqá,  9 year-old son of
‘Alí-Akbar Barár, martyred in
Arak, 288
Mírzá Buzurg, 7, 9, 183, 300
Mishkí, Maḥmúd, 9, 150
Mishkín Qalam, 48
Mitháqíyyih hospital, 173
Mithaqíyyih, 9, 184, 186
Muʿáwíyah son of Abú Sufíyán,
242, 284
Mubarak Khán, 41
Muḥammad Afshár, Ḥájí, 272
Muḥammad Gunduli,  Ḥájí, 2,
179, 272, 298
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir,
Ḥájí, 1, 4, 7, 23-28, 31, 36, 40,
58, 71
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Dhabíḥí
(Zabihi), 2, 8, 9, 107, 166-167
Muḥammad Ḥusayn son of
Báqir, Ḥájí, Refer to: Muḥammad
Ḥusayn Báqir, Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn, Ḥájí, son
of Ḥusayn Turk, 22
Muḥammad Ibrahim, son of
Ḥájí Zaynal, 9, 20, 23, 244, 255,
321-322
Muḥammad Ibráhím-i-
Manshádí, son of Zaynal, Ḥájí,
Tablet of Visitation, 244
Muḥammad Ismá‘íl  Gunduli,
Ḥájí, 272, 298
Muḥammad Ismá‘íl Gunduli,
Ḥájí, 179


Muḥammad Khudábandih, 161-162
Muḥammad Mujtahid of
Manshád, Mullá Ḥájí, brother of
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ. 246
Muḥammad Mushrif, Mírzá, 2,
153-154
Muḥammad Sa‘íd Miṣrí, Jináb-i
Mírzá, 81
Muḥammad Ṣádiq husband of
Fáṭimih Khánum, 20, 42, 47
Muḥammad Sháh, 21, 256, 282,
300-301
Muḥammad Shahid-Zádih, 319
Muḥammad Taqí Bihlul,
Shaykh, 87
Muḥammad Vazírí, Siyyid, 89
Muḥammad Zá’ir, Ḥájí, 132
Muḥammad Zaynal, 27
Muḥammad, Áqá Siyyid, 31, 32
Muḥammad, Ḥájí, son of
‘Abdu’r-Rahím, Ḥájí, 20, 238-
239, 269
Muḥammad, Shaykh,  surnamed
Nabíl by the Báb, 271
Muḥammad, Siyyid,  grandchild
of Ḥájí Zaynal, 321
Muḥammad, son of Ḥájí
‘Abdu’r-Rahím Yazdí, Ḥájí
Áqá, 80
Muḥammad-‘Alí Afnán
(Fálláḥ), Jináb-i Áqá, 103
Muḥammad-‘Alí Afnán, 104
Muḥammad-‘Alí Afnán, Áqá
Mírzá, 105
Muḥammad-‘Alí Ittiḥádi, Áqá, 127
Muḥammad-‘Alí Malik-
Khusraví, 156
Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib, 319
Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib, 42
Muḥammad-‘Alí Munjazib, 8,
58, 59
Muḥammad-‘Alí Simsár, Áqá, 125
Muḥammad-‘Alí Tahzíb, 321
Muḥammad-Ḥasan
Akhaván’uṣ-Ṣafá, 160
Muḥammad-Ṭáhir Málmírí,
Ḥájí, 5, 9-10, 25, 40, 80, 87-88,
90, 92, 120, 122-123, 156, 160,
162, 193-194, 241, 249, 251,
259, 265, 271, 298,
Mujdih Ma‘ání, 319
Mujdih Mawlaví,  319
Mukhtárí, Lieutenant, 201
Mukhtárzádih, 138-141
Mulaví, Mr., 156
Mullá Farm, 28
Mullá Ḥusayn, brother of
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ, 4
Mullá Ismá‘íl  Mosque, 88
Mulúk  Dhabíḥí , 8, 42, 59, 66-67
Mulúkíyyih Zabihi (Dhabíḥí),
Munavvar Munjazib (Daughter
of Ḥájí Muḥammad Ḥusayn
Báqir), 7, 36, 39, 58
Munavvar,  36, 39, 42, 319
Munír Nabíl-Zádih, 5, 271
Munír Nabíl-Zádih, Jináb-i
Mírzá, 80
Munírih Khánum, 47
Muraṣṣa‘ , grand-daughter of
‘Abdu’r-Rahím, 20
Mushtáqiyyih, 115
Muṣliḥ, Abu’l-Qásim, 104
Mutivvalí, 161
Na‘ímí family, 211
Nabíl Ṭálib, 317
Nabíl Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Nader Ayyatuláhí, 318
Nadím Mirríkh Yazdi, 317
Nadím Subḥání, 318
Nádíya Kovac, 317
Naghmih Mishki,  319
Náhíd Munjazib,  59, 317


Náhid Ráwháni (Akhtari), 191
Najaf, 4, 22, 251-253
Nanih jún, 1, 7, 24, 28, 34-39,
67, 265
Nanih jún, Refer to: Sakínih Sulṭán
Nasaqchi Báshi, 5, 41, 265
Náṣir Subḥání, 318
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh, 4, 24, 48,
201, 254, 256, 282, 314
Nasr-Ábád, 28
Naṣr-Ábád, 31, 33
Navá Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Navíd Pijmán, 318
Navváb-i Ṣafaví, 286
Navváb-i-Raḍaví, 4, 21, 249
Naw Nahálán Company, 6, 167, 283
Naw-Ruz, 24, 68, 79, 181
Náyib Báqir Khán, 26-33
Nayyirih Muttaḥidih,  319
Nayyirih Váhidiyán
(Muttaḥidih), 59
Nazareth School, 48-49
Níkán Swirzynsky, 317
Níkdukht Faríd, 317
Níkú Jalílíyán, 318
Nílúfar Ríḍáyí, 318
Nímá Subḥání, 318
Niẓam Awrangí, 169
Niẓámu’d-Dín Awrangí, 176,
Niẓámu’d-Dín, 181
Núr’ud-Dín Zayn, 74-75
Núr’ud-Dín Zayn, Mírzá, 74
Núrá Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Núrbakhsh, 163-165
Nuṣrat Munjazib, 319
Nusrat Munjazib, 59, 319
Oldenburg, Germany, 9, 168
Palmyra, 242
Parí, 8, 66, 72, 187
Parvín  Dhabíḥí, 15, 42, 59, 317
Parvin Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Parvíndukht Muttaḥidih, 59, 319
Payam-i Bahá’í, 5, 7, 46, 195,
294, 300, 310
Petra, 242
Pigáh Naí’mí, 318
Qábil Ábádihyí, Jináb-i Mírzá,
156-157
Qábil-i Ábádihyí, 6, 290
Qavám-Ábád, 93
Qudratu’lláh Vujdání, 320
Qudsiyyih Khánum, 167
Qur’án, 5, 6, 46, 48, 92, 96,
107, 119, 130, 267
Ra’ufí, 182
Raḍaví, 103
Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ, 5, 21, 240, 241, 246
Rafsanjan, 6, 107, 115, 281
Raḥmání Sangsarí, Áqá, 157
Rámín Ma‘ání, 318
Rana Zabihi (Zabihi), 317
Riḍa Pish-Áhang, Siyyid, 198
Riḍá-i-Manshádi, Ákhúnd
Mullá: Refer to Raḍíuʼr-Rúḥ
Riḍá-i-Manshádi, Ákhúnd Mullá, 4
Riḍván garden, 53
Riḍván Máwlaví (Munjazib)
Rúhiyyih Púr-Aḥmadí
(Munjazib), 59
Riḍván Munjazib, 319
Roger White, 43
Roham, 317
Ross Garcia, 9, 168
Rubáb, 36, 42, 58, 319
Rubábíyyih Muttaḥidih,
(Daughter of Ḥájí Muḥammad
Ḥusayn Báqir),  7, 36, 41, 57
Rubát Pusht Bádám, 201


Rúḥá Khánum, 49
Rúhíyyih  Muttaḥidih, 319
Rúhíyyih Munjazib, 319
Ruqiyyih khanum, daughter of
‘Abdu’r-Rahím, 20
Ruyá Muttaḥidih, 319
Ryan, 317
Sa’ádat-Ábád, 169
Sadratu’l-Muntahá, 5, 267
Ṣáfá Munjazib,  319
Ṣafá Shahíd-Zádíh (Munjazib), 59
Sahar Núrání,  318
Ṣahbá Kathírí, 317
Said Núrání,  318
Sakineh Sultan, 43
Sakínih Sulṭán - The
Grandmother Labíb, 1, 46-58
Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún)
daughter of Ḥusayn Turk, 1, 7,
23, 35, 38-39, 42-43, 208, 265
Sakínih Sulṭán (Nanih jún), 20
Sakínih Sulṭán daugher of Ḥájí
Ḥusayn Turk, 42
Sakínih Sulṭán daughter of
Fáṭimih Bigum and Muḥammad
Ṣádiq, 47
Sakínih Sulṭán daughter of
Muḥammad Ṣádiq and Fáṭimih
Bigum, 47
Sakínih Sulṭán daughtre of Ḥájí
Ḥusayn Turk, 42
Sakínih Sulṭán wife of ‘Alí-
Aṣghar the martyr, 46-58
Sakínih Sulṭán, 1, 5, 7
Sakínih Sulṭán’s maternal
uncles, Ḥájí Siyyid ‘Alí, 47
Sálikíyán, Mr., 9, 151, 180
Salmán al-Fársí, 6, 269, 276
Salmán, 90, 274, 276
Salúdih (Núr), 169
Samá Ishráqí, 318
Samim Kathírí, 317
Samin Mirríkh Yazdí, 317
Samírá Ma‘ání, 319
San Salvador, 68
Saná’yi, Mrs., 162
Sárá Ṣádiqí, 317
Sarsáz, 2, 6, 123, 284
Sasha Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Sassanid, 242, 256
Sean Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Seddigh, Foad: Refer to Foad
Seddigh
Seven Martyrs of Yazd, 5, 8,
10, 40, 47, 59, 71, 267, 309
Seventeen Martyrs, 237, 301
Shaháb Dihqání, 317
Shahín Núrání, 318
Sháhin Núrání, 318
Shahlá Núrání, 318
Shahr-i Kurd, 6, 163-164, 292-293
Shahr-i-Ray, 211
Sháhrukh Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Shahsavár, 9, 174
Sham‘ush-Shuhadá, 1, 24-25,
156, 208, 258
Sham‘ush-Shuhadá, Refer to: Ḥájí
Muḥammad Ḥusayn Báqir
Shana Baese, 318
Shanta Na‘ímí, 318
Sharíf-Ábád, 27
Sharífí, 102
Shayan Núrání, 318
Shayan Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Ismá‘íl, Shaykh, 29
Shaykhís, 6, 278
Shiraz, 4, 8, 21, 62, 82, 148,
150-151, 155, 210, 245-247,
255, 280, 284, 287, 290, 311
Shírín Ma‘ání, 319
Shirvín Na‘ímí, 318


Shoghi Effendi, 15, 25, 49, 73-
75, 85, 97, 154, 272, 274-275,
290, 313-314
Shulih Núrání,  317
Shumays Muhájir, 317
Shuqangiz Khánum, 57
Sipihr Ayyatuláhí, 318
Sipihr Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 318
Sírús Kathírí, 7, 317
Sistán, 175
Sister of Nazareth School, 49
Siyyid ‘Alí Akbar Púr-Aḥmadí, 319
Siyyid Átashí, 109
Siyyid-i Ṣahrá, 89
Súdábih Mudírí, 318
Suḥá Ishráqí, 318
Suhayl Effendi, 56
Suhiyl Núrání, 318
Sulaymán Birjís, Dr.,  6, 134,
285-286
Sultan Fu’adi (Bushruyih), 196
Sulṭán Munjazib, 319
Sulṭán Shahíd-Zádíh
(Munjazib), 59
Sulṭán-Ábád farm, 26
Sulṭán-Ábád, 29, 34
Súsan Dihqání, 317
Syria, 86, 92, 238, 277
Tablet of Rám, 5, 83, 275
Tabriz, 4, 19, 239-241, 256,
278-279
Taft, 4. 24, 29-30, 37, 263
Tahirih Danesh, Dr., 16
Ṭáhirih Nafcháhi-Aḥya’í, 319
Takíyyih, 4, 20, 241
Tákur (Núr), 169
Tákur, 7, 9, 165, 176, 181-186,
Tanja  Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Taqi  Manshádi, Áqá Ḥájí
Siyyid, 250
Taqi Sabzivárí, Shaykh, 41
Táríkh-i Shuhadáy-i Yazd, 5,
40, 265
Taslimi, Mr., 209
Tawfiq School, 200
The Twin Most Sublime
Names, (Ismayn Ilyyin), 267
Thompson, Juliet, Refer to: Juliet
Thompson
Tiberias, 52
Ṭihrán, 156, 169, 185, 187-188, 321
Tina Kovac, 317
Tripoli, 120
Twin Most Sublime Names, 5,
47, 267
Umar Khayyám, 278
Umar son of al-Khattab, 276
Umayyad caliph Mu‘áwiyah, 242
Umayyad Caliph Yazid, 242
Umíd Pijmán, 318
Umíd Zabihi (Dhabíḥí), 317
Umm-i Labíb, 1, 51, 53-56
Umm-i- Labib, Refer to: Sakínih
Sulṭán -The Grandmother Labíb
Uṣúl al-Káfí, 5, 88, 275
Valid Elmuhandis, 317
Vidá Muhájir, 318
Vída Núrání, 318
Vincent Núrání, 318
Waldheim. 15
Walter Kovac, 59, 317
Yádnámiy-i-Bayḍá’-i-Núrá, 4,
28, 263
Yaḥyá Mujtahid, Áqá Siyyid,
26, 29
Yaḥyáy-i-Dárábí, Siyyid, 4, 20,
21, 245-246, 249, 311
Yazd, 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13,
15, 20-25, 28-29, 36, 40, 47, 48,
59, 61-64, 71, 77, 79, 80-82, 85,


87-89, 91-92, 94, 96, 98, 100,
102, 105, 106
Yazd, History of the Faith, 7
Yazdi family in Egypt, 47
Yazíd son of Muʿáwíyah, 6, 11,
125, 284
Zabihi family in Tihran, 10
Zabihi family, 2, 10, 20, 23,
133, 206-207, 210
Zabihi, Refer to: Dhabíḥí
Zábul, 175
Zahrá Sulṭán, 20, 22-23, 35
Zayd, 144
Zaynab, 144
Zaynal, Ḥájí (brother of Ḥájí
Ḥasan and Ḥájí Ḥusayn), 7, 20-
23, 243, 250, 254, 306-307,
319-321
Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín, Ḥájí, in
Memorials of the Faithful, 7, 321
Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin, 177-178, 297
Zia Zabihi, 15, 16, 42, 59, 211,
Zia’u’llah Zabihi, Refer to Zia
Zabihi
Ẓilu's-Sulṭán, 48, 255, 257