THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1992-06-24

dear b ahá’í f riends,

As you are already aware from previous communications, the bahá’í holy

places and other properties and endowments belonging to the bahá’í com-

munity of iran are still under government control. many have been desecrat-

ed or demolished and the sites used for constructing roads or other buildings.

Among these confiscated properties was the once beautiful and well-kept

bahá’í cemetery in Tehran. it has been desecrated and the headstones and

marble coverings of the graves were removed and later sold in auctions. All identification marks on the graves were obliterated, and a school and

playground are being built on this site.

The bahá’í community had owned a large piece of property to the south

of Tehran which was intended for use as the future cemetery of the Tehran 132.1

133.1

133.2

133.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

282bahá’í community. This was also confiscated and all petitions to regain it

have been fruitless. instead, a small, barren piece of land without any public

service or utilities was assigned to the bahá’ís of Tehran by the iranian gov-

ernment for use as a burial site for their dead. however, neither headstones

nor any identification of the individual graves are permitted on that site.

A bahá’í friend living in the united States, who visited iran in october

1991, has described it as very depressing. The bodies of the dead have to be prepared for burial at home or water has to be fetched for that purpose from a christian cemetery in the neighborhood. . . .

it should be recalled that most of the bahá’í cemeteries in iran have been

desecrated or demolished and that thousands of bahá’ís who wish to visit

these cemeteries in order to pray for their departed relatives are either denied access, or they return with grieved hearts after witnessing the deplorable

condition of the graves of their loved ones. moreover, many of the bahá’í

martyrs executed in prison have been buried in areas not even known to

their relatives.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

134

Murder of a Bahá’í in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]