THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-05-25

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

with the four year plan proceeding rapidly toward its conclusion, the

universal house of justice has decided that it is necessary to provide you

with information about the international funds of the faith. we have been

asked to convey the following.

As a result of the sacrificial contributions from believers everywhere for

over a decade, the vast construction project on mount carmel is moving

toward conclusion with unprecedented speed. The house of justice is con-

fident that bahá’ís throughout the world will continue to meet the need

expressed in its 20 june 1995 letter to you for the contribution of ten mil-

lion dollars each year until the end of the century.303-1

A new challenge has emerged as a result of the progress of the faith

both at the world center and throughout the planet. it is becoming evi-

dent that the level of expenditure required from the bahá’í international

fund is rising sharply, due to a combination of the following factors. The

edifices and Terraces on mount carmel must be maintained at a standard

appropriate to their character and the dignity of the faith; measures must

also be instituted to handle, in an appropriate manner, the greatly increased number of people expected to visit the Terraces and to provide protection from damage. The emergence of the world Administrative center on the

mountain of god in all its splendor is attracting increased attention to the

faith, and thus creating new opportunities for extension of the influence of

303-1. See no. 204, pp. 445–46.302.9

303.1

303.2

303.3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

677the cause. The achievements of the energetic and dedicated prosecutors of

the four year plan in all parts of the planet, establishing new institutions

of the faith and increasing its human resources, have raised the tempo of

the administrative activity at the world center, and call for the assignment

of more resources to ensure that its work is carried out efficiently and with

dispatch. The need for property acquisition in both haifa and ‘Akká areas to

safeguard the serenity of the environs of the holy places, to which reference

has been made in an earlier letter, remains pressing as the process of urban development in this area accelerates.

The house of justice draws your attention to the necessity for increased

support of the bahá’í fund at an international level with full confidence

that the impressive record of sacrificial endeavor by the believers will be sustained in their response to the situation described here. The formula-

tion of budgets at a national and local level should be carried out in the

light of these conditions. Above all there should be no interruption to your sustained effort to assist the friends in your area to acquire a deeper understanding of the spiritual obligation binding upon all, irrespective of

their circumstances, to contribute to the funds of the faith. in particular,

those believers who have been blessed with material resources beyond those

necessary for their essential needs should ponder deeply the responsibilities resting upon them at this time when the requirements of the cause are so

pressing.

Shrines for the confirmation of their endeavors to assist in the advancement

of the f aith.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat303.4

303.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

678304

Publication of English Translations

of the Bahá’í Writings

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]