V
Palabra Publications
The Five Year Plan
2011-2016
Messages of the Universal House of Justice
. . . in the system thus created to develop its human
resources, the community of the Greatest Name possesses
an instrument of limitless potentialities. Under a wide
diversity of conditions, in virtually any cluster, it is
possible for an expanding nucleus of individuals to generate
a movement towards the goal of a new World Order.
—The Universal House of Justice

VI
First Edition April 2011.
Palabra Publications
7369 Westport Place
West Palm Beach, Florida 33413
U.S.A.
1-561-697-9823
1-561-697-9815 (fax)
books@palabrapublications.info
www.palabrapublications.com

i
Contents
Preface
iii
1.  Rid. ván 2010

To the Bahá’ís of the World
2.  29 August 2010

To the Bahá’ís of the World
3.  28 December 2010

To the Conference of the


Continental Boards of Counsellors
4.  1 January 2011

To the Bahá’ís of the World
5.  Rid. ván 2011

To the Bahá’ís of the World

iii
Preface
Once more the Bahá’í world stands at the threshold
of a new stage in the unfoldment of the Divine Plan.
Once more the House of Justice has opened to our eyes
a new horizon. The letters contained in this volume
provide a vision of the progress of the Faith, clarify the
path of development for each cluster, explain how to
strengthen the elements of a growth program, describe
the extent of our learning, outline opportunities for
greater involvement in society, recall the Guardian’s
prerequisites for success in any teaching enterprise,
clarify the need for the enhancement of institutional
capacity at all levels, seek consonance among the Plan’s
three protagonists, remind us of the part this work
plays in contributing to building of a new civilization,
and set before our eyes the example of the beloved
Master during His travels to the West.
The Five Year Plan, 2011-2016, is the fourth in a
series of plans that will take us to the end of the first
century of the Formative Age, all of which have a single
aim: to advance the process of entry by troops. The mes-
sages of the House of Justice explain how far we have
come toward meeting this aim and vividly describe
what still remains for us to do in the years ahead.
In 1916 and 1917, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed the Tablets
of the Divine Plan, calling for the friends to carry the
light of Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause throughout the planet. He
stated: “Now is the time for you to divest yourselves of
the garment of attachment to this world that perisheth,
to be wholly severed from the physical world, become

iv
heavenly angels, and travel to these countries.” “O that
I could travel,” was His fervent appeal, “even though
on foot and in the utmost poverty, to these regions,
and, raising the call of ‘Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá’ in cities,
villages, mountains, deserts and oceans, promote the
Divine teachings! This, alas, I cannot do. How intensely
I deplore it! Please God, ye may achieve it.” And He
added: “I am hopeful from the favors of His Highness
the Lord of Bestowals, that the friends of God during
such a time may become the secret cause of the illumi-
nation of the hearts of humanity, breathing the breath
of life upon the spirits—whose praiseworthy results
may become conducive to the glory and exaltation of
humankind throughout all eternity.”
Throughout his ministry, Shoghi Effendi devel-
oped the capacity of the Bahá’í world to systematically
execute the provisions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Plan. He first
instructed the believers to build the administration
intended to be the instrument for the collective imple-
mentation of that divine charter. He patiently assisted
the friends to become more effective in their teaching
and to organize national plans of action to spread and
develop the Faith. In the last and crowning stage of his
work, he gathered the believers in a common global
crusade, which resulted in the opening of more than
one hundred countries and territories, the establish-
ment of over forty National and hundreds of Local
Assemblies, and the initiation of the process of entry
by troops. The light of the Cause had been carried to
most of the world, but it required a still wider diffu-
sion, a vast increase in numbers, a greater capacity and
complexity of community life, a stronger administrative
foundation, and a further systematization of effort.
On the firm basis laid by the Guardian, the House
of Justice has extended our work and illumined the

v
way forward. With all countries opened, a new arena
of some fifteen thousand clusters has been defined.
Five thousand of these are to have a program of growth
in this Plan, and each one will strive to advance as
far as possible toward the frontiers of learning where
hundreds of workers serve the needs of thousands in
a dynamic pattern of community life with collective
devotions, child and junior youth education, study cir-
cles, and teaching at its core. The rest will assuredly be
conquered in future plans that will increasingly dem-
onstrate the society-building power of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings. “Indeed,” the House of Justice states, “the
community has well in hand its expansion and consoli-
dation. Yet, to administer the affairs of teeming num-
bers in villages and cities around the globe—to raise
aloft the standard of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order for all
to see—is still a distant goal. Therein, then, lies the chal-
lenge that must be faced by those in the forefront of the
learning process which will continue to advance over
the course of the next Plan.”
Palabra Publications
April 2011



Rid. ván 2010
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,


1.1
With hearts filled with admiration for the follow-
ers of Bahá’u’lláh, we are pleased to announce that, as
this most joyous Rid. ván season opens, there is in every
continent of the globe a fresh complement of intensive
programs of growth under way, raising the total num-
ber worldwide over the 1,500 mark and securing the
goal of the Five Year Plan, one year in advance of its
conclusion. We bow our heads in gratitude to God for
this astounding achievement, this signal victory. All
who have labored in the field will appreciate the bounty
He has bestowed on His community in granting it a full
year to strengthen the pattern of expansion and consoli-
dation now everywhere established, in preparation for
the tasks it will be called upon to undertake in its next
global enterprise—a plan of five years’ duration, the
fifth in a series with the explicit aim of advancing the
process of entry by troops.


1.2
We feel moved, as we take pause on this festive
occasion, to make clear that what evokes such a deep
sense of pride and gratitude in our hearts is not so
much the numerical feat you have achieved, remarkable
as it is, but a combination of developments at the more
profound level of culture, to which this accomplishment
attests. Chief among them is the rise we have observed
in the capacity of the friends to converse with others
on spiritual matters and to speak with ease about the
Person of Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation. They have

understood well that teaching is a basic requirement of
a life of generous giving.
1.3
In recent messages we have expressed joy at wit-
nessing the steady increase in the tempo of teaching
across the globe. The discharge of this fundamental
spiritual obligation by the individual believer has
always been, and continues to be, an indispensable
feature of Bahá’í life. What the establishment of 1,500
intensive programs of growth has made evident is
how courageous and deliberate the rank and file of the
believers have become in stepping outside their imme-
diate circle of family members and friends, ready to be
led by the guiding Hand of the All-Merciful to recep-
tive souls in whatever quarter they may reside. Even
the most modest estimates suggest that there are now
tens of thousands who participate in periodic cam-
paigns to establish ties of friendship, on the basis of
shared understanding, with those previously regarded
as strangers.
1.4
In their efforts to present the essentials of the Faith
plainly and unequivocally, the believers have ben-
efited greatly from the illustrative example in Book 6
of the Ruhi Institute. Where the logic underlying that
presentation is appreciated, and the urge to convert it
into a formula overcome, it gives rise to a conversation
between two souls—a conversation distinguished by
the depth of understanding achieved and the nature of
the relationship established. To the extent that the con-
versation continues beyond the initial encounter and
veritable friendships are formed, a direct teaching effort
of this kind can become a catalyst for an enduring pro-
cess of spiritual transformation. Whether the first con-
tact with such newly found friends elicits an invitation
for them to enroll in the Bahá’í community or to par-
ticipate in one of its activities is not an overwhelming

concern. More important is that every soul feel welcome
to join the community in contributing to the betterment
of society, commencing a path of service to humanity on
which, at the outset or further along, formal enrollment
can occur.


1.5
The significance of this development should not
be underestimated. In every cluster, once a consistent
pattern of action is in place, attention needs to be given
to extending it more broadly through a network of co-
workers and acquaintances, while energies are, at the
same time, focused on smaller pockets of the popula-
tion, each of which should become a center of intense
activity. In an urban cluster, such a center of activity
might best be defined by the boundaries of a neighbor-
hood; in a cluster that is primarily rural in character, a
small village would offer a suitable social space for this
purpose. Those who serve in these settings, both local
inhabitants and visiting teachers, would rightly view
their work in terms of community building. To assign
to their teaching efforts such labels as “door-to-door”,
even though the first contact may involve calling upon
the residents of a home without prior notice, would
not do justice to a process that seeks to raise capacity
within a population to take charge of its own spiritual,
social and intellectual development. The activities that
drive this process, and in which newly found friends
are invited to engage—meetings that strengthen the
devotional character of the community; classes that
nurture the tender hearts and minds of children; groups
that channel the surging energies of junior youth; cir-
cles of study, open to all, that enable people of varied
backgrounds to advance on equal footing and explore
the application of the teachings to their individual and
collective lives—may well need to be maintained with
assistance from outside the local population for a time.
It is to be expected, however, that the multiplication of

these core activities would soon be sustained by human
resources indigenous to the neighborhood or village
itself—by men and women eager to improve mate-
rial and spiritual conditions in their surroundings. A
rhythm of community life should gradually emerge,
then, commensurate with the capacity of an expand-
ing nucleus of individuals committed to Bahá’u’lláh’s
vision of a new World Order.
1.6
Within this context, receptivity manifests itself in a
willingness to participate in the process of community
building set in motion by the core activities. In cluster
after cluster where an intensive program of growth
is now in operation, the task before the friends this
coming year is to teach within one or more receptive
populations, employing a direct method in their expo-
sition of the fundamentals of their Faith, and find those
souls longing to shed the lethargy imposed on them by
society and work alongside one another in their neigh-
borhoods and villages to begin a process of collective
transformation. If the friends persist in their efforts to
learn the ways and methods of community building in
small settings in this way, the long-cherished goal of
universal participation in the affairs of the Faith will,
we are certain, move by several orders of magnitude
within grasp.
1.7
To meet this challenge, the believers and the insti-
tutions that serve them will have to strengthen the
institute process in the cluster, increasing significantly
within its borders the number of those capable of act-
ing as tutors of study circles; for it should be recognized
that the opportunity now open to the friends to foster a
vibrant community life in neighborhoods and villages,
characterized by such a keen sense of purpose, was only
made possible by crucial developments that occurred

over the past decade in that aspect of Bahá’í culture
which pertains to deepening.


1.8
When in December 1995 we called for the estab-
lishment of training institutes worldwide, the pattern
most prevalent in the Bahá’í community for helping
individual believers to deepen their knowledge of the
Faith consisted principally of occasional courses and
classes, of varying durations, addressing a variety of
subjects. That pattern had satisfied well the needs of
an emerging worldwide Bahá’í community, still rela-
tively few in number and concerned chiefly with its
geographic spread across the globe. We made clear at
the time, however, that another approach to the study of
the writings would have to take shape, one that would
spur large numbers into the field of action, if the process
of entry by troops was to accelerate appreciably. In this
connection, we asked that training institutes assist ever-
growing contingents of believers in serving the Cause
through the provision of courses that would impart the
knowledge, insights and skills required to carry out the
many tasks associated with accelerated expansion and
consolidation.


1.9
To read the writings of the Faith and to strive to
obtain a more adequate understanding of the sig-
nificance of Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation are
obligations laid on every one of His followers. All are
enjoined to delve into the ocean of His Revelation and
to partake, in keeping with their capacities and incli-
nations, of the pearls of wisdom that lie therein. In
this light, local deepening classes, winter and summer
schools, and specially arranged gatherings in which
individual believers knowledgeable in the writings
were able to share with others insights into specific
subjects emerged naturally as prominent features of
Bahá’í life. Just as the habit of daily reading will remain

an integral part of Bahá’í identity, so will these forms
of study continue to hold a place in the collective life
of the community. But understanding the implications
of the Revelation, both in terms of individual growth
and social progress, increases manifold when study and
service are joined and carried out concurrently. There,
in the field of service, knowledge is tested, questions
arise out of practice, and new levels of understanding
are achieved. In the system of distance education that
has now been established in country after country—the
principal elements of which include the study circle,
the tutor and the curriculum of the Ruhi Institute—the
worldwide Bahá’í community has acquired the capacity
to enable thousands, nay millions, to study the writings
in small groups with the explicit purpose of translating
the Bahá’í teachings into reality, carrying the work of
the Faith forward into its next stage: sustained large-
scale expansion and consolidation.
1.10
Let no one fail to appreciate the possibilities thus
created. Passivity is bred by the forces of society today.
A desire to be entertained is nurtured from childhood,
with increasing efficiency, cultivating generations will-
ing to be led by whoever proves skilful at appealing to
superficial emotions. Even in many educational systems
students are treated as though they were receptacles
designed to receive information. That the Bahá’í world
has succeeded in developing a culture which promotes
a way of thinking, studying, and acting, in which all
consider themselves as treading a common path of ser-
vice—supporting one another and advancing together,
respectful of the knowledge that each one possesses
at any given moment and avoiding the tendency to
divide the believers into categories such as deepened
and uninformed—is an accomplishment of enormous
proportions. And therein lie the dynamics of an irre-
pressible movement.



1.11
What is imperative is that the quality of the educa-
tional process fostered at the level of the study circle
rise markedly over the next year so that the potential
of local populations to create such dynamics is real-
ized. Much will fall on those who serve as tutors in
this respect. Theirs will be the challenge to provide the
environment that is envisioned in the institute courses,
an environment conducive to the spiritual empower-
ment of individuals, who will come to see themselves as
active agents of their own learning, as protagonists of a
constant effort to apply knowledge to effect individual
and collective transformation. Failing this, no matter
how many study circles are formed in a cluster, the
force necessary to propel change will not be generated.


1.12
If the work of the tutor is to reach higher and higher
degrees of excellence, it must be remembered that pri-
mary responsibility for the development of human
resources in a region or country rests with the train-
ing institute. While striving to increase the number
of its participants, the institute as a structure—from
the board, to the coordinators at different levels, to
the tutors at the grassroots—must lay equal stress on
the effectiveness of the system in its entirety, for, in
the final analysis, sustained quantitative gains will
be contingent on qualitative progress. At the level of
the cluster, the coordinator must bring both practi-
cal experience and dynamism to his or her efforts to
accompany those who serve as tutors. He or she should
arrange periodic gatherings for them to reflect on their
endeavors. Events organized to repeat the study of seg-
ments selected from the institute material may occa-
sionally prove helpful, provided they do not inculcate
a need for perpetual training. The capabilities of a tutor
develop progressively as an individual enters the field
of action and assists others in contributing to the aim of
the present series of global Plans, through study of the

sequence of courses and implementation of their practi-
cal component. And as men and women of various ages
move along the sequence and complete their study of
each course with the help of tutors, others must stand
ready to accompany them in acts of service undertaken
according to their strengths and interests—particularly
the coordinators responsible for children’s classes, for
junior youth groups and for study circles, acts of ser-
vice crucial to the perpetuation of the system itself. To
ensure that the proper measure of vitality is pulsating
through this system should continue to be the object of
intense learning in every country over the course of the
next twelve months.
1.13
Concern for the spiritual education of children has
long been an element of the culture of the Bahá’í com-
munity, a concern that resulted in two, coexisting reali-
ties. One, emulating the achievements of the Bahá’ís of
Iran, was characterized by the capacity to offer system-
atic classes, from grade to grade, to children from Bahá’í
families, generally with the aim of imparting basic
knowledge of the history and teachings of the Faith to
rising generations. In most parts of the world, the num-
ber who benefited from such classes has been relatively
small. The other reality emerged in areas where large-
scale enrollments took place, both rural and urban. A
more inclusive attitude dominated that experience.
Yet while children from households of all kinds were
at once eager and welcome to attend Bahá’í classes,
various factors prevented lessons from being conducted
with the required degree of regularity, year after year.
How pleased we are to see this duality, a consequence
of historical circumstances, begin to fall away as friends
trained by institutes everywhere strive to offer classes,
open to all, on a systematic basis.



1.14
Such promising beginnings have now to be vigor-
ously pursued. In every cluster with an intensive pro-
gram of growth in operation, efforts need to be made
to systematize further the provision of spiritual educa-
tion to increasing numbers of children, from families
of many backgrounds—a requisite of the community-
building process gathering momentum in neighbor-
hoods and villages. This will be a demanding task, one
that calls for patience and cooperation on the part of
parents and institutions alike. The Ruhi Institute has
already been requested to expedite plans to complete
its courses for training children’s class teachers at differ-
ent levels including the corresponding lessons, starting
with youngsters aged 5 or 6 and proceeding to those
aged 10 or 11, in order to close the present gap between
existing lessons and its textbooks for junior youth, such
as Spirit of Faith and the forthcoming Power of the Holy
Spirit, which provide a distinctly Bahá’í component to
the program for that age group. As these additional
courses and lessons become available, institutes in
every country will be able to prepare the teachers and
the coordinators required to put in place, grade by
grade, the core of a program for the spiritual education
of children, around which secondary elements can be
organized. Meanwhile, institutes should do their best
to provide teachers with suitable materials, from among
others currently in existence, for use in their classes
with children of various ages, as necessary.


1.15
The International Teaching Center has earned our
abiding gratitude for the vital impetus it lent to the
efforts to secure the early attainment of the goal of the
Five Year Plan. To see the degree of energy it brought
to this worldwide enterprise, following so tenaciously
the progress in every continent and collaborating so
closely with the Continental Counsellors, was to catch

a glimpse of the tremendous power inherent in the
Administrative Order. As the Teaching Center now
turns its attention with equal vigor to questions related
to the efficacy of activities at the cluster level, it will no
doubt give special consideration to the implementation
of Bahá’í children’s classes. We are confident that its
analysis of the experience gained in a few selected clus-
ters this coming year, representative of diverse social
realities, will shed light on practical issues which will
make possible the establishment of regular classes, for
children of every age, in neighborhoods and villages.
1.16
The rapid spread of the program for the spiritual
empowerment of junior youth is yet another expres-
sion of cultural advance in the Bahá’í community. While
global trends project an image of this age group as prob-
lematic, lost in the throes of tumultuous physical and
emotional change, unresponsive and self-consumed, the
Bahá’í community—in the language it employs and the
approaches it adopts—is moving decidedly in the oppo-
site direction, seeing in junior youth instead altruism,
an acute sense of justice, eagerness to learn about the
universe and a desire to contribute to the construction
of a better world. Account after account, in which junior
youth in countries all over the planet give voice to their
thoughts as participants in the program, testifies to the
validity of this vision. There is every indication that
the program engages their expanding consciousness in
an exploration of reality that helps them to analyze the
constructive and destructive forces operating in society
and to recognize the influence these forces exert on their
thoughts and actions, sharpening their spiritual percep-
tion, enhancing their powers of expression and reinforc-
ing moral structures that will serve them throughout
their lives. At an age when burgeoning intellectual,
spiritual and physical powers become accessible to
them, they are being given the tools needed to combat

the forces that would rob them of their true identity as
noble beings and to work for the common good.


1.17
That the major component of the program explores
themes from a Bahá’í perspective, but not in the mode
of religious instruction, has opened the way for its
extension to junior youth in a variety of settings and
circumstances. In many such instances, then, those who
implement the program enter confidently into the area
of social action, encountering a range of questions and
possibilities, which are being followed and organized in
a global process of learning by the Office of Social and
Economic Development in the Holy Land. Already the
accumulating body of knowledge and experience has
given rise to the capacity in several clusters scattered
across the globe to each sustain over one thousand
junior youth in the program. To help others advance
swiftly in this direction, the Office is establishing a net-
work of sites in all continents, with the assistance of a
corps of believers, that can be used to provide training
to coordinators from scores upon scores of clusters.
These resource persons continue to support coordi-
nators upon their return to their respective clusters,
enabling them to create a spiritually charged environ-
ment in which the junior youth program can take root.


1.18
Further knowledge is sure to accrue in this area of
endeavor, although a pattern of action is already clear.
Only the capacity of the Bahá’í community limits the
extent of its response to the demand for the program by
schools and civic groups. Within the clusters that today
are the focus of an intensive program of growth, there
is a wide array of circumstances, from those with a few
sporadic junior youth groups to those maintaining a
number sufficient to require the services of a dedicated
coordinator, who could receive ongoing support from a
site for the dissemination of learning. To ensure that this

capacity increases across the entire spectrum of these
clusters, we are calling for 32 learning sites, each serv-
ing some twenty clusters with full-time coordinators,
to be in operation by the end of the current Plan. In all
other such clusters, priority should be given to creating
the capacity over the coming year to offer the program,
multiplying the number of groups systematically.
*
1.19
The developments we have mentioned thus far—
the rise in capacity to teach the Faith directly and to
enter into purposeful discussion on themes of spiritual
import with people from every walk of life, the efflo-
rescence of an approach to study of the writings that is
wedded to action, the renewal of commitment to pro-
vide spiritual education to the young in neighborhoods
and villages on a regular basis, and the spread in influ-
ence of a program that instills in junior youth the sense
of a twofold moral purpose, to develop their inherent
potentialities and to contribute to the transformation
of society—are all reinforced, in no small measure, by
yet another advance at the level of culture, the implica-
tions of which are far-reaching indeed. This evolution
in collective consciousness is discernable in the growing
frequency with which the word “accompany” appears
in conversations among the friends, a word that is
being endowed with new meaning as it is integrated
into the common vocabulary of the Bahá’í community.
It signals the significant strengthening of a culture in
which learning is the mode of operation, a mode that
fosters the informed participation of more and more
people in a united effort to apply Bahá’u’lláh’s teach-
ings to the construction of a divine civilization, which
the Guardian states is the primary mission of the Faith.
Such an approach offers a striking contrast to the spiri-
tually bankrupt and moribund ways of an old social

order that so often seeks to harness human energy
through domination, through greed, through guilt or
through manipulation.


1.20
In relationships among the friends, then, this devel-
opment in culture finds expression in the quality of their
interactions. Learning as a mode of operation requires
that all assume a posture of humility, a condition in
which one becomes forgetful of self, placing complete
trust in God, reliant on His all-sustaining power and
confident in His unfailing assistance, knowing that He,
and He alone, can change the gnat into an eagle, the
drop into a boundless sea. And in such a state souls
labor together ceaselessly, delighting not so much in
their own accomplishments but in the progress and ser-
vices of others. So it is that their thoughts are centered
at all times on helping one another scale the heights
of service to His Cause and soar in the heaven of His
knowledge. This is what we see in the present pattern
of activity unfolding across the globe, propagated by
young and old, by veteran and newly enrollled, work-
ing side by side.


1.21
Not only does this advance in culture influence rela-
tions among individuals, but its effects can also be felt
in the conduct of the administrative affairs of the Faith.
As learning has come to distinguish the community’s
mode of operation, certain aspects of decision mak-
ing related to expansion and consolidation have been
assigned to the body of the believers, enabling plan-
ning and implementation to become more responsive
to circumstances on the ground. Specifically, a space
has been created, in the agency of the reflection meet-
ing, for those engaged in activities at the cluster level
to assemble from time to time in order to reach con-
sensus on the current status of their situation, in light
of experience and guidance from the institutions, and

to determine their immediate steps forward. A similar
space is opened by the institute, which makes provision
for those serving as tutors, children’s class teachers, and
animators of junior youth groups in a cluster to meet
severally and consult on their experience. Intimately
connected to this grassroots consultative process are the
agencies of the training institute and the Area Teaching
Committee, together with the Auxiliary Board mem-
bers, whose joint interactions provide another space in
which decisions pertaining to growth are taken, in this
case with a higher degree of formality. The workings of
this cluster-level system, born of exigencies, point to an
important characteristic of Bahá’í administration: Even
as a living organism, it has coded within it the capacity
to accommodate higher and higher degrees of complex-
ity, in terms of structures and processes, relationships
and activities, as it evolves under the guidance of the
Universal House of Justice.
1.22
That the institutions of the Faith at all levels—from
the local and the regional, to the national and the con-
tinental—are able to manage such growing complexity
with greater and greater dexterity is both a sign and a
necessity of their steady maturation. Evolving relation-
ships among administrative structures have brought the
Local Spiritual Assembly to the threshold of a new stage
in the exercise of its responsibilities to diffuse the Word
of God, to mobilize the energies of the believers, and
to forge an environment that is spiritually edifying. On
previous occasions we have explained that the matu-
rity of a Spiritual Assembly cannot be assessed by the
regularity of its meetings and the efficiency of its func-
tioning alone. Rather its strength must be measured, to
a large extent, by the vitality of the spiritual and social
life of the community it serves—a growing community
that welcomes the constructive contributions of both
those who are formally enrollled and those who are not.

It is gratifying to see that current approaches, methods
and instruments are providing the means for Local
Spiritual Assemblies, even those newly formed, to ful-
fill these responsibilities as they set about to ensure that
the requirements of the Five Year Plan are adequately
met in their localities. Indeed, the Assembly’s proper
involvement with the Plan becomes crucial to every
attempt to embrace large numbers—itself a requisite
for the manifestation of the full range of its powers and
capacities.


1.23
The development that we are sure to witness in
Local Spiritual Assemblies over the next several years
is made possible by the growing strength of National
Spiritual Assemblies, whose ability to think and act
strategically has risen perceptibly, especially as they
have learned to analyze the community-building
process at the grassroots with increasing acuity and
effectiveness and to inject into it, as needed, assis-
tance, resources, encouragement, and loving guidance.
In countries where conditions demand it, they have
devolved a number of their responsibilities in this
respect to Regional Councils, decentralizing certain
administrative functions, enhancing institutional capac-
ity in areas under their jurisdiction, and fostering more
sophisticated sets of interactions. It is no exaggeration
to say that the full engagement of National Assemblies
was instrumental in creating the final thrust required
to attain the goal of the current Plan, and we expect to
see further developments in this direction as, in con-
cert with the Counsellors, they exert in the course of
the critical, fleeting months ahead a supreme effort to
ready their communities to embark on the next five-
year enterprise.


1.24
Without question, the evolution of the institution of
the Counsellors constitutes one of the most significant

advances in the Bahá’í Administrative Order during the
past decade. That institution had already made extraor-
dinary leaps in its development when, in January 2001,
the Counsellors and the Auxiliary Board members gath-
ered in the Holy Land for the conference marking the
occupation by the International Teaching Center of its
permanent seat on Mount Carmel. There is no doubt
that the energies released by that event have propelled
the institution rapidly forward. The degree of influence
the Counsellors and their auxiliaries have exerted on
the progress of the Plan demonstrates that they have
assumed their natural place in the forefront of the teach-
ing field. We are confident that the coming year will
bind the institutions of the Administrative Order fur-
ther together in collaboration, as all strive to reinforce,
each in accordance with its evolving functions and
responsibilities, the mode of learning that has become
a prominent feature of the community’s functioning—
this, most urgently in those clusters experiencing inten-
sive programs of growth.
*
1.25
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is vast. It calls for profound
change not only at the level of the individual but also
in the structure of society. “Is not the object of every
Revelation”, He Himself proclaims, “to effect a trans-
formation in the whole character of mankind, a trans-
formation that shall manifest itself, both outwardly and
inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external
conditions?” The work advancing in every corner of the
globe today represents the latest stage of the ongoing
Bahá’í endeavor to create the nucleus of the glorious
civilization enshrined in His teachings, the building of
which is an enterprise of infinite complexity and scale,
one that will demand centuries of exertion by humanity
to bring to fruition. There are no shortcuts, no formulas.

Only as effort is made to draw on insights from His
Revelation, to tap into the accumulating knowledge of
the human race, to apply His teachings intelligently to
the life of humanity, and to consult on the questions that
arise will the necessary learning occur and capacity be
developed.


1.26
In this long-term process of capacity building, the
Bahá’í community has devoted nearly a decade and
a half to systematizing its experience in the teaching
field, learning to open certain activities to more and
more people and to sustain its expansion and consolida-
tion. All are welcome to enter the community’s warm
embrace and receive sustenance from Bahá’u’lláh’s
life-giving message. No greater joy is there, to be sure,
than for a soul, yearning for the Truth, to find shelter
in the stronghold of the Cause and draw strength from
the unifying power of the Covenant. Yet every human
being and every group of individuals, irrespective of
whether they are counted among His followers, can
take inspiration from His teachings, benefiting from
whatever gems of wisdom and knowledge will aid
them in addressing the challenges they face. Indeed, the
civilization that beckons humanity will not be attained
through the efforts of the Bahá’í community alone.
Numerous groups and organizations, animated by the
spirit of world solidarity that is an indirect manifesta-
tion of Bahá’u’lláh’s conception of the principle of the
oneness of humankind, will contribute to the civiliza-
tion destined to emerge out of the welter and chaos of
present-day society. It should be clear to everyone that
the capacity created in the Bahá’í community over suc-
cessive global Plans renders it increasingly able to lend
assistance in the manifold and diverse dimensions of
civilization building, opening to it new frontiers of
learning.

1.27
In our Rid. ván 2008 message we indicated that, as
the friends continued to labor at the level of the cluster,
they would find themselves drawn further and fur-
ther into the life of society and would be challenged
to extend the process of systematic learning in which
they are engaged to encompass a widening range of
human endeavors. A rich tapestry of community life
begins to emerge in every cluster as acts of communal
worship, interspersed with discussions undertaken in
the intimate setting of the home, are woven together
with activities that provide spiritual education to all
members of the population—adults, youth and chil-
dren. Social consciousness is heightened naturally as,
for example, lively conversations proliferate among
parents regarding the aspirations of their children and
service projects spring up at the initiative of junior
youth. Once human resources in a cluster are in suf-
ficient abundance, and the pattern of growth firmly
established, the community’s engagement with society
can, and indeed must, increase. At this crucial point
in the unfoldment of the Plan, when so many clusters
are nearing such a stage, it seems appropriate that the
friends everywhere would reflect on the nature of the
contributions which their growing, vibrant communi-
ties will make to the material and spiritual progress of
society. In this respect, it will prove fruitful to think in
terms of two interconnected, mutually reinforcing areas
of activity: involvement in social action and participa-
tion in the prevalent discourses of society.
1.28
Over the decades, the Bahá’í community has gained
much experience in these two areas of endeavor. There
are, of course, a great many Bahá’ís who are engaged
as individuals in social action and public discourse
through their occupations. A number of non-govern-
mental organizations, inspired by the teachings of the
Faith and operating at the regional and national levels,

are working in the field of social and economic devel-
opment for the betterment of their people. Agencies of
National Spiritual Assemblies are contributing through
various avenues to the promotion of ideas conducive to
public welfare. At the international level, agencies such
as the United Nations Office of the Bahá’í International
Community are performing a similar function. To the
extent necessary and desirable, the friends working
at the grassroots of the community will draw on this
experience and capacity as they strive to address the
concerns of the society around them.


1.29
Most appropriately conceived in terms of a spec-
trum, social action can range from fairly informal
efforts of limited duration undertaken by individuals
or small groups of friends to programs of social and
economic development with a high level of complex-
ity and sophistication implemented by Bahá’í-inspired
organizations. Irrespective of its scope and scale, all
social action seeks to apply the teachings and prin-
ciples of the Faith to improve some aspect of the social
or economic life of a population, however modestly.
Such endeavors are distinguished, then, by their stated
purpose to promote the material well-being of the
population, in addition to its spiritual welfare. That the
world civilization now on humanity’s horizon must
achieve a dynamic coherence between the material and
spiritual requirements of life is central to the Bahá’í
teachings. Clearly this ideal has profound implications
for the nature of any social action pursued by Bahá’ís,
whatever its scope and range of influence. Though
conditions will vary from country to country, and per-
haps from cluster to cluster, eliciting from the friends
a variety of endeavors, there are certain fundamental
concepts that all should bear in mind. One is the cen-
trality of knowledge to social existence. The perpetua-
tion of ignorance is a most grievous form of oppression;

it reinforces the many walls of prejudice that stand as
barriers to the realization of the oneness of humankind,
at once the goal and operating principle of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. Access to knowledge is the right of every
human being, and participation in its generation, appli-
cation and diffusion a responsibility that all must shoul-
der in the great enterprise of building a prosperous
world civilization—each individual according to his
or her talents and abilities. Justice demands universal
participation. Thus, while social action may involve the
provision of goods and services in some form, its pri-
mary concern must be to build capacity within a given
population to participate in creating a better world.
Social change is not a project that one group of people
carries out for the benefit of another. The scope and
complexity of social action must be commensurate with
the human resources available in a village or neigh-
borhood to carry it forward. Efforts best begin, then,
on a modest scale and grow organically as capacity
within the population develops. Capacity rises to new
levels, of course, as the protagonists of social change
learn to apply with increasing effectiveness elements
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, together with the contents
and methods of science, to their social reality. This real-
ity they must strive to read in a manner consistent with
His teachings—seeing in their fellow human beings
gems of inestimable value and recognizing the effects
of the dual process of integration and disintegration on
both hearts and minds, as well as on social structures.
1.30
Effective social action serves to enrich participation
in the discourses of society, just as the insights gained
from engaging in certain discourses can help to clarify
the concepts that shape social action. At the level of
the cluster, involvement in public discourse can range
from an act as simple as introducing Bahá’í ideas into
everyday conversation to more formal activities such

as the preparation of articles and attendance at gather-
ings, dedicated to themes of social concern—climate
change and the environment, governance and human
rights, to mention a few. It entails, as well, meaningful
interactions with civic groups and local organizations
in villages and neighborhoods.


1.31
In this connection, we feel compelled to raise a
warning: It will be important for all to recognize that
the value of engaging in social action and public dis-
course is not to be judged by the ability to bring enroll-
ments. Though endeavors in these two areas of activity
may well effect an increase in the size of the Bahá’í
community, they are not undertaken for this purpose.
Sincerity in this respect is an imperative. Moreover,
care should be exercised to avoid overstating the Bahá’í
experience or drawing undue attention to fledgling
efforts, such as the junior youth spiritual empower-
ment program, which are best left to mature at their
own pace. The watchword in all cases is humility. While
conveying enthusiasm about their beliefs, the friends
should guard against projecting an air of triumphalism,
hardly appropriate among themselves, much less in
other circumstances.


1.32
In describing for you these new opportunities now
opening at the level of the cluster, we are not ask-
ing you to alter in any way your current course. Nor
should it be imagined that such opportunities repre-
sent an alternative arena of service, competing with
the expansion and consolidation work for the commu-
nity’s limited resources and energies. Over the coming
year, the institute process and the pattern of activity
that it engenders should continue to be strengthened,
and teaching should remain uppermost in the mind of
every believer. Further involvement in the life of soci-
ety should not be sought prematurely. It will proceed

naturally as the friends in every cluster persevere in
applying the provisions of the Plan through a process
of action, reflection, consultation and study, and learn
as a result. Involvement in the life of society will flour-
ish as the capacity of the community to promote its own
growth and to maintain its vitality is gradually raised. It
will achieve coherence with efforts to expand and con-
solidate the community to the extent that it draws on
elements of the conceptual framework which governs
the current series of global Plans. And it will contribute
to the movement of populations towards Bahá’u’lláh’s
vision of a prosperous and peaceful world civilization
to the degree that it employs these elements creatively
in new areas of learning.
*
1.33
Dear Friends: How often did the Beloved Master
express the hope that the hearts of the believers would
overflow with love for one another, that they would
abide no lines of separation but would regard all of
humanity even as one family. “See ye no strangers,”
is His exhortation; “rather see all men as friends, for
love and unity come hard when ye fix your gaze on
otherness.” All of the developments examined in the
preceding pages are, at the most profound level, but
an expression of universal love achieved through the
power of the Holy Spirit. For is it not love for God that
burns away all veils of estrangement and division and
binds hearts together in perfect unity? Is it not His love
that spurs you on in the field of service and enables you
to see in every soul the capacity to know Him and to
worship Him? Are you not galvanized by the knowl-
edge that His Manifestation gladly endured a life of
suffering out of His love for humanity? Look within
your own ranks, at your dear Bahá’í brothers and sis-
ters in Iran. Do they not exemplify fortitude born of

the love of God and the desire to serve Him? Does not
their capacity to transcend the cruelest and most bit-
ter persecution bespeak the capacity of millions upon
millions of oppressed people of the world to arise and
take a decisive part in building the Kingdom of God on
earth? Undeterred by divisive social constructs, press
on and bring Bahá’u’lláh’s message to waiting souls in
every urban neighborhood, in every rural hamlet, in
every corner of the globe, drawing them to His com-
munity, the community of the Greatest Name. Never
do you leave our thoughts and prayers, and we will
continue to implore the Almighty to reinforce you with
His wondrous grace.
The Universal House of Justice



29 August 2010
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,


2.1
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s departure one hundred years ago
from Haifa for Port Said signaled the opening of a glori-
ous new chapter in the annals of the Faith. He was not
to return to the Holy Land for three years. Referring to
that historic moment the Guardian would later write:
“The establishment of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the
Western Hemisphere—the most outstanding achieve-
ment that will forever be associated with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
ministry—had … set in motion such tremendous forces,
and been productive of such far-reaching results, as to
warrant the active and personal participation of the
Center of the Covenant Himself….” With the inaugura-
tion of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels to the West, the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh, hemmed in for more than half a century by
the hosts of enmity and oppression, burst its restraints.
For the first time since its inception, the recognized
Head of the Faith enjoyed a freedom of action to pursue
unencumbered its divinely prescribed mission.


2.2
By any earthly measure, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would have
seemed ill prepared to carry out the task before Him. He
was sixty-six years old, an exile since childhood, with
no formal schooling, a prisoner for forty years, in fail-
ing health, and unfamiliar with Western customs and
languages. Yet He arose, without thought of comfort,
undeterred by the risks involved, and utterly reliant
upon divine assistance, to champion the Cause of God.
He interacted with diverse peoples in nine countries on
three continents. The scope and intensity of His tireless
exertions were such as to “dumbfound His followers

in East and West with admiration and wonder” and to
“exercise an imperishable influence” on the course of
the Faith’s future.
2.3
Over the next few years, Bahá’ís around the world
will joyously call to mind the many episodes associated
with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s historic journey. But this anniver-
sary is more than a time for commemoration. The words
uttered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His travels, and the
deeds He undertook with such consummate wisdom
and love, offer an abundance of inspiration and mani-
fold insights from which the body of the believers can
today draw, whether in their efforts to embrace recep-
tive souls, to raise capacity for service, to build local
communities, to strengthen institutions, or to exploit
opportunities emerging to engage in social action and
contribute to public discourse. We should, therefore,
reflect not only upon what the Master achieved and set
in motion but also on the work that remains undone
to which He has summoned us. In the Tablets of the
Divine Plan, He expressed His inmost longing:
2.4
O that I could travel, even though on foot
and in the utmost poverty, to these regions, and,
raising the call of “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá” in cities,
villages, mountains, deserts and oceans, pro-
mote the divine teachings! This, alas, I cannot
do. How intensely I deplore it! Please God, ye
may achieve it.
2.5
Nearly a century has passed since these words were
recorded. Stage after stage of the Divine Plan has been
successfully prosecuted. The Faith has been established
in all corners of the world. We are present in those
places that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá yearned to visit. Individuals,
communities, and institutions are now endowed with
the capacity necessary for systematic, sustained, and

coherent action. During this precious period of remem-
brance, then, let each and every one of His faithful lov-
ers arise and act in His Name. Let them offer their share,
no matter how humble, to the progress of the Plan He
authored—that priceless and everlasting bequest.
The Universal House of Justice



28 December 2010
To the Conference of the
Continental Boards of Counsellors
Dearly loved Friends,


3.1
Fifteen years have elapsed since, on an occasion
such as this, we gave to the body of Counsellors assem-
bled in the Holy Land the first intimation of the course
the Bahá’í community would have to take, if it was to
accelerate the dual process of its expansion and con-
solidation—a course which its accumulated experience
had prepared it to steer with confidence. No need to
remark on the distance traversed in a short decade and
a half. The record of accomplishments speaks for itself.
Today we invite you to begin deliberations on the next
stage of the great enterprise on which the Bahá’í world
is embarked, a stage that will stretch from Rid. ván 2011
to Rid. ván 2016, constituting the first of two consecutive
Five Year Plans that will culminate at the centenary of
the inauguration of the Faith’s Formative Age. Over the
coming days you are asked to formulate a clear concep-
tion of how the Counsellors and their auxiliaries will
assist the community in building on its extraordinary
achievements—extending to other spheres of operation
the mode of learning which has so undeniably come to
characterize its teaching endeavors, gaining the capac-
ity needed to employ with a high degree of coherence
the instruments and methods which it has so painstak-
ingly developed, and increasing well beyond all previ-
ous numbers the ranks of those who, alive to the vision
of the Faith, are laboring so assiduously in pursuit of its
God-given mission.

3.2
In our Rid. ván message this year, we described the
dynamics of the process of learning that, through four
successive global Plans, has steadily gathered momen-
tum, enhancing the capacity of the friends to engage
in grassroots action. The vista from this vantage point
is stupendous indeed. With more than 350,000 souls
worldwide who have completed the first institute
course, capacity to shape a pattern of life distinguished
for its devotional character has risen perceptibly. In
diverse settings, on every continent, groups of believ-
ers are uniting with others in prayer, turning their
hearts in supplication to their Maker, and calling to
their aid those spiritual forces upon which the efficacy
of their individual and collective efforts depends. A
near doubling in the reserve of Bahá’í children’s class
teachers in a five-year period, bringing the total to some
130,000, has made it possible for the community to
respond wholeheartedly to the spiritual aspirations of
the young. A six fold increase in capacity over the same
period to assist junior youth in navigating through
such a crucial stage of their lives provides an indica-
tion of the level of commitment to that age group. What
is more, everywhere, a notable number of friends find
themselves ready to enter into conversation with people
of varied backgrounds and interests and to undertake
with them an exploration of reality that gives rise to a
shared understanding of the exigencies of this period in
human history and the means for addressing them. And
fuelling the systematic multiplication of core activi-
ties across the globe, with no fewer than half a million
known participants at a given time, are the efforts of
close to 70,000 friends capable of serving as tutors of
study circles.
3.3
As made clear in our Rid. ván message, in the system
thus created to develop its human resources, the com-
munity of the Greatest Name possesses an instrument

of limitless potentialities. Under a wide diversity of
conditions, in virtually any cluster, it is possible for an
expanding nucleus of individuals to generate a move-
ment towards the goal of a new World Order. A decade
ago, when we introduced the concept of a cluster—a
geographic construct intended to facilitate thinking
about the growth of the Faith—we provided an outline
of four broad stages along the path of its development.
As the Bahá’í community set about implementing the
provisions of the Plan, this outline proved immensely
useful in giving shape and definition to what is essen-
tially an ongoing process. The abundant experience
which has since accrued enables the believers now to
conceive of the movement of a population, propelled
by mounting spiritual forces, in terms of a rich and
dynamic continuum. A brief review of the process that
unfolds in a cluster, though well familiar to you all, will
serve to underscore its fundamentally organic nature.
A program of growth


3.4
Invariably, opportunities afforded by the personal
circumstances of the believers initially involved—or
perhaps a single home front pioneer—to enter into
meaningful and distinctive conversation with local
residents dictate how the process of growth begins in
a cluster. A study circle made up of a few friends or
colleagues, a class offered for several neighborhood
children, a group formed for junior youth during after-
school hours, a devotional gathering hosted for family
and friends—any one of these can serve as a stimulus to
growth. What happens next follows no predetermined
course. Conditions may justify that one core activity
be given precedence, multiplying at a rate faster than
the others. It is equally possible that all four would
advance at a comparable pace. Visiting teams may be

called upon to provide impetus to the fledgling set of
activities. But irrespective of the specifics, the outcome
must be the same. Within every cluster, the level of
cohesion achieved among the core activities must be
such that, in their totality, a nascent program for the
sustained expansion and consolidation of the Faith can
be perceived. That is to say, in whatever combination
and however small in number, devotional gatherings,
children’s classes and junior youth groups are being
maintained by those progressing through the sequence
of institute courses and committed to the vision of indi-
vidual and collective transformation they foster. This
initial flow of human resources into the field of sys-
tematic action marks the first of several milestones in a
process of sustainable growth.
3.5
All of the institutions and agencies promoting the
aim of the current series of global Plans need to exercise
the measure of agility that the birth of such a dynamic
process demands—but none more so than the Auxiliary
Board members. To help the friends visualize this first
important milestone, and the multiplicity of ways in
which it can be reached, is central to the functioning
of every Auxiliary Board member and an increasing
number of his or her assistants. In this, as in all their
work, they must display breadth of vision and clar-
ity of thought, flexibility and resourcefulness. They
should stand shoulder to shoulder with the friends,
supporting them through their struggles and partak-
ing in their joys. Some of these friends will quickly
move to the forefront of activity, while others will step
forward more tentatively; yet all require support and
encouragement, offered not in the abstract but on the
basis of that intimate knowledge which is only acquired
by working side by side in the field of service. Faith in
the capacity of every individual who shows a desire to
serve will prove essential to the efforts of those who are

to elicit from the believers wholehearted participation
in the Plan. Unqualified love free of paternalism will
be indispensable if they are to help turn hesitation into
courage born of trust in God and transform a yearn-
ing for excitement into a commitment to long-term
action. Calm determination will be vital as they strive
to demonstrate how stumbling blocks can be made
stepping stones for progress. And a readiness to listen,
with heightened spiritual perception, will be invalu-
able in identifying obstacles that may prevent some of
the friends from appreciating the imperative of unified
action.
Increasing intensity


3.6
It is important to note that, as a program of growth
is being brought into existence, an emergent commu-
nity spirit begins to exert its influence on the course of
events. Whether activities are scattered across the clus-
ter or concentrated in one village or neighborhood, a
sense of common purpose characterizes the endeavors
of the friends. Whatever level of organization served
to channel the early manifestations of this spirit, the
systematic, coordinated multiplication of core activi-
ties necessitates that higher levels soon be attained.
Through various measures, greater structure is lent to
activity, and initiative, shaped largely by individual
volition before, is now given collective expression. A
complement of coordinators appointed by the institute
moves into place—those for study circles, for junior
youth groups, and for children’s classes. Any order
of appointment is potentially valid. Nothing less than
an acute awareness of circumstances on the ground
should make this determination, for what is at stake is
not compliance with a set of procedures but the unfold-
ment of an educational process that has begun to show

its potential to bring about the spiritual empowerment
of large numbers.
3.7
Parallel to the establishment of mechanisms to sup-
port the institute process, other administrative struc-
tures are gradually taking shape. Out of the occasional
meetings of a few believers emerge the regular delibera-
tions of an expanding core group of friends concerned
with channeling into the field of service an increasing
store of energy. As the process of growth continues to
gather momentum, such an arrangement ultimately
fails to satisfy the demands of planning and decision
making, and an Area Teaching Committee is consti-
tuted, and reflection meetings institutionalized. In the
joint interactions of the Committee, the institute and
the Auxiliary Board members, a fully fledged scheme
for the coordination of activities becomes operational—
with all the inherent capacity needed to facilitate the
efficient flow of guidance, funds, and information. By
now, the process of growth in the cluster will conform
to the rhythm established by pronounced cycles of
expansion and consolidation, which, punctuated every
three months by a meeting for reflection and planning,
are unfolding without interruption.
3.8
Here again, it is for the Auxiliary Board members
and other relevant institutions and agencies, such as
the Regional Council and institute board, to ensure
that administrative structures being forged in the clus-
ter take on the requisite characteristics. Specifically,
the sequence of courses that we have recommended
for use by institutes everywhere, which is facilitat-
ing so effectively the process of transformation under
way, is designed to create an environment conducive
at once to universal participation and to mutual sup-
port and assistance. The nature of relationships among
individuals in this environment, all of whom consider

themselves as treading a common path of service, was
explained briefly in our Rid. ván message. We also indi-
cated there that such an environment is not without its
effects on the administrative affairs of the Faith. As an
increasing number of believers participate in the teach-
ing and administrative work, undertaken with a hum-
ble attitude of learning, they should come to view every
task, every interaction, as an occasion to join hands in
the pursuit of progress and to accompany one another
in their efforts to serve the Cause. In this way will the
impulse to over instruct be quieted. In this way will the
tendency to reduce a complex process of transforma-
tion into simplistic steps, susceptible to instruction by
manual, be averted. Discrete actions are placed in con-
text, and even the smallest of steps is endowed with
meaning. The operation of spiritual forces in the arena
of service becomes increasingly apparent, and bonds of
friendship, so vital to a healthy pattern of growth, are
continuously reinforced.


3.9
Within this landscape of unfolding processes,
emerging structures, and enduring fellowship, that
moment which has come to be known as the “launch-
ing” of an intensive program of growth represents con-
scious recognition that all the elements necessary to
accelerate the expansion and consolidation of the Faith
are not only in place but also functioning with an ade-
quate degree of effectiveness. It signals the maturation
of an ever-expanding, self-sustaining system for the
spiritual edification of a population: a steady stream of
friends is proceeding through the courses of the training
institute and engaging in the corresponding activities,
which serves, in turn, to increase the number of fresh
recruits into the Faith, a significant percentage of whom
invariably enters the institute process, guaranteeing
the expansion of the system. This constitutes another

milestone that the friends laboring in every cluster
must, in time, reach.
3.10
In reiterating here much of what we have stated
on previous occasions, we hope to have impressed
upon you how readily the movement of a population,
inspired by the purpose and principles of the Cause,
can be nurtured, when not made the object of extrane-
ous complications. We have no illusion that the path
traced out so summarily above is devoid of difficulty.
Progress is achieved through the dialectic of crisis and
victory, and setbacks are inevitable. A drop in partici-
pation, a disruption in the cycles of activity, a momen-
tary breach in the bonds of unity—these are among
the myriad challenges that may have to be met. Not
infrequently the rise in human resources, or the abil-
ity to mobilize them, will fall short of the demands of
rapid expansion. Yet the imposition of formulas on the
process will not result in a pattern of growth character-
ized by the desired equilibrium. Temporary imbalances
in the progress of different activities are intrinsic to the
process, and they can be adjusted over time, if dealt
with patiently. Scaling back one activity that is flour-
ishing, on the basis of theoretical conceptions of how
balanced growth can be achieved, often proves coun-
terproductive. While the friends in a cluster might well
benefit from the experience of those who have already
established the necessary pattern of action, it is only
through continued action, reflection and consultation
on their part that they will learn to read their own real-
ity, see their own possibilities, make use of their own
resources, and respond to the exigencies of large-scale
expansion and consolidation to come.
3.11
Today, there are some 1,600 clusters worldwide
where the friends have succeeded in creating the pat-
tern of action associated with an intensive program of

growth. Though significant, this accomplishment can
by no means be considered the culmination of the pro-
cess that has gathered momentum in each cluster. New
frontiers of learning are now open to the friends, who
are asked to dedicate their energies to the creation of
vibrant communities, growing in size and reflecting
in greater and greater degrees Bahá’u’lláh’s vision for
humanity. Such clusters will also need to serve as res-
ervoirs of potential pioneers that can be dispatched,
largely across the home front, to cluster after clus-
ter, shedding in some the first rays of the light of His
Revelation and strengthening in others the presence of
the Faith, enabling all to progress quickly to the first
milestone along the path of development, or beyond.
With this in mind, we will call upon the community of
the Most Great Name at Rid. ván 2011 to raise over the
next five years the total number of clusters in which a
program of growth is under way, at whatever level of
intensity, to 5,000, approximately one third of all clus-
ters in the world at present.
Advancing the frontiers of learning


3.12
What we have described in the preceding para-
graphs and in so many messages over the last decade
and a half can best be viewed as the latest in a series
of approaches to the growth of the Bahá’í community,
each suited to specific historical circumstances. This
divinely propelled process of growth was set in motion
by the fervor generated in the Cradle of the Faith more
than one hundred and sixty years ago, as thousands
responded to the summons of a New Day, and received
impetus through the exertions made by early believ-
ers to carry the message of Bahá’u’lláh to neighboring
countries in the East and scattered pockets in the West.
It acquired greater structure through the Tablets of

the Divine Plan revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and gained
momentum as the friends spread out systematically
across the globe under the direction of the Guardian
to establish small centers of Bahá’í activity and erect
the first pillars of the Administrative Order. It gath-
ered force in the rural areas of the world as masses of
humanity were moved to embrace the Faith, but slowed
considerably as the friends strove to discover strategies
for sustaining large-scale expansion and consolidation.
And, for fifteen years now, it has been steadily acceler-
ating since we raised the call at the outset of the Four
Year Plan for the Bahá’í world to systematize the teach-
ing work on the basis of the experience it had gained
through decades of difficult but invaluable learning.
That the current approach to growth, effective as it is,
must evolve still further in complexity and sophistica-
tion once it has taken root in a cluster, demonstrating
ever more notably the “society-building power” inher-
ent in the Faith, few would fail to recognize.
3.13
Referring to the development of the global Bahá’í
community, how often did the beloved Guardian
encourage the friends to remain resolute in their pur-
pose and persevere in their endeavors. “Conscious of
their high calling, confident in the society-building
power which their Faith possesses,” he noted with
satisfaction, “they press forward, undeterred and
undismayed, in their efforts to fashion and perfect the
necessary instruments wherein the embryonic World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh can mature and develop.” “It
is this building process, slow and unobtrusive,” he
reminded them, that “constitutes the one hope” of a
disillusioned humanity. That this process will continue
to gain in scope and influence and the Administrative
Order demonstrate in time “its capacity to be regarded
not only as the nucleus but the very pattern of the New
World Order” is clear from his writings. “In a world the

structure of whose political and social institutions is
impaired, whose vision is befogged, whose conscience
is bewildered, whose religious systems have become
anemic and lost their virtue,” he asserted so emphati-
cally, “this healing Agency, this leavening Power, this
cementing Force, intensely alive and all-pervasive,” is
“taking shape,” is “crystallizing into institutions,” and
is “mobilizing its forces”.


3.14
What should be apparent is that, if the Administrative
Order is to serve as a pattern for future society, then the
community within which it is developing must not
only acquire capacity to address increasingly complex
material and spiritual requirements but also become
larger and larger in size. How could it be otherwise. A
small community, whose members are united by their
shared beliefs, characterized by their high ideals, pro-
ficient in managing their affairs and tending to their
needs, and perhaps engaged in several humanitarian
projects—a community such as this, prospering but at
a comfortable distance from the reality experienced by
the masses of humanity, can never hope to serve as a
pattern for restructuring the whole of society. That the
worldwide Bahá’í community has managed to avert the
dangers of complacency is a source of abiding joy to us.
Indeed, the community has well in hand its expansion
and consolidation. Yet, to administer the affairs of teem-
ing numbers in villages and cities around the globe—to
raise aloft the standard of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order for
all to see—is still a distant goal.


3.15
Therein, then, lies the challenge that must be faced
by those in the forefront of the learning process which
will continue to advance over the course of the next
Plan. Wherever an intensive program of growth is estab-
lished, let the friends spare no effort to increase the level
of participation. Let them strain every nerve to ensure

that the system which they have so laboriously erected
does not close in on itself but progressively expands
to embrace more and more people. Let them not lose
sight of the remarkable receptivity they found—nay,
the sense of eager expectation that awaited them—as
they gained confidence in their ability to interact with
people of all walks of life and converse with them about
the Person of Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation. Let them
hold fast to the conviction that a direct presentation of
the Faith, when carried out at a sufficient level of depth
and reinforced by a sound approach to consolidation,
can bring enduring results. And let them not forget
the lessons of the past which left no doubt that a rela-
tively small band of active supporters of the Cause, no
matter how resourceful, no matter how consecrated,
cannot attend to the needs of communities comprising
hundreds, much less thousands, of men, women and
children. The implications are clear enough. If, in a clus-
ter, those shouldering responsibility for expansion and
consolidation number in the tens, with a few hundred
participating in the activities of community life, both
figures should rise significantly so that by the end of the
Plan, one or two hundred are facilitating the participa-
tion of one or two thousand.
3.16
It is heartening to see that, already in some 300 of
the 1,600 clusters worldwide with intensive programs
of growth in operation, the believers have entered the
new arena of learning now open to them, and, in more
than a few, they are extending its frontiers. Clearly, in all
such clusters, strengthening the educational processes
set in motion by the training institute, each with its
own requisites—regularly held classes for the young-
est members of society, close-knit groups for junior
youth, and circles of study for youth and adults—is
of paramount importance. Much of what this work
entails was discussed in the Rid. ván message. Without

exception, having witnessed the transformative effects
of the institute process first hand, the friends in such
clusters are striving to gain a fuller appreciation of the
dynamics that underlie it—the spirit of fellowship it
creates, the participatory approach it adopts, the depth
of understanding it fosters, the acts of service it recom-
mends, and, above all, its reliance on the Word of God.
Every effort is being exerted to ensure that the process
reflects the complementarity of “being” and “doing”
the institute courses make explicit; the centrality they
accord to knowledge and its application; the emphasis
they place on avoiding false dichotomies; the stress they
lay on memorization of the Creative Word; and the care
they exercise in raising consciousness, without awaken-
ing the insistent self.
Enhancing administrative capacity


3.17
Though the central elements of the process of
growth remain unchanged in the clusters in the van-
guard of learning, sheer numbers require organiza-
tional schemes to take on a higher degree of complexity.
Different innovations have already been introduced, on
the basis of both geographic considerations and numer-
ical growth. The division of the cluster into smaller
units, the decentralization of the reflection meeting, the
assignment of assistants to institute coordinators, the
deployment in teams of experienced friends to support
others in the field—these are some of the arrangements
that have been made thus far. We have every confi-
dence that, with your able assistance, the International
Teaching Center will follow these developments over
the course of the next Plan, helping to consolidate the
lessons learned into well-proven methods and instru-
ments. To this end, you and your auxiliaries will need
to cultivate an atmosphere that encourages the friends

to be methodical but not rigid, creative but not haphaz-
ard, decisive but not hasty, careful but not controlling,
recognizing that, in the final analysis, it is not technique
but unity of thought, consistent action, and dedication
to learning which will bring about progress.
3.18
Whatever the nature of the arrangements made at
the cluster level for coordinating large-scale activity,
continued progress will depend on the development
of Local Spiritual Assemblies and on the increased
capacity of Regional Bahá’í Councils and ultimately
National Spiritual Assemblies. In the Rid. ván message
we expressed pleasure at noting the growing strength
of National Assemblies, and we look to the coming five
years with optimism, certain that we will see signifi-
cant leaps forward in this respect. Moreover, we have
no doubt that, in concert with National Assemblies,
you will be able to help Regional Councils enhance
their institutional capacity. There are currently 170 such
administrative bodies in 45 countries worldwide, and
their number is sure to climb during the next Plan. It
will be imperative that all Regional Councils pay close
attention to the operation of the training institute and
the functioning of Area Teaching Committees. With
this in mind, they will find it necessary to create and
refine mechanisms that serve to further the pattern of
growth unfolding at the cluster level and the learning
process associated with it. These will include a well-
functioning regional office that provides the secretary
with basic organizational support; a sound system of
accounting that accommodates divers channels for the
flow of funds to and from clusters; an efficient means of
communication that takes into consideration the reality
of life in villages and neighborhoods; and, where war-
ranted, physical structures that facilitate intensified and
focused activity. What is important to acknowledge in
this respect is that only if the Councils themselves are

engaged in a process of learning will such mechanisms
prove to be effective. Otherwise, while ostensibly cre-
ated to support learning in action by an increasing
number of participants in neighborhoods and villages,
systems being developed may well work against it in
subtle ways, stifling, unintentionally, rising aspirations
at the grassroots.


3.19
While collaboration with National Spiritual Assem-
blies and Regional Councils will be one of your primary
concerns, your auxiliaries will need to direct more and
more of their energies towards fostering institutional
capacity at the local level, where the demands of com-
munity building assert themselves so unmistakably. To
help you envision what lies ahead of Auxiliary Board
members and their assistants everywhere, particularly
in clusters experiencing large-scale expansion and con-
solidation, we ask you to reflect, first, on the develop-
ment of Local Spiritual Assemblies in the many rural
areas of the world, in which the vast majority of such
clusters today are to be found.


3.20
As you are aware, often in a rural cluster made up
of villages and perhaps one or two towns, while the pat-
tern of action associated with an intensive program of
growth is being established, the efforts of the friends are
confined to a few localities. Once in place, however, the
pattern can be extended quickly to village after village,
as explained in our Rid. ván message this year. Early on
in each locality, the Local Spiritual Assembly comes into
existence, and its steady development follows a trajec-
tory parallel with, and intimately tied to, the fledgling
process of growth unfolding in the village. And not
unlike the evolution of other facets of this process, the
development of the Local Assembly can best be under-
stood in terms of capacity building.

3.21
What needs to occur in the first instance is relatively
straightforward: Individual awareness of the process
of growth gathering momentum in the village, born
of each member’s personal involvement in the core
activities, must coalesce into a collective consciousness
that recognizes both the nature of the transformation
under way and the obligation of the Assembly to fos-
ter it. Without doubt, some attention will have to be
given to certain basic administrative functions—for
example, meeting with a degree of regularity, conduct-
ing the Nineteen Day Feast and planning Holy Day
observances, establishing a local fund, and holding
annual elections in accordance with Bahá’í principle.
However, it should not prove difficult for the Local
Assembly to begin, concomitant with such efforts and
with encouragement from an assistant to an Auxiliary
Board member, to consult as a body on one or two spe-
cific issues with immediate relevance to the life of the
community: how the devotional character of the village
is being enhanced through the efforts of individuals
who have completed the first institute course; how the
spiritual education of the children is being addressed
by teachers raised up by the institute; how the poten-
tial of junior youth is being realized by the program
for their spiritual empowerment; how the spiritual and
social fabric of the community is being strengthened
as the friends visit one another in their homes. As the
Assembly consults on such tangible matters and learns
to nurture the process of growth lovingly and patiently,
its relationship with the Area Teaching Committee and
the training institute gradually becomes cemented in a
common purpose. But, of still greater importance, it will
begin to lay the foundations on which can be built that
uniquely affectionate and genuinely supportive rela-
tionship, described by the beloved Guardian in many of
his messages, which Local Spiritual Assemblies should
establish with the individual believer.



3.22
Clearly, learning to consult on specific issues related
to the global Plan, no matter how crucial, represents
but one dimension of the capacity-building process
in which the Local Spiritual Assembly must engage.
Its continued development implies adherence to the
injunction laid down by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that “discussions
must all be confined to spiritual matters that pertain
to the training of souls, the instruction of children, the
relief of the poor, the help of the feeble throughout all
classes in the world, kindness to all peoples, the dif-
fusion of the fragrances of God and the exaltation of
His Holy Word.” Its steady advancement requires an
unbending commitment to promote the best interests
of the community and a vigilance in guarding the pro-
cess of growth against the forces of moral decay that
threaten to arrest it. Its ongoing progress calls for a
sense of responsibility that extends beyond the circle
of friends and families engaged in the core activities
to encompass the entire population of the village. And
sustaining its gradual maturation is unshakable faith
in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s assurance that He will enfold every
Spiritual Assembly within the embrace of His care and
protection.


3.23
Associated with this rise in collective consciousness
is the Assembly’s growing ability to properly assess
and utilize resources, financial and otherwise, both in
support of community activities and in discharging its
administrative functions, which may in time include
the judicious appointment of committees and the main-
tenance of modest physical facilities for its operations.
No less vital is its ability to nurture an environment
conducive to the participation of large numbers in uni-
fied action and to ensure that their energies and talents
contribute towards progress. In all these respects, the
spiritual well-being of the community remains upper-
most in the Assembly’s mind. And when inevitable

problems arise, whether in relation to some activity or
among individuals, they will be addressed by a Local
Spiritual Assembly which has so completely gained the
confidence of the members of the community that all
naturally turn to it for assistance. This implies that the
Assembly has learned through experience how to help
the believers put aside the divisive ways of a partisan
mindset, how to find the seeds of unity in even the most
perplexing and thorny situations and how to nurture
them slowly and lovingly, upholding at all times the
standard of justice.
3.24
As the community grows in size and in capacity to
maintain vitality, the friends will, we have indicated
in the past, be drawn further into the life of society
and be challenged to take advantage of the approaches
they have developed to respond to a widening range
of issues that face their village. The question of coher-
ence, so essential to the growth achieved thus far, and
so fundamental to the Plan’s evolving framework for
action, now assumes new dimensions. Much will fall on
the Local Assembly, not as an executor of projects but
as the voice of moral authority, to make certain that, as
the friends strive to apply the teachings of the Faith to
improve conditions through a process of action, reflec-
tion and consultation, the integrity of their endeavors
is not compromised.
3.25
Our Rid. ván message described a few of the charac-
teristics of social action at the grassroots, and the con-
ditions it must meet. Efforts in a village will generally
begin on a small scale, perhaps with the emergence of
groups of friends, each concerned with a specific social
or economic need it has identified and each pursuing
a simple set of appropriate actions. Consultation at
the Nineteen Day Feast creates a space for the grow-
ing social consciousness of the community to find

constructive expression. Whatever the nature of activi-
ties undertaken, the Local Assembly must be attentive
to potential pitfalls and help the friends, if necessary, to
steer past them—the allurements of overly ambitious
projects that would consume energies and ultimately
prove untenable, the temptation of financial grants that
would necessitate a departure from Bahá’í principle,
the promises of technologies deceptively packaged
that would strip the village of its cultural heritage and
lead to fragmentation and dissonance. Eventually the
strength of the institute process in the village, and the
enhanced capabilities it has fostered in individuals,
may enable the friends to take advantage of methods
and programs of proven effectiveness, which have been
developed by one or another Bahá’í-inspired organiza-
tion and which have been introduced into the cluster
at the suggestion of, and with support from, our Office
of Social and Economic Development. Moreover, the
Assembly must learn to interact with social and politi-
cal structures in the locality, gradually raising con-
sciousness of the presence of the Faith and the influence
it is exerting on the progress of the village.


3.26
What is outlined in the foregoing paragraphs repre-
sents only a few of the attributes which Local Spiritual
Assemblies in the many villages of the world will
gradually develop in serving the needs of communi-
ties that embrace larger and larger numbers. As they
increasingly manifest their latent capacities and pow-
ers, their members will come to be seen by the inhabit-
ants of each village as “the trusted ones of the Merciful
among men”. Thus will these Assemblies become
“shining lamps and heavenly gardens, from which the
fragrances of holiness are diffused over all regions, and
the lights of knowledge are shed abroad over all created
things. From them the spirit of life streameth in every
direction.”

3.27
Such a lofty vision applies equally, of course, to
all Local Spiritual Assemblies throughout the world.
Even in a major metropolitan area, the nature of an
Assembly’s development is fundamentally the same
as the one delineated above. Differences lie principally
in size and diversity of the population. The first neces-
sitates the division of the Assembly’s area of jurisdic-
tion into neighborhoods according to the exigencies of
growth and the gradual introduction of mechanisms for
administering the affairs of the Faith in each. The sec-
ond requires the Assembly to become familiar with the
myriad social spaces, beyond geographic ones, in which
segments of the population come together and to offer
them, to the extent possible, the wisdom enshrined in
the teachings. Further, the institutional structures in an
urban area—social, political, and cultural—with which
the Assembly must learn to engage are much wider in
range and larger in number.
Service on Bahá’í institutions
3.28
In setting out for you in these pages developments
we are eager to see in the administrative work of the
Faith during the next Five Year Plan, we are reminded
of the repeated warnings raised by the Guardian in this
regard. “Let us take heed lest in our great concern for
the perfection of the administrative machinery of the
Cause,” he stated, “we lose sight of the Divine Purpose
for which it has been created.” The Bahá’í administra-
tive machinery, he reiterated again and again, “is to
be regarded as a means, and not an end in itself”. It is
intended, he made clear, “to serve a twofold purpose”.
On the one hand, “it should aim at a steady and gradual
expansion” of the Cause “along lines that are at once
broad, sound and universal.” On the other, “it should
ensure the internal consolidation of the work already
achieved.” And he went on to explain: “It should

both provide the impulse whereby the dynamic forces
latent in the Faith can unfold, crystallize, and shape
the lives and conduct of men, and serve as a medium
for the interchange of thought and the coordination of
activities among the divers elements that constitute the
Bahá’í community.”


3.29
It is our earnest hope that, in your efforts over the
next Plan to promote the sound and harmonious devel-
opment of Bahá’í administration at all levels, from the
local to the national, you will do your utmost to help
the friends carry out their functions in the context of
the organic process of growth gathering momentum
across the globe. The realization of this hope will hinge,
to a large extent, on the degree to which those who
have been called upon to render such service—whether
elected to a Spiritual Assembly or named to one of its
agencies, whether designated an institute coordinator
or appointed one of your deputies—recognize the great
privilege that is theirs and understand the boundaries
which this privilege establishes for them.


3.30
Service on the institutions and agencies of the Faith
is indeed a tremendous privilege, but not one that is
sought by the individual; it is a duty and responsibil-
ity to which he or she may be called at any given time.
It is understandable, of course, that all those involved
in Bahá’í administration would rightly feel they have
been invested with a singular honor in forming part, in
whatever way, of a structure designed to be a channel
through which the spirit of the Cause flows. Yet they
should not imagine that such service entitles them to
operate on the periphery of the learning process that is
everywhere gaining strength, exempt from its inherent
requirements. Nor should it be supposed that mem-
bership on administrative bodies provides an oppor-
tunity to promote one’s own understanding of what

is recorded in the Sacred Text and how the teachings
should be applied, steering the community in what-
ever direction personal preferences dictate. Referring to
members of Spiritual Assemblies, the Guardian wrote
that they “must disregard utterly their own likes and
dislikes, their personal interests and inclinations, and
concentrate their minds upon those measures that will
conduce to the welfare and happiness of the Bahá’í
Community and promote the common weal.” Bahá’í
institutions do exercise authority to guide the friends,
and exert moral, spiritual and intellectual influence on
the lives of individuals and communities. However,
such functions are to be performed with the realization
that an ethos of loving service pervades Bahá’í insti-
tutional identity. Qualifying authority and influence
in this manner implies sacrifice on the part of those
entrusted to administer the affairs of the Faith. Does not
‘Abdu’l-Bahá tell us that “when a lump of iron is cast
into the forge, its ferrous qualities of blackness, cold-
ness and solidity, which symbolize the attributes of the
human world, are concealed and disappear, while the
fire’s distinctive qualities of redness, heat and fluidity,
which symbolize the virtues of the Kingdom, become
visibly apparent in it.” As He averred, “ye must in this
matter—that is, the serving of humankind—lay down
your very lives, and as ye yield yourselves, rejoice.”
*
3.31
Dearly loved friends: As you well know, we take
great pleasure in witnessing how ably you and your
auxiliaries, serving in the forefront of the teaching field,
are carrying out your duties to nurture in every heart
and soul the fire of the love of God, to promote learn-
ing, and to assist all in their endeavors to develop an
upright and praiseworthy character. When the North
American Bahá’í community embarked on its first

Seven Year Plan, in pursuit of the responsibilities with
which it had been charged in the Tablets of the Divine
Plan, the Guardian addressed to the friends in that land
a letter of considerable length and great potency, dated
25 December 1938, subsequently published under the
title The Advent of Divine Justice. Elaborating on the
nature of the tasks at hand, the letter made reference to
what the Guardian described as spiritual prerequisites
for the success of all Bahá’í undertakings. Of these,
three, he indicated, “stand out as preeminent and vital”:
rectitude of conduct, a chaste and holy life, and freedom
from prejudice. Given the conditions of the world today,
you would do well to reflect on the implications of his
observations for the global effort of the Bahá’í com-
munity to infuse cluster after cluster with the spirit of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation.


3.32
Referring to rectitude of conduct, Shoghi Effendi
spoke of the “justice, equity, truthfulness, honesty,
fair-mindedness, reliability, and trustworthiness” that
must “distinguish every phase of the life of the Bahá’í
community.” Though applicable to all its members,
this requisite was directed principally, he underscored,
to its “elected representatives, whether local, regional,
or national,” whose sense of moral rectitude should
stand in clear contrast to “the demoralizing influences
which a corruption-ridden political life so strikingly
manifests”. The Guardian called for “an abiding sense
of undeviating justice” in a “strangely disordered
world” and quoted extensively from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, setting the sights of the
friends on the highest standards of honesty and trust-
worthiness. He appealed to the believers to exemplify
rectitude of conduct in every aspect of their lives—in
their business dealings, in their domestic lives, in all
manner of employment, in every service they render
to the Cause and to their people—and to observe its

requirements in their uncompromising adherence to
the laws and principles of the Faith. That political life
everywhere has continued to deteriorate at an alarming
rate in the intervening years, as the very conception of
statesmanship has been drained of meaning, as policies
have come to serve the economic interests of the few in
the name of progress, as hypocrisy has been allowed to
undermine the operation of social and economic struc-
tures, is evident. If indeed great effort was required
for the friends to uphold the high standards of the
Faith then, how much greater must be the exertion in a
world that rewards dishonesty, that encourages corrup-
tion, and that treats truth as a negotiable commodity.
Profound is the confusion that threatens the founda-
tions of society, and unwavering must be the resolve
of all those involved in Bahá’í activity, lest the slightest
trace of self-interest becloud their judgment. Let the
coordinators of every training institute, the members of
every Area Teaching Committee, every Auxiliary Board
member and every one of his or her assistants, and all
members of every local, regional and national Bahá’í
body, whether elected or appointed, appreciate the
significance of the Guardian’s plea to ponder in their
hearts the implications of the moral rectitude which he
described with such clarity. May their actions serve as
a reminder to a beleaguered and weary humanity of its
high destiny and its inherent nobility.
3.33
No less pertinent to the success of the Bahá’í enter-
prise today are the Guardian’s forthright comments
on the importance of a chaste and holy life, “with its
implications of modesty, purity, temperance, decency,
and clean-mindedness”. He was unequivocal in his
language, summoning the friends to a life unsullied “by
the indecencies, the vices, the false standards, which
an inherently deficient moral code tolerates, perpetu-
ates, and fosters”. We need not provide for you here

evidence of the influence that such a deficient code
now exerts on humanity as a whole; even the remotest
spots on the globe are captivated by its enticements.
Yet we feel compelled to mention a few points related
specifically to the theme of purity. The forces at work
on the hearts and minds of the young, to whom the
Guardian directed his appeal most fervently, are perni-
cious indeed. Exhortations to remain pure and chaste
will only succeed to a limited degree in helping them
to resist these forces. What needs to be appreciated in
this respect is the extent to which young minds are
affected by the choices parents make for their own lives,
when, no matter how unintentionally, no matter how
innocently, such choices condone the passions of the
world—its admiration for power, its adoration of status,
its love of luxuries, its attachment to frivolous pursuits,
its glorification of violence, and its obsession with self-
gratification. It must be realized that the isolation and
despair from which so many suffer are products of an
environment ruled by an all-pervasive materialism.
And in this the friends must understand the ramifica-
tions of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “the present-day
order” must “be rolled up, and a new one spread out in
its stead.” Throughout the world today, young people
are among the most enthusiastic supporters of the Plan
and the most ardent champions of the Cause; their
numbers will, we are certain, increase from year to year.
May every one of them come to know the bounties of a
life adorned with purity and learn to draw on the pow-
ers that flow through pure channels.


3.34
The Guardian next addressed the subject of preju-
dice, stating patently that “any division or cleavage”
in the ranks of the Faith “is alien to its very purpose,
principles, and ideals.” He made clear that the friends
should manifest “complete freedom from prejudice in
their dealings with peoples of a different race, class,

creed, or color.” He went on to discuss at length the
specific question of racial prejudice, “the corrosion of
which,” he indicated, had “bitten into the fiber, and
attacked the whole social structure of American soci-
ety” and which, he asserted at the time, “should be
regarded as constituting the most vital and challenging
issue confronting the Bahá’í community at the present
stage of its evolution.” Independent of the strengths
and weaknesses of the measures taken by the American
nation, and the Bahá’í community evolving within it,
in addressing this particular challenge, the fact remains
that prejudices of all kinds—of race, of class, of ethnic-
ity, of gender, of religious belief—continue to hold a
strong grip on humanity. While it is true that, at the
level of public discourse, great strides have been taken
in refuting the falsehoods that give rise to prejudice
in whatever form, it still permeates the structures of
society and is systematically impressed on the indi-
vidual consciousness. It should be apparent to all that
the process set in motion by the current series of global
Plans seeks, in the approaches it takes and the methods
it employs, to build capacity in every human group,
with no regard for class or religious background, with
no concern for ethnicity or race, irrespective of gender
or social status, to arise and contribute to the advance-
ment of civilization. We pray that, as it steadily unfolds,
its potential to disable every instrument devised by
humanity over the long period of its childhood for one
group to oppress another may be realized.
3.35
The educational process associated with the train-
ing institute is, of course, helping to foster the spiritual
conditions to which the Guardian referred in The Advent
of Divine Justice, along with the many others mentioned
in the writings that must distinguish the life of the
Bahá’í community—the spirit of unity that must ani-
mate the friends, the ties of love that must bind them,

the firmness in the Covenant that must sustain them,
and the reliance and trust they must place on the power
of divine assistance, to note but a few. That such essen-
tial attributes are developed in the context of building
capacity for service, in an environment that cultivates
systematic action, is particularly noteworthy. In pro-
moting this environment, the Auxiliary Board members
and their assistants need to recognize the importance
of two fundamental, interlocking precepts: On the
one hand, the high standard of conduct inculcated by
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation can admit no compromise; it
can, in no wise, be lowered, and all must fix their gaze
on its lofty heights. On the other, it must be acknowl-
edged that, as human beings, we are far from perfect;
what is expected of everyone is sincere daily effort. Self-
righteousness is to be eschewed.
*


3.36
Apart from the spiritual requisites of a sanctified
Bahá’í life, there are habits of thought that affect the
unfoldment of the global Plan, and their development
has to be encouraged at the level of culture. There are
tendencies, as well, that need to be gradually overcome.
Many of these tendencies are reinforced by approaches
prevalent in society at large, which, not altogether
unreasonably, enter into Bahá’í activity. The magnitude
of the challenge facing the friends in this respect is not
lost on us. They are called upon to become increasingly
involved in the life of society, benefiting from its educa-
tional programs, excelling in its trades and professions,
learning to employ well its tools, and applying them-
selves to the advancement of its arts and sciences. At
the same time, they are never to lose sight of the aim of
the Faith to effect a transformation of society, remolding
its institutions and processes, on a scale never before
witnessed. To this end, they must remain acutely aware

of the inadequacies of current modes of thinking and
doing—this, without feeling the least degree of superi-
ority, without assuming an air of secrecy or aloofness,
and without adopting an unnecessarily critical stance
towards society. There are a few specific points we wish
to mention in this connection.
3.37
It is heartening to note that the friends are approach-
ing the study of the messages of the Universal House
of Justice related to the Plan with such diligence. The
level of discussion generated as they strive to put into
practice the guidance received, and to learn from expe-
rience, is impressive. We cannot help noticing, however,
that achievements tend to be more enduring in those
regions where the friends strive to understand the total-
ity of the vision conveyed in the messages, while diffi-
culties often arise when phrases and sentences are taken
out of context and viewed as isolated fragments. The
institutions and agencies of the Faith should help the
believers to analyze but not reduce, to ponder mean-
ing but not dwell on words, to identify distinct areas of
action but not compartmentalize. We realize that this is
no small task. Society speaks more and more in slogans.
We hope that the habits the friends are forming in study
circles to work with full and complex thoughts and
to achieve understanding will be extended to various
spheres of activity.
3.38
Closely related to the habit of reducing an entire
theme into one or two appealing phrases is the ten-
dency to perceive dichotomies, where, in fact, there are
none. It is essential that ideas forming part of a cohesive
whole not be held in opposition to one another. In a let-
ter written on his behalf, Shoghi Effendi warned: “We
must take the teachings as a great, balanced whole, not
seek out and oppose to each other two strong state-
ments that have different meanings; somewhere in

between, there are links uniting the two.” How encour-
aged we have been to note that many of the misunder-
standings of the past have fallen away as appreciation
for the provisions of the Plan has grown. Expansion
and consolidation, individual action and collective
campaigns, refinement of the inner character and con-
secration to selfless service—the harmonious relation-
ship between these facets of Bahá’í life is now readily
acknowledged. It brings us equal pleasure to know that
the friends are on their guard, lest new false dichoto-
mies be allowed to pervade their thinking. They are
well aware that the diverse elements of a program of
growth are complementary. The tendency to see activi-
ties, and the agencies that support them, in competition
with one another, a tendency so common in society at
large, is being avoided by the community.


3.39
Finally, a significant advance in culture, one which
we have followed with particular interest, is marked by
the rise in capacity to think in terms of process. That,
from the outset, the believers have been asked to be
ever conscious of the broad processes that define their
work is apparent from a careful reading of even the
earliest communications of the Guardian related to the
first national plans of the Faith. However, in a world
focused increasingly on the promotion of events, or
at best projects, with a mindset that derives satisfac-
tion from the sense of expectation and excitement they
generate, maintaining the level of dedication required
for long-term action demands considerable effort. The
expansion and consolidation of the Bahá’í community
encompasses a number of interacting processes, each of
which contributes its share to the movement of human-
ity towards Bahá’u’lláh’s vision of a new World Order.
The lines of action associated with any given process
provide for the organization of occasional events, and
from time to time, activities take the shape of a project

with a clear beginning and a definite end. If, however,
events are imposed on the natural unfoldment of a pro-
cess, they will disrupt its sound evolution. If the proj-
ects undertaken in a cluster are not made subordinate to
the explicit needs of the processes unfolding there, they
will yield little fruit.
3.40
To understand the nature of the interacting pro-
cesses that, in their totality, engender the expansion
and consolidation of the Faith is vital to the successful
execution of the Plan. In your efforts to further such
understanding, you and your auxiliaries are encour-
aged to bear in mind a concept that lies at the founda-
tion of the current global enterprise and, indeed, at the
very heart of every stage of the Divine Plan, namely,
that progress is achieved through the development of
three participants—the individual, the institutions, and
the community. Throughout human history, interac-
tions among these three have been fraught with diffi-
culties at every turn, with the individual clamoring for
freedom, the institution demanding submission, and
the community claiming precedence. Every society has
defined, in one way or another, the relationships that
bind the three, giving rise to periods of stability, inter-
woven with turmoil. Today, in this age of transition,
as humanity struggles to attain its collective maturity,
such relationships—nay, the very conception of the
individual, of social institutions, and of the commu-
nity—continue to be assailed by crises too numerous to
count. The worldwide crisis of authority provides proof
enough. So grievous have been its abuses, and so deep
the suspicion and resentment it now arouses, that the
world is becoming increasingly ungovernable—a situ-
ation made all the more perilous by the weakening of
community ties.



3.41
Every follower of Bahá’u’lláh knows well that the
purpose of His Revelation is to bring into being a new
creation. No sooner had “the First Call gone forth from
His lips than the whole creation was revolutionized,
and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth
were stirred to the depths.” The individual, the insti-
tutions, and the community—the three protagonists
in the Divine Plan—are being shaped under the direct
influence of His Revelation, and a new conception of
each, appropriate for a humanity that has come of age,
is emerging. The relationships that bind them, too, are
undergoing a profound transformation, bringing into
the realm of existence civilization-building powers
which can only be released through conformity with
His decree. At a fundamental level these relationships
are characterized by cooperation and reciprocity, mani-
festations of the interconnectedness that governs the
universe. So it is that the individual, with no regard
for “personal benefits and selfish advantages,” comes
to see him- or herself as “one of the servants of God,
the All-Possessing,” whose only desire is to carry out
His laws. So it is that the friends come to recognize
that “wealth of sentiment, abundance of good-will and
effort” are of little avail when their flow is not directed
along proper channels, that “the unfettered freedom of
the individual should be tempered with mutual con-
sultation and sacrifice,” and that “the spirit of initiative
and enterprise should be reinforced by a deeper realiza-
tion of the supreme necessity for concerted action and a
fuller devotion to the common weal.” And so it is that
all come to discern with ease those areas of activity in
which the individual can best exercise initiative and
those which fall to the institutions alone. “With heart
and soul”, the friends follow the directives of their
institutions, so that, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “things
may be properly ordered and well arranged”. This, of

course, is not a blind obedience; it is an obedience that
marks the emergence of a mature human race which
grasps the implications of a system as far-reaching as
Bahá’u’lláh’s new World Order.
3.42
And those who are called upon from among the
ranks of such enkindled souls to serve on the insti-
tutions of that mighty system understand well the
Guardian’s words that “their function is not to dictate,
but to consult, and consult not only among themselves,
but as much as possible with the friends whom they
represent.” “Never” would they be “led to suppose
that they are the central ornaments of the body of the
Cause, intrinsically superior to others in capacity or
merit, and sole promoters of its teachings and prin-
ciples.” “With extreme humility,” they approach their
tasks and “endeavor, by their open-mindedness, their
high sense of justice and duty, their candor, their mod-
esty, their entire devotion to the welfare and interests of
the friends, the Cause, and humanity, to win, not only
the confidence and the genuine support and respect
of those whom they serve, but also their esteem and
real affection.” Within the environment thus created,
institutions invested with authority see themselves as
instruments for nurturing human potential, ensuring its
unfoldment along avenues productive and meritorious.
3.43
Composed of such individuals and such institu-
tions, the community of the Greatest Name becomes
that spiritually charged arena in which powers are
multiplied in unified action. It is of this community
that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes: “When any souls grow to be
true believers, they will attain a spiritual relationship
with one another, and show forth a tenderness which
is not of this world. They will, all of them, become
elated from a draught of divine love, and that union of
theirs, that connection, will also abide forever. Souls,

that is, who will consign their own selves to oblivion,
strip from themselves the defects of humankind, and
unchain themselves from human bondage, will beyond
any doubt be illumined with the heavenly splendors of
oneness, and will all attain unto real union in the world
that dieth not.”


3.44
As more and more receptive souls embrace the
Cause of God and throw in their lot with those already
participating in the global enterprise under way, the
development and activity of the individual, the institu-
tions, and the community are sure to receive a mighty
thrust forward. May a bewildered humanity see in the
relationships being forged among these three protago-
nists by the followers of Bahá’u’lláh a pattern of collec-
tive life that will propel it towards its high destiny. This
is our ardent prayer in the Holy Shrines.
The Universal House of Justice



1 January 2011
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,


4.1
For the past five days, the Continental Counsellors
have been gathered in conference in the Holy Land,
engaged in earnest deliberation at once insightful
and clear visioned, well grounded and confident, on
the progress of the Divine Plan. The joy and wonder
of this gathering, now entering its closing moments,
has come from the vivid retelling of your numerous
exploits, deeds which secured the astonishing attain-
ment of the goal of the Five Year Plan one year early. It
is hard to express in words how much love for you has
been shown in these few, fleeting days. We praise God
that He has raised up a community so accomplished
and render thanks to Him for releasing your marvel-
ous potentialities. You it is who, whether in collective
endeavors or individual efforts, are presenting the
verities of the Faith and assisting souls to recognize the
Blessed Beauty. You it is who, in your tens of thousands,
are serving as tutors of study circles wherever receptiv-
ity is kindled. You it is who, without thought of self, are
providing spiritual education to the child and kindly
fellowship to the junior youth. You it is who, through
visits to homes and invitations to yours, are forging ties
of spiritual kinship that foster a sense of community.
You it is who, when called to serve on the institutions
and agencies of the Cause, are accompanying others
and rejoicing in their achievements. And it is all of us,
whatever our share in this undertaking, who labor and
long, strive and supplicate for the transformation of
humanity, envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh, to be hastened.

4.2
A new five-year horizon now beckons, rich with
portent. The features of the Plan that will begin this
Rid. ván are set out in a letter we addressed to the
Counsellors Conference at its opening session and
which was transmitted to National Spiritual Assemblies
the same day. We hope that you will be able to give it
thoughtful study, alongside the message we addressed
to you at Rid. ván 2010, at gatherings of all kinds—
whether at the national, regional, or cluster level, in
local communities, in neighborhoods and villages, or
in the home. We are certain that, through the consul-
tations about the Plan in which you participate, your
understanding will deepen and, conscious of the spiri-
tual forces that support you, you will resolve to make
this global enterprise a personal concern and become
as occupied with the well-being of the human family as
you are with that of your dearest kin. It brings us great
joy that so many souls throughout the Bahá’í commu-
nity are ready to thus distinguish themselves. But what
gratifies us beyond this is the certain knowledge that
victories will be won in the next five years by youth and
adults, men and women, who may at present be wholly
unaware of Bahá’u’lláh’s coming, much less acquainted
with the “society-building power” of His Faith. For you
possess a potent instrument for spiritually empowering
the masses of humanity to take charge of their own des-
tiny, an instrument tempered in the crucible of experi-
ence. You know well, and have heard clearly, the call of
Bahá’u’lláh: “I am the Sun of Wisdom and the Ocean of
Knowledge. I cheer the faint and revive the dead. I am
the guiding Light that illumineth the way. I am the royal
Falcon on the arm of the Almighty. I unfold the droop-
ing wings of every broken bird and start it on its flight.”
4.3
Our abiding prayers are with each of you.
The Universal House of Justice



Rid. ván 2011
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,


5.1
At the opening of this glorious season our eyes are
brightened as we behold the newly unveiled brilliance
of the gilded dome that crowns the exalted Shrine of
the Báb. Restored to the supernal luster intended for it
by Shoghi Effendi, that august edifice once again shines
out to land, sea, and sky, by day and by night, attest-
ing the majesty and holiness of Him Whose hallowed
remains are embosomed within.


5.2
This moment of joy synchronizes with the close of
an auspicious chapter in the unfoldment of the Divine
Plan. Only a single decade remains of the first century
of the Formative Age, the first hundred years to be
spent beneath the benevolent shade of the Will and
Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Five Year Plan now end-
ing is succeeded by another, the features of which have
already been made the object of intense study across
the Bahá’í world. Indeed, we could not be more grati-
fied by the response to our message to the Conference
of the Continental Boards of Counsellors and to the
Rid. ván message of twelve months ago. Not satisfied
with a fragmentary grasp of their contents, the friends
are returning to these messages again and again, singly
and in groups, at formal meetings and spontaneous
gatherings. Their understanding is enriched through
active and informed participation in the programs of
growth being nurtured in their clusters. Consequently,
the Bahá’í community worldwide has consciously

absorbed in a few months what it needs to propel it into
a confident start to the coming decade.
5.3
Over the same period, cumulative instances of polit-
ical upheaval and economic turmoil on various conti-
nents have shaken governments and peoples. Societies
have been brought to the brink of revolution, and in
notable cases over the edge. Leaders are finding that
neither arms nor riches guarantee security. Where the
aspirations of the people have gone unfulfilled, a store
of indignation has accrued. We recall how pointedly
Bahá’u’lláh admonished the rulers of the earth: “Your
people are your treasures. Beware lest your rule violate
the commandments of God, and ye deliver your wards
to the hands of the robber.” A word of caution: No mat-
ter how captivating the spectacle of the people’s fervor
for change, it must be remembered that there are inter-
ests which manipulate the course of events. And, so
long as the remedy prescribed by the Divine Physician
is not administered, the tribulations of this age will per-
sist and deepen. An attentive observer of the times will
readily recognize the accelerated disintegration, fitful
but relentless, of a world order lamentably defective.
5.4
Yet, discernible too is its counterpart, the construc-
tive process that the Guardian associated with “the
nascent Faith of Bahá’u’lláh” and described as “the
harbinger of the New World Order that Faith must
erelong establish.” Its indirect effects can be seen in
the outpouring of feeling, especially from the young,
that springs from a longing to contribute to societal
development. It is a bounty accorded to the followers
of the Ancient Beauty that this longing, which wells
up  inexorably from the human spirit in every land, is
able to find such eloquent expression in the work the
Bahá’í community is carrying out to build capacity for

effective action amongst the diverse populations of the
planet. Can any privilege compare with this?


5.5
For insight into this work let every believer look to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the centenary of Whose “epoch-making
journeys” to Egypt and the West is being marked at this
time. Tirelessly, He expounded the teachings in every
social space: in homes and mission halls, churches and
synagogues, parks and public squares, railway car-
riages and ocean liners, clubs and societies, schools
and universities. Uncompromising in defense of the
truth, yet infinitely gentle in manner, He brought the
universal divine principles to bear on the exigencies
of the age. To all without distinction—officials, scien-
tists, workers, children, parents, exiles, activists, clerics,
skeptics—He imparted love, wisdom, comfort, what-
ever the particular need. While elevating their souls,
He challenged their assumptions, reoriented their per-
spectives, expanded their consciousness, and focused
their energies. He demonstrated by word and deed such
compassion and generosity that hearts were utterly
transformed. No one was turned away. Our great hope
is that frequent recollection, during this centennial
period, of the Master’s matchless record will inspire
and fortify His sincere admirers. Set His example before
your eyes and fix your gaze upon it; let it be your
instinctive guide in your pursuit of the aim of the Plan.


5.6
At the inception of the Bahá’í community’s first
global Plan, Shoghi Effendi described in compelling
language the successive stages by which the divine
light had been kindled in the Síyáh-Chál, clothed in
the lamp of revelation in Baghdád, spread to countries
in Asia and Africa even as it shone with added bril-
liancy in Adrianople and later in ‘Akká, projected across
the seas to the remaining continents, and by which it
would be progressively diffused over the states and

dependencies of the world. The final part of this process
he characterized as the “penetration of that light ... into
all the remaining territories of the globe”, referring to
it as “the stage at which the light of God’s triumphant
Faith shining in all its power and glory will have suf-
fused and enveloped the entire planet.” Though that
goal is far from being fulfilled, the light already blazes
intensely in many a region. In some countries it shines
in every cluster. In the land where that inextinguish-
able light was first ignited, it burns bright despite those
who would snuff it out. In diverse nations it achieves a
steady glow across whole neighborhoods and villages,
as candle after candle in heart after heart is lighted by
the Hand of Providence; it illuminates thoughtful con-
versation at every level of human interaction; it casts its
beams upon a myriad initiatives taken to promote the
well-being of a people. And in every instance it radiates
from a faithful believer, a vibrant community, a loving
Spiritual Assembly—each a beacon of light against the
gloom.
5.7
We pray earnestly at the Sacred Threshold that each
one of you, bearers of the undying flame, may be sur-
rounded by the potent confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh as
you convey to others the spark of faith.
The Universal House of Justice