Learning About Growth
The Story of the Ruhi Institute
and Large-scale Expansion
of the Bahá'í Faith in Colombia
The Ruhi Institute

The Ruhi Institute, Apartado Aereo 7098, Cali, Colombia.
Published July 1991.
This publication is available for worldwide distribution from
Palabra Publications, 3735 B Shares Place, Riviera Beach, FL,
phone: 407-845-1919; fax: 407-845-0126.

Foreword
In October 1952 the beloved Guardian announced to the Bahá'í world
the imminent launching of a "fate-laden, soul-stirring, decade-long, world-
embracing Spiritual Crusade" aimed at "the immediate extension of
Bahá'u'lláh's spiritual dominion as well as the eventual establishment of the
structure of His administrative order" in all sovereign states and dependen-
cies scattered over the surface of the entire planet. The response of the
followers of Bahá'u'lláh to the Guardian's call during the Ten Year Crusade
and to plans subsequently given to them by the Universal House of Justice
constitutes a glorious chapter in the history of the Faith, one which future
generations will contemplate with pride and wonder. After the lapse of but a
few decades, it can be asserted without reservation that Bahá'u'lláh's spiritual
dominion has indeed been extended throughout the world and the structure of
His administrative order established.
In a century and a half, the growth of the Faith has followed various
patterns in accordance with the exigencies of time and place. In the Cradle of
the Faith, during the early years of the Heroic Age, this growth displayed
characteristics unprecedented in religious history. The galvanizing and enno-
bling influence of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh spread with extraordinary swift-
ness throughout the country, setting souls aflame, elevating them to the
loftiest heights of sanctity, inspiring them to acts of heroic sacrifice, and
generating, at the same time, the fiercest and most persistent opposition that
followers of a new religion ever had to face. The growth of the Bahá'í
community in Irán continued throughout the Heroic Age, though its outward
manifestations were curtailed by relentless persecution. Energies had to be
focused increasingly on the pursuit of spiritual and material education, and
on the establishment of vibrant Bahá'í communities that were to bring renown
to the Iranian friends for the purity of their lives, the rectitude of their conduct,
and the loving-kindness they showed even to their enemies. During the Ten
Year Crusade these sorely tried believers were presented once again with the
opportunity to contribute significantly to the expansion of the Faith, this time
through pioneering. Thousands of them arose, and along with their co-
religionists, particularly those from North America, propagated the Message
of Bahá'u'lláh throughout the planet
In the latter years of the Heroic Age, as the Faith spread to other
countries of the world, especially those in the West, a distinctive pattern of
growth emerged. In locality after locality, the Faith was introduced to a small
nucleus of believers; they were gradually helped to achieve the status of a
Local Spiritual Assembly, and that institution was nurtured to assume

responsibility for the expansion and consolidation of a growing local commu-
nity and its extension into neighboring localities. Through the operation of
this process in successive epochs of the Formative Age the Bahá'í community
has extended itself to thousands of cities and towns in every region of the
world. Growth, according to this pattern which no doubt will continue to be
fruitful for decades to come, can be slow or rapid depending on the receptivity
of the people and the degree to which the believers draw upon the spiritual
forces that are always available to them. The recent efflorescence of the Faith
in the countries of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union is fresh testimony to
the effectiveness of this pattern.
Signs of yet another distinctive pattern of growth, one which echoes
episodes of conversion in the Heroic Age, could already be discerned in the
early years of the Ten Year Crusade. This remarkable process, which brought
delight to the heart of the beloved Guardian, was initiated when the friends in
Africa began to take the Faith to the inhabitants of rural areas and recognized
their great receptivity to the Message of Bahá'u'lláh. Soon, entry by troops
spread to other parts of the world. In country after country, the ranks of
Bahá'u'lláh's followers swelled, increasing in number from a few hundred
thousand to a few million. But consolidating local communities while
maintaining a rapid pace of expansion proved to be a formidable challenge for
the Bahá'í community.
In various countries the inability to meet this
challenge brought the process of teaching the masses to a standstill, and often
provoked debilitating disagreements on the entire subject of teaching. Al-
though in other countries, the believers persevered and developed balanced
approaches to expansion and consolidation, by the end of the 1970s a great
deal of momentum had been lost and the pace of growth had slowed
considerably on every continent.
The release of the 1988 Ridván message of the Universal House of
Justice to the Bahá'í world, awakened a new eagerness to revitalize large-
scale expansion of the Faith. This time, however, accumulated experience is
producing more suitable methods for sustained expansion, and, especially
through the activities of institutes, effective ways of deepening the friends in
large numbers are being discovered.
In "Learning About Growth", the Ruhi Institute describes its con-
ceptual framework and its programs, tells the story of one national commu-
nity's efforts to maintain large-scale expansion, and analyzes the lessons it has
learned. In reading it, one appreciates the fact that it makes no claim to present
a model for emulation; its value lies in its systematic description of a process
that in one way or another has been repeated wherever Bahá'ís have labored
to bring about large-scale growth of the Faith. People, of course, need to create
their own experience, and move with it as they learn and grow in knowledge

and wisdom. Yet, the sharing of experience is extremely valuable. Reflection
on the dynamics of the efforts of others yields insights into the causes of crisis
and victory in one's own endeavors. This document is of particular value for
such reflection, as in telling its story, the Ruhi Institute avoids the duality of
success and failure and analyzes its progress in terms of the constant interplay
of crisis and victory.
May the reading of this brief history inspire others to thoughtfully
analyze their own experience and share their perceptions with Bahá'ís around
the world who are engaged in the same search for effective approaches to the
large-scale expansion and consolidation of the Faith.
Farzam Arbab

Preface
During the past few years a number of Bahá'í communities and
individuals have asked the Ruhi Institute to share with them its materials and
methods. In responding to these requests we have recognized the need for a
more thorough presentation of our programs and their evolution. This booklet
is an attempt to meet that need. We hope it will be useful to the friends who
are working to increase the human resources of the Faith through institute
programs.
The Ruhi Institute

I
Initial Impulse
During the latter years of the Nine Year Plan, large-scale teaching
among the masses was gaining momentum in an increasing number of
Latin American countries. Small groups of the followers of the Blessed
Beauty scattered throughout the continent were feeling the stirrings of a
forceful process that had begun during the Ten Year Crusade and was now
spreading to receptive populations in rural areas and urban neighborhoods
in almost every country of the world. As old attitudes and unfounded fears
disappeared, these groups felt strongly attracted to the inhabitants of thou-
sands of villages and towns, where numerous souls were more than ready
to accept the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh and join the swelling ranks of its
adherents. In region after region, it became apparent that brief presenta-
tions of the basic verities of the Cause, offered with faith and enthusiasm,
sufficed to lead significant numbers to the acceptance of the new message
and to immediate enrollment.
The responses of the Bahá'ís to these teaching opportunities varied
from exhilaration, to caution, to incredulity. But whatever the attitudes
adopted by individuals, the new process was destined to change the face of
the Bahá'í community across the continent. With amazing rapidity most
national communities were thrust from their early stages when they existed
as closely connected networks of a few small local communities, into a
stage of unprecedented growth, an era of unforeseen challenges and new
blessings.
In Colombia, about fifteen people, who comprised the entire active
working force of that community in 1970, set out to take the Message of
Bahá'u'lláh to the great masses of their country. Their original expecta-
tions were high: somehow, in a state of immense optimism and excitement,
they had declared their intention to raise the number of believers in the
country to 100, 000 in as short a time as possible.
The teaching method these believers adopted was not different
from what was being used in many other receptive areas. Small groups
would enter a village, offer ardent prayers, walk the different pathways, and
meet the people.
Soon, the villagers would invite the Bahá'ís to their
homes and gather some members of the family to hear a presentation that
proclaimed the advent of Bahá'u'lláh as the new Manifestation of God for
today. The oneness of God, the oneness of religion, and the oneness of
humanity constituted the central theme of this presentation which, in its
simplicity and depth, attracted the hearts of the villagers and enabled a

teacher to enroll twenty or thirty believers in a typical day. In order to
reinforce the enrollment process, the villagers would often be invited to
large evening meetings that invariably were replete with sentiments of great
joy and spiritual exaltation.
During this period everyone had an unwavering conviction that
these new believers, despite their apparently limited understanding of the
significance of the Faith, would become transformed by the very fact of
having accepted Bahá'u'lláh, and that Local Spiritual Assemblies, by the
very fact of having been elected, would immediately become channels
through which God's grace would flow to the entire village. It was ex-
pected that the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies would quickly rise to
a few thousand, paving the way for a subsequent stage when the people of
Colombia, on their own initiative, would seek out the Bahá'ís and enter the
Faith in large numbers.
Although it is inevitable that sooner or later every country will see
a vast increase in the number of Bahá'ís, the path leading to large-scale ex-
pansion in Colombia did not prove as straightforward as had been ex-
pected. The initial results were exhilarating: in the span of a few months,
the number of Bahá'ís in the rural areas around the city of Cali had risen
from twenty to about one thousand. During the same period, another two
thousand believers were enrolled in four other regions, Tumaco, Chocó,
North Coast, and settlements of the indigenous Guajiran tribe near the
border with Venezuela. But rapid teaching success also engendered prob-
lems, and a condition of crisis began to emerge as the community struggled
to confront new and unexpected situations.
The meetings held by the National Spiritual Assembly for partici-
pants in the teaching projects, often attended by visitors from other coun-
tries, were alive with passionate discussions on the nature of mass teaching
and the relative merits of different methods and concepts. "Shouldn't we
concentrate entirely on expansion and worry about consolidation much
later?" "Shouldn't we stop expansion and immediately proceed to consoli-
date?" "If the functioning of Local Spiritual Assemblies is the key to the
establishment of the World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, shouldn't we concentrate
all our efforts in that direction?"
"Three thousand Bahá'ís are too few;
maybe we should accelerate the rate of expansion. The problem is that not
enough numbers have entered the Faith yet; once they do, all the problems
will take care of themselves. " "What if we only concentrate on the nine
members of the Local Spiritual Assemblies and deepen them first?"
"The
answer may be in the use of mass media, since the process of teaching one-
by-one is proving inadequate. " These are only examples of the thoughts
that were expressed in a genuine and sincere search for methods that would

help a small group of Bahá'ís respond to the receptivity of millions of
people.
There were also occasions when some of the friends would express
negative feelings, using phrases such as "paper Bahá'ís" and "paper As-
semblies' ' to deny the validity of the very concept of large-scale teaching.
But, although few in numbers, the Colombian community was blessed with
a high degree of unity, and its National Assembly was able to help the
friends set aside all negative comments and concentrate only on opinions
which, if divergent, nevertheless reflected genuine concern for the process
of teaching among the masses. Thus, the tensions created by the challenges
of large-scale teaching in Colombia were never allowed to cause dissen-
sion. The community never entered that stage of paralysis which in later
years, unfortunately, afflicted some of its sister communities.
For the
Bahá'ís of Colombia, the basic issue was very simple: Humanity needs the
healing Message of Bahá'u'lláh.
Millions of people from among the
masses in Latin America are willing to accept His Message.
Imaginative
ways, then, have to be found to reach them in large numbers.
In Search of Unifying Principles
The remarkable increase in the number of believers from a few
hundred to about three thousand, the ensuing confusion, and unity of
purpose that finally emerged from an intensive process of consultation, set
the pattern for the recurring cycles of crisis and victory that for years, and
probably decades to come, would characterize large-scale expansion and
consolidation in Colombia. The most valuable lesson learned in this first
experience of large-scale teaching was that, in order to move consistently
from victory to victory, the community would have to seize in every crisis
whatever opportunities would help it to become more unified. For the next
few months, then, while the teaching work moved along at a much slower
pace, the friends focused their energies on clarifying ideas, building con-
sensus, and laying a firm foundation for their future collective endeavors.
Unity of purpose and tolerance of divergent ideas on how to
achieve a cherished goal are important first requirements of success, but
unless higher levels of unity are reached it is impossible for a community to
carry out its plans of action effectively. The Colombian friends, then,
found it necessary to resolve the contradictions cited in the previous section

and to strive for a certain degree of unity of thought, at least concerning the
nature of the activities they were moved to undertake collectively. The
National Spiritual Assembly was acutely aware that the community needed
an evolving vision, not merely of a distant future, but also of the process
that would lead the community to the fulfillment of its more immediate
destiny.
Regular meetings of consultation were called to explore the diverse
elements of a more unified vision of teaching. Every effort was made to
prevent these consultations from being reduced to mere expression of dif-
fering opinions and tiring analysis of abstractions. The community was
constantly reminded that it was viewing the very complex process of the
growth of the Faith in an entire country, and that any one of them would
only be able to see a few aspects of this process through the lens of their
own understanding and experience. But limited understandings could not
persist in the form of personal opinions once the process had been viewed
through different lenses; sooner or later, a new and more complete vision,
to be shared by all, had to be formulated and adopted.
The light that would illuminate this new vision of growth, it was
agreed, would not be so much that of the brilliance of those who contrib-
uted to consultation, but the light of guidance which emanates from the
Writings of the Faith. "Expressing differing opinions" would mean that
individuals would describe the processes of expansion and consolidation as
they understood them in light of the Writings; everyone would then try to
integrate these views for themselves so as to render their own understand-
ing broader and more complete. But everyone agreed that even in this
process there was a very subtle danger to be avoided: that of taking one or
two sentences from the Writings out of context and using them to support
unfounded personal opinions. Statements such as "expansion and consoli-
dation should go hand in hand" and "expansion should not be stopped for
consolidation"
were not meant to be used as arguments in debate. They
constitute guidance that, if properly heeded, would help the community
formulate a unified vision, learn how to respond to the great receptivity of
souls, and achieve ever-increasing rates of expansion.
As the believers in Colombia matured in their ability to consult,
they began to advance rapidly towards the unity of thought and vision they
so ardently desired. At this stage their search for a common vision was still
focused on an overall understanding of processes and did not touch upon
details of methods and procedures. The most adequate expression of their
unified thoughts, of course, would not have been in the words of the
believers themselves, but in the very passages from the Writings that
were giving them new insights and a deeper appreciation for principles of

teaching. In this short essay it would be impossible to cite even a represen-
tative sample of these Writings and the gems of wisdom they contain, but
the following passages from the guidance of the Universal House of Justice
will illustrate the nature of the unifying principles which lie at the heart of
the remarkably strong consensus that was built within the Colombian
Bahá'í community in those early years of large-scale expansion.
"When the masses of mankind are awakened and enter the
Faith of God, a new process is set in motion and the growth of a
new civilization begins. Witness the emergence of Christianity
and of Islám. These masses are the rank and file, steeped in
traditions of their own, but receptive to the new Word of God, by
which, when they truly respond to it, they become so influenced
as to transform those who come in contact with them.
"God's standards are different from those of men. Accord-
ing to men's standards, the acceptance of any cause by people of
distinction, of recognized fame and status, determines the value
and greatness of that cause. But, in the words of Bahá'u'lláh:
'The summons and Message which We gave were never intended
to reach or to benefit one land or one people only. Mankind in its
entirety must firmly adhere to whatsoever has been revealed and
vouchsafed unto it. ' Or again, 'He has endowed every soul with
the capacity to recognize the signs of God. How could He, other-
wise, have fulfilled His testimony unto men, if ye be of them that
ponder His Cause in their hearts. ' In countries where teaching
the masses has succeeded, the Bahá'ís have poured out their time
and effort in village areas to the same extent as they had formerly
done in cities and towns. The results indicate how unwise it is to
solely concentrate on one section of the population. Each na-
tional assembly therefore should so balance its resources and
harmonize its efforts that the Faith of God is taught not only to
those who are readily accessible but to all sections of society,
however remote they may be.
"The unsophisticated people of the world - and they form
the large majority of its population - have the same right to know
of the Cause of God as others. When the friends are teaching the
Word of God they should be careful to give the Message in the
same simplicity as it is enunciated in our teachings.
In their
contacts they must show genuine and divine love. The heart of

an unlettered soul is extremely sensitive; any trace of prejudice on
the part of the pioneer or teacher is immediately sensed.
"When teaching among the masses, the friends should be
careful not to emphasize the charitable and humanitarian aspects
of the Faith as a means to win recruits. Experience has shown
that when facilities such as schools, dispensaries, hospitals, or
even clothes and food are offered to the people being taught,
many complications arise. The prime motive should always be
the response of man to God's Message, and the recognition of His
Messenger. Those who declare themselves as Bahá'ís should be-
come enchanted with the beauty of the teachings, and touched by
the love of Bahá'u'lláh. The declarants need not know all the
proofs, history, laws, and principles of the Faith, but in the pro-
cess of declaring themselves they must, in addition to catching the
spark of faith, become basically informed about the Central Fig-
ures of the Faith, as well as the existence of laws they must follow
and an administration they must obey.
"After declaration, the new believers must not be left to
their own devices. Through correspondence and dispatch of visi-
tors, through conferences and training courses, these friends
must be patiently strengthened and lovingly helped to develop
into full Bahá'í maturity.
The beloved Guardian, referring to
the duties of Bahá'í assemblies in assisting the newly declared
believer, has written: '... the members of each and every assembly
should endeavor, by their patience, their love, their tact and wis-
dom, to nurse, subsequent to his admission, the newcomer into
Bahá'í maturity, and win him over gradually to the unreserved
acceptance of whatever has been ordained in the teachings. '"1
"It has been due to the splendid victories in large-scale con-
version that the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh has entered a new phase in
its development and establishment throughout the world. It is
imperative, therefore, that the process of teaching the masses be
not only maintained but accelerated.
The teaching committee
structure that each National Assembly may adopt to ensure best
results in the extension of its teaching work is a matter left en-
tirely to its discretion, but an efficient teaching structure there
must be, so that the tasks are carried out with dispatch and in
accordance with the administrative principles of our Faith. From

among the believers native to each country, competent traveling
teachers must be selected and teaching projects worked out. In
the words of our beloved Guardian, commenting upon the teach-
ing work in Latin America:
'Strong and sustained support
should be given to the vitally needed and meritorious activities
started by the native... travelling teachers,... who, as the mighty
task progresses, must increasingly bear the brunt of responsibil-
ity for the propagation of the Faith in their homelands. '
"While this vital teaching work is progressing each National
Assembly must ever bear in mind that expansion and consolida-
tion are inseparable processes that must go hand in hand. The
interdependence of these processes is best elucidated in the fol-
lowing passage from the writings of the beloved Guardian:
'Every outward thrust into new fields, every multiplication of
Bahá'í institutions, must be paralleled by a deeper thrust of the
roots which sustain the spiritual life of the community and ensure
its sound development. From this vital, this ever-present need,
attention must, at no time, be diverted, nor must it be, under any
circumstances neglected, or subordinated to the no less vital and
urgent task of ensuring the outer expansion of Bahá'í adminis-
trative institutions. That this community... may maintain a
proper balance between these two essential aspects of its devel-
opment... is the ardent hope of my heart. ' To ensure that the
spiritual life of the individual believer is continuously enriched,
that local communities are becoming increasingly conscious of
their collective duties, and that the institutions of an evolving ad-
ministration are operating efficiently, is, therefore, as important
as expanding into new fields and bringing in the multitudes un-
der the shadow of the Cause.
"These objectives can only be attained when each National
Spiritual Assembly makes proper arrangements for all the
friends to be deepened in the knowledge of the Faith. The Na-
tional Spiritual Assemblies in consultation with the Hands of the
Cause, who are the Standard Bearers of the Nine Year Plan,
should avail themselves of the assistance of Auxiliary Board
Members, who, together with the traveling teachers selected by
the Assembly or its Teaching Committees, should be continuously
encouraged to conduct deepening courses at Teaching Institutes
and to make regular visits to local Spiritual Assemblies.
The

visitors, whether Board Members or traveling teachers should
meet on such occasions not only with the local Assembly but, of
course, with the local community members, collectively at general
meetings and even, if necessary, individually in their homes. " 2
"Many National Spiritual Assemblies in carrying out their
plans for expansion and consolidation have found it necessary to
select a number of believers for service as travelling teachers.
While we appreciate the valuable services these travelling teach-
ers have already rendered we are nevertheless deeply conscious of
the problems facing your National Assemblies in your desire to
carry out your teaching programmes with as much dispatch as
possible. The purpose of this letter is to draw your attention to
the fact that these problems could well be minimized if the selec-
tion of such teachers were done with great care and discretion.
"It must be realized that people who are mostly illiterate
cannot have the benefit of reading for themselves the written
word and of deriving directly from it the spiritual sustenance they
need for the enrichment of their Bahá'í lives. They become de-
pendent, therefore, to a large extent on their contacts with visiting
teachers. The spiritual calibre or moral quality of these teachers
assumes, therefore, great importance. The National Spiritual As-
sembly or the Teaching Committees responsible for the selection
of these teachers should bear in mind that their choice must
depend, not only on the knowledge or grasp of the teachings on
the part of the teachers, but primarily upon their pure spirit and
their true love for the Cause, and their capacity to convey that
spirit and love to others.
"... What wonderful results will soon be witnessed in the
areas under your jurisdiction if you devise ways and means to
ensure, as far as circumstances permit, that the travelling teach-
ers you are encouraging to circulate among the friends will all
be... pure and sanctified souls, with nothing but true devotion and
self-sacrifice motivating them in their services to God's Holy
Cause.... "3

i n
Learning: Action Accompanied by Reflection and Consultation
With a well-established unity of purpose to teach the masses and a
newly achieved unity of thought on the nature of expansion and consolida-
tion, the Colombian friends once again turned their attention to the practi-
cal path that would lead them to their cherished goal of large-scale expan-
sion. At first, much of the consultation was directed to the search for a
prescription that would bring about rapid success, but soon it became clear
that such a quest was in vain and that the path to mass conversion would
have to be pursued with constancy and discovered step by step. "What
methods to use" was not a simple matter to be determined through the
clash of differing opinions; it would have to be the object of a long learning
process and approached systematically and with perseverance.
A number of important conclusions were then formulated. First, it
was recognized that the friends would have to refrain from speculating
about the future and abandon the habit of elaborating pet theories concern-
ing the destined patterns of growth for the Faith. The community reminded
itself that the future of the Cause of God is in the hands of Bahá'u'lláh,
Who guides its progress with inscrutable wisdom. Faith, itself, is a gift that
He alone can bestow; only He can confirm souls and offer them the privi-
lege of serving Him. What the small group of active Bahá'ís in the country
could do was to be thankful for the opportunities they had been granted to
serve a highly receptive population; they only needed to concentrate on the
quality of their own activities, and strive daily to work with deeper faith,
devotion, and intensity. In their meetings they repeatedly cited the follow-
ing quotation from Bahá'u'lláh and applied it to themselves:
"Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of long-
ing desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and
ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker's heart, and the breeze of His
loving-kindness is wafted upon his soul, will the darkness of error
be dispelled, the mists of doubts and misgivings be dissipated,
and the lights of knowledge and certitude envelop his being. '94
The second conclusion concerned the necessity to focus attention on
learning in action.
Plans and methods could not be perfect from the
beginning, but had to evolve and increasingly reflect the principles of the
Faith. These principles, themselves, would progressively come to be un-
derstood with greater clarity as everyone pursued diligently the goals that

were set for each stage of the teaching process. The teachers and adminis-
trators of the Faith had to understand that many of their tasks were straight-
forward, even simple; they would have to resist the temptation to exagger-
ate the importance and complexity of their own roles and contributions.
The most they could expect from themselves was to engage wholeheartedly
in an intensive plan of action and an accompanying process of reflection
and consultation. This reflection and consultation had to be carried out in
unshakable unity and with a spirit of utmost humility. The main thrust of
consultation had to be the objective analysis of possible courses of action
and the evaluation of methods and results, all carried out in light of the
Writings of the Faith. The purpose of joint reflection was to seek in the
unfathomable depths of the ocean of Revelation the answers to questions,
challenges, and problems and to discover the next steps in a path that, if
trodden with absolute faith, would lead to unprecedented expansion. There
was little more that could be done by the friends; success would be a gift
from Bahá'u'lláh, in some way related to the intensity of their efforts and
the spiritual quality of their endeavors.
IV
The Unique Attributes of Large-scale Expansion
Yet another important conclusion reached during this period had to
do with the very nature of teaching campaigns. The friends agreed that
what they had experienced during those first months of large-scale expan-
sion was entirely different from any teaching work in which they had
previously participated. Success had been achieved only because several
distinctive elements had been combined: a group of dedicated teachers in
continuous contact with the Creative Word; constant prayer, the capacity to
dedicate long hours to teaching every day; a spirit of great joy and happi-
ness, generated through prayer and song, that would permeate an entire
village upon the arrival of the group of teachers; freedom from any trace of
racial or class prejudice; intense love; and profound respect for the people
who were being invited to join the Faith. These elements created opportuni-
ties for a teaching process that, qualitatively, was just as different from in-
dividual teaching as farming thousands of acres is different from tending a
few plants in a small personal garden. It was essential to understand that
both types of teaching are valid, and that it was not correct to measure one
with the parameters of the other. The intensity of the spiritual sentiments

created during teaching campaigns opened new spiritual doors and made
the hearts of listeners who were already spiritually inclined more receptive
to the Faith. Was it not the experience of every group that on a given day
the neglect of any one of the essential elements of group teaching ~
whether caused by disunity, by the influence of prejudice, or by lack of
attention to prayer and use of the Creative Word ~ could easily close the
doors of success? Had not every group observed that whenever a teacher
forgot the true purpose of the campaign and became attached to a sense of
glory, of superficial excitement and success, even after the enrollment of
large numbers, in the end, few lasting results were obtained? Had not every
sincere teacher observed in his or her own experience that the moment self-
glorification entered the mind, the ability to teach and confirm was imme-
diately and noticeably diminished?
This realization of the distinctiveness of large-scale teaching led to
the decision to accord it a special place among the processes of growth of
the Faith in Colombia. Never would this type of teaching be seen to
compete with other activities such as individual teaching, proclamation of
the Faith to political and intellectual leaders, the strengthening of national,
regional, and local institutions, or the promotion of Bahá'í scholarship.
The challenge facing the National Assembly was to ensure that each of
these growth processes would achieve its own momentum and would inter-
act with others so as to enhance and accelerate progress.
V
The Quality of the First Contact and the Role of the Teacher
The ongoing analysis of experiences showed clearly that success,
both in large-scale expansion and in the subsequent deepening of new be-
lievers, depended to a great extent on the quality of the first contact be-
tween the teacher and the seeker. In teaching campaigns among the masses
this first contact will often be brief, yet its spiritual impact must be great:
the flame of faith has to be kindled in a receptive heart with sufficient in-
tensity to persist and grow through a deepening process which is usually
slow and frequently interrupted. To achieve this high quality of teaching,
the Colombian friends understood that it was necessary to include in their
plans of action regular activities to uplift the spirits, refine the character,
and enhance the understanding of the teachers, old and new.
It was well understood that in teaching among the masses, as in any

kind of teaching effort, the teacher plays a far more crucial role than is
usually called for in proclamation activities. If the hearts of people are to
be connected with the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, the teacher's love, for the
seeker and for the Faith, must become the vehicle through which the mes-
sage of the Revelation flows, penetrates the heart, and leads the new
believer into a bond of love with the Manifestation of God for today. In
this first, subtle interaction of human hearts, through which God bestows
the gift of faith on a new believer, both the teacher's words and the
sentiments of the teacher's heart are of great importance; one without the
other does not lead to appreciable or lasting effects. After all, teaching is
not the selling of a product; it is a spiritual process that depends on the
direct action and influence of great spiritual forces. Teaching among the
masses is not a missionary activity focused on conversion; it is the process
through which large numbers of people are empowered to arise and partici-
pate in the construction of a new World Order.
It was decided, then, that the next plan of action would incorporate
regular meetings of consultation for the participants of teaching campaigns,
dedicated to fostering a deeper understanding of the spiritual qualities that
an effective teacher needs to possess. To support these consultations, nu-
merous passages from the Writings were selected, and everyone was en-
couraged to memorize them - short quotations at first, and later, entire pas-
sages and Tablets. Memorization of the Holy Writings eventually became a
well-established tradition in the Colombian community and today is a cher-
ished aspect of Bahá'í life for the believers of all ages, including the
children. Quotations were selected and memorized with various purposes
in mind. Some were concerned with spiritual qualities such as love, de-
tachment, perseverance, patience, faith, courage, kindness, joy and happi-
ness. Others were chosen to further the teachers' understanding of the
teaching process itself; still others, to illuminate the dynamics of group
teaching and help maintain the necessary levels of unity and love among
the teachers. The number of quotations selected was large; however, a
sampling of them suffices to indicate the approach to "teacher training"
taken by the National Assembly and its committees at the time when
the elements of a permanent teaching institute were beginning to
coalesce:
"O wayfarer in the path of God! Take thou thy portion of
the ocean of His grace, and deprive not thyself of the things that
lie hidden in its depths. Be thou of them that have partaken of its
treasures. A dew-drop out of this ocean would, if shed upon all
that are in the heavens and on the earth, suffice to enrich them

with the bounty of God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-
Wise. With the hands of renunciation draw forth from its life-
giving waters, and sprinkle therewith all created things, that they
may be cleansed from all man-made limitations and may ap-
proach the mighty seat of God, this hallowed and resplendent
Spot.
"Be not grieved if thou performest it thyself alone. Let God
be all-sufficient for thee. Commune intimately with His Spirit,
and be thou of the thankful. Proclaim the Cause of thy Lord unto
all who are in the heavens and on the earth. Should any man
respond to thy call, lay bare before him the pearls of the wisdom
of the Lord, thy God, which His Spirit hath sent down unto thee,
and be thou of them that truly believe.
And should any one
reject thine offer, turn thou away from him, and put thy trust and
confidence in the Lord, thy God, the Lord of all worlds.
"By the righteousness of God! Whoso openeth his lips in
this Day and maketh mention of the name of his Lord, the hosts
of Divine inspiration shall descend upon him from the heaven of
My name, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
On him shall also
descend the Concourse on high, each bearing aloft a chalice of
pure light. Thus hath it been foreordained in the realm of God's
Revelation, by the behest of Him Who is the All-Glorious, the
Most Powerful. "5
"Be pure, O people of God, be pure; be righteous, be right-
eous.... Say: O people of God! That which can ensure the victory
of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, His hosts and helpers on earth,
have been set down in the sacred Books and Scriptures, and are
as clear and manifest as the sun. These hosts are such righteous
deeds, such conduct and character, as are acceptable in His sight.
Whoso ariseth, in this Day, to aid Our Cause, and summoneth to
his assistance the hosts of a praiseworthy character and upright
conduct, the influence flowing from such an action will, most cer-
tainly, be diffused throughout the whole world. "6
"Say: Doth it beseem a man while claiming to be a follower
of his Lord, the All-Merciful, he should yet in his heart do the
very deeds of the Evil One? Nay, it ill beseemeth him, and to this

He Who is the Beauty of the All-Glorious will bear Me witness.
Would that ye could comprehend it!
"Cleanse from your hearts the love of worldly things, from
your tongues every remembrance except His remembrance, from
your entire being whatsoever may deter you from beholding His
face, or may tempt you to follow the promptings of your evil and
corrupt inclinations. Let God be your fear, O people, and be ye
of them that tread the path of righteousness.
"Say: Should your conduct, O people, contradict your pro-
fessions, how think ye, then, to be able to distinguish yourselves
from them who, though professing their faith in the Lord their
God, have, as soon as He came unto them in the cloud of holiness,
refused to acknowledge Him, and repudiated His truth? Disen-
cumber yourselves of all attachment to this world and the vanities
thereof. Beware that ye approach them not, inasmuch as they
prompt you to walk after your own lusts and covetous desires,
and hinder you from entering the straight and glorious Path. " 7
"The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with
chains that mankind may be released from its bondage, and hath
accepted to be made a prisoner within this most mighty Strong-
hold that the whole world may attain unto true liberty. He hath
drained to its dregs the cup of sorrow, that all the peoples of the
earth may attain unto abiding joy, and be filled with gladness.
This is of the mercy of your Lord, the Compassionate, the Most
Merciful. We have accepted to be abased, O believers in the Unity
of God, that ye may be exalted, and have suffered manifold afflic-
tions, that ye might prosper and flourish. He Who hath come to
build anew the whole world, behold, how they that have joined
partners with God have forced Him to dwell within the most
desolate of cities!"8
"If any differences arise amongst you, behold Me standing
before your face, and overlook the faults of one another for My
name's sake and as a token of your love for My manifest and
resplendent Cause. We love to see you at all times consorting in
amity and concord within the paradise of My good-pleasure, and
to inhale from your acts the fragrance of friendliness and unity,
of loving-kindness and fellowship. Thus counselleth you the All-

Knowing, the Faithful. We shall always be with you; if We inhale
the perfume of your fellowship, Our heart will assuredly rejoice,
for naught else can satisfy Us. To this beareth witness every man
of true understanding. "9
"Lift up your hearts above the present and look with eyes of
faith into the future! Today the seed is sown, the grain falls upon
the earth, but behold the day will come when it shall rise a
glorious tree and the branches thereof shall be laden with fruit
Rejoice and be glad that this day has dawned, try to realize its
power, for it is indeed wonderful! God has crowned you with
honour and in your hearts has He set a radiant star; verily the
light thereof shall brighten the whole world!"10
"O son of man! Rejoice in the gladness of thine heart, that
thou mayest be worthy to meet Me and to mirror forth My
beauty. "11
VI
The Content of the First Message
While they were deliberating on the spiritual qualities which
would be essential to the growth of the teachers, the Colombian friends
were also consulting on the content of the message that, during the first
contact, was to kindle the spark of faith in the seeker's heart, and were
looking for ways to help an increasing number of believers express their
newly acquired knowledge of the Faith by teaching others. Consultations
on the content of a "first message" led to the preparation of a small,
introductory booklet with simple explanations and illustrations that could
be easily used by those who desired to teach their families and friends. The
booklet was not intended to present a formula for teaching, but to help the
new believer follow a sequence of ideas known to be successful in enhanc-
ing a basic understanding of the Faith.
Its use also ensured that the
presentation of the message would not be reduced to the superficial discus-
sion of a few principles, but would cover the points deemed necessary for
enrollment.
The booklet, which, it must be remembered, was developed for a
predominantly Catholic population, begins with praise of God as the Crea-

lor of all things, and introduces the concept of the Covenant as an
the meaning of the word "manifestation", and offers a short account of the
life of Bahá'u'lláh as the Manifestation of God for today, emphasizing His
sufferings as well as His triumph over all the powers of the earth. In this
explanation, it also refers to Christ as a Manifestation of God, while avoid-
ing words such as "prophet" or "messenger" which, for a Christian,
would diminish Christ's station. It does not refer to Bahá'u'lláh as the
return of Christ, for the concept of return taught by the churches is mislead-
ing and its association with Bahá'u'lláh confuses the listeners rather than
helping them formulate clear initial concepts. The booklet next presents a
short account of the life of the Báb as the Herald of the New Age Who
sacrificed His Own life to usher humanity into the Kingdom of God on
earth. It goes on to explain the station of 'Abdu'1-Bahá as the Interpreter,
the Exemplar, and the Center of Bahá'u'lláh's Covenant. In doing so, it
emphasizes fundamental concepts such as the protection against strife and
division conferred on the Faith through the power of the Covenant, and the
unique bounty bestowed on the followers of Bahá'u'lláh in the example of
4Abdu'1-Bahá as the embodiment of His Father's teachings. The presenta-
tion then turns to a brief description of several laws and ordinances, such as
the education of children, the requirement of daily prayer, the prohibition
of alcoholic drinks, and the injunction against backbiting and slander. Fi-
nally, the existence of an administrative order is mentioned, and some of
the characteristics of a Local Spiritual Assembly are described in a very
general way. Each page of the booklet includes a quotation from the Writ-
ings which the teacher is urged to recite after explaining the related ideas.
Teachers are also encouraged to invite questions and comments from the
seekers throughout their presentation and, at the end, to invite them to join
the Faith, by asking them to meditate in their hearts on whether they accept
Bahá'u'lláh as the Manifestation of God for today.
VII
The Second Wave of Expansion: Joy and Sorrow
Having witnessed a new level of consensus emerge among its
small band of teachers, who now numbered about 30, the National Spiritual
Assembly of Colombia adopted a new plan for teaching in villages and in
neighborhoods of the cities to which, for several decades, rural people had

been migrating in large numbers. The intensive consultation and prepara-
tion that had occupied the friends for a few months had produced miracu-
lous effects on the Colombian believers. In a relatively short span of time
they had achieved unity of thought, not only on the principles that would
guide their teaching efforts but also on many fundamental issues related to
the practical path they had traced for themselves. Invigorated by their new
understanding and vision, they arose in support of the new plan of the
National Spiritual Assembly and became vigorously engaged in teaching
among the masses. Enthusiasm and an indescribable spirit of joy pervaded
the community. Two members of the National Assembly offered to dedi-
cate full-time service to teaching, and small teams, consisting mostly of
youth, were formed around them. The work of these teams was strongly
reinforced on weekends, when the friends would joyfully devote long hours
to offer the healing Message of Bahá'u'lláh in one village after another.
The results were spectacular: in less than two years the number of Bahá'ís
in the country rose to about 10, 000.
With the new emphasis on the quality of teaching, the believers
found a great deal of satisfaction in their renewed activities. The message
being offered was clear, and people were entering the Faith with much
more understanding than in the previous stage of teaching. It was ex-
tremely gratifying to discover that more complete presentations of the Faith
were leading to even higher rates of acceptance. Everyone was convinced
that the masses were truly responding to Bahá'u'lláh, and were not only at-
tracted by a few notions about unity and the abolition of prejudices. Also,
the new method of teaching helped increasing numbers of new believers
who were willing to arise and teach others. Teachers were asked to give
special attention to new believers who showed great interest and capacity.
Such believers were invited to weekend courses and encouraged to take
part in teaching campaigns.
Thus, over a two-year period, about two
hundred people took part in teaching activities at one time or another.
Yet, the number who could be relied upon to teach consistently grew
very slowly. Many potential teachers participated in only a few events
before gradually drifting away, often because of the pressure of expecta-
tions they sensed from the other Bahá'ís that they should assume a great
deal of responsibility as soon as they had participated in a few teaching
events. Money was also a great test. Believers with little deepening were
entrusted with sums of money which, although small, represented great
temptations to them. When these new believers misused funds, the admin-
istrative institutions and coordinators of teaching campaigns would lose all
confidence in them. At the time, strong emphasis was being placed on the
notion that Bahá'ís should not judge one another, and that every believer

was reborn the moment he or she accepted the Bahá'í Message.
The
extreme application of these ideas led some of the friends, who were overly
concerned with the increase of numbers, to promote as teachers individuals
who were motivated by desire for personal gain. In one region, a group of
about twenty teachers turned out to have deceived the pioneer. When this
was discovered, a group of trusted teachers had to be sent to re-introduce
the Faith to about one thousand souls, so that statistics already shared with
the friends would not have to be revised. The personal differences which
sometimes arose among new believers who joined teaching campaigns con-
stituted another constant source of difficulty. Despite peace-making efforts
by more experienced teachers on the teams, it was often impossible to
avoid clashes which, unfortunately, affected many so strongly that they
dropped out of teaching activities altogether.
Apart from problems with individuals, a more far-reaching aspect
of the growth of the Cause in this period gradually became a concern of the
institutions and indeed was soon recognized as the kernel of a new crisis.
Although, as individuals, new believers were attaining deep understanding
of the Faith, communities were not responding in the same way. Hardly
any Bahá'í community life was developing in the villages. Local Spiritual
Assemblies were elected with enthusiasm, but would meet only once or
twice before the initial interest completely disappeared. Despite a constant
flow of new believers, the community was not growing according to the
pattern the friends had envisioned. It was realized that once again, the com-
munity needed to engage in an intensive process of consultation and re-
examine some of the assumptions underlying the choice of methods and
procedures.
VIII
Shifting from the Individual to the Community
A series of meetings of consultation shed new light on the chal-
lenges of developing communities and increasing the number of teachers,
and helped the community move forward again.
The facts seemed to
indicate that too much emphasis had been placed on first impressions of
individuals and, indeed, that in the desire to refrain from judging, a great
many judgements had been made. It began to seem unreasonable that the
institutions of the Faith should close their eyes to the frailties of human
nature; surely, they should exercise caution when assigning responsibility

to people who had not yet had an opportunity to draw upon the power of
the Faith to bring about significant change in their inner lives. The mood
of the National Spiritual Assembly swung away from an emphasis on
individuals. The approach adopted for the next phase of the expansion-
consolidation process centered mostly on community education. It was de-
cided that no special efforts would be made to open new communities, but
a relatively small number of villages and towns would be visited time and
again. The majority of the families in each of these villages would be sys-
tematically deepened, and a sequence of Bahá'í concepts would be ex-
plained to every household during repeated visits. New believers would be
invited to teach, but mostly in their own villages. The more experienced
teachers would take it upon themselves to act with such purity and to teach
in conditions of such sacrifice that the hearts of the people would be trans-
formed through the power of their example. Within this atmosphere of
self-sacrifice and detachment, sincere new teachers would surely arise
spontaneously, and the mistakes of the past would be avoided.
The new approach brought abundant blessings. The number of
Bahá'ís increased to about 30, 000 within a few years. The number of
teachers who participated in campaigns hovered around 50, but their qual-
ity and dedication more than compensated for the fewness of their numbers.
The 30, 000 Bahá'ís were clustered in about 200 large Bahá'í communities,
so that the deepening of new believers became more manageable. Groups
of teachers would stay in a village for days and even weeks, holding
meetings with the families, the Bahá'í community, and especially the mem-
bers of the Local Spiritual Assembly. The most enthusiastic new believers
were the children and youth 12 to 15 years of age, and they received a great
deal of special attention. Efforts were made to develop teaching materials
and audio-visual aids for the teachers to use. A small print shop was
acquired. Thousands of copies of single sheets and booklets for children
and adults were produced and shared with the constant stream of new
believers. So intense was the enthusiasm of the teachers, so joyful the
deepening meetings in the newly formed communities, so successful the
regional weekend institutes, and so high the rate of acceptance that, for a
few months, the community seemed to be achieving its dream of a self-
sustaining process of expansion and consolidation.
But, alas, the rate of expansion began to diminish, and the goal of
100, 000 Bahá'ís in a few more years began to seem less and less attainable.
At the time, the most apparent reasons were personal tests. The physical
health of the few workers was rapidly deteriorating, financial resources
were not increasing, and the constant pressure of maintaining high-quality

activity, campaign alter campaign, became progressively harder to bear.
So few were the workers that a crisis in the life of just one would affect an
entire plan and constitute a strong test for all the others.
Yet, for those who took part in the teaching, the early 1970s are
remembered as the most precious days of their lives, and the beauty of
those days has never been equalled by any subsequent experience. Those
were years of rapid spiritual growth. The answers to all physical, financial
and numerical shortcomings were sought in faith, in prayer, and in a more
profound understanding of what it means to rely on the power of divine as-
sistance. Even today, in moments of fond reminiscence, those friends often
wonder whether their dreams might have been fulfilled if they had only
persisted longer, had sacrificed their all, had soared to greater spiritual
heights, had behaved more like the Dawn-Breakers, the stories of whose
lives they used to study so intensively during countless hours filled with
prayer, meditation, deepening, and consultation.
Whatever the answers to such difficult questions may be, it is an
historical fact that this small band of dedicated workers in Colombia could
not respond effectively to all the requirements of large-scale expansion and
consolidation. Expansion was coming to a halt, and it seemed physically
impossible for them to carry forward the parallel processes of expansion
and consolidation. As they looked desperately for answers in every direc-
tion, one question loomed, and gradually emerged as the core of all their
concerns: There were about 15 of us when large-scale expansion began in
our country.
The number of Bahá'ís has grown from a few hundred to
about 30, 000. We have taught diligently, have visited the new believers
time and again, and on every visit have found them firm in the Faith, joyful
to receive us and happy to learn more about their new religion. Yet, the
number of dedicated administrators and teachers has hardly quadrupled.
Why haven't we succeeded in helping more, out of such a large number of
new believers, to arise and dedicate themselves to serving the Cause as its
teachers and participants in its administrative affairs?
IX
Back to the Individual: Deepening Booklets
Insights did not come easily when the friends examined the contra-
diction between the enthusiasm and willingness of their fellow believers to
be deepened in the Faith and their apparent inability to arise in its service.

By now, the Colombian community was accustomed to recurrent crises
that, if managed in a spirit of unity, would always lead to a new stage of
great victories. But this new crisis seemed somewhat different from the
previous ones, for it pointed to shortcomings that were difficult to discover
and painful to examine: Could it be that in our desire to achieve greater
heights of devotion, purity, love, dedication and unshakable faith, we have
overlooked other qualities that are essential in a successful teacher? By
concentrating on our own spiritual conditions and the quality of what we
give, have we failed to consider the realities of life for those who are the
recipients of our message? How much do we know about the customs of
the people among whom we are working? Are we aware of their needs,
their aspirations, and the difficulties of their day-to-day struggle for exis-
tence? Although most of us are Colombians, can any one of us claim to
have the ability to see the world through the eyes of the villagers who have
carried the burdens of an unjust society on their shoulders for so many
decades? Do we even know how they perceive their own relationship to
those of us who visit them and, in general, how they relate to the institu-
tions of the Faith?
It was clearly time to slow down what had become a very high-
powered approach to "giving the Message" and begin to listen. As the
teachers did listen more carefully to the new believers and learned to
observe the communities with a degree of detachment from their own plans
and projects, it became clear that the villagers' impressions of them were
very much at variance with the images they had intended to project. The
new believers viewed them as a group of highly dedicated people they had
grown to love and respect as their teachers, but not as people with whom
they could easily walk on a common path: These newly acquired friends
visited them regularly and explained the verities of the new religion they
had accepted.
Some of these friends were more constant than others.
Some came quietly to visit families at their homes; others were dynamic
and would infuse large meetings with joy and spirit. At the Bahá'í meet-
ings in the village one always heard inspiring talks, sang joyous songs and
felt uplifted by beautiful prayers. On occasion, special courses would be
offered in nearby towns which, unfortunately, one's busy life did not often
allow one to attend. But whenever the opportunity presented itself, one
could certainly receive valuable instruction by attending these
special
courses.
It was also possible for some of the youth of the village to
accompany the teachers in visits and campaigns, but they could not stay
away from home for too long, for the subsistence of a family depends on
contributions from every member. Of course, an important distinction of
this new religion was that it had no clergy and everyone was urged to

participate in running its affairs. That is why, every year, a Local Spiritual
Assembly was elected in every village. The emphasis that was put on the
Local Assembly showed how important this institution would become in the
future.
One was constantly reminded that the Assembly would eventually
be responsible for the progress of the entire village, even if now it was
only in its beginning stages. To vote for the Assembly was not difficult. To
be a member of it made one feel the weight of certain responsibilities. But
what did it really mean to be responsible for the progress of the commu-
nity, much less the entire village? To convince the Bahá'ís to attend meet-
ings was difficult enough, and the effort succeeded only when one of the
experienced people from outside was present. But to run the affairs of the
village was another matter; it was a wonderful ideal that some day would
surely be addressed.
The foregoing clearly is only an effort to portray how the new be-
lievers perceived service to the Faith, but the analysis that it reflects helped
the Colombian friends gain insights into the approach and methods they
had been using. At stake here was the fundamental question of how to help
others tread the path from acceptance to service. Acceptance, for people
whose hearts had been prepared by suffering, was apparently an easy
matter. That Bahá'u'lláh had come to lead us into a new civilization was
easily understood by the villagers when they examined His teachings in the
context of their own lives and in light of a common wisdom that had been
handed down through the generations. Love for Bahá'u'lláh came easily to
them as they listened to the stories of His life and His sufferings, and con-
templated the signs of His inevitable victory. Confirmation in the new
Faith, although slow and gradual, was proving possible for them, through
visits, courses, and conferences. Even a certain level of consciousness that
it is necessary to obey the laws of Bahá'u'lláh was becoming widespread.
But effective participation in the service of the Cause seemed to require a
different dynamic of teaching that somehow had not been generated by the
approaches and methods known at that time to the Colombian friends.
In retrospect it is clear that the friends in Colombia were beginning
to question their approaches to teaching at a most fundamental level. At
that early stage, however, they were unaware of the magnitude of change
that this line of questioning would require of them. In fact, in their haste to
achieve victories, they clarified only one idea from among the many topics
that needed consultation, used it to make a slight modification to their
plans, and returned quickly to the field of action.
The argument that led to the modified plan of action was simple. As
the friends reviewed the evolution of their plans and concepts they realized
how, at an earlier stage, they had been deeply affected by their errors of

judgement in selecting and promoting individuals without due discretion.
In reaction, they had then concentrated on the development of their own
spiritual qualities, hoping that the example of their sacrifice and selfless
service would suffice to inspire others to arise and teach the Faith. But
somehow, in this process, many of them had assumed the posture of
instructors, and they had neglected to help the new believers to discover
their own capacities for action. The problem was not, of course, that they
had failed to mention the importance of participation while issuing appeals
and giving instructions. It was simply that the new believers needed to be
shown a path of service which, if followed, would gradually make them
independent of outside visitors.
The courses, talks and conferences actually succeeded in imparting
knowledge about the precepts of the Faith, its history, its aims, and its Ad-
ministrative Order.
Villagers were quite inspired when they were pre-
sented with the vision of a future Bahá'í society and its harmonious and
well-organized local communities. They were convinced of the necessity
for strong Bahá'í families. They aspired to attain the station and the quali-
ties of a true servant described by their teachers.
But how were they
actually to achieve their aspirations for themselves, their families and their
communities? Emotionally charged calls to action and the affirmations that
no matter how little we knew, we would be confirmed if we only would
arise to serve the Faith, were uplifting and reassuring; yet, most individuals
needed to build up confidence and to develop gradually their capacity to
serve the Faith, starting with simple, practical acts, and progressing to more
complex and demanding forms of involvement in the work of the Faith.
Effective deepening, then, in addition to imparting knowledge and uplifting
the spirit, had to offer people the possibility of following a concrete path of
service.
There is no doubt that this line of reasoning was pointing to very
exciting possibilities for the Colombian Bahá'í community. But at the
time, the friends were trying to remedy, as quickly as possible, the short-
comings they had discovered in their latest approach to teaching.
The
answer that came most easily was that large numbers of believers might be
helped to embark on their paths of service by repeating the simplest act that
the more experienced teachers were already performing in their visits to the
communities. The National Teaching Committee had been developing a
set of small booklets, each devoted to a single topic such as the Covenant,
the life of Bahá'u'lláh, love and unity among the friends, or the Nineteen
Day Feast. These booklets were being shared with individuals and families
when they were visited in their homes, and the results had been encourag-
ing. It was already known that the new friends were hesitant to share these

booklets with others, basically because they were afraid of being asked
questions that they would be unable to answer. The modified plan of
action, then, called for the preparation of material that would treat each
topic more extensively, to be studied with those who showed a willingness
to share the small booklets with their relatives and friends. With a new
wave of enthusiasm, the teachers resumed their visits to the villages, confi-
dent that in addition to fostering general community education, they would
now be helping some of the friends to begin a path of service. But, alas,
although they continued to have success in deepening believers with the
booklets, the study of additional materials with the more interested ones
added very few to the total number of dedicated teachers in the country and
proved to be an inadequate response to the much weightier challenge of
fostering the spirit of service among a significant number of new believers.
X
Elements of a Framework for the Creation of the Ruhi Institute
Although the failure of the new plan of action to greatly increase
the number of dedicated teachers was disconcerting, there was little reason
to question the validity of the analysis that had led to the concept of paths
of service. Experience confirmed the previous conclusion, that mere accep-
tance of the basic verities of the Faith would not move the body of the
friends to serve the Cause unless they were offered a practical path they
could gradually follow as their capacities expanded.
Now it was also
becoming clear that these friends would not necessarily sustain their
services simply because they received some training to carry out a few acts
of service. If service was to be sustained beyond initial expressions of en-
thusiasm and excitement, it had to become possible for the believers to par-
ticipate in a continuous process of spiritual enrichment. With the exception
of a few believers who quickly learned to derive spiritual sustenance from
their own personal study of the Writings, everyone needed systematic
programs, organized by the institutions, to help them tread at least the
beginnings of their newly adopted paths of spiritual progress. Such sys-
tematic programs, however, had to go beyond the exposition of facts or
simple training in practical matters; they had to help the participants walk
paths of service that were informed by spiritual insights and derived mean-
ing from ever-deeper spiritual understanding.
The idea of a systematic educational process, especially when

modified by the adjective "spiritual", was attractive to most of the friends
and was certainly in accord with the tendency of the Colombian people to
respect and aspire to education.
However, it was recognized from the
beginning that the effort would fail if the many distortions created by
formal educational systems could not be avoided. Service to the Cause was
a right and a responsibility of every believer, no matter how new to the
Faith; their exercise of this right could not be conditioned on the comple-
tion of a set of educational courses that could be interpreted as prerequisites
for service. The challenge was to set in motion an educational process that
would increase the believer's capacity to serve, without creating barriers to
spiritual growth or introducing rigidity into the teaching plans of the insti-
tutions of the Faith. As the Colombian community set out to meet this
challenge, a systematic approach to deepening was gradually developed
and organized under what later came to be known as the Ruhi Institute.
Over the years, a number of key ideas have been identified as ele-
ments of a conceptual framework that guides the development of the Ruhi
Institute. A few of these ideas are closely linked to the evolution of the
concept of large-scale teaching described in the previous sections. They
may be expressed in the following sequence of statements:
1) Large-scale expansion and consolidation can be effectively viewed as
the movement of receptive populations towards the future World Order of
Bahá'u'lláh. This movement is eminently spiritual. It occurs fundamen-
tally in the hearts and minds of individuals, but gradually manifests itself in
the entire social, economic, and cultural structure of the population and in
the transformation of the relationships between the individual and society.
Teaching is the spiritual process by which this movement is constantly pro-
pelled.
2) It is natural to expect that individuals within the population will not
tread their spiritual paths at the same pace. At any given moment the popu-
lation will present a continuum of responses, from the indifference of those
who are barely aware of the existence of the Cause, to the intense devotion
of those who have dedicated their lives to its promotion. The classification
of Bahá'ís in mutually exclusive categories ~ active and inactive, deepened
and undeepened, spiritualized and unspiritualized — has little place in an
approach that is concerned with the dynamics of the spiritual movement of
a people. Even undue emphasis on a Bahá'í/non-Bahá'í duality proves to
be harmful in that it creates unnecessary barriers to the progress of individ-
ual souls and blurs the vision of a spiritual movement.

3) In order for a population to move towards a Bahá'í civilization, forces
of transformation from within the population, which arc directly generated
by the power of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, must be allowed to grow in
strength and range of influence. Such a process of transformation is im-
peded if the initiators of large-scale expansion, often regular visitors from
nearby regions or pioneers, cling to their identity as outsiders, perpetuating
thereby a "we/they" duality that, in turn, leads to a condition of de-
pendence, to frustration, or even to bitterness. Teachers, whatever their
background, must develop a sense of belonging to the people they try to
serve and learn to view their own spiritual progress as one component of
the spiritual movement of the entire population. The spiritual transforma-
tion of a people is an organic process that must be propelled from within.
In this Revelation, it is guided by the institutions of the Faith which, after
all, belong to experienced and new Bahá'ís alike; but it cannot be managed
from outside, no matter how well-intentioned the outsiders may be.
4) The spiritual dynamics of teaching is essentially the same for the poor
and the rich, the villagers and the urban dwellers, the educated and the illit-
erate. All new believers must have the benefit of a nurturing process that
allows them to become confirmed in the Faith as they gradually dedicate
more time and resources to its service. When the numbers are small, close
friends often accompany new believers through joy and sorrow, tests and
triumphs, until confidence is built and a sense of responsibility is firmly
established. When many people rapidly accept the Faith in the process of
large-scale expansion it cannot be assumed that their need for this nurturing
is any less real. The problem, of course, is that as the numbers increase
rapidly it becomes impossible for a few to establish intimate bonds of
friendship with the majority of the new believers. Deepening, especially for
populations that have little tradition of reading books, becomes a difficulty
that, unless surmounted, tends to slow the movement of the population and
bring to a sudden halt the process of expansion.
The use of modern
communications media can be of some help, but they are no substitute for
personal support and the transmission of spiritual insights and energy from
one heart to another when they are connected by bonds of love.
5) The recognition that the spiritual movement of a population necessarily
comprises the movements of individuals, each at a unique pace; an appre-
ciation of the essential role played by forces generated from within the
population in propelling its spiritual movement; attention to the universal
need for participation in a consistent, progressive process of spiritual edu-
cation; and the acknowledgement that a few, by themselves, cannot re-

spond to the deepening needs of large numbers of believers, all point to the
necessity of a systematic process of human resource development that con-
centrates on those who show more interest, are more capable, and have a
greater desire to render service.
Human resource development in this
context, however, embodies two principles that distinguish it from preva-
lent models of formal education. The pace at which believers move along
their paths of spiritual development is not predetermined, but varies accord-
ing to individual desires and aspirations in an open learning process. And,
the nature of the educational process is such that those who receive atten-
tion also nurture others. This approach to the development of human re-
sources, then, differs from traditional schemes of schooling which, in a
paradoxical way, efface individuality while rewarding and cultivating self-
ishness. Human resource development is understood as that process which
catalyzes the emergence of workers for the Cause who are entirely dedi-
cated to the service of others and committed to the spiritual movement of
their people.
Initially, the Colombian believers conceived the Ruhi Institute as an
institution for the development of human resources among a population of
about 100, 000 villagers in the region of Norte del Cauca, near the city of
Cali. Soon the institute expanded its vision to embrace similar populations
everywhere in Colombia, especially in the rural areas. Although a modest
building was constructed in the town of Puerto Tejada, the connection
between the institute and the building became rather tenuous, as most of the
courses were moved to villages and towns all over the country. That the
National Spiritual Assembly of Colombia had decided to create an entity
primarily concerned with the development of human resources, and to give
it a structure and importance parallel to that of its National Teaching
Committee, was a significant step. The initial implementation of the deci-
sion was not limited to the mere creation of a committee which would be
left to itself to respond to the demands of a well-written mandate. The
order of priorities was reflected in the national budget, which was divided
approximately as follows: 30% for teaching, 30% for human resource de-
velopment, 20% for literature and audio-visual materials, and only 20% for
administrative and support expenses. It was also reflected in the pattern of
activity of the more experienced Bahá'ís of the country, including the
members of the National Assembly and its committees, who devoted their
energies more or less according to the same proportions.

XVI
The Educational Programs: Paths of Service
Any retrospective account of a long-term developmental process, such
as the present document, is likely to project a false impression of order.
The Colombian friends did not work out their ideas about spiritual educa-
tion as neatly and clearly as may be implied in the previous section. For
that matter, the evolution of their thought never proceeded according to the
linear progression this document seems to reflect. Ideas developed inde-
pendently along parallel lines and only later came together in a consistent
framework. Clarity and confusion coexisted from the beginning, and con-
tinue to interplay as the community confronts new challenges under chang-
ing conditions. It would be well, then, to depart momentarily from the
narrative, and examine certain aspects of the educational programs in their
more recent stages of development.
Although the framework presented in the previous section addresses
the spiritual growth of the individual, it is recognized that an individual's
spiritual condition and his progress are matters that only God can judge and
that human beings should not presume to measure. The Ruhi Institute,
therefore, has adopted a pedagogical approach that concerns itself exclu-
sively with ways in which individuals can be helped to increase their
capacity to serve. This capacity, while intimately connected with spiritual-
ity, operates in relation to it in ways that need not be defined precisely. It
suffices to understand that the field of service represents the environment
within which spirituality can be cultivated.
A systematic process of spiritual education is set in motion when
believers are accompanied along paths of service which they have chosen
to follow, according to their interests and capabilities. Building on experi-
ence gained in working among rural populations in Colombia, the Ruhi
Institute has marked out specific "paths of service. "
Deepening along
each path is fostered through a series of courses, some of which impart the
skills and attitudes needed to perform acts of service, while others present
spiritual teachings and precepts that endow these acts with meaning.
During the first few years of its development, the Ruhi Institute
devoted its attention entirely to defining the content and methods of the
courses associated with the path of "Basic Deepening". After a great deal
of experimentation it was decided that the first act of service on this path
should be that of teaching simple Bahá'í classes to a group of children. In
addition to a course that offers the content of such classes and imparts the
necessary skills to conduct them, it proved necessary to devise four other

courses devoted entirely to the development of spiritual understanding and
the acquisition of spiritual discipline. The participants in these five courses
are usually youth from the villages who have completed at least a few years
of secondary school and have expressed interest in teaching children on a
weekly basis. The following five sections are devoted to an overview of
these courses.
XII
Understanding the Bahá'í Writings
The first course in the path of Basic Deepening requires only about
eight hours of study and discussion. Its purpose is to develop the capacity
to read the Bahá'í Writings and to meditate on their meaning in order to
fulfill the obligation of studying the Writings every day. As one of the
activities in the children's classes is the memorization of short quotations
from the Bahá'í Writings, it is felt that the teachers of these classes should,
themselves, have learned to study the Writings, beginning with single
sentences, and meditate on their meanings. The course consists of some
twenty quotations that are studied in small groups and a set of questions
and exercises that enhance the participants' ability to think about the mean-
ing and implications of each quotation. The following paragraphs are taken
from the introductory material for this course, which is called "Under-
standing the Bahá'í Writings":
The Ruhi Institute uses the term "collaborator" to refer to all
who study, teach, or apply its courses, wherever they may reside.
These participants are indeed collaborators, because all share an iden-
tical purpose: to use the courses as means of serving the Cause and
promoting the well-being of humanity. In every study group there is
always a more experienced person who acts as a tutor.
For the
duration of the course, the other members of the group constitute the
"students" who seek the tutor's help with their studies. However, it
is clearly understood by all collaborators that they are engaged in a
reciprocal process, one in which everyone learns. The relationship is
not that of a learned one with a group of ignorant people.
"Understanding the Bahá'í Writings" is often the first course
that a group of collaborators chooses to study. We hope the tutor will
carefully study this introduction and discuss with the other collabora

tors the ideas presented here. Collaborators who arc studying this
course for the first time should be aware that they will have to analyze
these same ideas at a later time, when they themselves will act as
tutors of the course for other groups of beginners.
To read the Holy Writings every day, at least in the morning and
at night, is one of the very important ordinances of our Faith. But
reading the Writings is not the same as reading the thousands of pages
that a literate person sees during a lifetime. To read the Sacred Word
is to drink from the ocean of Divine Revelation. It leads to true
spiritual understanding and generates forces that are necessary for the
progress of the soul. In order to reach true understanding, however,
one must think deeply about the meaning of each statement and its
applications in one's own life and in the life of society. The purpose
of this course is to develop in the participants the habit of reading
the Writings and thinking about them, beginning at first with one-
sentence statements.
In studying any course of the Ruhi Institute, participants are
expected to achieve three levels of comprehension. The first is a basic
understanding of the meaning of words and sentences.
Thus, for
example, after reading the quotation, "The betterment of the world
can be accomplished through pure and goodly deeds, through
commendable and seemly conduct", the student is asked, "How
can the betterment of the world be accomplished?" At first glance,
this type of question may appear too simple. But, before reaching
such a conclusion, one should examine the following two observa-
tions: Often, the tutor will divide the study group into pairs; one
person in each pair is asked to read the quotation aloud, and the other
is asked to formulate a question, the answer of which would be the
quotation. This task of constructing a question from a sentence does
not turn out to be as simple as it appears. The majority of participants
need numerous exercises in order to acquire this apparently simple
skill. The second observation has to do with the participants who
insist on giving their own opinions and strongly resist giving a simple
repetition of the quotation as the answer to a question. Clearly, there
is nothing wrong in having and expressing one's own ideas; but an
understanding of the Writings must begin by focusing the mind on
what is being read before allowing one's imagination to roam and
personal opinions to flow freely. It is quite likely that by first devel-
oping in believers who are in the early stages of their study of the
Faith a capacity to focus attention on the immediate and explicit
meaning of sentences they read from the Holy Writings, we will be

contributing to the achievement oí' unity of thought in our communi-
ties, since such a unity can only be achieved when personal opinions
are illuminated by Divine Wisdom.
The second level of comprehension is concerned with applying
some of the concepts to one's daily life.
For example, exercise
number 1 in the first lesson, which asks the participant to identify
certain types of conduct as commendable, is easy to answer, yet it
requires the group to think about some of the obvious applications of
the corresponding quotation. However, not all the exercises of this
level can receive immediate and obvious answers. For example, in
order to decide if the statement, "There are so few good people in the
world that their actions do not have any effect" is true or false, the
students have to establish how this statement contradicts the corre-
sponding quotations they have studied from the Writings of
Bahá'u'lláh.
The third level of understanding requires the participants to
think about the implications of a quotation for situations having no
apparent or immediate connection with its theme. The question of
whether Bahá'ís may confess their sins to others refers to the prohibi-
tion against confession as a means of absolving sin, a deeply rooted
practice of Catholicism. The tutor should present this prohibition as
the group consults on the implications of the verse, "Bring thyself
to account each day, ere thou art summoned to a reckoning. "
Many years of experience with the courses of the Ruhi Institute
have shown that examining ideas at these three levels of understand-
ing helps collaborators create the conscious basis of a life of service
to the Cause. But what may surprise someone who is unfamiliar with
this experience is that efforts to prolong consultation on each idea
beyond these levels, by introducing too many related concepts, actu-
ally diminish to a great extent the effectiveness of the course. This is
due in part to the fact that each course should establish a rhythm of
progress, so that students will have a distinct sense that they are
advancing rapidly according to their own capacities. This does not
mean that lessons should be passed over quickly and superficially
without careful analysis of the exercises. Groups that have taken this
superficial approach, simply filling in answers, have never lasted
beyond a few sessions. The point to remember is that once an idea is
understood and some insights into its applications have been gained,
the group should advance to the next point in the lesson. The second
reason for the caution against prolonged discussions has to do with
the habit of speculation that unfortunately sometimes develops in

some of our communities. It is natural that a verse from the Writings
should bring to mind myriads of noble and beautiful ideas. To share
these ideas with the friends on appropriate occasions conduces to joy
and happiness. But care must be exercised that this practice does not
become an exercise in the expression of ego and an insistence on the
sovereignty of personal opinion. The experience of the Ruhi Institute
has shown that we do not suppress the imagination or the personality
of the participants when we refrain from posing questions such as,
"What does this mean to you?" On the contrary, we are helping to
nurture the development of communities which look first to
the
Writings as the principal basis of consultation whenever they are
faced with a question. We believe that the simple habit of thinking
about the implications of the Writings with the minimum of personal
interpretation would eliminate a great share of the disagreements
that afflict consultation in many communities, and would make the
activities of our communities more effective.
Finally, we suggest that the tutor should examine the course,
categorize the exercises according to the three levels of comprehen-
sion, and think of additional exercises that will stimulate consultation
about each concept
XIII
Prayer
The second course in the path of Basic Deepening also requires about
eight hours of study and discussion. Its purpose is to help the participants
understand the importance of daily prayer, develop the required attitudes
towards prayer, and acquire the habit of memorizing prayers. The course
on prayer contributes to the spiritual development of the participants, and
also prepares them for their first act of service, which includes helping the
children to memorize prayers. As in "Understanding the Bahá'í Writ-
ings", the course material is comprised mostly of quotations followed by
questions and exercises that enhance understanding. The following para-
graphs are from the introduction to the course entitled "Prayer":
"Prayer" is often the second course that collaborators of the
Ruhi Institute choose to study. As in all Ruhi courses, one person

who has more experience than others is assigned to serve as the tutor
of the study group, although it must be remembered that the responsi-
bility for learning rests with each participant. It is the student who
undertakes the active work of learning.
The tutor facilitates this
process, and also gains new insights into the material. The teacher-
student relationship that exists in many traditional school systems is
avoided in the approach of the Ruhi Institute.
The ideas presented in the introduction to the course entitled
"Understanding the Bahá'í Writings" apply equally to the other
courses of the institute. The tutor should keep in mind the three
levels of comprehension that participants are expected to achieve: a
clear understanding of the meaning of words and phrases, of the appli-
cation of each idea to daily life, and of the implications these ideas
have for related situations that have not been explicitly treated in the
lessons. It is important to note here that the first level of comprehen-
sion never implies a long discussion on the meaning of single words
outside the context of the course being studied. In fact, most tutors
find that using a dictionary to help the participants understand diffi-
cult words actually interferes with their learning. It seems far more
useful to help them learn how to infer the meanings of words through
discussion of whole phrases and paragraphs.
We suggest that in preparing for this course the tutor should
think deeply about three principal objectives. The first is to clarify
the concept of prayer itself and to help the participants understand its
great importance as one of the laws of this Dispensation. In order to
achieve this objective, it is sometimes necessary to dissipate doubts
and carefully clarify ideas that may have their roots in erroneous
interpretations of the past. But above all, this objective implies clear
understanding of the necessity to observe this law, a need that is no
less essential than that of nourishing our bodies every day.
Beyond observing the law of prayer, each person must feel a
profound desire to pray.
Therefore, the second objective of this
course is to awaken in participants this desire to "converse with
God" and to feel the joy of being near to Him. Moreover, from an
early age, everyone
should develop spiritual habits; the habit of
praying daily is among the most important of these.
The third objective of this course has to do with the attitudes of
prayer. Unfortunately, humanity is steadily losing its understanding
of how to pray, substituting empty and meaningless rituals for indis-
pensable inner conditions. Therefore, the study groups should consult
a great deal on the sections that refer to the attitudes of heart and mind

that help one enter the state of prayer, and to the conditions that
should be created in one's surroundings at the time of prayer.
Finally, we suggest that before the first class the tutor should
review the entire course, analyzing each lesson in terms of the three
objectives mentioned above.
XIV
Life and Death
The course entitled "Life and Death'' has been included in the path of
Basic Deepening because an understanding of the purpose of life is essen-
tial for the participants' pursuit of paths of service. Service needs to be
viewed in the full context of a life which extends beyond earthly existence,
and in light of the soul's progress through the worlds of God. The purpose
of this course, then, is to help participants understand that life is not the
changes and chances of this world, and that its true significance is to be
found in the development of the soul. The material for "Life and Death"
is somewhat more challenging than for the courses mentioned above, and
its completion usually requires about twenty hours of study and consulta-
tion. The following paragraphs come from the course introduction:
In a process of education, as contrasted with training for specific
tasks, it is essential that participants become increasingly conscious of
the meaning and significance of what they are doing. As this con-
sciousness emerges, students come to see themselves as active, re-
sponsible "owners" of their learning, and not as passive recipients of
information given to them by their teachers.
Each section of this course opens with a thematic statement or
quotation from the Bahá'í Writings, and continues with a series of
exercises designed to help participants comprehend the language and
the concepts of the statement. Unlike most Ruhi Institute courses,
which include exercises to help participants think about the applica-
tion of ideas in their own lives and their communities, here, due to
the abstract nature of the material, all the exercises operate at the
conceptual level. Only in the last section are participants asked to
reflect on the implications of the course in their lives.
As in all courses of the Ruhi Institute, participants in the course
on Life and Death should be encouraged to avoid speculation, and to

be contení with concrete answers that can be deduced directly from
the statements. Yet, a few of the exercises contain questions that
cannot be answered quickly or in a clear-cut way. These questions are
designed to raise awareness about the subject; if participants simply
think about such questions, the objective of learning will be fulfilled.
It should also be mentioned that the quotations presented in this
course use more difficult language than is found in other courses of
Level 1. The tutor must be very careful not to give too much attention
to difficult words, but to ensure that participants understand the cen-
tral idea of each quotation, which is precisely what the exercises try to
bring out
In order to achieve good results it is important to avoid bringing
too many ideas into a single session. Above all, it is important to
follow the sequence of ideas that has been established in the course:
1. How life begins, and what is death.
- The soul is a spiritual entity, created by God.
- Together, the soul and the body constitute the human being.
- Death is just a change of condition; afterward, the soul
progresses eternally.
2. The purpose of our lives.
- The purpose of life is to know God and attain His presence.
- One who recognizes the Manifestation draws near to God;
and one who rejects Him condemns himself to a life of misery
and remoteness from God.
- Just as, while in the womb of the mother one acquires the
powers needed for this world, while in this world we should
acquire the powers needed for the next world.
3. The nature of the soul.
- The soul is a sign of God.
- A soul which is faithful to God will reflect His light and be
drawn to Him.
- Worldly attachments and vain desires impede the soul's flight
towards God and finally make it weak and impotent.
- God has bestowed on man the capacity to reflect all His
names and attributes.

4. The soul docs not progress by itself; it needs the Manifestation of
God.
- The capacities of the human being are latent; they can only be
developed with the help of the Manifestations of God.
- To know the Manifestation of God is to know God.
- Through spiritual education, the treasures hidden within us
can be revealed.
5. The condition of the soul after death.
- The faithful soul will attain a sublime position and eternal
happiness, but the unfaithful soul will recognize its loss and
be consumed in eternal remorse.
- No one knows his own end; therefore, we should forgive
others and not feel superior towards them.
- In the next life, the holy souls become acquainted with all
mysteries and behold the beauty of God.
- In the next life, we will recognize our loved ones and enjoy
companionship with the friends of God; we will remember
the life we had in this material world.
6. The appropriate attitude towards the present conditions of our
lives.
- Nothing should sadden us in this world, because days of
blissful joy await us.
XV
Principles of Bahá'í Education
Yet another course associated with the first act of service in the Basic
Deepening path is "Principles of Bahá'í Education". The following para-
graphs from the introduction to this course describe its aims and content:
In the Basic Deepening path of the Ruhi Institute, one of the
acts of service consists in teaching a simple children's class. It is
important for those who teach these classes to study some basic ideas
about Bahá'í education. At the present time, as we all know, there
does not exist anywhere an educational system that can be properly
called Bahá'í. In coming decades, many people in different parts of

the world will help to create such a system.
Nevertheless, it is
possible to identify certain principles and concepts that should influ-
ence any attempt at Bahá'í education, and this course will briefly ex-
amine some of them.
The structure of the subject matter is similar to that of other
conceptual courses at this level. The collaborator who takes on the
role of tutor must make sure that each participant understands each
lesson at three levels of comprehension: the meaning of the words
and sentences, the application of the concepts in one's life and work,
and
their implications for certain related situations.
For a fuller
discussion of these three levels of comprehension and how to help
participants achieve them, please refer to the section entitled "To the
Collaborators" in the course on "Understanding the Bahá'í Writ-
ings".
A basic concept of the present course is the nobility of man. It is
essential for each participant to understand the impact this extremely
important principle will have on the type of education he or she will
eventually offer. Simply by coming to regard each student as "a
mine rich in gems of inestimable value", the teacher of a beginning
children's class takes an enormous step away from current educa-
tional practices. Participants should not only strive to understand
well this concept, they should also know enough about spiritual quali-
ties, talents and capacities to be able to discover these gems in their
students and actively help to polish them.
Another aim of the course is to arrive at an initial, working
definition of the purpose and objectives of Bahá'í classes for children.
Again, the tutor should engage in wide-ranging consultation
with
each participant so that he or she will see ways to help the children
develop the spiritual qualities, habits and manners of a Bahá'í life.
In general, this course is not complex, and like all Ruhi Institute
courses, it is conducted tutorially. This is best done by dividing the
participants into small groups and allowing each group to move along
at its own pace and according to its own rhythm. This point is ex-
tremely important, because efforts to accelerate or slow down the
participant's pace, forcing him to move at the same rate as the others,
can hamper the learning process. It is necessary to emphasize the im-
portance of the tutor's role, even for the fast learners among the par-
ticipants. The tutor should discuss all of the lessons with each group
of students. In no way should a Ruhi Institute course be treated as an
independent study of the participants which is simply checked later by
the tutor.

XVI
Children's Classes
The course called "Children's Classes, Age 6 " helps the participants
develop the ability to carry out the first act of service, that of teaching
classes, under very simple conditions, to a small group of children. The
participants learn how to teach a prepared set of lessons that has been
designed for one year of weekly Bahá'í children's classes. Each lesson
consists of a quotation from the Bahá'í Writings, a song, a story, a game,
and a picture to be colored. All of these elements are related to a spiritual
quality which is the theme of the lesson. In addition to lesson plans, the
course also contains material to help develop in the participants certain
skills, such as how to help children memorize prayers and quotations, how
to teach a song, how to tell a story, and how to use cooperative games as
aids to character development. The following paragraphs are taken from
the introduction to the course entitled "Children's Classes":
Bahá'ís who have taught the Faith in highly receptive areas will
not be surprised to see that the Ruhi Institute places a strong emphasis
on children's classes. The expectations of new Bahá'ís, especially in
rural areas and neighborhoods on the outskirts of towns and cities,
and their insistent desire for Bahá'í teachers to educate their children,
are well known. The problem is that there have never been enough
teachers to respond to this well-justified demand; and unfortunately,
for some reason or other, many capable Bahá'ís who could teach chil-
dren have not attached enough importance to this act of service on
which the future of new generations depends.
It is important to mention that Bahá'í children's classes are not
like the classes of indoctrination which are common in many other
religions.
Even though children are instructed in the principles,
teachings and basic beliefs of the Faith, the emphasis is on learning to
think, to reflect and to apply spiritual laws to the life of the individual
and society. Especially during the early years of childhood, great em-
phasis is placed on the development of spiritual qualities and on
those beliefs, habits and behaviors that constitute the essential attrib-
utes of a spiritual being.
The concern for not making the Bahá'í teaching of children the
same as common acts of indoctrination or catechism should not be
interpreted as a rejection of religious instruction. Doctrines that have
disregarded religious education for children and have left them to

acquire their standards and beliefs, supposedly by free choice, from
their interactions with society, have greatly contributed to the present
state of moral disintegration. The proponents of these doctrines do
not seem to appreciate the fact that there are political, economic and
cultural interests in society which aggressively promote their own
desired patterns of thought and behavior. But even if this were not so,
humanity left to its own devices without divine guidance has pro-
duced nothing more than chaos, injustice and suffering; there is no
reason to suppose that any new generation of children will create a
better world without an education which is basically spiritual.
The objective of this course is to train teachers for children's
classes. If this goal is to be met successfully, it is important that
the tutor keep in mind the following points:
- The development of capacity for holding a simple children's
class, and the acquisition of the corresponding skills, require
great deal of practice. It is to be expected, then, that this course
will be long and sometimes even difficult. Teaching a lesson to
children requires more than reading the material and
under-
standing its content. The tutor should allow a great deal of time
for the future teachers to practice giving the classes as they
study the course.
- The majority of people who wish to teach children generally
try to repeat the same patterns which they were exposed to in
childhood. To counteract this normal tendency, this course of-
fers detailed suggestions to which the tutor and the participants
should pay close attention.
-
It is hoped that children's classes will provide a means for
developing in the children attitudes and spiritual qualities that
will bring them closer to God. In this first course, the emphasis
is on spiritual qualities, and little attention is being given to
general knowledge about the Faith. When the foundation of the
child's character has been established, then, in later years, other
necessary types of knowledge can be introduced.
-
The methodology of the children's classes combines differ-
ent activities, all focused on the principal goal of motivating the
development of attitudes and spiritual qualities.
All these
activities revolve around the Creative Word, which alone has the
power to awaken spiritual susceptibilities in the children, and a
strong emphasis is placed on memorization of the Creative
Word. Memorization has even greater effect when accompanied

by an understanding oí' what is being memorized.
For this
reason, each lesson includes material to help children under-
stand the meaning of the quotations and also learn to apply the
corresponding attitudes and spiritual qualities in their daily
lives. Unfortunately, at this stage, few songs and games have
been developed, so it has not always been possible to design
activities that directly reinforce the ideas presented in the quota-
tions to be memorized. It is hoped that in the future many more
songs and games will be created, and more stories on various
spiritual qualities will be compiled, making the work of teach-
ers of Bahá'í children's classes even more fruitful.
- It is important to bear in mind that children understand things
in very concrete and practical ways. A concept like kindness,
for example, is better understood if presented by means of con-
crete situations, as well as through abstract explanations. The
ability to do this is not easily fostered in the teacher. The par-
ticipants of this course need to dedicate much time to practicing
the explanations that accompany the quotations. Other activities
in each lesson may also help to demonstrate spiritual qualities
in action. The stories of 'Abdu'1-Bahá are of greatest impor-
tance, because He is the Exemplar of the Bahá'í life. Some par-
ticipants may have trouble learning how to tell stories in a way
that brings them to life for the children. The ability to remember
the details that give excitement to a story and to present the
events of the story in an effective way can be acquired by means
of constant practice.
-
The type of children's classes that are taught in this course
require very little in the way of materials and outside resources.
Besides the teacher's knowledge, acquired through the training
offered by the institute, only coloring sheets and crayons are
needed. The coloring sheets can be simply reproduced by trac-
ing them from the sample sheets provided for each lesson.
-
It is recommended that participants begin putting their new
skills into practice as they go through the course. This will
allow them to build up gradually to the time when they will take
on their own classes. New teachers may feel nervous the first
time they face a class of, say, 20 children, so it is advisable to let
them start out alongside experienced teachers or with a small
number of children - perhaps four or five. It is also possible to
hold classes which only teach the quotations at the beginning,
without worrying about stories, songs and other activities. As

the teacher develops confidence, more children can be added to
the class and other elements can be introduced. It should be re-
membered that each participant's final goal is to contribute to
the success of the teaching plan of the national community,
through the establishment of a regular children's class.
- A cassette tape of the songs used in the lessons accompanies
this material. Teachers may wish to use the cassette, not only to
prepare themselves for the class, but also to help the children
learn the songs.
XVII
Extracts from the Course on Life and Death
The introductory materials from the five courses presented in previ-
ous sections describe some aspects of the approach taken by the Ruhi
Institute to spiritual education in the context of service. In order to illus-
trate the content of the courses, and the manner in which they attempt to
foster understanding of the quotations from the Writings, some sections
from the course entitled "Life and Death" are presented below:
SECTION 5
Bahá'u'lláh says:
"The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will
ever be, to enable him to know his Creator and to attain His
Presence. To this most excellent aim, this supreme objective, all
the heavenly Books and the divinely-revealed and weighty Scrip-
tures unequivocally bear witness.
Whoso hath recognized the
Day Spring of Divine guidance and entered His holy court hath
drawn nigh unto God and attained His Presence, a Presence
which is the real Paradise, and of which the loftiest mansions of
heaven are but a symbol.... Whoso hath failed to recognize Him
will have condemned himself to the misery of remoteness, a re-
moteness which is naught but utter nothingness and the essence
of the nethermost fire. Such will be his fate, though to outward
seeming he may occupy the earth's loftiest seats and be estab-
lished upon its most exalted throne. "12

1. Questions:
a. What was God's purpose in creating man?
b. Does this purpose change from age to age?
c. Which books confirm this purpose?
d. Who is the "Day Spring of Divine guidance?"
e. To whom are we drawing near when we recognize
the Day Spring of Divine guidance?
f. What is "real Paradise?"
g. What can we expect if we do not recognize the Day
Spring of Divine guidance?
h. What condition do "utter nothingness" and "nether-
most fire" refer to?
SECTION 6
'Abdu'1-Bahá says:
"In the beginning of his human life man was embryonic in
the world of the matrix. There he received capacity and endow-
ment for the reality of human existence. The forces and powers
necessary for this world were bestowed upon him in that limited
condition. In this world he needed eyes; he received them poten-
tially in the other. He needed ears; he obtained them there in
readiness and preparation for his new existence.
The powers
requisite in this world were conferred upon him in the world of
the matrix.
"Therefore in this world he must prepare himself for the life
beyond. That which he needs in the world of the Kingdom must
be obtained here.
Just as he prepared himself in the world
of the matrix by acquiring forces necessary in this sphere of
existence, so likewise the indispensable forces of the divine
existence must be potentially obtained in this world. "13

1. Circle truc or false:
a. We received the capacities and endowments
we need for this world in the world of the matrix.
T
F
b. Our condition in the matrix was not limited.
T
F
c. All forces and powers necessary for this world were
bestowed upon us in the world of the matrix.
T
F
d. Therefore there is no need to prepare oneself for
the next Ufe.
T
F
e. What we need in the world of the Kingdom can
be obtained there.
T
F
f. The purpose of this life is to acquire the
forces and powers necessary for the next
Ufe.
T
F
g. True life begins when one dies and goes to
the Divine Kingdom.
T
F
h. True life is the life of the soul.
T
F
i. True life begins in this world and continues
after physical death.
T
F
2. Questions:
a. How does man begin his life?
b. Where does he receive his capacities and endowments?
c. What are some of the things that man needs in this life that
are given to him in the world of the matrix?
d. Which endowments should be obtained here for life after
death?
SECTION 7
Bahá'u'lláh says:
"The whole duty of man in this Day is to attain that share of
the flood of grace which God poureth forth for him.
Let
none, therefore, consider the largeness or smallness of the
receptacle.
The portion of some might lie in the palm of a
man's hand, the portion of others might fill a cup, and others
even a gallon-measure. "14

1. Questions:
a. Mention some of the blessings you have received from God.
b. Give examples of how man keeps himself from receiving his
portion of God's grace.
c. Why should we not consider "the largeness or smallness" of our
receptacle?
2. Circle true or false:
a. Only the great philosophers have the
capacity to know God.
T
F
b. To serve God, we need to forget our
weaknesses and trust in Him.
T
F
c. If in this world we do not develop what God
has given us, our souls will be weak when we
arrive in the next world.
T
F
SECTION 8
"Thou hast asked Me concerning the nature of the soul.
Know, verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly gem whose
reality the most learned of men hath failed to grasp, and
whose mystery no mind, however acute, can ever hope to
unravel.
It is the first among all created things to declare
the excellence of its Creator, the first to recognize His glory, to
cleave to His truth, and to bow down in adoration before Him. If
it be faithful to God, it will reflect His light, and will, eventually,
return unto Him. If it fail, however, in its allegiance to its Crea-
tor, it will become a victim to self and passion, and will, in the
end, sink in their depths. "15
1. Fill in the spaces:
a. The soul is a
of God.
b
is a heavenly gem.
c
is the first to declare the excellence of
its Creator.
d. The soul will return to God if it is

c. The soul will become a victim of self and passion if.
f. If it becomes a victim of self, the soul will sink in the
depths of
g. A soul reflects the light of God if it is
2. Circle true or false:
a. "To unravel" means to find out
T
F
b. Among all created things, the first to
recognize God is the mind.
T
F
c. Acute means sharp.
T
F
d. A learned person understands the
mystery of the soul.
T
F
e. It is not necessary to meditate about
the soul because we will never be
able to understand it
T
F
XVIII
Further Development of the Basic Deepening Path
During the early stages of the development of the Ruhi Institute, two
more acts of service were identified which operate at a level of complexity
similar to that of teaching simple children's classes. The first was the
sharing of a booklet, entitled "I am a Bahá'í", with new believers. The
other was the sharing of a series of deepening booklets with Bahá'í families
over a period of a few months. The courses were developed to help partici-
pants acquire the necessary skills to carry out these acts of service and also
gain more knowledge about the Faith. For a while, it was felt that the
seven courses that have been mentioned up to this point could form the first
level of the path of Basic Deepening; however, it soon became apparent
that the first level lacked a Bahá'í history course, which is so much needed
to develop the believers' sense of identity as they begin to walk their paths
of service. A detailed course on the life of the Báb was then added to the
first level.
A second shortcoming became apparent when the results of the three
acts of service were evaluated over a period of a few years. It was noticed
that although some of the friends kept up regular family visits, others were

not constant and soon lost enthusiasm. 'Hie difference seemed to lie in
their relative consciousness of the fact that the joy of teaching is in the act
itself and not so much in the feeling of success or praise, or in the satisfac-
tion that one seeks in superficial excitement. A ninth course was then
developed, called "The Joy of Teaching", which tries to convey this
important concept through the study of appropriate quotations from the
Writings. Together, these nine courses now comprise Level 1 of the path
of Basic Deepening.
Three more acts of service form the nucleus of another set of nine
courses that constitute Level 2 of the Basic Deepening path. These are
teaching two more years of children's classes (for seven- and eight-year-
olds), individual teaching, and participation in teaching campaigns aimed at
expansion and consolidation among entire, extended families. The six
courses that are to help the participants gain spiritual insight and develop
the qualities that would make these acts spiritually meaningful are: "The
Covenant", "Studying and Understanding Passages from the Writings",
"The Spiritual Path", "The Bahá'í Family", "The Life of Bahá'u'lláh",
and "Giving: The Spiritual Basis of Prosperity".
Development work has begun on courses for two further levels of the
Basic Deepening path, but final definitions must await more consultation,
experimentation, and reflection.
XIX
The First Specialized Path: Education of Children
Early in the 1980s, one of the Auxiliary Board members in Colombia
entered into a process of consultation with several rural communities
around the town of Puerto Tejada in order to help them identify steps they
could take to improve their own social conditions. From the diverse ideas
put forward in these meetings of consultation, one theme stood out: the
desire of every community to establish kindergartens for the five- and six-
year-old children, and nurseries for the younger ones. This was an under-
standable aspiration, as the Colombian government had succeeded in estab-
lishing primary schools in almost every village; but, at the time, the Minis-
try of Education was only beginning to consider the question of preschool
education.
The results of the consultations, analyzed in light of the capabilities of
the Bahá'í community at that time, led to a small pilot program to learn

about small village kindergartens. Working in cooperation with the Ruhi
Institute, the Auxiliary Board member who had initiated the consultations
organized a group of young women selected from a few villages, helped
them establish small kindergartens, visited their villages regularly, and
offered them a weekly training course at the institute. Parallel to these
efforts, a small group of believers who had backgrounds in the sciences and
education began to analyze the ongoing experience and to develop a cur-
riculum for the kindergartens.
For the first time, the Ruhi Institute was confronting the challenge of
providing secular education in a Bahá'í setting. Initially, the friends ex-
plored the possibility of a curriculum that would consist of a few hours of
moral education added to preschool materials which were easily available
from internationally promoted programs. Soon, however, it was realized
that an opportunity existed to create a curriculum in which the concepts of
the Faith would pervade all the learning processes. They set out to develop
materials and methods that would help the pupils acquire scientific, mathe-
matical, and artistic abilities, as well as certain skills known to contribute
to the ability to read and write, all in a spiritual context.
The pilot project went on for about four years. Each year the curricu-
lum was revised and materials were rewritten on the basis of the previous
year's experience. By 1987, the program had advanced well enough to
permit the institute to establish the first specialized path of service, that of
"Education of Children". The courses so far developed for this path are
devoted to the training of teachers for Bahá'í village kindergartens. Further
courses are envisioned for the training of educational agents for the primary
level, but little work has yet been done in that direction. Unlike the courses
of the Basic Deepening path, the initial training of kindergarten teachers,
which lasts for eight weeks, is centralized in Puerto Tejada. Participants
are mainly youth from villages throughout Colombia. It is assumed that, in
their regions, they will already have studied the first five courses of the
Basic Deepening path; those who have not, attend a two-week preparatory
session before starting the kindergarten course. The training does not stop
at the end of the eight-week term. Teachers who live near Puerto Tejada
attend monthly discussion meetings at the institute; in other places,
collaborators of the Ruhi Institute are asked to hold similar meetings for the
kindergarten teachers in their areas.

XVI
The Second Specialized Path: Community Development
A goal of the Ruhi Institute, from its inception, has been to increase
the national community's capacity to meet the perennial challenge of devel-
oping local Bahá'í communities. The acts of service in the Basic Deepen-
ing and Education of Children paths certainly contribute to this objective;
however, analysis of successful and failed efforts to develop local commu-
nities has led to the establishment of a separate path of service in "Com-
munity Development". The courses of this path are directed especially to
youth who are offering a year of service to the Faith to be followed by a
few years of homefront pioneering.
For a long time, the Colombian friends understood community devel-
opment exclusively in terms of the functioning of Local Spiritual Assem-
blies. When thoughts are entirely focused on the Local Assembly, it is
natural that community workers will expend most of their energies on the
adults, especially those who have been elected to Assemblies. In Colom-
bia, it was often admitted that the most joyful and productive hours were
those spent in the education of children and youth, particularly those be-
tween the ages of 12 and 16, but the implications of this fact were seldom
discussed in the consultations on community development
As more experience was gained with community development, there
was a growing sense that it was impractical to insist on a "functioning"
Local Spiritual Assembly in places where one could hardly pretend that a
Bahá'í community existed. The friends began to question the wisdom of
making the functioning of the Local Assembly a pre-condition for every
other development. They gradually came to accept that, in early stages, one
may have to be content with a Local Assembly that is elected once a year
and meets occasionally whenever a community worker from outside visits
the village. To concentrate so much energy directly on the Local Assembly
was clearly not the best way to develop that institution, and in fact, the
Assembly could best be strengthened in the context of efforts to develop, in
parallel fashion, a number of community structures and processes.
As logical as such an approach may seem, and although there was
every evidence to support it, for most of the believers it was at first difficult
to feel comfortable with these ideas, and something akin to a feeling of
guilt assailed them for failing to give the Local Spiritual Assembly what
they felt was its proper due in the order of priorities. Yet, as this approach
began to be implemented and experience with it grew, its validity became
more and more accepted. The courses on the path of service called "Com-

munily Development", then, do not begin with the Local Assembly but
with developing in community workers the capability to form and maintain
youth groups in the villages.
The curriculum for this path of service has been developed in a
similar fashion to that of Education of Children. Again in the early 1980s,
an Auxiliary Board member was asked to experiment with the formation of
village youth groups. His approach was to ask one of the older and more
deepened youth in each village to organize a youth group which would not
rely much on his own direct involvement As he observed the successes of
these youth and the difficulties they faced, he formulated a conceptual
framework which he shared with the Ruhi Institute. The institute was then
asked to define specific acts of service and corresponding courses for the
training of "Animators of Youth Groups" who would later progress to
undertake other aspects of community development. As experience was
gained, it became clear that to be an Animator of Youth Groups was a
much more demanding task than originally envisioned. The participants in
these courses needed to work under supervision and to receive help from
experienced workers for a number of months before they could actually
sustain the excitement of the youth and be able to deepen them in the Faith.
For this reason, the first few courses of the Community Development path,
which are concerned with youth groups, have been incorporated in the Year
of Service program. Each year an increasing number of youth offer a year
of service to the National Spiritual Assembly of Colombia, which assigns
the majority of them to the Ruhi Institute. During this year they study
levels 1 and 2 of the Basic Deepening path, the first few courses of the
Community Development path, and the courses of the Education of Chil-
dren path, up to the kindergarten teacher level. During the first weeks of
the year of service, they receive most of their training at the Ruhi Institute
in Puerto Tejada, but gradually spend more time in the villages to practice
what they have learned, returning to the institute for regular meetings of
consultation about their services.
As to the Community Development path, itself, courses are being de-
veloped beyond those concerned with youth, to include work with other
structures such as families and informal women's groups, finally leading to
work with the formal structures of the community, especially the Local
Spiritual Assembly.

XVI
The "General Studies" Path
In addition to the courses of the three paths of service already men-
tioned, the Ruhi Institute offers to its participants, according to their inter-
ests and circumstances, certain courses for their intellectual development
and the development of their capability to serve some of the material needs
of the community, in fields such as health, agriculture, and village-level
technology. These courses were actually developed by another institution,
FUNDAEC, which, although not Bahá'í, has been deeply influenced by
Bahá'í ideals and has developed in parallel with the Ruhi Institute. They
are part of the Rural University program of FUNDAEC, and a discussion of
their characteristics is beyond the scope of this document
XXII
Important Characteristics of the Ruhi Institute
The material presented up to this point will have given a general
impression of the Ruhi Institute, the setting in which it developed, its
conceptual framework, and the nature of its programs. It may prove useful
to expand on certain aspects of what has already been mentioned in order to
highlight some of the institute's salient features.
1. Deepening programs may be founded on any of several concepts which
offer equally valid approaches to the organization of knowledge and the de-
velopment of curricula. These could include, for example, "the acquisition
of knowledge for personal growth and transformation", or "the develop-
ment of individual potentials", or "the preparation of individuals for ap-
propriate functioning within the Bahá'í community". From among various
possibilities, the Ruhi Institute has chosen "service to the Cause" as the
organizing principle of its educational activities.
The programs of the
institute do, of course, address the importance of knowledge, the develop-
ment of human potential, the need for personal transformation, and the ap-
propriate functioning of Bahá'í communities, just as Bahá'í courses
founded on any of the other concepts named above would also address
"service". Nevertheless, the choice of an organizing principle is not a
trivial one, for the resulting educational activities, the attitudes they foster

towards learning, and indeed the sum of all that emerges from the educa-
tional process, will be strongly influenced by that choice.
A believer's possibilities for service to the Cause of God are enhanced
by the development of certain capabilities, such as the capability to teach
on an individual basis, to participate in teaching campaigns organized by
the community, to study the Writings in progressively more meaningful
ways, to participate effectively in consultation, to help deepen new believ-
ers, and to educate children and help youth channel their energies. These
are only a few from a wide range of capabilities that each Bahá'í may
choose to acquire, in greater or lesser degrees, according to his or her
interests and talents. A capability is not a simple skill; in fact, each of
those mentioned above requires the acquisition of numerous skills and
abilities. Moreover, the development of a given capability implies certain
spiritual qualities, knowledge, proper attitudes, and an ever-deepening
spiritual understanding of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh. Hence, the pro-
grams of the Ruhi Institute are not "training programs" in the sense that
the term is generally used, namely to describe programs for the develop-
ment of well-defined and discrete skills and the acquisition of specified in-
formation. Their purpose, rather, is the spiritual education of the friends,
with service as the central and explicit concern of every educational activ-
ity.
In the vocabulary of curriculum development, it can be said that
service is the axis around which the diverse elements of the curriculum are
integrated
2. In all the courses of the Ruhi Institute the principal approach to learning
is through study of the Bahá'í Writings. For courses which are concerned
principally with the development of spiritual knowledge, qualities and
attitudes, the materials may consist almost exclusively of extracts from the
Writings. For courses that are concerned with the acquisition of skills and
abilities, proportionately more expository materials are included, but these
materials are also presented in the explicit context of the Bahá'í teachings.
Every effort is made to help the participants learn to rely on the Word of
God and to recognize its transforming power. Passages such as the follow-
ing have had the greatest influence on the development of the institute's
educational ideas:
"O friend of mine! The Word of God is the king of words
and its pervasive influence is incalculable. It hath ever domi-
nated and will continue to dominate the realm of being.
The
Great Being saith: The Word is the master key for the whole
world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of

men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No
sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone forth
upon the mirror of love than the blessed word 'I am the Best-
Beloved' was reflected therein. It is an ocean inexhaustible in
riches, comprehending all things.
Every thing which
can be
perceived is but an emanation therefrom. High, immeasurably
high is this sublime station, in whose shadow moveth the essence
of loftiness and splendour, wrapt in praise and adoration. "16
"The vitality of men's belief in God is dying out in every
land; nothing short of His wholesome medicine can ever restore
it. The corrosion of ungodliness is eating into the vitals of human
society; what else but the Elixir of His potent Revelation can
cleanse and revive it? Is it within human power, O Hakim, to
effect in the constituent elements of any of the minute and indivis-
ible particles of matter so complete a transformation as to trans-
mute it into purest gold? Perplexing and difficult as this may
appear, the still greater task of converting satanic strength into
heavenly power is one that We have been empowered to accom-
plish. The Force capable of such a transformation transcendeth
the potency of the Elixir itself. The Word of God, alone, can
claim the distinction of being endowed with the capacity required
for so great and far-reaching a change. "17
"That which hath been in existence had existed before, but
not in the form thou seest today. The world of existence came
into being through the heat generated from the interaction be-
tween the active force and that which is its recipient. These two
are the same, yet they are different. Thus doth the Great An-
nouncement inform thee about this glorious structure. Such as
communicate the generating influence and such as receive its
impact are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God
which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His
Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof.
Verily thy
Lord is the Expounder, the All-Wise.
"Know thou, moreover, that the Word of God - exalted be
His glory - is higher and far superior to that which the senses can
perceive, for it is sanctified from any property or substance. It
transcendeth the limitations of known elements and is exalted
above all the essential
and recognized substances. It became

manifest without any syllable or sound and is none but the Com-
mand of God which pervadeth all created things. It hath never
been withheld from the world of being. It is God's all-pervasive
grace, from which all grace doth emanate. It is an entity far
removed above all that hath been and shall be. "18
Small groups of participants, working with the assistance of a tutor,
meet together in an atmosphere of joy, calm and meditative serenity to
engage in close study of the course materials. The tutor's role is that of a
facilitator of learning, and seldom that of a lecturer. The responsibility for
learning rests with the participants; they are active learners, who are con-
stantly thinking, analyzing, formulating ideas and answering questions.
The participants are not the recipients of knowledge bestowed by the tutor,
rather, the tutor helps the participants study the course materials and reach
certain conclusions about their content and meaning. The tutor does not
deliver answers to the participants, neither does he pretend not to know
what is to be learned from each unit of study. He guides discussions and
actively contributes to the movement of the group's understanding towards
a set of predetermined objectives, but welcomes whatever additional in-
sights and realizations the group may reach.
The central goal of the learning process is for the participants to
achieve understanding. Activities are not organized simply for the purpose
of building excitement, and efforts are made to ensure that motivation for
study does not arise from false expectations. Yearning for understanding,
when awakened, is the greatest of all motivators. Joy and inner motivation,
engendered through the attainment of true understanding, seem sufficient to
spur on most of the participants to lives of learning and sustained service to
the Faith.
"Know thou that, according to what thy Lord, the Lord of
all men, hath decreed in His Book, the favors vouchsafed by Him
unto mankind have
been, and will remain, limitless in their
range.
First and foremost among these favors, which the Al-
mighty hath conferred upon man, is the gift of understanding.
His purpose in conferring such a gift is none other except to
enable His creature to know and recognize the one true God -
exalted be His glory. This gift giveth man the power to discern
the truth in all things, leadeth him to that which is right, and
helpeth him to discover the secrets of creation. " 19

"The understanding of His words and the comprehension of
the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise dependent
upon human learning. They depend solely upon purity of heart,
chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit. This is evidenced by those
who, today, though without a single letter of the accepted stan-
dards of learning, are occupying the loftiest seats of knowledge;
and the garden of their hearts is adorned, through the showers of
divine grace, with the roses of wisdom and the tulips of under-
standing
1, 20
3. The Ruhi Institute has not subscribed to a particular educational theory,
nor has it pretended to contribute to the formulation of a "Bahá'í theory of
education", an endeavor which probably must await a distant future when
the results of efforts by large numbers of people to apply the Revelation of
Bahá'u'lláh to educational practice, all over the world, can be integrated
into a consistent body of knowledge. What the collaborators of the insti-
tute have tried to do is to ensure that at any given moment their educational
practice reflects their best understanding of the guidance and inspiration
enshrined in the Bahá'í Teachings.
The methodology for the elaboration of courses and educational mate-
rials has grown from the institute's historical roots. In the early 1970s, as
described above, a small group of people who were personally engaged in
large-scale expansion and consolidation entered into a process of consulta-
tion about the successes and failures of their efforts. By reflecting on their
own service and growth, they hoped to gain new insights into the dynamics
of the spiritual movement of entire populations. As this nucleus of people
began to advance in their own paths of service and to discover certain
spiritual requirements of these paths, they became engaged in an educa-
tional process that would prepare an increasing number of individuals to
similarly dedicate themselves to the spiritual movement of their own
people.
Naturally, the courses and educational materials took shape
through the same process of consultation/action/reflection that had evolved
as the group's method of learning and service.
Such an approach to
curriculum development is clearly rooted in action. Curriculum is never
seen as an instrument through which those who know will teach those who
are ignorant, but as an instrument through which all participants can be
empowered to serve, together, in a common learning process.
The approach to curriculum development can be summarized simply,
in the following terms. Once an educational need is identified, a small
group of people, working at the grass roots, consult among themselves,
develop a set of ideas for educational activities, and put them into practice.

The results of this practice are reviewed, evaluated and consulted upon; in
light of this consultation, a modified set of educational activities is put into
practice, and subjected to reflection that leads to further modification and
revision. At no time in this process of curriculum development does action
await the final preparation and evaluation of educational materials.
At
every stage, educational activities proceed with the best materials at hand,
in the conviction that it is only through practice and reflection, both pur-
sued in light of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, that more appropriate curric-
ula can gradually evolve. Yet, this is not a setting in which a few individu-
als are developing materials for their own use, and it does become neces-
sary at some point to finalize the structure and content of each unit so that it
may be used with confidence by others. The decision to release a final
version of the materials for a given course is made simply when it is
noticed that modifications are becoming negligible. It is important to note
that the various aspects of this process of consultation, action and reflection
are carried out parallel with one another, and not performed in a linear
sequence which would be inherently artificial.
XXIII
Presenting the Institute to Those Outside the Bahá'í Community
In 1988 the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Colombia
decided to seek legal recognition for the Ruhi Institute by incorporating it
as a non-profit organization with its own Board of Directors appointed by
the Assembly. This decision has opened up avenues for more extensive
interactions with other organizations in Latin America and possibilities of
greater access to financial resources.
In introducing itself to a wider
audience, the institute has described itself in somewhat different language
than has been used here. The perusal of a few paragraphs from these more
general presentations, while it will entail some degree of repetition, is nec-
essary to complete the present analysis of the institute.
The Ruhi Institute is an educational institution, operating under
the guidance of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Co-
lombia, which dedicates its efforts to the development of human
resources for the spiritual, social, and cultural development of the
Colombian people.
Although its center is in the town of Puerto

Tejada in the department of Cauca, its area of influence includes the
majority of the rural areas of Colombia and is being gradually ex-
tended to several other countries in Latin America.
Like any other institution involved in the process of education
for development, the Ruhi Institute has formulated its strategies
within a special framework and a philosophy of social change, devel-
opment and education. In this case, that understanding has emerged
from a consistent effort to apply Bahá'í principles to the analysis of
social conditions:
- The Bahá'í Faith sees the present state of human affairs as a
natural stage in an organic process which will finally lead to the unity
of the human race within one social order. Humanity as a whole has
gone through evolutionary stages similar to those experienced by an
individual; having passed through infancy and childhood, it is now
experiencing the difficult culminating moments of a turbulent adoles-
cence. The present state of confusion, doubt, and belligerence is
simply to be understood as the condition of an adolescent who
strongly desires growth and maturity, but is still attached to childish
attitudes and customs. Yet the moment is ripe for this adolescent to
take a final step and enter the constructive and dynamic but balanced
state of maturity and adulthood.
- In analyzing the rapid changes occurring in the world today,
Bahá'ís identify two parallel processes operating at all levels ~ vil-
lage, town, nation, and global society. On the one hand, it is clear
that human society is suffering from a process of disintegration that
manifests itself in wars, terrorism, chaos, physical and psychological
insecurity, and a widespread condition of material poverty. On the
other hand, forces of integration are moving individuals and groups
toward the adoption of new values, new forms of organization, and
appropriate structures that can lay the foundation for the establish-
ment of a new social order. The Ruhi Institute defines its basic aim as
that of becoming a channel for the spiritual forces of our time to be
applied to the lives of the masses of humanity, empowering them to
contribute to the establishment of a new world civilization.
- In its efforts to understand and contribute to a process of social
change, the Ruhi Institute tries to avoid two sets of theories that have
dominated the discourse on development and change for too many
decades. On the one hand, it disagrees with concepts of social change
that are entirely individualistic in their outlook, which analyze soci-
ety only in terms of the psychological make-up, the skills, and the be-

havior oí' the individual, and which assume thai social
structures
somehow will change by themselves once the individual is saved or
correctly trained through religious conversion or secular education.
On the other hand, it also rejects theories that consider the human
being entirely as a product of society, and claim that no improvement
is possible unless social structures, especially those related to politi-
cal and economic power, are changed first. There are too many ex-
amples of participation by the "righteous" and the "highly trained"
in the structures of oppression to allow any objective observer of
social processes to accept proposals of change based entirely on the
redemption of the individual without direct attention to social forces
and structures. At the same time, history has already shown the evils
of systems that deny individual freedom and derive their moral and
social codes from a perception of the necessity of change in the
structures of power, a change their proponents
believe should be
achieved at any cost.
The Ruhi Institute tries to understand the process of the trans-
formation of human society in terms of a far more complex set of
interactions between two parallel developments: the transformation
of the individual, and the deliberate creation of the structures of a new
society. Moreover, just as it does not view the human being as a mere
product of interactions with nature and society, it does not identify
structural change only with political and economic processes. Rather,
it sees the necessity of change in all structures ~ mental, cultural,
scientific and technological, educational, economic and social — in-
cluding a complete change in the very concepts of political leadership
and power. It is understood that individuals, all of whom possess a
more or less developed spiritual nature, may be illumined by divine
teachings, even under the influence of the most oppressive social
forces. These individuals, then, by no means perfected, try to walk
the path of social transformation, a path which, nevertheless, is not
one of individual salvation but one which implies a constant effort to
create and strengthen the institutions of a new social order. These
new institutions, even when designed perfectly, may not function
perfectly at first, but they do make it possible for an increasing
number of human beings to walk further along the path of spiritual
growth and transformation. This continuous interaction, between the
parallel processes of the spiritualization of the individual and the
establishment of new social structures, describes the only dependable
path of social change, one that avoids both complacency and violence
and does not perpetuate the cycles of oppression and illusory freedom

that humanity has experienced in the past. According to this vision of
social change, the Ruhi Institute directs its present efforts to develop
human resources within a set of activities that conduce to spiritual
and intellectual growth, but are carried out in the context of each
individual's contribution to the establishment of new structures - for
now, mostly, in villages and rural regions.
- Yet another important element of the conceptual framework of
the Ruhi Institute is the concept of participation. Although by now
most programs concerned with development and change accept the
importance of participation by the local community in its own path of
development and most try to avoid imposing their own projects and
ideas, there usually is little clarity and agreement as to the nature, the
form, and the extent of this participation. The Ruhi Institute, follow-
ing the ideas presented in the previous paragraphs, asserts that effec-
tive participation which will not easily degenerate into political ma-
nipulation requires a systematic learning process within each commu-
nity and region so that the community itself experiments with new
ideas, new methods, and new technologies and procedures, rather than
being the object of the social experimentation of others. Thus, one of
the first steps in establishing participatory development processes in a
region is to promote intensive participation by an increasing number
of individuals in learning, in a constant effort to apply knowledge to
improve the conditions of community life and to create and strengthen
the institutions of a new world order.
- Guided by universal participation, both as a principle and as a
goal, the Ruhi Institute tries to design and carry out educational
activities that combine classroom learning and personal study with
acts of service in the community. Each educational activity is to be,
in itself, an enabling experience which helps participants develop
further the qualities, attitudes, capabilities, and skills of a new type of
social actor whose energies are entirely directed towards promoting
the well-being of the community, and whose actions are inspired by
the vision of a new world civilization which will embody in all its
structures and processes the fundamental principle of the unity of the
human race.
- At the Ruhi Institute, the design and implementation of educa-
tional activities are always guided by a profound conviction in the
basic nobility of the human being. The Bahá'í Writings state:
"Man is the supreme Talisman. Lack of a proper education
hath, however, deprived him of that which he doth inherently

possess. Through a word proceeding out of the mouth of God he
was called into being; by one word more he was guided to recog-
nize the Source of his education; by yet another word his station
and destiny were safeguarded. The Great Being saith: Regard
man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value. Education can,
alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and enable mankind to
benefit therefrom. -"21
Education, then, is not simply seen as the acquisition of knowl-
edge and the development of skills, but also as the development of
vast and powerful potentialities inherent in the very nature of every
human being. Again, the development of these potentialities and tal-
ents, which is considered a God-given right and responsibility of the
individual, attains fruition when it is pursued in the spirit of service to
humanity and in the context of creating a new world civilization.
Each participant in the programs of the Ruhi Institute acts as a
student in certain educational activities, and as a tutor in others. The
institute, then, uses the term "collaborator" to refer to all who take
part in its programs. Based on the conditions and the needs of the
population served by the institute, courses are designed along a series
of "paths of service" which a collaborator follows according to per-
sonal interests and capacities. At the beginning of each path of service
collaborators mostly learn and develop new concepts and skills. Later
on, they participate in courses that prepare them to act as tutors of the
earlier courses, thus creating a unique and dynamic environment for
the development of human resources. The courses that have been
designed, or are in the process of being developed and tested, now fall
along four paths of service, as shown in the following diagram.
General Studies
Community Development
Education of Children
Basic Spiritual Deepening
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4

In order to illustrate the program described above, it may be
useful to relate the experience of one young collaborator of the
Coast region of Colombia. She began her association with the Ruhi
Institute at the age of 16 when she enrolled in a two-week seminar
being offered in the North Coast and completed the first five courses
of level one of 'Basic Deepening'. Following the seminar she went
on to successfully complete more courses along the path, and soon
afterwards established a bi-weekly children's class in a village near
the city of Cartagena, where she was attending high school. She was
assisted in this work by the Bahá'í regional committee of the North
Coast, as well as by other collaborators of the Ruhi Institute in that
region.
Over the next two years, she took part in various conferences
and community development activities and continued with courses of
the 'Basic Deepening' path, including some of the second level.
After finishing high school she decided to offer a year of service
beginning in January 1988. During this time she participated in a one-
month course for kindergarten teachers and took part in the courses
and the practices of the 'Community Development' path of service
and learning.
She successfully started and guided two youth groups
in a village near the Ruhi Institute and assisted them in their studies
and acts of service. She also served as an adviser to another youth
who had started a kindergarten and helped a group of women with
their projects in another village.
After finishing her year of service she returned to the North
Coast, established herself in a small town, and with support from the
local and regional Bahá'í committees is assisting the development of
nearby communities.
The policies and programs of the Ruhi Institute are overseen by
a Board of Directors that presently consists of seven from among the
individuals involved in its development during the past decade. The
Board, however, seldom arrives at a decision without ample consulta-
tion with the growing body of the institute's experienced collabora-
tors, who are becoming increasingly involved in the organization and
implementation of different educational programs. The day-to-day
activities of the institute are managed by an administrator in close
collaboration with the secretary-treasurer of the Board of Directors.
Services rendered to the Ruhi Institute are entirely voluntary and
generally are not remunerated, although expenses for travel to other
regions to visit youth groups and centers of excellence, and to partici-

pate as tutors in different courses, arc reimbursed for collaborators
who cannot afford to meet such expenses from their own resources.
Recently, an agreement was made with FUNDAEC to jointly develop
and test courses for community groups in certain villages. This has
made it necessary for the institute to ask three of its collaborators to
become full-time workers for a limited period, and for the first time a
modest remuneration is being paid for such services.
The budget of the Ruhi Institute, then, is dedicated to the actual
implementation of programs, and is spent almost entirely on partici-
pants' travel expenses, food and lodging, and on materials for their
courses. A significant portion of the budget is dedicated to expenses
of youth who are giving a year of service to the institute. They act as
animators of youth groups and advisers to the growing network of
kindergarten teachers, and promote the gradual development of com-
munity centers of excellence.
The institute offers each year one or two one-month programs
for the year-of-service volunteers, many of whom come from other
countries in Latin America. Ten to fifteen experienced collaborators
living in nearby towns offer a block of time each week to act as tutors
for a specific course in this one-month program. Given the impor-
tance of the event, some of the collaborators from other regions are
also invited to help make the program a success. Each year similar
programs are conducted once or twice for new groups of village
kindergarten teachers.
After the one-month program, some participants return to a year
of service in their own countries, but many of the Colombian youth
stay at the institute and follow a program of supervised service and
study. During the first months of this period, the youth work in
nearby villages, under the guidance of more experienced collabora-
tors, and also take part in courses along the 'Community Develop-
ment' path.
Later in the year they travel, helping collaborators in
other regions, and finally settle down in an area where they can earn a
living and join the body of collaborators in that region.
Not all the collaborators of the institute, however, need go
through the Year of Service program.
The institute continuously
sponsors courses in different regions to help old and new collabora-
tors to move along the various paths of service. In fact, the institute
in Puerto Tejada is mostly used for the development of new courses
which, once proven effective, are transferred to other areas by spe-
cially trained tutors. For example, for many years now, the first level
of the 'Basic Deepening' path has seldom been taught at the site of

the Ruhi Institute; the corresponding courses are usually offered re-
gionally to groups gathered from several communities, and even to
small groups in a single village.
XXIV
Lost Momentum
This brief analysis of the conceptual framework and programs of the
Ruhi Institute began with a description of the history of large-scale expan-
sion and consolidation in Colombia. Having examined the institute in its
present stage of development, it may be worthwhile to return to the histori-
cal account and make a few comments about how teaching has progressed
in that country as a consequence of the impetus lent by the institute to the
development of human resources.
Even before the institute acquired its modest building in Puerto
Tejada, other facilities were used to conduct one- or two-month courses for
youth from nearby villages. During these courses the participants com-
pleted early versions of what would become the first level of the Basic
Deepening path. The transformation that occurred in these village youth in
a very short time was truly astounding. Having entered the institute with
very little knowledge of the Faith, they emerged as confirmed Bahá'ís who
had achieved a high degree of clarity about their newly acquired beliefs.
Children's classes and Nineteen Day Feasts began to multiply in communi-
ties whose youth had benefitted from the courses of the institute. But this
initial success proved to be a mixed blessing for the Colombian Bahá'í
community.
The tired community members who had helped to initiate and sustain
large-scale expansion and consolidation reached the conclusion that the
time had come to relax from the pressures of the past several years. The era
of regional and national campaigns, which had consumed so much energy
and required so much sacrifice, could quietly be put to an end.
The
community was finally achieving a level of maturity that would allow it to
rely upon the initiatives and activities of individuals in local communities
to meet the challenges of expansion and consolidation. All that had to be
done was to train a few people for each village at the Ruhi Institute, and to
ensure that the National Assembly remained responsive to the needs of the
local communities and supportive of their plans of action.
Unfortunately, it was gradually discovered, one may become con-
firmed in one's beliefs without necessarily acquiring a great deal of initia-

live in the process. The village youth who had participated in the institute
courses were ready to carry out activities in service to the Faith as long as
they were spurred on by their teachers, but their activities would dwindle as
they took on the burdensome responsibilities of village life in Colombia.
As the intensity of the collective projects of the national community de-
creased - and these had included regular visits to some 200 villages and
towns ~ the number of youth who participated in the courses of the insti-
tute also diminished. Devoted individuals, of course, continued with their
services to the Faith, and a few communities dutifully attended to basic
functions. But the momentum that had been built up over a period of seven
years was lost in the short span of a few months. The decision to revert to
what was referred to at the time as a "normal lifestyle" proved to have far-
reaching consequences for the community's future development. The ensu-
ing period of slow, uneven and discontinuous growth, characterized by
bursts of activity followed by months of quiet, lasted for about three years.
When the results were finally analyzed and the implications of a more
relaxed approach to the organization and promotion of teaching were
understood, the National Spiritual Assembly and the Auxiliary Board
members realized that the process of rebuilding collective consciousness
and enthusiasm might well be the most difficult challenge they had ever
faced.
The event that marked the beginning of a gradual process of change
was, unfortunately, the premature passing of the Hand of the Cause
Rahmat'ulláh Muhájir in December of 1979. He had been a source of in-
spiration and courage to the Colombian friends since his first visit to that
country in the 1960s, and had encouraged them every step of the way
through crises and victories. He had laid the cornerstone of the building of
the Ruhi Institute in Puerto Tejada, declaring unexpectedly that a future
university was being established there. He had been somewhat displeased
by the community's decision to teach the Faith without the pressure of
highly disciplined and intensive campaigns; his message to the National
Spiritual Assembly on this subject had been a single sentence: "The less
you expect, the less you achieve". The believers were anxiously waiting
for his next visit to consult with him on the direction of their future
activities, but he passed away in Ecuador a few days before he would have
reached Colombia and revitalized that community through his wise counsel
and the inspiration of his words and example.
In a series of meetings of prayer and consultation, filled with the
memory of Dr. Muhájir, the Colombian friends decided to dedicate eight-
een months to intensive teaching in his name.
But the mood of the
community was still not inclined towards intensive campaigns. Thirty-six

individuals arose, greatly moved by their love for Dr. Muhájir, and pledged
to enroll at least five hundred new believers each. So that the pressures of
high numerical goals would not lower the quality of teaching, the National
Assembly asked the teachers to make at least three visits to each new
believer within a few weeks after declaration and share with them a number
of deepening booklets. During the next months, the thirty-six volunteers
taught on their own, using their weekends and vacations, with such a high
degree of devotion that by the middle of 1981 the number of adult Bahá'ís
in Colombia had increased by another fifteen thousand, raising the total to
about forty-five thousand.
Being acutely aware of the limitations of large-scale expansion with-
out proportionate increase in the number of active teachers, the National
Assembly asked the thirty-six individuals to form teams with as many be-
lievers as showed enthusiasm for teaching. Unlike groups of teachers that
would come together only for the duration of a campaign, these would be
permanent teams to which new believers who expressed the desire to serve
would be constantly invited. The more experienced members of each team
would endeavor to deepen the newer ones in an atmosphere of love and
fellowship and help them reach ever-greater heights of devotion. As the
number of team members approached twenty, they would be asked to
divide into two teams, each carrying out the basic functions of deepening
and teaching in communities easily accessible to them. The members of
the National Assembly and the Auxiliary Board either joined a team or
undertook the task of encouraging several teams by attending some of their
weekly deepening meetings and participating in their weekend teaching
projects.
This new method of organizing the teaching work once again mobi-
lized the Colombian Bahá'í community. About a hundred youth who had
already attended the courses of the Ruhi Institute quickly rallied behind the
new plan of action. The permanent team structure now offered the institute
the opportunity to decentralize its courses and hold them in towns and
villages throughout the country. In fact, during this period the more experi-
enced members of the teams, all of whom had close ties with the Ruhi
Institute as its collaborators, initiated the development of several courses
along various paths of service. The membership of some thirty teams did
grow rapidly, and expansion and consolidation in the country gained con-
siderable momentum. Yet the division of teams and formation of new ones
proved far more difficult than expected. While the new members of the
teams, like those who had attended the courses in Puerto Tejada before
them, did become confirmed in their faith and developed love for teaching,
the problem of initiative presented itself again. To increase the member-

ship oí' a team to about twenty was easy, but to find individuals with
enough maturity and dedication to form the nucleus of a new team, even
after a year, was almost impossible. This essential difficulty finally forced
the National Assembly to give up the idea of permanent teaching teams and
explore alternative schemes to mobilize the national community for teach-
ing. Yet it must be emphasized that once again in this new stage of growth,
remarkable victories were won for the Faith in the country. Numerically,
during the three years when permanent teams constituted the main compo-
nent of the organization of teaching in Colombia, another ten thousand new
believers joined the ranks of the followers of Bahá'u'lláh and the total
number of adult Bahá'ís rose to about fifty-five thousand. Qualitatively,
the community gained invaluable experience, especially in the administra-
tion of teaching plans, and took important strides towards greater spiritual
maturity.
The difficulties that the permanent teaching teams faced as they tried
to grow and multiply were quite puzzling to the institutions of the Faith in
Colombia. It seemed clear to the institutions that they had discovered an
excellent approach to the spiritual education of capable youth, as well as a
simple scheme that would organize these youth to serve the Faith. By
offering only a portion of the Ruhi Institute program — the first level of the
Basic Deepening path ~ which required about eighty hours of group study
and discussion, it was possible to inspire village youth to arise and partici-
pate effectively in the plans of the national community. Indeed, the recep-
tivity of these youth was so great that the number of teachers who could be
assisted through this straightforward deepening process seemed limitless.
But growth continued to be relatively slow, now because of the scarcity of
individuals who could coordinate groups and, at one level or another,
administer the plans of expansion and consolidation. It was understood, of
course, that other levels and paths of the institute's evolving program
would lead to the gradual increase in the number of such capable workers.
Yet the time-scale was not satisfactory. Now that the challenge of increas-
ing the number of teachers had been met, was there not a way to accelerate
the maturation of these teachers and help a few of them assume quickly the
more demanding responsibilities of coordination and administration?

XVI
Commitment and Intensity
By now it will be clear that throughout its short history the Colom-
bian community, like every other Bahá'í community in the world, has been
continually challenged by the tasks of fostering devotion and cultivating
the believers' capacity to serve the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh. Its experience
demonstrates that accelerated growth is achieved whenever successful ef-
forts are made to develop human resources and endow the believers with
new insights into the spiritual dynamics of growth and with new capabili-
ties for service. But each success brings an expanded range of opportuni-
ties and a need for larger numbers of individuals able to render more
specialized or complex services to the community. Such a pattern is, of
course, natural to a healthy process of expansion and consolidation and is
not a fault to be lamented. What is needed is a systematic response to these
needs, bearing in mind that there will always be more opportunities than
the community can possibly exploit.
It should be mentioned here that the development of human resources
in the Faith cannot be pursued in accordance with certain control-oriented
theories which are prevalent in the world today. Such theories hold that
through prescribed diagnostic and planning procedures it is possible to
determine the needs of a developing society for every type of expertise and
labor, design the corresponding training programs, and deliver the specified
human resources to run the society. Their application leads to rigid struc-
tures within which certain types of professionals dominate and control the
destiny of those who are somehow below them in a false hierarchy of
capacities. Their proponents put undue emphasis on professionalism, even
to the point of equating the word "professional" with "excellent", thus
denying the excellence that can characterize every person's contribution to
society. The value of the Ruhi Institute derives precisely from its ability to
respond systematically to the community's growing needs for human re-
sources without pretending to control the development of the Faith in
Colombia through the creation of blueprints for growth or the establish-
ment of cadres of "experts" and "skilled laborers". The progress of the
Faith in any country proceeds according to the dictates of Bahá'u'lláh's
mighty Will; individuals have the bounty of responding to His call and
arising to serve Him. There is no need to predict every eventuality and
train individuals for every type of service. Yet, the challenge of accelerat-
ing the development of capacity for increasingly complex types of service
to the Faith has to be addressed by the institutions of a country.

Two assets of die experience of the Colombian community in recent
years may contribute to a deeper appreciation of this challenge. One aspect
has to do with the initial commitment of those who enter the Faith in a
process of large-scale expansion. Despite their decision at an early stage to
teach the Faith thoroughly, which proved essential to the ability to sustain
large-scale enrollments over the years, the friends in Colombia made few
explicit efforts to teach the people of greater capacity within the villages
and neighborhoods. Anyone who accepted the Faith during the first contact
was visited repeatedly and deepened; from among these believers, and es-
pecially from among their children and youth, the Ruhi Institute identified
highly capable people and helped them become gifted servants of the
Cause. Yet, insufficient thought was given to the potential benefits of
making systematic plans for the enrollment of people who, though they
might accept the Faith only after three or four visits, would enter it with a
deeper commitment. Although it is only a hypothesis that needs to be
tested through experience, adding such a component to large-scale teach-
ing plans might have increased the number of individuals who could render
complex services after a short period of deepening and orientation.
A word of caution may be in order concerning the concept of "capac-
ity" as used in the paragraph above. In deliberations on the implications of
this concept it is well to ask, "Capacity to do what?" and "How will the
community use the capacity that is to be gained?". It is clear that for its
growth the Bahá'í community needs people with highly diverse capacities.
In order to reach effectively all strata of society and influence the direction
of social processes, the Faith must count among its followers individuals of
such diverse backgrounds that its voice may be heard in every social
setting. Yet, capacity need not be identified solely with social prestige,
material resources, academic degrees, or access to the power structures of
society, although it is indispensable that Bahá'í communities reach out to
people of prestige and academic distinction. As far as large-scale expan-
sion among the masses is concerned, the capabilities that have proven to be
limiting factors, and which the Ruhi Institute has only managed to develop
slowly in its participants, are unfortunately not taught in schools and uni-
versities and have little to do with wealth and power.
The spiritual attri-
butes which enable a person to work effectively among the oppressed
masses of the world, those special qualities of leadership that permit one to
coordinate a team of teachers who are working with devotion and sincerity
in the villages for months on end, the ability to envision large-scale move-
ments and processes of transformation, the intellectual tools one needs in
order to contribute to strategic planning towards those ends: none of these
endowments is related, at this stage in history, to one's position in society

or one's level of formal education. For this reason, while the search for
people of capacity is relevant to the problems that the Colombian Bahá'í
community has faced in the coordination and administration of large-scale
expansion and consolidation, let it not be forgotten that the entire analysis
could only be pursued within a framework that is unique to the Faith and
does not subscribe to the values of the societies in which we Uve.
A second aspect of the experience in Colombia which sheds light on
the challenge of building capacity for increasingly complex service to the
Faith concerns the matter of intensity. When the Colombian friends ana-
lyzed the different stages of their short history they were led to an interest-
ing realization.
It seemed to them that during the early stages, when
campaigns and activities were carried out with a great deal of intensity and
demanded a high level of sacrifice, some of the believers became imbued
with such a strong sense of purpose and dedication that they did not waver
throughout the triumphs and trials of their service to the Faith. When,
through the Ruhi Institute, they learned how to help a larger number of
believers to walk the beginnings of their paths of service, in a process that
was slower and more relaxed, the number of confirmed believers and
willing workers for the Cause increased, but only a few experienced the
accelerated maturation that had characterized the lives of the teachers who
entered the arena of service a decade before them. Intensity of experience,
then, seemed to be another all-important factor that the community had
missed for a few years and, once again, would have to incorporate in the
plans of action.
Based on this new insight, the National Spiritual Assembly decided to
add to the plans another component: highly intensive national campaigns of
expansion and consolidation, to be held once or twice a year. In these
campaigns, which have been carried out regularly in Colombia since 1983,
groups of five to ten teachers visit one of the 300 communities where a
Local Spiritual Assembly exists, and pursue a program of activities that
includes the deepening of the teachers themselves, visits to homes in an
effort to enroll entire families in the Faith, classes for children and youth,
and dramatizations of diverse aspects of Bahá'í life presented in large com-
munity meetings. Where possible, all of these activities are carried out in
consultation with the Local Spiritual Assembly. All the participants are
conscious that the campaigns are not only concerned with expansion and
consolidation of the communities, and that their greatest value lies in the
unique opportunities they offer to the teachers to renew their sense of
dedication to the Faith. The coordinators of the groups, therefore, are
asked to create a very high sense of spiritual discipline and sustain it
throughout the week. Participants accept that for a week or two they will

live frugally, eating as the poorest among the villagers do and staying as
guests in the humble homes which arc generously opened to them. From
early morning until late at night, the group is entirely focused on spiritual
matters and constantly immersed in the Writings, whether sharing them
with others or studying among themselves. Yet, it must be remembered
that this is the discipline of joy and happiness, and an experienced coordi-
nator does not have to impose it on the participants. Nor is the desire to
strive for high levels of sacrifice and detachment induced through emo-
tional appeals designed to whip up superficial excitement It arises from a
collective decision of the community to leave behind the concerns of daily
life for a few weeks each year, and render service to His Threshold with
such intensity that souls may be endowed with new capacities and powers.
The National Assembly and the Auxiliary Board members have done
everything possible to ensure that expansion-consolidation campaigns re-
main a regular and organic element of community life in Colombia. Their
success can be measured by the simple fact that while only eight people
participated in the first campaign in 1983, during the summer of 1989 the
national campaign enlisted the participation of more than 400 dedicated
teachers.
XXVI
Conclusions
The story of large-scale teaching endeavors is certainly not unique to
Colombia. Numerous communities throughout the world have responded
creatively to the challenges of growth in the past few decades, and the
Cause has advanced with remarkable rapidity since the opening years of the
Ten Year Crusade. The question that often arises when a specific initiative
is under scrutiny is whether it has succeeded in winning lasting victories
for the Faith. What the story of the Ruhi Institute demonstrates is that this
deceptively straightforward question cannot be answered by applying sim-
plistic criteria of success and failure. How docs one measure the success of
a process that in each country is destined to culminate in the conquest of
the hearts of a majority of the inhabitants and in the establishment of the
structures of a new world order? How does one speak of successes and
failures of men and women who, cognizant of their utter weakness and
impotence, try to contribute, no matter how modestly, to a spiritual drama

which only unfolds according to the all-pervading Will of God? It is in
recognition of this difficulty, inherent to the analysis of Bahá'í efforts, that
the dialectic of crisis and victory, rather than an assessment of success and
failure, emerges as the organizing parameter within which to examine a
national community's experience in large-scale teaching. Thus, to com-
plete the analysis of the Ruhi Institute, what remains is to decide whether,
at the beginning of the decade of the 1990s when these pages are being
written, the Colombian Bahá'í community finds itself at a point of crisis or
stands at one of its moments of victory. To a reader who is well aware of
the dynamic interplay between crisis and victory, it should not be dis-
appointing to find out that this, in fact, is a time of crisis.
Let it not be assumed from the foregoing statement that the commu-
nity is burdened with problems or caught in a state of stagnancy. On the
contrary, at this moment Colombia stands out as a healthy and vibrant
Bahá'í community. There is a high degree of unity and the friends are
working in concert to pursue parallel lines of action for the spiritual enrich-
ment of their lives, the education of children, the promotion of a youth
movement, proclamation, teaching at individual and collective levels, the
strengthening of local, regional and national institutions, and the applica-
tion of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh to some of the problems of their
society. Expansion-consolidation campaigns are carried out regularly, and
with each campaign a few thousand new Bahá'ís join the community. The
Youth Year of Service program is highly successful, as is the work with
junior youth in dozens of villages. Under the guidance of the Continental
Board of Counsellors, the Ruhi Institute has even reached out to other
Bahá'í communities in Latin America, helping them train workers for the
Cause and assisting with the development of their permanent institutes.
Yet, none of these achievements is very satisfying when one considers both
the opportunities and the need for large-scale expansion of the Faith in
Colombia.
A spiritually refreshing campaign that brings two or three thousand
new believers into the Faith is truly exhilarating, but in a Latin American
country, the annual addition of three thousand people to a community of
fifty to sixty thousand merely compensates for the mortality rate. The exis-
tence of some 150 children's classes, compared with the number of such
classes in other national communities of similar size, is praiseworthy, but it
involves only about three thousand children from among the fifty thousand
or more that should correspond to the number of adult believers. What,
then, are some of the additional steps that the Colombian community has to
take in order to achieve its twenty-year dream of sustained, accelerating
expansion of the Faith?

It should be emphasized that in questioning their own achievements
the Bahá'ís of Colombia arc not denying themselves the joy of witnessing
the fruits of their services nor failing to appreciate the confirmations and
blessings that they continuously receive from Bahá'u'lláh. But so great are
the opportunities and so compelling the cry of the masses in this country,
subjected as it has been to a most grievous process of disintegration, that
I lie Colombian community cannot rest on the accomplishments of the past
nor abandon the aspirations that have animated its development for the past
I wo decades.
It is not possible at this point to know what insights will help the
Colombian Bahá'í community to emerge from its present state of crisis.
Yet, from among the different ideas being explored, a few thoughts are be-
ginning to crystallize and may suggest courses of action for the future. It is
clear from the foregoing account that the accomplishments of the Colom-
bian community have mainly resulted from the spiritual empowerment of
individuals. There is no doubt that through the Ruhi Institute the institu-
tions of the Faith have learned how to raise the level of consciousness of an
increasing number of individuals from among the masses and imbue them
with qualities and capabilities that enable them to arise and serve the Faith.
But comparable results have not been achieved in the development of local
Bahá'í communities. For this reason it has been extremely difficult for in-
dividuals, and even for many of the collaborators of the Ruhi Institute, who
are scattered throughout a vast and difficult country, to maintain a high
level of energy when their local institutions are weak and tentative, and
when there is no collective will of a local community from which the
believer can receive direction and support. It is true that, in the long term,
through the education of children and youth, communities can be devel-
oped and Local Spiritual Assemblies gradually strengthened.
But the
challenge of community development cannot be entirely postponed to a
distant future. Is not the next step for the Bahá'ís of Colombia, then, to
search for powerful methods that would imbue entire local communities
with a sense of mission, raise their collective consciousness, and create en-
vironments conducive to individual and social transformation?

References
1. Letter dated July 13, 1964 written by the Universal House of
Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies, published in
"Wellspring of Guidance: Messages 1963-1968''
(Wilmette:
Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1976), pp. 31-33
2. From a letter dated February 2, 1966 written by the Universal
House of Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies engaged in
mass teaching work, published in "A Special Measure of Love:
The importance and Nature of the Teaching Work Among the
Masses"
(Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1974), pp. 29-31
3. From a compilation entitled "Extracts from Letters of the
Universal House of Justice and the Guardian regarding Teaching
the Masses" sent to all National Spiritual Assembles in March
4. Bahá'u'lláh, "Kítab-i-Iqán" (Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing
Trust, 1983), pp. 195-196
5. Bahá'u'lláh, "Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá'u'lláh",
CXXIX
6. Ibid., CXXXI
7. Ibid., CXXVIII
8. Ibid., XLV
9. Ibid., CXLVI
10.
'Abdu'1-Bahá, "Paris Talks: Addresses given by 'Abdu'1-Bahá
in Paris in 1911-1912" (London: Bahá'í Publishing Trust,
1979), p. 68
11. Bahá'u'lláh, "The Hidden Words", Arabic No. 36
12. Bahá'u'lláh, "Gleanings", XXIX
13.
'Abdu'1-Bahá, "The Divine Art of Living" (Wilmette: Bahá'í
Publishing Trust, 1979), pp. 18-19
14. Bahá'u'lláh, "Gleanings", V
15. Ibid., LXXXII
16. Bahá'u'lláh, "Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh",
(Haifa: The Universal
House of Justice, 1982), p. 173
17. Bahá'u'lláh, "Gleanings",
XCIX
18. Bahá'u'lláh, "Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh",
p. 140
19. Bahá'u'lláh, "Gleanings",
XCV
20.
Bahá'u'lláh, "Kítab-i-Iqán",
p. 211
21.
Bahá'u'lláh, "Gleanings",
CXXII