THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

29 July 2001

To selected National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The approach that was adopted by the Universal House of Justice at the outset of the Four Year Plan for the assignment of international financial collaboration goals, and which was carried forward into the Twelve Month Plan, has proved to be highly effective. Forty-one selected National Spiritual Assemblies were asked to gauge how much they could contribute towards the acquisition and improvement of property and equipment by other national communities over a four-year period. On the basis of their estimates, the House of Justice called upon them to assist communities in various parts of the world as specific needs came to its attention.

In all, a total of US$1,610,331 was assigned as international financial collaboration goals to the National Assemblies which expressed their willingness to take part in this initiative. Some 55 national communities benefited from their assistance, with a total of US$546,671 allocated to 24 countries in Africa; US$223,300 to 4 countries in the Americas; US$303,705 to 13 countries in Asia; US$197,800 to 4 countries in Australasia; and US$338,855 to 10 countries in Eastern Europe. The goals ranged from US$650, applied towards the purchase of office equipment for an institute facility in Africa, to US$110,000 for two parcels of land adjoining the Temple property in Samoa.

The funds disbursed through the financial collaboration initiative have covered the cost of a variety of projects. Three National Centres were constructed, and six buildings purchased to serve as national headquarters. A further ten National Centres were renovated, repaired or improved in some way. Similarly, six institute facilities were built, four properties purchased for this purpose, and seven existing facilities upgraded. A printing press was acquired by one National Assembly in Africa to support its core literature programme, and two vehicles bought to facilitate the work of the national training institutes in two other countries in that continent. Some US$60,000 was allocated for office equipment, greatly enhancing the functioning of National Offices especially in Africa, where at least seven computers were purchased and installed. Temple sites, too, benefited from this initiative, with goals including the purchase of the lands referred to above, the improvement of the staff quarters at the Temple site in Kampala and the acquisition of two lawn mowers to care for the Temple grounds. In Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe, lands were purchased and Regional and Local Bahá’í Centres acquired, all in a direct response to the impressive accomplishments of the Four Year and Twelve Month Plans.

Throughout, the Universal House of Justice was greatly heartened by the willingness expressed by the contributing National Assemblies to meet the needs of the Cause worldwide. Given the success of the initiative, it has decided to adopt the same approach for the Five Year Plan. You are one of 38 selected National Assemblies that it feels are in a position to assist other national communities in this way. We would therefore appreciate receiving from you an estimate of the amount you can offer as financial collaboration during the Five Year Plan. In this connection, it would be helpful if you could give us a breakdown, indicating how much you gauge you can provide each year. To assist you in determining the amount you are able to contribute, we are asked to inform you that the House of Justice anticipates that approximately US$2,500,000 will be required to meet the financial collaboration goals to be assigned during the Plan.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]