WILDFIRE

Reflections on
Music, Drama & Dance


By Istvan Dely

BOOKS FOR
THE W
RLD
The Books for the World series
aims to bring diverse literature to
people around the world by
directing all proceeds from sale of a
title into donating the same title to
people who otherwise could not
afford it as well as offering library
donation programs and free
electronic books which can be used
for local printing and distribution.
At this time, the following programs
are part of the Books for the World
series:
Free Book Distribution Program:
Juxta Publishing prints
selected book titles for sale to
subsidize the cost of free
distribution of the same titles
worldwide.
World Library Donation Program:
Juxta Publishing makes
selected titles available to
National Bahá’í Communities,
Local Bahá’í Communities and
Bahá’í Groups which would
like to donate the books to
their local libraries.
Royalty-free E-books Program:
Juxta Publishing produces
e-books which can be freely
downloaded and printed for
local non-commercial use.
www.juxta.com
This edition © 2006, Istvan Dely
and Juxta Publishing Ltd.
This edition has been prepared
with the consent of  the original author and
and has been produced to facilitate
widespread distribution and use
of  this book; it may be freely redistributed in
electronic form so long as the following
conditions are met:
1. The contents of  this file are not altered.
2. This copyright and redistribution notice
remains intact
3. No charges are made or monies collected for
the redistribution of  this work In addition,
this file may be printed without alteration for
personal use in nonbound formats; copies
printed for this purpose may not be distributed
commercially.
Any other printing, in bound or non-bound
formats, or redistribution in printed form is
forbidden without the expressed written consent
of  Juxta Publishing Limited, or the author.













Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings LXXIV

Introduction
Profession of love

Hungary, the boxing ring for the last round of the fight of the century, between
Germans and Russians, nazis and communists: my native land. I was born in the midst of a
freezing European winter with no heating, to the pounding of the falling bombs. This fact, I
believe, determined two major decisions in my life: I would become a drummer and I
would find my home in the tropics.
Twenty two years later in Havana, Cuba, where I was sent to finish my Masters
degree in Hispanic literature, the babalaos (Yoruba divines) told me I had the spirit of a
Black Congo standing behind me, which, to them at least, explained why every time I heard
the drums my legs would tremble, and why I would beat those drums like crazy till my
hands bled, with no technique, but with all my heart and soul. I believe this is why Jesus
Perez and Carlos Aldama, unforgettable masters of Yorubá liturgical drums, deigned to
teach me, this little white guy from far away. I have since had many mentors, among them
El Niño Ramirez, rumbero de solar, Rafael Cueto, the last of the Trio Matamoros, and
above all, my padrino José Oriol Bustamante, tatan’ganga Vititi Congo. Upon my
initiation into their temple they gave me a name that became my mission for life: Millero
Congo (Congo seedbed), cultivator of love for all that is Africa.
And I have been carrying it out ever since. When I returned to Europe after three
memorable years in Cuba, I introduced Afro Cuban drums to my country. By chance, this
coincided with the explosion set off by Carlos Santana in international rock music. I played
and recorded with all the top musicians and groups then in business in my country. I later
assisted with the birth of Jazz in Hungary, which helped break the ice of orthodox

communism. I did several European tours with different rock and jazz groups and became a
legend of sorts by the name of Konga Dely. At the same time I continued my literary
vocation, too, translating North and South American authors, among them Gabriel García
Márquez, into my native tongue. In Márquez I heard the siren call of a magic world. The
Colombian Caribbean beckoned.
So that’s where I am today. Over the last twenty-eight years God has given me two
great gifts. One is my Colombian family, all musicians, whom I managed to infect with my
tambour fever. Together we made up the Millero Congo acoustic fusion band and taught
others for many years, in our drumming school in Cartagena and Barranquilla. We became
a major cultural factor as standard-bearers of a movement to recover the rich traditions of
African drumming and Native American gaita flutes among the city youth of the North
Coast of Colombia.
The other great gift from God that I received in Colombia is having come across the
Bahá’í Faith, which “hath lent a fresh impulse, and set a new direction, to the birds of men's
hearts”, to mine, too, and finally reconciled my thirst for mysticism and community, on the
one hand, and the quest for social transformation, on the other, as motivating forces and
final purpose of the arts, of music, of drumming.
This is how, slowly by slowly, out of the growing convergence in my heart and
mind, of the African traditions that I had learned in Cuba, on the one hand, and of the
Bahá´í teachings on the vital importance of cultural diversity for an organically united
humankind in our shrinking global village, on the other,  I started promoting what I coined
Cultural Ecology as part of my work as an active Bahá’í, a musician, a drumming teacher, a
researcher of the African heritage in the Circum-Caribbean.
In this spirit I gathered my almost three-decade experiences as drummer and
drumming teacher into a comprehensive hand-drumming teaching book called “Tabalá –
Drums for everyone” which covers the drumming traditions and over sixty rhythms of nine
countries of the Caribbean basin (Colombia, Cuba, Haiti, Honduras, Dominican Republic,
Puerto Rico, the Bush Negroes of Suriname and French Guiana, and Brazil), presented in a
new notation system that I developed over the years to make hand-drum music reading and
writing more precise and above all more widely accessible to untutored learners.
Then came the fulfillment of my childhood dream: after so many years, in 1997 I
finally got to Africa! More precisely West Africa, cradle of all those drumming traditions
that captivated my heart and still enrapture me more than any other music of the world. The
International Teaching Centre of the Bahá’í World Centre in Haifa, Israel, sent me as travel
teacher and resource person to the Light of Unity project in Ivory Coast, Ghana, The
Gambia and Guinea Bissau to promote the use of traditional music for proclamation,
teaching and consolidation of the Faith.  Just imagine that: how come an East-European
white guy from Colombia going to teach the Africans how to drum?! That’s exactly what
my beloved first spiritual and drumming teacher, tatan’ganga Congo Oriol foretold me in
Cuba thirty years ago. He said: I see you before many many Black youth teaching them
what you learned here from us and what you’ll learn on your life’s journey. And indeed, the
Cuban sound is very admired in West Africa and my deep, instinctive tuning in to the West

African musical modes not only amazed my African friends but brought home to them,
more clearly than any discourse, that it is well worth their while to value and cherish their
own traditions because they are very much sought after even by whites!
I used to begin my talks to my African audiences with this startling statement: I’m a
Hungarian of African descent. And it is true on two accounts. First: all human beings on
Earth today descend “from the same original parents” in East Africa. And second: from my
very first awakening as a musician, I have been permanently wedded to African and Afro
Latin music.
Before saying a word, though, I would just sit down at my drum and, closing my
eyes, would play my heart, play a prayer on the drum, pray drum. And that would instantly
bridge the gap created by centuries of estrangement and separation and atrocities between
our Black and White races.
I remember one night a team of young Yakuba Bahá’í teachers and myself were in
the clearing between the huts of a far out village in Ivory Coast near the Liberian border.
We started a great joyful gathering after dusk, drumming, singing, dancing, talking, the
whole village was there.  I played with three Yakuba boys, my disciples at the Training
Institute in Danane. At one o’clock at night I got real tired and stepped out of the circle,
leaving the drumming to the boys. But then a delegation of the women hurried to me,
protesting: No, no, mesyé, vou batt tambou! (No, no, Mr, you play the drum!) They needed
my drumming to go on dancing and singing! For me, this is the diploma of the highest
value, worth more than a Grammy Award! And I had a lot of experiences like that. It’s like
an instant initiation into their community, an acceptation on equal terms. Brotherhood that
needs no words. In Ghana, after three weeks of intensive training at the Dyankama
Institute, my twenty-odd pupils and I were all moved to tears because we had to part. The
Akan are a proud people, they don’t often cry… In The Gambia we had an experience
which eloquently spoke for the intrinsic harmonizing, uniting power of collective
drumming. The group of youth that gathered together for a two-week intensive training
with me at the Latrikunda Institute came from at least six different tribes and were a nasty
quarrelling lot in the beginning, so much so that we were  about to close down the project.
Yet after a couple of days of bringing them together to practice in groups for hours, there
was a remarkable change: the suspicions and rivalries disappeared and they all became
good friends, a good team indeed. Together then we toured the biggest schools in and
around the capital, Banjul, all Muslim of course, and spoke of the spiritual dimension of
drumming and unity in diversity, and attracted a lot of interest for the Bahá’í teachings.
They asked the Bahá’ís to return to their schools and form drumming cultural groups (you
have to know that for most of fundamentalist Islam today, music in general and drumming
in particular is a lowly, ungodly, frivolous, almost sinful activity)!
In Bissau, capital of Guinea Bissau, my pupils had to walk for more than an hour to
come to my classes (and then an hour back) because they were so poor they didn’t have for
the bus ride. And this was during the Bahá’í month of the Fast, when we don’t eat and drink
anything from sunrise to sunset! And Bissau is really hot at that time of year! These were
powerful lessons those kids taught me about love, commitment, sacrifice.

Back in Colombia, I went on another assignment. I spent three months in the
predominantly Black Northern Cauca region incorporating the teaching and practice of
traditional communal music (singing, drumming, and dancing) into the Institute Study
Circles. We did revolutionize the hamlets and villages around the Ruhi Institute in Puerto
Tejada. In one village at one time the number of participants swelled to over 90 and they
didn’t fit into the local school! And we started a process of creation of new folklore, so to
speak, by bringing the traditional music forms into the context of the contemporary
spirituality and global world vision of the Bahá’í Faith. It’s important for people
everywhere to understand that Bahá’u’lláh came to every race and people and kindred of
the world and that the contribution which the traditions, the skills, the knowledge, the
wisdom, the culture, of each and every people can make is lovingly welcomed into the
future global civilization. The loss of any traditional art form, culture, language, etc.
impoverishes not only the particular nation or ethnic group concerned but the whole of
humanity! This perspective gives a real motivation and a great responsibility for the
preservation of the cultural ethnic diversity of the myriads of peoples that make up the
human family. And also, it makes us aware of the urgency of this task in the face of the
growing cultural erosion of globalization as practiced by multinational commercial and
ideological interests.
In Haiti, my next assignment, cultural erosion is not as rampant as elsewhere, due to
the extreme poverty: no lights, no television, and no discos in most of the countryside.
Sometimes a curse is a blessing in disguise! Here the challenge for the Bahá’í community
was to overcome the centuries-old misconceptions, prejudice, myths, fear and shame that
surround Vodoun, which is at the very core of Haitian cultural identity. As I said earlier,
my spiritual and musical beginnings took place in an African derived religious setting very
much like Vodoun – indeed, Santería, Congo, Abakuá, Vodoun, Winti and Candomble can
all be regarded as branches of the same Traditional African Religion. The fact of once
having been a Congo priest myself just like the hougans of Vodoun, and my drumming
skills, made me a catalyst or channel to help the Haitian friends overcome their confusion
and mixed feelings towards their own roots and identity. I wrote a course on Vodoun for
Bahá’í teachers that was taught at Institute trainings, and gave a lot of talks and firesides on
the subject in the light of the Writings which clearly say that we should “consort with the
followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship” and that certainly
includes Vodoun, and that Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation is “the highest essence and most perfect
expression of whatsoever the peoples of old have either said or written” and that “in this
most mighty Revelation, all the Dispensations of the past have attained their highest, their
final consummation.” As a result of 20 months spent in Haiti on four terms of travel
teaching, the community has made great strides toward the goal set by the International
Teaching Centre: “At the most profound depth of every culture lies veneration of the
sacred.  Efforts to advance the Faith in rural areas, then, are most successful when the
sacred in the culture of the villagers is identified and they are assisted in transferring their
loyalty and allegiance to the Faith, placing Bahá'u'lláh and His Covenant at that sanctified
core of their universe. It is here, at the very heart of a culture that the process of the
transformation of a people begins.”
Haitians are an extremely artistic and deeply religious people, very much steeped in
the West African tradition. As soon as the friends regained their self esteem and the pride in

their cultural-spiritual heritage, a veritable creative explosion occurred among the grass
roots youth, in musical compositions, drumming, dancing, drama, story-telling, proverbs,
all related to their new spiritual experiences in the Institute learning process. A whole CD
of new repertoire in traditional Vodoun style music set to Bahá’u’lláh’s words was
recorded and distributed in the whole national community. One of the leading Sanbas (roots
music composers), drumming teachers and bandleaders of the country became so enamored
by the bias-free, welcoming and sincerely loving spirit of the Bahá’í Faith that he
composed almost half, and certainly the best, of that material and was like a long lost
brother to this lowly servant. In the south-east of the country we had a wonderful, open-
minded and open-hearted meeting and jam session with the association of hougans
(Vodoun priests) of the region. And everywhere in the countryside our troop of drumming-
singing-dancing-drama playing  Bahá’ís (all native except me) had wonderful close rapport,
heart-to-heart fraternity with a population which is, according to a widely quoted statement,
80% Catholic and 100% Vodouizant.
Something very similar happened, although in a briefer time span, on my teaching
trips among the Saamaka and Ndyuka Bush Negroes of Western French Guiana and
Suriname. They still very much preserve the Akan tradition of the talking drum: that is, the
master drummer “speaks” with his drum, says prayers, salutations, whole discourses. The
elderly still understand this traditional drum language. And everybody expects the drums to
be meaningful. This gave us the idea to “speak” to my village audiences with my drum,
while my team mate, who spoke the local language, “translated” the phrases I played out
(obviously we agreed beforehand on what he would say). You should have seen with what
reverential concentration they listened to every phrase on the drum and every sentence
pronounced and how they understood and later remembered all the complexities and the
inner essence of the Bahá’í message!
Drums have a very special place and great power in their culture. Wherever our
small team appeared, I just took out my West African djembé drum from its case and sat
down to play and lo! in minutes everybody left whatever they were doing and came literally
running down to us shrieking with joyous excitement and in no time everybody was
fiercely dancing. They simply couldn’t believe their eyes: a serious-looking middle-age
white man playing their sacred rhythms! The spiritual and social leaders of the villages
greeted me with the deference due to one of their own rank and of course I, too, showed the
deep, sincere respect I always had for these patriarchal figures that are the keepers of the
culture and history of their peoples. From my acting and playing and from the Bahá’í
teachings in our conversations they fully understood that preserving and handing down
their sacred drumming traditions, dances, ways of dressing, of building their houses, their
handicrafts, their language, was one of the central messages of the Bahá’í teachings,
together with their right to real progress, to take from the white world whatever seemed
beneficial to their society as a whole without having to give up their own ways or diluting
their ethnic cultural identity. The principle of unity in diversity solves the seeming
dichotomy of either tradition or progress, either inherited identity or globalization. Not
either / or. Both! The best of both worlds.
In Honduras my wife Leonor (singer, composer, guitar player) and myself were
invited to help rally grass roots participation through the use of traditional music for the

Garífuna Bahá’í congress, by holding an Institute training with drumming, singing and
drama for more than 20 youth. At the closing event of the course, the long-time white
pioneers couldn’t hold back their tears at seeing so much creative artistic talent surging in a
mighty explosion. Most of the time you need but scratch the surface of ingrained
inhibitions and lovingly encourage the youth to bring out their latent talents from within
their own very precious traditions, and veritable miracles happen! Many times people told
me: thank you for making me aware of talents I didn’t know I had at all! Many a new
drummer was born this way everywhere I went with my contagious enthusiasm and
obsessive pushing…
In Salvador de Bahia, Brazil, towards the end of our two-week intensive institute
training in the use of the performing arts for proclamation, teaching and consolidation of
the Cause, I took my pupils on a public bus to see the pre-carnival cultural parade
downtown. On the way, the twenty odd youth burst into singing, at the top of their voices,
the compositions they themselves have made collectively during the training to chosen
quotes by Bahá’u’lláh in fiery, contagious Bahian style music, beating out the rhythms and
cross rhythms on any available object and surface on the bus. It was an amazing revolution!
There you had a veritable time bomb in the hands of the institutions to use: pure hearted
youth oozing faith, love, energy and joy, culturally relevant music, and Bahá’u’lláh’s words
for everyone to hear make up a very explosive blend!
While working for the preservation of the sacred musical traditions of African and
Native American cultures at the grass roots level is, I feel, crucial at this moment when
modern mass media have reached the farthest corners of Earth carrying the germs of
cultural leveling and uniformization, it is just as important to attend to the unfolding and
growth of this same tree at canopy level, and to break into the professional music industry
with this kind of alternative proposition. “Bahá'í artists who achieve eminence and renown
in their chosen field, and who remain dedicated to the promotion of the Faith, can be of
unique assistance to the Cause at the present time when public curiosity about the Bahá'í
teachings is gradually being aroused.” (Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice, 30 June 1988). As a result of years of working and maturing together within
Millero Congo, Leonor composed and we recorded 20 songs for a CD that with the title
“Leonor Dely: Ámame – Palabras Ocultas de Bahá’u’lláh” was produced and released by
multiple Grammy Award winner music producer KC Porter under his inspirational label
Insignia Records in Los Angeles in 2001. New York Times critic Tom Conelli hailed it as
"A musical masterpiece throughout! A must for any world music enthusiast!” Los Angeles
Times critic Enrique Lopetegui calls it “one of KC Porter’s finest recordings”. In 2004
there followed our second album, Talisman, this time having no less than four Grammy
winners on board: Ececutive producer KC Porter, Producer JB Eckl, Coproducer Shangó
Dely, and Sound engineer Jeff Poe!
The four concert tours that we had in as many years promoting these albums in the
US and Canada, as well as the ongoing album sales worldwide, have taken Bahá’u’lláh’s
name and Words to many thousand thirsting souls. It is our hope that they also inspired and
continue to inspire the unnumbered talented artists of divers cultural and spiritual traditions
in the Bahá’í world community to “come out of the closet”, so to speak. We are convinced
that to save these traditions it’s not enough to preserve them as museum pieces from an

overhauled past or to fuse them into secular musical context like Haitian “rasin mizik”
(roots music) or modern Cuban jazz like Irakere (both of which deserve our admiration
though). To save is to let live, to foster growth. From the sacred context of their past they
must be allowed to grow into a contemporary spirituality, into the new, all-inclusive, all-
embracing universal Cause and common Faith: Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. Otherwise they
are doomed to extinction, oblivion. This is the lesson I’ve learned since those days more
than thirty years ago when I earned the liturgical name Millero Congo for my love and
commitment to African music, drumming and spirituality.


The challenge


Counselor Kobina Fynn in Guinea Bissau remarked to me once with a trace of
bewilderment and frustration: Why is it that the friends walk for days to attend a traditional
celebration in a distant town or village but they don’t show up for the Nineteen Day Feast
in their own locality?
I understood his predicament only too well and share his concerns. My first and
only real spiritual experience before becoming a Bahá’í had been within an African
Traditional Religion in Cuba. My initiation into the Vititi Congo community was not an act
of rational, intellectual choice, since I was a committed atheist communist at the time, a
follower of the Che Guevara. It was a rapture of the heart generated by the tremendous
power of the arts: the drumming, the singing, the dancing, the drama of the rituals, the
emotional charge and group synergy, the loving and caring and joyful community.

Abdu’l-Bahá repeatedly said that love and joy are the foremost signs of spirituality.
Bahá’u’lláh often sets rapture and ecstasy, passionate devotion and fervid love as
touchstones of the depth of our search, knowledge, and worship. That arts, especially the
performing arts: music, drama, and dance, can better awaken these noble sentiments than
cold rationalizing, is also clearly stated in our Writings and authoritative guidance. So if our
community life, our celebrations and worship, are lacking in the abovementioned qualities,
so much so that many of the friends prefer somewhere else to go, it means that we are
clearly not acting upon the Guidance. “Until the public sees in the Bahá'í Community a
true pattern, in action, of something better than it already has, it will not respond to
the Faith in large numbers.” (Shoghi Effendi)
The whole of the Bahá’í world is now embarked upon a collective learning process
to work out and implement precisely this “true pattern in action” through the twin
movements of the institute process and the cluster core activities envisaged as a
dynamically interacting mechanism to create portals of growth: the growth of a new race of
men, the growth of a new civilization.
Arts and artists clearly have a major role to play in this process. There is an urgent
need, I feel, for all the protagonists – the individuals (artists, their friends and foes), the
community and the institutions – to sincerely and honestly review our assumptions about
arts and culture, to reflect upon the current conditions of society, on the one hand,  and the
function and nature of the arts, the qualities and attributes required from the artists, the
attitudes of the community towards arts and artists, on the other, that the New World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh maps out for us. And then act accordingly.

A call to the artists


The immigration official at the Los Angeles International Airport looked at our
passports, the P1 visas issued to us as members of the Leonor Dely & Millero Congo band
invited for the Embrace the World bahá’í tour in the US and Canada. “So, you are
entertainers”, he commented with a scornful smile. “No, not entertainers. Musicians”, I
corrected, to no avail, I’m afraid. Definitely, for the consumer society today there’s no
culture and arts any more, just entertainment. Everything else is crushed under the
“steamroller of the West’s cultural weapons of mass distraction.” As one American writer
bitterly complained: "I can't live without a culture anymore and I realize I don't have one.
What passes for a culture in my head is really a bunch of commercials and this is
intolerable. It may be impossible to live without a culture." ( Kurt Vonnegut, Jr)
The assessment of the Universal House of Justice is stern and to the point:
“One of the signs of a decadent society, a sign which is very evident in the
world today, is an almost frenetic devotion to pleasure and diversion, an insatiable
thirst for amusement, a fanatical devotion to games and sport, a reluctance to treat
any matter seriously, and a scornful, derisory attitude towards virtue and solid
worth.” (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilations, The Compilation of
Compilations vol. I, p. 53)
Bad news for artists who have to make a living off their trade in such an
environment. So what can artists do to reverse the tide? Like Ulysses in ancient times, they
must have themselves tied to the mast of their ship so as not to be lured into extinction by
the ubiquitous siren calls of the entertainment industry promising instant success, fame and
riches. The firm mast is the Bahá’í teachings, principles and specific guidance:

“… the House of Justice feels that one of the great challenges facing Bahá'ís
everywhere is that of restoring to the peoples of the world an awareness of spiritual
reality. Our view of the world is markedly different from that of the mass of mankind,
in that we perceive creation to encompass spiritual as well as physical entities, and we
regard the purpose of the world in which we now find ourselves to be a vehicle for our
spiritual progress.
This view has important implications for the behaviour of Bahá'ís and gives
rise to practices which are quite contrary to prevailing conduct of the wider society.
One of the distinctive virtues given emphasis in the Bahá'í Writings is respect for that
which is sacred. Such behaviour has no meaning for those whose perspective on the
world is entirely materialistic, while many followers of the established religions have
debased it into a set of rituals devoid of true spiritual feeling.
In some instances, the Bahá'í Writings contain precise guidance on how the
reverence for sacred objects or places should be expressed, e.g., restrictions on the use
of the Greatest Name on objects or indiscriminate use of the record of the voice of the
Master. In other instances, the believers are called upon to strive to obtain a deeper
understanding of the concept of sacredness in the Bahá'í teachings, from which they
can determine their own forms of conduct by which reverence and respect are to be
expressed.
The importance of such behaviour derives from the principles expressed in the
Bahá'í Writings, that the outward has an influence on the inward. Referring to "the
people of God" Bahá'u'lláh states: "Their outward conduct is but a reflection of their
inward life, and their inward life a mirror of their outward conduct."
It is within this framework that the Universal House of Justice wishes you to
view the concerns which have been expressed over the past several years. Bahá'ís
endowed with artistic talent are in a unique position to use their abilities, when
treating Bahá'í themes, in such a way as to disclose to mankind evidence of the
spiritual renewal the Bahá'í Faith has brought to humanity through its revitalization
of the concept of reverence.
Questions of artistic freedom are not germane to the issues raised here. Bahá'í
artists are free to apply their talents to whatever subject is of interest to them.
However, it is hoped that they will exercise a leadership role in restoring to a
materialistic society an appreciation of reverence as a vital element in the achievement
of true liberty and abiding happiness.”  (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, 24
September 1987)
Now this is good news for artists! We are singled out to “exercise a leadership role”
in the process of reversing the tide…

A call to the community


If as an artist you strive to exercise this kind of spiritual leadership you obviously
cannot expect much recognition, support and reward from the “Priestly Media Empires” (a
term coined by a fellow Bahá’í artist in Australia) and the masses held under their hypnotic
spell. But if you are met with indifference, suspicion, discouragement, belittling from your
own beloved Bahá’í community as well, then you are really in a tight spot! And many times
this is just the case. Quoting from a letter from a fellow Bahá’í artist: “My husband and I
and many of our fellow Bahá'í musicians have struggled with the dilemma of being drawn
to a calling that is met on the one hand with encouragement from the writings and on the
other with discouragement from a number of well-respected believers who seemed to
regard art as frivolous play suitable only for children.”
The Writings put arts and crafts at the same level, with the same rank and station, as
sciences.
“The third Tajalli is concerning arts, crafts and sciences. Knowledge is as
wings to man's life, and a ladder for his ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon
everyone… Great indeed is the claim of scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of the
world. Unto this beareth witness the Mother Book on the day of His return.”
(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 51)
This claim is none other than to be used, to be useful. The letter quoted above goes
on to say: “And while it's wonderful to have people praise our music or my writing, the

most sincere praise the Bahá'í community and its institutions can give is to make use of
those things.  Don't just pat the musician on the head and say, ‘Thanks for playing at feast’;
invite them to play at a teaching event to ‘warm up the crowd’ or even to give a musical
fireside. Don't just tell the writer you're proud of her accomplishments, ask her to write
articles for the newspaper or suggest stories she's written that might be given to seekers.
Don't just admire the painter's art in his home. Ask if prints can be made to use for a Bahá'í
display at the fair or used to teach the Faith in some other way. The arts and artists need the
support of their communities. And by support, I mostly mean that we need to be used in
order to feel that we are contributing to the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh from our most sacred
centre – the place our creations arise from.” (Maya Bohnhoff)
Let me stress at this point that the World Centre – the Universal House of Justice
and the International Teaching Centre – are very much aware of the importance of the use
of the arts (and hence, of artists) in every proclamation, teaching and consolidation plan and
activity and have repeatedly urged us all – individuals, communities, institutions – to make
more and better use of them. Later on I will quote at length from the International Teaching
Centre’s 2001 Letter on the Arts in the Five Year Plan which will make this point clearer.
Let me end these reflections on the still uneasy and unsettled relationship between
the community and its artists with some excerpts from a talk by no lesser a figure than poet
laureate Roger White. While his opinions cannot be said to be authoritative guidance, he
gave his talk to youth in Haifa and was not excommunicated for it…
“Art has a message for us. It says: ´Care, grow, develop, adapt, overcome, nurture,
protect, foster, cherish.´ It says: ´Your reality is spiritual.´ It says: ´Achieve your full
humanness.´ It invites us to laugh, cry, reflect, strive, persevere. It says: ´Rejoice!´ Above
all, it says to us to be! We cannot turn our backs on art.
I am of the conviction that, in the future, increasingly, one important measure of the
spiritual maturity and health of the Bahá’í world community will be its capacity to attract
and win the allegiance of artists of all kinds, and its sensitivity and imaginativeness in
making creative use of them.
Artists -- not tricksters and conjurers, but committed artists -- will be a vital force in
preventing inflexibility in our community. They will be a source of rejuvenation. They will
serve as a bulwark against fundamentalism, stagnation and administrative sterility. Artists
call us away from formulas, caution us against the fake, and accustom us to unpredictability
-- that trait which so characterizes life. They validate our senses. They link us to our own
history. They clothe and give expression to our dreams and aspirations. They teach us
impatience with stasis. They aid us to befriend our private experiences and heed our inner
voices. They reveal how we may subvert our unexamined mechanistic responses to the
world. They sabotage our smugness. They alert us to divine intimations. Art conveys
information about ourselves and our universe which can be found nowhere else. Our artists
are our benefactors.

To the degree the Bahá’í community views its artists as a gift rather than a problem
will it witness the spread of the Faith "like wildfire" as promised by Shoghi Effendi,
through their talents being harnessed to the dissemination of the spirit of the Cause.
In general society, artists are often at war with their world and live on its fringes.
Their lack of discretion in expressing their criticism -- which may be hostile, vituperative,
negative, and offer no solutions -- may lead to their rejection and dismissal by the very
society they long to influence. Artists are frequently seen as troublemakers, menaces,
destroyers of order, or as frivolous clowns. Sometimes the kindest thing said of them is that
they are neurotic or mad. In the Bahá’í community it must be different. Bahá’u’lláh said so.
Consider that the Bahá’í Writings state that ´All art is a gift of the Holy Spirit´ and exhorts
us to respect those engaged in sciences, arts and crafts.
The artist has among other responsibilities that of questioning our values, of leading
us to new insights that release our potential for growth, of illuminating our humanity, or
renewing our authenticity by putting us in touch with our inner selves and of creating works
of art that challenge us - as Rilke says - to change our lives. They are a stimulus to
transformation.
In the Bahá’í Order the artists will find their home at the centre of their community,
free to interact constructively with the people who are served by their art; free to give and
to receive strength and inspiration. It is my hope that you will be in the vanguard of this
reconciliation between artists and their world. As Bahá’u’lláh foretells, the artists are
coming home to claim their place. I urge you: Be there! Welcome them! Bring chocolate!”
(Roger White: address to Bahá’í youth in Haifa, 1990)
In the meantime and while that happens, here are some comforting words to you,
fellow Bahá’í artists, to cling fast to that mast on our ship, no matter what:
“With the evolution of Bahá'í society which is composed of people of many
cultural origins and diverse tastes, each with his conception of what is aesthetically
acceptable and pleasing, those Bahá'ís who are gifted in music, drama and the visual
arts are free to exercise their talents in ways which will serve the Faith of God. They
should not feel disturbed at the lack of appreciation by sundry believers. Rather, in
knowledge of the cogent writings of the Faith on music and dramatic expression...they
should continue their artistic endeavours in prayerful recognition that the arts are
powerful instruments to serve the Cause, arts which in time will have their Bahá'í
fruition.”  (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, 9 August 1983 [56]

A call to the institutions


The following letter from the International Teaching Centre dated November 2001
and addressed primarily to the Continental Boards of Counsellors makes it clear that the
systematic, integral and pervasive use of the arts is not the artists’ concern and
responsibility alone. It calls on the institutions, the administrators, the planners, the decision
makers, the tutors alike not to consider the arts “simply an embellishment to our programs
or an afterthought in our planning. Rather they must become an integral part of our teaching
plans and community life.”
Furthermore, the special emphasis on a grass-roots focus of the systematic use of
the arts rests on the conviction that creative self expression through the different arts media
is not the exclusive and privileged turf of artists. In most traditional tribal societies music,
for example, “is a social game in which every member of the community has a place of his
own; and this is the purpose of the game: to find our place in society.” (Ray Lema, African
musician). So with the other art forms, too.
Every member of the community has a place in music-making, yes, but not the same
place. Some are more gifted than others, some have been training for a while, others have
become specialists (in the West we would say professionals) through long and demanding
training. We can safely assert that there are three levels of artistic proficiency: the
communal, the amateur and the professional. It’s like a pyramid. The wider the base, the
higher the structure can be raised.
The sequence of Institute Courses delivered worldwide in thousands and thousands
of study circles was designed to empower the grass roots – individually and collectively,
and bring about transformation. This empowerment must also include artistic expressions
which in turn help deepen and emotionally fuel transformation.
Having said this by no means belittles the merits of accomplished professional
artists among us or robs them of the distinction earned by long years of hard training and
practice. “Bahá'í artists who achieve eminence and renown in their chosen field, and
who remain dedicated to the promotion of the Faith, can be of unique assistance to the

Cause at the present time when public curiosity about the Bahá'í teachings is
gradually being aroused.” (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, 30 June 1988)
The clear message the International Teaching Centre conveys in its letter is that the
institutions, and ultimately all the protagonists of this collective learning process that the
Bahá’í community is so vigorously and single-mindedly going through worldwide, all have
to pay greater attention to the arts and redouble our efforts to promote and cultivate its use
at all levels – communal, amateur and professional – focused systematically on the
overriding goal at hand: to reach the critical mass and effect entry by troops.
Below are the most relevant parts of the ITC Letter on the Arts in the Five Year
Plan, a document that as a Bahá’í artist, administrator and travel teacher I feel is of
paramount and historical importance:
“In the Writings of our Faith the arts are described as a powerful instrument
to move the spirit and serve the Cause. ’Abdu’l-Bahá praised the arts and testified to
their capacity to awaken and uplift the hearts. ”Music,” 'Abdu'l-Bahá said, "has a
great effect upon the human spirit," and drama "is of the utmost importance. It has
been a great educational power in the past; it will be so again.”

'Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi encouraged many forms of art and at the same time
extolled a special path of service for Bahá’í artists. 'Abdu’l-Bahá proclaimed that "All
Art is a gift of the Holy Spirit.... These gifts are fulfilling their highest purpose, when
showing forth the praise of God."

In a letter written on his behalf, the Guardian reinforces this sentiment with the
following advice to an individual: " the friends who feel they are gifted in such
matters should endeavour to develop and cultivate their gifts and through their works
to reflect, however inadequately, the Divine Spirit which Bahá’u’lláh has breathed
into the world.”

Against this backdrop of inspiring guidance, the Universal House of Justice
called on the believers at the outset of the Four Year Plan “to give greater attention to
the use of the arts, not only for proclamation, but also for the work in expansion and
consolidation. The graphic and performing arts and literature have played, and can
play, a major role in extending the influence of the Cause. At the level of folk art, this
possibility can be pursued in every part of the world, whether it be in villages, towns
or cities”.

Two years later the House of Justice released a compilation prepared by the Research
Department at the Bahá’í World Centre, "The Importance of the Arts in Promoting
the Faith," which provides a rich source of excerpts from the Writings and enlarges
our vision of the use of the arts for the work of the Cause.

The record of the past five years in promotion of the arts was outstanding on
all continents. There has been a proliferation of artistic endeavours in the teaching
field, most notably through youth dance workshops and musical groups, but also
through choirs, drama, and folk art. These experiences have assisted the individuals
involved to consolidate their own faith along with that of many friends in the
communities they visited. The Counsellors, in collaboration with National Spiritual
Assemblies and assisted by Continental Pioneer Committees, contributed significantly
to the stimulus and support of many artistic endeavours.
Arts in the Five Year Plan

The Five Year Plan ushers in a new stage in our efforts to promote the arts in
the life of the Cause. As with all other aspects of the expansion and consolidation
work, the requirements of the time call on us to be more systematic in the use of the
arts. They should not be considered simply an embellishment to our programs or an
afterthought in our planning. Rather they must become an integral part of our
teaching plans and community life. The arts have a vital role to play in the process of
entry by troops.
A natural channel through which the friends can express their artistic talents
and sentiments is the study circle. At this critical juncture, when promotion of the arts
needs to be more systematic in approach and more grassroots in its focus, we are
fortunate to have the material presented on this subject in Book 7 of the Ruhi Institute
curriculum. In this book, the unit "Promoting the Arts at the Grassroots" explains
how an appreciation of beauty is one of the spiritual forces that lifts us to higher
realms of existence. To strengthen this power of attraction it is beneficial for the
friends to be exposed to various forms of art. Tutors are encouraged to integrate the
arts into study circles so as to enhance the spiritual development of the friends and
open avenues for meaningful service. By being a promoter of the arts at the grass
roots, a tutor opens up "creative channels through which can flow inspiration and the
force of attraction to beauty.”

Devotional gatherings can also be greatly enhanced if the arts are integrated
into such programs. At the beginning of the Four Year Plan, the House of Justice
stated that devotional gatherings are "essential to the spiritual life of the community";
they are also a measure "indispensable to large-scale expansion and consolidation."
Virtually synonymous with devotions in many cultures is the chanting or singing of
prayers and songs. 'Abdu’l-Bahá said that music is "divine and effective," "the food
of the soul and spirit." To an individual who was gifted in chanting, He wrote: " I
pray to God that thou mayest employ this talent in prayer and supplication, in order
that the souls may become quickened, the hearts may become attracted and all may
become inflamed with the fire of the love of God!”
Children's classes represent yet another aspect of community life in which the
arts should be an essential element. Various forms of music, such as singing and

playing traditional or contemporary instruments, as well as activities like storytelling,
drama, dance, drawing, puppetry, and a wide range of crafts, can be introduced into
classes at all levels. 'Abdu’l-Bahá said that music "has wonderful sway and effect in
the hearts of children....The latent talents with which the hearts of these children are
endowed will find expression through the medium of music."

As activities begin to be organized at the level of clusters, yet another arena will
present itself for utilizing the arts. Artistic expression, such as music and drama, in
reflection meetings, cultural events, and other gatherings will quicken the hearts,
enabling them, as 'Abdu’l-Bahá wrote, to "become inflamed with the fire of the love of
God." When non-Bahá’í artists are invited to share their talents at such events, they
too come into contact with the compelling spirit of the Faith.” (The International
Teaching Centre, 5 November 2001, to the Continental Boards of Counsellors)
The guidance is unmistakably clear, detailed, and binding on all, whether we have
professional or even amateur artists in our cluster or not. As to the how, there are no clear-
cut recipes. The circumstances, the conditions, the culture, the human resources of each
community or cluster are unique and call for creative responses. The institutions will need
to identify the divers talents and put them to good use. The tutors will have to stop using
excuses like “I’m not an artist – I don’t even like arts -, so I just skip that part in my
group…” The artists in the community will have to think of ways of making themselves
available and finding their usefulness within the channels outlined in the foregoing
guidance.  And the community will have to come to view all manifestations of art produced
in its midst – whether communal, amateur or professional – as an essential and integral part
of their very community life.

Creating new folklore

This is something new that is required from us on an unprecedented scale and surely
if we could all share the growing body of our experiences in different parts of the world it
would be very beneficial to the learning process. I, for one, submit to you, for what they are
worth, some of my amazing experiences in different communities of the African Diaspora
that I summarized in an article in the hope that they may be of some use to you even to the
degree of a mustard seed.

New LORE – New FOLK = New Folklore
MUSIC IN THE INSTITUTE PROCESS

Moonlit night in a wide clearing in front of the Bahá’í Center in Kambalua, in the
jungles of Upper Suriname. Heini, the local Saamaka tutor and myself sit in the heart of a
tightly packed circle of kids, junior youth, young mothers with suckling babes, elderly
women, young men and elderly men (in this order). The two of us are tirelessly playing the
traditional apinti and apuku drums, and the multitude around us is singing at the top of their
voices: Haika, baa! Mbei du ma no mbe wöutu bisi yu. (Say, O brethren! Let deeds, not
words, be your adorning). The kids started it half an hour ago. The drums and the singing
drew as a lodestone virtually the whole village into the growing circle around us. More and
more people learn the song and join in. They keep on singing, ever more vigorously, and
wouldn’t let us, poor drummers, stop.
This “hit song” was composed by a group of junior youth of a Study Circle three
villages downriver barely five days ago, a previous stopover of our teaching trip among the
Saamaka Bush Negroes of the Upper Suriname. Two other villages since then already
learned it and added a composition each. The group in Kambalua learned all three and
added their own contribution, another song in traditional music style, to Bahá’u’lláh’s
selected quotes in Ruhi Book 1 in their mother tongue. I and my African drum served

merely as catalysts in starting and encouraging this process, recording on a cheap cassette
recorder the new repertory being created, so that other communities could learn it. This
process, simple as it looks, is nothing short of CREATING NEW FOLKLORE.
Folklore, Shoghi Effendi says, is the expression of a people. A people, however, is
not a static entity. By law it must change: decay or grow.
The Creative Word of God for today is the single most potent agency to empower
people to grow.
The Institute Process is at present the best channel for effecting individual and
collective transformation organized around a carefully sequenced group study of the Sacred
Word.
The Sacred Word can only release its transforming power if it is planted in the very
heart of the culture of a people. “It is here, at the very heart of a culture that the process of
the transformation of a people begins.” (Letter dated 21 August 1994 from the International
Teaching Centre to all Continental Counsellors).”  Hence the importance and urgency,
stressed time and again by the Universal House of Justice and the International Teaching
Centre, of an integral, systematic and grass roots focused use of the arts as an essential part
of the Institute process.
Let me stress again: it was not this lowly servant who performed such an outburst of
musical creativity among the Saamaka: it was their own grass roots youth, participants of
the Study Circles. I only took the lid off the pressure cooker. The fire heating the cooker
was Bahá’u’lláh’s Words, teachings, and love.
In some communities you’ll find specially gifted individuals who would
spontaneously compose music to express their newly found faith, knowledge and love of
Bahá’u’lláh. But my experience is that every group of youth, without expression, can be
successfully induced to make collective compositions to the quotes you give them. Toward
the end of a two-week intensive training course on drumming and related arts for tutors and
participants of Study Circles at the Regional Institute in Salvador, Brazil, I split up the
twenty odd participants into four groups, wrote Bahá’u’lláh’s Hidden Word “O friend!  In
the garden of thy heart plant naught but the rose of love…” on the board (in Portuguese, of
course), broken down as if it were a poem or lyrics for a song, and gave them all the task to
scatter in the spacious green area surrounding the institute and collectively compose music
to these words, in any of the traditional, typical Bahian music styles. Each group took along
one or two drums, a pandero, an agogo or a birimbao to help shape the rhythm. After about
an hour and a half we all gathered together and each group presented its composition to the
rest: four very different and equally beautiful compositions were born that day, within their
distinctive musical identity! I had just walked around from group to group, encouraging
them with eager sympathy. That’s all a tutor has to do: to be a promoter: “By being a
promoter of the arts at the grass roots, a tutor opens up ‘creative channels through which
can flow inspiration and the force of attraction to beauty.’  (Letter dated 5 November 2001
from the International Teaching Centre to all Continental Counsellors).”

By so doing, we are not only enriching and deepening the collective learning and
transformation process which is at the core of Study Circles, but also performing an urgent
task of “cultural ecology”. Shoghi Effendi says that “Music, as one of the arts, is a natural
cultural development... (Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, p. 49).”  However,
this natural cultural development has been interrupted and all but effaced by the
omnipresent multinational media onslaught of our consumer society: the music thus carried
to the farthest corners of the globe is not the expression of a people any people but
manipulation from a giant industry which tends to level to uniformity the rich cultural
diversity we Bahá’ís have a Divine mandate to preserve. To offset the cultural erosion
brought by globalization as practiced today, a conscious, sustained effort, resting on
principle, must be brought to bear, and Bahá’ís, though not alone in this enterprise, should
be at the forefront of the battle for the preservation of the diversity of cultural identities as
essential building blocks of a future global civilization as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh. That’s
why “The House of Justice supports the view that in every country the cultural traditions of
the people should be observed within the Bahá'í community as long as they are not contrary
to the Teachings.  (Letter of the Universal House of Justice dated 16 December 1998,
regarding traditional practices in Africa).”
On the other hand, the prevailing, world-engulfing “MTV culture” of our times not
only threatens cultural diversity, but spreads what Shoghi Effendi called “the prostitution of
the arts.”  “Even music, art, and literature, which are to represent and inspire the noblest
sentiments and highest aspirations and should be a source of comfort and tranquility for
troubled souls, have strayed from the straight path and are now the mirrors of the soiled
hearts of this confused, unprincipled, and disordered age (Letter of the Universal House of
Justice dated 10 February 1980 to the Iranian believers residing in various countries
throughout the world).”  In the face of this trend “…the House of Justice feels that one of
the great challenges facing Bahá'ís everywhere is that of restoring to the peoples of the
world an awareness of spiritual reality…One of the distinctive virtues given emphasis in
the Bahá'í Writings is respect for that which is sacred…Bahá'ís endowed with artistic talent
are in a unique position to use their abilities, when treating Bahá'í themes, in such a way as
to disclose to mankind evidence of the spiritual renewal the Bahá'í Faith has brought to
humanity through its revitalization of the concept of reverence (Letter dated 24 September
1987 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual.  Compilations, The
Importance of the Arts in Promoting the Faith).”
So in our work promoting the arts at the grass roots we should reach back to those
layers of the culture that are still untouched by modern contamination. “At the most
profound depth of every culture lies veneration of the sacred.  Efforts to advance the Faith
in rural areas, then, are most successful when the sacred in the culture of the villagers is
identified and they are assisted in transferring their loyalty and allegiance to the Faith,
placing Bahá’u’lláh and His Covenant at that sanctified core of their universe .” (Letter
dated 21 August 1994 from the International Teaching Centre to all Continental
Counsellors).”
This “sanctified center of their universe”, of course, is easier to identify and plug
into where traditional religions are still preserved and practiced. Such is the case of the
native American religions and the African religions of the Americas (santería, vodoun,

winti, candomble). In these religions the medium of “theology”, so to speak, are the arts,
especially music, dance and drama. Here, arts are not reduced to mere hedonistic and trivial
entertainment, but preserve their primary sacred, spiritual and community building nature
and function. This fact makes the music and dance modes preserved in these deeply
religious cultures especially appropriate to be used as preferential “raw material” in the
institute process which revolves around Bahá’u’lláh’s Words, instead of the prevalent
fashionable pop music styles. When brought into the Faith, however, they undergo a
process of selection, adaptation and synthesis: that is, while preserving their original
association with the sacred, they grow and develop into something much greater and more
universal.
As a one time tatan’ganga (high priest) in the Afro Cuban Congo religion, I feel
especially privileged and graced by Bahá’u’lláh’s bounty that allowed me to help the
friends in West Africa, Haiti, Honduras, Suriname, French Guyana and Brazil free their
rightful African spiritual and cultural heritage from centuries-old prejudice and
discrimination on the part of the dominant Western cultures and incorporate it into the
Bahá’í Faith through the Institute process. I was moved to tears when I saw a representative
of the National Spiritual Assembly of Haiti state with pride in a television interview: “We
are Bahá’ís, but we are also Haitians and Bahá’u’lláh teaches us to preserve our cultural
identity, and vodoun is definitely part of Haitian cultural identity.”  To say this publicly in
Haiti takes a lot of courage. This very friend, at the time of my first teaching trip to Haiti,
would vehemently deny any association with, nay, even any knowledge of vodoun and its
rich treasure house of music, dance, drama and visual arts. Let there be no
misunderstanding: this change of heart is not my merit. It’s all there in the Writings and the
spirit of our Faith. We only have to look, hearken and heed.
There is, in my experience, an additional benefit to this “cultural ecological”
approach in the promotion of the arts at the grass roots in the institute process: it can offset
and counterbalance the apparent uniformity of the institute courses that have been adopted
in the entire Bahá’í world and ensure that the Faith becomes culturally embedded into every
community and is not perceived as something foreign. The International Teaching Center is
aware of those concerns and even reticence I myself have encountered in some quarters
regarding the Ruhi courses: “Gradually most national communities around the world
adopted for their basic sequence of courses the Ruhi Institute curriculum, which had been
developed over many years specifically in response to large-scale expansion.  In light of the
focus and energy being devoted to furthering the institute process in every national
community, concerns were expressed by some believers about the emphasis on training and
the use of a uniform curriculum.  In such a wide-scale enterprise of taking great numbers of
friends through a set curriculum, it is to be expected that some individuals might not find
the materials suited to their learning style.” (from the document arranged by the
International Teaching Centre, Building Momentum:  A Coherent Approach to Growth)
I found that by bringing those cultural ingredients that a systematic use of the
community arts imply, into the ways we deliver these courses, these fears and perceived
obstacles can easily be surmounted. Those Saamaka villagers from the Upper Suriname
who memorized the Ruhi book quotes by singing them in their own music, certainly didn’t
feel threatened by any undue imposition from outside. They were creating their own new

folklore from the powerful new “lore” (knowledge, wisdom) enshrined in the Teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh, on their way, from their own roots, to become a new “folk” (people), part of
the promised “new race of men.”
(Note: you may have noticed that some of the quotes cited in the above article have
already been mentioned before. Some will surely come up later, too. Those are the issues
that I, personally, cannot overemphasize. Forgive me if I’m being too persistent.)


Wildfire
from the
stage
A call for
sponsors

My Afro Colombian drums are set up at the front of the stage, ready to speak forth.
Behind them, arranged in a semicircle, are some more African and Native American drums,
Native American flutes, a Chinese violin called erhu, an Iranian violin, a classical violin, a
Scottish bagpipe, two state-of-the-art keyboards, an electric bass, electric and acoustic
guitars and a drum set… In front of them, neatly arranged rows of seats in the Auditorium
of Nevada University. Behind those, a huge mixing console of a professional sound system.
Backstage in the greenroom ten professional musicians from China, Iran, Colombia,
Hungary, Scotland, Guatemala and the United States, plus a sound engineer and the road
manager, are anxiously awaiting the magic moment: it’s showtime!
This is a far cry from that other scenario in the village center where you just start
drumming (unplugged, of course!) and the whole village quickly gathers for a spontaneous,
collective musical proclamation and teaching event… For one thing, this one is immensely
more complex and demanding on resources: human as well as material.
The Embrace the World Spring 2004 Tour was a Bahá’í road show that brought
together top-notch musicians from East and West, North and South: singer-songwriters
Leonor Dely and KC Porter, Chinese erhu virtuoso Lin Chen and Iranian master violinist

Farzad Khozein with Millero Congo as backing band, put them all, plus the crew, into a
tour bus specially designed for the purpose and took them on a 28 day marathon to perform
in 20 cities of 11 States in the United States and Canada.  This memorable feat required
long months of careful preparation from our multi-Grammy Award winner music producer
KC Porter, the sponsoring Malibu JD Local Spiritual Assembly, the host communities and
their institutions. And a lot of money! The bus rental alone cost USD 600 a day. Then the
plane tickets for the musicians, from Beijing, Budapest, Cartagena. Then food and hotel
rooms, posters and flyers, venues and sound equipments to hire. Although the artists
involved obviously did not seek material gains with this proclamation/teaching tour, they
also needed compensation for lost earnings to pay their bills at home. It is a lot of money
we are speaking about, even seeking to economize on everything in the customary Bahá’í
fashion. However, it was money well spent, worth the while, according to the evaluation by
all communities and institutions involved. For one thing, the preparation and coordination
of the events mobilized entire communities, some of them otherwise dormant. For another,
the concerts and the subsequent firesides reached more than ten thousand souls directly and
at least double that many indirectly, through publicity in the press, radio and television. All
the interested seekers in the wake of the concerts were then immediately invited to the core
activities going on in each community. The public success of the concerts was so
overwhelming that many an organizer in the host communities exclaimed: If we had known
it was going to be this good, we would have made much greater publicity!
I’m telling you about this here because it illustrates two facts and brings up a
sensitive issue that we cannot possibly put off facing much longer.
Both facts are expressed by Shoghi Effendi in the following oft quoted passages:
“That day will the Cause spread like wildfire when its spirit and teachings are
presented on the stage or in art and literature as a whole. Art can better awaken such
noble sentiments than cold rationalizing, especially among the mass of the people.”
And: “the progress and execution of spiritual activities is dependent and
conditioned upon material means”, in other words, you cannot start that wildfire without
someone putting up the money required.
The related sensitive issue is the sponsorship or patronage of the arts in the Bahá’í
Cause.
Patronage of the arts is one thing; patronage of the artist is another. About the latter,
the Universal House of Justice clearly states:

"The patronage of artists and their life in art, while important in itself, is not a
stated goal of the Cause in its current unfoldment, any more than the support for
believers practicing medicine or working in agriculture, worthy as these fields are in
themselves." (June 2001 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, quoted in the International
Teaching Centre’s Letter on the Arts)

This is a very wise stance, even admitting that it has always been much more
difficult and risky for an artist to make a living in his profession than for a doctor or a
farmer, and it is even more so today when entertainment entirely replaced arts and culture
in the media and hence in public opinion. However, as someone who grew up in a
communist regime which heavily subsidized arts and patronized its own choice artists I can
testify that the kind of material security that comes from institutional patronage has
unsavoury strings attached to it. I’d much rather be a skinny free man than a fell fed
slave… The creative artist, by definition, treads the roads least travelled, ventures into
uncharted territory, and from the outset he can have no absolute guarantee that he’ll get
anywhere. But of one thing a Bahá’í artist can be sure: his sincere, pure hearted, selfless
efforts to serve the Faith with his art, however inadequate, will always meet the good-
pleasure of his Beloved, and, ideally, of his community as well.

On the other hand, the above quoted letter of the International Teaching Centre goes
on to say that the growing emphasis on the arts and on the use of the work of Bahá’í artists
does require efforts from the institutions and the Cause as such to facilitate the efforts of
Bahá’í artists to use their talent in service to the Faith. Now that through the twin
movements of the Institute process and the cluster core activities we are out to reach the
critical mass of the people around us, it is increasingly urgent, I feel, to bring our artists and
their work “out of the closet”, on to the stage, radio, television, music stores, bookstores,
exhibition halls, etc. To go public, so to speak.

And that, as we all know, takes some professional organizing, promotion, publicity
and money. Which, in my opinion, does not have to come from the institutions or from the
always overstretched Bahá’í funds. I can envisage instead a growing and ever more
effective collaboration between individual Bahá’í artists, producers, promoters, managers,
PR people, entrepreneurs and investors setting up business ventures to take outspokenly
Bahá’í arts to millions of people. Openly engaged arts and artists rocking the world have
recent historical precedents in the late sixties, early seventies of the 20th century: American
rock and country music against the Vietnam War, for Civil Rights, the Nueva Trova
Cubana, the tropicalismo movement in Brazil, the protest songs of Mercedes Sosa in
Argentina or Violeta Parra in Chile, early salsa in New York, progressive jazz and fusion,
etc. The last of these great “artists with a cause” was Bob Marley. We, Bahá’í artists have a
far greater and more revolutionary Cause then any before. Let us not be shy about it. Let us
come forward. Let us be “the ones who, before the gaze of the dwellers on earth and the
denizens of heaven, shall arise and, shouting aloud, acclaim the name of the Almighty,
and summon the children of men to the path of God, the All-Glorious, the All-
Praised.” (Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 280)

For our shout to be heard, though, we need daring and dedicated sponsors, who
cannot shout themselves, so they generously deputize the shouters. Especially those in the
poor and underdeveloped four-fifth of the world in the South, where neither the artists nor
their communities have the means to develop and show their work.


Lessons


In the course of my successive teaching trips as drummer resource person to help
and encourage Bahá’í youth and communities in the use of their traditional arts for the
work of the Cause, I have learned many an important lesson. Those were indeed more like
learning trips than teaching trips for me.
The first important lesson I learned early on in Africa and one that radically changed
my outlook and approach was the universal community involvement in the use of the arts –
especially drumming, singing and dancing – in every Bahá’í event and activity: the grass
roots focus that later the International Teaching would hold up for the whole world
community to follow. The question to be posed from now on was not how artists can make
arts to be used in and for the Cause (although this question will never use its validity) but
how grass roots communities can create and cultivate the arts and gradually generate a
native Bahá’í culture.
Although the “main dish” of my assignments was to teach the kids at institute
trainings the basics of drumming, encourage them to learn and preserve their folklore,
ensure through contacts with local master drummers that they will be able to continue their
apprenticeship after I leave, encourage and organize repertory building and collective
compositions, I did, from the beginning, include “theory” in the curriculum: relevant Bahá’í
teachings and Writings. Through confrontation with my pupils’ questions, concerns, blind
spots, and also with the larger community’s varying and often conflicting views, tastes and
prejudices, about what constitutes the “correct” arts, expressions of reverence, acceptable
religious background, for Bahá’ís, as well as with the inevitable, pervasive and subtle
influence of the decadent society that surrounds us all with its prostitution of the arts and
cultural erosion, this body of “theory lessons” began to grow.
It was not always easy. At that time, many a respected member of the communities,
oftentimes pioneers or native intellectuals raised by white-dominated Western education,

would find African drums, Native Indian flutes and rattles, traditional spiritual dances,
African religious temperament, or manifestations of modern big-city youth culture, outright
incompatible with the name of Bahá’u’lláh, let alone His Words. So I had to dig deeper and
wider into the Writings, the Interpretation and the Authoritative Guidance. Thanks to our
strong and impregnable Covenant, we don’t have to abide by any personality’s strongly
held feelings and views, no matter how respectable and eminent they may be; “the Book
itself is the unerring balance established amongst men. In this most perfect balance
whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be weighed…”
(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 198) We only have to search and look hard. The Universal
House of Justice has commissioned and published wonderfully comprehensive
compilations on Music, on the Importance of the Arts, on Arts, on Cultural Diversity, on
Traditional African Practices, on Indigenous Peoples, etc. Whatever we need to know is in
there.
I organized my very personal selection of quotes from the Writings and authoritative
guidance around those topics that I felt are most urgent and important to deal with as a
result of successive and ongoing investigation-action-reflection with training institutes and
cluster core activities in those flesh-and-blood communities I have had the privilege to
serve in a modest way. Although my experiences were gained in African cultural context
both in Africa and the New World, the universal nature of the quotes and principles
expressed make for a general application in any culture.
The lessons presented here deal with the performing arts: music, drama and dance.
On the one hand, these are the art forms that I worked with on my teaching assignments.
On the other, they are art forms that are practiced collectively, in groups, not individually,
so they are especially fitted for study circles, children’s classes and devotional meetings.
Not for a moment do I think, however, that all the other avenues of artistic expression - the
visual arts, literature, handicrafts etc. – are not of the same value and usefulness in our
Bahá’í work as the performing arts. “All art is a gift of the Holy Spirit.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá)
Although it has been successfully used in parts as study material at Institute
trainings in a number of communities, this is not a course. It is simply an organized
sequence of reflections on some issues related to music, drama and dance in the Bahá’í
community at the present stage of its development, and it can be used in any way any
individual or institution deems it fit. However it is best if studied and consulted in a group
of the friends. While all the quotes cited are authoritative and thus binding, the rest is
merely an individual Bahá’í artist’s understanding of them and their implications.


LESSON ONE: THE IMPORTANCE OF MUSIC
“In this Cause the art of music is of paramount importance.” Abdul’-Bahá (1)
1. For what Cause is music of paramount importance?
2. What does the expression paramount importance mean?
3. In your opinion, why is music so important for Bahá’ís?
4. In your community, do the friends use music? In what ways?
Music – and musicians – can certainly make a difference. As Abdu’l-Bahá recalled:
“The Blessed Perfection, when He first came to the barracks (Acca) repeated
this statement: ‘If among the immediate followers there had been those who could
have played some musical instrument, or could have sung, it would have charmed
every one.’” ("Table Talk" Acca, July 1909, quoted in "Herald of the South" (January 13,
1933), pp. 2-3)
Music has such a high rank in the Bahá’í Faith that Bahá’u’lláh Himself  dedicates
a whole paragraph to it in His Most Holy Book, The Kitab-i-Iqan, the Book of His Laws for
no less than the next thousand years. Part of the paragraph defines for us the nature and
purpose of music:
“We, verily, have made music as a ladder for your souls, a means whereby they
may be lifted up unto the realm on high; make it not, therefore, as wings to self and
passion.” (2)
1. Who has made music as a ladder for our souls?
2. For what part of our being is music intended?
3. In your own words, what does it mean to be lifted up unto the realm on high?
4. What should be lifted up unto the realms on high by means of music?
5. On a ladder we can ascend or descend, go up or go down. If we choose bad   music,
where will our souls descend?
6. What does the expression wings to self and passion mean? Think of examples related to
music.
7. What kind of music can give wings to self and passion?

LESSON TWO: GOOD, NEUTRAL, AND BAD MUSIC
We have learned that music is a means that can be used for good as well as evil. It is
like a ladder on which our souls may go upwards into light or descend into darkness.
Bahá’u’lláh expects each of us to know the difference: “man should know his
own self and recognize that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or
abasement…” (3) Today, in an age of advanced technology in telecommunications and
mass media, more than ever before, music of every variety is increasingly being showered
upon us. It is our responsibility to be selective, to choose.
To see it graphically, draw a horizontal line which represents the floor. Then draw
two ladders or two flights of stairs from that line: one going up, another going down.
Let’s say that the dividing line, the ground floor, is neutral: 0
The steps going upward are increasingly positive: +
The steps leading downwards are increasingly negative: --
Any piece of music that we hear or perform falls within one of these areas of value:
it is either good (+), that is, it uplifts our spirit, or neutral (0), it is neither harmful nor
beneficial; or it is bad, harmful (-) and can seriously endanger our spiritual health.
How can we tell the difference? Can we say that some specific musical forms in
themselves are good or bad? Rock music? Salsa? Reggae? Romantic music? Pop music?
Blues? Jazz? Our own music or imported music?
It is not the genre that defines the spiritual value of a given art form. It is rather the
artistic quality of the form and above all, the nature of its contents. In other words: what
does it say? And how is it said? Abdu’l-Bahá gives us the clue, the standard:
“The song we have just listened to was very beautiful in melody and words.”
(4)
So we have to pay close attention when we listen to music, and watch out for the
beauty or lack of beauty of the form, and the message that the lyrics convey.
Group discussion: randomly tune to any radio station in your locality that plays
music, choose a song, listen carefully, then reflect and analyze together: was the melody
beautiful? What did the lyrics say? What was it about? Does it belong to the positive, the
negative or the neutral range of our “musical ladder”?
Unfortunately, much of the music being poured out of the music industry and
diffused by the mass media in many parts of the world today is of poor quality, both in

form and message. Bahá’u’lláh made reference to this loss of people’s sense of taste more
than a hundred years ago:
“Methinks people’s sense of taste hath, alas, been sorely affected by the fever of
negligence and folly, for they are found to be wholly unconscious and deprived of the
sweetness of His utterance”. (5)
1. What is our sense of taste?
2. What has happened to most people’s sense of taste nowadays?
3. In Bahá’u’lláh’s words, what is the cause of people’s bad taste?
4. What does Bahá’u’lláh mean by the phrase His utterance?
In view of the prevailing bad taste and even prostitution in the arts, Shoghi Effendi
warns Bahá’ís, and especially the youth, to be on guard: “Such a chaste and holy life,
with its implications of modesty, purity, temperance, decency, and clean-mindedness,
involves no less than the exercise of moderation in all that pertains to dress, language,
amusements, and all artistic and literary avocations. …It condemns the prostitution of
art and of literature…” (6) The Universal House of Justice clarified that the phrase
prostitution of arts and literature means using the arts and literature for debased ends.
Can you give a few examples of the prostitution of arts in our society today?
Consult together.
In some religious communities, joy, exultation and music are considered ungodly
and wayward. Bahá’u’lláh in His Book of Laws frees us from such fetters of fanaticism,
but also exhorts us to moderation:
“We have made it lawful for you to listen to music and singing. Take heed,
however, lest listening thereto should cause you to overstep the bounds of propriety
and dignity. Let your joy be the joy born of My Most Great Name, a Name that
bringeth rapture to the heart, and filleth with ecstasy the minds of all who have drawn
nigh unto God.” (7)
We should bear in mind that propriety and dignity are universal human qualities but
the manner in which they are outwardly expressed varies from culture to culture.
Complete the sentences:
1. God allows us to _____________ _____ ____________ ___ ___________
2. We must be careful to preserve our ________________ and ________________ while
listening to music.
3. We should be joyous and happy out of love for __________________________
4. When we offer up our hearts and minds wholly to God, we are filled with
___________________ and _________________.

LESSON THREE: BAHÁ’Í MUSIC?
Before we go into this lesson, answer this question: Is there such a thing as Bahá’í
Music?    Yes ______ No________
Let us hear what Shoghi Effendi has to say about this:
“Music, as one of the arts, is a natural cultural development, and the Guardian
does not feel that there should be any cultivation of ‘Bahá’í Music’ any more than we
are trying to develop a Bahá’í school of painting or writing. The believers are free to
paint, write and compose as their talents guide them. If music is written,
incorporating the sacred writings, the friends are free to make use of it, but it should
never be considered a requirement at Bahá’í meetings to have such music. The further
away the friends keep from any set of forms, the better, for they must realize that the
Cause is absolutely universal, and what might seem a beautiful addition to their mode
of celebrating a Feast, etc., would perhaps fall on the ears of people of another country
as unpleasant sounds, and vice versa. As long as they have music for its own sake it is
all right, but they should not consider it Bahá’í music.” (8)
“We believe that, in the future, when the Bahá’í spirit has permeated the world
and profoundly changed society, music will be affected by it; but there is no such
thing as Bahá’í music.” (9)
Complete the sentences:
1. Over the centuries, the divers peoples and cultures of the world have developed a great
diversity of musical forms and styles; this is the meaning of the phrase ‘music is a
_______________ _________________ ____________________.
2. Bahá’u’lláh has come to unite all the peoples, races, nations of the earth; this is the
meaning of the phrase the Cause is _____________ _____________.
3. We should have music for _____ ________ ________ in our meetings.
4. There is no such thing as _____________ _______________.
Consult together: what kind of music do the friends enjoy at Bahá’í meetings in your
region, community, locality? What kind of music would they consider unpleasant?

LESSON FOUR: UNITY IN DIVERSITY
Although, in Shoghi Effendi´s words, the friends are free to compose music as their
talents guide them, there are also strong indications in the Writings that the starting point,
the first step on the positive side of the ladder, should be each region’s own traditional
music, its folklore or popular music:
“Music… has grown up as an expression of the people.” Shoghi Effendi (10)
“At the level of folk art, this possibility can be pursued in every part of the
world, whether it be in villages, towns or cities.” The Universal House of Justice (11)
“It is here, at the very heart of a culture, that the process of the transformation
of a people begins.” International Teaching Centre (12)
1. Make a list of the traditional and popular music forms of your region.
2. Sing together some of the folklore music of your region that you like best.
3. If you come from different regions of the country or from different countries, show and
if possible, teach your traditional music one to another.
As Bahá’ís, we are called upon to appreciate and preserve our own cultural identity:
“Bahá’ís should obviously be encouraged to preserve their inherited cultural
identities, as long as the activities involved do not contravene the principles of the
Faith. The perpetuation of such cultural characteristics is an expression of unity in
diversity.” The Universal House of Justice (13)
1. What is meant by our inherited cultural identity?
2. When we become Bahá’ís, should we break with all the customs and traditions of our
ancestors? Why or why not?
3. Are there some cultural practices of our ancestors that we should definitely NOT
continue as Bahá’ís? ______ Give some examples.
4. To perpetuate means to __________________________
When we accept Bahá’u’lláh and become Bahá’ís, we enter into an all-embracing
brotherhood with all peoples, races, kindred and nations. We must learn to respect and love
the culture of others as we do our own, yet we still identify with our own kindred, race or
nation and even acquire a greater respect and love for our cultural identity.
“The goal of every Bahá’í community is the preservation of ethnic cultural
diversity in the context of a harmonious, equal interaction.” Craig Loehle (14)
1. To preserve means to ____________________________.
2. The great variety of music of the different peoples and races is part of ________
__________________ diversity, and must be ______________.

3. Interaction is to give and receive. If we have nothing to give, how can we interact with
others as equals?
4. The music of my people is better than that of another’s. True ___ False _____
5. The music from abroad is superior to ours. True___ False___

LESSON FIVE: COMMUNAL MUSIC
In regard to performing or creating music, there are two levels:
Communal music in which all of us can participate without exception; and
The music of specialists performed by professional or amateur artists with special
musical gifts and studies.
Both levels are equally important and necessary to the Bahá’í community. However,
since (1) communal music is the soil out of which the artists grow, (2) universal
participation is one of the principles of our Faith, and (3) we do not always have artists
among us in our local communities, we will focus more on the communal level of music
here.
In order to make use of music in all our Bahá’í events and gatherings, we should not
be dependent upon the presence or absence of artists among us. We are all artists; we are all
musicians by birthright. Music is a gift from God to every human being and God has
provided each of us with a natural musical instrument: our body - our voice, our hands and
feet. Not only that: our environment, wherever we live, is full of all kinds of objects that
can easily be used as improvised musical instruments, from a simple laurel leaf to plastic
water tanks.
In his book The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Adib Taherzadeh tells the story of Mirzá
Abbás, known as Qábil, one of the outstanding believers and teachers in the times of
Bahá’u’lláh. “He was a zealous and enthusiastic man, a poet of remarkable talent, a teacher
of wide repute and, above all, devoted to Bahá’u’lláh. His enthusiastic spirit, coupled with
his deep love for Bahá’u’lláh, cheered and uplifted the believers whom he met on his way.
They would gather to meet him and he would often request them, whenever circumstances
permitted, to chant in unison certain Tablets or poems of Bahá’u’lláh which lent themselves
to collective chanting, and he would teach them to sing together. … Qábil had a certain
genius for clapping his hands to accompany their songs of love and praise. Where greater
freedom prevailed, a homemade drum was a welcome accompaniment to his chant of love
for Bahá’u’lláh.” (15)
1. In the above description of collective music, which component is the most important?
2. How did those friends accompany their collective singing?
For group discussion:

Make the following experiment.
Together choose any song that everybody knows.
First, play it on a recording (cassette, CD). Everybody listens, sitting in silence.
Then, one person sings it, while the rest listen in silence.
Afterwards, everybody sings it in unison, but still sitting, with no accompaniment.
Then, everybody stands up, sings together in unison, clapping hands to keep time and
moving along with the natural rhythm of the song. Finally, the same is repeated, but adding
one or two volunteers from the group to accompany the collective song with a drum
(improvised if necessary) and with some shaker (maracas or a small tambourine or a bottle
or can filled with pebbles), or any other improvised percussion instrument.
Now sit down, recall and talk about the feelings you experienced in each of these
modes of relating to music. Which did you enjoy the most? Why?

LESSON SIX: SACRED MUSIC
The highest step on the ladder of music is sacred music, the music of worship where
we “try to bring the earthly music into harmony with the celestial melody.”(Abdu´l-
Bahá) The focal point of this “mystical link that unites man to God” is the Sacred Word,
the Word of God, often compared to music, to melody, by Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá.
“They who recite the verses of the All-Merciful in the most melodious of tones
will perceive in them that with which the sovereignty of earth and heaven can never
be compared. From them they will inhale the divine fragrance of My worlds – worlds
which today none can discern save those who have been endowed with vision through
this sublime, this beauteous Revelation. Say: These verses draw hearts that are pure
unto those spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed in words nor intimated by
allusion.” Bahá’u’lláh (16)
1. What are the verses of the All-Merciful?
2. Is it permissible to sing the prayers revealed by Bahá’u’lláh or Abdu’l-Bahá?
3. When we do this, what will we perceive in them?
4. What will we inhale from these prayers sung in the most melodious of tones?
5. None can ___________ these worlds today except those who have been ______
6. ____________ with vision.
7. Who are those that have been endowed with vision?
8. Do the verses of God attract every heart?
9. Singing these verses with the most melodious of tones allows us to feel the spiritual
worlds better than through ___________ or _____________ alone.

The Word of God for today is Bahá’u’lláh. Abdu’l-Bahá encouraged the friends to
set His Father’s  Persian poems to music:
“The day is not far distant when these poems will be set to Western music and
the sweet accents of these songs will reach the Abhá Kingdom with exceeding joy and
gladness.” (17)
What emotions, then, should characterize our sacred music, our music for worship?
Exceeding joy and gladness, joy and ecstasy! Our soul should leap for joy!
“Strike up such a melody and tune as to cause the nightingales of divine
mysteries to be filled with joy and ecstasy.” Abdu’l-Bahá (18)
“Wherefore… play and sing out the holy words of God with wondrous tones in
the gatherings of the friends, that the listener may be freed from chains of care and
sorrow, and his soul may leap for joy and humble itself in prayer to the realm of
Glory.” Abdu’l-Bahá (19)
Consult together about how we can make our worship (devotional meetings,
devotional part of the 19 Feast, etc.) conform more and more to these standards of
exceeding joy, gladness and ecstasy set for us by Abdu’l-Bahá.

LESSON SEVEN: CULTURE AND RELIGION
The spiritual need to worship God is a universal characteristic of man, but the ways
to give expression to this need vary greatly from culture to culture, from one spiritual
tradition to another. Sometimes, unconsciously, we take it for granted that everybody
should worship God in the same manner as we do.
“There is a tendency to feel that other peoples' cultures are less refined than
one's own.  This feeling is confirmed when contact with another people is superficial.
But whenever those from outside penetrate another culture and discover its depth and
subtleties, they develop an attitude of genuine respect for the people.  At the most
profound depth of every culture lies veneration of the sacred.  Efforts to advance the
Faith in rural areas, then, are most successful when the sacred in the culture of the
villagers is identified and they are assisted in transferring their loyalty and allegiance
to the Faith, placing Bahá'u'lláh and His Covenant at that sanctified core of their
universe.” (Letter dated 21 August 1994 from the International Teaching Centre to all
Continental Counsellors).
1. What attitude should Bahá’ís take towards the culture of other peoples?
2. What do we find in the innermost heart of every culture?
3. What happens if we do not pay attention to the sacred within the culture of the people
we are teaching?
4. When will the rural cultures feel deeply identified with and loyal to the Faith?

5. As Bahá’í teachers, why are we advised to take interest in the culture of the people we
are called upon to serve?
Let us always bear in mind that Bahá’u’lláh has come to every nation, people, race
and culture of the earth, to the followers of every religion, including the so called
traditional or indigenous religions whose Founders appeared either in prehistoric times or
among peoples that knew no writing. Each and all must be helped to feel and understand
that the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is “the highest essence and most perfect expression” of
their own spiritual traditions:
“The highest essence and most perfect expression of whatsoever the peoples of
old have either said or written hath, through this most potent Revelation, been sent
down from the heaven of the Will of the All-Possessing, the Ever-Abiding God.”
Bahá’u’lláh (21)

Complete the sentence:
The Bahá’í Faith is the highest ________________ and most perfect
_______________ of whatsoever the peoples _____ _______ have either _______ or
_______________ .
Among the followers of Traditional Religions who have no scriptures, the arts take
on an added significance, being the only means of religious expression: music, dance,
drama, tales and legends, proverbs, painting, sculpture embody their teachings and
theology. Bahá’ís coming from this religious background should be encouraged to use their
traditional religious art forms to give beautiful and heart-felt expression to their new faith
in, and love for, the Manifestation of God for this day. At the same time, however, they
should come to understand and accept without compromise the implications of the fact that
in our Faith there is no place for rituals, animal sacrifices, offerings, religious statues or
images, ceremonial narcotic substances, that intervene between God and man.
1. Are you familiar with, or do you know of, any Traditional Religion, different from the
Major Religions (Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism,
Taoism, Sikhism)? ____ Which?
2. Do you think it is appropriate to accompany Bahá’í prayers with African drums or
Amerindian flutes? _____ Give your reasons.
3. Do you think dance can be part of a devotional meeting or the devotional part of a 19
Day Feast? ____ Give your reasons.
This is the guidance given to us by the Universal House of Justice: “There is no
objection to the interpretation of a prayer in the form of movement or dance if the
spirit is properly reverential, but preferably this should not be accompanied by
reading the words.” (22)

In many cultures dance is inseparable from worship and is sometimes carried out in
a highly emotionally charged atmosphere, in pursuit of rapture. The pursuit of rapture or
ecstasy, a state of oblivion of oneself and of soaring on the wings of the spirit towards
nearness to God, has an important place in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. His as well as
Abdu’l-Bahá’s repeated and explicit references to it should be taken more to heart as our
new “Bahá’í culture” gradually evolves and finds new and higher levels of expression:
“Whosoever experienceth the holy ecstasy of worship will refuse to barter such
an act or any praise of God for all that existeth in the world.” Bahá’u’lláh (23)
Consult together about the meaning of the holy ecstasy of worship and its
implications for the way we conduct our Bahá’í worship (devotional meetings, devotional
part of the 19 Day Feast).

LESSON EIGHT: IN ALL BAHÁ’Í GATHERINGS
On what occasions should we make use of music in the course of our Bahá’í life and
work? Shoghi Effendi states:
“The element of music is, no doubt, an important feature of all Bahá’í
gatherings.” (24)
1. What is music for all Bahá’í gatherings?
2. In what kind of Bahá’í gatherings have you participated?
3. In which of those gatherings have the friends made use of music, either recorded or
live?
The Universal House of Justice also stresses:
“Inasmuch as the spirit of our gatherings is so much affected by the tone and
quality of our worship, of our feeling and appreciation of the Word of God for this
day, we would hope that you would encourage the most beautiful possible expression
of the human spirits in your communities, through music among other modes of
feeling.” (25)
1. What factors affect the spirit of our gatherings?
2. What do you understand by “the tone and quality of worship”?
3. By what means can we contribute to the most beautiful expression possible of the
human spirit in our communities?
“In accordance with our Teachings, music and the arts are to be encouraged,
and they add immeasurably to the vitality and spirit of the community.” The
Universal House of Justice (26)

1. In accordance with the Bahá’í Teachings, what should we do with music and the arts?
2. How do music and the arts affect the vitality and spirit of our community?
3. If the vitality and spirit of our Bahá’í community is low, can we expect others to be
attracted to Bahá’u’lláh?
4. Besides music, what other arts could be used to increase the vitality and spirit of our
community, and in what ways?
The guidance given to us by the Universal House of Justice clearly shows that the
music and arts we encourage within our community should grow out of our own cultural
identity:
“The Faith seeks to maintain cultural diversity while promoting the unity of all
peoples. … The House of Justice supports the view that in every country the cultural
traditions of the people should be observed within the Bahá’í community as long as
they are not contrary to the Teachings.” (27)


LESSON NINE: MUSIC AS A TEACHING TOOL
“… the arts are powerful instruments to serve the Cause…” The Universal
House of Justice (28)
“… the friends are also asked to give greater attention to the use of the arts, not
only for proclamation, but also for the work in expansion and consolidation. The
graphic and performing arts and literature have played, and can play, a major role in
extending the influence of the Cause.” Ibid. (29)
1. What do the arts represent for those who are serving the Cause (year of service youth,
tutors of Study Circles and junior youth groups, children’s class teachers, etc.)?
2. In what fields of teaching should we employ the arts?
3. What are the performing arts?
4. How can the use of arts affect the spread of our Cause?
As to proclamation, Shoghi Effendi promised us:
“The day will come when the Cause will spread like wildfire when its spirit and
teachings will be presented on the stage or in art and literature as a whole. Art can
better awaken such noble sentiments than cold rationalizing, especially among the
mass of the people.” (30)
1. How does wildfire spread?
2. When will the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh spread like wildfire?
3. How can the arts accelerate the process of entry by troops?


To give the Message:
“It is the music which assists us to affect the human spirit; it is an important
means which helps us to communicate with the soul. The Guardian hopes that
through this assistance you will give the Message to the people, and will attract their
hearts.” On behalf of Shoghi Effendi  (31)
1. Music helps us to affect the human _________, to communicate with the ___________
and to attract the ________________.
2. Can only artists, musicians give the Message through music?
3. Consult together and rehearse a small presentation to teach the concept of the unity of
the human race with the aid of music, dance, drama and recital of quotations.
Children’s classes:
“The art of music is divine and effective. It is the food of the soul and spirit. …
It has wonderful sway and effect in the hearts of children, for their hearts are pure,
and melodies have great influence in them. The latent talents with which the hearts of
these children are endowed will find expression through the medium of music.
Therefore, you must exert yourselves to make them proficient; teach them to sing with
excellence and effect.” Abdu’l-Bahá (32)
1. The art of music is a gift from God: this is the meaning of the word __________
2. The art of music gives good results: this is the meaning of the word __________
3. It is the food of the _________ and ________________.
4. Music helps develop the ___________ talents with which the ___________ of the
children are ________________.
5. Abdu’l-Bahá instructs the teachers of children’s classes and tutorial schools to
______________________________________________________________.
6.
Junior Youth Groups and Study Circles:
It is also very important for us to use music, along with other arts, in our work with
junior youth and Study Circles. The following are some of the benefits we can derive from
using music:
• It enhances the sense of belonging and group cohesion;
• it strengthens identity, both Bahá’í and cultural;
• it brings down barriers and creates affection, unity, harmony;
• “the souls and the hearts of the pupils become vivified and exhilarated and their
lives brightened with enjoyment” (Abdu’l-Bahá);
• this makes our junior youth and youth groups, including Study Circles, much
more attractive to their peers and their numbers will not dwindle, but will grow;

• the medium of the arts, especially music and drama, is very effective in
reinforcing the same topics, concepts, skills and capacities dealt with in the
Institute course we are teaching;
• through the medium of the arts, the participants of the Study Circles not only learn
more readily, but can also teach the Faith as one of their acts of service, giving
public presentations of what they have learned, to their relatives, friends and
neighbors;
• As with the children, music, traditional dance, drama and stories can work
wonders in bringing out the talents and creativity latent within the hearts of the
junior youth and youth. The tutor has only to encourage his or her students at
every opportunity, with sincere love, interest and insistence, so that they
participate in the collective composition of music, choreography and drama on the
subjects and quotes they are learning.  The results may surpass their wildest
dreams!
Finally, may these words of Abdu’l-Bahá spur us on to give the arts, especially
music, in our Bahá’í work and life the high rank and importance so explicitly accorded to
them in our Teachings:
“The art of music must be brought to the highest stage of development, for this
is one of the most wonderful arts and in this glorious age of the Lord of Unity it is
highly essential to gain its mastery.” (33)
Does Abdul-Bahá mean by this that now we all have to become highly
accomplished professional musicians? No: He demands excellence from us in all things.
We must strive to gain mastery of our music-making, no matter at what level we are doing
it, whether communal, amateur or professional. Practice makes the master: at the communal
level, if we live in societies that have long lost the habit of collective singing, for example,
then it takes some pushing and perseverance to overcome the initial frightening cacophony
that emerges when we try to sing together. It is my experience that even without any formal
vocal training, just by insisting on doing it again and again until it becomes a habit, we will
end up with very pleasant, harmonious results. Excellence at our level, within our
limitations, that’s what Abdu’l-Bahá means by mastery.

Notes

1. Bahá’í Writings on Music, The Bahá’í Publishing Trust, England, 1973, p.8
2. Bahá’u’lláh, Kitab-I-Aqdas, K51
3. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, p.35
4. In “The Importance of the Arts in Promoting the Faith”, a compilation of the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, Bahá’í World Centre,
1998,(UHJ), p.6, quote 21
5. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, pp.174-74
6. UHJ, p.7, quote 25
7. Bahá’u’lláh, Kitab-i-Aqdas, K51
8. UHJ, pp.10-11, quote 38
9. UHJ, p.11, quote 41
10. ibid.
11. UHJ, p.22, quote 69
12. International Teaching Centre, letter dated August 21 1994
13. Memorandum Concerning Cultural Practices, p.1
14. Craig Loehle, On the Shoulders of Giants
15. Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
16. Bahá’u’lláh, Kitab-í-Aqdas, K116
17. UHJ, p.3, quote 8
18. ibid., quote 11
19. ibid., p.4, quote 14
20. International Teaching Centre, letter dated August 21 1994
21. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, p.87
22. UHJ, p.20, quote 63
23. In “The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting” compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice, Bahá’í World Centre, 2000, p.3,
quote III.
24. UHJ, p.94, quote 34
25. Ibid., p.12, quote 44
26. Ibid., p.16, quote 58
27. The Universal House of Justice in “Concerning Cultural Practices”, p.2, quote 2
28. UHJ, p.15, quote 53
29. Ibid., p.21, quote 69
30. Ibid., p.8, quote 30
31. Ibid., p.9, quote 31
32. Ibid. p.6, quote 21
33. Ibid., p.3, quote 9


LESSON ONE: A GREAT EDUCATIONAL POWER
“An actor once commented to Abdu’l_Bahá about the influence of drama. Abdu’l-
Bahá replied: ‘Drama is of the utmost importance. It has been a great educational
power in the past; it will be so again.’ He described how as a young boy He had
witnessed the Mystery Play of Alí’s Betrayal and Passion, and how it had affected him so
deeply that he wept and could not sleep for many nights.” (1)
Complete the sentence:
_________ is of the utmost ________________. It has been a great
_________________ ________________ in the past; it will be so again.
After many years Abdu´l-Bahá remembered an experience He had had as a young
boy with a drama performance. What effects did it have on Him?
Consult together: why and how is drama a great educational power?
In the above passage Abdu’l-Bahá says that drama has been a great educational
power in the past and it will be so again in the future. This means it is not so today. Drama,
together with all other art forms, is now in a state of deep crisis and decadence:
“Even music, art, and literature, which are to represent and inspire the noblest
sentiments and highest aspirations and should be a source of comfort and tranquility
for troubled souls, have strayed from the straight path and are now the mirrors of the
soiled hearts of this confused, unprincipled, and disordered age.” The Universal
House of Justice (2)

1. What purpose should the arts (music, drama, visual arts, literature, etc.) serve?
2. What have they become today?
3. Explain in your own words the meaning of “this confused, unprincipled, and disordered
age”. Think of telling examples.
Consult together: what forms of drama do you get to see more often? Theatre? The
movies? Television? TV dramatizations? Pictures? What do you think of these
presentations: are they “a great educational power” or “mirrors of soiled hearts”? Give your
reasons.

Just as we have to be critical and careful about the music we choose to listen to, we
must also screen and select from the dramatic presentations offered by the media, to protect
our hearts from becoming inadvertently soiled as well.

“The standard of dignity and reverence set by the beloved Guardian should
always be upheld, particularly in musical and dramatic items…” The Universal House
of Justice (3)


LESSON TWO: THE TEACHINGS ON THE STAGE
Besides being more critical and careful as Bahá’ís with what we “consume” from
the menu of dramatic items our environment has to offer, how do the performing arts
concern us as tutors of the Institute process? Since drama has a great educational power, we
should make an active use of it as one of our working tools.
In its Ridvan Messages the Universal House of Justice has time and again exhorted
us to make use of the tremendous potentialities of the arts, in particular the performing arts
(music, drama, dance):
“Expand the use of music and drama in your proclamation and teaching
work…” (4)
“… the friends are also asked to give greater attention to the use of the arts, not
only for proclamation, but also for the work in expansion and consolidation. The
graphic and performing arts … have played, and can play, a major role in extending
the influence of the Cause.” (5)
How can the performing arts help extend the influence of the Cause? Just imagine:
if the most famous singers, musicians and songwriters, the movie and TV stars and
scriptwriters were Bahá’ís, how many people could they reach with the Message?
It is not our job to take by assault the bastions of show business, the music industry,
MTV and Hollywood. These are but superstructures of the old world order and will fall and
disintegrate together with it. Our task is to build “the new house for all mankind” from the
ground, laying its very foundations. This is what the hundreds and thousands of Study
Circles are doing around the world. And it is precisely here that we must “expand the use of
music and drama”.

Shoghi Effendi promised us many decades ago:
“The day will come when the Cause will spread like wildfire when its spirit and
teachings will be presented from the stage… Art can better awaken such noble
sentiments than cold rationalizing, especially among the mass of the people.” (6)

Complete the passage:
The day will come when the ________ will _______ like _________ when its
__________ and __________ will be presented from the _________ … Art can better
awaken such _________  ___________ than _______ rationalizing, especially among the
_______ of the _________ .
Consult together: why do you think the arts can influence people’s hearts better than
cold rationalizing? Give examples.


LESSON THREE:
THE PROHIBITION OF REPRESENTING THE MANIFESTATIONS OF GOD
“As to your question concerning the advisability of dramatizing Bahá’í historic
episodes: the Guardian would certainly approve, and even encourage  the friends to
engage in such literary pursuits which, no doubt, can be of immense teaching value.
What he wishes the believers to avoid is dramatizing the personages of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá, that is to say treating them as dramatic figures, as
characters appearing on the stage. This, he feels, would be quite disrespectful. The
mere fact that they appear on the scene constitutes an act of discourtesy which can in
no way be reconciled with their highly exalted station. Their message, or actual words,
should be preferably reported and conveyed by their disciples appearing on the
stage.”  On behalf of Shoghi Effendi (7)

1. Is it permissible to represent the History of the Faith on the stage?
2. What personages of the Faith cannot be represented on the stage? Why?
3. Can personages like Quddús, Mullá Husayn or Táhirih appear on the scene?
4. What do you think: would it be advisable to represent Shoghi Effendi?
5. Many Christians represent each year the Passion of Jesus Christ at Easter, with actors in
the role of Jesus. Are Bahá’ís allowed to do that?

“Your understanding that the portrayal of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh in works
of art is forbidden is correct. The Guardian made it clear that this prohibition refers
to all the Manifestations of God… However, there can be no objection to symbolic
representation of such Holy Figures, provided it does not become a ritual and that the
symbol used is not irreverent.” The Universal House of Justice (8)

1. In addition to the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá, who else should we avoid
representing either by images or by actors on the stage? Give at least five names.
2. If we want to dramatize the concept of Progressive Revelation, how could we represent
the Holy Figures of Past Dispensations?
3. What is meant by “symbolic representation”?
“Regarding the use of symbolism in art, the following extract from letters
written to individuals by the House of Justice may provide the answer you seek: ‘We
see no objection to the use of natural phenomena as symbols to illustrate the
significance of the three Central Figures, Bahá’í Laws, and Bahá’í Administration;
and we also appreciate the suitability of using visual symbols to express abstract
concepts.’” The Universal House of Justice (10)
Here is a beautiful example of the rich symbolism that Bahá’u’lláh so often uses to
hint at the mysteries of Progressive Revelation:
“This is the Ocean out of which all seas have proceeded, and with which every
one of them will ultimately be united. From Him all the Suns have been generated,
and unto Him they will all return. Through His potency the Trees of Divine
Revelation have yielded their fruits, every one of which hath been sent down in the
form of a Prophet, bearing a Message to God's creatures in each of the worlds whose
number God, alone, in His all-encompassing Knowledge, can reckon.”

( Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 104)
Bahá’u’lláh uses a language very rich in metaphors and symbols taken from the
world of Nature to describe spiritual realities. The Manifestations of God are frequently
referred to as the Sun of Reality, Luminary, Tree of Life, Divine Lote Tree, Nightingale of
Paradise, Royal Falcon, etc.
The question in point is no less than that of respect for the sacred which, while still
very much alive in many traditional societies wrongly called “primitive”, has all but
disappeared from our modern “civilized” world. Reflect and consult together on the
following passage from the Universal House of Justice:
“… the House of Justice feels that one of the great challenges facing Bahá’ís
everywhere is that of restoring to the peoples of the world an awareness of spiritual
reality. Our view of the world is markedly different from that of the mass of mankind,
in that we perceive creation to encompass spiritual as well as physical entities, and we
regard the purpose of the world in which we now find ourselves to be a vehicle for our
spiritual progress.
… One of the distinctive virtues given emphasis in the Bahá’í Writings is
respect for that which is sacred. Such behaviour has no meaning for those whose
perspective on the world is entirely materialistic, while many followers of the
established religions have debased it into a set of rituals devoid of true spiritual
feeling.

… Bahá’ís endowed with artistic talent are in a unique position to use their
abilities, when treating Bahá’í themes, in such a way as to disclose to mankind
evidence of the spiritual renewal the Bahá’í Faith has brought to humanity through its
revitalization of the concept of reverence.
Questions of artistic freedom are not germane to the issues raised here. Bahá’í
artists are free to apply their talents to whatever subject is of interest to them.
However, it is hoped that they will exercise a leadership role in restoring to a
materialistic society an appreciation of reverence as a vital element in the achievement
of true liberty and abiding happiness.”  The Universal House of Justice (10)
In our treatment and use of the arts within Study Circles, how can we balance and
harmonize respect for the sacred, the concept of reverence, and artistic freedom? Consult
together.


LESSON FOUR: TWO WAYS OF MAKING THEATRE

“To make theatre, all that is required is someone to do it and someone to watch it.”
(11) The stage is any space that these two parties tacitly assign for the dramatic event to
take place.
Taking this minimal definition as a starting point, there are two ways for us to make
theatre as part of our teaching and consolidation work in the Faith:
Stable theatre group (Drama workshop)
This mode, similar in structure to the popular Dance Workshops, has for its manifest
aim the setting up and running of a stable company of actors (amateurs in most cases),
working out a repertory of stage plays and making public presentations to proclaim the
teachings and principles of the Faith. Its other goal, not necessarily expressed but no less
important, is the collective study of the Sacred Word as an integral part of the training of
the group. This mode of making theatre requires persons with a calling for the dramatic
arts, to become directors and actors. The director and his actors must aspire to achieve a
fairly high standard of technical and artistic perfection, and need to work hard and for a
sustained length of time toward this goal.
Drama workshops, if you have the somewhat specialized human resources to
establish them, can prove to be an extremely useful and attractive strategy for teaching the
Faith especially among city youth, in schools and universities.

Community theatre
This mode simply means the use of drama in and by the community as a whole,
with universal participation of all its members, as another means among several others, to
enhance the tutor’s work with his Study Circle (children, junior youth and youth, women’s
group, etc.). Here we are more concerned with the learning process than with artistic
quality, and neither the tutor nor the participants need any special stage experience, calling
or interest. This strategy aims more at teaching and consolidation than proclamation.
The benefits of working with drama, at any level and in any mode, are many, and
flow as much from the group to the outside as within the interior of the group itself. Its
effects on the outside world are those that Shoghi Effendi has pointed out: by the means of
the arts we can reach the hearts of our audiences better than with cold rationalizing. A
dramatic performance, an artistic event draws more people than a talk.
On the other hand, participation in activities of performing arts, which are collective
by nature, exerts a powerful effect on character building and individual and collective
transformation. “The skills that will be developed by an individual working as a member of
such a group will include creativity, cooperation, communication and concentration, as well
as the ability to listen, compromise, contribute and take initiative. Making theatre at
whatever level is a terrific learning tool for anyone who works or lives as part of a team,
which includes most of us.” Hahlo-Reynolds (12)


LESSON FIVE:  DRAMA IN STUDY CIRCLES
Of the two ways of making theatre described in the previous lesson, it is the
communal theatre with universal participation that is of interest to us here.
Again, there are two levels on which we can use this form of drama in our work:
• Dramatization as a learning strategy of the Institute Courses being studied
by the group;
• Drama pieces to be presented by the group to outside audiences.

Dramatization as a learning tool:
An ancient Chinese proverb says:  I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and
I understand.

Suppose your Study Circle is studying Ruhí Book One. Take the very first quote by
Bahá’u’lláh:
“The betterment of the world can be accomplished through pure and goodly
deeds, through commendable and seemly conduct....”
You study this quote with your group in the established manner: explaining the
meaning of the words, consulting and reflecting together, completing the exercises in the
book, after which you ask the participants to memorize the quote. When this step is
reached, you tap the latent reservoir of artistic creativity in the group by leading and
organizing them to set music to this same quote (collective composition). One way to
proceed is this:
You write the quote on the board broken down into phrases like poetry. For
example:
The betterment of the world
Can be accomplished
Through pure and goodly deeds,
Through commendable
And seemly conduct.

Now have your group all stand up, establish a steady tempo by marching in place
and clapping hands on the beat. When that is clear and firm and precise, have them repeat
in chorus the above quote phrasing it like  poetry, making pauses when the rhythm requires.
If you wish you can repeat a phrase twice to make it more musical. While repeating over
and over again, start raising the pitch (not the volume!) of your voices above the level of
ordinary speech, to the stage of chanting. At this point – without ever stopping the process
– encourage anyone in the group to come up with a melody to the rhythmically chanted
poem. The best melody that emerges from this collective creation is adopted and learned by
the group, adding it to their repertory of songs of Bahá’í identity. Besides enriching the
growing body of community music available to the group, this method also serves to
reinforce memorization of the words at a deeper, easier and more lasting level.
Now, after seeing and hearing, let us raise the learning process to the stage of doing:
play acting.
Divide your Study Circles in smaller groups, of three to four participants each.

Before breaking up into teams you explain to them that they have to work out a
drama skit about the verities enshrined in the above quote: that is, how can the betterment
of the world be accomplished? Why does the world need betterment at all? What kind of
deeds and conduct do we, here and now, have to show so that the world around us (our
family, our school, our neighborhood, our community) becomes better? Make clear that
they have to start out from their concrete, familiar, everyday experiences. Also recommend
that they avoid simplistic, “Deus ex machina” solutions, where at the critical moment one
of the actors would say: Bahá’u’lláh says that… and by an act of instant miracle everybody
and everything becomes perfect. Tell them to think in terms of real life. Now you give a
definite time limit (fifteen minutes, half an hour) for the teams to prepare their
improvisations (avoid writing down their lines). Then you reassemble your Circle and have
each team present their performance. Each skit should be analyzed by the whole group in
loving consultation, but never criticized, belittled or ridiculed. Our aim here is collective
learning.
This kind of exercise in drama improvisation allows the participants to relate the
universal, abstract concepts of the quote they have been studying, to the concrete and
particular circumstances of their everyday lives, and see the practical relevance of the
Teachings. On the other hand, this kind of activity is thrilling, challenging, amusing and
greatly contributes to strengthening the bonds of fellowship and harmony within the group.
As dramatization becomes a regular feature of the Study Circle sessions, the self esteem
and self confidence of the participants will increase by discovering the creative talents
latent within them.
Plays for public presentation
At a later, more consolidated stage of our Study Circle we can prompt the
participants to accomplish more complex challenges of drama improvisation: the group as
whole may be guided to create, in joint consultation with the tutor, a more demanding piece
of drama about aspects of the Teachings: a quality like truthfulness, a principle like the
equality of men and women or unity in diversity. After rehearsing it, they may want to
present it at some public event or offer it to parents and friends, to a school, at a gathering
of Study Circles, at a 19 Day Feast, or as part of a teaching activity the group may
undertake as an act of service to the community. Such a collective enterprise and the
unfailingly positive response to it by outsiders will do much to enhance the sense of group
identity. Moreover, it is a powerful tool for proclamation, teaching and consolidation.

Notes:
1. Published in Abdu´l-Bahá in London (Oakham Bahá’í  Publishing Trust, 1987, p. 93)
2. The Universal House of Justice, compilation “The Importance of the Arts In Promoting
The Faith (referred to as UHJ henceforth), 1998, N° 50, p. 14
3. UHJ, N° 43, p 12
4. Ridvan Message to Africa, 1996,  paragraph 13
5. UHJ, N° 69, pp. 21-22
6. ibid.
7. UHJ, N° 35, p. 10
8. UHJ, N° 45, p. 12
9. UHJ, N° 59, p. 17
10. UHJ, N° 60, p. 18
11. R. Hahlo – P. Reynolds: Dramatic Events, p. 21
12. ibid., p. 20


LESSON ONE: DANCE WITH OVERFLOWING EMOTIONS
“Lo, the Nightingale of Paradise singeth upon the twigs of the Trees of
Eternity, with holy and sweet melodies, proclaiming to the sincere ones the glad
tidings of the nearness of God…” Bahá’u’lláh (1)
If the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is music, the response of the contingent world to it
is dance:
“In the Holy Books a promise is given that the springtime of God shall make
itself manifest; Jerusalem, the Holy City, shall descend from heaven; Zion shall leap
forth and dance; and the Holy Land shall be submerged in the ocean of divine
effulgence.” Abdu’l-Bahá (2)
Answer these questions:
1. In the above quote by Bahá’u’lláh, who is the “Nightingale of Paradise”?
2. What are those “holy and sweet melodies”?
3. In Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, how will Zion receive the glad tidings of the nearness of God?
4. What emotion is expressed by the metaphor “Zion shall leap and dance”?
The most direct, contagious and evident physical expression of the emotions of
extreme happiness, joy, exultation, ecstasy, and celebration is dancing:
“Take the cup of the Testament in thy hand; leap and dance with ecstasy in the
triumphal procession of the Covenant!” Abdu’l-Bahá (3)
“Today, to this melody of the Company on high, the world will leap and dance:
'Glory be to my Lord, the All-Glorious!'” Abdu’l-Bahá (4)
1. What emotion should fill the hearts of those who have the privilege of having
recognized Bahá’u’lláh?
2. According to Abdu’l-Bahá’s words above, what is the source of our ecstasy and
overflowing joy?

Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá exhort us to convey this same overflowing joy to our
hearers when we teach the Cause, share its Teachings and give the Message:
“Indeed expositions and discourses in explanation of such things cause the
spirits to be chilled. It behoveth thee to speak forth in such wise as to set the hearts of
true believers ablaze and cause their bodies to soar.” Bahá’u’lláh (5)
“I ask and supplicate God to make you two convinced souls, to bring you forth
with such a steadfastness that each of you may withstand the people of a country, and

to intoxicate you with the wine of the love of God so that you may cause your hearers
to dance, to be joyful and to exult.” Abdu’l-Bahá (6)
1. Bahá’u’lláh warns us that if we speak only to the rational mind of our hearers when we
teach, their ___________ will be chilled.
2. The words of a Bahá’í teacher should affect the heart as well as the body of his hearer.
How?
3. One condition of effective teaching is for us to be intoxicated with the love of God.
What does that mean?
4. When we are intoxicated with the love of God, how will our words affect our hearers?
In summary: in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá, dance is associated
with the expression of emotions of overflowing happiness and joy, of ecstasy and
intoxication with the love of God, with His Word. Dance is a universal human
manifestation of celebration:
“…celebrate ye in joy, dance with overflowing emotions…” Abdu’l-Bahá (7)



LESSON TWO: TO DANCE OR NOT TO DANCE?
In stark contrast to the spiritual and sacred nature assigned to dance in the Writings
of the Faith, dancing in our modern materialistic and decadent culture has gradually
degenerated into a socially accepted form of sexual promiscuity, vulgarity and
pornography, closely linked to the consumption of alcohol and other drugs. The practice of
this kind of dancing has no place in our lives as Bahá’ís:
“In the teachings there is nothing against dancing, but the friends should
remember that the standard of Bahá’u’lláh is modesty and chastity. The atmosphere
of modern dance halls, where so much smoking and drinking and promiscuity goes
on, is very bad, but decent dances are not harmful in themselves. There is certainly no
harm in classical dancing or learning dancing in school… The harmful thing,
nowadays, is not the art itself but the unfortunate corruption which often surrounds
these arts. As Bahá’ís we need avoid none of the arts, but acts and the atmosphere that
sometimes go with these professions we should avoid.” Shoghi Effendi (8)
1. Is dancing permissible for Bahá’í youth?
2. Is it appropriate for Bahá’í youth to go to discotheques? Give your reasons.
3. What does “promiscuity” mean?
4. Is it permissible for Bahá’í youth to have a dance party let us say for someone’s
birthday?
5. What do “modesty and chastity” mean when applied to our manner of dancing?

6. Consult together: what would you consider indecent dancing? What is decent dancing?
What is the difference between the two?
7. Analyze together: what kind of dancing is propagated in the media – television, video
clips, musical shows - ? Decent or indecent? Edifying? Harmless? Harmful?
Dance has been a very popular form of entertainment in our Western culture for
many centuries, an integral part of every festive meeting or social gathering. There is no
reason for Bahá’í youth to be deprived of wholesome entertainment and diversion as long
as they heed the Guardian’s words of caution:
“Such a chaste and holy life, with its implications of modesty, purity,
temperance, decency, and clean-mindedness, involves no less than the exercise of
moderation in all that pertains to dress, language, amusements, and all artistic and
literary avocations. It demands daily vigilance in the control of one's carnal desires
and corrupt inclinations. It calls for the abandonment of a frivolous conduct, with its
excessive attachment to trivial and often misdirected pleasures.” Shoghi Effendi (9)

LESSON THREE: DANCE AS AN ART FORM
Dance is far more than a mere pastime or entertainment. It is a form of art. It is
deeply imbedded in people’s culture and their expression of the sacred.
Traditional dances (folklore)
“...traditional dances associated with the expression of a culture are
permissible in Bahá’í Centres. However, it should be borne in mind that such
traditional dances generally have an underlying theme or a story being represented.
Care must be exercised to ensure that the themes of such dances are in harmony with
the high ethical standards of the Cause and are not portrayals that would arouse base
instincts and unworthy passions....” The Universal House of Justice (10)
True or false?:
1. It is not permissible to dance in Bahá’í Centres. T__ F__
2. It is permissible to perform traditional dances in Bahá’í Centres. T__ F__
3. Traditional dances are an expression of a culture.  T__ F__
4. All traditional dances are appropriate in a Bahá’í Centre.  T__ F__
5. Some folklore dances, in their present form, arouse base instincts and unworthy
passions.  T__ F__
6. We have to select carefully what aspects of our own cultural traditions deserve
protection and preservation.  T__ F__
Consult together: What traditional dances are there in your region? What is the
underlying theme or story in each of them?

The protection and promotion of the cultural identity of every people is one of the
principles of our Faith, so as Bahá’í teachers or tutors we must take this into account.
“Much like the role played by the gene pool in the biological life of humankind
and its environment, the immense wealth of cultural diversity achieved over
thousands of years is vital  to the development  of the human race which is
experiencing its collective coming of age. It represents a heritage that enriches us all
and that must be permitted to bear its fruit in a global civilization.” Bahá’í
International Community (11)
Consult together: why is it important to preserve cultural diversity? Is not the
“modern culture” of globalization, offered through the media, enough for the future?
Folklore – says Shoghi Effendi – is the expression of a people. Peoples do not stand
still: they evolve, change, and progress. So does their expression. The “people of Bahá”
must become a new people; our cultural expression must also be something new. Bahá’ís
should go beyond the mere preservation of the cultural traditions of our inherited identities,
and undertake a process of selection, adaptation, and synthesis. The process of
transformation of a people, released and fueled by the Creative Word of God for our age -
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh -, begins in the very heart of its culture. The Teachings and
Words of Bahá’u’lláh, in turn, transform this same culture, by purifying it, strengthening it,
and making it grow. Each and every people will take upon themselves, as they become
more and more deepened in the Faith, the task of selection, adaptation and synthesis of the
best and most progressive features of their culture. This process will yield in time a new
folklore: a new expression of a transformed people.
Bahá’í tutors and teachers can do much to start and accelerate this process. On the
one hand they can and should encourage their Study Circles, Pre-Youth Groups, Children’s
Classes to cultivate their own cultural traditions, to learn and perform the traditional dances
of their region. On the other hand, through collective reflection, analysis and consultation
among their groups, they can identify and modify those negative contents and forms of
dance that are at variance with the high moral standards of our Cause. We have to bear in
mind that the general prostitution of the arts so characteristic of our modern society has not
left the traditional dances unaffected, especially where these have been adapted to the
tourist entertainment industry.

Choreographed dances
Choreography is the art of creating and arranging ballet and dances with a specific
theme or story.
“As for choreographed dances whose purpose is to reinforce and proclaim
Bahá’í principles, if they can be performed in a manner which portrays the nobility of
such principles and invokes appropriate attitudes of respect or reverence, there is no
objection to dances which are meant to interpret passages from the Writings;

however, it is preferable that the motions of a dance not be accompanied by the
reading of the words.
The principle which must guide the friends in their consideration of these
questions is the observance of "moderation in all that pertains to dress, language,
amusements, and all artistic and literary avocations". The Universal House of Justice
(12)
Consult together: how can we observe moderation in the way we dress? In our
language? In the way we have fun? In the way we make theatre, music, and dance? Give
concrete examples.
In recent years a new modality of proclamation and teaching has emerged and
spread like wildfire among the youth of many parts of the world:
Dance Workshops. Originating in the United States and Canada, these dance
Workshops proclaim Bahá’í principles through choreographed dances. The Universal
House of Justice acknowledged with satisfaction this new development: “involvement of
youth in music and the arts as a means of proclaiming and teaching the Cause
distinguished their exertions in many places; the spread of dance and drama
workshops was particularly effective…” (13)
Forming drama and dance groups or workshops to “represent the spirit and the
teachings of the Cause from the stage” requires a group of young people with special
interest in and calling for these art forms. In other words, we need “specialists” to some
degree. Nevertheless they are very attractive modes of action for the Bahá’í youth,
especially in the cities, to draw their peers into the youth movement. However, care should
be taken that these newly formed dance workshops are not mere carbon copies of their
North American models. While emulating the original method, discipline, concepts of
organization, they should create their own choreographies based on the music and dances of
their region, and addressing social and moral problems that are relevant to their own
people. Otherwise, we would be adding to the already massive cultural erosion taking place
in the modern world, which would be contrary to our principle of Unity in Diversity.

It is not necessary to have major artistic objectives or specialized skills for a Study
Circle tutor to initiate the first steps towards simple choreographies. Based on the “motion
vocabulary” of the traditional dances of the region, Bahá’í principles, like equality of men
and women, unity in diversity, elimination of extremes of poverty and wealth, racism, etc.
can be expressed. As with the creation of community music and drama, here, too, we can
safely rely on the latent creativity of our Study Circle participants and the liberating
bounties conferred by consultation.
Along with music and drama, dance can be a very useful tool for proclamation,
teaching and consolidation, as the following report by the Bahá’í International
Community points out:

“One noteworthy example is the collaboration between UNIFEM and Bahá’í
communities in Bolivia, Cameroon and Malaysia, aimed at improving the status of
rural women by using traditional media, such as music and dance, to stimulate
village-wide discussion of women’s roles. Messages communicated in this way are
taken very seriously in non-literate communities, and they provide a non-threatening
opening for dialogue with the whole community.” (14)
Practice: team up in couples. Each couple will, independently from the others,
create a simple choreography about the equality of men and women, using instrumental
music (live or recorded). A good idea is to first show how women are traditionally treated
in your society, and then how both sexes should relate according to Bahá’í teachings. No
spoken words should be used. Then reassemble and each couple present their dance.
Reflect on and analyze together the performances. Then, as a second step, if time and
circumstances allow, make a more complex dance-drama together, using the ideas and
insights gained in the first exercise on the same topic and present it at your closing
celebration.


LESSON FOUR: DANCE AND WORSHIP
In many cultures dance is synonymous with worship, the expression of reverence
for the sacred.  In the history of the Heroic Age of our Faith one finds many examples of
this devotional use of dance:
“When one of the victims fell to the ground and they prodded him up with
bayonets, if the loss of blood which dripped from his wounds had left him any
strength, he would begin to dance and to cry out with even greater enthusiasm: 'In
truth, we come from God and unto Him do we return!' "Some of the children expired
on the way.” Shoghi Effendi (15)

Even Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani, this “Antichrist of the Bahá’í Revelation”, took
recourse to dancing as the ultimate sign of his devotion, while trying to disguise his real
sentiments:
“Although embarrassed, he arose, and to the amusement of some and the
amazement of others, performed a dance of rapture in an attempt to dispel their
suspicion.” Adib Taherzadeh (16)
In the above descriptions, dance is performed as a public demonstration of what?

For a great segment of mankind, dance is the primary expression of religious
feeling, of reverence before the sacred, of devotion and worship. In this context, “dance is
the meditation of the body”. In the authoritative Writings of the Bahá’í Faith this dimension
of dance is also recognized as legitimate, along with other means and forms of giving
expression to our worship, like  reading  prayers, chanting prayers, singing prayers or
playing an instrument in prayer:
“There is no objection to the interpretation of a prayer in the form of
movement or dance if the spirit is properly reverential, but preferably this should not
be accompanied by reading the words.” The Universal House of Justice (17)
What do you think:
1. what makes a dance acceptable as “the interpretation of a prayer”?
2. would it be appropriate for someone to read a prayer while another is interpreting it
through dancing?
“It is perfectly acceptable for a prayer to be interpreted in the form of
movement or dance. As you know, in many parts of the world there are certain tribal
and traditional dances which are performed in glorification of God. Just as a
composer can create a piece of music as a result of inspiration by some passage in the
Writings, so can a person perform a reverential dance, which is another form of art,
to interpret a passage from a prayer or from the Writings. However, to avoid that
such expressions of prayer become gradually ritualized, it is preferable that they not
be accompanied by reading the words of the prayers.”

(Letters of The Universal House of Justice, 1994 Mar, Dancing at Feast)
In secular materialistic Western culture which is now being globalized, this
dimension of the sacred dance has been lost. It will take time for us to recover it. No doubt,
the so-called “primitive” societies, where the reverence of the sacred permeates all
moments of life, have a lot to teach us in this respect.

Notes

1. Tablet of Ahmad, Bahá’í prayers
2. Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 38
3. Abdu´l-Bahá in Bahá’í World Faith, p. 351
4. Selection from the Writings of Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 93
5. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 142
6. Tablets of Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 2, p. 320
7. ibid., p. 361
8. Compilation by the Universal House of Justice “The Importance of the Arts in
Promoting the Faith”, 1998 (henceforth UHJ), N° 42
9. UHJ, N° 25
10. UHJ, N° 66
11. Bahá’í International Community (BIC): Valuing Spirituality in Development, p.
12. UHJ, N° 66
13. The Universal House of Justice, Ridvan Message 1996
14. BIC: Protection of Women’s Rights
15. Shoghi Effendi, in Dawn Breakers
16. Adib Taherzadeh: Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 1, p. 220
17. UHJ, N° 63
18. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 143

Miscellaneous Reflections
After all, I’m a drummer. A conga drummer or ethnic hand drummer, to be precise.
I cannot leave you without sharing some of my reflections and convictions about this
specific topic of drums, especially the sacred drums, within the Bahá’í Cause. If you
happen to be a classical violinist who hates drums, just skip the remaining pages.


WHY DRUMS?
NINE REASONS TO PLAY DRUMS IN THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH

“On my last visit you gave me a drum.
Whenever I am harassed or troubled I go into my room and beat on my drum.
I hear in it the loving voice of the Bahá’ís of Africa and I am comforted.”
Amatu’l-Bahá Ruhiyyih Khanum
This servant has spent more than 35 years in passionate love with hand drumming;
researching, studying, playing and teaching West African polyrhythmic hand drumming as
found in the divers musical traditions of The Americas. Ever since he became a Bahá’í 25
years ago, he has tirelessly been promoting, with his musical family Millero Congo, the use
of drums in and for the Cause, at all levels of application:
• at the level of professional musicianship (see CDs Leonor Dely: Amame –
Palabras Ocultas de Bahá’u’lláh, and Talisman; both published by Insignia Records in
Los Angeles);
• at the semiprofessional level (see CDs Construyendo Identidad Bahá’í
published by the Ruhi Institute in Colombia, Limbo Teeja, published jointly by the
Friedland Institute of Suriname and the Apinti Institute of French Guyana, Bahá’íti,
published by the Blackwell Institute of Haiti, and Ilú Bahá, published by the ALBASE
Regional Institute in Brazil);
• and most importantly, at the grass roots level within the growing Institute
Process in many countries of African cultural background (see the Bahá’í World Centre
document “The Four Year Plan and the Twelve Month Plan, 1996-2001, Summary of
Achievements”).
So, understandably, he can be said to have personal, vested interests and passionate
commitment in this matter.
Nevertheless, there are also powerful objective reasons and practical considerations
that speak for the extensive use of drums within the Bahá’í Faith at this moment when “the
Five Year Plan ushers in a new stage in our efforts to promote the arts in the life of the
Cause.” (International Teaching Centre). None of these reasons should, however, be
construed as an attempt to ascribe any inherent superiority to these instruments over any
other, whether traditional or modern, folk or classical. Putting in some words in favor of the
drums is only necessary insofar as they have been despised, belittled, condemned and even
anathemised for centuries in some Western and Islamic cultures, and even deemed

unworthy of Bahá’í spirituality and solemnity by some of the friends until recently. So, to
dispel any misgivings, I’ll start with the words of no less an authority for Bahá’ís than the
Master:
“…with flying flags, and TO THE BEAT OF DRUMS, let us pass into the realm of the
All-Glorious, and join the company on high.” (Selections from the Writings of Abdu’l-
Bahá N° 210, p 267)
So: why drums?
Drums
are
the
most
ancient and also the most
modern instruments of
man.
Even
chimpanzees
have
been observed to beat on
hollow trunks in the jungle.
After his own body, these
same hollow trunks were
the first obvious choice for
man to amplify rhythm and
sound. Drums are “tools for
exploring rhythm, one of
the deepest mysteries in the
universe.
Science
has
taught us that we live in a
rhythmscape
in
which
everything is pulsing in
time with everything else.
Every atom, every planet,
every star is vibrating in a
complex dance. We live on
planet drum. And human
beings, as multidimensional
rhythm machines, are also
embedded in this universe
of rhythm.

As a species we love to play with rhythm because it seems to connect us to something
fundamental in the nature of reality. We deal with it every second of our lives, right to
the very end, because when the rhythm stops, we die.” (Mickey Hart). In modern
Western music, hand drums are the latest, most recent additions to the standard
instruments of orchestras and bands of all genres, and their numbers, kinds and relative
importance is steadily growing.

They are
universal.
Throughout history and
across
the
planet,
there’s
hardly
any
people, nation, ethnic
group or culture that
hasn’t developed and
used
some
kind
of
drum.
Of
all
the
families
of
musical
instruments, the family
of drums is the most
numerous, varied and
extended.

In their original nature and
even
the
present-day
practice of many traditional
societies drums are closely
associated with the sacred,
with worship. There is no
reason
why
the
sacred
drumming traditions of the
earth shouldn’t find a place
for preservation and growth
within the Bahá’í Faith
alongside with other modes
of
worship
from
other
spiritual
traditions.
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is
“the highest essence and
most perfect expression” of
all cultures and spiritual
traditions
and
welcomes
diversity in unity in this
field, too.

Before the age of modern communications,
drums have been widely used to convey
and relay messages over long distances.
They have been called the “telegraphs of
the jungle”. And not only the jungle! Until
recently in my native Hungary, in small
towns and villages new decrees and laws
were
“shouted
abroad”
to
the
accompaniment of a snare drum! The drum
announcing the new Law, like Siddharta
Gautama the Budha had said: “Wherever I
go I play the Drum of the Law”. Bahá’ís
have a Great Message to give, a Great
Announcement to make, a Great New Law
to make public . Drums can help.

I’d like to share a moving anecdote about this. Among the Bush Negroes (Maroons) of
Suriname and French Guiana the West African tradition of the “talking drums” is still alive.
Whenever I played my drum, the elders would ask: and what does it say? This gave us the
idea of a novel “teaching mode”: I would play phrases on my drum, and my team-mate and
translator would “translate” these phrases to the villagers in their language (of course we
agreed beforehand about what I would “say”). It worked wonderfully well and really
touched the hearers’ hearts. And they remembered everything they heard because they were
paying keen attention to both the drum and the “translator”!

Drums are excellent vehicles
for focal practices, both for
the individual and for a group.


a. For the individual: “The most timid of us find making a loud noise on a drum intensely
pleasurable. Wow! That was me – roaring like a lion! Drums are great instruments for
building self-esteem. You can be loud and aggressive, using your whole body, and it’s
okay because you’re not fighting or harming anything, you’re just drumming. And if
you keep it up for twenty or thirty minutes you’ll probably feel very calm, very centered
–a kind of drummer’s high.” (Mickey Hart)
b. For the community: “The drum held as much knowledge as the text of the Bible, the
distance education kit, or computer access at the North Island College. The songs to
emerge from its drumming taught of pains and joys, and the intelligence of a
community. Its rhythm taught of the human place in the cosmos and its complex set of
relationships, only vaguely hinted at in that word “ecology”. Its precise and skilled
playing could cause a hall of a thousand to dance, to weep, to understand the meaning
of speech, birth, death, and to viscerally grasp their place in the cosmos.” (Daniel
Bogert-O’Brien)

They are easily available, more
so than other kinds of instruments.
We have already referred to a
hollow tree trunk as a drum. A
desk, a wooden chair, a plastic
bucket
or
water
gallon
and
countless other objects in our
environment – whether in city,
town, village or jungle – will do as
drums.



In his book The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Adib Taherzadeh tells the story of Mirzá
Abbás, known as Qábil, one of the outstanding believers and teachers in the times of
Bahá’u’lláh. “He was a zealous and enthusiastic man, a poet of remarkable talent, a
teacher of wide repute and, above all, devoted to Bahá’u’lláh. His enthusiastic spirit,
coupled with his deep love for Bahá’u’lláh, cheered and uplifted the believers
whom he met on his way. They would gather to meet him and he would often
request them, whenever circumstances permitted, to chant in unison certain Tablets
or poems of Bahá’u’lláh which lent themselves to collective chanting, and he would
teach them to sing together. … Qábil had a certain genius for clapping his hands
to accompany their songs of love and praise. Where greater freedom prevailed, a
homemade drum was a welcome accompaniment to his chant of love for
Bahá’u’lláh.”




They’re very
democratic to play.
Somebody who has
never played a drum
before can meaningfully
participate in a
drumming orchestra or
help accompany
collective singing and
handclapping,
something impossible
with any other
instrument.


The sense of rhythm is innate in human beings and, just like collective singing, improves
with frequent practice. Of course it takes many years of study to become a master drummer,
but in collective drumming only one of the many drummers has to be a master drummer (or
just a reasonably good drummer). This democratic feature of drumming which allows for
universal participation in the same way as collective singing and handclapping, can go a
long way toward breaking the ice, leveling barriers, healing wounds, overcome
estrangement within the community. In other words, to cement the hearts together.

Drums are loud!
Many drums together are
even
louder…
That
comes
handy
in
our
societies where the level
of noise is usually high
and in order to call
people’s attention you
have to climb well over
that level! Wherever and
whenever you play a
couple of drums, a crowd
is sure to gather.

For many of the above
reasons, drums are “in”
worldwide. Just think back to
the opening ceremonies of the
last two soccer world cups!
Hundreds of drums! Not to
speak
of
the
thriving
“drumming circles” business
in the United States and
Europe…


Traditionally, through the ages, “the drum provided opportunities for entertainment,
carrying messages through time and space, teaching spiritual connection, a contact with
deep emotional tones, and gave a profound music.” (D. Bogert-O’Brien) "Its round form
represents the universe and its steady strong beat is the pulse, the heart throbbing at the
centre of the universe.” (Black Elk, Lakota)
“Bahá’í children's classes and youth audiences recognize intuitively and respond
spontaneously to presentations of drum music. At Bahá’í Feasts and Holy Days, the Drum
finds a place in both the social and the sacred part of the events.” (The Native North
American Drum and the Bahá’í Faith)
“May such memories resound afresh in your hearts, quickening your will to fulfill
the major aim of the Plan before you, and setting a pace for your actions like the urgent
rhythm of drums pulsating throughout your immensely potent, far-stretching land.”  (The
Universal House of Justice)

Conclusion

This modest work is by far not the last word on arts in the Bahá’í Faith, not even in my
tiny, limited corner of the field. “We cannot possibly foresee, standing as we do on the
threshold of Bahá'í culture, what forms and characteristics the arts of the future,
inspired by this Mighty New Revelation, will have. All we can be sure of is that they
will be wonderful; as every Faith has given rise to a culture which flowered in
different forms so too our beloved Faith may be expected to do the same thing. It is
premature to try and grasp what they will be at present.” (From a letter written on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 23 December 1942) The sole aim and purpose of the author in
publishing his very personal reflections  born of many years of inner struggle, spiritual
battles, trial and error, has been to stimulate a healthy exchange of ideas and experiences
among fellow Bahá’í artists so that as a result of such a consultative process and the
synergy it can generate perchance we might become better equipped and prepared for the
tremendous opportunities and responsibilities that our “standing on the threshold of Bahá’í
culture” entails.
