THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1991-09-11

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

The historic Arc and Terraces projects are now advancing at full speed,

ress being made.

The work is planned to proceed in several distinct phases. phase one

involved the strengthening and facing of the two-hundred-meter-long re-taining wall supporting the main Terrace of the Shrine of the báb. This

work continued in spite of many difficulties during the gulf crisis and has

now been completed.

phase T wo, the contract for which was signed on 17 june 1991, as already

announced, involves the excavation for the center for the Study of the Texts

and the Archives extension, the extension eastwards of the main Terrace of

the Shrine of the báb, and the completion of eight of the Terraces below

the Shrine. work is currently in progress in three main areas, as explained

below.

on the site of the center for the Study of the Texts and the Archives

extension a security fence has been erected around the work area to separate

it from the Archives building and the gardens below the Arc path. Access

roads have been opened to permit removal of excavated material. The first stage of excavation has been completed and rock bolts have been installed,

allowing the construction of the first retaining wall to begin.

The extension of the main Terrace of the Shrine of the báb eastward to

make it symmetrical with the western half will provide a large underground storage area of great practical use in the care of the gardens. The excavations

for this extension have now been completed and foundations are being laid.113.3

113.4

114.1

114.2

114.3

114.4

114.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

28on the site of the Terraces from the Shrine of the báb leading down

to ‘Abbás Street, over two hundred valuable trees were carefully dug up

and have been temporarily replanted on the Temple land until they can

be returned to the area of the Terraces after regrading of the mountainside.

Now the remaining trees, undergrowth, topsoil and existing structures have been removed. The material from the excavations on the Arc is being moved

to this area to provide the fill needed for the Terraces.

phase Three will involve the construction of the center for the Study

of the Texts and the Archives extension, and is scheduled to begin in july

1992. it is to be followed by several other phases to complete the projects,

and announcements about these will be made in due course.

it can thus be seen that the work is in full flow. The flow of funds to

finance the work must likewise be uninterrupted. The universal house of

justice is confident that the followers of bahá’u’lláh will bend every effort

to bring to speedy completion this stage in the fulfillment of the beloved

guardian’s vision of the establishment of the world Administrative center

of the cause of god. it assures the friends in every land of its ardent prayers

in the holy Shrines for the successful completion of the great enterprises

before the bahá’í world at one of the most critical periods in human history.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

115

Appointment of New Continental Counselor

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]