Louise Caswell Recalls
the Early Years of the
Bahdï Faith in Central
America and Panama
Daniel Nelson Wegener

DIVINE SPRINGTIME
Louise Caswell Recalls the
Early Years of the Bahà'f
Faith in Central America
and Panama
by
Daniel Nelson Wegener
Union Press
Tegucigalpa, Honduras

Publication authorized by
The National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahà'fs of Honduras, Central America
First Printing, 1977
Tegucigalpa,
Honduras
Central
America

INTRODUCTION
During the first National Convention of the
Bahà'fs of Guatemala in 1961, Hand of the Cause®e®
William Sears suggested to Louise Caswell that
she write a history of the Bahà'f Faith in Central
America. As he explained in a letter four years
later: "The important thing is that posterity will
have a record of the history of that part of the
world before much of the wonderful exciting infor­
mation is lost, and the wonderful stories of the
early days can no longer be recalled by those who
lived through them. "
For several years Louise
struggled in her efforts to be obedient to the Hand
of the Cause by collecting her clippings and notes,
writing friends and National Assemblies for con­
tributions, and writing down her memories of the
experiences she could recall from her many years
as a pioneer.
In spite of her efforts, progress
was slow and help from others was meager.
While living in Guatemala as a pioneer in 1972,1
;vgreed to take up where Louise had left off as
the project was of great interest to me.
During
the period from January 1972 to January 1977, we
have been corresponding about the many details
and the final shape of the book. I have taken the
liberty to add to Louise’s original material to
I

round out the book and to tie the often sketchy in­
formation into one story. Unfortunately much of
the historical details have already been lost.
Hence, this book is not meant to be an exhaus­
tive historical presentation of the establishment
and growth of the Bahà'f Faith in Central America.
It is instead, the story of one of the pioneers who
was among the first to arrive and who has stead­
fastly remained. This is Louise’s story as re­
membered by her, and those who loved her and
worked with her. It is also a summary of the
major historical developments in the establish­
ment of the Bahà'f Faith in Central America and
Panama.
Perhaps of even more importance, this book
offers the potential pioneer a close-up view of
what pioneering is all about and especially what
it meant to be a pioneer in the early years. Finally,
this is a glimpse of the countless ways in which
Shoghi Effendi, the Beloved Guardian of the Bahà’f
Faith, cherished, guided and sustained the Pio­
neers and the infant Bahà’f institutions through­
out his thirty-six years of service.
Louise Caswell, 1948
n

OUR FIRST MEETING
The air was heavy and moist to the skin, the
sky hazy and orange as the sun shot its last rays
over the mountaintops. The airport was sur­
prisingly modern, almost futuristic, with its
plain lines, white marble, and high windows.
We were forming our first impressions, my wife
Pam and I, of the "Land of Eternal Spring" that
evening, March 15, 1970. Ours was a challeng­
ing task because there were so many unknowns.
We were on our way to be the directors of the
Dorothy B. Baker Institute in Chichicastenango,
Guatamala. We were greeted that evening by a
pioneer from the States, Thelma Chapman, who
had moved with her large family to Guatemala
two years before. Her husband was an attorney
who returned to the States periodically to keep
his law firm prospering in order to support their
endeavors in Guatemala. It was a great sacrifice.
'Phelma was accompanied by Mario Garcfa, a
radiant Guatemalan BaháT who exhibited all the
finest qualities inherent in the Maya-Quiché Indians.
After carefully loading our baggage in her small
Japanese car, we suddenly found ourselves admir­
ing the boulevards and fountains of Guatemala City.
'Die streets narrowed as we approached the central
/.one and we were struck by the box-like buildings

that formed a wall from street corner to street
corner and the square, iron-barred windows that
lined the streets on both sides.
The large buses
left the faint smell of diesel smoke in the áir,
but the sky was still clear and the stars began to
shine in the dark spaces between the tiled roofs
of the one story buildings.
We soon found ourselves in front of the Nation­
al Bahâ’f Center, a small building on a corner
near the downtown area.
Thelma took us inside
and introduced us to Louise Caswell, secretary
of the National Spiritual Assembly.
She was
rather short and slight of build which served to
emphasize her graceful manner. Her hair was
silvery gray and her sparkling brown eyes gave
her face an added serenity and warmth, especially
when she smiled directly at us.
Her sweet and
loving nature set us at ease instantly as she pro­
ceeded to ask us about our flight and our imme­
diate plans.
After getting acquainted we said
some prayers together and we felt the power of
the prayers as never before.
The next day Thelma picked us up at our "pen­
sion" which was very near the Bahà'f Center and
then we went to pick up Louise. We all set off
for a short sightseeing trip to nearby Antigua ,
the Colonial capital of Guatemala.
We had the
opportunity to ask both of them many questions
about our new country, as we took turns looking
through the Spanish-English dictionary, fired
with zeal to master Spanish. Louise told us
many things about Antigua and mentioned that
she had lived there. She conversed very cas­
ually in perfect Spanish with some Indian women
as we strolled through the main square admir-

iniv the fountains and flowers. Her gentle voice
.nul manner seemed to match the shyness of the
tndIans. Louise seemed to be attuned to the
people and the pace of life in that enchanting place.
Who was this gracious lady who seemed so out
of place and yet so much a part of it? How had
she come to adopt Guatemala as her home and
how did she master the Spanish language? We
discovered the answers to these questions and
learned to appreciate and admire her many
admirable qualities during the two years that
followed.

BEFORE THE DAWN
Louise Caswell was born on March 18, 1896
in Portland, Oregon, where she spent an exciting
and affluent childhood which included trips to
Europe, dancing lessons, elocution lessons,
coming-out parties, dancing in Junior League
shows and amateur theatre acting. Her parents
were rich, influential, and progressive. The
first Garden Club in Portland was formed in a
wisteria covered pagoda in her mother's garden.
Her father was a philatelist who once said, "What
the world needs is a world religion. " The com­
bination of their progressive ideas and the edu­
cation they afforded Louise, gave her a wide
background of experience and good preparation
for working with people. Her education included
one year at Miss Wheeler's School in Providence,
Rhode Island, Portland Academy private school,
two years at the University of California, and
finally two years at Reed College, Portland,
Oregon, where she graduated in 1916.
After finishing her formal schooling, Louise
went to the Army nursing school in Camp Lewis,
Washington, \iirhere she met and married a soldier,
Dale Hinkle, on July 14, 1918. Her marriage

lasted only until 1922. As a divorcee she led a
very frustrated and unhappy life for several
years. Then in 1927, Louise met the Bahà'fs of
Portland, Oregon, and she entered a new period
in her life which eventually led her far from the
United States and the life she had known. "The
real love of the Bahà'fs and the supreme logic
of the teachings quickly won me to the Faith and
my full acceptance of it. " 5

A NEW LIFE BEGINS
'  ' s
. 4 . •
"My teachers in Portland and Geyersville
Summer School included the Latimers, one
of the earliest Bahâ’f families there, Helen
Pilkington, a Bahárf scholar who wrote the intro­
duction to the English edition of the Kitab-i-Iqân;
Leroy Ioas who later served on the Inter-America
Committee and eventually went to the Holy Land
to work at the International Center, and later was
appointed a Hand of the Cause of God; Ella Cooper
and especially Louise and John Bosch, who so
generously donated the property and buildings for
the Geyersville Summer School. I also learned
much from a loving association with many Bahà'fs
in Portland. I had the unique distinction of attend­
ing all of Martha Root's lectures, in fact, I drove
her in my car to many of them—I adored her. I
also attended the lectures of Keith Ransom-Kehler. "
Louise maintained a correspondence with the
Holy Land from the very beginning of her Bahà'f
life.
The first letter postmarked "Haifa" was
sent to her from Munfrih Khánum, the wife of
t


'Abdu'1-Bahá. The letter began:
My dear Bahà'f daughter,
I thank you so much for your 6

hotter and lovely gift. It conveys
to me your sweet love and devo­
tion. To hear from the Friends
of the Beloved brings joy and solace
to my heart always. K is not pos-*
sible that I can meet you all in per­
son, but I surely do in spirit and
ever I earnestly supplicate for you
all in my daily prayers, that you may
be strengthened and blessed to carry
on the work of the Beloved Cause
in your land with untiring zeal...
(Signed,) Munfrih Khânum
'Urns from the very beginning of her Bahà’f life,
I/Ouise was blessed with the love and prayers of
the most eminent of Bahà’f women, for as Munfrih
Khiinum wrote later in the same letter:
May all the believers arise and
give to the Beloved Cause the great­
est gift that is in their power.
That is, the gift of themselves and
their talents to the furtherance of
the Revelation of the New Day.
I send to you the warm love and
BaháT greetings from the Greatest
Holy Leaf (Bahà’u’llâh’s daughter)
and myself.. . .
Truly Louise did give herself, and all her tal-
onts to the Faith.
Louise launched herself into Bahà’f activities
In the Portland area. In a letter from Haifa
dated February 15, 1929, Louise's efforts were 7

acknowledged,
My dear Mrs. Caswell,
I am directed by the Guardian
I to thank you for your welcome letter
of January 17th with enclosures.
The news of the friends' con­
stant activities and services in
Portland is specially gratifying
to our Guardian, as we learned
with pleasure from Ruhf, of
their staunch faith, proper under­
standing of the Cause and of their
eager desire to help in its progress
and establishment. Not least your
endeavors are looked to with very
great hopes and expectations.
( Signed,) Soheil Afnán
My dear Co-worker,
I deeply appreciate the spirit
of your unsparing devotion to the
Cause, and will supplicate the
Almighty to guide you, protect you,
and sustain you in your labours.
Your true brother, (Signed) Shoghi
In the same letter, mention was made and thanks
given for Louise's contribution. This was the
first of a continuous stream of financial contri-
*
butions to the world Center of the Faith. Her
continued financial support to the Faith was not
the least of the many ways in which she added
to its growth. She gave unselfishly not only of
herself, but of her material resour ses.

In :i letter from Haifa dated January 26th, 1930,
II was written: "He (the Guardian) was much
louehod by your assurance todevote your endea­
vor:; to the progress of His Faith, and in welcom­
ing Much spontaneous enthusiasm and sincerity,
hr wishes me to assure you of his ardent prayer
(hut nil your efforts may be successful and that
you may render increasing services to the onward
march of the Cause in America. " (Signed ) Soheil
Afnan.
These prayers were certainly answered
as liOuise rendered increasing services in teach­
ing the Faith. Her teaching activities included
working with youth, a local newspaper editor and
local radio stations, and teaching a class in
Ksperanto. She also traveled to Saratoga, Cal­
ifornia to teach the Bahâ'f Faith. In a letter
from Haifa dated April 18, 1932, her work in
this area was acknowledged. "But together with
this method (radio) there should be intensive
toachihg whereby those interested are made to
study thoroughly and fully embrace the Faith .
The cause wants adherents who are willing to
shoulder responsibility and when the occasion
:irises sacrifice their life and all in its path .
Shoghi Effendi trusts that you are doing that as
well, as he is fully familiar with the services
you have been rendering along that line. "
(Signed) Ruhf Afnán.
In October of 1933, Louise's mother died.
Although Louise was naturally stricken with
grief over her loss, she nevertheless found her­
self able to enter still wider fields of service to
her beloved Faith. In a letter from Haifa dated
December 15th, 1933 we find:
Ho (the Guardian)was deeply gra-

tified to learn of the increasing
zeal with which you are extending
the scope of your teaching activities.
>
The short teaching trip which you,
together with some of your young
and active believers, have under­
taken to Seattle, Monroe and Vancou­
ver will, it is hoped, be abundant
and enduring in its results. Such sin-
sere, whole-hearted and united en­
deavors for the spread of the message
cannot but lead eventually to the
triumph of the Cause, and to its
further penetration into regions
and circles where the very name
of the movement had for long re­
mained unknown.
Shoghi Effendi wishes you, there­
fore, to attach the greatest impor­
tance to the cause of teaching, and
and to endeavor, through every means
to insure its development and pro­
gress in your locality. His prayers
on your behalf will continue to be
offered to Bahâ'u’llâh that, through
His grace and mercy, you may be
increasingly imbued with the spirit
of the Cause and be enabled to spread
its light throughout the world.
(Signed )H. Rabbani
Through Bahâ'u'llâh's mercy and her tireless
efforts, Louise became more and more embued
with the spirit of the Cause as she continued to
teach and to spread its light. In a letter from

Unir» dated September 14, 1935 it was written:
"In dosing may I assure you of the Guardian’s
deep felt appreciation of your teaching activities
In Spokane, Boise, and Vancouver, and of his
prayers for the unhindered development and con­
tinued success of your work for the Cause.”
(Slgned)H. Rabbani,
At that time Louise was
considering a trip to Europe to teach the Faith,
but the Guardian advised her to wait and do it
en route to pilgrimmage when her resources per­
mitted. If possible she was to settle permanen­
tly in Europe. However, these plans were never
realized, and instead Louise remained in Oregon
and continued her teaching and other activities.
Then in April of 1937, she received a suggestion
from the National Spiritual Assembly that she
undertake a teaching trip to Nashville, Tennessee.

V
HOME-FRONT PIONEERING-HER FIRST MOVE
In the Guardian's Convention Cable of
April 21st, 1936, Shoghi Effendi sent out a call
for pioneers to go to Latin America. After nine
years of active Bahà'f life, Louise enthusiasti­
cally offered through the National Spiritual As­
sembly of the United States and Canada to spend
thè winter in Mexico. What a disappointment
when her offer was refused '. It was almost a
year later when the National Spiritual Assembly
suggested that she go to Nashville to do some
follow-up teaching with the people who had be­
come interested in the Bahà'f Faith through the
efforts of Marian Little. A letter from Haifa
acknowledged and encouraged her new endeavor.
Beloved Bahà'f Sister,
The Guardian is in receipt of your
letter of March 29th, and is de­
lighted to hear that, at the Nation- .
al Spiritual Assembly's suggestion,
you are planning to undertake a
teaching trip to Nashville. He wished
me to assure you of his prayers at
the Holy Shrines for the success
of your visit, and to express the hope
that through it you may receive a

fresh and full opportunity to assist
in the spread of the teachings in new
fields. The mission with which you
have been entrusted is certainly diffi­
cult and delicate, but you should be
confident that with the assistance of
Bahà'u'llâh you will be made fully
equal to your task. Have courage and
whole-heartedly perservere in your
splendid efforts. (Signed)H. Rabbani
Tliis fresh opportunity to teach the Cause served
to prepare Louise for the many difficult and del­
icate tasks she was later to tackle in her many
years as a foreigh pioneer. She was indeed
made fully equal to that first difficult task and to
many, many others in the years that followed.
Louise set to work immediately in Nashville,
and her teaching trip turned into a new home as
she remained to continue in the teaching work,
fn a letter dated May 15th, 1937 we find:
The Guardian also wishes me to ex­
press his gratification at the success
of your teaching work in Nashville.
He has read with keen interest the
clippings you had enclosed, and is
delighted to realize the wide response
your talks and lectures have brought
to the message. He is continually
and fervently praying that your trip
to this "Athens of the South" may
result in attracting and confirming
many souls of true spiritual insight
and of intellectual capacity. Remain
assured that the seeds you are now

so carefully sowing will in due time
bear an abundant fruitage. There is
no effort in His path that can be con-
•>
sidered to have been spent in vain.
'Persevere, therefore, and be con­
fident and happy, success will assur­
edly be yours. (Signed)H. Rabbani
In July of that same year, Louise went to the
Geyserville Summer School in California, and
was undecided about returning to Tennessee.
But in a letter dated July 10th the Guardian ad­
vised her " ... to return to Knoxville in order to
follow the work that has been so splendidly star­
ted. Your first and foremost objective upon your
return, he feels, should be to lay firm founda­
tions for the establishment of a Local Assembly
so that after your departure the work may be
carried forward steadily and along specific Bahà’f
administrative lines. " (Signed) H. Rabbani
Just before going to the Summer School, Louise
had extended her teaching activities to Knoxville,
and in obedience to the Guardian she returned
again to Tennessee.
In August of that same year, Louise sent a
letter to the Guardian, and wrote of her hopes
to form a local Spiritual Assembly in Knoxville
that coming Ridván. In a letter of October 27th,
1938, the Guardian acknowledged with gréât
happiness her teaching successes. The letter
went on: "For the present however, the Guardian
would advise that you remain in Knoxville and
assist the friends in consolichting their work
and in acquiring the teachings necessary to en­
able them to administer their affairs efficiently

nul along sound administrative lines. (Signed) H.
Kubbani
So Louise remained in Knoxville and contin­
ued in her efforts to consolidate the young Bahà’f
community there. It must have been a great dis­
appointment for her when it proved impossible to
form the Assembly that Ridván, The Guardian
advised her to return to Knoxville after the Nat­
ional Convention in 1938, and to continue her work
(here. Her disappointment was overcome by
lier desire to be obedient.
Louise remained for another full year in Ten­
nessee, and on April 21st, 1939, her cheri shed
goal was at last realized and the first Local
Spiritual Assembly of Knoxville, Tennessee was
duly elected and fully established. What a victory
It was and a fitting reward for her many efforts
there. Her thoughts turned once again to teach­
ing in a foreign country and service as a pioneer
for her beloved Faith.

THE GREAT STEP
"
S
INTO THE FIELD OF PIONEERING
Shortly after the formation of the Knoxville
Assembly, Louise received a letter from Leroy
Ioas, secretary of the National Teaching Com *-
mittee, asking her to consider going to settle in
Panama, in response to the Advent of Divine
Justice, that epoch making letter of the Guardian
in which he asked for immediate settlement of
pioneers in every country in Latin America.
Louise had thought often about pioneering in a
foreign land, but the letter was so unexpected ,
and she had never really considered Panama.
Nevertheless she pondered the suggestion serious­
ly.
Two days before receiving the letter she dream­
ed that she was traveling alone to Panama on a
great ship sailing over southern waters, over
a sea as smooth as glass. Events passed with
amazing rapidity, and the spirit of the Guardian
accompanied her. Also as she walked up and
down many flights of stairs with the Greatest
Holy Leaf, she learned from her how to heal the
sick. The dream was the confirmation she need­
ed. She answered the letter the very next day,
offering to go to Panama in September when the
lease on her apartment in Knoxville expired.

By September, Louise had sold a house in the
mountain reserve in Oregon for less than one
sixth of the cost to obtain funds for her travel
expenses. The National Spiritual Assembly ,
having accepted her offer to go to Panama, sent
additional help for the boat passage. In a letter
from Haifa dated July 29th, 1939, the Guardian
expressed his joy, and at the end of the letter
he wrote these soul-stirring words which were
like a loud trumpet call to action and echoed
Ihroughout her mind and soul:
Dear and prized Co-worker,
You stand on the threshhold of a
great and historic mission, so high
in rank, and so weighty with respon­
sibility, so arduous in nature, so
rich in possibilities, so unique in its
significance, perseverance will enable
you to reap an abundant harvest. I
will specially, continually and ar­
dently pray for you, and am eager
to hear of the progress of your his­
toric work. The Master is well
pleased with you, watches over you
and will bless richly your endeavors.
Rest assured and be happy.
Your true and grateful brother,
(Si gned) Shoghi
Hie night before her departure from Califor­
nia,
Tony Seto arranged a delightful Chinese
dinner in San Francisco's China Town with the
BahrtTs of that city. Louise met with the mem­
bers of the Inter-America Committee, including
Ixmllo Mathews, Joy Allen, and Leroy Ioas.

This committee was in charge of planning teach­
ing activities throughout Latin America. This
was the beginning of a vital link maintained be­
tween Louise and the administrative bodies of
*
the Faith in the United States.
On the morning of her departure, some of the
Bahà'fs took Louise on a drive through Golden
Gate Park to see the trees where 'Abdu'1-Bahá
had walked and had told the believers that these
same trees felt His presence. Later that day,
September 25th, 1939, the Norfolk Steamer dock­
ed in Los Angeles and departed from that port
bearing Louise Caswell on the first part of an
adventurous endless journey that was to be her
life—a pioneer. She was joined on the voyage
by another pioneer, Johnny Eichenaur, a youth
of only seventeen, who was on his way to El
Salvador . He carried with him a letter from
Mr. Cordell Hull which he later used to enter
the country of El Salvador where he intended to
finish his education.
The two new pioneers arrived in the Republic
of Panama on October 4th, 1939. They discover­
ed a small city which embraced the Bay of Pan­
ama. They admired the many wheat- colored
people dressed in clean white clothes. The
streets were narrow and followed no particular
pattern—she learned later that not long before,
they were merely cow-paths. They were so pre­
occupied with all the many new sights, they did
not realize at first that the air resounded with
the lilting tones of many church bells. They
quickly realized that it was very, very hot. ,

In olxjdience to Loulie Mathews' instructions
(mIic was secretary of the Inter-America Com-
mltlee at that time) and before doing anything
. I k*. Txniise went immediately to the United
Slates Consul to register herself. Her first step
was to hire an old-fashioned car with enough
apace for her trunk, hat-bag, and all the usual
luggage of a female traveler in the 30's. Upon
arrival at the Consulate, Louise discovered a
r.rcat surprise and a wonderful inspiration in the
form of two letters awaiting her, one from the
It. loved Guardian, and the other from Leroy Ioas
welcoming her to her new pioneering post. What
powerful words she found in these letters. The
message from Shoghi Effendi read in part: "The
spirit of complete self-sacrifice, of courage
nay of audacity that have inspired you to take
such a step in the face of so many difficulties
and obstacles will surely lead you to success,
and will, even as a magnet, draw upon you the
confirmation and blessing of Bahà'u'llâh. "
Such a rush of exultation poured over her
as she read and re-read the letters, and recall­
ed the stirring words of the Guardian's
last
letter to her in the States. She recalled those
precious moments and described them years
later in these words: "It was spring-time for
(lie Faith in Panama. 'How wondrous was that
apnng-time and how heavenly was that gift, '
and lids broken-winged bird was truly soaring
In the world of the spirit to raise the call of the
Kingdom in these vast and spacious regions.
IIichc were the seed-sowing days in Panama,
not the harvest time; the days when the unity
of I lie breezes of springtime, the bountiful

s howers of graces the warmth of the Sun of Bahá
combined to protect the pioneers. It must have
been the same springtime in all the many coun -
tries-where pioneers went as a part of the teach­
ing plan. %
,
In her moments of exultation, Louise could
not have known the full significance of the Guar -
dians words—
.. so weighty with responsibility,
so arduous in nature.. . . "  He was perhaps warn­
ing her that tests and difficulties would come, and
in fact, they did come continuously, for that is
the essence of pioneering—not just the tests, but
the spirit with which they are met and overcome,
and the implicit and constant reliance that the
pioneer must have on Bahà'u'llâh and the Supreme
Concourse to overcome them.
Her first test came very quickly. When
she arrived at the "pension" where she had made
reservations from San ’Francisco before depart­
ing, she discovered to her dismay that there was
no room for her. A sudden realization followed—
she didn’t know nearly as much Spanish as she
thought:
"What did the lady say? Does she
understand... ?” As with so many daily tasks,
what was simple at home had become difficult in
a foreign land. Suddenly, a voice from behind
her said very clearly, "Are you Louise Caswell?"
It was Mathew Kaszab, a Bahà’f pioneer who had
been living in Panama City. What a terrific re­
lief it was; not only the sound of English, but
another Bahà'f. This time the test was resolved
quickly and easily, but it serves as an example
of the num berless problems and frustrations
that occured almost daily.
<\

Mathew took Louise and Johnny to the Tivoli
Hotel in the Canal Zone where they passed some
very pleasant days.
Every morning at dawn
icuise invoked Bahâ'u'llâh and looked out over
the bay through the palm trees at the rising sun,
preparing herself for the many challenges ahead.
Mrs. Cora Oliver soon arrived as a pioneer
from New York and together they visited the
seekers Mathew had found and also the first be­
liever in Panama, Joseph Wantuck. In the even­
ings the four of them gathered in the writing room
of the Tivoli Hotel and said prayers .
Louise
wrote, "If these days could have been prolonged,
paradise would have been delayed there. " Such
was the spirit that surrounded those valiant pio­
neers.
Without assistance from any Committee ,
Mathew had arisen in April, six months before
Louise's arrival, to go to Panama. He respond­
ed to the Guardian's call in the Advent of Divine
Justice : "Let them not tarry until such time as
their fellow-laborers will have passed the first
stage in their campaigns of teaching..
(Advent
of Divine Justice, page 50.) (The Guardian later
wrote Louise and told her to use Advent of Divine
Justice and Tablets of the Divine Plan as her
principle teaching inspiration.)
It was with unexpressed regret that Mathew
nccepted instructions from the Inter - America
Committee to transfer to Nicaragua, a post where
he was so urgently needed. The small cattle boat,
I he Acajutla, dubbed as "not worth a German
bomb" by Mathew, was waiting to take him on

the next part of his journey as a pioneer. As dusk
fell, Louise and Cora came to say good-bv to him.
As they stood on the floating dock, Mathew sang
a he^rt-rending chant he had composed about the
Dawn-Breakers. The three pioneers were sur­
rounded by the spirit of God as they stood alone
in that profound silence by tie sea, as though they
were the only people in the world at that moment.
After giving them a kiss on the cheek,
Mathew
boarded his boat which slowly disappeared into
the dark night, up the western coast to Nicaragua.
Mathew always served as an example to Louise
and his memory was very dear to her.
He was
the pioneer who first gave the message to Alfred
Os borne, now known throughout the Bahâ'f World
for his integrity, steadfastness and constancy.
When he (Mathew) left for Nicaragua he turned
this precious contact over to Louise and Cora.
"Mathew once told me, ’I want to be imprisoned
like my Lord. I am an Apostle of BaM'u'lldh’.
It is comforting to realize that Bahà'u'ilàh has
promised to those who are faithful, association
with these holy souls in all the worlds of God.
Mathew was concerned only with promoting the
Faith.
He was most obedient to the Inter-
America Committee. Mrs. Loulie Mathews had
told him to always wear rubbers and carry an
umbrella. He dressed in immaculate white and
always wore black, shiny rubbers and carried
an umbrella, regardless of the weather. He was
a profound and philosophical teacher of the Faith
and he attracted people by his spiritual talks in
schools, over the radio, and in newspaper art­
icles. The nobility of his expression, the un­
questionable integrity of his character, his com-

i ill >(.(* obliviousness to the world, his readiness
to nerve without ostentation, rendered him un-
loi settable to those who met him. He was one of
thone of whom it has been written,
. and all that
dwell in every land shall be illumined by their
memory. ' (Advent of Divine Justice, page 70.)
Hr (raveled with two suitcases, one filled with
Hahrt'f books and the other with his clothes. "
In Nicaragua, Mathew worked nights in a gold
mine and taught school by day, truly living a life
of sacrifice. However, his motives for being in
Nicaragua were questioned by the authorities. His
property was destroyed and he was imprisoned .
Ills imprisonment remains shrouded in a cloud of
mystery. Some of the Bahà'fs visited him and
brought him food but were unable to secure his
release.
Gayle Woolson, a pioneer to Costa Rica at the
I line, has written: "One day while I was in San
.lose, someone brought me a letter sent to me by
.i believer in Nicaragua telling me that Mathew
was In jail because his motives for being in Ni­
caragua were misunderstood and misinterpreted.
II was suggested that I write to the United States
Consulate in Managua to inquire as to the where-
iltouts of Mathew saying that I had not heard from
Id m for a long time and was worried about him.
I'hls 1 did and it brought an investigation of his
whereabouts and he was immediately released
bul his release was some months after he had
been Imprisoned. His health was broken as a
result of his ordeal. He was sent back to the
Hlules and died shortly thereafter (January 13th
llli:i). His grave is in Brownsville, Texas. We

can truly say that He gave his life for Nicaragua. "
Johnny Eichenauer was drafted and sent to
Germany. He helped reorganize the persecuted
Germani]Bahá'f Community after the armistice .
Cora and Louise carried on the teaching work in
Panama. They were very happy to have each
other as companions and were in accord with each
other as regarded the teaching methods needed
in Panama. It was difficult for them to find a
place to live, so they asked at the United States
Consulate, where it was suggested that they take
a room with a "do-gooder. Episcopal lady. " The
house had a balcony on the Bay of Panama and
was very interesting, but Louise did not want to
stay there very long because the closet in her
room was full of the dead husband's clothes. Her
cousin who lived in army quarters found an apart­
ment for them over a florist shop, but they were
forbidden to have meetings there, and had to eat
out. Finally they found a suitable apartment
where they were more comfortable and were free
to have meetings.
At first opportunities to teach the Faith were
few. As Louise remembers those early days :
"All doors seemed closed, until Cora and I went
to the University, where I was to study Spanish.
Hie rector said that we could have meetings in
the University any time. We had several on Sun­
day mornings.
Cora finally got work in the Can­
al Zone, and I spent my mornings visiting and
looking for Bahà'fs. We tried to contact Mathew's
friends who were interested in the Faith, princi­
pally students and teachers." In a letter from
Cora and Louise to the Guardian dated November

26th, 1939, we find more details about those early
days: "By attending all possible public functions,
by making personal calls, by making friends with
students at the University and by associating free­
ly with people from all walks of life wherever we
go, we are slowly but surely becoming known as
Bahà'fs and whenever an occasion arises we give
the message and distribute literature. Among
acquaintances in the Republic are professional
and business men,
humanitarians,
educators,
and students.”
On December 11th, of that same year, the
Guardian answered their letter this way:
Dear and Valiant Co-Workers,
My heart overflows with joy at the
news you give me.
The spirit animating
you both in your services to the Faith
is truly exemplary,
and will no doubt
enable you to overcome and obstacles
that may confront you.
I am deeply
thankful for having such staunch and
devoted co-workers inthe Divine
Vineyard.
Persevere, and be assur­
ed that I will continue to pray for
both from the depths of my heart.
Your true brother,
(Signed) Shoghi
It was such letters from the beloved Guardian
that kept them going and sustained their spirits.
TTiey tried to expand continually their efforts.
As Louise explained in a letter to the Guardian
dated March 30th, 1940: "I am spending one
month or more in the town of Colon on the Atlan-

tic side of the Isthmus of Panama and my first few
days have been very refreshing because I have met
Europeans, people from the States, and Panaman­
ians, qnd have spoken to them of the Bahà'f Re­
ligion. Under the roof of this pension, Bahà'f
literature has been read in three languages and
well received: Volume V of the Bahâ'f World
attracts those who wish to investigate. I can see
the limitless possibilities here and have had oc­
casion to speak in several languages. I shall try
to practice my languages here and eventually per­
fect them.
"In the Canal Zone the white and negro sec­
tions are designated as 'silver* and 'gold' from
early construction days when negroes were paid
in silver and whites in gold. A class in 'Silver
City' has been arranged by Mr. Osborne, super­
intendant of colored schools. He arranged the
class in La Boca on the Pacific side of the Canal
and the men in this class are outstanding in spirit­
ual qualities.
"Now it seems that there will be two classes
on the Atlantic side to be conducted simultaneous­
ly with those on the Pacific side. I shall go week­
ly to the Pacific side as Mrs. Oliver's work does
not permit her to teach since the hours are very
bad. We are praying for better working conditions
for her. "
Louise and Cora continued diligently in their
efforts to widen the scope of their teaching act­
ivities as evidenced in this letter, written almost
a year later to the Guardian, dated March 2, 1941:
"During the last year Lord Schopflocher,

Mi h. Adolphson of Honolulu, John Stearns,
(ii rrard Sluter, Eleanor Adler, Marcia Atwater,
Mrs. True, Edna and Katherine, have favored us
with visits. This month we expect Emeric and
ItOHemary Sala and Mrs. Mary Barton.
Mrs.
Slewart who is in Nicaragua will soon be here.
"The lack of cultural organizations and clubs
in (lie Republic of Panama limits the contacts
there. However, we are fortunate in having open­
ings at La Universidad Nacional de Panamá and
the Panamanian Women's College Club. Louise
made new Panamanian friends through writing a
paper in Spanish which she read to the Spanish
Conversation Group of the Canal Zone College
Women's Club. We have put forth a tremendous
effort to get other pioneers to come, especially
men to contact soldiers and men in Panama. To
i: I i mulate this interest in Panama, Louise visited
all the summer schools in the States in 1940.
"Last summer Cora was the house guest of the
wl fe of the Superintendent of Schools in the Canal
Zone for six weeks and furthered her interest in
I lie Faith. After nine months work in a Canal
Zone Clubhouse, where she met hundreds of peo­
ple, Cora got a permanent position at the Board
of Health Laboratory, Gorgas Hospital, where
Hlie works in a congenial atmosphere and is mak­
ing new contacts. She is going to Costa Rica for
I en days this month and will be with the pioneers
there."
Although in reading over the historic letters
from Louise and Cora to the Guardian, one does
not detect sadness or difficulty, the difficulties

—
were ever-present for the pioneers.
Louise did
not write, nor did she discuss the difficulties,
and she never complained, but in a letter from
Dorothy Baker, later appointed Hand of the Cause
of God, dáted March 18, 1942, we can get some
idea of the tests and difficulties they suffered:
Louise dear,
Your note came in time to take with
a prayer group that has been coming in at
noon during the 19 day fast.
Tomorrow
we will pray again for you and for the
Canal Zone. How I hope that it will pass
quickly, whatever the difficulty.
God's
dear angels do have so much to suffer,
at every door.
In a letter to Roberta
Christian,
The Guardian recently said:
"Life in this world holds many tragic
and terrible hours for us all - even
the beloved Manifestation of God
Himself.
Even He is not spared the
sufferings that fall to Man's lot in
this fleeting world. " Later he writes
in the same letter:"At such a time it
is not unreasonable to expect your
body and your spirit to be exhausted
and depressed."
But Louise, you are so beautiful, that
Canal Zone cannot fail to see it.
It
would seem  to me that you would have
only to be what you are, a rare, delicate
instrument of beauty in the hands of the
^ d oved , to attract the whole Panaman­
ian world.
And it will come,
by the
bounty of His Highness the Exhalted One.

I think our greatest suffering comes
in loving the Cause so much that impedi­
ments to its spread amount to actual heart
break.
You are really in a position of spirit­
ual command, as suggested in this por­
tion of an unpublished Tablet of the
Master, shared with us by George Latimer
at a recent National Spiritual Assembly
meeting.
"Every soul who sacrifices his
life (i.e. serves faithfully) in the ser­
vices of the Cause of God, all existing
beings will come under his command,
and confirmations will pour upon him
from every direction, so that he quickens
the souls, tranquilizes the spirits, and
bestows prosperity to the bodies.*'
Translated by M. A. Esphahani, 1908.
(Signed )Dorothy .
Louise and Cora held regular public meetings
and many Theosophists and Masons attended. One
evening a leading TheosophiSt from Cuba attended
along with several other Theosophists. When she
left, she said that she hoped all the Theoephists
would become Bahà'fs.
Later that same year, Louise directed a let­
ter to the Guardian dated October 21, 1942, in
which she conveyed the news about the teaching
activities in Panama: "Philip Sprague spent two
days teaching here on his way to Buenos Aires.
Fourteen friends attended a meeting at which he
spoke in the Bahà’f Center.
Present were Pan­
amanians, Jamaicans, United States citizens.

including representatives of both the Army and
the Navy. All were attracted to Philip's presen­
tation of the Faith as he teaches in a commanding
manner.
Cora and I are happy and grateful to
have found someone who understands the impor­
tance of the teaching work here. He plans to re­
turn and conduct a series of classes as soon as
possible.
"There are now five Bahà'f pioneers here:
Norma and Claire Hamilton from Texas, both of
whom show promise of developing into able teach­
ers, and Bert Wernecker, a Bahà'f from Detroit
who is serving in the Army but who asked for duty
here. These five (Cora and I are the other two)
and the new Bahà'fs of Panama and the Canal
Zone meet in an informal group and practice
Bahà'f procedure and have established a fund of
substantial proportions."
So after three years of continuous and system­
atic efforts, Louise and Cora found themselves
working with a group of Bahâtfs instead of alone.
The next major step in the teaching efforts was
the establishment of a Local Spiritual Assembly.
In that same letter of October 21, Louise went on
to explain many difficulties which were making
the establishment of the Assembly unachievable.
As always, patience and perseverance as well as
many prayers brought results, and at last on
April 21, 1945, the first Local Spiritual Asse m­
bly was established in Panama.
\
The happy news of the formation of the Assem­
bly was received with joy in the Holy Land, and
the response was full of praise as in this letter

I rom Haifa, dated July 5th, 1945:
The formation of this very important As­
sembly was a source of deep joy for him,
and he feels that your persevering efforts,
and those of Mrs. Oliver and all the other
dear friends, have at last borne fruits in a
worthy form; he hopes that the believers
there will go forward, with the greatest
love and unity, to the accomplishment of
the many tasks that lie ahead, such as in­
creasing the community's members, hold­
ing regular public meetings, teaching the
Indians, etc.
He very greatly appreciates your own con­
stant labours in this small but significant
Republic, and assures you that he will con­
tinue to pray for you, that your efforts may
be richly blessed and that you may be guided
and strengthened in your devoted labours for
the Faith.
(Signed) R. Rabbani
Dear and valued co-worker:
I am so glad to receive the splendid n jws
conveyed by your letter, and I wish to as­
sure you of my heartfelt and abiding appre­
ciation of your constant, your devoted, and
meritorious activities and services to our
beloved Faith. Persevere in your noble task
and rest assured that I will continually sup­
plicate for you at the Holy Shrines.
Your true and grateful brother,
(Signed) Shoghi.

The realization of the goal of a Local Spiritual
Assembly in Panama City allowed Louise to teach
in other localities. She turned her attention to the
Canal Zone and to nearby Colón, where she estab­
lished her residence. Hascle Cornbleth also pio­
neered to Colón and helped build up the Local
Spiritual Assembly there. During that time
Louise opened the city of Santiago to the Faith.
In October of 1943, a year and a half before the
formation of the Local Spiritual Assembly another
pioneer had arrived in Panama to assist with the
teaching. Miss Julie Regal was her name, and
she became a dear and life-long friend of Louise.
Miss Regal's memories of those pioneering days
give us another perspective about Louise and also
provide some details about the years that followed
until her departure from Panama in 1948:
"Louise never cared about receiving credit for
anything she did, and she hated limelight. Once
she was asked by George Westerman, A Negro
editor and leader in the Canal Zone black com­
munity, to be chairman of a large Sunday after­
noon meeting which he had organized. The pro­
spect of sitting on a platform before all those peo­
ple distressed her, but she considered it a way to
serve the Faith, so she went and took me with her.
Not only were we the only Bahà'fs there, we were
also the only white persons.
"The purpose of this meeting was to develop
in the black man self-respect. Various speakers
explained how Negroes were not an inferior race,
neither biologically nor culturally, and elaborated
on their achievements. And Louise, sitting before

Ilic in and presiding with a beautiful, beaming
ountenanee and overflowing sweetness and gra-
I'lousness, shone in the center of that gathering
, i m  a dazzling ornament.
"When early in 1945 it became apparent that
m assembly could be formed in Panama City in
April if I, who was then living in the Canal Zone,
would move in, Louise helped me in this matter
b\ Inviting me to share her apartment. With much
pain [left the apartment Iliad come to love and
vent to live with Louise. Not only to live with
he r, but to work closely with her.
"Apartments in the Zone cost far less than in
I'a aama, and Louise, to encourage me to make
I lie move, offered to let my rent stay at what it
had been. However, I insisted on paying my
share of all expenses. This was iust the first
instance of many, which revealed to me her great
r.enerosity.
"In her constant teaching of the Faith, she did
in ich walking around Panama City, and often I
wenl with her, and sometimes she sent me to call
■ hi people alone. Frequently we visited people in
I he fetid gloomy tenements.
Kvery Wednesday evening a fireside was held
m our apartment. These firesides had been held
weekly ever since Louise and Cora had first mov­
ed Into that apartment (Cora later moved into her
evn), and after Louise moved to Colón, I contin­
ued to hold them until I left the Isthmus in Febru-
irv, 1948. These firesides drew people from all
«>. Panama's diverse races and wralks of life.

When the first assembly was formed, this apart­
ment became the Bahâ'f Center and remained so
until my departure.
"
S
"Louise and Cora had become acquainted with
a number of Panama's most distinguished leaders
and intellectuals soon afttr they arrived on the
Isthmus in 1939, and these men occasionally spoke
at our firesides and conferences.
"The publisher of the newspaper, ‘Star and
Herald,' was our special friend. Being a mulatto
who had been educated in the United States, he
deeply appreciated the Bahâ'f Teachings on racial
equality, and especially the adherence to this prin­
ciple which the Bahâ'f pioneers unswervingly de­
monstrated. Articles which we submitted to his
paper were seldom rejected. Other newspapers,
also, often printed Bahâ'f write-ups — sometimes
on the front page. Thus all the newspaper-reading
inhabitants of Panama learned of the Bahâ'f Faith
and its principles in those days.
'Once Louise pondered deeply on the Guardian's
desire that we enroll Indians in the Faith.
How
could she become acquainted with an Indian? Then
she had an inspiration. She called on José Daniel
Crespo, Minister of Education, whom she knew,
and asked him for the name of a San Bias Indian.
He obliged and furthermore, he sent word to this
man, Manuel Corgas, that on a certain day a
North American lady was going to call on him.
"Several times I have heard Manuel Corgas
describe his wonderment when he received this
message . What could it mean ? Why would a

North American lady want to see him? When
I/ouise came and explained the Bahà'f Faith to
him, he was captivated by it, and so he became
the first Indian believer in Panama. Seflor
Crespo's attention had been drawn to him by his
diligent labors in activities to provide wholesome
recreation for the youth of his race.
"Right after his conversion Manuel made sever­
al visits to our apartment for Bahà'f instruction.
Ix)uise taught him and she also had me give him
lessons.
"Occassionally he invited us to large Indian ga­
therings, where we were the only whites present,
and where we were asked to tell about the Faith.
.
"In January 1946, the first BaháT Congress to
which Bahà'fs from all Latin American countries
were invited was held in Panama City, and the
following January a second congress, for Central
America and the Caribbean Islands, was held there.
Hie meetings took place in our apartment and in
Mrs. Oliver's. Of both of these congresses I was
secretary-treasurer.
"Before the second congress, the Panama
Assembly established a fund to pay for the travel
expenses of delegates from all the other countries.
(Otherwise, few if indeed any, would have come,
since all of these people were much too poor.)
Louise, unbeknown to anyone else, offered to fur­
nish me 100% of the money needed. This amount
was not required of her because of the other dona­
tions, but it was another evidence of her immense
generosity.

"A s a crowning event at the close of the second
congress, the Panama Assembly decided to hold a
banquet. Hie Colombia Hotel, on Bolivar Square
in the^oldest quarter of the city, was selected as
the site. Fifty-one persons were invited and came:
they included the publisher of the^Star and Herald,'
who was also an ex-president of Panama, the Goven-
proffthe Province of Colón, an ex-ambassador,
and university professors* as well as rich and
slum-dwellers, black, white, Indian and Chinese,
Panamanians, Zonians, and North Americans,
Bahà'f and non-BaM'fs, and delegates from all,
or most, of the Central American and Caribbean
countries, and Mexico. Probably Panama had
never before seen a gathering of such diversity.
"No one paid, for although it was not divulged,
the expense was shared by Louise and me. She
and I deoided the seating arrangement and chose
the chairman and speakers. Herself she placed
toward the end of the table - away from the center
and notables. But she insisted that I should sit
beside the publisher of the’‘Star and Herald,*
José Gabriel Duque, 'because, 'she explained,
'you are young and he will like that. '
"Alfred Osborne was married in December,
1943, in Colón on the Atlantis side of the
Isthmus, and nearly all the Bahà'fe (About six
people) came from the Pacific side to attend.
During the reception Louise conversed with Mrs.
Iola Edwards about the Faith and received from
her an invitation to hold a fireside in her home.
So, very soon Louise returned to Colón on this
mission, and thereafter I went, too, as she had
arranged for me to speak to a group of teen age

Kiris, friends of Mrs. Edwards. At her sugges­
tion I spoke about Tahirih. She also arranged
for Cora Oliver to visit the Colón friends and
speak at their meetings. Thus the Faith was es­
tablished in Colón.
"Some years later a Spanish-speaking white cou­
ple, Sefior and Sefiora Lalama, who belonged to the
Panama City community, moved to Colón. Louise
was much concerned, for the believers in Colón
were all black and English-speaking, and she said
to me, 'I wonder how the Lalamas will get along
there? This will really be a test for them and the
Colón Baháfs . ’ With this thought uppermost in my
mind, I went to visit them. On entering their
meeting room, immediately I saw the answer;
everyone black and white, was smiling with great
joy. The black Bahà'fs were exceedingly glad to
have some white believers among them, and the
whites were very happy because of the love and
solicitude shown them by the blacks. The language
problem was solved by a member wf
could trans­
late and very attentively did so.
"Soon after Louise moved to the city of Colón
(August or September of 1946). She called on the
Governor of that province, Victor Navas, gave
him the Bahá'ť Message and obtained from him
an invitation to hold Bahà'f Meetings in the Go­
vernment Building whenever we might choose.
Accordingly, several times we held BaM'f public
meetings there, and the Panama City and Canal
Zone BaháTs would cross the Isthmus to attend
them. Governor Navas himself honored us with
his presence often.

•
0 ‘r **
*ybefore I left Panama a farewell
picnic W8 ^ hald for me by all the Isthmian Bahà'fs
Oïl tr? outskirts of Colón. Among those who at-
'tendëti was Governor Navas.”

THE FATEFUL FORTIES
During the decade of the forties, Louise had
-icveral interesting experiences outside her pio­
neering post. Back in 1941, a combination of
•vents resulted in a tour of all five Central Amer
«•an Republics. She made a quick decision to
our all of Central America—a project that the
Jational Spiritual Assembly of the United States
'.»d previously suggested to her. This is how
he recalls her impressions of that trip:
"In Tegucigalpa, Honduras, I found a very
dignified, organized Assembly, — the work of
'Ibny Roca. I met with them ( all men) and they
nil stood up for the opening prayer. Then they
<»|)ened the contribution box and counted the
money and the lottery tickets. One of their mem­
bers made his living by selling lottery tickets .
Another published a small news sheet called,
’ La Nueva Era-—Organo de la Assamblea BaháT.
I gave him $40. 00 to publish it for four months,
but he published only one issue. Years later ,
having resigned from the Faith, he met me on
the street and I asked him for the rest of the
money. He replied that he had spent it on some­
thing else. He had lost his love for the Faith.

"At that time, Mathew Kaszab was still in
Managua, Nicaragua, and he met me at the air­
port. I met the Bahà'fs there through him. I
loved the spirit of the people, something special
was tfiere, After making inquiries, I realized
that this friendly loving spirit was inherited from
the district of Andalusia, home of the troubadors
and poets. Whatever suffering the people have
gone through they could never disguise that spirit
of poetry and song.
"I stayed in a first class hotel for $2.00 a day
including meals and a swimming pool. Between
meetings and visits I sat in a rocker on the porch
or went swimming — No hardships. Girls talked
to me in the park. I remember how friendly and
impressive one of the Bahà'fs was, he was a
banker and a Mason. There was also dear, faith­
ful Blanca Mejfa, a polio victum who was able to
attend the 1944 Centennary in Wilmette, Illinois,
with the tender companionship of Gayle Woolson.
"In Costa Rica I stayed with Gayle who was
doing wonderful work. The first Local Spirit­
ual Assembly of Central America was established
in that country in 1941.
Gayle was going to school
to learn Spanish and she had many friends and
admirers. We made many teaching visits to her
interested friends and she taught the Faith with
such understanding and patience. I appreciate
the association I had with her. She also taught
in Nicaragua and Guatemala for a time. She is
a fine lect%er on the Faith and has talked to
large audiences of Masons, and over the radio .
Gayle was later sent to South America — Vene­
zuela, Colombia, etc. Costa Rica was never able
to replace her.

"In El Salvador I had the delight of witnessing
I lie fine activities and efforts of Clarence Iverson
and Johnny Eichenauer, both of whom had gone
( here in the early part of the 7 Year Plan. They
Imd established the Faith on a solid basis there.
"Guatemala had an active though immature
local Spiritual Assembly. It was the only one
of the five Republics in which I saw the New His­
tory Society (Covenant Breakers) literature. On
a visit to Chichicastenango, I fell in love with
the Maya-Quiché race, a love which influenced
greatly my Bahà’f life for many years. I did not
know that I would be returning in 1953 with the
blessing of the Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, after
h pilgrimmage in that same year.
"The Inter-America Committee had asked me
to initiate a correspondence course about the
Faith while I was in El Salvador . One night a
member of the Committee for Central America
was scheduled to give a radio talk on the psycho­
logy of the Indians. Time on the radio was ar­
ranged and paid for and I was merely going to
meet her there. The radio hall was full of peo­
ple. The lecturer did not show, time was pass­
ing and the hour of our program was at hand I
I couldn't afford to lose paid-for radio time, so
I jumped up onto the platform(it was too high to
step up) and in my heavily-accented Spanish I
read from a Bahà'f pamphlet which luckily was
in my purse. When the Bahà'f time was up the
musicians appeared and I realized that the full
audience was there all the time and listening as
they waited for the music. Even the people look­
ing in at the windows heard the Bahà'f message.

On reporting of my trip to the Committee, all that
I eduld recommend was that a pioneer settler
(pioneer) was needed in each country to sustain
the work of the teaching.
"I travelled by plane to all five countries. It
is fantastic to think of two aspects of my travels:
how I always had enough income to live modestly
without having to work and how thrilled I was in
every country to know the people and tell of
Bahâ'u'llâh. Deceptions, promises, indifference,
disappointments — all were followed by a joyous
sunrise and a new set of deceptions. It amazes
me but we all go through this and come up smil­
ing even though it seems that there is no result.
However, our prayers, are answered but not
always as we expect. Every effort seems a fail­
ure and then we see in some remote part, an
answer to prayer—but not of one's own doing.
"About 1945, I took a trip to Colombia — a
great industrial country, home of emeralds, and
very definitely a Catholic stronghold. The people
said that if the Pope ever left Europe he would
settle in Colombia. Cali, Colombia was very
receptive to the Faith and I had great confirma­
tions there. All alone I read a paper to the
Masonic Lodge.
"The Local Ass^lnbly of Bogotá was inact­
ive. So, in the intense cold I prayed and ran to
keep warm, and used the long healing prayer for
the community. Finally, just before leaving ,
I was able to get all nine members together. I
was unable to make any spiritual or intellectual
contact with anybody.

"In Cali, Colombia, I dropped into the Tourist
bureau and started activity that resulted in a news­
paper article, my picture in the next issue of a
major newspaper, and a talk at the Masonic Hall,
best of all was the promise of an Assembly in
Cali. I also gave a talk at the Theosophical Soc­
iety in Bogotá before I left. Gayle Woolson later
came and build up an Assembly and also did won­
derful work in Bogotá.
"During the period in the forties, I remejnber
having suffered so much from the heat of Pangma
that I asked the Interamerica Committee if they
could suggest a place that needed visiting, and
would give me relief from the oppressive hegt.
They wrote back that they would like me to visit
Haiti. I literally jumped from the skillet into
the fire — Haiti was even hotter!
Anyway, I was
asked to work with the Local Assembly there and
was called upon to clarify some very essential
matters about Bahà'f administration so the trip
proved to be fruitful, but certainly not a relief
from the heat. "
Still another dimension of Louisas service
during those fruitful years in Panama was her
ability to contact and win the support of govern­
ment officials and other dignitaries. Her digni­
ty, charm and wit enabled her to attract them to
the Faith, or at the least to support her teaching
efforts. Not long after she and Cora were settled
in Panama, they went to seek an interview with
the President of Panama. They were eventually
successful in their efforts and presented a copy
of Dr. Esselmonts* Bahà'u'llâh and the New Era,
to President Boyd. "Panama is a peace-loving

nation" were his words as he accepted the book in
the Gold Room of the Presidential Palace. He
assured them that the Bahà'f teachings would be
warmly received by the people of his country.
During heř .1941 visit to Honduras she went with
Johnny Eichenauer to visit the President, at which
time President Carias received a Bahà'f book from
her. Years later she and Helen Holst presented
a book to Villeda Morales, the President of Hon­
duras during the years of 1957 to 1963. He seem­
ed pleased to receive the book and they hiid a won­
derful talk with him.
Still another example of Louise's contacts with
important personages, and perhaps the most in­
teresting, is the relationship she established with
the Consul of France in Panama. Through con­
tact with Louise and the BaháTs of Panama, he
developed a great respect and high regard for the
Bahà'fs and the Bahà'f Faith. His duties took him
elsewhere in 1948, but before he left, he directed
this letter to Louise:
Highly esteemed Mrs. Caswell:
I desire, by this means, to express
to you what I said to you the other night
at the Bahà'f meeting, when I said good-
by to all my friends.
Each time I attend a function of the
Bahà'f group of Colón, E%>und reason
for profound spiritual delight, as
each time I had the impression that
I was drinking from a pure, crystal­
line fountain. In the Bahâ'f teachings,
I admire the sentiments of fraternity,
of love for your fellow-man, and above
all, of tolerance, comprehension, and

bounty. I will never forget these
words of Bahà'u'ilàh:
"We are all the leaves of one tree
and the fruits of one garden. "
I can speak without passion of the .
BaháT Faith, since I am not a Bahà'f
(perhaps I am one without knowing
it as you say). If this atmosphere
of frankness, sincerity, and rec­
titude that I sense among the Bahá' fs
dominated the world, I am convinced
that the grave difficulties now ever­
present, would be solved in a most
satisfactory manner for everyone.
Soon I will be leaving for France.
You can be sure that in my country,as
in whatever country my work may take
me, I will have the pleasure of having
relationships with the Bahà'fs and
will tell them ofmy good thoughts of
them.
I desire for you the most complete
success in your sacred spiritual mis­
sion, and thus must leave you, my
esteemed friend, with the expres­
sion of my purest and most respect­
ful friendship.
(Signed) Roberto Guillois
Years later the same French Consul, having been
assigned to El Salvador, was in San Salvador dur­
ing the 195Ó Conference and attended Bahà’f din­
ners. He sent five dozen roses each to Dorothy
Baker and Louise.
Everywhere in her many teaching trips and at
all her pioneering posts, Louise attempted and

usually succeded in acquainting the leaders of
thought and government with the ideals and teach­
ings of the Bahà'f Faith, both through her own ex-
ample->and her words.
%
The first major period of Louise's life as pio­
neer came' to an end with the end of the decade .
She had spent ten long but eventful years in Pan­
ama and her efforts were rewarded with many
victories and confirmations. Hie Bahà'fs of Pan­
ama and the accomplishment of the construction
of the first Bahâ'f House of Worship in Central
America in Panama were made possible by the
early pioneers, their many sacrifices, and their
constant devotion to the Cause. Louise was not
the first, nor was she the only pioneer in Panama,
but with the exception of devoted Cora Oliver, she
stayed the longest, and hopefully this account of
her memorable years there provides some in­
sight into the task of pioneering, as well as of
the early history of the Bahâ'f Faith in that small
buy very significant republic.

THE TRANSITION
In January of 1950, Louise arrived in Managua,
Nicaragua where she worked with Sheila Rice -
Wray, who was an international travel teacher .
She was a painter and was wondering how to make
her living there. Louise suggested that she offer
to paint the president's portrait—typically Louise
bold and audacious, but Sheila never made the
offer. Sheila did paint many pictures of scenery
in Central America. Louise gave exhibitions of
her work in Tegucigalpa, Honduras and Sheila
gave one in Nicaragua at Louise's suggestion. By
exhibiting Sheila's art and giving explanations of
their significance—often closely related to the
BaháT teachings, they made many friends and
were able to teach them about the Faith. Sheila
later taught the Faith in Bolivia, Panama, Nic­
aragua and Mexico and is now in the Dominican
Republic. Louise has said of her, "She is very
loving and lovable and will always be one of my
closest friends. "
Sheila also regards Louise as one of her clos­
est friends, as she wrote in a letter dated August
1950:
"In 1950, the only country in Latin
America without an Assembly was

Paraguay, so the Area Teaching
Committee sent me there in
August—carrying books that could
- -.not get in to some countries—as
the Beloved Guardian had given per­
mission to form assemblies up to
November 15th. The one in Paraguay
was elected November 12th. As my
plane from Nicaragua stopped in the
airport in Costa Rica, Louise was
in the airport to both welcome me
and speed me on my way. As I left
she said (slipping a beautiful ruby
Bahà'f ring on my little finger) "As
I can't go with you let this be a symbol
of my love and that will accompany you. "
In thinking back to that eventful year of 1950 ,
Louise recalled this amusing story: "I remember
when I was visiting Sheila, the Interamerica
Committee was meeting in her-home that same
weekend. I was not very well and Elizabeth Cheney,
who was there for the rneetiig, diagnosed me as
having gall-bladder trouble (probably because
she had it) so she sent a doctor who gave me an
injection. However, it affected me adversely
and I could not attend the Bahá'l%neeting that night
as I had pains—like lightening. The next day both
Sheila and Elizabeth sent me to find gold paint,
although I still felt badly. I guess neither of
them could walk for some reason!
It was such
a hot afternoon. I could surely walk and I did
and almost melted in the sun. Many times I
have quoted the Hidden Words to myself :
'Desireth thou to die upon thy couch or to shed
thy blood on the dust. * But all I could do was

shed a little, or should I say a lot, of perspiration.
"I remember being introduced to a lady by some
friends of Sheila as a 'seňora. ' The lady said
'but you don't look like a seňora. '
'Why?', I asked.
'You look happy and you're not fat. '
"During that meeting of the Interamerica
Committee I was asked to gp to Costa Rica which
I did. I lived there for a year and obtained resi­
dency without much difficulty as that country en­
couraged settlement by foreigners. I worked
closely with the Local Spiritual Assembly there.
"hi 1952, I moved to Honduras to help Marcia
Steward with her project of the Karbilá property
and school.
Marcia had moved to Central Amer­
ica to lay the foundation for the future National
Spiritual Assembly of Central America.
She
also visited the Presidents of the Central Amer-
y,
ican Republics. She decided to live in Hondu
and bought the Karbilá property near Tegucigal­
pa for our Beloved Guardian. * The first school
session was held there in September of 1952. I
gave a course on Muhammad at that first school.
l"With the remnants of her means and the
assistance of a friend or two, Marcia purchased
a property in the mountains of Honduras, near
Tegucigalpa. She named it 'Karbilá.' It was her
dream that it eventually would become a hospice
for pioneers and a summer school for nearby
Bahà'f communities. She acquired it for her
beloved, the Guardian, and she was alone there
most of her remaining years. An aged horse
was her only tie with the outside world during

Now, the temple site and the endowment for Hon­
duras are part of the Karbilá property. I had
the privilege of spending a few months there and
had a-small part in developing it. It is an ideal
place to spend one's days, except that the teach­
ing plans of that time (The Ten Year World Cru­
sade) would not permit us to remain stationary—
maybe someday.
"I also lived for a year in Tegucigalpa, Hon­
duras, where I took up residence and tried to
teach the Faith. I at least was able to find a
building suitable for meetings, but all in all, it
resulted in no new believers. I lament to say that
the only result of that year was personal as well
as community house-cleaning. These bounties
and tests prepared me for the greatest of all boun­
ties—pilgrimage. "
This short but very difficult period of transi­
tion between pioneering posts and her pilgrimage
to Haifa resulted in few outward accomplishments.
But her suffering and difficulties forced her to
grow inwardly and her faithfulness and persever­
ance resulted in the bounty of pilgrimage. But
before recounting the details of her pilgrimage
and her meeting with the Guardian after corres­
ponding with him all those yeáfe, it is necessary
to step back and survey the history of the Bahà'f
. .the part of each year when abundant rains
washed out the bridges and roads. She went cold
and hungry in order to maintain 'Karbilá'. Dur­
ing, these lonely years Marcia's companionship
was a copias exchange of letters with Shoghi
Effendi. "
Bahà’f World Vol. XIV p. 304

l-'aith in Central America from a broader pers­
pective. Much of the following was written by
liOuise and most of the information was gathered
by her. Now that we have examined closely the
daily life and struggles of a pioneer, we can bet-
ler appreciate the significance of the sacrifices
of the many other pioneers and traveling teachers
who, like Louise, brought the plans of the Belov-
od Guardian out of the spiritual and mental realms
into physical and historical reality.

" s
THE TEACHING PLANS
The Tablets of the Divine Plan, revealed by
'Abdu'1-Bahá during the first World War,were
received after the Armistice in 1918. They were
addressed to the Bahà’fs of the United States and
Canada and designated the Bahà'fs of North Amer­
ica as the Master’s trustees in carrying out the
provisions of the Tablets. ”In His Plan he bound
the peoples of the East and West together in one
spirit, one brotherhood, one social order, finding
in North America the necessary elements of free­
dom, initiative and unified executive capacity to
sustain the greater responsibilities of a world
mission." (Bahâ'fWorld, Vol. XI. p. 38.)
One of the few notable responses to these Tab­
lets wasthat of Martha Root. As early as 1919 she
visited Panama and all the Sodfci American coun­
tries spreading the news of the Faith in newspap­
ers and meeting people of capacity. In 1920,
Leonora Holsapple also visited Panama. The
visits of these two early Bahâ’f teachers marked
the inception of the history of the Bahâ’f Faith in
Central America.
It was not until 1936, however, when the
Guardian considered that the administrative

structure of the Faith had been sufficiently es-
tablished, that he urged the National Spiritual
Assembly of the United States and Canada to
purticipate in their first organized international
effort, THE FIRST SEVEN YEAR PLAN, 1937-
1944. Pioneers and resident teachers were sent
out to fulfill the mandates of 1 Abdu'1-Bahá's
Divine Plan in all of Latin America. The Guard­
ian's startling cable to the 1936 convention read:
"Would to God every state within (the) American
Republic and every Republic in (the) American
continent might ere termination of this glorious
century embrace (the) light, Faith of Bahà'u'ilàh,
and establish structural basis of His World Or­
der. " The convention was electrified as the spirt
of the Guardian called out to the souls of the fu­
ture pioneers.
In his monumental letter, The Advent of
Divine Justice, (December 25, 1938 ) The Guard­
ian addressed the American believers and urged
them to "arise as one man to conquer the forces
of darkness, ignorance, confusion, superstition,
in this, their first organized international enter­
prise. " The first step was to send out dedicated
pioneers to each of the twenty Latin American
Republics. In Volume IX of the Bahâ'i World,
Gareta Busey beautifully summarized the signi­
ficance of the first SEVEN YEAR PLAN in Latin
America:
"The unity of men in the love of God, destined
by Bahà'u'ilàh to pervade the whole earth, has at
last, during the closing years of the first Bahà'f
century, been extended to all the Americas. At
some point... in each republic of the south and
central portions of the hemisphere, a few people

have sensed the nearness of God in his latest Man­
ifestation, have dedicated their lives to His ser­
vice/ and have thus experienced such a feeling of
brotherhood with one another and with all men
' s
everywhere as to promise deliverance from the
suspicions which have long kept apart the Amer­
ican nations, from the class and racial cleavages
which have riven them internally, and from the
skepticisms which have paralysed their energies.
The pattern of Bahà'f administration, instrument
for the establishment of the Most Great Peace, is
being stamped upon every portion of the western
world.
"To contemplate this event is to realize the
inevitability of the Divine Plan for the spirituali­
zation of the western world. Marking the various
stages of its progress, one comes to understand that
that each evolves in its own divinely appointed
time and employs its own divinely prepared in­
strum ents."
(Page 186)
In this regard, Panama was especially favored
because of the importance attributed to it by both
' Abdu’l-Bahà and the Guardian. "The erection of
another outpost of the Faith in its heart (Panama)
will exercise a powerful yet intangible spiritual
influence over the life and development of its
people, " wrote Sho^i Effendi in 1938 (Advent
of Divine Justice, p. 59.)
Because of this spiritual significance, Panama
was the first Central American Republic to re­
ceive a resident teacher in 1939 (Mathew
Kaszab). Louise and Cora arrived in Panama
shortly after Mathew and the teaching work was
begun. Although the people of Panama were

receptive to the Bahà'f message, it was not until
many years later in 1945 that the first Local Spirt-
ual Assembly in Panama was formed.
Many North
American Bahâ'fs assisted with the establishment
of the Faith in Panama during the FIRST SEVEN
YEAR PLAN. Among them were Norma and
Claire Hamilton of Texas, who went to Panama
during the war and worked with great zeal. War
work brought Bahà'f employees of the government
such as Engineer Benjamin Schreibman, Colonel
Bert Werneken. Warrant Officer Philip Bartick,
and Miss Merdie Joseph. Julie Regal spent se­
veral years working for the navy and teaching
the Faith.
Artemus Lamb, now on the Continental
Board of Counsellors for Central America and
the Antilles, also made several trips through
Panama. All of them entered into the teaching
campaign whole-heartedly during their time on
the Isthmus,
Traveling teachers and pioneers
on their way to posts in South America shed their
light for a few days as they passed through Pans ma.
Eleanor Adler, Marcia Steward, John Stearns,
Eve Nicklin, Virginia Orbison, Gwene Sholtis,
and Louise Baker were just some of the first
to settle on the great continent of South America.
Their passing through Panama kept the Panaman­
ian Bahâ'fs aware of the fact that the Bahà'f Faith
was a living, growing organism, a Faith that was
thriving in a time of universal agony and great hu­
man need, and that the Faith was carrying the pro­
mise of Peace to the suffering millions. Friends
from Australia with only a few hours on the Isth­
mus, those en route to England, soldiers, Bahâ'fs
in the Navy, all passed through the Canal, met
the Bahâ'fs and added their bit to the formation

of the new spiritual consciousness. Members of
many different races and cultures were brought
together in the Bahà’f meetings on Tivoli Avenue
and there were high moments when people who did
not even sjseak a common language were united in
spirit, when rich and poor, high and low met to­
gether in a spirit of universal love.
The teaching work went much more rapidly
in Costa Rica, and the Republic had the high
distinction of forming the first Local Spiritual
Assembly in Central America in 1941. Costa
Rica also sent out the first native Latin American
pioneer, Gerardo Vega, who helped lay the foun­
dation for the Spiritual Assembly in Panama.
The first Bahà'f teachers to arrive in Costa
Rica were Mr. and Mrs. E.R. Mathews in
1936. Mrs. Gayle Woolson and Mrs. Amalia
Ford were the first pioneers to reside in Costa
Rica. They arrived on March 29th, 1940.
Tlic* valiant efforts of these two early pioneers
were soon to be rewarded with great victories,
in a letter from the Guardian to^fers. Woolson
on July 19th, 1941, the Guardian wrote in his
own handwriting at the end of the letter written
by his secretary:
Dear and valued co-workers.
Future generations will extol your
labours, follow your footsteps, and
derive inspiration from your pioneer
activities. I will specially and con­
stantly pray that your numbers may
increase, and your Assembly flourish,
and your hopes be fulfilled and your
influence extend far and wide.

Persevere and be happy.
Your true and grateful brother.
(Signed)
Shoghi
The first four believers in Costa Rica, came into
the Faith simultaneously: Mr. Ratil Contreras.
Mr. José Joaquin Ulloa, Mr. Guido Contreras,
and Mr. Felipe Madrigal. Gayle recalled some
of the highlights of those early days in an article
published in the World Order Magazine of Sep­
tember, 1945:
"Things moved fast for us and within a
month after our arrival, a weekly Bahà'f study
class was established. The few attendants were
from the Theosophical Society and other contacts
that were made. At that time we were living in
a pensión (boarding house) and the landlady gave
us permission to use her dining room for our
class. An amusing incident occurred after our
first meeting when the landlady had a sudden
change of heart, and as the friends began to ar­
rive for the second meeting, she firmly informed
us that under no condition could we have our
meeting there. We felt we had the right to use
our own bedroom, so we invited the friends in
there but the landlady would not allow us to use
any of her chairs. With the use of the edge of
the beds, some of our luggage and the one lonely
chair we had in the bedroom for seats, we hap­
pily carried on our meeting. Through the efforts
of one of the friends, a small apartment was
soon found for us where our meetings were con­
ducted with freedom and regularity.
"Rapid progress was made with the marvelous
cooperation of the contacts. One would bring a

relative, another a friend, and they would take
an active part by speaking and presenting papers
they had written on the teachings. They showed
wonderful ability to express themselves both in
speech and in writing. After the reading of pas­
sages from the Bahâ'f Writings, interesting dis­
cussions would follow. Almost invariably, some­
one would bring, of his own volition, a commen­
tary he was inspired to write on some principle
or aspect of the Cause. We were fortunate in
getting fine publicity early in the course of our
work as one of the new believers was the owner
and editor of the magazine 'Alma Tica.' ( meaning
Costa Rican Soul) , in which a section of each
edition was devoted to the Bahâ'f Teachings .
The first four believers in Costa came into the
Faith simultaneously : Mr. Raul Contreras, Mr.
José Joaquin Ulloa, Mr. Guido Contreras, and
M r.. Felipe Madrigal.
"The group grew to the extent that the
following year, 1941, when the time arrived for
the formation of the Local Spiritual Assembly,
there were twelve Costa Rican Bahà'fs to take part
in the election. The members Pithat first Spiritu­
al Assembly were : José JoaquinMJlloa Z. (deceas­
ed ), Raúl Contreras Torres, Guido Contreras C .,
Felipe Madrigal Nieto (deceased), Esther Urena
Mora de La Frank, Consuelo Miranda ( now Mrs.
Oscar Ayala ), Mrs. Amalia Ford (now pioneer­
ing in Mexico), Mrs. Gayle Woolson, and Miss
Anita Clachar. In a letter from Shoghi Effendi
to the Spiritual Assembly of San José, written
December 17, 1941, by the Guardian's secretary,
he said:

Your Assembly will go down in his­
tory as the first Bahà'f Assembly in
Central America, a
great distinc--
tion and blessing, and the Guardian
feels that if you continue to progress
so rapidly you will soon be in a position
to spread the Cause, through repre­
sentatives of your Community, in
other neighboring lands. This would
be of great value to the work of teach­
ing these divine laws and truths, as
then the Latin Americans would be
hearing it from the lips of their own
people, in their own language, which,
of course, would be very effective.
"The progress continued and in the following
year, on April 21, 1942, a Spiritual Assembly
was formed in Puntarenas, a seaport on the Pac­
ific side of Costa Rica. (The first believer in
Puntarenas was Genaro Miranda). In June of
that same year, the legal registration (or incor­
poration) of the San José Spiritual Assembly with
the Costa Rican Government was completed. "
In the second letter from the beloved Guardian,
through his secretary, to the Spiritual Assembly
of San José, dated July 26, 1942, he said:
The progress which the Bahà'is of
Costa Rica have made during the past
year is little short of astounding, and
shows the deep receptivity the people
of that country have to the New Message
of God which Bahà’u'ilàh has proclaim-
■

ed to the world. You must all indeed
be both proud and grateful that you live
in a land so tolerant of progress and
which enables you to establish the bless­
ed institutions ordained by our Faith.
The establishm ent of the new Spiritual
Assembly of Puntarenas is a great step
forward, and the legal registration of
the Cause and approval of the govern­
ment m arks a milestone in the progress
of the Cause not only in Costa Rica, but
in Latin Am erica.
The more the Guardian receives news
from the Central and South American
Republics, the more firm ly he becomes
convinced of the great capacity posses­
sed by the peoples of Latin Am erica.
They are proving them selves to be both
deeply spiritual and intellectual, and
he cherishes great hopes for their future
development and their contributions to
this glorious Faith of ours.
m
How wonderful tlrat in less than a
hundred years the m essage that origin­
ated in the heart of P ersia should have
spread to the heart of Central America,
and kindled such love and devotion and
hope as now burns in the hearts of new
believers in that distant continent!
The Guardian hopes that you will not
only succeed in establishing further
centers in your own native land, but
L

that the activities of the Costa Rican
BaháTs will spread to neighboring
countries and aid in the establishm ent
of the Faith there.
As already mentioned, the BaháTs of Costa Rica
did help other countries, the first of which was
Panama.
Ih her account of the early years in Costa Rica,
Gayle wrote of the importance of visits from other
pioneers and teachers :
"Visits from other pioneers are always very
effective and helpful in the development of a group.
It is hard to express how a pioneer th irsts for
visits from fellow-pioneers while in those virgin
and distant lands, especially when the community
is just a new one, and what a great joy, ra re  treat
and fortification it is to see them, to derive the
blessings of their association and assistance. If
only more would come 1 Pioneers who visited us
in Costa Rica during the F irst Seven Y ear Plan
were Mathew Kaszab from  Nicaragua, Cora Oliver
and Louise Caswell from  Panama, Johnny Eich-
enauer from Salvador, and Virginia Orbison on
her way to pioneer in Chile.
Each left his spe­
cial contribution to the growth and strengthening
of the Costa Rican BaháT Community. "
The first BaháT teachers to arrive in Guate­
mala were Mr. and M rs. E .R . Mathews in 1936.
G frrard Sluter was the first resident teacher in
Guatemala from  1939 to 1940.
M rs. L o rd  Schop-
flocher was a visiting teacher to Guatemala in
1940 and Johnny Eichenauer was in Guatemala

for a tim e in 1942. M rs. Florence Keemer was
the first resident teacher from 1943 to 1944. The
first Spiritual Assembly was organized in Guate­
mala in 1943.
Louise Caswell made her first
visit to Guatemala in 1943 as a travelling teacher,
and Gayle W oolson also visited Guatemala in 1944.1
Mr. Antonio Roca was the first pioneer teacher
in the Republic of Honduras. He rem ained there
from 1939 to 1940 and laid a firm  foundation for
the first Bahà'f group.
Mr. G errard Sluter was
also a resident teacher in Honduras in 1940.
Mrs.
Lorol Schopflocher was a visiting teacher in Hon­
duras in 1940. Johnny Eichenauer moved to
Honduras in 1941 and rem ained there until 1942.
The first Spiritual Assembly in Honduras was
established in 1942. Louise Caswell visited the
country that same year.
The first travelling teachers to Nicaragua were
the Mathews in 1936. N icaragua's first resident
teacher was Mathew Kaszab who arrived in 1939.
(See e arlier chapter) Johnny Eichenauer was a
resident teacher in 1942. It
not possible to
establish an Assembly in N icaragua before the
end of the F irst Seven.Year Plan in 1944.
*The first Maya-Quiché Indian to arise and teach
the Faith in Guatemala was Filoména Cajas. Dur­
ing the Nine Year Plan she travelled extensively
and taught tirelessly, often in very rem ote areas.
She was one of the representatives of Guatemala
to the World Congress in London in 1963.

All the Central American Republics were
asked to select delegates to the historic Centen­
ary Celebration that was to be held in Wilmette
in 1944.
The difficulties that faced the Central
American delegates in making such a long and
expensive trip  were overwhelming. Gayle
Woolson recalls that event in these words:
"It was a jubilant occasion when the delegate
of Costa Rica to the 1944 Centenary Celebration
of the Declaration of the Báb was informed by
the National Spiritual Assembly of the United
States that he would be helped financially to go
to the United States to attend that momentous
event. He brought the letter to me to translate
it for him and we could hardly believe it to be
really true; we had not considered that such a
great undertaking could be realized, making it
possible for the Latin American delegates to
attend that glorious celebration within the walls
of our m ajestic Temple.
As we read this won­
derful news, we were so overtaken by emotion
and excitement we did not know whether we were
going to laugh or cry.
Profound joy and grate-
tude filled our hearts.
All the Latin American
delegates must have felt that sam e emotion when
they learned that an experience which occurs
once in a lifetim e was to be th eirs. Only the
power of Bahà'u'ilàh could accomplish such a
great achievement, to bring together in love
and unity representatives of these various Latin
American countries with all those who would be
gathered in North America.
Breaking down the
b arriers of distance, langua^j and lack of means
and dem onstrating that spiritual brotherhood

which is the salvation of all nations.
This under­
taking had a great effect not only ofi the Bahà'fs
of Latin America, but also^jn the other Latin
Americans who learned of it, making them  realize
more deeply the scope and power of the Cause of
Bahâ'u’llâh. "
On August 19th, 1944, in response to a letter
to the Guardian signed by all the Latin American
believers and pioneers who attended a special con­
ference arranged for the Central and South Amer­
ican representatives, July 9th to 16th he w rote:
It is the first tim e in B ahà'f history
that so many duly appointed represen­
tatives of so many independant countries
have gathered together, and it fore­
shadows the gatherings of the future
when the believers from  the four cor­
ners of the globe will gather to discuss
plans for the beloved Cause and to ex­
change ideas and suggestions.
That momentous year, 1944^ marked the Cen­
tenary of the D eclaration of the Báb, and also the
end of the first Seven Y ear Plan. The triple goals
of the Plan w ere all achieved : completion of the
Temple exterior; the establishm ent of centers in
every state and province of the United States and
Canada; tastf the establishm ent of Assem blies or
groups in every republic of Central and South
Am erica.
For the representatives from  Central
America, that was a year and an experience never
to be forgotten.
The delegates from  Central Amer­
ica w ere: Seftor Radi C ontreras from Costa Rica,
Seflor Eugenio Gines from  Cuba, Edelberto Torres

from Guatemala, Mr. W illiam Mitchell from
Jam aica, Seflor Carlos V ergara from  Mexico ,
Sefiorita Blanca V. Mejfa from Nicaragua,
Mr.
Alfred Osborne from  Panamá, and Doctor Manuel
Berges from the Dominican Republic.
Hie F irst Seven Y ear Plan was completed and
was added as new pages to the glorious account of
Bahà'f history. However, the first plan was only
a beginning. Edna True, secretary of the Inter-
America Committee, recorded the G uardian's in­
struction for the next phase in the teaching cam ­
paign for Central America: "form ation assem bly
one rem aining republic, Nicaragua; consolidation
newly-fledged assem blies; multiplication groups;
intensified efforts dissem ination lite ra tu re .. .
paramount tasks present year (1945) . Praying
fervently rem oval obstacles dispatch pioneers ful­
fillment hopes necessary prelude launching second
stage Divine Plan. " Hie Guardian also asked for
"more effective contact these communities with
m asses population all races and classes. "
The Guardian expounded further in other m es­
sages the needs of the hour: "A mighty impetus
should, at however great a. sacrifice, be lent to the
multiplication of the B ahà'f centers in Latin Amer­
ica. ..  to the proclam ation of the verities of the
Faith to the m asses, to the strengthening of the
bonds binding the newly-fledged communities to
each other, and to the deepening of the spiritual
life of each other"(August, 1944). "Hie sp irit
that has inflamed the pioneers who have set the
seal of trium ph on the Seven Y ear Plan, must un­
der the vigilant care of the national representatives
of the A m erican Bahà'f Community, be constantly

watched, kept alive and nourished... The healing
message of Bahà'u’ilà h ... must be vividlv. sys­
tem atically brought to the attention of the m asses,
in th eir hour of grief, m isery and confusion "
(M arch 29, 1945) . "The spirit-which has been
enkindled riiust be continually nourished... everv
m easure that will serve to reinforce the bonds
uniting the newly-fledged communities in the Latin
W orld... must be speedily undertaken. " (Shoghi
Effendi, June 1946. B ahâ'f W orld. Vol. XI, p.183).
Perhaps the two most im portant events in Cen­
tra l A m erica that united the new believers and
raised their level of consiousness were the two
Central American Congresses.
The first was
held in 1946, and the second in 1947—both in
Panama. In November of 1945 the National Spirit­
ual Assembly sent Gayle Woolson to Panama to
collaborate with the Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahà'fs of Panama City in making preparations
for the first Latin A m erican Congress which was
being planned for Januarv ‘946.
%
The inner significance ofthis first Congress
was the strengthening of the spiritual bonds be­
tween the North, South and Central American be­
lievers.
For years the friends of the Bahà’fs had
been watching the Bahà’fs with a mixture of pity
and skepticism , but then with the accomplishment
of the Congress, they realized that tfoeir message
was not of words alone, but of deeds: unity of
races; unity of nationalities; unity of thought in
world undertakings.
"The entire city of Panama was saturated with
news and announcements of the Congress bv means

of unprecedented publicity in the newspapers, the
radio, posters and personal invitations to such
a degree that when some of the representatives
entered the sto res, they w ere recognized as
Bahà'fs that had arrived to attend the Congress
by employees who showed th eir interest in find­
ing out about the Bahà'f Faith. " (Noticias Bahâ'fs
Interam ericanas. February, 1946).
A very am us­
ing letter to the editor was published in theMStar
and H erald'on the last day of the Conference,
which Louise fondly refers to as the "swoon let­
te r"  :
As an old reader of your newspaper
I am  wondering why you are giving so
much space, even on your front page
when m ore im portant news is printed
inside, to this Bahà’f business.
Never have I seen so much space
given to meetings of Methodists,
Baptists, Catholics or other orders
o r sects. I think you were right in
such cases and it is possible you have
good reason for boosting BaháT until
your read ers, like m yself are sick and
tired of it.
They have been swooning for weeks
over the opening of the Congress and
now we get daily swoons. It may be
that your policy is com m ercial and you
are catering to your numerous Bahà’f
read ers and advertisers,although
you must have quite a few who are
Baptists, Methodists, Episcopalians
o r Roman Catholics like the w riter.
(Signed) Curious
*

E ditor's Note: The last "swoon" will be
tonight when the BaháTs
close conference.
%
Among those who attended the F irst Congress
was Amelia Collins bringing bounties from  Haifa
and representing the National Spiritual Assembly
of the United States as well as the Inter-A m erica
Committee. Pioneers who attended included:
Cora Oliver, Louise Caswell, Julie Regal, E liza­
beth Cheney, Louise Baker, and Gayle Woolson.
In addition to many Bahà'fs from  Panama, the
following countries w ere Represented: Guatem ala,
El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica,
and Chile.
The closing session of the Congress was held
in "El Aula Máxima" of the National University of
Panama. The recto r of the University, Sefior
Octavio Mendez P ereira, had just returned from
the San Francisco Conference and gave an excel­
lent report of that historic meeting where the
C harter of the United Nations was drafted.
" 'Abdu'1-Bahá had to l^ u s that California would
play a great part in the hoisting of the banner of
peace when he was in Sacramento, California in
1912, " Louise recalled at that tim e. (Prom ulga­
tion of U niversal Peace. Vol. H, p. 371) . The
Bahà'T speakers at the closing session w ere
Elizabeth Cheney and Gayle Woolson, with Alfred
E. Osborne, chairm an.
The two speakers dis­
cussed the L esser Peace and the G reater Peace
respectively. Over a hundred people were pre­
sent and many races and nations were represented
in the audience.

Louise was also directly involved in the Second
Congress, held in January of the following year,
1947. She has described it thus:
"It seemed a double blessing that the Panama
Spiritual Assembly should also be host to the Sec­
ond Latin American Congress in 1947 which estab­
lished an even stronger solidarity among the Latin
believers and made them  realize that this was their
Cause just as much as the Cause of a few North
Americans. Help was sent to this conference in
the persons of two of our best South Am erican
pioneers, M arcia Steward and Arte mus Lamb.
The m aterials of the lectures and classes have
been reported in detail in the Latin American bul­
letins.
"There was much more activity at this Second
Congress than at the first since the Latin believers
caught a glimpse of th eir great destiny in the Faith.
Between sessions they met together in little social
groups o r visited people from  their countries and
invited them  to the m eetings.
Thus our numbers
increased.
The belated arrival of W illiam
Mitchell, delegate from  Jam aica, brought to our
attention the importance of an international lang­
uage, as he spoke only English. A special inter­
p reter was appointed to help him  but even that
was not sufficient to give him an understanding
of all that was going on. His patience and sp irit­
ual understanding gave us all a lesson.
"Our Spanish Bahà'f (from  Panam a), José
Granada, presided at the closing session of the
Second Congress which was held in the ’Aula
MAxima" of "La Universidad Nacional." It was

a very large and im pressive gathering.
Manuel
Cor gas, who was soon to become a declared be­
liever—the first Indian Bahà'f of Panam á, read
the words of 'Abdu*l-Bah& about the Am erican
Indians. The M inister from  China, D r. lb  Yuen-
Tan gave a scholarly talk on the Philosophy of
China. Other speakers w ere P rofessor B altazar
Calderón, Dean of 'La Universidad Nacional, '
Mr. Harold Sosted, Superintendent of Education
in the Canal Zone, Mr. Sydney A. Young, editor
of the ^Panama Tribune," and the travelling Bahà'f
teacher, Gayle Woolson.
Carlos P orras, a Bahà'f
from  Costa Rica, who had been generous with his
beautiful tenor voice ever since the first Congress,
sang and brought his accompaniest, Alcides M.
Dávila, from  the 'Conservatorio Nacional. '
"D ie Panam a Spiritual Assembly, wishing to
honor its many friends, invited them  to a banquet
at the Colombia Hotel after the Congress, to meet
the traveling delegates.
Fifty-one people w ere
seated at a long table, decorated with flaming bou-
ganvillia vines and three l^pge cards with the
G reatest Name placed at intervals in the center
of the table. At the end of the room  was placed a
bust of 'Abdu'1-Bahá made for this Congress by
Antonio del V illar who knew the M aster and loved
Him very much. He had flown from  C aracas,
Venezuela with the bust and we were all very much
touched by his expression of devotion.
"Our distinguished non-BaháT guests spoke
most favorably of the Faith. Governor Navas of
the Province of Colón, said that he considered
him self a Bahà'f, although not a m ember of the
organization.
Tomáš G abriel Duque, publisher

of 'La E s tre lla ', and special friend of the Bahà’fs,
said he was going to chide the m em bers of his staff
for having disdained the invitation to be present at
such a splendid occasion.
The delegate from  Cuba
read an original Bahà'f poem. Raquel Francois
of the Panam a Bahà'f Community presided at the
banquet. "

In 1946 the Guardian cabled to the National
Convention of the United States: "The two year
respite well earned after the expenditure of such
a colossal effort, covering such a trem endous
range, during so dark a period, is now ended .
The prosecutors of the Plan who in the course of
six w ar-ridden years achieved such prodigies of
service in the W estern Hemisphere from  Alaska
to the Straits of Magellan are now collectively
summoned to assum e in the course of the peace­
ful years ahead still w eightier responsibilities for
the opening decade of 1f|£ Second Century.
The
tim e is ripe, events are pressing. Hosts on high
are sounding the signal for inauguration of second
Seven Y ear Plan designed to culminate first Cen-
tenial of the year Nine marking the mystic birth
of B ahá'u'lláhřs prophetic m ission in the Siyah-
Chal at Tehrán.
The first objective of the new
Plan is consolidation of victories already won
throughout the A m ericas, involving multiplication
of Bahà'f centers, bolder proclam ation of the
Faith to the m a sse s.. .  The third objective is the
formation of three National A ssem blies, pillars
of the U niversal House of Justice, in the Domin­
ion of Canada, Central, and South America .
Upon the success of the second Seven Y ear Plan

depends the launching... of a yet more momentous
third Plan, which when consummated through the
structure of the adm inistrative order in the re ­
maining sovereign states and chief dependencies
of the entire globe, must culminate in and be
befittingly commemorated through world-wide
celebrations marking the Centennial of the form al
inception of the Bahà'f Revelation and signalizing
the term ination of the initial epoch of the Plan
whose m ysterious, re sistless processes must
continue to shed ever-increasing lustre on suc­
cessive generations of both the Form ative and
Golden Ages of the Faith of B ahà'u'ilàh. "
Louise recalls that ’’Those few pioneers left
working in Central A m erica were not aware of
any respite until the Guardian announced that it
was over in his Convention Cable of 1946, an­
nouncing the second Seven Y ear Plan.
Central
A m erica's principal objective was to establish a
Regional Spiritual Assembly for eleven countries,
the five republics of Central A m erica — Guate­
mala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and
Costa Rica, — Mexico, Panamá, Cuba, Haiti,
Jam aica and the Dominican Republic.
The Inter-
am erica Committee asked M arcia Steward to
leave here post in Chile and come to Central
America to lay the adm inistrative basis for the
future National Spiritual Assembly and to inter­
view the Presidents of these Republics. She
>
'
worked with a Teaching Committee for Central
America, travelled to different countries and
spent years as a settler in both Costa Rica and
Honduras. She directed a correspondence cam ­
paign in Costa Rica and in Honduras and in this
way new assem blies w ere formed in these two

countries. The corespondence campaign was so
successful that the Guardian asked for it to be re ­
peated in all countries and it was put into effect
in Panamá, El Salvador and Guatemala.
Also,
during this tim e a committee in El Salvador form­
ed by Artemus Lamb and Tim and Jan Ferrand
sent out regular m essages to all the Central
American countries, providing them with com­
pilations of t he writings for Holy Days and Ann­
iv ersaries.
This laid the foundation for firm ness
and faithfulness among the believers.
During the Second Seven Y ear Plan the teaching
work was greatly assisted by the North Am erican
Bahà’f Community. Sěveral travel-teachers pas­
sed through including Mr. and M rs. Em eric Sala,
Raff and Mildred Mottahedeh, and Mary and Ed
Bode. A new wave of pioneers also gave impetus
to the teaching efforts.
One of those North American Pioneers to a r­
rive in Central A m erid^w as Artemus Lamb. He
had bravely offered to go to Punta Arenas, Chile
during thé great Centennary Anniversary celebra­
tion in May of 1944 in W ilmette. He and Esteban
Canales, a Chilean Bahà'f, formed a Local Spiri­
tual Assembly in Punta Are nap in 1945. Artemus
returned for a tim e to Santiago where he assisted
in the teaching work.
In 1951 he moved to CostaR ica and was soon
after elected to the first Regional National As­
sembly and served on it during its ten years of
existence. In 1953 he made his pilgrim age to
Haifa and met the Guardian. In 1956 he moved
to Santa Ana, El Salvador, where he established
\

an English Academy. He and his wife Dee were
soon forced to leave the country as a result of po­
litical p ressu res created by some enemies of the
Faith, so they moved to Guatemala. In 1963 he was
named an Auxiliary Board member under Hand of
the Cause Dhikritlláh Khádem and later served under
Hand of the Cause Ugo Giachery. In 1964 he was
asked to move to Yucatan, Mexico, to help with the
teaching work there among the Mayas. In 1968 he
was named a m em ber of the Continental Board of
Counselors for Central America and the Antilles.
He and his wife Dee moved to Costa Rica in 1969
and returned again to El Salvador in 1974 . Through­
out his life as a pioneer in Central A m erica Artemus
has made great contributions fn both adm inistration
and teaching. He has w ritten about pioneering:
There is really no other aspect of Bahâ'f
service that gives one such a feeling of being
an integral and useful part of this Divine P ro­
cess o r of giving one a training in so many
different kinds of service, as pioneering.
Hie Faith and its w elfare and progress be­
come the forem ost and really the only thought
of the pioneer, and his entire life is built a-
round and on this foundation.
True there are
tests, som etim es te rrific  tests, but one
learns things through them that he never
would have learned leading a "norm al" life
and we all know that we cannot progress and
develop without te sts.
Furtherm ore, one
learns to rely entirely upon the Protection
and Guidance of God, which is probably the
greatest blessing of all. Personally, my
wife and I thank the Almighty every day of
of our lives for having had the Bounty of

being accepted and having been able to rem ain
at our posts and perhaps suffer a little for
Bahâ'u'llâh. It is our hope and prayer that
we may bury our bones in this service.
■ V
%
The series of institutes and congresses which
as already discussed, began with the two Congres­
ses in Panaiiia were also of great assistance.
The next Congress was in Mexico City in 1948.
The following year one was held in Guatemala
during which Dorothy Baker was a great and in-
piring teacher to the Baháffs. (See BaháŤf World,
Vol. XI, p. 776) A Congress was held in El
Salvador in 1950. It was the last Regional Conven­
tion for the Central American Republics and the
G reater Antilles. E took place just one year p rior
to the formation of the regional National Spiritual
Assembly. Hand of the Cause of God W illiam
Sears and his wife M arguerite w ere in attendance
at this convention.
The correspondence campaigns
and wider publicity expande^the base of the Cen­
tra l A m erican believers and led up to the form a­
tion of the regional Assembly in 1951.
This Regional Assembly for Central America,
Mexico, Panama and the Antilles was elected in
Panama City, Panama just fourteen years after
the beginning of the first Seven Year Plan. The
first Bahà'f Convention for the election of the
election of the Regional Assembly was held in
the Hotel Central from  April 22 through the 27th,
1951.
The representatives from the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States were
Dorothy Baker and Horace Holley. The Delegates
to the first Convention w ere as follows: Costa
Rica, Mrs. Jennie Taylor and Mr. Artemus Lamb;

Cuba-M rs. Josefina Camacho and Mr. Máxinio
Sainz; Dqminican Republic-M rs. Elena M arsella
and Mr. Ramón Casado Soler; Guatemala-M r.
Joaquin Rodas; Haitf-M r. Estace N. Bailey and
Mr. P ierre M. Morpeau; Honduras, Tegucigalpa-
Mr. Salvador Flores Corleto and Mr. José S.
Perez, San Pedro Sula-M rs. Modesta David;
Jam aica-M r. Luis A. Aiken and Mr. Jam es
Foster; Mexico D. F.-M iss Zenayda Jurado C.
and Mrs. Aurora G utierrez, Puebla- Mr.
Guadalupe Alarcón O. ; N icaragua-M r. Armando
Fonseca Duval; Panam a-M iss Raquel Jean
Francois and Mr. Alejandro Arze P ., Colón-Mr.
Jam es V. Facey; Puerto R ico-M r. Cruz Carlos
Irizarry; El Salvador-M r. Marco Antonio
Martinez, Dr. David Escalante, and Mr. José
René Gonzáles. Ruth Moffet was also present
and showed slides of Haifa.
The m em bers of that historic first Assembly
were: Seňorita Raquel J. Francois, Chairman;
Mrs. Cora H. Oliver, Vice Chairman; Seňorita
Elena M arsella, Secretary; Seňor Jam es V.
Facey, T reasurer; Seňorita Zenayda Jurado C. ;
M rs. Louise Caswell; D r. David Escalante ; and
Seňor Artemus Lamb.
With the formation of the National Spiritual
Assemblies for Central A m erica and the Antilles,
and South America, the Faith had reached a new
level of development i The"lightning-like rapid­
ity” with which the Faith had grown in Latin
America was the direct result of the constant
guidance from the Guardian through the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States and finally,
through the untiring efforts of the many pioneers

and travel-teachers.
To comprehend fully the
importance of this development and to survey
adequately the manifold tasks that confronted that
nascent institution, it is necessary to study the
two historií: letters directed from  the Guardian to
that institution, the first dated July 12, 1951, w rit­
ten and signed by the Guardian himself, directed
to both Regional Assem blies, and the second
w ritten on the Guardian’s behalf by Rúhfyyfh
Khànum. w ritten only to the National Assembly of
the Bahà'Is of M eso-America and the Antilles,
and signed by her.
The full texts of these docu­
ments follow and w arrant considerable study.
In his pilgrim 's notes. Arte mus Lamb wrote:
"On at least three different occasions the Guard­
ian quoted from  his cables either to the Bahà’f
world at large or to C e n tra l A m erica, each tim e
fixing me squarely in the eyff, he would say: "you
rem em ber that, don’t you? ". Well, of course
I usually did not rem em ber.
From  then on when­
ever a cable arrived from  the Guardian to the
Bahà'fs at large o r to our part of the world, I
would spend hours studyiig and trying to absorb
it. Of course, the principle operates now regard­
ing m essages from  the Universal House of Justice.
These M essages from  the World Center give us
infallible guidance and all our plans and actions,
both individual and collective, should be built
around this guidance if we want maximum success. "

July 12, iyt>u
"National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahà'fs of
M eso-America and the Antilles and South America.
Dearly Beloved Friends,
"The formation of the first National Spiritual
Assemblies of the Bahà'fs of Central and South
America - an event hailed by the entire Bahà’f
world - constitutes a landmark of the utmost sig­
nificance not only in the history of the evolution
of the Faith in Latin America, but in the annals
of the Form ative age of the BaháT Dispensation
as well. It signifies the term ination of the first
Epoch in the rise  and establishm ent of the Faith
of Bahà'u’ilàh in Central and South Am erica - an
Epoch that was ushered in on the morrow of the
revelation of the Tablets of the Divine Plan through
the pioneer services rendered by individual belie­
vers, among whom ranks as forem ost that im m or­
tal and heroic soul, M artha Root, and which cul­
minated with the successful prosecution of two
successive historic campaigns initiated by the
North American Bahà'f Community in pursuance
of 'A bdu'l-Bahà’s Divine Plan.
"This second and momentous Epoch in the un­
fold ment of the Faith, now being entered upon, is
signalized by the em ergence of two newly estab­
lished, independent, firm ly-knit regional com­
munities, em bracing all the Republics of Central
and South America, stretching from  the borders
of Mexico as far as the southern extrem ity of
Chile, comprising no less than forty organized
local assem blies, many of them  already incorp­
orated , every one of them  animated by the sp irit­
ual verities of one common Faith, and all of them

functioning in accordance with the principles of
a vigorously operating, divinely appointed Admin­
istrative Order.
-
s
" This new phase in the development of an ir-
resistably advancing Faith presages, moreover,the
formal association of these
twin newly-emerged
communities with their parent community in the
North American continent in the prosecution of
the Plan conceived by the Centre of Bahà'u'llâh’s
Covenant, among the Latin American races now
awakening to the clarion call sounded by Him in
His immortal Tablets. Though not enjoying the
status and privileges conferred in that same Plan
by ' Abdu'1-Bahá on the North American Bahà’f Com­
munity, yet, in view of the mementous and stir­
ring summons issued by the Author of the Revel­
ation in His Most Holy Book, addressed to the
Rulers of all the R e p u b li c s t h e  Western Hemis­
phere, both of these communities may be said to
have been invested with rights and duties which
no community in any continent of the Eastern Hem­
isphere can claim to possess.
"This association, which will be formally in­
augurated with the termination of the Second
Seven Year Plan, and which is destined to reveal
its potentialities in the course of the unfolding of
the Formative Age 'of the Faith, and particularly
as a consequence of the formation of separate
National Spiritual Assemblies in each of the Repub­
lics of Latin America, is a distinction which every
adherent of the Faith, whether a native believer
or a North American pioneer labouring in Central
or South America, must constantly bear in mind.
Its importance cannot be overestimated, nor can

#
its full significance be assessed at the present
hour.
"Tlie consolidation of the existing assemblies,
the multiplication of groups; the steady develop­
ment of the process of BaháT incorporation; the
expansion of the all-important task of translating,
publishing and disseminating Bahà'f literature in
Spanish and Portuguese; the consolidation of the
recently inaugurated national and local funds; the
strengthening of such institutions as Bahà'f Nation­
al Committees, Summer Schools, Conventions and
Regional Teaching Conferences; the acceleration
of the highly meritorius work already commenced
amongst the Indians in both Central and South
America; the progressive proclamation of the
verities of the Faith to all sections of the popula­
tion of Latin America; above all, the triple task
of constantly deepening the spiritual life of the
individual believer, of enriching his understanding
of the spiritual and administrative principles of
his Faith, and of cementing the unity of each local
community - these stand out as the foremost re­
sponsibilities to be assumed during these two
concluding years of the Second Seven Year Plan
by the two newly formed National Spiritual Assem­
blies of Central and South Smerica, in preparation
of the launching of specially conceived, clearly
defined plans, the initiation of which must mark
the formal association of the Bahà'f communities
of Latin America with the National Bahà’f commun­
ities in the United States and Canada, for the
furtherance of • Abdu'l-Bahà's world-embracing
Master Plan, now still in the embryonic stage of
its development.

"Afire with the vision now unfolding itself before
their eyes; conscious of the sacred responsibility
which, as implied in the ringing words recorded
in the Kitáb-i- Aqdas,they must increasingly
shoulder; fortified by the contemplation of the man­
ner and rapidly with which their beloved Faith has
struck its roots into the soil of their homelands;
confident that the same mysterious and unconquer­
able Power that has watched over the operation,
and ensured the consummation, of the specific
Plan undertaken by various National Bahà'f Com­
munities in recent years in both the East and the
West, will, as they prepare to launch their own
collective enterprises in the years immediately
ahead, vouchsafe to them Its sustaining grace and
unfailing guidance; the members of these newly
emerged communities and above all, their recently
elected national representatives, must display,
during this period of transition, a spirit of dedi­
cation, a tenacity of purpose, ^willingness for
self-sacrifice, that will surpass anything as yet
exhibited in their past history, which will at once
excite the envy and admiration of their older sis­
ter communities in all the continents of the globe,
and enable them to acquire the spiritual potential­
ities that will assist them to take their honoured
place in the ranks of those same communities
which, in various regions of the world, are col­
lectively and energetically carrying out their own
national campaigns in the service and for the glory
of the Cause of Bahà'u'ilàh.
“That they may prove themselves worthy of the
missions with which they will soon be formally
invested; that they may never allow anything to
interfere with the successful conclusion of this

present preparatory phase of their historic task;
that they may, through the quality of their devotion
and the solidity of their achievements, rejjice the
souls of the Concourse on high and, above all, the
Spirits of the Holy Báb, of Bahà’u'llâh, and of His
beloved Son, 'Abdúl-Bahá, so that they may contu-
bute their share, as independent pillars, in sus­
taining the House, whose erection must mark the
culmination of the establishment of the Adminis­
trative Order of their Faith, is the dearest wish
of my heart, my constant hope and my ardent
prayer."
Your true brother,
(Signed) Shoghi
July 11, 1951
''National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahà’Is of
Meso-America and the Antilles.
Dear Bahà'f Friends:
" Your letter of May 5, 1951, as well as the re ­
port of the convention and minutes of your first
Assembly meeting, and the photographs you sent,
have reached our beloved Guardian, and he has in­
structed me to answer you on his behalf.
"It gives him very great happiness to address
this first litter to your Assembly, newly come in­
to the field of international service to the Faith,
and so ready and eager to embark upon its truly
historic tasks.
"The believers of Central and South America
are embarking upon their services at a most
I

important time, not only in the history of this
great Cause, but also in the history of mankind.
Never has the outlook in this physical world been
darker^- wi|h the shadow of perhaps another deva-
vastating conflict lengthening on the horizon -
never the spiritual promise greater, for we see
the Message of Bahà'u'llâh at last spreading all
over the globe and planting its banner in the most
distant countries.
"The opportunities for this new National Assem­
bly to distinguish itself are therefore unique and
its privileges priceless. He feels sure that the
Latin American believers are going to demonstrate
their readiness and capacity in such a way as to
rejoice their fellow-Bahà'is and the heart of the
beloved Master.
"Like the United States and Canada, Latin
America is the New World; it has i%e freshness
of youth, and far from such ancient civilizations
as those of Europe and Asia, with their intermin­
able problems and grievances, it can undertake
service to Bahà'u'llâh under more auspicious cir­
cumstances.
"He feels that your Assembly must, now at the
very beginning of its work, devote its energy pri­
marily to laying a sound and abiding foundation
for the future. What does this imply? First and
foremost entablishing harmony, love and under­
standing amongst the Bahà'fs under its jurisdiction.
When the friends are united in the love of God all
problems can be solved and all work carried out
with success. Personal problems, differences

of race, nationality, origin, are dissolved in
the crucible of Bahà'f brotherhood.
•
"Second, the teaching work: The local assem­
blies must be maintained and strengthened and
the groups encouraged and protected, so that they
may attain assembly status as soon as possible;
extension teaching work must also be undertaken
and news of the existence of this Faith broadcast­
ed as much as possible
"Third: The National Fund must be supported.
The friends are for the most part, not well-to-do,
but they must realize that to give to the Fund,
even in a small way, is the important thing, for
it is a visible sign of their unity, their devotion,
their desire to support the institutions which now
represent them and belong to them.
"Fourth: Your Assembly, in conjuction with
that of South America, should devote particular
attention to Bahà'f literature, as in the past
the publication of really adequate translations
and their dissemination have been often delayed
and the books inferior in style. The Spanish­
speaking Bahà'is, becoming more numerous all
the time, have a right to possess the literature of
the Faith, so infinitely rich and inspiring, in their
own tongue and well translated.
"The Guardian feels that during the coming few
years, your Assembly should not hesitate to lean
on and consult the American Assembly. This in no
way implies any weakness or inadequacy on your
part but is logical and organic. The American
National Spiritual Assembly is one of the oldest

in the Bahà'f world, it has gone through a lot, and
consequently acquired an experience which cannot
be obtained over-night. It also looks upon with
pride, affection, and concern this beautiful daugh­
ter, so>to speak, that it has brought into being .
So your tie vs a deep and natural one.
"Shoghi Éffendi is also most anxious for the
Message to reach the aboriginal inhabitants of
the Americas. These people, for the most part
down-trodden and ignorant, should receive from
the Bahà'fs a special measure of love, and every
effort be made to teach them. Their enrollment
in the Faith will enrich them and us, and demon­
strate our principle of the Oneness of Man far
better than words or the wide conversion of the
ruling races ever can.'*
With warm Bahà'f love,
(Signed)
R. Rabbani
The new National Spiritual Assembly of Cen­
tral America launched a Two year Teaching Plan
whose termination coinci^d with the ending of
the Second Seven Year Plan. The first two years
were difficult ones as limitation ° posed by inex­
perience, great distances, transportation and the
need for visiting many communities to fùlfill the
directives of the Guardian posed great challenges
for the new institution. Louise recalls with as­
tonishment the import of those two years and the
formation of the institution itself:
"Little did the Latin American BaháTs dream
that later in the year the two representatives who
brought the love of the North American believers
to them were to be named Hands of the Cause of

God. Dorothy Baker, who had already devoted
so much tjme and love to the progress of the
Faith in Latin America and Horace Holley, were
among the first twelve to the appointed Hands by
our beloved Guardian in December of 1951. All
the National Assemblies in the world now attain­
ed a degree of security with the assurance that
the time of the Hands of the Cause of God had been
ushered in, the time when they would 'diffuse the
Divine Fragrances, edify the souls of men,. . .
promote learning,. . .  improve the character of
all imen... and guide all the peoples of the world. '
(Covenant of Bahâ'u'llâh, published in the British
Isles, 1950, pp. 107-8.)
%
"Little did the Latin American Bahà'Is imagine
that within two years of the formation of their
National Spiritual Assembly they would attain ma­
turity through their association with the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States in the goals
of the Ten Year World Crusade revealed to them
by our Guardian at the end of 1952. When the
Guardian had told us that the Cause had advanced
with 'lightning-like rapidity* in Latin America, we
Bahà'fs were so absorbed with consolidating local
assemblies, planning school sessions after each
convention, observing the first school in the region
held at Karbilá, Honduras, ih correspondence
campaigns in four of the Rupublics of the territory,
in promoting congresses in Mexico, Guatemala,
El Salvador and Panama that we did not dream
that we wpre really working rapidly, for every
effort was like lifting a huge stone. "

In addition to the growing numbers of steadfast
Bahà'îs from the region itself, others came to
assist: in the many complex tasks. Marcia Steward
had been asked by the Inter-America Committee
to interviewithe presidents of the republics and to
help consolidate the Faith in Central America.
She was chosen because of her successes in Chile.
Esteban Canales had settled in Costa Rica, and
Artemus Lamb had come from South America to
help the struggling Central American republics.
He rendered valuable contributions to the consoli­
dation work in Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Mex­
ico. An Important part of the Two Year Plan was
a constant flow of teachers to the already exist­
ing local assemblies to strengthen and consolidate
them. Many of the National Assembly members
helped with this important effort. Raquel Francois
de Constante made a visit to the Central American
countries and brought them great enthusiasm to
continue teaching during that period. All the
teachers tried to their utmost to establish the basis
of love, unity and harmony as the Guardian had
instructed them.
With the conclusion of the Second Seven Year
Plan, and their two year history, the National
Spiritual Assembly of Mexico, Central America
and the Antilles passed through its brief period
of youth, and emerged into the responsibilities of
maturity. With the inception of the Ten-Year
World Crusade it became the associate of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the United States.

When we left the account of Louise's experien­
ces in Central America, she too was faced with a
very difficult period. But just as the Regional
Assembly quickly passed into a new period of its
development, so too did Louise. Her brief period
of transition, tests, and uncertainty soon passed,
and she found herself making plans for one of the
most significant and unforgettable experiences of
her life—pilgrimage.
Members of the first National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahà'fs of Mexico, Central America,
Panama, and the Antilles, Rújván, 1951. Seated,
from left to right : Arte mus Lamb, of Costa
Rica; Dr. David Escalante, of El Salvador; Miss
Raquel Francois, of Panama; Mrs. Natalia
Chávez, of Honduras; Miss Elena Marsella, of
the Dominican Republic. Staiding, from left to
right: Miss Natalia Chávez, of Mexico; Mrs.
Cora Oliver, of the Canal Zone; Mrs. Louise
Caswell, of Honduras; and James Facey, of
Colón, Panama.

■ -s
%.
PILGRIMAGE AND A NEW DIRECTION
"In 1953, with, the Guardian’s cabled permis­
sion I travelled from Panama ( after going from
Honduras to a National Spiritual Assembly meet­
ing) to Isreal for my pilgrimage. I had a wonder­
ful pilgrimage as the Guardian was living and
Ruhíyyih Khánum was acting as a charming host­
ess to all the pilgrims and the members of the
International Council. We all ate at the same
table. So I was present at meetings of the Inter­
national Council without realizing it until later.
What a privilege! Also, the beloved Guardian
asked questions about Panama and Central America
at every meal.
"During the nine days Shoghi Effendi dined often
with the Western Pilgrims. These few hours were
of the essence and passed all too quickly. With
what eager steps the members of the household
rushed to the dining room when it was announced
that the Guardian had arrived. He then received
each one of us, and often served vis something at
the meal with his own hands. One night he brought
some Persian candy and handed a piece to each
one of the pilgrims. He directed the conversation
which sprang from his warm human interest in
his guests and rose gradually to great heights.

In his presence, in his house, as well as in the
BaháT Holy Places, I felt the constant push of
an expanding creative power, since I was at the
fountainhead that I had been talking about all my
life. Now I was drinking at it and experiencing
that it was so much greater than I had ever dream­
ed. It was an ominous power and I was frightened.
I thought, it is too great. I cannot stand it. This
surely is the great and terrible Day of the Lord.
Die frightening thing is the possibility that I may
not conform to all that God has ordained, or may
be unworthy in some way, for even a small thing
can keep one from God. How can I possibly get
myself organized into a properly functioning
human instrument to serve like those exemplary
members of the International Council? How can
I sustain the great weight that every Bahà'f takes
upon himself? I came to the conclusion that only
by getting new believers to help our Guardian in
his constantly expanding plans could I be of real
service. 'The greatest of all things is teaching
the Cause, of this how can we deprive ourselves?'
And this is for each Bahá' Í to do and we must
teach if we are to satisfy Shoghi Effendi's require­
ments for our lifetime.
"Another bounty was that I had two private
interviews with the Guardian, the day after I ar­
rived and the day of my departure. Not all Bahâ'f
pilgrims received so much and I took it as a spe­
cial gift for the Bahà'fs of Central America as he
spoke with keen interest and love for the believers
in Central America and said that 'Abdu'1-Bahá
was watching over the work here and that our work
would be richly blessed and there would be great
confirmation in the future. He asked many

questions about us. 'How do the friends in Cen­
tral America like my cables*’ How did the\ lilo-
the one about the acquisition of land around the
Shrine of Bahà'u' 11 áh° How are the Feasts in
Panama?' He said. 'You see how busv I am. I
have no more time for personal letters, not even
for letters to the National Spiritual Assemblies.
I can only send cables. '
"One night, at the dinner table. I asked the
beloved Guardian if he wished me to settle in some
new goal country to fulfill a goal in the new Global
Crusade, or if he wished me to go back to Central
America and teach among the Indians. He answer­
ed in a delighted manner and smiled very bright­
ly--he wanted me to teach the Indians of Central
America. So I decided to move to Guatemala
where slightly more than half the people are
Indians. Since I had visited the Local Assembly
in Chichicastenango, Guatemala some years be­
fore, I had that particular place in mind when I
asked about returning to Central America. I had
been very impressed with the lovely eves of the
remnants of the Maya-Quiché race.
"Just before leaving Haifa, the Guardian
asked me to return to Central America bv way of
London and Dublin and to 'take the spirit of Haifa'
with me. He also told me to take a message to the
Hand of the Cause, Reverend George Townshend,
who was living in Dublin. The message I was to
give him was simply, 'concentrate on vour writ­
ings.' When I met the beloved Hand, his wife and
daughter, Una, I gave him the message from
Shoghi Effendi. He was in delicate health and so
weak that his wife and daughter had to dress him.

I thought to myself, he can write a little pamphlet
tmt that's all. However, it was a 1er mv visit
and message from the Guardian that he wrote
that great hook. Christ and Bahâ'u'llâh. He took
me and lis family to the Zoological Gardens, for
lunch--the most stylish place in Dublin, and we
had a delightful time. I told them that the Guard­
ian favored intermarriage. Years later, after
his ascension, his daughter married a negro. "
A brief but unforgettable experience was over,
and Louise was once again on her wav to a new
pioneering post. Had she gone to a virgin terri­
tory in that auspicious year, she would have gain­
ed the illustrious title of a Knight of Bahâ'u'llâh.
But as was the case throughout her pioneering,
she went to the country where the needs and the
challenges were great, but the immediate harvests
and bounties were very few. Louise remained in
Guatemala from 1953 until 1975. She served for
many years on the National Spiritual Assembly of
Guatemala which was first formed in 1961, when
all the Central American republics formed their
own National Assemblies. During her many long
vears of service in Guatemala, she lived in Chi-
chicastenango for two years, in Quichč for a short
time, and in Ftetalhuleu. She also lived for a time
in Quetzaltenango, and Antigua with Edith McLaren,
pioneer to Guatemala, where Edith was made
Auxiliary Board Member. Edith remained in
Guatemala until 1974 when she was asked to serve
as the Auxiliary Board Member in Nicaragua.
She is presently living in Matagalpa, Nicaragua
and is rendering invaluable services in that capa­
city. She is well known throughout Central America
and is known as an excellent teacher.

In February of 1975, after living alone for many
years, she left her rented room in the Pension
Rivera, near the National Bahà'F Center of Gua­
temala and pioved to Mérida, Yucatán, where she
is now sharing the home and the company of
Teresa Mac Gregor.
Cora Oliver remained in Panama until 1953,
when she moved to British Honduras, now known
as Belize. She and Shirley A. War de, who also
wioved to Belize as a pioneer, were consequently
designated as Knights of Bahà'u'ilàh, for having
arisen to the Guardian’s call for pioneers to vir­
gin territories. They lost no time in opening
Belize to the Faith and began teaching immediately.
On the first night of Shirley's arrival, they both
attended a meeting of the Federation of Women by
invitation of the wife of an acquaintance of Cora’s.
At that meeting, they met Mrs. Gwendolyn
Lizzaraga who was soonto become the first adult
registered believer there.
Both pioneers launched themselves into com­
munity services and made many friendships and
teaching contacts for the Faith. The National
Spiritual Assembly for Belize was finally formed
during the Nine Year Plan in 1967 with the assis­
tance of the National Spiritual Assembly of Guate­
mala. Shirley has remained at her post until the
present and Cora remained until 1973. Both ren­
dered invaluable services to the Cause and the
Faith is now firmly established in Belize.

THE GROWTH OF THE FAITH
AND THE INSTITUTIONS
Before going into the details and stories of the
next years of Louise's experience as a pioneer,
several letters from the Holy Land, from Shoghi
Effendi, Ruhťyyih Khánum, and Leroy Ioas will bo
quoted. These rather lengthy quotes will serve
to set the overall context of the conditions and
changes in the Faith in Central America during the
Ten Year World Crusade. The following is taken
entirely from letters directed to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahâ'fs of Central
America:
June 24. 1954
"He(the Guardian) was extremely pleased that
your Assembly was able to purchase the site for
the Bahâ'f Temple in Panama before the expira
tion of the first year of the Ten-Year Crusade.
He advises your Assembly while safeguarding and
maintaining the property, and living up to the terms
of the contract which you signed, to spend as little
money on the site as possible. Your resources
are too limited, and the needs in the teaching field
are too urgent, for money other than for the pur­
pose of the purchase and bare maintenance of the
property to be spent on the Temple site, at the

present time. The important thing was to buy it,
and this has been satisfactorily accomplished.
"He is very proud of the fact that Central Am­
erica had filled all her pioneer goals with the ex­
ception of the Marshall Islands, to which Mrs.
Steward is now en route.1
I
"He has read with attention the consolidation
plan prepared by the National Teaching Executive
Committee, a copy of which you forwarded to him
in your most recent letter; and, although he thinks
that the general outline of activities is excellent,
there are two points to which he would like to call
your attention.
"The first is that he has not decided that there
will be definitely no Regional National Assemblies
prior to the establishment of independent National
Assemblies \for each Latin American country.
As the work unfolds and the centers multiply, this
matter will have to be carefully considered. At
present it is premature tp reach any conclusions,
"He also believes that, before any abolition of
the present basis of electing delegates to the
" Several members of the new National Spiri­
tual assembly resigned in order to fill Goals of
the Ten Year Crusade as Knights of Bahà’u'llâh:
Cora Oliver, to assume her duties in Beliee;
Elena Marsella Fernie, Secretary of the NSA
to sail to the Gilbert and Ellis Islands. The
other goal was filled by Jea^ Sevin of France
who settled in Tuomatu Islands. Artemus Lamb
met him in France and persuaded him to fill
the goal. Thus all foreign goals were filled by
the National Spiritual Assembly of Central America.

National Convention, (in other words, the delegates
represent Assemblies, and not Groups and isolated
believers as well) is made, the Cause must grow
much stronger in each of the Central American
republics.
"Perhaps your Assembly is not aware of the
fact that with the exception of the United States
and Persia, the two countries where the mass
of the believers is the greatest in the Bahà’f
world, all other National Assemblies are elected
by delegates, who are elected in their turn by local
Assemblies, and not by the body of the believers
residing in any particular country.
"He considers the introduction of the latter
system premature in Lath America. You must
first have many more active Groups and isolated
centers, before there is any point in electing the
national delegates for the Central American Con­
vention by the method used in the United States at
present.
"This is one of the reasons why he is urging
Bahà’fs everywhere to, above all, concentrate on
increasing the number of Spiritual Assemblies and
Groups, as well as isolated believers, educating
them more deeply in the administrative and spirt*
tual fundamentals and doctrines of the Faith, and
increasing their awareness of their great respon­
sibility as BaM’fs in both the teaching and admin­
istrative work of the Faith. He always considers
that the foundation is securely laid, there should
be no attempt at elaborating the superstructure.

"He hopes that the Auxiliary Board, working
in conjunction with the Hands of the Cause, will
be able to carry a new impetus to the teaching
work, and, in collaboration with the National
Assemblies, help to strengthen and revitalize weak
centers.
"Another matter to which he attaches the great­
est importance is that of keeping the pioneers at
their posts, and urging upon them the necessity
of persevering at all costs, lest one of the so-
hardly-won goals of the Ten-Year Crusade suffer
even a momentary eclipse.
"Your Assembly must feel very proud of the
fact that a number of its members have gone into
the pioneer field. The National Assembly must al­
ways show forth signs of true Spiritual leadership;
and he is very happy that your Body is so active,
so devoted and so united.
"He hopes that, in the unfoldment of your work
throughout the region, you will pay special atten­
tion to teaching the Indians and minority groups,
and converting them to the Faith. He attaches the
greatest importance to this work, and is always
glad to receive news of the names of any new In­
dian tribes represented in the Cause of God, or
contacted. "
With Warmest Bahâ'f greetings,
(signed) R. Rabbani.
The following is a letter drectly from Guardian
which bears the same date as the above letter from
Ruhiyyih Khánum:

June 24, 1954
Dear and Valued Co-workers:
"Hie Central American Bahâ'f Community, oc­
cupying so pivotal a position in the heart of the
Western Hemisphere, stands, at this hour, mark­
ing at once the termination of the opening phase
of the Bahâ'f World Spiritual Crusade and the
commencement of the second period in its unfold-
ment, on the threshold of an epoch of glorious
expansion, bo th within its homeland as well as
in foreign fields.
"Its members can do no better than to recall
at this juncture, with joyous gratitude, the series
of historic events which have led, in the course
of almost four decades to its gradual emergence,
its rapid rise and steady consolidation. The
epoch-making travels of some of 'Abdu'1-Bahá's
disciples, headed by the imcomparable Martha
Root, during the concluding years of the Heroic,
and the opening decade of the Formative Age of
the Faith , in response to the call raised by the
Centre of the Covenant in the Tablet® of the
Divine Plan, may be regarded as the prelude to
the formal and definite introduction of the Faith
in that vast and prominent region. Hie prelim ­
inary years of wide-spread and strenuous seed
sowing paved the way, on the morrow of the es­
tablishment of the framework of the Administra­
tive Order of the Faith in the Western Hemisphere,
for the launching of the F irst Seven Year Plan
formulated by the American Bahâ'f Cohimunity
which culminated in the laying of the Administra­
tive foundations of the Faith of Bahâ'u'llâh in
the Republics of Central America and the Antilles.

This initial stage in the rise and establishment of
the embryonic World Order of Bahà'u’ilàh in the
heart of the Western Hemisphere was immediately
followed by the initiation of yet another Plan which
attained*its climax, on the morrow of the centen­
ary of the Bib's martyrdom, through the form­
ation of the Central American Bahà'f National
Spiritual Assembly, - an auspicious event that
was befittingly celebrated in the course of the fes­
tivities commemorating the centenary of the birth
of Bahâ'u'llâh's mission. This notable and unfor­
gettable event in the annals of the Faith in the
New World was destined to be succeeded by the
launching of a small albeit carefully devised plan
by the newly launched National Spiritual Assembly
and which culminated in those same never to be
forgotten festivities. The launching of this Plan
was in itself a prelude to the initiation of a Ten-
Year Plan, formulated to meet the immediate
needs of the Central American Bahà'f Community,
in conjunction with a Spiritual Crusade embarked
upon by National Bahà'f Communities throughout
the entire globe.
"The opening phase of this Ten-Year Plan,
which may be said to have inaugurated the Mis­
sion of this same community beyond its homeland
has now drawn to a close, a year that has witnes­
sed the opening, with a single exception, of all
the virgin territories assigned, in accordance
with that same Plan, to this community.
"This great victory, in which the followers of
the Faith in Central America have themselves
played a notable part, and which has virtually set
the seal of strength on the initial stage of this
glorious crusade must, at this hour of the unfold-
YBB

ment of the second phase of this historic enter­
prise, prove in turn a forerunner of a period of
unprecedented, rapid and systematic expansion
and consolidation of the Faith in each of the Re­
publics of Central America and the Antilles,
'Whilst every effort must be strenuously ex­
erted to safeguard at any cost the prizes won in
the six newly opened territories in the American
and Asiatic Continents, attention must, in the
course of the present year, be focused on the mul­
tiplication of Bahà'f Centers, and on the forma­
tion of local assemblies, in order to broaden the
foundations on which future independent National
Spiritual Assemblies must ultimately rest. A no
less assiduous effort should be exerted to increase
rapidly the number of the avowed supporters of
the Faith, particularly among the Indiàns, whose
spiritual potentialities 'Abdu'1-Bahá repeatedly
emphasized.. . .  Simultaneously measures should
be speedily undertaken to assist the United States
National Assembly in expediting the translation
and publication of Bahà'f literature in the Indian
languages specifically mentioned in the provisions
of the Ten-Year Plan. No effort should moreover
be spared in assisting the South American National
Spiritual Assembly in the all-important work of
translating, printing and disseminating Bahà'f
literature in both the Spanish and Portuguese
languages.
"Particular attention should likewise be devo­
ted to the acceleration of the process of local
Bahà'f incorporation, so vital to the further con­
solidation of the newly emerged administrative
institutions of the Faith in Central America and
the Antilles.

"As the process of internal expansion and con­
solidation gains momentum, the elected national
representatives of this community must not fail
to consecrate themselves to the no less fundamen­
tal task of enriching continually the spiritual life
of its members, of deepening their understanding
of the essential verities, tenets and principles
underlying their Faith, of demanding a strict ad­
herence to its laws and statutes, and of setting
an example to their fellow-believers through a
fuller reflection, in their personal lives and con­
duct, of the ennobling truths animating the Rev­
elation of Bahà'u’llâh.
"May this community which, in the course of
over a decade, has demonstrated so conspicuously
its devotion to the ideals of the Faith it has risen
to champion, furnish, as the years roll by, fur­
ther proofs of its staunchness, its courage, its
fidelity, its watchfulness, its singlemindedness
and unswerving determination to fulfill its high
destiny through the attainment of every single
objective of the Plan to which it stands commit-
ed.
Your true brother,
(Signed) Shoghi
Hie following are certain, paragraphs from a
letter dated July 15, 1955, directed to the Nat­
ional Spiritual Assembly of the Bahà'Cs of Cenr-
tral America from the Bahà’f World Center:
"As regards your question about giving the
Faith publicity, in the places that pioneers have
moved to in order to fill the goals of the Plan;
ït depends on the place. If there is absolutely

no danger of publicity stirritg up antagonism, or
leading to the expulsion of the Bahá' f, or his being
deprived of his residence visa, then there is no
objection to publicity. The general principle,
however, is this - that the Bahà’fs should keep
as quiet as possible, seek out and confirm the re­
ceptive souls, and build their future Assemblies
on a solid foundation. To broadcast the news of
their activities is not essential in these virgin
areas at the present time, and can in most cases
be dangerous, and hinder the spread of the Faith.
'•He (the Guardian) urges your Assembly to
bear in mind that shortly National Hazfratu’l-
Quds will be needed in each country, and that the
friends should begin to look for suitable Centres
that will under no circumstances be too expensive,
nor too far out from the centre of the city.
"He was delighted to see that, following speed­
ily upon the purchase of the Panama Temple site,
the Hazfratu'l-Quds of the Bahâ'fs of Central
America has also been acquired.
With warm Bahâ'f greetings,
(Signed) R. Rabbani
P. S. - Since commencing the above letter, the
beloved Guardian has received your other
letters dated April 9 .(2) , April 12, and
May 14.
He was very happy to know that you have
increased the holdings of the Temple pro­
perty tn Panama. Please thank Miss
Sneider on his behalf for this generous
act on her part, an act which will be

appreicated increasingly as time goes
on and the Temple itself is erected."
July 15, 1955
Dear and Valued Co-Workers:
"Hie year which has just^been concluded
witnessed a succession of achievements on the
part of the members of the Central American
Bahâ’f Communities and particularly of the elec­
ted body of their national representatives, worthy
of the highest commendation. In both the teaching
and administrative spheres of Bahà'f activity,
these newly fledged communities have demonstra­
ted their firm attachment to the Faith they have
expounded, their loyalty to its fundamental ver­
ities and principles, and their inflexible resolve
to extend the range, and reinforce the foundations
of their collective and meritorious activities and
achievements.
"They are now, by the virtue of the splendid
services they have performed, the spirit they have
ao powerfully envinced, the noble example they
have set, approaching a stage in the evolution of
the Faith in that highly promising area of the globe,
which bids fair to eclipse the magnificent efforts
which have been exerted, and the noteworthy ser­
vices which have been performed, since its in­
ception in the Antilles and the Central American
Republics. They will soon be entering a period
which is destined to witness the emergence of
Regional National Assemblies which are to be re­
garded as stepping stones paving the way for the
ultimate establishment of independent National

T
Spiritual Assemblies, which are destined to act
as pillars, and participate directly in the form­
ation of the future International House of Justice,
ordained by Bahà'u’llâh as the supreme Legisla­
tive Organ of His World Order.
"Now is the time for those communities to
prepare themselves, in the course of the two
fast-fleeting years separating them from the open­
ing of the third phase of a world spiritual crusade,
individually as well as collectively, to assume be-
fittingly the staggering responsibilities so soon
to be placed upon them.
"They have thus far, discharged their task with
befitting courage, zeal and loyalty. The found­
ations they have securely laid must now be both
enlarged and strengthened.
The virgin areas of
the globe, assigned to their elected representa­
tives, under the Ten-Year Plan, have been tri­
umphantly and speedily opened.. The translation
and publication of the literature of the Faith into
both the Spanish and Portuguese tongues have been
vigorously undertaken. The plot whereon the
first Maghriqu'1-A^ár ôf Central America must
needs be erected has been purchased in the Re­
public of Panama, the importance of which has
been so clearly stressed by 'Abdu’l-BahSL. The
first two of the historic National Hazfratu'l-Qudu
that are to be established in the capital cities of
the Republics of Central America and the Islands
of the Antilles have been acquired.1 A beginning
1 During the Ten Year World Crusade, Hand
of the Cause, Amelia Collins Contributed u large
sum of money for the purchase of sites for
National Hazfratu’l-Quds, Temple sites, and...
1 AC

has been made in the translation of BaM’f
literature into the American Indian languages
spoken in those regions.
•'
*S
"The tasks, now confronting them in the course
of this current year and of the next, demand a
still greater exertion on their part, a more com­
plete dedication to the aims, purposes and prin­
ciples of their Faith, a firmer resolve to achieve
the immediate goals of their Ten-Year Plan, and
a still nobler self-sacrifice in the path of the
Cause they have espoused to champion.
"The two crucial years, constituting the con­
cluding year of the second and the opening year
of the third phase of the Ten-Year Plan must be
signalized, if they would prove themselves wor­
thy of their stewardship to their Faith, by a
series of achievements even more conspicuous
than those that have distinguished the opening
years in the annals of that Faith in Central Amer­
ica and the Antilles,
"The number of avowed adherents of the
Faith must, throughout that area, be speedily and
substantially increased. Simultaneously a nota­
ble multiplication of groups and assemblies must
be ensured in order to enlarge and reinforce the
foundations of the forthcoming Regional National
Assemblies. The incorporation of firmly estab­
lished local spiritual assemblies must like-wise
be expedited. The prizes won in distant and Vir-
ïendowments in may Latin American countries
thus fulfilling a most challenging and import­
ant goal of the Ten-Year Crusade.

gin fields must not only be preserved but contin­
ually enhanced. The translation of Bahà’f litera­
ture into the American Indian languages assign­
ed under the Ten-Year Plan must also be energe­
tic» lly prosecuted. The establishment of nation­
al endowments throughout that area must be,
moreover, diligently undertaken and rapidly car­
ried out. Above all, the purchase of National
Hazfratu'l-Quds in the remaining Republics of
Central America-and the Antilles must, ere the
conclusion of the second year of the second phase
of the Ten-Year Plan be consummated.
*
"Then, and only then, can the Central America
Bahà'f Communities, that have won such superb
victories in the past, confidently assume the
sacred burden of responsibility incumbent upon
them in the course of the third phase of this world
encircling crusade. Then, and only then, can
they demonstrate to th^ BaháT World their cap­
acity to carry out in its entirety their share in
ensuring the triumphant conclusion of this world­
wide enterprise launched by the valiant upholders
of the Faith of Bahà'u’ilàh.
"The tribulations now experienced by their
brethern in the land of its birth should, far from
crushing their spirit or dampening the zeal which
animates them, infuse into them fresh courage
and a more determined resolve to arise and com­
pensate for the loss which the Cause is now susta­
ining. Individually as well as collectively, in
their capacity as teachers and administrators,
they should prove by their conduct the world-re­
deeming capacity of their Faith, demonstrate its
incorruptible spirit, proclaim the sublimity of its

teachings, and silence the criticism of its
opponents.
"Theirs is a glorious opportunity which they must
not, in these day of test and trial, neglect. Theirs
is a sacred duty which they must be fittingly dis­
charge. May they arise as one man, and armed
with the invincible power of Bahà'u'ilàh, play their
part in a manner that will bring everlasting consol­
ation to the hearts of their persecuted brethern, and
dishearten thoroughly those redoubtable adversar­
ies who are so artfully and persistently labouring to
undermine its foundations and extinguish its light. "
Your true brother,
(Signed) Shoghi
The last major letter from the Guardian to the
National Assembly of Central America was dated
July 28th, 1957. Earlier that same year, two
Regional National Assemblies were formed, one
for Central America, Mexico and Panama, and
another for the Antilles. Thus the last prépara^
tory step for the ultimate establishment of inde­
pendent National Assemblies for each nation was
accomplished, This final letter is historically
significant not only because it was the last, but
also because it was so stirring in its challenges.
"The beloved Guardian has instructed me to
answer on his behalf your letters dated May 30th,
June 26th, and July 16th.
"He was delighted to hear that the Convention
was such a success, and that the Hand of the
Cause, Mr. Khádem, was able to visit so many
centers throughout that region. He feels sure
that the spirit he imparted to the friends, as well

as the stirring events of the Convention and the
election of your Assembly, will all mark a
turning point in the work in that area and give the
forward march of the Faith a new impetus.
"Now that the New Regional Assemblies in
Latin America have been formed, and that each
one embraces a more limited area than the pre­
vious Central and South American assemblies, the
work should be much easier to handle, and there­
fore go ahead much faster. He anticipates great
things from your assembly and is eagerly await­
ing news of fresh victories.
"Hie paramount task is, of course, the teaching
work: at every session your assembly should give
it close attention, considering everything else of
secondary importance. Not only must many new
assemblies be developed, as well as groups and
isolated centers, but special attention must be
focused on the work of converting the Indians to
the Faith. The goal should be all-Indian assem­
blies, so that these much exploited and suppressed
original inhabitants of the land may realize that
they are equals and partners in the affairs of the
Cause of God, and that Bahà'u'ilàh is the Manifes­
tation of God for them.
"Another of the important tasks facing your
body is that of purchasing sites for future Temples
in the outskirts of the capital cities of all the Re­
publics under your jurisdiction, with the excep­
tion of Panama, which has its Temple site already.
The land need not be large, two or three acres
being quite sufficient for your purposes at this
time; it need not be in the city but anywhere within

a radius of fifteen kilometers, and economy
should be borne in mind. If, when the time comes
to build a House of Worship, the site is not suit­
able, ifccan be exchanged or sold and another one
acquired.
"Wherever the laws permit, firmly established
local assemblies should be incorporated, thus
laying a foundation on which the future indepen­
dent National Spiritual Assemblies can build when
they come into being.
"Every step forward in the expansion of our
glorious Faith releases new spiritual energies.
The believers, as well as your assembly, must
seize upon this opportunity they now have with
both hands, and arise to new levels of self-sacri­
fice, service and dedication, confident that
Bahà'u'llâh is only waiting for the instruments to
be put in His hands in order to fulfill His Divine
purpose.
"The Guardian assures you he will support
you, one and all, with his prayers, and supplicate
that you may be guided in carrying out your great
work, strengthened and protected.
With warm BaháT greetings,
(Signed) R. Rabbani
Dear and ValuedXo-workers :
"The formation <sf a Regional Spiritual
Assembly representing the Bahà'f Communities
of Central America and Mexico, with its seat
fixed in the capital city of a Republic the future

of which the pen of the Centre of Bahâ'u’llâh's
Covenant has extolled, is indeed, an auspicious
event of far-reaching significance, to be acclaim­
ed as the forerunner of no less than seven National
Spiritual Assemblies, designed to support, each
as a separate pillar, the noble and divinely con­
ceived structure of the Universal House of Justice.
"There can be no doubt that the remarkable
progress achieved, singly and collectively, in both
the teaching and administrative fluids, by the fol­
lowers of the Most Great Name, labouring, in the
course of two decades, so diligently, for the pro­
pagation of His Faith, throughout the length and
breadth of an area linking the northern and south­
ern continents of the Western Hemisphere, has
been responsible for this great step forward that
has been taken towards the consummation of so
historic a task.
"The various and urgent enterprises, now
challenging both their spirit and resources, de­
mand a consecration as complete, a resolve as
firm, and a zeal as ardent as any they have hither­
to envinced.
"The Six-Year Plan formulated to enable them
to meet the immediate requirements of their
mission should be prosecuted with the utmost dili­
gence. Attention, on the part of all the members
of the seven Bahà’f Communities participating in
this world crusade, as well as their elected re­
presentatives, should be continually focused on
its objectives.
I ll

"A Systematic effort must be made by the rank
and file of these communities to increase rapidly
the nuMber of avowed supporters of the Faith, of
isolated oenters, of groups and of local spiritual
assemblies. Every firmly grounded assembly
should, at the earliest opportunity, be incorpor­
ated for the purpose of reinforcing the foundations
of the rising structure of a divinely conceived ad­
ministrative order. Every avenue should more­
over, be explored in order to obtain recognition
from the civil authorities concerned, of the Bahâ'f
marriage certificate and of the Bahà'f Holy Days.
Nor must the meritorious work, so zealously un­
dertaken in the newly opened virgin territories be,
under any circumstances, neglected. The trans­
lation of Bahâ'f literature into the Spanish and
American Indian languages, its publication and
dissemination, should likewise, be carried out
with efficiency and vigour. The all-important
enterprise, aimed at winning the whole-hearted
allegiance of the members of various tribes of
the American Indians to the Cause of Bahà'u’llâh,
and of ensuring their active and sustained par­
ticipation in the conduct of its administrative
affairs, must likewise be seriously considered
and strenuously pursued. And, last but not least,
a site of modest dimensions should in the neighbor­
hood of the capital cities of each of these seven
Republics, with the exception of Panama, .be cho­
sen and promptly purchased, designed to pave
the way for the ultimate erection of a Mother
Temple in each of these Republics.
"Marvellous opportunities, which if not seized
at once may not reoccur, have been vouchsafed,
at this auspicious hour, to the prosecutors of this

historie and momentous Plan, on which the imme­
diate destinies of these communities, now gathered
under the shadow of Bahà'u'llâh, depend. Theirs
is the privilege and sacred duty to exploit them to
the full, ere it is too late, and to play their part,
befitting the co-executors of * Abdu'1-Bahá's Divine
Plan and members of that band of crusaders now
battling for the strength of His Father's Cause in
building up the institutions, and in broadening and
reinforcing the foundations, of the embryonic
world order of His Faith in the heart of the Western
Hemisphere.
"No matter how severe the testis and trials they
may encounter, however arduous the task that con­
fronts them, they must, one and all, pursue stead­
ily the path they now tread, with undimmed vision,
undeviating loyalty, unrestrained devotion and un­
yielding determination, until the Plan they are
pledged to execute will have been carried out in
its entirety, and the fondest .expectations enter­
tained for their success by their watchful brethern
throughout the Western Hemisphere, and, indeed,
in every continent of the globe, are triumphantly
fulfilled.
"May the spirit of Bahà'u'llâh bountifully sus­
tain them while discharging their manifold and
pressing responsibilities, and may the Author of
the Divine Plan, whose design they are painstaking­
ly labouring to create, and whose mandate they
have willingly arisen to obey, guide every step
they take, remove every obstacle obstructing their
path, fulfill every hope they cherish, and enable
them, through a still greater measure of His abiding

grace, promised unequivocally to all those who
will respond to His call, to write an unforgettable
chapter in Latin American Bahà’f history, and
contribute a share to its enrichment which poster­
ity will soever cease to extol.
(Signed) Shoghi
Although the Central American Bahâ'f Com­
munity, as was all the Bahâ’f World, was deprived
of its beloved Guardian, they did indeed respond
to his call, and accomplishments of historic signi­
ficance were indeed realized. Just four years
later, at Ridvan, 1961, the long anticipated indep­
endent National Spiritual Assemblies were estab­
lished, thus allowing the Central American believ­
ers to play their role in the establishment of the
Universal House of Justice in 1963. Also during
the period from 1957 to 1963, the Hands of the
Cause DhikrtflUh Khádem and later Dr. Ugo
Giachery took charge of the great task of guiding
and inspiring the Bahâ'fs of Central America and
the Antilles. It was with great love and care that
they visited, taught and inspired the Bahâ’fs and
guided their institutions.
The previous letters outline the steady growth
and consolidation of the Faith in Central America
during the first and second parts of the Ten-Year
Plan, and accurately describe the sphere of ad­
ministrative activities which were constantly be­
fore the Regional Assembly. It must be kept in
mind, also, that simultaneously, an ever-increas­
ing effort was being made in the teaching sphere.
With new pioneers, visits from the Hands of the
Cause, the aid of the Auxiliary Board, and the

continued efforts of native teachers, the Cause
of Bahà’u'ilàh was being broadcast throughout the
region. These valiant efforts in the teaching field
were usually made in the face of great obstacles
and involved much sacrifice on the part of the pio­
neers and teachers. Although a complete and
worthy rendering of all those efforts and sacrifices
on the part of so many of Bahâ’u’llâh’s devoted
followers in Central America during those historic
years is beyond the scope of this work, hopefully,
the stories which follow will serve to stir within
the reader an appreciation for their efforts.

•
*s
K
A GLIMPSE OF THE TEACHING EFFORT
The following is a series of stories, recollect­
ions, quips, and fleeting memories, told by
Louise and some of her friends and fellow-pioneers,
of those many now almost indistinguishable years
as a pioneer in Guatemala. During these years,
after the formation of the National Spiritual
Assemblies, the Faith grew rapidly throughout
Central America, as it did throughout the world.
Although the following is not an adequate rendering
of the historical growth of these national Bahà’f
communities, the work, the sacrifice and the
great bounties of the teaching work, were surely
similar everywhere. So it is hoped that the fol­
lowing vignettes will serve to recreate in part
the painstaking growth of the Faith in these coun­
tries and evoke an appreciation for the efforts of
the many pioneers, travel teachers, and Hands
of the Cause.
Although Louise was primarily involved in
teaching activities, on one occasion she was cal­
led upon to protect the Faith from a Covenant
breaker. She was asked to travel to Costa Rica
accompanied by Larry Kramer, who gave a course
on the Divine Plan while they were there. They
went to investigate reports of a Persian who was

visiting the local believers in his robes and making
strange claims. When Louise arrived she sought
him out and visited him at his hotel. When she
referred to the passage of Bahà'u'llâh: "Whoso
maketh a claim before a thousand years is a lying
imposter" (Dispensation of Bahâ'u'llâh, p. 40),
the man in robes replied: 'Well then I am a lying
impostor. " Later after sending in her report, she
received a letter from Horace Holley, secretary
of the National Spiritual Assembly of the United
States which read: "The members of the National
Spiritual Assembly wish to express to you their
cordial thanks for your vigilant and effective act­
ion in protecting the Bahà'fs of Costa Rica from
the negative influences of this man. "
Another pioneer that Louise met in Costa Rica
was Alan Pringle who said later that his contact
with Louise encouraged him to teach the Indians.
In the years that followed, Alan Pringle had great
success teaching the Indians on the San Bias Island
Islands of Panama. Louise continued to support
the Indian teaching efforts not only with her en­
couragement, but with her financial assistance
to the National Spiritual Assembly of Panama as
well. Louise later returned to Panama to visit
the Pringles and help them teach at Indian insti­
tutes and at Villa Virginia. The fame of Alan
and Ruth Pringle's teaching efforts in Panama has
been widely broadcast.
Almost immediately after returning from her
pilgrimage to Haifa, Louise had the great bounty
of accompanying Hand of the Cause Dhikru’llâh
grádem on his tour of Central America. She has
11T

written about some of the highlights of her trip:
"In Tegucigalpa the friends gave a warm and
well organized reception to our visiting Hand.
The first evening Don Gerardo Flores Corleto,
Marfa Rivera, Leo Alfaro and Olimpia Varela
greeted him in-the Bahà'f Center which was at­
tractively arranged with fresh flowers. They also
sent flowers to his room. I went to San Salvador
two days ahead of him, as no one knew he was
coming. With difficulty and the same old footwork
of the early days, I notified some of the friends.
The Corpeflos were very co-operative and the
meetings were held in their home. The first night
they were not prepared for a 'prince!, but on Sun­
day afternoon, they recognized him and were well
prepared.
"Guatemala was something special. Our be­
loved Guardian told Mírzá Khádem he would come
here over 13 years ago. Twelve were present at
the first meeting, the largest number I witnessed.
The second night fewer Bahá' Is came but Sefior
Perez came as a newly declared Bahà'f and he
brought his wife. She said nothing but her face
indicated that she was inspired by the words of
our Hand of the Cause. In Chichicastenango,
Mírzá Khadem launched the Ten-Year Crusade for
the Indians and he lifted all nine present to spirit­
ual heights. He brought healing to Gustavo Rodas
and each one present was made aware of the iim­
port ant part he could play in the Ten-Year Crusade.
He told them the story of Leroy Ioas which stirred
them all to hear of a man who was earning
$50,000.00 a year and nearing a pension—who
left everything to serve our Beloved Guardian.

He went to live in two small rooms and said that
he was living in paradise.
Louise recalled a particular incident during
her travels with Mr. Khádem which serves to
illustrate the many difficulties associated with
traveling by bus in the Central American coun­
tries: "We went to two 'pensions' to find rooms
without success. At one 'pension', I was per­
mitted to use the telephone and found rooms for
us at the Pension Asturias. We were then tired
as it was midday, and we sat on the curb waiting
for a taxi to take us to Pension Asturias. I can't
recall why we found ourselves in a very poor
hotel, but I guess it was because we were going
to Chichicastenango on a bus that left at 6:00
A. M. the next morning. We asked the hotel to
call each of us at 5:30 A. M. After sleeping in a
room with ply-board walls, I heard a knock and
was told it was time to get up. I rushed to dress
and in the lobby or should I say, hall, I met Mr.
Khádem. We greeted each other and sat in chairs
in silence. Looking at my watch I noticed it was
3:00 instead of 5:30. This disturbed our night's
sleep. "
A few months after her trip with Mr. Khádem.
Louise was settled in Chichicastenango, Guatemala.
She recalled with fond memories the way she ob­
served the birth of the Báb which apart from being
the day of the birth of our beloved Báb, it was
also a national holiday of Guatemala. Adriana
Zufliga, teacher of 'Instituto Cultural Bahà'f,' and
I were invited to accompany the mayor and offi­
cials of the town in the parade to the grounds
where speeches were made, and games were

played. During the ceremony, Adriana sat at the
right hand of the judge, and I sat at the left hand
of the mayor so that the two government officials
were flanked by two Bahà'fs. As we sat under the
tin canopy decorated with pine boughs, watching
the ceremonies, I had to wipe an occasional tear
from my eyes, as I thought of the Báb, of
Bahà'u'ilàh, and 'Abdu'1-Bahá and the spiritual
assembly of Yazd, all of them in prison. I also
kept thinking about Dhikru'llâh Khádem and his hav­
ing visited this town in June and launching for us
the Ten-Year Crusade. The sun came out and
shone upon us and warmed us and I felt the glow of
the coming victory for our Faith. "
"Once Artemus Lamb and Î were staying in the
same 'pension* in Costa Ripa. Americans were
forbidden to go out on the streets as there was po­
litical upheaval of some kind. Nevertheless, we
went to a park, just a block away from the 'pension'.
But when the bullets started whizzing over our
heads we rushed home. "
"Once when I was still living there, Robert
Gulick visited Costa Rica and I gave a tea for
about sixty women, in the best hotel in San José.
He gave a Bahà'f talk and then asked me how many
were Bahà'fs. To his great0surprise, I answered,
'none*. "
"We paid little attention to the political pro­
blems of government except when they interfered
with Bahà'f meetings. Once, however, during
some changes of government in Guatemala, I

was on a bus going to a town in the southern
part of the country. Suddenly a man got on the
bus, and said to the passengers in a polite tone,
'Please get off the bus. We are going to set it
on fire. ' So, I got off and took the next bus. "
"In 1955, I spent several weeks with Margaret
Mills and Marjorie Stee in El Salvador. The two
girls had rented a small house in Santa Ana and
had weekly meetings there. I helped them arrange
the furniture and gave a talk. The door was open
to the street, and I remember so clearly that per­
spiration was pouring off my face, as I talked
about Bahà'u'llâh. A woman looked in and I knew
that she was going to become a Bahà'f, even though
she did not come in and said nothing. This was
Menscha, who worked for the Ferrands years
later, and became a very loyal Bahà'f. "
The following account as recalled by Alice
Sinclair in a letter to Louise, depicts better than
anything else could, what "the seed-sowing years"
were like in Central America:
"Manolo and I had just returned from a teach­
ing trip to Chinaca, about 16 kilometers from
Huehuetenango, Guatemala. We had two nice
experiences talking with people and on the way
back I was so tired I had to rest so we found a
tree and sat down to rest in the shade. Dozens
of people passed by and of course we greeted them,
but one man with beautiful eyes came over to us
like a magnet. We asked him when we could come
to his aldea to give the people a beautiful message
121'

about the new Messenger God had sent. He said,
’Are you Bahà'fs?’ I nearly fell dead, and said
’y es.’ He said, ’I am a Bahâ’f . ’ Tears came to
his eyes. He put his arms around me and said,
’I’ve hunted all over for Louise Caswell to tell me
more about the Bahâ’f Faith. I went to Guatemala
City, Retalhuleu, Masatenango, and other places
hunting for her to tell me more. ’ Then the dear
soul fumbled to the bottom of his sack and pulled
out an old prayer book wrapped in pieces of cloth
and said, ’She gave me this in 1953, I always pray
to Bahâ’u’llâh and to ’Abdü'1-Bahà to let me find
this wonderful message. Now finally I have found
it again. My children are the only ones that believe
me that there is such a beautiful religion. Others
laugh and say it isn’t true. Please get me books.
I’ll be there Wednesday at 11:00 A. M. to pick them
up with my friends. I have a little ranch to teach
them in. My wife said this religion was false and
destroyed the books Mrs. Caswell gave me — all
but the prayer book. She soon died so it proves
it wasn’t false. * When I told him we would have
tortillas and coffee ready for them on Wednesday,
he said, 'No, we want food for the spirit instead'.”
"One afternoon I was returning from a visit to
an Indian family near Retalhuleu, Guatemala,
where we met in their thatch-covered hut with
dirt floor in that scorchingly hot sea-level area
amidst the lush growing ferns and palm trees.
I was crossing a low bridge over a creek where
the women were bathing. Suddenly a woman was
walking towards me and as I smiled at her I soon
found her in my arms sobbing and weeping, begging
me to give her something to cure her habit of
drinking liquor, a habit which she had acquired

after she had lost her husband who was killed in­
stantly by a train. What comfort a Bahà'f can give
was offered to her but in reality, all I could do was
to listen patiently. This is only one of the incidents
I experienced when all I could do was listen to the
'tale of the poor that lieth upon the dust', and 'suf­
fer him to recount the tale of the woes with which
God's inscrutable decree hath caused him to be
afflicted. ' (Gleanings, p. 315) . What a nearness
I felt knowing that the Supreme Concourse was
looking down on us and blessing us as we listened
to the tales of the poor. This is one of the great­
est bounties of pioneering. "
"I often remembered that 'Abdu'1-Bahá wanted
to teach the 'nameless and traceless poor, ' when
my own patience was taxed. Such was the case
when an 'ambulante' (Spanish for a wanderer, a
rover, very poor and truly nameless) began to talk
to me in a bus when I was going from Retalhuleu to
San Sebastian. He was most helpful in explaining
to me a few words in the Maya-Quich d lalect.
My friendliness resulted in several visits by him
to my hotel. He came to tell his sad stories, how
he had been put in jail for fighting, how he had
been dragged through the streets like a pig. Some­
times I wondered how long he would keep me stand­
ing in the hotel lobby listeniig to him. On one such
occasion, Johnny Eichenauer came along just as
I was about to become exasperated. Finally,
Johnny said to him, *So what are you going to do
now?* This question started a new set of impulses
in the ' ambulante's ' head and off he went to his
next activity. This remark of Johnny's should be
useful for many in the future. "

INTROSPECTION
Louise rarely complained about anything to
anyone, and was always careful to keep her tests
and suffering to herself. However, she once
wrote a summary or introspection of her difficult
years during the Ten-Year World Crusade that
included some generalizations about her exper­
ience as a pioneer. Her thoughts are probably
applicable to most, if not all, pioneers.
"It is true that the beloved Guardian has asked
us to bring order into our lives and this I have
been trying to do ever since his special instruc­
tion, but as for a particular teaching method, this
is difficult for me to develop. Martha Root has
been my example, since she taught in my home
in Portland, Oregon, and I was able to observe
her work. But in the small towns of Guatemala
the work was principally with people of the soil
and required a different approach. Roaming the
hills dwelling on the life of Bahà'u' lláh, visiting
the plazas of the Indian towns, communing with
the Indian spirit, which, next to the memory of
Bahâ'u'llâh, was the most refreshing and healing
elixir for the soul. The spontaneous Smiles of
the native Indians reminds us that there is a
great spirit which they have carried down from

the past, a spirit which ' Abdu'1-Bahá knew would
become rekindled and bring illumination to the
world. If the town had a library or a museum I
would visit it. The goal of winning souls to the
Faith of Bahà'u'ilàh seemed so very difficult and
slow in accomplishing that we could not understand
at first, why the beloved Guardian had written
that the work in Latin America had progressed
with lightning-like rapidity'. I cannot feel that
I converted anyone to the Faith in this time, but
rather that I found believers, and we together have
taught them—so very few, but without discourage­
ment. We could never count the people that have
shown enthusiasm and then disappeared into thin
air, or how many have convinced us that they
would become Bahà'fs, contribute to the fund and
work for the Faith. We are the lambs of God.
We believe; and disappointments cannot keep us
from drawing with due renunciation from those
life-giving waters to 'sprinkle therewith all
created things. ' (Gleanings, p. 279) . So we go
right on, accompanied by the chosen angels, and
communing intimately with the spirit. The daily
prayer and daily effort of the pioneers, our con­
stancy in giving the message to people in all walks
of life, our obedience to all our beloved Guardian's
instructions and suggestions, our winning of races
and peoples to the glorious Faith of Bahà'u'llâh,
all these are but stepping-stones to attaining
acdeptance of our Lord 'that they may, at the
hour of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and
aanctity and with absolute detachment, to the
throne of the Most High. ' (Gleanings, p. 157)
"If our difficulties will help future pioneers,
then we must recount them for their sakes.

Speaking for myself, I can say that the greatest
difficulty has been the gradual revelation of the
self to the self: this revelation admits of no
timing and goes back as far as one can remember,
until one finds oneself constantly saying: 'Why
did I do this1 awful thing? ř The best answer
seems to be that 'I was not conscious of what I
was doing' ahd that ’my point of view was purely
selfish and did not include anyone else. ' This
is not pleasant. But there is a cure for falling
into despondency caused by remorse, and this
cure is the mention of Bahâ'u'llâh. This is the
healing of all our ills. Do we not enjoy 'that
which draweth us nigh unto Thee... and every good
thing sent down by Thee in Thy Books and Thy
Scriptures'. (Long Obligatory Prayer) .
"As the self of the pioneer is developing from
the centripetal ego to the universal service, there
must pass moments of great loneliness, for has
not Muhammad told us that 'every good thing
comes to us from God and every evil thing comes
to us from ourselves'? So the self analysis
deepens and the pioneer must overcome this
loneliness by referring to these words: 'Grieve
not if thou doest it ihyself alone. Commune
intimately with His spirit and be of those who
are thankful. ' (Gleanings, p. 280)
"We have seen wonderful examples of real
Bahà'fs who commune so very intimately with
the spirit that they are never lonely. These are
our shining examples. Many of them are living
and do not even want their names mentioned, but
we receive assistance from such as Martha Root,
Keith Ransom-Kehler, May Maxwell, the Dunnes,

Louis Gregory, and many others from the Abhá
Kingdom.
"I was present at the Convention in Panama
in 1957 when two national assemblies were form­
ed , one for Central America, Mexico, and
Panama, and the other for thg Greater Antilles.
I also visited the Convention in El Salvador in 1961,
and the Guatemalan Convention that same year,
when twenty-one National Spiritual Assemblies
were elected in the Western Hemisphere. View­
ing the rapid formation of these twenty-one
national assemblies in countries in which there
were practically no native Bahà'fs at the begin­
ning of the First Seven Year Plan, we can under­
stand what our beloved Guardian meant by the
’lightning-like rapidity of the growth of the Faith
in Latin America’.”

CONCLUSIONS
The Faith did indeed grow rapidly in Central
America from 1939, when Louise first arrived
in Panama, and 1961, when the National Spiritual
Assemblies were formed.
But for each pioneer,
the growth always seemed slow and painful. It
requires great faith and perseverance to ignore
the seemingly slow progress in the life of the
individual pioneer, and to trust that all efforts
bear fruit eventually. When the writer compares
his experience as a pioneer in Guatemala from
1970 to 1972, and presently in Honduras in 1977,
to the pioneering experience of Louise and her
fellow-pioneers of those early years, the dif­
ferences are many and profound. Now we find
national assemblies, with many local assemblies,
and many confirmed believers. How difficult it
is to truly appreciate the sacrificial efforts of
those early pioneers who are responsible for the
present state of the Faith in these Central Amer­
ican countries .
It is beyond the scope of this work to depict
adequately the history of each of the national
Bahà'f communities after the formation of each
national assembly in 1961. Each country has

separate histories from that point, and it must
fall upon other writers to record for posterity
the rich and fascinating history of each national
community. Although the historical portrayal of
this work ends in 1961, Louise's life of service
as a pioneer has continued. She served for many
years on the National Assembly of Guatemala.
In addition, she has served as an inspiration for
many pioneers, both in Guatemala, and throughout
Central America. She has continued to contribute
unselfishly both to her national community and to
the World Center of the Faith. Just one example
of her generosity was the financial support she
provided for the construction of the local center
in Livingston, Guatemala, in obedience to the
suggestion of Hand of the Cause Dr. Muhajir.
The day of the dedication of that center in Feb­
ruary of 1972, will forever be remembered by
all those present. Louise was like a queen, as
she walked down the long road to the center,
accompanied by many believers from Livingston
and by others from all over the country. Her
radiant smile enveloped the entire scene, as she
sat next to the mayor of Livingston during the
inauguration ceremony. As always, she didn't
want the believers to know who had contributed
the money. She was as a radiant sun in that
gathering of brown and black faces'.
Throughout the years from 1961 to 1975,
Louise continued to travel throughout Central
America helping with the teaching work as it
gathered momentum. When she was on pilgri­
mage, the Guardian had told her that she would
become an international teacher. Indeed she did,
as she assisted in Chiapas and Yucatan, Mexico,

Haiti, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador,
Costa Rica, Belicze, and elsewhere. She has
many letters from these various National Assem­
blies thanking her for her work.
K
I

APPRECIATIONS
The following is a passage from a letter dated
March 14, 1964, from the Western Hemisphere
Teaching Committee of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the United States:
As we stand at this point—before the
Nine Year Plan is revealed and after the
great victories of the beloved Guardian's
Crusade climaxed in London, we think of
you and your contribution. We wish we
could adequately express the deep ad­
miration and pride, the appreciation,
love and gratitude we have for youl
Words fail us. You have remained a
pioneer in the. face of all difficulties,
far from your native land with your
mind and heart determinedly set on
expanding the Cause of Bahà'u'ilàh—
a true pioneer 1 Through your efforts
and sacrifice, your teaching and living
our beloved Faith the Great Crusade
came to a triumphant climax. And
you remainedl We love you for this!
We love you for what you arel We are
proud to be linked with you! You are
an integral part of the life of your

adopted country and your National
Spiritual Assembly. You may think
of yourself as belonging only where you
aye. This is your vital life and you
have put down roots. How precious
you must be to Shoghi Effendi who so
desired this devoted steadfastness of
all pioneers’. Though you have grown
beautifully and flourished and accom­
plished vastly, we- still feel the tug
of the ties that bound us closely in
the early days of your planning and
pioneering. You have a special cor­
ner in our hearts. Happy Naw-Rilz'.
Happy days of victories and fulfillment
ahead as we stride into the Nine Year
Plan and joyfully accept the new chal­
lenge'.
Warmest greetings to you from each
committee member, and our
Abiding love,
WESTERN HEMISPHERE TEACHING COMMITTEE
(Signed) Maurine Kraus, secretary
The following paragraph is from a letter
dated September 17, 1961, from H^nd of the
Cause Dhikru'lîâh KhAdem:
"Indeed you have always been, both during the
lifetime of the beloved of all hearts, Shoghi
Effendi, and after his passing, a true example
of devotion and self sacrifice to all the Bahà'fs.
We feel sure that you have always brought joy
to the heart of our Beloved ever since

you left home and everything in response to his
call in pioneering. What a great bounty! We have
been giving your example of indefatigable services
to the beloved friends."
Of course, Louise Caswell was not the first
pioneer in Latin America, and she was not the
only one who persevered in her services. Un­
doubtedly throughout the Bahà'f world, there
were others who matched her services. But she
is truly a shining example to all who would aspire
to the high station of " a true pioneer. " The days
of heroic and historic services to the Cause of
Bahà'u'ilàh such as the Louises of the world wit­
nessed, are gone and will never reappear. We
are building upon the solid foundations they have
laid for us. If we reach higher, it will be because
we stand upon their shoulders.
Let us never for­
get what great sacrifices, and what devoted
labors have been silently and lovingly offered
for the Cause of Bahâ'u'llâh, and let us always
be joyful and thankful for the comparatively
smaller tests and challenges that face us in the
years to come.
One final tribute to Louise must be included
in this work; Ruth Pringle of Panama wrote a
very loving letter to Louise on December 11,
1963. This is just one of the glowing paragraphs:
"You know, Louise, you have a very special
place in your heart for Panama; but I wonder
whether you realize what a special place the
Panamanians both old and new have in their
hearts for you. The glory of today really isn't
ours but rather belongs to the Louises all over

the world who through blood, sweat, tears and
grief toiled, tilling the soil with their love, de­
positing tiny seeds and later cultivating the ten­
der little shoots. Our harvest belongs to you and
through all the worlds of God we shall continue to
sing your praises. "
"I swear by Him Who is the Truth'. Erelong
will God adorn the beginning of the Book of
Existence with the mention of His loved ones
who have suffered tribulation in His path, and
journeyed through the countries in His name
and for His praise. Whoso hath attained their
presence will glory in their meeting, and all
that dwell in every land will be illumined by
their memory. "
— Bahà'u'llâh {quoted by Shoghi Effendi in
Advent of Divine Justice, p. 70)

Bahà'f Group of Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, 1941. Johnny Eichenauer
and Louise Caswell, center rear.
Managua, Nicaragua Bahà'fs with
Catherine Cole, 1945.