











This publication is available in book-form from
Bahá’í Publishing Trust – India
www.bahaindia.org/bpt/bptbookstt.html









ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I would like to thank Thomas Roberts and Gamal Hassan for their
help and suggestions, Riadh ‘Alí for his encouragement and
suggestions and special gratitude to Dr. Jimmy Seou who
specifically asked that this book be prepared.

_____________________











DEDICATION

This book is dedicated to our two sons, Olinga and Balsam for
their dedication to render service to all who are around them, as
well as to all those who are consecrating their efforts for the
betterment of the world.

___________________















CONTENTS

Foreword
Part l :
The future of Islám in the Qur’án

Consequences of the Literal Interpretation
of the Word of God
The Warning of God regarding the Interpretation
of the Qur’án…………………………………….
Muhammad the Seal of the Prophets
Messenger and Prophet
Islám: The only Divine Religion
God will always send His Messengers
A Central or Intermediary  Nation
Every Nation has its Set Term
The set term of the Muslim Nation
The Advent of Two Messengers
The return of Yahyá (John) son of Zachariah  And
‘Ísá (Jesus) son of Mary …………………….
Two Events on the Day of Resurrection
Two Consecutive Trumpet Blasts On The Day of
Resurrection ……………………………………….
The next Revelation
The Crier “المنادي Al Munadi”








The Summoner  " الدّاعي Al Da’i"
Names given to The Messengers of God
The Day of the End that has no End
Who will enter Paradise?
The Hour
Life and Death as mentioned in the Qur’án
The Resurrection
The First image
The Second Image
The Third Image
The Fourth Image
The Great Announcement

A GENERAL REVIEW

Part II
The Great Announcement, the Clear Evidence,
the Crier and the Summoner promised in the
Qur’án.
The station of mankind
The Education of man
The Unity of the Messengers of God
Religion is One
Progressive Revelation
Why people denied the Messengers of God
Sun, Heaven(s), Earth, Stars, Mountains, Seas…
Present world situation: has the Hour Struck?
He has Come

Part III
The Fulfilment
The Bahá’í Faith – A Brief Presentation
The Promised One
A Divine Mission
Our Relation with God
The Oneness of God










The Oneness of the Messengers of God
The Life of Bahá’u’lláh
Public Declaration of His Mission
Exile to Adrianople
Exile to ‘Akká
Why was it that Bahá’u’lláh had to suffer
so much?  Why must the Manifestations
of God suffer so much?
The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
The Herald – The Báb
Unity of Religion
The Everlasting Covenant
The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh
‘Abdu’l-Bahá – The Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant   …………………………………………
Unity of Mankind
World Unity
The need for a New World Order
The New World Order
The Building of World Civilization
The Bahá’í Administrative Order
Some Beliefs, Laws and Ordinances of the Bahá’í
Faith
Some Principles and Teachings of the Bahá’í Faith
A Final Word
APPENDIX
Bibliography
__________________________







FOREWORD

Islám: The Road Ahead

In a recent publication in French, I addressed the Muslims of North
Africa living in Europe, who are finding difficulty to live their ritual life
the way they would like. The changes brought about by modernity,
not only affect the older generation that migrated from North Africa,
but indeed totally perplexes the younger generation born in
migration.

A thought that has both crossed my mind and found echo with some
friends from Asia, was that English speaking Muslims and Muslims
residing in English speaking countries may be confronted with
difficulties similar to what we in North Africa and our immigrant
brethren in Europe are experiencing, with regard to the practicing of
their Faith. These difficulties are mainly due to the on-rolling
modernity, because of language requirements in international
relations and because of the perplexity created by the diverse
teachings that emanate from different schools of Islám.

Ever since my junior years, I have had the opportunity to discuss the
relationship between Islám and the Bahá'í Faith, with young and old.
Today, though advanced in age (85), I still think it is a duty to add my
suggestions to the understanding of certain questions that most
Muslims may have thought about, and may wish to consider from a
different perspective – that of a Bahá’í.

A fact that everyone would agree to, is that during all those years since
my junior age, changes have come about worldwide, at an ever
accelerating pace, modifying all aspects of human life. These changes
that came in rapid succession principally by the evolution of science
and technology, have irresistibly affected our lifestyle, our habits and
our way of thinking.


A subject that is worth considering is the impact of these changes on
our understanding of religion and of living a ritual life as dictated by
the Law of God. Modern life does not sustain the possibility of
practicing the Muslim Faith the way practiced less than 100 years ago.
The changes that came about since the mid 19th century, nay, of recent
decades, have replaced centuries of an almost unchanged life-style.
The difficulty of sustaining the practice of religion is yet more acute
with the young generation: our youth, our future.

The future: How can we conceive the future? No one denies the value
of the past contribution of the Islámic civilizations to philosophy,
arithmetic, medicine and other fields of human endeavour. That was
in the past. Today the Muslim nations are unable to contribute any fair
share to innovations in the sciences and technology or social sciences.
Life today renders the application of Shari'a Law very difficult, if not
impossible. Again, many of its elements are not in harmony with
today’s universally acknowledged human rights.  One or two Muslim
nations have adopted civil personal and social codes of law, whilst the
remaining countries, those that continue to adhere to Shari’a Law, are
slowly phasing its application out. Intermittent enforcement of certain
Laws in some societies gave rise to opposition and degenerated into
conflict. All of which did not help to maintain stability of their societies.

Most Muslims feel unhappy with their condition and with the
way in which non-Muslims regard Islám. Muslim youth are at a loss for
direction, and the family ties either have loosened completely or are
quickly loosening, a disease that has become a worldwide
phenomenon.

Some, or maybe many, believe that Islám will be revived and the
Shari‘a Law will pervade all humankind when the Mihdí or Qa’im
appears on earth. In other words, and according to this prevailing
understanding, after the Resurrection, when all people would have
perished, brought out from their graves, judged and separated into
"the wicked" who will be sent to Hell, and "the good" whose
destination will be Paradise. Such is the prevailing impression of what


will take place. Yet many are in doubt that such a scenario could
happen as such, and end up abandoning all thought on the matter.

The subject of the finality of religion is one of the most important
concepts upheld by Muslims, in the same way as it is upheld by all
other religious communities - notably the Christians and the Jews. This
belief gives rise to a number of baffling questions: Will Islám remain
as it is until the Day of The Resurrection? What is this day of The
Resurrection? What will happen on the Day of The Resurrection?

This is not the end of such questions, as others like the following would
be also waiting for an answer: What will happen to Muslims who
belong to sects other than "mine", on the Day of Judgement? The
returns of Jesus preceded by The Mihdí on the Day of the last
Judgement — what would these two Holy Figures do on Earth? What
will be left there on earth at "The End of Time" آخر الزّمان? Or consider
The Balance! What is "The Balance"? And this one most important
question: Why did the peoples of other religions refuse to accept
Muhammad the Messenger of God?

To contribute to the pursuit of finding acceptable answers to the
foregoing and other questions, I chose some concepts that are on the
minds today, and will discuss them briefly according to a new
understanding of some relevant verses in the Qur’án, in the light of
the Bahá’í Teachings: what is the Resurrection, life and death, the
Hour? What will happen on that Day? How will the Divine Revelation
of Islám attain its divinely ordained fulfilment?

In Part I of this book, we shall reflect on these questions in the light of
the verses that God revealed in the Qur’án. It is my hope that when
considered objectively, the explanation given to these concepts may
bring joy and happiness to the Reader, Muslim and non-Muslim alike.

Part II of this book introduces a new understanding of various subjects
that reconciles religions together and concludes that the Hour has in
fact struck and the promised Messiah has come.



Part III briefly introduces the Bahá’í Faith, with a glimmer from the life
of Its Author, Bahá’u’lláh, His Forerunner the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the
authorized Interpreter and Expounder of the Bahá'í Faith, as well as a
glimpse into the Bahá’í Teachings and Principles.

The Reader will notice that I have included the original Arabic
Text for the Qur'ánic verses that have been cited. The Arabic speaking
Readers will find this as both helpful and satisfying at the same time.

My only hope and sole desire from this book is to encourage the
reflection upon the above mentioned questions with my brethren in
the Faith of the One True Almighty God, fervently praying that the
dear Readers will find increasing happiness and satisfaction as they go
through it.


















Part l
The future of Islám in the Qur’án



Part l
The future of Islám in the Qur’án

Consequences of the Literal Interpretation
of the Word of God

The literal interpretation of the Word of God in the Holy Scripture: The
Qur’án, The Bible and the Old Testament, has not only given rise to
schism, sectarian misunderstanding and conflict between the religious
communities and within the same religious community, but indeed
created erroneous concepts that became dogmas. These dogmas
quickly acted as a veil over the minds and hearts of man prohibiting
him from accepting any other vision than that which he has in his
mind.

Look at the attitude of the nation of Moses. They were waiting for the
appearance of the Messiah. When Jesus Christ the Messiah came, the
Jews refused Him. Their attitude was such as to say to Him, “You are
not the One that our Prophets had promised us. Our Messiah should
confirm the Torah and the Commandments. You have abolished the
law of divorce and the respect for the Sabbath day. The Messiah we
are waiting for must render the Law of the Torah, the Law for the
whole of humanity”. With that idea spread as a “veil” on their minds
and hearts, the Jews refused to accept Jesus Christ.

The Christians did not fare any better when Muhammad, the
Messenger of God was sent to them and invited them to believe in the
Qur’án. Here again, they seemed to express the opinion: “He whom
we are waiting for is different to what we see. Our learned Leaders,
our Ulamá, who are well versed in the scriptures, forbid us from
recognizing you". They would further say: "Our learned Leaders know
everything.  He whom we are waiting for will establish the reign of the
Evangel and no other book". This idea acted as a “veil” before their
eyes and prevented them from seeing the Light that rose above the
horizon of Hijaz.



Why, one may ask, did the Jews refuse Jesus Christ, and why did the
Jews and the Christians refuse to accept Muhammad the Messenger
of God? ls it because they did not understand their Sacred Writings, or
is it because they were led astray by their Religious Leaders? ls it not
true that their Religious Heads had "interpreted" the Sacred Scriptures
in a manner that excluded all possibility that God may send Jesus
Christ followed by Muhammad as His Messengers?


The Warning of God regarding the
Interpretation of the Qur’án

God warned the Muslims in the Qur’án against interpreting the
Qur’án. In the Súrih of the Family of ‘Imrán (III v. 7)it is very clearly
stated:
He it is who hath sent down to thee the Book. Some of its
signs (verses) are of themselves perspicuous; -- these are
the basis of the Book – and others are figurative. But they
whose hearts are given to err, follow its figures, craving
discord, craving an interpretation; yet none knoweth its
interpretation but God. And the stable in knowledge say
“We believe in it; all is from our Lord.” But none will bear
this in mind, save men endued with understanding.


ِهو الذي أنزل عليكَ الكتابَ منهُ آياتٌ محكماتٌ هُنَّ أمُّ الكتاب
ِوأُخَرٌ  متشابهاتٌ  فَأمّا الذين في قلوبِه مْ زَيْغٌ فيتَّبِعونَ  ما
تشابَهَ مِنْهُ ابْتِغَاءَ الفِتْنَةِ وابتِغَاءَ تأويلِهِ  وما يعْلَمُ تأويلُهُ إالّ هللا
والرّاسِخُونَ في العلْمِ يقولونَ آمَنَّا بهِ  كلٌ من عند رَبِنَا وما
.يُذَّكَّرُ إالّ أُولُوا األلباب

(
آل عمران7
)

Some very important points in this verse of the Qur’án require
reflection on our behalf:

The Qur’án is called “the Book”.



The Qur’án contains verses that are perspicuous:  ٌمحكمات,
these are the basis of the Book.

The Qur’án also contains verses that are figurative  ٌمتشابهات,
these are generally followed by those whose hearts are given
to err, and by so doing create discord when they seek to
interpret these figurative verses. Yet God alone knows the
interpretation of these figurative verses.

The “stable in knowledge” – the true Learned amongst the
Muslims, will not interpret the figurative verses, but indeed
they will confirm that they “believe in it; all is from our Lord”.
They know that they do not have the permission to reveal the
interpretation despite their knowledge. They also know that
the figurative verses of the Qur’án should not and cannot be
authoritatively interpreted by mortal minds.

The verses that “are of themselves perspicuous” محكمات are the ones
that are easy to understand, and that need no interpretation. They are
at the origin of the Laws and Ordinances of the Faith, and as such
distinguish the Muslims as an independent community – they are the
basis of the Book   أمُّ الكتاب or, if literally translated, “mother of the
Book”, that which gives birth to a new Law. The “stable in knowledge”
may well explain and interpret these verses and deduct applications
wherefrom to the individual and to the community.

The “figurative” verses, however, definitely require interpretation,
and Muslims are warned not to interpret these verses, because “none
knoweth its interpretation but God”.

Unfortunately, the Ulamá (that is the Learned or Religious Leaders)
have disobeyed this injunction and acted contrary to what was
required of them. In interpreting the figurative verses, in accordance
with their own, and naturally different understanding, they created
schism that gave rise to various sects. Sectarianism in turn favoured
the incubation and propagation of hatred and conflict, even war and
death.


The question that should immediately come to mind here is this: How
and eventually when, shall we understand the “figurative” verses the
interpretation of which God alone knows?

In the Súrih of Resurrection, we find the confirmation that we have to
follow the teachings of the Word of God and not interpret it because
God promised to send to us the interpretation. Here is how God
addresses Muhammad the Apostle of God on the subject:
Move not thy tongue in haste to follow and master this
revelation;
For we will see to the collecting and the recital of it
{Qur’ánahu};
But when we have recited it, then follow thou the recital,
And verily, afterwards it shall be ours to make it clear
{bayanahu or interpret it} to thee.
(Súrih LXXV, The Resurrection, vv. 16 – 19)

ال تُحَرِّك بهِ لِسَانَكَ لِتَعْجَلَ بهِ  إنَّا عَلَيْنَا جَمْعَهُ وقُرأنَهُ  فَإذا
قرء
ناه
ُفَاتَّبِعْ قُرأنَهُ  ثُمَّ إنَّ عَلَيْنا بَيَانَه
(القيامة
-
)


It is evident from these verses that God called on Muhammad the
Messenger of God, and thereby the Muslims who are His followers,
not to hasten to understand the Revelation sent down upon Him, but
rather to follow and apply the precepts revealed. God then promised
that the clarification, the explanation, indeed the interpretation will
be sent by Him.

A further consideration of the above-mentioned verses, revealed
under the Súrih of Resurrection, might well lead us to ask, “Is there any
connection between the title ‘Resurrection’ of the Súrih and the
promised ‘interpretation’?”  Will the “interpretation” be revealed only
on the Day of Resurrection?

In the Súrih of The Heights we read:


And now have We brought them the Book: with
knowledge have We explained it; a guidance and a mercy
to them that believe. What have they to wait for now but
its interpretation? When its interpretation shall come,
they who aforetime were oblivious of it shall say, “The
Apostles of our Lord did indeed bring the truth; shall we
have any intercessors to intercede for us? Or could we not
be sent back? Then would we act otherwise than we have
acted.” But they have ruined themselves; and the deities
of their own devising have fled from them!
(Súrih VII, The Heights, vv. 52-3)

َولَقَدْ جِئْن
ا ٍهُم بِكِتَابٍ فَصًّّلْنَاهُ عَلَى عِلْمٍ هُدَى ورًّحُمًّةًّ لِقَوْ م
يُؤمِنُونَ  هًّلْ يَنْظُرُونَ إالَّ تَأويلَهُ  يومَ يَأتِي تأويلُهُ  يقولُ الذين
َنَسُوهُ مِنْ قَبْلُ قدْ جَاءَتْ رُسُلُ رَبَّنَا بالحَقِّ  فَهَل لنَا مِن شُفَعَاء
ْفَيَش فَعُوا لنا أو نُرَدُّ فَنَعْمَلَ غَيْرَ الذي كنَّا نَعْمَلُ  قد خَسِرُوا
.أنْفُسَهُم وضَل عَنْهُم ما كَانُوا يَفْتَرُون
(األعراف52
-
)


The “interpretation” that “none knoweth... but God” shall come,
Almighty God has promised. “What have they to wait for now but its
interpretation?” implies that we should look for “its interpretation”
with expectation. And when “its interpretation” does come, God
further tells us, it shall be rejected, and the forgetful and oblivious will
say: “The Apostles of our Lord did indeed bring the truth...”.  In other
words, the forgetful and the oblivious will say to Him whom God will
entrust with the duty of revealing the “interpretation”: “We do not
need this new ‘Truth’ of yours”...

Muhammad the Messenger of God, did not leave an interpretation of
the Qur’án. Neither did any of the successors nor the Imáms leave
behind them an interpretation. Interpreters of later centuries who
attempted interpretation of the Qur’án, did not claim authenticity or
divine origin for their interpretations.


The verses of the Qur’án were written down at the moment of
revelation or soon after, on palm leaves, leather, stone or shoulder-
blades of sheep; while with their fine capacity of memorizing, the
Arabs at the time quickly memorized the verses.
“Soon after the ascension of Muhammad, many reciters of the
Qur’án were killed in battle; it was therefore thought necessary
to compile the entire Qur’án into one; this task was given to the
amanuensis of the Apostle Muhammad, Zayd ibn Thábit... Zayd
searched out the entire Qur’án and compiled it, simply putting
the long Súrihs first, regardless of chronology... Zayd’s text
continued to be standard during ‘Umar’s caliphate, but it was
found that various variations had crept into many copies; the
men of Syria and ‘Iráq had different readings, and the caliph
‘Uthmán therefore had all the versions compared with Zayd’s
original, Zayd and three coadjutors being appointed to do the
work. Transcripts of this recension were sent out to all the cities,
all other copies were burnt... Zayd’s original compilation was
made within two or three years of the ascension of Muhammad
the Messenger of God, and there is no question as to its
accuracy; ‘Ali the Imám, was there, and many of the devout who
knew Qur’án by heart, and besides the transcripts of the
separate portions were in daily use.” (From Six Lessons on Islám by
Marzieh Gail).

Neither Muhammad the Messenger of God, nor the Caliphs, nor the
Imáms, had left any interpretation of the Qur’án. This is not
astonishing, since “none knoweth its interpretation but God”.
However, God promised to send the “interpretation”, and we know
that all divine revelations are accomplished through His Messengers.
It is clear then, that we should expect a Messenger to come to us and
reveal the interpretation of these verses as the Almighty had
promised, and that that Revelation shall come to mankind on the Day
of Resurrection.



Muhammad the Seal of the Prophets

The finality of Divine Revelation is a subject that has taken its toll on
all the religious communities throughout the ages. Each community
claimed that its Faith is the final religion and that no other revelation
will come until the end of time.

Let us see what the Holy Words of God tell us on this subject:

In the Súrih of the Confederates God tells us:
Muhammad is not the father of any man among you,
but he is the Apostle of God, and the seal of the
prophets: and God knoweth all things.
(Súrih XXXIII, The Confederates, 40)

ما كانَ مُحَمَََّ دٌ أبَا أحَدٍ مِن رِ جالِكُم ولَكِن رَسولَ هللا وخَاتم
ٍالنَبِيِّين وكان هللا بِكُلِ شَيْ ء
عليما
(سورة األحزاب
)

In this verse it is precisely stated that Muhammad is “the seal of the
Prophets”. God did not say that Muhammad is the seal of the Apostles,
or the Messengers, of God. The fact that God says that Muhammad “is
the Apostle (ََرَسول) of God, and the seal of the prophets (النَبِيِّين)” implies
that there is a difference between Prophet (َِّنَبِي) and Apostle or
Messenger (ََرَسول). This also implies that Muhammad is “the seal of the
Prophets” only, because nowhere in the Qur’án is there mention that
Muhammad is the seal of the Messengers of God.

The argument that all Messengers are also Prophets, and that the
sealing of Prophethood entails the sealing of Apostleship, and
consequently after Muhammad there can be neither Prophet nor
Messenger because He is the “the seal of the Prophets” is an argument
that God did not mention in the Qur’án. God never mentioned that
either, neither in the Bible for Jesus Christ nor in the Torah for Moses.
On the contrary, there is the confirmation, the promise, or better still


a “Covenant” that God Almighty has established with the “Children of
Adam” whereby He will continually send His Messengers unto
mankind as we shall see later in these chapters.

Did not the Leaders from amongst the Jews and the Christians – who
are both called “the people of the Book” (أهل الكتاب), level the argument
that there could not come another Messenger nor another religion
from God after their own, in order to divert their respective
congregations from accepting Muhammad the Messenger of God?
Were they right? Certainly not!

Did not the Religious Leaders of the Jews say at the time of the Apostle
Muhammad: "The hand of God is chained up." And in answer to this
claim the wrath of God fell on them: “Their own hands shall be chained
up--and for that which they have said shall they be cursed...” And God
to confirm: “Nay! Outstretched are both His hands!” (5:67).

Were not the Christians advised that in the Evangel mention is made
of the Apostle Muhammad: “... the Apostle, the unlettered Prophet —
whom they shall find described with them in the Law and Evangel...”-
(Súrih VII v. 157) yet their Religious Leaders assured their congregations
that no mention is there of an Apostle nor Prophet after Jesus?

Messenger and Prophet

The Qur’án was revealed in Arabic, and thus many common religious
terms are better defined, when compared to the previous Books, the
Bible and the Old Testament that were revealed in languages not in
use today. However, the defining element is not due to language
alone, but indeed to the information now available and the knowledge
we have today. Amongst these terms are the words “Prophet” and
“Messenger”. The Bible calls Jesus Christ, Moses and Abraham,
Prophets. In the same time Aaron, Daniel and David are called
Prophets. In the Qur’án, however, Jesus, Moses and Abraham are
Messengers and Prophets, while Aaron was designated by God a


Prophet. In the English translations of ر
ََ سُول the word Apostle is used.
Apostle and Messenger both designate the same  رَسُول.

In the Súrih of “Mary” we read:
And commemorate Moses in “the Book;” for he was a
man of purity: moreover he was an Apostle, a Prophet:
From the right side of the mountain we called to him, and
caused him to draw nigh to us for secret converse: And we
bestowed on him in our mercy his brother Aaron, a
Prophet.
(Súrih XIX, “Mary”, vv. 51-53)

ًّواذكُرْ في الكِتَابِ موسَى إنّهُ كَانَ مُخْلصَاًّ وكَانَ رَسُوالًّ نَبِيّا
ُونَدَيْنَاه مِن جَانِبِ الطُّورِ األيْمَنِ وقَرَّبْنَاهُ نَجِيَّا
ووَ هَبْنَا لَهُ مِن
ُرَحْ مَتَنَا أخَاه
هَارُونَ نَبِيَّا
(سورة مريم51
-
)


From these verses it is clear that while Moses was identified by God to
be an Apostle and a Prophet simultaneously, His brother Aaron was a
Prophet only.

Two notions are, therefore, important to consider when discussing
this subject: the rank of Prophet and the rank of Apostle or Messenger.
Both receive their inspiration and their revelation from God.

The term Apostle or Messenger is attributed to a Manifestation of God
unto whom a Book with Law and Jurisprudence was given. Moses and
Jesus were identified in the Qur’án to be Messengers because each
was the founder of a Revelation with a Book containing Law and
Jurisprudence.

Aaron was designated a Prophet only, because although inspired by
God, He did not have a Book revealed unto Him. His was the task of
following the Law and protecting the Faith established by Moses.


Moses was identified as a Prophet also, because He Himself followed,
promoted and protected the new Law that was established.

In like manner, Jesus and Abraham were identified as Prophets and
Messengers.

This is the distinction made in the Qur’án between an Apostle of God
and a Prophet of God. The argument that because Muhammad was
the seal of the Prophets, and as all Apostles are also Prophets, God will
not send other Messengers of His Power and Glory after Muhammad,
is one that has no basis in the Qur’án.

Muhammad, however, further explained this matter in very clear
words in a tradition recorded in the Qastalání Comments of the
Bukhári:
The children of Israel were governed by Prophets.
Whenever a Prophet passed away, another succeeded
Him. But there shall be no Prophets to succeed me; rather
there will be Caliphs (or Imáms).

In another Tradition Muhammad further explains the station of the
Caliphs or the Imáms mentioned in the Tradition above:
Verily the ‘Ulamá of My people are more exalted than the
Prophets of Israel.

The Imám Shaf’í, a reference in Islámic Jurisprudence, comments on
the subject of the difference between Apostles and Prophets in the
following statement:
We should believe in the Prophets and the Apostles of
God, each and all. The distinction characterizing the two
categories lies in this: that the Apostle of God is He Who
brings the Law, while the Prophets are reared under the
Law brought by the Apostles of God. Hence each Apostle
is simultaneously a Prophet, whereas a Prophet is not
endued with the same characteristics of the Apostle.


In the Súrih of the Pilgrimage a further proof of the difference that
exists between Apostles and Prophets could be understood. The verse
reads as follows:
We have not sent any apostle or prophet before thee,
among whose desires Satan injected not some wrong
desire, but God shall bring to naught that which Satan
had suggested. Thus shall God affirm His revelations, for
God is Knowing, Wise!
(Súrih of the Pilgrimage (XXII, v. 52)

وما أرسَلْنَا من قَبْلِكَ من رَسُولٍ وال نَبِيٍّ إالّ إذا تَمَنَّى ألْقَى
ُالشَيْطَانُ في أمنِيَتِهِ فيَنْسَخُ هللا ما يُلْقِي الشَيْطَان ثمَّ يُحْكِمُ هللا
.آياتِهِ وهللاُ عليمًّ حكيم
(الحج52
)


The renowned Al Nasafí comments on this verse as follows:
And this is evident proof of the established difference
between an Apostle and a Prophet contrary to what they
say that they are the same... The difference between
them is that an Apostle is One Who brings a Book in
addition to the miracle with which He is supported. As to
the Prophet, He does not bring a Book, but rather follows
and promotes the then existing Law. It is also said that an
Apostle is the Founder of the Law, whereas the Prophet is
the Promulgator and Guardian of the Law.

In his book “Bahá’u’lláh – The Great Announcement of the Qur’án”,
Muhammad Mustafá Soleiman gives the following further
explanation:
... it becomes evident that the “sealing” of Prophethood
was intended primarily to announce a change in the
administrative
structure
of
the
future
Muslim
Community, as compared to the system that was in
practice within the Jewish Community during the period
between the ministry of His Holiness Moses and the
appearance of Jesus Christ. Nowhere in the Qur’án or in


the traditions of the Prophet Muhammad is there
mention of the “sealing” of Apostleship, precluding
further Divine Revelation.
Muhammad had no male children and He adopted a
young slave of Christian origin named Zayd Ibn Al-
Hárithih as His son after freeing him from slavery and
receiving his voluntary request to remain in the household
of the Prophet. The Jews at the time, being highly opposed
to the new Revelation, saw an unprecedented
opportunity in Muhammad’s adoption of a son as a
means of sowing seeds of doubt concerning His
Prophethood. They claimed, among other things, that
because Muhammad knew the history of the Children of
Israel who were governed by Prophets after the ascension
of Moses, He intended to adopt and copy the same
system. They concentrated their efforts on the event not
only to defame Muhammad, but also to arouse the tribes,
and stir others against Him and uproot His Movement.
To refute these machinations, the verse “Muhammad is
not the father of any man among you, but he is the
Apostle of God,” was revealed, followed by what was an
affirmation that there would not be Prophet heirs in the
Islámic Dispensation, that is He was “the seal of the
prophets”. In this manner, God refuted the assumptions
of the enemies of His Faith, causing their ill will to be
turned against them.


Islám: The only Divine Religion

The consideration of three verses in the Qur’án that deal with the
word Islám, may interest the reader. What does Islám mean? What
does it mean to be Muslim? Did Almighty God create through
successive Revelation diverse religions? Is not Divine Religion one,
since God the creator of the heavens and of the earth is One?


Before studying the three verses in question, it may be useful to
remember that the word “Islám” literally means “submissiveness”. A
Muslim, therefore, is a person who is totally submissive unto God.

However, the word “Islám” is also the name of the Faith revealed unto
Muhammad the Apostle of God. Consequently, a Muslim is a person
who believes in the Islám revealed to the Messenger of God,
Muhammad.

Yet, these verses are among the few that were interpreted in a manner
that excludes the possibility for a Divine Revelation to come after
Islám. This is exactly what Religious Heads of the Jews and Christians
did with respect to Islám. The Religious Heads of the Jews and
Christians interpreted certain verses in the Torah and the Evangel in a
manner that caused the Jews and the Christians to refuse Muhammad,
the Apostle of God.

The first verse to consider reads as follows:
This day I have perfected your religion for you, and have
filled up the measure of my favours upon you: and it is my
pleasure that Islám be your religion...
(Súrih V, “The Table”, v. 5)

اليومَ أكْمَلْتُ لكُم دينَكُم وأتْمَمْتُ عَلَيْكُم نِعْمَتِي ورَضَيْتُ لكُم
َاإلسْالم ًّدينا
(المائدة5
)


The second verse to consider is as follows:
The True religion with God is Islám...
(Súrih III, “The Family of Imrán”, v. 19)

إنَّ الدّينَ عِنْدَ هللاِ اإلسْالم

(آل عمران19
)


The third verse related to this subject reads as follows:


Who so desireth any other religion than Islám, that
religion shall never be accepted from him, and in the next
world he shall be among the lost.
(Súrih III, “The Family of Imrán”, v. 85)

ومَن يَبْتَغِ غَيْرَ اإلسْالمِ دِينَاًّ فَلَن يُقْبَلَ مِنْهُ وهوَ في اآلخرَةِ مِن
َالخَاسِرِ ين
(آل عمران85
)


In the first citation from the Súrih of the Table, it is clear that what is
meant by the word “Islám” is the specific religion revealed unto
Muhammad, the Apostle of God.

However, the word “Islám” cited in the two verses of the Súrih of the
Family of Imrán seem to refer to religion in general as well as to the
specific religion revealed unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God.

In his commentary on verse 85 of the Súrih of the Family of Imrán,
which is the third citation above, A. Yusuf ‘Ali writes the following in
his “The Holy Qur’án – Text, Translation and Commentary” – (note
418):
The Muslim position is clear. The Muslim does not have a
religion peculiar to himself. Islám is not a sect or ethnic religion.
In its view all religion is one, for the Truth is one. It was the
religion preached by all the earlier Prophets. It was the truth
taught by all the inspired Books. In essence it amounts to a
consciousness of the Will and Plan of God and a joyful
submission to that Will and Plan. If anyone wants a religion
other than that, he is false to his own nature, as he is false to
God’s Will and Plan. Such a one cannot expect guidance, for he
has deliberately renounced guidance.

This general meaning of Islám is confirmed in the following verses that
concern nations before the specific Islám of the Qur’án:

Noah was a Muslim in virtue of the following verses:


Recite to them the history of Noah, when he said to his
people, If, O my people! My abode with you, and my
reminding you of the signs of God, be grievous to you, yet
in God is my trust. Get ye then an agreement about your
plan and among your partners, so your plan be not to you
dark and dubious. Then pass your sentence on me, and
give me no respite.
And if ye turn your backs on me, yet ask I no reward from
you: my reward is with God alone, and I am commanded
to be of the Muslims.
(Súrih X, “Jonah, Peace be upon Him!” vv. 71-72)

واتّْلُ عليهِم نَبَأَ نُوحٍ إذْ قالَ لِقَوْ مِهِ يا قوم إن كانَ كَبُرَ عَليكُم
َمَقَامِي وت
ذ كِيري بآياتِ هللاِ فعلى هللاِ تَوَ كَلْتُ فاجْ مَعُوا أمْرَكُم
وشُرَكَاءَكُم ثُمَّ ال يَكُنْ أمْرُكُم عَلَيْكُم غُمَّةًّ ثُمَّ اقْضُوا إليَّ وال
تَنْظِرُون فَإنْ تَوَ ليْتُم فَمَا سَأَلْتُكُم مِنْ أجْ رٍ إنَّ أجْ ري إالّ عَلَى
َهللاِ وأمرتُ أنْ أكُونَ مِن المُسْلِمِين
(يونس71
-
)


Abraham and Ismaël were Muslims as the following verses confirm:
And when Abraham, with Ismaël, raised the foundations
of the House, they said, “O our Lord! Accept it from us; for
thou art the Hearer, the Knower.
O our Lord! Make us also Muslims and our posterity a
Muslim people; and teach us our holy rites, and be turned
towards us, for Thou art He who turneth, the Merciful.
(Súrih II, “The Cow”, vv. 127-128)

َْوإذْ يَرْ فَعُ إبرَاهِيمُ القَوَ اعِدَ مِن البَيْتِ وإسْمًّاعيلُ  رَبَّنَا تَقَبَل
ُمِنَّا   إنَّكَ أنْتَ السَّمِيعُ العَلِيم
رَبَّنَا
واجْ عَلْنَا
مُسْلِمينَ لكَ ومِن ذُرِّيَتِنَا أُمَّةًّ مُسْلِمَةًّ لكَ وأرِنَا
ُمَنَسِكَنَا وتُبْ عَلَيْنَا  إنَّكَ أنْتَ التَّوَّ ابُ الرَّحِيم
(
البقرة127
-
)



Jacob was Muslim as attested by the following verse:


Were ye present when Jacob was at the point of death?
When he said to his sons, “Whom will ye worship when I
am gone?” They said, “We will worship thy God and the
God of thy fathers Abraham and Ismaël and Isaac, one
God, and to Him are we Muslims”.
(Súrih II, “The Cow”, v. 133)


أمْ كنْتُم شُهَدَاءَ إذ حَضَرَ يَعْقوبَ المَوْ تُ إذ قالَ لِبَنيهِ ما
تَعْبُدُونَ مِن بَعْدي قالوا َنَعْبُدُ إلهَكَ وإلَهَ أبائِكَ إبراهيم
َوإسماعيلَ وإسحاقَ إلَهاًّ واحداًّ ونحنُ له مسلمون
(البقرة133
)


Moses and those who believed in Him asked God to die Muslims:
They* said, “Verily to our Lord do we return
And thou takest vengeance on us only because we have
believed on the signs of our Lord when they came to us.
Lord! Pour out constancy upon us, and cause us to die
Muslims.”
(Súrih VII, “The Heights”, vv. 125-126)
*The followers of Moses.

قالوا إنَّا إلى رَبَّنَا مُنْقَلِبونَ وما تَنْقِمُ منَّا أن آمَنَّا بآياتِ رَبَّنا لمَّا
َجاءتْنَا ربّنا افرِغْ علينَا صَبْراَ وتَوَ فَّنا مُسْلِمِين
(األعراف125
-
)


The Disciples of Jesus Christ were Muslims as seen from the following
verse:
And when I revealed unto the Disciples, “Believe on me
and on my Sent One,” they said, “We believe; and bear
thou witness that we are Muslims.” (Súrih V, “The Table”, v. 114)

وإذ أوْ حَيْتُ إلى الحَوَ اريّْينَ أن آمِنوا بي وبِرَسُولِي قالوا آمَنَّا
وأشْهَدُ بأنَّنَا مُسْلِمُون
(
المائدة114
)

God tells us in the Qur’án, that Noah, Abraham, Ismaël, Jacob, Moses
and His followers and the Disciples of Jesus were Muslims and some


wished to die Muslims. We know, however, that they all lived
centuries before the Qur’án was revealed. We have to conclude,
therefore that Islám in the general meaning of the word is indeed the
religion of God at all times. This is the Islám that God calls "The True
religion with God is Islám", and specifies as "Who so desireth any other
religion than Islám, that religion shall never be accepted from him..."

However, the Islám mentioned in the Súrih V “The Table”, v. 5: “This
day I have perfected your religion for you, and have filled up the
measure of my favours upon you: and it is my pleasure that Islám be
your religion...” is the specific Islám for the community to which the
Prophet Muhammad was sent.

Islám, therefore, is the religion revealed unto Muhammad the
Messenger of God and revealed unto Jesus, Moses and Abraham and
unto all His Messengers. Muslim is one who accepts the most recent
Messenger of God:
Say ye: “We believe in God, and the revelation given to us,
and to Abraham, Ismaël, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and
that given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to all the
Prophets from their Lord: We make no difference between
any of them, and unto Him we are Muslims
So if they believe as you believe, they are indeed on the
right path; but if they turn back, it is they who are in
schism, but God will suffice Thee as against them, and He
is the all-Hearing the All-Knowing.
(Súrih II, “The Cow”, vv. 136-137)

ْقولوا آمنّا باهلل وما أن َزِلَ إليْنَا وما أنْزِلَ إلى إبْرَاهِيم
وإسْمَاعِيلَ وإسْحَقَ ويَعْقُوبَ واألسْبَاطِ وما أوتي موسَى
وعيسَى وما أوتي النَبِيُّونَ مِن رَبِّهِمِ  ال نُفَرَِّّقُ بين
ْأحدٍ من هُم
. َونحن له مُسْلِمُون
فإن آمنوا بمثلِ ما آمَنْتُم بِهِ  فقد اهْتَدُوا
وإن تَوَ لُوا فإنّمَا هُمْ في شِقَاقٍ  فسَيَكْفيكُمُ هللا وهو السَميعُ العَلِيم
(البقرة7
-
)



God will always send His Messengers

O children of Adam! There shall come to you Apostles
from among yourselves, rehearsing My signs to you; and
who so shall fear God and do good works, no fear shall be
upon them, neither shall they be put to grief.
(Súrih VII, “The Heights”, v. 35)

ِيا بَنِي آدَمَ إمَّا يَأتِيَنَّكُم رُسُلٌ مٍنْكُم يَقُصُّونَ عليكُم آياتي فَمَن
اتَّقّى وأصْلَحَ فَالَ خوْ فٌ عَلَيْهِم وال هُم يَحْزَنُون
(األعراف35
)


The above-mentioned verse confirms that God will continue to send
Apostles ٌ رُسُل to humanity. God here addresses directly the children of
Adam — all children of Adam, and tells them that Apostles from
among themselves shall come to them in future. These words were
addressed to mankind — children of Adam, through Muhammad the
Apostle of God. This means that God will send Apostles to mankind
after Muhammad. ls this not a promise from God that Apostles will
always come, one following the other in accordance with God's All-
Encompassing Wisdom? Does that not mean that our belief in the
finality of our Messenger, whether we are Muslims or Christians or
other, is unfounded, since the promise: “There shall come to you
Apostles from among yourselves” was addressed to the "children of
Adam" in general? Does not:  "There shall come to you Apostles from
among Yourselves” include the Muslims, since it was revealed to
Muhammad, the Apostle of God?   ls not: “There shall come to you
Apostles from among yourselves” a Covenant that God established
with humanity as a whole — the children of Adam?

How then can any nation أمّة pretend that theirs is the last Apostle and
their Religion the last religion ever?

The verse, however, makes no mention of further Prophets. This is
because Muhammad is “the seal of the Prophets”. However, in His


infinite mercy and love for His creation, God tells us here, that He will
never leave us without Divine Guidance and that being by sending His
Apostles at all times.

A further proof that God will send His Messengers after Muhammad
may be deduced from the fact that God tells us in the Qur’án that His
Words shall never be exhausted.

Say: Should the sea become ink, to write the words of my
Lord, the sea would surely fail ere the words of my Lord
would fail, though we brought its like in aid.
(Súrih XVIII, The Cave, v. 109)

ُق َل ل َو ك َان
ُالبحر  ِم َد ًّادا
ِلكل َم ِات ربِّي  َلن ِف َد
َالب ْح ُر  َق ْب َل أن  َت ْن ُف َد
ُكلمات
ّرب َي ول ْو
ِج َئن ِا ب ِم ْث ِل ِه  َم َد َاد
(الكهف
)


The verse tells us if the sea were ink and other similar seas brought to
help in order to write down the Words of God, they would all be dried
up and yet the Words of God will not be exhausted.

If all the trees that are upon the earth were to become
pens, and if God should after that swell the sea into seven
seas of ink, His words would not be exhausted: for God is
Mighty, Wise.
(Súrih XXXI, Loqman, v. 27)


ْولو إ ّن َم ِا ف
ي األ ِرض  ِم َن ش َج َر ٍة أ ْق ٌالم
َوالب ْح ُر  َي َم ُّدُه
َمن ب ْع ِد ِه
َس ْب َع ُة أ ْب ُح ٍر  َم َا ن ِف َد ْت
ِكل َم ُات
الله إ َّن
ٌهللا عزيز
ٌحكيم

(لقمان
)


Here again, God confirms that His Words are inexhaustible and thus
God will always send His “Words” to humanity. Humanity has always
received the “Word” of God through His Messengers. Why do we, His
creatures, decide that He will change His method of advising us of His


Word when there is no indication at all in His Books that He will change
His method after the Revelation of the Qur’án?


A Central or Intermediary  Nation

The notion that says: since Muhammad the Apostle of God is “the seal
of the Prophets”, implies also that the Islámic Nation is the last
religious nation or people as well, is not at all what God tells us in the
Qur’án. The following verse explains the subject clearly:
Thus have we made you a central people, that ye may be
witnesses in regard to mankind, and that the Apostle may
be a witness in regard to you...
(Súrih II, “The Cow”, v. 143)

َوكَذَلِكَ جَعَلْنَاكُم أُمَّةَ وسَطَا لِتَكُونُوا شُهَدَاءَ على النَّاسِ ويَكُون
ًّالرَّسُولُ عليكُم شَهِيدا
(
البقرة143
)


A “central people” or “intermediary people” أُمَّةَ ٌوسَطَا cannot be the
last. There need be nations before and a nation or nations after;
otherwise, for what will that nation be witness.


Every Nation has its Set Term

A further illustration of the continuity of religious revelation through
successive Manifestations of the Will of God is found in the verses of
the Qur’án setting a term for every nation and accompanying every
term with a Book:
Every nation has its set term. And when their term is
come, they shall not retard an hour; and they shall not
advance it.
(Súrih VII, “The Heights”, v. 34)


وَ لِكُلِّ أُمَّةٍ أجَلٌ  فَإذَا جَاءَ أجَلُهُم ال يَسْتَأخِرُونَ سَاعَة وال
َيَسْتَقْدِمُون
(
األعراف34
)

Neither too soon, nor too late, shall a people reach its
appointed term
(Súrih XXIII, “The Believers”, v. 43)

ما تَسْبِقُ مِن أُمَّةٍ أجَلَهَا وما يَسْتَأخرُون
(المؤمنون43
)


… To each term a Book, what He pleaseth will God
abrogate or confirm: for with Him is the Mother Book.
(Súrih XIII, “Thunder”, vv. 38-39)

ُّ... لكُلِّ أجَلٍ كِتَاب  يَمْحُوا هللاُ ما يَشَاءُ ويُثْبِتُ  وعِنْدَهُ أُم
الكِتَاب


(الرّعد38
-
)


This is the “universal principle”*: “every nation أمّة has its set term”,
and with that term comes a Book. A Book means a Revelation with
Laws and Ordinances. A Revelation with Laws and Ordinances must
necessarily be brought to mankind by an Apostle – a Manifestation of
God’s Will. This was true for the Nation of Moses and the Nation of
Jesus. It is also true for the Nation of Muhammad the Apostle of God.
As times go by and changes come about, God the All-Merciful leaves
not His creatures without Divine Guidance that takes into
consideration the changes brought about by the lapse of time: “what
He pleaseth will God abrogate or confirm”.

*Term used by Mr. ‘Ali Nakhjavani in his:
“Some notes on Bahá’í proofs based on the Qur’án”.


The set term of the Muslim Nation

We have seen that “Every nation has its set term” and that “To each
term a Book”.


How do these conditions apply to the Muslim nation? What will the
name of the coming nation be and what will the name of the
forthcoming “Book” be?

Let us review the verses of the Súrih of Resurrection (v. 16-19)
mentioned above, once more:
Move not thy tongue in haste to follow and master this
revelation;
For we will see to the collecting and the recital of it
{qur’ánahu};
But when we have recited it, then follow thou the recital,
And verily, afterwards it shall be ours to make it clear
{bayanahu or interpret it} to thee.

ال تُحَرِّك بهِ لِسَانَكَ لِتَعْجَلَ بهِ  إنَّا عَلَيْنَا جَمْعَهُ وقُرأنَهُ  فَإذا
ُقراناه فَاتَّبِعْ قُرأنَهُ  ثُمَّ إنَّ عَلَيْنا بَيَانَه
(القيامة16
-
)


The reader would have certainly remarked two words between
brackets that are transliterations of the Arabic words. The word
(qur’ánahu) is a derivative of the word “qur’án” which means “recital
of it”, and the word “bayanahu”,  is a derivative of the word “bayán”
which means “make it clear” or “interpret it”.

Arabic does not have capital letters and small letters. It does not have
vowels either. Meanwhile, all names have a meaning. The Book
revealed unto Muhammad, the Apostle of God, is called Qur’án, yet
the word qur’án (with small “q”) means “recital”. By the same token,
Bayán indicates a Book entitled Bayán, while bayán (with small “b”)
means “make clear” or “explanation” or “eloquence”.

The first four verses of the Súrih of the Merciful (LV, vv. 1-4) were
translated by four different translators: Rodwell, Arberry, Pickthall and
Yusuf ‘‘Alí respectively as follows:
The God of Mercy
Hath taught the Qur’án


Hath created man
Hath taught him articulate speech (Bayán or
bayan)

The All-Merciful
Has taught the Qur’án
He created man
And he has taught him the Explanation
(Bayán or bayan)

The Beneficent
Hath made known the Qur’án
He hath created man
He hath taught him utterance (Bayán or
bayan)

(God) Most Gracious
It is He who hath taught the Qur’án
He has created man
He has taught him speech
(Bayán or bayán)

الرَّحْ مَن
َعَلَّمَ القُرْ ءانَ  خَلَقَ اإلنسَانَ  عَلَّمَهُ البَيَان
(الرحمن1
- 4
)


The four translators are in agreement to interpret the Arabic word
ََالقُرْءان by “The Qur’án” which is a Book that was revealed unto the
Apostle Muhammad, but gave different interpretations to the word
“The Bayán” ََالبَيَان. This can only mean that the interpreters of the
Qur’án presented the translators of the English version with a meaning
for the word “the bayán” rather than it being the name of a Book “The
Bayán.”

A correct translation of these verses should apply the same principle
for the two words in question, especially so because in the two cases
it is God Who “taught” both The Qur’án and The Bayán. In fact, the


rules of Arabic tradition in writing and in speech make such an
assumption imperative, and thus the verses should have been
translated as “the Qur’án” and “the Bayán” – two Books.

The reader may find it interesting to note that in the sequence of the
events decreed in those four verses there is a wisdom of major
importance that is hidden in the fact that according to the chronology
of these verses “man” was “created” after being “taught the Qur’án”.
It is no secret, however, that man was there when the Qur’án was
revealed. We know that the Words of God are perfect and the
sequence of the events decreed by those verses must be true,
although chronologically they are in conflict. Could it not be that God
wishes man to understand that the spiritual creation of man is in his
knowledge of the Word of God: the Qur’án, and that in fact, this same
man was not spiritually created until he was taught the Qur’án?

After having been created through his learning of the Qur’án, man is
now ready to be taught the Book: The Bayán. This indeed is scheduled
for the Day of Resurrection and the term of the Muslim nation, as we
shall see later on.

As to the “set term” of the Muslim nation, God tells us in the following
verse:
From the Heaven to the Earth He conceiveth the Cause*
األمْر: hereafter all shall they return to Him on a Day the
duration of which shall be a thousand of such years as ye
reckon.
(Súrih XXXII, “Adoration”, v. 5)
* “governeth all affairs” in Rodwell’s translation.


ٍيُدَبِّرُ األمْرِ مِن السَّمَاءِ إلى األرضِ ثُمَّ يَعْرُجُ إليْهِ في يوم
كانَ مِقْدَارُهُ ألْفَ سَنَةٍ مِمَّا تُعِدُّون
(
السجدة5
)


The verse explains that there are two periods for the Muslim nation:
the second is 1000 lunar years “as ye reckon.”



The first, which consists of the period wherein the Cause of God was
conceived, must include the period of the ministry of Muhammad the
Apostle of God, and His descendents who are the twelve Imáms, in
keeping with the well accepted Tradition:
I leave amongst you two weighty legacies, the Book of
God and My Descendents

The first period ends in the year 260 of the Hegira when the last Imám
passed away. The two periods then are 1000 plus 260, that is to say
1260 years. This corresponds to the year 1260 of the Hegira, or to the
year 1844 Christian era.


The Advent of Two Messengers

In all the Holy Scriptures, and specifically in the Holy Qur’án, the
advent of two Messengers of God is clearly foretold. The Muslims
expect the advent of “The Imám Al-Mahdi” and the return of “Jesus
son of Mary”.

The general belief, however, is that Al-Mahdi or Mihdi and Jesus will
not bring to mankind a Book, nor will there be a new Law; but rather
They will cause the revival of the Law of the Qur’án, and render Islám
the Faith of all who are in the whole world. This was the explanation
given by the Ulamá, and this is what all Muslims believe today. The
explanation, however, closes all doors to further Divine Revelation, in
very much the same belief as that of the Jews at the time of the
Revelation of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, when they said to Him
that no Apostle can come after Moses because “The hand of God is
chained up...” (Súrih V “The Table” v. 69)

A great number  of the verses of the Qur’án, however, deal specifically
with the question of the attitude of the different peoples unto whom
God had sent His Messengers, and the events that will accompany the
advent of the Mahdi and of Jesus.



The return of Yahyá (John) son of Zachariah
And ‘Ísá (Jesus) son of Mary

God has revealed the return of Yahyá son of Zachariah in the following
verses:
We said: “O John! Take the Book with purpose of heart”
and We bestowed on him wisdom while yet a child
And mercifulness from Ourself, and purity, and pious was
he
And duteous to his parents and not proud, rebellious
And peace was on him on the day he was born, and the
day of his death, and shall be on the day when he shall be
raised to life!
(Súrih XIX, “ Mary”, vv. 12-15)

يا يَحْيَى  خُذْ الكِتَابَ بِقُوَّ ةٍ وآتَيْنَاهُ الحُكْمَ صَبِيَّاًّ  وحَنانَا مِن لَدُنَّا
وزكَاةًّ وكانَ تَقِيَّاًّ  وباراَ بِوَ الدِيْهِ ولمْ يَكُنْ جَبَّاراًّ عَصِ يَّاًّ  وسالم
َعليه يومَ وُ لِد ًّويَومَ يَمُوتُ ويَوْ مَ يُبْعَثُ حَيَّا
(
مريم12

–

)


Following these verses and in the same Súrih XIX “Mary”, we read the
following with regard to the return of Jesus Christ:
Verily I am the servant of God, He hath given me the Book,
and He hath made me a Prophet,
And He hath made me blessed wherever I may be, and
hath enjoined me prayer and almsgiving so long as I shall
live;
And to be duteous to her that bare me: and He hath not
made me proud, depraved.
And the peace of God was on me the day I was born, and
will be the day I shall die, and the day I shall be raised to
life.
This is Jesus, the son of Mary; this is a statement of truth
concerning which they doubt.
(Súrih XIX “Mary”, vv. 30-35)



ًّقالَ إنّي عَبْدُ هللاِ أتاني الكِتَابَ وجَعَلَنِي نَبِيَّاًّ   وجَعَلَني مُبَارَكا
أينَ ما كُنْتُ وأوصَانِي بالصَّالةِ والزَّكاةِ ما ًّدُمْتُ حَيَّاًّ   وبِرَّا
ُبوالدتي ولم يَجْ عَلَنِي جَبَّاراًّ شَقِيَّاًّ   والسَّالم عليّ يومَ وُ لِدْت
ّويومَ أموتُ ويومَ أبعثُ حيَّاًّ  ذلك عيسى ابْنُ مَريمَ قولَ الحق
الذي فيهِ يَمْتَرُون
(مريم30
-
)

The above verses announce without doubt the return of Yahyá son of
Zachariah and of ‘Ísá son of Mary, and the verses further indicate the
chronological order of their return, when the return of Jesus will be
preceded by Yahyá; the same order of their first appearance.

When, one may ask, will Yahyá son of Zachariah and ‘Ísá son of Mary
return? Again, what will the purpose of their return be? Will they have
the same names: Yahyá and ‘Ísá, or will they be called differently?
What will be the interval between the re-appearance of Yahyá and
that of ‘Ísá? We know from history that Yahyá son of Zachariah and
of ‘Ísá son of Mary were contemporary.  Will they be together in their
return, even though for as short a time as in their first apparition?

We know that God tells us that we should find answers to all our
questions in the Qur’án. Shall we move together, dear Reader, and
find the answers to the above questions?

Two Events on the Day of Resurrection

Throughout the Qur’án we find reference to two events on the Day of
Resurrection, that seem to take place very near to one another.  So
near to one another these two events are to take place that they
should be considered as one single event. In fact, one can say that they
may be considered Twin events.

Here is one instance where the Twin Events are mentioned:
In the 79th Súrih we find one of these references:
One day, the disturbing trumpet-blast shall disturb it,


Which the second blast shall follow:
Men’s hearts on that day shall quake
Their looks be downcast.
The infidels will say, “shall we indeed be restored as at
first?
What! When we have become rotten bones?
“This then,” say they “will be a return to loss.”
Verily, it will be but a single blast,
And lo! They are on the surface of the earth.
(Súrih LXXIX, “Those Who Drag Forth”, vv. 6-14)

ٌيومَ تَرْ جَفَ الرّاجِفَةُ   تَتْبَعُها الرَّادِفَةُ  قُلُوبٌ يَوْ مَئِذٍ واجِفَة
ًّأبْصَارُها خَاشِعَةٍ   يَقُولُونَ أئِنَّا لمَرْدُودُونَ في الحَافِرةِ   أئِذا
كُنَّا ٌعِظَمَاًّ نَخِرَةًّ   قَالوا تِلْكَ إذَاًّ كَرَّةٌ خَاسِرَةٌ   فإنَّما هي زَجْ رَة
ِواحِدَةٌ   فإذا هُمْ بالسَّاهِرة
(
النازعات6
-
)


In some translations, the words “trumpet-blast” and “blast” are
replaced by the word “commotion”. Whether the event is called
“blast” or “commotion”, the result is the same: it is a two-step event
that is destined to create a terrible disturbance that will cause “Men’s
hearts on that day” to “quake” and “Their looks” to “be downcast”.

The “One day” on which these two blasts or commotions will take
place, is the Day of Judgement, the Resurrection.  In addition, these
“two blasts” will be so close one after the other in time that “verily”
they may be considered “but a single blast”.

Thus will be the twin events of the Resurrection.



Two Consecutive Trumpet Blasts On
The Day of Resurrection

And there shall be a blast on the trumpet, and all who are
in the Heavens and all who are in the Earth shall expire,
save those whom God shall vouchsafe to live. Then shall
there be another blast on it, and lo! Arising they shall gaze
around them:
And the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord, and
the Book shall be set...
(Súrih XXXIX, “The Troops”, vv. 68-69)

ِونُفِخَ في الصُورِ فَصُعِقَ من في السَمَوَ اتِ ومن في األرض
َإالَّ من شَاءَ هللاُ  ثُمَّ نُفِخَ فيهِ أخْ رَى فإذا هُمْ قِيَامُ يَنْظُرون
...ُوأشْرَقَتِ األرضُ بِنُورِ رَبِّهَا ووُ ضِ عَ الكِتَاب

(
الزمر68
-
)


These two verses announce the forthcoming of two trumpet blasts or
two events.

An analogy for the "blast on the trumpet" may be the manner in which
messages from the ruler to the people was announced in past ages.
When the king or ruler wished to make an announcement to his
people, a "messenger of the king or ruler" was sent into the main
square of the town and blew a trumpet to attract the attention of all
who were within hearing distance. These in turn immediately
understood that the king or ruler had a "message" for them.

God tells us in the above-mentioned verses that there shall be two
trumpet blasts. In other words, two Messengers shall come forth.
Could not these two blasts be the coming of AI-Mahdi and the return
of Jesus?

We also read in these verses, "the Book shall be set"! That "Book",
furthermore, shall be set following the second “blast". That Book


could neither be the Qur’án nor the Bible, because the Qur’án and the
Bible were already "set” before the two trumpet blasts! That "Book”
therefore must be a new Book and as such it follows that it will have
to be brought to mankind through the appearance of a Messenger
from God.

A further consideration of these verses, may give rise to two
questions: What does "and all who are in the Heavens and all who are
in the Earth shall expire, save those whom God shall vouchsafe to live"
mean? Again, how is it that after the expiration of almost "all who are
in the Heavens and all who are in the Earth", these same people who
had expired will experience resuscitation: "and lo! Arising they shall
gaze around them" following the second blast?

Could not the first of these two events signal the Day when the "Hour
shall come to pass", while the second is indeed the Resurrection?
However we were told in the verses mentioned earlier, that the two
events, or "blasts" or "commotions" will be so near one to the other,
that they may well be considered ”but a single blast".

ln Súrih XXXVI, Ya Sin we read:
And the trumpet shall be blown, and, lo! They shall speed
out of their sepulchres to their Lord: They shall say, "Oh!
Woe to us! Who had mused us from our sleeping place?”
This is what the God of Mercy promised, and the Apostles
speak the truth. But one blast shall there be, and, lo! They
shall be assembled before Us all together.
(Surih XXX VI, Ya Sin, w. 51-53)

ونُفِخَ في الصُورِ فإذا هُم مِنَ األجْ دَاثِ إلى رَبِّهِمْ يَنسِلُونَ قَالوا
َيا وَ يْلَنَا مَن بَعَثَنَا مِن مَرْ قَدِنَا هذا ما وَ عَدَ الرَّحْ مَان وصَدَق
المُرْ سَلونَ   إن كانت إالّ صَيْحَةًّ واحِدَةًّ فإذا هم جميعٌ لدينَا
َمُحْ ضَرُون
(
سورة يس51
-
)



The next Revelation

Some of the Súrihs of the Qur’án recount the history of Religious
Dispensations that preceded Islám, and the manner with which the
peoples of old had argued with the Apostle of God sent to them and
ended up refusing to accept them is explained. The veil of their
imaginations blinded those peoples. Rather than searching after the
truth themselves, they listened to their Leaders.

These Súrihs tell of the suffering endured by the Messengers of God,
themselves victims of the people to whom they were sent by God.
Finally, we read of the wrath of God and the sorrowful destiny of those
obstinate peoples.

The Súrih of Húd contains an exhaustive list of the history of these
peoples:

Noah and His people:
We sent Noah of old unto his people—“Verily I come to
you a plain admonisher, that ye worship none but God.
Verily I fear for you the punishment of a grievous day. "
Then said the chiefs of his people who believed not, "We
see in thee but a man like ourselves; and we see not who
have followed thee except our meanest ones of hasty
judgement nor see we excellence in you above ourselves:
nay we deem you liars. "
(Surih XI, "Hud', vv 25-27)

ولقَد أرسَلْنَا نُوحاًّ إلى قَوْ مِهِ إنّي لَكُمْ نَذيرٌ مبينٌ  أن ال َت عْبُدُوا
َإالّ هللاَ إنِّي أخَافُ عليْكُمُ عَذَابَ يومٍ أليمٍ  فقَالَ المألَ الّذين
ّكَفَروا من قَوْ مِهِ مَا نَرَاكَ إالّ بَشَراًّ مِثْلَنَا ومَا نَرَاكَ اتَّبَعَكَ إال
ِالّذين هُمْ أرَاذِلُنَا بَادِيَ الرَأْيِ ومَا نَرَى لَكُمْ عَلَيْنَا مِن فَضْل
َبَلْ ن َظُنُكُمْ كَاذِبِين
(هود25
-
)



Noah, the Apostle of God invited his people to "worship none but
God", but the “chiefs of his people who believed not" called Him a liar.
The "chiefs” hindered the people from recognizing Noah the Apostle
of God, and in so doing led themselves and the people to total
perdition and the wrath of God.

The people of 'Ad, to whom God sent Húd, fared no better and were
struck with a severe punishment for disobeying the exhortations of
the Messenger of God.

ln like manner, the people of Thamúd unto whom God sent $álih were
chastised with a bitter punishment for refusing to accept Him whom
God had sent to them.

The peoples of Lot towards Abraham, those of Midian towards Shoëb,
the Pharaohs towards Moses, the Jews towards Jesus and the people
of Quraysh towards Muhammad — all those people, God tells us in
the Qur’án, took the same attitude towards their Messengers, and all
were punished for their obstinacy and disobedience.

A very significant prophecy that is relevant to the subject being
discussed under the present heading may be found in the Súrih of
Clear Evidence. Here is what was revealed in the first four verses of it:
The unbelievers among the people of the Book, and the
polytheists, shall not waver until the Clear Evidence shall
come to them, an Apostle from God, reciting pure pages
wherein are valuable Books. Nor were the people of the
Book divided until after the Clear Evidence came to them
(Súrih of Clear Evidence XCVIII, vv. 1-4)

لمْ يكن الذين كَفَروا مِن أهلِ الكِتَابِ والمُشْرِ كينَ مُنْفَكِّينَ حَتَّى
ًّتأتِيَهُمُ البَيِّنَةُ   رسُولٌ مِنَ هللاِ يَتْلوا صُحُفاًّ مُطَهَّرة
فيهَا
ٌكُتُب
ُقَيِّمَةٌ   وما تَفَرَّقَ الذين أوتوا الكِتَابَ إالّ مِن بَعدِ ما جاءَتْهُم
ُالبَيِّنَة
(
البيّنة1
-
)



Let us now see what these verses tell us, and in order to think
together, dear reader, may we agree on the meanings of certain words
and phrases:

We often meet with the word "Book” in the Qur’án. "Book" invariably
means a Divine Revelation. We have seen in previous pages that the
Qur’án is called the "Book": “And now have We brought them the
Book...” (Súrih of The Heights VII).

Similarly, Moses was given a “Book” which is the Torah: Then gave We
the Book to Moses... (Súrih VI,"The Cattle" v. 154). Unto Jesus God gave a
"Book" which is the Evangel: He said: "l am indeed a servant of God:
He hath given me the Book and made me a prophet.” (Súrih XIX, Mary, v.
30).

However, in the four verses above we are told that there shall be “pure
pages wherein are valuable Books...” in plural.

We can also perceive that the verses tell us of a “Clear Evidence” that
“shall come...” and a “Clear Evidence” that “came...” — thus the verses
advise of two Clear Evidences.

The verses also confirm that a Clear Evidence is none other but “an
Apostle from God”: “the Clear Evidence shall come to them, an Apostle
from God, reciting...”

The ’People of the Book" are the Jews and the Christians, while the
polytheists are those who have taken idols for gods.

Now going back once more to the 4 verses, we perceive that God
makes mention of the infidels from among the people of the Book,
that is, the infidels from among the Christians and the Jews. However,
we know that the Jews and Christians are "believers": the ones are
followers of Moses and the others are followers of Jesus Christ; why
then are they considered in these verses as infidels: non-believers?


Because they did not "believe" in the Revelation of the Qur’án they
were considered infidels. Once they believe in the Qur’án they would
cease to be considered infidels.

In like manner, once the polytheists believe in the Qur’án, they cease
to be polytheists because the Qur’án teaches belief in the One True
God.

However, God tells us that these infidels and the polytheists "shall not
waiver" —that is will continue to be infidels and polytheists, “until the
Clear Evidence shall come to them”, that is to say “until” the
predestined coming to them of an Apostle from God. Then the infidels
will cease to be infidels and the polytheists will cease to believe in
more than the One God, because they will have recognized the Divine
Mission of Muhammad and believed in the Qur’án. The Apostle Who
will come after Muhammad, will confirm the truth of the Qur’án unto
all those who had not yet accepted the Qur’án: Infidels and
Polytheists!

The four verses further explain that the people of the Book were
divided after the coming to them of the “Clear Evidence”, which in this
case is the Apostle Muhammad Himself. The division came about
when some of the Jews and some of the Christians at the time,
believed in the Revelation of Muhammad and some did not — hence
they were divided.

A further point of interest that deserves full consideration is the fact
that the Apostle – The Clear Evidence, Who will come, "shall recite
pure pages wherein are valuable Books” — in plural. This differs from
the Apostles Moses, Jesus Christ and Muhammad who each were
given one Book.



The Crier “المنادي Al Munadi”

Prophet, Messenger and Apostle are names given to the Receivers of
Divine Revelation. The Qur’an, however, has added other names to
these same Divine Messengers. One of these is "The Crier" as per the
following verse:
O our Lord! We have indeed heard the voice of a Crier, He
cried out calling us to faith — "Believe on your Lord" · and
we have believed...
(Súrih III, The Family of 'Imrán,  v.193)

...رَبَّنَا إنَّنَا سَمِعْنَا مُنَادِيَاًّ يُنَادِي لإليمَان أن آمِنوا بِرَبِّكُم فآمَنَّا
(
آل عمران193
)


God called the Apostle Muhammad in this verse “a Crier” in Arabic:
منادي.

However, in the Súrih "Qaf” mentioned hereafter, God requests the
Apostle Muhammad to listen to the cry out of the Crier Who will utter
a shout of truth on a future day which will be the Day of Resurrection,
thus:
And listen for the day whereon the Crier will cry out from
a place quite near: The day on which men shall hear that
shout of truth that will be the day of their coming forth
from the grave.
(Surih L, Qaf, vv. 41-42)

َواستَمِعْ يومَ ينادِي المُنَادِي مِن مَكَانٍ قَرِ يبٍ يومَ يَسْمَعُون
ِالصَيْحَةَ بالحَقِّ ذلِكَ يومُ الخُرُوج
(
سورة ق41
-
)


From these sacred verses, we are able to see clearly, that God had
requested Muhammad to listen to a future “Crier” to come after
Muhammad. But since Muhammad the Apostle of God was given the
title of “Crier”, it follows that the future “Crier” unto whom
Muhammad was requested to listen to, is indeed an Apostle also.


Muhammad, however will not physically be there when the future
"Crier will cry out the shout of truth”. lt shall devolve then, upon the
Muslims to "listen" to the Apostle –“the Crier” -- Who “will cry out
from a place quite near”.

A further point of paramount importance is the fact that “the Crier”
whom the Apostle Muhammad is requested to “listen” to, “will cry
out... the Day of their coming forth from the grave.” This is the Day of
Resurrection. The “Crier” therefore will be an Apostle of God Who will
come forth on the Day of Resurrection and deliver unto mankind a
”shout of truth.”

A question may be asked as to where could the "place quite near" from
which the ”Crier will cry out" be? An answer may be found in the
following verse:
Glory be to Him who carried his servant by night from the
sacred temple of Mecca to the temple that is most remote
(Jerusalem), the precincts of which we have blessed, that
we might show him of our signs! For He is the Hearer, the
Seer.
(Súrih XVll, The Night Journey, v. I)

سُبْحَانَ الذي أسْرَى بِعَبْدِهِ ليْالًّ من المَسْجِدِ ا ِلحَرَامِ إلى المَسْج ِد
ُاألقْصَى الذي بَارَكْنَا حَوْ لَهُ لِنُرِ يَهُ من آياتِنَا  إنَّهُ هو السَمِيع
ُالبَصِ ير
(اإلسراء1
)


The most notable "precincts" of Jerusalem mentioned in the Holy
Books and in the traditions are those of ‘Akká and Baghdád. The
traditions regarding 'Akká are accepted by both Shi’ihs and the Sunnis,
and quite a few are included in pages 107-109 in the book entitled
Bahá’u’lláh: The Great Announcement of the Qur’án*. l shall quote
just one of these here:

“'Akká is a city in Syria to which God hath shown His special mercy”

*by Muhammad Mustafá Soliman, Bahá'í Publishing Trust ~ Dhaka, Bangladesh



The Summoner " الدّاعي Al Da’I"

Another name mentioned in the Qur’án for the Apostles of God is “The
Summoner” as the following verse indicates:
O ye faithful! Make answer to God and his Apostle when
he summoneth you to that which giveth you life. Know
that God cometh in between a man and his own heart,
and that to Him shall ye be gathered.
(Súrih VIII - The Spoils of War, v. 24)

يا أيُّهَا الذين آمَنُوا اسْتَجِيبُوا هللِ وللرَسُولِ إذا دعاكم لما
ِيُحْيِيكُم واعْلَمُوا أنَّ هللاَ يَحُولُ بيْنَ المرءِ وقَلبِهِ وأنَّهُ إليه
َتُحْ شَرون
(األنفال24
)


In this verse, God asks the faithful to respond to His Apostle when His
Apostle “summoneth.” Thus the Apostle is the Summoner. The Apostle
Muhammad is called: he who summoneth, or The Summoner.

However, in the Súrih of The Moon, God addresses the Apostle
Muhammad as follows:
Turn away from them the Day when the Summoner will
summon to a horrendous affair.
(Súrih LIV- The Moon, v. 6)

ُفَتَوَ لَّ عَنْهُم يومَ يَدْع
أ ٍلدّاعِ إلى شيْءٍ نُكُر
(
القمر6
)


The verse clearly indicates that there is “the Summoner” Who will
come on the Day of Judgement to summon to something that will
seem terrible to those who are doubtful of the Words of God.

But we have seen from verse 24 of the Súrih of the Spoils of War that
the Apostle Muhammad was also a Summoner. lt follows then that the
Summoner to come, mentioned in the Súrih of the Moon, is also an


Apostle of God, not the Apostle Muhammad, since the Apostle
Muhammad was told to: “Turn away from them the Day when the
Summoner will summon...” in the future tense.

Although God’s command to: “Turn away from them..." is directed to
the Apostle Muhammad, in truth it is directed to the followers of the
Apostle Muhammad who will be present on: “the Day when the
Summoner will summon...”


Names given to The Messengers of God

A cursory survey of the Holy Qur’an would reveal many names given
to The Messengers of God.

The names of Apostle or Messenger, and of Prophet are of course
evident, but we can also see that “The Clear Evidence", "The GIad-
Tidings", "The Redeemer”,  "The Word of God ” "The Caller", "The
Summoner", "The Witness",  “The Spirit", “The Trumpet-Blast" and
“The Great Announcement” are mentioned in the Qur’an. With these
names in mind the understanding of certain verses of the Qur’an
becomes deeper and more fascinating.





The Day of the End that has no End

Most, if not all, the peoples of the world expect the advent of a Day,
or what is called a Day, known as the Day of the End. A Day whereon
no one really seems to know what will exactly happen, yet all fear.
Again a cursory survey of the Holy Qur’án will show that reference to
that Day has been made in various names of which the following may
be mentioned:



The Great Day

The Resurrection

The Day of Decision

The Hour

The Day of Judgement

The Day of Disillusion

The Day of Reckoning

The event that must
inevitably come to pass

The stunning calamity

Hell fire guarded by 19
Angel Guardian

The overwhelming event


Al-'Azim

Al-Qyama

Al-Fasl

Al-sa’a

AI-Din

Al-Taghébun

Al-Hisab

AI-Waqi’a


Al-Qari’a

Saqar


Al-Qhasjgiya





Ex : 7 :59, 10 :15

Ex : 2 :85, 2 :174

Ex: 44 :40,77:13

Ex: 30 :13,30 :34

Ex . 1 .12,

Ex 7: 64 39,

Ex: 38 :16,26:53

Ex : 69 :15,



Ex: 101 :1-3,

Ex : 74 :26-30


Ex : 88 :1

Whatever the name given to that Day, the great question remains:
what will happen on that Day?

The prevailing idea is that there shall come to pass a geological and
astrological upheaval. The mountains shall be blown flat, the sun shall
cease to rise leaving the universe in total darkness, the moon shall be
split, the stars shall fall, and in general earth and heaven shall be
destroyed.

Meanwhile, all human beings shall die. Once this is over God Almighty
shall sit on the Throne, surrounded by the Prophets and Angels, and
the Balance shall be set up. What follows then, is that everyone will


be resuscitated from the grave and shall pass through a process of
judgement. The non-believers shall go to hell to remain there for
evermore, and the Muslims, being the only people who could hope to
go to paradise, will be sent there to remain there for evermore; nay,
the Muslims of my sect only.

This is the image given by the Ulamá, each preaching the same
scenario to his congregation, whether he be a Jew, a Christian or a
Muslim. This image of course, finds justification in the outward or
literal meaning of the verses on the subject of that Day in the Old and
New Testaments of the Bible and in the Holy Qur’án. The modern
mind, however, finds great difficulty to reconcile belief in this imagery
that was taught to him or to her from childhood, with reason.


Who will enter Paradise?

God has made clear in the Qur’án who will enter paradise. The
following are amongst the verses that should clarify this

point:
And they say, ”None but Jews and Christians shall enter
paradise”. This is their wish. Say: Give your proofs if ye
speak the truth. But they who set their faces with
resignation towards God, and do what is right, their
reward is with their Lord; no fear shall come on them,
neither shall they be grieved. `
(Súrih II, The Cow, vv. 111-112)

ّوقالوا لن يَدْخُلَ الجَنَّةَ إال َمَنْ كانَ هُوداًّ أو نَصَارى تِلْك
ُأمانيهُم قُلْ هَاتُوا بُرْهَنَكُم إن كنْتُم صَادِقينَ بل مَنْ أسْلَمَ وجْ هَه
هللِ وهو مُحْ سِنٌ فلَهُ أجْ رَهُ عِنْدَ رَبِّهِ وال خَوْ فُ عليْهِم وال هُم
يَحْ زَنون
(البقرة111
-
)


The idea that entry to paradise is limited to those following one or
other of the religions is not correct, God tells us it is “they who set their
faces with resignation towards God, and do what is right,” who will go
to Paradise. The Jews were told by their Learned, their Ulamá, that
only the Jews should enter paradise. In like manner, their Leaders,
their Ulamá, assured the Christians that only the Christians should
enter paradise. Is the Muslim nation being led to fall into the same
error?


The Hour

God refers to the Resurrection as “the Hour”. Here are some verses
wherein reference is made to "the Hour":
They will ask thee of the Hour, for what time is its coming
fixed? Say: The knowledge of it is only with my Lord: none
shall manifest it in its time but He: it is the burden of the
Heavens and of the Earth: Not otherwise but on a sudden
will it come on you. They will ask thee as if thou wast privy
to it: Say: The knowledge of it is with none but God. But
most men know not this.
(Súrih Vll, Al-A’raf, v. 187)

يسْألونَكَ عَنِ السَّاعَةِ أيَّان
مرْ سَاها قل
إنَّمَا عِلْمُهَا عند
ربِّي
لا
يُجَلِّيهَا لوقْتِهَا
إال هو
ُثقُلَت في السَّمَواتِ واألرْضِ ال تأتِيَكُم
ِإالّ بَغْتَة يسْألونَكَ كأنَّكَ حفيٌَِّ عَنْهَا قُلْ إنَّمَا عِلْمُهَا عِنْدَ هللا
ولَكِن أكثَرَ النَّاس   َال يَعْلَمون
(
األعراف187
)


They will ask thee of the Hour. Say: The knowledge of it is
with God alone: and who can tell thee whether haply the
Hour be not nigh at hand?
(Súrih XXXIII, The Confederates, v. 63)

يَسْألُكَ النَاسُ عن ْالسَّاعَةِ قُل
َإنَّمَا عِلْمُهَا عِنْد
هللاِ وما
َيُدْرِ يك
ًّلَعَلَّ السَّاعَةَ تَكُونُ قَرِيبا


(األحزاب63
)


They will ask thee of the Hour, when will be its fixed time?
But what knowledge hast thou of it? its period is known
only to thy Lord; and thou art only charged with the
warning of those who fear it.
(Súrih LXXIX, Those Who Drag Forth, vv. 42-45)

يَسْألُونَكَ عن السَّاعَةِ أيَّانَ مُرْ سَاهَا   فيمَا أنتَ من ذِكْرَاهَا
َّإلى رَبِّكَ مُنْتَهَاهَا   إن
مَا أنتَ مُنْذِرُ مَنْ يَخْ شَاهَا
(
النازعات42

–

)


And We have sent thee to mankind at large, to announce
and to threaten. But most men understand not. And they
say, “When will this threat come to pass? Tell us if ye be
men of truth.” Say: Ye are menaced with a day, which not
for an hour shall retard or hasten on.
(Súrih XXXIV Saba, vv. 28-30)

ِوما أرسَلْنَاكَ إالّ كافَّةًّ للنَّاسِ بَشِيراًّ ونذيراًّ ولَكِنَّ أكْثرَ النَّاس
ال يَعْلَمُونَ   ويَقِولُونَ مَتَى هذا الوَ عْدُ إنْ كُنْتُم صَادِقِينَ   قل
َلكُم مِيعَادُ يومٍ ال تستأخِرُونَ عَنْهُ سَاعَةًّ وال تَسْتَقْدِمون
(سبا28

–

)


“Never”, say the unbelievers, “will the Hour come upon
us!” Say: Yea, by my Lord Who knoweth the unseen; it will
surely come upon you! Not the weight of a mote either in
the Heavens or in the Earth escapeth Him; nor is there
ought less than this or ought greater, which is not in the
clear Book...
(Súrih  XXXV Saba, v. 3)

وقال الذين كَفَروا ال تَأتِينَا السَّاعَةُ  قل بلى وربِّي
لت أتَيَنَّكُم
عَالِمِ الغَيْبِ ال يَعْزُبُ عَنْهُ مِثْقَالُ ذَرَّةٍ في السّمَواتِ وال في
ِاألرض
(
سبا3
)


For what do the infidels wait, but that the Hour come
suddenly on them? Already are its signs come, and when
it hath come on them indeed, how can they be warned
then ?
(Súrih XLVII, Muhammad, v. 18)

فهلْ يَنْظُرُونَ إالّ السَّاعَةَ أن تأتيهُم بَغْتَةًّ فقد جاء
أشْرَا طُهَا
فأَنَى لَهُم إذا جاءَتْهُم ذِكْرَاهُم
(
محمد18
)


But the Infidels will not cease to doubt concerning it, until
the Hour come suddenly upon them, or until the
chastisement of a day of desolation come upon them. On
that day the Kingdom shall be God's: He shall judge
between them: And they who shall have believed and
done the things that are right, shall be in gardens of
delight: But they who were infidels and treated our signs
as lies, these then, theirs a shameful chastisement.
(Súrih XXII, The Pilgrimage, vv. 55-57)

ُوال يزال الذين كَفَروا في مريّةٍ مِنْه َحتّى تأتِيَهُم السَّاعَةُ بَغْت ًّة
َأو يأتيهُم عَذَابُ يومٍ عقيمٍ   الملْكُ يومئذٍ هللِ يَحْكُمُ بَيْنَهُم فالذين
آمنوا وعَمِلوا الصَّالِحَاتِ في جَنَّات النَّعِيمِ   والذين كَفَروا
ٌوكَذِبوا بآياتِنا فأولَئِكَ لَهُم عَذَابٌ مُهِين
(
الحج55

–

)


As we read these weighty verses, we are struck by their insistence on
certain points:

The “Hour” is an event that shall certainly come about. The “Hour”
shall come “at a fixed time known unto God alone.” lt shall be “the
burden of the Heavens and of the Earth”, and it is a “threat” that God
announced to mankind at large by Muhammad the Apostle of God.

The “Hour” shall come “suddenly upon” the infidels who are in doubt.
It will be a blessing to the believers and a shameful chastisement to


the infidels. On the day of the “Hour” God will judge between them.
The “Hour” is a day of chastisement and of desolation.

God further confirms that “already are” the “signs” of the “Hour” have
come. Moreover, “when it hath come on them indeed, how can they
be warned then?”

The fact that God confirms that the signs of the Hour are already there
gives rise to an obvious question: What are those signs? Indeed, it is
also obvious that God, in His all-encompassing mercy and justness,
would certainly send out signs to attract the attention of His creatures
to the Hour of judgement, and the responsibility remains with us, His
creatures, to recognize His signs and avoid being taken by surprise.
Again, God tells us: “aught less than this or aught greater, which is not
in the clear Book,” that is to say, we should find the answer to our
questions in the Qur’án — the clear Book.

The above-mentioned verses concern the “Hour” of judgement of the
whole world. However, every nation in the past has had its “Hour”.
Referring to the history of these nations will give us an indication of
the signs of the “Hour” in the past, which will in turn help in the
recognition of the signs of the “Hour” of today.

One can refer to the first 24 verses of the Súrih of Húd and discover
what happened to the nations of the past which had not recognized
the signs of their “Hour”, when God Almighty sent His Messenger to
them, they were taken by surprise and failed to accept that
Messenger.


Life and Death as mentioned in the Qur’án

One of the beautiful aspects of the Holy Qur’án lies in its imagery
language making use of the characteristic richness of Arabic in
conveying spiritual themes. Its unique style in stating spiritual truths
in metaphors is a source of inspiration to the reader with insight.



To take one important example, we may consider the theme of "Life
and Death" as mentioned in the Qur’án. While in some verses these
words have the same meaning that are in use by the common of
mortals, in many instances they have a spiritual meaning: Life meaning
"belief" while death means “denial" — belief or denial in the Message
from God unto mankind.

An obvious case that confirms such an interpretation is that of Hamza
the uncle of Muhammad the Apostle of God. For some time, Hamza
opposed the new Revelation, and then accepted it. The following
verse was revealed concerning this event:
Can he who was dead, to whom we gave life, and a light
whereby he can walk amongst men, be like him who is in
the depths of darkness, from which he can never come
out? Thus to the unbelievers do their own deeds seem
pleasing.
(Súrih VI, the Cattle, v. 122)

أَوَ من كان ميّتَاًّ فأحييناه وجعلنا لهُ نوراًّ يمشي به في النّاس
كَمَن مَثَلُهُ في الظُّلُماتِ ليس بخارجٍ منها
كَذَلِكَ زُيِّنَ للكَافِرِي َن
َمَا كَانُوا يَعْمَلون
(األنعام122
)


The comparison here is between Hamza —“he who was dead to whom
we gave life”, and Hamza’s contemporary, Abu-Jahl, another
important figure at the time of the Apostle Muhammad and avowed
opponent to Him and to Islám — “him who is in the depths of
darkness.” Hamza was not physically dead, yet he was considered
dead because he was a “denier", in other words, spiritually dead.
Hamza was inspired to "believe" in Islám and was given life.

Abu-Jahl refused to accept Islám and was not adorned with “belief”.
Abu-jahl was in the depths of darkness, from which he can never come
out, or in other words spiritually in darkness and remained in
darkness, because he refused to "believe" in the new Message. Yet


physically, Abu-Jahl was conducting a normal life like Hamza.
However, he was not given the light whereby he can walk amongst
men.

Again in the following verse the words ”dead" and ”lifeless” are used
metaphorically to indicate the spiritual death of invoking help of idols
and not of the One true God:
While the gods whom they call on beside God, create
nothing, but are themselves created: dead are they,
lifeless. And they know not when they shall be raised.
(Súrih  XVI, The Bee, vv. 20-21)

َوالذين يَدْعُونَ من دون هللا ال يَخْلُقُونَ شيئاًّ وهم يُخْ لَقُون
يُبْعَثُون
أيَّانَ
وما يَشْعُرونَ
أحياءٍ
غيرُ
أمْوَ اتٌ
(النحل20
-
)


Thus it is that the meaning of life and death in the holy Scriptures is
indeed the spiritual condition of life and death, the condition of being
a believer and spiritually alive, or dead and in spiritual darkness
wrapped in the winding sheets of false tradition and wrong
imagination.

In like manner the Qur’án gives us another deep meaning for life and
death. ln the Súrih of the Family of 'lmrán we read:
Think not of those who are slain in God's way as dead.
Nay, they live, finding their sustenance in the presence of
their Lord.
(Súrih III, The Family of ’lmrán, 169)

َوال تَحْسَبَنَّ الذين قُتِلُوا في سبيلِ هللا أمْواتاًّ بل أحياءُ عند
َربِّهِمْ يُرْ زَقُون
(آل عمران169
)


Besides life and death, the Qur’an gives spiritual meanings to other
words amongst which are: blindness and sight, darkness and light,
those who are in their graves... as in the following verses:


And the blind and the seeing are not alike; neither
darkness and light; nor the shade and the hot wind; nor
are the living and the dead the same! God indeed shall
make whom He will to hearken, but thou shall not make
those who are in their graves to hearken; for only with
warning art thou charged.
(Súrih XXXV The Creator, vv.19—23)

وما يسْتوي األعمى والبَصيرُ  وال الظلمات وال النُّورُ  وال
ُالظلُّ وال الحَرُورُ  وما يَسْتَوي األحياءُ وال األموات
َإنَّ هللا
َّيُسْمِعُ من يشاءُ وما أنتَ بِمُسْمِعٍ مَن في القُبُورِ إنْ أنتَ إال
ٌنَذير
(فاطر19

–

)


These words were addressed to the Apostle Muhammad, and it is
clear that the words: blind and seeing, darkness and light, shade and
hot wind, the living and the dead, have a deeper significance than their
literal meaning indicates. If considered in their literal meaning alone,
the verses will not make good sense. This fact is further confirmed by
the sentence: “thou shall not make those who are in their graves to
hearken.” Those who are physically in the graves are physically dead
and cannot be those mentioned in the sentence. It follows that what
is intended by “those who are in their graves to hearken” are indeed
living individuals who are in the graves of ignorance, spiritually dead.
The same applies to the blind and seeing, darkness and light, shade
and hot wind, living and the dead; which are not meant to indicate a
physical condition of human beings or of nature, otherwise why would
God mention that which is clearly evident.

These words explain the difference between those who did not see
the truth of the Message sent to them by the Apostle Muhammad —
those who are “blind", from those who have seen and embraced His
Cause — the "seeing".



The Resurrection

The Resurrection, the Hour, the End that has no End, the Day of
Judgement and other titles, all are synonymous of the same event.
People were told that the event is: A total upheaval of the earth and
what is on it, a complete annihilation of mankind, and a whole
disturbance and imbalance of what is in the sky. The scene then
develops when all the people who were by then in their graves, will be
made to rise from their graves, be judged, and graded into "the good"
and the "wicked". "The good" will take the road to paradise, and "the
wicked" will go to hell.

We spoke about this earlier in this book under the title of "The Hour".
The reason why I am repeating this here is because we shall continu
to discuss the subject of Resurrection in more detail. We have
understood the meaning of "life", "death", "the grave", “the blind and
seeing”, “darkness and light”..., Now we need to realise even more,
that these imagery words of the Qur’an are not to be understood on
their dictionary meaning, but rather that they intend to convey the
spiritual attitudes of the human being.

A review of the verses in the Qur’án that concern the Resurrection give
more than one image to what will happen on that Day. In fact it would
not be difficult to realise that there are four distinct images for the
resurrection.

The First image

ln the First Image, our attention is drawn to the terrifying end to which
earth and heaven are destined:
When the earth shall be shaken with a shock and the
mountains shall be crumbled with a crumbling, and shall
became scattered dust...
(Súrih LVI, The Inevitable, vv. 4-6}


إذا رُجَّتِ األرضُ رَجَّاًّ وبُسَّتِ الجِبَالُ بَسّاًّ فكَانَت هَبَاءًّ مُنْبَثًّا
(الواقعة4

–
)


When the sun shall be folded up. And when the stars shall
fall. And when the mountains shall be set in motion...
(Súrih LXXXI, The folded Up, vv. 1-3)

ُإذا الشَمْس  كُوِّ رَت وإذا النُّجُومُ انْكَدَرَت  وإذا الجِبَالُ سُيِّرَت
(
التكوير1

–
)


When the heaven shall cleave asunder. And when the
stars shall disperse. And when the seas shall be made to
burst forth. And when the graves shall be scattered".
(Súrih LXXXII, The Cleaving, vv. 1-4)

إذا السَّمَاءُ انْفَطَرَت وإذا الكَوَ اكِبُ انتَثَرَت وإذا البِحَارُ فَجِّرَت
وإذا القُبُورُ بُعْثِرَت
(
االنفطار1
- 4
)


When the heaven shall have split asunder. And duteously
obeyed its Lord. And when the earth shall have been
stretched out as a plain. And shall have cast off what is in
her and become empty.
(Súrih LXXXIV, The Splitting Asunder, vv. 1-4)

إذا السَّمَاءُ انْشَقَت وأذِنَت لِرَبِّهَا وحُقَّت وإذا األرضُ مُدَّت
وألقَت ما فيها
وتَخَلَّت
(
االنشقاق1

–
)


When the earth with her quaking shall quake. And the
earth shall cast off her burdens".
(Súrih XCIX, The Earthquake, vv. 1—2)

إذا زَلْزَلَتِ األرضُ زِ لْزَالَهَا وأخَْْ رَجَتِ األرضُ أثقالَهَا
(
الزلزلة1

–
)


These verses present an image of complete desolation of earth and
heaven:
...the earth shall be shaken... the earth shall quake... the
earth shall cast off her burdens... the earth shall have
been stretched out as a plain... the earth will become
empty...
...the graves shall be scattered...
...the mountains shall be crumbled...
...the seas shall be made to burst forth...
...the heaven shall have split asunder...
...the sun shall be folded up...
...the stars shall disperse... the stars shall fall...

Now let us consider these verses and ask ourselves whether these
events could take place literally? How can the heaven split asunder
duteously obey its Lord? What burdens will the stretched, shaken,
quaked earth cast off? Where will the stars fall?

We know today that some of the stars we see at night in a clear sky
are bigger than our earth, many times. How can it be that not one star,
but stars, that are a myriad times heavier than our earth, shall fall on
our shaking quaking earth?

Yet we know that every word pronounced by the Holy Mouthpiece of
God's Will must be true, and that there can be no contradiction in His
Words.

Science and knowledge are also attributes of the Almighty unto
mankind. Taken, therefore, at their literal meaning these events are
inacceptable to the human mind of today, and are not in harmony with
science and knowledge.

lf, however, we consider that these verses fall under the category of
the “figurative" verses that have an interpretation, then it will become
clear that these events should not be figured out in their literal
meaning, because what these verses call earth, heaven, mountain,


sun, seas and stars, are not the natural ones we see and know of, but
are figurative to more profound meanings.

What will be the condition of mankind when these events take place?
O Mankind, fear your Lord. Verily, the earthquake of the
last Hour will be a tremendous thing. On the day that ye
shall behold it, every suckling woman shall forsake her
suckling babe and every woman that hath a burden in her
womb shall cast her burden and thou shalt see men
drunken, yet are they not drunken: but it is the mighty
chastisement of God.
(Súrih XXII, The Pilgrimage, vv. 1-2)

ٌيا أيُّهَا النَّاسُ اتَّقُوا ربَّكُم إنَّ زَلزَلةَ السَاعَةِ شيءٌ عَظِيم يو َم
ِتَرونَهَا تَذْهَلُ كلُ مُرْ ضِ عَةٍ عَمَّا أرضَعَت وتَضَعُ كلُ ذات
حَمْلٍ حَمْلَهَا  وترى النَّاسَ سُكَارَى وما هُم بِسُكَارَى ولكن
ٌعَذَابَ هللاِ شَدِيد
(الحج1

–
)


But when the stunning blast shall arrive, on that day shall
a man fly from his brother, and his mother and his father,
and his wife and his children...
(Súrih LXXX, He Frowned, vv. 33-36)

ِفإِذَا جاءَتِ الصَّاخَةُ يوم يَفِرُّ المَرْ ءُ مِن أَخِيهِ وأُمِّهِ وأبِيه
ِوصاحِبَتِهِ وبَنِيه
َ(عَبَس33

–

)

Here we see mankind in a state of total loss, when the quake of
the last Hour shall strike: man shall fly from his brother, and his
mother and his father, and his wife and his children. Every
bearing woman shall cast her burden... And men shall seem to
be drunken, yet are they not drunken...

Here again we are confronted with the problem of reconciling reason
with the literal state in which men and women will be when


drunken and fleeing,
abandoning the suckling and dropping the burden...
and when the earth will be quaking and  flattened,
and the graves scattered,
and the mountains crumbling,
and the seas bursting,
and heaven split,
and the sun folded
and the stars dispersed...

Will such an image make sense if considered literally?

Yet these are all the Words of God. We must strive to understand
them, using as an unerring instrument the very Words of God.

The Second Image

The Second Image that the Holy Qur’án presents for the Resurrection
is one that unfolds new insight into the meaning of events presented
in the first image:
What! Are they sure that the overwhelming chastisement
of God shall not come upon them, or that that Hour shall
not come upon them suddenly, while they are unaware?
(Súrih XII, Joseph, v. 107)

ًّأفَأَمِنوا أن تأتيَهُم غَشِيَةٌ مِن عَذابِ هللاِ أو تأتيهم السَّاعةُ بَغْتَة
َوهُمْ ال يَشْعُرُون
(يوسف107
)


Warn them of the day of sighing when the decree shall be
accomplished, while they are sunk in heedlessness and
while they believe not...
(Súrih XIX, Mary, v. 39}

وانذِرْهُم يومَ الحَسْرَةِ إذ قُضِ يَ األمرُ في غَفْلَةٍ وهم ال يؤمنون
(
مريم39
)


But on the day of Resurrection some of you shall deny the
others, and some of you shall curse the others; and your
abode shall be the fire, and ye shall have none to help.
(Súrih XXIX, The Spider, v. 25)

ٍيومَ القيامةِ يَكْفُر بَعْضُكُم ببعض
ًّويَلْعَنُ بَعْضُكُمُ بعضا
َومأواكُم النَّار وما لكم من ناصِ رين

(العنكبوت25
)


Now what the second image tells us is quite clear, that on the Day of
Resurrection people will not be unaware of it being there, that they
shall be sunk in heedlessness and they shall believe not...

Further still: some shall deny the others, and some shall curse the
others.

Considering the upheaval that would have struck earth and heaven,
the mountains and the seas, the sun and the stars on the Day of
Resurrection, how can it be possible, were the upheaval to happen
literally, that the people then will be unaware, sunk in heedlessness?
And how can it be possible for the people under such conditions to be
in a state of mind, that some shall deny the others, and some shall
curse the others? ls that not a further proof that the upheaval of earth
and heaven, the mountains and the seas, the sun and the stars should
not be understood literally?

Another question may also be pertinent to this second image of
events: Who are they who shall be unaware, sunk in heedlessness?

Here is what God tells us:
And on that day whereon the Hour shall arrive, the wicked
will swear that not above one hour have they waited:
even so did they utter lies on earth. But they to whom
knowledge and faith have been given will say, "ye have
waited, in accordance with the book of God, till the Day


of Resurrection: for this is the Day of Resurrection but ye
were not aware.”
(Súrih XXX, The Greeks, vv. 55-56)

َويومَ تَقومُ السّاعَة يُقْسِمُ المُجرِ مونَ ما لَبِثوا غيْرَ سَاعَةٍ كَذَلِك
كَانُوا يُؤفِكُون  وقالَ الذينَ أُوتُوا العِلْمَ واإليمَانَ لقَدْ لَبِثْتُمْ في
كِتَابِ هللاِ إلى يومِ البَعْثِ فَهَذَا يَوْ مُ البَعْثِ ولَكِنَّكُم كُنْتُم ال
. َتَعْلَمون
(الروم55
-
)


Those who are unaware are the wicked that watched the events of
The Day of Resurrection but did not understand their import. Those to
whom knowledge and faith was given, understand the meaning of the
events, and will tell the wicked “You have understood the Day of
Resurrection literally from the book of God, and consequently did not
understand that this is The Day of Resurrection.”

The Third Image

The Third Image of the Day of Resurrection may be seen in the
following verses:
And there shall be a blast on the trumpet, and all who are
in the Heavens and all who are in the Earth shall expire,
save those whom God shall vouchsafe to live. Then there
shall be another blast on it, and lo! Arising they shall gaze
around them:
And the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord, and
the Book shall be set, and the prophets shall be brought
up, and the witnesses; and judgement shall be given
between them with equity; and none shall be wronged.
(Súrih XXXIX, The troops, vv. 68-69)

ِونُفِخَ في الصُورِ فَصُعِقَ من في السَمَوَ اتِ ومن في األرض
َإالَّ من شَاءَ هللاُ  ثُمَّ نُفِخَ فيهِ أخْ رَى فإذا هُمْ قِيَامُ يَنْظُرون
وأشْرَقَتِ األرضُ بِنُورِ رَبِّهَا ووُ ضِ عَ الكِتَابُ وجِيءَ بالنَبِيِّين


ْوالشُهَدَاءِ وقُضِ يَ بَيْنَهُم بالحَقِّ وهُم
َال يُظْلَمُون

(
الزمر69

و73
)


We discussed the first verse of this gleaning under the heading "Two
Consecutive Trumpet Blasts the Day of Resurrection" in previous
pages of this book, and we see now that these two "Trumpet Blasts"
are to be followed by “the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord”
and the setting of the "Book".

We have also seen in a previous page that the Qur’án is called "The
Book" (Súrih III, v. 7), and that the Bible is called "The Book" as in ”the
people of the Book”  (Súrih XCVIII, The Clear Evidence, vv. 1-4)

However, "The Book" that shall be set after the second Trumpet Blast
and following “the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord”, cannot
be the Qur’án . Neither can it be the Bible. It is a "Book" that shall be
set on earth after the Qur’án, after the second Trumpet blast and after
the shining of the earth “with the light of her Lord.”

In effect, this is a clear forecast of the appearance of a Messenger from
God — the second Trumpet Blast — Who will promulgate a Book of
God-given laws and ordinances of Divine origin as was the case for the
Qur’án and the Bible.

This will cause the earth to “shine with the light of her Lord.”

This is a clear announcement that a new world will be established on
earth once it is swept clean of the mountains of vain imitations. When
once a new sense of faith is promoted. When the heaven of belief will
be cleared of the clouds of false imaginings that shrouded the rays of
the Sun of Truth; and when the stars of knowledge that once guided
the people have become a source of misguidance to err, thus fell down
and were dispersed.
What will the condition of mankind be then?
Here is truly a sign for him who feareth the punishment of
the latter day. That shall be a day unto which mankind


shall be gathered together; that will be a day witnessed
by all creatures. Nor do we delay it but until a time
appointed.
When that day shall come no one shall speak a word but
by His leave, and some shall be miserable and some shall
be blessed. And as for those who shall be consigned to
misery, their place the Fire! Therein shall they sigh and
bemoan them.
Therein shall they abide while the Heavens and the Earth
shall last, unless thy Lord shall will it otherwise; verily the
Lord doth what He chooseth.
And as for the blessed ones, their place Paradise! Therein
shall they abide while the Heavens and the Earth endure,
with whatever imperishable boon thy Lord may please to
add.
{Súrih Xi, Houd, vv. 103-108)

ٌإنَّ في ذَلِكَ أليَةًّ لِمَنْ خَافَ عَذَابَ اآلخِرَةِ ذَلِكَ يَوْ مٌ مَجْمُوع
ٍلَهُ النَّاسُ وذَلِكَ يَوْ مٌ مَشْهُودٌ وما نُؤَ خِرَهُ إالّ ألَجَلٍ مَعْدُود َيوم
يأتِ ال تَكَلَّمُ نفسٌ إالّ بإذنِهِ  فمِنْهُم شَقيُ وسَعيدٌ  فأمّا الذين
شَقوا ففي النارِ لهم فيها زفيرُ وشهيقٌ  خالدين فيها ما دامت
ُالسموات واألرض  إالّ ما شاءَ ربُّكَ  إنَّ رَبُكَ فعّال لما يُريد
َّوأم َا الذين
َسُعِدوا  ففي الجنّة خالدين فيها م َا د َام َّت الس َوم ُات
ُواألرض
َإالّ م َا ش َاءَ ربُّكَ ع َط ْاءًّ غيرَ مَج
ذ ٍٍَوذ

(هود103
-
)


But those who feared their Lord shall be driven on by
troops to Paradise, until when they reach it, its gates shall
be opened, and its keepers shall say to them, "All hail!
Virtuous have ye been: enter then in, to abide herein
forever."
And they shall say, "Praise be to God, who hath made
good to us His promise, and hath given to us the earth as
our heritage, that we may dwell in Paradise wherever we
please!"


(Súrih XXXIX, The Troops, vv. 73-74)

وسِيقَ الذين اتَّقُوا رَبَّهًّم إلى الجَنَّةِ زُمَراًّ حَتَّى إذا جَاءُوها
وفُتِحَت أبْوابُهَا وقال لَهُم خَزَنَتَهَا سَالمٌ عَلَيْكُم طِبْتُم فادْخُلوهَا
خالدين
َوقَالُوا الحَمْدُ هللِ الذي صَدَقَنَا وَ عْدَهُ وأورَثَنَا األرض
َنَتَبَوَّ أُ مِنَ الجَنَّةِ حيثُ نَشَاءُ فَنِعْمَ أجْرُ العَامِلِين
(
الزمر73
-
)


At this stage, we see clearly the fulfilment of the promise of the
establishment of Paradise on earth: "Praise be to God, who hath made
good to us his promise, and hath given to us the earth as our heritage,
that we may dwell in Paradise wherever we please!"

Moreover, Paradise and hell Fire will continue after that Day as long
as: the Heavens and the Earth endure and while: the Heavens and the
Earth shall last.


The Fourth Image

The Forth Image of the Day of Resurrection is one in which mankind
will have attained the utter felicity of fellowship and unity, when the
world would be immersed in the Bounty and Grace of the Almighty:
...And the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord...
(Súrih XXXIX, The troops, v. 69)

......وأشرَقَتِ األرْضُ بِنُورِ رَبِّهَا
(الزمر69
)


What have they to wait for now but that God should come
down to them overshadowed with clouds, and the angels
also, and the question be settled? And to God shall all
things return.
(Súrih Il, The Cow, v.210)


ِهل يَنْظُرُونَ إالّ أن يأتِيَهُم هللاُ في ظُلَلٍ مِنَ الغَمَام
ُوالمَالئِكَةُ وقُضِ يَ األمرُ وإلى هللاِ تُرْ جَعُ األمُور
(
البقرة210
)


And thy Lord shall come and the angels rank on rank,
(Súrih LXXXIX, v. 22)

ًوجاءَ رَبُّكَ والمَلَكُ صَفّاً صَفَّا
(
الفجر22
)


On the day whereon the Spirit and the Angels shall be
ranged in order, they shall not speak: save he whom the
God of Mercy shall permit, and who shall say that which
is right.
(Súrih LXXVIII, The Announcement, v. 38)

ّيومَ يَقُومُ الرُّوحُ والمالئِكَةُ صَفاَ ال يتكَلَّمُونَ إال
ُمَن أذِنَ له
ًّالرَّحْ مَنُ وقالَ صَوَ ابا
(النبــأ38
)


All on the earth shall pass away, but the face of thy Lord
shall abide resplendent with majesty and glory
(Súrih LV, vv. 26-27)

َكلُّ مَن عليها فَانٍ  ويبقى وَ جْ هُ رَبِّك
ذو الجالل واإلكرام
(الرحمن26

–

)


And thou shalt see the Angels circling around the Throne
with praises of their Lord: and judgment shall be
pronounced between them with equity: and it shall be
said, "Glory be to God the Lord of the Worlds."
(Súrih XXXIX, The Troops, v. 75)

وتَرَى المَالئِكَةَ حَافِينَ مِن حَوْ لِ العَرْشِ يُسَبِحُونَ بِحَمْدِ رَبِّهِم
َوقُضِ يَ بَيْنَهُم بالحَقِ وقِيلَ الحَمْدُ هللِ رَبِّ العَالَمِين
(
الزُمر75
)



What a marvellous world will there be on earth after the second
Trumpet blast! …“the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord...”,
and God “should come down... and the angels also...”, and the Lord
“shall come and the angels rank on rank...”, and Jesus the Spirit and
the Angels shall be ranged in order... and “All” false doctrines and vain
imaginations that are dominating the thought and heart of mankind
“on the earth shall pass away, but the face of thy Lord shall abide
resplendent with majesty and glory”: and the Throne will be set and
the “Angels circling around it”, and from every corner of the earth will
rise the praise "Glory be to God the Lord of the Worlds."

On that Day:
... thou shalt see the believers, men and women, with
their light running before them, and on their right hand.
The angels shall say to them, "Good tidings for you this
day of gardens beneath whose shades the rivers flow, in
which ye shall abide for ever!" This the great bliss!
(Súrih LVII, Iron, v. 12)

يومَ تَرَى المُؤمِنِينَ والمُؤمِنَاتِ يَسْعَى نُورُهُم بَيْنَ أيْدِيهِم
ُوبأيْمَانِهِم بُشْرَاكُمُ اليَومَ جَنَّاتٌ تَجْ رِ ي مِن تَحْ تِهَا األنْهار
ُخَالِدِينَ فيها ذلِكَ هوَ الفَوْ زُ العَظِ يم
(
الحديد12
)





The Great Announcement
النبأ العظي
م

Of what ask they of one another?
Of the great Announcement
The theme of their disputes.
Nay! they shall certainly know its truth!
Again. Nay! they shall certainly know it.


(Surih LXXVIII, The Great Announcement, vv. 1-5)

عَمَّ يتساءلون
عن النبأ العظيم
الذي هم فيه مختلفون
كالّ سيعلمون
ثم كالّ سيعلمون
(النبأ العظيم1

–
)


The word "Announcement" refers to a Message or Messenger.
However, the verses here speak of a "great Announcement". They
further confirm that the truth about it shall be made known. However,
because the Announcement is great and because its exact date is
unknown, God warns the believers not to underestimate any news
about it in the following warning:
O Believers! if any bad man come to you with an
announcement, clear it up at once, lest through ignorance
ye harm others, and speedily have to repent of what ye
have done.
(Súrih XLIX, The Apartments, v. 6)

يا أيّها الذين آمنوا إن جاءكم فاسقٌ ينبأ فتبيَّنوا  أن تصيبوا
قوماًّ بجهالة فتصبحوا على ما فعلتم نادمين
(
الحجرات6
)


Should a bad man or wicked person come to a believer with an
announcement, that is to say with news of the sounding of a Trumpet,
the matter should be verified immediately, lest the "announcement"
be one of truth, and in ignorance the "announcement" is denied and
repentance shall be the fate of the believer.

In fact, Almighty God wants us to be fair, to have no prejudice and to
consider all matters with a fair mind. Should some news be presented
unto us, even were this to be by someone we know to be “bad”, we
should still give it full consideration, because that news may just be


the appearance of The Great Announcement, the return of Jesus
Christ.



A GENERAL REVIEW

Dear Reader,

At this crucial point of our discussion at distance, it may be useful to
review the subjects discussed in the above pages and gather our
thoughts through a prism of perspective reasoning.

We have seen what the Qur’án teaches regarding very important
subjects that engage the thoughts and minds of Muslims around the
world today.

At present the state of the world, devised and conflicting as it is,
reminds us most vividly of the events we have just read about the
Resurrection, when viewed in the light of rational perception, rather
than under the influence of traditional thought and imagination.

Humanity has made gigantic steps in the fields of research in sciences,
technology, communication, health-care, agriculture, education and
generally in all the endeavours of life. In the meantime, however,
moral values have degraded to most shameful levels and continue in
their downfall; people are at a loss for direction — they seem to be
drunken, yet are they not drunken.

Mankind is unhappy, in depressive anxiety, enveloped in gloom. A
feeling of oppression pervades, and the source of it is a mystery. The
political and economic structures of mankind are continually breaking
down in spite of the continuous effort to restore them.
Yet God tells us that “the earth shall shine with the light of her Lord...”
How then can what is happening today in the world be understood?

Let us summarize what we have gleaned from the Word of God!

We have taken knowledge of the warning issued by God to refrain
from “interpreting" the "figurative" verses of the Qur’án, because the


"interpretation" is known to God, and infringing on this limit would be
conducive to the creation of schism amongst the believers. The
believers were enjoined to follow “the reading” of the Qur’án as it was
revealed, and God promised saying “...verily, afterwards it shall be
ours to make it clear (or send the interpretation thereof)...” And
furthermore, “...its interpretation shall come.”

We have also understood that the “interpretation” of the Qur’án is
known to God alone, and that it will have to come to us from God
through a Messenger after Muhammad the Apostle.

As regards the sealing of prophethood, we understood the difference
between a Prophet and an Apostle or Messenger, and that the sealing
of prophethood does not mean that no more Manifestations of God’s
Will, that is Apostles, will follow.

The meaning of “Islám” was further understood to mean both the
specific Religion sent upon Muhammad the Apostle of God, and in
general, all Divine Messages that came to mankind through Noah,
Abraham, Ismaël, Jacob, Moses and His followers, as well as the
Disciples of Jesus.

In fact, God addressed the “children of Adam...,” that is humanity in
general, we included, and for ever after, that “There shall come...
Apostles” to us “rehearsing” His “signs,” and this was not limited,
neither in time nor in place. The continuity with which God will send
His Apostles, is further confirmed by the fact that the Muslim nation
was designated a “central” or “intermediary” nation, which
necessarily implies that other nations need must follow.

We have also learned that the Muslim Nation, like all nations, “has a
set term;” and we understood that the year 1260 of the Hegira or 1844
of the Christian era, could well be its term year. The Qur’án also states
that for every “term” there must come a “Book”, and that the name of
that “Book” may well be the “Bayán.”


Promised in the Qur’án is the advent of two Messengers, of two
Manifestations of God’s Will, representing the return of Yahyá (John)
son of Zachariah and of ‘Ísá (Jesus) son of Mary on the Day of
Resurrection. Their advent, we are told, would cause two terrible
commotions in the world, and that these two events will be so near to
one another in time that they will seem to be one. The two events
were also signalled by two Trumpet blasts, the first:  “a blast on the
Trumpet and all who are in the Heavens and all who are in the earth
shall expire...” while the second: “There shall be another blast on it,
and lo! Arising they shall gaze around them...”

Again, reference is made in Súrih XXXVI of a “blast on the Trumpet”
signalling the speeding of the people “out of their sepulchres... But one
blast shall there be, and, lo! They shall be assembled before us all
together.”

Regarding the forthcoming of a Messenger of God, we have noted that
the “Clear Evidence... An Apostle from God reciting Pure Pages wherein
valuable Books...” shall follow after the “Clear Evidence...” who is the
Apostle Muhammad, in order to render “the unbelievers among the
people of the Book (the Christians and the Jews)” as well as the
“polytheists” – render them believers in Islám and Muhammad as the
Apostle of God.

We have also noted that God enjoins the Muslims to “listen for the day
whereon the Crier shall cry out from a place quite near...” and we have
noted that given Muhammad was called a “Crier”, it follows that the
“Crier” unto who we are enjoined to “listen” to, is indeed an Apostle
of God also.

The “Crier” was to “cry out from a place quite near...” and we have
understood that that “place quite near” may well be ‘Akká which is in
the vicinity of Jerusalem.

The same “Crier” that will follow Muhammad, we have seen, is called
“The Summoner” Who will come on the Day of Judgement.



We have noted the various names by which the Apostles of God are
called
in
the
Qur’án:
“The
Clear
Evidence”,
“The
Great
Announcement...” etc. as well as those attributed to the Day of the
End of Time: “The Great Day”, “The Day of Resurrection”, “The Hour...”
etc.

As to “The Hour”, we noted that it will take most people, especially the
unbelievers, unawares. And we have also understood that “Life” and
“Death” in the meaning of the Words of God are in truth indications
of spiritual livelihood and death. In like manner must we understand
“blind” and “seeing”, “darkness” and “light”, “shade” and “hot wind”...
to indicate spiritual conditions.

Now we come to the most important subject: The Resurrection.

We have noted the four images and the succession of events of that
Day. It is evident that by calling the events The Day of Resurrection, its
duration will not be a 24 hour day of our reckoning. Indeed God tells
us in the Qur’án: “Verily a Day in the sight of thy Lord is like a thousand
years of your reckoning.” (Súrih XXII, The Pilgrimage, v. 47). The Day of
Resurrection is a divine process by which a total change will be
brought about in human society whereby the shining of “the light of
her Lord” will assemble “all together before” God, in other words unify
all the people on earth. The Lord of all the Heavens and of the Earth is
One. His light when it pervades the earth will render all those who are
on earth a One people.

Finally we have seen that God will make a Great Announcement which
will be recognized by all on earth even though it may be a cause of
dispute in the beginning. God further warns the believers to
investigate immediately any announcement they hear of, even were
“any bad man” bring it to their attention.



















Part II

The Great Announcement, the Clear Evidence,
the Crier and the Summoner promised in the Qur’án.



Part II

The Great Announcement, the Clear Evidence, the Crier and the
Summoner promised in the Qur’án.

Dear Reader,

At this stage, I would suggest that together we look into the conditions
of the world today and compare them with the images you have read
in the previous pages. However, I do also suggest that we consider
together the understanding of some concepts that are relevant to our
subject, albeit very briefly.


The station of mankind:

As is probably known to all people, the world of existence is composed
of four kingdoms, namely the mineral kingdom, the vegetable
kingdom, the animal kingdom and the kingdom of humankind. Man is
the most sublime creation in the world of existence. The spirit of man
is a breath from the spiritual realms of God. The station of man is,
therefore, very great. God endowed man with intellect and conscience
that allow him to be the recipient of the heavenly bounties and give
him perception to explore the phenomena of nature.

In spite of his power of perception, man is in need of education. If left
without education, man will debase towards the animal kingdom.
Animals share with mankind the senses of sight, hearing, taste and
odour. In many cases, these senses are more acute in animals than
they are in mankind. The life of an animal is conditioned by nature.
Animals are totally at home in nature and do not need to be educated
or that much trained. However, man is in need of education and
training. If man be left without education and training, he will become
worse than the animal.



The Education of man

Besides body and physical training, the education of the human being
is of two kinds: the education and training in sciences and technology,
and the spiritual education. The first is the human education,
conceived and applied by the intellectual capability of human beings
such as the philosophers, the scientists and the education teachers;
while the second – the spiritual education, must come from the
Creator Who ennobled man’s physical body with the human spirit.

The spiritual Educators of humanity are the Messengers and Prophets
sent by God. They tell us how the Almighty wishes us to conduct our
social and earthly life and empower us through the effulgence of The
Word of God to attain the heavenly attributes of love, mercy,
truthfulness, honesty and such as are of heavenly nature.

The people unto whom God sent His Messenger Muhammad were
ignorant. Their sole education was that which they developed from
their tribal systems. Hence, there was no cohesion between the
different tribes and conflict was always present amongst them. Their
ignorance was such as to consider the birth of a girl a dishonour to the
father, and some went as far as to bury their girl child alive.

However, when the Divine Educator, Muhammad the Messenger of
God, came to them and inspired their spirits with the Words of God,
they became another people to the extent that these nomad tribes
became united and brought many nations under the banner of Islám.
They established civilizations, developed philosophy and sciences and
were the ornament of history over many centuries.

Similarly Jesus Christ, Moses, and Abraham were the Divine Educators
of humankind of prior ages. Through their Divine Teachings, nations
and peoples were united and great civilizations were established.



The Unity of the Messengers of God

We read in the Qur’án of many Messengers and Prophets sent by God
to humanity, and yet God tells us that of these:
…we have already sent apostles before thee: of some we
have told thee, and of others we have told thee nothing…
(Súrih XL – The Believer, v. 78)

ولقد
أ
رسلنا رسال من قبلك منهم من قصصنا
عليك ومنهم
من لم نقصص عليك...


(غافر78
)


This means that there are Messengers of God whose names were not
mentioned in the Qur’án. However, God tells us in the following verse,
that we should “…make no distinction between any of His Apostles”.

The Apostle believeth in that which hath been sent down
from his Lord, as do the faithful also. Each one believeth
in God, and His Angels, and His Books, and His Apostles:
we make no distinction between any of His Apostles. And
they say, "We have heard and we obey. Thy mercy, Lord!
for unto thee must we return."
(Súrih II The Cow, v. 285)

آ َم َن
َالر ُس ُول  ِب َم ا ُأ ْن ِز َل إ ْلي ِه  ِم ْن  َر ِّب ِه
ُوالم ِؤم ُن َون  ُك  ل آ َم َن  ِب ِاهلل
َوم ِالئ َك ِت ِه
ُوك ُت ِب ِه
ُور ُس ِل ِه
ُال ن َف ِّر ُق  َب ْي َن أ َح ٍد  ِم ْن  ُر ُس ِل ِه
َا وق ُل وا
َس ِم ْع َأ ا و ن َط ْع َن ُا غ ْف َر َان َك  َر َّب َإ ا و ن َل ْي َك
َالم ِص ُير

(البقرة
)


All the Messengers of God are the same Sun that rises in the same
Heaven and radiates the same Light upon mankind. We should beware
to think for one moment that one Messenger of God is better or
different to another. God is One, His Messengers are One, though they
differ in Name.



Religion is One

We have seen in the pages above under the heading “Islám: The Only
Divine Religion”, that all the Messengers of God taught “Islám”.  Yet
we see that there are different religions in the world. There is the
Hebrew Religion, the Christian religion, the Buddhist Religion, the
Zoroastrian Religion and the Muslim Religion, to mention but the few
well known from amongst the religions present today.

Are these religions different?
Can we say that any one religion is better than the others are?

Unfortunately, many people believe that their religion is the best, and
by so doing consider the followers of the other religions as having
swayed from the true path.

All religions come from the One True God. He reveals them to us
through His Messengers, and He warns us to “make no distinction
between any of His Apostles”,1 how can we say then that there are
different religions or that the one is better than another or better than
all the other religions? Do we allow ourselves to judge the work of
God? This indeed would be pure error.


Progressive Revelation

The truth is that religion is one. It is a progressive process, whereby
the All-Merciful has elevated humanity through the ages and prepared
it for its coming of age by Divine Revelation through successive
Messengers.

The spiritual teachings of all religions are the same. Judaism,
Christianity and Islám teach the Oneness of God, love and harmony

1 Súrih II The Cow, v. 285


amongst the people. The followers of all these and other religions are
enjoined to adorn themselves with truthfulness, honesty, love for
humankind, mercifulness, fairness and justice. For the spiritual
attributes of man, all religions teach the same principles. Therefore,
the basis of all religion is the same.

The differences between the Revelations lie in the laws and
ordinances governing the social and personal relations of their
followers. Different peoples at different times need specific laws and
ordinances, and the All-Merciful God ordains, what is in His All-
Encompassing Wisdom, that which is best for the people. God tells us
in the Qur’án:
Whatever verses we cancel, or cause thee to forget, we
bring a better or its like. Knowest thou not that God hath
power over all things?
(Súrih II, The Cow v.106)

َام  َن ْن َس ْخ  ِم ْن آ َي ٍة أ ُو ن ْن ِس َه َأ ا ن ِت  ِب َخ ْي ٍر  ِم ْن َه أ ا ِو م ْث ِل أ ها َل ْم  َت ْع َل ْم
أ َّن
َالله
َع َل ُى ك ِّل  َش ْي ٍء  َق ِد ٌير
(البقرة106
)


Thus, we see that certain foods are prohibited in one Revelation and
not prohibited in another, and while the rituals of daily prayer are
different, daily prayers itself remains as one of the obligations in all
Revelations. The same applies to fasting. Followers of all religions are
enjoined to fast during a certain period every year, yet the manner,
the date and the duration of fasting may be different.

Such differences should not be considered on a preferential basis, but
rather be attributed to the needs and condition of the different
peoples to which the Revelations came. The peoples unto whom the
Law of the Evangel was revealed, were different to that of Arabia,
where the Qur’án was taught. When the Torah was revealed, the
condition of the Children of Israel was different to the condition of the
peoples of the two Revelations that followed.


One of the most striking examples of progressive revelation can be
found in the status of women. Prior to Islám, women had no clear
status in society in Arabia. Christianity and the Jews were part of
society there too. Women had no status. In the Qur’án women were
elevated from total absence of rights to a status whereby they enjoyed
half the rights of men in matters of inheritance, and testimony. Men
were ordained to care for their wives and treat them with kindness
and respect. Considering that these changes took place in the nomad
tribal societies of Arabia in their age of ignorance, it becomes clear
that these changes were tantamount to a revolution in the habits and
behaviour of the Arabs of those times. Of course, no one thinks of
these changes as revolutionary anymore today, now that over 14
centuries have passed since.


Why people deny the Messengers of God

The Christians refuse to accept Muhammad as a Messenger of God
because their Leaders told them there is no trace in the Evangel that
can be understood to foreshadow the coming of a Messenger of God
after Christ. For centuries, the common Christian had no direct access
to the Evangel. The Priests alone read and studied the Book, and the
Church alone detained the authority to say what is in the Book, and
what is not. Those who questioned the Priests or the Church were cast
away as infidels and possibly suffered persecution.

Such was the condition of the Jews also when Christ announced His
Mission to them. The Scribes and Pharisees controlled the
consciousness of the Jews, and detained them from accepting Christ -
the Spirit sent to them from God, to remove them from hellfire of
ignorance and imitation and make them enter the paradise of
knowledge and redemption.

The Muslims say, in the Evangel it is written that a Messenger named
Ahmed shall come after Christ, and this is confirmed in the Qur’án. The
Christians say there is no mention of Ahmed in our Book. The Muslims


conclude that the text of the Evangel was tampered with, and the
word Ahmed was removed by the Church.

Confronted with this issue, the Muslims and the Christians have never
really thought of trying independently to find an explanation to it.
They simply listened to the Ulamá for the ones and the Priests for the
others and went into headlong confrontation, not only for this, but
also for many other issues.

A person of goodwill who wishes to establish harmony among the
differing peoples will have to put aside all the inherited ideas and
opinions old or present on the subject of issue, in order to be able to
see things in an unbiased state of mind. The balance of justice cannot
weigh matters fairly if it were tilting in one sense or the other.

Now we know that the Qur’án and the Evangel were revealed by God
unto His Messengers, Mohammad and Christ. These books therefore,
contain the Words of God. The Words of God can be neither
contradicting nor erroneous. When God says that the name “Ahmed”
exists in the Evangel, then this must be so. Nobody on earth can
tamper with the Text of the Words of God. God Himself tells us that
He will not allow this to happen, because He Himself will guard over
the integrity of the Messages that he sends:
We have without doubt, sent down the Message; and we
will assuredly guard it
(Súrih xv, Al-Hijr, v. 9)

إ َّن َا ن ْح ُن  َن َّز ْل َان
ِّالذ ْك َر إو َّن َا ل ُه
َلح ِاف ُظ َون

(الحجر 9
)


Now let us consider the following verse:
And to thee we have sent down the Book (The Qur’án)
with truth, confirming that which is in his two hands of
the Book (previously revealed) and guarding it in safety…
(Súrih v, The Table, v. 51)


وأ ْن َز ْل َن ا إ َل ْي َك
ِالك َت َاب  ِب ْال َح ِق  ُم َص ِد ًّاق  ِل َم َا ب ْي َن  َي َد ْي ِه  ِم َن
ِالك َت ِاب
ُوم َه ْي ِم ًّن
ا عليه...

(المائدة
)


In this verse we notice that there is mention of "the Book " meaning
the Qur’án, and "the Book " that was previously revealed, meaning the
Bible. The words "that which is in his two hands " refer to the Bible
that was available at the time of the revelation of the Qur'an and
which Muhammad had "in his two hands", or simply available unto
Muhammad.

We, therefore, see that the Evangel, which is part of the Book revealed
before the Qur’án, was true at the time when the Qur’án was
revealed. No word of the Evangel was removed, replaced, or added,
at the time the Qur’án was revealed.

The Qur’án was revealed in Arabic, and the word “Ahmed” is an Arabic
word. The Evangel’s original language was not Arabic. Christ spoke in
Aramaic. It is natural then, that the word “Ahmed” will not be found
as such, in the translated Evangel. However, we find that a word of
Greek origin corresponds to “Ahmed” in meaning, and that word is
“Paraclete”.2

Jesus Christ pronounced the word “Paraclete” in four instances in the
Gospel according to St. John.  The word “Paraclete” was replaced by
the word “Comforter” in the English translation. In the Arabic version
of the Gospel, the word “Paraclete” is translated into “معين” - “Helper”
and in some versions it is translated into “المعزّي” - “Redeemer”. All
these translations are correct, and in addition, the word “Paraclete”
means “Defender” or “Intercessor”.

Paraclete means Ahmed, which when translated from the original
language of Revelation became Comforter or Redeemer or Helper.


2 Refer to Appendix I for further explanation and prophecies



Sun, Heaven(s), Earth, Stars, Mountains, Seas…

Sun, Heaven(s), Earth, Stars, Mountains and Seas… have much deeper
meanings when mentioned in the Qur’án than their outward meaning.
Under the heading of “The Resurrection” in the preceding pages of
Part I, the Reader would have noticed that these nouns did have a
deeper significance. Taken on their dictionary meaning simply did not
make good sense to the verses in which these nouns are mentioned.

Among the events that will take place during the Resurrection we have
read the following signs wherein are included Sun, Heaven(s), Earth,
Stars, Mountains, Seas… We understood that these signs were
figurative and should be understood in that light:

“and thou shalt see men drunken, yet are they not
drunken…”

...the earth shall be shaken... the earth shall
quake... the earth shall cast off her burdens... the
earth shall have been stretched out as a plain... the
earth will become empty...
...the graves shall be scattered...
...the mountains shall be crumbled...
...the seas shall be made to burst forth...
...the heaven shall have split asunder...
...the sun shall be folded up...
...the stars shall disperse... the stars shall fall...

Bearing in mind that these signs are figurative and thus have much
deeper significance than a literal interpretation could impart, we shall
try to understand them, in the context of the present world situation
in the following paragraphs. We shall consider one meaning only of
these signs other than the apparent literal meaning and ask the
question: has the Hour Struck?



Present world situation: has the Hour Struck?

Has the Hour struck?

Many ask this question as they view the terrible situation in which the
world is today. True there is no world war at present, but the feeling
of oppression is omnipresent in every soul. Most people try to find an
explanation to this feeling of oppression and some would say it is due
to the moral decadence around us that is eroding the vitals of
humankind. Others would say that this feeling of oppression is due to
the economic depreciation, or the widespread poverty, or the
deterioration of the climate. There are many reasons to which the
feeling of oppression may be attributed, but none seems to be a
satisfactory or convincing explanation.

The reason for this feeling of oppression is, to my understanding, due
to a loss for direction. To whatever theory we attach ourselves today;
we find it not satisfying tomorrow. Ideas and ideologies thought to be
the solution to some crisis or problem adopted and propagated today,
are found to be no solution at all tomorrow. At times, they may even
aggravate the crisis or problem. Darwinism, The Holy Alliance,
Communism, The League of Nations are amongst the most
conspicuous examples. Where, we may ask, can we seek advice and
be sure to obtain a wise remedy? Are we not at a loss? Is not this an
explanation of: “and thou shalt see men drunken, yet are they not
drunken…”3 Is this not one of the events of the Resurrection?

Is this not a sign that the Hour struck?

Many are the turbaned heads of religion today, Muslim, Christian,
Jewish and others. During the centuries of florescence of the Religion’s
era - Islám, Christianity or Judaism - the respective Ulamá were the

3 Súrih XXII, The Pilgrimage, v. 2


source of guidance for the community. They were the guiding stars in
the heaven of Religion, much the same way as the stars we see in the
sky
helped the travelling caravan or navigating ship find direction by night
in old times. Today the number of Ulamá has multiplied enormously,
they issue a multitude of different and often conflicting fatwas –
religious rulings, and instead of guiding the believers to harmony and
unity they have become a source of division and contention amongst
them. Did not God tell us in the Qur’án: “…and when the stars shall
fall?”4 And again: “…And when the stars shall disperse?”5 Did not the
Ulamá of all religions fall from their heights of old? Have they not
dispersed? Is this not one of the events of the Resurrection?

Is this not a sign that the Hour struck?

Heaven and Heavens are mentioned in many verses in the Qur’án.
Heaven may mean the actual sky that is over our heads in the daytime,
but in many verses, it is impossible to understand heaven and heavens
to mean sky or skies. While in English we find "heaven", which refers
to a supernatural world and "sky", which refers to physical
atmosphere above us or the interstellar space, there is only one word
in Arabic "samaa سماء" which refers to both meanings, hence comes
the need to understand the context in which "samaa" is mentioned in
the Holy Scriptures and find out which of the two meanings is
intended.

One meaning of heaven is Divine Revelation. Just as the sun rises and
sets in the sky, so does the Sun of the Manifestation of the Will of God
rise in the Heaven of Divine Revelation and sets after firmly
establishing The Message.

Consider Jesus Christ, whose life and spiritual teachings can be
considered as a Sun that rose in the Heaven of Christianity and

4 Súrih LXXXI, The folded Up, v. 2
5 Súrih LXXXII, The Cleaving, v. 2


illumined the world. From that Heaven, life-giving rains of spiritual
teachings quickened the earth – the hearts of men, and raised them
to life. Figuratively people were spiritually dead, but the Word of God
gave them life. People were in the graves of imitation and superstition,
but the inspiration of the new Faith brought them out of their graves
and gave them knowledge and wisdom. Following the departure of
Christ from this earthly life, Stars appeared in the Heaven of
Christendom. Then the Heaven of Christendom did cleave and split
asunder and the Stars fell, and the Hour of the coming of Muhammad
the Messenger of God struck!

Today the Jews, the Christians, the Muslims and all the religious
communities in the world, one and all, are divided into many sects.
The Heavens of all the religions of the world have cleaved and split
asunder, and their Stars have fallen and dispersed. Is this not one of
the events of the Resurrection?

Is this not a sign that the Hour struck?

Where are the great religious institutions that were once mountains
of knowledge and guidance, mountains that people climbed to take
refuge in time of catastrophe in past ages?  Have these mountains not
crumbled and flattened down? Where has gone the majesty and glory
of the institutions of religion? Is this not one of the events of the
Resurrection?

Is this not a sign that the Hour struck?

The multimillions of publications – that have become predominantly
the seas of spiritless words and phrases and immoral art, have surged
forth only to mislead and confuse the minds of mankind, trouble the
souls of man and debase human behaviour. Is this not one of the
events of the Resurrection?

Is this not a sign that the Hour struck?


The Reader may agree with me, however that the real proof that the
Hour is indeed upon us, lies in the appearance of the Great
Announcement, the coming of the Clear Evidence, of the Crier, of the
Summoner and the sounding of the Twin Trumpet Blasts!


He has Come

O Believers! if any bad man come to you with an
announcement, clear it up at once, lest through ignorance
ye harm others, and speedily have to repent of what ye
have done.
(Súrih XLIX, The Apartments, v. 6)

ٌيا أيّها الذين آمنوا إن جاءكم فاسق
ب
نبأ فتبيَّنوا  أن تصيب وا
ًّقوما
بجهال ة
فتصبحوا على ما فعلتم نادمين
(
الحجرات6
)




Dear Reader,

The writer of the book you are reading now cannot be worse than “any
bad man” and here I come to you with an announcement. Would you
like to “clear it up at once”?

In the year 1260 of Hegira corresponding to the year 1844 CE, the first
Trumpet Blast was sounded and Sayyid ‘Alí Muhammad “The Báb”, a
descendent of Muhammad the Messenger of God, announced His
Mission: that of herald to a greater Manifestation than Himself.

Nine years later in 1268 of the Hegira, early 1853 CE the second
Trumpet Blast was sounded. Mírzá Husayn ‘Alí “Bahá’u’lláh” while in
chains in a dungeon, was spiritually informed that He is the
Manifestation announced by the Báb and the promise of all ages, the


Great Announcement, the Clear Evidence, the Crier and the
Summoner promised in the Qur’án.

The Faith revealed by Bahá’u’lláh is called the Bahá’í Faith.

In the following pages, we shall consider very briefly some of the
concepts and teachings of the Bahá'í Faith. A short history of the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh will also be included.



















Part III
The Fulfilment
The Bahá’í Faith – A Brief Presentation



Part III
The Fulfilment
The Bahá’í Faith – A Brief Presentation

The Promised One
We have studied in Part I a few of the verses in the Holy Qur’án
forecasting the coming of the “Great Announcement”, the “Crier”
and the “Summoner”, an event that will trigger the process for all the
peoples of the world to be gathered together. The Christians were
also told in the Evangel, that the Comforter, the Spirit of Truth,
would return in order to establish the reign of the Kingdom of God
on earth. The Jews were promised the return of Jehovah to free
them from the yoke of servitude.
All the religions of the world, each according to the interpretation of
their leaders, are expecting their “Promised One”, and while each
people have their own idea and image of how their “Promised One”
must be, the truth is that the “Promised One” of all the nations is the
same.
Bahá’u’lláh claimed that He is the Promised one. Here is what He said
in one of His Tablets regarding Himself:
He it is, Who in the Old Testament hath been named
Jehovah, Who in the Gospel as the Spirit of Truth, and in
the Qur’án acclaimed as the Great Announcement.6

ِإنَّهُ هو الذي سُمِيَ في التَّوْ راةِ بِيَهْوَ ه وفي اإلنْجيلِ بروح
الحقِّ وفي الفرقان بالنبأ العظيم
)(ورد في نظم بهاء هللا العالمي


6 Cited in World Order of Bahá’u’lláh p.104


A Divine Mission
Bahá’u’lláh announced that His is a Divine Mission. This is what He
said in His Tablet to Násiri’d-Din Sháh the Sháh of Persia:
O King! I was but a man like others, asleep upon My
couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were
wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all
that hath been. This thing is not from Me, but from One
Who is Almighty and All-Knowing. And He bade Me lift
up My voice between earth and heaven…7


ِيا سلطانُ إنِّي كُنْتُ كأحَدٍ مِنَ العِبَادِ وراقِداًّ على المِهَاد
مَرَّتْ عَلَيّ نَسَائِمُ السُبْحَانِ وعَلَّمَني عِلْمَ ما كانَ ليْسَ هذا
ِّمِنْ عِنْدي بَلْ مِنْ لَدُنْ عَزيزٍ عَليمٍ، وأمَرَني بالن َداءِ بَيْن
...ِاألرْضِ والسَّماء
)(اللوح الموجه إلى ناصر الدين شاه

Bahá’u’lláh further confirmed that he received no formal education:
The learning current amongst men I studied not; their
schools I entered not. Ask of the city wherein I dwelt,
that thou mayest be well assured that I am not of them
who speak falsely.8

َما قَرَأتُ ما عِنْدَ النَّاسِ مِنَ العُلومِ وما دَخَلْتُ المَدَارِس
فَاسْئَلِ المَدينَةَ التي كُنْتُ فيهَا لِتُوقِنَ بِأنِّي لَسْتُ مِنَ الكَاذِبي َن
(اللوح الموجه إلى ناصر الدين شاه ص8
)



7 Tablet to Násiri’d-Din Sháh
8 Tablet to Násiri’d-Din Sháh


Our Relation with God
One of the subjects that is very dear to the Bahá’ís (followers of
Bahá’u’lláh) is that of our relation, we the mortal beings, with our
Creator.
God Almighty is the Creator of the Universe. God created man. God
created all that is on earth, whether mineral, vegetable or animal,
for man. God is far above our finite comprehension. We, the mortal
beings are limited, and as such can never understand the Unlimited.
We cannot know God. Bahá’u’lláh expresses the greatness of God in
one of His Tablets in the following words:
“Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the
strivings of mortal man to unravel Thy mystery, to
describe Thy glory, or even to hint at the nature of Thine
essence. For whatever such strivings may accomplish,
they never can hope to transcend the limitations
imposed upon Thy creatures, inasmuch as these efforts
are actuated by Thy decree, and are begotten of Thine
invention.”9

فسبحانك سبحانك من أن تشير بذكرٍ أو توصف بثناءٍ أو
َبإشارة ألن كلَّ ذلك لم يكن إالّ وصفُ خلقِك َوبُعِثَ بأمرك
َواختِرَاعِك
(من لوح إلى أقا محمد حسن ورد في منتخبات من آثار بهاء هللا رقم1
)


Whatever be the language with which we may wish to describe God,
it can only be part of our limitations as living creatures in the material
world.
“Far, far from Thy glory” says Bahá’u’lláh, “be what
mortal man can affirm of Thee, or attribute unto Thee,
or the praise with which he can glorify Thee... There is

9 Bahá'u'lláh – Tablet to Agha Muhammad Hassan – Gleanings I.


none other God but Thee, the Inaccessible, the
Omnipotent, the Omniscient, the Holy of Holies”10

ٍفسبحانك سبحانك من أن تُذْكَر بذكرٍ أو توصَف بوصف
أو تُثْنَى بثناءٍ... ال إلهَ إالَّ أنت َ المتعالي المقتدر المقدّس
.العليم
(من لوح إلى أقا محمد حسن ورد في منتخبات من آثار بهاء هللا رقم1
)

Through His limitless mercy and love, God created man. In the Tablet
of Bahá’u’lláh called the “The Hidden Words”, God addresses
mankind as follows:
“O Son of man! Veiled in My immemorial being and in
the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for
thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee
Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty” 11

ُيا ابنَ اإلنْسَانِ كُنِتُ في قِدَمِ ذاتِي وأزَليّةِ كيْنُونَتِي عَرَفْت
حُبِّي
فيكَ خَلَقْتُكَ وألقَيْتُ عَلَيْكَ مِثَالي وأظْهَرْ تُ لَكَ جَمَالي
(الكلمات المكنونة رقم3
)


How then can we envisage our relation with our Creator, given that
we can never attain knowing Him?
God the All-Merciful has promised to send to us, we His creatures,
Manifestations of His Will at all times to guide us to that which is
best for us. They are the Messengers and Prophets Whom humanity
has known over the ages. This is the Eternal Covenant that God has
taken with mankind.12 Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, The Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh are all Manifestations of God.

10 Idem.
11 Bahá'u'lláh - The Hidden Words # 3.
12 See also Part I under the heading “God will always send His Messengers”.


Bahá’u’lláh teaches that the Messengers and Prophets of God – the
Manifestations of God, are like sanctified and pure mirrors that
reflect in the holiest, most perfect and most adequate manner the
knowledge, the power and sovereignty of God unto mankind. It is by
knowing the Manifestations of God that we, the created human
beings, have come to know God, because They taught us the
existence of God and the love of God.
The Oneness of God
The Oneness of God is the basis of Bahá’í belief in the same manner
as it is for Islám, Christianity and all the Divine Religions. Here is one
of the declarations of Bahá’u’lláh on the Oneness of God:
…every member of My body testifieth that there is none
other God but Him… We testify that there is none other
God but Him, that from everlasting He was alone with
none else besides Him, and that He shall be unto
everlasting what He hath ever been.13

َ...يَشْهَدُ كلُّ جَوَ ارحِي بِأنَّهُ ال إلَهَ إالَّ هُو... نَشْهَدُ أنْ ال إلَه
ُإالَّ هُوَ لَمْ يَزَلْ كَانَ وَ لَمْ يَكُنْ مَعَهُ مِنْ شَيْ ءٍ وال يَزَالُ يَكُون
... َبِمِثْلِ ما قَدْ كَان
(ا للوح الموجّه إلى ناصر الذّين شاه ص9
)

The Oneness of the Messengers of God

Bahá’ís firmly believe in the oneness of all the Messengers of God –
the Manifestations of God. Bahá’u’lláh warns His followers that
differentiating between the Manifestations of God would be an act
of disbelief in God. Here is one instance where Bahá’u’lláh confirms
this principle:
Beware, O believers in the Unity of God, lest ye be
tempted to make any distinction between any of the

13 Tablet to Násiri’d-Din Sháh – “Summons of the Lord of Hosts” p. 99


Manifestations of His Cause, or to discriminate against
the signs that have accompanied and proclaimed their
Revelation. This indeed is the true meaning of Divine
Unity, if ye be of them that apprehend and believe this
truth. Be ye assured, moreover, that the works and acts
of each and every one of these Manifestations of God,
nay whatever pertaineth unto them, and whatsoever
they may manifest in the future, are all ordained by God,
and are a reflection of His Will and Purpose.
Whoso maketh
the
slightest
possible
difference
between their persons, their words, their messages,
their acts and manners, hath indeed disbelieved in God,
hath repudiated His signs, and betrayed the Cause of His
Messengers.14

إيَّاكُم يا مَأل
َالت ْو ِح ِيد ال  ُت َف َِّّر ُوا ق  ِيف  َم َظ ِاه ِر أمْر هللا وال
َا فيم  َن َز َل
َع َل ْي ِمه من
ِاآليات و هذا
ُّحق التّوحيد
ْإن أ ْن ُمت  َل ِم َن
ِالموق ِن َين و َكَذَلِك يف أفْعَالِهِم أو ْع َم ِهم ال وکلّما
َظ َه َر من
ِع ْن ِد ِهم
َوي ْظ َه ُر من  َل ُد ْن ِمه
کل من عند هللا و
ُّکل أب ْم ِر ِه  َع ِن لي ام
َوم ْن  َف َّر َق  َب ْي َن ُمه و بين كَلِمَاتِهِم وما نزل عليهم أو في
أ
حوالهم و أ
فعالهم فی قل أ ممّا  ُي ْح َیص لقد أ ْش َر َك
ِباهلل و ِآيَاتِه
ُوبر ُس ِل ِه كان و من
ِالمُشْرِ كِين
...

(لوح مدينة التوحيد ورد في منتخبات من آثار بهاء هللا الفقرة24
)




The Life of Bahá’u’lláh
Before discussing the Teachings and Principles that Bahá’u’lláh has
brought in the Bahá’í Faith, and before presenting His overarching
goal of establishing “World Unity”,  the reader may wish to know
some facts about His sacred life.

14 Gleanings xxiv, p. 58


On 12 November 1817 a child named Husayn-‘Alí later known as
Mírzá Husayn-‘Alí, was born in Tihrán the capital of Persia. His father
was a nobleman and a favoured minister of Fath-‘Alí Sháh the ruler
of the country. Though Mírzá Husayn-‘Alí received little formal
education, He showed signs in childhood of innate knowledge and
unusual nobility of character – signs that foreshadowed the divinely
ordained role He would later assume as Bahá’u’lláh – which is the
Arabic for “Glory of God.”
He derived His descent, on the one hand, from Abraham (the Father
of the Faithful) through Abraham’s wife Katurah, and on the other
from Zoroaster, as well as from Yazdigird, the last king of the
Sásáníyán dynasty. He belonged through His father, Mírzá ‘Abbás, to
one of the most ancient and renowned families of Mázindarán.
In His youth, Bahá’u’lláh’s extraordinary abilities were widely
recognized, and He was expected to succeed His father and rise to a
position of prominence. His lack of interest in pursuing a career as a
minister of the Sháh was the cause of much surprise.
In 1844, when Bahá’u’lláh was almost twenty-seven years old, Sayyid
‘Alí-Muhammad announced in Shiráz that He was the Báb, or Gate –
the forerunner of the bearer of an even greater revelation, Whose
advent was close at hand. He also announced that He was a
Messenger of God promised in the Qur’án. In fact, the Báb’s
declaration represents the first “Trumpet blast”15 announced in the
Qur’án.

Upon receiving a message from the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh immediately
embraced the Bábi Faith and arose to consecrate His life to its service,
fearlessly identified himself with its teachings, and distinguished
Himself by the exemplary part He played in its diffusion. The rapid
increase in the number of the Báb’s followers and the intensity of their

15 Súrih xxxix,  The Troops, v. 68.


activities was so remarkable, that a tumult spread all over Persia that
aroused the animosity of the clergy. The clergy incited the people
against the Bábis and mobilized the support of the government in the
persecution of the Bábi leaders and followers everywhere.

The systematic campaign waged against the Báb and His followers by
the religious and civil authorities of Persia had succeeded in depriving
the newborn Faith of its protagonists and had culminated in the
execution of the Báb Himself. These tragic events were followed in the
ensuing years by the extermination of thousands of Bábis including
virtually all of the leading supporters of the Báb, except One –
Bahá’u’lláh, Who was providentially spared such a fate, and Who was
destined to an inestimably great Mission, that would also redeem the
Cause of the Báb.

Following a false accusation that Bahá’u’lláh was instrumental in an
attempt on the life of the Sháh by three Bábi youth driven by their
despair to avenge the martyrdom of The Báb, Bahá’u’lláh was arrested
and taken to the notorious Síyáh-Chál, the “Black Pit” that is located
in Tihrán not far from the then Palace of the Sháh. Síyáh-Chál is no
more than a subterranean dungeon with a sole opening to the outside,
by which the prisoners enter. Here Bahá’u’lláh and a few fellow
believers were incarcerated. Bahá’u’lláh spent four months in that pit.
Along the way to it, He was stoned, insulted, ridiculed, and stripped of
His outer garment.

The dungeon in which Bahá’u’lláh and the few fellow believers were
imprisoned was a dark, foul-smelling, and gloomy pit where thieves,
assassins and highwaymen were put in wait for their execution.

Nevertheless, it was in this dungeon that Bahá’u’lláh received the first
intimation of the Mission with which He was to be entrusted.

Bahá’u’lláh was released from that pit prison only to be stripped of all
His wealth. His home and possessions were pillaged. Less than one
month was given to Him to prepare for exile to a land of His choice. He


chose to go to Baghdád in Iraq, which at the time was part of the
Ottoman Empire. Within less than two weeks in 1853, Bahá’u’lláh and
His family, escorted by an officer of the Imperial bodyguard, travelled
on horseback over the snow-covered mountains of western Persia,
poorly equipped for the bitter cold of winter and the hardships of such
a demanding journey that took a few days short of three months.

Bahá’u’lláh spent 10 years in Baghdád and His presence caused the
revival of the Bábi Community. It also attracted the love and
admiration of many people from all strata of society both of Iraq and
from Persia. This quickly aroused the antagonism of the divines,
Ulamá, in both countries. Their antagonism failed to check the rise of
Bahá’u’lláh’s fame.  Finally The Sháh of Persia persuaded the Sultán of
Turkey to banish Bahá’u’lláh from Baghdád. Bahá’u’lláh was requested
to transfer His residence to Constantinople.


Public Declaration of His Mission

Bahá’u’lláh’s enemies intended that His banishment from Baghdád
would result in His humiliation. The opposite occurred. The news of
His departure caused a tumult in the city. Friends and strangers, young
and old, officials and merchants, the poor, the downcast and the
orphans came to catch a last glimpse of the departing Exile whom they
loved and admired for His wisdom and sublime example.

In April 1863, Bahá’u’lláh left His home and entered a garden that
came to be known as the Garden of Ridván where He resided for
twelve days while preparations were made for the Journey to
Constantinople. These twelve days of April 1863 have since that year
come to be recognized as the holiest and most significant of all Bahá’í
Festivals. Bahá’u’lláh chose to announce publicly His prophetic
Mission during those twelve days – a Mission, the first intimations of
which He had received in the gloomy prison pit of Síyáh-Chál.


The second Trumpet blast was thus sounded: “Then shall there be
another blast on it, and lo! Arising they shall gaze around them…”16

Exile to Adrianople

In Constantinople, the avowed opponents of Bahá’u’lláh had expected
to lure Him into a world of favour searching and consequently of
intrigue. This was very apparent from the very first days of His arrival
in Constantinople. But Bahá’u’lláh remained aloof above the habits
and motives of the divines and ministers of that metropolis and was
immune to such abasement. Recognizing His refusal to participate,
within four months of His arrival in that city an edict banishing Him to
Adrianople (now Edirne – lying in European Turkey) was issued by
Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz – the Sultán of Turkey at the time. On the same
day Bahá’u’lláh revealed a Tablet to the Sultán admonishing him for
his unjustness towards his subjects. This Tablet opened the initial
phase of Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamation to the Kings and Rulers of the
world, which continued during His exile in Adrianople and later in
‘Akká.

In Adrianople Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Súratu’l Mulúk or Tablet of the
Kings.
“O Kings of the Earth!” Bahá’u’lláh invited them, “Give
ear unto the Voice of God, calling from this sublime, this
fruit-laden Tree, that hath sprung out of the Crimson Hill,
upon the holy Plain, intoning the words ‘There is none
other God but He, the Mighty, the All-Powerful, the All-
Wise’…”17

ِأنْ يا مُلوكَ األرْضِ اسْمَعوا نِداءَ هللاِ مِنْ هَذِهِ الشَّجَرَةِ المُثْمِرَة
ِالمَرْ فُوعَةِ التي نَبَتَتْ على أرْضِ كَثيبِ الحَمْرَاءِ بَرّيَةِ القُدْس
...ُوتَغَنُّ بِأنـّْهُ ال إلَهَ إالَّ هُوَ العَزيزُ المُقْتَدِرُ الحَكيم

(سورة الملوك ص107
)


16 Súrih xxxix, “The Troops”, vv. 68-6
17 Summons of the Lord of Hosts p. 185




In that same Tablet Bahá’u’lláh addressed the kings of the East and of
the West, the Sultán of Turkey and his ministers, the kings of
Christendom, the French and Persian ambassadors, the Muslim
leaders and the people of Constantinople, the people of Persia, and
the philosophers of the world.  Other weighty Tablets were revealed
later to individual monarchs and leaders.


Exile to ‘Akká

As the new religion developed, the citizens of Adrianople showed
growing acclaim and increasing veneration for Bahá’u’lláh. The foreign
consuls of the city demonstrated similar high esteem for Him. Among
those who venerated Bahá’u’lláh were three successive governors
posted in Adrianople.

Soon, envious individuals raised false allegations and erroneous
reports, which were sent to the Sultán. The Sultán finally decided to
exile Bahá’u’lláh to distant ‘Akká in Palestine in an attempt to destroy
the Faith Bahá’u’lláh was promoting. Foreign consuls, deeply
impressed by Bahá’u’lláh and His Teachings, and alarmed by the
decision of the government, offered to intervene, but Bahá’u’lláh
declined all assistance.

On 12 August 1868, Bahá’u’lláh and His family together with some
seventy exiles left Adrianople forced to reside in the Ottoman prison
city of ‘Akká, where they arrived on the 31st. August 1868.

Having been led to believe that Bahá’u’lláh and those who were with
Him were criminals of the worst sort, the citizens and officials of ‘Akká
received them with jeers and curses. Bahá’u’lláh was put in a barren
filthy room, while the others were crowded into another, the floor of
which was covered with mud.


With Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in ‘Akká, began a period of bitter suffering
worse than the agonies of the prison in Tihrán. For two years and
more, Bahá’u’lláh was incarcerated in that barren filthy room. So bad
were His sufferings there, that He called the prison in ‘Akká “The Most
Great Prison”, much worse than Síyáh-Chál subterranean dungeon of
Tihrán.

Towards the end of 1870, the prison barracks were reclaimed for
military purposes. Bahá’u’lláh and His family were moved and were
settled for the following seven years in a house known as the House
of ‘Abbúd. From this House Bahá’u’lláh issued the Epistles and Tablets
to the kings and rulers of the world as well as to the religious heads. It
was also here that in 1873 Al Kitabu’l Aqdas – “The Most Holy Book”
the principle repository of Bahá’í Law – the Mother Book of the
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, was revealed.

As of June 1877 and until His passing on May 29, 1892, Bahá’u’lláh
transferred His residence outside ‘Akká proper, to the near
countryside which He loved, and where He was able to lead a
somewhat easier life, albeit simple and modest.


Why was it that Bahá’u’lláh had to suffer so much?
Why must the Manifestations of God suffer so much?

Of the tribulations of the Apostle of God Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh says:
“What woeful sufferings did the hand of the infidel and erring,
the divines of that age and their associates, inflict upon that
spiritual Essence, that most pure and holy Being! How
abundant the thorns and briars which they have strewn over
His path! It is evident that that wretched generation, in their
wicked and satanic fancy, regarded every injury to that
immortal Being as a means to the attainment of an abiding
felicity; inasmuch as the recognized divines of that age, such
as Abdu'llah-i-Ubayy, Abu'Amir, the hermit, Ka'b-ibn-i-Ashraf,
and Nadr-ibn-i-Harith, all treated Him as an impostor, and


pronounced Him a lunatic and a calumniator... These malicious
imputations provoked the people to arise and torment Him.
And how fierce that torment, if the divines of the age be its
chief instigators, if they denounce Him to their followers, cast
Him out from their midst, and declare Him a miscreant!”18

In the above verses Bahá’u’lláh laments the terrible sufferings of
Muhammad the Messenger of God at the hands of divines of that age.
In His love for Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh attributes to Him such
profound names as spiritual Essence, most pure and holy Being and
immortal Being – three of many other names that are mentioned in
other Tablets. Bahá’u’lláh then asks the question:

“Hath not the same befallen this Servant, and been witnessed
by all?”19

Have not the divines in Persia provoked the torments that befell this
Servant, that is Bahá’u’lláh, as those that befell the Prophet
Muhammad by the divines of Arabia?

And Bahá’u’lláh further states:
For this reason did Muhammad cry out: "No Prophet of God hath
suffered such harm as I have suffered." And in the Qur'án are
recorded all the calumnies and reproaches uttered against Him,
as well as all the afflictions which He suffered. Refer ye
thereunto, that haply ye may be informed of that which hath
befallen His Revelation. So grievous was His plight, that for a
time all ceased to hold intercourse with Him and His
companions. Whoever associated with Him fell a victim to the
relentless cruelty of His enemies....”20


18 Bahá’u’lláh – Kitab-i-Iqán p. 33. Translated from the original Persian.
19 Bahá’u’lláh – Kitáb-i-Iqán p. 106-107. Translated from the original Persian.
20 Bahá’u’lláh – Kitáb-i-Iqán p. 107.  Translated from the original Persian.


In an expression of deep emotion, Bahá’u’lláh then draws the
following beautiful conclusion of the triumph of the fair name  of
Muhammad, the Messenger of God:
“Consider, how great is the change today! Behold, how
many are the Sovereigns who bow the knee before His
name… Behold how the sovereignty of Muhammad, the
Messenger of God, is today apparent and manifest
amongst the people.”21

In spite of all the opposition, the false accusations, the torments and
malignity that were heaped upon Muhammad, the Prophet and
Messenger of God, today His sovereignty is unquestionable.

Bahá’u’lláh suffered similar torments as those that befell Muhammad,
the Messenger of God. In addition, Bahá’u’lláh suffered exile from
Tihrán to Baghdád, then to Adrianople and finally to the Holy Land, as
well as the diverse imprisonments culminating in the Most Great
Prison of ‘Akká. Throughout these long and cruel exiles and
imprisonment there were also attempts on His life; tortures and other
untold afflictions. “More grievous became our plight from day to day,
nay, from hour to hour…” was His outcry. And yet Bahá’u’lláh  declares
unto all the peoples of the world:
The Ancient Beauty22 hath consented to be bound with
chains that mankind may be released from its bondage,
and hath accepted to be made prisoner within this most
mighty Stronghold that the whole world may attain unto
true liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the cup of
sorrow, that all the people of the earth may attain unto
abiding joy, and be filled with gladness. This is of the
mercy of your Lord, the Compassionate, the Most
Merciful. We have accepted to be abased, O believers in
the Unity of God, that ye may be exalted, and have
suffered manifold afflictions, that ye may prosper and

21 Bahá’u’lláh – Kitáb-i-Iqán p. 108.  Translated from the original Persian.
22 One of the Titles of Bahá’u’lláh.


flourish. He Who hath come to build anew the whole
world, behold, how they that have joined partners with
God have forced Him to dwell within the most desolate of
cities!23

ِقَدْ قُيِّدَ جَمالُ القِدَمِ إلطْالقِ العَالَم وحُبِسَ في الحِصْنِ األعظَم
ِلعَتْقِ العَالَمينَ واخْتَارَ لِنَفْسِهِ األحزَانَ لِسُرُورِ مَنْ في األكْوان
ْهذا مِن رَحْ مَةِ ربّكَ الرَّحْمَنُ الرّحِيمْ قَدْ قَبِلْنَا الذِلَّةَ لِعِزِّكُم
َوالشَدَائِدَ لرَخَائِكُم يا مأل المُوَ حِدِين إنَّ الذي جَاءَ لِتَعْميرِ العالَم
...قَدْ أسْكَنَهُ المُشْرِكُونَ في أخْرَبِ البِالد
(بهاء هللا–

"لوح إلى محمد رضا ورد في "منتخبات45
)


Moreover, in one of His prayers of meditation Bahá’u’lláh raises His
Voice saying:
“Glory to Thee, O my God! But for the tribulations which
are sustained in Thy path, how could Thy true lovers be
recognized; and were it not for the trials which are borne
for love of Thee, how could the station of such as yearn
for Thee be revealed?”

سُبْحَانَكَ يا ُإلهِيْ، لَوْ ال البَاليَا فِي سَبِيلِكَ مِنْ أيْنَ تَظْهَرُ مَقَامَات
عَاشِقِيْكَ، وَ لَوْ الَ الرَّزَايَا فِيْ حُبِّكَ بأيِّ شَيْ ءٍ تَبَيْنُ شُؤُ ون
.َمُشْتَاقِيك
(كتاب المناجاة "نسائم الرحمن" ص32
)


The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh are no less than the equivalent of a
hundred volumes. He wrote in Arabic and in Persian. Many of His
Writings including Al Kitabu’l Aqdas – The Most Holy Book – the
depository of the Laws and Ordinances, were translated to English and
hundreds of other languages.


23 Bahá'u'lláh – from a Tablet addressed to Muhammad Ridha cited in Gleanings xlv.


There is no Hadith – tradition or sayings in the Bahá’í Faith. The
authentic Writings are the only reference. The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
whether in the first person or attributed to God are both considered
the Words of God.



The Herald – The Báb

It would be important at this point to include some information
regarding the history of the life of Mírzá ‘Alí Muhammad Who became
known by the name of The Báb. The Báb had a dual mission:
proclaiming an independent Revelation, and announcing the
imminent forthcoming of another Revelation of more far reaching
implications, the Bahá’í Revelation.

In many parts of the world, Jewish, Christian and Muslim, theologians
had the conviction that the year 1260 of the hegira or 1844 of the
Christian era, was to witness the appearance of the long waited for
Divine Manifestation: The Messiah for some, the return of Jesus for
others. Still some were expecting the appearance of the Mihdi or the
Absent Imám.

Mírzá ‘Alí Muhammad was born in Shíráz, in the south of Persia, on
the 20th of October 1819 A.D. He was a Sayyid, a descendant of the
Prophet Muhammad. His father, a well-known merchant, died soon
after His birth, and He was then placed under the care of a maternal
uncle, a merchant of Shíráz, who brought Him up. In childhood, He
learned to read, and received the elementary education customary for
children. At the age of fifteen, He went into business, at first with His
guardian, and afterward with another uncle who lived in Búshihr a
town in the South of Persia.
As a youth, He was noted for great personal beauty and charm of
manner, and for exceptional piety, and nobility of character. He was
unfailing in His observance of the prayers, fasts and other ordinances


of the Muslim religion, and not only obeyed the letter, but also lived
in the spirit of the Prophet’s teachings. He married when about
twenty-two years of age. Of this marriage one son was born, who died
while still an infant, in the first year of the Báb’s public ministry.
On reaching His twenty-fifth year and in response to divine command,
He declared, “God the Exalted had elected Him to the station of
Bábhood”. The meaning of Bábhood is that he was the herald to some
great Person still behind the veil of glory, who was the Promised One
of all the ages. The word Báb means Gate.
Eighteen individuals including one woman were the first spontaneous
believers in the Mission of the Báb. They became His disciples whom
He sent to different parts of Persia and Turkistán to spread the news
of His advent. Meantime He Himself set out on a pilgrimage to Mecca
and there openly declared His mission. On His return to Persia, He
found that His announcement had caused great excitement. The fire
of His eloquence, the wonder of His rapid and inspired writings, His
extraordinary wisdom and knowledge, His courage and zeal as a
reformer, aroused the greatest enthusiasm among His followers, but
excited a corresponding degree of alarm and enmity among the
orthodox Muslims. The Shi’ihs clergy vehemently denounced Him, and
persuaded the Governor of Fárs to undertake the suppression of the
new Faith which they, the clergy, considered a heresy. A long series of
imprisonments, deportations, of examinations before tribunals,
scourging and indignities for the Báb followed, ending with His
martyrdom in 1850.
When the Báb declared that He was the awaited Mihdí, and with the
increasing rapidity with which people of all classes eagerly responded
to His teachings, the hostility that already existed was doubled. Clergy
and Government in Persia rose to quench the Movement. Houses
were pillaged and destroyed. Women were seized and carried off. In
Tihrán, Fárs, Mázindarán, and other places great numbers of the
believers were put to death. Many Bábis were beheaded, hanged,
blown from the mouths of cannon and burnt or chopped to pieces.


Despite all attempts at repression, however, the movement
progressed. Nay, through this very oppression the assurance of the
believers increased, for thereby many of the prophecies concerning
the coming of the Mihdí were literally fulfilled.

On the 9th of July, 1850, the Báb Himself, Who was then in His thirty-
first year, fell a victim to the fanatical fury of His persecutors. With a
devoted young follower named Áqá Muhammad ‘Alí, who had
passionately begged to be allowed to share His martyrdom, He was
led to the old barrack square of Tabríz. About two hours before noon
the two were suspended by ropes from the barrack wall. A regiment
of Armenian soldiers was drawn up and received the order to fire.
Promptly the volleys rang out, but when the smoke cleared, it was
found that the Báb and His companion were still alive. The bullets had
but severed the ropes by which they were suspended, so that they
dropped to the ground unhurt. After searching, the Báb was found in
a room nearby finishing certain work with one of His disciples. About
noon they were suspended by ropes as before. The Armenian soldiers,
who considered it a miracle that the Báb had not died from their volley
of bullets, were unwilling to shoot again. Another regiment of soldiers
was brought in on the scene and ordered to fire upon the Báb and His
companion. This time the volleys took effect. The bodies of both
victims were riddled by bullets and horribly mutilated, although their
faces were almost untouched.
The Writings of the Báb were voluminous. His rapidity in composing
elaborate commentaries, profound expositions or eloquent prayers
was regarded as one of the proofs of His divine inspiration.
The Báb has been compared to Yahyá (John) son of Zachariah Who
was the herald to Jesus Christ, but the station of the Báb is not only
that of the herald or forerunner. The Báb was a Manifestation of God,
the Founder of an independent religion, even though that religion was
limited in time to a brief number of years.


The Báb counted Himself happy in enduring any affliction, if by so
doing He could smooth the path, be it ever so little, for “Him Whom
God shall make manifest,” – meaning Bahá’u’lláh, Who was, He
declared, the sole source of His inspiration as well as the sole object
of His love.

-------------------o-------------------



Unity of Religion

When white man explored the unknown regions of the Americas, of
Africa and of Asia and Australasia, he found the people there in deep
ignorance compared with the European or the Middle Eastern. Yet,
these people had ancient beliefs and traditions which when cleaned
of the moss that time had enveloped them with, could be traced back
to some form of religion. Astonishing as this may be, they all seemed
to believe in a supreme unattainable entity that will manifest itself
sometime in future.

God sent His Messengers to every nation.  From Adam to the Báb,  the
Messages had two purposes: The first was to elevate the spiritual,
social, moral and consequently material standards of the people to
whom the Messenger was sent, and the second was to prepare those
same people for the coming of Bahá’u’lláh.

Moses brought forth the nation of Israel from bondage to a great
civilization, and in His Message we find reference to the forthcoming
of the Messiah, of the Prophet Muhammad, and of the second coming
of the Messiah, meaning Bahá’u’lláh.

The Faith that Jesus established on earth closed the chapter of
paganism in Europe and parts of western Asia and replaced it by a
moral civilisation based on love and fellowship. Jesus declared that He
was the Messiah Whom the Children of Israel were expecting, and
foretold of the coming of the Prophet Muhammad – Ahmed, the
Paraclete or Redeemer, and of His return – the return of Jesus, in the
Name of the Father, meaning Bahá’u’lláh.

The Message of the Prophet Muhammad gave rise to a most
important civilization out of the backward nomad tribes of Arabia, and
announced the imminent sounding of two trumpet blasts so close to


one another – “Verily, it will be but a single blast…”24  meaning : The
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

The consecutive appearance of the Manifestations of God and the
wisdom of the changes in the Laws and Ordinances from one
Revelation to another are due to the fact that every age has its own
problems. What would be a remedy today may quite be inadequate
for the afflictions of a coming age. In one of His Tablets, Bahá’u’lláh
tells us:
Contemplate with thine inward eye the chain of
successive Revelations that hath linked the Manifestation
of Adam with that of the Báb. I testify before God that
each one of these Manifestations hath been sent down
through the operation of the Divine Will and Purpose, that
each hath been the bearer of a specific Message, that
each hath been entrusted with a divinely-revealed Book
and been commissioned to unravel the mysteries of a
mighty Tablet. The measure of the Revelation with which
every one of them hath been identified had been
definitely fore-ordained. This, verily, is a token of Our
favour unto them, if ye be of those that comprehend this
truth..25.

فانظر بطرف البدء فيما نظرت إلى آدم األولى
ّثم من ده بع
إلى أن يصل األمر إلى علی قبل نبيل  قل
ّتاهلل کلّهم دق جاءوا
عن مشرق األمر بکتاب و صحيف
ة و لوح عظيم و أ
وتوا ک ّل
واحد منهم علی ما
ّر قد لهم و هذا من فضلنا عليهم إن انتم
من العارفين
...

(سورة العباد وردت في منتخبات من آثار بهاء هللا31
)




24 Súrih LXXIX, “Those Who Drag Forth”, vv. 6-14.
25 Bahá’u’lláh – Súrih Al-‘ibad, Gleanings XXXI.


Thus it is seen that the Unity of religion has been vouchsafed by
Almighty God. Continuity and unity of purpose is the proof of their
common truth. Each Messenger testified to the Manifestations of God
before Him, and heralded the Ones after Him. This took place in what
is known as the Adamic Cycle of the spiritual history of mankind, which
is the cycle initiated by Adam and “sealed” with the Prophet
Muhammad.

Bahá’u’lláh tells us that all the Manifestations of God of the past and
of the future, Himself included, should be regarded as One. However
much the followers of any of the existing Faiths may extol their
Messenger or the measure of Divine Revelation bestowed unto
mankind through Him, the principal of the unity of the messengers of
God remains inalterable. Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith,
affirms:
“Any variations in the splendor which each of these
Manifestations of the Light of God has shed upon the
world should be ascribed not to any inherent superiority
involved in the essential character of any one of them, but
rather to the progressive capacity, the ever-increasing
spiritual receptiveness, which mankind, in its progress
towards maturity, has invariably manifested.”26

Bahá’u’lláh confirms that God All-Mighty will continue to send His
Manifestations in future.

The Everlasting Covenant

God has established a Covenant with mankind. The primary condition
within this Covenant is that God in His love and mercy will send to us
the Manifestations of His Will at all times, to guide us.


26 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá'u'lláh” p. 166.


Our primary obligation within the context of The Covenant,
Bahá’u’lláh tells us in the opening verses of His Most Holy Book – Al
Kitabu’l Aqdas, is this:
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the
recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation
and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the
Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause and the world
of creation.27

إ ّن وّ ل أ ما کتب
ُهللا على العباد عرفان مشرق وحيه و مطلع
أ
مره ي الّذ
كان
مقام نفسه يف عالم األ
مر والخلق...


(بهاء هللا-
الكتاب األقدس الفقرة1
)


In another Text we read:
The beginning of all things is the knowledge of God, and
the end of all things is strict observance of whatsoever
hath been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine
Will that pervadeth all that is in the heavens and all that
is on the earth.28

... أوّ ل األمر عرفان هللا وآخره هو التّمسك بما نزل من
...سماء مشيته المهيمنة على من في السموات واألرضين
(بهاء هللا-
من لوح ورد في منتخبات من آثار بهاء هللا2
)


The first duty we the servants of God, are called upon to observe is the
knowledge of God. This is only possible through the recognition of the
Manifestation of God – the Dayspring of the Revelation and the
Fountain of the laws of God.

Once we have attained this most sublime station, we are asked to
strictly observe whatsoever hath been sent down from the empyrean
of the Divine Will. The condition of acceptance of one’s faith is

27 Bahá'u'lláh – Al Kitab’ul Aqdas  ¶1
28 Bahá’u’lláh – Gleanings 2


recognition and observance: recognition of the Manifestation of God
and observance of the Laws and Ordinances of the Revelation.


The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh

One of the ordinances of the Bahá’í Faith is attachment to the
Covenant which Bahá’u’lláh established.

Bahá’u’lláh established a Covenant with His followers in the form of a
Will written and sealed by His own hand, whereby He appointed His
Son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the Centre of His Covenant after His death. This
Covenant safeguarded the unity amongst the Bahá’ís after His passing
and will continue to maintain unity and eventually unite the whole
world. It is this Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh that eliminated all possibility
for the Bahá’í Community to be plagued with schism created by
unauthorized interpretations.

As Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá assumed the
responsibility of Head of the Bahá’í Community unto Whom all the
Bahá’ís must turn, and the sole authorized interpreter of the Words of
God.

In turn, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left what is known as His Will and Testament,
again written and sealed by His hand. In that all-important document,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá appointed His eldest grandson Shoghi Effendi as
Guardian of the Faith unto whom all the Bahá’ís must turn after
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the sole interpreter of the Writings after Him. The
Will and Testament further outlined the functions of the constituent
institutions of the Bahá'í Administrative Order that in turn, and
amongst its multiple aims and purposes, ensured the unity of the
Bahá’ís world wide, and will continue to do  so for no less a period than
that of the Dispensation of the Bahá’í Faith. Bahá’u’lláh tells us that
the next messenger from God will come after 1,000 years.



‘Abdu’l-Bahá – The Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant

He is the eldest son of Bahá’u’lláh, named ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, born the same
night that the Báb first declared His Mission to Mullá Husayn Bushru’i,
May 23rd 1844. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was hardly nine years old when he
witnessed His Father emerge from the Síyáh-Chál dungeon in chains
during a one hour recreation. Within weeks He was part of the exiled
Family to Iraq, and again to Constantinople, Adrianople and finally to
‘Akká. The sufferings and tribulations that Bahá’u’lláh endured, were
shared by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and when Bahá’u’lláh passed away in 1892,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remained imprisoned within the Ottoman Empire in the
city of ‘Akká. Not until 1908, following the uprising of the Young Turks
who freed all the political and religious prisoners throughout the
Empire was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá able to breathe freedom.

No sooner had Abdu’l-Bahá obtained His freedom than he entrusted
the remains of the Báb to a tomb inside a shrine on Mount Carmel, in
Haifa (Palestine at the time). He then undertook a more than three-
year travelling enterprise that took Him to Egypt, to Europe and to
North America, promulgating the teachings of the Faith established by
His august Father in a great number of metropolis, cities, Temples,
Churches, amongst associations and circles of thought and
communities of different origins. “Unity of Mankind” was His clarion
call. For the first time in history, the truth of the Revelation of the
Prophet Muhammad was clearly expounded to Jewish and Christian
congregations in their respective houses of worship wherever ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá spoke.


Unity of Mankind

The pivot principle around which revolve the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
is that of the Oneness of mankind. Here is one instance where
Bahá’u’lláh speaks about the Unity of Mankind:


The Tabernacle of Unity has been raised; regard ye not
one another as strangers… Ye are the fruit of one tree and
the leaves of one branch…29

ِقَدِ ارتَفَعَتْ خَيْمَةُ االتِّحَادِ ال يَنْظُرْ بَعْضُكُمْ إلى بَعْضٍ كَنَظْرة
ُغَريبِ إلى غَريبِ. كُلُّكُمْ أثْمَار
ٍشَجَرةٍ واحِدَةٍ وأوراقُ غُصْن
.ٍوَ احِد
(بهاء هللا–

)لوح مقصود


This means that while the fruits of one tree may differ from one
another in, say, size, looks or colour they still belong, one and all, to
that one tree. In like manner, the leaves of one mighty branch are each
different from one another, yet they all belong to the same origin: the
mighty branch. Humanity is also composed of different people:
different in emotion, physical aspect, talents, capacities, yet they all
belong to one root, which is the human family.
O children of men!” Bahá’u’lláh calls to our attention a
warning from God, “Know ye not why We created you all
from the same dust? That no one should exalt himself
over the other. Ponder at all times in your hearts how ye
were created. Since We have created you all from one
same substance it is incumbent on you to be even as one
soul…30

ِيَا أَبْناءَ اإلِنْسان
َّهَلْ عَرَفْتُمْ لِمَ خَلَقْناكُمْ مِنْ تُرابٍ واحِدٍ؛  لِئَال
َي  فْتَخِرَ أَحَدٌ عَلى أَحَدٍ. وَ تَفَكَّرُوا فِي كُلِّ حِينٍ فِي خَلْقِ أَنْفُسِكُم؛
ٍإِذاًّ يَنْبَغِي كَما خَلَقْناكُم مِنْ شَيْءٍ واحِدٍ أَنْ تَكُونُوا كَنَفْس
ٍواحِدَة...

(بهاء هللا-
من الكلمات المكنونة عربي رقم68
)


Unity of mankind, Bahá’ís are fully conscious, does not mean ignoring
or attempting to suppress the diversity that exists among the people

29 Bahá'u'lláh – Tablet of Maqsud.
30 Bahá'u'lláh –  “The Hidden Words” # 68.


of the world. People are different in ethnic origins. They may have
different thoughts and habits, and certainly different languages and
traditions. Rather than considering these differences as a cause of
estrangement, they should be looked upon as the beautifying touches
to the spirit, enhancing unity in diversity and a source of enrichment
amongst the different communities. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the son of
Bahá’u’lláh, explains this phenomenon in the following inspiring
words:
Consider the flowers of a garden. Though differing in kind,
colour, form and shape, yet, inasmuch as they are
refreshed by the waters of one spring, revived by the
breath of one wind, invigorated by the rays of one sun,
this diversity increaseth their charm and addeth unto
their beauty… In like manner, when divers shades of
thought, temperament and character, are brought
together under the power and influence of one central
agency, the beauty and glory of human perfection will be
revealed and made manifest. Naught but the celestial
potency of the Word of God, which ruleth and
transcendeth the realities of all things, is capable of
harmonizing the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas
and convictions of the children of men.31

The concept of the Oneness of Mankind was not excluded from the
previous Revelations, but Bahá’u’lláh has made it the central purpose
of His Teachings. This is why Bahá'ís today believe that world unity is
not only possible but imperative and even inevitable to establish.

Here is what Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed:
“O ye children of men, the fundamental purpose
animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to
safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the
human race... This is the straight path, the fixed and
immovable foundation. Whatsoever is raised on this

31 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá -  cited by Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá'u'lláh” p. 42.


foundation, the changes and chances of the world can
never impair its strength, nor will the revolution of
countless centuries undermine its structure.”32

ِيَا أَبْنَاءَ اإلِنْسَانِ إِنَّ دِينَ هللاِ وَ مَذْهَبَهُ ألَجْ لِ حِفْظِ الْعَالَمِ وَ اتِّحَادِه
ِوَ اتِّفَاقِهِ وَ مَحَبَّتِهِ وَ أُلْفَتِه...

ُّهَذَا هُوَ الصِّرَاطُ الْمُسْتَقِيمُ وَ األُس
ُالْمُحْ كَمُ الْمَتِينُ.  كُلُّ مَا يُشَادُ عَلَى هَذَا األَسَاسِ الَ تُزَعْزِعُه
.ِحَوَ ادِثُ الدُّنْيَا وَ الَ يُقَوِّ ضُ أَرْكَانَهُ مَدَى الزَّمَان..

(بهاء هللا-
)لوح مقصود


The implications of the principle of Oneness of Mankind are not
limited to individual conviction. In fact, individual conviction leads
unrelentingly to the complete reversal of the present social
consciousness. This in turn, will change the present unstable
relationships between different peoples, between states and nations
and ultimately the world consciousness itself, giving rise to an
organically unified world.

It may certainly be no exaggeration to say that today, the only people
amongst whom Oneness of Mankind is a reality are the Bahá’ís. There
are Bahá’ís in every land of the five continents and islands of the seven
seas, from over 2000 ethnic origins, of all social, material and
educational strata, of different religious backgrounds, of all ages and
of both sexes. Yet, notwithstanding this huge diversity, they are the
only worldwide community that is united and assiduously labouring
for the betterment of the whole world through a systematic program,
unselfish action and high morality. Bahá’ís in every country today
cooperate to bring moral education to children, empowerment
programs for junior youth, and capacity building for adults. Again, this
is being done universally and following the same principle whether it
be in Alaska or New-Zealand, the Philippines or Martinique, north or
south Africa.

32 Bahá’u’lláh – Lawh Maqsud – Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh p. 167.



To raise the standard of Oneness of Mankind worldwide is no simple
task. The Bahá’ís therefore are hopeful to see many more good
intentioned souls join them in their efforts.

“That one indeed is a man who today dedicateth himself
to the service of the entire human race”33
are the words revealed by the Pen of Bahá’u’lláh.

"Blessed and happy is he that ariseth to promote the best
interests of the peoples and kindreds of the earth.”34

“He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful,” Bahá’u’lláh
further wrote, “cherisheth in His heart the desire of
beholding the entire human race as one soul and one
body. Haste ye to win your share of God’s good grace and
mercy in this Day that eclipseth all other created days.”35

فاإلنْسَانُ اليَوْ مَ هُوَ الّذي قَامَ عَلَى خِدْمَةِ جَميعِ مَنْ على
. ِاألرْض36

ِطُوبَى لِمَنْ أصْبَحَ قَائِمًّا عَلى خِدْمَة.ِاألمَم
(بهاء هللا–

لوح مقصود، مجموعة ألواح ص154
)


إنّ رَبَّكُمُ الرحمن يحب أن يرى من في األكوان كنفس واحدة
وهيكل واحد أن اغتنموا فضل هللا ورحمته في تلك األيام
التي ما رأت عين اإلبداع شبهها…

(بهاء هللا–

من لوح إلى ملك باريس، كتاب مبين ص56
)




33 Bahá’u’lláh – Lawh Maqsud – Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh p. 167
34 Bahá’u’lláh – Lawh Maqsud – Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh p. 166
35 Bahá’u’lláh – Tablet to Napoleon III
36 This excerpt is a translation from the original Persian



World Unity

So powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the
whole earth37

Bahá’u’lláh declared that a new spirit is pervading the world through
His Revelation. This new spirit is that of Unity. Bahá’u’lláh confirmed
that there will be radical changes on earth in order to establish this
Unity.

A cursory look at the history of mankind, and specifically since the
nineteenth century, cannot miss recognizing the inexorable onward
march of humanity towards “World Unity” - the ultimate stage of its
evolution.

And Shoghi Effendi Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith explains:
“Unification of the whole of mankind is the hall-mark of the
stage which human society is now approaching… Unity of
family, of tribe, of city-state, and nation have been
successively attempted and fully established. World unity is
the goal towards which a harassed humanity is striving.
Nation-building has come to an end…”38

Having gone through the stages of unity of family, of tribe, of city-state
and nation, the next stage that human society is bound to go to is
world unity. Human society is not static, and change – that
omnipresent constant, is bound to make it move forward to its next
stage of evolution.

Shoghi Effendi provides the following explanation to this
development.

37 Bahá’u’lláh – Epistle to Sheikh Muhammad Taqi Mujtahed, p. 14
38 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” p. 202.


“That mystic, all-pervasive, yet indefinable change, which
we associate with the stage of maturity inevitable in the
life of the individual and the development of the fruit
must… have its counterpart in the evolution of the
organization of human society. A similar stage must
sooner or later be attained in the collective life of
mankind…”39

What the above citation implies is that in as much as the human being
goes through different stages of growth from childhood to maturity so
it is with the evolution of the organization of human society or
collective life of mankind.

Human society, being a living organism, will necessarily go through the
same changes in its development, as does a fruit or an individual, and
is bound to get to the stage of maturity.

The present turmoil that is seen afflicting every aspect of human life
worldwide finds its explained in this excerpt of Shoghi Effendi:
“The long ages of infancy and childhood, through which
the human race had to pass, have receded into the
background.
Humanity
is
now
experiencing
the
commotions invariably associated with the most
turbulent stage of its evolution, the stage of adolescence,
when the impetuosity of youth and its vehemence reach
their climax, and must gradually be superseded by the
calmness, the wisdom, and the maturity that characterize
the stage of manhood. Then will the human race reach
that stature of ripeness which will enable it to acquire all
the powers and capacities upon which its ultimate
development must depend.”40
This sublime notion – World Unity, is probably one of the most
controversial subjects under discussion today. How on earth, the

39 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” p. 163.
40 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” p. 202.


doubters may ask, could anyone expect to see unity of the world
emerge from the welter of the present condition of the world?

When the atom bomb was dropped on two towns in Japan in 1945, a
terrible sense of horror struck every soul on earth, and the notion of
“the time of the end of the world is come” was on most peoples’ mind
and tongue. As a young Bahá’í at the time, I found it very difficult to
explain to my schoolmates that according to the Bahá’í Teachings
peace and unity will be established on earth.

Today, not far from three quarters of a century later, the changes that
took place have brought the peoples and countries of the world much
nearer to each other and much more concerned, whether in a
brotherly or in a competitive spirit, about one another. When I tell my
friends today that according to the Bahá’í Teachings peace and unity
will be established on earth, their reaction is that of hope, though they
harbour some doubt as to the realization of what they call, a dream.

It is unlikely today that a world war can break out, although local or
regional conflicts seem to multiply and continue to exist. I do not
pretend to say that world conditions are changing to the better. There
is no way one can fathom what will happen tomorrow. Future
catastrophes may be worse than any we are able to imagine.

A Commonwealth has replaced the greatest empire in history, the
British Empire. Countries that once formed a vast stretch of colonies
of one European nation, France, have nurtured a social relationship
under the language influence as “Francophone Countries”. Europe,
where wars ragged for hundreds of years amongst its nations, has set
up the European Union.

These three examples show clearly the direction in which the world as
a whole is moving. We shall have to take a holistic view of the world
in order to appreciate the fact that we are moving towards world
unity.


Let us imagine what the world will look like when a federation of the
countries of the American continent unite with the European Union
countries of Europe. Then in a further stage, the South East Asia
countries join the American European union, and so on until all
countries join hands to form a united One World.

The gathering together of nations in a manner as simulated above, is
not simply wishful thinking, it is a fact that has its foundation in the
current process of history. Things may not develop exactly as in the
simulation given above, but the ultimate gathering together of nations
is inevitable, and peace and prosperity on earth cannot but follow.

The “most turbulent stage” of humanity’s evolution that we are living
in today will soon be over, and mankind will experience a new age
when “the latent energies with which” the Word revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh “had been endowed” will have “manifested themselves in
the plenitude of their glory.”  The new age that mankind is due to
experience will fulfil the promise of the Qur’án, the Evangel and the
Old Testament.

The need for a New World Order

The signs of impending convulsions and chaos can now be
discerned, inasmuch as the prevailing Order appeareth to
be lamentably defective.41

Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is destined to establish a world civilization
where peace, unity and justice will reign. This, as I understand it, is
Bahá’u’lláh’s claim. Some 160 years ago, however, Bahá’u’lláh warned
of signs of impending convulsions and chaos that were already there
at the time of His announcement. Bahá’u’lláh further explained that
the prevailing Order in the world was defective.


41 Bahá’u’lláh – cited in  World Order of Bahá’u’lláh p. 162


Since that announcement, the convulsions and chaos have been
increasing in intensity worldwide and have covered all aspects of
human life and almost all domains of human endeavour.

The 19th century was a remarkable century, which I believe, will be
hailed in future as the turning point in the known history of mankind.

The first Trumpet blast, the Announcement of The Báb, was sounded
in the year 1260 Hegira or 1844 CE in the 19th Century. The second
Trumpet blast, the Great Announcement of Bahá’u’lláh took place in
1863 CE in the 19th Century.

The principle of Unity of mankind as being the Will of All-Mighty God
for this age, was announced by Bahá’u’lláh in the 19th Century;
equality of men and women was declared and established for the first
time in history in the 19th Century. Slavery was first abolished in the
19th Century. Inventions tending to mechanize transport including the
bicycle, the 4-wheeled automobile, the propeller, the internal
combustion and diesel engines, the steam locomotive, the navigation
canals, the steamship and manned glider, came into existence in the
19th Century. Gas lighting, the electric light bulb, traffic lights and the
miner’s lamp provided light at demand to humanity in the 19th
Century. Communications at a distance by Morse, by phone and by
facsimile were also invented in the 19th Century. These were not all
the inventions of the 19th Century, but these were the first inventions
that brought human beings nearer to each other more rapidly than
ever before.

Negative changes have also started to take place in the 19th Century,
in all the institutions of the world, whether it be in the collapse and
deterioration of religious institutions, the failure of political and
economic structures, the tottering grapple with the onslaught of
moral downfall and the thwarting of many a step taken to ensure
collective security. The 19th Century saw the birth of many social and
economic theories and principles that played leading roles in changing
society, not least of these the theory of materialism.



People are bewildered today, and are at a loss for direction. Shoghi
Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, describes what is going on in the
world today: “Universal Fermentation.” This Universal Fermentation is
a series of historical, political, social and spiritual processes that are:
purging and reshaping humanity in anticipation of the Day when the
wholeness of the human race will have been recognized and its unity
established.”42

Dramatic changes in governance have also taken place. Following the
setbacks and upheavals that caused the elimination of autocracy,
aristocracy and theocracy; after the contumelious downfall of
communism and the tottering of what is left of socialism; a consensus
seemed to have gathered worldwide around democracy as the best
possible governing system. Many, if not most, people consider
democracy as the best available system that man developed until now
in the field of governance.

However, democracy has failed to check the widening gap between
the rich and the poor, the spread of crime, the cancer of money in
politics, the ongoing world climate disaster, the border squabbles and
generally the inability to address complex problems. Politicians
typically don’t plan beyond the next election, let alone planning today
for years to come. For how long, one may justly ask, will the world
support
democracy’s
institutionalisation
of
its
spirit
of
competitiveness and egoism in society? The upholders of democracy
had experienced ease in convincing people of its efficacy sometime
ago, but find it very difficult to convince its doubters of today.

Of course, the failure of democracy is not the only reason for all the
woes of humanity. In spite of all this, the writer of these lines confirms
his conviction that democracy is the best that man has conceived in
the matter of governance.


42 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” p. 170.


If that is the sombre present condition of democracy, what shall we
say of currency speculation, transnational capital flight, the rising and
unregulated power of multinational corporations, the irresponsible
attitude of global financial institutions and trade unions, to number a
few of the most conspicuous ills of society?

The religious and social orders in the world today are not faring any
better than the order of governance, and suffer from disunity and
decay. Conflicts and plotting between orders is predominant. Conflict
and plotting within the same order is common.

This is why Bahá’u’lláh warned the people of the world more than one
and half century ago, that convulsions and chaos will increase in the
world because the prevailing order is defective.


That is why a new world Order is necessary to replace the defective
prevailing order, which includes all governance, religious and social
orders.

“Soon,” Bahá’u’lláh’s own words proclaim... “will the present day
Order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead. Verily, thy
Lord speaketh the truth and is the Knower of things unseen.” “By
Myself,” He solemnly asserts, “the day is approaching when We will
have rolled up the world and all that is therein, and spread out a new
Order in its stead. He, verily, is powerful over all things.”

عن قريب سوف يُطْوَ ى بساط العالم ويبسط بساط آخر43
ّإن
ربّك لهو الحق عالّم الغيوبَ

(بها ء هللا- لوح إلى غالم حسين)


لعمري سوف نطوي الدّنيا وما فيها ونبسط بساطاًّ آخر إنّه
"كان على كلّ شيء قديرا
(كتاب مبين ص603
)


43 End of section translated from Persian.




The New World Order

This is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the
splendours of the Light that shineth from the face of thy
Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have
caused every soul to expire by virtue of Our irresistible
and all-subduing sovereignty. We have then called into
being a new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men.
I am, verily, the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of Days.” 44

هذا
ٌيَوم ال يُری
ِفيه
ّإال
ُاألَنوار التي
ْأَشْرَقَت
ْوالحَت
ْمِن  ُأُف ِق
ِوَ جه
َرَبِّک
ِالعَزيز
َالك ِريم  قَد قَبَضنَا
َاألَرواح
ِبِسُلطان ال ِقُدرَة
وَ االقتدار  َو
شَرَعنا فی
ٍخَلق
ٍبَديع
ًّفَضْال مِن عِندِنا وأنا ا ُلفضَّال
ُالقَديم

(
بهاء هللا- لوح الرضوان)

The present convulsions and chaos will dissipate. The turmoil that is
accompanying humanity during its period of “adolescence” – of
transition, will soon give way to “humanity’s coming of age” and The
New World Order will be established.

Here is how the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith envisioned the world
organization once this period of transition is over:
The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh,
implies the establishment of a world commonwealth in which
all nations, races, creeds and classes are closely and
permanently united, and in which the autonomy of its state
members and the personal freedom and initiative of the
individuals that compose them are definitely and completely
safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as we can
visualize it, consist of a world legislature, whose members

44 Bahá’u’lláh – Tablet of Ridván.


will, as the trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately
control the entire resources of all the component nations, and
will enact such laws as shall be required to regulate the life,
satisfy the needs and adjust the relationships of all races and
peoples. A world executive, backed by an international Force,
will carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws
enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the
organic unity of the whole commonwealth. A world tribunal
will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and final verdict in
all and any disputes that may arise between the various
elements constituting this universal system. A mechanism of
world inter-communication will be devised, embracing the
whole planet, freed from national hindrances and
restrictions, and functioning with marvellous swiftness and
perfect regularity. A world metropolis will act as the nerve
center of a world civilization, the focus towards which the
unifying forces of life will converge and from which its
energizing influences will radiate. A world language will
either be invented or chosen from among the existing
languages and will be taught in the schools of all the
federated nations as an auxiliary to their mother tongue. A
world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal
system of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify
and facilitate intercourse and understanding among the
nations and races of mankind. In such a world society, science
and religion, the two most potent forces in human life, will be
reconciled, will cooperate, and will harmoniously develop.
The press will, under such a system, while giving full scope to
the expression of the diversified views and convictions of
mankind, cease to be mischievously manipulated by vested
interests, whether private or public, and will be liberated from
the influence of contending governments and peoples. The
economic resources of the world will be organized, its sources
of raw materials will be tapped and fully utilized, its markets
will be coordinated and developed, and the distribution of its
products will be equitably regulated.



National rivalries, hatreds, and intrigues will cease, and racial
animosity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity,
understanding and cooperation. The causes of religious strife
will be permanently removed, economic barriers and
restrictions will be completely abolished, and the inordinate
distinction between classes will be obliterated. Destitution on
the one hand, and gross accumulation of ownership on the
other, will disappear. The enormous energy dissipated and
wasted on war, whether economic or political, will be
consecrated to such ends as will extend the range of human
inventions and technical development, to the increase of the
productivity of mankind, to the extermination of disease, to
the extension of scientific research, to the raising of the
standard of physical health, to the sharpening and refinement
of the human brain, to the exploitation of the unused and
unsuspected resources of the planet, to the prolongation of
human life, and to the furtherance of any other agency that
can stimulate the intellectual, the moral, and spiritual life of
the entire human race.

A world federal system, ruling the whole earth and exercising
unchallengeable authority over its unimaginably vast
resources, blending and embodying the ideals of both the East
and the West, liberated from the curse of war and its miseries,
and bent on the exploitation of all the available sources of
energy on the surface of the planet, a system in which Force
is made the servant of Justice, whose life is sustained by its
universal recognition of one God and by its allegiance to one
common Revelation—such is the goal towards which
humanity, impelled by the unifying forces of life, is moving.

How, one may question, will such a sublime concept as announced by
Bahá’u’lláh, of a world where all its peoples are united in a universal
recognition of one God and allegiance to one common Revelation
come around and be established?


(Question # 1)
Where can we see that sublime concept developing in practice in
order to dissipate some of the doubt: is there an example?
(Question # 2)

I would like to share with you, dear Reader, what I understand from
some Bahá’í literature to be an answer to the first question.

Uncontrollable events are taking place in the world, catastrophic in
aspect and in impact, yet they serve to tear down the barriers that
stand in the way of unity of the nations. These events which are found
everywhere on earth are beyond the control of man.

Let us take an example or two from history.

Following the upheaval of the Napoleonic wars in the 19th Century, the
European Empires at that time obstructed the efforts to establish
some sort of security alliance for Europe. It took one of the most
grievous catastrophes the world had known up till then, that which
took place in the second decade of the twentieth century - the
devastating World War I, to set up The League of Nations. The League
was the first permanent international security organization the world
had ever known. “For the first time in the history of humanity”, wrote
Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith regarding the
establishment of the League of Nations, “the system of collective
security, foreshadowed by Bahá’u’lláh and explained by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
has been seriously envisaged, discussed and tested.”45

An organisation for international security is the basis for world peace,
which in turn is indispensable for a new world order. Simply put, the
catastrophic World War I tore down one of the most important

45 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” p. 192.


barriers that obstructed the way towards the eventual establishment
of the New World Order.

World War II, many times more catastrophic, brought down the
barriers of colonization, of resistance to freedom of peoples and to the
promulgation of human rights. It gave the world an international
United Nations Organization that is promising and growing. It gave the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All this and much more, is
paving the way for the New World Order.

If one looks perceptively into each of the catastrophic events with far
destructive effects the world has experienced over the past 150 years,
one would see that each one of them has in some way or other, either
brought down a barrier between people, or brought peoples nearer to
one another. The forces of destruction are driving mankind with
increasing momentum towards its coming together. It is unfortunate,
though, that the world has to pay a high price in suffering in order to
attain its salvation.

Next to the destructive forces that, with steel and fire, are tearing
down the barriers, are the forces resulting from the activities of the
civil society associations and forums that advocate principles in
harmony with the spirit of world unity. Timid both in number and in
action only a few decades ago, they are capable today of provoking
demonstrations with millions of citizens turning up. Civil society
movements will eventually gather enough force that will
conspicuously help in obliging the rulers of the world to sit together
and for the “Cause of Universal Peace… conclude a binding treaty and
establish a covenant, the provisions of which shall be sound, inviolable
and definite.”46

Parallel to the action of these two forces there is the spiritual force
resulting from the action of the Bahá’ís. Bahá’ís conduct their activity
on a completely different plain, and worldwide as no association or
forum are anywhere near to attain. The Bahá’ís are occupied with the
transformation of society and the building of a new civilization.



46 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá – “The Secret of Divine Civilization” p. 64.



Humanity is impelled towards its ultimate goal by these three unifying
forces of life47 – one destructive, the second objective and the third
integrative.

The following excerpt from a Message from the Universal House of
Justice, the Supreme Governing Body of the Bahá’í Faith, may explain
in what spirit we should serve our fellow beings:
The Bahá’í Faith, like all other Divine Religions, is
fundamentally mystic in character. Its chief goal is the
development of the individual and society, through
acquisition of spiritual virtues and powers. It is the soul of
man that has first to be fed. And this spiritual nourishment
prayer can best provide. Laws and institutions, as viewed by
Bahá’u’lláh, can become really effective only when our inner
spiritual life has been perfected and transformed. Otherwise
religion will degenerate into a mere organization, and
become a dead thing.48

As to question # 2, I feel that the answer may be found in the following
excerpt of The Universal House of Justice, The Supreme Governing
Body of the Bahá’í Faith:
Central to Bahá'u'lláh's mission, therefore, has been the
creation of a global community that would reflect the
oneness of humankind. The ultimate testimony that the
Bahá'í community can summon in vindication of His mission
is the example of unity that His teachings have produced. As
it enters the twenty-first century, the Bahá'í Cause is a
phenomenon unlike anything else the world has seen. After
decades of effort… the Bahá'í community comprises several
million people representative of virtually every ethnic,
cultural, social and religious background on earth,
administering their collective affairs without the intervention
of a clergy, through democratically elected institutions. The
many thousands of localities in which it has put down its roots
are to be found in every country, territory and significant


island group, from the Arctic to Tierra del Fuego, from Africa
to the Pacific. The assertion that this community may today
already constitute the most diverse and geographically
widespread of any similarly organized body of people on the
planet is unlikely to be challenged by one familiar with the
evidence.

The achievement calls out for understanding. Conventional
explanations -- access to wealth, the patronage of powerful
political interests, invocations of the occult or aggressive
programmes of proselytism that instil fear of Divine wrath --
none have played any role in the events involved. Adherents
of the Faith have achieved a sense of identity as members of
a single human race, an identity that shapes the purpose of
their lives and that, clearly, is not the expression of any
intrinsic moral superiority on their own part… A fair-minded
observer is compelled to entertain at least the possibility that
the phenomenon may represent the operation of influences
entirely different in nature from the familiar ones -- influences
that can properly be described only as spiritual -- capable of
eliciting extraordinary feats of sacrifice and understanding
from ordinary people of every background.49

The Building of World Civilization

As we enter the third millennium with a world contracted through
technology to the like of a village, we need a civilization that is
adaptable to the present day, a new civilization that involves everyone
on earth. A new spiritual consciousness of the Oneness of Mankind
needs to be awakened in every heart.

47 See page 141 and 143
48 Universal House of Justice – To an Individual Believer dated 12 June 1984 ¶397.2c
49 Universal House of Justice – One Common Faith pp. 56-58.



This is a huge task. Huge or minor, someone or some persons will have
to take to heart the accomplishment of any task. The Bahá’ís believe
that this is one task they have to actively participate in accomplishing,
as they may just be the ones capable of doing so, and are actually
doing so.

Since the beginning, the early believers in the Bahá’í Faith set the
example in spreading the spirit of Oneness of Mankind, and thousands
upon thousands gave their lives or all their belongings or both for this
Cause.

Today, the Bahá'ís are embarked on a worldwide enterprise, destined
to enhance action for the betterment of the world and the
establishment of a hitherto never dreamt of world civilization. Bahá’ís
the world over are engaged in a systematic process of moral education
for children, empowerment program for junior youth, and capacity
and capability building for adults. This activity is being conducted in
the family, amongst neighbours, friends and colleagues; in the
neighbourhood, in the cluster where they live, the town and the
country. This all-encompassing activity is undertaken by the Bahá’ís
whether they be individual Bahá’ís, or Bahá’í Community or Bahá’í
Institution. Not only have their efforts produced breathtaking results,
but also many people from other creeds and affiliations have, and
increasingly so, joined the Bahá’ís in their benevolent campaign.

“Humanity’s crying needs”, wrote on 24 May 2001 The Universal
House of Justice, the supreme body the Bahá’í Administrative Order,
“will not be met by a struggle among competing ambitions or by
protest against one or another of the countless wrongs afflicting a
desperate age. It calls rather, for a fundamental change of
consciousness, for a wholehearted embrace of Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching
that the time has come when each human being on earth must learn
to accept responsibility for the welfare of the entire human family.”


It is unto this call specifically, that this humble servant of humanity
wrote this book for his English speaking Muslim brethren.


The Bahá’í Administrative Order

For the governance of the collective affairs of the Bahá’í Community
world-wide, Bahá’u’lláh included in His Writings the principles of an
Administrative Order. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave further authoritative
explanations and additions to that Order, and Shoghi Effendi,
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, developed and applied its practice in the
Community. Bahá’ís believe that the present Bahá’í Administrative
Order is the very pattern of the New World Order destined to embrace
in the fullness of time the whole of mankind.”50

The Bahá’í Administrative Order comprises institutions on three
levels: local, national and international.

There are no parties within the Bahá’í Faith. Bahá’u’lláh calls upon the
members of the Bahá’í Administrative Assemblies when gathered for
a meeting to:
…consider themselves as entering the Court of the
presence of God, the Exalted, the Most High… regard
themselves as guardians appointed of God for all that
dwell on earth… to have regard for the interests of the
servants of God, for His sake, even as they regard their
own interests, and to choose that which is meet and
seemly. 51

...ويرون كأنّهم يدخلون محضر هللا العليّ األعلى ويرون
مَنْ ال يُرى وينبغي لهم أن يكونوا أمناء الرّحمن بين اإلمكان
ووكال ء هللا لمن على األرض كلّها ويشاوروا في مصالح

50 Shoghi Effendi – “World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” p. 144.
51 Bahá'u'lláh – Al Kitabu’l Aqdas – The Most Holy Book # 30.


العباد لوجه هللا كما يشاورون في أمورهم ويختاروا ما هو
.المختار
(بهاء هللا-
الكتاب األقدس، ق30
)


The members of Bahá’í Institutions are thus asked to consider the
welfare of mankind as a whole, to do so for the sake of God, and to
consult together with regard for the interests of others as though they
were considering their own interests. This is selflessness and altruism,
very different from the competitiveness and egoism we see today in
governance and government.

The Bahá’í electoral system is different to that which is practiced in
democracy. The absence of parties obliterates competition. Every
adult member of the community is eligible to being elected and in the
same time eligible to vote. Once elected the member accepts to serve
in a spirit of duty towards the community. Nominations, campaigning,
lobbying, and all notions of publicity or solicitation are prohibited.
Voters decide to vote for those from among the community who best
combine the qualities of ability, mature experience, and selfless
service, relying totally on their conscious and in total freedom of
choice. No one seeks election, it follows that election is not a means
for any power or privilege. In fact membership in Bahá’í Institutions
generally entails sacrifice in time and effort, and at times career
aspirations. Alone the Assemblies take decisions, after due
consultation, either unanimously or by majority vote. There are
neither preconceived positions nor platforms.



Some Beliefs, Laws and Ordinances of the Bahá’í Faith

Bahá’ís believe in the One true God Who has no partner to Him. They
believe that all the Prophets and Messengers of God are the same,
that religion is basically one and that religion follows the rule of
progressive Revelation so that no one religion can claim finality of


Divine Revelation. Bahá’ís believe that Divine Revelations shall be
revealed in future.

Bahá’ís uphold, in belief and in practice, the principle of Oneness of
mankind and labour to establish world unity and peace on earth.
While they believe in the truth of all the previous religions, they
understand that the laws and ordinances change from one religion to
the other and that the laws and ordinances that were sent unto
Bahá’u’lláh are the ones that God wants us to obey in this
Dispensation.

The Bahá’í Laws and Ordinances are recorded in “The Most Holy Book”
of Bahá’u’lláh. In obeying them, Bahá’ís do so because Bahá’u’lláh told
them in The Most Holy Book:

“Observe My commandments, for the love of My beauty”52

أن أعملوا حدودي حبّاًّ لجمالي
(بهاء هللا-

الكتاب األقدس الفقرة4
)

and because they believe that these Laws and Ordinances are what
Bahá’u’lláh designated as “the lamps of My loving providence among
My servants, and the keys of My mercy for My creatures.”53

يا
مأل األرض اعلموا أنّ أوامري سرج عنايتي
بين عبادي ومفاتيح رحمتي لبريتي
(بهاء هللا-

الكتاب األقدس الفقرة3
)

Love is the basis of obedience and of the conviction that in doing so
one is rendering a service to oneself and consequently to mankind.


52 Bahá'u'lláh – Al Kitabu’l Aqdas – The Most Holy Book # 4.
53 Bahá'u'lláh – Al Kitabu’l Aqdas – The Most Holy Book # 3.


Prayer and fasting are prescribed from the beginning of maturity (15
years of age). Exemption is accorded “those who are weak from illness
or age (70 or more)…

Daily obligatory prayers to be offered individually are three in number,
any one of the three may be offered. The short prayer may be recited
anytime between noon and before sunset. The medium prayer is to
be recited three times a day in the morning, at noon and after sunset;
while the long prayer may be recited anytime during the 24 hour day
from sunset to sunset. Any one of the three prayers is sufficient for
the day.

The Qiblih to which Bahá'ís turn during obligatory prayers is the
direction of ‘Akká, the resting place of Bahá’u’lláh.

Ablutions must precede the obligatory prayer.

In countries where the duration of days and nights vary considerably,
clocks should be used without reference to sunset and sunrise.

Congregational prayer is forbidden except for the prayer for the dead.

The Bahá’í Law of Fasting is abstention from food and drinks from
sunrise to sunset during the nineteen days that form the Bahá’í month
of “Loftiness” that falls every year between the 2nd and the 20th March.
The Bahá’í Calendar is a solar calendar of 19 months with 19 days in
every month. An intercalary period of 4 or 5 days begins on the 26th of
February every year.

Polygamy is proscribed in the Bahá’í Faith, while marriage is enjoined
but not obligatory. Bahá’u’lláh counsels:
“Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring forth one
who will make mention of Me amid My servants. This is


My bidding unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to
yourselves”,54

تزوّ جوا يا قوم ليظهر منكم من يذكرني بين عبادي
هذا من
ًّأمري عليكم اتّخذوه ألنفسكم معينا
(بهاء هللا-

الكتاب األقدس الفقرة63
)

Bahá’u’lláh thus ennobled the goal of marriage to that of procreation.
Bahá’u’lláh further conditioned marriage with the consent of both
parties as well as that of all living parents.
“Marriage is conditioned upon both parties having attained the age of
maturity which is fixed at 15.”

Divorce is possible, but “is strongly condemned.”

Pilgrimage to the House of Bahá’u’lláh in Bagdad or to the House of
the Báb in Shíráz is ordained once for those who can undertake it.  This
obligation was not made binding on women in order to spare them
the rigours of travel.

Inheritance falls into seven categories: Children; husband or wife;
father; mother; brother; sister and teacher. The “will” of the defunct,
however, is to be respected.

Amongst the most important prohibitions are: Slave trading;
asceticism; monasticism; priesthood; confession of sins; partaking of
intoxicating drinks and the use of narcotics; gambling; arson; adultery;
murder; theft; homosexuality; contention and conflict; backbiting;
calumny…

Amongst the exhortations are: to associate with the followers of all
religions with fellowship, to honour one’s parents; to be truthful,
trustworthy and faithful; to be courteous, hospitable and persevering;
to be submissive to the Will of God; to be the essence of cleanliness…

54 Bahá'u'lláh – Al Kitabu’l Aqdas – The Most Holy Book # 63.



Education of children:
An important commandment of Bahá’u’lláh is the education of
children. Every father is asked to see to the instruction of his children,
son and daughter. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in calling attention to this
responsibility of parents to educate their children further specifies
that the education of daughters is more necessary than that of sons
since girls will be one day the mothers and therefore the first
educators of the coming generation.


Some Principles and Teachings of the Bahá’í Faith

‘Abdu’l-Bahá enumerated in many of His Tablets the main Principles
and Teachings of the Bahá’í Faith.  Here is what I feel is a brief
presentation of some of them:

Amongst the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith is the proclamation
of universal peace, whereby peoples of all creeds and faiths may
associate together in utmost harmony and fellowship.

The independent search after truth is one of the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh. This calls for freeing oneself of the limitations of
imitation and the removal of the veil of false traditions. Truth is
one and by independently seeking truth, divided mankind
would soon find itself united in one thought.

One of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is Unity of Mankind


whereby all will feel part of the sheep of God and God their
Shepherd.

Another of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh concerns religion:
Religion should be the cause of unity and harmony amongst the
peoples of the world.

Another of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is this: religion must be
in agreement with science and reason, otherwise it will have no
effect on the human heart, and it will become no more than
words of tradition and imitation.

One of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh concerns prejudice: religious
prejudice, racial prejudice, political prejudice, economic
prejudice and national prejudice one and all are the cause of
destruction of the structure of mankind. As long as prejudice
exists in human society, its well-being will remain inexistent. For
thousands of years of its history, humanity has seen wars. Some
wars were due to religious prejudice, others due to racial
prejudice or political prejudice or national prejudice. This cause
of destruction of human society has to be totally abandoned.

One of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is for mankind to
promulgate a universal language with which all people may be
able to communicate. Such a universal language, new or from
the available languages, will eliminate misunderstanding
amongst the peoples of the world.

Equality of men and women is one of the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh. Men and women may be seen as the two wings of
the bird of humanity. Should one wing be weaker than the
other, the bird will not be able to fly. Unless women be equal to
men in acquiring the benefits of education and perfection,
success and well-being of humanity will be impossible to attain.


Amongst the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is freedom, whereby
humankind will cease to be the prisoner of the world of nature,
where contention for existence which is the source of all
affliction and disaster, will be replaced by harmony and
goodwill.

One of the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh is this: religion is like an
impregnable citadel. Should the structure of religion be
unstable or weak, chaos will ensue and matters will be in
disorder. Law and the punishments that come with it for
misconduct and crime, is a deterrent for the visible offence, but
the true moral deterrent is that of the Religion of God, for it is
the deterrent of both the visible and the invisible offence.

Bahá’u’lláh extols material civilization as a source of
advancement of the world of humanity, but it should be
adherent to a divine civilization. Material civilization alone has
produced war machinery amongst other things. When adhered
to divine civilization, material civilization will be the source of all
that is good. Material civilization is like the lamp and divine
civilization is its light. Material civilization is like a beautiful
body, while divine civilization is the spirit. Should the spirit leave
the body, a corpse will be the result.

Amongst the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is the need for the reign
of justice and equity. Should justice and equity be wanting,
world affairs will be obstructed and deficient.



A Final Word

As you read this final word, I beg to assure you, dear Reader, that I
know you have a loving heart: love of God and love for humanity. All
through this book, I have tried to convey the spirit of Love of God. Love
of God can only be in our love for the Messengers and Prophets of
God: the Manifestations of His will, and love for all mankind – His
supreme creation, and in our service to humanity.

A loving heart must necessarily be good willing towards the whole
world. Now as never before is the world in need of sincere well-
wishers for its betterment. Maybe you will consider joining the efforts
of the Bahá’ís for the betterment of the world. Wherever you may be,
a Bahá’í community or individual will probably not be far away.

Sincerely,
R. Mustapha.



APPENDIX

Muhammad the Apostle of God
Ahmed in the prophecy
The Paraclete as announced by Christ


The word “Paraclete”, which is originally Greek, was pronounced by
Jesus Christ in 4 instances in the Gospel according to St. John, and once
by St. John in his first Epistle. However, the word “Paraclete” itself has
been replaced in the bible by its translation in English as “Advocate”
or “Comforter”. In the Arabic version of the Gospel the word
“Paraclete” is translated into “معين” or “Helper” and in some versions
it is translated into “المعزّي” or “Redeemer”. All these translations are
correct, and in addition the word “Paraclete” also means “Defender”
or “Intercessor”.

The meaning of the word Ahmed, amongst other meanings, is “He
whose actions are laudable”, which is in the same spirit of all the
other translations of the word “Paraclete”.

In 1John 2; 1, the word “Paraclete” is translated by the word
“advocate”, and it clearly refers to Jesus Christ:

My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin
not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate
(“Paraclete”) with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.

In the following verses of the Gospel of St. John, the word “Paraclete”
is translated by the word Comforter:
John 14:16
And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another
Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever.
In this verse it is clear that Christ is announcing the coming of “another
Comforter – ‘Paraclete’” than himself, in other words someone who is


sent by God the Father unto humanity, who will be similar to Him an
Apostle of God.

John 14:26.
But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the
Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things,
and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I
have said unto you.
In this verse Jesus announces the forthcoming of the Holy Ghost –
Comforter or “Paraclete” from God Who will remind the world of the
words of Jesus Christ.

John 15:26.
But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto
you from the father, even the Spirit of truth, which
proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me.
Here again Jesus confirms that the Comforter - “Paraclete” to come
will testify of Him. In other words confirms the Truth of the Message
of Jesus Christ.

John 16:7.
Nevertheless I tell you the truth; it is expedient for you
that I go away, for if I go not away the Comforter will not
come unto you.
This is clear in that a Comforter - “Paraclete” or Apostle is to come
after Jesus.
The Revelations of John the Divine

In the Revelations 19: verses 11 – 16 we read the following:

11. And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and
he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True (أميناَوصادقا),
and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.


12. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he
himself.

13. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his
name is called The Word of God (كلمة هللا).

14. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon
white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

15. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he
should smite the nations; and he shall rule them with a rod of
iron: and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and
wrath of Almighty God.

16. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written,
King of Kings, and Lord of Lords.

This prediction applies in all respects to Muhammad the Messenger of
God. The name: “The Word of God
(كلمةَهللا)
” is the term used in the
different Scriptures to indicate a One sent by God.

The prophecy indicates that the One to come will ride on a white horse
and will be called: “Faithful and True (الصادقٌاألمين)” and history tells
us that Muhammad was known amongst the Arabs by the “Faithful
and True (الصادقَاألمين)” even before He proclaimed His Mission.

The prophecy also forecasts that Muhammad will judge: “in
righteousness”. Muhammad established a state and He governed that
state, and made war to maintain the state. As for the phrase: “and on
his head were many crowns” – this is an indication to the many
countries that will fall under Islám, such as the Persians and the
Byzantines and others…

The prophecy goes on to indicate some characteristics of the
Messenger – “Word of God”, Who is to come.



The Revelation referring to Muhammad and the Báb

In the book  of Revelation we read:
11:1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the
angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and
the altar, and them that worship therein.

11:2 But the court which is without the temple leave out, and
measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city
shall they tread under foot forty and two months.

11:3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall
prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed
in sackcloth.

11:4 These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks
standing before the God of the earth.

Now considering the words “a reed like unto a rod”, one may notice
that a reed (in Arabic قصبة) can be transformed into a flute that a
musician can play music upon when purified of its interior. The Arabs
used the flute as their instrument of music. The pronouncements of
Muhammad the Apostle of God, which indeed are the verses of the
Holy Quran, was the music that came out of Him who was totally
purified.

The statement: “for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city
shall they tread under foot forty and two months”, means that
Jerusalem will be invaded and occupied by the Followers of
Muhammad – called the Gentiles, during forty two months or 1260
days – (42 x 30 = 1260).

“And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall
prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in
sackcloth”: The “two witnesses” are The Prophet Muhammad and ‘Alí


Ibn Abi Taleb, and they shall propagate the Faith that is the music of
that purified reed, for 1260 years – for every day a year. In the year
1260 of the Hegira, the Báb, the Herald to Bahá’u’lláh, declared His
Mission.

The “day” in the above verses indicates a year as mentioned in the
definition given in the following two verses in the Old Testament (In
the Qur’án a day is 1000 years  “… a Day the duration of which shall
be a thousand of such years as ye  reckon”. Súrih XXXII, “Adoration”, v. 5):


Ezekiel 4:6
And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side,
and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days: I have
appointed thee each day for a year.

Numbers 14:33
And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years, and bear
your whoredoms, until your carcases be wasted in the wilderness.
14:34 After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, even
forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even forty
years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.

______________________________


Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
- Promulgation of Universal Peace
Bahá’í Reference Library
- Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Compiled by the Research Department of
The Universal House of Justice
- Some Answered Questions.
Wilmette Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1984
- The Secret of Divine Civilization.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1957
- The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944


Bahá’u’lláh
- Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Wilmette. Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1975.
- Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
- The Hidden Words.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1975.
- The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Bahá’í World Centre, 1992
- The Kitáb-i-Iqán
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974
- The Summons of the Lord of Hosts
Bahá’í World Centre, 2002
Balyuzi, Hassan M.
- Bahá’u’lláh : The King of Glory
George Ronald Publisher, Oxford – UK. 1980
- Muhammad and the Course of Islám
George Ronald Publisher, Oxford – UK. 1976
Muhammad Mustafa
- Bahá’u’lláh : The Great Announcement of the Qurán
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 1993
Nabil-i-A'zam
- The Dawn Breakers
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London UK. 1953
The Qur’án : Rodwell's Translation
Shoghi Effendi
- The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1955
Universal House of Justice
- One Common Faith
J.Chapuis et S. Boussois (coord)
- Etre non-Musulman en Terre d'Islâm Edition du Cygne - MEDIA

بهاء هللا
- الكتاب األقدس

من منشورات بيت العدل األعظم–

.طبعة كندا
-
منتخباتي أز حضرت بهاء هللا

لجنه آثار امرى–
النگهاين ـ آلمان
- مجموعة من ألواح حضرة بهاء هللا نزّلت بعد الكتاب األقدس
من منشورات دار النشر البهائية
في
بلجيكا

-
ألواح حضرة بهاء هللا إلى الملوك والرؤساء

من منشورات دار النشر البهائية في بالبرازيل1983


- كتاب اإليقان

من منشورات دار النشر البهائية في بالبرازيل
- الكلمات المكنونة عرب
ي والكلمات الكنونة فارسي

Archer de Perse – Villeurbane, France



: القرآن الكريم
اإلنجيل : العهد القديم والعهد الجديد

عبد البهاء
- ألواح وصايا حضرة عبد البهاء

لجنة النشر–

المحفل الروحاني المركزي للبهائيين بمصر والسودان1948

- خطب عبد البهاء في أوروبا وأمريكا

طبعت لمعرفة المحفل الروحاني المركزي بشمال شرق إفريقيا–
أديس أبابا
-
من مكاتيب عبد البهاء

منشورات دار النشر البهائية بالبرازيل1982


محمد مصطفى سليمان
- النبــــأ العظيم

من مشورات دار النشر البهائية في البرازيل2007

المستشار على على منصور
- مقارنات بين الشريعة اإلسالمية والقوانين الوضعية

دار النتج للطباعة والنشر-
بيروت
الدكتور محمد ابراهيم خان
- محمد خاتم النبيين
من المنشورات على الشبكة العالمية
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°