THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-08-31

To the f ollowers of b ahá’u’lláh throughout the world

beloved f riends,

Nigh on one hundred years ago, bahá’u’lláh walked on god’s holy

mountain and revealed the Tablet of carmel, the charter of the world

center of his faith, calling into being the metropolis of the kingdom of

god on earth. Through decades of oppression and expansion, persecu-

tion and emancipation, his followers have successfully labored to carry his

message to the remotest regions of the earth, to erect the structure of his

Administrative order, and to proclaim to mankind the divinely prescribed

cure for all its ills. in the past eight years the agonies suffered by his lovers

in iran have awakened the interest of a slumbering world and have brought

his faith to the center of human attention.

on this same mount carmel ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, with infinite pains, raised

the mausoleum of the báb on the spot chosen by his father, and laid to

rest within its heart the sacred remains of the prophet herald of the faith,

establishing a Spiritual center of immeasurable significance. in accordance

with the same divine command, Shoghi effendi embellished the Shrine with

an exquisite shell and then, under its protecting wing, began the construc-

tion of the Administrative center of the faith, to comprise five buildings

in a harmonious style of architecture, standing on a far-flung Arc centering on the monuments of the greatest holy leaf, her mother and brother.

The first of these five buildings, the international Archives, was completed

in the beloved guardian’s lifetime. The second, the Seat of the universal

house of justice, now stands at the apex of the Arc. plans for the remaining

three were prepared in fulfillment of a goal of the Seven year plan, and are

now being detailed.

As indicated in our letter of 30 April 1987, the way is now open for the

bahá’í world to erect the remaining buildings of its Administrative center,

and we must without delay stride forward resolutely on this path.

five closely related projects demand our attention: the erection of the

three remaining buildings on the Arc and, added now to these, the con-struction of the terraces of the Shrine of the báb and the extension of the 36.1

36.2

36.3

36.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

68international Archives building. A brief description of each of these will

convey an impression of their significance for the f aith.

– The Terraces of the Shrine of the Báb. in his plans for the de-

velopment of mount carmel, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá envisaged nineteen

monumental terraces from the foot of the mountain to its crest,

nine leading to the terrace on which the Shrine of the báb itself

stands, and nine above it. These plans were often referred to by

Shoghi effendi, and he completed in preliminary form the nine

terraces constituting the approach to the Shrine from the central

avenue of the former g erman Templar colony.

– The International Teaching Center will be the seat of that institu-

tion which is specifically invested with the twin functions of the

protection and propagation of the cause of god. The institution

itself, referred to by the beloved guardian in his writings, was es-

tablished in june 1973, bringing to fruition the work of the hands

of the cause of god residing in the holy land and providing for

the extension into the future of functions with which that body had

been endowed.

– The Center for the Study of the Texts. This building will be the seat of an institution of bahá’í scholars, the efflorescence of the

present research department of the world center, which will as-

ings, and will prepare translations of and commentaries on the

authoritative texts of the f aith.

– The International Archives Building. we have decided to con-

struct, westwards, an extension to the basement of the present Ar-

chives building to provide accommodation for the central office of

the ever-growing Archives at the world center. This institution is

charged with responsibility for the preservation of the Sacred Texts and r elics and the historic documents of the cause of g od.

– The International Bahá’í Library. This library is the central de-

pository of all literature published on the faith, and is an essential

source of information for the institutions of the world center on

all subjects relating to the cause of god and the conditions of

mankind. in future decades its functions must grow, it will serve as

an active center for knowledge in all fields, and it will become the kernel of great institutions of scientific investigation and discovery.36.4a

36.4b

36.4c

36.4d

36.4e

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

69it is impossible at this stage to give an accurate estimate of the cost of

these projects. All that we can now say is that in the immediate future two

objectives have to be met: to accumulate rapidly a reserve of fifty million

dollars on which plans for the construction can realistically begin to be implemented, and to provide an income of between twenty and twenty-five million dollars for the bahá’í international fund for each of the next ten

years. As the work proceeds, contracts are signed and costs can be accurately determined, further information will be announced.

The great work of constructing the terraces, landscaping their surround-

ings, and erecting the remaining buildings of the Arc will bring into being

a vastly augmented world center structure which will be capable of meet-

ing the challenges of coming centuries and of the tremendous growth of

the bahá’í community which the beloved guardian has told us to expect.

this has given to the advancement of the faith. who can gauge what trans-

formations will be effected as a result of the completion of each successive

stage of this great enterprise? The faith advances, not at a uniform rate of

growth, but in vast surges, precipitated by the alternation of crisis and vic-

tory. in a passage written on 18 july 1953, in the early months of the Ten

year crusade, Shoghi effendi, referring to the vital need to ensure through

the teaching work a “steady flow” of “fresh recruits to the slowly yet steadily advancing army of the lord of hosts,” stated that this flow would “presage

and hasten the advent of the day which, as prophesied by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, will

witness the entry by troops of peoples of divers nations and races into the bahá’í world.”

36-1 This day the bahá’í world has already seen in Africa, the

pacific, in Asia and in latin America, and this process of entry by troops

must, in the present plan, be augmented and spread to other countries for, as the guardian stated in this same letter, it “will be the prelude to that long-

awaited hour when a mass conversion on the part of these same nations and races, and as a direct result of a chain of events, momentous and possibly

catastrophic in nature and which cannot as yet be even dimly visualized, will

suddenly revolutionize the fortunes of the faith, derange the equilibrium of

the world, and reinforce a thousandfold the numerical strength as well as the

36-1. cf , p. 117 .36.5

36.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

70material power and the spiritual authority of the faith of bahá’u’lláh.”36-2

This is the time for which we must now prepare ourselves; this is the hour

whose coming it is our task to hasten.

At this climacteric of human history, we are called upon to rise up in sac-

rificial endeavor, our eyes on the awe-inspiring responsibilities which such

developments will place upon bahá’í institutions and individual believers in

every land, and our hearts filled with unshakeable confidence in the guiding hand of the founder of our faith. That our beloved lord will arouse his

followers in every land to a mighty united effort is our ardent prayer at the Sacred Threshold.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

37

Execution of Two Bahá’ís in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]