
IMPRESSIONS FROM THE ROCK OF GIBRALTAR:
THE JOURNAL OF A TRAVELLING TEACHER
(AUGUST 29-DECEMBER 3, 2009)
J.A. McLean

Good to Go: August 20, 2009
Within only nine days left before departure, things have fallen into place for
Gibraltar. Janet Waterfield, a kind friend of English Bahá’í, Ann Dymond,
informed me by telephone that she has a flat available to rent at 503 Neptune
House, Marina Bay. The good news is that the flat is available for the whole three
months duration of my stay. Janet recently made the acquaintance of senior
believer, Ann, who was the first Bahá’í who came to Gibraltar in Holy Year 1992,
the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension. I have never been to that small, densely
populated (7 square kilometres) overseas territory of Great Britain, but I
understand that Marina Bay is a fine, central location. Sam Benoit, a recent
university graduate and son of old friends, Wendy James and Bernard Benoit, is
going to sublet my furnished apartment. This will be a great help since I won’t
have to carry two rents at the same time

Any pioneer or travel-teacher should not forget that serving the Faith,
although it brings confirmations and rewards, can also bring tests and difficulties.
They are a built-in component of service. I suppose that if Bahá’u’lláh did not find
that His believers had the capacity for spiritual growth and service, He would not
put us to the test at all. But as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written, these tests prove to be
either stumbling-blocks or stepping-stones, just as we make them.
Arrival: August 30, 2009

I arrived early yesterday evening at 6:15 pm local time. Today, the 31st, is
my first day in Gibraltar. I like very much what I see, with the convergence of the
several strong natural elements: the ever-present massive and dominating


limestone Rock of Gibraltar, the confluence of the Mediterranean Sea and the
Atlantic Ocean, the Bay and further out, the Straits of Gibraltar, the sea-salt air, the
many ocean going vessels in the harbour and on the Mediterranean, the quay, ferry,
marina and port facilities, and the ever-present ocean breeze and open sky.
Number 503 Neptune House is a solid, balconied, white stucco flat complex,
built in the Spanish style on Marina Bay which I have rented for three months from
Janet Waterfield mentioned above. (Janet prefers cheaper living just across the
border in La Linea, but rents out this flat to supplement her income).As the name
Marina Bay suggests, luxury pleasure craft, including yachts and sailboats are
anchored close by in the Marina, just metres from Neptune House, and are
anchored at the boardwalk that is lined with modern shops, cafés and restaurants.
A fitness center, boat tours for dolphin-watching, sailing and scuba-diving
facilities are all available. For gamblers, the imposing, sleek, modern Gala Casino
here in Ocean Village is ready to receive those who seek the thrill of winning at the
gaming tables. Bingo is a hot item, I’m told.
Although I am usually a light sleeper, I slept soundly last night being
exhausted from about eighteen hours of travel. To save a few hundred dollars, I
took the long way around, bussing to Pierre Elliot Trudeau airport (Montreal) from
Ottawa, flying to Paris (Air France), backtracking from Paris to London-Heathrow,
then bussing to Gatwick airport, and taking off from there to Gib, as the locals call
it, where I arrived at 6:15 p.m. after a two and a half hour flight, touching down at
Gibraltar’s small but busy airport.
At first, I thought the longer trip was not worth the time and energy, with the
extended travel-time, and all the security checkpoints to negotiate, until a chance
meeting at Gatwick airport caused me to reflect on a certain divine wisdom in my
circuitous route. (See the section below, “I Meet the Niece of Bahá’í Alfredo
Danino at the Gatwick airport”). I was met at the Gibraltar airport by four friends:
Suresh Malkani, who is originally from India, the married couple Pouneh Varghai
and Dr. Harald Veen, an M.D. from Holland, and Janet Waterfield. Pouneh and
Janet had never met but managed to recognize one another somehow at the airport.
Suresh dropped Janet and me off at the flat. Once she handed over the keys and
had given me a quick tour of the premises, Janet, a very energetic woman who is
always on the move, was off.


The View From the Balcony:  The Victoria Stadium Sports Centre and
Airport
Picture yourself looking down from a fifth floor spacious Spanish style two
bedroom apartment, with eggshell coloured walls, high ceilings, white cornices and
tiled white floors swirled with grey, onto an adjacent gigantic indoor and outdoor
sports complex. The Victoria Stadium Sports Centre is outfitted with not only a
stadium but also —count them—a total of twelve outdoor fields and courts of
various sizes for football (soccer), field hockey, called grass hockey here,
basketball, volleyball, badminton, athletics, aerobics and net ball. Net ball is the
game of choice, preferred to tennis by Gibraltarians and Spaniards alike, who play
and shout on these courts and fields all day, despite the heat. The sports continue
well into the night under bright lights. As I write, it’s almost ten pm and I hear the
players shouting and cheering on their team-mates on one of the illuminated soccer
fields. The surface area of the sports complex easily takes up the dimensions of
several large city blocks.
Now picture an airport runaway located directly on the other side of the high
security fence that divides the tarmac from the sports complex, with  jets landing
and taking off several times a day and night from London, England and Spain.
Now strangely enough—because I am normally sensitive to noise because of my
tinnitus—the noise of the jets doesn’t bother me because the take-off and landing
are not continuous. It’s even rather exciting to watch them lift off only 500 metres
away! When the planes take off in a westward direction, rising over the Atlantic,
they lift off at a point that is roughly vis-à-vis the position of this apartment
building. I particularly enjoy the loud thrust at the moment of lift-off. But I can’t
say I enjoy the after-odour of the jet fuel, depending on which way the wind is
blowing.
Gibraltar’s small airport may be the only one in the world where the jet
planes taxi right across the main highway, Sir Winston Churchill Avenue, that
leads to La Linea, Spain, which is literally a stone’s throw away from the airport.
You can walk to 503 Neptune House on Marina Bay in about 15 minutes from
there. As the planes approach, signal lights are activated, barriers lowered, and
bilingual announcements in English and Spanish echo off the pavement as the cars,
motor scooters, bicycles and pedestrians stand and wait patiently until the plane


has not only landed and taxied up to the gate. A steady stream of humanity crosses
that border all day long, and into the night. Now look over in the opposite
direction, to the East, about a half-mile away. There, as steadfast as a high
mountain, stands the flank of the mighty Rock of Gibraltar, 1400 feet straight up.
This is, of course, the great icon for which this tiny but densely populated isthmus
is known.
The Native Gibraltarian Identity: English and Spanish
It seems like a cultural oddity this Mediterranean living in English, with the
steady stream of a good number of British tourists seeking warmer climes, the
Gibraltarians themselves, proudly British, and the Spanish presence of  some
estimated 5000 legal (and 2000 illegal) workers who cross the border daily at La
Linea to work in Gibraltar. When I arrived, I was told by a young Gibraltarian
woman at the airport that “everyone in Gibraltar speaks English,” but my first
impression is that Main Street sounds decidedly like a Spanish-speaking town,
with English being spoken only occasionally, mainly by British tourists, despite the
entrenched status that English enjoys as the official language. Service in the shops
is usually bilingual but one can occasionally find a salesperson who does not speak
English. These people are usually hired at minimum wage from Spain or Morocco.
A stranger has to relay on local reports. I have been told that although
English is the official language of the government, the schools, the local
newspapers, and the financial institutions, Spanish is the preferred language of
social and family intercourse. It naturally carries over into commerce when
Gibraltarians do business with one another. The use of Spanish is only natural
considering Gibraltar’s close proximity to Spain and consequently to the
Mediterranean culture. The towns of La Linea and Gibraltar are really mutual
extensions of one another. Despite the celebrations on National Day (Sept. 10th)
that Gibraltar is proudly British, and despite the acrimonious history between
Spain and Gibraltar, extending back over hundreds of years to 1704 when the
British first conquered Gibraltar, Gibraltarians and Spaniards often intermarry and
many Gibraltarians own a second home across the border in Spain. Even as I write
these words, I hear Spanish, not English, being called out from one player to
another on the net ball courts below Neptune House. History may dictate that
Gibraltar and Spain are enemies, but cultural affinities have it that they are friends


and neighbours. Some sports fans in Gibraltar cheer for Real Madrid or Barcelona
football teams instead of English clubs. This tells us something about the
ambiguous identity of being Gibraltarian.
Janito, the Andalusian local version of Spanish, contains a sizeable
admixture of foreign words and phrases from English, Arabic, Maltese, Italian and
Spanish etc. but it is usually punctuated with shorter English phrases, as the
speaker passes easily from one language to the other, with Spanish being
dominant. Spaniards find Janito quaint or provincial and tend to belittle it as a
second-rate Spanish, but the Gibraltarians make no apologies for their linguistic
identity. Gibraltarians are, of course, Spanish speakers because of the close
proximity to Spain, but I am told that their accent gives them away.
To my Canadian ears, Gibraltarian English sounds very much like British
English, except that it lacks the ease and familiarity of familiar English expressions
and/or slang. Thus, Gibraltarian English tends to be a vehicular language of
government, business and the schools rather than a spontaneous language that
conveys a distinct local culture. There are, of course, exceptions to this general
observation, depending on the number of years a Gibraltarian has been educated in
the U.K. or whether or not he or she has English friends or family in Gibraltar.
However, the British who reside here tell me that Gibraltarian English does not
sound like “true” British English to their ears. It would be interesting for a linguist
to investigate the roots of the Gibraltarian English accent, which has been
influenced by the various Latin languages as well as the Irish and English accents.
(Gibraltarians were evacuated to England and Ireland and other places during
World War II).  Gibraltarians have the curious habit of raising their intonation even
when using declarative sentences, as if they are asking a question. This gives a
certain charm to their speech which sounds vaguely Irish, at least to my ears.
Vowels and constants are distinctly articulated, although in some speakers one
clearly hears the influence of Spanish. Again the level of formal education is
telling.
Meeting the Niece of Bahá’í Alfredo Danino at the Gatwick Airport
Since the declaration of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission, the old saying “It’s a small
world” has taken on greater meaning. The world has by now shrunk considerably. I


discovered a direct connection between the Faith and Gibraltar while I was still in
the U.K. At the Gatwick airport, my transit point to Gibraltar via Heathrow, I
chatted with a senior couple and their daughter who looked to be in her late thirties
or early forties. The black-haired, brown-eyed elegantly dressed and graceful
mother was a genuine Gibraltarian, while her husband was English, with many
years spent in “Gib” as the locals call it. As it turned out, much to my surprise, the
lady’s uncle, Alfredo Danino, now deceased, was a Bahá’í! He lived mostly in
Spain, but the friends told me on my first night in Gibraltar that he became a
believer on the isthmus and lived here at some point. I don’t know whether this
was before or after the arrival of Ann Dymond, the first to pioneer to Gibraltar.

This lady freely admitted to loving uncle Alfredo: “He was all goodness,”
she said. (I was so glad that Alfredo had made a positive impression, rather than
none at all, or worse still, a negative one). “I had access to his books, and I
remember reading about humanity being like the different colours of the flowers in
the garden,” she said. She was obviously pleased with the poetic simile and
remembered it clearly.  After we continued on our respective journeys, I felt that
this meeting could not have been coincidental. What were the statistical chances, I
wondered, of a meeting occurring in Gatwick airport between a travelling teacher
from Canada, and a lady from Gibraltar whose uncle was a rare Bahá’í? I felt that
the way was being prepared even before I had left England.
I found a hidden wisdom by virtue of my having taken the long way round to
Gibraltar; had I not gone via Gatwick, I would have never met the gracious niece
of Alfredo Danino, nor perhaps even learned his name. In meeting Alfredo
Danino’s niece, I received a divine confirmation of a watchful Providence at the
very outset of my journey. I felt sure that Alfredo had inspired the meeting with his
niece from a heavenly place. Later, I discovered Alfredo’s image in the photo of
the first nine members of the Gibraltar L.S.A. (1995).
I have heard other “coincidental” stories from the pioneers here. The current
L.S.A. chair, Trevor Richardson, happened to be the very first person that Bahá’í
Ken Bishop spoke to when he arrived in Gibraltar from the U.K. in the early
1990’s, before the L.S.A. was formed. Ken was passing by the Carpenter’s Arms
on Main Street—the carpenter being Jesus—a restaurant run by volunteers from
the Wesleyan Church. Ken asked Trevor : “Is the food any good up there?” (The


alcohol free restaurant is found on the first floor). Trevor replied that the food was
good and recommended the place to Ken. Unbeknownst to one another, Ken and
Trevor were both Bahá’ís, and much to their mutual surprise, they met again at a
Bahá’í meeting that very evening. So it seems that what the world calls
“coincidence” is just God’s way of saying that He is present. These small stories
are illustrative of a much larger pattern. Every pioneer, no matter where or when in
the world she has served, has remarkable stories to tell. Our “Acts of the Apostles”
would constitute a veritable encyclopaedia since the number of pioneers in
Bahá’u’lláh’s army is vast. His confirmations are limitless. They will reach each
and every soul who arises, no matter how long the term of service, or regardless of
the conditions. This is the emphatic promise contained in our writings and
Bahá’u’lláh keeps His promises. It has been proven time and time again.

This morning I walked to Casemates Square, the large military square and
very spot where the Moorish conqueror Tariq ibn Zayid landed in 711 C.E. The
English word Gibraltar derives from his name Jabel Tariq, meaning Tariq’s
mountain. In those bygone days, the waters surrounding Gibraltar reached to the
arches of the former Water Gate that marks the entrance to Casemates Square. But
the land has since been reclaimed, as in other areas of Gib. Casemates is bordered
now mainly by restaurants, cafés, pubs, restaurants and shops. Even here one
cannot escape the ubiquitous American commercial market.  A Burger King has
just recently opened on Casemates Square, an opening I could have well done
without since it reminds me of American neon fast food “eateries” and unhealthy
food! I decided on “British” fish and chips for breakfast, one of my favourite
foods, but I specified that the batter be light. Food purists would object to my
mixing protein with carbohydrates, but fish ‘n chips is reasonably healthy,
provided the cooking oil is fairly fresh. Fish ‘n chips brings back happy childhood
memories when Dad brought them home wrapped in newspaper. However, even as
a young person I was not too fond of the battered fish on black ink.
I like the large open area of Casemates Square where I can watch the people
come and go and sit and think. I can think of no better spot to spend my mornings.
Afterwards, I walked about a kilometre down Main Street, a fairly narrow
thoroughfare which was the once trafficked main street of Gibraltar. It is now
densely packed with shops, as before, but now Main Street is a pedestrian zone
only, except for utility and emergency vehicles. I stopped to pick up today’s The


Times and chatted with the proprietor, learning something about his family
history—Italian and British, his Scottish side dating back to the early days of
Gibraltar, after the British conquest in 1704. (The British were allied with the
Dutch during the military offensive). Further along, I stopped in an electronics
shop, open despite today’s bank holiday, and inquired from the Indian owner about
reactivating my mobile phone while in Gibraltar. After shopping for “fruit and
veg” at Morrison’s superstore, the exact replica of Morrison’s in Britain, I walked
home in the heat and humidity, lugging my groceries with me, and having to ask
for directions a few times along the way, but feeling grateful, nonetheless, for this
wonderful change of scenery and the opportunity to do some service in a
community that has extended me such a loving welcome.
Getting Connected at the Café Solo: September 1, 2009

Today in Casemates Square, I discovered the Café Solo, an Italian style
restaurant, next door to the Gibraltar Crystal and Glass Factory. Café Solo is clean,
cool, spacious, modern, displays art for purchase and offers free wireless Internet
service (Wi-Fi). Just the type of place I like, even though it is too noisy when full
because of the echoing stone walls and hardwood floors. So I will continue the
same routine at Casemates as I do at home in Ottawa: head out each morning for
the coffee shop, order a coffee—served here with milk in a glass instead of a cup—
connect to the Internet, check emails and do some writing.  I have met the owner,
Alistair, originally from Scotland and some of the staff, the manager Frank and
friendly waitress Rachael. I have let them know that I will be a regular for the next
three months. Rachel is from Britain, and is married to a Gibraltarian. She is an
acquaintance of Fiona Young, the young secretary of the LSA.
I didn’t have my laptop computer with me this morning since I had some
grocery shopping to do, so I will have to do my connecting tomorrow morning. I
hope that I don’t have any connectivity problems since I must rely on my email to
send my responses to the Ottawa Citizen for Saturday’s “Ask the Religion
Experts” page. But if for some reason my laptop does not connect at Café Solo,
there are other options such as using one of the several internet cafés or using the
PC of one of the friends. I naturally don’t yet feel completely familiar with
Gibraltar;  it’s too soon. But I am establishing my routine and slowly finding my
way around the Rock. Much information is coming my way from helpful friends:


bits of cultural information about Gibraltarians and their history, and their
ambiguous relations with the Spaniards, tips on tourist sites to visit, and the names
of buildings of historical interest. A bit of a learning curve is involved in being “a
stranger in a strange land.” Of course, Gibraltar is not entirely strange because the
English language holds the key to the rest, and a travel-teacher has a ready-made
Bahá’í community wherever he or she goes, but nonetheless so much information
can be only gradually assimilated. By the end of the three months, I should know
Gib well enough so that next time around—should there be a next time—I will be
more familiar with my surroundings.
Since the beginning of this journey, and just as I do at home, whenever the
opportunity arises, I mention the Faith. I have heard or read either a pilgrim’s note
or in a letter from Shoghi Effendi to a believer that we should mention the Faith to
someone every day if we can. It will potentially benefit any seeker to hear the
name “Bahá’í,” for with that most potent of all words, the seed is planted and a
potential spiritual journey is set in motion. Today I walked to Morrison’s
Superstore with an English woman and mentioned that I was here for three months
of service to the Bahá’í community. I gave her a brief description of my duties. She
listened politely, wished me well on my “project” once we arrived, but asked no
questions. Nor did the Irish couple who are on their annual vacation with their two
pre-teen children who are staying just a few doors over on the fifth floor of
Neptune House. They were kind enough to volunteer tips for cheaper grocery
shopping in La Linea and gave several suggestions for visiting in Gibraltar, i.e.
where overseas phone calls can be made cheaply in Marina Bay at Albor’s
newsstand on the boardwalk, and so on. To them too I mentioned the Faith. The
husband seemed more receptive than the wife, affirming once in his conversation,
with a certain ring of familiarity, something about “the Bahá’í community.” It
seemed to me that by that remark a partial sympathetic identification was being
made.
But if no questions are forthcoming, you can be sure that interest is not high,
at least not at that moment. However, mentioning the Faith always plants a seed in
the heart of the listener. Whether that seed will grow or die depends on a number
of factors, including the spiritual predisposition of the listener, whether or not this
seed has fallen on fertile ground, and whether conditions may be right in Bahá’í
community for the eventual harvest. (I am thinking here of Christ’s marvellous


parable of the Divine Manifestation/Teacher as sower and seed as the Word of
God, found in the three synoptic gospels).
I made an afternoon outing with the Irish couple and their children to
Western Beach, on the other side of the runway, just beside the Ministry of
Defence compound where Dr. Harald Veen (M.D.) and Pouneh Varghai and their
two little children, Nura and Haifa live, and had a refreshing swim in the cool, salt
waters of the bay. Waiting there for us was a mild and gentle Scottish lady from
Glasgow named Lorraine with her two young boys, who were playing on the beach
and hunting for small hermit crabs, the crustaceans that steal a sea shell from other
tiny sea creatures because they cannot manufacture a shell of their own. These
veritable little robbers look strange as they peer out of their stolen shells with little
pincers, bulging eyes and antennas. Lorraine’s husband works for Exon Oil and
commutes back and forth from Italy to Gibraltar every fifteen days. These days,
being a member of the European Union and working for a transnational
corporation means that one may end up working in any number of countries during
one’s career. Her boys are being schooled at the Loretto Catholic School in Gib.
Generally, English-language schooling is excellent in Gibraltar.
Connected in Gibraltar: Welcomed by the Friends: September 3, 2009

I am now wi-fi connected in Gibraltar. I had no problems with my wireless
connection at Café Solo; now I am able to send emails, including that important
Bahá’í response for the weekly question in the Ottawa Citizen. That I didn’t have
problems connecting is fortunate indeed because although I am a computer literate,
I barely make the grade, rather like a driver who just drives the car but needs a
mechanic to fix it. At Café Solo, unlike Starbucks, no time limit is imposed on the
Sapphire network, one of the service providers in Gib which competes with the
“top dog” GibTelecom.

Last night, Rozita and Ramin Khalilian, at their apartment in Rosia, not far
from Europa Point, where the Ibrahim al-Ibrahim mosque stands, hosted a
welcoming dinner for me. It is a diverse Bahá’í community of four families
consisting of about fifteen souls: one newborn girl, Shadi, daughter of Fiona and
Peter Young; their other child Dylan; the two little children of  Dr. Harald Veen
and Pouneh Varghai, Nura and Haifa; Trevor Richardson and his two step-


children, teenager Aisha and young Robin; two junior youth, Kuresh and Kion
Khalilian; one youth, their older sister Carmel, eighteen, who will be going off to
university in Britain next year. At this time, Gibraltarians have one of the highest
success rates in the English-speaking world in the number of high-scoring
graduates from A-level examinations, their high-school leaving examinations. A-
level graduates are given generous grants to attend university in Britain. In the
past, Gibraltarians received generous treatment from the U.K. government. But I
was told by a local whom I met at the bus stop on the way to Europa Point that,
except for the Ministry of Defence in Gibraltar, which has been downsized, that
Gibraltarians are financially independent from Britain. Once again, the ambiguous
identity comes up; proud to be British but proud to be independent.
Among the friends I met last night were two seniors, Ken and Sarah Bishop.
Sarah and Ken also spend time, they tell me, looking after their home on the Isle of
Wight. After dinner, they invited me to speak when Trevor, the L.S.A. chair, asked
me why I chose Gibraltar as my short-term pioneering post. With most of this
diverse community being present, except for Suresh Malkani, who could not
attend, it turned out to be a lively and enjoyable gathering. Trevor enjoys telling a
good story and discussing spiritual matters. He drove me home, but we stopped by
his flat in the Montague Estate so that he could lend me a bike, my usual mode of
travel. (A bicycle would really help to familiarize me with the lay of the land in
Gibraltar more quickly). He spent about an half-hour adjusting it, while I helped,
but in the end I could not ride it home because of a bulging tire that kept jamming
the wheel on the back brake. So I walked the mere five minutes back home to
Marina Bay, enjoying the cool of the evening breeze, a welcome respite from the
heat of the day.
Shopping in La Linea, Visiting Harald and Pouneh Varghai Veen and Getting
Wheels: September 4th 2009

Yesterday afternoon, I walked the approximately two miles in the hot sun to
La Linea’s Mercadona supermarket. I had been told it was cheaper than Morrison’s
which is quite expensive. I bought some groceries for about 25 Euros and lugged
them back across the border, dividing them between my backpack and a recycled
shopping bag. On the way, I dropped into see Harald Veen and Pouneh Varghai
who live in the  Ministry of Defence compound. Harald was hired to practice


medicine in the clinic belonging to the M.O.D. near Eastern Beach. My flat in
Marina Bay is about a fifteen minute walk from their place. The compound and
Western Beach are clearly visible from my 5th floor balcony about one mile away,
just across the runway of the Gibraltar Airport.
Harald and Pouneh are working well together in a cross-cultural Dutch-
Iranian marriage. Harald is blond, blue-eyed and wears a short beard. He has
exactly the same colouring and features as my long-time English friend in
Gatineau, Quebec, Lynton Hutchison. Seen together, one would easily take Harald
and Lynton for brothers. Harald and Pouneh’s two children, little Nura, just a
toddler, and the engaging, funny, independent-minded, blond-haired, blue-eyed
Haifa, who began her first day of school yesterday, are keeping them both busy
parents.  Haifa is only four, but she is quite tall for a four year old. Little Haifa has
a wonderful sense of humour. She is very open and affectionate. She is very
playful and likes to be included in everything, except when we had the Sunday
morning devotional at the Botanical Gardens; then she seemed content to run about
on her own. Her parents have now given her permission to call me, not Jack, but
Uncle Jack. Today Haifa told me, quite accurately, that I looked like a Grandpa.
Haifa was right because I have three small grandchildren. Her remark was
perceptive for a four year old because Haifa had no way of knowing that I had
three grandchildren, but then it is true that children have an uncanny way of
speaking the plain truth. This morning I went to the Café Solo to check my emails
and did some writing. While I was there Fiona Young, the capable secretary of the
Gibraltar L.S.A., came in. She didn’t see me at first so I greeted her and we had a
brief chat. Her newborn baby girl, Shadi, was being cuddled by a friend outside on
the square. Then I went across Casemates Square into the I.C.C. building
(International Commercial Centre) where Suresh has a small sports shop. I went in
and we chatted for about 15 minutes. Suresh was taught the Faith in Gibraltar by
Ramin Khalilian about fifteen years ago. Suresh is very much integrated into the
community. Suresh is a strong believer in Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation of God
for our day, the only reason, he says, that he became a Bahá’í. We have since had a
number of lively, informative and enjoyable chats that are often punctuated with
good humour.



In the morning I received a call from Ken Bishop on my mobile. Ken said
that we could ride over to La Linea on his motorbike and pick up his bicycle which
is currently being stored at a flat he sublets to Marjorie, an accountant friend who
is originally from South Africa. Well, the tires were flat and the bike needed some
adjustments and cleaning up, but the overall appearance of the aluminum-framed
bicycle was quite solid. Ken suggested that I walk the bike over to Harald and
Pouneh’s, which was on my way home anyway, and ask Harald to make a few
adjustments and pump up the tires. Harald is among the small but slowly growing
number of cyclists in Gib. Well in no time, Harald had the bike in good running
order and I biked back to Marina Bay. Having a bicycle will enable me to get
around Gib and familiarize myself more quickly with the territory.
Evening in Casemates Square: Horizontal and Vertical Dimensions of
Gibraltar: September 5, 2009
I am back at Casemates Square, checking my emails again. The square is
very quiet for a Saturday night, with only a few people walking about, but the
tempo may pick up later. It’s still early—7:45 p.m. Some lovely jazz flute is
floating in from just outside the door of the Café Solo where I am writing. A senior
black musician, who calls himself Brother Wali, which he pronounces Wally,
which is rendered as “friend” in one of the Arabic translations, is wearing a black
cap and black T-shirt, and sporting three thin braids. Wali is playing a relaxed and
lilting version of  Cole Porter’s “I’ve Got You Under My Skin.” His trio consists
of flute, bass and drums.... Now the song is over. After a brief respite, he sings
“Girl from Ipanema” in Portuguese. I love jazz, so the sound of this sudden soft
music adds a welcome, unexpected charm to the evening calm.
Tomorrow morning I am attending a devotional in the Botanical (Alameda)
Gardens further down the Rock, a stone’s throw away from the Cable Car
installation. They say here that “There are no distances in Gibraltar” and what
distances there are, are becoming even shorter for me since Ken Bishop has loaned
me his mountain bike. Ken’s bike has the welcome addition of front fork
suspension that softens the bumps considerably. Here if you say you are riding a
“bike,” you may have to clarify what sort of bike it is because in the U.K. a “bike”
can mean a motor bike.  Ken, despite his senior years, moves about in one of the
thousands of two-stroke motor scooters that dart here, there and everywhere across


Gibraltar. Now I can travel about Gib more quickly, and familiarize myself with
the territory and its many features sooner. The ride to the Botanical Gardens is
about fifteen minutes away, I’m told.
Seven square kilometres is, of course, not a large territory if one takes the
land only horizontally, but Gib has many vertical dimensions, which are found in
its long history, and several blended cultures: Maltese, Italian, Spanish, Moroccan,
Arab, British, Jewish, etc. The vertical dimension is literal in the building boom of
luxury apartments and subsidized housing that is going full swing here. Many
ancient buildings and spots of historical interest are found all over this walled city.
One sees reminders everywhere that Gibraltar was originally a land and sea
garrison, long before it became an air force base, but the military installations are
being devolved since both Britain and Spain are members of NATO. In years past,
I was told by one of the locals this morning, the military presence was much
greater. Uniformed soldiers filled the city, not only Brits but other soldiers, sailors
and airmen from places around the Mediterranean Sea coast. However, Spain has
never renounced its claim to Gibraltar and considers it an integral part of its
territory, even though it signed off on all claims “in perpetuity” at the Treaty of
Utrecht in 1713. Some say that Spain has put its claim to Gibraltar “on the back
burner” but others say that they will continue to press a claim to sovereignty over
the isthmus.
Interfaith activities are pursued at a leisurely pace here. With four
synagogues, two mosques, two cathedrals (Anglican and Roman Catholic), several
churches professing Protestant confessions, a Hindu temple, Al Mandir, and of
course, the People of Bahá, Gib presents a multi-faith community packed into a
small space. All these religions get along very well as does the larger Gibraltar
community of 28,000 inhabitants. One theory has it that strict British military
justice contributed to interfaith harmony here since the garrison could not afford
that military discipline be troubled by internal religious dissensions. I’m told that
early soldier-missionaries of the Wesleyan church were severely punished for
evangelizing their faith. This Gibraltar harmony is a must because a high density
population cannot afford to be troubled by sectarian, ethnic or other divisions. If it
were, Gibraltar would literally explode.


Jews have prospered in Gibraltar. Article X of the Treaty of  Utrecht (1714)
actually prohibited both Jews and Moors from settling in Gibraltar.  But since Jews
were traders and supplied much needed goods to the garrison, the British gradually
ignored the provision.  The first synagogue dates back almost to the beginning of
Gibraltar in 1724. The incidents of crime are low; murder rarely happens here. The
family is valued and children are doted on. I have seen only one missing child
poster while I have been here, but this morning I did see notice of the
disappearance of a woman. The illicit import of hard drugs from Morocco was
stamped out in a clamp-down in the 1990’s. If a drug trade continues, it is not
highly visible. But in our day and age, recreational drugs are everywhere. No “turf
wars” or killings for dominance in the drug trade darken the pages of the local
newspaper, The Chronicle. Fortunately, there is a strong police presence here on
the ground, which continues the ancient military tradition established by the
British. Corporate tax rates are a relatively low ten percent at present and no
V.A.T. (value added tax) is levied on consumer goods. Gibraltar won the right to
levy its own taxes at the European Court of Justice. Britain has no say in the tax
structure of Gibraltar, but continues to subsidize government spending in Gibraltar,
although I have no idea what the financial scale of any subsidies may be.
The vertical dimensions of Gibraltar’s rich history stretch back to the ancient
Phoenicians. A Neanderthal skull was found here some months before the big
splash was made in the archaeological world with the discovery of a Neanderthal
man in Germany. Some archaeologists conjecture that Gib was the last space
Neanderthals occupied before their sudden disappearance. If one wants to take the
time to explore off the beaten track of this walled city, a network of narrow lanes,
attached dwellings, and the odd shop that is just a hole-in-the wall await to be
discovered. The apartment buildings are stacked up along the base of the Rock,
like so many file folders with square eyes peering out.
Monkey Business
The most famous tourist attraction is the visit to the den of the famous
“Barbary apes,” about half-way up the Rock. These animals are not really apes at
all, but Macaque monkeys, the only ones living wild in Europe. There is an old
legend that if the monkeys die, Gibraltar will revert to Spain. During World War II,
beginning in 1940 to 1950, all Gibraltarians were evacuated from this strategic post


to Jamaica, the Madeira Islands (Portugal), Tangier, London and Northern Ireland.
The monkeys began to die off. Winston Churchill became aware of the legend, and
ordered the army to provide for the monkeys. At one time they were fed either by
the Sergeant-at-Arms or a seaman—I’ve heard both versions—but now a civilian
looks after them.
Once in a while, a few monkeys just wander into town for a stroll! They are
looking for food and they attack the rubbish bins. If they get into your house, they
can create a terrible mess, so the locals keep their windows locked if they think
they might be vulnerable. A maximum fine of £ 500 can be levied for feeding
them, but I imagine the penalty is more of a deterrent than anything. Carrying food
is not recommended while visiting the Barbary apes, but lots of tourists feed them.
While the monkeys can be playful, they will sometimes jump on you if you are
carrying food, particularly sweets, and they may follow you around for more. They
have been known to suddenly kill little dogs. Their strong, nimble, little hands can
easily damage windshield wipers if they see food inside the car. If I ever succeed
in riding my bike up that steep grade—and attempt that would probably prove too
much for me—Dr. Harald Veen told me not to leave it unattended because they
could destroy the seat. Gibraltarians do not view the monkeys as cute little
creatures; they are tolerated as a necessity for the tourist trade. The best thing is to
take no food, keep at a safe distance, mind your business and everything will be all
right. Harald told me yesterday that monkey-bites are frequently treated at his
clinic. They can and do bite with their powerful, long fangs. Ouch!
Formation of the Gibraltar LSA (1995)
The LSA was formed relatively recently in 1995, fourteen years ago at this
writing, thanks to the pioneering efforts of an English woman Ann Dymond, who
came to Gibraltar for the first time in 1992, although she was not on the first
L.S.A. which was formed in 1995. Ann has since returned to the U.K. but she stills
comes to Gibraltar occasionally. Hopefully, Ann will be able to visit during the
three months that I am here.  Today Ken and Sarah Bishop told me the story of the
L.S.A.’s formation. They showed me the 1995 formation photo of the first LSA.
There I saw a bespectacled and elderly Alfredo Danino, the very Bahá’í whose
niece I met in the Gatwick airport on my way to Gib! Sarah thinks she may have
met her if the woman I met in Gatwick airport is the same lady who managed (or


manages) an art gallery here. The Gibraltarian woman I met in the Gatwick airport
was quite the stylish and gracious person, with an artistic flair.
Regarding the Bahá’í administration on Gibraltar: the Universal House of
Justice has decided that Gibraltar’s location, exceptionally, does not qualify it for
sending delegates to the U.K. National Convention.  I think it’s probably because
of the geographical distance. Two and a half hours by jet makes it virtually
impossible for the friends here to know other Bahá’ís in the U.K. well enough to
intelligently vote for them in Bahá’í elections. But the Gibraltar Bahá’ís have not
been forgotten by the House. Three representatives from Gib (Suresh Malkani,
Trevor Richardson and Rosita Khalilian) were invited for the inauguration of the
Mount Carmel terraces in 2001. Trevor met Hand of the Cause, Dr. A.M. Vargha
at Bahji at that time. Dr. Vargha mentioned to Trevor the strategic importance of
Gibraltar. Gib stands at the crossroads to Africa, Europe and the Middle East via
the Mediterranean and the community here is a blend of cultures and religions
(Latin, British, Hindu, Arab and Jewish). The place serves as a respectable model
for interethnic and interreligious harmony. The Auxiliary Board Member lives in
Spain.
As mentioned above, the Gibraltar friends are a loving and harmonious
community of about fifteen believers, consisting of babies, children, adults,
seniors, coming from Iranian, English and East Indian backgrounds. The children
born here are, of course, Gibraltarian. These friends have welcomed me warmly.
Travel-teaching really proves time and time again that the Bahá’ís really are one
family. Far from being an illusory ideal, the oneness of humanity is actually
experienced by the Bahá’í travel-teacher.
Beginning Book Four: Giordano Durante of the Gibraltar Philosophical
Society: September 8, 2009
Last night a small group of us assembled at Harald and Pouneh’s. Ken’s
well-spoken wife, Sarah Bishop, who has already completed the sequence, came
and delivered the new copies of Book Four, which narrates the lives of the Twin
Manifestations and the greatness of the Day of God, but she left early since she has
already completed the book. I was pleased that Trevor Richardson joined us.
Rozita came too after a hard day’s work at Sapphire Internet. The first session


seemed to go well; no suggestions were forthcoming about changing the approach
or the pace. I suggested that if the friends had time, that they fill in the blanks
completely later on.

This morning I called the minister’s office (Family, Youth and Social
Services I think) to speak with Jaime (James, pronounced Haimie) Netto of the
Gibraltar Philosophical Society. When I was given his name, I wasn’t aware that
he was a minister of a government department, but the GPS and other societies in
Gib fall under his administration. Minister Netto, along with Girodano Durante,
founded the GPS only late last year (2008). The minister’s secretary gave me the
phone number and email address of Girodano Durante who returned my call within
a matter of minutes. We agreed to meet on Monday of next week. He suggested the
Café Solo in Casemates Square, my very own hangout. I told Giordano that I was a
published author, working mainly in the field of Bahá’í studies, and that
philosophical theology was a great interest of mine. He was quite enthusiastic
about our prospective meeting and even invited me to give a talk to the GPS, a
request to which I readily agreed, the topic to be determined later. My first
opportunity for a public lecture came without my having to make the request. The
prayers are already having their promised effect.
Beginning Book Six: “Teaching the Cause”: September 9, 2009

This morning I went to the Café Solo as usual, had a coffee and checked
emails from home which I am always happy to receive. The tables were quite
crowded this morning and the hardwood floors and stone walls echo the sound.
The Spanish voice and conversation are generally louder and more animated than
the English voice and conversation, but I am quickly growing used to it. My
tinnitus (permanent ringing in both ears), which I have had for the past 30 years or
so, has made me sensitive to noise, especially loud noises, which I normally avoid
since I have to endure the high-pitched shrill sound on a daily basis. Although I
have never grown used to it, I accept it as best I can and try to ignore it, since I
have been reassured by the specialists that it is not “harmful,” although one’s sense
of “harm” is very subjective. Strangely enough, although I am living but 500 yards
or so from the runway of the Gibraltar airport, here at Neptune House, the taking
off and landing of planes does not bother me so much. As I said above, I find it
rather exciting to watch these jets lift off so close to my flat.



In the late afternoon, I wanted to bike to Europa Point at the north end of
Gibraltar, but I found the hill leading up the Rock just too steep for me on a hot
afternoon, so I dismounted and walked the bike up the hill. Some of the streets in
Gib are very narrow for cyclists. So far I have not been cut off and yelled at only
once. Since I was running short of time, I turned around at the top of the hill and
cycled back to Marina Bay to pick up my things to begin tutoring Book Six. I plan
to take the easy way out and ride the bus later to Europa Point.
Ramin Khalilian was not able to join us, so we were just three adults: Rozita,
Ramin’s wife, Fiona Young and myself. If I count newborn, Shadi, Fiona’s baby
girl, we were four. Shadi had a bad evening, her mother thinks through
overtiredness, so Fiona had to stand and walk her from time to time. It was
challenging for Fiona to look after Shadi and do the written and oral exercises at
the same time, but we managed, reading through and doing the sections on
Teaching the Cause. Tomorrow is National Day  (September 10th) and festive
ceremonies and celebrations have been planned for Casemates Square, and in other
parts of the city, so I’ll go and see what that’s all about and take a few pictures.
Poem Written After Visiting the Village at Catalan Bay: September 10, 2009

The other day I cycled along Devil’s Tower Road over to Catalan Bay on the
eastern side of the Rock. I was attracted by the symbol of the “Sikorski
Monument” on my map, marked by the outline of a helicopter, a symbol that
recalls the crash that took place in Gibraltar during World War II that cost the
Polish patriot and British ally, General Sikorski, his life.  I later discovered that
General Sikorksi, who was also the Polish Prime Minister, is buried in the
cathedral of St. Mary the Crowned. Conspiracy theories have been advanced that it
was no accident, but as with most conspiracy theories, we will probably never
know. I learned about General Sikorski just prior to my departure from Ottawa,
from Professor Bill Couch, a friend of Polish Bahá’í Eva Siekierska. Bill rents a
flat from Eva. He is a close friend of the Faith and has been attending firesides. He
teaches history at the University of Warsaw. We met for coffee at Starbucks on
Elgin Street in Ottawa a couple of times before I left. Bill filled me in on the
details of General Sikorski and gave me a lesson in European history while doing
so.



I couldn’t find the monument. Perhaps I just overlooked it, but the map
shows it’s just past the Eastern Beach Road, so I continued on the short journey to
Catalan village. There I locked my bike and walked the sandy shore, where a few
young mothers took photos of their small children, as they played just in front of
them on the beach. I dipped my feet into the waters of the straits, which felt a little
colder than Western Beach where I swam the other day. This little stretch of
picturesque village features tightly ranged apartments facing the sea. A large white
stucco hotel, the Caleta, dominates the scene. The mighty Rock of Gibraltar girdles
the back of the village; once in a while a loose rock comes crashing down the
mountain. While fences have been built, they cannot provide complete protection
from falling rocks. I have heard that the new apartments that have been built just
opposite the base of the Rock have not been selling well because of the falling rock
hazard.
I noticed the name “Genoese Hotel” over the door of one of the
establishments, so I knew that the village had a long ago connection to Genoa.
Villagers are very protective of the beach and some will even dislocate tourists
with the help of a local police officer if they don’t vacate the spot they claim as
their own, even though most beaches are public property. I’ve been told that
Gibraltarians are also very proprietary about their café and restaurant tables. Even
if the tables are being used, they expect clients to vacate them when they arrive
because they feel that they have a prior right to use them because they frequent the
establishment on a regular basis. Such are the mores in Gibraltar.  “When in Rome,
do as the Romans do.” After I returned home, I discovered later that evening that
the name of the hotel had worked its poetic magic on me. I composed the
following poem which alludes to the evocative power of language and the
transitory, impermanent nature of human existence: all history is in flux and
although nothing ever really disappears in an absolute sense, things change state
and cannot be recognized as they once were.
Hotel Genoese
Catalan Bay, Gibraltar

Grammarians profess the function of names,
but here on the eastern beach,
only the alchemy of a word.



Fisherman landed one summer two centuries ago.
Now, only this faded sign whispers their names
across the waters: “Genoa!” the mermaid calls;
“Italia!” echoes the siren call.

The Catalan have come and gone,
fleeing Napoleon’s armies.
Sensing present danger, panic, flight,
they settled at Mt. Calpe’s massive feet.

They too have fled into the night,
their spoken word, enigma,
story trailing silence.

Meeting the Orthodox Rabbi in Engineer’s Lane: Reflecting on Consultation:
September 11, 2009

Today I went up Engineer’s Lane looking for Sharif Electric in search of a
more solid converter that would hold my three-pronged North American computer
plug. I have one without the ground but the two prongs unsupported keep losing
contact which was very annoying, but this one works well.  Suresh recommended
the place when I dropped in during the late morning to his sports shop for a quick
visit. Suresh is always smiling and helpful. I noticed on the way up Engineer’s
Lane a small, but well-kept synagogue entrance in panelled wood. I found the shop
and made the purchase. After I had just completed the transaction, a bearded
orthodox rabbi with side-locks, dressed in black, about thirty years old, came in
offering to give away some C.D.’s. He offered me one in Spanish, but I told him I
didn’t speak the language, so he offered me another in English. It’s called “All in
the Family.” I haven’t listened to it yet, but I gathered from the description
stamped on the C.D. that it’s about promoting good marital relationships according
to Torah principles, and thus producing a healthy atmosphere for raising children.
The key point was that “No one thrives in an atmosphere of constant criticism,”
which has an adverse effect on the children.

I greeted the rabbi warmly and told him that I was a Bahá’í and that our
world centre is in Haifa. He responded that everyone is a brother to the Jew. But


obviously with C.D.’s like “All in the Family,” they are reaching out to others with
a service project. It was a brief but friendly conversation. I shook his hand to wish
him good-bye. I listened to the first six tracks. The narration and translation were
given by Rav Lazer Brody, a fluent and learned speaker with an American accent.
It was naturally interspersed with Hebrew Torah phrases, which he translated, as
well as wisdom from Rebbe Bretzlov, a nineteenth century Ukrainian ztedik. I was
in full agreement with all the perennial wisdom that was given on the six tracks. It
could have been accepted by members of any religion in the world. But when later
I reflected on the talk, I realized that the good rabbi had made no mention of
conjugal or family consultation, which is an effective panacea for marital conflict
and creating a healthy atmosphere for raising children. Even the perennial wisdom
of the world’s great religions says very little about this wonderful new teaching of
consultation which is found only in its elaborated form in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.
Meeting the LSA: An Iranian Declares His Faith: Attending Children’s and
Youth Classes: September 13, 2009

Last Friday, September 11th, I met the L.S.A. It was a very good meeting.
They had a couple of requests that I could collaborate on rewriting the text for their
website and compose a text for a proposed pamphlet that would be titled something
like “The Bahá’í Community in Gibraltar.” I brought a few items for their
consideration. Regarding the status of Interfaith activities in Gibraltar, they
requested that I speak on “Religion and Science: Two Sides of One Coin” at the
next Interfaith meeting. Yesterday afternoon at Pouneh and Harald’s a Unity Feast
was held. A few non- Bahá’í friends of the community were present. We began
with prayers. Then Dr. Harald played “The Queen of Carmel” on the piano which
was accompanied by our singing. Little Dylan and Carmel sang a duet. This was
followed by an introductory D.V.D. on the Faith produced in Germany, but which
offered the viewer a choice of some of the major European languages and Persian.
Following the video, I was supposed to speak on Shoghi Effendi, but I decided
instead to ask if there were any questions about the contents of the D.V.D. which
we had just seen. There weren’t any questions forthcoming, so I clarified a few
points about the material and spoke briefly on the reasons why we can believe with
confidence that Bahá’u’lláh is a true Manifestation of God.



The Unity Feast was attended by a non-Bahá’í Iranian who is a friend of the
community. He was experiencing the acute pain of the sudden passing of his
mother in England on September 1st.  He spoke to Dr. Harald about her
hospitalization due to influenza and the immediate cause of death. He said that his
mother was a devout Muslim, but she once attended a Bahá’í funeral and was so
impressed by the serene and hopeful atmosphere at the service that she requested a
Bahá’í funeral. For some reason, it didn’t happen, but in any case we said a prayer
for her at the Unity Feast and Sarah requested a healing prayer for him which was
said by Aisha, one of the junior youth. I was pleasantly surprised to hear that he
wanted to enrol as a Bahá’í the following day. I congratulated him and asked him
what had prompted his declaration of faith. He said cryptically that Trevor knew,
so naturally I asked Trevor at another moment. It had something to do with a
mystical visitation, i.e. sensing his mother’s presence in the morning after her
passing, but before this he had been gradually drawing closer to the community in
Gibraltar.

This morning I attended the children’s and junior youth classes at Rozita’s
and Ramin’s. What a wonderful little meeting it was! It was all so orderly,
harmonious and loving that I told the youth it was like a little glimpse of the future
peace and harmony that will come once the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh is
established. I asked Kion if he liked Gibraltar. He responded that he did, but that
sooner or later the young people grow tired of Gibraltar because it is so small and
they long to go abroad. I was assisting Carmel Khalilian, who has just celebrated
her 18th birthday, in teaching the junior youth, her fine brothers Kion and Kuresh,
and Aisha, Trevor’s step-daughter, and a friend of Aisha’s. In another room,
Pouneh was teaching little Dylan and her daughter Haifa, and in yet another room,
Fiona Young, sat at small table teaching Robin, Aisha’s brother, who is about ten
years old and the brother of Aisha’s friend.  In our class, we used one of the Ruhi
books for junior youth, Drawing on the Power of the Word, that focuses on the
development of capacities, particularly the power of expression.
We did an exercise in we floated a balloon; everyone was supposed to catch
it, using a different finger of the hand, but just one finger. The purpose of this
effective little exercise is to demonstrate the power of unity in Bahá’u’lláh’s
admonition to be “the fingers of one hand,” with each one helping the other in
pursuit of a common task. The youth all laughed as they did it, but within seconds


they had captured the balloon. Voilà! Lesson grasped in a moment with enjoyment!
Then Fiona’s class of two did a little show with paper puppets the two boys made
themselves for the enjoyment of the younger children, Dylan and Haifa, who sat on
the bed in wrapt attention. Fiona had taught the boys the old story of the contest
between the wind and the sun to see who was the stronger.
Watching Fiona do her exercise, I recalled, after all these years, my mother
telling me this same story when I was a child. I had never forgotten it and it was a
joy to hear it again. We often underestimate, I think, the ability of children to
understand spiritual concepts through play or amusing stories. It’s still the same
lesson of the wind and the sun: the wind huffed and puffed and blew with all his
might, but the man just wrapped his overcoat ever more tightly around him,
whereas the mighty sun, calmly but purposefully, began to beam all the stronger
until the poor man, feeling the intensity of the sun’s heat, was obliged to remove
his coat. Thus the sun won the contest. The moral of the story is that strength can
be found in being calm and strong, and much energy can be wasted in a vain show
of power and force.  I had never attended children and youth classes where there
was so much love and harmony, lack of ego, sense of purpose and organization on
part of the teachers, without the need for strong discipline, and such well-behaved,
mature junior youth who are wise and loving beyond their years. They gave new
meaning to the phrase “children of the kingdom.” It gives one the greatest sense of
deep satisfaction and hope for the future of the world.
Giordano Durante Invites me to Speak to the Gibraltar Philosophical Society:
Meeting Solomon (Momi) Levy: September 14, 2009
This morning I met twenty-eight year old Giordano Durante of the Gibraltar
Philosophical Society, mentioned above, at Café Solo. We had a good chat about
our mutual interests in philosophy and religion. Giordano has an M.A. from an
English university, with a concentration in the philosophies of language and the
mind. He gave me a brief history of the G.P.S. Giordano serves as the current chair
and organizer of talks. At a recent meeting about eighty persons showed up at John
Mackintosh Hall to join the society, a remarkably good number for Gibraltar, he
said. I was delighted to hear that Giordano is not opposed to religion. He told me
that he had actually delivered a paper, “Does Science Discredit Religion?” which I
have since read and found excellent in that it attempts to show that the supposed


conflicts between religion and science are only apparent but not real. After about a
forty minute conversation, he suggested that I speak on something to do with
religious diversity and whether all religions are “equal.” I told him that the Bahá’í
teachings had much to say on the topic. I suggested perhaps adding the word
“commonality” or “oneness” in the title. The date has been set for Tuesday,
November 3rd in the one of the two lecture rooms at John Mackintosh Hall.
I told Giordano that if possible I would like to do Torah study while I was
visiting Gibraltar. He recommended that I talk to Mr. Solomon Levy, an estate
agent whose offices are located at 3 Convent Place. Solomon Levy is the recently
retired Mayor of Gibraltar and one of the pillars of the Jewish community. I found
the office easily. Just as I had reached the reception desk, Mr. Levy walked in. I
recognized him from the photo that I had seen that very morning, holding a letter
of commendation from Queen Elizabeth. Mr. Levy is a tall, thin man, quite
advanced in years, and presented himself in a business-like manner. But he told me
that there is Kollel, a rabbinical centre where rabbis study Torah all day, and that
perhaps he could interest one of the rabbis in teaching me.  He told me to contact
him in about a week.

When I returned home, Janet Waterfield was showing my flat to two ladies,
one of whom, Anna, lived in San Rocque across the border in Spain. The
conversation turned first to the history of Gibraltar. Then Anna told me that she
knew most of the Bahá’ís in Gibraltar, that she has attended firesides, and was
interested in comparative religion. She asked me to give the friends her love. She
was married to a Spaniard who has since passed on. She has grown children living
in Spain. Anna also knows Ann Dymond, the first pioneer in Gib.
It’s a Small World and It’s Getting Smaller: The Couple From Cornwall,
Ontario: September 17, 2009
Almost every day I have a short visit with Suresh Malkani in his Sports
Centre, in the I.C.C. building, just opposite the Café Solo in Casemates Square.
Suresh has grown children who are just launching their own careers, and a smiling,
pure-hearted wife, Lavina, who is a devout Hindu. Their apartment is a charming
little corner of India. Lavina read a Bahá’í prayer at the last Feast which touched
me so deeply. Sometimes here in Gibraltar, I find myself unexpectedly in a state of


heightened spirituality. After the Feast, Lavina served several dishes of the most
delicious Indian food.
Today a tall man, Jim Dobson, a retired travel agent from Mississauga,
Ontario, outside Toronto, came into the sports shop. By his accent, Suresh thought
he was American—he guessed Texan—but Jim said he was from Canada. As the
conversation soon revealed, Jim had lived at one point in Toronto at Islington and
Dixon Roads, less than a mile from where we lived at 6 Emery Circle, near Royal
York and Dixon Roads. Jim told us he was born in 1938 which made him seven
years older than I am. (He is age 71). He told us that he was taking a cruise on the
famous liner Queen Mary that had cast anchor in Gibraltar. Passengers are
launched from the boat to terra firma, so they do not actually disembark directly
from the ship.
Then a woman who looked somewhat younger than Jim came into the shop.
Jim introduced his wife, Lorraine, née McDonald. Lorraine had short brownish-
blond hair, a round, pleasant face and wore glasses. As it turned out, Lorraine grew
up in Cornwall, Ontario. I told her that one of the Bahá’ís in my neighbourhood of
Ottawa, Jennifer Phillips, was also from Cornwall. Lorraine said that she lived in
the Riverdale section of Cornwall, on Princess Street. Coincidentally, Jennifer
grew up on Riverdale Street. Lorraine went to C.C.V.S. (Cornwall Collegiate and
Vocational School), as did Jennifer, but Lorraine graduated from St. Michael’s
Academy in 1969. She said she was sixty years old which made her about the same
age as Jennifer. It’s very likely that Lorraine and Jennifer were both in C.C.V.S. at
the same time, but Lorraine had no recollection of meeting someone by the name
of Jennifer Phillips. After a brief, pleasant conversation, during which I told them
about my “service project” in Gibraltar, they moved on. But one more seed was
sown. It was only a brief mention of the Faith to passing travellers, but who knows
where the scattering Wind of God might carry this little seed?
Watching the R.A.F.’s Red Arrows: September 20, 2009
On a sunny September 19th day, a group of us watched the Royal Air Force’s
aerobatics team, the Red Arrows, perform their manoeuvres over Europa Point.
Ramin offered to take me up the Rock in his Sports Utility Vehicle. It was the best
day I’ve had so far in Gibraltar. Seeing the community from the heights became a


consciousness-raising experience. Rather than record the day’s events as a journal
entry, I would like to use them as poetic symbols of a spiritual journey.
Ascending the Rock of Gibraltar

Today you scaled the rocky heights the easy way.
There at the Pillars of Hercules, where the Greek strong man held up
Africa and Gibraltar on his mighty shoulders, you flexed your own muscles,
and gazed out on the vast expanse of waters and watched the dream
you dreamed those three years ago come true.

Now I see the very place where the two great seas meet,
at the crossroads to Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Just there lies Spain; and yonder Africa’s Atlas Mountains.
Soon it will be a tour around the old Kazbah in Tangier.
America lies far off to westward, across the ocean,
North America, the Land of Tomorrow, the new Promised Land.

Up here, the resurrected body is consciousness itself.
Seeing this corner of the world from the wind-swept peak,
looking down at the bona vista to Gibraltar, Spain and Africa,
this stranger in a strange land feels like he’s almost home.
Somehow he has moved inside, is mysteriously pacified by distance,
when like Jacob, he wrestled nights with ancient ills,
calling on the Master.

A benign, loving presence came over him.
Suddenly all was still.  He was tranquilized after many years.
The old grudge with himself was cast away,
laid in the hollow of the hands of Those who hold the destines of men.

The Barbary apes are here, trusting men for food.
The little brown monkey jumps on the boy’s back.
He is proud to carry him so, as if a little miracle’s been done.

And we should all be little monkeys, or better still,
wise old apes, with mouths, ears and eyes stopped up,
to amble quietly among our fellow creatures, trusting them
with rarer victuals, just as they trust us to feed them
what they need.



At the giant caverns of St. Michael’s Cave,
we descend into the bowels of the earth,
but I am not at home here, in this dark, damp place,
where the temperature is constant. No light reaches here,
and changes are made only over geologic-time.

Here the Neanderthals grovelled for food,
fought to survive, struggling with wild animals.
Here’s a skull left behind.

I will leave here now,
ascend into the light, climb the sacred mountain,
emerge in the open, feel the salt-sea breeze on my brow,
that I may journey on at the crossroads,
knowing that I have arrived; that I may go on where I will,
knowing that the wind that fills my sails blows
from the three great seas.

Moving in the Rhythm of Life: Visiting Ken and Sarah Bishop: September 22,

After three weeks of residence, I am getting a better sense of Gibraltar; not
that I know every corner of it—far from it. But from time to time, I make little
discoveries here and there along the byways of this walled city, either on foot or on
my bicycle. Today behind Casemates Square, I took the Land Port tunnel that at
one time was the only way to enter Gibraltar other than by sea, a point that was
once of great strategic importance. When you emerge from the uphill walkway, at
the end of the tunnel, you immediately see on your right the various terraced walls
built to support the cannon batteries that fired down on the enemy who tried to
enter and conquer the garrison by land. Many soldiers, both Spanish and Spain’s
allies, as well as British lost their lives here.
Some fifteen sieges were laid on Gibraltar by Spain and her allies, but the
English managed to break every one and British Gibraltar held. Although all this
ancient military history has by now lost its importance, except to students of
history, since Spain and England are now both members of N.A.T.O. The British


of yesteryear realized that by controlling the heights, they controlled the Rock. The
strategy worked. General Eliot had a stroke of military brilliance when he ordered
the building of the siege tunnels so that the enemy could be fired on from above.
But these tunnels were built at great cost to human life since the British soldiers
built them while they were virtually starving. I have heard that the soldiers were
allowed only one solid meal per week since the food supply was very scarce during
the sieges. Men died too because of accidents with explosives, the same mishaps
that occurred when Colonel John By was building the Ottawa Canal.
At this writing (2009), with the lapse of some 300 years, the Rock has
belonged to England longer than it ever did to Spain. But longevity is not the only
factor that will determine the future of this isthmus. The close proximity to Spain,
and the sharing of a common language, mean that the two cultures and their
economies, despite all the proud claims to being “British,” are quite integrated. At
this moment, popular sentiment is virtually unanimous that Gibraltarians remain
British, despite their cultural affinities with their large and very close Iberian
neighbour. British though they claim to be, some Gibraltarians cheer for Real
Madrid and Barcelona football teams, not those of England!

This afternoon I went to visit Ken and Sarah Bishop at 501B Ocean Heights,
the name of their building, about seven minutes walk from Neptune House where I
am.  I came to return the picture of the first L.S.A. (1995) which I had copied this
morning. The three of us had a family-like visit and a few good laughs. Since the
Bishops are English, talking to them is reminiscent of the many visits I made in
Toronto over the years to my English grandparents, Jessie and Will Halsted. My
grandparents’ house was like a little corner of England, with its warm and friendly
hospitality, picture of the Queen, photos of the homes of relatives in England, the
occasional meal of roast beef and Yorkshire pudding and tea brewing in the pot.
Ken and Sarah are both in their seventies. Sarah has just become a great-
grandmother. At present, they are in good health. Sarah is very devoted to moving
ahead with the Faith in Gib; teaching is always at the forefront of her mind. She is
quite goal-oriented. She even proposed a little teaching project at John Mackintosh
Hall while I was visiting. Ken is supportive of the teaching effort. I saw him again
this morning at Café Solo, as I went in for my morning coffee, and we had a
friendly little chat. Sarah, despite her quiet, but earnest resolve, has a comic,


childlike spontaneity, a lighter side to her personality. I saw a touch of it this
afternoon when she suddenly held the desserts she was serving on a platter with tea
high above her head and made us pick the dishes sight unseen. “Who wants the big
one?” she asked merrily. Then, “Who wants the small one?” Of course, Ken and I
had no way of knowing which was which from a sitting position, but it was good to
see Sarah suddenly break into this lighter mood. Her little gesture brought some
levity into the seriousness of the conversation. Sarah returns to the Isle of Wight
every so often to look after their house there and to attend to one of the Bahá’ís,
David Mumford, who is in his early nineties.
The Long Lonely Nights: September 27, 2009

One of my challenges here in Gib is loneliness, particularly at night when I
am by myself in my flat. I have reading and writing, of course, but one must take a
break. During the day, I have things to do and follow a more or less established
routine which I enjoy: morning prayers and readings, saying the Greatest Name
ninety-five times, reciting the Prayer for Canada, going to the Café Solo to check
my emails and have a coffee, doing some writing, running errands, etc. I have
Books Four and Six to tutor twice a week, so that keeps me occupied; naturally I
attend the Nineteen Day Feasts and Holy Days that are held in the evening. But on
those evenings when all is quiet and there are no activities, I find the time long.
Evenings, most businesses close down, except for restaurants and the Gala Casino.
The cinema is open but I haven’t been there yet. Journal writing is my main
activity these days. I also listen to the radio which broadcasts current affairs
programs from Britain, which are, for the most part, professionally presented, with
in-depth analysis. Their usual themes feature the ongoing conflicted scenarios of
international politics.
Sometimes I take an evening stroll down Main Street where I meet only a
few passers-by at that time of night. It is a welcome change to walk up and down
Main Street in the cool of the evening, when the sun has gone down, and look at
the shop windows with fresh eyes, without there being crowds of people peering in
through the glass, looking over the tobacco, spirits, jewellery, electronics are other
products that are sold duty free. There is no television in this flat—Janet
Waterfield warned me about this before coming—and no books except what I have
borrowed from the friends here. These include Jelle de Vries’s scholarly and


thorough history of the Dutch Bahá’í community, which I have now read, actor
O.Z. Whitehead’s instructive Portraits of Some Bahá’í  Woman, which I borrowed
from Sarah via Pouneh, and Julian Johnson’s The Path of the Masters, a thorough,
distilled, comparative synthesis of Hindu thought, intended for non-Hindus, which
makes correlations to the other world’s religions, philosophies and esoteric
movements, a book I borrowed from Suresh.
Because of airline weight restrictions, I could not bring any books from my
own library, except for my prayer book and The Hidden Words, which I use for my
morning and evening devotions, and a small booklet of inspirational writings about
pioneering called The Power of Divine Assistance, a Canadian publication
complied by the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice (1982). It
once belonged to my mother Joyce and was inscribed and dedicated to her by an
old friend of my generation, Dr. Sandra Hutchinson (Ph.D English), who as a
young woman attended our firesides in the borough of Etobicoke (Toronto). At her
thirty-fifth birthday party the other evening, Fiona Young offered to lend me hers
and Peter’s old television set since I complained of evening loneliness. I am going
to accept that offer, but first I’ll have to check with my landlady, Janet Waterfield,
to see if she approves. (I imagine she will). Then I’ll have to find a way to
transport it by car.

Today we celebrated the Feast of Will at Trevor’s flat in Ebony House, in
Montague Gardens. I was the first to arrive at the community breakfast and Feast,
after having had my usual black coffee with small jug of milk, sweetened with a bit
of sugar, and some churros, the long, sausage-shaped, deep-fried pastries that are a
favourite breakfast dish here in Gibraltar. During the consultation, I raised the
subject of the “core activities” and how the work of spreading the Faith is different
from the process of conversion that is the goal of most congregational religions.
The Bahá’í friends are naturally delighted if someone who participates in the
Institute process wants to join the Faith, but we are also happy to find collaborators
who share our goals, even if the person does not intend to join the Faith officially.
Attending a Christian Fellowship Meeting: September 27, 2009
Last evening, I decided to visit a church.  On a previous evening walk down
Main Street, I passed by a doorway whose sign read: “Christian Fellowship. All


Welcome. Saturdays 7:00 p.m.” I made a mental note of the location and decided
that I would return. I walked through the door into a hallway. At the end of it, in
the half-light, I saw a small shop, set up in an opening between flights of stairs,
perhaps an upholsterer’s judging by the sewing machine, bobins and fabrics I
glimpsed as I passed by. A tall Arab gentleman stood there looking at me. I asked
him where the Christian fellowship meeting was taking place. “Upstairs,” he said.
So up the stairs I went to enter a simple meeting room constructed with plain
wooden panels and bare, glossy white walls.  It turned out to be a small,
evangelical congregation, with only four other adults present beside myself, three
men and a smiling,  middle-aged woman, who wore glasses and a black dress. She
wore a large, golden cross over her bosom. Two children were present: a small,
black-haired happy boy, who was the son of the lay minister, who later gave the
lesson, and a girl aged about twelve years, with pale skin and dark hair, who was
only too glad to participate in the service by beating time to the hymns, by striking
or shaking a tambourine. Their “calling,” as they put it to me, was to the Jews, i.e.
convincing other Christians of the importance of the mission of Israel in the
coming kingdom and the restoration of the temple with Christ’s imminent advent. I
had gathered as much when I first entered. A decorated, small placard of Hebrew
script was posted on the lectern, facing the audience, accompanied by a quotation
from the book of Isaiah. All that I told them was that I was visiting Gibraltar for
three months, that I was a Bahá’í, and that I attended interfaith meetings in Ottawa.
No questions were asked and I did not attempt to force an opening in the
conversation.
Their service consisted of the music of praise and fervent, impromptu
prayer, led by one of the two gentlemen who had set up an electric guitar and
microphone at the front. The prayers and music were followed by a cogent talk
given by the lay minister on the meaning of such Jewish festivals as the Feasts of
Tabernacles/Booths and Trumpets, two celebrations that respectively give thanks
for God’s protection during the 40 years of wandering in the desert, and the final
call for God’s word of redemption and the harvest of souls. Instead of the stirring
sermon that one usually hears at these worship services, he gave an instructive
sober, thoughtful, scholarly presentation on his chosen theme.
The pastor reminded us that it was the eve of Yom Kippur, the great Day of
Atonement, “the great day of awe” as he called it. The gist of his lesson was to


interpret the Jewish festivals as a foreshadowing of the life of Christ. This
approach reflects the ancient Christian hermeneutical method of “types” i.e. how
events in Jewish history prefigured the coming of the Messiah. I stood and sang
and bowed my head at prayer. I was respectfully received, and in her spontaneous
prayer, the lady in black thanked God for the visit of  “the gentleman who has
joined us tonight.” I decided to leave at nine o’clock, after two hours had passed.
They were not yet quite finished praising God, but when there was a lull in the
service, I stood and announced that I had to be going. I thanked them for their
warm hospitality and wished them all the best in their mission, quoting the words
of the Gospel as I adjusted my backpack: “He came unto his own, and his own
received him not.” (John 1:11) (KJV). “Yes,” replied the minister immediately,
“we have our work cut out.” I turned and said good-bye, found my way downstairs,
walked back out into the cool dark of Main Street and headed home to Neptune
House.
The Interfaith Meeting on “Religion and Science. Two Sides of One Coin?”:
October 1, 2009
Last night, I attended an Interfaith meeting in Gibraltar. Trevor Richardson,
the chair of the L.S.A. asked me in advance if I could attend in his place and I
agreed. Earlier, while I was walking down sunny Main Street, Trevor phoned me
on my mobile to say that he could not attend because he had an urgent work-
related job to do that evening. He asked me to give his regrets to the group. Trevor
was nonetheless able to attend later because his job did not take him as long as he
had anticipated. The Interfaith meeting was held at St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
Church, just across the way from the Eliot Hotel. The church was offered by its
minister, the Reverend Ewan McLean, a Scots cleric. Reverend McLean did not
chair the event; that task was admirably performed by another man named Bill.
The admired predecessor of Reverend McLean, Rev. Lamond, had initiated some
excellent work in Interfaith dialogue, I was told, but Rev. McLean was not moved
to participate in the Interfaith movement.
I had naturally never met Rev. McLean before, but he turned out to be a
colourful individual. The tall, lanky cleric pulled up to the church on his motor
scooter, and walked in carrying his helmet, wearing jeans, sans clerical collar,
looking very relaxed, and sat down in the chair beside me. The minister and I “hit


it off” immediately. Although his theology was not that of the “broad church,” I
admired his frankness. He also showed us a keen sense of humour which set the
tone for the cordial, engaged atmosphere that prevailed throughout the meeting. I
had the distinct impression that by the end of the meeting, the Rev. McLean had
been moved by the spirit of love, fellowship, learning and dialogue that took place
that night.
In attendance were Ingrid (Dutch) and Monica (English), two representatives
from the Brahma Kamaris of the World Spiritual University. It was in Gibraltar
that I first made their acquaintance. The ladies dressed in long white robes. Two
Hindus attended who came separately: a passionate avowed pantheist named
Andrew Planet, a name he told me he had adopted, and a woman, Deepa, who was
very knowledgeable in the Hindu faith. Later in my stay, Andrew was kind enough
to take me on a complete tour of the botanical gardens. Attending also were
Evelyn, the Buddhist, who sat beside me, a woman who had attended Bahá’í
meetings here in Gibraltar, and two Muslims, a mother who was wearing a head-
scarf and her daughter who was bare-headed. Also in attendance was a brilliant,
sensitive young woman named Samantha Golt, a barrister and acting solicitor in
Gibraltar, who described herself as a Christian Buddhist who was also studying
with the Brahma Kamaris of the World Spiritual University. Samantha was
contemplating abandoning the practice of law for the devotional life. Next in
attendance was a bright and congenial Irish M.D., a man impressively
knowledgeable in religion and philosophy, and his teenaged daughter. The Irish
doctor is a colleague of Dr. Harald Veen, Pouneh’s husband. They are both
employed in medical services at the Ministry of Defence. Finally there were the
two Bahá’ís: Trevor Richardson and me.
We sat in a large circle. Bill, the church clerk, called on us to begin the
discussion. At first it appeared as if it were going to be a free-for-all, until someone
intervened and requested that we proceed around the circle in a more formal
manner; the others readily agreed. The Hindu lady both spoke and read her
comments, which were virtually identical to the Bahá’í Faith’s position on religion
and science. She relied on the cogent statement of a Hindu astrophysicist who had
abandoned science in favour of God-realization. Trevor made the point that science
was by nature amoral and needed an ethical force to guide it; otherwise science’s


malignant fruits could destroy mankind.  I brought some quotes from the Bahá’í
writings and integrated them with my remarks when my turn came.
There seemed to be two positions which reflect current attitudes to the
question: (1) religion and science are conflicted and cannot be reconciled. (2) they
should work together. No unanimity on the question was first reached, but by the
end of the evening, after each representative had made his or her points, it had
become clear that a consensus had emerged that religion and science should work
more cooperatively. Among others I made the point that the Bahá’í Faith is the
only world religion that explicitly states in its scriptures that religion and science
are “intertwined,” to use ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s word, and that their relationship must be
cooperative; that each sphere should recognize the validity of the other and work
together for the common good and fuller development and integration of both the
individual and humanity. The meaning of the word “religion” naturally needs
careful definition in this discussion, as does the word “science.”
I had almost forgotten, when it suddenly occurred to me during the social
mingle, that Suresh and his wife Lavina had invited me for a late supper. Lavina is
an excellent cook. Their daughter Wendy, a recently graduated lawyer, is now fully
engaged in her first job-search. Wendy joined her father and me for conversation
before the meal while Lavina was busy in the kitchen. Suresh is brilliant in the law
and finance, but these are not the domains that he chooses to work in any longer.
During one conversation, Suresh mentioned that it would be wise to invest in
precious metals because he thinks that the day will come when money will be
useless—and he may just be right!
Listening to the BBC and Short Wave Radio: A Wonderful Swim at Western
Beach: Meeting the LSA: October 3, 2009
Here in Gibraltar, I am slightly news deprived. This is partly by choice. I
buy a newspaper only occasionally and I don’t have a T.V. although Fiona and
Peter Young are going to lend me their old television tomorrow. In return, I will
help Peter to transport their new high-definition television to their other home in
Spain. What news I do receive comes from listening to B.B.C. radio and short-
wave at night, where I can catch programs in French and German in addition to
English. I hear several other languages on short wave, including Arabic—


understandably enough because we are so close to North Africa—Spanish, of
course, and some of the Slovic languages, and one program about China in
English, some Chinese lessons for English-speakers, and Deutsche Welle in
English, which is usually well done and which I listen to in the small hours of the
morning in Ottawa, usually around 3:00 a.m.  Since I speak French and some
German, this adds variety to my listening.
Yesterday afternoon it reached a very hot 35 degrees C., so I felt like a
swim. I biked over to nearby Western Beach which I can reach from Neptune
House within five minutes. It was one the most relaxing swims I’ve had in a long
time. It was one of those moments when everything just seemed to flow. Even
though I swim fairly well, the first time out was an effort; I felt out of shape. But
each time I returned to the water, I experienced an increased surge of energy. The
salt water was a refreshing respite from the hot air, being just a comfortable
temperature—cool enough to refresh but no discomfort to enter. I felt quite relaxed
as I swam, paddled and floated in the water, and lay on the beach in the sun, with
my head propped up on a make-shift pillow, consisting of my backpack, sandals,
long-sleeved beige cotton top, all of which I rolled inside my white angler’s
sunhat. I scanned the horizon from time to time with my 8 x 24 waterproof
binoculars which often accompany me on trips. (I have been fascinated by
binoculars since childhood). The natural elements of sun, water, air and sand acted
as a stimulating tonic and relaxing balm.
Probably because I was at the beach, I found myself singing the popular
song from my early teens, “Ebb Tide,” with its haunting and beautiful melody:
“First the tide rushes in, plants a kiss on the shore, then rolls out to sea, and the sea
is very still once more. Then I rush to your side, like the oncoming tide…etc.”  The
melody just seemed to flow, as I sang on the sandy beach and waded into the
water, the song being so à propos for an afternoon swim, a song whose lyrics tell
of the sea and the tide. I greatly enjoyed the afternoon, swimming, drying off, sun-
bathing, returning to the water, then scanning the beach searching for multi-
coloured pebbles and small shells on the shore and in the water, and marvelling at
the fine water-lines that formed ridges on the brown sand as the waves receded. It
was a boyhood experience relived.


Discovering the Meaning of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Teaching on the Search for Truth
in the Spanish Hills Above Tarifa: October 19, 2009
“If only men would search out truth, they would find themselves united.” Paris
Talks, p. 129
“Therefore, if the religions investigate reality and seek the essential truth of their
own foundations, they will agree and no difference will be found.” The
Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 126
Tarifa is a little town on the very tip of southern Spain, facing the Strait of
Gibraltar, about an hour’s drive from the Rock, famous for its world windsurfing
competitions, where paragliders may be seen floating gently beneath their sails,
like so many butterflies colouring the skies. Close by the magnificent wind-swept
beach of Tarifa lie the rising Spanish hills, a landscape which is reminiscent in its
broad outlines of southern California. It was in the hills beyond Tarifa, beyond the
paragliders and windsurfers I glimpsed as we sped by, on a visit to a “hippie
couple,” as Samantha described them, that I discovered something of the meaning
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s teaching on the search for truth. Manuel and Rosa are practicing
their own form of spirituality and a back-to-nature lifestyle.
Now if we read carefully all the conditions that the Perfect Exemplar lays
down for the search for truth, we will soon conclude that very few qualify as true
seekers of Reality.  For one thing, He says that the true seeker must abandon every
form of prejudice, must seek with passionate longing, be willing to relearn, if
necessary, all that s/he has learned, and endure hardships. That lets out the greater
part of the human race. But for the sake of this little narrative, I will take ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s teaching in a less rigorous fashion.  A better understanding of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s teaching on the search for truth began on the sunny Sunday morning of
October 11th. Ms. Samantha Golt, whom I first met at the interfaith meeting in St.
Andrew’s church, had invited the alert, rationalist philosopher of science, and
forty-eight year old tattoo artist, Keith Tonna, another Gibraltarian, and myself, to
visit Manuel and Rosa who live on an isolated farm in the hills above Tarifa.
Keith and Samantha are both members of the Tuesday morning discussion
group called “The Theory of One” which I was invited to join. How could any self-
respecting Bahá’í ever pass up on an offer to join a discussion group with a name


like “The Theory of One”? Our discussions take place at the back of the Royal
Calpe café, just opposite the cathedral, St. Mary the Crowned, on Main Street. The
group was founded by Samantha, who is by nature a networker and community
builder, who is not shy of telling those who are sympathetic to her views that she
wants to change the world. Within the larger group, the three of us have had many
stimulating conversations, debates and good times over coffee. A magnetic
chemistry binds the three of us in the search for truth. Our discussions are
enlivened with good humour and sparkle. Keith is a rationalist, a process
philosopher of science who is open to the spiritual dimension, but who is
nonetheless wary of theology and religious institutions; Samantha the sometimes
ecstatic Christian-Buddhist, values religious experience above theory. As a Bahá’í
scholar and poet, I contribute what insights I am able to find to our discussions. I
have warm memories of the Theory of One group. Love was always inherent, if
unspoken, to our conversations, love for one another, as we quested for a deeper
understanding of spiritual and philosophical truth.
Samantha, a tall, thin, energetic, articulate, sensitive woman with a fertile,
searching mind is attempting to synthesize and “fine-tune,” as she says, everything
that she has learned about the spirituality of Buddhism and Christianity, and her
own life experiences. One of her favourite phrases is “But it’s all one!” or “We are
all one!” She usually pronounces this mystical phrase when we are experiencing
difficulty in integrating some highly abstract or contradictory concepts. At that
moment, a certain tension is released. Then we look at Samantha and smile, who is
already smiling. I certainly agree with Samantha when she emphasizes the
importance of experience over rational analysis. Her comment helps to bring us
down to earth again.
Samantha has an artistic flair and holds herself erect like a dancer. She has a
generous heart and winning smile. Her brown eyes and hair are accented by
modish glasses. Her face shows that lightly tanned pale skin that one sometimes
sees on Gibraltarians. On several occasions when I have been walking with
Samantha down Main Street, she momentarily darts away, like a little butterfly, to
greet, hug and kiss a friend. Like most Gibraltarians, Samantha is well-connected
on the Rock since the community is small and virtually everyone is interconnected.
Keith clearly favours the rational as his main tool of analysis, but he is not entirely
closed off to the realms of faith and religion. Despite his rational approach, which


usually takes a hard line and makes a strong argument, Keith often refers to the
“phenomenon” in creation. He means by that something that cannot be
circumscribed by rational analysis. This makes Keith open to transcendence. His
usual example comes from quantum mechanics, i.e. that mass (matter) is not really
solid, as it appears, but consists of vibrating fluctuations of energy which cannot be
really defined. Keith’s left arm is fully tattooed in a swirl of red and black. One of
the motifs is identical to the eagle’s face that one finds on the totems of the first
nations of the Pacific North West in Canada. His Facebook photo has him resting
and smiling at the edge of a swimming pool. Despite his intellectual approach,
Keith’s heart is open.

Samantha picked me up in her Land Rover at the gate to Neptune House;
Keith soon joined us in his vehicle, a VW Jetta. After stopping for petrol and a loaf
of bread, we were off. Keith went separately because he had to return to Gibraltar
earlier than Samantha. After passing the beach at Tarifa, and having climbed the
road into the Spanish hills, we reached the turn-off point that led down to Manuel
and Rosa’s ranchero. Keith joined us there. Samantha turned her S.U.V. onto a
narrow, sandy road. Within minutes, we reached another “road,” which consisted
of roughly hewn boulders planted into the ground. The road was in such a rough
state that I warned Samantha about possible damage to her vehicle, but she assured
me that the Land Rover was built to handle it. After a short stretch the road ended.
We stopped, got out, and within a few hundred metres, we reached a rusty
swinging gate. We went through, and from there, we crossed a patchy, dry field
that led down to a low wall which marked the entrance to Manuel’s and Rosa’s
white-washed hacienda.

A woman of medium height with a smiling, roundish face greeted us warmly
at the door. Rosa appeared to be in her late fifties. Rosa wore thick rimmed glasses;
her brown hair was tied back. Unlike many Spaniards who enjoy their sunny clime,
Rosa’s skin was not tanned. She would not have looked out of place in England.
But where was Manuel? He came in the front door a few minutes later wearing a
white towel, having just taken his morning bath in the outdoor bathroom. Once
Manuel had dressed, he joined us. Wine was served where we sat in the narrow
front room that contained a fireplace made of rough stone covering an entire wall.
As they drank their wine, and I my agua mineral, the conversation was engaged in
Spanish. Spanish it was because Rosa spoke no English; Manuel spoke about as


much English as I spoke Spanish—very little. As I spoke, my remarks were
translated into Spanish by Keith or Samantha and they, in turn, translated for
Manuel and Rosa into English.
Finding Ourselves United
Before the afternoon visit with Manuel and Rosa, I did not fully understand
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “If only men would search out truth, they would
find themselves united.” But that afternoon in the hills above Tarifa I learned the
truth of the Master’s statement by direct experience. Over a simple, tasty lunch of
fried rice, tomatoes, green and red peppers, grown on the land, and following an
outside tour of their vegetable patch, we spoke more earnestly of the future of the
mankind, in light of the destructive chaos that is now devastating the entire planet.
I made the point that in chaos theory what first appears to be chaos proves in time
to be a new pattern of emerging order. The pattern that is now emerging, I
maintained, was a new world order. Manuel must have had similar ideas because
he nodded his head, saying a gentle but firm “Si”. My observation was not, of
course, my own; it was based on Shoghi Effendi’s cogent little phrase that order
and chaos have reciprocal effects on each other.
We spoke also of one of Keith’s favourite topics—the mysterious nature of
reality according to quantum physics to which I attempted to add a spiritual
dimension in keeping with the complimentary nature of religion and science. We
observed with unanimous satisfaction that our topics of conversation were unusual
in that they went beyond the usual surface pleasantries of our mundane lives, the
political machinations of the day, the World Cup of Football, or what-have-you, At
one clear point during our conversation, the truth of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement
struck me forcibly. It brought a conclusion to the conversation. We had reached
unanimity. That five people, a small mix of friends and strangers could have
reached agreement so quickly demonstrated to me the unifying power of the search
for truth and the veracity of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words.
“Come with me to the Kazbah”: Visiting Tangier: October 25, 2009
Yesterday I landed for the first time in Africa. In the months leading up to
my departure from Ottawa, I used to sign some of my friendly emails “Jocko
heading for Morocco.” I did so because I had planned to visit Morocco while I was


in Gibraltar. Well, assisted by the magic hand of time, I can now say that I’ve been
there. Now I can start signing “Jocko who’s been to Morocco!” I was accompanied
on the day trip by “sister” Monica Porter, as they call themselves, one of the
Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University devotees from the U.K. who is here
for a sabbatical visit of  several weeks duration. The Brahma Kumaris have a small
shop called Butterfly just off  Main Street. Monica will be returning at the
beginning of November. We took a fixed rate taxi south-west to the port of
Algeciras, about a forty-five minute drive, and from there a large Spanish ferry to
Tangier. The crossing took a few hours;  the weather was gloriously sunny. On the
decks, the fresh air breathed in à pleins poumons, combined with serene moments
of basking in the sun, made the crossing at once invigorating and pacifying. Since
the time of my youth, I have been intrigued and amused by the little phrase “Come
with me to the kazbah.” which comes from previews/trailers of the 1938 American
movie “Algiers.” Well, I finally did go to the kazbah, which refers to the old
fortified Arab quarter. Tangier was one of the most interesting places I have ever
visited, but then I cannot claim to be an experienced world traveller of exotic
locales. Beyond the shoreline, with its modern ferry terminal, docks and fishing
boats, its line of hotels on the main boulevard that thrive on the tourist industry, an
authentic Moroccan atmosphere colours the bazaars and the narrow winding lanes
and streets.
After we reached terra firma, I was finally forced to be slightly adamant to
one of the tourist guides who stuck to us like glue. In retrospect, the best tactic to
handle these persistent folk, who are after all just trying to eke out an honest living,
is not to make eye contact, keep walking straight ahead and be resolved to say
nothing. “But mister,” one of these tenacious ones said, “You won’t be able to find
your way around in there. You’ll get lost. You need a guide.” It was the
psychology of fear. “Is it dangerous?” I responded. “No,” he said. “Well then,” I
continued, “We’ll go it alone.” He finally got the message after walking with us for
almost five minutes and after trying bargaining, hounding and guilt pyschology.
We had decided in advance that we did not want to be treated to the organized
tours that are arranged for the benefit of local merchants.
After we had walked up the hill into one of the main kazbahs, we happened
to meet a sixty something, diminutive, Tangierian named Ahmad Ali.  (He later
told us that the spot where we met him was in the kazbah for tourists). This tense


but open and friendly man was sitting casually on the steps of a small shop,
smoking a cigarette, just across from the restaurant where he told us he worked.
Ahmad had attended the American school in Tangier and spoke English fluently.
This improvised guide took us around the town for a modest price, but he seemed
genuinely interested in showing us the real Tangier. Old Tangier is a world that has
been only superficially brushed by modernity. In the shop windows, except for
watches, I noticed very few cell phones, televisions, computers, cameras and other
electronic goods that are ubiquitous in western Europe and North America. Since
Morocco is an Islamic country, alcohol was conspicuously absent. Instead the
shops were heavily laden with excellent, hand-made leather goods (slippers,
purses, wallets, etc.), textiles (long jelabahs, scarves, etc.), decorative and
functional cookery, such as copper and brass tea kettles, vases, and bowls.
With Ahmad as our guide, we appeared to be the only non-natives
wandering through those narrow lanes, but I felt nonetheless quite at home. The
tourists usually do not frequent some of the places we visited. I felt stimulated,
relaxed and charmed by the passing scenes; I smiled and greeted the men, women
and children who were walking by or standing in the doorways or playing in the
streets.  Ahmad told us that writers Allan Ginsberg, William Burroughs and actress
Barbara Hutton lived at one time in Tangier. We passed by the outside of Barbara
Hutton’s walled, whitewashed, former home, still a tourist attraction, I imagine. It
was one of the few homes in Tangier that we saw that was graced with flowers that
ran along the top of the outer wall. Later, in one of the smaller lobbies of the
Continental Hotel, I looked at a yesteryear photo of a relaxed, sitting guest--
Humphrey Bogart.  Ahmad took us to the entrance of the courtyard of rocker Mick
Jagger’s house. I glimpsed a European man inside the house at the end of the
walkway. Ahmad Ali explained that Europeans are buying old properties fairly
cheaply, at least compared to European prices, and are renovating them for second
homes. These refurbished homes have new windows and doors and clean, smooth,
whitewashed façades that shine brilliantly in the sun. Their updated appearance
contrasts markedly with the ancient, earth-coloured, stone dwellings that stand
beside them.
Ahmad took us on a quick tour of nearby “restaurant.” Being a little weary
from the tour by that time, I wanted to stay for tea but Ahmad seemed reluctant. He
drew my attention to the photos on the wall that depicted certain celebrities


smoking marijuana and hashish there. On second glance, the occupants that were
standing around sullenly did not impress me. The “restaurant” was a locale for
drug-dealing. We turned and walked out. As we continued to roam around the
kazbah, our guide took us into a large Berber manufacture where rugs are woven
by hand on old wooden looms. This was truly a trip back in time. These
partitioned, small work stations were dimly lit “holes in the wall,” around and
above the courtyard, where workers sat at their looms all day. If there were owners
or managers, they sat on their chairs, or at their desks, or stood in the door to see if
prospective buyers might be coming down the passage. I looked in as we walked
by and was surprised to notice one very industrious, smiling worker. This artisan
was just beaming inside his dim enclosure, his radiant face shining over his loom.
He achieved such a rhythmic motion with the repetitive movement of his hands
and arms that he seemed to be in a trance. Perhaps he was a devoted Muslim
meditating on Allah.  In any case, some spirit of wrapt inner joy was just beaming
from his face. By contrast, other workers looked anything but joyful; they worked
robotically at their looms.
Wild cats wandered up and down the passageway and on top of the thick-
gauge, weather-beaten, plastic roofs that were scattered with debris and covered
some stalls on the ground floor below. Coming from Canada, I expected the cats to
be domesticated, but soon discovered that they were half-wild scavengers. Having
no food, I did not succeed in luring one close enough to be patted. In one of the
covered markets, I saw some women from the Atlas mountains wearing ankle-
length, bright, full skirts and broad hats that at first glance seemed to resemble the
Bolivian mountain people. Their faces were marked with simple tattoos, consisting
of a few horizontal blue lines on the chin. These women had no stalls and sat
where they could find room, on cushions or low stools, with their spices laid out on
colourful scarves before them.
We passed by another open market whose canvas roof was all in tatters.
There we saw merchants selling huge chunks of charcoal the size of tree trunks.
Close by the charcoal, earthen pots and pitchers in brightly coloured, bold, simple
designs were standing in the sun. As we passed by in the street, both Monica and I
witnessed a sales practice that neither one of us would see either in Britain or
Canada: the fish mongers held out the raw fish in their bare hands for you to
inspect. Later, we walked through the Jewish quarter. In the afternoon, we stopped


for tea at the Continental Hotel that overlooks the water. Somehow—and how
exactly this happened I was not sure—Monica and I were invited into the upper
floors of the outer court of the hotel where we viewed the splendid floor-to-ceiling
blue and white mosaics and two spectacular bejewelled chairs--virtual thrones. It
was a vivid scene from authentic old Morocco. These geometric, multi-coloured
mosaics were one of the artistic fruits that the faith of Islam had produced in a
former age.
Déjà Vu at a Town Square
I had one remarkable déjà vu experience in Tangier. When we approached
an open square with its palm trees, low plants, grassy knolls beyond and nearby
mosque, busy with the afternoon traffic of the passing cars, I realized, with a sense
of growing wonder, that I had dreamt of this very spot several years ago. My
dream had come true before my eyes. Being in a different dimension, the vision I
saw in my dream was a subtly different representation from the scene that lay
before my eyes, but I recognized the two as one and the same.
Hit on the Head by a Deranged Man
While I did find Tangier exotic and fascinating by North American or
European standards, I should not overlook the harsh reality of daily life in the
Moroccan coastal city. People are really struggling “by hook or by crook” to make
a living. As I walked through Tangier, I recalled reading Truman Capote’s vivid
descriptive essay on Tangier not long before I left Ottawa. It was good advance
preparation for the trip. In his essay, Capote alluded to the petty criminal and
strangely deviant elements that thrived in the Tangier of the 1920’s and 1930’s. To
my searching eyes, it looked as if some of these shady characters were perhaps still
at large. I did not always feel at ease in Tangier, despite my intense curiosity and
passing tourist satisfaction. The tense, brittle atmosphere leaves you lacking a
sense of security. You never know what’s coming next.
I suddenly received one graphic reminder of this unpredictable world when I
got whacked on the head from out of nowhere by a one-eyed, deranged man.  He
didn’t hurt me, but I was momentarily stunned, more from surprise than anything
else. When I looked into his round, one-eyed face and bald head, he appeared like
a figure who had just dropped out of Victor Hugo’s novel The Hunchback of Notre


Dame. A couple of stall owners had witnessed the incident and quickly intervened.
Our afternoon was quickly spent. As evening descended, it was time to return to
the ferry terminal for the trip back to Algeciras. It was Tangier and the kazbah in a
day: ancient, weirdly fascinating and unpredictable. But for the populace that lives
inside these gates, this is their existence.
Hosting the Jazz Trio of Brother Wali, Norman and Lewis at Sacarello’s
Restaurant: November 1, 2009
Last night I was asked by Brother Wali to host his jazz trio of flute, bass and
drums at Sacarello’s restaurant in Irish Town. Irish Town is the name of the street,
not an actual Irish section of Gibraltar, although it must have been at one time as
its name suggests. Brother Wali is a smiling, sixty something black American
flutist from Philadelphia, with three braids in his hair, a broad smile, regular white
teeth, a positive spirit and easy laugh who plays in the streets of Gibraltar and the
clubs both here in Spain. He reminds me of a jazzy, magical, modern pied piper. I
had a good fireside with him the other day at Café Solo. He seemed impressed
when I told him Dizzy Gillespie was a Bahá’í and that John Birks, as his close
friends called Dizzy, gave a fireside at the McLean home at 6 Emery Circle in
Etobicoke (Toronto) circa 1969. I even relayed to Wali some of the things Dizzy
said about racial prejudice that night and how harmful it is.
Jazz fans would have enjoyed the evening. There was a very close, warm
atmosphere between audience and players at Sacarello’s. The Trio of Brother Wali,
Norman and Lewis were in exceptional form . Norman Tonna, the drummer, a
Gibraltarian, sang a sad bolero in Spanish. It was very moving—un cri du coeur.
The bolero works only in Spanish. Fiona Young got her jazz vocalist debut when
she sang “Summertime,” while her two little children, newborn Shadi and three-
year-old Dylan slept with his feet on Monica’s lap and his head on his
grandmother’s lap. Fiona enjoyed herself as she sang, smiling throughout the
rendition, while her parents, Mina and Keven Beint, visitors from the U.K. looked
on. Fiona’s debut was much better than karaoke because she had live backup. I
also wanted to make a vocal debut, but in the end, I didn’t dare ask. Brother Wali
had dubbed the evening an “Inner Journey” and the atmosphere proved true to its
theme. The trio played mostly the beloved jazz vocal standards like “Autumn
Leaves,” “I’ve got you under my skin,” and “The Girl from Ipanema” that Norman


sang in Portuguese while he drummed away. The evening was one the highlights
of my stay in Gibraltar.
Yesterday we finished our week-long Bahá’í exhibit at John Mackintosh
Hall. We had only about fifteen visitors but we made some good contacts including
the young man Mark Clancy who works evening at the front desk. Mark came to
visit and chat with us almost every evening we were there, freely sharing his
insights about religion and the world. At lunch time, we would go down the street
to eat at the Carpenter’s Arms, an economically priced, small, warm an friendly
cafeteria run by the Methodist church, founded by the exceptionally effective and
charismatic religious reformer, John Wesley. During the week, we took every
opportunity to teach the Faith everywhere we went.
Sarah Bishop and Ann Dymond worked very hard at conceiving and
executing the project which consisted of colourful printed displays of the teachings
mounted on the walls, a moveable white cardboard display of the principles and
the temples placed on a table, several laminated quotations from the writings in
Spanish, two vases of pink carnations, one being green which I hastily purchased
from Saverland, and a multi-lingual D.V.D. presentation on the Bahá’í gardens in
Haifa by the German Bahá’í Verlag (2005). I provided support and company and
loaned my borrowed television for the DVD. Talks were advertised twice a day
that I was supposed to give but no seekers turned up.
Ann Dymond is a travel-teacher from Britain, a vigorous eighty-one year old
and former yoga teacher with a sprightly step, who looks at least ten years younger
than her chronological age. She has been a great help during her stay of a few
weeks, but she will be returning home to the U.K. on Thursday. Ken Bishop,
Trevor Richardson and Suresh Malkani all lent a hand. We had no success during
the exhibit in encouraging seekers to join a Book One study circle, but at least the
names of Bahá’u’lláh and the Bahá’í Faith are being spread in Gibraltar.
At the moment I am reading Monica Furlong’s excellent 1980 biography of
Father Thomas Merton, one of my favourite twentieth century spiritual giants,
whose soul, spirit and outlook were all very close to the spirit of the Bahá’í Faith. I
find myself resonating with Merton’s thinking, with his mystical-spiritual-
theological outlook. Yesterday I wrote a poem which I reproduce here which


begins with a quotation from Merton. The phrase, “the waters of Siloe” is also
taken from the title of one of Merton’s books. The poem relates one of the déjà vu
experiences about Gibraltar that I had in Ottawa one afternoon some eight years
ago when I was fully awake. I say déjà vu, but the following poem captures, rather,
a clair-audient experience. The poem derives from an experience of hearing rather
than seeing, although upon reflection it seems to me that I could also see the ships
whose horn I heard sounding.

Ship’s Low Horn Singing

“We feel His eyes upon us as we sit under the fig tree and our souls momentarily
spring to life at the touch of His hidden finger.” (Thomas Merton, The Sign of
Jonas)

I heard the ships low horn
out in the Straits of Gibraltar.
I heard it then in Ottawa,
one afternoon, these eight years ago,
as surely, clearly as I hear it now.

Truly, spirit is not in the fabric of space-time;
no, not really in the body, but associated,
while it’s here, yet distinct, apart.

Yes, I heard the ship’s horn singing low then.
I sit and listen to it now.
It was the same moment, this singing,
this low singing, calling me here....

Not the siren’s shrill but subtle call,
the voice of the crimson ark,
the mother ship, to launch us on new waters,
the waters of Siloe, where we will find ourselves
sailing the high seas, without desire,
uncommonly filled,
at peace, empty at last.


I am also reading Faith in the Age of Reason (the Enlightenment) by
Jonathan Hill. I risk oversimplification in saying that the Enlightenment was
largely a reaction to religious extremism, repressive church authority and
dogmatism. It is estimated that some thirteen million people lost their lives in the
Thirty Years War which was largely a Protestant-Catholic conflict with political
overtones. Following this catastrophe, large numbers of thinking people turned to
reason and away from religion and religious conflict. The result was the first post-
Renaissance European wave of scepticism, agnosticism and atheism, but it gave
great impetus to science and scientific method and resulted in the first serious or
systematic investigations of natural as well as supernatural phenomena. Those
Christian thinkers who remained faithful to Christian doctrine tried to reinterpret it
along lines that would be consistent with the dispassionate dictates of reason,
which decidedly reduced the place of faith and revelation. If faith and revelation
were still considered to be valid, they had to be subjected to the test of reason. The
defined form of this rationalistic religion, which flourished in the early eighteenth
century, was deism—a scandal to the older generation of faith-based believers.
Speaking to the Gibraltar Philosophical Society: November 5, 2009
On Tuesday evening, November 3rd at 7:30 p.m., I spoke to a full house of
forty people in the upstairs Lecture Room at John Mackintosh Hall. That evening
was one of the highlights of my stay in Gibraltar. The lecture was entitled “Truth
Claims, Exclusivism and Religious Diversity: Is any Unity Possible?” The
afternoon of the lecture, I was interviewed on G.B.C. radio (Gibraltar Broadcasting
Company) by a young and perceptive reporter name Jonathan Scott. It was an
engaging meeting with an alert and informed audience consisting of Christians,
Jews, agnostics, atheists but no Muslims. A lively half hour discussion followed.
The same Andrew Planet whom I first met at the interfaith meeting at St. Andrew’s
church on October 1st digitally recorded the talk. The secretary of the G.P.A.
Giordano Durante, was pleased with the turnout and the talk.
The Bahá’ís in attendance were Ann Dymond, Kevin and Mina Beint, Fiona
Young’s parents, all visiting from the U.K.; all three returned to England today.
During the discussion period, I noticed that several people expressed their approval
of the belief in the harmony of religion and science. One young woman made a
comment on progressive revelation, in the light of the historical constraints of


education and culture and the growing consciousness of humanity, that was
remarkably perceptive and close to the spirit of the Faith. My subjective
impression was that she had clearly understood some of the implications of
progressive revelation as a partial solution to the seemingly mutually exclusive
truth claims made the world’s religions.
I approached the topic by saying that my presentation just might end up by
raising as many questions as it proposes to answer, but that these questions were all
part of the ongoing process involved in the search for truth. I proposed five
theories to the audience that were capable of leading the various world religionists
to certain forms of unity: 1. The recognition that revelation has occurred
progressively in history.  2. The oneness of  religion  3. The relativity of religious
truth   4. Dispensational religion  5. The search for truth.  I also outlined several
possible forms that the unity of religions might take which included the simple
recognition of the truths contained in religions other than our own, and the more
challenging acceptance of the divine mission of the founders of the world’s
religions other than our own, to the more challenging “inclusivistic” unity that
would result were of one of the world’s religions able to convince the others that it
held the key to a harmonization of the teachings of the world’s religions. I was, of
course, thinking of the Bahá’í Faith by suggesting this last possibility, but I had to
admit, in a gesture of realism, that this theory was an admittedly idealistic goal, at
least in the short term. Still, I hoped by the comment to instill the idea into the
minds of the perceptive ones in that bright and engaged audience that the Bahá’í
Faith, being suited to meet the great imperatives of our time, might be able to
achieve such a great goal, which has been the promise of all past Prophets and
ages.

My comments were interspersed with some observations gleaned from my
academic studies of religion and my own readings. One of my comments was that
philosophy, with its emphasis on logic, healthy scepticism, reasoning and its
requirement for logical “proof” was valuable to religion in that it deterred
dogmatism and opened up religious studies to critical or analytical thinking, and
provided a sharp tool of analysis to explore and expound the teachings revealed in
scripture. It was St. Anselm’s old but gold idea of fides quaerens intellectum (faith
leading understanding), which is but another way of saying the faith and reason
(understanding) must work together. Ultimately, of course, the complementary


nature of science and religion has to do with the harmonisation of faith and reason,
of the truths received by revelation, explained in the divine light of reason, one of
the several preeminent gifts bestowed by God on the human reality, as Bahá’u’lláh
has revealed. The “proof texts” I cited came directly from the Bahá’í sacred
writings. The presentation was decidedly “low tech.” I didn’t have a handout of the
lecture outline. But the old-fashioned lecture method seemed to work well.
Multiple Activities Condensed in Space-Time: “Home is Where the Heart is”

The inhabitants of the Rock of Gibraltar live in a very condensed space. The
whole community lives around the based of the massive limestone Rock which
dominates physical life here along with the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea,
the sea-salt air or the “Levanta,” the east wind that blows in and hangs its misty
cloud like a hat over the Rock. When the road beyond Catalan Beach is opened up
again, I imagine that a pedestrian could walk around all of Gibraltar from
Casemates Square and back within several hours—at a rough estimate. These past
two months have just flown by, but I am pleased at how much activity has been
condensed into this brief period. I only hope that other opportunities to teach the
Faith or contribute to Gibraltar’s cultural or intellectual life await me in the brief
time that is left. Some of these opportunities I will need to create myself. The
interview that Samantha’s mother, Sonia Golt, did for one of the local newspapers
“Seven Days” will be coming out on Friday, November 13th. I am reminded that
that I have to contact Alice Mascarenhas again, the features’ editor of The
Chronicle to see whether or not she is still interested in an interview or an article.

Being a pioneer, whether short or long-term confirms the believer in the
knowledge that the weighty promises contained in our sacred writings are indeed
true; as such, to experience them is part of the experimental or “scientific” method
which is advocated by the Faith. But these emphatic promises are most vividly
experienced in the arena of active service where they become fully abundant and
available. Indeed, the believer who arises experiences the truth of Bahá’u’lláh’s
words in the Gleanings that the divine assistance of the ministering angels, each
bearing aloft “a chalice of light” will be vouchsafed to the believer who arises.


The phrase “strange lands” is really an oxymoron. Gibraltar has seemed like
a second home, almost from the moment I arrived here.  We know from experience
that some pioneers come to love their adopted country more than they do their
native land. I think of Dr. Susan Moody preferring Persian and Iran over her native
land and the English language. They do so because the pioneering field is where
their heart is. They find their heart’s desire in that temporal space where sincere
service is rendered. The old saying applies just as much to the Bahá’í pioneer as it
does to anyone else: “Home is where the heart is.” The pioneer feels the presence
of Bahá’u’lláh more keenly in the heart in the pioneering field than at home
perhaps because s/he knows that serving as a pioneer is especially pleasing to Him.
Shoghi Effendi stressed the importance of providing isolated local communities
with as steady a flow of travel-teachers and pioneers as possible. By assisting the
local community to keep moving forward, the travel-teacher or pioneer renders a
service that increases the tempo of the teaching activity; and this renewed activity
gives renewed vigour to the life of the community.
More on Science and Religion: A Scholar’s Talk on Chance and Contingency
in the Evolution of Life Forms: John Mackintosh Hall: November 17, 2009
“Philosophy will clip an angel’s wings, Conquer all mysteries by rule and line,
Empty the haunted air, and gnomed mine - Unweave a rainbow.” John Keats
Keats’s ironic lines have put me to thinking. A Gibraltarian friend and
spiritual seeker, Tanya Sacramento, quoted the first phrase of the above lines as we
walked out into the cool, night air after attending a lecture at the Gibraltar
Philosophical Society by Oxford scholar Dr. Clive Finlayson. His topic was
“Chance and Contingency in the Evolution of Human Life Forms.” After we left
John Mackintosh Hall, and continued walking down Main Street, my mind reached
back to correlate my mood to the following poem by Walt Whitman, which is in
itself a farsighted comment on the religion-science interface.
When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer
When I heard the learn’d astronomer,
When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me,
When I was shown the charts, the diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them,
When I sitting heard the learned astronomer where he lectured with much applause


in the lecture room,
How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick,
Till rising and gliding out I wander’d off by myself,
In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time,
Look’d up in perfect silence at the stars.
The poet’s contemplation in “perfect silence” of the starlit night sky, which
stilled his troubled mind, might well contain the ancient roots of astronomy. Why
should “perfect silence” perforce be anti-scientific? Einstein was closer to the truth
in his “mystical” reflections on the symmetry of the universe with his mentions of
“radiant beauty” and “harmony.” Since Gibraltar is a relatively small place, a lot of
people know Clive and call him by his first name. A number of scientists and
social scientists sat in the audience. Although Dr. Finlayson is an admitted
agnostic, his wife is a practicing Catholic. I met her too and commented in jest that
only love could keep an agnostic and a believer in the same marriage. She laughed
heartily and agreed.
Dr. Finlayson has recently published a book at Oxford University Press
which details his arguments as to why the Neanderthals went extinct. He directs
the Gibraltar museum here which is fascinating. The other day I paid a visit to this
facility, with its reconstructed downstairs Moorish baths which date from the 13th
or 14th century. The informal talk was a broad brush sweep of human, plant and
animal evolution going back to the beginnings of the fossil record and before. I
asked him to clarify Darwin’s written comment that it would be “absurd” to
conclude that the human eye could have evolved by natural selection. Dr.
Finlayson deferred to another scientist who is a Darwin specialist, who basically
said that Darwin clarified the answer in later papers, but it was not at all clear to
me by his answer what Darwin’s clarification was. Clive said that he was satisfied
that Dr. Richard Dawkins had explained the evolution of the eye. Creationists often
cite this quote of Darwin, so it has, of course, been answered by atheistic scientists
like Professor Dawkins.
Nonetheless, religion has a persistent way of resurrecting even after
Nietzsche’s lunatic declared in a fit of madness, as he ran through the market
place, that “God is dead. We have killed him!” The rumoured death of God,
despite the perverse uses human beings have put to religion over the centuries,


would appear to be false. For many modern scientists, science has become their
religion. But this is not new. The Dutch Enlightenment astronomer, Christian
Huygens, who discovered the rings of Saturn and Titan, Saturn’s largest moon,
said: “The world is my country, and science is my religion.” In our time, science
has become that totalizing reality, whose authority is never questioned, precisely
the same error perpetrated by priesthood when they laid down binding dogmas in
the Middle Ages. For these men and women, science risks becoming the whole
purpose of their lives; everything must perforce be filtered through what they
imagine are the absolute and irrefutable proofs of science. The problem with this
absolute approach is that humanity must stand on two legs, not just one. We can
stand on one leg for a short time, but we are always off-balance, and it proves to be
exceedingly difficult. We were meant to be bipedal. Like Pierre-Simon Laplace,
sometimes called the French Newton, who in answering the question of Napoleon
as to where God fit into his planetary scheme, Laplace responded that he had no
need of the God hypothesis: “Sire, je n’avais pas besoin de cette hypothèse.”
The whole notion of teleology has now been practically banned from
science. There is no directionality; everything is emerging in the now. It could
have been factor A, B or C, that led to the final result, but it just so happened that it
was factor C. But to return to the lecture: a biologist in the audience during the
question period spoke of the cogency and logical interrelationships of systems. To
him not everything appeared to be based on chance and contingency, an argument
that made more sense to me. There has been such an overreaction by some
scientists to the creationists and to religion generally that the phrase “argument by
design” has become a forbidden phrase. It has become politically incorrect to speak
of “design” in these discussions, even though every biologist, and even casual
observers, know that nature is replete with patterns, which is just another word for
design. The mathematical fractals found in natural forms indicate that there is
design. If it is all chance and contingency, why have some physicists argued that
the possibility of the universe forming by chance are so remote as to number in the
trillions!

But to return to the saying of Keats: My lecture companion, Tanya
Sacramento, offered the following observation. Unweaving the rainbow could
simply mean: do the analysis but retain the magic. Science does not have to kill the
sense of wonder. Keats is suggesting that reason (“philosophy”) and science may


indeed demystify, but they do not necessarily give us angelic wings. Flogging
reason alone can make us weary. It is the spirit of joy, the spirit of inspiration that
gives us wings. The perceptive and alert secretary of the Philosophical Society here
in Gibraltar, Giordano Durante, who has been a great help during my stay, suggests
that Keats may have been referring to the nitpicking done by the scholastic
philosopher-theologians, mind-numbing over-analysis that was criticized by
Descartes and Hume. But for all of that, I can’t imagine that Keats was in favour of
killing scientific curiosity. He was arguing, instead, in favour of retaining the
powers of imagination in an age when science was beginning to displace religion.
How a Seed About Gibraltar was Planted in England and Blossomed Later:
Lee Toomey in Epsom and Evangelical John Culatto in Gibraltar: November
25, 2009
The other day, I was treated again to the existential unexpected, just one of
several epiphanic moments I have experienced here. The two players were John
Culatto, Gibraltar’s outstanding evangelical Christian, who proclaims Christ to all
who will hear him, and one Canadian Bahá’í travel teacher. John greets and blesses
all freely. Strangely enough, although John would, of course, like to see me
convert to Christianity, amazingly, he has almost completely refrained from
witnessing to me. What little preaching he has done, has taken place in a few short
exchanges on email. He has, instead, become a friend who has invited me for
coffee and conversation. I am not exactly sure of the reason for John’s reluctance
to proclaim Christ to me as he does to others. Perhaps it is because I relate to him
on his own level, fully acknowledging that Bahá’ís believe in the sonship and
divinity of Christ, and because I acknowledge that Jesus is the great, loving
Saviour in his life who “heals, saves and delivers”. (This message John wears on
his cap). He has met the Bahá’ís in Gibraltar and has looked up the Bahá’í Faith on
the Internet. He told me we would have a difference of opinion about Bahá’u’lláh,
a statement to which I readily agreed, but I reminded him that we would have
fewer disagreements about Jesus, and that we should stick to that and remain
united in the love of Christ.

Now here I will have to backtrack to 2004, five years ago at this writing.
During that summer, I took a month-long travel-teaching trip to England and
France, having spent two weeks in each country. Part of the time in England was


spent in Epsom, the market town in Surrey, famous for its magnesium sulphate
salts. Living just across the street from the Bahá’í family who were kind enough to
offer me hospitality was a Christian woman named Lee Toomey. I befriended Lee
during my stay in Epsom and helped her sort out her house and her papers because
she was having difficulty dealing with household tasks because of medical issues.
Lee was kind enough to take me on a tour of the lovely Royal Botanical Gardens at
Wisley. Lee and I spoke on the telephone a few times after I returned to Ottawa
and then lost contact. In the meantime, I had forgotten her name.
It was during one of those telephone conversations that Lee prayed for me—
and, of all things, in tongues!  Based on Paul’s First Epistle to the Corinthians
(passim chapters 12-14) and the Book of Acts (2:4),  speaking in tongues is one of
the several gifts of the Spirit. Although I have seen and heard Pentecostals
speaking in tongues on television, listening to Lee Toomey pray spontaneously for
me in tongues was a strange but captivating experience. It was my distinct
impression of a visitation from another time and place. Lee was not speaking in
gibberish. To my ears, it sounded like a genuine, ancient language of the Middle
East. What occurred to me intuitively was that this language might be similar to
Aramaic, the very language that Jesus spoke. When she had finished praying, Lee
then interpreted the gist of the prayer in English. Lee could not only pray in
tongues, but also interpret them, which is a separate gift mentioned in the Gospel
among the gifts of the Spirit. (1 Cor. 14: 27-28).

In the intervening five years I had not been in touch with Lee Toomey. I had,
in fact, forgotten her name and lost her telephone number. But although I knew
Lee Toomey for less than two weeks, she was one of those whom Providence put
on my path, for Lee was the first person who alerted me to Gibraltar’s existence as
a country, other than my being aware, like everyone else, of the iconic Rock. Lee
had grown up in Gibraltar, and I remember her telling me that her father had been a
doctor and had passed away there. She also told me that she could speak Spanish
because most Gibraltarians know Spanish. Lee was also a poet; she lent me a
chapbook containing some of her poems. The conversation about Gibraltar was a
seed that Lee had planted unknowingly in my mind; that seed was to germinate
some five years later.



I mentioned my acquaintance with Lee to John Culatto as we drank coffee at
the Royal Calpe Café on Main Street, just across from the cathedral St. Mary the
Crowned. I continued. “I have forgotten the woman’s name, but her father was a
doctor.” John looked up and replied immediately: “I know who she is. Her name is
Lee Toomey. Her father was a very good doctor and her sister Angela still lives in
Gibraltar and so does her mother, if she is still alive. They are living in the same
house near the Convent School on the road to Europa Point.” I was just amazed.
“Yes,” I said. “That’s her name, Lee Toomey! And you know her sister?” I was
under the full shock of a surprise that John had been able to connect the dots that
had been first pointed in Epsom, and were now being joined in Gibraltar, the very
place that Lee had told me about and where her family, John was now telling me,
were still living. “John,” I said. “Can we go there right now?” “Well, yes.” he said.
“Why not? It’s a bit of a walk but it shouldn’t take us too long, maybe twenty
minutes.”

So after we finished our coffee, off we walked up Main Street and through
the Southport Gate, constructed during the reign of Emperor Charles V, and uphill
through the Alameda Gardens, talking about various things along the way: our
health in our senior years, the plants in the gardens, how I met Lee Toomey, our
friends in Gibraltar and our respective families. (John had six children and has
been married about 35 years).  In about twenty minutes, we reached a brown door
that stood only a few feet away from the sidewalk and road.  John rang the buzzer.
After a brief pause, a woman’s voice came through the intercom. John announced
himself and the woman invited us in. As we walked down the steep stairs into the
courtyard that led to the house, a tall, trim, black-haired woman with pale skin, and
a mild, gentle voice came out to greet us. This was Angela, Lee Toomey’s sister.
John introduced me and I could not help, there and then, while still standing in the
courtyard, to express my delight to Angela that I had met her sister Lee in Epsom
in 2004, and that through John Culatto, I was now meeting her in Gibraltar.
Angela invited us in for tea, and introduced us to her frail, sweet, ninety-two
year old, silver-haired mother with the faded blue eyes. The mother seemed
genuinely happy to meet us when she learned the circumstances of my meeting
with her daughter Lee. There on the mantle-piece, I saw pictures of Dr. Toomey,
the very man Lee had told me about in Epsom, and whose vigorous looking face, I
could now see. Alongside the picture of her father, there stood a smiling Lee


Toomey herself, in cap-and-gown, freshly graduated from a British university.
When the hour was up, John and I thanked our gracious hostess and we headed
back to town. I parted the ways with John somewhere along Main Street, turning
left down one of the lanes, making my way toward Fiona’s apartment in the
Atlantic Suites, near Morrison’s supermarket, just across from Rozita’s office at
Sapphire Net in the Euro Towers, to attend the Nineteen Day Feast.
Although I was about an half-hour late, since the walk from the Toomeys
had taken me longer than I expected, all the friends had kindly waited for me. A
few days later, I phoned Lee Toomey in Epsom, having obtained her phone
number from her sister Angela. She was still living in the same house across the
street from her Bahá’í neighbour.  I had not spoken to Lee in almost five years, but
we took up our conversation as if it had been only yesterday. Somehow she did not
seemed surprised that I had ended up in Gibraltar, the country where she had been
raised, and that I had actually gone there and met her sister and her frail, old
mother. I was expecting Lee to be as astonished as I was, but as it turned out, I was
more surprised at this development than she was.
The Emerging World Consciousness: Speaking to Peter MacKay’s Youth
Group in Alcadeisa: November 30, 2009
It’s almost midnight. I have been to Alcadeisa and back this evening. There
were about fifteen of us all in a circle in a hotel restaurant. (Nobody else was
there). Before we went up to the hotel, to find a comfortable quiet spot that was
congenial for the meeting, we met outside a little snack-bar counter and had coffee.
I first met Peter MacKay in Gibraltar at Samantha Gold’s Theory of One group. I
felt immediately at ease with Peter. He was the sort of person that inspired trust
immediately, a kindly, good-natured and loveable man that you would fee l happy
to welcome into your circle of friends.
At the snack-bar, Peter introduced me to an Englishman named Frank, a
hypnotherapist, who at first had seemed a little reticent. But I knew that if Peter
had invited him there, he would have had something meaningful to say. Some
years ago, after he had abandoned a soul-destroying lifestyle, Frank had a
spontaneous and remarkable out-of-body experience during hypnosis that changed
his life, and made him more open to the religious/spiritual perspective. Prior to his


life-changing moment, he confessed that he had had absolutely no use for either
religion or spirituality. Also present there was an Englishwoman named Marjorie, a
lovely senior who is a psychic who says she is never wrong and who also does
healings. Peter also introduced me to his namesake, another Peter who was in his
late 30’s or early 40’s, who is on a spiritual path that I would characterize more or
less as belonging to New Age spirituality. The two Peters, Frank, Marjorie and I
were the anchor group for the meeting, with Peter MacKay being the leader. Then
we went up to the hotel.
Peter introduced me briefly. There were two Spanish ladies there for about
an half-hour, so Peter MacKay had to translate my talk until they left. I spoke
about the developing world consciousness and how people—and all things really—
are so interconnected in the world, that unity in all its forms was the key to our age
because interconnectedness is about unity, even with the lower forms of life, like
plants and animals. I spoke about the world of tomorrow and how the leaders of
tomorrow would eventually have to develop the spiritual tools to carry humanity
forward, and that the ones who had these spiritual tools and who were able to
propose workable, creative  solutions to old-age problems were really the best
qualified leaders of the world of tomorrow.  I spoke about the wonderful
phenomenon of perfect strangers becoming friends, after only a matter of hours in
one another’s company, and suggested that this was happening so quickly because
there was precious little time to put the world’s grave problems aright. (I spoke of
other things that I am passing over). I felt that the audience was listening very
closely, so closely that they were resonating. We were tuned to the same vibration.
It was of course a Bahá’í inspired talk, but I used the indirect approach, without
quoting the writings—at least until the end of the talk.
I closed the talk by reading from the first few pages of the Hidden Words,
the ones about love and justice. The audience seemed to be just drinking up
Bahá’u’lláh’s life-giving words. Peter MacKay said that the readings had
confirmed something very important for him, forgotten since his childhood. He
realized again that God loved him, and that he needed to hear this fundamental
message again, a message that is at the very heart of all religion. They all agreed
that LOVE was the most powerful force in the universe.


After the break, we went into part two. Peter did his intuitive, clairvoyant
readings of the young people there. He is a spiritualist, but he uses his gift more as
a loving teacher and wise mentor.  I did not feel any awkward, downward pull of
strange, psychic vibrations. It all seemed very natural, I think because Peter’s
motive is pure. The anchors, including me, assisted in the “reading” of these young
people. (I say young people, meaning that most were 20 and 30 somethings). After
he diagnosed them, they opened up and talked about their lives and the struggles
they have gone though in their families and in their relationships, and how
spirituality is fitting into their lives now. Nobody was nervous except in an
expectant way. It was all very real, very comfortable, very loving and very natural.
People were very much in tune. We also did some story-telling and sharing
spiritual experiences. Strangers became friends in a short time.
When the meeting was breaking up, Marjorie stood up and spontaneously
laid her hands on my head. It was very relaxing. I use much intellectual energy, i.e.
nervous energy in my work; so to feel her healing touch was a comforting balm
and a welcome relief. She said I had a past injury in one of my neck muscles, but I
had already told her that I broke my neck when I was twelve. She said the tinnitus
(ringing in the ears) that I have suffered from for the past forty years, would go
away. Well, it will go away eventually, of course—when I leave my body behind
for good. Now it’s past midnight, but speaking to that youth group was nothing
short of a remarkable experience.
When you travel, you do realize that mankind is one. This evening
confirmed my faith in human nature, gave me hope for the future, and made me
realize how much we are all alike, wherever we are in the world. Many of us share
a common human condition. Most of our spiritual struggles, at least in the western
world, are the same: to break out of our anonymity, to understand our own nature
at a profounder level—it remains a daunting task to “know thyself,” one of the
commands once inscribed near the entrance to Apollo’s shrine at Delphi—to find
meaning and purpose in life, to solve our personal problems and to build and live
out a system of authentic values. However, such a spiritual search is one sense a
luxury, although a necessary one. I do recognize that those who live in dire straits
or who lack the bare necessities of life, are more preoccupied by the struggle for
survival, and have less time to engage in these important existential
preoccupations.


Surprise Going-Away Party: Monday, November 30, 2009

As far as I recall, I have had only one other surprise party in my life. It was a
surprise birthday party given by the Bahá’ís of Gatineau when my daughters,
Mukina and Leah, were teenagers. That surprise party must have taken place when
I was in my forties. However, I have never had a surprise going-away party before
the one organized by the friends in Gibraltar took place. They succeeded well: It
was a total and complete, and altogether wonderful surprise. I was so focused on
completing Book 4 during the last class before I left Gibraltar that I didn’t even
notice the balloons hanging on the walls when I entered the combined living and
dining room area of  Pouneh and Harald’s house in the Ministry of Defence
compound, just a stone’s throw away from the Spanish border.

Pouneh had phoned about 15 minutes before the class started to offer to pick
me up at Neptune House because it had been raining, but I had determined to walk
on my own because I had not been getting enough exercise in Gibraltar. I took the
call on my mobile phone, just as I was just stepping outside, and noticed that the
rain had stopped—only momentarily as it turned out. I crossed the parking lot,
walked along in front of the Victoria Sports Complex, and then went straight along
to the roundabout where I turned left at Winston Churchill Avenue. Then I crossed
the runway heading toward the M.O.D. By this time, the rain had begun to fall hard
again, and the wind had picked up, but it wasn’t long before I reached Pouneh and
Harald’s home, the very first house on the right after you have passed the guard’s
post and main gate.

I suspected nothing and headed straight for the dining room table where
Pouneh, Harald and Rozita were sitting calmly waiting to continue our last lesson
on Book Four on the lives of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. Suddenly, the kitchen door
burst open and a small crowd of the men, women, children in the Bahá’í
community, and some of their friends, came rushing out, smiling and shouting
“Surprise!” Well, I was so moved that didn’t know whether to laugh or cry, but
under the circumstances I didn’t want to cry-- so I laughed—and I laughed
repeatedly, so much was I under the impact of my emotions!
After the excitement had died down, I was presented with the gift of another
backpack, courtesy of Suresh. Suresh had seen me every other day in his shop with


my laptop packed tight in my Mountain Co-op biker’s backpack. Other gifts were a
farewell jumbo-sized card signed by the friends with their comments, and a coffee-
table book about Gibraltar. Then little Robin, Trevor’s young step-son, played a
tune on the coronet, and little Haifa and Dylan sang “We are drops of one ocean.”
Another lovely surprise was Trevor’s and Haysell’s announcement that they were
getting married on May 2nd, 2010. These festivities were followed by a delicious
potluck supper. All in all, it was a lovely way to celebrate my three months in
Gibraltar and to send me merrily back home.
Departure: December 3, 2009

Two of the friends came to see me off, Ramin and Pouneh. Ramin picked
me up bag and baggage just outside Neptune House and we made the short drive to
the airport. I always find that the last moments spent with loved ones or friends
before an international departure are special. There were just the two of us at that
point. Ramin was so kind and so humble, the essence of simplicity. We just stood
in line and chatted quietly enjoying those final moments. He thanked me again for
the three months spent in Gibraltar. We talked for a moment about a personal
problem and a small, but very telling word of wisdom fell from his lips: “I think
it’s best to face your fears.” Yes. It was the right word at the right time. How often
has just the simplest of words or phrases from one of the friends found its mark in
the heart and enabled the listener to do the right thing. In public or media
discourse, we are subjected to lengthy speeches and torrents of words to influence
the listener; even between close friends the conversations can be long but often
with little effect. Although I cannot say that I am wise, Ramin’s word was
sufficient. Following my return home, it has proven true.
The New Agers with their “pop” psycho-spirituality say that there are only
two things in life: love and fear. The New Age dictum is actually based on this
verse from the first Epistle of St. John: “There is no fear in love; but perfect love
casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in
love”( 4:18). That divine verse contains much wisdom. For fear and love are our
greatest motivators and make life possible, although the greater the love is, the less
we are dominated by the agony of fear. The new world come-of-age is beginning
to learn that love is a greater motivator than fear, with all its negative


consequences. And as Jesus taught, love is a better motivator than fear when he
said simply: “If ye love me, keep my commandments.” (John 14:15).
After I had checked in my bags and Ramin and I had said our good-byes, I
still had some time left over before the departure of my flight. We had prearranged
that I would pop over to Harald and Pouneh’s just across the street to spend some
last moments with them. Dr. Harald was soon to be off to his M.O.D. clinic at
Eastern Beach, so we said a warm good-bye. Harald is one of those souls of such
great integrity, warmth and discipline that his example brought new meaning, to
my consciousness at least, that the line between those call themselves Bahá’ís and
those who are not official followers of Bahá’u’lláh, can be a fine one indeed. In
fact, these distinctions are sometimes so subtle that understanding them should be
best left to Bahá’u’lláh Himself.
Once Harald left, Pouneh offered me tea and fruit and sandwiches to take on
my journey. She also offered me the gift of a book, The Prince, by Hushang
Golshiri and translated from the Persian by James Buchanan. It is the story of the
dark reminiscences of a dying consumptive prince of the doomed Qajar dynasty.
As I read Buchanan’s introduction, the book seemed already familiar with the
Iranian ambiance depicted there that once surrounded the historical “woeful
struggles,” as Shoghi Effendi called them, of the Bábí martyrs of the Heroic Age
(1844-1921). Buchanan mentions in passing the Bábí martyrs, those living torches,
who had burning candles placed into their gouged out flesh by a savage populace
mislead by an equally fanatical clergy. And yet, they sang and danced beyond their
pain and praised their Beloved until they expired. The translator tells us that the
prince’s grandfather was Nasiri’d-din-Shah, the great enemy and avowed destroyer
of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faith.
Pouneh inscribed the book: “With all our love, Harald, Pouneh, Haifa and
Nura, xxx, See you soon.” Under the title she quoted the great Rumi: “When
something unique becomes many, it looses its value. Yet many are the sorrows of
the heart but they become precious gems on the path to the Beloved.” Then
Pouneh, Haifa, Nura and I walked across the road to the Gibraltar Airport where I
stood in line. Pouneh and I chatted for a while, reminiscing about the last three
months. Then I said good-bye to the little children and their mother and walked on
to board the plane.


As the Easy Jet Air Bus took off from the landing strip, I looked out of the
window to take a last look at the white stucco Neptune House where I had stayed,
clearly visible below, and glimpsed the great Rock of Gibraltar, that living symbol
of steadfastness, and the surrounding waters of the Mediterranean and the Atlantic,
at the convergence of the two seas that I had dreamt about in another realm, and
which I was destined to find later in person in the concrete world of space-time. Au
revoir, dear Gibraltar.  I leave fragments of my heart with you. God only knows
whether or not I shall see you again.
Final Reflections: What I Have Learned in These Past Three Months
1. All the Promises in the Sacred Writings are True
Our sacred writings contain some remarkable promises of divine assistance for
all those who arise to serve—especially for those who travel to foreign fields. It
would be mistaken to think that these promises were mere hyperbole, just an
emphatic way of basically saying that God will help you.  But as for so many other
things in life, one may know these things either theoretically or practically. One
may well believe them theoretically. One should start there. But a believer
becomes confirmed when he or she experiences them practically, by actually
serving abroad in the field.
2. The Emerging World Consciousness and the Kindness of Strangers
One thing that constantly astonished me was the way that strangers seemed to
just appear—and did appear. Every day there was a new surprise and delight.
These friends, although they were not all believers in God in the traditional sense,
nonetheless they felt as if they were members of my spiritual family. To me these
souls represented the crest of the wave of rising world consciousness that is taking
place simultaneously throughout the planet. We realize now more than ever that
the catastrophic problems we share are global and interconnected, or in the
language of the new physics, “entangled.” They require new and radically different
solutions which must follow spiritual lines. For love and finding common points of
similarity will always bring souls together, while focusing on differences is a
misguided tactic that will always separate us one from the other and produce
division and strife, unless these differences are accented to enhance the beauty of
humanity in the perspective of “unity in diversity.”


Although I did some “leg-work” in trying to open doors for the Faith in
Gibraltar, without my seeking them, opportunities were brought to me by others to
teach the Cause, either directly or indirectly, whether it was Giordano’s invitation
to address the Philosophical Society or Peter MacKay’s invitation to address his
youth group or Samantha’s invitation to join the Theory of One discussion group
which explored the oneness of all things, and that was intended to elaborate a new
theory to sort out the world’s problems. The rapidity which defines the emergence
of this intimacy reflects the pressing lack of time that remains for humans living in
the dysfunctional old world order to correct the urgent problems that confound and
confront mankind and that now threaten its very existence. In The Hidden Words
(Persian #7) Bahá’u’lláh reveals: “Take one pace and with the next advance into
the immortal realm and the enter the pavilion of eternity.” In past ages, lovers of
God earnestly sought their heart’s desire, but in this revelation, the Beloved,
astonishingly, seeks us! This affirmation should cause no trace of pride, smugness
or self-congratulation. It is a testimony to the power of the Grand Theophany, the
Great Manifestation of God, that suffuses and sustains all creation and that
earnestly seeks to make the knowledge of God’s Revelation known to every single
soul in this Great Day.
3. Synchronicity and the Power of Thought: Material and Spiritual Goods
‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that the reality of man is his thought, a truth that parallels
the old biblical proverb “As a man thinketh so is he.” (Actually, that saying, I have
since discovered is only a partial quote. The full sentence in Proverbs 23:7 reads:
“As a man thinketh in his heart so he is.”). According to this belief, it is especially
the thoughts that are entertained deeply in the heart, with profound conviction and
hope, that become realized in the outer world. This law of the power of thought I
was to discover over and over again in Gibraltar. This process of guidance and
confirmation, or guidance and realization, which begins with a sincere desire to
serve the Faith, involves both oneself and those who watch over us from the Abhá
Kingdom

One small example of things just manifesting out of the ether—just as new
friends and opportunities suddenly appeared—came in the form of an old song. Of
course, sceptics argue that such things are merely coincidental. But when such
coincidence becomes life-changing, or even confirming in a less significant way, it


is safe to assume that the synchronicity was created by the power of mind, and
more especially, by the magic, hidden Hand of God. The song, which has no
special significance for me among the scores upon scores of songs that I know and
enjoy singing, I first heard when I was a student in Paris, beginning in the fall of
1965. It was an Italian popular hit song, “Lo Che Non Vivo Senza Te,” rendered in
English by Dusty Springfield as “You Don’t Have to Say You Love Me.” It played
in Italian on French radio. The lyrics included this line: “How am I going to live
without you for a lifetime when I can’t (even) live an hour without you?”  At this
writing, it has been fully 45 years since I first heard that song. It has by no means
been floating around in my musical memory since then, so I cannot say that the
song has been frequently revisited. But when I travelled to Gibraltar, one afternoon
as I walked down Main Street, this old song started to run through my mind again
and I found myself singing it. That same day, tattoo artist and quantum physics
connoisseur, Keith Tonna, invited me to dinner in a restaurant off Irish Town
Road, one of the main streets of Gibraltar which parallels Main Street. As we
walked into the restaurant, the strains of that very Italian song floated on the air
from a radio being played back in the kitchen. When I heard the music, I related to
Keith the coincidence connected with the song, but I am sure that I was
subjectively more impressed by the experience than he was.
4. Personal Problem-Solving
Although my main motive in travel-teaching was not to solve personal
problems, my last reflection on lessons learned in Gibraltar would be the
following: whatever your problems and challenges are, arising to serve the Faith
will help to solve them. When you arise to serve the Faith, you tap into the
Covenant; you align yourself with that divine energy that sustains the universe and
all that lies within it. You are affected, consequently, at a much deeper level than
the mind and the emotions. Your heart is moved and changed. Your consciousness
is refreshed and purified; yes, even your strained nerves. You find a greater degree
of detachment—a never-ending process in this life. You experience increased
peace of mind.
Closing the Book



Gibraltar was my first in the three month short-term pioneering project, the
current approach which helps to define the more systematic effort to teach the
Bahá’í Faith which has now replaced random travel-teaching with its stays of
unspecified duration. At this writing, it is now the end of March, 2010, and we
have just celebrated Naw-Ruz 167 B.E. I have now reached the end of this spiritual
travelog. When I look back now on my short stay, I am left with two predominant
emotions: the first is gratitude for the opportunity of being able to help the friends
in Gibraltar in a small way to advance the institute process. My visit lasted only a
short time. But they, not I, are the steadfast pioneers who are engaged in the day-
to-day, long-term community building process. The second emotion is a warm
satisfaction, the joy that comes with knowing that you have served the Faith
abroad. The physical move that is pioneering, whether it be long or short, always
corresponds to movement in one’s inner life. We are inevitably changed by the
experience. The greatest of all teachers, next to the Founders of our Faith, the
immortal Martha Root, said that she never liked to say good-bye. Instead it was
Alláh’u’Abhá and only Alláh’u’Abhá. So in closing I say to you Alláh’u’Abhá!
John Allan McLean, Ottawa, 8 Bahá, 167/28 March