Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.
Awakening: Chapter 15
The long road into captivity

As night receded, the outline of the shoulders, heads and backs of the prisoners emerged
from the gloom. All around the stone yard and rooms of the caravansera, the silent mass
trembled. Feeble cries of infants rose up into the cold air only to give up and fall back down
into the morass of exhaustion and hunger.
Guards came into the yard and called the prisoners to attention. They lifted each other up
against the protests of their weakened bodies. They were going to be led out of the madrisih
to another location.
Outside a mob had gathered. The Bábí women took their torn clothing and tried to cover
their faces and arms as best they could--faces and arms that had never been seen by
strangers--and as they came out of the caravansera gate, feelings of shame engulfed them.
Stepping into the street, they saw the faces of their fellow townspeople contorted in anger,
their mouths shouting insults, baring teeth. A volley of small stones, dirt and spit showered
the prisoners. They placed their arms over their children to shield them.
They were led up the street battered on all sides by taunts and jeers until they arrived at a
local school, the Madreseh Khán, which had been built earlier in 1815 by the governor of the
city.i The cold day wore on, but no food was brought. The desperate prisoners used stagnant
water in the schoolyard’s pool to quench their thirst.
Elsewhere, the order had gone out from Mírzá Na’ím that the prisoners would be sent to
Shíráz. A few kilograms of cornbread now appeared each day at the school. Some prisoners
refused anything given to them from the hands of their oppressors, resorting instead to
eating discarded pomegranate skins and date seeds off the ground.ii
Day after day, dry crumbling cornbread kept starvation at bay by a bare mouthful.iii
One day, soldiers came for Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-’Alí, Vahíd’s father in law and one of the elders
who had inspired the Bábís, and took him out with his two teenage sons. He was made to
watch as his two boys were beheaded. Then the soldiers turned on him for his close
association with Vahíd, and brutally killed him.iv Left behind was his wife. Her relatives
helped her escape that evening but her brother refused to take her in.v She found shelter in
the home of her servant but later that night she died traumatized by what she had seen.vi
South of the school where the Bábí women were being held, soldiers roamed the streets of
the Chinár-Súkhtih quarter, looking for more prisoners to take to Shíráz. As they searched
the homes, Bábís were rounded up. The Gulpáyigání soldiers had been able to capture many
who escaped after the last battle.

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.
As the day to leave approached, the women prisoners in the school were brought out. An
official looked them over to choose the ones who could survive the march to Shíráz.vii He
selected about half the women and sent the others back to their homes in the Chinár-
Súkhtih quarter. Women and children waited in dread as he decided their fates. The sound of
wailing filled the sky whenever his choice took mother from daughter, sister from sister,
grandmother from grandchild, but nothing stopped the sorting.
A fifteen year old boy, the son of Qutb, ‘Alí Sardár’s close friend and one of the main Bábí
leaders, and his mother were rescued by an uncle but, shunned by other family members,
would quickly descend into poverty, living in a small dark dwelling with trash thrown at its
entrance.viii
The day of departure came, and the prisoners were assembled and readied.ix The severed
heads were piled into the baskets, the women were tied in pairs to ride on donkeys while
their children had to keep up on foot. The men were bound together in groups of ten. When
all was ready, the large contingent of hundreds of prisoners, of donkeys carrying gruesome
loads, of frightened children, of soldiers, and of officers on horseback, lurched forward to
the edge of town. There, a large group of Nayrízís waited to gawk at them and hurl a final
insult.
So began many days for the captives of trudging down the road to Shíráz through the cold,
fed only enough to keep walking, spending nights with villagers whom the soldiers paid to
house them ...
… children, some motherless, who can not continue in the cold without food or warm
clothing fall by the side of the road;x so do several mothers who cannot go one more stepxi…
… the young son of a woman named Fátimih, grandniece of the leading mullá of Shíráz,
starves to deathxii…
… an elderly man, Mullá Muhammad-Alí Qábid, grows too weak to walk and collapses by
the side of the road. Soldiers beheaded him and throw the head into one of the basketsxiii…
… at another stop, the heart of one of the soldiers softens seeing the suffering of the
prisoners. He gives them two pieces of sheepskin which they broil and eat. Mírzá Na’ím
finds out about this and has the soldier beaten to warn soldiers not to help the prisoners...
… Mírzá Muhammad Abid dies from hunger and is beheaded.xiv When the caravan of
suffering moves on, his body is left discarded on the ground. Local tribesmen who come
along later buried the corpsexv…
The prisoners finally reached the last stop--a village seventeen kilometers from Shíráz.xvi
Word was sent to the Prince in Shíráz that the procession had arrived. A reply came that
there would be a city- wide celebration, and the procession could enter.xvii In the morning,
the women were put back on donkeys, the men were lined up, the heads were taken out of

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.
the baskets, impaled on the tips of long spears which were then hoisted high in the air by the
soldiers.xviii Mírzá Na’ím rode to the front, and the procession moved down the road.
He was ready for his triumphal entry into Shíráz.

Behind the wall which circled Shíráz, the word had gone out from the Prince that this day
would be one of celebration. Shírázis made their way excitedly through the narrow streets
and alleys between the walls of the inward facing homes which made up the city’s compact
jumble of one and two story houses. Wealthy women in their homes and women in the
public baths were staining their hands and fingernails in the dark orange toffee colored
henna patterns.xix
On any normal morning at the bazaar, boys would have been carrying cups of tea on trays
and early morning shoppers would have been threading their way through the already
crowded brick halls. Merchants would have been rushing in and out of their shops set into
the walls every few feet, displaying eggplants, pomegranates, onions, sour pickles, nuts, and
pouring out mountains of spices for chicken, fish, and stews, for passers-by to see. The
aromas of cinnamon, peppermint, turmeric, lavender, cumin, pilau, would have blended in
the air, and the voices of people bargaining would have echoed off the pointed stone arches
above. The teahouses in the bazaar would already have had Shírázis taking a break or
preparing for the day by sitting together and sipping steaming tea, hard sugar between their
teeth.
But that would have been normal and this was not a normal day, so the long halls of the
bazaar were dark and empty. The Prince had ordered all stores closed for a city-wide holiday.
Shírázis of all social classes came out into the main street to see the dreaded Bábís enter
through the south-facing Sa’dí gate. It was 1850 all over again. They saw first a proud leader-
-this time Mírzá Na’ím--riding triumphant, his sword hanging by his side. They looked up
and pointed excitedly at the severed heads moving aloft on spears. Below these, a large
group of men struggled forward in front of more than a hundred donkeys carrying poorly
clad women, and dirty, hungry children. Among them could be seen elderly men still able to
move forward. The prisoners’ faces showed the two months of struggle they had endured in
the cold mountains. Shírázis vented their fear of the Bábís by shouting at them, though the
sight of all the suffering hurt the hearts of some.xx
The women and children were marched through town to the Sháh Mír-‘Alí Hamzih
caravanserai by the north facing Isfahán Gate on the outskirts of Shíráz. The men were led
to a prison. In the darkness of the prison cells, they met Bábís from Nayríz who had been
languishing there since the struggle at Fort Khájih, three years earlier.xxi The severed heads
were dumped in another location to be kept for the last leg of the journey to Tihrán.xxii

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.

At the caravanserai, bread rations arrived in the evening. The women immediately fed their
starving children. At night, the dark of the caravanserai’s stone rooms, the cold intensified.
Women huddled with their children, hoping their body heat would help warm them. Their
small teeth chattered as they drifted in and out of sleep.xxiii
The next morning, the order came from the Prince that the Bábí men were to be brought to
him. He asked a local tough from Nayríz, Jalál, whom Mírzá Na’ím had brought with him, to
tell him who the different men were and what their part had been in the conflict. The first to
be unbound and brought in was Mullá ‘Abdu’l-Husayn, the elderly cleric who had been a
respected guide to the Bábís for three years. Jalál immediately indicated him as the most
troublesome of the Bábí leaders. Now, he stood before them, and though he appeared a
physically wrecked and frail old man, an indomitable spirit lived on in him.
He was asked about his deeds. He responded:xxiv
“We summoned people to the Glad Tidings of the Lord of the Age. This was our duty but
you have done whatever you wanted.”
“How is it that you understood the Qá’im has come, and we did not?”
“The witnesses of the Ímáms and all these faithful believers are proof of this Truth. Aren’t
these prisoners and their suffering proof for you? You have cut off the heads of my sons in
front of me and taken their wives as slaves--isn’t that proof for you? These are the proofs of
the Lord of the Age.”
The Prince ordered him to curse the Báb. He refused. The Prince called for others to be
brought to him. He ordered them to recant. They refused. Five men were immediately taken
out to the square close to the prison. Spears were driven into three of them, and two others
were beheaded.xxv The prominent clerics among the Bábís would be spared so they could be
presented in Tihrán.
An important tribal leader urged the Prince to be merciful towards these unfortunates. He
had previously been critical of Mírzá Na’ím for recreating the famous scene of the killing of
Ímám Husayn in Karbilá, revered by all Shi‘a, a drama re-enacted every year and of deep
emotional meaning. This time, though, it was the Bábís who appeared as the faithful and the
Shi‘a as the persecutors.xxvi
For the women and children, these days were spent in public ridicule. With each cold night
that passed, the children grew weaker. One mother tried to warm her infant son by cradling
him in her bosom. Her two girls curled up to her as close as possible. She embraced them
with her other arm and tried to cover them with whatever clothing she had. But their lives
were ebbing away and there was nothing she could do to stop that. Hunger and the winter
cold took her girls and the children of others.xxvii

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.
Every day, the Shírázis passed this scene of hungry ill-clad women and children being
humiliated. The cruelty of what had happened became more apparent as the excitement at
Mírzá Na’ím’s triumphal entry faded. Gradually their hearts softened.xxviii
But the ordeal for many Bábí women would never end. It was decided that the women
would be given as rewards to soldiers and other authorities. The men came to the
caravanserai, looked over the captives and claimed the ones who pleased them, forcing some
to become their wives. All others were simply let go with their children into the streets to
fend for themselves.xxix In the months and years to come, some were able to make it back to
Nayríz while others were reduced to begging.
In another part of town, Khadíjih Bagum, the widowed wife of the Báb, now living in her
sister’s house, heard of the tumult in the city and the suffering of the Bábís of Nayríz but
could not go out to see them. Since the departure of her husband, she had lived in constant
uncertainty, rarely receiving information of His whereabouts or condition; even the news of
His Martyrdom and that of His uncle, in whose home she had played as a child, had been
kept from her for a time. How she longed to see these Bábís of Nayríz who were the
spiritual sons and daughters of her Husband, their sacrifice the signs of His Station! Soon, it
became possible to have a few of the freed women come regularly to a friend’s house and
visit with her.xxx A few of these women even became a part of her household.xxxi She gave
each a fine linen scarf. One of them, a young widow whose husband’s head had been
displayed on a pike, had given birth out in the fields on the journey to Shíráz.xxxii Khadíjih
Bagum gave the baby the name Humáyún, “blessed”.xxxiii
At the prison, the Bábi men were sorted. It was determined that sixty of the more prominent
among them who had not fought in the conflict should be allowed to go free.xxxiv Seventy-
three men were bound and readied for the long march to the capital, to be presented to the
King of Persia.

Bound together and accompanied by soldiers, the Bábís began their march to Tihrán, the
capital of the Kingdom of Persia, over nine hundred kilometers to the north. Donkeys
carrying the severed heads followed. They left through Shíráz’s northern Isfahán gate and
headed into the dry rocky hills. It was mid-winter, a cold wind buffeted them as they walked.
Left behind them were their loved ones, destitute or captive in other homes--if they had
survived at all. What lay ahead for them was the unknown.
Soon the brown landscape with its flickers of greenery flattened out, the winter wind lashing
them as they crossed the flat land. When a man could go no further, he fell by the wayside.
Soldiers would behead each one who fell and leave the corpse on the side of the road.
One of them was the elderly and venerable cleric, Mullá ‘Abdu’l Husayn, who had been the
first injured in 1850, and lost a son in the Fort Khájih struggle and four sons in the mountain

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.
battles. In his eighties, his body gave out three day’s journey from Shíráz. He was decapitated
and his body abandoned on the ground.xxxv
After some days they arrived at the last major town in Fárs province, Ábádih, an important
stop on the migratory route of the Qashqa’i tribe. Local people, urged by their clerics, came
out to mock and heap abuse on the prisoners, assured that they would receive special
blessings for doing so. The procession was met in Ábádih by a messenger from the court of
the King of Persia who told them to leave the heads behind before continuing their journey
to the capital. The local people refused to have the heads buried in their cemetery, for fear of
its being desecrated by the presence of the Bábí remains. So an abandoned field outside
town was selected. Soldiers dug large pits and dumped the heads of the Bábís into them.xxxvi
As the Bábí prisoners were forced to resume their journey, they left this field in Ábádih
behind them.
This desolate field on the outskirts of Ábádih would remain untouched for ten years.
The One Whom God Shall make Manifest, promised by the Báb, would reveal Himself, new
believers would settle in to Ábádih and a Bahá’í community would be born. Half a century
after the burial of the martyrs’ heads, Bahá’ís stood in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the
Holy Land, and he asked them the name they had given this field. “Garden of the Martyrs’
Heads”, they replied. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stood up, and revealed a tablet of Visitation to be recited
on his behalf by a believer:
“Glory be upon you! Blessed are you for what you have done. You offered up your
possessions, your kindred and your souls in the path of the Glory of God for the
love of His Most Exalted Beauty. Praised be Thy Most Glorious Lord as He hath
created you, and hath called you into being and hath raised you up from the tombs
of self and desire and hath enlisted you under the banner of the Praise of God at the
hour when the Most Great Resurrection came to pass.”xxxvii
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave this place a new name; it would hence forward be called: “The Garden of
the Merciful”.

The prisoners continued the long march, at times barely able to put one foot before the
other. They trudged through the former great capital, Isfahán. When a prisoner collapsed,
his body would be left. Still they moved forward, through the clerical city of Qom with its
evaporating lakes on the eastern side of the road. Some twenty-two prisoners fell by the
wayside.xxxviii
They finally saw the capital of the Kingdom. Entering it, they were brought into the
presence of the King. His Royal Highness ordered fifteen of them to recant. They refused.
They were executed.xxxix In prison, twenty-three more died.xl

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.
After three years, thirteen were released but most died soon thereafter, their bodies simply
giving out. Four were known to have made it all the way back to Nayríz.xli
They would become part of the birth of the Nayríz Bahá’í community.



i	  Faizi	  198.
ii	  Mázandarání	  V.	  4,	  50-­‐54.
iii	  Shafí‘	  31.
iv	  The	  authors	  conjecture	  that	  this	  is	  the	  reason	  for	  his	  execution,	  as	  another	  prominent
cleric-­‐-­‐Mullá	   ‘Abdu’l	   Husayn-­‐-­‐-­‐was	   spared	   so	   he	   could	   be	   presented	   as	   a	   valuable
prisoner	  to	  the	  Prince	  in	  Shíráz.
v	  Rouhani	  v.	  1,	  192.	  Ahdieh	  (60)	  states	  that	  she	  went	  to	  her	  “brother’s	  wife”.
vi	  Ahdieh	  55.	  The	  servant’s	  name	  was	  Karbalá’í	  Ridá.
vii	  The	  authors	  conjecture	  that	  this	  was	  the	  reason	  as	  no	  other	  reason	  is	  given	  for	  this
selection	  process,	  and,	  because	  once	  in	  Shíráz,	  the	  Bábí	  women	  were	  taken	  by	  soldiers
and	  other	  officials-­‐-­‐so	  they	  must	  have	  been	  physically	  healthy.
viii	  Rouhani	  v.	  1,	  297.	  The	  boy’s	  name	  was	  Mírzá	  Ja’far.	  He	  was	  given	  the	  surname	  Mírzá
Jalal	  by	  Bahá’u’lláh	  whom	  he	  later	  met	  and	  from	  whom	  he	  received	  several	  tablets.
ix	  The	  various	  sources	  state	  different	  numbers	  of	  male	  prisoners	  but	  all	  state	  that	  there
were	   three-­‐hundred	   women	   taken	   captive.	   The	   number	   of	   children	   is	   not	   specified
anywhere.	  Rabbani	  (c.	  11,	  51,	  f.	  73)	  states,	  that	  there	  were	  “several	  hundred”	  children
but	  no	  source	  is	  given	  for	  this	  number.	  All	  the	  sources	  mention	  the	  presence	  of	  children
but	  no	  estimates	  are	  given.	  Shafí‘	  and	  Nayrízí,	  both	  eyewitnesses	  to	  these	  events,	  were
themselves	   children	   at	   the	   time.	   There	   are	   different	   numbers	   given	   for	   the	   male
prisoners	  as	  well	  as	  their	  identities.	  Shafí‘	  has	  eighty	  going	  with	  Lutf	  ‘Alí	  Khán,	  and	  sixty
captured	   later	   in	   Nayríz	   by	   Mírzá	   Na’ím	   but	   gives	   no	   number	   of	   how	   many	   went	   to
Shíráz.	   Mázandarání	   (v.	   4,	   52)	   states	   that	   there	   were	   eighty	   male	   prisoners,	   plus	   the
Bábís	  who	  had	  escaped	  and	  were	  not	  ‘well-­‐known’	  individuals.	  Rabbani	  (c.	  11,	  51,	  f.	  73)
states	  that	  there	  were	  two	  hundred	  male	  captives	  in	  all,	  though	  he	  states	  that	  “several
hundred	  more	  believers”	  were	  rounded	  up	  in	  a	  sweep	  of	  the	  Chinár-­‐Súkhtih	  quarter.
Rouhani	  (v.	  2,	  458)	  states	  that	  two	  hundred	  male	  prisoners,	  mostly	  elderly	  and	  ill,	  were

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.

sent.	  The	  sources	  leave	  many	  questions	  to	  be	  answered—for	  example,	  some	  sources
state	  that	  all	  men	  over	  twenty	  were	  beheaded	  but	  if	  this	  is	  the	  case,	  who	  were	  the	  men
who	  were	  marched	  to	  Shíráz?	  A	  safe	  estimate	  for	  total	  prisoners	  given	  all	  the	  sources
and	  information	  would	  be	  between	  four	  hundred	  and	  fifty	  and	  five	  hundred,	  men	  and
women,	  with	  an	  unknown	  number	  of	  children.
x	  Mázandarání	   (v.	   4,	   53)	   states	   that	   some	   children	   had	   been	   separated	   from	   their
mothers.
xi	  From	  the	  narrative	  of	  Mirzá	  Qábil	  Ábádi’í,	  quoted	  in	  Rabbani	  c.	  13,	  4.
xii	  He	  would	  have	  been	  the	  older	  half	  brother	  of	  Khávar	  Sultán.	  He	  was	  Fátimih’s	  son	  by
her	  first	  marriage	  (Hussein	  Ahdieh,	  “Biography	  of	  Khávar	  Sultán”,	  www.Nayríz.org)
xiii	  Mullá	  Muhammad-­‐Alí	  Qábid	  (Shafí‘	  33).
xiv	  Mírzá	  Muhammad	  ‘Abid	  (Shafí‘	  32).
xv	  This	   was	   the	   Báyír	   tribe	   that	   raised	   cattle	   in	   the	   area	   (Shafí‘	   32).	   These	   last	   two
anecdotes	   are	   taken	   from	   the	   section	   in	   Shafí‘’s	   diary	   which	   covers	   a	   procession	   to
Shíráz	  led	  by	  Lutf	  ‘Alí	  Khán	  but,	  as	  stated	  in	  an	  earlier	  footnote,	  the	  authors	  believe	  that
the	  prisoners	  went	  in	  one	  group.
xvi	  Shafí‘	  (33)	  states	  that	  this	  stop	  was	  three	  fársangs	  from	  Shíráz.	  Each	  fársang	  is	  roughly
five	  and	  a	  half	  kilometers.
xvii	  Faizi	  (114)	  states	  that	  the	  governor	  in	  Shíráz	  asked	  that	  the	  heads	  be	  put	  on	  spears.
Mázandarání	  (v.	  4,	  53)	  states	  that	  it	  was	  Lutf	  ‘Alí	  Khán	  who	  ordered	  the	  heads	  to	  be
mounted	  on	  spears.
xviii	  According	  to	  Shafí‘	  (32),	  the	  group	  led	  by	  Lutf	  ‘Alí	  Khán	  came	  into	  Shíráz	  three	  hours
after	  sunrise;	  Mázandarání	  (v.4,	  53)	  states	  that	  it	  was	  two	  hours	  after	  sunrise.	  Since	  no
other	  time	  is	  given	  for	  Mírzá	  Na’ím’s	  group	  and	  since	  the	  authors	  conclude	  that	  there
was	  only	  one	  group,	  this	  time	  frame	  is	  used	  in	  this	  narrative.
xix	  Cartwright-­‐Jones	  43-­‐44.
xx	  Shafí‘	   (33).	   Mirzá	   Qábil	   Ábádi’í	   (Ábádi’í,	   quoted	   in	   Rabbani	   c.	   13,	   5)	   states	   the
procession	   avoided	   the	   bázár	   and	   went	   by	   a	   side	   path	   because	   it	   evoked	   too	   much
sympathy	  from	  the	  people.
xxi	  Mázandarání	  v.	  4,	  54.

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.

xxii	  Shafi‘	  33.	  According	  to	  Rouhani	  (v.	  1,	  197)	  the	  heads	  were	  kept	  at	  the	  caravanserai
and	  the	  women	  were	  kept	  next	  to	  a	  soldiers’	  barracks,	  but	  on	  this	  same	  page	  he	  has	  the
version	   given	   here.	   The	   Shafi‘	   version	   seems	   more	   likely	   and	   is	   corroborated	   by
Mázandarání	  (v.	  4,	  54).
xxiii	  Mázandarání,	  v.	  4,	  55.
xxiv	  This	  transcription	  is	  a	  rough	  translation	  of	  what	  is	  found	  in	  Mázandarání	  (vol.	  4,	  54-­‐
55),	  which	  itself	  is	  an	  imagined	  conversation	  and	  not	  the	  actual	  words	  of	  the	  individuals,
though	  these	  ideas	  may	  very	  well	  have	  been	  exchanged.
xxv	  Shafí‘,	   34.	   Faizi,	   115.	   Rouhani,	   117.	   The	   men	   were	   Hájí,	   the	   son	   of	   Ashghar,	   Alí
Garmsiri;	  Husayn,	  the	  son	  of	  Hádí	  Khayrí;	  Sádiq,	  the	  son	  of	  Sálih;	  Muhammad,	  the	  son	  of
Mohsin.	  It	  is	  not	  clear	  from	  the	  Shafí‘	  manuscript	  how	  the	  first	  two	  were	  killed.	  It	  states
only	  that	  they	  were	  taken	  out	  to	  the	  public	  square	  and	  killed.
xxvi	  Mázandarání	  v.	  4,	  55.	  Rouhani	  v.	  1,	  196.	  The	  tribal	  leader	  was	  Hájí	  ‘Qavámu’l-­‐Mulk.
He	  was	  the	  appointed	  head	  of	  the	  Khamseh	  federation	  of	  five	  tribes,	  sometimes	  called
the	  “Bahárlú”,	  or	  “Arab”	  tribes.	  (Martin	  52).	  This	  confederation	  had	  been	  put	  together
by	  the	  central	  government	  as	  a	  way	  to	  counterbalance	  the	  large	  nomadic	  Qasqa’i	  tribe
which,	  in	  the	  mid-­‐19th	  century,	  could	  put	  120,000	  men	  into	  the	  field	  (Abrahamian	  45-­‐
46).
xxvii	  Mázandarání	  v.	  4,	  55.
xxviii	  Ibid.
xxix	  Momen,	  Bábí	  and	  Bahá’í	  religions	  150-­‐151.	  The	  source	  cited	  here	  is	  the	  report	  of	  the
British	  agent	  in	  Shíráz	  who,	  earlier	  in	  the	  same	  report,	  states	  that	  back	  in	  Nayríz,	  three
hundred	  women	  had	  been	  “violently	  compelled	  to	  become	  their	  (the	  soldiers)	  wives”.
xxx	  Balyuzi,	  Khadíjih	  Bagum	  30.
xxxi	  Rouhani	  v.	  1,	  276.
xxxii	  Rabbani	  c.	  15,	  11.
xxxiii	  Ma’ani	  8.
xxxiv	  Rabbani	  c.	  11,	  37.	  The	  number	  73	  is	  consistent	  in	  the	  sources.	  If	  we	  follow	  the	  Shafí‘
manuscript	   and	   put	   the	   number	   of	   captives	   from	   the	   two	   groups	   of	   male	   prisoners
together,	  we	  get	  140.	  Two	  died	  on	  the	  way,	  60	  were	  released	  in	  Shíráz,	  and	  5	  were	  killed

Awakening: Chapter 15
© 2011 by Hussein Ahdieh. All Rights Reserved.


in	   Shíráz,	   reaching	   a	   total	   of	   67	   which	   leaves	   73	   to	   be	   transported	   to	   Tihrán.
Mázandarání	  (v.	  4,	  56)	  states	  that	  there	  were	  140	  male	  prisoners	  in	  Shíráz,	  some	  who
had	  languished	  there	  since	  1850,	  and	  that	  67	  men	  died	  in	  Shíráz	  and	  were	  beheaded,
leaving	  73	  to	  be	  taken	  to	  Tihrán.
xxxv	  Rouhani	  v.	  1,	  193.
xxxvi	  Ábádi’í	  (Ábádi’í,	  quoted	  in	  Rabbani	  c.	  13,	  5).
xxxvii	  Provisional	  translation	  by	  Tahirih	  Ahdieh,	  Nabil	  Hanna,	  Abir	  Majid,	  Rosann	  Velnich.
xxxviii	  Shafí‘	   (34-­‐35)	   lists	   these	   people	   as	   having	   perished	   on	   the	   road:	   “Mullá	   ‘Abdu’l-­‐
Husayn	  died	  in	  Sídán;	  his	  head	  was	  cut	  off	  and	  added	  to	  others.	  ‘Alí	  Karbalá’í	  Zamán	  and
Akbar	  Karbalá’í	  Muhammad	  died	  in	  Ábádih;	  Hasan,	  the	  son	  of	  ‘Abú’l-­‐Vahíd,	  and	  Mullá
‘Alí-­‐Akbar,	   the	   brother	   of	   Jinab	   Amír,	   died	   in	   Isfahan.	   Karbalá’í	   Báqir,	   the	   son	   of
Muhammad,	  and	  his	  brother	  Hasan;	  Dhu’l-­‐Faqár	  Karbalá’í	  Taqí,	  the	  son	  of	  Farqi,	  and	  his
son	  ‘Alí;	  ‘Alí	  Khán;	  Mullá	  Karím	  Akhúnd;	  Akbar	  Ra’ís;	  Ghulám-­‐‘Alí	  Pír-­‐Muhammad,	  and
Taqí	  and	  Muhammad	  ‘Alí,	  the	  sons	  of	  Muhammad	  Jamál,	  all	  died	  on	  the	  way.”
xxxix	  Shafí‘	  (35)	  remembers	  the	  following	  names:	  “‘Áqá	  Siyyid	  ‘Alí,	  the	  one	  who	  was	  badly
injured	  in	  the	  mountains	  of	  Nayríz	  and	  was	  left	  unconscious.	  He	  had	  dreamt	  that	  he
must	  go	  to	  Tihrán	  and	  be	  martyred	  there;	  Karbalá’í	  Rajab	  Salmání;	  Sífu’d-­‐Din;	  Sulaymán
Karbalá’í	   Salmán;	   Ja‘far	   Fardí;	   Murád	   Khayrchí;	   Husayn	   Karbalá’í	   Báqir;	   Mírzá	   Abú’l-­‐
Ḥasan;	   Mírzá	   Taqí,	   who	   was	   beaten	   with	   clubs	   for	   becoming	   a	   Bábí	   by	   Hájí	   Mírzá
‘Abdu’l-­‐Vahhab	   to	   please	   Mírzá	   Na’ím;	   and	   Mullá	   Muhammad-­‐‘Alím,	   the	   son	   of	   Áqá
Mihdí”.
xl	  “One	  was	  ‘Alí,	  the	  son	  of	  Mír-­‐Shikár	  Báqi	  (Shafí‘	  35).
xli	  Shafí‘	  (35)	  remembers	  the	  following	  names:	  “One	  of	  them	  was	  Karbalá’í	  ‘Alí-­‐Yár	  who
died	  in	  Darōl	  Salam	  and	  was	  buried	  in	  Tall-­‐i-­‐Hamrá.	  Two	  others	  were	  Ustád	  ‘Innáyát	  and
Ibráhim,	  the	  son	  of	  Sharif,	  who	  are	  still	  alíve.	  Also	  Áqá	  Siyyid	  Husayn	  and	  Ustád	  ‘Alí,	  the
son	  of	  Mashadí	  Safar,	  returned	  home	  …	  Karbalá’í	  Zaynu’l-­‐’Ábidín	  stayed	  in	  Tihrán	  and
died	  after	  a	  while.”